

* • i
'■ •>
*/\ s
■
0 m
y
Z
K-*
m
it
mtrX;
9*l.
'
®**r
m
■ '
sc<
'
ss
hI4
m;**
‘ n
*1: f>
ft Wft
**
■• ;*
*****
if-igs
a »»R
ISiS?
•
-ss
Birds Eye Mew of our 'M/orks
HADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA)
LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA
SYDNEY
The area covered by our buildings to-day is over
SIX times greater than it was only FIVE years ago.
The Pioneers of the Electric Furnace Process and the ;
Largest Makers of High-grade Steel in Australia.
ASSOCIATED WlfH
Hadfields Ltd, Sheffield
Who have the Largest and Most Complete Steel Foundry in the World.
Our unique knowledge of local requirements, combined with the 40 years experience of
the Sheffield Company, enables us to make for the first time in Australia by HADFIELDS
SHEFFIELD SYSTEM and under the supervision of Hadfields’ Sheffield-trained men,
products that for quality of material and excellence of workmanship are unsurpassed in
any part of the world.
Our Research Laboratory and our staff of Experts are available for the study of your steel problems.
Hadfields (Australia) Ltd.
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Branch Works: Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Telephone: L2Bl 1 (3 lines). Telegrams: “Hadfields Limited, Alexandria.”
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2228.
Thursday, October 26, 1922*
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 George Street, City.
iHS
r
in i p
lliiililr
i! i nr-
iKiWlr*
lillia
MMS
MiSiliji
The Secret of the Success of Mangrovite Belting
is in its Manufacture.
Only carefully-selected Australian Ox-hides are used, and the-
special Mangrovite tanning process—the result of a lifetime's
experience—is supervised and tested for efficiency by experts.
That is. why Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting always
makes records, of service, conserves power, and cuts down
production costs. Write .or call to-day.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
OH ARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derharn & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: "John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & C. 0., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., -Ltd., Brisbane.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
•r-
a
' r\
0
. ttna
m
r*n
* Royal Cord’ * Nobby" *Cnairi *Usco
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
5
TO
'"ssssss.
7S/S'
Lr*
p 4
''///%"' y/jy////A'/sss'sss'*s/y%wt% / '''/ /
§ | ONOTO f
2 ' /X
i I ONOTO I
INIkT
I
1 | ink |'«
| to all i ?
I P- 1 5
SN|
“e.. x^
I
* V;» (-/A. %
K
<r
'/A
i dTixuna '"3 4 H
S, '■
NOT A GERMAN
T 77
MUSTDIE
NON POI3ONOU3 POWDER.
WE 6RCTI INSECT OESTROYER’
WU3
MovKiiloea.
Ita I|-
t»
POWDER must not Be mistaken for insecti-
cide or common insect powders, some of
which are sold under fancy names, for
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney. n
The Red Page
What is Crime?
“The Psychology ot Misconduct/'
by Bernard Hollander, M.D.
(George Allen & Unwin.)
This volume is welcome, not only for its
. inherent value ■to all who would seriously
study social science, but for its common-
sense, rejection of the ultra-Freudian doc-
trines of sexuality—themselves, to no small
extent, the result of diseased imaginations.
In reviewing other psycho-analytical works
this page lias deferred to the dangers of
psycho-analysis, and certain passages in the
present volume are adequate confirmation
of those views. An interesting sidelight
is thrown, incidentally, on the popu-
larity of psycho-analysis in the medi-
cal profession by the statement that
“according to the best authorities
psycho-analytic treatment requires the
attendance of a patient for one hour a day
for six days a week for probably a year!”
It is enough to remark that psycho-analysts’
fees never are graded below a guinea a visit.
Dr. Hollander has been for over 20 years
physician to the British Hospital for Mental
. Disorders and Nervous Diseases, and, in
addition, lvas sat on various commissions in-
vestigating these subjects. He is, therefore,
well qualified to write upon his chosen sub-
ject, which is a presentation in their mental
and psychological aspects of those diver-
gences from the normal which constitute
misconduct, vice and crime. As everyone
is a potential criminal, the book will
interest more than the members of the medi-
cal fraternity, to whom primarily it is
addressed.
We start from the basis that man is an
animal, and is possessed of all the elemen-
tary instincts and sentiments which animals
possess, and which are to be seen in greater
or less degree unrefined and unrestrained in
infants and children. These rudimentary
instincts are the dynamic force of our exist-
, ence. The instincts of preservation, of re-
! sentment, of combat, of concealment, of
acquisition, of fear, are the driving powers
of our being. These propensities develop
emotions, which are restrained by our intel-
lect. Sanity is the balance between the
energy of the instincts and the development
lof the intellect. The sexual propensity is a
rudimentary instinct for the preservation of
the race; as is the gregarious tendency of
mankind. All instincts are irrational in
their origin, though rational in their use.
A baby sucks milk, not because it knows
that tne assimilation of milk is the pro-
longation of life, but because it experiences
pleasure by sucking milk. The chauffeur,
Allaway, recently hanged for murder, did
not kill his victim as the result of a deep-
laid plot to get rid of her, but from an
instinct of resentment, creating the emotion
of anger over the fact that she had repulsed
his advances. Horatio Bottomley followed
in his career of crime the rudimentary in-
stinct of self-preservation, which, in modern
society, is largely translated into .terms of
money. Everjy; instinct is fundamentally
good, and only becomes vicious as an out-
come of environment or evil teaching.
There is no such thing as immorality.
There is morality and non-morality, and the
decision between the two is a convention.
Moralitv is that standard of conduct which
is, for the time being, or in given circum-
stances, calculated to best serve the com-
mon interest. Bigamy is a crime by con-
vention, but any state can, if conditions so
warrant, legalise polyandry or polygamy.
Non-morality by a stroke of the pen becomes
morality. Theft is a crime, profiteering is
not —a purely conventional distinction. The
thief, unless* a professional, generally robs
because he needs. The profiteer and other
professional criminals rob from the instinct
of acquisitiveness. Morality is a generally-
approved convention. Moral people are
those who successfully adapt their lives to
this convention. Non-morals, or immorals,
as we call them, are those who do not so
adapt themselves. That the majority of
mankind is moral is due to the supreme in-
stinct of fear.
Man’s primal instincts being fundamen-
tally good, it is evident that vice is virtue —
in ‘excess. Prudence becomes cowardice,
economy avarice, generosity prodigality and
so forth. Immorality is inflated morality.
Temptation is the opportunity to satisfy
desire or instinct. “Lead us not into tempta-
tion” really means, “Do not give us the
opportunity to lose the balance between in-
stinct-and intellect.” Intellect is the inhi-
bitory control over instinct, and the differ-
ence between vice and virtue is the extent
of the efficiency of that control. In some
people impulse, the expression of instinct,
is stronger than in others, and the inhibi-
tory control must be necessarily stronger.
In other people the impulse is less. Many
pride themselves on their morality, but
where there is no temptation there can be
no virtue. Volition of morality, the will
to do right or wrong, to fall in or to fall
out with convention, depends on the power
of temptation. Walpole said: “Every man
has his price.” Bottomley drew £26,000,000
from the British public in 30 years on the
ground that “every man has his weakness.”
There is, therefore, no definite line between
vice and virtue; between the moral and
the non-moral. Each who succeeds and
each who falls has his own innate disposi-
tion, his own acquired habits and his own
mental complexes, and it is the study of
these in relation to those who fail that Dr.
Hollander has undertaken in this very read-
able and instructive volume.
Lord Herbert of Cherbury
People run to a book —in a heap—as dogs
at a chase Only a few have energy
enough to seek for themselves, while the
average man is content to wait until the
critic-huntsman, having sounded his • ware-
ful horn, points him a quarry in common to
the pack.
Nor does the similitude end here; but, as
there are beagles and foxhounds in the
canine world, so, in the book world, there
exist the Penny-Dreadful Dog, the Scienti-
fical Dog, the Dry-as-Dustical-Metaphysical
Dog, the Poetical . Dog, the Historical Dog,
the Antiquarian Dog, the Divinity Dog and
the Hans-Andersen-Grimm’s-Fairy-tale Dog.
And each group feeds on measured and
arranged handfuls of material stuff, in-
structed from its birth in which is best and
what tlie quantity most wisely to be taken.
Thus, among the puppies of the Adven-
turous Kennel, it has long been customable
to distribute dollops of Fenimore Cooper,
Jules Verne, Daniel Defoe, Alexander Dumas
and Robert Louis Stevenson.
Boys read invariably what their fathers
have read before them, so that unless their
mothers have floated down a little helpful
curiosity in their blood, it is seldom that
the children will break the bounds of the
hereditary bookcase. This accounts for the
existence of volumes, not at all rare, which
are seldom looked into.
Take, for example, the remarkable his-
tory of Lord Herbert of Cherbury, and make
the comparison between it and the imagined
happenings recorded in “Treasure Island.”
To begin with, we may as well allow Her-
bert to have this advantage over Stevenson,
that, whereas “Treasure Island” is a work
of fiction, the Autobiography of the Eliza-
bethan is, assumedly, a true story.... though
even were it minus that qualification the
latter would still remain the more exciting
book of the two. Shipwrecks, duels and hair-
breadth escapes follow in such quick success-
sion as to make the reader fairly gasp.
Neither Stevenson nor any other living
person shared in the adventures related in
“Treasure Island”; but Lord Herbert took
an active part in every story he has to tell.
Therefore, from a point of interest alone,
and without in any way disparaging Steven-
son, Herbert must come first.
Born in the reign of Elizabeth, when men
counted their children as exchanges for the
enemies they sent reeling into space, young
Herbert, from a cold and sloppy baby, grew
up to be one of the most sudden swordsmen
who ever bloodied English earth.
“It was so long before I began to speak,”
he confides to us, “that many thought I
should ever be dumb”; but that he had rea-
sons of his own for not speaking becomes
apparent by the astonishing statement that
lie only forbore from doing so in case he
should utter “something impertinent.”
Finally, after a lot of wise consideration, he
pushed the feeding-bottle away from his
mouth, and inquired of his nurse how he
came into the world.
At 7 he went to school, where he
seems to have specialised in writing orations
and hammering his playfellows, but never
told a lie! At 9 he muddled through
Welsh, at 10 the Greek language and logic.
At 12 he entered the Oxford University. At
15 he married, and, continuing his studies
without the aid of any teacher, mastered
French, Italian and Spanish, also “the sing-
ing of my part at first sight in music and
playing on the lute.
He prided himself especially on not being
of a revengeful nature, knowing that “the
less I punish mine enemies the more will
God inflict His punishment upon them.” A
deadly upside-down forgiveness which has
only malice to commend it. Nevertheless
he carried a very lively sword.... “for,
wheresoever my honor hath been engaged
no man hath ever been more forward to
hazard his life.” And few there were who
understood the use of his weapon better than
he did. . . .“I was in a place of surety where-
soever I had my sword by my side.”
He was a devil for horses; but especially
favored one, whose “true picture may be
seen in the chapel-chamber of my house.”
This steed was a snob to everybody save
Herbert, and, though he would sometimes
say him “neigh,” never refused an apple
from his hand, and often licked the roses
on his Cherbury cheek —the identical cheek
which H. says frisky Elizabeth did not dis-
dain to lay her-tickling finger to in public
court.
Later on, when Herbert was departing
for the Low Countries, he left his stable •
friend in charge of Sir Thomas Lucy, but
the haughty animal refused to linger longer,
went off his oats and died.
So much for Herbert as a scholar, a
swordsman and a lover of “Scotch saddles
and English horses.” At home equally
among the learned or in the field, he was,
besides all this, a born courtier, and not
many people were capable of paying a com-
pliment: as prettily as he could. Witness his
speech to the Italian nun who had charmed
him both on account of “the harmony of
her beauty and her voice.” "Die,” said he,
“whensoever you will, you neither need to
change voice nor face to he an angel.”
On another occasion a brave general,
“now grown very old,” asked Herbert to
speak a little louder, whereupon that gentle-
man megaphoned down his ear that it
hardly mattered how deaf he might be, since
he only required a tongue to give his com-
mands with. “This compliment took him
much.”
And now for some of the most stirring
incidents of his eventful life.
In 1620 Herbert made one of the 4000
English under the control of Sir Edward
Chandos at the siege of Juliers. and, inci-
dentally, it might be mentioned that he was
“first across the ditch unto the wall of all
the nations there.”
During a lull in the proceedings our hero
had had enough leisure to pick a quarrel
with Loi’d Walden, and, quite characteristi-
cally, over the use of a horse. Somerset
sided with Walden, and upbraided Herbert
for his behavior, whereupon Herbert whipped
out his sword, which Somerset no sooner
saw than he drew his, as also all the com-
pany with him.
“I, running amongst them, put by some
of their thrusts, and, making towards him
in particular, put by a thrust of his, and
had certainly run him through but that one
Lieutenant Prichard, at that instant tak-
ing me by the shoulder, turned me aside;
but I, recovering myself again, ran at him
a second time, which, he perceiving, retired
himself with the company to the tents
which were near, though not so fast but I
hurt one Proger, and some others also that
were with him. But, they being all at
last got within the tents, I, finding now no-
thing else to be done, got to my horse again,
having received only': a slight hurt on the
outside of my ribs, and two thrusts, the
one through the skirts of my doublet and the
other through my breeches, and about 18
(Continued on page 25.)


me
iSports Coats are Inexpensive
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
-• ii„"
(wEM
. mm
ir
IX
2337
m
M
n
//.
1X2337.—5i1k Knitted Blazer, in a drop-
stitch design. The bindings on the
extended roll; collar, pockets and turned-
back cuffs are in a contrasting shade.
Colors: Fawn, Cream, Saxe, Kose,
Navy, and Mignonette.
Price
57/6
IXs.— Dressy Silk Jumper, knitted
in a fancy basket-stitch design,
with interlaced cords with hang-
ing ends on the sleeves and either
side of the waistline. Colors:
Navy, Mastic, Grey, Vieux Kosc,
and Saxe.
Price
39/11
IZX 223
1X123. —Dainty Silk Kitted Jumper, in
a fancy basket-stitch design. The V-
shaped neck is effectively trimmed with
a plaited band, and the waistline is de-
fined by a threaded belt, with pom-poms.
Colors: Saxe, Cream, Jade, Black, Navy,
Grey, and Pink.
Price
45/-
Presenting a selection
of exquisite Summer
Jumpers, that are the
edict of fashion, cool
and comfortable for
leisure or play; practi-
cal and smart for sport
or travel. The models
illustrated are typical
examples of the great
range of excellent
values set out for your
discriminating choice.
%
V
a*
1
£
5
M
:Jr
$
is
2X2367
W
sT
<£T
/X
0/
IXSOI. Becoming Knitted Silk Coatee, fashioned in a basket
stitch. The long-extended roll collar and cuffs are of plainer
knit, forming an attractive contrast. The waist is threaded with
a narrow girdle. Colors: Fawn, Black, Cream, and Mauve.
Price 59/6
1X2367. Smart Knitted Silk Coatee, the bodice portion being a
di op-stitch design, while the basque and cuffs of the sleeves are
in a fancy heavy ribbed stitching. A roll collar extends to the
hem. Colors: Fawn, Cream, Coral, Apricot, Biscuit, and Navy.
Price 52/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all Fashion Goods to any part of New South
Wales, and to nearest port on Interstate Orders.
Write for illustrated price list. A copy will
be sent you free upon request.
srv
ca
a??
- '•:
f*-
1*
m,\
<*
1X2427,
V-s>
7X202
1X2423. Matron’s
Smart Sports Coat
in a Drop-stitch
Design, cuffs of the
long sleeves and the
smart roll collar and
fronts are plain
knit. Colors: Navy,
Cream, and Mole.
IX2ol.'—Charming • Basket-stitch
Knitted Silk Jumper, smart
stole collar, interlaced cord at
waist, finished large pompoms. In
shades of Mauve, Jade, Biscuit,
Saxe, Black, Cream, Grey, Bose,
and Lemon.
Price 57/6
J&7QS
IXlos.—Attractive Silk Knitted Coatee,
designed in a basket stitch. An effective
contrast is formed by the stitch of the
basque and plain knit of the roll collar.
Colors: Cream, Biscuit, Mauve, King-
fisher Blue, Grey, and Lemon.
Price 49/11
FASHION SALONS—THIRD FLOOR.
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HIIX. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: 'City 9440.


When Pastures are Dry
N
tk
M
I
m
y/v
m
//
1
yM
I
SS
''l
w m
WkM&
5?
*
■yp
At such times all animals MUST be hand fed.
Feeding keeps them in better condition, and materially increases their productiveness. Do not let your
stock become impoverished when only a few pounds of concentrates per day will keep them well nourished.
A MEGGITT FEED FOR EVERY NEED.
MEGGITT S PURE LINSEED MEAL - - The most valuable single ingredient for all
stock under all conditions.
MEGGITTS DAIRY CATTLE FOOD - More Milk for more days.
MEGGITT J S CALF FOOD ------ Rears healthy, husky calves.
MEGGITT S PIG FOOD ------- Puts on the weight in less time.
MEGGITT S GROWING MASH - - - - Best Food procurable for growing stock.
MEGGITT’S LAYING MASH ----- Produces eggs, saves time and labor.
MEGGITT S HORSE FOOD ------ Ensures stamina and strength.
MEGGITT S STOCK FOODS ----- The best and most reliable proprietary Foods,
combining all the constituents of complete balanced rations, scientifically compounded and
“READY TO SERVE.”
(KITTS
llNSEtooitMra
OPieboy on the bay
guarantees quality*
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST SYnSTEYfefe-.Parramaita)
n i ■ , M /
AGENTS. — Messrs. Hamsons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. Denhams,
Ltd., Brisbane, Q'land; Messrs. Denham Bros., Ltd., Rockhampton, Q'land; Messrs. Cummins
d Campbell, Ltd., Townsville and Cairns, Q'land ; Messrs. Corser & Co., Ltd., Maryborough,
Q’land; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth, TP.A. ; Messrs. F. W. Heritage
d Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston; The S.A. Farmers' Co-op. Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
AEGGITT L TO
PARRAMATTA
boy on the baq
guarantees quality


99
“M.L.
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelnide.
IN THE BAG OF EVERY
TRAVELER
WHO
KNOWS
WHAT’S
WHAT—
THE
New
Improved
iue tie
SArenr razor
(AUNDRENA
T heDainfy Womans favou r ite Starch
Weal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C?L T ? SYDNEY.
m ma m m m ms—mt M —, —— .
isat
IK
N**r—
J
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. _ Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only*
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C®
Slough. Bucks. Eng
If any illustration appearing #in Tiie
I.UiXETiN takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
d
n \
rr
Greet Youth
Once More!
Become
Young again
by transform-
ing your
grey hair
to a youth-
ful WALNUT
SHADE!
Easily and permanently obtain-
able by using- Dr. Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut Stain! Quite Harm-
the Skin—Waterproof!
All Chemists.
9
MEXICAN |
WALNUT STAIN i
PROTECT YOUR STOCK!
Castrating operations, if carried out in an unscientific or slipshod manner, are
fraught with possibilities of grave danger. The surest way to prevent injury to
your stock (and consequent loss to yourself) is to make a rule of always using
Denyer’s Eclipse Triple Crush Emasculator. This splendid instrument ensures a
safe, sure and scientific operation for all stock. Write to-day.
BE YOUR OWN VET.
We supply every class of Veterinary
Instruments, all well designed,
strongly made and moderately priced.
Price 60/
Postage extra.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 George Street, Sydney.
Dependable
Marine Engines
ah
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
I to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U.S. A.
All Parts Standard and Inter changeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Moilno Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration nnd friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability Install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative;
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Etd.
23-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.SJV.
Cable Address-KERMATH
Ar
C y ■Ti-
to
v-
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES ,NONE
RAZOR
Pair'in.
Throughout
[sgUYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
Lcomfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
presentation Case
25/Post Free
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free
;wmm
m
K
r
Cv
U
It
4?
1
WH &§
SURE cm *
ONE
WHENTYOU. BRING
S
S°LD TO
YOU
THE DAY
THEY
ARE MADE
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Offering.
All that I have I lay before thy feet.
All that I am I offer. I withhold
Nothing. Ah, there is dross among the gold,
I know, and worthless chaff among the wheat,
Much bitter water mingled with the sweet;
But, since I love thee as men loved of old,
Forget my imperfections manifold:
The broken circle of my life complete.
All that I am, all that I have, is thine.
Presenting it, as though before a shrine,
I stand with hands outstretched. If thou
shouldst choose
The offering to reject, the gift refuse,
Still from love’s altar will the smoke arise,
Sweet deity, before thy careless eyes.
victoria.
G. ETHEL MARTYR.
Night and the Moon.
Around the gum-trees a grev mist is swirled;
The tall trunks lean like ghosts under the
moon
That hangs above, an argent silk balloon
Sent out by Cod to watch llis foolish, world.
The night’s broad shadowy banner is un-
furled,
And the slow vapors will have vanished
soon—•
Take bush divinities on phantom shoon —•
Into the ether by the keen stars pearled.
Somewhere a dog howls at the silvern globe,
Perhaps he hears mysterious melodies,
Or, where our poor blind vision cannot probe,
The Seraph crew in yonder vessel sees,
Each at his post, in dazzling samite robe,
Awaiting the Omnipotent’s decrees.
N.S.W.
J. WHEELER.
Lover o’ Night.
You may sing your song of the morning’s
glory,
Of dawn on a shivering sea,
And the rest of the commonplace, faked old
story—
It cuts no ice with me!
I am the singer of dark star-spangled.
When in harsh Day’s despite,
Myriads of suns in the vast spin dangled—
I am the lover of Night!
Should I awake in the morning early,
I don’t greet the dawn (no fear!)
I snuggle close to the cosy, curly
Warmth under Sn&oks’s ear.
I know that Dawn is as cold as virtue,
Put upon ice to keep;
I know that daylight can’t irk or hurt you,
If you hold close to sleep.
Sick of your songs of the morning pearly,
Rosy-fingered, am I!
Dreams of mine when it’s early, early,
Soar in another sky.
Where my treasure is, there my heart is.
I to dear Snooks cling tight.
Pish ! for your poets and such tame parties,
I am the lover of Night!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Disillusion.
As echoes throbbing in melodious press
Chime like sweet bells through some still
pool of air,
So thought on thought of you, each
winged with prayer,
Passed in slow surges of such tenderness
I could have wished my life one long caress
Spent on your lips; my heart could
scarcely bear
The prisoned tide of passion gathering
there,
But sigh on sigh came fluttering from its
stress.
And now there is no pulse, no smallest vein,
No lightest veering of my easiest mood
That you can stir, or ever shall again.
Ah! What a cup our adoration brewed!
Now naught is left but shame’s abhorrent
stain,
Closing in loathing love’s brief interlude.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Willow Pattern.
In King-te-chin, the city of fire,
The hand of clay and the heart of desire
From the red-eyed oven of the yellow night
Brought forth the bowl that was blue-and-
white.
Pencils of fox-hair dipped in the sky
Traced the willow on curves of snow;
And the throne of Sui-g was not more high
Than an artist gleam in the furnace-glow.
Blue-and-white on the victor’s board
In the Tartar tents of Astrakhan—
Muscovy kneels to the Golden Horde
That eats of the bowl of the Sons of
Han....
Blue-and-white and a willow dinning
To a pure, far stream its shadowy stem
Can hold the sherbet for Saladin sipping
To Islam’s peace in Jerusalem.
Blue-and-white under thatch I remember
When the morning red in the small palnes
glowed
And the bitter wind of a lost December
Came crying along the Newry road
Cold little willows on shining white
And the red turf falling to ashes grey-
The width of the world is a
flight—
Irish meal in a bowl of Cathay!
In King-te-chin, the city of fire,
Were bowls of clay and hearts of desire ;
And there an artist’s hand could write
That East is West in blue-and-white.
On shining delft or porcelain
The old soft willows ageless grow,
With China crying through the rain
Of Irish mornings long ago.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


8 weeks
Order Your Suit Now
£4-4-0
£5-5-0
I
To
Measure
£7-7-0
£ 8-8-0
£ 9- 9-0
b
k jj ‘m
Patterns on
Application
486 George Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 and 454 George Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 222!
THU USD AY, OCTOBER 26, 1922.
Pbice Gd.
AUGURED!
“At Trafalgar (Vic.), two swallows circled inside the hall before Mr. Hughes spoke. Looking at the birds, Mr. Hughes said that the ancients watched the movements
of birds, and also the clouds, for auspices, and surely the auspices for him were most happy.” —Daily paper.
HUGHESIUS CAESAR: Augur, by me two swallows have been seen.
Say! What the blinding blazes does it mean?
HEAD OF CAESAR’S NEW AUGUR’S DEPARTMENT: The swallows, Caesar, signify a flight
Northward, in shameful terror of a fight.
Twice have the Plebs your party at the polls
Swallowed, but now, alas! my lore unrolls
Another fate. Hark to your Augur’s word:
The year ’22 will see you get the Bird.
[Augur dismissed and Department abolished.]


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Maci.eod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 George Street. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolertli Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.t.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
V.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; It. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Patua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva ; narry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising: Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, ECJf.
U S. A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper ) : —Throughout the Commonwealth : looz.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: goz.,
Hd.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: Hz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof,
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1922.
THE DAY OF THE MACHINE.
Less than a century ago the British knew,
for all practical purposes, only one great
machine —the Law. Many factors kept
the poor apart —notably lack of educa-
tion and restricted transport facilities
—and similar factors helped to keep the
nations apart. The legal system was con-
scientiously administered, on the whole, but
those in charge of it had social prejudices
which they could not overcome, and their
bias was in favor of property. Hundreds
of working men, for example, were gaoled,
and even transported, under the Combina-
tion Acts of the beginning of last century, for
striking or organising strikes, but never an
employer, though lockouts had rightly been
made as criminal as strikes. By the time
the industrial era had got into its stride
the operatives of the United Kingdom were
beginning to realise what the Japanese and
Chinese factory-hands appear to be now
sensing—that the rich carried too many guns
for the health and happiness of the prole-
tariat. Unionism had to come: it was im-
plicit in the 14-hour day, the child-miner
and the rest of the industrial horrors of
the Earlv Victorian period. From 1824,
when the Combination Laws went, to the
present day, unionism has expanded wonder-
fully all over the British Empire, and par-
ticularly in Australia, which, for over a
decade, has had more unionists per head of the
population than any country in the world.
Meanwhile, the other side had not been idle:
organised labor found itself faced by organ-
ised capital in the form of trusts; and when
in the U.S., where only about 2i per
cent, of the inhabitants are unionised —the
Labor organisation was weak, the workers
had to eat the leek of defeat and pay the
victors’ indemnity in the shape of low wages
or long hours. It has been said that High
Finance deliberately engineered the world-
war as a way out of a world-conflict in the
industrial sphere. Anyhow, by the end of
1914 domestic affairs were as threaten-
ing in Britain, in the great continental coun-
tries and even in Australia, as they well
could be. The war applied the solvent of
patriotism. Other objects for vituperation
presented themselves. Unionists in Australia
rushed to serve under members of the classes
they had been damning as bowelless sweaters
for years: unionists in England readily
worked long hours in munition-shops which
recognised very few union rules.
Yet the World War has done more for the
professional enemy of society—who is some-
times an embittered working-man, but nearly
as often an educated crank of the business,
professional or leisured class—than centuries
of agitation. In the first place it has dis-
closed modern society’s chief weakness—its
dependence on transport. Britain put its
deadliest stranglehold on Germany by means
of the blockade: Germany tried to escape
from a grip which was eventually to prove
fatal by the unrestricted use of submarines,
and both sought to clamp embargoes on neu-
trals. Australia is probably more open to
attack through its communications than any
of the civilised countries. The inhabitants
of its bloated cities, who number 62 per cent,
of the total population, might starve within
a week if the sea and rail services were inter-
rupted for so long by a general transport
strike. The war has further taught the re-
volutionary the art of propaganda—a force
as superior to the old-time methods of the
soap-box as a battleship is superior to a
catamaran. The scientific propaganda that
did so much to win the war for us was to
be seen at work everywhere. Under its influ-
ence a Christian clergyman who talked Chris-
tianity—who spoke, say, of turning the other
cheek, or who preached brotherly love —be-
came a public danger. Novelists dragged the
morality of mercilessness to Germans into
works of fiction, poets sang about it, Judges
laid it down as a principle from the Bench.
And, finally, the war taught whole classes
of hitherto ignorant people the advantages
of organisation and the way to organise.
“The whole moral fibre of the people has be-
come weakened,” complained G. Earp,
M.L.C., in the N. S. Wales Council last week.
Whatever did he expect? For the past eight
years the teachings of Maciiiavelli have
largely taken the place of those of the
Redeemer (“one cannot fight a national war
from behind a Testament,” said France’s
most virile statesman) ; and we are encoun-
tering some of the inevitable reactions of
that policy.
A prudent ruler ought not to keep faith, when by
so doing it would be against his interest, and when
the reasons which made him bind himself no longer
exist. If men were all good, this precept would not
be a good one; but as they are bad, and would not
observe their faith with you, so you are not bound
to keep faith with them. It is well to seem pious,
faithful, humane, religious, sincere and also to be
so; but you must have the mind so watchful that
when it is needful to be otherwise you may be
able to change to the opposite qualities.
How many times have those arguments been
used, in effect, of late years, by prominent
Empire statesmen to defeat Irish self-govern-
ment (“we can never risk Ireland being
used as a jumping-off place for a foreign
foe”) ; against giving Egypt the independ-
ence it was promised in Gladstone’s day
(“the Canal must be held”) ; against get-
ting out of Mesopotamia in accordance with
the Joint Declaration of November, 1918;
against handing over “the renowned lands
of Thrace” to Turkey, as solemnly promised
by Lioyd George.
* * * *
The form of civilisation which we have
known hitherto, the only kind that most of
us can envisage, is, therefore, in peril, and
the prospect is no more pleasing for the fact
that it is the outcome of our own vileness.
Some of the most tremendous changes of the
past few years are not yet apparent to the
casual observer. The monarchy, for example,
has entirely altered its character: most
of the families with which its members
inter-married in pre-war times have either
been ruined or forced to assume aliases,
while the sovereigns themselves have neces-
sarily become as sensitive to every change
of public opinion as politicians. Parliament
has suffered a similar loss of assured poise.
It no longer initiates anything of import-
ance. In Australia, as in the United King-
dom, it is the tool of one man who gets his
orders from political and financial machines
outside. But, as has been said, the masses
have learned cynicism and organisation—
things which were once the monopoly of the
governing classes. They have been learning
to create machines for offensive purposes for
a century, and the lesson is now pretty well
complete. An explanation of the crime wave
which is causing anxiety in all the States,
and which is differentiated from other crime
waves by the disturbing fact that it is the
murderers and burglars who are operating
with most immunity, is that the more desper-
ate malefactors have followed the example
of their betters and organised. Most of the
religious sects are organised, occasionally for
spiritual but oftener for political purposes,
or with the object of wreaking spite or ven-
geance on opposition faiths. Members of
the various professions, callings, businesses,
etc., have combined on purely Machiavellian
lines : they recognise that “it is well to seem
pious, faithful, humane, religious, sincere,”
but he who keeps faith “when by so doing it
would be against his interest” is a rarity. It
was actually announced the other day that
the Commonwealth Public Service —inspired
doubtless by the Federal salary steal—was
thinking of putting itself un for sale, regard-
less of any political principles it might pos-
sess, to the highest Party bidder. It is in
these developments that the danger lies.
That acute student of social movements,
Graham Wallas, observed in one of his
books that “the habituation of an individual
is not reproduced in the biological inheri-
tance of the race.” In other words, a Prus-
sian or Austrian guardsman, or a Russian
marine, is as liable to throw back to primi-
tiveness, given the ri°ht stimulus, as any
member of an undisciplined crowd. Training,
ethical teachings, loyalty to Emperor, King
or country—all go for nothing once the herd
impulse has been aroused. It has ahvays
been so, of course, but to-day the inflam-
mable matter is infinitely more accessible to
the man with the match. And the huge co-
operative machine which we have built up
is more liable to total destruction than any
national unit was in individualistic times.
We cannot draw back and, by rendering our
lives less complicated, do away with a peril
which did not threaten the early pioneers.
For good or ill our lives hang on the thread
of transport, on peace in the coal industry,
on the maintenance of the shipping and
railway services. A blockade is still the
danger, and the submarines are still about.
If, then, the State means to preserve itself,
as a machine, it will have to go after the
rival machines whose bosses are undermining
it. There is no need to pass a single new
law for the purpose, or to interfere in any
way with legitimate freedom of speech or of the
press. It has been truly said that “the whole of
Carlyle, much of Mills, most of Spencer,
Darwin and Huxley, and some of Newman
and Froude were illegal, rendering their
authors liable to imprisonment.” No jury,
however, would have convicted any of them,
for obvious reasons. But there is an en-
tirely different type of reformer—a type
referred to in a cable of last Friday:—
A message from Berlin says: “Herr Facher, director
of Communist agitation in Great Britain and France,
informed the Berlin section of the Third Inter-
nationale that there are 1800 agents working in
Britain, of whom the majority are paid, and that the
expenditure in Britain is £13,750 sterling monthly,
which Facher says is insufficient.”
The average Australian knows the men of
this class here, who are seeking, not
to enlighten and help the State, but
to exploit its post-war troubles for what
they regard as their own advantage; and,
as a juryman, he would deal drastically with
them if given the chance. If the State
lacks the courage to give juries that chance
it is quite on the cards that the trouble-
makers will eventually put an end to the
State here as they have done elsewhere.
THE FOOTBALL OF POLITICS.
Someone has described Queensland sugar as
one of the tragedies of Australian industry.
A tragedy it is, but only to the extent
that the merchants of votes have meddled
with it. Freed from their incessant inter-
ference, it would be universally regarded
as a source of strength to the nation, and
as a great and successful experiment in the
colonisation of tropical Australia. Unfor-
tunately, every phase of the sugar question
has been mixed up with party politics. First,
there was a controversy as to whether the
workers in the industry should be white or
colored. When that was settled the Labor
party began an agitation for the national-
isation of the refineries. Then came the war,
and with it Hughes and his War Precau-
tions Act and his succession of sugar agree-
ments, to which the State Government be-
came a party by virtue of its having gone
into the refinery business. And, meantime,
a local arbitration tribunal raised wages
about 90 per cent, all round.
For the first two years of the control period
the Australian consumer got sugar at
3d. a pound, and for the three following
years the price was 3|d. They were the
cheapest rates in the world. Then, produc-
tion having slumped owing to the grower
being poorly paid (he got £l2 10s. a ton for
two years and ,£l3 10s. afterwards), the
Government had to buy in the foreign mar-
ket, and, of course, it bought badly. For
116,000 tons of Java sugar it paid £56 a
ton—£2B 10s. a ton more than the net
wholesale price for four years of refined
Queensland sugar in bags. As a result of
the foreign transactions, the retail price
was raised to sixpence a pound, and for this
the Queensland industry has been ignorantly
blamed. In point of fact, the Government
has been getting milled Queensland sugar
at £3O 6s. Bd. per ton, and selling it at
a profit of £7 a ton, using the profit to
offset its losses on the Java deals. But
no amount of evidence will convince some
people that it is not the farmers’ fault that
the retail price is sixpence a pound. No-
thing is ever said about confectioners who
made vast profits by selling their sweets at
siege rates, or about jam-makers who dam-
aged Australia’s good name abroad by ex-
porting shiploads of inferior stuff. All the
rage and hysteria of those who object to
dear sugar, or to dear articles of which
sugar is a staple, are concentrated on the
planters, who, like the wheatgrowers, were
atrociously sweated during the war. and,
under the existing agreement, are only get-
ting a bit of their own back.
* * * *
“In one way or another,” said Pratten,
M.P., one of the few men in Parliament who
speak on the sugar question with authority
and without bias, “this fine industry has
always been the football of politics.”
Events have compelled the planters to
conduct their business with one eye
on the canefield and the other on
the political news in the daily paper.
Sensible of the advantages of an agreement
which guarantees them £l9 6s. Bd. a ton,
and gives them some assurance that they
won’t be “nationalised” or “socialised” so
long as it is in operation, they want it
renewed for live years from June 30. 1923.
And when the Priminister toured Queens-
land in June they were flattered into the
belief that if they voted the right ticket
the thing would be done. With character-
istic high-mindedness Hughes pointed out to
a Bundaberg deputation that “the agreement
which you admit is excellent, was due to
the National party, and the National
party alone,” and that “if you desire a re-
newal very badly you should ask yourselves
how you are most likely to get it.” Which,
in effect, meant that three Nationalist Sena-
tors and seven (out of ten) Representa-
tives would be courting favors presently, and
that as they fared so w’ould the agreement
fare.
* * * »
But recent events have moderated the
transports excited by the Bundaberg speech.
Wishing to remind the planters about the
three Nationalist Senators and the seven
Nationalist Representatives the Government
brought down new sugar duties three days
before the session ended, knowing that they
wouldn’t operate for 8J months, and then
only if the new Parliament ratified them. It
was a clumsy vote-catching trick, and
clumsily was it handled. The Tariff Board
having been invited to express its views, that
body presented a report which might have
been written in the Argus office. Dismiss-
ing a suggestion that a duty of l|d. a pound
(£l4 a ton) would be a fair thing, since
jams and jellies were protected by a duty
of 3d. a pound, the Board recommended Id
a pound (£9 6s. Bd. a ton) all round, lavine
stress on “the righteous cry from hundreds
of thousands of industrialists” for cheaper
sugar. . The Government distributed copies
of this document without comment
agreed that the duty on raw sugar should
be £9 6s. Bd. a ton, but asked that an
extra £2 a ton should be clapped on the
mill-white article. Which proposal was de-
feated by 30 to 24, the majority being com-
posed of 14 Laborites, eight Cookies and
eight Nationalists. This suggests that the
planters have a poor chance of getting the
agreement renewed, even if the three Nation-
alist Senators and the seven Nationalist Re-
presentatives come back. In the contest be-
tween control and decontrol, the odds are
about 10 to 1 on the latter. Ninety per
cent, of the people are weary of a system
under which excited little politicians who
are mere children in matters of business con-
stitute themselves food-dictators without re-
ference to Parliament, and indulge in mad
gambles with the public funds. But the
greatest of North Australian industries is
entitled to a full measure of Protection. It
has an unanswerable case for a duty of at
least £l2 a ton, which is double the figure
that obtained when wages averaged 9s. 4d.
per day (they are now 17s. Bd.), and ship-
ping freights were low compared with what
they have soared to since Australian ships
were given a monopoly of the coasting trade,
as a result of which it costs more to bring
sugar from Queensland to any of the southern
capitals than to bring it from Java. With
sugar adequately protected special provision
could be made for the southern fruitgrowers
and for those engaged in secondary indus-
tries dependent on both sugar and fruit.
That way stabilitv lies.
FAIR LADIES IN REVOLT.
Originally the Shanghai leased territory
was intended to be kept inviolate. It was
to be a tiny atoll of European exclusiveness
amidst the tawny flood of the native-born.
In the early days the servants who came
into the settlement to wait on their white
masters were required to depart outside the
boundaries at nightfall. Nobody contem-
plated Shanghai ever being anything but
a clearing-house for European trade goods
and Chinese raw material. The Chinese in-
vasion began in a trickle, but soon expanded
to a flood. The value of real estate rose
enormously. It was not long before the
Chinese within the settlement began to out-
number those in the walled city. Foreign
Shanghai became a haven for political re-
fugees and a sanctuary for peculating offi-
cials, who built in it their stately mansions
set far back in spacious gardens. It called
itself the Model Settlement. Certainly the
wealthy suburbs and the business portion of
the town were laid out with that hard, recti-
linear precision which distinguishes the
European genius. But behind them grew
up a great tangle of mean streets and
noisome slums, just as insanitary but not
one-half so picturesque as the walled city.
Shanghai became the centre of native sin-
fulness for the Avhole Empire. Conservative
old gentlemen in the provinces told then-
sons that it was the modern Babylon, and
their sons ran away and got a clerkship in
a European firm and tasted the dangerous
pleasures of Shanghai’s Paris nights.
The chief impression Shanghai gives, both
in its work and in its play, is one of unco-
ordinated hustle, in which the white man and
the yellow, living cheek-by-jowl, yet succeed
in ignoring each other’s existence. The Foo-
chow Lu at night is a blaze of lights. Its
huge teasliops, with their spacious stair-
cases, swarm with pleasure-seekers. There
is that little horror, the Shanghai flapper,
arrayed in tight-fitting silk jacket, skin-tight
flowered silk trousers, her face a deathly
mask of rice-powder. Here she flaunts her
charms unnoticed, whereas in the provinces,
if she dared to show herself thus fear-
somely arrayed, the angry mob would tear
her limb from limb. A Knomintang dude,
member of revolutionary clubs and breeder
of racehorses, goes past in his Rolls-Royce
furnished like a drawing-room. In and out
of the traffic the sing-song girls thread their
way in glistening chariots drawn by liveried
rickshaw-pullers, each followed by a grizzled
duenna in another chariot; or else she is
borne along on the shoulders of a sturdy
coolie. Above the street a colored dragon,
picked out in electric lights, writhes for a
moment and then disappears. A huge figure
a hundred feet high lifts a cigarette to its
mouth and blows a mighty smoke-ring; and
Chinese characters, exhorting the natives to
smoke only Somebody’s cigarettes, are momen-
tarily outlined against the sky. A Chinese
theatre confronts you, like a many-storeyed
wedding-cake, glittering with lights. Jew-
elled lifts take you to the various floors,
where you may sit and drink tea and listen
to a minstrel singing the ancient epics, be
deafened by the din and clamor of a his-
torical play, or see a modern drama per-
formed in colloquial Chinese.
Newsboys are selling French, English,
American and Chinese newspapers at the
street-corners. Every political sect has its
propagandist organ, and there is even a
Chinese Bolshevist journal. The mafoos, sit-
ting waiting with the stockbrokers’ chariots,
are spelling out the leading articles of their
favorite paper; and girl students, chastely
garbed, read their own newspapers, The
New Woman or The Woman’s Bell.
Running through the day’s news there
is always a strong strain of violence.
It is a long catalogue of civil war
and bandit atrocity outside, and bomb
outrage and robbery with violence within.
Shanghai is the sink of China. Into it
soaks all the rascality of the teeming mil-
lions that surround it. Now and then the
municipal police run one desperate gang
or another to earth, and they are handed
over to the Chinese authorities for execu-
tion ; but the teashops continue to hum with
plotting and intrigue. Occasionally a student
blows himself up with a badly-made bomb,
or a visitor from the provinces is shot in
the street; and in the subsequent proceed-
ings at the Mixed Court the veil is momen-
tarily lifted and glimpses are gained of
amazing complications of motives, of dark
forces writhing underground in the inex-
plicable turmoil of native life. But tne
European does not worry. He prefers not
to think of it. It is for him an impene-
trable mystery hedged in by the difficulty
of th% native language. He creates for hirn-


self with his Cercle Sportif, his Shanghai
Club with the longest bar in the East, his
race carnivals and his business, conducted
through the mediation of shroffs and
compradores, an illusion of the European
scene. The sight of beggars with loath-
some self-inflicted sores, the constant spec-
tacle of the degradation of human beings
working like beasts between shafts, his daily
newspaper pabulum of floods, famines and
massacres, make him callous to human suf-
fering so long as it is only native. If he
gets the chance, he goes to see a public
execution in the native city, when a dozen
poor devils will be put up against a wall
and shot by a dandy officer, followed by a
soldier with a tray of revolvers; every now
and then the officer sees some movement in
the bodies which have fallen, and he goes
back and fires another round into the mass
until it stops.
The London bobby translated to these
alien street-corners is a little ill at ease,
and shows his discomfiture by interpreting
the by-laws with less than his customary
savoir faire. The mob of yellow men with
masks for faces baffles his simple soul, in-
ured to the familiar wickedness of the Eng-
lish underworld, and he finds no relief in
the face of his Chinese confrere, where he
sees the same expressionless mask as on
the passer-by. Often some incident makes
him aware of currents below the surface
of which he had never dreamed. He con-
gratulates himself that owing to his vigi-
lance pilfering on his beat has ceased, until
he is confronted with a placard torn from
a neighboring building announcing that the
King of the Robbers of the Fifth Division has
granted the shopkeepers an amnesty for six
months because they have paid their tax
to the Robbers’ Guild!
Every evening the Nanking-road is
thronged with a motley traffic. The English
taipan in his car, the fat compradore in his
carriage, the European clerk in his rickshaw
pour along the road in a torrent which moves
swifter than any traffic except that of Paris.
They stream out to the tree-embowered
suburbs as if they wanted to escape as
quickly as possible, if only for a night, from
the frenzied bustle of the great Eurasian
mart. At the street intersections, Sikh
policemen are beating barrow-coolies about
the head with their batons; the barrow-
coolies, with a constant hee-ho, emerge from
the dark gorges of the cross-streets and stag-
ger with their monstrous burdens across the
Nanking-road to plunge into the gorges on
the other side. From the crowded wharves
which line the river they are bearing the
raw material brought down by junk and
steamer from the hinterland, not to be
loaded in ocean-going ships bound for
Europe and America, but to be worked up
into manufactured articles in the factories
of Shanghai and Chapei.
At Chapei, the foreign settlement overflows
into Chinese territory. It overflows in. a
dark torrent of squalid tenements, factories
and go-downs, smothering the fields which
once were gay with yellow-flowering rape
and green with crops, covering the ances-
tral burial-ground of the Wang family,
swamping the village of the Lu family,
the hamlet of the Tang family, of
a score of families who traced their de-
scent back to the Chinese deluge. The vil-
lage elders, who once ruled their little par-
ishes like kings, have been caught in the
flood; some have gone to clerk for foreign
firms in Hankow or sit on the boards of
electric light, steamship, telephone, or tram
companies, in Hangchow or Nanking. The
young men have drifted to the cities, the
women have followed them. Families which
have lived under the same roof and kept to
the trades of their ancestors for 40 genera-
tions, have been broken up and their members
scattered over the Empire.
Along the boundary, between banks of
mud and the walls of factories and ware-
houses, out of the open fields, flows the Soo-
chow Creek, bearing on its sluggish current
a continuous stream of barges, houseboats
and sampans, and almost expiring in the
effort to escape from this sudden impasse
that has caught it in its descent to the sea.
Once Chapei was the happy hunting-ground
of the beggars and an immense beggars’ camp
existed there until a fire swept it away, but
now it is a wilderness of factory chimneys,
unrelieved by a single curving temple-roof.
It is a congeries of European, Chinese and
Japanese enterprises earning dividends out
of Chinese labor for alien shareholders. The
labor comes from the neighboring villages.
It cannot walk —it has crumpled feet —and
so it is conveyed to its work in barrows. It
cannot walk on its “golden lilies,” but it
can stand. It stands on its stumps of feet
at the foreign-made machinery for hours
a day, for seven days a week and for 51
weeks a year. The same fingers that used
to spin the lovely fabrics of the old Chinese
industry in a million homes now tend (with-
out safety devices) the maze of rocking
levers, stealthy steel arms and fingers and
whirling metal jingals of foreign factories
spinning out coarse fabrics for the benefit ot
Cockney shareholders. From 5 in the morn-
ing till 6.30 in the evening, every day in
the year except for the brief respite ot
Chinese New Year, it toils to earn its ten-
pence a day. That is to say, three farthings
an hour! It if puts in full time for seven
days a week it earns a bonus of a penny
farthing. If it succeeds in keeping its fingers
and hair out of the machinery for a whole
month it earns an honorarium of 35., but
the loss of an hour’s work in the month
deprives it of this benefit.
Recently this usually docile labor force
composed of women and children revolted.
Twenty thousand of them, employed in the
silk filatures of Chapei, downed their tools for
a 10-hour working day and a rise of 12-135th
of a penny an houn Bearing banners in-
scribed with “Let the World Know of Our
Suffering,” and keeping their vulgar fraction
before them like an onflamme, they tottered
on their lily feet towards the Foreign Settle-
ment. Like the viragoes of Paris who
marched to Versailles to secure the person
of their king, they marched on that outpost
of foreign capital with some obscure notion
perhaps that there the mysterious deity who
controlled their fates must sit enthroned;
and that if they could only get hold of him
and give him a beating, as they do their own
God of Rain, he might be frightened into
granting them their vulgar fraction. The
mere appearance of that deputation, so tra-
gically ridiculous on its inadequate extremi-
ties, might perhaps melt his heart with pity.
But they had never seen Western capital,
and they were ignorant of his ways. They
did not know that he was impervious to sen-
timent ; that he was inaccessible to pleading;
that he was a strange, distant deity that had
never been known to descend from his Olym-
pus ; that he had no eye to see, ears to
hear, or heart to feel; that he was, in fact,
an abstraction whom nobody had ever seen
and whose only local manifestation was the
police.
The police did their duty and headed the
angry ladies back into Chinese territory, and'
there the heavy hand of martial law de-
scended on them. The strike collapsed, ana
the employers won a victory. But already
there are the mutterings of a fresh storm:
12-135th of a penny are worth fighting for
in China. Nearly a million women-workers,
including those that took part in the silk
filature strike, have petitioned the Civil Gov-
ernor of Iviangsu province, complaining that
their hours of labor, nominally 11 per day,
are, in practice, 14, and pointing out that
the Washington International Labor Confer-
ence of 1920, at which China was repre-
sented, decided on an eight-hour day and a
48-hour week.
Foreign Shanghai, if it thinks about it at
all, treats this revolt of fair women as rather
a joke. It has become quite resigned to
native trades unions, and coolies’ strikes are
almost endemic. It does not concern itselt
enough with native affairs to realise what
a tremendous convulsion must have occurred
in Chinese society to make it possible for
woman, the domestic slave, the creature with-
out a soul, to combine against her masters;
nor does it trouble to consider _ what the
effect will be on the inviolability of the
Model Settlement, not to mention the rest
of the world, of a thoroughly industrialised
China.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Back to First Principles.
The experience that befell Lloyd George
last week was bound to come soon, and it is
a tribute to his adroitness that it did not
happen a year or more ago. He became
Prime Minister when he did owing to the
possession of those very qualities which now
make him impossible as Prime Minister,
llaif-a-dozen years ago he typified the only
sort of Britisher who was any good to
Britain. He had no convictions: only a con-
viction —that of the necessity of winning the
war. To this master-end he became a Pro-
tectionist after advocating Freetrade for 30
years; a militarist after being the nation’s
most conspicuous pacifist; an autocrat of
the Prussian type, who, where certain war-
measures were concerned, consulted neither
Parliament nor the people, though he had
preached democracy during the whole
of his previous Parliamentary life; and
he collaborated as readily with Tories
like Carson, Curzon and Chamber-
lain as with any member of his old
party. A great national war necessi-
tates a kind of moratorium so far as Chris-
tianity is concerned. The helm of the ship
of State is no place in such a crisis for one
with a tender conscience united to a logical
mmd. Gladstone, having such peculiari-
ties, ended the first Boer War prematurely
—for the preposterous reason, from the
standpoint of statecraft, that he had become
convinced it was unjust—and so necessitated
another war a couple of decades later —a
war which, apart from its own ruinous cost
in blood and money, had a distinct bearing
on the arrival of the World War. The revi-
valist from Wales was able to sink the
teachings of the Bible with a comprehensive-
ness that the pillar of mid-Victorian Angli-
canism could never achieve; and that was
the kind of leader the Empire wanted at the
time. To the extent that his sacrifices
—if they were sacrifices —helped to win
the war Lloyd George deserves all
credit, and history will probably allot
him as much as any British statesman.
But the World War being over, and there
being no immediate prospect of another, the
strong party men naturally want to take
their political souls out of pawn again.
There is no longer any valid excuse for the
Tory lion to lie down with the Liberal
lamb, or for either of them to fraternise
with the Labor goat, who, having borne the
brunt of the fighting and working through-
out the dangerous period, is now, in many
cases, an embittered unemployable. The
leader of the menagerie might fairly
have expected to be given his walking
ticket on this issue alone, but there was
a contributing factor which no doubt accel-
erated the event. For some years now the
British have been uneasy about their Prime
Minister. A complaint heard everywhere is
that he has become too rich, and that he
is too intimately associated with the rich.
In every community there are two classes
of capitalists—those who are adding to their
wealth in a manner which is obvious to
everybody (as by the possession of a great
estate or store or brewery or what not),
and those who are growing richer in ways
which are largely hidden from the public.
The people in the second category are often
men whose coups depend for success on Gov-
ernment concessions, Government informa-
tion —in fact, on a political “pull.” Lloyd
George’s intimates for a long time past
have not been rich men like Lord Derby and
Lord Salisbury, whose families have not been
concerned primarily with money-making for
generations, but rich men like Sir Phillip
Sassoon and Sir Alfred Mond, who are con-
cerned, directly or indirectly, with enter-
prises to which a Prime Minister might
render priceless assistance if he felt in-
clined. There are many aspects in which
the case of W. M. Hughes differs from that
of Lloyd George. However, Hughes, in
his instability, in his heroic sacrifice of all
his old political principles and in his incapa-
city to recapture them, and, above all, in
his fondness for the company of the wrong
sort of plutocrat, is his great countryman’s
alter ego. And those things which have
destroyed Lloyd George in England are
likely to do the same by Hughes here.
The Righteous Civilian and the
Reprobate Digger.
A social phenomenon which every observer
with half-an-eye in his head must have
noticed is the thinly-veiled dislike of a sec-
tion of the community for soldiers, as such.
This section is not Bolshevist or Sinn Fein,
or anything disreputable of that sort. Far
from it. Its members are careful to protest,
in and out of season, that they like and
respect the soldiers, and, as sound Empire
men themselves, have the highest admiration
for the splendid things done for Australia
and the Empire by these gallant men. And
any quantity of further windy platitude to
the same effect. But, they resume —and then
comes a flood of suggestion, innuendo, half-
truths and distorted facts implying that
many, if not most, of the soldiers are unmiti-
gated wasters and blackguards. It is signi-
ficant that these aspersions are hardly ever
levelled by soldiers or their parents —but
nearly always by men who might have been
soldiers and tlieir parents. Which of us does
not know the nauseatingly “loyal” father of
some young shirker who, with a hardihood
which would have been admirable if applied to
a decent object, stuck the entire war out in
a remunerative job at home; and that
father’s eager readiness to jump at any lie
to the discredit of some returned wreck?
Who has not met the hulking citizen in the
late twenties or early thirties, and heard
his gratified snigger at the spectacle of one-
legged, one-armed or shell-shocked drunks —
poor devils who might, be as normal to-day
as their complacent critic if they had not
glimpsed a light he could not see? The latest
to make public protestation of this sorry
faith is R. W. D. Weaver, of N. S. Wales,
one of the M’s.L.A. for North Shore. “Sol-
dier settlers. . . .dissolute drunkards who are
trying to rob the State. They have no inten-
tion of paying their interest... .Soldiers who
are indecent, dishonorable and incapable of
fulfilling their obligations”—thus, inter alia,
this queer pillar of Empire in the Assembly,
the other night. It may all be true —though
Weaver would rightly have gone to gaol for
saying half as much in the days when those
whom he now denounces were standing be-
tween him and ruin. And, again, his accusa-
tions may be partly or wholly untrue. It
is easy, for example, to accuse a body of
men of having “no intention of paying their
interest” (such wild charges are screamed
dally by viragoes over back fences in every
slum in the Commonwealth), but nothing is
harder than to enter into the “state of
mind,” as the lawyers say, of unfortunates
who, perhaps, would ask nothing more than
to be able to pay up and look pleasant, like
prosperous Mr. Weaver. But this is not
the point. The point is that men of the
Weaver type, if they had any sense of pro-
portion, not to say decency, would be the
last to besmirch the humblest Digger’s honor.
Mr. Weaver is a strapping fellow, still of
military age, who, for whatever reason, did
not go to the war. He is said to have been
declared medically unfit when the worst of
the fighting was on, and technically, no
doubt, he was —though at the time one-eyed
men and cripples were being rushed back to
the line in France. When the fighting was
virtually over, Mr. Weaver managed to over-
come the scruples of the medical profession,
and the Armistice found him in khaki —at
Liverpool. A sufficiently creditable record,
no doubt, for those who care for that sort
of record, but it hardly entitles its owner
to sling mud at men who fought in France
and who are down and out to-day in many
cases because they did so. The M’s.L.A. of
Weaver’s age or thereabouts, whose deeds in
the field entitle them to be critical — Jaques,
Murphy, Rutledge and the like —and the
older legislators who had sons at the war,
invariably either speak with charity of the
broken ex-Digger or keep silent. For Par-
liament, in its Jaqueses, as in its Weavers,
is a fairly accurate reflection of the world
outside.
A Worker’s Triumph.
It is possible for a thing to be so big that
it can’t be seen ; and maybe that it is why
the exhibition at the Sydney R.A.S. Grounds
just now is being treated to such an impres-
sive absence of publicity by the dailies.
What it stands for seems lost to them. The
exhibition is ostensibly a show of things
made in Australia. And what a tremendous
and variegated show it is! Furniture of the
most beautiful description; machinery, vast
and powerful, tiny and delicate ; wines of a
quality that no connoisseur of a generation
back would have dreamed could be produced
outside France; almost all classes of electri-
cal stores; perfumes, jewellery, toilet articles
and other features of the luxury _ trades
which simply had to be imported in pre-
war days; an astounding assortment of
foodstuffs ; pianos; beers (who misses Ger-
man lagers or British ales nowadays?) ;
motor bodies ; glassware—there is hardly a
single requisite of a modern civilised State
which does not figure in this amazing collec-
tion. But it is really, of course, something
far greater than an assortment of things
made; it is a glimpse of Australia in the
making. Nothing could more adequately
picture the Commonwealth assuming the
mantle of self-reliant maturity. For years
there had been a steady, a very steady,
growth of local manufacture in spite of the
persistent virulence of the importing germ.
It was given a tremendous impetus in .1914.
The war forced the Commonwealth to grow
up in more ways than one. With the stream
of imports turned off at the tap it became a
case of “root, hog, or die”; and Australia
rooted and lived and gained wondrously in
virility in the process. In that grim testing
time the country proved that it could stand
squarely upon its own feet, and the lesson
involved therein is rammed well home by
this exhibition. The R.A.S. Ground might
well be the Mecca of a pious pilgrimage for
Australians in the next few weeks. It offers
a healthy antidote to that careless don’t-
give-a-darnedness about the point of origin
of a thousand things that enter directly
and indirectly into most people’s daily
lives; and it must set the least im-
aginative thinking that behind the “Buy
Australian-made” cry there is something
nationally vital and not merely manu-
facturers’ profits. Incidentally, the show
is an eloquent counterblast to those calamity-
howlers who see in the Australian worker
nothing but a loafer or a wrecker. Confused
by the unsavory dust kicked up by the
Trades Hall bosses and political heads—a de-
plorably large proportion of whom are.
appropriately enough, imports—the casual
observer is apt to overlook the keen, straight-
going Australian worker who takes an artis-
tic pride in his job, and is in all respects the
antithesis of skiting upheavalists of the
Walsh and Howie stamp. The many mar-
vellous and beautiful things at the R.A.S.
Grounds are the answer to those who asperse
this class. They provide evidence that the
advocates of sabotage and “go-slow” have a
long way to go yet before their creed begins
to so much as touch the cream of the pro-
letariat, whatever results it may be getting
amongst the lower grades.
Convalescent Once More.
Mustapiia Kemal Pasha, with the sword
of Otiiman well bared and shining with
all its old effulgence, has gained a
greater victory over the Allies than he won
against the futility that is Greece. When
he played France and Italy against Britain,
and brought the latter to the ignominy of
the “note” that gave the grave and potent
gentry at Angora all they claimed —and a
great deal more than they expected—he re-
peated the traditional policy of the sick
man of Europe. Kemal has got back
from the Allies the Thracian marshes —
which Lloyd Geokge promised the Turk but
certainly never meant to deliver to him—
just as successfully as Talaat and Enver
won them by diplomacy on a previous occa-
sion. And now every good Mussulman is
piously repeating, with a new fervor, the
age-old assurance that there is no God but
God and Mahomet is his prophet; while
Abdul, from his possy in Paradise,
and Hamid, from his well-guarded villa
at Salonika, are probably conning over
again, with sidelong looks of scorn,
Gladstone’s celebrated “bag and bag-
gage” speech. About all the daily press
can see in this re-alignment of affairs on
Europe’s most dangerous frontier is that
Kemal has met the Allies’ proposals in a
“conciliatory spirit.” Of course, he has!
Having won what he has won, it is rather
a tribute to Enver’s successor that he is
not acting with EnvEß’s short-sightedness
and demanding everything under the sun.
Kemal has won through on a great bluff,
and won through handsomely from his own
viewpoint and the viewpoint of the Faith-
ful generally. But if the nations of the
old Entente can see things at all —they seem
too sore-headed, as yet, to see anything whole
—there ought to be some disquieting reflec-
tions for them in the triumph of the Angora-
ites and the humiliation of Britain. In
a peculiar and particular way the Turk
is winning the peace in the Near East as
the Hun is winning it in Europe. By his
successes, Kemal has reprojected Mattel
Europa into the arena of practical politics.
Germany went to war with the single aim
of extending the Teutonic Empire into Asia,
and of bringing herself within striking dis-
tance of India, Egypt and Africa, and Tur-
key was, and we may presume still is, party
to that scheme. The prematurely-ended war
ostensibly finished those plans, but, in the
light of the piecemeal rejection of the vari-
ous treaties which followed the Armistice,
we may also presume that the original plan
is still being sedulously nursed. Bulgaria
remains definitely outside the Southern
Slavic Confederation that alone could inter-
pose a definite barrier to Mittel Europa, and
with Turkey re-established in Thrace, the
way is once more open for a recommence-
ment of the old plottings. In it all lies the
germ of the great war of the future. And
in that Australia is as definitely concerned
as she was in the war we have just won
—on paper. In face of recent events, it
is palpably absurd to contend that the policy
of Mittel Europa has been irretrievably lost
to its sponsors, or that any insurmountable
barriers have been erected in the Balkans.
With Turkey back in Thrace, and the way
still clear through Bulgaria, the presumed
insurmountable barriers raised by the Treaty
of Sevres have been incontinently cast down.
This new slant of affairs has demonstrated,
among other things, the uselessness of the
League of Nations —which must continue to
be useless till it secures some backing of
force that will enable it to speak with autho-
rity, and act with the only sort of firmness
that counts where men go armed and refuse
to believe in the arrival of the Millen-
nium. It also helps to arrange in its
correct perspective the one-eyed character
of Yankee diplomacy. With U.S. backing,
John Bull might have kept the Turk out of
Europe, and spat emphatically in the eye
of Pan-Islamic pretensions. But America
meets this new presentation of the Drang
nach Osten with supply ships and relief
missions (which pay well), and the cheap
assurance that British policy has her appro-
val —which costs nothing. When Kemal
sabred Constantine and Demetrius out of
the Smyrna zone, and compelled a retire-
ment from Thrace, he not only re-created
the menace which formerly existed against
the Suez Canal; he strengthened the
Asian challenge to moribund Europe, and re-
vitalised the policy that gave us the Great
War. All of these things are concerns in
which Australia must continue to take a
first-hand interest, notwithstanding our
Charltons and Blakeleys and Gardiners,
who seem to think that this Commonwealth
has no concern in international policies and
the wars they breed, till the fighting-line
stretches itself out on our doorstep.
Dumping in the Writing Trade.
Dear Bulletin, —Is a national literature
a desideratum in the case of a people that
aspires to greatness? I know there are
many who will reply with a resonant “No.”
During the war I chanced to be in an
R.F.A. mess shortly after Rupert Brooke’s
name appeared amongst the killed. The C.O.
(a Manchester business man in civilian life)
was much annoyed when someone suggested
that the poet’s death was a loss to the nation.
“A scribbler!” he shouted. “A writer of
jingle! What’s the use of such people? I
wouldn’t give my regimental sar’-major for
a score of Brookes!” It_is precisely the
point of view of the typical Australian
politician. Every politician is a Protection-
ist nowadays—even men like W. M. Hughes,
who won and held AVest Sydney for years
as a Freetrader. But only as regards
material goods—articles which are dragged
about in trains and dumped on sidings and
wharves: no M.P. thinks of advocating Pro-
tection for Australia’s intellectual output,
unless he wants to be regarded in Parlia-
ment as an officer would have been in the
military mess above mentioned, who tried to
convince the Colonel that one Brooke was
worth more to his country than innumerable
r.s.-m.’s. It is here that the U.S. can show


A Delicious Summer Dessert
Granose Biscuits
WITH STEWED FRUIT.
GRANOSE BISCUITS are a most desirable whole-grain food for
family use, being specially prepared to retain all the nutritive
elements of selected wheat. A special steam baking process in
manufacture permits the retention of the nourishing and body-
building qualities of the grain without any additions whatsoever.
This gives a perfect food —makes digestion easy and complete.
GRANOSE BISCUITS make children healthy, happy and alive with
vitality. The little ones love this delicious food—grown-ups, too,
fully appreciate the rich cereal flavor.
There are scores of ways of preparing GRANOSE BISCUITS for any
or every meal. You’ll like them with stewed fruits.
GRANOSE BISCUITS are sold by Grocers everywhere in
Large Packets and 31b. Caddies.
Served daily at the
SANITARIUM HEALTH FOOD CAFE
308 George Street, Sydney—Melbourne—Adelaide—Perth—Hobart—Brisbane—Auckland—Wellington, Christchurch.
us points. Take medicine. Any reputable
Yankee doctor may come to this country and
on production of his American diplomas be
forthwith registered and admitted to prac-
tice. Our brightest Collins-street or Mac-
quarie-street lights would have to qualify
all over again in the U.S. if they wanted to
attend patients there. When the literature
of England was in the making—that litera-
ture which is now the nation’s greatest glory,
all said and done, in the eyes of civilised
mankind —it did not need to be fostered.
There was no foreign competition. Right
dowm to the epoch of the great Victorian
writers of prose and .poetry almost the only
producers of readable books in English were
British-born men and women. To-day there
is a colossal output of Yankee literary mat-
ter, fair, bad and awful, in addition to a for-
midable British supply of novels, short
stories and poetry by writers of all classes.
And unprotected Australia gets the lot.
It was bad enough when those Australian
journals which, by confining themselves to
original Australian matter, sought to build up
an Australian literature had only to compete
with high-class and expensive British and
American magazines. It would be bad enough
if these same journals had only to compete
with the more or less costly literature of a
decade or so ago, plus the cheap Cockney
and Yankee rubbish of the post-war years.
But, latterly, a vast new Richmond has
entered the field in the form of a mass of
“syndicated stuff.” This dumped matter
takes the form of drawings as well as stories,
and most of it —-and practically all the worst
of it —is from the U.S.: itself the most ex-
clusive country on earth. A truly
horrible example, on the artistic side,
is the “Mutt and Jeff series,” which
the Sydney Sunday Times has been repro-
ducing for so many months. As regards
overseas short stories, an Australian paper
may buy excellent ones wholesale at about
4s. 2d. each —not a bad investment when it
is remembered that most of the journal’s
patrons were still too young to be able to
read when these yarns originally appeared.
A 75,000-word novel may be had for a fiver
(with illustrations of ladies in bustles and
gentlemen in monkey-jackets and top hats,
if required), and “The Trials and Tempta-
tions of a Beautiful Chicago Stenographer.”
or a serialised version of any cinema thrill
the editor cares to name, is available at an
even more reasonable fee. Clearly, if this
business is not stopped, all but the financi-
ally independent Australian writers and
artists are going to abandon the struggle in
the same way as the C.S.R. would go out
of the sugar business if it were faced with
unrestricted Javanese competition. “An’ a
good thing, too!” the indigenous Podsnap
will sturdily cry.... However, these words
are not written for him. .. .Let it he granted
that the cultivation of an Australian litera-
ture is a matter of prime national import-
ance ; and that it is also vitally important
that the English language, which is our
most priceless inheritance, should not be
smeared with the slang of the Chicago
Ghetto and the New York Bowery. In that
case it will he aereed that most of the .U.S.
“syndicated stuff” which is now arriving
should be put on the prohibited import list.
As regards genuine literature —overseas
work which has a cultural or educational
value —it should at least be made as costly
to buy locally as Australian work paid for
at award rates. That is a principle to which
no manufacturer who bars dumped European
goods and no worker who bars dumped
Asiatic labor can take logical exception.—
Yours, etc. Working Journalist.
The Plague of Taxes and Officials.
Towards the end of every session every
Commonwealth Treasurer says something
like this: —
The duplication of Commonwealth and State
activities is receiving the attention of the Govern-
ment. Negotiations are in progress with a view to
the amalgamation of taxation departments, and there
is reason to hope that a settlement of this long out-
standing problem will be found.
Similar remarks are made when the seven
Premiers foregather for their half-yearly
palaver. The familiar legend is repeated
at the annual pow-wows of Treasurers,
Attorney-Generals, boss tax-gatherers, and
electoral registrars. Yet nothing ever hap-
pens—except that the bill for these periodi-
cal picnics is added to the already piratical
cost of government. In every State there are
two electoral rolls, with two crowds of
officials to compile them, two lots of
savings banks (except in Queensland),
two income-taxes, and (except in Westralia)
two taxation departments. Numerous per-
sons live by tracking down and dragging
into police courts citizens who enrolled as
State electors, but not as Commonwealth
electors, and vice versa. Others, still more
numerous, get their wine and chicken by
preparing taxation papers and arguing the
point with Tape and Sealingwax, an occu-
pation encouraged by such eccentricities of
administrative genius as one return of
income (the same income) being due in
August and another in January, one Gov-
ernment taxing income at the source and
another at the point of distribution, the rate
imposed by one authority being 7.147 d. in
the £ and by another 9.745 d. in the £; and
so forth. Some of these multitudinous “ex-
perts” are reputed to make £5OOO p.a.
The Taxation Commission was told by one
of its witnesses that the fees they pull in,
and which represent an additional tax on the
people, must aggregate £1,000,000 p.a.
At a cost of about £20,000 the Commission
in question reported that Australian methods
of taxation were rotten. There is also an
appeal board, domiciled in Sydney (each of
its three members gets £l5OO p.a.), and
similar bodies are projected for the other
five capitals, although it is doubtful whether
the Sydney triumvirate has ever heard a case.
But while the taxes, and those who
live on them, accumulate, taxpayers decay.
Whenever the subject is mentioned in Par-
liament Hansard bulges with observations
like these: —
A grazier starts with 1000 sheep, loses 500 in a
drought and raises 400 lambs from the survivors.
He is taxed on the lambs, the Department humor-
ously describing them as “natural increase.”
A syndicate of five put £lOO each into a mining
venture. They worked for four years at a loss and
then borrowed £4OO, having exhausted their capi-
tal. In the fifth year they made a profit of £4OO
and were taxed on it at the rate of Is. 4d. in the £.
A man with £3OO took up a N.S.W. settlement
THE MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.
“But if I'm so terrible, Billy, why did you marry me ?”
“For yer money, damn yer; for yer money!”
lease over-run with prickly-pear. Toiling like a
beaver and living on the smell of an oil-rag, he
cleared the land, stocked it and sold after eight
years for £B6OB, of which £2281 went to his
mortgagee. Deducting improvements, which cost
over £3OOO. he drew only £2OlB for eight years’
bullocking labor. Of this sum the State Taxation
Department exacted £1597 145., although if the
victim had converted his settlement lease into a
conditional-purchase area, as he had a perfect right
to do, he wouldn’t have been liable for a penny.
One of the biggest graziers in N. S. Wales, a
man whom I have known all my life, tells me that
unless the system of taxation is altered he will have
to give up his grazing properties as unprofitable.—
Fleming, M.H.R. for Robertson, N.S.W.
When one visits the back country one sees the
effect that heavy taxation has upon the development
of Australia. It is reflected in unemployment....
in the absence of improvements, in tumbledown
fences, silted-up dams and houses in bad repair.—
Hunter, M.11.R. for Maranoa (Q.).
No reform is more obvious, and none could
be more useful, than the deliverance of a
harassed people from the plague of dupli-
cated imposts and departments by the insti-
tution of one sane and simple income-tax
and one electoral roll for the Commonwealth.
But the way to reform is blocked by
wretched personal and provincial jealousies,
and there is no deliverer in sight.
The Precarious Wheat Industry.
Dr. Watt, Professor of Agriculture in Syd-
ney University, motored recently through
the wheat district extending from Welling-
ton (N.S.W.) to Dubbo, and taking in Sun-
top, Maryvale, Geurie, Wongarbon and
Dubbo, and found it all barren. Nearly
all, anyhow. “The outlook,” he says, “is
ghastly. In the Gilgandra area, except for
one or two patches which may strip a bag
or two to the acre, the farmers won’t get 20
per cent, of the seed they will need next
year. In Wellington, Geurie, Wongarbon
and Dubbo there will be no wheat at all.
It is a complete crop failure.” And for
many of the farmers affected it is the second
failure in four years. Some of the poor
devils have had only one decent harvest
since 1938. The position has got worse
since the Professor went on his travels,
damage having been done in other dis-
tricts by unseasonable hot winds. Over
half the N. S. Wales wheat belt the yield
will range from eight or nine bushels per
acre to nothing whatever. Over the other
half conditions are generally satisfactory,
but even in the relatively favored south and
south-west some of the areas will produce
less than the average in normal seasons un-
less they get more rain. No one now
expects even a 30,000.000-bushel harvest,
and a drop to 25,000,000 bushels is being
provided for. In that case the average
would be a fraction over seven bushels. Last
year the yield was 42,650,000 bushels, and
the average a trifle more than 13 bushels.
In 1920-21 —the first post-drought year—the
harvest panned out at 55,625,000 bushels
and the average at 18 bushels. In 1915-16
the output was 66,726,000 bushels, the aver-
age beiiig 16 bushels. That was the high-
water mark of wheat production in N. S.
Wales and the Commonwealth. When the
grain was in the bags politicians took the
industry in hand and “assisted” it to such
purpose —by selling the wheat, or such of
it as they didn’t feed to mice and weevils,
for half its value, and letting shady dealers
make fortunes while, the growers couldn’t
get paid—that the sown acreage dropped
from 4,186,493 in 1915-16 to 2,409,633 in
1918-19. Then the drought came along and
about 3000 N. S. Wales farmers had to ask the
Government to supply them with seed and
superphosphate, fodder and stores, and to
hold over their rents. But the ignorant
paternalism of the war period did far more
damage than the drought. Not only in the
western areas of N. S. Wales will the grain
harvest be poor. In several Queensland dis-
tricts and parts of S.A. and Westralia very
little wheat will be stripped. A timely fall of
rain has improved the situation in Victoria, and
resuscitated crops that seemed to be at their
last gasp, but hundreds of the northern
mallee farmers are having a gruelling time.
Which circumstance has an instructive bear-
mg on J. Carruthers’s proposal to deposit
legions of his Million Farmers in the un-
tested region north of the northern mallee.
The Murray lands committee has thrown
cold water on that noxious notion, but not
enough to drown it. Without scientific
methods and pigs or sheep as a standby
there is no more precarious business than
wheatgrowing. And setting an army of
immigrants to coax corn in a remote wilder*
ness with an uncertain rainfall, part of
which falls in summer, is the maddest idea
of an age which has witnessed numerous
attempts to make agriculturists of city
clerks and hairdressers, 95 per cent, of
them failures.
•
"0.K.”: More than £300,000 per annum, it
is estimated, has been relinquished by the
Federal Government in removing the tax on
picture-show tickets of less value than a
shilling. Like King Gama in “Princess Ida,”
I can’t think ichy. Joseph Cook, in the
last Budget he introduced, made an un-
accountable attempt to remove the tax from
all picture-show tickets, on the pretence that
the movies were educational as compared
with theatre plays. The Bulletin had
something to do with drawing public
attention to the apparent jobbery of Cook’s
amended amusement-taxation stunt, and pre-
sently the Treasurer dropped it in a hurry.
Yet Bruce has returned to the charge—or,
rather, to the concession—as though the Gov-
ernment had some particular object to serve
in, as it were, presenting the public with
another £lOO,OOO to spend on movies. Why
should not sixpenny tickets to a picture-
show be taxed? Why should there be talk
by the Treasurer of remitting the whole of
the amusement tax as soon as possible? It
was worth £075,000 last year, and of all
forms of recent extra taxation it has, pro-
bably, the largest amount of general appro-
val. A public that can’t afford to be taxed
on its theatre-going and race-going ought not
to be taxed anywhere. The most the tax does
is to check attendances at theatres, movies
and racecourses. By adding slightly to the
expense of certain classes of pleasure-seeking
the Government acquires an amount of cash
which would otherwise go mostly into show-
men’s coffers. And, again, I want to know
—why not? Why should this much-exacting
Government be so anxious to discontinue the
custom of exacting a halfpenny per ticket
from the easy-going crowd that pours into
movies from morning till night? I can’t see
how it can be a vote-winning device, seeing
that the late Tudor, on behalf of the Labor
Opposition, talked a lot of nonsense about
the taxation of the pleasures of the Poor,
and the Poor practically told him to “ ’ave
a little common” as regards a halfpenny im-
position on a movie ticket. No, it is a sop
to showmen which offers no satisfactory
explanation of itself.
«
“M.D.” on the alleged new diabetes Cure: —
I am loath to believe that so simple a remedy as a
serum is giving “indications of being an absolute
cure for diabetes,” because this disease is an intract-
able one, and nothing in the way of remedies has
been of much benefit in the past, with the possible
exception of codeine given in small doses over a long
period. I notice that the Canadian/ papers
have been booming the new treatment, and, inci-
dentally, have given the discoverer, a Toronto man,
a howling ad., which would not be tolerated in Aus-
tralia, if the discoverer belonged to the B.M.A. The
cable comes from an authentic source, however, and
the trial of the remedy will be watched eagerly by
doctors and su/fferers, for the malady is a terrible
one. Doctors have hitherto relied on a diet which
banned sugar, and in which carbohydrates were either
abolished or cut down to a minimum. But there
has been no consistent effectiveness about the results,
each case having to be treated on its own merits.
What suited one patient was harmful to another. The
Canadian cure is called “inulin,” and is extracted
from the pancreas, and one of the first patients to
go to Toronto to undergo treatment at the hands of
the discoverer was the daughter of U.S. Secretary of
State Hughes. She was reported to be improving. Our
legislators were mad to get hold of Spahlinger’s
alleged cure for tuberculosis, and even contemplated
sending delegates to interview the famous man, so as
not to lose the precious stuff; but, fortunately for
the public’s money, the eminent scientist turned down
the Australian offer. Diabetes not being a vote-
catching disease, there is likely to be less eagerness
to get hold of it on the part of politicians. While
on the subject of medical claims and disputes, one is
reminded of Guitry’s play, which is a presentation
of what actually took place in the French Academy of
Medicine, where an old and distinguished surgeon
challenged Pasteur to a duel for alleging that puer-
peral fever was caused by a germ. The stance broke
up in confusion. Something of the same kind
occurred the other day, but with more justification,
when Voronoff, the monkey-gland man, read a. paper
before an assemblage of French surgeons. He was im-
mediately hustled out after a bout of fisticuffs. Pas-
teur, of course, won, because he was a scientist; but
Voronoff is a humbug ; and no surgeon would !** likely
to believe that a gland from an animal could;,bq trans-
planted into man with any prospect of success. The
transplanted tissue would be immediately attacked by
the leucocytes, and eaten up. But there is no limit
to human credulity; consequently Voronoff has a
large following—like Coue and Freud.


A Light
General-Utility
STEAM SHOVEL
for
Contractors’ Use
Adapted for
Road Grading, Ditching,
Back Filling, Cellar Dig-
ging, Side-hill Excavating,
and Unloading Car 3.
AS USED AT CANBERRA.
illS
.< * *
Made by
Keystone Driller Co.,
Makers of their well-
known Portable Oil and
Water Well - Drilling
Machines.
Forty years’ experience in
the making of Portable
Well-Drillers and Gear is
a guarantee of the effici-
ency of their machines.
Comprehensive Catalogues on
request.
KEYSTONE 14-TON TRACTION EXC AYATUiv
GutHridge Limited, Australasian Agents for Keystone Driller Co., lO George Street, Camper down, Sydney
POLIOTICAL
POINTS
Lloyd George was head of a win-the-war
coalition Government for five years and 10
months. When the other Welsh lawyer faces
the electors in December he will have been
head of a win-the-war coalition Government
for five years and 10 months.
It seems that Justice Powers didn't say
that the workers whose conditions were re-
gulated by the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court had lost £63 7s. 6d. a head since
1918 owing to mistakes in calculating the
basic wage. What he said was that the ,
industrialists in question would have lost up
to that amount had three discarded methods
of adjusting the annual minimum been fol-
lowed. This alters the case profoundly, but
the contention is still admissible that the
basic wage business has floundered into the
Serbonian bog on which Justice Higgins
used to discourse so learnedly.
Piddington, on the £25,000 that publicity-
shunning philanthropists pressed into Billy
Hughes’s receptive hands :
If the baneful example of the first Minister of the
Crown in accepting a large money gift from certain
persons unnamed were to become general, the Com-
monwealth would sink to the level of a Sputh Ameri-
can Republic, where the President could maintain
himself in office and accumulate wealth as long as
he evoked gratitude in the right class of people.
And the class that keeps a Spanish-Ameri-
can president in office, in return for benefits
received or to come, doesn’t consist of peons.
The race for the end of the session has
begun in Vic. Parliament. There are to be
late Thursday-night sittings and, when
necessary, meetings on Fridays. Minor
measures will be reserved for Fridays,, so
that long-distance country members can get
away if they want to without missing much.
If possible, the curtain will be rung down m
the last days of November, so that members
may stump the country on behalf of their
party pals at the Federal elections. But
some of the Libs, are dashed if they will
spout for Hughes.
The N. S. Wales graziers claim to have
won their argument with the A.W.U. execu-
tive. They add that “the loyal support
of thousands of good unionists” helped them
to beat the mad strike against Justice
Powers’s award. These are assertions to
which, considering that their money is in-
volved, the members of the union (there used
to be 100.000 of them) are entitled to have
some reply, but none has been forthcoming
from Macdonell House. Neither has there
been any explanation of the singular circum-
stance that the strike couldn’t get started in
W.A. But the executive’s tame newspaper
is discharging clouds of vituperation at their
critics in “the movement,” morosely accus-
ing the said critics of being recreant to
“Communist principles and objectives,’ and of
being incapable of explaining how “a revo-
lutionary impetus is to be imparted to the
class struggle.” By such sorry imported
fustian —the cant and humbug of Muscovite
socialism —is the union being ruined.
“Torydem” : The pro-Hughes paper I buy
for its leg-pictures and Robbery Park tips
assures me that Lloyd George has a great
chance of regaining his Prime Ministership.
Actually, he hasn’t a hope in life. His posi-
tion is precisely what Bill’s would be sup-
posing the Liberals seceded from the Aus-
tralian coalition, and Bill’s little Labor
rump were simultaneously attacked by (1)
the Liberals, (2) the Cockies and (3) the
Labor party. Lloyd George controls the
Daily Chronicle and one or two provin-
cial papers, but he has no organisation worth
tuppence. The Tories have rejected him,
the Laborites can’t possibly have him, and
the Asquithian Liberals won’t. . Above all,
Britain has no preferential-voting system,
and there is no time to pass one. The man
himself is certain to be re-elected, but he
will be a man without a party.
How small is South Australia’s chance
of getting the Qodnadatta-Alice Springs rail-
way from the Hughes Government was made
evident before the session ended. A few
days after the Public Works Committee
handed in its recommendations Dicky Foster
was asked what the Government proposed
to do about them. The pearl of information
hidden in Dicky’s oyster of verbiage was
that he didn’t know. A week or so later
somebody wanted to ascertain whether
Edward Davis Millen had anything to
THE END OF THE PARTY.
EJECTED ONE: “Well, you'll hare to clean up the mess, any way."
communicate as leader of the Government
in the Senate. The reply was that Edward
Davis Milieu had nothing to communicate
as head of the Government, nor any opinion
to offer as plain Edward Davis Millen, not
having read the report. But then, the Lib-
eral Union has been seen abroad in South
Australia, and not in a bath-chair either.
The luckless Queensland Labor Govern-
ment lost £342,084 last year in trying to
show Kidman and Jowett how to run cattle-
stations. That, at least, is the State Trad-
ing Commissioner’s estimate of the damage,
but, nothing was debited against the Gov-
ernment properties (there are 16 of them,
and they spread over 30.000 square miles)
for land-tax, although the previous owners
paid it, nor was there any allowance for
income-tax on the natural increase, which
is dragged from the private cattleman.
Neither did the Government apply the Re-
pudiation Act to its thrilling experiments
in socialising beef on the hoof, and re-assess
its own rents. Incidentally, the information
that £342,084 had been fooled away in one
year on a tax- and rent-free proposition
that cost £1.184,461 to buy wasn’t furnished
until Parliament, wh ; ch might have turned
nasty, had been gagged and proxy-voted into
voicelessness for nine months. The Theo-
dore touch!
“Left Hand”: If Jowett drops out of the
Reps, this election, there will be one man
less to add to the gaiety of what is mostly
a very dull chamber. Jowett is not a wit,
but his mock-serious speeches often raise a
laugh. And the House is very poor in men who
can do that. Anstey, once a brilliant satn-
ist, rarely exhibits flashes of his old form.
Frank Brennan makes a witty platform
speech, but never seems to be able to get
goißg in the House. Austin .Chapman s old
reputation for smart interjections has totally
vanished. Everybody laughs at Hughes,
chieflv because it has become a habit. But
the little man does not say much that is
worth while. Watt can speak effectively
when he likes, but humor is not his forte.
Earle Page couldn’t make a joke if he tried.
The remainder, with the exception, perhaps,
of Massy Greene, are unremarkable. It the
electors have any consideration for the men
in the gallery, they will send back a tew
humorists on December 16.
Ruminations of an old union sec.:
The Tammanyisation of the N.S.W. Labor party
is assisted by Rule 6, which empowers members of
unions to vote at selection-ballots on payment of a
small annual capitation fee. There is no need foi
impecunious unions to weigh in with this money.
Always there are philanthropists willing to relieve
them of the obligation—-and to get dummy member-
ship cards struck off at obscure printeries. Armed
with these Bill Thugg, buttoner, of Surry- Hills, nmy
journey ■ to Chatswood and vote as Andrew Bangs,
storeman, and repeat the operation in a dozen othei
places—the thing is as easy as falling into a drain. Ob-
viously an inside knowledge of the union and a nod-
ding acquaintance with members who are not likely
to appear at the polling booth are useful, but by no
means essential. A certain political agent, who has
been working the oracle for the Tammany crowd,
belongs to 16 unions. Since the party was kicked
out the insolent tyranny of Tammany is not so
extensively advertised as it used to be, but the
gang is as intolerant as ever. The latest is that
A.L.P. secretary Carey has been marked down for
destruction. Carey’s offence is that he voted for
the endorsement of “Ted” Riley after that young
returned warrior had twice won the Cook selection
ballot, and the gang will never rest till it has his
scalp. The time has gone by when a Labor official
was permitted to vote according to his convictions.
Nowadays his vote must go with that of the gang, or
the gang will “get” him.
There is likely to be a ding-dong go be-
tween Moses Gabb and Ritchie, the S. Aus.
Treasurer, in the Angas electorate. Gabb
displaced Paddy Glynn in the last contest.
He conducted his campaign by push-bike, and
had the advantage of being able to collect
votes while visiting back doors in his capa-
city of tradesman.' His first speech in the
House was largely personal history of a
fairly intimate character. He did not par-
ticipate in the salary grab, and lost no oppor-
tunity for letting the House know it. Apart
from that, Moses acquired an irritating habit
of calling for quorums. Ritchie is a solid
man as politicians go nowadays, and it is
nothing against him that he doesn’t always
see black with his Premier.
“0.K.”: In quite the ordinary unfitness of
things the G.P.O. concession to letter-sorters
of a free Saturday afternoon has been fol-
lowed by a fresh crop of complaints re
delays in delivery of letters. Surely the
Commonwealth postal service was never so
inefficient, careless and rebellious as it is
to-day. The more concessions the employees
get the less they want to work. In Mel-
bourne there used to be three suburban
deliveries a day (there are now only two),
and the first was earlier than we get it these
times. Complaints of miscarriage of letters
in the post were then rare, whereas now
every possible excuse is seized by the Depart-
ment for delaying deliveries. Slovenly
handling of correspondence, in the collection
or the delivery, is commonly spoken of from
personal observation. As for the decline in
G.P.O. consideration for inter-State mails,
it has reached such a stage that the Depart-
ment doesn’t care a dump, it would seem,
whether it delivers them or not.
From an old Parliamentary hand : —•
Watt’s intimates claim that he is following the
Peak in precedent in standing aloof from leadership
when the chance to make a bid for it is good. At.
any time from the dismissal of the Gillies-Deakin
Coalition at Cup-time, 1890, till he went out of
Vic. politics at the end of 1900, Deakin could have
had the Premiership instead of Shiels, Patterson,
Turner or McLean, but he chose to stand back and
be a Liberal watchdog. He was saving himself for
other years. Watt’s health is better than it was,
but it is not good yet. Those nearest him accept
philosophically his “wait-and-see” attitude. They
recall what happened to Bent.
Vic. Auditor-General Norris is not satisfied
that McPherson’s surplus of £34,93S for
1921-22 would have been obtained had Clapp
and co. not altered the method of appor-
tioning expenditure between loan and
revenue funds. On the figures presented to
him Norris makes the railway deficit for
1921-22 £97,196, after debiting the Treasury
with £94,419 for non-paying lines. The
Public Accounts Committee should have
something to say about this.
A fatally irresolute crowd are the N.S.W.
Fullers. The latest to weaken is Cocks, the
Treasurer, who announced in his Budget
speech that 85,000 persons out of a popu-
lation of 2,100,000 were responsible for
the whole of the £4,000,000 p.a. col-
lected by the income-tax route, and
that, to distribute the burden more
equitably, the general exemption would be
reduced to £2OO p.a. It is now reported
that Cocks “doesn’t, see his way clear” to
lower the exemption, which means that the
bulk of the tax will be paid by the middle-
class, as usual, and that the single man earn-
ing between 13s. and 16s. a day will continue
to escape. There are few things more dan-
gerous than to infect the “workers” with
the belief that it is no part of their duty
to contribute towards the cost of govern-
ment. Among the certain results are de-
mands for fresh concessions and a spread-
ing contempt for authority, as was illus-
trated when some of the coalminers’ lodges
announced that they would refuse to pay
income-tax unless the exemption was fixed
at £3OO. The Government that encourages
this spirit is laying up trouble for the State,
but two Governments are doing it as regards
N. S. Wales. What makes the offence more
flagrant is that Sydney’s nefarious pony-
racecourses and its evil regiment of shop-
bookmakers are largely kept going by the
class that is alleged to be too poor to pay
income-tax.
From the Indian Ocean to the Pacific: —
There will be at least two uncommonly interesting
contests in Westralia on December 16. Perhaps
three. The A.L.P. isn’t opposing Harry Gregory,
and can’t possibly beat Prowse or the Nationalist
bunch in Perth, but it has hopes of regaining Fre-
mantle with Jack Holman and Kalgoorlie with
“Texas” Green, old campaigners both. The Minis-
terial majority in Fremantle three years ago was
5694. But Holman carries more guns than young
Olementson, who was Burchell’s opponent on that
occasion, and the Nationalist candidates —-Bill Hedges,
whiom Burchell beat in 1913 ; Bill Carpenter, outed
by Hedges in 1906 ; and one Watson —are an unin-
spiring lot. Fremantle is a predominantly indus-
trial electorate, and Holman’s prospects are good.
More especially since the Labor subdivision of Bal-
catta has been added to it since 1919. On the
other hand, Green’s chances have been weakened by
the inclusion in Kalgoorlie of several farming dis-
tricts that used to be grouped under Dampier. “Texas”
protests that he is a farmer himself—he has bought
a selection in the Mt. Marshall area —but that won’t
cut much ice with the eockies on the Greenough
flats. A strong C.P. candidate would score heavily in the
western and northern parts of the electorate and not
at all badly on the goldfields. Failing such, Foley may
win again. In Perth the main struggle will be be-
tween Jim Fowler and Alf Carson, editor of the
Western Mail, albeit Mann, sometime Government
Analyst, will get the civil-service vote. The indica-
tions are in favor of Fowler, an bionest Scotsman,
well dug-in, being the hardest of all candidates to
shift. For the Senate Buzacott, one of the retiring
trio, may struggle back, but De Largie is sent for
and there is no certainty that Henderson will go
to the poll. His health is poor. Of the new lot of
Nationalists, the mellifluous Kingsmill and Rogers,
Mayor of Boulder, will poll strongly, and so will
Archie Sanderson, who, until he joined the Country
party a couple of months ago, was a Liberal M.L.C.
And Teddy' Needham has a fair-to-middling chance of
1 gaining a seat for the A.L.P.
DAVE AND BILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The burden is off my back.”— Ex-Prime Minister
Lloyd George.
Both Dave and Bill to manhood grew
Where blooms the homely leek;
The Celtic fire was in the two,
The Cambrian itch to shriek.
The proletariat’s idols first,
They came, by various flukes,
Acclaimed by those who scorned them erst
As blatant demagogues accursed,
To ruffle it where money’s burned
And wring the hands —who once had yearned
To wring the necks —of dukes.
Carnarvon Dave, Llandudno Bill,
Your crowded hours must cease.
With twain I Ams two countries bore
What time they wrought to win the war;
They didn’t turn you down until
You fairly lost the peace.
“Your turn you’ve served,” they said to Dave,
“We do not need you more.
With all to lose and all to save
We closed the ranks-—and took and ga\e,
And uncomplaining bore
An interloper’s rule of steel,
A despot's whims. But now we feel
The hour is ripe for you tb go
And leave ourselves to run the show
We’ve often run before.
The party lines that war-time blurred
Intrude again. So long, old bird!”
With bundle dropped the road there takes
A Taff. whose clamor shrill
’Mid snorting trains and jarring brakes
With burning Welsh the welkin wakes....
But, oh! What yells will fill
Australia when, by rank and Piute
Decked with the order of the boot,
Along the same distressful route
There plods Llandudno Bill.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Vs)u.u& VtoTT 15 ix\ the, rM»
stye a). V»€/ voovir'
i*\
4
A ensure m Store fo'"
of-
X«k>u«'<?\v\l' resource.' •*
s*t*d«*'oysf Of
fisV»*-4A~Ct"|r-
-1 JoU?;
Although Mr.
Watt has indicated
that he is interested in the
Liberal revival, he refuses to
say anything definite.
"Surely the resources of the
great Commonwealth are suffi-
cient to allow us to run our
own restaurant if the com-
mittee of the Empire Exhibition is
incapable of doing it, said Joseph
Cook.
"The
: Wh*t Viorse is +h&1" £• whos ndsApY
'lhts is HuGh£s is w-p-
-■“ -Tfie stable fecKons he
be beeJf, buT eve in
£Lur7ThAic g’ot
lichee*. you Knou/
A Melbourne Baptist clergyman
christened a missionary launch last
Wfiek by cracking a cocoanut with
A hammer.
Jt tS't'o te sirscerelv hopecl
dimmer fowcU uiilr not* be-
tnTo other chrlbteiVxji^s
A proposal is
afoot to inflate the
Australian currency by print-
ing £50,000,000 moje paper money.
”To/ v \
<Tiorus> of /'hotvey Experts .- , 'PuSrtOfFSK i 1 is,
enoxAdW ontVouit <?\Ax2vTenri> bwtfiruj’ m .
MOSTLY ABOUT MELBOURNE.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne,
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches : Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Christchurch,
Dunedin and Napier.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
A Tl . . To Re ‘ Rfe-
Aug;, Profits. Dividends. serves. sferves.
1909.; £53,879 15 p.c. = £36,250 £17,629 £96,916
1910;. 57,345 124 ; , ~ 31,250 26,095 123,01 i
1911;; 73,961 174 „ „ 43,750 30,211 153,222
1912.; 61,028 174 „ ~ 43,750 17,278 170,500
£150,000 transferred to capital.. 20,5Q0
1913;; 48,770 10 p.c. = 40,000 8,770 29(270
1914;; 53,180 10 ;; „ 40,000 13,180 42,450
1915.. 37,268 5 ;; „ 20,000 17,268 59,718
1916.; 33,910 5 ;; 20,000 13,910 73,628
1917;; 54,724 74 „ 30,000 24,724 98,352
1918.. 42,637 7} „ 30,000 12,637 110,989
1919. . 43.351 12} „ j, 50,000 104,340
1920.. 60,679 12} ,( ~ 50,000 679 105,019
1921;. 83,897 15 „ „ 60,000 23,897 128,916
1922;. 79,816 15 „ „ 60,000 19,816 148,732
Siiide paid capital was increased frdm a
quarter-million td £400,000 10 years ago, by
a transfer of reserves, Bellambi divs. have
averaged fin exact 10 p.c. p.a., and mean-
.while a visible £128,000, equal to 3.2 p.c. p.a.
on capital, lias gone to reserve. That is one
wa.v of setting down the performances Of this
N.S.W; South Coast colliery’s very pros-
perous run. Another view is given by this
comparison
.1912. 1915. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities; ; . ; £13,771 £30(947 £57,656 £85,668
Assets- —
Minfes, plant, steain-
fers; etc. . . 259,125 289,177 264,332 244,894
Stores and stocks 8,183 12.809 15,554 13,702
Book debts . . 13,861 18,649 26,788 29,852
Investments and
hash ;; :; 178,101 180,030 319,898 355(952
The surplus Of liquid assets over and above
all liabilities in 1912 was £186,375; at the
latest balance £343,838. So, after paying
an average of 10 p.c. p.a., and maintaining
the mine and plant in efficient condition,
£1.57,463 has beeii added to the liquid surplus.
When the latest divs. had been distributed
£303,838 of the £400,000 paid capital was
covered by the surplus of liquid assets, all
except £13,700 of stores and stocks being
cash and investments. Still, not all the
profits and cash surpluses have come from
coal-mining; during the boom in shipping
values the s.s. Bellambi and Malachite were
converted into cash and gave £18,850 in ex-
cess of book values.
The investor cannot definitely regard the
15s. per £1 share as permanent cash back-
ing; While tills investment reservoir has
been filling, the mine has been efficiently de-
veloped and machinery, plant and steamers
“thoroughly maintained.” But as coal-cutting
gets further from the pit-mouth Some of the
cash may be required for improvements on
a large scale. And though the co. appears
to be handling its big bunkering trade very
successfully with its present fleet, the man-
agement may at some time consider it advis-
able to add other vessels. Anyway, what-
ever is ahead, the Bellambi co. is very snug,
and the 15 p.c. div. for each of the past two
years is definite evidence that all increases
of costs have not disturbed the yory success-
ful run which has lasted for many years.
* * * *
H. M. Leggo and Co., Ltd., manufacturers
of foodstuffs, merchants, etc., from the time
the business was taken over by a public co.
The deficit of £22.219 to begin with was made
up of goodwill, £20,000, and preliminary
exes., £2219: —
—Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£22,219
1919. . £9,892 £825 10 p.c. = £7585 £1482 20,737
1920.. 10,710 1690 10 „ „ 7585 1435 19,302
1921.. 1,890 2116 Nil 19,528
Loss.
1922.. 12,836 Nil Nil 32,364
That is the first reverse Leggo’s has had in
40 years. The old proprietary was con-
verted into a public co. only five years ago,
when H. M. Leggo and his partners con-
sidered prospects so bright that they invited
the public to put in cash to help the expan-
sion of the business, particularly the manu-
facture of tinned foodstuffs. The public was
offered 30,000 £1 8 p.c. cum. prefs., and the
issue was underwritten by the Edward Dya-
son Pty. The old proprietors received 111,690
shares of 10s. each fully paid for the ascer-
tained surplus of assets over liabilities, and
40,000 more fully-paids for goodwill, that
amount representing slightly less than three
times the average annual profit for the pre-
vious seven years. The public is not inter-
ested in shares other than the prefs., old
proprietors holding all the ordinaries. And
as the prefs. are cumulative, the public is
affected by the co.’s recent troubles only to
the extent of payment of divs. being deferred;
At Jtme 30, when stocks had been written
down, each of the 30,000 £l prefs. was still
protected by net tangible assets with a book
value of almost 495. The old interests have
to carry the full burden of the year’s losses,
and approximately Is. 9d. per 10s. ordinary
will have to be written off to place the bush
ness on secure foundations again;
When Leggo’s became a public co., the Aus-
tralian canning industry was boomiug on war
contracts, and had developed a big export
trade. During the past twO years not only
have heavy losses resulted from world-wide
depression and collapse Of values, but the ex-
port trade has been practically killed: the
high price Of locally-grown sugar has made
Overseas competition with the products of
other countries impossible. The Queensland
Labor Government readily hgreed to the
wage increases demanded by field and mill
workers. The Commonwealth has fixed
prices to give cane-growers a reasonable re-
turn, and at the same time to recoup losses
incurred by the Mughes Government in some
of its war-time Sugar deals. To preserve
sugar-growing as a white man’s industry
under present onerous labor, conditions, and
at the game time give the fruitgrowers and
manufacturers opportunities in the world’s
is a problem which the Hughes
Ministry has failed to solve. Chairman H.
M. Leggo declares that the “utter confusipn
into which the trade has been thrown by the
uncertainty arising frOm Government coh-
trol” has been one of the “most potent con-
tributing causes” of his co.’s reverse, and “the
directors feel that in the near future Gov-
ernment interference must be eliminated,”
and that the preserving and canning section
of the business “will then be restored to a
profitable basis.” Not all Leggo’s losses
were due to dear sugar, though.; various raw
materials had been contracted for at high
prices, and the manufactured goods had to
be realised in slumped markets. Stocks at
the balance were taken at “conservative
values,” and they were smaller in value than
at any time since 11)19. Balance-sheet com:
parisons. since the first accounts were issued
are as follows:
1919 1920 1921 1922
Paid capital .. £93,570 £98,670 £105,620 £105,845
Liabilities . : 37,076 62,710 53,236 52,270
Properties :. 7,980 8,739 7,667 7,418
Plant, etc. . . 8,461 10,080 9,767 11,585
Stocks . . ; . 65,613 88,550 89,289 67,344
Book debts .. 31,733 39,635 32,216 37,869
Other assets . . 614 1,360 2,391 1,536
At June 30 last liabilities included £30,515
bank overdraft, £18,958 due to sundry credi-
tors and £2797 of deposits. Against the
total of £52,270 were liquid assets with a
book value of £105.213, giving a liquid sur-
plus of nearly £53,000.
* * * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911.. £11,075 8 p.c. = £7,200 £3875 £43,285
1912;; 10,757 7 „ „ 6,300 4457 47,742
1913.. 11,851 8 „ „ 7,200 4651 52,393
Written off premises, £2500 .. 49,893
1914.; 15,697 9 p.c. = 8,100 7597 57,490
Written off premises, £7500 . . 49,990
1915.. 11,355 8 p.c. = 7,200 4155 54,145
1916.. 11,390 9 „ „ 8,100 3290 57,435
1917.. 11,262 10 ~ „ 9,000 2262 59,697
1918.. 14,450 10 „ „ 9,000 5450 65,147
1919.. 13,075 10 „ „ 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO .. 68,722
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72,486
1921.. 14,352 12 „ „ 10,800 3552 76,038
1922.. 14,921 12 „ „ 12,100 2821 78,869
Paid capital was increased in January by
the issue to holders at par of 60,000 new £2
10s. shares which were called to 10s., increas-
ing paid capital from £90,000 to £120,000.
Divs. and bonuses totalling 12 p.c. were paid
on old capital, and new capital received a
div. for four months at the rate of 10 p.c.
p.a., together with a 1 p.c. bonus cal-
culated irrespective of the period the new
money had been in the business. After pay-
ing these divs. £2821 went into reserve, but
prior to the disclosure of profits £5OOO of the
year’s earnings were taken to build up the
recently-established staff provident fund. The
nucleus of that fund was a £5OOO recovery
of amounts, written off after the big smash,
and £3OOO more drifted in last year, making,
with the latest vote from profits, a total of
£13,000 to credit of the fund. The co. con-
tinues to make good progress in adding to
estates under its control; there was a net
increase of £583,302 during the period under
review, and the total now exceeds 14-} mil-
lions. The growth of the trust business is
shown in this comparison :
1900.. £6,329,656
1905.. 7,787,043
1910.. 9,013,807
1915.. 10,936,858
1918.. £12,503,845
1920.. 13,533,081
1921.. 13,698,906
1922.. 14,285,208
The new capital raised during the year
substantially increased the guarantees which
the co. makes to clients that their affairs will
be efficiently administered, and that em-
ployees won’t try their luck on the Cup with
trust moneys. At the 1921 balance the guar-
antees consisted of £166,038 of invested funds
and cash, and £60.000 of uncalled capital.
Now there is £198.858 in good-quality assets
—Government and municipal securities and
cash, £133,735; mortgages, £13,300; pre-
mises and equipment, £56,500; book debts,
£2o23—aud £lBO,OOO more capital is callable.
Goodlet And Smil'h, Ltd. (Sydney), tim-
ber merchants and manufacturers of builders’
goods:—
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves, Reserves.
1912.. £16,222 8 p.c.= f 13,200 £3,022 £51,236
Written off leaseholds, £2500 . . 18,786
1913.. 14,151 8 p.c, = 13,200 951 49,737
Freeholds writtfeii up ~ 10,000 59,737
1614.. 15,123 8 p.c. = 13,200 1,923 61,660
1915.. 13,266 8 ~ „ 13,200 66 61.726
1916.. 13,224 8 „ ,; 13,200 24 61,750
Written off plant, £6750 ~ 55,000
1917.. i 0,004 6 p.c. = 9,900 104 55,104
1918.. 10,027 6 „ „ 9,900 . 127 55,231
Capital returned, £55,000.
1919.; 9,006 8 p,c. = 8,800 206 55,437
1920.. 9,112 8 „ „ 8,660 . 312 .55,749
Assets written up ~ 5u,000 iioj749
Transferred to capital, £llO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear.
1921.'. 20,004 6 p,C. = 13,200 6,804 6;804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ it 15,400 2,004 6,808
The record profits of 1921 were too gtiod
td last; The bobm in home-building,
assisted by the reckless War Service Homes
Departmeht established by the Common-
wealth Government, faded somewhat during
the past year, and as timber prices took a
downward run, Goodlet and Smith profits
fell off. The cd. did very well, though; it
pays only 7 p.c. for the period, but two
years ago jlaid capital was doubled by writ-
ing up fissets £55,000 and by transferring
that and £55,000 of other reserves. So the
return on the capital of a couple of years
ago is 14 p.c., with a margin of £2OOO-odd
for reserves. Profits are the mdre hand-
some, too, because only four years ago
£55,000 of capital was returned. Not all
the profits shown in the introductory table
came from timber: at one time the business
was widely spread, and at most centres the
co. had purchased its own freeholds. Some
of these properties when disposed of showed
handsome surpluses over book values.
The published accounts are not informa-
tive. The statement of profits is confined
to one entry giving the amount remaining
when the management had made allow-
ances for depreciation, etc., of dimen-
sions not stated. Assets are tied up in three
bundles: machinery, plant, etc, £50,000
(£4OOO less than at the previous balance) :
stock-in-trade, £21,432; and book debts and
shares in unspecified cos., £196,442. Lia r
bilities at June 30 amounted to £31,365.
* * * *
Australian Distillery Co., Ltd. (Mel-
bourne), manufacturers of tipples and in-
dustrial spirits. The deficit of £2366 with
which the co. began was made up of pre-
liminary exes, and a trifle paid for goodwill:
Net To Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£2,366
1913.. £135 £135 2,231
1914.. 1,232 1,232 999
Reserves.
1915.. 3,673 —— 3,673 2,674
Prefs.
(10 p.c.) Ordinaries. Deficit.
1916.. 3,670 * £6013 10 p.c.= £1449 1,118
Reserves.
1917.. 6,756 2000 10 „ ~ 2905 1,851 733
Pref. shares become ordinaries.
1918.. 22,747 124 p.c. = £9,653 13,094 13,827
1919.. 11,758 10 „ „ 11,205 553 14,380
1920.. 23,695 124 „ ~ 16,861 6,834 21,214
War-time profits tax, £12,600 8,614
1921.. 7,985 5 p.c. = 7,500 485 9,099
Loss.
1922.. 5,735 Nil 3,364
accumulations.
The directors have not much to say concern-
ing the causes of the past year’s reverse:
“the trade depression which set in during
the latter portion of the preceding year
became more marked, but the last six
months of the period under review showed
an improvement, and had the effect of reduc-
ing the loss made earlier in the year.” The
1920 accounts showed stock-in-trade, raw
material and stores, at cost, £107,496. The
demand for the co.’s distillings having fallen
off, no doubt production was curtailed dur-
ing the year. At July 31 stocks had been
reduced to £95,867, but the year’s gross
profits amounted to only £83)7, and exes.,
including taxes, took £5735 more than that.
This shows how gross profits have behaved
since early in the co.’s career:—
1915. . £5,338
1916.. 7,280
1917.. 15,047
1918.. 41,997
1919. . £29,320
1920.. 47,566
1921.. 29,829
1922.. 8,317
The immediate future depends mostly on
the prices which the stocks bring. In the
following comparison “vessels at valuation”
—£20,633 at July 31 —are included with
stocks of raw material and spirits
1916 1920 1921 1922.
Paid capital .. £45,033 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 17,483 34,870 54,602 49,883
Freeholds . . 20,958 49,421 48,910 49,236
Plant, etc. . . 8,164 18,818 19 4 548 20,090
Stocks . . . . 21,548 113,798 130,539 116,499
Book debts . . 10,664 29,531 8,547 16,801
Investments, etc. 63 5,126 6,157 621
During the year the co. realised on the
£5910 of War Loan held at the 1921 balance.
Assuming stocks were worth all at which
they were shown in the books, the co.’s posi-
tion is not uncomfortable. At the balance,
the management was working on an over-
draft of £40,725, owed £3306 to sundry
creditors, and bad provided £5852 for taxes.
Against these liabilities totalling £49,883
were more or less liquid assets amounting to
£133,921. When the Australian Distillery
Co. first accumulated satisfactory working
stocks it did very well for shareholders for
several years, and substantial reserves were
piling up. Then the absurd war-profits tax
took £12,600, and last year’s losses have cut
further into reserves. Shareholders have
had an average of only 6 p.c. p.a. over 10
years, and there are now balance-sheet re-
serves of only £3364. Paid capital is
£150,000 in £1 fully-paids.
* * * #
The Victorian Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne), from the time £2 pel*
£5 share (£92,596) was written off:—
To Re- Re-
Ptoflt. Dividends. served. served.
1920.. £ 13,829 8p.c.=£8,333 £9492 £15,291
1921.. 10,21 l 8 ~ „ 11,111 14,391
1922.. 14,471 8 ~ „ 11,111 3360 17,751
For about 30 years to 1920 this co. Was oil
the sick list: in fact, for a long time it
looked a hopeless invalid. After the smash
it was blistered with huge debts and a large
proportion of its aSSets was Unproductive.
Depositors Originally received 5 p.c., but
that rate was halved, and, at a fourth re-
arrangement in 1913, was lifted to 34, and
the balance of deposits Were to be repaid
within 10 ye.gts. In 1913 there Were fixed
deposits for £131,911; at the latest balance
only £23,636. Until 10 years ago the sale
of Old assets and payment of deposit inter-
est resulted in fi loss each year; between
IS9B-1912 losses aggregated £48,911, and the
balance-sheet at the end of the 14 years
showed, a debit at Profit and Loss of £39,969;
That, hbwever, was purely a book figutCj
and no guide to the true position of the CO.
For the next Seven years £26,6i6 of profit
showed up, and the debit balance was re-
duced to £13,353. The management theti
decided to clean up, and £92,596 of capital
was struck off, the 46,298 shares paid td £5
being reduced to £3. Between the 1919 and ’2O
balances the book value of loans oh mort-
gage fell from £250.829 to £174,383. This
opened the Way for divs., find an average of
p.c. p.a. has been paid on the writtdfi-
down capital for the past three years.
Balance-sheet comparisons going back fur-
ther than the 1920 clean-up are now of
little interest. Movements since that year
have been as follows: —
1920. 1921. 1922.
Fixed deposits ;. £42.986 £31,821 £23,636
Other debts . . 5,924 6,594 7,123
Liabilities . . £48,910 £38,415 £30,759
Loans .. .. £175,507 £163,007 £160,101
Public securities
and cash . . 34,713 34,589 33,309
Other assets .. 1,209 1,050 938
Total assets .. £211,429 £198,646 £194,348
Between 1900 and ’2O £265,070 of debt was
shifted. During the past two years £18.151
more has been unloaded. After providing
for a final div., at July 31 last old deposits
for £23,636 still in hand were covered by
£26,364 of cash and War Loan. So every-
thing is in order to complete the agreement
made with old creditors in 1913,
The profits claimed by the published
accounts are not a satisfactory guide to
future earnings. In each of the last three
reports the directors stated that sales of
properties had been effected at “satisfactory
prices.” The actual surpluses over and
above book values have not been disclosed.
Allowing for the return from War Loan and
bank deposits, “interest” is shown as turn-
ing in slightly more than 10 p.c. gross on
average loans.
* * * •
Goulburn Woollen Mills, Ltd. —About
50,000 bales of wool are trucked annually
at. Goulburn, and about 200,000 bales are
railed through from other districts. A num-
ber of graziers and local business men have
decided that the N.S.W. Southern Highlands
capital is an ideal centre for woollen mills,
and a prospectus is out offering 100,000
shares of £1 each. The float is clean, the
proposition sound, and it is proposed to place
the enterprise under capable management.
The provisional directors have selected E. N.
Chambers, formerly of the Mossgiel, Vickers’,
Gold’s Hosiery and Queensland Woollen Mills,
to superintend from the beginning. There
is to be no promoters’ cut, either in shares
or cash. For a start, plant with a capacity
of 1,400,0001 b. wool-tops per annum is to be
obtained from Bradford. Japanese buyers,
it is stated, are “prepared to enter into con-
tracts for the entire production of the mills,”
and negotiations are proceeding. From a
turnover of a million lb. wool-tops and noil
and 200,0001 b. scoured skin-wools, the pro-
moters estimate a net profit, after allowing
10 p.c. depreciation, of £17,815 on a capital
outlay of £50,000. That would give the
very handsome return of 35 p.c. p.a. Per-
haps that estimate is over-optimistic, but the
industry has proved highly profitable, and
there is no reason why a Goulburn mill
should not be as successful as those else-
where.


R. G. WATKINS (Q. CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
AI. CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write «s for information on Machinery. It will pay you.
GOVERNMENT
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4% INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3| % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * # »
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * »
You will profit by low cost and absolute value if
you install Pioneer Wood Pipe when in need of a
thoroughly efficient conduit. This class of pipe
is adaptable to all circumstances, never corrodes
under the action of acids and alkalies, and preserves
the purity of the liquid it conveys. It will pay
you to investigate the advantages. Write to the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, Sydney, for a free 68-page book on the
subject.— Advt.
* # * •
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
* » » *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.lison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* * * •
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces ;■ heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * •
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
Of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
« * * •
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
•AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
' ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND .BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN’ ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY 11. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POP”., General Manager.
Mudgee Slate Co., Ltd.—This co. went
to registration on August 20, 1921, and now
presents accounts to August 31 last. A net
loss of £1523 is shown for the period, but
18,000 slates and danipcourses in hand, and
a quantity of slab material, “have not been
taken into consideration in the accounts.”
One quarry has been opened up and de-
veloped to the producing stage, and another
is being attacked. There are 45,000 £1 fully-
paids, and 7s. fid. had been called up on
10,162 contribs. at August 31, giving a paid
capital of £48,754. The co.’s position was
comfortable at the balance: £5900 had gone
in plant, machinery and office equipment and
£1907 in preliminary exes. There was
£1605 of cash ip hand, and liabilities
amounted to only £247.
* * * *
At Mt. Wynne, the Freney Oil Co. has
tapped further asphaltum in its bore at
225 ft. and at 500 ft., while the Rough Range
bore has shown more traces of mineral oil.
* # * *
J. L. Strevens, of the Australian Oil Cor-
poration, has been in Queensland examining
oil prospects in the Beaudesert and Tewantin
areas. Other interests have held prospect-
ing licenses at Tewantin, which is on the
coast north of Brisbane, for some time, but
nothing further than the selection of a site
for drilling has been accomplished. Pebbles
of asphaltic material found about the beaches
is its claim to have oil stowed away below’.
It is improbable that any drilling will be
done at Beaudesert unless further favorable
evidence turns up or somebody with suffi-
cient cash-backing takes a fancy to it. The
A.O. Corp. has already a title to an area
in the Narrows, Gladstone, which it is going
to test out. The Mines Department has
granted D. C. Milsom six lots of 2000 acres
each in the Orallo district, north of Roma,
on which to try his luck.
* « # *
“Talpa” on oil indications:—
Seepages of gas-blows are conspicuous by their
absence in the Commonwealth (B. 5/10/’22), but on
looking over old records I find that there is a men-
tion of a lentide of “mineral pitch” in the Bowen
River coalfield. (“Geology, Palaeontology of Queens-
land and New Guinea,” by R. L. Jack and Etheridge,
p. 164). This lenticle occurs in the bank of a
tributary of Rosella Creek.
The late F. Irvine, licensed surveyor, told me that
30 years ago he came across country at the head
waters of the Euromba Creek, a tributary of the
Dawson River, which reeked with an odor of kero-
sene.
After all, a seepage or asphalt outcrop does not
signify much. The seepage may come any distance
along a fault or a joint, and the asphalt outcrop
indicates the edge of a petroliferous basin. A strike
of either of these in a well indicates just as milch,
i.e., that conditions have been favorable for the
accumulation of petroleum in those particular beds.
A seepage may come or go, as is instanced by
Blatchley, of the Illinois State Geological Survey,
who mentions a kerosene spring, which had in 1914
been yielding several gallons per day of water-white
kerosene for eight years. The “oil sand” lay at
least 650 ft. below this spring.
The kerosene spring at Beaudesert (Q.) is just as
interesting. Milsom pronounces it natural on account
of the benzenoid rings, and the fact that it is emulsi-
fied with the water, a condition, he says, that it is
very difficult to produce artificially. The well is
only 80ft. deep.
There are numerous blows of natural gas in various
artesian wells in the west of Queensland. The only
one ever tested for ethane or other hydrocarbons is
Roma, but there is no reason why the others should
not contain them, and that, I take it, would be
proof of its association with petroleum. Several
artesian w'ells have given small quantities of petro-
leum and paraffin wax, which is proof that conditions
have been favorable for its occurrence.
The sedimentary areas in Queensland are rich in
carbonaceous materials, and there are no faults or
lines of weakness in most of them, so that any
petroleum formed there is still in situ. What is
required is vigorous prospecting under proper regu-
lation.
* * # *
Marshall’s Hill End Co. is to be recon-
structed on a basis which will continue the
existing number of shares, but reduce the
nominal value from 4s. to 2s. The new
shares are to be available, in the first in-
stance, to present holders, paid to Is., on
their paying 3d. per share. A simpler way
would be to add Is. of callable capital to the
shares in the existing co., but that is not
permissible under the obsolete law of the
State. It is a mystery why a co. so re-
cently formed and having a capital of
150,000 shares of 4s. each should have to
go into reconstruction so soon, and it seems
a pity that there is no better justification
offered for it than that it may give “a new
lease of life to the mine, by providing the
means to develop the Mica vein, from which the
small crushing recently gave a good result.”
This pencil-streak of a vein is the tantaliser
of the field; it has been a stringer-on which
has led to the downfall of every co, that has
placed any reliance on it. If figures were
available it would probably be found that
every ounce of gold which the recently de-
funct big co. won from this vein, on which it
did extensive work, cost at least £2O. If
Hill End has nothing better in view than this
tricky vein, the sooner speculators realise it
and close down the better. The only object
which there can be in working it is to pro-
vide material for share-market operations.
It is reported that the new issue of shares
in Marshall’s —it is to be called Hawkin’s
Hill Gold Mines —has been underwritten. It
would be a marvel if it were not. A soft
snap like this at 3d. per share is not often
available for Pitt-street.
Lionsville, on the Clarence River, beyond
Grafton (N.S.W.), has been roused from a
quarter-of-a-century’s somnolence by the dis-
covery of what is supposed to be a continu-
ation of the old Lion reef. The stone broken
out by the prospectors is said to be phenom-
enally rich, and recalls the golden splendor
of the times when Lionsville and Solferino
were names to conjure with. If another
Garibaldi reef could be located there, it
■would give a fillip to prospecting further
afield. It is agreed by all practical mining
men that there is no part of N. S. Wales
which presents greater probabilities of suc-
cessful exploitation than a long strip of
country extending from the coast to the
main range. The troubles are that it is
extremely rough, and that there is an almost
impenetrable scrub. Wherever it has been
possible to get into this rugged country good
prospects have been disclosed. The testing of
this country is quite beyond the power of
even the hardiest of prospectors, as it re-
quiries special equipment and provisioning
for long periods. It would be an ideal pro-
ject for the State if it could be induced to
follow the lead of Westralia and organise a
well-equipped prospecting party.
« * * #
The State Prospecting Party has dis-
covered a square mile of promising country
about 700 miles east of Perth. Half-ounce
prospects are obtainable on the surface.
The Minister has reserved the area for the
benefit of the members of the party to the
exclusion of others, and all members share
equally all profits that may be made. The
pa_st winter has been the most successful
for prospectors Westralia has known for
years. Many have done well, and option-
takers are lying handy, waiting to take an
interest in promising discoveries. Pros-
pector Prendergast has discovered some-
thing at Sandstone which looks like develop-
ing into a mine. From an ironstone lode
over 25ft. wide he mined 215 tons from the
full width, which yielded 28dwt. per ton. He
then gave a working option over the
property.
* * * *
Ingliston (W.A.), a Melbourne-controlled
show, reports values ranging from 40s. to
965. down to No. 4 level. But the
reef is narrow and the country hard
and costly to mine. Notwithstanding good
gold values, dividends are not yet in sight.
Ingliston has fair prospects at depth, and
it is surprising that more attention is not
paid to main-shaft sinking. No good is
likely to come of the present policy, which
simply aims at exhausting known ore re-
serves, without taking steps to replace them
by opening up the mine.
* * * *
A row with the Mines Department stopped
Ingliston South (W.A.I getting its main
shaft down to 230 ft. quickly, but it did not
block the buying of a plant from Ivyarra.
The only excuse for the purchase is that a
vein was cut at 180 ft., below which the shaft
remained in a porphyritic rock carrying enough
quartz to furnish a few colors. Bob Allen, T.
M. Douglas and manager Butler put this
make of stone out of the race as the western
lode, which they want to find. It should be
100 ft. east of the shaft. So sinking will go
on to the water level. Then the new make
of stone will be driven on and a cross-cut
put out for the old formation, on which the
co. was floated. Although the new lode is
admittedly poor and has not been seen out
of the four walls of the shaft, the claim is
made that it “is of immense value to the
property.”
* * * *
W. B. Arnold, still sticking to Mt. Cuth-
bert (Q-), is calling shareholders together.
But there are now only 80,034 live .shares. The
co.’s capital is 279,596 shares of 30s. each,
all paid up to 275. This leaves callable
nearly £42,000. On the reduced register
only £12,000 can possibly be got if everyone
pays up, and as Cuthbert is of the no-
liability type, there is no guarantee that
even that sum -will be forthcoming if wanted.
Most of the old gang dropped out. wearied of
the calls needed to pay interest to fat bond-
holders or to reduce bank overdraft. Had
the smelter and mine been going they might
have stuck to the show, but finances ahead
were so rocky that they cut losses. What
Cuthbert needs is toothcombing from Board
to office-boy. Arnold’s late resignation as
secretary could only be read as that of a man
wearied of everything. The surprise is that
he didn’t give up long ago. Cuthbert has
smelted 7879 tons copper from 136.000 tons
ore,, and has still 13,245 tons metal in sight
in its 193,500 tons of reserves. Yet it is
derelict: it owes £75,000 to debenture-holders
aud £31,000 otherwise. There should be a
strong salvage gang able to chip off barnacles,
clean up the financial mess, and make a fresh
start. The mine wants re-sampling, the
plant should be reported upon, and share-
holders and bond-holders put through a
vacuum-cleaner, and finally got together on a
common working footing, or left to get what
comes from a forced sale. Copper is low in
price, and labor costs still high. But the
price of the metal will not remain at around
£6O for ever.
* * * *
Shackell’s office has brought out a book
telling all and sundry what Erie Huntley
and J. Hogan Taylor have to say about New
Guinea Copper Mines. It doesn’t flaunt
reports that have gone before, in. which the
ore reserves were stated more conservatively
than by Huntley, but the photos and the
dusky beauties bathing in the background
compensate. All the same, it is a neat bit
of propaganda, and if London sees it, as, no
doubt, it is intended that it should, another
load should soon be lightened.
* * # *
Boring is now in progress on the Kallanda
tin area, near Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), to
test its possibilities for sluicing. A southern
co. has an option over 400 or 500 acres of
ground, including the Three Castles, Sham-
rock, Thistle, and 250 acres of new ground.
Messrs. Rolfe and Oxley, formerly with the
Irvinebank, are supervising operations, the
chief point to be settled being whether there
is sufficient tin to warrant the large capital
necessary to provide an adequate water sup-
ply. The holdings included have proved
that there is a large amount of tin-bearing
alluvial, up to 40ft. thick in places, but
average thickness or average values are not
known. A few thousands have already been
spent by previous owners, but operations up
to the present have never been very success-
ful, mainly owing to under-capitalisation,
for water difficulties have hampered all
attempts so far. A large holding, such as
the present amalgamation, has much better
prospects, providing the necessary cash can
be raised.
* # # «
The last two crushings at Tyrconnell
(N.Q.) have been up to the average; 276
tons for 2400 z. of gold, and over 2 tons of
concentrates; and 168 tons for 150 oz. and
24cwt. of concentrates. With concentrates
added, the lot will run into an ounce per
ton. The material came from the stopes
over the No. 5 and intermediate levels,
which ace becoming depleted, and a move
has been made_ to get down deeper. The
shaft is now being sunk to pick up the pay-
shoot on the next level.
* * # *
The principal crushings for September on
the Oaks field (N.Q.) were: Victoria Ex-
tended, 680 tons for lOOoz.; and Mountain
King, 1042 tons, also for lOOoz. The values
pan out respectively at 11s. and 6s. per ton,
and in the case of the latter cannot pay
unless there is a considerable cyanide re-
covery to be added. The State battery
established on the field a few months ago
has brought down treatment charges a little,
and is said to be giving the best recovery
amongst the three mills. For a recent
monthly period it put through 936 tons at
4s. 9d. per ton, and it reckons to reduce this
slightly with a few further improvements.
As cartage does not usually cost much more
than 2s. a ton, it is making it possible to
treat a lot of very low-grade dirt that would
npt have been looked at last year. Any-
thing averaging 10s. a ton seems to be
quite a decent proposition on this field
now.
* * * #
The Wild Irishman, at Herberton (N.Q.),
which was unwatered last year and opened
up, has come to light with one of the big-
gest crushings on the field for a long time:
the 325 tons put through returned 50 tons of
70 p.c. concentrates, worth £4828, almost
£l5 a ton. The co. is still raising picked
ore, up to 20 p.c., but some of the faces
are very small; If, as stated, the party put
in £3OOO to get the mine to this stage, they
have still a little leeway to make up. On
appearances they do not appear to have got
the old rich shoot worked previously at the
255 ft. level, which was lost when the drive
ran into faulted ground.
* * * *
Vic. deep-lead mining is more livid than
ever. The old hands have passed out, and
the new blood wants its gamble piping hot,
win or lose. New Langi Logan is well on
the call list, and likely to stop there. South
Langi is doing scrappy work, but it is not
of the sort to keep callpayers together.
James Mackay may suggest a working
scheme whereby New Langi gets a reversion
of South’s northern block of the gutter
adjoining its boundary. That would give
New Langi life, for it is well on the way to
the South boundary. It would never pay
South Langi to let New Langi shut down,
for then it would have to tackle the whole
of the water of the gutter. The only other
alluvial mine in the district at work is
Cathcart Victory, which has always been
more or less a dud show. Shallow work only
is being done by scratchers at Rutherglen,
but it and Chiltern, so far as big deep-lead
work goes, are at a dead end. One block of
promising ground is there. It was taken to
London, but it got as poor a reception as it
previously had in Collms-street. Malmsbury
and Creswick are shut up. It is not that
good bores to tempt the miner are absent,
but that the deep-lead enthusiast has flitted
* * * .
The first of the Bendigo mine-managers’
projects to be handled is the Lightning Hill,
at Eaglehawk. A co. is in course of forma-
tion, and with the backing of councillors of
the “Model Borough” and of leading specu-
lators, and with the imprimatur of the mine
managers, there ought to be no question about
a successful .flotation. The next important
consideration will be the extent to which the
Government will recognise the project finan-
cially, and in that respect extra-liberal treat-
ment may be expected, on the principle of
helping those who are prepared to help them-
selves, and on the far-reaching importance
which any favorable development would have
on the field generally.
* * • •
New Blue, Bendigo, return last week was
310 oz. from 649 tons, both being lower than
the previous week. Another dividend of is.
has been declared. Exploratory work in the
adjoining South Blue has not, so far, been
successful. The rise put up in the forma-
tion which New Blue is working did not dis-
close payable stone, but as this point is over
300 ft. from New Blue boundary and New
Blue working face is 300 ft. further back,
and on good ore, there is still a chance for the
South in this formation. A favorable develop-
ment is reported from a lower level where
there is a large block of untried ground.
* * * *
North Oswald, Maldon (Vic.), has un-
watered the old Grand Junction shaft to
225 ft., where a level connects the Cambrian
shaft. In the latter the co. will seek a reef
thought to go about 9dwt., and if prospects
then look promising a new co. will be formed
to tackle the show.


SECOND CHILDHOOD.


Deafness increases if neglected? Compare
your hearing to-day, with whaHt wasa year
ago, and note how it has steadily/become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your Rearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-fo-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if i'; were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Lamson <>; c e e Co.,
Sydney.
Olderfleet. Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 Hi«h St., Christchurch
W A.—K. Little &• Co.. 851 Hay St., Perth
None Better I
Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co., Ltd., Kent Brewery, Sydney,
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedroom 3.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER.
Managing Director.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
THE HIGH COURT.
Justices Higgins, Isaacs and Duffy on the job.
M. A. Minogue, Vic. Under-Treasurer,
whose resignation has been handed in, has
a mordant wit. lie was asked whom he
was going to vote for one Federal polling-
day when Best was being opposed for Koo-
yoiig by Vida Goldstein. “Well,” he replied
solemnly, “I suppose a man will have to
vote for the younger woman.” Another
time, when asked his opinion of a Vic. public
man noted for his indecision and extreme
desire to please everybody, Minogue replied :
“All things to all men; and nothing to any
woman.” And, again, Treasurer McPher-
son once remarked that he had been having
a conversation with Theodore Fink. “No,
you haven’t,” said the Under-Treasurer;
“you mean that Fink has been talking to
you.”
The Langer Owen appointment on the
Supreme Court Bench of N. S. Wales recalls
the number of sons of Judges who have suc-
ceeded to seats. Francis Forbes, the first
C.J., gave a son to the D.C. Bench, as did
his successor, Dowling, but the third C.J.,
Alfred Stephen, had not only a son but a
father on the Bench. William Manning had
a nephew, C. J. Manning, in the Equity
jurisdiction. The new Judge is son of Wil-
liam Owen, who came to Sydney in 1860.
was principal Under-Secretary for a eoujnle,
of years, then practised till he climbed op to
the Bench. A V
The first practising barrister in Maori-
land to be made a K.C. under “The Law
Practitioners Amendment Act, 1915,” is
Michael Myers, one of the Chosen. A
former Crown Prosecutor, he has been a
partner in the leading law firm in the Shiv-
ery Isles for 30 years; but now he has to
set up a signboard for himself. Previously
a K.C. could practise as a solicitor; but
under the new Act he is in a position simi-
lar to that of his Australian brother. Myers,
who is 49 and a whale for work, was edu-
cated at Wellington College, and later carried
off numerous trophies from Canterbury
’Varsity.
“Lluffin-Guffin”: Lee Neil, of the Myers
firm, which bought out Robertson and Mof-
fats (Melb.) the other day, was, on the Sun-
day after the great deal, in his usual place
as organist at the little St. Hilary’s Anglican
church at East Ivew, whereof he is also a
churchwarden. It must be awkward to;
adjust a mind that deals in half-millions to
scheming how to raise that £l6, 15...3d.. necesS‘
sary to complete the promised quota of £B5
to the Home Mission Fund. By the way,
St. Hilary’s has also J. M. (of the
tea firm) and Auditor-General J. W. Israel,
as well as lesser lights, on its vestry. But
parson Charley Barnes unconcernedly takes
them all in his stride.
Michael Giblin, who died at Southland
Hospital, Invercargill (M.L.), the other day,
surrendered a claim to being the oldest white
man in the Rickety Isles. He was entered
officially as 104 years of age, but his relatives
claim that he was 110.
J. Wheat - Roberts: 11. E. A. (“Ernie”)
Miller, who passed out the other day, had
been conspicuous in N.S.W. mining circles
for over 25 years. Originally accountant
ahd surveyor at Nymagee and Mount Hope
copper-mines, he was identified with innumer-
able mining projects west of the Mountains.
No great luck came his way, but if pluck,
pertinacity and honesty deserved it, he should
have had it in abundance. Of delicate con-
stitution, he had been ailing for years, and
when I saw him last, a few weeks ago,
he jestingly remarked that he was like some
of his mining companies—badly in need of
reconstruction. lie was a brother of Deni-
son Miller.
“Harold Ilardupp”: One of the few re-
maining jokes of the N.S.W. Assembly is
the rank of Murphy (late A.1.F.), the
North Shore Laborite. Murphy insists upon
being “Corporal” even unto this day; and
it is the practice of jesting members to
address him as anything but Corporal.
Murphy used to painfully explain that he
was not a colonel, until he realised that
something was tugging at his leg; but a
cunning M.L.A. drew him again the other
night by starting at the other end of the
scale. After he had been called “Private
Murphy” for the third time, the little cor-
poral commenced to put in an objection—
but a roar of laughter drowned whatever
he had to say.
Bell Jackson celebrated his 90th birth-
day at the week-end within a few hours
of relinquishing his Vic. State Savings Bank
Commissionership after 25 years’ service.
Those who think they are old at 65 may
gather encouragement from him, for Jack-
son began a practically new career at that
age.
Lionel Batten, the Melbourne journalist
who chases news at the Trades Hall, is out
after the Labor selection for Bass (Tas.).
He took a hand at the All-Australian Union
Congress in the fight to endorse the Brisbane
programme of the party, and if he gets the
selection he will probably produce as a
trump card to the islander’s the testimonial
he got from the Seamen’s Union for helping
to bring about a settlement of the maritime
wrangle that tied up the Speck in 1920.
But the trouble is that Bakhap, the Nation-
alist Senator, also find a hand in that settle-
ment. A. J. Higgins, of Launceston, who
stood for Bass three years ago, is again up
for selection.
Commissioner of Audit E. W. Giles will
probably fire in ojily one more annual report
to the S. Aus. House of Assembly. Already
liis term has lapped two years over the age
limit, and, unless the Executive Council says
otherwise, he will definitely retire next
June. Giles took over from Peter Whiting-
ton 10 years ago, just in time for the most
frenzied financial period in the history of
the job. But his worst days came when, jn
an unscheduled interlude, he was called on
to audit the odoriferous affairs of the S. Aus.
Wheat Scheme.
j; B. Brigden, the W.E.A. lecturer for
the west coast of the Speck, who becomes
Pitt Cobbett Lecturer in Economics at the
Tas. ’Varsity, is a Victorian with an A.I.F.
record. Lie snared the Kitchener Memorial
Overseas Soldiers’ Scholarship, which en-
abled him to graduate in jurisprudence at
Oxford, and he holds the Oxford diploma in
economics and political science, and has
been tutor under the Sheffield ’Varsity.
Since his west coast work began he has
published a comprehensive and practical
pamphlet on the economics of the Mt. Lyell
mining-field.
Hartley Williams, 21 years Vic. Supreme
Court Judge, whose address, according to
Fred John’s Who’s Who, is 93 Cadogan
Gardens, London, S.W., was 79 on 15th inst.
Collingrove, Vic., was his birthplace. He
was 60 when he retired from the Bench and
went to the Cold Country to reside. His
third son, Edward Ernest (Northumberland
Fusiliers) fell in Gallipoli when leading his
battalion. A daughter married Colonel
Oswald Watt, the flying-man. who was
drowned on a surfing beach near Sydney; and
she is now the wife of General Sir Sydney
Lawfofd, who commanded the 41st Imperial
division. Hartley’s father, Edward Eyre
Williams, who landed in early Port Phillip
and died in 1579, was 20 years on the Vic.
Supreme Court Bench.
Helen Jerome, a Bulletin writer, has
clambered to one of the peaks of fame in
New York. Her “I Shall Know” is de-
clared to be one of the most perfect love-
songs ever written, and another, called
“Nitehevo,” set to music by Mana Zucea,
and sung by Arthur Hackett, has appealed
so strongly with “its abandon and trium-
phant paganism, truly Slavic” to the mighty
Chaliapine that he has included it in his
repertoire.
S. Aus. Treasurer, Capt. Ritchie, knows
more about River Murray navigation than
about figures, and the man who really did
the work in preparing the recent Budget
is the veteran Under-Treasurer, H. F.
Peacock. He is 71, and retires shortly,
after serving under 14 Treasurers in 44
years.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Exit in her nineties,
at Folkestone, Mrs. Henry Kingsley, widow
of the author of the
Anglo - Australian
novel “Geoffrey ITim-
lyn” and many other
stories. Kingsley
spent a vagabondish
five years in Australia
as gold-digger, sun-
downer, sheep-shearer,
stockman and other
things. On his re-
turn to the northern
hemisphere he became
the editor of an Edin-
burgh paper, and
served as war corres-
pond en t in the
Fr a nco - Prussian
shindy. After that he
settled down in Lon-
don and turned out 30
novels in regular,
mechanical fashion.
Three of them, in
addition to “Geoffrey
Ham 1 y n,” embody
some of his Australian observations and
experiences. His brother Charles, the
parson, was a prolific storyteller, and a doc-
tor-brother, George, also did some scribbling.
“D.F.” : Jim Beckett, pioneer, pastoralist,
trepanger, inky wayfarer, protector of abo-
rigines and a lot of other things in his time,
is back in Melbourne, where he formerly did
a lot of good work for the Age. Three
years ago lie took up Vanderlin Island, in
the Gulf of Carpentaria, but had bad luck
with it. On one trip across the Gulf he
and his sons reached Vanderlin with half-a-
pint of water left in the lugger. The blacks
were troublesome, too, owing to bad treat-
ment by some scallywags on the mainland,
and threatened to wipe them out. James
and his family are now leasing about 875
square miles on the Coburg Peninsula and
round Port Essington. He reckons Port
Essington, with its magnificent harbor, fine
scenery, good climate and abundance of
sport, would make a great health and plea-
sure resort. But, then, he has lived too
long in our tropics to know how fatal they
are.
John Gordon, Liberal M.L.A. for Waranga,
is the new chairman of the Vic. Municipal
Association. He succeeds the pushful Rich-
ardson, M.L.C., of Geelong, who, though
of no great attainments, climbed into a
Ministry as an “honorary” and then on to
the Railway Committee.
“Tay-Pay” as an ecclesiastical tipster:—
The creation of the second Australian Cardinal is
long overdue. Moran has been dead over 11 year 3,
and in all that time the Papacy has shown no
anxiety to maintain Australian representation at
the Sacred College. The arrival of Dr. Sheehan may
hurry matters along, and the probabilities are that
Dr. Kelly will presently receive the Red Hat.
Mannix is favored in some quarters, but were the
Melbourne prelate to be so honored the primacy
would practically be transferred to Victoria. Hence
the Sydne3 T ite is the more likely to catch
the Papal eye. The position is complicated by the
presence of the Apostolic Delegate, who at the
moment has precedence over the entire Australian
hierarchy. That precedence would be disturbed by
the creation of a new Cardinal. A likely outcome
is that the new Cardinal will, like his predecessor
Moran, combine the functions of Primate and Apos-
tolic Delegate, and that Archbishop Cattaneo will
go home.
G. H. Wright, just appointed chairman
of the Congregational body in S. Aus., was
born in Victoria, did some farming on the
Murray, took a degree in Adelaide, was a
railway worker in Westralia, then, after an
English course in theology, came back to
Perth, where he took an M.A. degree. Since
1919 he has been at Stow Church, in
Adelaide.
“Splinter”: D. J. Collins threw off a Dig-
ger’s infantry equipment to don parsonical
cloth, and was allotted a parish of between
two and three thousand square miles on the
Clarence River (N.S.W.). It took him
about half a minute to realise that ho
couldn’t see everyone of his flock person-
ally more than once in several years if he
travelled all the time, so he installed a small
platen press and began to issue pamphlets
and a monthly paper, and soon had a con-
nection from one end of his unwieldy parish
to the other. The choir boys work the press.
The Rev. Digger is also editor of the North
Coast Churchman, the monthly paper of
his diocese.
"Lexite”: Secretary Carey, of the A.L.P..
has, by voting for the endorsement of Riley
for the Cook electorate, incurred enmity,
and at the next conference an effort will
probably be made to “out” him. But Carey
has a following of his own. The A.L.P. official
is a big man with a truly magnificent girth.
He once called upon a Laborite who was
prone to speak before his family of the
tyranny of Capital. A little girl answered
Carey’s knock, then ran to her father and
said in an awed voice: “Daddy, there’s a
big, fat man at the door wants to see you.
I think he must be a caterpillist.”
Some November birthdays:—
Prof. Skeats (Melb. Uni.), 47, and Bishop McCarthy
(Sandhurst), 04, on Ist; Simpson Newland, S. Aua.
(“Paving the Way”), 87, and John Nicholson, M.L.C.
(W. Aus.), 54, on 2nd; Prof. John Smyth (Melb.
Uni.), 58, on 3rd; Capt. T. A. White (“Diggers
Abroad”), 30, and Tom W. Heney (Brisbane Tele-
graph), 00, on 4th; knight Lancelot Stirling (Pres,
of S. Aus. Leg. Council), 73, and Frederick T. Hick-
ford, M.A., LL.B. (Pro. Grand Master of Vic. Free-
masons), 00, on sth; Federal Minister Massy Greene,
48, on oth; Prof. Woodhouse (Syd. Uni.), 56, ex-
C'hief Justice Parker (W.A.), 70, and R. 11. Cambage
(N.S.W. Mines Dept.), 03, on 7th; Col. W. T. Reav
(Melb. Herald), 64, on 9th; Justice A. G. Ralston
(N.S.W.), 02, on 10th; Hugh R. Denison, 57, on
11th; W. W. Cabena (formerly Gaud Mayor of
Melb.), 69, on 12th; knight Mark Sheldon, 51, and
Principal Andrew Harper (St. Andrew’s Coll., Syd.),
78, on 13th; Rabbi F. L. Cohen (Syd.), 60, “Steele
Rudd,” 54, and Dr. J. S. Battye (Perth Public
Library), 51, on 14th; knight Arthur Rickards
(Syd.), 54, on 17th ; war-correspondent Charles Bean,
43, on 18th; Col. Donald Cameron, D.S.O. (M.H.R.
for Brisbane) , 43, on 19th; Dr. J. Mildred Creed,
M.L.C. (N.S.W.), 80, on 21st; Justice Long Camp-
bell (N.S.W.), 63, on 22nd ; ex-Federal Minister W. A.
Watt, 51, and A. A. Austin (Vic. pastoralist and legis-
lator), 67, on 23rd; Brig.-Gen. H. W. Lloyd, C. 8.,
39, on 24th; Col. Harold E. Cohen (Vic.), 41, and
Capt. A. S. Blackburn, V.C. (9. Aus.), 30, on 25th;
Capt. R. H. Walters (Royal Aus. Naval Coll.), 48,
poet Rod Quinn, 53, and Mark Cohen (retired M.L.
FOLEY, M.H.R. (W.A.).
Journalist), 78, on 26th; Dr. W. Ramsay Smith (S.
Aus.), 63, and N.S.W. astronomer Walter Gale, 57,
on 27th; Justice Cussen (Vic.), 63, and L. F. Giblin,
D.S.O., M.C. (Speck’s State Statistician), 50, on
29th; and poet Sydney Jephcott, 58, on 30th.
THE LAST WEAPON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let us pray for Dean Inge,” says General Booth
in a message to Salvationists.
Laws against battery, laws against libel!
Everywhere Law the evangelist jars;
Even a bang on the head with a Bible
Law (as a means of conversion) debars.
No efficacious old-fashioned persuasion,
Potent aforetime, will moderns allow.
Ah, but true faith yet can meet the occasion:
One thing is left —we can pray for the core!
Pray for him, sistren, the gloomy backslider!
Heap burning coals on his pessimist head;
Open your mouths and pray, open them wider!
Tell the good Lord the poor creature’s misled;
Bang him with blessings in Boothian phrases ;
Let his hide feel how forgiveness can flay;
We’ve still a sword for these heretic crazes,
Pray for the brute, brethren ! Pray for him ! Pray !
VICTORIA.
SYD. O.


I cJ%
4
© *
*9
V
%
r*
1
s.
*« —c
3
<3
%h
*<?
»
J.',
The Princely Values
of the
NEW PACKARD SINGLE SIX
THIS IS WHAT THREE
OWNERS HAVE TO SAY
ABOUT THE PACKARD.
"For ease of handling in heavy
traffic, for quickness in starting,
and for general comfort , it suits
me to perfection ”
"It rides like a railroad Pullman
Car and r will go anywhere there
is a sign of a road. ”
"Its power on the hills, its swift
get-away, and its low petrol and
oil consumption are surprising
provide a ready solution to the query of the
man in the street—"why has this new car leapt
so miraculously into supreme favour amongst
hard-headed and experienced motorists?”
The Packard Six stands for luxury, utility and beauty, and
under gruelling conditions of service has proved itself, for
its price and weight, to be without a peer.
Packard owners are usually men who have possessed other
good cars, yet their verdict is invariably the same—convey-
ing spontaneous enthusiasm for an engine that is so perfect
in efficiency as to appear actually inspired by intelligence in
the hands of a competent driver.
The Packard stands for ideal performance, quiet elegance
of appearance and a remarkable standard of up-keep and
operative economy.
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Distributors : 261, 263, 265 Castleieigh Street, Sydney.
Kellow, Falkiner Pry. Ltd.
206 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
The Universal Motors Pty.
Petrie’s Bight,
Brisbane.
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.
75 Pirie Street,
Adelaide.
PACKARD
"ASK, THE MAH WHO OWNS ONE*


An Entrancing Delight
uplifting and refreshing to the senses, persuading brightness and enjoyment to
replace dullness or mind-fatigue by the sheer joy of their rare and exquisite
purity.
LEPIT
PERFUMES and
FACE POWDERS
ITALY’S BEST.
It would indeed be a singular taste that could not find its desire amongst the abundant variety
of Lepit’s enchanting perfumes. More than 25 to select from, including Rose D’ltalia, Acqua
Colonia “Lepit” (a rare creation of Eau-de-Cologne), Olea Fragrans, Ninfea (Lily of the Water),
Lavanda, Fior di Notte (Night’s Flowers).
Each “Lepit” extract has its accompanying Face Powder, of like fragrance, packed in
dainty original boxes.
Try a Perfume and a Face Powder together.
From all Good Pharmacies and Stores.
GATTINO & CO. LTD., Sole Australian Representatives,
39-41 York Street, Sydney.
A Featherweight Golf Coat
of General Utility !
Although quoted as a Golf Coat, it is ideal for general
Summer use, particularly for riding or station wear.
It is made of the finest cotton-texture balloon cloth, from
the British War Office Stores, very strong, yet so l.’ght
and compact that it will almost fit into the waistcoat pocket.
It is in a dark fawn tone, and has expanding pleat back,
half-belt and vent. The front has three buttons, and
there are four outside pockets.
Peapes price it moderately at
Peapes pay postage.
Please state height, chest and waist measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Peapes’ New Catalogue, recently issued.
30/-
Society
[?]LIC
[?]
[?]
“Snell”: There was a big row in Bourke-
street, just near the Royal Theatre. It
flared up among a number of the bookies and
hangers on who loiter about a sporting club
in that vicinity, and presently two men
issued from the dust and excitement in tight
holts. One, the larger of the two, had seized
the other from behind, and, with an arm
thrown about his neck and drawn tight, was
apparently hurrying to get his victim well
choked before the police should arrive. It
was a big tough who interfered. “Here,
here,” he said, “that ain’t no way to hold a
SHE MEANT THE LEATHER VARIETY.
FAIR GUEST: “I am sorry l will not be able to come
down to the dance to-night, but my trunks have
not arrived.”
HORRIFIED HOST: “ Trunks! Great heavens! What
sort of a dance do you think it is going to be?”
man, unless you want to crack flis bloomin’
neck.” He forcibly removed the man’s grip,
replaced it a little lower down on a different
bias, and stepped back. “There,” he said with
critical satisfaction. “That looks as if you
knew your business, and no bones broke.”
The man who intervened was for years Mel-
bourne’s most active garrotter. It was a
touching combination of professional pride
and humanitarian principles.
“Matrix” on a vessel which has seen his-
tory made: —•
Bananaland’s Government boat, the Lucinda, which
is to be scrapped, is a tub with a history. A
paddle-wheel, some 40 years old, she came out to
Australia under her own steam. She has had a
big variety of uses, from giving thousands of child-
ren a jaunt down the river to vote-catching; like-
wise, she was the scene of many a riotous jaunt
when the old Tory regime used to hold what it
disdained to call caucus meetings in her innards, to
the accompaniment of much cork-drawing. Labor
used to call them “Lucinda orgies,” and demand that
the exes, be “tabled” in the House. But then Labor
was in opposition in those days. However the Lucinda’s
chief claim to a niche in history is the fact that the
Federal Constitution was drawn up on board of her
in 1891; at least she saw the final touches put to
the job which is to make or mar us. A people
with a bit more imagination than ourselves would on
that score alone find her a suitable resting-place.
* * * *
“Huffin Guffin” : Re the “merger” between
Myers and Robertson and Moffat, of Mel-
bourne. My heart goes out in sympathy to
the older employees of the “merged” firm.
Within a few hours of the closing of the
deal a hole was knocked in the wall between
the two ragshops, and through it the rushing,
tearing bargain-hunters from Myers's
swarmed into the stately halls where aristo-
cracy had once done its leisurely and digni-
fied buying. The look of horror on the faces
of the old retainers of the firm was a thing
never to be forgotten. This plebeian invasion
of the old “House of Quality” obviously
struck the faithful souls as a profanation—
a very similar emotion to that felt by mem-
bers of the old regime in France at the end
of the 18th century, when the mob charged
into Versailles.
* * # *
“Harold Ilardupp”: Ettie Rout’s book
upon the sex question, though acclaimed
in England, lias been prohibited in
M.L. It is the sort of thing that
might be expected of a country where post-
cards featuring the picture “Psyche at the
Pool” were prohibited as indecent, and
where nude statues have offended suscepti-
bilities in various townships. Yet in one
street in Auckland —only a short street at
that —there are five “nursing homes” devoted
to helping potential mothers to escape
motherhood, and not long ago publicity was
forced on a place in Wellington through
which 600 such cases were alleged to have
passed in a single year.
* * * *
A protest from Suburbia: —
Against all the handicaps that N. S. Wales offi-
cialdom can impose, the motor-’buses of Sydney and
suburbs continue to prosper. One reason is that
the tramway authorities are dealing with this new
form of opposition on wrong lines. Last week sev-
eral ’bus-conductors were fined heavily at Paddington
Police Court “for having permitted passengers in
excess of the licensed number to travel.” And within
a stone’s-throw of the court where this foolery is
developing into a regular event, the Government-
owned trams thunder past all
day and most of the night, loaded
during the busier hours with
struggling citizens, many of whom
have no hope of getting the seat
for which they have been outrage-
ously overcharged, while none has
a chance to do the trip in any-
thing resembling comfort. Secure
in their immunity from legal
assault, and secure also, as they
imagine, for the present, in their
transport monopoly, the State
tramway authorities scorn to take
steps to discourage overcrowding
—the thing the ’busmen are so
drastically punished for, in the
alleged interests of the public.
An excellent example of this blank
indifference to the requirements
of the people who pay for the
trams may be seen any day on the
concern which operates ‘between
Manly and Narrabeen. On holidays,
and during the crowded hours, it
runs in two sections, one of which
drops off half-way. The caravan
usually pulls out with the front,
or Narrabeen, part, cramfull of
standing, sitting and cursing
tourists, many of whom are not
going more than a section ot two.
Meanwhile the Brookvale part
trails behind half empty. This
idiocy could be stopped, without
the expenditure of a penn’orth of
- cash or an ounce of effort, by
imposing a minimum fare of sd.
on the Narrabeen section, or by
refusing to take, say, a Brook-
vale fare on the Narrabeen end,
and in various other ways. But
the tramway monopolists don't
bother. Their idea of business
foresight seems to be to get the
’buses prosecuted off the road, as a preliminary to
charging tram-travellers full fare for riding on the
roofs.
“Centurion” on some fallacious figures:
Writing on the antagonism of white and colored
races (B. 12/10/’22), “Tauwarra” quotes percentages
of illiterates in Georgia (U.S.A.) and Australia. I
suggest that his figures are totally misleading as
they stand. He accepts the word of “Will C.”
that 5.4 per cent, of native whites in Georgia are
illiterates, and counters with the statement that
Knibbs gives 15.5 per cent, as the proportion of
illiterates in the white population of Australia.
Where “Tauwarra” slips is in overlooking the fact
that Knibbs’s average is struck on the total white
population of Australia, from the newly-born to the
about-to-die. In the table quoted by “Tauwarra”
only two and a half millions were 20 years old
and upwards, while the population under 9 years
totalled well over 1,000,000, and there were
258,222 under 4 years. Writer has no means at hand
HE MEANT WELL.
“Good morning, my dear!”
“Pull yourself together, Douglas! Don't you remember me saying
good morning to you when you came home last night?”
of checking the Georgia figures, but it is safe
betting, in view of the well-known conditions pre-
vailing among the mean white population of some
of the Southern States, that the 5.4 percentage has
been struck on a school-age basis at least. A far
better method of arriving at the true Australian
percentage of illiterates is to ascertain how many
were unable to sign their names at marriage.
Knibbs gives this as .31 per cent.
» * * *
“Chris”: “Wilfrido” (B. 19/10/’22) gives
Hori a nasty jolt in saying that he rarely
works except to get the wherewithal to dress
well and to eat and drink heartily. Hori
may like decent clothes and the pleasures Of
the table, but hasn’t his pakeha brother simi-
lar tastes? In the past the tribal land laws
were based on communistic principles, and
Hori didn’t feel much inclined to perspire
freely for the benefit of the go-slow section.
But nowadays, whenever he can get an indi-
vidual title to his holding, it is noticeable
that he is gradually and successfully adapt-
ing himself to pastoral and dairying ways.
Figures just presented to the Dominion Par-
liament show that, in the 1919-20 season
420.880 Maori-owned sheep were shorn and
153,651 lambs were tailed. The natives also
held 16,389 dairy cows, 43,383 other horned
cattle. 13.577 horses and 10,334 porkers. In
1916-21 the Maori population, in spite of
the Big Scrap and the deadly ’flu of ’lB,
jumped to 52,751, an increase of nearly
3000.
* * * *
From a Synod gallery man: —
The Sydney Anglican Synod adjourned sine die
last week after having in monotonous unanimity
accomplished a tolerable amount of work in a mini-
mum of time. The ritualists are downcast, not to
say scandalised, the following measures having found
favor with the majority: Interchange of pulpits with
non-episcopal sects, admission of women preachers,
the approval of the individual cup, and disapproval
of Sunday sport. About the only grain of satisfac-
tion achieved by the censer-swingers was the defeat
of the “cut-the-painter” crowd in the Nexus debate.
The debates on the whole were dull. Rev. Hillhouse
Taylor put up a capable and sincere defence of the
common chalice. Judge Docker’s plea for reasonable
sport on the Sawbath in the interests of the health
of the community was quite the best effort from
the laity, while Archbishop Wright showed his usual
uncanny tact in the handling of contentious issues.
» * «r »
Henry Bateson: A counsel’s shot-in-the-
dark occasionally comes off. In M.L. a man
was lined up on a charge of attempted
murder. The defence attempted to prove
an alibi, and the prisoner’s mother swore
that on the night in question, at the time
specified, her son was at home with her.
She had looked at the clock, so could swear
to the time to a minute. “Now, would you
just turn round to the clock in court and
tell his Honor the time by that clock?” said
the prosecuting counsel, making a shot in
the dark. The old woman couldn’t tell the
time.
“Eddyson” : How like a Government was
the action of the
Federal Ministry
in stepping in and
acquiring the Ellis
Rowan collection
as soon as it was
quite sure the
breath had left the
artist’s body!
Some day an Aus-
tralian Govern-
ment will do this
thing on the
strength of a
rumored death,
and, finding out it
has conferred some
measure of gratifi-
cation upon a liv-
ing artist, will
presently run
howling. In Mrs.
Rowan’s case the
purchase of what
is rather a utili-
tarian than an
artistic mass of
work might easily
have been made
while the artist
was living to enjoy
the distinction and
spend the money;
but apparently
there is a law of
Canute the Nut
forbidding the be-
stowal of patron-
a g e on living
painters, writers
and persons o f
that low type of
character. Ellis
Rowan’s paintings
have a distinct
scientific value,
and belong more to
a botanical insti-
tute than to a
national collection
of art objects, but
they are paintings,
and that justifies
Hughes in having
waited till the
artist was a certified corpse before making
his offer.
* ¥■ # #
“T.R.11.”: As an Englishman I see ro
reason to reject “Ack F. C.’s” yarn (B.
19/10/’22) of his countryman who congratu-
lated the Pommy on “speaking as good Eng-
lish as the Australians.” The Lancashire
dialect, for instance, if spoken broadly, is
very hard to interpret, even for many
Lancashire people. A Londoner from the
West End frequently cannot understand the
Cockney of Bow, and neither of them could
understand a Yorkshire millhand. At the
imminent risk of being called a snob. I
venture the assertion that the decently-
educated people in England speak Eng-
lish—the uneducated speak a dialect,
and almost every county has a dif-
WALKING WEATHER.
SHE ( ready for the theatre) : “Is it raining,
dear?”
HE: “Yes; but not a taxi-rain.”
ferent one! In Australia the Aus-
tralians speak excellent English, as a rule;
but those who have not had the best eduea-
tional advantages—or, having had them,
neglected them—speak with a peculiar, lin-
gering drawl. It is not, however, nearly
so noticeable as any of a score of different
dialects in England.
THE REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Rev. Witlings, of the Congregational Church,
Newcastle, discussing the question of the Empty
Church, said that if a church was full, the deacons
were praised: if it was empty, it was the minister’s
fault. For his own part he did not think ministers
were entirely responsible for empty churches.”
To blame the parson is unfair;
He does his level best
To make men feel they should be there,
And take an interest
In movements meant to keep them pure,
And all their actions leaven
With holiness that may secure
A front-stall seat in Heaven.
Reasons of ev’ry shape and size
From church the people keep.
Some think the credal food unwise,
That shepherds hand their sheep ;
Some can’t afford the clothes to wear
To do the thing in state,
Or (with the present price of beer)
The threepence for the plate.
Some, to a distant paradise,
Prefer an earthly view
On sunny days to glad their eyes;
And surfing lures a few ;
While motoring gives many pause
And goff’s another .foe—
Still, most folk keep away because
They simply hate to go 1
N.S.W.
THE PERIPATETIC PAGAN.


LEVIATHAN
3
m
m
s m
TAILORING
SUITS for MEN
who Appreciate Quality.
Super-Quality
To-Order £§| J B|6
New Summer Material Just Landed.
Clothing with
Poise and Dignity.
Perhaps you’ve seen the Man with a Suit
that looked as if the Style had been specially
designed for him. That was because it just
suited his type.
Follow the Style, surely; but adapt
them to your own personality.
Let the Leviathan
Tailor YOUR
Summer Suit.
Prices from, £5/5/- to £l2/12/-
m
YOUNG MEN
Consider Personality
in CLOTHES Choosing.
Illustrated Style Book
Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Summer Wear.
Write for Copy To-day.
Cor. Swanston 8 Bourke Streets, Melbourne
ORDER BY POST—
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
6^
*
o-
GO
rjKi


Stewart Dawson’s
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case.
15 Jewels, f-Plate Nickel Movement.
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically and Soundly Constructed, and
to Keep Accurate Time.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
ESTABLISHED 1871. ” s w -
V
I
Defiance Lever
Special Price : 65-
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled.
POSTAGE FREE.
Two Sydney Establishments:
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER.
185-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET.
“Tarago”: A party of Diggers were up
before the Board for land qualifying certi-
ficates. “Now, you,” said the chairman,
pointing to an ex-taxi-driver, “tell me what
amount of superphosphate you would put
to the acre of potatoes?” “Fourteen hun-
dredweight,” hazarded the Digger. “What?”
shouted the chairman. “Say four, four,”
whispered an ex-cocky to the guesser.
“Forty-four hundredweight,” confidently
amended the applicant.
* * * #
From the inside :—•
Harmony isn’t kingpin at Pentridge these days,
and the consensus of opinion is that the Lawson
Government donned the wrong thinking-cap when it
appointed the new governor. It was only logical
to assume that a man on the right side of 30,
with no previous gaoler's experience apart from
military barbed-wire, would soon wade out of his
depth when dealing with hard cases along-
side whom most of the delinquent Diggers
were angels. And anyhow the young man
hasn’t been given a fair show. The fact is the
warders are seething with discontent. Approxi-
mately they average 591 hours per week in all
sorts and conditions of Weather, promotion is almost
unknown, and yet their pay begins at only 10s.
fid. a day, and after 21 years’ service it doesn’t
exceed 11s. lOd. Victorian police constables receive
12s. and 14s. fid. on similar levels, and the Ma
State’s penal warders work under a scale of pay
15 per cent, higher than the Pentridge one. Then
there are 44-hour hod-carriers and 20-hour politicians,
none of whom is fined £f> for smoking on
duty. Discontent among warders finds inevitably
its aftermath among the prisoners, and hence
the trouble at the big Victorian institution —a
trouble which, incidentally, is going to get worse.
A FELLOW FEELING.
DRUNK (who has been given a seat by the cleric): “Glad,
t’shee there’s at least one man in trams'h know'sh
(hie) what it ish t' be absolutely shickered.”
“M. Magee”: I dispute the accuracy of
“Herodot’s” statement (B. 21/9/’22) that
the game of two-up “flourishes more luxuri-
antly north of Brisbane than anywhere else
in the Commonwealth,” but I admit that the
amount at stake at some of the schools in
the sugar-growing districts is probably
bigger than could be found anywhere else.
Many of the inland towns of N.S.W. and
Queensland have permanent schools, and in
the out-back shearing districts it is rare to
find a shed which doesn’t support at least
one. The station-hands, including the Chow
gardener, invariably attend these re-unions,
usually held on Saturday and Sunday, after
all hands have finished washing their mole-
skins. Refreshments are not in the style of
flash city gambling clubs, however; they
generally consist of tea, buns and cakes.
Now and then a “nob” is, with the conni-
vance of the ring-keeper, “rung in,” and
detection invariably results in a fight, which
imparts a spice of variety to the proceedings.
HIS BRILLIANT CAREER.
“ Education! A grand thing! Why, take the case of that son of yours who won a
prize for oratory.”
“Yes. He’s become a picture-show spruiker.”
Btlbav : Tbe dominant atmosphere of
the London leave clubs was suspicion. Turn-
ing in on my first night at one, the cobber
who had introduced me first put his boots
under the legs of the head-end of his bed.
He next rolled up his pants and tunic for
use as a bolster, and disposed of his “roll”
by binding it firmly to his bare leg with a
puttee. Then he tied his hat to the head-
rail by the chin-strap, said his prayers and
got under the blankets. “Now they can’t
Pinch anything without waking me,” came
from his bunk in muffled tones. “This joint
ain t quite as bad as a few I’ve been in
but it’s better to be sure than sorry. In
these places it’s a ease of first up best
dressed.”
* * • •
About Vic.’s primal pub: —
On October 31, 1835—87 years ago
—the first publican’s license was
granted at Port Phillip. The
licensee was John Paseoe Fawkner,
and the hotel was built on a portion
of the Custom House Reserve, near
the intersection of Williams and Little
Flinders streets, on or about the
spot used in the ’fifties and ’sixties
for a telegraph office. The house
was one and a half storeys high, the
upper apartment being an attic, sub-
divided into bedrooms, or “sleeping
ovens.” The ground floor contained
six apartments, the front quarter,
facing the river, being specially re-
served for respectable customers. The
bar was at the back, and over the
door was elevated a signboard, on
which was daubed, in uneven letters,
“Fawkner’s Hotel.” Johnny had a
monopoly, and in the matter of meals
customers had to take what he liked,
or go without! Fawkner himself was
almost a total abstainer, yet he was
charged by Jas. Bonwick (who did
not like the little man from across
the strait) with making a drunkard
of John Batman, by supplying him
with intoxicants. As a matter of
fact, Batman’s advertisements show
that he kept large stocks of liquor
on Sale at his house on the slope of
the hill named after him.
“Tarago”: While arguing about the first
Australian enlistment for the Big Scrap, if
would be as well for writers to remember
that the quotas of the First Division were
formed up all over the Commonwealth simul-
taneously. Therefore, it does not follow that
No. 1 of the First Battalion was the first
man to be enrolled. No. 1 of the sth and
9th Battalions, which started the quotas of
States outside N.S.W.. probably enlisted the
same day as No. 1 of the Ist. Hence, the
distinction comes down to a matter of hours,
and as the hour of enlistment was not shown
on the attestation papers, it is absurd for
anyone to dogmatise on the subject.
* * # #
“Uramae”: Captain Cook’s log has been
in the spotlight in Maoriland of late. It
is in the Turnbull Library at Wellington,
and recently the public learned with some
surprise that the pages covering the land-
ing at Gisborne, dating from October 7 to
October 15, 1769, had been cut out. The
librarian mentions that the fact has been
known for over 20 years, and also that
three other pages are missing. He scouts
the idea, however, that the mischief could
have been perpetrated at the library, where
the greatest care is taken of the log. It is
believed that the pages must exist some-
where, and a hope has been expressed that
publicity may unearth them.
* * * *
“908” gives the other side: —
“Rio” in his defence of “Base wallopers” (B.
5/10/’22) misses the point. His argument assumes
that all qualified men who enlisted drifted through
force of circumstances into base jobs, leaving the
actual combative work to be done by unqualified
and unskilled men. It is true that most of the
technical men went into the Engineers, Artillery
or Signallers. However, most of the techni-
cal part of warfare was done at, or in front
of, Corps headquarters, which roughly constituted
the danger zone, and “Rio’s” inference that the
Town Major of a billeting’ village, or the c.o. of
a reinforcement camp or a transport, necessarily
possessed qualifications above those of a man :'n
a line unit will be ridiculed by all who came into
contact with both classes. It is a fact beyond
all argument that the transports which plied between
Australia and England, and the Base Camps of
England, France and Egypt were, in general, dump-
ing grounds for wealthy or otherwise influential
inefficients, and men with no stomach for fighting.
Most of these impostors—unless they were very rank
duds indeed—got something; and every decoration
so awarded was at the expense of a genuine soldier.
Why is it, by the way, that most of the ex-Transport
C.O.’s and Comforts and Red Cross field-officers hang
on to the military titles which they never deserved
and which the dinkum fighting-men have long since
dropped ?
* * * *
“Sierra”: The master of the Hanau—the
first German ship to trade with Australia
since the war—has been subjected to a lot
of criticism for steaming into Sydney Harbor
with the Australian flag flying from his fore-
mast-head ; yet, apart from keeping his ship
away from Australia altogether, it is hard to
say what else he could have done. Had
he departed from the wo'rld-wide merchant-
ship custom and sailed in with a bald-
headed foremast, the omission to fly the flag
of the country visited would have been re-
garded as a studied insult. On the other
hand, had he hoisted the British ensign or
the Union Jack, thereby implying that Aus-
tralia is not yet a nation, and has no right
to a flag of her own. the insult would have
been even deadlier. The probable fact is that
the crowd who have been kicking up a fuss
over the flag incident have got mixed as to
the issue: the real insult, as they look at it,
is not the Hanau’s Australian flag, but the
Hanau.
* * * *
“Sierra’s” little sermon :—•
The assertion made by several Bulletin contributors
that the sex impulse is at the bottom of American
lynehings is not backed up by facts. The “white
woman on her pedestal” business is generally thrust
forward in chequer-board countries by those who deny
the black man the right to place his woman on a
pedestal. Years ago, in, S’Afriea, the sex impulse
idea was used to exculpate white murderers in Rho-
desia and the Free State, and had it not been for
the heroic but unconstitutional denunciation of cor-
rupt juries by the Union Governor, Lord Gladstone,
South Africa might have degenerated into a second
United States. The black man and his woman are
exploited in most piebald countries, and lynched
m America, simply because they lack the power,
financially, politically and numerically, to defend
themselves or to retaliate on their oppressors. As
the only principle thoroughly understood in the
United States is the principle of force, and the
only personal liberties possessed by either white or
black are those they gain or hold by force, it fol-
lows that a rich and powerful negro is as immune
from lynch law as the white millionaire, and the
poor white, without influence, runs the same chance
of being scragged by semi-official gangs of ruffians,
like the liu Klux Klan, as the most friendless colored
person. A few years back, when the I.W.W. was
declared an unlawful association, the white members
were hunted down, mutilated and lynched with the
same zest and as little danger of reprisals as if
they had been negroes. It is American mentality
and not the sex impulse that is responsible for these
brutalities; the nigger is the bottom dog and he
has got to take what is coming to him. Just as
servility breeds arrogance, so does arrogance beget
servility. That is why the American nigger is the
most arrogant of all black men, when his chance
comes, and it is also the reason why the American
white is the most servile of all whites when he is
up against force. Those Australians who return
from America and malign their own country by
saying that the two nations are similar in thought
and ideals, should look upon a photo published in
the New York Herald, on August 20 last, and ask
themselves if such a scene is possible in Australia.
The paper depicts a gToup of military officers ques-
tioning five white strikers who stand in the open
air, bareheaded, and in attitudes of deepest humility.
The photo recalls Millet’s picture, “The Man
with the Hoe.” but, unfortunately, the Yanks haven’t
another Markham to fit it with a poem. If Austra-
lians stick to their White Australia policy and their
own ideals, the time will never come when they
will have to invent excuses for the indiscriminate
slaughter of inferior citizens.
* * * *
“Liss”: The oddest Army order I ever
struck was in France during the winter of
T 7. Mine was a Tommy battery, and the
rum had to be drunk as issued to prevent traf-
This precaution did not satisfy the
"heads,” however, for a supplementary order
appeared, ordering each man to say
"Thank you” after absorbing his tot—
©as it has been found to be the practice of
some men to carry their ration away in
their mouths, subsequently returning it to
a comrade’s mess-tin, thus making it pos-
sible for one man to receive more than one
ration, and perhaps become intoxicated.”
* * » •
“Bloggs”: In a Sydney divorce suit last'
week another blow was given to the super-
stition that education has any particular
bearing on financial success. The petitioner,
who claims to be the richest man in Windsor
(N.S.W), mentioned on oath that he could
neither read nor write. His is, no doubt,
an extreme case; but there are, literally,
thousands of rich men all over Australia
who, if they are able to read and write,
rarely, if ever, do so. They are illiterates
in the true sense of the term, and like the"
gentleman from Windsor, are nearly as proud
of it as they are of their money. During
the hearing of the case from Windsor, there
came under my notice a 29-year-old ex-
Digger. He rose from the ranks to a majo-
rity in one of the technical arms —being,
amongst other things, a brilliant mathema-
tician—and he has an excellent character.
But no one wants to buy the intellectual
wares that he has to sell: he has no money
THE GIVE-AWAY.
“You’ve been carrying on with young Binks.”
“I haven’t! I suppose you were able to tell
by my hair.”
and has been out of a job for nearly a year.
This man would have made an ideal ganger
—a position he would leap at to-day if he
had the necessary training and experience—
and he might even have become a prosper-
ous produce-merchant (which is what the
plutocratic Windsor petitioner is) if his
parents had brought him up to that humble
yet profitable game.
MELBOURNE IN SPRING,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beneath a yellow counterpane
Of dandelions stirs the Spring;
Bids, drowsily, her blackbirds sing,
And sleeps again!
And when the year shakes her that sleeps,
Crying: “’Tis time, ’tis time to rise!”
Spring with a murmured pledge replies,
Or, petulant, weeps.
Or, stretching out a sleepy arm,
Hangs on the elm a tuft of leaves ;
And on the plane-trees’ wide green sleeves,
A tasselled charm.
Or drops a pink star on the grass,
A verdant ruffle on the willow ;
Then, drooping back upon the pillow,
Lets the hours pass.
O tardy Spring, what spell benumbs
Your senses, that you cannot break?
Alas, alas, will she not wake
Till summer comes?
VICTORIA.
NINA MURDOCH.


1
fy*z
31
-
I
I
m
t
s'?. t
% m
*m
£
fell
$.«»•... ?■ *T*y
anSii-.v-- vgUf.3fSM£;>H/ (
fewiii
r-twLßMfci&i
--
mmm
m’ftji
m
£C>>s*g£*H§£j
McArthur
Captain
NETIPIHT6FLUIO OZS
§§
"C2z 3 Pioneers '
HARJDY’S WINES OF TIN TARA


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-139 PITT SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-66 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
"King Geqroe IV
IUIIV WHISKY
Th e TOP NOTCH ’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
Smart?
Serviceable!
W«? should
sat) so!
Why don't
you wear a
le
is
SHIRT?
MAKERS
ALEXANDER STEWART
AND SONS LTD
jve a
&
27 Matw
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
“Cousin Jack”: Re “The Rumpus’s”
query (B. 21/9/’22) about a kangaroo carrying a
16-stone man. As a kid, in the 'nineties, I heard the
old hands about Mt. Eliza (Vic.) tell of one of the
AN EYESIGHT TEST.
HORACE : "Er-if I call on your mother this afternoon,
d' you — er—think she will be able to — er—see me?”’
early settlers being grabbed by a huge “old man”
who strove to disembowel him with one back leg.
Somehow the settler kept clear of the tearing claw,
and at last the ’roo, fed up with his failure, hopped
off with him to a nearby creek, and there, at a
depth of about three feet, pushed the man under the
water and proceeded to drown him by pinning him
to the bottom with one leg. Fortunately, the frantic
barking of the settler's dog (who wasn’t game to
close in on the ’roo) attracted the attention of a
couple of passing sundowners, and the hopper, seeing
himself outnumbered, left for a quieter district,
whereupon the knights of Matilda fished out the
half-drowned man and carried him home.
“F.A.”: I want to hear of something
better than this in hardwood. It was a grey iron-
bark, girth (4ft. from ground) 28ft. 6in., height
to first branch 109 ft. It yielded 14 girders 18 x 10,
30ft. long (free of heart) ; 12 more 14 x 8,20 ft.
long; one 16 x 16, 30ft. long; and about a dozen
smaller ones. The sapling was felled by young Joe
Lalor, a returned soldier, on Molly Milligan Moun-
tain, Macleay River (N.S.W,), and, though it took
him 25 days to transform the tree into marketable
stuff, he got £135 for his sweat.
* * * *
“Jobber”: The shed poisoner wanted an
offsider, so the boss picked out a Pommy from County
Cork, and asked him if he could kill ,a sheep. “Can
1 kill a sheep ?” said his nibs. “Well, 1 dunno ; but
I’ll guarantee to knock him about so as ’e can’t
live.”
“Valatnac”: “Saaedi’s” stockhorses (B.
28/9/’22) can’t be up to much when they are unable
to wheel a fox off a wire-fence in a fouir-furlong
sprint. Twice, with the assistance of my old stock-
mare and stockwhip only, I have run foxes to ex-
haustion in a 640-acre block —and they were both
hefty dog-foxes at that. When one has no dog to
intimidate Reynard, he disdains the refuge of a
hollow log, preferring to run till knocked up. The
end generally comes when, blinded and dazed by
innumerable whip-cuts, he lies down and refuses to
budge. But chasing foxes without a dog knock-
tiie deuce out of your horse. With a good foxhound
you have only two jobs: the first is to take a turn
out of the fox, and the second is to scalp him. A
fast greyhound can make' a fox appear to crawl. We
have always found a cross between a cattle- and
kangaroo-dog to have the right combination of speed
and killing power. During the last month many
litters of young foxes have been found about here
(Q.), and as they average five or six to the litter,
and the Dingo Board pays a quid a scalp, they are
worth looking for.
“E.J.D.”: Re “Old Timer” (B. 21/9/22)
on cattle-killing dingoes. I’ve seen a warrigal throw
a beast, older than 18 months, by the nose, and do
it with wonderful ease. But, mostly, dingoes ham-
string their victims. Cattle are generally “sulky”
when thrown—you could cut some of them to
pieces, and they would not attempt to rise. I have
seen a bullock down, and all the torture the small
brains of four so-called bull'ock-drivers could devise,
with whips, saplings, matches, etc., fail to make him
rise.
* * * *
“Delta”: Re “F.H.R.” on hefty ziffs (B.
14/9/’22). In 1917 I met an old chap, Pat O’Mara,
blaeksmithing on Brunette Downs (N.T.), whose
beard taped over 7ft. To keep it out of his way
he used to plait and wind it round and round his
body. When flowing, it dragged a couple of feet
on the ground.
• * • .
“Two Seas”: Back in the ’eighties wild-
pig hunting was a favorite sport on
the Liverpol Plains (N.S.W.). The
popular weapon was an old shear-
blade ground fine on both edges and
lashed securely to a light pole. The
untamed pork was generally sighted
around the waterholes about sunrise,
and then there would be a wild charge
across the plain towards the nearest
timber belt. Some of the long-snouted
young boars would put up a fast
half-mile before getting a stab behind
the shoulder. The old tuskers weren’t
so fleet, but they would fight like
40 devils when they turned at bay.
I remember one jackeroo whb got a.
terrible buster through his saddle
slipping round just as he made his
lunge at one. He fell nearly on top
of the old warrior, and in the mix-up
received a nasty slash on his thigh
before we arrived to his rescue. Those
who have seen only fat pigs in their
pens can have no idea of the sprinting
abilities of the outlaws.
* *
“Old Timer”: There passed
through Dorrigo (N.S.W.) the other
day what I should say is the record
conveyance. The man pushing it called
it a wheelbarrow’ He had come from
Maeksville and was going to Armi-
dale, a distance in all of 140 miles.
The wheel was the seat of an Austrian
chair with boards nailed where the
cane used to be and hoop-iron round
it for a tyre. The axle was a chair-
leg, as was each leg of the barrow.
Light battens formed the handles
and held the wheel, and four kerosene-
tirs opened out and fastened with
wire formed the body. The chauffeur
said it was light and easy to wheel,
and carried over a hundredweight.
Bouragi : “Colub,” in his reference to
New Guinea snakes (B. 5/10/’22), forgets to mention
the death-adder. And he errs "when he says the
average nigger fears snakes beoause they are the
peißonification of evil spirits. Depends on vour nig-
gei. In my days the police boys from Western
Papua feared snakes, alive or dead, abpve all things.
The Northern division boys, on tha other hand,
thought nothing of grabbing', killing and eating a
snake. Certainly the amazing BargoiHa, or snake-
ivorship-cww-Christianity cult, had not ibeen evolved
in the North in those days, and may have
altered the nig’s outlook.
“Oka”: “Tren” (B. 21/9/22) wonders
how the mutton-bird, if it alights on the water
during its fishing excursions, gets going again. It
spreads its wings, and, using its web feet as a pair
of high-powered paddles, very soon has sufficient
speed to rise clear of the water. This is the case
PROOF CONCLUSIVE.
OPTIMIST: “ What a grand thing life is!”
PESSIMIST: "Gam! Did yer ever ’ear of anyone coinin’ back
for a second helpin’ of it?”
with the majority of sea-birds, and is most notice-
able in calm weather, especially with large birds
like the albatross. The reason the mutton-bird can-
not rise from level land or when facing up-hill is
because its propelling power is well towards the
stern, and if it tries to run it goes down by the
head. Incidentally, most sea-birds cannot rise from
a ship’s deck. 1 have seen several large albatross
caught at sea and landed on deck, and they don't
need a collar and chain or leg-roping to keep them
aboard. Also, besides being unable to walk properly,
they immediately become sea-sick or its equivalent,
which event throws grave suspicion on the tradition
that every bad old sea captain turns into an alba-
tross when he dies.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Minus’s drawing of the abo.
shearer who left on as much as he took off (B.
d<4/9/’22) reminds me of two “barbers,” pen mates,
one of whom was roared at for the many roughies
lie put down the shute. “Look at this chap’s sheep,”
said the boss; “that's the way to do them.” Quoth
Bill, as he started on the long blow: “Yairs, I see
’em—but he's shearing for a reference, an’ I’m after
a cheque,”
“M.F.”: “Stellsby” asks if anyone has
seen God’s Acre for the birds (B. 21/9/’22). It
covers the whole of ’Australia, and has about the
greatest variety of undertakers on earth —among' them
■some of our precious imports, the fox, the stoat and
the ferret. The domestic puss, the native cat, the
iguana and the owl all take a hand in the disposal
of the remains. But even without these “Stellsby”
would hardly be likely to see corpses in the bush,
as a bird sick unto death will hide away for its
passing.
* * * *
“Sucre”: “Ned Kelly” (B. 28/9/’22) asks
if anyone ha 3 seen a Chow swaggie. I have come
across half-a-dozen. In the Ayr (N.Q.) district, I
gave one a lift in my sulky to Brandon. He car-
ried the regulation Matilda and billycan, wore a
cabbage-tree hat with a green fly-screen, and had a
pair of hobnails slung around his neck. His feet
were encased in hessian. He had padded the hoof
from Bowen —70-odd miles.
Billy T,’ : “Talking of big gooseberries
and giant cucumbers and things,” said the man by
the fire, “I was once camped outside Emerald, which
is on the mad little mountain railway to Gembrook.
The night was fine, and I rolled myself in a Wagga
rug, and made my bunk under a tree. I didn’t
wake till daylight, and then I was dreaming of fall-
ing off sections of the Blue Mountains. I found I’d
tumbled out of bed and broken my left arm above
the elbow. I had to go into hospital for a few days,
and I was out of graft for over a month.” The man
by the fire rubbed his tobacco and said no more till
Tiddy questioned him. * “But I thought you went to
bed on the ground. How came you to fall out of
the bed you weren’t in?” “You’ve never seen the
mushrooms round Emerald ?” said the man by the
fire. “They can lift a bullock; and this one was
tha biggest I have ever set eyes on.”.
**" * *
“Two Seas”: Out back in Bananaland,
w here cattle seldom see
a man on foot, their
curiosity, when aroused
by a perambulating
forked radish, is often
embarrassing. I once
set off from a camp to
get a billy of milk
from a boundary-rider's
hut, and, when return-
ing, a mob of cattle
caught sight of me, and,
closing up their ranks,
bore down upon me
with tre m end ous
bellowings. I ran for
tnc fence ; but hearing
them close behind me
I stopped and roared:
“Whoa back there, you
blankety blank blanks
—whoa back!” They
checked and formed up
in a crescent, with
tossing horns and paw-
ing hoofs, until 1
turned and made a
fresh break for the
fence. Again they
came on, and again 1
stopped to address
them in bullocky lan-
guage, before making
a fresh dash. But the
fence seemed far away,
and, fearing that they
would run over me
before I reached it, 1
dropped the billy and
shinned up the first
sapling I came to.
Their curiosity was at
once diverted to the
billy, which they tossed
about until a big Here-
ford got his horn
through the handle and
made off with it,
bellowing with fear.
His mates charged
after him, and I slid
down and sprinted for
the fence. I was look-
ing for sympathy when
1 reached the camp,
but all I got was:
“lou were a bHanky mug to spill the milk and
lose the billy!”
* * * #
“McJ.”: Recently a woman walked and
carried her swag from Laura to Coen (N.Q.),
about 175 miles. She had no companion, and in-
tended doing another 110 miles to Wei pa Mission
Station, but a Coen resident persuaded her to
accept the loan of a couple of horses for the journey.
* * * »
“Toy Wheel”: Queer accidents? Albert
Pymon, an abo. on Wooroowoolgen station, Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.), was walking through the
yard leading a quiet old horse, with the bridle-
rein over his arm. In his right hand he had an
outsize pocket-knife (as used for “bangtailing”),
keen as the average barber’s razor, with which he
leisurely trimmed u switch. A puff of wind blew
AGRICULTURAL GOLF.
HIM : “ That's the sixth time ft tick smasher
has revoked!”
HER: " Don't he mad! This isn’t bridge!”
HIM : “Well, he just played a spade instead
of a club, didn’t he?”
the man’s hat off, whereat the old crock woke up
with a snort, and, flinging hack his head, drew the
knife across Pvmon's ear with a slash that almost
lopped that useful member off. Albert’s comment
was, “By cripes ! Just missed ’im juggling vein!”
(Continued on page 22.)
MOUNTAIN TRAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A score of leagues from Sydney town
The heavy trains go up and down.
With plume of smoke and whistle loud
Under the green their heads are bowed;
Round courteous curves where valleys meet
To kiss the mountain’s solemn feet
They climb all day to catch the hour
With easy wheels that sing of power.
I know their voices from afar,
The droning rush, the clanking jar,
The beating piston’s panting sob,
The quivering air, the even throb
Of the great mail-trains running west
That shout and pass, but cannot rest ;
And clamorous homage, as to kings.
Is in the cry that echo flings.
But througli the misty morning wide
One train laughs up the mountain side—
A little, jigging mass of wheels
That clatters out the joy it feels
And loiters on its upward way
Calling the laggard sun to play.
Its movements are not dignified;
Its mirth is more than all its pride,
While, bustling up the curving road,
It bears its noisy schoolboy load.
I think when all the trains display
Their scarlet sins on Judgment Day
At the great junction up the line
Where haloed locomotives shine.
The “jigger,” as a Christian soul,
Shall have its full reward of coal.
A thousand pantings up the hill
Have left its slide-valves laughing still,
As. loaded to the springs with noise,
It joggles schoolward with its boys.
N.S.W.
U. M. W.


CJACKSON
TONEWALL SHOES
9 A The Dependable Boots,
liva wVi guaranteed to outlast
others because they are made from
selected Box Hide, Wax Stitched, and
reinforced with a Military back. Have
Three-decker Soles, clumped with
genuine “STONEHIDE” Leather, made
in Broad and Medium Last. The
“STONEHIDE” Sole, with which they
are clumped, is of picked heavy leather
tanned through and through, with a
resistance the quality of which is not
excelled by any known process. Plain
Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6. N.S.W.
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 2/-
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy: 10 to 13,
15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 3, 21/6. Postage
1/- extra.
State Your Size and Wire or Write for a
Pair by V.P. Post to
JACKSON’S LTD., SYDNEY.
Ask for our New Free Catalogue.
©fackbonb
413-5 PITT ST,; 99 LIVERPOOL ST.
(OPP PEOPLE'S ’ PALACE ) !°PP CENTRAL J
380-2 PITT ST , 198-200 GEORGE ST.
KSSfi AMTHONV HORDERNS') (NEAR NOCK & KIRBVSJ.
SYDNEY.
I , -
: m I
m
mP
w
■^Bthe'STONEHIDE’
CLUMP SOLE
The Stonewall Clump Sole Boot
ROAD-MAKING MACHINERY.
All Australian Made.
rw
Ell
I
”1
10©
The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR and TROMMEL
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION.-
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE “C.”
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE
'
, f Central - - 5993
\ Hawthorn 1675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS:
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


NDASIA
SHAVING CREAM
THE LAST WORD
IN SHAVING LUXURY
FOR MEN
AN ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
LEVER
tsc
r*
ABBOTS
\LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
w.
7
m
%-m
IS
i
A confab concerning dysentery : —■
“Bung”: 1 hasten to warn Abos. against wattle-
gum as a cure for dysentery (B. 21/97’22). The
gum will stop the complaint readily enough but is
dangerously apt to lead to the other extreme. The
safe and speedy bush cure is not the gum, but an
infusion brewed from the wattle-bark in boiling
water. This decoction is less pleasant than beer to
the taste, but it will knock out the worst attack of
dysentery in about three rounds, and it leaves no
ill after-effects.
“Cousin Jack”: Binghi had a better cure than
wattle-gum in the exudation of the peppermint gum-
tree. Crushed to a powder and swallowed with, say,
a little jam or treacle or condensed milk, ilt will
work wonders. This was told to my grandmother
in the early ’fifties by an old lubra. My elder
brother was given up by a quack in a case of dysen-
tery, and the M.D. dropped in a couple of days later
to sign the death-certificate, only to find the expected
corpse up and about. Some gum had been procured
in the meanwhile and had done the trick.
“Sinbad”: Up this way (North Coast, N.S.W.)
abos. suffering from dysentery will chew wattle-gum
only when they can’t find any young under-shoots
of Paddy’s lucerne to browse on. I personally can
vouch for the efficacy of the latter remedy.
“Yindarlgooda”: Our blacks (W.A.) have a splen-
did cure in a few leaves of camel-bush: they chew
them and swallow • the juice. I boil the leaves
as in making tea, and on only one occasion did the
cure fail to act.
“Jim Carew”: I’ve chewed wattle-gum since I was
a kid, but I’ve never heard of “Centre’s” particulai
brand that acted as an emetic (B. 5/10/’22). It
seems to me he must have got hold of a bit of gum
that some animal had been nibbling, or it came from
a diseased tree.
THE GOLD FEVER.
“Yes, Jachy, there's gold in it right enough;
but I wouldn't give you much for it.
There's only about a pennyweight .”
“Look 'ere, boss, by cripes I bin tinkit plurry
tchillin'-weight longa that!"
“FV7”: Don’t let “Yammon” (B.
21/9/’22) run away with the idea that the modem
deerhounds are used as “ladies’ pets only.” I have
told him exactly when and where I have seen them
kill dingoes. The hounds are still used in deer-
stalking in Scotland to pull down wounded red
deer. They are tremendously powerful dogs, with
jaws like an alligator’s, as anyone who has ever
had close acquaintance with them will admit at
once. “Y.’s” experience must have been with half-
breds, or show-bench dogs—always useless, whatever
the breed.
“Osesar”: We’ve heard of the fortunes
won at ’possuming; now I’ll tell of a fortune lost.
A snapper on the Manumbar country (Q.) trapped
40 dozen during the close season, then, fearing that
the skins would be found in his possession when he
heard that the ’possums were to remain protected,
he placed the lot in a pile and burned them. When
the season did open he nearly went stone mad. Skins
brought from £4 10s. to £lO a dozen.
*•**•*
“J. Jack Tar”: Re “Moralist’s” pig (B.
5/10/’22), that could fit into a bucket both before
and after he had drunk a bucketful of milk. I’m no
mathematician, but can tell “H.” that if piggy’s vor
AN UNJUST ASPERSION.
ORATOR: “I say, friends, that it is the working classes that have made Australia what
she is to-day."
AGGRIEVED VOICE : “ That's right. Put orl the blyme on the poor."
my) innards were out he would see something resem-
bling 10 yards or thereabouts of hollow hose-piping;
So a mere bucket of liquid could easily be distributed
over such a distance, and cause little, if any, disten-
tion. When ashore I know well—/-u(i well—that, after
umpteen pints on end, I find no noticeable over-
loading of cargo, fore or aft, nor is there any call
to cuss the seeming tom-fool cut of a sailor’s rig-
ging.
* * » *
“M. Magee”: Tell Morob” (B. 21/9/’22)
that I saw “pituri” growing in a doctor’s garden
in Boulia (Q.) 80 years ago, and it was also fairly
easy to find on several cattle stations in the district.
At that time Binghi was very partial to it, and many
of the degraded whites, during their wanderings, car-
ried a supply, as they regarded it as an open sesame
to the favors of the gins. Opium eventually super-
seded “pituri” and home-made grog, and was more
highly esteemed by the blacks.
* * # *
“H.V.E.”: “Ida Dawson’s” Argentine
snipe (B. 24/8/’22) is no doubt the South American
painted-snipe, and corresponds with our bird of the
same name. It is pretty certain that, like ours, it
breeds in its own country and doesn’t seek the Far
North for breeding purposes, like the so-called Aus-
tralian or “jack”-snipe ( Gallinago australis), which
uses Australia merely as its summer restaurant.
According to the late Prof. Alfred Newton, there
are three varieties of painted-snipe, viz., the South
American bird, ours, and one which homes in parts
of Africa and Southern Asia. (By the way, he allots
S. America only one.) All three are of the genus
liostratula, and very similar in habit and upholstery.
The Australian painted-snipe was always a rare bird
—even in Gould’s time. But comparatively recently I’’.
0. Morse, a keen naturalist, found nests with eggs in
a swamp formed by the overflow of an artesian bore
near Cobborah (N.S.W.). On the Monaro (N.S.W.)
these will-o’-the-wisp birds tui;n up at times in odd
couples, mostly about the river banks, coming from
no man knows where. They never (as the jack-snipe
sometimes does) come to that quarter in numbers*
A nature-loving lady-writer, resident in Westralian
wilds, tells of a “wisp of seven pictured- or painted-
snipe” suddenly appearing one winter in marshes
near her home. Seeing that the Australian painted-
snipe frequents remote parts of the country, as a
rule, and has no more natural enemies than the
jack-snipe, it is remarkable that it should be so
scarce.
* * * *
“Bogan Bill” : On Wallaga Lake (N.S.W.)
recently I saw a Binghi lolling in the stern of a
heavy pulling boat, while two gins strained at the
oars. “Where are you off to, Jaeky?” I yelled out.
“Just takin’ these plurry women for a pull, boss,”
he replied.
* » * #
“Booyong”: “Joe Collins’s” novel scheme
(B. 21/9/’22) for stopping horses from jumping,
by punching a hole in each ear and tying
with a string beneath the throat, isn’t novel. It
was practised to my knowledge in Bananaland 30
years ago, to prevent old brood mares galloping their
young foals off their feet. Another and even more
cruel practice was to insert the finer blade of a
knife beneath the skin below the knee, and sever some
of the tendons, which gave the animal a stiff leg.
“C. Coral”: Whatever the case of the
mainland abo., the Torres Strait native believes in
keeping up the birth-rate. On one of the islands,
recently, the assistant-registrar had a visit from
an old fellow of I about 60 to record the birth of a
daughter, making his tally over a dozen, One
of his daughters, a matron boasting five offspring,
had come along the previous week to add a girl
to her list; and a granddaughter, married last year,
now gets her name down as a mother. And they
don’t get any maternity bonus either! The stock,
by the way, is a mixture of Loyalty Island, Solo-
mons, Malay and Torres Strait native.
* * # «
“Eddyson” ; Turner, a displaced miner, was
plodding from Cassilis to Sale, and had gone off the
track for a spell, with the result that night fell
without his having reached cover, but he struck
another man camping in the bracken, and joined
him in the hope of getting something solid to eat.
The camper had nothing but a small animal, which
he had dressed and was grilling on a twist of wire.
Very nobly the camper bestowed half his meat upon
Turner. The man seemed to grow quite sentimental
over his own meal. Tears actually rolled down
his face. Questioned, he explained in bitter self-
accusation: “I orenter killed that kitten.” “What
kitten” Turner demanded. “Why, jjhe kitten we're
eatin’. He trusted me. He trustee: me! He come
up an ate a bit of bread out of me ’and, and I
knocked him on the head. I feel a.s if every mouthful
would choke me.” “Do you mean to say this is
kitten?” gasped Turner. “Yes, o’ course,- and he
trusted me.” “So did I,” snorted Turner, throwing
his helping down and spitting disgustedly. “What
dyeh mean by givin’ a Christian man kitten?” He
fetched the tear-stained bushie a swipe that tumbled
him over by the fire. “I can starve,” he said, “but,
curse me, if I can eat cat.” Then Turner resumed
his march in the darkness, leaving the sentimentalist
still shedding tears over the kitten whose confi-
dence he had betrayed. The scene shifts to
Ararat, three years later. Turner had broken a
journey to take refreshment when a man drinking in
the same bar spoke. “You mistook about that kit-
ten, mate,” he said, as if the incident had taken
place that morning. “You orter know how every
busbman calls young rabbits ‘kittens.’ ” Turner
apologised.
* * # *
“Trans”: The chameleon is not indigenous
to Australia, but tell “liilang” (B. 5/10/’22) that
the color-changing lizard caught by children at
Darwin (N.T.) is a “mountain devil,” common enough
in Central and Western Australia. It gets its name
because a pair of horns on its head is suggestive
of “his Nibs.” It runs from four to six inches
in length, inhabits very warm and sandy places,
lives mostly on small ants, and changes its color to
harmonise with its immediate surroundings. Though
rather fearsome to look at, the little chap is quite
harmless and of a sleepy disposition.
* * * *
“Wobb”: “W.J.” is correct in his view
(B. 21/9/’22) that the solitary snipe he sess early
in August is a scout. Scouts —old birds who have
done the trip from Siberia to Aussie—are sent ahead
to pick nesting-grounds, and calls from them bring
the birds to earth on their southern flight. If
“W.J.” wants to test it, let him shoot the lonely
one, and he’ll find he has no visits from flocks that
season.
“Thargo”: Re “Old Timer’s” query (B.
21/9/’22) as to how dingoes kill 18-inonths’-old
cattle. Two or three dingoes single out a .young
beast and chase it and heel it until it drops from
sheer exhaustion. In its efforts to ward off rhe
attacks of the dingoes it assumes the sitting position
described by “Old Timer.” The rest is easy; the
dingoes rush in and take their fill from the withers.
* * * •
“Ned Kelly”: Near Sackville Reach,
Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.), recently, 1 came across
a small red gum-tree fairly raining manna. There
were about 20 pounds of the stuff sticking to its
trunk or lying on the ground beneath it. An old
orchardist told me that it was a sure sign that the
tree would shortly die. As it seemed to be in
perfect health I am rather doubtful. Can any Abo.
verify ?
* * * •
“Boomerang”: Has any Abo. gone to the
trouble of measuring 'kangaroo jumps, miscalled
“hops” ? When the animals are going leisurely to
feed and water, they average from 3ft. to 6ft. But
the manager of a. station told me he saw an old man
leap over an S-Jft. stack, and, upon measuring from
where he sprang to where he landed, it taped 37ft.!
I didn’t query it —he was bigger than I.
* * * «
“Te Whare” : Snakes include a good many
other things in their diet besides the allotted frogs,
mice, lizards, birds and small marsupials, and, inci-
dentally, their brother snake. Various insects
also figure in the menu. I’ve caught a black devil
hunting for moths and crickets (the black variety,
not yellow sand crickets) in long, damp grass. But
they have a sweet tooth, also. A stock-inspector
tells me he found a black snake stiff and stark from
eating a confection of raspberry jam peppered with
strychnine that had been spread for brer rabbit. An
early Westralian colonist also records a black snake
being found up a fig-tree, devouring the ripe fruit.
Snakes, of course, need some drink, and though they
usually satisfy their thirst with water, milk is a
favorite swill with them.
• • • •
“Joe Collins”: Why is it that the bodies
of birds poisoned with strychnined grain are harm-
less to anything that may eat them, whereas the
body of a crow, poisoned with flesh treated with the
same poison, is as deadly as the original baits ? I have
seen dogs, cats and hawks eat poisoned galahs and
parrots without any after effects, but, on the other
hand, it is a common sight to see a hawk dead
alongside the corpse of the crow he has dined off. My
prize sheep-pup threw a seven after chewing the
wing of a crow that must have been 12 months dead.
The solution must lie in the fact that grain is used
in one case and flesh in the other; hut I leave
details to the Abo. chemists.
* # * *
“Te Whare”: It is remarkable that,
according to one Kiichenmeister, quoted by Quatre-
fages, the worm (Cosnurus cerebralis) which pro-
duces “staggers” in sheep, is capable, when
fed to a dog, of infecting the animal with taenise,
or tape-worms, the embryo of which is, of course,
the hydatid, or liver fluke, common in many parts
of Australia; though we haven’t, I think, the stag-
gers-worm. Conversely, it was found (by Kiichen-
meister) that sheep fed with segments of tapeworm
were attacked with staggers, and on opening the
skulls he found ccenuri (stagger-worms) in various
stages of development. The first hosts of the liver-
fluke are generally reckoned to be the snails, and
where country is “fluky” there is generally long,
coarse grass or other cover in which snails harbor.
EVERYBODY SATISFIED.
“My ole man says that the best turn you
ever done him was when you got all the
pubs shifted out of the district."
“Ah, I am more than pleased, my good
woman"
“Yes; we've made a small fortune outer sly-
grog in the lars six munce.”
‘‘Boomerang”: Walking home from work
at sundown the other evening, I stopped to light a
cigarette near a shrub. Instantly six small smoke
balls were fired at me from the 'bush. I put my
head in and saw what I thought to be a ground-
beetle, which promptly let go another round at me.
No; I was seeing all right—so what the deuce was
it?
DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You come to me in dreamings fine.
Though once you came but to deceive,
Dear little girl, you still are mine
In my fair land of make-believe.
We walk beside the silver creek
(Oh, river lost in shadows grey!);
The girlish bloom is on your cheek
(You’re forty years of age to-day!).
You are a matron now, and stout,
A tribe of children at your knee —
Ah, yes, but when the stars are out
A shy sweet maiden comes to me!
You have a lot of common things—
A common man in beaver pants,
A red-faced babe that shrieks and clings--
Oh, starlit nights of old romance!
Great ranges hem you as a wall,
The long, rough roads run far to town
(Oh, grey-green moss and water-fall!
Oh, mountain of the purple crown!)..
Here I am waiting for the end —
And, ah, how long the waiting seems!
Some day the track shall backward bend
To where we left our youth and dreams.
Past the dead years we’ll steal away
To where our spring-time promised fair- -
We’ll find one August night and stay
Forever in the starlight there.
N.S.W.
ARCADY.


BATTERIES
For Every Man
Who Owns a Car
Whatever make of battery you have, we believe
we can prolong its life if you give us the chance.
Come here at regular intervals and we will keep
tabs on the condition of your battery. Our policy
is to make every battery last as long as possible.
We are manned and equipped to do this.
When —and not until—you really need a new
battery, we will be glad to sell you a new Exide,
the battery of long-lasting power.
MiM:
r>
ft
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND ... .d Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA. Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA . Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


These are all Famous John Deere Machines
AE 430. —John Deere 14-Tooth Cul-
tivator, equipped with reversible
teeth. Reversing the teeth makes it
an excellent smoothing Harrow.
Double-pointed cultivator teeth and
lever gauge wheel can be furnished as
extras. Price £4/10/-
Sd
AE 438.—The John Deere No. 226
One-Horse Corn Drill, noted for sim-
plicity of construction, durability, ease
of handling and accuracy—the four
features that make an • entirely satis-
factory planter. It is used extensively
in planting small plots of ground.
The Drill is simple to a degree never
before attained in a machine of its kind.
It has the accurate John Deere Natural
Cell Fill Edge Delivery Seed Plate, as
used on the popular John Deei-e Two-
Row Corn Planters. The dropping
mechanism is such that it is practically
impossible to get out of order.
The seed plate, in place of the usual
round holes, has a number of cells in its
outer edge, each of which is designed to
receive a kernel of corn.
£l4. Fertilizer, £3/10/- extra.
Bradley’s One-Horse Corn Drill, No.
2, without Fertilizer £9
Lassetter's
(who are sole agents for this celebrated firm)
recommend John Deere s Farming Implements unreservedly
as reliable appliances, your satisfaction with which will increase
with every occasion on which you use them.
WRITE TO LASSETTER’S
about these splendid machines—or anything agricultural
that’s in your mind at the moment.
as,
AE 442.—John Deere One-Horse Steel Cultivator, widely used in all
sections for many years. They are especially popular among market
gardeners. On practically every farm, for work in the garden, the
potato patch, etc., these light, strong, handy Cultivators are good,
profitable investments. Price £5
AE 428.—John Deere No. 999 Two-Row Corn Planter. Accuracy of
drop is the keynote in John Deere Planter design. The new natural
cell fill edge delivery seed plate is most accurate. The No. 999 plants
2, 3 or 4 kernels per hill, at will of operator, without changing plates.
Drilling distances varied in the same manner: nine drilling distances
with each set of plates. Handles greatest variety of corn and other
seeds most satisfactorily. Price £47/10/-
AE 483-—John Deere Lucerne Cultivator (not illustrated). It breaks
up the top layer of soil, which has a penchant for becoming packed and
hardened. Has lighter draught, and cultivates more thoroughly in
lucerne than any other machine made. Tooth bars are hung inde-
pendently in frame, and are controlled individually bv spring pressure.
Price £47/10/-
Lassetter’s,
George
Street,
Sydney
AE 436.—John Deere One-Horse
Rake, covers 8 feet £2l/10/-
AE 439.—.J0hn Deere New Bantam
Plough. A one-horse Plough, designed
for use in mixed lands, where solid
steel mouldboards, shares and landsides
will scour as well as those made of the
more expensive soft-centre steel.
Crucible Steel Mouldboard, Share
and Landside.
Chilled Slip Heel on landside.
Forged Steel Frog, one piece, very
strong.
High Curved Beam of special steel—
a strong beam, with lots of clearance.
Malleable Iron Clevis, with ample
adjustments.
Steel Handle Clips; will not break
like castings.
Best quality iron handles, strongly
braced.
Sizes and Weights.
Size Tin., weight 641 b., Share No. 302.
Price £5/15/-
Size Din., weight S4lb., Share No. 303.
Price £B/15/-
Coulter and Wheels extra, as for “Red
Jacket” Plough.
Land Wheel 12/6
Knife'Coulter 10/6
Disc 40/-
<?
r s
r\
Roll back the Rugs
and have a Dance.
The BEHNING
PLAYER PIANO
will supply the Choicest Music.
Perfect in Time and Rhythm, you cannot fail to
thoroughly enjoy a Fox Trot, Onestep or Waltz.
The Behning is a joy to those who indulge in
Dancing. You can accompany a song or play the
classics with perfect ease, and the interpretation will
be as artistic as if played by a pianist.
Call in and hear the Behning; it will please you
CATALOGUES FREE.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
’S
in
a
e St.
338 Georg<
SYDNEY;-
Rockhampton
Lismore
Newcastle


m
PURE FUR FELT HAT
21|-
A smart, comfortable hat that will keep its
shape and wear well. In shades of grey, steel,
slate and beaver, with 2 fin. cut edge brim
and 2in. black band with side bow. Sizes,
to 7f. Excellent value at 21/-
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
David cJones
for Service
SYDNEY
Td.
(City —6336
({Aut0.)8697l
nicks upon my sword and hilt, and so rode
to the trenches before. Juliers; where our
soldiers were.”
Herbert revelled in fighting, and, no matter
what odds appeared against him, nothing
could hold him back. He often tackled six
or seven at a time, and nearly always came
out victorious.
“I had l’eceived now about eight or nine
hundred pounds towards the chai’ges of my
journey, and locked it in certain cof-
fers in my house, when, the night
following. about one of the o’clock,
I could hear divers men speak and
knock at the dooi’, in that part of the house
where none did lie but myself, my wife and
her attendants, my servants being lodged in
another house not far off. As soon as I
heard the noise, I suspected pi’esently they
came to rob me of my money; howsoever, I
thought fit to rise and go to the window to
know who they were. The first word I
heai’d was: ‘Darest thou come down, Welsh-
man?’ which I no sooner heard, but, taking
a sword in one hand and a little target in
the other, I did in my shirt run down the
stairs, open the doors suddenly, and charged
10 or 12 of them with that fury that they
ran away, some throwing away their hal-
berds, others hurting their fellows, to make
them go faster in a narrow way they were
to pass; in which disordered manner i drove
them to the middle of the street by the
Exchange, where, finding my bare feet hurt
by the stones I trod on, I thought fit to
return home and leave them to their flight.”
Even in moments of sickness, when all
other medicine failed him, he would sigh for
the rhythmical rustle of steel upon steel;
and so it once happened that, crawling along
in a fit of the quartan ague, he espied a Mr.
Emerson, who stood outside Whitehall Gate
airing a newly-anointed beard, to. the gi’eat
admiration of three little boys on the other
side of the road. Now, Herbert had for a
long time owed Emerson a grudge for certain
"very disgraceful words” spoken by him
touching the honor of his dear friend Sir
Robert Harley. This public exhibition of
Emerson’s beard was the last straw —or
bundle of straws —necessary to complete the
fire of Cherbury’s wrath; accordingly, he
took the offending whiskers in his left hand,
while he flourished his sword in the other.
“All that beheld me wondered how I could
stand, beinsr so weak an.d consumed as I
was, yet much more that I should offer to
fight.”
But Emei’son, instead of chopping back at
Herbert, bolted to Suffolk House, and, laying
the remaining half of his beard before the
Lords in Council, lodged a complaint.
“The Lords in Council, sending for me,
begged I would not adventure to fight, being
in such a bad condition of health.”
It happened, during one of his visits to
Paris, that Herbert’s cousin Oliver, George
Radney “being gentleman who attended me,”
and Harry Whittingham, butlei’, became in-
volved in a tavern quarrel “with some de-
bauched French.” The cousin chancing to
pink the Prince of. Cond6’s favorite fencer,
the people arose in great multitudes, and
chivvied Oliver and Geoi’ge and the butler
into Herbert’s front garden; whereupon Her-
bert bounced out of a window, and, roaring
at the top of his voice, began to wave his
terrible sword with the 18 nicks in it, which
the pursuers no sooner caught sight of than
they turned tail and “fled again as fast as
over they entei-ed.”
On another occasion, Hei’bert having been
told that Sir John Ayi’es, with four of his
men, was lying concealed near Scotland
Yard, on purpose to kill him, he immediately
took horse to that place. “Sir John Ayres,
being armed with a sword and a dagger, ran
at me furiously, but, instead of me, wounded
my horse in the brisket, as far as his sword
could enter for the bone —this made my horse
kick and fling in that manner as his men
durst not come near me; which advantage
I took to strike at Sir John Ayres with all
my force, but he warded the blow both with
his sword and dagger. Instead of doing him
harm I broke my sword within a foot of the
hilt. Thereupon I dismounted, but my
horse, pressing upon me, threw me down so
that I remained flat upon the ground, only
one foot hanging in the stirrup, with that
piece of a sword in my right hand. Sir
John Ayres ran about the horse, and was
thrusting his sword into me, when I, finding
myself in this danger, did, with both my
arms reaching at his legs, null them towards
me, till he fell down backwards on his head.
One of my footmen freed my foot out of the
stirrup, which gave me time to get upon my
legs, and to put myself in the best posture I
could with that poor l’emnant of a weapon.
“Sir John Ayres likewise got up, standing
betwixt me and some part of Whitehall, with
two men on each side of him, and his brother
behind him, with at least 20 or 30 persons
of his friends and attendants. Observing
thus a body of men standing in opposition
to me I ran violently against Sir John Ayres
and put a home thrust to the middle of’ his
breast, which threw him down with so much
force that his head fell first to the ground,
and his heels upward. His men hereupon
assaulted me; all I could well do was to
ward their thrusts, which I did with that
resolution that I got ground upon them.
“Sir John Ayres was now got up a third
time, when I, making towards him with the
intention to close, received a stab with his
dagger which ran down my ribs as far as
my hip, whereupon I did’ force his hand
with my right elbow so that I made him
leave hold. Sir Henry Carey, finding the
dagger thus in my body, snatched it out. I
then threw Sir John down a fourth time,
and kneeling on the ground, and bestriding
him I struck at him as hard as I could
with my piece of a sword, and wounded him
“L fiy e several places, and did almost cut
off his left hand. His men this while struck
at me : but it pleased God even miraculously
to defend me, for when I lifted up my
sword to strike at Sir John Ayres, I bore
off their blows half-a-dozen times. His
friends, now finding him in this danger, took
him by the head and drew him from betwixt
my legs, and carried him along with them
through Whitehall, at the stairs whereof he
took boat. His servants, brother and
friends being now retired also, I remained
master of the place and his weapons, having
first wrested his dagger from him and after
wards struck his sword out of his hand.
In the space of some 10 days, being fully
recovered of my hurts, I sent one Humphrey
Hill with a challenge to Sir John Ayres,
which he refused to receive, saying that he
would kill me with a musket out of a win-
dow.”
One scarcely needs a very elastic imagina-
tion to believe that such an unkillable
gentleman as Herbert had dealings with the
Almighty: otherwise how could mortal
creature have withstood so many enemies in
alliance with the Devil?
He even experienced “cold creeps” over
the publication of a book, and kept the
printer waiting in his kitchen while he
worried the atmosphere for advice upon the
subject.
“I had no sooner spoken, but a loud noise
Came from the heavens which did so comfort
me that I took my petition as granted. This
is true: I did not only clearly bear the noise,
but in the serenest sky that ever I saw,
being without all cloud.”
By what piece of mental gymnastics Her-
bert was enabled to construe a thunder-growl
into acceptance of his work is beyond the
writer’s power of comprehension; and, leav-
ing his own manuscript to the more definite
decision of an earthly editor, he now in-
scribes this last regretful sentence with his
pen—Herbert died on August 20, 1648.
HUGH McCRAE.
Wells, M.P.?
After having published 58 volumes of short
stories, novels, scientific romances, lectures,
prophecies, philosophy, sociology, essays,
tracts, children’s play-books, war-pamphlets,
social and literary satires and an Out-
line of Universal History, Herbert George
AVells, in his 56th year, is standing as Parlia-
mentary candidate for London University. It
is quite possible, too, that he will succeed
where Sidney Webb failed in 1918. There
are not many literary men in England whom
one can easily picture as candidates for
Parliament, but of those Wells is undoubt-
edly the first that will spring to mind. He
hits one of the greatest, because most pre-
scient, political minds of the century. He
is the epitome of the 20th-century literary
man as regards social questions—"incredibly
prolific, interested in absolutely everything
that crops up, oozing ideas at every pore;
and, since things are always cropping up, his
output has been tremendous.
This urge to produce has naturally shown
its effect on the quality of his work. The
books he wrote in the heyday of his powers
were much more carefully done than any-
thing he is publishing now. To compare the
delicacy and careful artistry of “The History
of Mr. Polly” with “The Soul of a Bishop”
or “The Secret Places of the Heart” is to
observe the sad price he is paying for his
impatience. He seems to have become com-
pletely swamped by that hectic quality which
rose in Europe, and particularly England,
during the decade prior to the war, and
which has been rising, with increasing
momentum, ever since.
Fox’, in spite of his own intention, Wells
was a literai’y artist. He would repudiate
the suggestion himself, but his uncanny com-
mand of revealing phrases, his forceful,
vehement utterance, and his simplicity and
clarity of expression place him in the front
rank of living prose-writers. He has repudi-
ated this suggestion. For example, in a
soi't of public argument he had with Ford
Madox Hueffer, a year or two ago, in the
pages of the English Review, he violently
resented the suggestion that he was anything
so “useless” as a mere artist. He expressed
his ideal as a writer to be the determination
to get something practical done, to direct
his literary power to some end, rather than
to exercise it for its own sake.
It is worth noticing that both Shaw and
Chesterton have taken up very similar atti-
tudes towards literature as an art. Shaw
says that if it were merely a matter of pro-
ducing beautiful writing he “would not go
to the trouble of raising his pen” ; Chesterton,
in referring to those “interested in literature
as such,” adds, “I, for one, am not intei’ested
in literature as such.”
Of no one of the three is it true. They
are all intei’ested in “literature as such”;
and all three have written beautifully
whether they willed it or no.
Wells, however, had certainly never both-
ered about his “style” in the sense, for ex-
ample, that W. B. Yeats has. He has always
been consciously true to his ideal, such as it
is, not caring the usual curse about Hecuba,
which is probably why Hecuba cared about
him! And, it is true that on that part of
his work which is subject to his conscious
mind, he has impressed his intention. He
has always been the propagandist first, and
the novelist second ; his highly individual style
has been forged out of his emotion, and this
makes him an artist as a prose-writer, while
his propagandist tendencies have killed him
as a novelist. The scientific romances, for
instance, always have “a point”; they are
never just romance for its own sake. “The
Time Machine” was a piece of social criti-
cism ; “The Island of Doctor Moreau” was
a brilliant and telling thrust at the Eugen-
ists; “The War of the Worlds” and “The
Food of the Gods” (this latter certainly the
finest thing of its kind in the language)
were deliberately designed to throw into re-
lief the littleness and powerlessness of man-
kind in the face of a hostile universe. The
same quality is observable in the novels.
“Tono Bungay” was a criticism of Big Busi-
ness and Frenzied Finance, and a sort of
cross section of the social England of
the tiifie; “The New Maehiavelli” was a
survey of modern politics and Imperialism ;
“Marriage” was about marriage, and the
place of the scientific man in society; “The
Wife of Sir Isaac Harman” was largely
about “uplift,” and the people who are try-
ing, futilely enough, “to, do something for
the Workers.”
The outcome of all this has been that W T ells
has stifled whatever feeling he ever had for
human character as such. His people are
rarely individual; they are usually either
types or mouthpieces. When he has given
a hint of a personality it generally leaks
out that he has drawn some well-known
person from life (usually libellously, as in
the case of his thumb-nail portraits of the
Webbs). That he did have that feeling, at
least in embryo, we know from one out-
standing fact about him—no writer in
modern times, if ever, has portrayed himself
so intimately, so cruelly, and with such posi-
tively malicious cleverness as has Wells in
“Love and Mr. Lewisham,” in “Kipps,” ir
“The Wheels of Chance,” in “Mr. Polly” and
in “Mr. Britling.” The only human being
he has ever understood has been himself, and
he has been his own entire literary capital
as a novelist—the other figures are shadows.
He hits, with masochistic expertness, on the
little vanities and weaknesses, the pathetic
hopes, the petty spites and fears that he
found in himself. Mr. Lewisham, with his
“Schema,” his dreams of scholastic success
and his cheap and nasty realities ; Mr. Kipps,
with his pitiful, thwarted ideals; Mr. Polly,
with his disordered internal economy and his
gift of absurd malapropism—all these are
Wells, and all these are real. But as for
Remington and Trafford and Ponderevo, and
his long gallery of feminine masks (with the
possible exception of Ann Veronica) they
are utterly unconvincing, because they never
even convinced Wells.
N. RORINOVITZ.
The Indiscretions of Editors
As long as authors are too careless, or
too sentimental, to destroy their early and
discarded efforts, those efforts will be
resurrected, and interminable discussions will
arise as to the morality or immorality of
their publication. It seems that manuscripts
are the hardest things to lose properly, and
all kinds of papers that should have gone
with the snows of yesteryear continue to
be found in the threepenny box at a second-
hand bookshop, or stowed away in some
library. Occasionally an author disappears
completely till he is discovered anew, as the
poems of the seventeenth-century Traherne
were. The latest finds are nothing so sen-
sational as this, but they were sufficiently
interesting to raise a fair controversial dust.
They are an early play by R. L. Stevenson,
called “Monmouth,” and a juvenile attempt
at a novel by Jane Austen under the typi-
cal name of “Love and Friendship.” The
last-named, however, carried so much inter-
est in its childish naivety and in its revela-
tion of the process of mental development
of its author towards the maturity of “Pride
and Prejudice” and “Persuasion,” that it
has not had to run the gauntlet as much as
the Stevenson juvenilia. Perhaps, also, the
fact that Stevenson’s friends are still alive
to attack anything that seems likely to
cheapen or overload his reputation deter-
mined this. When we remember that the
two most associated with him are those
eminently respectable litterateurs, Edmund
Gosse and Sir Sydney Colvin, who have very
keen eyes for anything touching the etiquette
of letters, we can be sure that their annoy-
ance will be profound. Gosse, . who man-
aged to write a life of Swinburne without
mentioning the subject of drink, and who
is, therefore, the apotheosis of discretion,
says that Stevenson used to recite “tags
and tirades out of Monmouth as types of
‘how not to do it.’ The notion of its ever
being published he scouted with indignation,
but I, being one of the four or five persons
who, at that date, already believed that his
writings would become matters of universal
curiosity, urged him to burn it.” R.L.S.
promised to do so, but did not, and finally
lost the play. Which proves once more that
the best and safest thing for every author
to do is to follow Browning’s lead and de-
stroy all his early efforts. However, even with
Browning’s care, “Pauline,” a poem which
he would have liked to disown, has been
preserved and finds its place in all editions.
Gosse argues that whether an eminent writer
has or has not safeguarded his reputation in
this way, the nursery waste-paper basket
should not be allowed to be duidped before
the public, and confesses he has per-
sonally prevented, three childish tragedies
of Swinburne from being published.
Gosse and Colvin may be right, in particu-
lar cases, but it is surely too comprehensive
to claim that all such productions of youth,
or anything else which the author for some
reason has not thought fit to print, should
be doomed to everlasting oblivion. A man
is not always the best judge of his own
work: he may forget the force of the origi-
nal impulse that created a work in personal
annoyances in the process of creation, or he
may consciously accept valuations which his
best work denies. Moreover, all that exposes
to us the mechanism by which a great mind
has advanced towards self-expression is of
value, and where work is really good no
amount of lumber can 'pull it down. Shaks-
peare died without preparation in 1616,
when only a fraction of his work had
appeared, and that mostly in corrupt
fashion. Those who edited the First Folio,
Ben Jonson or whoever else it was, luckily
were troubled by no scruples, and apparently
pushed everything to which Shakspeare’s
name could be legitimately attached, into
the volume. It is of no importance that a
valueless play like “Titus Andronicus” was
preserved when the others that we might
have lost so much with were also preserved.
A master mind is never too fastidious, know-
ing that ink always finds its own level; the
smaller men who rely on the niches of style
and so forth should destroy all failures be-
fore it is too late.
R. A. BELLAY.
A Satchel of Books
The chief figure in The Lay Anthony, by Joseph
Hergesheimer (Heinemann), is a youthful Yankee
villager—slummoeky and ineffectual until the girl
with the cameo-like beauty and the high, unfalter-
ing ideals turns up and stirs him to action. A
boy-and-girl romance at best, but the author’s fine
writing, his intense preoccupation with it at the
risk of losing control and drifting into extravaganza,
gives it a curious attraction. One scene depicting
the yokel hero flying from the embrace of a casual
female is a superlative bit of description.
The Enemies of Women, by Vicente Blaseo Ibafiez
(Fisher Unwin), is a dowager among novels, padded,
blustering and garrulous to a point that impels the
impatient, reader to heave it away before he has tra-
velled through half of its 547 pages. The yarn,
which starts off with the idea of a Spaniish-Russian
prince living in semi-monastic seclusion with two
or three pals in the Riviera during the war, is studded
with the usual luscious sirens distinguished by a
royal eminence in the spending of money. The
characters are mostly unreal, and the scenes absurd,
though people educated in movie fiction will enjoy
the principal vamp and Ibafiez’s Spanish way of dwell-
ing on her fascination.
W. J. Sowden, retiring after 40 years with the
Adelaide Register (23 of them as editor), is about
to write a history of the old journal, the first number
of which was actually printed in London before S.
Aus. existed, except on paper. Robert Burns, who
steps up into Sowden’s place, is a man wedded to
his work, and little known outside the office, whereas
Sowden, like ’Tiser Ronython, has always delighted
in holding public .appointments as well. Burns’s
former second place on the Register is to be taken
by Reg Foster, a comparative youngster of promise.


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
Fib
The cost of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is flre-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write for Free Catalogue 10.
IAMES HASDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
A QUESTION OF SELECTION.
1
STOCKMEN! Seasons vary.
You have taken that risk. Take no more.
Make certain of top market values.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
_ ltd.
Expert Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. AV. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
W.& W. 66
COLEMAN
QUICK— LITE
LIANTERN
THIS IS THE LIGHT
FOR YOU
The wonderful Quick-Lite that gives
its 300-candlepower brilliance to lighten
up the darkness. Burns steady in
any storm, sand is wind-proof.
The QUICK-LITE LANTERN
Bums Gas Made from Petrol.
One gallon of petrol generates the gas for 48
hours’ lighting, and the twin mantles shed the
radiance free from shadows. No smoke, smell
or greasy wicks, but a perfect little gas plant
ever at your service.
Built for a Lifetime.
Heavy brass fittings, securely riveted and
beautifully nickelled, give Coleman Quick-Lite
a strength that assures many years of brilliant
service.
Price 75/- complete.
ORDER NOW or write for pamphlet to Cole-
man Lamp Co. of Australasia, Ltd., 395
Collins Street, or Box 1083, Melbourne.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagrh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
DO YOU WEIGH WHAT
YOU SHOULD ?
As a general rule your weight is a reliable index
to the state of your health.
Sick people invariably lose weight, but none so quickly as
those with a heavy, racking cold or other form of chest complaint.
Natural resistance and vitality, of course, decreases also, and
If not cheoked may lead to serious consequences.
When such conditions arise, remember that you CCIYI Speedily
regain top-notch condition by taking
&£
This highly efficacious remedy will make you
LOOK BETTER, FEEL BETTER,
WORK BETTER, SLEEP BETTER.
Nothing energises the system and promotes
vigor and alertness like HYPOL, which is
a food, a tonic, a revitaliser all in one.
Recommended
by Doctors.
Used in the
Leading Hospitals.
MM " l !
HtUlHiimniiiiitilHiiiiiiinaii;niiimMiiiimn)iintmn»mnm>niu»iiiiiitnmiii
Mm
fill ft 1
S 3
Commence taking HYPOL to-day, and the
joys of a healthy life are yours.
Made by FELTON. CRIMWADE & CO. Pty. Ltd
SOLD EVERYWHERE. MELBOURNE. -
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
iSS!
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
Skandia
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agrents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“The Rumpus”: The Westralian Govern-
ment Railways must be given credit for sup-
porting local industry. To its stations it
serves out raw gum from the manna wattle.
This is dissolved in water, and becomes an
excellent adhesive for pasting up notices of
train cancellations. The gum is quoted at
threepence per lb. wholesale.
* * * *
“Sucre”: The problem of maple repro-
duction in North Queensland has been
solved. At the Gadgarra State Forest
seedlings, which four years ago were only
two seconds’ climb for a caterpillar, have
now reached skywards to a height of over
30ft. At Eungella there are large quanti-
ties of red cedar. And meanwhile our cigar-
boxes are foreign-made.
* * * •
“Bull Ryan” : Doherty wandered into the
bush pub and mentioned whisky. He tilled
his glass to the brim and swallowed it, and
as the publican didn’t appear to be looking
repeated the dose. He then threw a bob on
the bar, and reeled when Bung slung back
6d. “I thought you charged a bob a nip,” he
stammered. “I do when retailing it,” was
the acrid reply; “but I make a reduction
wholesale.”
“Senojo”: Fitzroy (Vic.) enthusiasts for
after-hours beer have revived the old prac-
tice of placing anything from a bottle to a
crate of beer in pawn. Should their evening
or week-end supply fail when the demons are
watching Bung’s side-door with inconsiderate
attention the emergency ration is obtained by
knocking up Uncle Sol and redeeming the
pledge.
* * * *
“L.R.”: For durable timber the red birch
(M.L.) will take a lot of beating. Re-
cently some bakery buildings in Queens-
town, Otago, established in the gold-mining
days, 51 years ago, were dismantled. All
the original scantlings were as sound as
the day they were put in, and were used
for the re-building. The timber, which was
obtained from the Paradise bush at the
head of Lake Wakatipu, looks as if it will
be good for another 50 years.
“Wilfrido”: There’s money to be made in
fish all right, if you can put up with the
smell. In Maoriland, for the year ending
March last, the total quantity brought in
from the various fishing-grounds was about
263,121 cwt., valued at £362,400. Oysters
fetched some £23,100, while the whaling-
stations could show 362 tons of oil, 40 tons
bonedust and 7cwt. whalebone, worth about
£12,100. These values are all wholesale;
to calculate it retail would keep an actuary
going for a week.
* * * *
“675” takes up the story of villainous
packing of Australian foodstuffs: —
“Thorold’s” remarks (B. 28/9/’22) about Austra-
lian jams in England are equally applicable to Aus-
tralian tinned fruits in Egypt. At the end of the
war large stocks were sold to the Gyppos by the
canteens management. Tins branded “peaches”
might contain peaches, or, again, they might con-
tain apricots. In one case I knew of they con-
tained steak! Labels were —and, in the case of the
principal offender, still are—hideous, and they were
printed upon third-quality paper. The tin plate
used was inferior, most of the tins reaching Egypt
rusty, and the hardwood used for cases was unsea-
soned, and, consequently, warped, to the detriment
of the contents. The flavor of the actual fruit was
good, but bad grading and rough peeling utterly
spoiled its appearance. Incidentally, most of the
above remarks apply with equal force to the tinned
meats which went to Egypt.
* * # *
“Dido”: He came into the store at Tad-
more Avhile I was there, a small, pinched
man with the thinnest whiskers I have ever
seen off a cat. Thin whiskers are the surest
sign of a mean and penurious disposition.
He peered around a while, and then said:
“Gimme six pen’orth of yer potaters.” He
had an armful of parcels which he disposed
on the counter. “Why don’t you get your
potatoes at Gibbs’s, where you got your
other groceries?” snorted the salesman. The
customer sniffed. “I’ll tell yer why,” he
said. “Because when the dray" tipped "up on
me and broke both me legs, yer boss gave
five pounds to the fund they raised to help
me, and what I sez is one good turn deserves
another. Besides.” he added, “yer potaters
is cheaper than Gibbs’s.”
For the purpose of serving with cheap
power the big area of north-eastern country
comprised in the triangle between Echuea
and Wodonga, along the Murray on the
north and Euroa on the south, Vic. Elec-
tricity Commission proposes going on with
the Sugarloaf-Rubicon hydro-electric scheme
at a cost of £962,320. It will take till
1928 to complete it, but the Commission
proposes to construct the transmission lines
at once to supply current from Morwell
brown coalfield till the hydro-generation
works are ready. After 1928 Melb. is to
get from the north-east the current it can
spare after meeting its own requirements.
“U.P.”: Couch grass, although a curse as
a weed, has done more to beautify Austra-
lian gardens than perhaps any other plant.
It makes magnificent lawns, especially for
tennis-playing, being one of the few grasses
which will stand traffic and with a little
care keep on growing. A botanist named
Brown was the first to discover it in Aus-
tralia. In 1805 he found some couch in
the neighborhood of Kent-street, Sydney. It
is not indigenous to Australia, and was pro-
bably brought here in horsefeed, imported
from India. It has certainly found Aus-
tralia to its liking; patches of couch were
flourishing in the Adelaide narklands during
the 1914 drought, when there had been no
rain for about 12 months and there was not
another green patch in the whole park.
How to kill couch where it is not wanted
has ever been a greater problem than that
of making it grow.
* * *
The Federal Shire liner Hertford, some-
time the German Friesland, the longest
steamer that has yet entered the Port River,
turned up at Port Adelaide from New York
this month. She is one of the America-
Australia line, and measures 521 ft. long,
with a beam of 64ft.; her tonnages are
10,965 gross and 6902 net.


What has this clock to do with
REPUBLIC
BP
LORRIES ?
It was presented by Republic owners in
Singleton district, N.S.W., to Mr. H. E.
Lancaster, Republic Agent, as an appreciation
of satisfactory service.
MODELS TO MEET EVERY HAULING REQUIREMENT.
mm
f 4
On the road three years. Covered 60,000
miles. In good seasons carries 5 tons. Still
running on original front tyres.
(Owner: Mr. F. Anderson.)
.«». - ■■
i - mi
' i
mmMmm
On the road over 12 months. Covered 28,000
miles.
(Owners: Noble & Hipwell.)
Sit
i«
....
ti
rMSjp,
Carrying milk and fruit from Bulga to Single-
ton station. Covered 30,000 miles.
(Owners: Messrs. Clarke Bros.)
VICTORIAN AGENTS:
Preston Motors Pty. Ltd.,
High Street, Preston, Victoria.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS:
Inglis Bros. & Co. Ltd.,
Wellington.
Some of the satisfied
REPUBLIC Users
in the
Singleton District.
Practically all buyers
of Motor Lorries base
their purchase upon
the reputation of a
motor lorry to carry
capacity loads at rea-
sonable speed with
least possible expense.
The ability and endur-
ance of REPUBLICS
under severe condi-
tions is due to the
efficiency of engineer-
ing design and honest
application of manu-
facturing principle.
The Dependability of
Republics in continu-
ous service is due to
the exceptionally solid
construction and effici-
ent testing system.
The good name of
Republic Lorries has
been built by satisfied
owners.
NEW SOUTH WALES AGENTS:
Larke, Hoskins & Co.
Ltd.,
237-39 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
City 3028-9 Members M.T.A.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS:
Canada Cycle and
Motor Agency (Q.)
Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Vivian Lewis Ltd.,
Gawler Place, Adelaide.
On the road two years. Considered one of
the hardest-worked lorries in the district.
Done as much as three trips between Jerry’s
Plains and Singleton—22 miles each way—
in one day. Covered 45,000 miles.
(Owner: Mr. Jas. Wild.)
v-*>
m
.
Carrying milk from Broke to Singleton.
Covered 30,000 miles.
(Owner: Mr. Les. Clarke.)
*r
m
m
iyi
Mi
G
m
X
Carrying daily between 80 and 90 10-gallon
cans of milk.
(Owner: Mr. R. Hamilton.)
WESTERN AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
Gilberts Ltd.,
47 King Street, Perth.
W. A. Crowle Ltd.,
Factory Distributors,
161-63 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome si*kness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relislTTor food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines-
this gas may originate’ from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are i 'ld and gentle in their action and
please to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
Chamberlains
Thousands enjoy good health
because they tried Chamberlain’s
Tablets when their Stomachs
were weak and Livers disordered.
Try them and test their power to
relieve Biliousness. Constipation and
disorders of the Stomach and Liver.
If you wish to try before you buy, send
your address and twopence for postage to
Chamberlain’s Ltd., 520 Riley St., Sydney, N.S.W.
&>
s.
MW
G>cP
[#
xS' c
p*
C\7o
1v»
eo'"
ni’ 1
cvt*-
\^o
60'-*
ss
&i°«
ci
Cv'^j
W
*v<
svo
\/e>
23»
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
iff —nyssspsri
■ mm£z.
.'fi fri-ffl Wml '»■' Wrj Wi* A'll/ \ i- B
' 1 ;
■“ s " •
a*®®®!®®
r . f
J * ■ :;
W
JaC
■
yyyf
'•'
c-f f ti
feijpj ■ I
HU
One of Six Turbo Pulverisers installed at the
Amsterdam Corporations’ Electricity Power Station.
Power
with Powdered Fuel Equipment;
Powdered Coal can be ‘turned on or off to carry
peak or low loads in the same manner as gas or
oil. It can be fed to a boiler at less than half the
cost of ordinary grades of coal. Any plant, large
or small,'can change over to powdered fuel at small
initial cost. Our experts will advise you without
obligation.
wm
m 1
! a
Illustrating Standard Foundry
Grab. We supply Grabs tor
adaptation to existing Cranes,
Overhead Runaways, etc., for
handling every class
of material.
PRIESTMAN
The name is known the wide world over as a
guarantee of dependability and almost eternal
service.
Complete equipment for handling COAL, COKE,
PYRITES, STONE, SAND, etc., and for all classes
of EXCAVATING WORK.
We offer also STEAM, ELECTRIC and HAND
POWER CRANES of every description : OVER-
HEAD TRANSPORTERS, RUNWAYS and
ELECTRIC HOISTS. Send us your enquiries.
WRITE OUR NEAREST ADDRESS FOR DETAILS OF ABOVE LINES,
AND ASK FOR OUR 128-PAGE GENERAL ENGINEERING CATALOGUE.
Exhibition of All-Australian Manufactures. R.A.S. Showgrounds, Sydney, Oct. 7—Nov. 18.
At Stands 21, 22 and 23, Agricultural Hall, we are
exhibiting on behalf of Austral Bronze Co., Ltd.
(Extruded Brass Bars, Copper Rods, Copper and
Brass Sheets, Brass Stampings, Antifriction Metals,
etc.), Parkinson (Australia), Ltd. (Electric
Motors), Patience & Nicholson, Ltd. (Stocks
and Dies, Taps and Wrenches) ; also Gypsboard
Plaster Sheets, etc., Switchgear, Motor
Starters, Multi-Kay Reflectors. See the Invin-
cible Fans at Stand 3, Main Manufacturing Hall.
If you cannot visit this exhibition, we’ll gladly
forward booklets and particulars of these high-
grade Australian products.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd,, 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth.
THE INKY WAY.
“Derwentside”: The history o{ a literary piracy in
the Speck nearly a century since is recalled by the
sale the other day at open auction of a copy of the
famous pirated edition of Dickens’s “Pickwick
Papers.” The book, now a rare curio, went for £7,
and its destination is France. It was printed at
Launceston. Foster, in his life of Dickens, mentions
that there were several pirated editions of “Pick-
wick” issued, this Tasmanian one being about the
first. The date of the dishonesty is 1838.
“Y.Z.”: Linotypers on the Illustrated Sun, Mel-
bourne, have the softest snap of any type-snatchers
in Australia. When the paper was started the Typo-
graphical Society refused to concede that the Six,
started as an illustrated paper, was an
illustrated paper in point of fact, and hold-
ing to this demanded setting Tates for all
space covered by pictures, as is the custom in papers
not technically “illustrated.” The result is that the
Sun, which, presumably, had to give way or go out,
pays the chapel for between six and seven pages of
pictures precisely as if the space were filled with
type.
“A.”: E. Alexander Powell, who, as related bv
“Morehead” (B. 28/9/’22), let Scribner’s in for a libel
suit by false statements about the 8.N.8. Co., was
formerly editor of the China Press, Millard’s Ameri-
can daily at Shanghai. He was in those days vio-
lently anti-Jap. Recently he has changed his views,
and finds Jap occupation and administration of
Korea beneficial to the Koreans! He has recently
published “Asia at the Crossroads.” This makes
the fourteenth, book with the “Crossroads” title in
five years, the first having been Pooley’s “Japan at
the Crossroads” in 1917, blacklisted by the Japanese
Government.
The Telegraph, Brisbane, brought out its first
blushing sheet on October 1, 1872, and is rightfully
proud of its golden jubilee. Some of the lads who
started with it in 1872 still arrive every morning
at the present fine offices in Queen-street. The
jubilee number was the special care of W. H.
Taudevin, who can still sprint along to the com-
posing-room in as lively a manner as he did CO
years ago. J. 11. R. Lewis has helped to produce it
for 35 years, for nearly all of which he has “subbed.”
There are comps and readers with services as long
as the first leaders. “Sol” Wanmcr has been on the
reporting staff for over 20 years. Even the office-
boy has a long-service medal.
The New Statesman, a serious London weekjy of
some literary tonnage, lately published a wild yarn
from Grant Ilervey alleging that Australia was prac-
tically bankrupt, and that a receiver ought to be put
in. The article, which aroused some attention in
the Smoke, was largely reprinted under excited
crossheads by Public Opinion (a journal that scissors
heavily from its contemporaries), and may have caused
some concern among timid investors. However,
attention has since been drawn to the author of the
tale by a frank correspondent to the New States-
man, who, besides detailing Hervey’s record at Long
Bay and Mildura, answers his flatulent libels in a
paragraph that is no less devastating because it is
politely worded.
“0.K.”: Melbourne newsagents are very puffed up
with profiteering since the two local morning papers
doubled their price, and forgot to reduce it when
the cost of paper fell to something like normal. On
condition that the Sun started its opposition at
three-halfpence the newsagents graciously consented
to “handle” the new morning journal. But they
refused to touch it at Id. Seven years ago, or
later, distributors were accustomed to penny news-
papers, and battled for the agency. Now they
refuse to look at a penny daily, and the Victorian
public, being mostly in profound ignorance of the
fact that prices are back to the pre-war figure in
N.S.W., doesn’t wonder at the newsagents’ auto-
cratic attitude. There are many things at which
Melbourne doesn’t wonder, because it knows no
better.
Adelaide Register will hardly know itself without
Sowden, who now, being in the sixties, announces
that he will retire from the editorship and devote
himself to literature, travel and public engagements.
Coming from Victoria as a young man, he got in
with the Kyffin Thomas family, and presently became
a part proprietor of their paper, also succeeding Fin-
layson as editor. A singularly ready writer and
speaker, he has of late been doing more work than
is good for one man. Like Bonython, of the Adver-
tiser, he is prominent in Adelaide’s public affairs.
Bonython is president of the School of Mines, Sowden
of the Public Library and Art Gallery, and each of
them is on a dozen boards and councils. But then
Bonython is understood to have done hardly any writ-
ing for his paper for years past. His right-hand
man, Fred Robertson, like Robert Burns, the quiet
Scotchman who will move up into Sowden’s place on
the Register, lives for his work in the office, and is
hardly known outside it. Journalists “run in all
shapes.”
“M.D.”: Journalists in U.S.A. are such adepts at
faking “copy,” the last example being the nauseat-
ing Kipling interview, so eagerly swallowed in toto
by the dailies, that I am suspicious of yarns relating
to Australians, though they appear under the cover
of high-class magazines such as The Bookman or
Current Opinion. I cannot imagine, for instance,
Professor Brown (sic), of Sydney University, Aus-
tralia, sitting at the feet of Anatole France and
asking him ridiculous questions such as: “What is
the secret of genius?” The answer was more like
the meanderings of a tenth-rate reporter than, the
utterance of the distinguished author of “Le Crime
du Sylvestre Bonnard.” He said: “All great authors
write badly. Rabelais is not free from faults.
Moltere writes badly; so do Saint-Simon, Balzac
and all the others.” This tripe is published in book-
form with the title of “The Opinions of Anatole
France.” The author is Paul Gsell, of New York
Nation, and three chapters are devoted to the Syd-
ney professor.
“Marminga”: Re the statement (B. 7/9/’22) that
Marcus Clarke was inspired to w T rite “His Natural
Life” by H. M. Hyndman. A very good yarn was
written on the same theme bv Elizabeth Winstanley
for Bow Bells (Loud.) in 1867, or three years before
the first appearance of Clarke’s novel in the pages of
Massina’s Australian Journal. In Miss Winstanley s
story, which is entitled “For Her Natural Life, the
scenes are laid firstly in Devonshire, next on a convict
ship bound to Sydney, and then in N. S. Wales.
Elizabeth Winstanley was the daughter of a scenic
painter named William Winstanley, and was born in
Sydney, September 1, 1818. On a red freestone in
the Church of England portion of the Waverley Ceme-
tery the inscription may still be read over her
grave:—
To
the memory of
(Mrs.) ELIZA O’FLAHERTY,
who died
2nd December, 1882.
Aged
64 years.
“M.D.”: It is extraordinary the length of time
that elapses before the works of popular English
writers receive recognition by the French. Nobody
would have expected at this late hour to
come across a translation of G.B.S.’s “Doctor's
Dilemma” in the pages of the Revue des
Deux Mondes, but this occurred quite recently,
and extended to three numbers of that journal. It
was like reading Chaucer or Spenser over again.
Galsworthy has had better luck, his novels being
translated” a couple of years or so after publication.
In truth, the translation of Galsworthy is becoming
a cult in the French capital, where he is a firm
favorite. He is thinking of writing a romance deal-
ing with Parisian life. The latest translator is
Prince Antoine Bibesco, whose wife, Margot Asquith’s
daughter, lately perpetrated a volume of short
stories which met with a torrent of abuse. His
name appears in this month’s Paris book list attached
to Le Domaine, from the English of Galsworthy.
Wells gets an occasional look in in the best reviews;
so does Arnold Bennett —but that’s about all.
American writers are ignored. I noticed Lawson’s
name in a book with the title “Les Mjlle Nouvelles
Nouvelles.” The yam selected was called: “Cama-
•rade de son Pcre,”


A STANDARD MODEL
TUolseley"
TEN-H.P. CAR
WOT;SELEY TEN-H.P. 2-SEATER.
Similar in all respects to the model here
illustrated, except that it had a stream-line body
and a few minor adjustments for track work.
Breaks the previous 24-hour record
and with it breaks 69 other records as well.
Beats a car 8 times its capacity
and nearly 6 times its rated H.P.
Here are the actual figures:—
Cubical Capacity
Wolseley
Previous
1261 c.c.
Holder 9655 c.c.
That is pretty good going even for an English car; but, then, as these figures prove, the
“Wolseley” is the best car of its rating that is made in England.
Remember it is English
brains, skill, experience and craftsman-
ship that built this record-breaker, and
that every “Wolseley” Car has just
exactly the same superb qualities of
design, workmanship and materials,
For economy of running costs, for comfort
of riding, for ease of driving, there is no
car to beat the *Wolseley,” be it Ten,
Fifteen or Twenty H.P. Model. The
“Wolseley,” as this new record proves, is
far ahead of all other cars of like capacity.
The “ WOLSELEY” Fifteen and Twenty Cars
are built in exactly the same way, with the same quality of workmanship and material
as the Ten. Book your order NOW.
Delivery from Stocks.
REPRESENTATIVES
VICTORIA: DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Rourke Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: DALGETY & CO., LTD., Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., Richards’ Buildings, Cwrrie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: ADAMS MOTORS, LTD., 847 Hay Street, Perth.
N. ZEALAND: G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS BROS., Wellington; TOBD BROS., Dunedin; LEREW MOTORS LTD., Napier.
WOLSELEY MOTORS PTY., LTD.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.)»
339 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty. Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4U Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002. 3599.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day Inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
B.S.A.
FITTINGS
build the perfect
BICYCLE
THE utility and convenience of
a bicycle is now realised by most
people. A bicycle built of B.S.A.
Fittings is more than a convenience,
it is an absolute necessity for all who
wish to economise in both time and
money.
There are many odd journeys almost
every day which can be accomplished
not only quickly and cheaply, but
journeys, the anticipation of which
will give pleasure and delight provid-
ing you have a B S.A. Fittings Bicycle
handy, for cycling with a B.S.A.—is
healthy, trouble-free travelling, and
withal a splendid exercise.
ALL B.S.A. PARTS ARE GUAR-
ANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE.
This means the elimination of all
unnecessary waste of time should you
lose or damage any part of your
bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK free from
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Safety at High Speeds.
One of the essentials in machinery is “Safety.” As within
recent years the speeds of line shafts have been much
increased, reliable pulleys are an absolute necessity.
With the
SPLIT
PULLEY
Safety is Absolutely Assured.
The binding action of the steel rims on the cast-iron spyder,
combined with the entire absence of rivets, eliminates any
possibility of breaking at high speeds.
The SKF Ball Bearings and SKF Steel Split
Belt Pulleys are the ideal line shafting
equipment.
Let us forward you full particulars. Your
request will receive prompt attention.
S.P. 6.
Gardner,
Waern & Go. Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Road,
' South Melbourne.
Showroom: 309 Flinders St.,
Melbourne.
Distributing: Centres also at:
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide St.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie St.
PERTH: Unbehaun & John-
stone (W.A.), Ltd., 37 King
Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides,
77 York Street.
The 24/60 6-cylinder
SUNBEAM
4-seater Touring
Model.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., LTD.,
255-250 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
THE AUTOCAR INDUS-
TRIES PTY., LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO.,
LTD.,
376-378 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
“The feel of Quality
That indefinable feeling which is particularly
noticeable in the latest six-cylinder Sunbeam
Models, as evidenced by the following opinions
of “Men who know” :
The Autocar: —“There is no doubt that the six-
cylinder SUNBEAM car is a distinct advance on the
previous model, good as that was. The flexibility of the
engine is as remarkable as its silence of running, and
although the car is decidedly fast, it behaves with the
utmost docility.”
The Motor: —“The side valve six-cylinder SUNBEAM,
of which we gave our impressions about 12 months ago,
was undoubtedly a good car, but the present overhead
valve model is far and away superior to it. Than this
there could, perhaps, be very little higher praise.
_ THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
Mail for Particulars :
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD., Wolverhampton, England.
Export Dept.: 12 PRINCES STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON AV.I.
Cable Add>ess — “Subeamoco,’ > London.
AND AT NEW YORK.
No time table and
— No terminus
THE cycle knows no time
table and no terminus,
it is not restricted to places
nor is it trammelled by any
scheduled scheme of things.
You just jump on when
you're ready and every
mile is enjoyment being
covered in comfort when
your machine is fitted with
a luxurious and reliable
BROOKS
SADDLE
Ask your agent to fit one for you.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works, Birmingham, England.
Agenls in Australia. —
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, Ltd., 31a Pitt St., Sydney.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY o n)i
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/.. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /-. • ,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
M°ke Ups of All Kinds —GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
«Pw
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book. 27-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue * Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/.
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage.... 1/6
A LADY IN DISTRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Amy Turner has been placed under arrest
in Port Phillip by the Sheriff’s Court, Melbourne.”
—Daily payer announcement.
They’ve arrested Amy Turner, and the sheriff and
his men
Have cast her into durance vile beside the Mel-
bourne docks.
They’ve arrested Amy Turner!... .Ah, I well re-
member when
She was called The Belle of Sydney with her
shining, lint-white locks! .
They’ve arrested Amy Turner for a vulgar money
debt!
Though the,coin was never minted that could pur-
chase Amy’s worth!
She who trod the blue Pacific as the deep-sea sailor’s
pet—
And she’s still the merest youngster: I was present
at her birth!
She was trim from bow to binnacle, and slim and
slight of waist.
She moved with all the native grace that marks
the yearling fawn.
’Twas a sight to move a stoic’s heart, as with the
breeze she raced,
All rosy as the tinted clouds that heralded he
dawn!
They’ve arrested Amy Turner; they have got her
hard and fast.
No more she’ll cleave the dancing wave from
Guam to Aberdeen,
For they’ve taken out a warrant, and they’ve nailed
it to the mast
Of the saucy Amy Turner, that delightful bar-
quentine!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.
“B.”: Melbourne has a lady whose matri-
monial record is no mean affair. Some years
ago her first husband died, leaving her with
five children. She married her deceased’s
husband’s brother. This is not a legal
union in Victoria (albeit a man may marry
his deceased wife’s sister), but the associa-
tion abounded in fruitfulness, resulting in
13 more children. Then something happened
to No. 2, and the game little woman took
a third partner, with whose assistance she
collected three more bonuses. The Salva-
tion Army has been looking after a propor-
tion of the 21 offspring, and the mother
recently asked the Adjutant to arrange for
yet another union to be properly solemnised.
“Plumber,” his parable :
I am in the throes of a heated discussion with
three lawyers. First of all, Brown desired me to lay
the water on to his place, and offered me £lO a
week, plumbers being scarce just now. I had put
in two days on this job when Jones urgently besought
me to repair his leaky roof, and I had hardly got
started on the roof before Robinson implored me to
get down and attend to his drains. All these gentle-
men being eager for my services I considered I
would only be doing justice to myself and honor to
my calling if I charged them a tenner a week
apiece—£3o in all —though of course each only got
two days, or less, of actual toil. The present trouble
has arisen because Brown knows Jones, and Robinson
is acquainted with the pair of them, and they
have communed together, and all object to paying
me for a week when I only worked two days or less
for each. It appears useless to point out that it is
customary in the very best legal circles to hold three
or four jobs and collar the fees simultaneously. At
present I am thinking of instructing Jones to act
for me in a slander matter against Robinson, who
has called me a thief.
“D.”: I agree with the remarks of “G.P.”
(B. 28/9/’22) on the necessity of keeping
a strict eye on the sale of preparations con-
taining- morphia or cocaine, and wonder why
the Federal Government permits the indis-
criminate use of the Yankee quack asthma
remedy, which is fairly bristling with the
latter drug. Having to use cocaine con-
tinually as a local anaesthetic, I was sur-
prised ‘to find a sudden drop of £2 per oz.
in price (from 655. per ounce to 255.), which
is a clear indication that tremendous quan-
tities are being manufactured. (Ger-
many, bv the way, gets the credit
of distributing most of it through the
employees of European railway systems,
aided by the troops on the Rhine.)
There were 212 arrests in Paris last year
for selling the drug, where it is known as
“poudre folle” or “ respirette l am afraid
that asthma sufferers use the Yankee remedy
not so much for the relief of their neurosis,
as for its stimulating and exhilarating pro-
perties. It is a good pick-me-up, and asth-
matics can use it freely without raising the
suspicion that they are drug-addicts.
“D.F.”: If Prime Minister Hughes ever
appoints that Ambassador to Washington it
will not be the first time that Australia has
entered into direct diplomatic relations with
a foreign Power. As early as 1805 Governor
King sent Lieutenant Robbins to Valparaiso
to treat with the Spanish Captain-General of
Chile about the buccaneering exploits of Cap-
tain William Campbell, of the Harrington,
on the west coast of South America. At
least King started Robbins off in the schooner
Integrity, but neither the vessel nor any soul
on board was ever heard of again. In IS2B
Governor Darling had some correspondence
with Queen Maihara, of Iluahine, in the
Society Islands, about the scandalous activi-
ties of 16 convicts who had bolted from
Coolangatta—the show place of the N.S.W.
South Coast district, which is now owned by
Alex. Hay, M.P. They escaped in a schooner
belonging to David Berry, via the Shoal-
haven River, where the craft was lying, and
reached the islands without mishap. The
disgusted Queen wrote instructing Darling
to “fetch these thieves back to Botany Bay,”
adding that they had murdered two of her
subjects and wounded six. As a result,
Commander Laws, of H.M. sloop Satellite,
went to the islands and brought back two
of the offenders. The rest had faded away
in a stolen boat —supposedly to the Navi-
gator Islands.
“Digger’s Batman”: One of the earliest
incidents of the war —in Australia —has been
recalled by some legal proceedings taken by
the Sydney City Council. The German ship
Elsaas was berthed in Woolloomooloo Bay
when the news of the declaration of war
came through ; and the skipper, having some-
how received a private message (probably
by code-cable), unhitched and tried to make
a'break for the open sea. Unfortunately, in
his hurry, he got his craft entangled with
the Domain Baths. The City Council, to
whom the resort belongs, is now out after
damages from the German shipping co.


oG
C
%
What They Do
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Purify the Blood,
Cleanse the Stomach,
Put life into the Liver, thus
correcting Biliousness and
Constipation,
Stimulate the Kidneys to
perform their proper
functions,
And will prevent many of
the ailments so common
if taken occasionally to
keep the system in proper
working order.
for
c
m
m
m.
w
v "mm
Wa
w
wsss/yl
ri
m
:m
m,
&
r
iJ
ii
m
m
! 1 1
X
■
OS
§MJJ
a
B
X
•S
aosfi
'////////////////
MM.
f IKJr
Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE
REMEDY FOR THE ERADICATION
OF WORMS IN CHILDREN AND
ADULTS.
Worms, by their movements and the in-
terruption they offer to the contents of the
bowels, generally occasion pain and uneasi-
ness in the abdomen, sometimes spasmodic,
sometimes gnawing or biting, and not infre-
quently of a vague, indescribable character,
and yet very distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sensation of itching at the anus
and at the nostrils, producing a disposition
to scratch the fundament and pick the nose,
which is characteristic of this affection. The
bowels are often discolored, sometimes con-
stipated or stopped, and sometimes relaxed,
with occasional bloody discharges, as in
dysentery. The discharge is sometimes in
shreds or flakes, which are not infrequently
mistaken for fragments of partially digested
food. It is not uncommon for portions of
undigested food to pass with the discharges.
The appetite is exceedingly variable, in some
cases natural, in others deficient, craving or
depraved; one condition not infrequently
alternating with another. The abdomen is
often hard, swollen and tympanetic, the
breath heavy or foetid, and tongue furred,
with disagreeable taste, and a copious flow
of. saliva; swelling of the upper lip, bleeding
of the nostrils and disposition to grind the
teeth during sleep, are other character-
istic symptoms. The effects, however, often
extend beyond the alimentary canal, and
various derangements of health are experi-
enced in consequence either of the direct
irritation of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among the
most common of these are nervous affections,
such as fretfulness, irritation of temper,
wakefulness or disposition to excessive sleep,
disturbed sleep, sudden starting out of sleep,
as if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted
vision, temporary blindness and deafness.
General convulsions are not infrequent in
children, and symptoms strongly resembling
“Water on the Brain” have been ascribed to
worms and have ceased on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to re-
cognise the fact that their little ones are
suffering intense pain and distress, and are
practically irresponsible for the outbursts
of temper, restlessness and peevishness, and
until some more serious symptoms appear
nothing is done to alleviate the distress.
The symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so char-
acteristic that no mother need have any
doubts. The best proof of worms is worms,
and if the general conduct of the child is
such as to give the slightest suspicion, an
examination of the stools (evacuation from
the bowels) will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to be
in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable in its temper, and com-
plains of itching of the nose, whilst the
same symptoms may be very prominent in-
deed in the lower part of the bowel. An-
other point to which the attention of
mothers should be specially directed is that
the child is apt to start in its sleep, its re-
pose being in this way of a disturbed nature.
Note also that many children who are in the
habit of wetting their beds do so by reason
of the irritation which these Worms pro-
duce in the body, the irritation extending
] to the bladder and causing it involuntarily
to part with its contents.
1 In every heap of decaying matter there is
always* to be found a nest of worms. They
breed aind multiply in impure matter. And
so it is' in the human system. The accumu-
lation dsf partially-digested food in the intes-
tines, wihich becomes putrid when the bowels
are- constipated, induces the presence of
worms. A few doses of Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets, followed by a dose or
two of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, will
disturb them in their nest, and drive them
out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellefs
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation,
compounded on a scientific principle for the
eradication! of worms which infest the intes-
tines. They contain specific properties
which destroy the worms, but cause no
injury/to the stomach or bowels, and do not
weakeai the system. The pellets are pre-
pared! in the form of a confection or lolly,
have "no disagreeable taste or smell, but, on
the contrary, inspire children to take them
as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or
.direct from The W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd.,
23 Lang Street, Church Hill. Sydney,
-N.S.W.; and Farish Street, Wellington,
N.Z. Price 3/6 per packet (6 packets 20/-),
post free.
If writing please mention The Bulletin.


A. Saunders’ 4-Cup Egg Frame and Spoons, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, 50/*
A. Saunders’ Vegetable Dish, with three divisions,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, £5/10/*
Ht
A. Saunters’ Breakfast Combination, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, Crystal Glass Dishes, 50/-
A. SAUNDERS’
A 1 Quality
Table Appointments
hr
A. Saunders’ Asparagus Dish and Sauce Boat, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ “Victory” Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, hand burnished, daintily engraved, £lO/10/-
SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, 75/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, pierced design, 84/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Salad or Preserve Dish, pure Silver-
plated Frame, hand-decorated Floral China Dish, 50/*
Hupmobile
Level streets and paved boulevards are one
thing, and high hills and rough roads are
quite another. If you can’t pick and choose
your journeys, you should pick and choose
your motor car.
Hopmobua
k
H-9
I. PHIZAOKERLEY. 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N. S. Wales.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHGENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
112-120 Pirie St., Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Perth. W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED.
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queens-
land.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARM E R S’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, New Zealand.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Welling-
ton, New Zealand.


Amusement*.
SY I> N k Y’S CIIIIS 1' TIIISAT It E 8.
J. C. WILLIAM SON’, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
THE SILVER FOX.
ROYAL: THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAKEAN
PRODUCTIONS
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEN,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MARY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PEEP SHOW.
A WHIRLWIND OE DANCE AND MELODY.
INK’S THEATRE. M E I. It O « It N R
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PALACE 'I II HAT It E, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER. LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
LAST WEEKS OF THE AUSTRALASIAN RECORD
SEASON OF
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
29th WEEK ON SATURDAY.
Matinees Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
U OIT’B THEATRES, MELBOURNE
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
VIRGINIA HALL in
THE STORM.
Also,
LEE MORAN in
THE RUBBERNECK.
Prices as usual.
A.IKSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
GREAT SHOW-WEEK ATTRACTION.
TOO MUCH BUSINESS.
A VITAGRAPH PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2,30. Nights at 8.
QLYM P 1 A, M E LBOUBN E
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A host of entirely new International Celebrated
Artists personally engaged by Mr. George Wirth on
his recent tour of the Worid.
Prices 7/-, 5/-, 3/- and 2/-. Plan at Glen’s.
IE any illustration appearing in Till?
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Have You
An Open Mind?
—or are you one of these suffer-
ing hesitants still trying to defend
old fashioned shaving soap, while
over two million men blithely
enjoy the gorgeousness of the
Mennen shave?
The peculiar thing is that most
of these Mennen Shavers were
like you before they succumbed
to my appeals.
It may take you months, but
eventually you’ll fall. Then you’ll
enjoy your first real shave. But
why wait? Your chemist, drug-
gist or perfumer has Mennen
Shaving Cream waiting for you.
Have you an open mind?—
Willing to be convinced ?
/(Mi
C Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO.,LTD.
249 Ceorge Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.
Amusements.
Victoria Racing Club,
FLEMINQTON.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY Nov. 4
CUP DAY Nov. 7
OAKS DAY Nov. 9
STEEPLECHASE DAY . . Nov. 11
Stakes will amount to over £40,000.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup.
H. BYIiON MOORE, Secretary.
Missing Friends.
JANE SMITH, late of Joel Joel,
Victoria, spinster, deceased. Will
any person knowing the whereabouts of
GEORGE SMITH, known sometimes as
GEORGE BARR or GEORGE SMYTH, a
brother of Jane Smith, last heard of at
White Cliffs, New South Wales, or if dead
the date of death, and where, please com-
municate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
CO., LTD., S 5 Queen Street, Melbourne.
npO EVA STELLA HICKSON formerly of Fairfield
in the State of Victoria: TAKE NOTICE that
your husband WALTER JAMES WILLIAM
HICKSON has instituted proceedings against you
for Divorce on the ground of desertion. UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
office of the Supreme Court at Melbourne on or before
the twenty-seventh day of November 1922 the case
may proceed in your absence.
E. J. RIDGEWAY, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
£1,000,000.
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
ell'ected on all classes or
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool. Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” Is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH. General Manager.
If any . illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to tne
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
MONARCH
&mo£e
ALL HOTELS and
TOBACCONISTS
6each
!'<//
ACTUAL SlZt
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6; 50, 23/9
100, 46/-
Post paid to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 b George Street, SYDNEY.
Distributors for CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
That ‘Bilhtong’ Runs Like a Clock, Joe.”
1
1
wm\
JX
mm s
“Yes, the ball-bearing bed-plate makes her almost noise-
less.”
“I’ve noticed the wheel turning at different speeds during
the day, and slowing down when the breeze turned nasty.
How’s that?”
“That’s the Speed Regulator and Governor. It regulates
the speed of the wheel to the wind, and when it becomes
too dangerous for safe pumping swings the wheel right out of
the blow, and doesn’t come back to the wind till it is safe to
do so. No broken pump-rods or damaged wind sails.”
“Needs no watching from the busy farmer?”
“No; the ‘Billabong’ is made stronger than is actually
necessary, and has only five bearings, any one of which you
can replace without shifting any gear.”
“Just the mill I’ve been looking for! Simple and safe.”
“Yes; none of the other makes have anything on the
‘Billabong’ either for price or efficiency. Write for Danks’
free ‘Billabong’ Catalogue. Shows by means of photos and
sketches what a mill should be, and the correct way to lay
out a mill and pipes.”
“Bet your life, I will. You’ll soon see a new ‘Billabong’
working on my place—hand-pumping and bucket-carrying
wear out money as well as muscle.”
JOHN DANKS G SON PIY. LTD.
324 330 Pill SI . Sydney. 391 403BourkeSl. Melbourne.


An Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water for
Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to "light winds, stronger or
more durable, lower in cbst, or: easier and cheaper to erect and
maintain. ’ -S
Their.reliability is proverbial. Fitter! with
Machine-Cut Gears, Ball Bearings,-Auto-Liibii-
cation-and Storm-proof Regulators; All Work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes,
from sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the
largest works in Australia, devoting its whole
attention to windmill construction.
Expert advise and Illustrated Catalogue
free on application.
Alston Windmills
JAMES ALSTON S SONS Pty. Ltd.
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
. ■
WM
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Critemon ESTT S ■ '’.’■ * '•"’ ‘‘The’Silver Fox”
Royal '"".'.'..V..... “The Naughty Princess”
lion's 7.7.7 ;..... Moving Pictures
Melbourne shows for coming week.
Her Majesty’s ••• -•• • ‘
Hriv .. . The Peep Show
Palace 7 7 7.7 .. 7 "apamtl«”
Ki Na ’s “The Sentimental Bloke ’
“nc 77 .77.7 Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s , Pictures
OLYMru Wirths Cii'cus
"The Peep Show,” now at Melbourne
Royal, is in no respect quite the best thing
of its sort the city has seen, but in the
course of a protracted entertainment one
meets with items that stick to the memory.
The Wong Shop, introducing music-hall bal-
lads of former generations (performed in
some eases in the ancient manner), is an
amusing "Peep.” The same idea was
artistically exploited in a J.CA\ . panto, some
years ago, and the two sisters who then
sang "Love Among the Roses” were much
more humorous than Mona Magnet in her
crude burlesque oi "In Her Hair She More
a White. Camellia.” There are Peeps that
were founded on a perversion of the plot of
"The Arcadians,” and they are pitifully
weak in dialogue. Indeed, the talk that
goes on prior to the despatch of a rocket to
the moon, and after the missile lias landed Dan
Hooker and George Baker (a dull, respect-
able baritone who looks intensely like his
name), in renu, Land (where they meet
Ivathlyn Hilliard and ,T. 11. Wakefield), is
almost as poor as me stuff Dan patters to
Balter when the rocket is returning to earth
with the lady aboard. The word piffle
must have been invented to meet such cases.
Fortunately, a cheap and effective scenic
effect of raging waters comes to the rescue
of the falling-rocket episode. As "The Peep
Show” continues its strenuous career, with
the help of a willing chorus, it makes a
feature of Dickens-street, where the assump-
tions of Dickens characters are intended,
seemingly, for people who have never read
Dickens and are unfamiliar with the tradi-
tional illustrations of his novels. George
Willoughby's familiar picture of Micawber,
already seen in a panto., is about the best
of a poor bunch.
* -* # *
The pick of the new basket of performers
is J. 11. Wakefield, a clever step-dancer, with
an incisive style of comedy and a voice that
bites. Miss Hilliard’s mild mezzo is
apt to be off the note, and herself in gen-
eral is wanting in force. Mona Magnet, at
her best in a Tivolian sketch where Wil-
loughby gets the more legitimate laugh, has
no singing voice to speak of, nor is her
broad comedy free from apparent effort.
Josie Melville, Norman Lee, Reginald Roberts
and half-a-dozen others are serviceable
helpers, and a lot of scenery and dresses are
less fresh than a number of bright Austra-
lian kiddies, who revel in their precocity.
Melbourne Mermaid Play Society scored
a success last week with a witty trifle by
Mrs. Margaret Dale, described as an Aus-
tralian comedy. But the story of two
spinsters in distress is more suggestive of
“THE PEEP SHOW," AT MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
George Willoughby as Micawber, and as the
lodger who's “got a few friends."
England than Australia, and the dialogue and
manner of the attenuated play indicate that
the authoress is a diligent student of Bernard
Shaw. Anyhow, “Secondary Considera-
tions” is amusing. From a woman’s point
of view it truly represents the relative im-
portance of daughters and sons in ordinary
God-fearing families, and from a man’s point
of view it is an illustration of literary
woman’s disposition to pity her sex on false
premises. Mrs. Dale, as some set-off to her
sketch of a pair of despicable brothers com-
pared with admirable sisters, offers a faithful
suggestion of a typically-pampered wife and
a droll vulgarian Mrs. Smith, whose puugent
cacklings leave one in doubt as to whether
she and her trumpery flapper daughter have
any redeeming qualities concealed amidst
their foolishness. Being kept going by smart
talk rather than brisk action, the playlet, in
four short, acts, came easy to Mary Curtain,
Edith Appleton, Kathleen A'enman and Maud
Grantham, whose voice seems to have thinned
a lot. since she first recited ‘‘The Christinas
Carol.” Tlv> ladies spoke their lines
for all they were worth, Dulcie Bland, as
the pampered young matron, being particu-
larly well placed. The men were passable
in Airs. Dale’s comedy, though not as com-
fortably situated as the women, but in a cur-
tain-raiser, where only competent acting
would have sufficed, the amateurishness of
the Mermaid Flayers (only two of them for-
tunately! made the performance hard to
endure.
* •!' * o
As much of Melbourne as lias already
seen Dennis’s “The Sentimental Blolve,” at
the King’s, is remarking that the story on
the stage makes an even stronger appeal
than on the screen. The ruggedness of Bill
and Ginger serves to correct the prevailing
“CAPTAIN APPLEJACK,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Diana. Wilson
as Anna Valeska.
goodness of ’eart which might, under other
circumstances, taste too sweet for words.
Chevalier’s idealised coster of yore appealed
to music-hall audiences with a new force,
and Dennis’s creations have more poetic-
charm than the figures in Chevalier’s ballads.
One leaves the King’s feeling good. Senti-
mentality always stops on the border-line of
spiritual uplift: it never descends into maw-
kishness. Meanwhile, the acting of Ccrnock,
Tal Ordell, and Eileen Alexander is adding
sureness of touch to its original art of real-
ism. AVith them bunched together, in the
last scene, even the silent baby in the cradle
seems an absolute fact.
* * * *
“Mary,” shifted to Melbourne Majesty’s
from the Royal, is straining every chorus
nerve to persuade easy audiences to be glad.
Somehow “Mary” reminds a ruminative
person of Paradign Fowldes in Ethel Irving’s
never-to-be-forgotten production of “Lady
Frederick.” Paradign was called from Lon-
don to smooth out a family difficulty, and, in
the bustle and disturbance of his sudden
journey and the annoyance at the end of it,
he forgot that he had dined after his arrival.
A valet reeled off a list of the goods he had
consumed, and Paradign could only say
“Strange that it seems to have left no im-
pression.” Well, “Mary” is like that. It
leaves no impression on the consumer. You
go away from the strenuous show with a
pleasant sense of emptiness in your mental
interior.
** * *
Wirths’ Circus made its usual Caulfield
Cup-night return to Melbourne with an evi-
dent determination of stopping at the Wirth
building some weeks. A lot of paint and
decoration had been lavished on the premises,
and the air of the outfit was specially smart.
Pretty well all a circus needs to make it go
is included in the show this time, and if
anything was wanting last Saturday it will
probably be supplied directly. A star turn of
its kind is that of the Whartons, who Work
something of a novelty in springboard effects.
The manoeuvres of a group of white Arab
horses —Australian bred—are a beautiful tri-
bate to the patience of their trainer, Welby
Cooke. The Flying Lloyds are no slouches
as gymnasts, and Alfred Clarke, who
appeared with the circus ere it closed its
Melbourne career a year ago, is more re-
markable- in his jockey act on a bare-backed
steed than his failures last Saturday night
would indicate. The Japanese acrobats
appear to be of mixed nationality as usual,
and the performing lions and bears under-
take their respective stunts with unfailing
accuracy.
5,1 • - >,t • 5,5 V
Melbourne Tivoli is enjoying a return of
Georgie Wood for two farewell weeks. On
Saturday the one and only Georgie resumed
his Boy Scout experience with a stepfather
who at first promises to be “over the odds.”
At Melbourne Hoyt’s, this week, the prin-
cipal drama is “The Storm,” where a lady
gets imprisoned in the snow-bound hut of
a. couple of men, with a view to partaking
of the most lively lot of perils this paper has
been screen-struck with tor some time. Two
or three farces seem almost probable after
“The Storm” lias done its worst. The Majes-
tic is presenting the rather doleful story of
"Blind Hearts,” dealing mainly with the
morbid musings of a bloated business man
who imagined giddiness where it never hap-
pened and hugged his false suspicions for 'JO
years. At the Melba can be seen Dorothy
Dalton, carrying on like a lovely terror in
“The Crimson Challenge,” and at the Bri-
tannia the leading item is “Prisoners of
Love,” the foremost captive being Betty
Compson, whose gilded bloke chucks her in
favor of her sister.
“The Naughty Princess,” at Sydney
Theatre Koyal, isn’t really any naughtier
than Eve when she tired of pumpkin and
pomegranate and yearned to know what a
Ribstone pippin tasted like. The play, even
if it lacks human interest and entirely lacks
convincingness, is artistically presented and
has a specious brightness of its own. The
Princess is a palace-product of Panoplia, an
Anthony Hopeful sort of little country; and
with the lure of piquant pleasures beckon-
ing she heads for Paris with an unwowser-
ish chaperone, a princely cousin and a royal
uncle, the last by no means averse to the
prospect of a few crowded hours of glorious
life in a far land and a live city. The play
mostly deals with the garish pleasures of
Paris, which shock the Princess into a sense
of propriety and make her glad to fall into
the arms of her own estimable cousin. It’s
no new theme, and possibly the excellent
moral embedded in it is an offset to some of
the touches of risque-ness.
Kitty Reidy scored a merited success as
the Princess, with a dainty face and figure,
a sweet and well-trained voice, and a talent
that should bespeak her a stage future. She
Is a little nervous and uncertain of herself
yet, but looks likely to bloom and expand in
the sunshine of approval. Marie Le Varre
played the Countess Kittisli with the broad
archness that the part demands. Grade
Lavers was a fetching Chiquette. A
Howett-Worster, as Prince Ladislas, filled a
rather difficult role effectively and tunefully.
That old favorite, Jack Cannot, made as
genial and robust a King of Panoplia as he
might have made a jolly King of Brentford.
Most of the minor parts were capably and
amusingly filled. The production and stage-
management of the comedy are excellent, and
some of the scenery is gorgeous.
* :\s *
“Cairo” is in its sixth week at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, and the packed houses
suggest no weakening in its appeal. The
magnificence of the scenery and the costumes,
the riot of color and pageantry, the subtle
Oriental atmosphere, the throbbing dances, the
realism and robustiousness of Oscar Asche
would make worse plots than that of
“Cairo,” and cheaper dialogue than it occa-
sionally falls into, things of scant account.
Even the rather vapid doggerel of some of
the songs is ignored or forgotten in the
•whirl of alluring impressions.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion Laurence Grossmith
will yawningly dilate for the last time to-
morrow night, as Applejohn, on the ennui
of a decorous bachelor’s existence, and roar
testimonials, as Applejack, to the excel-
lence of rum for a buccaneer’s innards.
Saturday night the curtain will go up on
“The Silver Fox,” and this indisputably fine
comedian and his capable company may be
relied on to establish themselves still more
firmly in the appreciation of Australian
playgoers.
% i\: #
Wee Georgie Wood has been succeeded at
Sydney Tivoli by Gene Gerrard, an enter-
taining young man whose gags are at least
moderately new. He appears alternately as
a sloppy electric mechanic and as a bride-
groom who has bibulously mislaid the bride.
Stanley Fields co-operates in a turn that is
droll and clean, and that made an undoubted
hit. For the rest, Max and Ray submit a
brisk ice-skating turn, Madeline Rossiter is
back again, Burr and Hope continue to
thnll the flappers, and Con Colleano man-
fully resists the temptation to introduce jazz
into his acrobatic act.
The pitcher of the week in the Sydney
flicker world is a fine D. W. Griffith film
with a French Revolutionary setting,
“Orphans of the Storm.” The Strand ex-
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
William Burr in. “A Belle, a Beau and a
Balcony."
liibits it, the Gish sisters appear in it, and
it is good stuff from go to stop. A super-
annuated face-contortionist, a bevy of U.S.
beauties and a recipe for a toilet prepara-
tion are the ingredients of “The Beauty
Shop” at the Lyceum. "The Last Payment”
is also collected along with the amusement-
tax at this house. Mary Pickford is extract-
ing tears from the Rialto’s customers at
reduced rates, and the misguided authors
of "The Journey’s End” lessen their
guilt by dispensing with sub-titles,
lloyt’s have a hectic epic or hiccup
called “Tropical Love,” and Gladys
Walton in “All Second-hand.” “A Yankee
at the Court of King Arthur” has travelled
on to the Empress, but the Town Hall still
houses “The Sin Woman.”
Emelie Polini, at Adelaide Royal, wisely
switches from “My Lady’s Dress” to another
drama of patches, “Eyes of Youth,” in which
her marked versatility again has full scope.
Gaston Mervale and others reinforce the
co., and the new piece finds Frank Harvey
as only one suitor among several, instead
of having the big chances of the more power-
ful play. In melodrama at the Prince of
Wales’s, Eugenie Duggan has serious rivals
in .public favor in two local boxers, who, in
an incidental scene, put up a willing go for
three rounds. The same kind of bill (with-
out the boxing) is at the King’s, where
George Cross and Agnes Dobson score
chiefly. A lot of new turns are just coming
into the Majestic. In pictures, “Orphans
of the Storm” has at last finished a long run
at the York. Monte Blue as Danton rides
the storm of the French Revolution with
effect. At West’s is a strong ocean drama,
“The Sea Lion.” Wanda Hawley, at Won-
dergrapli, gives a lesson to wives against
parting with domestic treasures to the
“junk man.” Hoot Gibson is at the Pav..
and the Grand dramatises “Lavender and
Old Lace.”
“L.H.P.”: “Topee” (B. 12/10/’22) is
wrong in ascribing “The Water Carrier” to
Ilalery. Cherubini was the culprit. The
“book” was founded upon an actual occur-
rence, Michele, a Savoyard, having carried
Count Armand out of Paris in a water-cart,
and thus saved him from Mazarin’s clutches.
Always popular in Paris since its original
production in 1800, the thing has frequently
been represented in English, notably by the
Carl Rosa crowd at the London Lyceum in
1876. Santley was the Michele of the piece.
“Deadhead”: The success of the “Beggar’s
Opera” in London has put producers on the
track of Gay’s other opera, “Polly,” and
it is to be staged at the Lyric Theatre, Ham-
mersmith. “Polly” is hardly likely to prove
such a success as its stable-mate, though.
In the “Beggar’s Opera,” as in Louis Esson’s
“Woman Tamer,” there is no question of
virtue or vice, and so the most wowserish
person can enjoy the pictures of a vivid
underworld life with an easy mind. “Polly,”
on the other hand, introduces the moralities
in the form of a Noble Savage, who is
shocked by the habits of civilised people. A
suspicion of political satire hangs about
“Polly,” for Walpole instructed the Lord
Chamberlain to censor it. but a 'modern
reader would have to search with a micro-
scope to discover the cause of the trouble.


,% f - v-
jjfe■.
lifW';'-
: :ff|
ryrr
>
.
2.SSS
//
//
y
■„/- .
v : , • • ..
. : : v. ;■
•
SSfiF-.PfkO,
iJWjMMi
vmii
:s\
< r * v *5 r* ' ~
i£f •; •'• *;V': ■ -
BW£:
Tmm?
H
m
v,:...
• •
.ft
IV<
lIS
f|S;
;M v.
•MV
: I s
mmmzb
M
mm
KS
KiM
•••M.
m&.
4*4&&i3
23*
' ": .
*>•'
■mm
••
? '•
L ;.fk> * >'i
i^¥.u
At®**
'
SW*
' .*■"*—***,
Z.S*.
IFSR
Read what the Farmer
says of Harvesting
with a
CASE
COPY.
Bute,
South Australia,
21st April, 1922.
Messrs. C.A.S.E., Limited,
53 Morphett Street, Adelaide.
Dears Sirs,
I am writing to tell you some
of the performances my Case 15/27-
h.p. tractor has done on my farm.
In the first place, I reaped about
300 acres of wheat with a 10ft. har-
vester, using the extension steering,
at a cost of Is. Od. per acre. Since
harvest I have cultivated 200 acres of
grass land, heavy work; cost me £ll
10s. for fuel. I have had practically
no trouble whatever with the machine,
and she is working as good as the day
I started.
I will be pleased to show this
machine to anybody who desires to see
it at work. This tractor has been in
work for a period of fifteen .(15)
months, and prior to my buying it was
used as a demonstrator by your firm
fcrr eight (8) months.
I remain,
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) C. W T . W. HEINKICH.
Send this enquiry to-day to
learn more about the CASE
and ensure getting delivery
before harvest.
This will not be your experience
next Harvest if you own a
Kerosene, Farm and General Purpose Tractor
“The Tractor that knows no Rival .
This wizard of power-farming machinery is always ready at
a moment’s notice; besides taking the crop off in a third or
less the time taken by horses, does the work much cheaper.
The efficiency of the CASE has been proved time after time
on Australian farms, and its manipulation is so simple that a boy
can work it. What it has done for others it will do for you.
Commonwealth .Agricultural Service Engineers
Limited
Head Office : 53-57 MORPHETT STREET, ADELAIDE, S.A,
Branches throughout Australia:
SOUTH AUS.: Kadina.
VICTORIA:
Clarke Buildings, 430
Bourke St., Melbourne.
Branch being opened in
TASMANIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
7 and 8 Bank N.S.W.
Chambers, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
Selling Agents for W.A.:
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES :
17 Martin Place, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
289-91 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
UK
M*t
1
w
m
m
>m
~a
vs
IS
vmls
\ \
!?■
S :-\
1
'§3&&&m
s-j*
g®Si
i: \if
m
S'v-r: \
i
V
v%
% 4 p.
”'- ' /r #i
*l*
'/ %•


CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS,.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
vallo”
WEED, SCRUB STREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
“VALLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form—Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State: lib., 9d.; lib. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; ilb., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO" Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
“Ca;sar’s Ghost” : There isn’t much in the
moving-picture business for the Australian
“ Mary ,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
W. S. Percy as
Gaston Marceau.
mime who hasn’t a
share in the pro-
fits. Engagements
don’t last long,
and there are
weary gaps be-
tween. Scenes that
would take weeks
to complete in
America, w here
the directors don’t
mind what they
spend so long as
they get every de-
tail according to
plan, are rushed
through here in a
day. One of the
best-known Aus-
tralian film actors
worked for three
days, and then had
to wait a month
until he was
wanted again—all
the time without
pay. Then he got
in five days and
had another holi-
diqv of six weeks. After that he resigned
to earn his living on a sheeprun.
“Fax”: Nobody, it was said, would be
imported for the next J.C.W. panto, except
a principal boy. .Then came the announce-
ment that no panto, would be produced under
the old Firm’s direction. Now it seems
that Tallis has booked a couple of veteran
acrobats and balancers to appear in a J.
and N. Tait panto, at Melbourne King’s.
Truly the combine moves in a mysterious
way * its wonders to perform. Where do
the J.C.W.’s end and J. and N. T.’s begin?
“0.K.” : I am reminded that the little con-
cession which Harry Rickards asked of
Marie Lloyd, thereby moving her to an out-
burst of temper, was not a discount off her
salary (which showed a loss on the engage-
ment), but her services free for a matinee.
Harry put it to the rampageous serio-chronic
that she would never miss what didn’t cost
her anything, but Marie was giving nothing
away on that occasion.
“Gnarek”: Fred Barnes, a recent Mus-
grove importation, owns a face that is well
known wherever a jeweller’s shop has pene-
trated. His portrait is pushed into many
of the photo-frames manufactured in
“Brum.” Barnes’s best-known rival in the
beauty-actor line is Owen Nares. But the
photo-frame form of publicity doesn’t appeal
to Nares.
“Snell” : Having nowhere to leave her, and
none to leave her with, we took little Bright-
eyes to see the “Merry Widow” when we
went to Her Majesty’s the other night. It
was all right; Brighteyes, who is five, took
in everything, and was enormously amused.
Next morning in her bath, striking a pose
in the costume for which Eve was well
known before she took French leave with the
apples, the little darling said: “Look,
mummie: how would I do for an actress?”
“M.D.”: “Nero’s” programme-boy, with
his praise of “The Merchant of Vemls” (B.
5/10/’22), recalls an urchin who bright-
ened an interval of a Calv 6 concert at Svd-
ney Town Hall by noisily vending the “words
an’ songs of Madame Carve, shillun each.”
But there are others. Walking into a Syd-
ney bookseller’s,' I asked for a copy of
Browne’s “Religio Medici.” An obliging
youth brought me “The Life and Times of
Catherine de’ Medici.” “Rum old tabbies,
them Medisees,” he courteously observed.
“CAPTAIN
APPLEJACK ,”
AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Edmund Duggan as Lush.
“Norbell”: These vaudeville “artistes”
are nearly all serio and very little comic;
but I did find a genuinely funny one at a
Sydney show not long ago. Having inflicted
on an Australian audience a couple of Cock-
ney canticles of the most depressing type,
she announced that several “artists” had
presumed to sing “Abe, My Boy,” in Sydney
without knowing how, but she, being the
original perpetrator of that masterpiece at
Tome, would now proceed to sing it as the
author intended it to he sung. The comic
part is that the lady was perfectly serious.
“0.K.” : “Blackfriars” (B. 5/10/’22), whilst
agreeing with my denunciations in general
of the late Elise Wiedermann’s pretensions
as a teacher of singing at Melb. University
Con., doubts whether I was correct in debit-
ing her with Nora Dane’s faults of enuncia-
tion. Seemingly “Blackfriars” never heard
Jack Dane’s sister sing until she had mar-
ried a fat Italian, and become confirmed in
her habit of murdering her own language.
The lady was a Conservatorium pupil,
who had not yet met her Valentin, when I
heard her warble an Irish ballad with a
guttural German accent. It was at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall, previous to 1898,
for in that year the late Marshall Hall pub-
lished his notorious book of silly verses,
including:—•
O where are you going, Miss Nora Dane?
O where are you going across the broad sea ?
I fear that ye’ll never come back again,
I fear that ye’ll never come back to me.
There were eight other lines of this delect-
able stuff, and the pome was headed “A
Hand-shake.” • (Extempore for a lady’s
Album.)
“Orb”: I find it hard to believe that
Marie Lloyd bad “lost her early force” (B.
19/10/’22) when she was in Australia. If,
as “0.K.” says, she kicked because Harry
Rickards wanted to go back on his contract
and reduce her salary, surely Marie was only
doing what—say—“O.K.” himself might do
if Tiie Bulletin suddenly proposed to cut
the stipulated rate of payment for his par.
Ordinarily, Harry Rickards was the last
man to squeak over a bad bargain, and he
paid worse performers bigger money. Be-
sides, Rickards did not regard Marie as
a bad bargain. He said in an interview
that she was “one of the greatest artistes
who ever visited Australia.”
“Bert X. Dig.”: I met Marie Lloyd be-
hind the scenes of the Greenwich Empire in
June, 1916. Becoming reminiscent, the lady
said that when she was a sprightly young-
ster in her teens, some of the pubs in her
Cockney neighborhood had nightly Caves of
’Armony, at which she and a girl pal used to
sing. One night a music-hall agent hap-
pened along, and was so impressed with
Marie that he got her an engagement. The
bouncing, laughing kid with the big teeth
made an instantaneous hit, and never looked
back.
“T.W.” : If grand opera is really coming
here in the near future, there are five works
that deserve an Australian spin, though all
won’t get it. “The Rose Cavalier,” Richard
Strauss’s comic opera, would be sure of
its audiences once the modern difficulty of
finding a real buffo singer for the main role
and sufficiently intelligent people for the
two score of minor parts had been got over.
If the co-operative British National Opera
Company were brought out, it could manage
the Strauss work provided the all-essential
buffo man were discovered. The concern
has probably taken over the expensive
settings and costumes with Beecham’s other
stage belongings. Wolf-Ferrari’s “Jewels of
the Madonna” and “Secret of Susanna”
would go well coupled together in
the “Cavalleria”-“Pagliacci” fashion, or
Massenet’s beautiful “Juggler of Notre
Dame” could be bracketed with one
of them. Possibly Australia is not
ripe for Debussy’s “Pelleas and Melisande”
or the voluptuous Strauss “Salome.” The
German music-king’s “Electra” is too relent-
lessly gory and full of nightmare shrieks to
try in these parts, though I have seen it pull
big English audiences.
“Norbell”: I was privileged to be in the
dressing-room |of the imported vaudeville
star, and he was annoyed. The emotion was
inspired by a three-line mention in an
obscure newspaper which had remarked that
our visitor’s performance was not refresh-
ingly novel. My friend let her rip:—
Here’s a (contaminated) guy of a dog-gam mud-
turtle who’s got the (insanitary) nerve to say my
act’s bum! Does this fish-chinned (unwholesome)
boob judge I’ve come to this goldwined (insalubrious)
country from the Yewnited States of Amurrika to be
joshed with punk rube stuff like this here? No, sir!
No one but Cissies reads his blame yaller rag,
anyway. Here’s a Narth-river shad of a pinhead,
with on’y 15 dahlars in his envelope, gahrt the ever-
lastin’ gall to write about me— me —oh, boy!
An’ I’m drawin’ 400 dahlars a week! Let the mutt
write 1 I’m gonna treat him with impunity!
I felt relieved, for I had written that par
myself.
“First Old Man” : I am with Oscar Asche
when he says in that masterful way of his:
Let your critics do all they can to foster the
right spirit in playgoer and player. Let them insist
on honesty and condemn fakes.
Where is the fearless critic who will honestly
pass judgment on our dressing of a part—
a most important detail —when we essay
modern comedy or drama? Why have we
no trade journal like the English Tailor
and Cutter? Woe betide the London mum-
mer who attempts a sartorial fake! The
Cutter —apt designation—lies in wait to
cut the unfortunate wight to ribbons. On
the other hand, when the dossy “juvenile”
really deserves it, how generous is the
paper’s praise! Hearken to what it had
to say recently about the leading man of the
moment: —
On Mr. Owen Nares clothes take on something of
the magic of poetry. A suit is as suggestive as a
sonnet. He expresses himself by dress, as Pavlova
in the dance, or Pachmann on the piano.
That’s the stuff to p-ive us! That’s the way
to uphold the art of the theatre. If all our
critics would but talk like that our press
notices would be worth keeping.
“S.T.S.”: Have lately had the pleasure of
finding two imported Americanisms falling
quite flat before Australian audiences. They
were neat enough in their way, too. In
“Mary,” when people say “It’s a rumor,”
the improbable Frenchman agrees (as he
supposes), saying “It’s a boarder.” America
commonly calls anyone who occupies a single
room a “roomer,” but the word is hardly
known here. Again, in a screen drama the
girl’s mother asks the young lover if his
business is “still holding up,” and is aston-
ished when he replies, “Well, it is; but I’m
going to change it.” The audience, when I
saw the flicker, was as innocent as the
mother; but an American crowd would re-
cognise that his business was “holding up,”
otherwise robbery under arms, or, in an
Australian phrase now rapidly getting for-
gotten, “sticking up.”
“0.K.”: The modern platform baritone
never ventures his luck with a ripping fine
ballad which was the particular success of
the late Charles Santley in his young days.
“The Stirrup Cup” was as familiar in the
mouth of Santley 50 to 60 years ago as “The
Village Blacksmith” had been in the mouth
of his operatic colleague, Weiss, who set
Longfellow’s lines to music. The ambition
of every baritone was to sing “The Stirrup
Cup” in the Santleyan manner. A stir-
ring song—but not easy." The most reason-
able explanation I ever heard of the disap-
pearance of the once-favorite ballad from
concert programmes was the statement
(from an old musical student) that modern
baritones are incapable of making a fine
thing of it. Santley was a pupil of Garcia,
the greatest singing teacher that ever was.
Besides, he had a range which enabled him
to achieve wonders with his art. Never-
theless he asked too much of his voice when
he was young, and the splendor of it was
said to be dimmed long before he was out
of the 30’s. When he came out to this
country the voice was only a suggestion of
its old self. Its operatic heyday was then
but a tradition.
“T.R.H.”: Sybil Arundale (B. 5/10/’22)
isn’t the first actress to make a name in one
branch of her art and be re-discovered in
another. Kate Vaughan had a similar experi-
At Sydney Tivoli.
Gene Gerrard, the
comedian, messing
about until electricity.
ence. Kate was a
wonderful dancer
at the old London
Gaiety, what time
Florence St. John
was appearing in
“Madame Favart”
and Lily Langtry
in “O u r s,” and
James Fawn was
the light of the
“halls,” where the
chairman and h's
gavel still held
sway. Her twink-
ling limbs charmed
the Duke of Well-
ington’s heir, and
she married him—
and lived to regret
it years after-
wards. She blazed
as the comedy
actress of the sea-
son and toured
Britain in “She
Stoops to Con-
quer” and “The
School for Scan-
dal.” Leonard
Rai n e built a
theatre for her in
S’Africa, and Roy
Redgrave was a
member of her co. But poor Kate’s luck
wasn’t lasting. She fell upon evil days and
died in the direst need.
“Dido”: There is no performer I know
in whom I resent coarseness as I
do in Ada Reeve, for the excellent
reason that she can do admirably with-
out it. Many men and women on
the various stages, having nothing of their
own to offer an audience, seek to eke out
with double meanings and gross actions, and
it is admitted that they must do something.
Ada Reeve, on the other hand, is a decent
singer, a good comedian, a fair dancer and
a character actress of parts; why should she
drag in double meanings of no doubtful
character, rude gestures fit for the cheapest
serio-comic, and motions which, to say the
least, are calculated to give the unregenerate
ulterior notions? When you can entertain
excellently off your own bat, the club of the
vaudeville tough is utterly uncalled for. I
know what the actress’s answer will be:
“Seven months’ run with ‘Spangles.’ Money
talks.” In defiance of that I still say: “It
doesn’t pay.” The rough stuff draws no-
body worth mentioning; it scares many
away, not because they are prudes, but be-
cause they hate being bored.
“L.H.P.”: “J.F.H.” (B. 19/10/’22) is
wrong when he says that George Rignold
played Caliban in Sydney. Handsome
George did the thing only at Melbourne
Royal, from March 2to 25, 1887. The cast
included Jimmy Hazlitt (now in front at
Sydney Majesty’s) as Sebastian, Joe Tolano
(until lately hotel-keeping in Sydney) as
the Boatswain, George Ireland as Alonzo,
James Cathcart as Prospero, Gus Glover as
Antonio, Walter Everard as Ferdinand, W.
H. Leake as Gonzalo, J. R. Greville as Tj-in-
culo, Stirling Whyte as Stephano, Kate
Bishop as Miranda, and Julia Simmons as
Ariel. Rignold followed Charles Kean’s act-
ing version of the play, which omits the
opening scene of the deck of a ship. When
Labouchere staged it for Rignold at the
London Queen’s in October, 1871, the same
rule was followed. However, William Hos-
kins, in his memorable production at Sydney
Prince of Wales’s (the old Royal), made a
big feature of the opening ship-scene, as also
did Tree at London Majesty’s in 1904. Rig-
nold’s London stags associates included Hen-
rietta Ilodson as Ariel, John Ryder (the
Caliban of Charles Kean’s 1857 produc-
tion) as Prospero, and Maria Rhodes as
Miranda. Arthur Sullivan’s music was a
feature of this revival. “J.F.H.’s” mention
of William Ores wick reminds me that he
played Prospero at the Crystal Palace, Syd-
enham, in 1875 to William Rignold’s Cali-
ban and Harry Paulton’s Trinculo, all three
artists familiar to Australians.
POLICE PROTECTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Oakes has decided to
prohibit the screening of all pictures that hold the
police up to ridicule.
In a city where we’re day by day affrighted
By dismal pars, recording crime’s increase,
No more shall thoughtless boyhood be incited
To regard as jests the guardians of the peace.
No longer shall the copper, streaking after
The agile crook along the crowded street,
Be featured, amid hurricanes of laughter,
Impeded by his own ■obtrusive feet.
No more shall Charlie Chaplin get the drop
With viscous custard tart upon the cop.
For the Minister’s decided, by the country’s welfare
guided,
This species of belittlement must stop.
When every second post props up a spieler,
And at every other corner lurks a thug,
Let the flicks quit poking borak at the peeler
And depicting him a zany or a mug.
Though making butts for merriment of bobbies
As wit and humor admirable strikes
Such citizens as cultivate tire hobbies
Of Fagan or of C'laypole or of Sikes,
Salius populi demands that it shall stop,
Mr. Oakes will have transgressors on the hop.
There’ll be salutary fining for such Thespian
maligning
And an end to the lampooning of the slop.
But few of our Australian youths are strangers
To Starlight’s feats —and smellful Kelly’s, too,
Where the glory’s always lavished on the ’rangers
And the odium on the gentleman in blue.
Invariably plaudits were uproarious
For law-defying, trooper-plugging blokes;
But those films are on index expurgatorius
Henceforth; they rest beneath the ban of Oakes.
No more cheers for Thunderbolts whose bullets pop
At carcases with helmets on the top —
It’s sapping by invidious innuendo and insidious
The regard that should be earmarked for the Hop.
In a city where the burglar’s swift decision
But parallels the murderer’s resource,
Sure, a more improper target, for derision
Could hardly be imagined than the Force.
Impress it upon artist, playwright, poet:
From traducing Law in buttons you must cease.
If you’ve satire, at the politician throw it,
But never make a mock of the police.
No more he’ll be of pantomime a prop —
For the clown to belt with sausages, or swap
Repartee with and allusion to the constable’s
confusion —
To be cuddled by the cook, or with a mop
Hustled out into the area like a bummer or a
pariah—
These hilarities, the ukase says, must stop.
Which suggests a fairer deal or spin arriving for
the peeler
And a better time in prospect for the cop.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


F
m
m
M
„ *
if
r i
K.
Sns&» .?•
v.;,.
r
m
Pretty girls have always
known the secret
THESE two pretty girls share the same beauty secret,
although one lived 2,000 years ago, for pretty
girls have always known that a fresh, smooth,
radiant skin is not only woman’s greatest charm, but
one within reach of every woman.
For pretty girls used a form of Palmolive in the days
of ancient Egypt, just as they do to-day. The crude
combination of Palm and Olive oils, which then served
as a beautifying cleanser, was the inspiration of the
familiar, fragrant cake of Palmolive Soap.
The secret of a clear skin
Modern science, with all its progress, can find no
milder, more soothing cleansers than these two ancient
oils. It can only perfect their combination and offer it
in the most efficient and convenient form.
The smooth, creamy lather of Palmolive Soap gently
but surely removes all impurities that clog the tiny
pores composing the surface of the skin. Such clogging
enlarges the pores and the results are coarseness of
texture, blackheads, and possible skin erruptions. There
is no beauty in a complexion so neglected, it
repulses when it should attract, cheating woman of her
greatest charm.
Soothes while it cleanses
Do you complain that soap is too harsh, that it ages
and dries your skin? If this is so, it proves you are
using the wrong soap. The soft, delicious lather of
Palmolive Soap soothes while it cleanses, and, in
cleansing, removes every trace of injurious skin accumu-
lations and secretions, leaving the face satin smooth,
aglow with radiant freshness and natural color.
Having experienced the perfection of Palmolive Soap,
you will appreciate the worth of Palmolive Cold Cream,
Palmolive Vanishing Cream; “Violet of the Nile” and
“Egyptian Rose” Talcums; “Palmole” Face Powder;
Palmolive Face Powder; Palmolive Rouge; Palmolive
Shampoo.
m
ONE SHILLING PEL CAKE EVERYWHERE
TRTAL CAKE FREE
Fill out and Mail to —
THE PALMOLIVE CO. (AUST.) LTD.
Broughton House, 181 C arence St , Sydney
Name -
8—26-10-22
m
m
m
- *a
<-•’
sfis
' '^ ;
-V'
- v : -


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PIIILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldtun
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph : “lIOCAR,” Sydney.
Gives a full rich lather.
- V ■
!h
M
I
///
ERASMIC
SHAVING STICK
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The second day of the Caulfield Cup meet-
ing was boshter for the books, and bewildering
to backers of form. The explanation of the defeat
of Eurythmic by Purser was luck, perhaps—the
champion having the worst of the running as well
as a 131 b. heavier burden on a trying day. In
several other cases the weather must have been all
accountable for failures to run - somewhere near to
expectation. The temperature had risen in a hurry
to nearly the highest point on Victorian record for
mid-October. There must be almost as much differ-
ence in gee-gee capacity for making light of a
sudden rise of 30 degrees in the thermometer as in
human susceptibility to tired feeling. The heat wave
settled a dozen fair chances on the Wednesday at
Caulfield. Tangalooma, who went tired in the
Coongy Handicap before he had gone 10 furlongs,
was only one who couldn’t be judged on his form
for the day, and whose failure served as an example
of the risks that punters run in trying to pick ’em.
There’s bumping, squeezing, blocking, pocketing, bad
riding and so forth in a numerous field, plus heavy
going for the nag that wants it light, and an iron
track for one that would do well in the mud. And
once in a way there’s an abnormal rise or fall of
temperature to make some horses and mares languid,
whilst others get the hump through a sudden chill.
An explanation of the burning of Caulfield
members’ stand, offices and judge’s box was rumored
almost as soon as the world got wind of the incen-
diarism, which nearly succeeded in making racing
impossible for the day. But rumor never even
approached the real power behind the scenes in this
picturesque happening. The finger of Providence
(ould be seen in those black ruins of the members’
stand. Two or three days previously the Vic. Minis-
ter for Lands had unblushingly informed members
of the State Parliament that “they would be admitted
to V.A.T.C. meetings at Caulfield racecourse, and to
the members’ reserve, on producing their railway
badges.’’ In view of the club’s somewhat precarious
holding of the Caul-
field land for racing
purposes this bold and
fearless nobbling of
the Legislature evi-
dently shocked Provi-
dence. It _ was going
too far in its endeavor
to. defeat the “down-
with-Caulfield” party.
So the members'
stand, to which legis-
lators were to have
free admission on pro-
ducing evidence of
their dead-head bona
fldes. went up to
Heaven in smoke over-
night, and the reserve
had no shelter or re-
freshment - room t o
offer. Providence had
spoken. Why specu-
late as to Providence’s
agent in the trans-
action?
“S. A. RAWDON .”
Victorian breeder
and owner.
Very tew “its” were heard on the course after
Caulfield Cup. Although Whittier was not a wide
selection, and he was really much more of an out-
sider to punters in general than was Violoncello last
year, his victory was accepted as a quite decisive
event. The time had been as good as the best on
record: veiry few horses had been concerned in the
making of it, and Whittier, the son of Woorak, was
one of them. As they swept past the makeshift judge’s
box the first time, top weight Violoncello was setting
the pace, with Yaeamunda, Soorak and Easingwold
helping to carry on the good work. When positions
began to look all important Dunwil became pace-
maker ; indeed, Dunwil was the first horse to have
his name shouted. Heir Apparent’s backers were the
next to make a noise. But all this while Whittier
was among the first six or so. Violoncello dropped
somewhat out of notice without fading away, and
Soorak appeared to lose ground by running wide,
whilst Tangalooma and Purser were forcing them-
selves into notice from the obscurity of the ruck,
but Whittier was always being mentioned hopefully
by his closest watchers. Finally, when Dunwil had
done his dash, and Easingwold had been forgotten,
and Purser, then Tangalooma, was excitedly pro-
claimed as “home and dry,” it became evident that
the bright little run which brought Whittier to the
fore as soon as the turn was fairly rounded would
suffice to carry him to victory. The challenge of
Purser and Tangalooma was insufficiently speedy.
The young colt, with 6st. 131 b. aboard, was too spry
for veterans who were giving him 271 b. and 221 b.
respectively. The nearest to them was Violoncello,
who was giving the leader 361 b. Apparently the race
had been well within the reach or any good class
three-year-old that ran straight and kindly in a small
boy’s hands. The older nags were mostly a poor lot,
otherwise there would not have been the unprece-
dented result of three out of the first four places
being filled by heavyweights who had each been
placed in previous Caulfield Cups. Violoncello won
last year and might have repeated the trick last
Saturday had he been as hard in condition as many
of his opponents. Tangalooma ran third to Euryth-
mic two years ago with a stone less in the saddle,
and Purser ran second last year, also with a 14ib.
lighter burden.
It was a fair win for Whittier, a win to be ex-
pected by anyone who knew that the amiable colt
had the worst of the run with Soorak in the Caul-
field Guineas, and could be depended on to see Ihe
12 furlongs out. Reasonable punters who knew
little of the stable’s reasons for confidence
were content to wait and see whether a son of
Woorak would shape like a stayer. Soorak had not
done it in the A.J.C. Derby ; yet he was, on paper,
a much more brilliant colt than Whittier, ar.d not
incapable of giving him 81b. and a beating in the
Caulfield Cup, wherever the pair might finish. Now
that the public has seen Whittier finish in a fast-
run 12-furlong handicap, it knows him to be a
better stayer than was expected.
After Caulfield Cup the friends of Whittier natu-
rally protested that he was going to follow up his
success by winning V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne
Cup. He was a late foal, and it happens that the
Cup will fall on his birthday, November 7. Yet it
is not at all clear to this scribe’s way of thinking
that Whittier will win the Derby, to begin with, let
alone the two-mile handicap. In the classic race
Soorak will have the advantage again of a man on
his back; moreover, he will meet his C.C. conqueror
on 81b. better terms than in last Saturday’s event.
And in the Melbourne Cup Whittier will, with his
101 b. penalty, meet The Cypher on exactly a stone
worse terms than in the Caulfield Gup, where The
Cypher finished about sixth. Picking two likely win-
ners of the Melbourne Cup on Caulfield Cup perform-
ances, the writer would have The Cypher and Violon-
cello, but always with the proviso that the imported
stallion took kindly to his track work during the
interval between the two Cups. Violoncello is un-
doubtedly a horse of higher class than either Tanga-
looma or Purser, His performance in the Caulfield
Cup was brilliant, considering that he did not have
a - «trurg : up appearance. He carried 945 t., made
some of the running in the first mile, and finished
a close fourth, not 2i lengths behind the winner.
But, of course, he must be in pretty hard condition
to win a Melbourne Cup under 9st. 31b., a' weight
which seemed to put him out of it in last year’s
rough race. A shortage of condition appeared to be
the matter also with The Cypher last Saturday.
The Martian colt gives one the impression that he
has never been in Melbourne quite as well and jollv
as he must have been in M.L. last season. Nor is
it anything in his favor that stable-companion Stare
cut up so badly in the Caulfield Cup. We may not
see the best of The Cypher yet awhile. But if we
do see him at his best at the Melbourne Cup meet-
ing he will go very near to capturing the £lO,OOO
stake, no doubt about it.
* * * «
“Nimshi”: In 38 Melbourne Cup races
every number from one to 20 has been hoisted
as the winner at least once, with the exception of
five, six and seven. Yet four and eight—their
immediate neighbors—have both figured at the top
of the board more than once. Number 4, in fact,
has the record tally of five wins to its credit—
Dunlon ’B7, Bravo 'B9, Patron ’94, Grafter ’9B
and The Parisian 1911.
Exceptional shooting over the longer
ranges enabled F. G. Smith (Annandale) to pluck
the N.S.W. King’s prize. At the first stage (Prince
of Wales—lo shots at 300yds., 500yds. and 600yds.)
A. W. Parsons (Wollongong) put up 145 (out of
150), and four others had 143. Smith’s total was
140. The second stage (Mick Simmons—lo shots at
600yds. and 700yds.) found the short-range pluggers
astray, and Clarrie Williams (Vic.), winner of last
year’s King’s, registered 97 (out of 100), with F.
G. Smith and W. G. Stanley (Q.) 96 each. When
the marksmen went up for the final stage (Le Maitre
—lO shots at 600yds., 800yds. and 900yds.) the
leaders were Williams (238), Smith (236), H. V.
Evatt (Vic.) and W. H. Cutler (234 each). Over
the long range Smith scored 144 (out of 150), and
Evatt 140, while Williams crashed for 132. The
King’s aggregate and £lOO, therefore, went to the
Annandale man, 380, from Evatt, 374 (£5O), and
C. Williams, 370 ( £25). Smith was a mere B-
grade shot before the meeting. There are seven
little Smiths to help him spend the money.
* * * *
There were some decent scores in Sydney
premiership cricket on Saturday. Glebe got 370 v.
North Sydney, Gordon Morgan contributing 112, L.
Gwynne 78, and Warren Bardsley 61. Manly regis-
tered 311 for eight wickets v. University. G Wil-
liams (86) and Arthur Mailey (57 not out) heading
an array of double-figure scorers. Sydney’s 309 v.
Western Suburbs was mostly provided by O. p"
Asher (135) and ex-Sydney Grammar youth H H
Datson (100 not out). Two ex-Victorian left-handers
did severe damage with the ball, H. Ironmonger
(Balmain) getting 6 for 43 v. St. George, and C ~S
Armstrong (Mosman) 6 for 71 v. Randwick. Balmain
(5 for 167) lead St. George (78), and Mosman (2
for 141) are ahead of Randwick on the first innings •
the other matches are in doubt. No-balling was
frequent, half-a-dozen trundlers being penalised.
Melbourne University owns a fine bats-
man in Freemantle. Against Northcote on Saturday
ne made 1-19 out of 248, scoring the hundred at the
rate of nearly a run a minute. Ryder (70) showed
a return to form for Collingwood against Hawthorn
Fast (’"Wood have lest 6 for 279), and Park con-
tributed 57 of the 158 scored by South Melbourne
against Prahran, for whom Grimmett took 5 for 52.
A more remarkable bowling performance was that of
Sandford, the Melburnian, hitherto distinguished as a
forcing bat. Sandford got six Fitzroy wickets for 21—
and I'itzroy made 277. In the Richmond-Carlton
match the star was Love, the wicket-keeper from N.
8. \\ ales, who caught one Richmond batsman and
helped to run three others out by smartly taking
returns from the field. The Victorians are already
saying that he’s “as good a find as O’Keeffe.’’
Welshman JACK
JOSEPHS in
an apologetio
attitude .
Winkle”: Peter McAlister, who will
always be remembered as one of Victoria’s greatest
batsmen, has decided not to resume the game.
Though 53 years old, and after 37 years of senior
pennant cricket, 32 of which he spent with East
Melbourne, he still retains much of his old form.
Last year, playing for Hawthorn-East Melbourne, he
batted in 12 innings (more than any other player
on the sidel. for 280 runs; average, 23.41. Though
always brilliant with his club, it was not until his
29th year that he was picked with the Victorian XI ;
but, once there, he soon earned the reputation of the
best bat in the State. McAlister is one of the select
half-dozen Victorians who have Scored more than
1000 runs, against troth N. S. Wales and S. Australia
(the others being Warwick Armstrong, Harry Trott,
Frank Laver, Vernon Ransford and Harry Graham).
His highest score in a representative match was
224, against M.L. in 1899; and in inter-State
matches, 157 against S. Aus. in 1905. He repre-
sented Australia in many Tests here, but it was
not until 1909, when he was 40 years old, and past
his best, that he was picked for England. llis
figures for the trip were 816 runs ; highest score 85,
average 29. It is doubtful whether any other Aus-
tralian, with the single exception of George Giffen,
ever played senior-pennant and inter-State cricket
so long and so successfully. At baseball McAlister
won the highest honors, and was probably the best
third base that ever played for Victoria. Also, he
was one of those ill-fated Australian baseballers who
toured U.S.A. in 1897, winning but 10 matches in
a series of 25; but who, later, made some amends
by defeating England at Crystal Palace.
A schedule of times, probably unique, in
manager Sydney Smith’s book on the last Australian
XI, seems to show that the quickest scorers are also
the most successful. Macartney, Bardsley, Arm-
strong, Ryder, Mavne and Gregory headed the aver-
ages in England; the quickest scorers were Macartney,
Gregory, Pellew, Armstrong, Carter, Ryder and Bards-
ley. Yet when Pellew completely lost his form, in
South Africa, he became also the slowest scorer of
the whole team. Colli rs was the slowest while in
England (with Hendry next), but on the matting
wickets he was one of the fastest. But even at his
slowest he made 32 runs an hour, meaning well over
a run a minute for self and partner; and the
Australians as a whole scored 84 runs an hour,
against an English average of 58. Another unusual
schedule compiled by Smith is that of mileage,
32,383 from Sydney and home again. The most
striking thing in it is the gigantic triangle covered
at the end of July, when by some miracle of local
bad management the Australians were given consecu-
tive fixtures at Manchester, Southend, at the mouth
of the Thames, South Wales and Liverpool, 636 miles,
to finish practically where they started.
“Tren”: Johnny Moyes, who, before the
war, batted so well for South Australia in Sheffield
Shield matches, and later came to Victoria, only to
move on to N.S.W., registered a unique feat last
year. Playing with Essendon (Vic.) in the beginning
of the season he won their batting average with a
record of 47 runs an innings. Migrating to Sydney,
he finished the season with Gordon, and won their
batting average with 62 runs an innings. He has
now represented South Australia and' Victoria in
first-class cricket, and will, very probably, complete
his set of caps this year, for he is likely to be chosen
for the N. S. Wales XI.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The story of “Winkle” (B.
12/10/722) about bowling averages is just an
old puzzle re set. (Presumably he doesn’t expect
anyone to accept as actual fact his two men tying,
each with 28 wickets for 60.) That a bowler can
have clearly the best average in each innings, and
yet not the best in the two .combined, is a thing
known to every writer on the game, though it
seems incredible nonsense to anyone striking it for
the first time. For instance, A with 6 for 180 is
better than B with 4 for 140, and in the other
innings his 4 for 10 beats B’s 6 for 30 ; yet on the
whole match A with 10 for 190 loses to B with 10
for 170. It is just that A had the bad luck to be
taking most wickets at a time when they were
costly, and fewer of the inexpensive ones. It is
like selling a mixture of wine and water. You
may buy each liquid a shade cheaper than your rival
can, but, if you put more wine and less water in
your mixture than he does, he can still undersell
you.
* * * #
Sixty-one last week, A. H. Jarvis, the
nrst b.A. cricketer who ever got into an Australian
r;r ~, ? ey P? cked them young in those days, and
Aph had his 19th birthday on the way back from
the tour of 1880. lie went again in 1886, 1888 and
1893. He was a fine wicket-keeper, but had the bad
luck to be contemporary with Blackham, and so
was nearly always left in the pavilion on important
occasions.
* • * *
“Centurion”: Oxford’s Rugby XV has for
years contained a leaven of Australian and M.L.
players. This year most of the side promises to
hail from this part of the world. A cable describing
the final trials says that Q. C. Aitken (M.L.), A. C,
Wallace (N.S.W.), R. 11. Bettington (N.S.W.), V.
11. Treatt (N.S.W.) and F. W. Patterson (Q.) were
tried, and that T. Lawton (Q.) may play full-
back vice Forsayth, “of America”! The latter is
the Forsayth of King’s, Parramatta, who has played
full-back for Scotland and Oxford for some seasons
past, and is shortly to return to Australia. Wallace
the Sydney University and N.S.W. threßquarter.
while Lawton, a five-eighth, and Bettington, a forward,
are both old Blues, Lawton being certainly the
only Northern Union player to attain that eminence.
He played N.U. rules a couple of seasons in Queens-
land. G. C. Aitken is the All Black centre-three-
quarter, who represented M.L. against the Springboks
and was tipped by The Bulletin last year as a
moral for his Blue when he went up. Patterson
has played with Queensland University, and Treatt is
a Ma State Rhodes Scholar.
* * * *
“J.H.” (London) : Kid “championships” in
golt and lawn tennis are sickening that section of
the sporting public—a big one—that doesn’t see why
the English schoolboy should be made even more
insufferable than he is, because the Daily Pictorial
finds it difficult to get suitable pictures during the
sillv season. The space devoted to the sporting acti-
vities of the kid in these alleged “championships'’
would turn the head of the most hardened pothuntel'.
A bad feature of the inflictions is their tendencv
to encourage those who take part in them to imitate
their elders by raising technical points at the expense
of their opponents. Fleet-street calls this sort of
thing ' ‘a needle match.” One of the brats in thtj
“boys golf championship” wouldn’t move a vard
without consulting his mother, “who,” as the Daily
L icomeiik a put it, “had coached him from infancy.”
Another cub had a professional coach at his elbow
from the first tee to the last.
* * * *
All Hawaii is talking about the 18-vear-old
Christchurch (M.L.) girl, Cwitha Shand, With the
Auckland mermaid, Paula Hoeft, Gwitha was invited
to compete in the world tourney at Honolulu, and
the cable reports that she streaked away from
the local girls, Marieschen Wehselau, Helen Moses,
Inly Bowmer and Estelle Cassidy, in the 4 40yds.
Hawaiian championship, putting up the world’s record
tirpe of 6min. 14 2-ssec. Hilda Janies, recorder of
the previous best time for the distance, Omin. 16
3-ssec., was also Invited to Honolulu, but ’probably
the English girl couldn’t get away. Gwitha Shand
must have improved out of sight. Her previous best
time (Dominion record) was 6min. 26 l-ssec.
* * * *
Prank Springfield, the Q'land swimmer, is
retiring from a sport of which he has been an orna-
ment for 19 years. Frank is 35, and at 16 he was
Second in the Australian mile championship to
Barney Iteiran. In 1908, being then 21, he landed
the 880yds. championship of England, besides six
German titles. With brother Sid and sister Mabel
he has annexed most of the Bananaland classics
since 1903, and he retires with 119 medals to his
credit.
* * * *
Twenty-six Sydney 18-footers, sporting
black ribbons on their mainsails in memory of the
donor, competed for the Dumaresq Cup over the
Georges Heights-Shark Island-Clarke Island course.
The prevailing easterly made the going easy for the
limit craft, Sunny South, 7min. (R. Marsh), and
Acme, 7min. (A. Boyd), and they were never headed.
Sunny South dropped the bunting with 61sec. to
spare from Acme, with Pastime, ljmin. (Sid
Holmes), only 3sec. astern.
* * » .
Compared with the polished exhibition
provided by Godfrey and Dwyer a week be-
fore, the Josephs-Young scrap, at Sydney Stadium,
was crude. Josephs knocked the Sydney youth down
in the first minute, and should have settled him
w-ith the next wallop, but tire affair dragged along
for 10 rounds, with the Englishman winning all the
way. Then the referee intervened. Young is a
game boy, but lacks experience.
* * * *
When Semmens whipped Bert McCarthy,
who had left his “silk” in a Turkish bath, that
pallid young man wiped a tear out of the eye that
wasn’t shut and burbled, “ ’E’ll beat Spaxgo.” On
the strength of this recommendation they sent the
youngster against Spargo at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night. He landed one punch and lasted
a round and a half. Spargo swung his right on
the long youth’s ear, swung it again on the spot
where the cauliflower grows, and completed his easy
job with a succession of uppercuts. The transfor-
mation of the indolent artist into an implacable
knocker-out is highly unpopular with some of his
old opponents. “’E useter let a bloke go twenny
rounds,” one of them morosely protests.
* * * *
Frank Thorn, who must be 43 if he is a
day, essayed a come-back against Ern Baxter at Bris-
bane on Saturday night. For a few rounds the old
un’s work was delightful, but he couldn’t keep it
up, and the police mercifully interfered in the
eighth. Thorn was fighting provincial champions
when his conqueror was in his cradle. Had Nature
lengthened his arms a bit (he has an unusually
short reach), he would have been a world-beater.
The amateur billiard championship .. of
South Oss has changed hands, W. 11. Buchanan
winning an all-corners’ match and then beating Wilson,
holder for the past three years. It is not often that a
prominent all-round athelete has Buchanan’s delicacy
of touch with the cue. He is or has been in district
match teams at cricket, football, tennis and lacrosse.
At baseball he is better still, his fingers having
taken hard knocks in every inter-State game for the
last 10 years.
CHINESE RUGBY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Chinese team of footballers will visit Australia
next season under the auspices of the Rugby League.”
-—Sporting item.
Does the item obsess?
Does the notion intrigue?
Can you vision the scene
Without mental fatigue?
What matter, so long as it convoys the grist
to the mill of the League?
Will they flummox the backs
• With the wiles of Ah Sin?
In the line-out from touch
Will legerdemain win?
Who cares when Celestial capers are rattling
the gate-money in ?
Will Sydneyites flock
Their approval to roar,
When, from jiu-jitsu jinks,
The Caucasians score
A penalty goal—to the tune of a mournful Mon-
golian “whafl'or” ?
Will sportsmanship keen
Where spectators are lined
To racial hate
Make the barrackers blind,
When a Chink sprints past panting opponents
with his pigtail outstreaming behind?
Are all barriers down?
Have East and West met?
Cut it out! If it pays
Why the deuce should you fret,
Though the League brings us Hottentot athletes
or glad-hands a team from Thibet ?
N.S.W.
T. THE U.


A Quality Car
at a Quantity Price
CHEVROLET has attained the leader-
ship of all standard-equipped cars,
and has proved that it is possible to
build a high-quality car to sell at a
quantity price.
THE tremendous resources of the
General Motors Corporation are
at the disposal of the Chevrolet
Motor Company, bringing to them at
quantity-production prices motor equip-
ment found only in cars selling much
higher.
THE Chevrolet is equipped with every
modern motoring essential —electric
starter and lights, Berling magneto,
Willard threaded-rubber battery, three-
speed transmission, valve-in-head engine,
spiral bevel gear rear axle, water- and oil-
pump, hand- and foot-brakes.
TO-DAY the Chevrolet is the world’s
lowest-priced quality car. Naturally
it is the biggest-selling car in that
class.
“Some day you’ll own a Chevrolet.”
m
S 3
* •hmwai'l
CHEVROLET
4*
Jps*
m
4p
«*$ r
Mk „
. Tjlf l-^K/
I Os **
- **o
§
5n />?
SK
■HB
«' Nil'? v
V' f \
r=
AAa //Ml -
Sfc
>
v*
SfS
'/-jfjf„.! P=
s?.
«iif, PI
\M
NJI
(jjjjgpUJl
il , *ililHfcfc.*wWH l /Vfci*»
i
r -
Iff
r/is=
feS
CHEVROLET
FOR. ECONOMICAL TRANSPORTATION
Distributors for Chevrolet:—
Vic. & Riverina - S.A. CHENEY MOTORS PTY., LTD., 22 Flinders St., Melbourne.
New South Wales - JOHN McGRATH, LTD., 200 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland -- - HOWARD MOTOR CO., LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia - - MAY’S MOTOR WORKS, LTD., East Victoria Street, Adelaide.
West Australia - - SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., 900 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania -- - - BEASLEY’S GARAGE PTY. LTD., 8-12 Patterson St. Launceston.
New Zealand - - - DOMINION MOTORS, LTD., 65 Courtney Place, Wellington.
IT!
tm
•W'V*
=rS pv- V*
lit ft.**
*WI TO
/Crr
-\l
ILe fi
-jSl^
*1


•M
■ \
"Sporting Life” Tobacco.
A refined, distinctive tobacco, of a quality appreciated
by exclusive smokers, is Sporting Life.” Cut
gold bars. Price, fib. box, 5/9. lib., 11/6.
Carriage Paid .
Farmer’s :: Sydney
Box 497. G.P.O.
HAWAII
I j THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND 5
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
oA la I{eine des Fleurs :: established 1774
L.T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These Face Pow-
ders are made in France by a Firm Established 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfe&ly adherent, and
will suit your skin: the name is the guarantee of quality.
€xquisite created by the
House o 1 L. T. PIVERi
Le Trefle. Azurea, Floramye. Safranor, Pompeia,
Esperis, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc., etc.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
17'-
Melbourne
Chatter
The Ocidental
Collins St. Melbourne
Pro[?]
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533,11609
The biggest, frockiest crowd in V.A.T.C.
history palpitated under an early outburst of
scorching sunshine at Caulfield on Saturday.
None but the early birds found room to
perch in the overloaded stands. The G.-G.,
buttressed by a pair of keenly-interested
gent-helps, smiled appreciation from the
half-filled vice-regal pen. He had with him
little Lady Digby, in navy-blue jersey silk,
with fringed trimmings, under a grey head-
piece ; and Mrs. Pitt Rivers, in primrose,
with her golden hair tucked into a black
crinoline straw lid. The sudden passing
of William Manifold was accountable for
the absence of dozens of squattocrats. The
veteran William Leonard took a cheery
interest in the Cup race from the stewards’
box, with his black-chiffoned wife and the
Richard Casey widow, who had introduced
a grey vest into her all-black upliolsterings.
Mrs. Tony Hordern aired a millinery shriek
of a lurid green, with a rosella parrot’s
wing giddily drooping over the left ear.
But even that couldn’t make Violoncello win.
Mrs. Lauchie Mackinnon wore a sporty
white serge suit with a harmonising lid.
Mrs. Frank Clarke looked fit for an evening
psirty in petal-pointed black georgette,
with bare neck and arms. The elder Ever-
ard Browne chick, just back from the Fog,
flew a rose-wreathed, henna-tinted hat above
her brown silk frock. Handsome Mrs.
Henry Rosenthal wore a scarlet hat to match
the red lines checking her grey tailorings.
Mrs. Reggie Power had somehow mixed a
pink hat brim with her blue-trinuned black
chiffonery, whilst sister-in-law Meta Power
was attractive in cool-looking lilac. Mrs.
Geoff Syme, with grey-clad daughter Hilaria
under her wing, promenaded in all-brown
georgette, with a bunch of uncurled grey
ostrich feathers pointing fiercely over one
shoulder.
The theatrical world was poorly repre-
sented. Ada Reeve loomed picturesquely
in the middle distance, tailored in pearl-grey,
with a lurid green hat flying goose quills on
the left flank. Norman Lee sauntered along
the Terrace, and Fred Barnes did a bit of
punting under the elms. Cecil Bradley,
with a group of pals, was a plump and pleas-
ing symphony in blue. One or two women
in the ruck suggested South Sea islanders,
with silk-fringed petticoats floating from
their middles. Another young person had
apparently robbed the farmyard to create a
millinery triumph which was a cross be-
tween a Choctaw head-dress and a White-
chapel belle’s best bonnet. One lass
featured th<? latest howl in hosiery—pale-
grey silk, with high V-shaped heel pieces.
Nearly all the women wore red faces under
unprotective transparent hat brims —a sun-
born ruddiness which defied the most powdery
powder-puff. The heat seemed to have scared
off the belltoppers, and most of the male con-
tingent plunged comfortably in workaday
togs. Even Norman Bayles and Lauchie
Mackinnon wore a less immaculately-
groomed appearance than usual.
Vice-regals have their uses as Saturday-
night attractions at the theatre. Last Satur-
day “The Peep Show” was hung up at the
Royal until the Stradbrokes arrived with
the Duchess of Hamilton in tow. While
the orchestra was busy with Godsave, the
gallery girls were furiously applauding their
Exes., who replied with jaunty nods, hand-
waves and wreathed smiles. The welcome
continued even after the little bit of anthem ;
and the Countess, in her silvered cloak, and
the Earl, in his breast adornments and best
sporting smile, seemed quite sorry to sit
down and end the hand-clapping. The John
Taits were boxed opposite to the well-pleased
party from Stonington.
John Grice, assisted by his comely dame,
spread an evening party at Colullah, their
Toorak home, the other night, in honor of
scientist Dr. Campbell, who. with his wife, had
drifted over from the U.S.A. to view the
eclipse. The hostess was in black satin
lace-panelled drapings, with a suggestion of
blue on the bodice .front; while daughter
Elsa was encased in primrose-colored vel-
vet. Mrs. Campbell trailed flowered bro-
cade, with a lace-trimmed corsage. In a
musical programme, which checked the
guests from overworking their conversa-
tional brilliance, Dorothy Murdoch. Clarice
Malyon and A. Brownlee warbled pleas-
antly, to the accompaniments of Mrs. Pauli
Carter. A big society squad paraded,
headed by Mrs. Pitt Rivers and her captain,
and there was also a fine sprinkling of high-
brows.
The Y.W.C.A. had an Australasian triennial
convention last week, and the delegates made
things hum. The most-up-to-date pusher of
women’s rights doesn’t wear dowdy clothes
and a puffy brolly—she turns out in exclu-
sive Parisian toilettes. You should have
seen some of the glad rags of rhese visiting
Y.W.C.A. women, though the local shes
set them a good sartorial pace, conferring
by day in the duckiest of simple house-
frocks, and bursting forth after dark in glad
evening gowns. There were many dinners
and evening parties to carry the convention
along. The national general secretary
(Miss Owen) combines brains with beauty
and a good “clothes” sense, and Melbourne’s
own general secretary, Miss Hardie (she is
also an M.A.), is a particularly dainty little
frocker. Mrs. Ahles, from Brisbane (a
president), wore quite breathless gowns,
and the Verco lady, from Adelaide, showed
that South Australia uses its brains on
frocks as well as other things. The conven-
tion, of course, did much more than dress.
It solved many girl problems. Lady Forster,
who is head of the show now that Lady
Novar has gone, made several speeches, and
the Stradbroke Countess put in much good
work. There were over 100 delegates from
Tasmania and Maoriland, as well as the
crowd from the mainland States, and while
the show was on the whole town was in a
buzz of feminine frill, fuss and excitement.
Mrs. Robert Harper, the Victorian presi-
dent, gave all the leaders a swaggah party at
the Alexandra Club, backed up by her good-
looking American daughter-in-law.
The Guy Miller widow is packing her
steamer trunks for a trip to Singapore, on
a visit to her sister, who is married to
rubber-planting Robert Renton. She will
leave her small son and his smaller girl
cousin under the grandparental Levey wing.
The little girl is the orphan child of Major
Collins, who fell in the war, and his fair-
haired little wife, formerly Dodie Grice, who
went west a few months after being
widowed.
The Pioneer Players are trying their luck
at the Athenaeum Hall to-night (Thursday)
and on Saturday. The bill is to be five
short plays, one of which, “The Woman
Tamer,” by Louis Esson, was played at the
old Turn Verein years ago. Gerald Byrne,
Henry Lawson, Stewart Macky and Ernest
O’Ferrall will be the other authors to get
an airing.
“Dad’’ Kendall’s passing has removed
from Vic. Parliament a personality that
was almost a force. His popularity in all
camps enabled him to help keep the legis-
lative machine running at times when jib-
bing and clogging were threatened. ilis
municipal and Parliamentary service ran
to over 47 years. (Some of the councillor
work was done in S. Aus., the State of
his birth.) He had 18 months or so in
the Reps, as member for Corio, and from
1916 till the end was in the Vic. Uppah
Chambah. As an Honorary Minister he
stood by Bowser till Lawson came into
power, and then he put in 16 months with
the same rating under that Premier. He
had been a couple of years on the Railway
Committee, and his five colleagues were sad
men the day he died. “Dad,” who was 71,
left a widow, two sons and eight daughters.
This is a Ruskin portrait of Louie Dunn,
a gifted Melbourne reciter (or should it be
recitress?), and yet
another of those who
have caught the ear
and eye of the
mighty Melba. Her
rich, flexible speak-
ing voice and dra-
matic sense set the
Dame enthusing, and
she even called the
Melbourne girl a
second Sarah Bern-
hardt —m uch too
good to be wasting
her talent in occa-
sional appearances
on the local concert
boards. Louie Dunn,
who owes her bru-
nette attractiveness
and talent to an
Italian grandmother,
is, in private life, Mrs. Arnold, wife of the
Melbourne Grammar School padre.
The fascinating little Loughborough lady
missed the Races. One of her small
boys became ill, so she left her new race
frocks in their tissue-paper and bolted for
Bowral (N.S.W.), to be with the little suf-
ferer. Mrs. Harry Chisholm was already
at the bedside when the anxious mother
arrived.
Lashmar, of Chappells’, London, who
handles the music business for that firm in
Australia, has just returned from a trip
through the States as far as Westralia.
And now news from Sydney tells how he has
been embarrassed since he got back with
overwhelming congratulations that he had
done nothing to deserve. A brother and
sister-in-law, recently arrived from England,
achieved a brand-new daughter last week,
and the better-known Lashmar is blushing
through a wave of sudden publicity. The
name is decidedly uncommon, and both
brothers are of Chappells’. The result is, if
our Uashmar sees a pal approaching nowa-
days, with a broad grin, he ducks and pro-
tests “I haven’t got a baby, old chap!”
The Rennie sisters hired the late Mrs.
Sam Staughton’s old South Yarra home for
their Sunday-afternoon party in honor of
the George Buchanans, newly-arrived from
the Cold Country. The cheery, crowded
affair began as a musical event and ended
up as a fox-trot to a jazz band, which was
rather over-determined to make itself felt.
The tea-and-cake was spread amid an orgy
of American beauty roses, which incited
gasps of admiration. Miss Rennie hostessed
in grey with leaves wreathing her pink hat,
and sister Helen topped white crgpe fixings
with a brown headpiece flying green quills.
Mrs. Buchanan smiled under a black hat
dripping with blue ostrich feathers to match
a moonlight-beaded frock. Mrs Taylor, who
came under convoy of Mrs. H. E. V. Rich-
ardson, on two occasions aired a soprano
fresh from six years’ European polish. The
Bridges, the White and Best dames, the
Albert Miller widow, Mrs. Emmerton, Mrs.
Norman Brookes, Mrs. Geoff Syme, Mrs.
Walter Bayles and their daughters, Dr. Nyu-
lasy and his sister, a string of Bowes Kellys,
Commodore Hardy—in fact, half the social
world turned up.
C. Carter (Karta), pictured herewith by
Ruskin, is a city man who has made rather
more than a hobby
and something of a
success in a small
way of manufactur-
ing plays and play-
lets. Eight of these
have been staged,
and another, en-
titled “Sufficient
Unto the Day,”
which has yet to
face the footlights,
is said to hit the
mark that Karta
just missed in all
his previous efforts.
His enthusiasm is
refreshing. Any-
how, this inveterate
playmaker is also
the author of a
whole sheaf of
articles concerning the drama, and, inciden-
tally, sits on the treasury chest of the Aus-
tralian Literature Society.
Paul Daniel, eldest son of Mrs. Louis
Daniel, of Woodlands, North Brighton,
settled in Batavia some time back, has just
married Kathleen Hillary, whose parents
djvide their time between Canada and the
Fog. The knot-tying, which happened at the
Singapore Cathedral, was a very dressy
affair.
The umpteenth annual meeting of the Sol-
diers’ Wives and Mothers’ Friendly Union
happened in the Government House drawing-
room on Friday afternoon, and was presided
over by the Forster lady, aided and abetted
by the Harry Chauvel dame, after after-
noon tea had been handed out in the hall.
The vice-regal hostess was attractive in
dark blue with her picturesque head un-
covered. Which prompts the question: Why
will Melbourne women wear hats at their
own drawing-room frivols? The hon-sec.,
Mrs. Musther, reported a year of good deeds
done in the way of helping Billjim and his
missus and kids. The monthly social gather-
ings are to go on as usual, last year’s attempt
to reduce them to quarterlies having evoked
a howl of protest. And the Wirth brothers
have again promised a special circus matinee
for the youngsters and their parents—an
item that is sure to bring a rush of new and •
renewed subscriptions.
Henley-on-the-Yarra is to be a bigger thing
than ever this year. The programme provides
liberally for honest seekers after sport, and
there is to be increased prize-inducement to
decoration among the rowing boats and canoes
by day, and the house-boats and launches by
night. In fact, the night scene is to beggar ail
description and leave the astonished nations
gasping for breath. There have been fire-
works in the past, but never on so extended
a scale as the M.A.R.A. promises this time.
The Asso. guarantees all sorts of raptures
save improved weather, which all the same
is expected to happen in spite of itself. The
prayers of a hundred thousand flappers for
a balmy night on October 28 can hardly be
treated with disdain.
Mrs. Herbert Power hostessed an after-
noon party at Moora, her new Toorak home,
on Sunday afternoon, with the double pur-
pose of welcoming daughter Gladys back
from her Ceylon trip and entertaining the
five ex-Indian army officers whom Alan Cur-
rie has tempted to Aussie. (One of the
quintette, who is a cousin' of George Melba
Armstrong, will spend a week or two at
Coombe Cottage before settling down.) An
orchestra, discreetly stationed at the head of
the stairs, made an agreeable but not too
lively accompaniment to the conversation,
and tea was handed round in the flower-
decked dining- and morning-rooms. Mrs.
Power was in trailing black chiffonery,
daughter Gladys in white w T ith a black hat,
daughter Nora in fluttering pink, and daugh-
ter Meta Sturt in primrose georgette over
heavy lace panellings, and a black hat
bristling with ospreys. The Miller and
Bridges dames, Mrs. Emmerton and her
authoress ewe lamb, Mrs. Norman Brookes,
Robert Blackwood, a group of Byron
Moores and Millses, Mrs. Everard Browne
and daughter Gwynned, the Parker knight.
Adrian Knox, big W. J. T. Clarke and
daughter Nesta, Mrs. Albert, Mrs. Reggie
Power, Mrs. Reggie Clarke, Russell Clarke
and droves of other Toorakians were on
deck.
Dr. Stewart Macky, the young Australian
dramatist brought out by the Pioneer
Players, has written a one-act thriller, “The
Trap,” founded on an episode in a story by
the late Price Warung. It has a Grand
Guignol touch about it. The Governor of
Norfolk Island, an idealist, endeavors to
apply Gospel principles to the convicts.
Even when confronted by a desperate crimi-
nal, Mat Strude, a lifer, he still keeps his
faith in humanity. Strude dares him to
trust him alone with his wife, and the ideal-
istic Governor consents. The scene between
Strude and the woman makes the play. It
is a bravura effort, and highly moral; but
as the Governor’s lady, in the course of a
thrilling scene, has to pull down her stock-
ing and display her ankle, it is rather auda-
cious for Melbourne.
Stanley Kingsbury, who threw up the
news-editorship of the ’Ekald in 1920 to go
to U.S.A., is back again. He passed through
Melbourne last week on his way to Adelaide
to become associate-editor of the new
Davidson-Mussen evening sheet. He is a
son of the Queensland Crown Prosecutor, a
son-in-law of the late David Ham, M.L.C..
of Ballarat, and a connection by marriage of
the Baillieux.
Gertrude Healy, who plays so sweetly on
the fiddle, is sharing a concert with Agnes
O’Keefe on November 15 at the Town Hall.
Agnes O’Keefe is a violinist as well as pian-
ist and organist, but it is as a piano soloist
that she will be heard next month. Clever,
earnest musicians both of them, the pianist
has already made her mark as a teacher,
and one of her pupils, Ethel Warden, is
loaded with evidence of her prowess.
A little gossip from Adelaide: —
The wildflower show and the ornithologists’ con-
gress gave nature-lovers a week after their own
hearts, and there were big musters at both and at
the dinner at the Grosvenor on the opening night.
The show was a wonderful affair—masses of bloom
from all over this State and from as far afield as
Westralia and Tasmania.
The Supreme Court heard an echo of an old
dispute when the widow of the late Dr. Sweetapple
moved for a share of her husband’s estate. Eighteen
years ago she tried for a legal separation and, though
she lost her case, left him, and has made her home
with her own people, the O’Hallorans, almost
ever since. His will left everything to the son and
daughter, somewhere in their early twenties. After
a couple of days of argument that led nowhere
Angas Parsons, who was on the Bench, persuaded
everybody of the folly of a second public washing
of soiled family linen, and a settlement, “honorable
to all parties,” was arrived at in his Chambers.
Miss Bessie Threadgill, described by Professor
Henderson as one of the most brilliant of his
students, showed her knowledge of S. Aus. explora-
tion by a. lecture on John McDouall Stuart the other
night. She has put in about three years studying
for a thesis on exploration in this State from 1856
onwards, and has read every available document here
and in Sydney and Melbourne, and studied all the
maps. She sees Stuart as a “very big little man,”
with extraordinary courage and capability as a bush-
man, and a religious sense that carried him over
pain and despair.
A cheque for £l7O goes to each of the three
charities chosen by the Moulden dame to benefit
by the “Ugly Duckling.” The soldiers’ memorial
hall at Barmera has also had a financial lift, through
a concert given by Dr. Ruby Davey and her pupils,
with Sylvia Whitington and Harold Parsons to
lend a hand. Two pianists of fine promise figured
on the progi'amme, Lettice Bosanko and Freda
Ivaehne.
The estate of the late Mrs. J. Edwin Thomas has
been sworn at £37,000. All goes to her family.
Decorative Mrs. Gordon McFarlane returned to
Australia in the Narkunda, after a cheerful holiday.
The Fred Bruces and the Scarfe pair, with their
daughters, also came by the same boat.
Most of the Register staff, an official or two and
a few- intimate friends went out to Glen Osmond the
other evening to a farewell party given by ex-editor
W. J. Sowden. The Mouldens w-ere there and Mayor
Cohen and his wife (he looking better after his
illness and she in be-diamonded black), Treasurer
and Mrs. Ritchie, the Evan and Geoffrey Kyffin
Thomases, and the Dodwellts. full of their trip to Italy
and England. At supper-time the host was handed
a tourist’s writing-case and gold pencil—a gift
from the literary staff of the paper he’s been with
so long.


VIRGINIA
N 2
CIGARETTES
333
Quality
and
Value
/
s./'g
&0
i^s
ai
u»t
<<s
sas
Unqualified Excellence!
This is the final verdict of hun-
dreds of men when talking about
their 333 in the famous red
packet. One will say “ They are
irresistible,” another, “They are
just perfect,” and yet another,
“ The quality is there, down to
the last inch.”
The reasons for these golden
opinions are :
Finest quality matured Tobacco
Leaf.
Always free from sand and dust.
Manufactured by experts in
the World’s greatest high-class
Cigarette factory.
Get your packet to-day.
20/Sr I^6
Made in London b y
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
In the Famous RED Packet


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
GMfIMW
HE PLUS ULTRA
m
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
FASHIONABLE WRISTLET WATCHES
William Farmer & Co., Ltd., have a comprehensive selection of High-grade Wristlet
Watches in the newest ideas, including designs in Platinum, White Gold, Enamel, and
Silver, etc., at reasonable rates.
All Watches contain High-grade Lever Movements, and are fully guaranteed.
All Platinum and Diamond Wristlet Watch, with Black Moire Silk Bangle.
£B2/10/-
Also, without Diamonds, in 18ct. Gold, £lB/10/-
In Silver, £l2.
Designs and
prices will
be forwarded
o n applica-
tion.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO. LTD.
Jewellers, Gem Merchants.
Goldsmiths & Silversmiths .
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
Special dis-
counts al-
lowed to
P r esentation
Committees.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Vice-royalty found its way to the fete at
St. Vincent’s last Wednesday; and Dame
Margaret, in sand-colored frocking and her
blue-feathered hat, sprinkled official appro-
val on the collection of stalls, gay under
their striped awnings. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
and Mrs. Ferrari-Passmore had arranged a
programme in the quadrangle of the Nurses’
Home, but as this merely diverted the buyers
from the traders, it was only a mixed bless-
ing. “The Cryes of Olde London” were the
big feature of the performance, and after
straining an .ear to catch them, the mere
Philistine understood the reason for their
being written with a Y. Judging by the
confidential murmur in which the wares
were described to the orchestra, the criers
of old London were more modest than the
bottle-o’s and the prop-vendors of Darling-
hurst. Mrs. Kelly, who soliloquised as the
ambitious Macbeth lady, had her plaited
hair bound about in a long white curtain
arrangement (probably the first boudoir-cap
on record). She quite wheedled Macbeth,
and with an almost girlish abandon led him
off-stage, presumably to sharpen up the carv-
ing-knife in preparation for Duncan. After
kilometres of small pupils of the Scully sis-
ters, the programme ended on a crescendo of
grand opera. Mrs. Mick Dalton, in flame-
colored drapings ablaze with silver crescents,
and a pearl head-dress, expounded “La
Tosca” ; the Countess Lalli flung up a cas-
cade of glittering notes in the Jewel Song,
and Marie Segur made a dashing Carmen.
Bertie Kelly conducted the orchestra. The
shilling dip, which contained prizes like £lO
and £5 orders, pearl pendants and million-
aire husbands, was besieged, and showed a
credit balance of £75 on the first day. One
young fairy godfather came to the party
and treated all the kiddies, irrespective of
rank, to a chance in the shilling dip—nearly
£lO going in this dissipation. His “Clear
out, now; I can’t be bothered with you any
longer!” would be met with, “oh, mister, I
haven’t had one turn yet!” and a small boy
or girl would arrive, as though catapulted
from the back of the crowd; and another
bob would come from the friendly pocket.
Albert Louis Manning, who died at 52
Macleay-street, on Friday, was Mrs. Orr’s
youngest brother. Their father, James
Manning, was a brother of the Supreme
Court Judge. Very few members of this
once-extensive family are left in Australia.
Charles Manning was killed in France.
Chaides Orr, Mrs. Fred Orr’s only offspring,
died soon after the war ended, and Clara
Manning is living permanently in England.
Only the Tregarthens and a few others re-
main. Mr. Manning was a South Coast
pastoralist and a well-known member of the
Australian Club.
The latest engagement is the not unex-
pected one of Mrs. Laidley and Charlie Young.
He is a popular bachelor staion-owner who
served in the World Disturbance with the
“Methusaliers,” and she is the widow of
Shepheard Laidley’s brother. The three
loveliest girls in Sydney 20 years ago were
Beatrice, Annie and Mary Weston—and the
last-named became Mrs. Reggie Laidley.
Americans in Sydney are thrilled over the
presentation made by Commander Addison
on behalf of the Naval Comrades’ Associa-
tion to Sergeant Andrew Penland, of the
U.S.A. Army, stationed at Manila. The
sergeant gave 1340 z. of his blood in an
attempt to save the life of Rear-Admiral
Dumaresq; and what the Naval Comrades
thought of him took quite a long time in the
telling at their annual re-union on Satur-
day night. Acting U.S.A. Consul Mosely
was quite overcome, and when the gather-
ing broke up found himself plus an illumi-
nated address and a gold pendant for the
soldier-boy in Manila.
The Monty Severns, after 27 years in the
same Point Piper house, are selling out and
taking a smaller abode. The attractive old
home is a place of many .memories, practi-
cally every well-knowm visitor to Sydney
having passed through its hospitable doors
at one time or another.
Elsie Pain, who has been studying the
piano with Mary Cochrane for the past six
years, will illustrate her teacher’s methods,
plus her own talent, at the Conservatorium
on Friday, the 27th, in a programme rang-
ing from Chopin to Palmgren.
Howard Joseland, who is an architect for
business, and an artist and fly-fisherman for
pleasure, is holding an exhibition of his
water-colors at 148 Phillip-street. Thfc
pictures are of the Monaro rivers, every
pcol and ripple of which are known to the
painter, and they have aroused immense in-
terest amongst his friends and rivals in the
Izaak Walton art, such as Herbert Marks
and Herbert Maitland. Dr. A. J. Brady offi-
ciated at the opening of the show.
One already hears of two entries for the
Archibald Prize for the best portrait of the
year. W. B. Mclnnes painted Sydney Ure
Smith during his trip to Melbourne, and
Hugh McCrae is being immortalised by
Norman Carter. To save acreage in can-
vas, the poet, who is six feet in his socks,
is being done in a sitting attitude, as though
cogitating on the subject of his next volume
of verse.
The impending alliance between Lady Joan
Mulholland and Lord Cavan, successor to
murdered Henrj r Wilson in the War Office,
disposes of the broad hints of certain Lon-
don journals that she might become Mrs.
Edward of Wales. A lady-in-waiting to
Princess Mary, she has for years been a
friend of the family. However, though
extremely beautiful, she is 35 and a widow.
Her first husband, the well-known soldier-
cricketer, was killed in France.
The Wentworth turned itself into a Rose
Show, run by Private Enterprise, last
Friday night, when all the tables in the big
ballroom were decked with roses white and
roses ruddy, together with all the in-between
shades. The big event of the evening was
the voting for the best-decorated tables, and
there was a loud hand when it was found
that the first, second and third prizes hajl
been won by three smiling-faced waitresses
—one for a clever rose sunshade, another
for the artful simplicity of a brimming
basket of half-opened blooms and the third
for an arch of pink and crimson l’oses. The
ballroom was just comfortably filled, and
the Bertie Kellys’ party was one of the
largest. Mrs. Bertie was in hooped shot
taffeta of lilac hues, the top of the long-
waisted frock being finished off with a stiff
frill that ran all the way around the should-
ers like a safety zone. Mrs. Mick Dalton, in
brown lace, the Davies couple (she in
layers of brown tulle) and John Longstaff
were others in a party. The men, by the way,
all wore white mess-jackets, thereby win-
ning Mrs. Maclurcan’s approval and a pair
of gold buttons apiece. Jean McDonald,
Tootles Williamson and Mick Ricardo were
among the night-long dancers. Gwen Fuller
brougnt a party, and Isabel Fraser was an-
other who showed persistent approval of the
orchestra. The tall Osbourne England pair
brought a tableful. Eileen Waley wore a
mauve and silver confection, and Mrs. Vin-
cent MacAuley wore the 1830 frock which
won first prize for her at the Paper Ball.
An Australian artist who knows the
TT.S. well says that, of all the Austra-
lian black-and-white men, D. H. Souter is
regarded there as the most up-to-date. They
have an idea that he is one of the younger
school, who spends his time in a jazz atmo-
sphere. Some are so taken with his Bul-
letin drawings that they “lift” details from
them most artistically. There have been cases
where an artist has appropriated the whole
drawing, only using his jaded brain to alter
the joke.
This is 18-year-old Gwitha Shand, of
Christchurch, M.L.’s champion mermaid.
Just now she is
disputing supremacy
with some brilliant
swimming stars at
Honolulu, and last
mid-week she scored
a convincing win in a
440yds. race, in
which she put up
the world’s record
time of Omin.
14 2-ssec. Gwitha,
who is a protegee of
Annette Kellerman,
won her first cham-
pionship in 1917,
and after that she
improved amazingly.
-J 1 } 1920-21 she captured the Dominion
440yds. championship in 6min. 41 3-ssec. •
last year won it again in 15 l-sse’c!
less, and now she has clipped a further
12sec. off this time, which means 2 1-osec.
better than the previous world’s best. As
a side-line, she has bagged several trophies
at golf, and is in great demand in mixed
doubles at tennis. She and Paula Foeft are
to_swim in Sydney next February, when the
ladies’ Australian championships are to be
decided.
The gold rush, the Ferris wheel and the
laughing gallery of the old White Chty are
now one with Nineveh and Tyre, and on
their ruins have arisen the new courts and
clubhouse of the N.S.W. Tennis Association.
Nearly 3000 visitors found their way out
to Rushcutter’s Bay on Saturday afternoon,
when State Treasurer Cocks informed a
crowded clubhouse balcony that the courts
were opened—an unnecessary piece of in-
formation as already about 100 players were
bounding about on them. When everything
is in order there will be 70 courts sprinkled
about what was, until the other week, a
Sahara vista broken by an occasional low-
lying ridge of bottles and empty jamtins,
The hard courts have been treated by a
method, patented by the Fred McMasters —
evicted antbeds, top-dressed and worked
through with fine sand that has been dyed
green. Their appearance is turf-like, and
the color on them is as fast as the service.
The clubhouse has everything, even to a bar
without a license. The big lounge down-
stairs serves for a tea dispensary in the
afternoon and for jazz in the evening. Up-
stairs there are innumerable dressing-rooms,
but while there are a round dozen of
showers for the men, mere woman has to be
content with four. That’s the march of
civilisation—not long ago she’d probably
have had to make shift with a tap in the
back yard. The McMasters came to view
their work and call it good, she in navy with
a small hat encircled with pink plumage.
The Harry Marshes were another couple
who had helped to conjure the playing fields
out of nothingness. The Sam Hordern chicks
(he’s another of the financial pillars of the
new movement) were also there. Mrs.
Sep Levy, in navy blue frocking, the
Spencer Brunton couple, Deputy-Town
Clerk Layton, the knightly Braddons (he’s
another with a finger in the pie), Mrs.
Vivers, in dull sapphire millinery contrast-
ing with pale pink frocking, Mr. Justice
Gordon and his wife, the medical Conrick
and Kendall couples, and the Commodore
Edwards pair, she in cream frocking and a
black lace hat.
Herewith May Moore’s presentment of
G. E. Waterhouse, who has, perhaps, done
more than any other man in Sydney to push
the cause of tongues.
In addition to his
job as Principal of
IVtpdern Languages
at the Teachers’
College he has taken
on the weighty task
of President of the
Modern Language
Association, which
necessitates his eat-
ing at least one
French and one
Italian dinner a
week. (One shudders
to think of the linear
measurement of the
spaghetti he has
consumed in his
time.) As a side-line
he is a connoisseur
and buyer of art
and china: and in the few empty minutes
which his lifework leaves on his hands, he
has contrived to make his garden one of the
beauty spots of the North Shore line.
Thea Proctor’s new studio, opposite The
Bulletin office, in George-street, is the
brightest in town. The shining white of the
walls are relieved with the gay colors of
pictures, cushions and lounge chairs. The
artist is taking a limited number of advanced
students, who wish to be initiated into the
inner secrets of design and the emphasis of
color.
Madeleine Rossiter gave a dinner party,
about 30 strong, at her Kimo flat one even-
ing last week. It was a welcome to
Eric Masters, who is joining up with her in
sketch work on the Tivoli circuit. Eric,
who was a member of the Beecliam Opera
Company until its decease, poured out his
baritone notes on the evening air, and Edith
Harrhy (Mrs. Daly), whose songs are being
published by Boosey and Co., showed a piano
hand that was all trumps. Edith Drayson,
the Bob Greigs, Frank Donovan, and, for
a few fleeting moments, the busy Wee
Georgie Wood were among the revellers.
The grounds of the North Shore Grammar
staged the boy-infested fSte of the week-end,
and made one of the largest corners in flap-
pers on record. The lingerie-frocked
’tweenies sprang up like mushrooms, and
were just as dewy and delicately pink as the
early-hour comestible. Priminister Hughes,
who had ben coquetting with the committee
as to whether he would or would not open
the f§te, coyly withdrew at the last minute,
whereupon the fair opened itself with much
jollity. Ice-cream and produce seemed the
Staple industries —the produce stall raking
in over £lOO. The fun went on into the
evening hours, and it is expected that, all
told, another £7OO will find its way into the
top-dressing and laying-out of the memorial
playing fields at Northbridge.
The C. E. Waters’s Double Bay home, St.
Mervyn’s, dressed itself as a week-end fair
in the interests of the Royal Hospital for
Women. The afternoon was October at its
best, and the stalls, under the spreading
chestnut-tree and its many cousins, were par-
ticularly gay and well-stocked. The Pre-
mier’s lady arrived at 3 o’clock to recite the
official sesame, and found a reception com-
mittee composed of the mayoral lady, Mrs.
Brown-Craig, Mrs. Waters and the youthful
matron of the Paddington hospital waiting
to give her welcome. Pottery and flowers,
sweets and preserves disappeared before the
hordes of well-dressed buyers as the green
leaf before the locust, while many a savings
bank will be threatened with financial inse-
curity through the pony rides, chute thrills
and other attractions for the kiddies. In
the evening the grounds sparkled with rain-
bow-tinted lights, and the family Rolls
Royce was pushed from the garage to enable
that chill outhouse to be used for jazzing
purposes.
The Cavalier Luncheon Club is the latest
in social organisations. It has been formed
to allow persons interested in art and writ-
ing to feed together periodically in a
thoughtful and intellectual manner. Its
watchword is “uplift.” The principal
rule is that each member shall under-
take to lunch with the other members,
and, if possible, say something bright or
penetrating during the meal, at least once a
week. Ernest Watt, George Lambert, John
Longstaff, Syd Smith and W. H. Kelly are
some of the members, and the first function,
a farewell repast to the vice-president, C.'
Lloyd Jones, has just been successfully
brought off.
The Alliance Francaise commemorated
Moli&re’s ter-centenary last week. “L’Avare,”
cut to suit the exigencies of the modern
suburban dweller who views the last act of
a play with his gaze mentally on train and
ferry time-table, was the big offering, and
was presented to a packed Playhouse. Bel-
gian Consul Segaert was the miserlv Har-
pergon, and played the bullying old skinflint
to perfection. The Consul has not only a
gift for acting, but as a producer he deserves
a special cheer.. Good-looking Mrs. Pirenne
was the much-sought Mariane, while the
clever Irwin girl had a chance for once to
appear somewhere in the latitude of her own
years. As Elise, in flaxen curls and beflow-
er'ed gown, she looked very young and grace-
ful.
. Another French libation was poured out
in honor of Miss Soubeiran - and Miss Gur-
ney, who came all the way from Bowral to
pay their respects to France’s immortal.
The Alliance rallied and gave the two in-
domitables a party all to themselves, and
presented them with an etching by Syd Long
to hang on the walls of their new mountain
home.
Maud Telfer, Winslow Knight and Frank
Charlton have been engaged by the Sydney
Choral Society for its concert in the Town
Hall on the 4th of next month. Scenes from
“Trovatore,” “Ernani” and “Cavalleria” will
be presented. John Lemmone’s flute, Henry
Penn’s piano and Ernest Truman’s organ
music will be additional attractions for the
evening.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Governor Nathan opened the Art Society’s show
and bought a painting by one Bustard, to add to his
rapidly-increasing gallery of Queensland artists.
Jarvis, who is a son-in-law of Henry Tryon, the
beetle man, hung an excellent study of ploughing
near Stanthorpe. An Academy miniature by Bessie
Gibson had pride of place. Harvey showed the
head of a marble debutante, and some fine pottery
by Mrs. Nosworthy, and still-life studies by W. R.
Bennet were other notable features. But it was a
black afternoon, with a very bad light and streaming
streets, and in Finney’s old building, where the
show was held, there is no way of turning on the
lights—which lent point to the practical suggestion
of his Ex. about applying for a decent art gallery
for the ’Varsity buildings when the Uni. is moved to
the new site.
The Queensland Authors and Artists’ Association
discussed Henry Lawson the other day. Jack Mat-
thews, an old Bulletin contributor who had camped
with Henry in past days, gave an address full of
smart anecdote; one, Siouthwick, from Mudgee,
who had known Louisa Lawson, spoke at length; and
Steele Rudd arose in wrath on the argument as to
whether Lawson were a great poet or merely a great
national poet. Francis Kenna joined the fray, and
Father Lane poured oil on troubled waters. Most
of the brains of Brisbane were there, including Tom
Heney, of the Telegraph, and Mrs. “Auster” Cor.-
geau, flushed with triumph and Alfred Hill’s music.
Mrs. P. J. Symes and Digger Anderson did some
elocuting.
Col. A. J. Thynne and Mrs. Leslie Corrie were
married in Sydney recently, and after a stay at
Petty’s, came up to Brisbane by the honeymoon
motor-car, to settle on Highgate Hill.
The Digby Denhams are off by the Niagara to
Ottawa, where they hope to spend a “real Canadian”
Christmas.
After dining Rosina Buckman and her Maurice,
Percy Kahn, A. H. Chisholm and others at Govern-
ment House his Ex. v r ent along to a Buckman-
d’Oisly concert the other night. These song-birds
were so successful here that an extra concert was
given.
“Potash and Perlmutter” had overflowing audi-
ences, and Harrington Reynolds has now gone to
Sydney to make two-years’ terms with J.C.W. for a
supply of plays. So profitable, in fact, has the busi-
ness been that there’s some danger of Theodore and
Co. making it a State enterprise, instead of the
much-discussed (and cussed) Golden Casket. This
institution, by the way, reports a mytserious bur-
glary of the Jimmy Valentine brand. “The police
are investigating.’’


HARDY BROS. LTD.
Jewellers.
Suggestions for
WEDDING GIFTS
in Finest English Silverplate.
Silver-plated Sauce. Boat, on tray
£2 15 0
Silver-plated Epp Frame, with
Spoons,
£2 10 0
Silver-plated, Teapot, with wicker-
covered handle.
£4 18 0
Hardy Brothers’ Silverplate is guaranteed to
be the finest quality manufactured. Each
article is stamped with the Company’s name,
which gives an added distinction to a gift,
being an assurance of exclusive design and
highest quality obtainable.
Selections of goods are forwarded on approval to any address
in the Commonwealth at the Company’s risk and expense.
five per cent, discount allowed on all cash purchases.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJewellars <£•> Silvevs/ni6/is.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins St , 11G-IJB Queen St.,
MELBOURNE LONDON. BRISBANE.
t by .
fylNfiS
&
Same Day Service
X
M
m
DEVELOPING
* PRINTING
featur.es
(
SPEED, QUALITY,
PERMANENCE.
WHEN LEAVING ORDERS WITH OUR LOCAL DEALER
INSIST THAT ALL PRINTS BEAR OUR IMPRESS.
Ü BY *)
WHICH CARRIES OUR
GUARANTEE
Xtd
i&CVti Sewne/ta*
ÜBYU BY *
386 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
New Brunch :
Katoomba Street, KATOOMBA
ÜBYU BY *)
This reliable open-face Watch
Hissi
DO
in Nickel Silver
POST
FREE
Nock & Kirby’s Striking Value.
Gent.’s Nickel Silver Open-face Keyless Lever
Watch, as illustrated, good strong watch, suitable
for hard wear, and especially country use. It is an
accurate timekeeper, which carries our guarantee.
Timed and adjusted for immediate use. Price, 22/6
Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless Lever Watch,
fully jewelled, in strong silver case. A splendid value,
and a popular, reliable timekeeper. Price.... 47/6
Three Grand Values
in RAZORS.
Taylor’s “Eye Witness” 1000 Brand
Razors (as illustrated).
Jin. fin. fin.
Usually 9/6 10/6 11/6
REDUCED TO 8/6 9/3 10/-
Bengall Razors, full hollow ground.
fin. fin. fin. fin.
Usually .... 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
REDUCED TO 5/6 5/11 6/6 6/9
Dickinson’s Celebrated “Invicta”
Razors. fin. fin. fin.
Usually ... 8/3 8/6 9/-
REDUCED TO 7/6 7/9 Si-
ll j- Safety Razor
M plj.
Cornstalk No. 4 Safety Razor, heavily
nickel-plated, in leatherette case, complete
with six Gillette pattern blades.
Usually 11/-. REDUCED TO 9/3
Our“ Cornstalk”
SAFETY RAZOR
Usually 6/- Now sj m
Cornstalk No. 1 Safety-
Razor, nickel-plated, in leather-
ette case, with five Gillette
pattern blades.
Usually 6/-. REDUCED TO 5/.
All above are POST FREE anywhere.
Tlock&Kirbq
•Sydney’s Modern Emporium,
188-194 George Street, SYDNEY.
TEXACO "?It*
6
holds the
COMPRESSION
TEXACO MOTOR OIL
The dean dear oil
TEXACO MOTOR SPIRIT
The VOLATILE spirit
THE TEXAS COMPANY (Australasia) Ltd.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. j
■here
f


Cuticura Quickly Soothes
Rashes and Irritations
Hot baths with Cuticura Soap, fol-
lowed by light applications of Cuti-
cura Ointment, afford immediate
relief in most cases of rashes, irrita-
tions, eczemas, etc. Cuticura Talcum
is also excellent for the skin.
,Soapls.,Ointment I;. and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N.S.W.”
liWfr Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Learn to Draw
vs
;
M
“There’s Money
in
* the Pen.”
The
above is
tlie title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex.
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
-Send - t h r-e-e
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet-—•
“THERE .1
AIONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
171 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
S/7te S&erfecf
©ggS(BB WJkMTIE
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST.- BEST
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
«% ,e Alex Cowan b Sons, L t .p
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
Missing Friends.
0 the next of kin of JAMES CURRIE, who died
intestate at Palmerston North, New Zealand, on
the 21st day of December, 1919.
Inquiry is made for the Next of Kin of the above-
named JAMES CURRIE, deceased. The said deceased
is believed to have been born in BALLYMENA,
COUNTY ANTRIM, IRELAND, and to have a
SISTER RESIDING IN TORONTO, CANADA. It is
thought that RELATIVES of the deceased are now
LIVING IN QUEENSLAND, ANSTRALIA. Any
claims by, or on behalf of, the next of kin of the
above deceased must be made to. the undersigned on
or before the 7th FEBRUARY, 1923, failing which
the Estate will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto, disregarding those whose claims have not
been received on or before that date.
Dated at Wellington this 7th day of October, 1922.
•G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO JOHN ANDREW ANTONIO formerly of Rowe
Street Ballarat East in Victoria laborer but
now of an address unknown. TAKE NOTICE that
yqur wife FRANCES MAUD ANTONIO has insti-
| tilted proceedings against you for divorce on the
-grounds that you have without just cause or excuse
wilfully deserted her and without any such cause
or excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards to wit from the month of
October 1908 to the present time and that you have
since the month of November 1903 being the date of
the.<eelebravion of your marriage with her been guilty
of,# repeated 'act of adultery with one Rtith Holmes.
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Deputy-
Prothonotary’.S office of the Supreme Court at Balla-
rat in the State of Victoria on or before the 14th
day of November 1922 the case may proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
B. CRAY, 32 Lydiard Street, Ballarat, in
Tictoriiir Solicitor for-the ‘Petitioner., -
DON’T BE MISERABLE!
Don’t be weak and puny!
Don’t be always ill!
Don’t shorten your days!
Don’t let ill-health conquer you!
Enjoy Every Minute of Life
by keeping your whole system in proper working order. With
health and strength, life will open out new vistas for you,
and business will be a pleasure.
Ileg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker can help you to a full realisation of
the joy of life if you take up his
Postal Course of Health and
Strength Culture.
It is emphatically not a “strong-man” course, but a
series of simple, enjoyable, graduated exercises that will
bring into play the neglected muscles, steady the nerves,
help you to breathe and develop properly, and make all
the organs of the body perform their functions correctly.
No apparatus is required, and each lesson is graded to
suit particular individual requirements.
“Snowy” Baker has written a most interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-culture,” which tells
all about the course, and contains many valuable hints.
If you send this advertisement, with your name and
address across it, together with three stamps for postage,
the book will be forwarded.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“The All-round Champloii Athlete of Australia,’'
199 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
£
i
I
w
81
T T aV
. 1
i
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING
Imparts a gleaming white finish to Canvas, Nubuclt and
Suede Leathers. Will not rub off. Gives a finishing
touch to a “summery” appearance. Price Cd. per Bottle.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 91, Haymarket.
THE STORM KING
LANTERN.
350 Candle*
power.
Burns Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/“
Also Table Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— Lux Light
Co., 495 Collins Street Melbourne
Missing- Friends.
MISSING PERSON INQUIRED FOR.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM GRAY, formerly of Cat-
lins and Dunedin, New Zealand, general
laborer, and last heard of at Nelson 37 years
ago, is asked to communicate with
THE DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
DUNEDIN.
Sterling Silver Box to hold 100 Cigarettes (as
illustrated)
£6/15/- net.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
New South Wales——
Chamber of Manufactures
All-Australian Exhibition
R.A.S. SHOWGROUNDS.
Open Daily from 12 noon to 5 p.m.
Evenings from 7 to 10.
This great Exposition has been a revelation to the Australian
public of the great strides their country is making in industrial
progress.
The sustained interest, evidenced by the big crowds of visitors
present daily at both sessions, proves that Australians are
ouiclc to appreciate this opportunity to view highest-grade
products, and to see many of the articles actually in process of
manufacture.
Hundreds of Interesting; Displays.
Hundreds of Interesting; Displays.
Hundreds of Interesting; Displays.
Also
A WAR-TROPHY MUSEUM
with a fine collection of exhibits, shown for the first time in N.S.W.
OPEN-AIR PICTURES EVERY EVENING.
OPEN-AIR PICTURES EVERY EVENING.
Admission Od.; Children 3d. w. j. donnelly, Secretary.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Johnno: The metre labors heavily....
Redbank H.: A children’s page ? Heaven forbid!
.. . .Frank M.: Dreadful commonplace. .. .K.R.T.: Too
little there... .E.N. (Toowoomba): Doesn’t get near.
... .H.R. (Westralia) : Verse not up... .Alastor:
Ancient idea. .. .W.S. (Broken Hill) : Not for us. .. .
J.H.D.: A paragraph strung out to eight foolscap
pages. . . .T.R.N.: It has a hint of mirth, but the puns
ruin it. .. .N. 8.8.: A confused yarn. .. .F.8.J.: Too
thinly fantastic G.A.8.: Poor stuff W.H.C.:
Below par... .Joseph M.: The verse has a wild look ;
on the other hand, the naked lady is too tame....
Angus M.: Don’t send them to her. A nurse who
saw the war through deserves a certain amount of
consideration P.B. J.: Too thin Oliver B.: The
“Mallee Show” stands in a literary class of its own:—
Did you ever see anything like it,
Now this is no joke, it’s genuine;
Never heard one say only old Tom Tit,
He didn’t want to pay to go in.
But look, really, they came from hundreds of miles,
Wouldn’t miss it for all the tea in China;
To see the old Cockies, to see their old smiles,
Back again in the Mallee. What a reminder.
Yes it was; ’twas a boom to young and old,
To be on that ground again ;
It was praise from everyone, tenfold.
Why .not have it over again ?
You just should ’ave seen the ’orses,
A better lot 'never carried a shoe;
It was ’eard said from the bosses,
Best they ’ad seen or knew.
Well, it was said all round,
Dogs, cattle, sheep, pigs and ’ens;
Nothing could be better found,
Anywhere or in any pens.
....Norman F.: Too slight in their interest...,
A.McD.: They don’t make fools of that brand....
R.G.R.: The mechanical idea is rather thin....
I. : Not quite our sort....N.H. (Vaucluse) : “The
Magician” Says too little. .. .C.M.M.: “Rose Garden”
has an idea, but you have not worked it 0ut....
J. : “Primrose Paths” lead nowhere.... Rosa R.:
Very wild stuff all out of tune. .. .N.MacN.: Hasn’t
strength enough.... Gabrielle; Not bad, but not up.
. ...R.H.G.: Thanks, but it is a very bad specimen
of his work, and we don’t reprint... .John H. B.:
Far too long, and not at all in our style. . . .T.D.
(Adelaide):' A long, rambling yarn about why
churches are empty is only interesting to people who
died many years ago... .Greenhide Bill: You can’t
steal another man’s idea and expect to get it over
unless it is a hundred per cent, better than the
original. Yours is about a hundred per cent, worse.
. ...F.C.M.: Very rugged.... Moira C.: Doesn’t get
near... .C.R.H.: Long, wobbly mass of verse about
absolutely nothing. .. .Mary R.: Too thin and weak.
. ...A.S. (Balmain): “Fantasy” misses. .. .Bellerive:
The singing quality which characterises so much of
your work is lacking in “Scrambled Cigars,” but the
thing .pulses with life: —-
“Cigar and light!” I did bawl,
As to and fro I did stray,
Upon Flemington flat —■
One stirring Cup Day.
When near Skinner’s Booth,
A wild lafrikin mob
Upset my cigars for—
The purpose to rob.
“Stand aside,” they did blurt.
“Like a good-tempered bloke.
If we can’t back a horse,
We’ll have a free smoke.”
Sale return were the weeds,
Which maddened the Jew,
Who cursed me in Yiddish,
And threatened to sue.
....Joseph MeM.: The ships have no interest....
M.C.M.: A small idea in monstrous verse. .*. .E.R.D.:
The sonnet fails Blackboy: Very commonplace and
crude. .. .Kathleen B.: Why don’t you make some
attempt to learn the game before you try playing it
in public?....Murrabit: The refrain isn’t much; and
there isn’t much else Harry M.: Rhymed bragga-
docio is never attractive; and yours is even more
pitiful than “Rule Britannia”... .D. I. M.: It has a
pleasing lilt; but the theme is print-worn. .. .George
C.: No use... .Flicker: The tag spoils it... .N.W.
(Longreach) : “Distillery” moves in clumsy jerks
T.Ky: A sad sort of humor... .Hesperian: You have
a shockingly bad ear for metre. ... Tarlton R.: Not
much of a yarn and poorly handled.... Arthur A.:
Quite a lot of women would be stark naked if their
clothes were taken off, so the fact that you saw a
lady in transparent garments is hardly so astounding
as you imply P.O’R.: Too slight.... Flicker: Not
up... .Vera S.: Rather feeble Suffenus: No snap
in your verse. .. .Thallium: Nothing we have ever
heard about Hughes is quite so bad as what you call
“A poem on the Prime Minister”... .M.L.C.: Of
insufficient interest A.M.: “Won’t do here” didn’t
mean “No good in Australia.” All that it sought to
convey was that “Lovewalks on the Lea” was not The
Bulletin style, whether it was written in 1872 or
1922... .Gouger: Your jeremiads on the evils result-
ing from the abuse of alcohol are irrefutable. But
whether Prohibition, so far from curing such evils,
isn’t likely to create a worst state of things, remains
to be proved G.L.C.: Feeble to the verge of
mushiness H.S.: “The Varsity Emigrant” is slung
together too carelessly. With a little pains you
ought to do a great deal better than that
Gnarek: Cannot find your derivation of “shammy”
.—“from the Swedish ‘samsk’ or the Ronang ‘cham-
ische” —borne out by Webster or any other dis-
tionary. .. .G.F. (M.L.) : Yarns known to have
already appeared in print no use here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Will B.: You have some weird ideas of women ;
better take a surf-bathing course... .G.H.: Still
below the mark 1.M.: Awful drawing T. 8.:
Nothing in them; and faint pencil sketches useless
for reproduction, anyhow... .A.F.: Ditto M.M.:
And again ditto... .H. 8.: Old gag....N.5.: A thin
little thing which will be carefully packed off home.
.... 8.L.: All ruled out on ‘ weak drawing....
H.W.T.: Too stiff V.S.: Variation of old joke.
G.A.McQ.: Misses.. .P.A.8.: Don’t like the lady
without any clothes A. J.: Show your paces on
something distinctively Australian... .J.K.: Some
ivay to go yet.
“T.R.H.”: Re “Const’s” “houses which
grandfather used to bring out on his ships.”
The “old man” did not confine himself to
houses. On at least one occasion he brought
out a church! That was more than 100
years ago, and the church still stands. It
is of iron, and arrived in sections under the
care of aC. of E. missionary. It is in the
Rookwood (Lidcombe) State Hospital
grounds, and 1600 patients and workers
have frequent concerts and religious services
there.— ,


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
YV rite for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
1* Irs t'« Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
Hy way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu— Sun Francisco,
ioseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, NOVEMBER 15.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H S North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST ANI) MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
i p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 pan.
through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/0
lhe speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
coast aSSe,lSelS iese steamer B is unexcelled on the
I*or further particulars apply:—
10 CRIDG « STREET, SYDNEY.
OFF 1C I,: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Hanking, Public Companies. Jftc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.001,069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman .; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,' Esq.’:
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. lIAYMKN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
1112 AD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland,
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1'523'000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922. .
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman- Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman;’ George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; 11. R. Lysaght
O. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A. ’
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. 11. Westcott. “
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1840.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance. Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping,
etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
IHE LAK BET\VEiFn V^ M?s’tRAL A IA^AVT> N^hP T EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
witEXV ALSIRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 23rd NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 28th DECEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z>„
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
hriMu,lt hookings t«> any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Gr«nt t itles of the United States can be seen on the Journey across America, also the
<«rand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 14th DECEMBER.
I 1 or Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above serviees apply—
°o- UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION S’il.AM SIUI CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3| TO 41 WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £O4 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC Li,500 tons
SUE! IC 12,500 tons
MEDIC * 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
♦SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
♦DIOGENES 12,500 tons
♦New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight. Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETI' AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
l’uid-iip Capital
lteserre Fund
Itenerve Liability
Directors i
£5,610,700
3,000,000
5,610,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq
M.L.C. I The Hon. Reginald J. BlacK, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manaoer: Oscar Lines
Head „°?? oe_ : Georsr , e street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street E C
360 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
aoiaao avaH ®
qipMouiuioD
sank°'Bu#ralta
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Governor.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
[ FOIt MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
11 Bridge St.
Meal wraith,
McEacharn's Line,
61 Pitt Street.
Howard Smith
Ltd.
350 George St.
Melb. S.S. Co.,
Clarence and Bar-
rack Streets.
Howard Smith
Ltd.
350 George St.
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(1 1,1 "shipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Brisbane, Mackny, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Burns=Philp Tours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TRAVEL ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, EUROPE.
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, also SPECIAL
ROUND EASTERN UWR,S and ROUND WORLD
TOURS,
Apply our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
B\irns-PHilp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart Parkci Liii
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Slighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOlt
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. I,tcl.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
lllaekliealtli Collieries, I,td., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. Sail
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Iluddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktow™.
For Sale.
pNGINE. One Vertical Triple Expansion Drop
Valve Rotary Pumping Engine, in good working
order. Makers, Austral Otis Co. Steam Cylinders,
21 inches by 371 inches by 57 inches diameter by
3-feet stroke. Pump Plungers, 271 inches diameter.
Capable of pumping 9,000,000 (nine million) gallons
of water or sewage per day against 150 feet head with
1601 b. steam pressure. Will be dismantled by
Board’s workmen. On appointment being made can
be seen working at the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Board of Works Pumping Station, Spotswood. Ten-
ders, addressed to the Secretary, 110 Spencer Street,
Melbourne, must be accompanied by a deposit of 5 per
cent, on amount offered, and be forwarded not later
than Tuesday, 24th October, 1922.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it


Rosy CheeKs
and joyous Hearts
Healthy children
make happy homes.
These radiant children
are aglow with health and
energy, brimful of high
spirits and the joy of Life’s
Spring-time. And they are
as “good” as they are
jolly, because no child
that really enjoys its birth-
right of happiness is ever
naughty for long.
When children are fret-
ful, sulky, inattentive or
disobedient, they are not
merely unhappy—t hey
are unwell. For some rea-
son or other (such as eat-
ing something that has
disagreed) their delicate
internal mechanism is not
running quite smoothly;
impurities are creeping
into their blood; a lack of
harmony is making itself
felt. The symptoms are
often more noticeable in
their general behaviour
than in any physical con-
dition, and your child may
be punished for naughti-
ness instead of being
treated for indisposition.
Keep the blood pure and
the organs functioning
regularly and properly,
and your child will be as
happy and as good as the
day is long. Kruschen
Salts will do this. A tiny
dose is all that is neces-
sary for children—give
each child just as much
Kruschen Salts as would
cover a threepenny-bit, in
the breakfast cup of tea,
cocoa or milk. Taken this
way, Kruschen Salts are
tasteless. And the cost of
such a dose is half a far-
thing a day.
The effect of Kruschen
Salts on children is to
make and keep them
healthy, and therefore
happy—vigorous in body
and alert in mind. A Krus-
chen child leads in lessons
and in play, and starts
with the best possible
equipment for winning
the larger prizes of life.
'O.
n
T asteless
in tea, cocoa or milk.
Give each child just a
pinch—as much as would
lie on a threepenny-bit.
The SAFE laxative for Children.
For adults, the larger dose—as
much as will lie on a sixpence—is
found in practice to be just the right
amount for a most invigorating
daily tonic. The medicinal dose for
persons suffering from pains of
Rheumatism, Gout or Habitual
Constipation, with inactive liver,
etc., is half to one teaspoontul in a
tumbler of hot water before break-
fast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen
Salts. They cost you less than a
farthing a day for eager, strenuous
health. Get a bottle to-day.
Australia —Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H.& W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street, Sydney ; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand. —Trade supplies stocked by Fairbairn, Wright and
Co., Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
N.S. 61
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE."
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
Everything for TENNIS.
2^
Ik
*
z
rackets.
RACKET REPAIRS
SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Dunlop Regulation Grey
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922
Each. Doz.
1/4 15/-
2/7 30/-
Each. Uoz.
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32 /-
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins)
SUNDRIES.
(Kimlly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Aeme (square) Posts, pair JO5/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/0
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle •••■
1/-
Each.
Racket Covers .... ....... 2/6, 5/6, 'i /
Tennis Hatcliet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
Illustrated
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
Our Gloves
are well anti
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 12/6, 13/(
C. 8.8. Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, G or 8 oz 16/C, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively, vised by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Beg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
Snnerior. napa leather, hair stuffed • 8/-
1 Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
” (Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
TOOK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) 6/6, 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3ioz. (Postage Gld.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
Price List of Boxing Gloves, Punching Balls, etc., post free.
PUNCHING BALLS.
the
PORTABLE
THE
ARMY
iZ
u
THE EXPERT
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/6, 13/6, 17/6, 21/-. 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ceiling. . 12/6, 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light.... 21/-, 25/-,' 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings. ' ’
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and ’bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
All above balls-fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels l/c, 5/6 each
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels 10/6 each
Ball Gloves 3/9. 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each
c
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Rexona Soap for
Health and Beauty
Min*
HIT A
LLOYD
(From a photo.)
Rexona Girls are more numerous every
day, and one of the most charming is Miss
Rita Lloyd, of the J. C. Williamson Com-
pany, Ltd. Miss Lloyd finds Rexona Soap
simply delightful for the Skin and Hair,
and writes us as follows:
“I am simply delighted with
Rexona Soap. I have been using it
for some time now, and find it
keeps the skin in perfect condition
and is simply lovely for the hair.
Anyone who tries Rexona Soap for
the hair will find it unequalled as a
shampoo, for it leaves the hair so
soft and glossy with never a trace of
dandruff. I advise every girl who
values her appearance to at once
use Rexona Soap, for I am sure she
will like it.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) RITA LLOYD.”
Girls, Beautify Your Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty
of your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as
soft, lustrous and charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash
with ltexona Soap. A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has
been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses
the hair of all dust, dirt,
or excess oil, and in a
few moments you have
doubled the beauty of
your hair. Rexona Soap
dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies
and invigorates the scalp,
forever stopping itching
and falling hair. If you
care to have pretty hair,
and lots of it, get a tablet
of Rexona Soap to-day.
BSS
W/
w;
wA
a
MS
CVfig
voji
~'•> ■■
- >"■
m
'//mm.
Rexona Soap
1i-
RE
•
•m
PURE FOODS 4
REX HAM
PATE
the Sandwich
• Spread of the
Age !
Summed up in brief:—“Rex” Ham Pate
is the “good luck” sandwich spread
which reduces lunch preparing worries
to a minimum.
REX HAM PATE is made from the
finest “Rex” Hams —cooked to retain
all their delicious flavor and mildness-
then minced fine and seasoned with pure
wholesome spices.
It can be served in dozens of ways by
interlaying the slices of bread with sliced
egg, tomato, cucumber, olives, lettuce
leaves, etc. Give it a trial. Many new
ways of serving will suggest themselves
to you.
Sold in handy sized solderless hygienic
tins by all Grocers.
Insist on getting “Rex” brand.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
FJ. 269
The Crippled Idiot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HER wrinkled hands are worn with
pain :
I see her tragic eyes again
Watching the monstrous visions creep
Under the quiet eyes of sleep.
She has not touched the happy grass.
She feels, perchance, blue shadows pass;
And as she looks at them she twists
Her senseless fingers round her wrists.
No word she speaks. I hear her moan.
Was ever soul so lost, so lone,
l’ent with an impotent despair
In the child-prison of her chair?
Only at night they lay her down
That she may see the lamp-lit town,
A glittering gewgaw flaunting gold
That her starved life may never hold.
The laughing people come and go.
She does not care. Wan-eyed with woe,
She cannot know that children run
Under the starlight and the sun.
Below her pass the wind-white sails;
She onlv hears a tree that wails
Or the long sobbing of the rain,
Whose voice is like her own with pain.
Sometimes I cannot rest to think
That still she lies upon the brink
Of that great ocean of sweet death,
Chained by a sigh of childish breath.
Ah, surely sometimes, when she sleeps,
God through the brooding darkness creeps,
Unclasps her mind and whispers in
Some angel that may soothe Ilis sin!
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Midnight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SO soon as I was fully aware of the two
men, I knew that I was being fol-
lowed. I had glimpsed them before,
so to speak, out of the corner of my eye,
as I came down the docks road from No.
17, where The Three Sisters barque was
berthed, but my over-tired perceptions found
no significance in the fact that they set out
at the same time as myself, and in the same
direction.
But now, as I say, when I chanced to
view them squarely in the focus of the gas-
jet on the ferry landing, I knew a qualm
of uneasiness, and began to regret the late-
ness of the hour, and the practical deser-
tion of the water front.
A moment previously I had looked at my
watch, to discover the hands verging peril-
ously close to midnight; an unwonted ex-
perience, by the way, to a man who made a
boast of his conservative habits. But on
this occasion there was excuse for the lapse.
The late arrival of the barque, coupled with
the sudden indisposition of Walters, who
handled the Customs end of our joint busi-
ness, had thrust on me certain added duties
of which my inexperience took unusual toll
of time in the performance.
Walters, I make no doubt, would have
rattled through the work and been in his
bed long since. And the voluble mate of
The Three Sisters, whose appalling whisky
still nibbled the tip of my tongue, must like-
wise have taken himself and his Yankee
accent to the little two-berth cubicle aft,
and there snored himself into oblivion.
Hypothetically, also, I should not in that
case have been forced to the ultimate ex-
pedient of taking to my heels and bolting
for the black harborage of an open door-
way.
But that was not to happen just yet.
Following upon the certainty of conviction,
I was sufficiently curious—and unafraid —
to attempt some understanding of the causa-
tive facts. It seemed my initial intuition,
or instinct, or whatever one chooses to call
it, owed itself to the discovery that we had
each of us retained his relative position
throughout the long tramp from No. 17.
For, to say the least of it, it was singular
that each of three men, moving separately
and without ostensible connection, should
find himself, at the conclusion of 10 minutes’
sharp walking, in exactly the same dis-
position as regards the other two as
he was at commencement. It was more
than coincidence. Obviously there must
be collusion somewhere. And since I might
reasonably exempt myself, it followed I
might as reasonably suspect the others. It
was easy to understand how they should set
their pace by mine, until there came about
the precise circumstances their purpose de-
manded.
Further than this I was unable to deter-
mine. I imagine that something in my atti-
tude —perhaps an unconscious acceleration
of speed, or an instinctive bracing of my
shoulders—warned them that I was becom-
ing alive to the situation. At any rate,
they began to close in, though so deliber-
ately and in so seemingly natural a manner,
that I was scarcely aware of it until they
were perceptibly nearer.
At a moderate estimate we were still a
quarter of a mile from the city proper. I
appeared to be faced with the alternatives
of running away or myself assuming the
aggressive, since a middle course plainly
spelt disaster. As it turned out, I was to do
both. While still wanting a decision I
slipped and fell on the roadway. And at
that precise moment, as if he had been
waiting for that very thing to happen, the
man on my right sprang for me.
I am not a boxer; nor can I see how
otherwise it might have advantaged me. I
was , , on my ace > ai ’ms supporting the
suddenly enormous weight of my body, and
my knees drawn up in an instinctive effort
to save my stomach. A more helpless posi-
tK>n wou difficult to imagine.
S eer good luck sometimes accomplishes
more than a deliberately favored science.
sunn!fJa ag T eSS t 0 get at my P° (, kets, as I
supposed the man over-reached himself.
Had i been an expert in that peculiarly
atrocious form of attack known to a French
man as la savate, I could not have timed
LK more accurately. The toe of my
took 4 i oot ;> 1 ming v \ clously as 1 roiled aside,
took the thug on the point of the chin, so
that he crumpled forward with a little
astonished bleat.
. I. scrambled to my feet I had a dim
impression of the other man standing
motionless close by. Why he remained aloof
under the circumstances I am unable to
guess, unless it was that the darkness con-
fused his judgment. At all events, for the
space of perhaps five seconds, all action was
suspended. We three remained each in his
niche in the wall of the night, like figures
held upon a screen because of the failure
of the projecting machinery.
And then, as if the Great Operator of
the Eternal Cinema had once again laid his
tired touch on the handle, we were gal-
vanised into furious resumption.
This time both men came at me together;
at least, I should say, at the spot where I
had been. For by then I was literally fly-
ing for the open doorway of a building which
stood apart upon the opposite side of the
road. I went through it like a hunted hare,
slamming the door, and thereafter lean-
ing in a flutter of congested emotions against
the musty wall-paper of the passage.
For some seconds nothing happened. Then
came a sound of fumbling from without, as
if my disillusioned thues were cautiously in-
vestigating. I let them fumble. I knew,
by _ the comparatively noiseless manner in
which the heavy door had met the jamb, that
it was fitted with a Yale, or kindred, lock.
I had, in fact, more apprehension regarding
the inmates of the house than of my erst-
while assailants. I wondered how "long it
would take them to decide that there were
more promising victims elsewhere.
The fumbling ceased. A short silence
ensued, as if the men were at a loss what
next to do. I recovered from a prolonged
yawn to hear a voice, dim-sounding and
curiously guttural by reason of the thick-
ness of wood between, apparently address-
ing itself to me.
“Mister, d’you know what house you’re
in?”
I replied not at all.
The voice resumed.
“So help me, Mister, it’s old Sal Mona-
ghan’s place, that used to be. Strike me
dead, but I wouldn't ast any bloke to stand
for a thing like that. Stand’s a corvee
and roll, and we’ll cry quits.”
I felt amused. Did they think to draw
me as easily as all that. Granted that I
was in "old Sal Monaghan’s place, that used
to be,” whatever that meant, I couldn’t
see how it affected the issue. I had as lief
trust the lady (albeit unknown) as the
tiger, or brace of tigers. But I didn’t say
so aloud. It was so transparently obvious.
Again silence, giving place to an inde-
terminate mumbling. And then a second
voice, containing, as I fancied, a distinct
note of fear.
“Gawd Almighty, Bill,” it said, “they
muster got him already. The bloody little
babies. ’Struth, I’m out of this.”
As the tap of their receding feet died to
a thin pulsation of imagined sound, there
came from the direction of the city the
slow booming of a clock. I counted the
strokes mechanically, scarcely conscious for
a moment of certain word-echoes that linked
themselves between in an ordered sequence.
Yet presently, as the thoughts quickened,
understanding came with a start.
“ three. .. .four (muster got him) five
(the bloody) six (little babies) seven
(bloody babies) eight (they muster got)
nine (old Sal Monaghan)....”
I can only excuse the absurdity of the
thing by supposing myself to have exposed
a latent superstition compatible with the
hour and place. At least, so it appeared to
me at the time. For with the stroke of
midnight the silence seemed to settle itself
even more closely. And now my mind re-
fused its former placidity. I found myself
uneasily speculating as to whom “they”
might be. And what sort of babies were
they that clung to the tail of the
great Australian adjective so persistently,
whether one supposed a literal or merely vul-
gar significance? I decided to postpone con-
jecture to more congenial opportunity, and
reached for the knob of the door in some-
thing of a fluster.
My hand encountered an unbroken sur-
face. I touched a small key-slit, but that
was all. Knob there was not. It became
increasingly, evident that I had to deal with
the old style of lock which necessitates the
use of a key for egress as well as ingress.
I had no means of verifying this beyond
the feverish searching of my fingers, for 1
carried no matches. In the end I desisted
with an uncomfortable conviction that
escape by the door was out of the question.
It was unfortunate, but far from final.
There would be a window somewhere, of
course, and the sooner it was found the
better. My only alternative, which was
deliberately to rouse the occupants, was too
risky to venture. I felt my inability to give
anything like a reasonable explanation of
my. presence. From the point of view of an
irate householder the tale would sound just
a little thin. I admitted it frankly.
I began to grope my way down the hall,
discovering each second a more urgent
desire to be quit of the place. The dark-
ness was intense, and the air full of a
musty stench. I moved from side to side
seeking an opening, but without result. On
the point of turning, in order to go over
the wall space a second 'time, my foot
touched what proved to be the beginning of
a flight of stairs. Upon the whole it
appeared I might as well go up as remain
where I was. And accordingly up I went, until
I reached the narrow landing above. Here,
to my infinite relief, I caught the pallid
gleam of a window, and something of con-
fidence returned. At the most, I argued, the
drop to the street beneath could be but a
few feet. With ordinary luck I should
escape hurt. But I could not overlook the
fact that to reach the window I must first
cross a room, probably a bedroom. To
accomplish this satisfactorily was undoubt-
edly the most ticklish part of the whole
proceeding.
I have since come to the opinion that
there is no silence more absolute than that
wherein the infant day lies with blind eyes
on the lap of night. As yet the stillness
was profound. The house lay sunken and
inert, like a dead thing buried in the pit of
(Continued on next page.)


Beware ot Poisoned Sores
Apply Zam-Buk promptly to
any Cut, Scratch, Burn or Bruise.
TO guard against infection by disease-germs and consequent festering
and blood-poison you should immediately apply antiseptic Zam-
Buk to any cut, burn, bruise, scald, abrasion, or any broken condition of
your skin. The injury that is dressed with Zam-Buk will not fester—
there is no fear of complications—because Zam-Buk, when applied,
immediately attacks and kills off the insidious germs, which are the
cause of skin disease.
If you already have a poisoned sore, a festering cut, or any skin
trouble too obstinate for ordinary treatment, Zam-Buk, by reason of its
wonderful antiseptic and germicidal powers, will quickly kill
all infection, and ensure healthy healing.
Zam-Btik is the worker’s best friend—often saves months of suffering,
forced “time-off,” and loss of wages.
Zam-Buk is compact—always ready for instant use—always reliable:
therefore a box should be kept handy in every home and workshop.
For sufferers from eczema or any skin complaint, Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap should be used in preference to ordinary toilet soaps, which, under these
conditions, sometimes prove very harmful. Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is
specially recommended to all with a tender or sensitive skin. 1/- per tablet
of all chemists.
8 MONTHS WITH A
POISONED ARM.
Wonderful Zam-Buk Healing.
“Some time ago I slipped
and badly gashed my fore-
arm,” says Mr. J. D. Mc-
Cormack, of Egan Street, New-
town, Sydney. “Blood poison
set in, and I had a bad
time. My arm became so
swollen and inflamed that I
could not get my coat on.
For eight months I tried one
thing after another, but in
the end my arm was as bad
as ever. I then decided on
trying Zam-Buk, and this
splendid balm soon drew out
the pus and cleansed the
wound thoroughly, and then
healed it up, arid thus en-
abled me to resume my work
of carpentery and joinery.
My great thanks are due to
Zam-Buk.”
Si
w
Aa
V/
m
W
Is. Gd. d 3s. 6d. per box
of all Chemists and
Stores , or post free from
C. E. Fulford (A us.)
Ltd., Sydney.
FREE SAMPLES.
If you have not already tried
Zam-Buk, and desire to do so,
simply send your name and
address to the proprietors,
C. E. Fulford (Aus.), Ltd.,
Sydney, who will have
pleasure in forwarding your
Free Sample by return post.
Please mention The Bulletin
and date when waiting.
The World’s Greatest Hea
eternity. But now there suddenly reached
me a tiny thread of sound, like the mewing
of a kitten. I listened with bated breath.
Surely something was stirring in the thick
blackness below stairs, or was it but the
quickened beating of my heart. As I waited,
the sound was repeated. It came in a long-
drawn monotone, having in it a quality of
terror impossible to describe. I felt the
sweat start on my forehead. As I live,
it was the whimpering of a child. I dare
swear a dying oath it was nothing less than
! frightened whimpering of a little child.
Right before me the window beckoned
like a pale ghost, and I turned towards it
hurriedly. As I did so I trod on a loose
board, which gave out a report like a pistol
shot. I he noise of it, cutting that vast
silence with a skelter of dismal echoes, so
appalled me that I stopped short. My eyes,
going instinctively to the well of the stair-
)T P erce ived a strip of light pencilling
itself over the inky void. I saw it widen,
saw the outlines of a squat doorway, saw
a shadowed hand holding high a guttering
candle. There came into view the figure of
a thick-set, grossly stout woman, with a
mane of tangled hair, and a white, amor-
phous face that raised itself with infinite
steaitb to meet my fascinated gaze.
Dlutched against the open bosom of’ her
nightdress was the naked body of an infant.
jO much I saw and understood before
mad fear took me in a giant’s grip. I have
no recollection of crossing the room to the
haven of the window. I only know that as
1 xeaclied the crazy sill there seemed to
break suddenly at my back the terrible
cadence of a multitude of weeping, beseech-
ing babies. There was a sound of smashing
glass, and a sensation of falling—falling.
I came to consciousness in the casualty
ward at the Melbourne Hospital. My head
ached consumedly, and I was mildly annoyed
to find, upon a tentative fumbling of weak
nands, that it was swathed in evil-smelling
bandages At my spoken protest a wards-
mim suddenly appeared.
• W f d] t , e . n « u « h T , to swear, eh. Have another
“w I! 118 ' , He lield a glass to my lips.
. V ell, R*® doctor that overhauled you said
you could go home, if you wanted to, as
soon as you felt a bit fit. You had a slight
concussion, but there’s no harm done.”
, k m fl lured > not unnaturally, how I came
there. The man grinned.
lu a oab ’ aIon S with two chaps
that said they saw you trip on the docks’
Hmw n v crack , your head on a lump of
eV F° U mi? edn t s ’° throil g h .vour pockets
UKe tnat. They were decent chaps. I tell
you. Lucky for you they were along to
Pick you up. He grinned again, and I saw
a furtive fluttering of his right eyelid. “If
y 7 ou don t mind me mentioning it, vou
seemed to have been using whisky on your
handkerchief instead of scent. But it smelt
like a good brand. I’ll say that for you.”
I let it go at that, for the time being,
anyhow I went to my boarding-house in a
taxi and was hunted to bed by an indig-
nant landlady, who has since given me ;
notice to quit. I’m afraid I slept badly.
I went back to the docks road in the i
morning. The whole overnight happening
appeared so incomprehensible that I felt my
sanity depended upon a right perspective.
But I could discover no house at all corres-
ponding to the house of Sal Mbnaghan. Nor
did my persistent questioning of all and
sundry elicit anything more satisfactory than
a stare and a shake of the head. It ap-
peared no one had even heard of the lady.
I. even wired to the mate of The Three
Sisters, now discharging cargo at Sydney.
I felt, as I say, that my health demanded
some sort of an explanation. The thing
clung so abominably to my mind that I
was willing to accept the veriest absurdity
as palliation.
I said to him : “What did you put in the
whisky?”
The reply consisted of one word : “Water.”
So that got me nowhere either.
But the other day I ran against my old
friend Gunter, not long retired after a life-
time in the police force. To him I put the
usual query, and was astounded to observe
intelligence in his wandering eye.
“Sal Monaghan! I should say I did.
She was the most notorious baby-farmer and
abortionist the Devil ever spawned. She
had a little place down there by the river.
It was pulled down 30 years ago.”
“Ah! And the woman herself?”
‘Hanged, thank God !” said Gunter. “Two
of our chaps climbed into her joint one
night by an upstairs window. They trod on
a loose board on the landing of the stairs,
and the old she-devil came out of her
r00m”....
“With a dead child in her arms,” I blurted.
Gunter looked his amazement.
“How did you know that? Yes, that’s
right. She’d just that minute strangled it.
The body was still warm, they say. They
took her red-handed. And I believed when
they began to root around later they found
a round dozen of little skeletons hidden in
different parts of the yard and house. Who’s
been telling you about it, anyhow? I thought
it was pretty well forgotten by this.”
I put it off by taking him round a corner
and buying him a drink. Gunter’s an amen-
able chap that way. I’ve never known him
to refuse. And, anyway, there was a nasty
taste in my mouth that I wanted to wash
0ut....
But I wonder if the mate was lying, after all.
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Amateur.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hubert henry wilberforoe,
who had innumerable stage seductions
to regret as the heavy miscreant of
the Belladonna Dramatic Co., also regarded
himself as a veritable devil in private life.
His Casanovian history was damp with
the tears of wistful wenches who had
read promises of bliss in his turquoise
eyes. One by one they had dropped
into his orbit, lavished on him their loveli-
est moments, and then had faded away leav-
ing behind a glove, or a picture-postcard, as
a memento of a transient felicity. Hubert
loved to think of them as a recreation from
the _ stereotyped futilities of his stage be-
havior, and he often mused on the fatal skill
he would display if he elected to sin
“off-stage”—if he started to play the
villain “all he knew.” However, pressure
of events outside prevented that aspiration
attaining the stature of a real ambition, for
Hubert was always philandering and always
finding, like other close students of the
Human Female, that a new ardor carried to
its proper fulfilment was very like the
repetition of an old experience. He was
never bored by the utter uselessness of his
conquests. He found pleasure in regarding
them as sops to his egotism and as tributes
to the triumph of his thrilling eyes.
He was a good-looking young man, with the
tailored ostentation of the actor-person, and
Ins dark locks, brushed back to reveal the
cubic content of his intellect, were often the
first stimulus to a panting heart. And it
was in his best style, with the tacit support
of his most recent tailor, that he blew into
the vicinity of Miss Millicent Meade. At
the time the Belladonnas were doing the
suburbs in the four-act tragedy, “The Girl
Who Took the Wrong Tram-car,” and Milli-
cent came within the range of his eyeball as
a consistent and appreciative front-stall
patron. Hubert noticed her one night, caught
the flash of a casual diamond, and diagnosed
her as a prosperous and possibly independent
lady who had succumbed to the. thraldom of
his artesian glance. In Hubert’s rosy view
this modest assumption was confirmed by
Millicent’s evident readiness to follow the
company round and impair by her rich
apparel and enormous personal approval the
severe business frost that had set in at
Prahran. Furthermore, she brought prestige
to her eccentricity and a glow to his soul
by driving up in a limousine and assuming
bv every allowable affectation that the
machine was the merest trifle among her
possessions. Hubert, taking the lady as a
challenge to his rarely dormant acquisitive-
ness, was not long in getting acquainted and
starting (he hoped) a series of palpitations
under her rather resilient corsage. She dis-
closed a plumpness that offered a buffer to
the closer gallantries, and there was suffi-
cient extravagance of contrast between the
large black eyes and daffodil hair to warrant
the suspicion of peroxide in the paradox and
of considerable diligence in the attainment
thereof. All the same, she seemed genu-
inely fascinated after one encounter in close-
up converse. After another she let him
annex her hand and make a further appoint-
ment, and told him such things in a buttered-
muffin undertone that provoked superb
visions of flats, finery and comfort, and de-
cided him suddenly to marry the girl. There-
upon symptoms of a reputable purpose be-
came visible in what he had considered his
most finished affaire. Endearments became
suddenly veloured and shapely, and travelled
to her ear charged with a syrupy note of
expectancy. Also, he bought her flowers in
the accepted manner and risked his awful
reputation, aye, even the ignominy of being
charged as a novice, by contributing to the
local shortage in the chocolate trade.
Millicent took it all with a telling bashful
simplicity, a,nd responded to every act of de-
votion with equal devoutness. They went for
long drives in the country, skimmed’ the froth
off his income in wine, whisky and meals, and
showed their inratuation in hot and hungry
sighs. But with all the ecstasies of a now
somewhat raffish attachment, iUillicent re-
mained unripe for marriage. Hubert’s
gleaming language, fattened by the fancies
of a calculating brain, could not bring the
fateful affirmative that would crown the
record of his solicitations. She did not want
to spoil his “car-eah,” she said. Domesticity
would damage his genius, and take all the
stiffening out of his style. Besides (with a
coy look that almost halved her age) disillu-
sionment would shatter the idyll u he saw
her late and early from day to day.
Compelled to accept the situation, but
optimistic of an ultimate victory, Hubert
went on pursuing a courtship that contained
all the furtive little madnesses of an ordinary
amour, and soon reached a climax and a
wonderful curtain. One bright morning an
official document invited him to enjoy the
eclat of being co-re. in the approaching
cause celebre, Smith v. Smith.
The great actor was thunderstruck.
The history of his Machiavellian finesse
in intrigue rose up to inform him
that it could not be true. But a
cold and correct lawyer informed him that
it teas, and added the offensive detail that
the demented husband was with difficulty
being prevented from doing the author of
his dishonor a physical mischief. Though
apparently separated from the error, who
had concealed her relationship under the alias
of Meade, Smith still cherished for her a
chivalrous regard, and in the first stress of
the injury to his pride and temper he pic-
tured Hubert’s future blotted with blood
and tears. But wisdom prevailed against
the excesses of a fevered imagination. The
Smiths became disparate atoms by due legal
process, and the author of the trouble found
himself reduced to the position of the accom-
plice who had merely helped a giddy female
on to freedom.
But that was not all. Smith had been
nursing the idea of an original revenge, and
he carried it out with an intense convic-
tion of its worthiness and effect on the
opening night at Moonee Ponds of “The
Postman’s Daughter.” Smith, immersed in
visions of the djabolical Hubert, held a back
seat near the door ready for a swift and
unexampled exit when he had played his
little part. Came the third act, when
Hubert, glistening with a purpose empha-
sised by an evil gloat and a cigarette,
pounces on the shrinking Sylvia near the
fish-pond. ITe was in the midst of staging
his big temptation, cozening the young ear
with the treasures of his vocabulary, when
an indignant baritone broke in from the
back. “Amat-u-ah !” it said to the hero of
countless indiscretions, and when he looked
up, a trifle dashed, it roared “Amat-u-ah!”
again with a shout of irreverent laughter,
that died in the clap of a banging door.
Hubert retired that night feeling that his
fame was ended. Never again could he pose,
majestic and fearful, an incarnate invita-
tion to frailty and wickedness. That sneer,
devastating at any time, had humbled him
for ever with its mockery and meaning.
C. R. BRADISH.


- a**,.
wm
if
is
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
-4'
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 3; 'Bore of Cylinder 3%
inches; Stroke of Piston 3}& inches;
Weight 631 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats', canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Hails, £36.
Correspondepce invited.
W. Chandler Pty. Ltd
•*
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
/
or Disorders
the Blood'-
Nettle rash, prickly heat, pimples, sallow or
unhealthy complexion, and similar skin troubles,
are due to impurities in the blood-stream pro-
duced by irregular or ineffective elimination of
waste products from the large intestine, The
daily use of ENO’s‘Fruit Salt’ cleanses the blood
in a perfectly natural manner and thus promotes
a clear, healthy skin. You should never be
without ENO-—your chemist or storekeeper sells
FRUIT SALT
Sales Representative! ,
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
s
HP
m
Your Money’s Worth
in Genuine Satisfaction
THE price you may pay does not always
determine the value —inferior cartridges
are dear at any price.
Rgmineton: “Wetproof” shotgun cartridges
are endorsed by sportsmen all over the j
world because they may be depended upon
to give satisfaction in all kinds of weather.
You are certain of good results when you
know that the cartridge will do its “bit
when your aim is true and you have pulled
the trigger.
Hgmineton. “Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are
supplied 1 in four trade marked brands: ARROW,
NITRO CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc
I>-3 D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representatiae
P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
A Pointed Talk.
Next time yon feel ‘out of sorts,’ just take Beecham’s Pills
and so prevent a seemingly small ailment growing
into a serious trouble. Beecham’s Pills prevent illness.
Many people take them to keep themselves in good
health, and these wise and happy ones hardly
ever know what bad health is. There is no
medicine in the world to compare with
Beecham’s Pills. They are a tried
remedy—the trusted friend of thousands
of families all over the world.
You will soon feel better after
taking them, and you will know
what to resort to in future.
Remember, “ Prevention is
better than cure,” so
always have a box of
Beecham’s Pills handy
and take a dose
when you feel
yen need one
▼
BEECH AM S PHIS
“WORTH A GBIREA A BOX.”
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
,
Manager, who will quote you price or it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bbitish Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containiag
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
o
H
OH
jo ac
pi
H
oo
OQ
r-O
wrj
No Garage Pro-
prietor or Private
Garage Owner
should be without
a set of Box
Spanners.
jfkk
, -y
With the right set
there is no nut on
your car that can-
not be easily and
quickly removed.
BOX SPANNER SET, as shown above, with folding T Handle.
Takes from |in. to fin. Bolts in S.A.E., U.S.S. or Whit. Standard.
Price, 22/6 the set, arranged in a neat case.
>LIP JOINT
PLIERS,
.fc
6iin. Bin. lOin.
3/- 5/- 5/6
4/0 with extra thin nose.
The World-famed
STILLSON
PIPE WRENCH,
Length.
Gin. Sin. lOin. Min.
0/- 6/6 7/6 10/6
■' ", ■
COMBINATION CUTTING PLIERS,
6in. Tin. Sin. Oin. .
4/6 4/9 5/6
4/- 5/- 5/6 f
7/3 7/6 8/9 9/6)
According
to
Quality.
DOUBLE-ENDED
SPANNERS,
Drop-forged with
hardened jaws.
4*
• ■
J-/ 4 X o/
1/9
2/3 ea
3/8 x 7/16
7/16 x 1/:
2/9
3/3 ea.
SHIFTING
SPANNERS,
Strong and Rugged
6in. from 1/9 each.
11 in. from 6/- each.
ALL CLASSES OF OTHER TOOLS IN GREAT VARIETY.
SEND YOUR INQUIRIES.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR-ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.


Born 1820-
-Still going Strong
7>
r
i
&
X
§1
/
o
S 3
1
m
c
*3
i
'W
tf!
a
ES>
CH6ke
MtaTMicAi. smmr •mica no. %
Johnnie Walker:
Shade of Nelson (interrupting):
NELSON’S STAIRWAY ,
the “ George,” Portsmouth : —Very little remaining of its
antiquity excepting Nelson's bedroom and the staircase
which he descended before the Battle of Trafalgar ,
“Ah ! England expects ... . ”
“ that you, Johnnie Walker.
will go on paying duty.”
i|o
# WALK
