

"When two heads are better than one
»»
With Luncheon-
K.B.
LAGER
The Preference of Connoisseurs*
Hllf
mu
uwmiu
«m«
;
2ft
a
OR.EWEO
%
YA
G
€
wiinmimm
>nm\'i
With Dinner —
T.B.
LIGHT
ALE
The DrinK ojf Good Taste.
Brewed and Bottled by
TOOTH <£L CO. LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney,
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2187
Thursday, January 12, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


HAVE vou bad a copy of the new library
catalogue ’for 1922? It will be sent post
free to anv address on application.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.. 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. — Advt.
IfSSSg si!s!lsS>L« !
3»u Uffaa
lp|
If.
mi
i
li
s
Mangrovite Leather or
Raw-Hide Belting,
In order to Keep ahead of competition in the coming year
manufacturers should overhaul their machinery with a
keen eye to expense-cutting improvements.
Mangrovite Belting is made by. a firm with 40 years experi-
ence of Australian needs and conditions, arid it is justly
famed for its immense tensile 'strength, tenacious grip
and absolute reliability.
Power saved means money saved.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICi, Managing: Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
Watermans (Ide alFountamPen
i.i
**
<9.1 m
■js\\
m
>'// I jr
rM,
lI'W.. /!/>
if .!>
«/ t.*
■lii
'wVir
iNs.il
I A,'l
PIS# h'
•"•Mi
“How much di
9”
Don’t trust to memory over
prices or figures, Write them
down with Waterman's Ideal
Fountain Pen. Carry one
with you wherevei you go.
Three Types—'“ Self-Filling,'” “Safety” and
“Regular.” Nibs to suit all hands. Of Stationers
and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd,, CHepeit Center
Kingsway, London, England,
Australia.: Harold D. Dixon,
105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
c
At
%
mS
or
A
$
V
SJW
It soothes and stops itching after one
application. Also cures Scurvy, Scald
Head, Ringworm and other Skin
Diseases. Send for sample' tin, 1/6.
Don’t delay a day Get it now.
\V. 11. MALYON & SON, Ballarat, Vic.
(METER)
HOTEL
metropole,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and Upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to Tiie Manager.
During hot weather teeth-
ing troubles and intestinal
disorders often occasion
grave anxiety to
especially where infants
are hand-fed. An effec-
tive safeguard is
Refuse doubtful substi-
tutes. The genuine
Kruse’s is made by-
Felton, Grimwade & Co.
Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
tid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the-
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
m
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
I-
The Red Page
Lindsay Gordon in Ballarat
Ballarat has two centres of literary in-
terest—the site of the Eureka Stockade,
marked with a monument raised to the dig-
gers who fought and fell there, and the spot
near the gaol where for a year the poet
Adam Lindsay Gordon ran his livery and
bait stables. Towards the end of ‘ 1867,
having failed to impress the reading public,
if there were anything deserving of the
name in Melbourne at that date, with two
slender books of verse, “Sea Spray and
Smoke Drift,” containing many rhymes now
extremely popular, and that ambitious
failure “Ashtaroth,” the Australian
“Faust,” Gordon took it in his head to clip
the wings of his Pegasus and try him on
the community as a saddle-horse and hack.
There was a livery-stable business for sale
in Ballarat attached to Craig’s Hotel, a
historical establishment, and having mort-
gaged his property at Penola to raise the
necessary cash, the poet purchased the going
concern, added a few horses and vehicles,
and proceeded to devote himself to the busi-
ness.
Gordon has been represented as a thrift-
less, indolent man, content astride a horse,
an inveterate roamer; but he certainly put
a lot of, hard, conscientious work into the
running of his Ballarat stables. He was
industrious and indefatigable, on the job
early and late, disdaining no task however
arduous or ignominious, grooming, forking
and feeding from early morning till mid-
night. Dressed in tight corduroy trousers,
a monkey jacket and high boots, a cap upon
his head, wagging a long, untrimmed flaxen
beard, upholding a barbaric clay, with only a
couple of inches of stem, Gordon was a typi-
cal groom at the beck and call of the tra-
veller needing a trap to carry him and his
samples to Sebastopol or Buninypng, or of
any pert johnny-boy of the period seeking
a bob-tailed hunter on which to follow the
hounds after a good red herring out from
Brazenors’along the old Iladdon-road. Gor-
don certainly had industry to can*y his busi-
ness along, and sense so far as horsesense
served; but he lacked business capacity,
was an utterly hopeless book-keeper, and
was hampered with what was, for that time,
a preposterously heavy rent.
In the hope of making ends meet Gordon
added the work of the secretaryship of the
Hunt Club to his multifarious tasks, and
took on the care of the greyhounds of the
Coursing Club at his own home, Mrs. Gor-
don helping with an energy to which the
poet often referred with affectionate grati-
tude. In fact,- all through this trying time
the wife, in addition to attending to her house-
hold duties, worked heroically in the fond
hope of landing her Adam in a steady billet,
apart from steeplechasing, which she de-
tested, and the writing of rhymes, which
she looked upon as a hopeless business from
the point of view of the general provider.
True to his breeding as the son of a Brit-
ish Army officer, Gordon joined the Light
Horse, riding his mare Maude, a splendid
hunter, of whom he was exceedingly proud,
and to whom he looked, with Cadger and
Viking (for he was still a racehorse-owner),
to win in the saddle the competence he had
failed to attain in the study-chair. The
Light Horse drilled in Gordon’s yard, and
with enormous gratification Adam led the
evolutions. There are still old identities who
recall the spectacle the bard provided in
the gaudy uniform of the troops galloping
down the street on his handsome mount,
lying Well back towards the crupper, in
utter defiance of all the rules of fine rulin'
his yellow beard flying behind, his cabbage-
tree, tethered to his neck by a string, mount-
ing the gale. In this manner Gordon dashed
up to the five-barred gate and took it at a
bound, for, despite hiS wretched eyesight,
no one ever knew the poet linger for the
removal of a barrier while he had a horse
under him, and he never would bestride an
animal that could not jump. When the
Light Horse was in need of a sergeant it
was Gordon’s earnest wish that he and the
rival candidate should be shut up together
in a loose-box, the man coming out first to
be judged the best man and most fit for
the office. To .avoid bloodshed a third man
was chosen.
It was characteristic of the bard that
upon recognising his own incapacity for
business, and in casting about for a partner
to meet the deficiency, he should hit upon
the man he did, Harry Mount, another ama-
teur rider, with a big Ballarat reputation
as a horseman, a boon companion and a
devil of a good fellow, but with even less
business instinct than the poet. Gordon
and Mount had a 100 per cent, livelier pros-
pect of going to the deuce at a hand-gallop
than the original proprietary. But Gordon
was still a hard grafter, still striving his
utmost to deserve success by earning it. The
only recreation he allowed himself, apart
from the mounted drill of the Light Horse,
was an occasional game of billiards at
Craig’s when things were slack. Here was
no one to whom he might talk of litera-
ture and the things he most delighted in.
and the period was only scantily productive
in a poetic sense, although it is probable he
wrote at Ballarat several of the somewhat
gloomy verses he subsequently contributed
to Marcus Clarke’s Colonial Monthly.
Gordon lost his little son at Ballarat.
This was a heavy blow, and one bitterly
resented. That son had been a stout, red
cord binding him to life, and the break left
only very slender ties. Already the singer
was talking of self-destruction.. He had
sustained a very bad fall while riding a big
restive horse from the yard. The animal
shied, and Gordon was thrown with his
head against a post, fracturing his jaw,
knocking out several teeth, and injuring
the skull so severely that, as he protested
later, he never recovered from the hurt. His
morbidity was greatly increased bv this mis-
fortune. ‘ His stables had gone all to pieces
in his absence. Writing to a friend at this
time he declared that since his bad fall he
had taken to drink, and was constantly
afflicted with pains in the head I get so
awfully low-spirited and miserable that it
there were a stro. g sleeping draught near
me lam afraid I might take it... .1 really
do feel a little mad at times.
A small inheritance coming from England
enabled him to evade bankruptcy. He paid
off his creditors, dropped the livery and
bait business and went to Melbourne, where
he found an outlet for his verses in the
Colonial Monthly, and had those most
astonishing series of successes as a horse-
man which gave him the reputation as a
rider he so longed to 'attain as a writer.
EEDWARD DYSON.
The Ever-Youthful George Moore
This appears to be the age of literary
veterans. France has AnatOle France, who
has just won tire Nobel prize, and England
has, among others of less note, such dis-
tinctive types as Edmund Gosse, Thomas
Hardy, Bernard Shaw and George Moore.
The urbane Gosse writes in exactly the same
way at 70 as he did at 30—neither better
nor worse. He has changed in no way
since Moore wrote years ago: “The tavern
produced Villon and Marlowe, the club
produced Edmund Gosse.’' Shaw, who has
been cruelly described as “the Ulster Polo-
nius,” writes and talks as much as ever;
but he has become amiable, and has lost
much of his old wit and satirical power. His
last plays are inferior to his first. Hardy
is a phenomenon. In classical Greece, an-
cients. in Meredith’s words, were musical
at close of day; but in modern literature it
would be difficult to parallel the case of
Thomas Hardy, who wrote his best poetry,
lyrical poetry of an original and daring order,
between his seventieth and eightieth years.
Each successive volume of the old man’s
verse became subtler, profounder, more lyri-
cal, till his latest critic, Lascelles Aber-
crombie, had to exclaim “What will he do
In regard to George Moore critical
opinion is divided on the question of the
relative merits of his earlier and later
works. On the whole, most judicious read-
ers seem to prefer the later books, such as
“Hail and Farewell,” “Avowals,” “The
Brook Iverith” and “Heloise and Abelard.”
No doubt, this narrative prose is very beau-
tiful, flowing like a winding river through
a landscape by Corot. “It is lyrical prose,”
writes an English critic, “having this in
common with the lyric, that its melody
lives almost of itself, half-disengaged from
its substance, as in a lyric of Campion
or Shelley.” This may be true; yet give me
the earlier books, with their livelier, more
conversational style, like “Esther Waters,” "A
Mummer’s Wife” —a novel of the Five Towns
country that Arnold Bennett at his best has
never approached—and “Modern Painting.”
which, even if nowadays it has become old-
fashioned, contains probably the best essays
in art criticism, at least the most painter-
like, in England. But whatever books may
be the better, George Moore himself retains
all the ardor of his youth; and though he
prides himself on his isolated position, he
can never resist temptation, literary tempta-
tion, for he is as fond of a fight, and as in-
discreet, as ever.
After a - performance of Ben Jonson s
“Volpone” by the Phoenix, a society that
gives occasional seasons of the masterpieces
of old English drama, I saw George Moore
coming down the steps of the Eyrie Theatre,
Hammersmith, looking exactly as in one
of his French portraits. His hair was
white, but his moustaches were still yellow-
ish, his eyes were blue and his skin wonder-
fully fresh. There was .something so enthusi-
astic, so essentially youthful about his ap-
pearance that I was not surprised when
he said with his characteristic and pic-
turesque recklessness that “Volpone” was
worth a thousand modern plays. Everyone
who had seen it was naturally excited ; but
the ever-youthful Moore went further than
anyone else, and that. he regarded the
performance as one of the important ei ents
of his life. “I think that on the night it
was played we all felt like prisoners coming
out of dungeons into the free, air, and that
everyone present recognised the .three first
acts as miracles of delicate construction.
And there was a pulse and an energy in its
dialogue, written when the language was
young and sought expression, like the eaith
in springtime. The sappy play was. for all
of us a clear vision of a past springtime.
‘Though our lot be cast in an endless
winter,’ we said, ‘it is good for us to know
that once there was spring in the world.
This is the way to talk, for Moore is as
lively and provocative as in the days of his
youth. Recall his controversy with J. C.
Squire after the publication of “Heloise and
Abelard.” Moore asked that Squire, who
had suggested that there were anachronisms
in the book, should either point them out
or apologise. It is unimportant who was
right, or whether the introduction of the
troubadours and trouveres was an anachro-
nism, as Squire suggested, or historically cor-
rect. The fun for the spectator consisted in
the delightful way in which Moore, the old
realist, treated Squire, a leader of the young
poets. From ~ ' oore’s airy letter one got
the impression that his opponent was merely
a dull pedant, certainly not a poet, but one
of the “hounds of science” who were on his
traces, and a grubber in the British Museum,
an institution that Moore considered useless
for the humanist who arrived at a true, idea
of the twelfth century, not by documentary
evidence, but simply by remembering that
what humanity is humanity always was. Moore
argued that we could assume the existence of
the Courts of Love in the twelfth century,
for w<? hcivo our own Courts of Lovg, which
after the holidays would again be in session.
Moore always says that he hates contro-
versy “it wearies him” —but he seems con-
stitutionallv unable to keep out of a fight.
If there is' no one else to fight he goes tor
the general public. For 80 years or more
he has been really a popular writer,. deserv-
edly so, though he assumes the attitude of
a lonely and persecuted figure like Landor.
In defence of his limited editions, he said he
was under no obligation to supnly the
general public with t cheap liteiatuie, and
that he had at last escaped the tyranny of
the librarians who refused to circulate his
(Continued on page 25.)


V
The World-Famous
POOLEY PHONOGRAPHS
at Anthony Horderns
m
In the Pooley Phonograph are
united the highest expression
of two arts: the art of making
beautiful things, and the art of
creating exquisite sounds. It
is a musical instrument and
something more —an article
du virtu fashioned to embellish
and adorn a home of the
utmost distinction in furnish-
ings—a masterpiece of the
cabinetmaker, created to min-
ister to the enjoyment of a
musician, and a gift that could
not be surpassed.
m
*
nraw
wMbhS
i'.i <k S3a j».
■■fl
. .
■■-M,:y<
The above is a Chippendale Reproduction in solid
Mahogany with decoration hand-carved from the
solid wood and having full table top with recep-
tacle for records. This machine is fitted with
cabriole legs, and is fully polished with eggshell
finish.
PRICE £llO
A SIMILAR CABINET, somewhat plainer, and
having carved legs.
PRICE £BO
Whether you consider a Phono-
graph as an investment for
your own delectation, or as a
practical gift, the variety and
value presented by Anthony
Horderns’ will appeal to you.
UPRIGHT CABINET MACHINE, in solid Wal-
nut, with dome top, beautifully hand-carved, and
with record cupboard. Fully polished with egg-
shell finish.
PRICE £7B, £79/10/-
A SMALLER MODEL, in Walnut, with dome
top, beautifully hand carved, and having record
cupboard.
PRICE £55
Records by World’s Greatest Artists.
HIS MASTER’S VOICE RECORDS.
Zonophone, double-sided . .
>. ~ Celebrity. .
Plum Label, double-sided . .
Black Label, single-sided . .
~ ~ double-sided . .
Violet Label, single-sided . .
Italian Operatic, double sided
10in. 12in.
5/- 8/6
6/9
7/- 10/6
7/- 10/-
8/- 12/-
8/6 12/6
8/- 12/-
Prices of Sets on application.
CELEBRITY RECORDS.
10in. 12in.
Red Label 8/6 12/6
Pink Label . . . 8/6 12/6
(With the exception of Records by-
Chaliapin, Butt, Battistini, Patti,
Rufifo, Smirnov).
Buff Label 9/6 14/6
Mauve Label (Melba) .... 12/6 12/6
Light Green Label ...... —. 15/-
(With the exception of Records by
Tamagno, Ruffo).
Light Blue Label 16/6
White Label 21/-
Records by Chaliapin, Battistini, Patti,
Ruffo, Smirnov, Clara Butt, Tamagno (Solo
and Concerted).
_ , r , 10in. 12in.
Pink Label 12/- 17/-
Orange Label . 177-
Dark Blue Label (Clara Butt) 17/-
Light Green Label 23/6
Tamagno 25/- 25/-
WRITE FOR LIST OF RECORDS.
It will be Posted Free on Request.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Umi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Wear this
like a
KODAK
watch.
Full size of Vest Pocket- Auto-
graphic Kodak, folded for
carriage in pocket or lady’s
handbag.
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak is to
other cameras what a watch is to a clock; it
has all the accuracy, but it avoids the bulk —
it is always with you, never in the way.
With a V.P.K. in your pocket you are always
prepared for the unexpected—pull out the
front, press the trigger, and the picture is
yours. And it is fitted with the Autographic
feature—the device which enables you to
write the title, date, or other details on the
margin of the film when you make the
exposure.
Order your copy of “The Australasian Photo-Review”
now—the January All-Australasian issue contains a
splendid collection of articles and pictures—the best yet.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen
Street Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart;
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton;
Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and
Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
WUimr t
mMM
»WmM
Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak open jor use
( two-thirds actual size).
nTTniiniiini.iTTTrmrmTT
DTniTlHniHliiiiimm
TTmrri i n
nmminmniiiifiniiiiriiiiimii
'rJ)>
m
ufiniuuiui.^!
:-s=o o
&
rm
CMS*
WZfZZ,-
w®
. as
v>
HU
The Choice of the World’s Greatest Artists
REALISE the significance of this simple fact:
The greatest artists of this generation record exclusively
for “His Master’s Voice.”
No better proof of the supremacy of “His Master’s Voice can
be offered.
Great artists love their art more dearly, perhaps, than anything
else in their world. That their art shall appear at its best is their
imperative desire.
Their choice of “His Master’s Voice” as the one reproducing
medium to which to entrust their reputations is the clearest possible
indication of the supreme and thoroughly satisfying quality of its
reproduction.
Write for catalogue of instru-
ments, lists of records, and
name of nearest accredited
dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone” “His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark. Regd. Trade-mark.


PINKETTIS
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over—gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM S7/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australasian Agents.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVER,
OIL
EMULSION
and Washing
, Disorders t
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Exquisite
Walnut Hair
which gives such an alluring charm,
may be obtained harmlessly and quite
simply by means of
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Permanent and waterproof.
Obtainable all chemists.
UDfcN
/
Made in
Australia.
Eudenta Tooth Paste is made in Aus-
tralia for the needs of Australians.
Fragrant and refreshing, it is as
effective as any of the imported
lines.
All Chemists
sell it
/
S.D. 16
S.D. 16
The above Gears were made in Australia from the famous “An Eagle on a Globe” Brand S.D.
16 Special Nickel Steel.
Unsurpassed for Gear Wheels, Gudgeon Pins, Sliding Shafts, Counter Shafts, Ball Races, Carbon
Shafts and small stampings.
Prices, etc., on application to Department A.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY. 264 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
ACTUAL
SIZE
Sold by all
Hotels 8 Tobacconists,
6d. each,
POST PAID PRICES.
Tins—lo Cigars, 5/6; 50, 23/9.
Boxes—lo Cigars, 6/-; 25, 12/6;
mwffifi 50 ’ 23/9 ; 100 ’ 46/ -
The Cigar with the
satisfying flavor-
Fragrant Havana
Filler.
CRAIG &AITKEN SYDNEYM
FOR THE
reilcigar PRO r r-
No difference between
the singer and
The NEW EDISON
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
This supreme test has been made
on numerous occasions, before
committees of prominent men and
before huge audiences of music-
lovers, always with the same result
—the voice or instrument could not
be distinguished from its NEW
EDISON Re-Creation.
It is this wonderful feature that makes the NEW
EDISON so infinitely superior to the mere talking
machines—none of which have ever dared such a test.
Let it be your choice—write now for illustrated
literature.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., .
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
After the Storm.
All day the ragged clouds and tattered sky
Were beaten by a dry and angry gale;
I saw the yellow sun droop down'and die
With lights along the tree-tops cold and
pale.
Like rushing horsemen clad in silver lace,
The last gusts galloped through the flash-
ing leaves;
And evening walked behind with quiet face
Breathing long sighs, as one who loves
and grieves.
Thereafter came great silence, till the light
Of the round magic moon took white com-
mand
And turned the happy and eontented night
To one long glade of utmost fairyland.
I breathed the gentleness •of silver peace,
And felt the chill, mild grace of silent air,
As when the boisterous winds of doing cease
And all the heart is sweetened into prayer.
Prayer with no hearer and no lisp of sound
Is balm of wounds after long battles
fought—
i The wind-torn trees are kneeling on the
I ground
i And reaching to the thought beyond the
thought.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Flight of the Black Swans.
Gone are the swans from yon lagoon.
Winging their way to the flooded west,
No more now in the golden noon
Run swift ripples from throat and breast.
Here, where the wings of white seabirds
Soar and dip, and the green wave swells,
Nature, reckless of man —his words.
Yea, and of all his triumph—dwells.
Hers are the tides that ebb and flow,
Hers the moulding of sea and shore ;
What men dream of and what they know
Are but trifles to her deep lore.
Hers are the great rocks, piled and hurled,
Hers the lighting of stars and suns;.
Rings her fiat around the world—
Death ! And death, like a red fire, runs.
Hers is the gift of bloom and birth,
Hers the dew in the lily’s cup ;
Rings her fiat around the earth—
Life ! And life, like the dawn, leaps up.
Ever her great winds rise and fall.
Shaping the waves and the clouds above ;
Ebb and flow is her law for all,
Tide and tempest and hate and love.
Gone are the swans from yon lagoon,
Winging their way on pinions free;
Back they’ll come when the summer moon
Sheds its silver on dune and sea.
N.s.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Magic.
When I am tired of the daily round,
Of books filled up with figures row on row,
And ink and pens, I wish, and close my eyes
And shut my listening ears against the sound
Of trams and traffic in the street, and go
Where’er I choose beneath the open skies.
I seek a sunlit garden, bright with flowers,
Delphiniums, roses, poppies, columbines,
Snapdragons, purple foxgloves, and sweet
peas
Of beauty exquisite, and fragrant bowers
Where scented honeysuckle clings and twines,
And there are yellow butterflies and bees.
An orchard rich with ripening fruit I know,
Where golden sunlight shines through foli-
aged vines
And pendulous grapes, translucent, purple,
green,
Ruby and amber, where the peaches grow
On laden boughs, plums colored like old wines
Beneath their blue-grey bloom, leaf-hid, un-
seen.
The warmth is tender, like a shy caress;
The sky, the fleecy clouds are over me;
The wind, sweet-scented with the breath of
flowers,
Touches my eager face, and loveliness
Makes me rejoice with all things green and
free,
That know but sunshine and long golden
hours.
Listening, I hear the creek, that hurries
down
The gully, rippling over stones and moss,
And maiden-hair; the cadence silvery
Of falling water laughing over brown
Old rocks where tree-ferns spread their
fronds across;
A lonely bird-note from a lofty tree.
If I am very tired, I can go
To the still lake at evening, when the grey
Twilight is falling, and the water lies
Breathless and still. The soft grey clouds
stoop low;
Like a black pearl the lake ; and not one ray
Of sunlight gilds the silent mists that rise.
A black swan, motionless, rests all alone
On the grey mere. The air seems fallen
asleep,
So still it is beneath the darkening skies.
Day chants her vespers in slow monotone.
My heart is blest with calm content and deep,
And the grey evening soothes my tired eyes.
I can forget the things that are, and dream
A little while of green and gold and red,
Of rain-wet grass, the windy blue of space,
The heath-decked hillside, and the sun’s last
gleam,
And I return—the happy moment sped—
Refreshed to work again within this place.
VICTORIA.
G. E. MARTYR.


/
‘Js4dM.
it
77
I!
: :
- v riS
mm
SI
Mi
mmm§
■MM
■
* w .
mggr vMMm&jMm' JmJmMm
*ll
H
H
S H
a i :
H
K* ragf s JR
■ :
■ :■ ■•■'
:
, a. A : A.^3hS
:
.
Hia&
HR3
V:;.: : y:^:
■HR
ay - '-:
Ae
HMiHi
hm
11
■
®9W*3 < a -fSffs ShiTyfL. k :sfc*V A j
Wfr_: ‘ W *'H
Ha
V- ■
a&-
s>v. ■•
iHil
V•' ' ■ ,
: ■ ■- , : -:-J
■■
Hi
m
m *fs
mi
: ;•:■■
. ' :
■
-p
.. .a.t'j
1
:
mil
mmm
m
i
O


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2187.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1922 .
Price 6d.
AN INVITATION FROM AMERICA.
"Professor Thwing has contributed an important article to the New York TIMES, at tacking the White Australia policy and declaring that Australia eannot be developed
except by the introduction of colored labor."
"It's a refined show, sonny, isn't it? Well, you just do as we did and import a few colore folks, and you can have just the same sort of entertainment."


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Mau.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosrnan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Gebrge Street. Sydnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
published once a week.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, Weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 135.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
reiused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this member is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding Uvo columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IP. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London h.C.b;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet _ Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada.— G. S. Forsyth and Co., bbl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: ./. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City.
Egypt. — Jacques. Horn Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Bveyier and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceyloij. —-IP. G. P. Per era, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street.
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker , Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Ncivspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, Woz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one neivspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; 8)oz. to 10oz.,
3d.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, \oz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
ffiei^ztlZelZTi.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 12, 1922.
HOW PORTUGAL “MARRIED THE
GIRL.”
In these days the crowd of soft-handed and
generally non-Australian schemers who run
this country’s Labor policies have rather got
into the habit of deriding the White Aus-
tralia ideal. It is something not men-
tioned by Karl Marx, who revolved stoutly
in an orbit between Berlin and London, never
met with colored folk, and, having not the
least idea what an empty land was like or
what colonisation was like, left mixed races
and inroads of colored settlers out of his cal-
culations. Marx went solidly for the “unity
of the workers” —the white ones, for he met
no others. And his followers here, planted
in an Austral-Asiatic-Africo-Polynesian en-
vironment where 99 per cent, of the workers
are of 29 different colors, want to “unite”
also and be obliterated on principle. Amid
the horde of traitors who would admit all
sorts of hues into Australia and into its
unions and its Labor affairs so long as they
are willing to be “class-conscious,” it is well
for Australia to remember that the one hell
from which there is no returning is the hell
of mixed blood, and that the one crime for
which there is no repentance is the crime of
mulattoism. If it is done through lack of
knowledge so much the worse. Bunyan, in
his “Pilgrim’s Progress,” sent Ignorance to
perdition just for being himself.
The white man has on his hands to-day
an example of a race which has lost caste,
and for which there is no visible repair.
There was a time when to be a Portuguese
was to be a demi-god, and earth had no
higher distinction to offer. That was before
the “unity of the human race” got him down.
Late in' the 15th century the Peninsula
finished seven centuries of struggle to keep
Europe for the white man and the white
Christian, thus stopping one leak just as
•another—the one in the Balkans—opened.
Portugal came out with its white blood
nearly pure; Spain with a more noticeable
admixture of the Arab. The two States
emerged from the conflict possessed with a
quenchless hatred of Miohammedanism, a
cold dislike for Judaism —it being akin to
Mohammedanism as a one-God faith—and a
training in war and adventure which drove
them to shake up the globe. They went out
to find a new planet—this one. In those
days the globe Had been to a great extent
mislaid, aud it had to be found again. The
lands round the Baltic and the Mediterranean
were known; also Iceland and Greenland.
The Polos of Venice had made a wonderful
land journey to China. But a vast amount
of the old Roman, Greek and Egyptian
geography had been lost. In fact, the white
man had mislaid as much of his own planet
as he retained. He had not only lost a great
deal of the sovereignty, for his boundary
shifted from the Persian Gulf (at its best)
to the Danube and the Loire (at its worst).
He had also lost much of his information.
Even the African coast that lay nearest
Europe was all a mystery beyond Cape Boja-
dor, not many miles outside the Straits of
Gibraltar, and the old Roman inlands were
a sealed book. When the Peninsular peoples
—apparently the only white race left with
a taste for' wide adventure —got free from
their local wars they set to work to catch up
arrears. Inside ICO years they discovered
more than all the rest of mankind had found
in 20 centuries. In fact, they found every-
thing—in broad outline, though there were
details to be tilled in. Save for the doings
of the Russians in the savage North it can
hardly be said that other peoples did any-
thing except play the jackal industriously in
the wake of the demi-gods.
Portugal resembles, Ireland in size and
population, and Spain is no great place, and
neither amounts to much in the way of fer-
tility. But they strained their resources
hard. Between them they found the South
Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific, the Indian
Ocean and the Antarctic; the Yellow Sea,
the Tasman Sea, the Arabian Sea, the Gulf
of Mexico. They found all the big rivers
outside Europe except those that the Russians
discovered, and the Nile, which was so ob-
trusive that even in the worst times it wasn’t
wholly lost to human ken. They replaced
on the map the Red Sea and the Persian
Gulf, whose footing there had become precari-
ous. They showed the road round the Cape
of Good Hope, round Cape Horn, through
the Straits of Magellan, round Singapore
and up the Chinese shores. They dotted
America with settlements from the Canadian
border to Tierra del Fuego and scattered
their posts all round Asia and Africa. They
found Polynesia and Micronesia, and the
East Indies and the West indies and the Big
Indies and the Small Indies, and located our
own Torres Strait in a spare moment. _The
Portuguese viceroy at Goa ruled over Io.IKJO
miles of coast, though, except in a few places,
he didn’t extend far inland, through lack of
sufficient fighting men. His brother vice-
roy in America also carried on business on
a vast scale. The armies of the two little
Peninsular nations, each a corporal’s guard
of men, fought their way across Mexico, Cen-
tral America, fc>outh America; across North
America to the Mississippi; far into Arabia;
into Morocco, Ceylon and Kaffirland. No
one imagines that all these places would
have remained unknown to this day it
Spanish and Portuguese adventurers hadn t
revealed them, but the fact stands that so
long as these peoples were kept busy with
the Seven Hundred Years War no one did
drag them out of their obscurity. Barring
the Polo family, with its habit of overland-
ing to China, nobody dragged anything, The
extreme tail-end of the Age of Expansion is
sometimes described as the spacious days ot
Queen Elizabeth,'’ but that stay-at-home
female, who only once moved 100 miles from
her birthplace, didn’t make them spacious.
She lived in their spaciousness, as a small
animal may live in a cathedral. #
The greatest question which Europe ever
had to face from the apostles’ day till now
was whether it would be Christian 01
Mohammedan. The burden ot the first strugg e
—the successful one, winch convinced me
Old Mohammedanism that Europe was not
to be conquered along the western route
was borne by the Peninsular nations prac-
tically single-handed. When the New
Mohammedanism, which was worse than the
Old, burst on Europe by the Dardanelles
track, they again took up the weary Titan s
job of bulwarking Christendom, and did
more than their share. Spain supplied the
bulk of the fighting force and also the high
generalship which turned the tide at Le-
panto and blew out the tyre of the legend
of Turkish invincibility. Portugal was an
incessant trouble to the _ Unspeakable.
Always when he required his strength m
Europe he was harried in the rear by a
foe who seemed never to sleep and who
never counted odds. The Red Sea, the Per-
sian Gulf and the Arabian Sea became a
grave for Turkish commerce and Turkish
prestige. But for the death of Albtj-
querque, about the greatest general a»d
statesman who ever went to sea, a sr*i
worse thing might have fallen on the Un-
mentionable and flattened him with deri-
sion. Albuquerque proposed to sack and
destroy the holy cities of Mecca and Medina
and throw Mohammed’s body into the deep
as a sign that the Prophet and his cause
had become the rejects of God; and a Suez
or Nile-Red Sea Canal was on his pro-
gramme. #
The demi-gods fell with such a fall as
hadn’t been since the day when Lucifer
missed the step. They dropped almost with-
out a sound. And one cause was more re-
sponsible than all others put together,
nation lost its color. The Government dis-
couraged the emigration of women, holding
that out of the very small population theie
were few to spare. Thereby it supplied
Portugal with a plethora of nuns and spin-
sters, and came too gradually to realise that
something wasn’t right with its world. T e
bachelor Portuguese abroad took unto him-
self a concubine; but a priesthood, which
possessed an ounce of horsesense to a ton
of book morality, held that concubinage was
sinful, and encouraged him ‘ to marry the
girl.” It held that if she was a good Chris-
tian the color line was of little importance,
just as some crazed Karl Marxites hereabouts
breach that if the stranger is a # sound
unionist, Bolshevik, striker, revolutionary,
slowgoer and “comrade” generally, the color
bar is of no importance at all. In Brazil,
South and East Africa, in Asia all the way
from Aden to Macao and on a thousand
islands, the casual habit of marrying the
girl extended. It helped to saye the gill s
soul if it did nothing else. W ith a church
which took a serious view of matrimony, the
parties remained married. Half-caste sons
and daughters drifted back to the homeland
and married some more. Mixing grew so
familiar that the importation into Portugal
of colored labor from the adjacent African
possessions arose alfhost automatically. A
time came (and never went away again)
when a pure-white Portuguese in the colonies
was a curiosity, and a Portuguese at home,
except among the higher castes, who looked
as if he could be guaranteed pure white, was
rare likewise. The country reeks with back-
wardness. Small peoples like those of Aus-
tralia and Portugal don’t take long to go
nigger,” or partly nigger, when once the
process begins. And while there is remedy
in plenty for monarchical or clerical or aris-
tocratic or plutocratic tyranny, for poverty
or ignorance or even disease, there is none
for this complaint. If the habit of turning
in the grave is as common as is supposed,
the old heroic Albuquerques and Almeidas
and Pachecos, who dreamed immortal
dreams for their valiant little fatherland,
must be a revolving lot, like windmills under-
ground.
THE ISHMAEL HABIT.
There are many varieties of political plat-
forms, but they all group into two main
classes —sincere and insincere. A character-
istic of the first, whether its authors are
Conservatives, Laborites or Anarchists, wise
men or fools, is a certain simplicity. The
public eye is caught by one or two features
which stand out like monoliths, and no-
thing is allowed, for the time being, to
interfere with the general view of them.
The Sinn Feiners secured the tremendous
concessions made to them recently by the
Lloyd George Government on this prin-
ciple. Lenin’s Colossus was Communism:
that of Harding abstention by the 11.5. A.
from association with European problems.
That N. S. Wales Government which im-
ported arbitration from Maoriland did not
obscure the proposal by presenting it
wrapped up in a cloud of others; and
the Federal administration which was re-
sponsible for compulsory service and local
naval defence concentrated on those poli-
cies. W. M. Hughes, as Andrew Fisher’s
Attorney-General, took the same line in his
constitutional referendum campaigns; and,
though he lost, no one disputed that he did
all a man might to win. The political
humbug is to be identified chiefly by his
passionate demands for a confused mass of
things which negative one another, or by
an outstanding plank which is so sectional
in its appeal that it has not an outride
chance of succeeding. Sometimes it is a
matter of personal vanity, or of saving a
party’s face. The Irish republicans and the
Ulster blowhards are making their protesta-
tions on such grounds. More often the
upholder of lost causes adopts them because
there is a job m them. George Reid went
on talking Freetrade for years after people
much less perceptive than himself knew
the policy to be stone-dead; and he only
relinquished Cobdenism to take up Anti-
Socialism. He would never have got the
High Commissioner ship from the other side
if he had informed his own that the Labor
party was on the right track for once, and
that he declined accordingly to put forward
an opposition policy. And then there is the
common type—usually an extreme Laborite,
though often a high Tory—who delights to
be an Isiimael. If a Laborite he is out of
Parliament, and has little hope of better-
ing his prospects in that respect; he has
had scant experience of public affairs, and
he is prepared to sacrifice all sorts and con-
ditions of total strangers —90 per cent, of
them, incidentally, of his own class—at the
altar of what lie calls his “proletariat
ideals.” All he insists on is that, while
the ideals are being achieved, he shall be
regularly paid his salary by the movement.
It would seem to be a composite figure re-
presentative of this inevitably sterile type
of political battler who was to blame for
the revised A.L.P. platform which was pre-
sented to the Commonwealth as a New
Year’s gift.
The first item on the Fighting Platform is
“the maintenance of a White Australia.”
But No. 18 is “Amendment of the Defence
Act”: and amongst the proposed changes
are:—•
Abolition of compulsory service, of military oaths ;
of distinction between commissioned and non-com-
missioned officers; of “the salute and other useless
discipline’’; and of “the raising of forces for ser-
vice outside the Commonwealth.”
Further, all officers are to be elected; so
that a genial person, such as Mr. Dooley,
Avould have an excellent chance of supplant-
ing a Monasii or a Bridges, neither of
whom had any gift for vote-catching. The
Russian Communists tried this foolery in
the earliest days of the revolution, and lost
battles through it, though the enemy they
had to meet was himself riddled with such
notions. The foreign opponents of Lenin-
ism, the Churchills of England and the
Clemenceaus of France, did not abandon
all hope of crushing the Bolshevik experi-
ment in the field till they found that the
Red Armies had gone back to those prin-
ciples of military discipline which have
stood the test of the past two or three thou-
sand years. Most A.L.P. members, and
probably all the men who drew up the
amended party platform, know the vast
amount of preliminary organisation, com-
pulsion and implicit obedience which is re-
quired to win even a League football or
Sheffield Shield championship. The methods
of Australia in competitive sport of a com-
bined nature differ hardly at all from those
of Britain, America or France. In other
words, there is a best way of preparing for
victory, and anyone who decides on the
easier method is making a high bid for
defeat. And the same doctrine applies in
war, only more so. The A.L.P. defence
policy, then, is an imposture. The Labor
leaders of to-day, the heirs of those far-
seeing men who gave Australia the R.A.N.
and saved places like Macdonell House from
the fate of the chui’ch in Bailleul’s chief
square, are working on the assumption (1)
that the rest of the world is pacifist, or
(2) that Australia is too undesirable to be
worth either attack or defence, or (3) that
Test wars are to be won on lines that would
never win a Test football match. Such im-
becilities may be approved by the noisy
handful here who are still advocating the
Communism which has been dropped in
Russia, but they will be regarded with dis-
may by everybody else.
The disapproval of those outside the
movement is of no concern to the stalwarts
who make their living by it. In fact, it is
their business to convince the rank and file
that those who are not wholeheartedly for
Labor are better against it. However in-
spiring this may sound as an abstract prin-
ciple, there is nothing in it from the stand-
point of workers who want something more
material out of life than the right to strike,
a series of attitudes. No. 4of the Fighting
Platform is the New Protection, and this
is a plank which should get support on its
merits from all classes —not only from
Laborites, but from those without whose
votes no Labor Government can come into
existence. If the New Protection was insti-
tuted it would provide the employees of
manufacturing concerns with a basic wage
about whose fairness there could be no
argument. But the device is at present
unconstitutional, and nothing will make it
otherwise except an affirmative vote by a
decisive majority of the nation. And the
same applies to the whole of the proposals
under the headings “National Work,” “In-
dustrial Reform” and “Navigation.” This
country has many times been given proof
of how difficult it is for a Government, how-
ever trusted, to wring an affirmative vote,
by referendum, out of the electors; and
Labor may measure, by past history, its
prospects of doing differently with a defence
policv which virtually puts the Common-
wealth at the disposal of the first predatory
Power which decides that our mines and
pastoral lands are worth seizing. As a
matter of fact, Federal Labor is never
likely to even get office on such a medley
of anomalies and contradictions as it has
just put forward, so that not only is that
part of the A.L.P. platform which depends
on amendment of the Constitution fore-
doomed to unfulfilment, but there is no
hope for its repatriation scheme and the
rest of the measures which might be nut
through bv a majority of one in the Elec-
tive Chambers. Unless those who are run-
ning the movement at present want
the Parliamentary party in the Federal
sphere to occupy for all time a position
which delights no one but the extreme Con-
servatives, they will recognise that. A us*
tralia is before everything nationalist in
spirit. Not Nationalist as the Argus and
S. M. Herald understand the term, but
nationalist as the Australian. Labor party
was before the war came and it was induced
to take the wrong turning.
BIPLANES AND BUREAUCRATS.
The U.S.A. has had aerial mail- services
since May, 1918. Begun by the War De-
partment, they were handed over to the
Post Office, and at the end of its first year’s
operations that Department reduced the
charge for air-borne correspondence from
six cents an ounce to two cents, the regular
rate of postage on letters carried by train.
It explained (1) that it had made a profit
of 39,000 dollars, (2) that its expenditure
had dropped to 50 cents a mile, and (8)
that "the great saving of time now effected
over the fastest railroad tram between New
York and Chicago will enable us to make
a saving in car space of more than twice
the cost of an air-mail service on _ that
route.” Generalising on the subject, it de-
clared that "the success of the aeroplane
in carrying the mail, together with the great
development that has taken place in speed,
in quantity of mail that can be carried and
certainty of operation, makes it improbable
that the air transportation of mail, whether
by Government or commercial lines, will
ever be stopped, but will increase from year
to year, by leaps and bounds, especially oyer
long distances.” No doubt the Australian
authorities had these observations in mind
when they called tenders for the carriage of
mails by aeroplane between Perth and
Derby, a matter of 1600 miles. But they
took too much for granted. The Yankees
started with short flights over routes per-
fectly familiar and adequately equipped, and
gradually extended them. Their first ser-
vice was between Washington and New
York, via Philadelphia, a distance of 218
miles, and in this and every succeeding case
the track had been thoroughly explored and
made as safe as possible before mail-carry-
ing was permitted. Australian officialdom
forgot or ignored these essential facts when
framing the conditions of its first aerial-
mail contract. It selected an unknown air
route from one end of the continent to the
other, had a few acres of scrub cleared at
various points to serve as landing-grounds,
and waited in cdmplacent ignorance for the
service to be established.
* * * *
Aerial mail-carrying, under such condi-
tions, involves a ghastly gamble in human
life, and is foredoomed to failure. The
Westralian experience illustrated that most
tragically. Three parties of adventurous
birdmen set out with high hopes from Perth
to carry the pioneer aeroplane post to
Derby. Geraldton, the first stopping-place,
was reached without accident, but only part
of the second stage had been traversed when
one of the machines developed engine
trouble and had to make a perilous descent
in rough country. This necessitated the
other two mail-carriers landing until the
fault was repaired. The pilot of one planed
down successfully,, but the third, flying low
to see what the trouble was, lost control
of his machine, and the crash killed him
and his mechanic. It is not true, as the
early reports indicated, that the tragedy was
due to lack of a landing-ground. All the
same, a heavy responsibility rests on those
who sent the ill-fated Government contrac-
tors forth on a mission in which the chances
were decidedly against them, as was evi-
denced by a later accident. Having buried
their dead and left the wrecked machine in
tlie bush, the survivors returned to the city,
and Major J!re\i;ley, leader of the luckless
expedition, went north alone. He duly


reached Derby and delivered his mails, but
on the return journey oil began to leak
from one of the main connections, and to
save his engine from destruction he had
to come down. When the leak was noticed
the aeroplane was soaring over the treacher-
ous waters of Roebuck Bay. Luckily the
pilot brought it down on the beach at low
tide, a circumstance which probably saved
him and his two passengers from destruc-
tion. But all attempts to set the machine
going- again failed. It was taken to pieces
and returned south by the same steamer that
carried Brearley and his companions.
Probably the aeroplane will never be
equal to the airship for long-distance flying.
The commercial aeroplane’s cruising radius
is about six hours, whereas an airship can
travel 30 hours without trouble. This will
be demonstrated if the projected airship
flight between Britain and the Dominions,
to which W. M. Hughes referred on his
return from the Imperial Conference,
materialises. Britain has four airships in
commission, and is willing to send one to
Australia, provided the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment co-operates by erecting two mooring
masts, one in the North and the other in the
South, and sharing in the general expendi-
ture. The idea at the back , of this proposal
is to establish a fortnightly airship service
from Britain to Egypt, South Africa, Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, in which _ case 1-
dirigibles would be built and the trip to Aus-
tralia would be done in 10 days. It is a
scheme with impressive possibilities in the
mail-carrying and passenger lines, but its
realisation is impeded by the fact that there
are no votes in it. All the same, the suita-
bility of the aeroplane for long-distance mail
work has not been disproved by anything that
has happened in Westralia. It has not even
been tested. What was really on trial was
the drivelling folly of the bureaucrats who
rushed into a contract for the carriage of
mails over 1600 miles of unknown country
and let brave young air-fighters go to tlieir
death.
BACK TO THE VOLCANO’S EDGE.
“The Government on Monday will distribute
£10,000,000 to farmers for compensation for the
repeal of the Corn Production Act. Over 100,000
claims have been received. Later another £5,000,000
will be distributed.’’— Cable.
In 1917, when the Corn Production Act
became law, the British Navy was so much
mistress of the seas that no enemy Power
could use them without first making full pre-
parations to bolt for home and safety. The
submarine was still an undeveloped weapon
—a crude affair, also as likely to kill
its crew ,as anybody else. . Yet alter about
six months of intensified action by Germany s
under-water craft the -United Kingdom was
on the verge of starvation. By June, IRU,
there were no potatoes for England s civilian
copulation ; there was only a month's suppiy
of corn ■ and oatmeals of all kinds weie un
obtainable. The Horses (Rationing) Order
was made at the end of this month, prohibit-
ing the feeding of grain to all but a tew
specified classes of horses (racing had come
to an end the month before) ; and, as Loid
Rosebery disclosed some six months later,
the Government had in its mind the slaugh-
tering of ail animals which consumed cereals.
America came to the rescue with consign-
ments of grain, enough of which got thiou ß h
the enemy’s submarine barrage to enable
Britain to live, albeit with ‘
tightened belt. It was m these circum-
stances that the Corn Production Act came
into being. * * *
Hardly a dissenting voice or pen was
raised at the time against the pohtimans
and papers which argued that Cobdenism
amounted to national suicide m view
new devices which had appeared for block-
ing overseas food-supplies. And all agieed
that if the country was lucky enough to
escape, no consideration of cheapness or any-
SiS else would justify it in taking the
same risk again. When the Government
brought in its bill to protect British tegtr-
culture by fixing a price for .coin, by
other steps, the Freetraders in the Hpuse
were dumb—at any rate, so fai as the main
principle behind the. measure was cm
cerned. The only criticisms they levelled
were against the wages provision of .the
bill It was on the lines of our abortive
New Protection; that is to say, it aimed
at giving agricultural workers a share m
the benefits offered to the farmers. But
as the wages mentioned were only to be
“equivalent to wages for an ordinary day s
work at the rate of 255. a week, the oppo-
sition had fair cause for complaint. Never-
theless, the bill went through in its original
form bv a majority of about three to one.
Then did the British Isles, and more parti-
cularly England, begin vigorously to demon-
that the old energy and skill were
there which barely a century before had
impelled French and German agriculturists
to cross the Channel to learn how to make
the best use of their land. Useless wastes
like Richmond Park, which never attract
n crowd even on holidays, and are empty
during the remainder of the year, were put
under potatoes; private parks were ploughed
up and sown; millions of small areas, from
city backyards upwards, were rendered pro-
ductive • there was even talk of -.rowing
foodstuffs on the great golf-courses, on deer-
forests and grouse-moors —aye, even on tne
racecourses with which the IT.Iv. is studded.
Then came the break-up of the enemy ; and
now, the lesson being forgotten, agriculture
in the United Kingdom is to be allowed to
slide back to where it stood m 1914, when
the little wheat farming that the country
had left was yielding more and more to
“grass farming.”* # *
The differences in the defence situation
between now and five years ago are all in
favor of more protection for necessary food-
stuffs rather than a reversion to the. state
of things that nearly brought the nation to
ruin. France has just refused to limit its
submarine tonnage, and the submarine is
100 per cent, more effective for commerce
destruction than it was -when the Germans
were making such disastrous use of it. An-
other new enemv of the slow-steaming mer-
chantmen is the aeroplane, moving singly
or in flights, at 100 miles an hour or over,
and having at (say) 15,000 feet a 50-mile
radius of view. Why, then, is Britain to
take its life in its hands once more, facing
the future with as little hope for another
respite such as America gave it in 1917-18
as Australia has of being allowed to raise
and train another A.I.F. ? The answer
seems to be that the rulers of the United
Kingdom lack the nerve to face land nation-
alisation, or any other device that might be
expected to have the same general conse-
quences. The figures for 1918 showed that,
even with most of the able-bouied men in
France or on munitions, the nation could be
made nearly self-supporting. And to the
very end there were many hundreds of thou-
sands of fertile acres used as game coverts,
private deer-parks, and the like. Many of
these places have been sold at extravagant
figures, but not, of course, to be put to
any productive use. They have simply
passed over from the now impoverished fami-
lies which originated in the days of the
rotten boroughs, or in the heyday of the
industrial revolution, to the profiteer fami-
lies which made good financially during the
war. If the State resumed the land and
made its profitable exploitation a condition
of tenure —at the same time, of course, put-
ting some such measure as the Corn Produc-
tion Act on the Statute 800k —Britain would
have little to fear from either the air or the
under-water menace. The nation might go
hungry if it was deprived of its imports, but
it would not starve. On the debit side of
the balance-sheet would be the depreciation
of England as a pleasaunce, a tourist resbrt,
a beauty spot, a rich man’s paradise: on the
credit side, national safety* apart, would be
the appearance of a country stock to feed
with healthy recruits the cities and their
industries. As it is, England’s position sug-
gests that of a well-known daily newspaper
figure of the days when capital punishment
was commoner than it is to-day :
Tlie condemned man slept splendidly. He ate a
hearty breakfast of bacon and eggs, toast and marma-
lade, washed down by two cups of tea, and walked
to the gallows with a firm step. His last words
were: “I am innocent of wrong-doing and meant well.
Remember me kindly to all'friends.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gun Under the Bed.
Labor will stagger into next elections carry-
ing a heavy press of canvds, thanks largely
to the activities of the Melbourne and Bris-
bane conferences, at which much Karl
Marx and “brotherhood” and “unity” were
spouted, and White Australia was cold-
shouldered as lacking good Marxian
authority.. The first plank of the platform
provides in a general way for the annexa-
tion of things in general—the “socialisation
of industry, production, distribution and ex-
change.” All these —and there isn’t much
else —are to be placed under the control of
parties unspecified, for their own benefit, or
the public’s benefit, or for nobody’s benefit
if business cracks up as it did in the social-
istic settlement of New Australia. Mild-
mannered men like Frank Txjdor and
McKell and Kavanagh, as well as mod-
erate blood-drinkers like Minahan and
McGirk who have a heap of property to be
“socialised,” are bound to this project along
with the fierce-eyed and to a great extent
alien bobtail which already has its applica-
tion in for the position of president of the
revolutionary tribunal —the concern that is
to behead wagepayers and hang the luke-
warm. The plank will, of course, be con-
cealed as much as possible, but a ghost of its
size can’t be laid. Another spectre that
much won’t be said about in public is what
looks like a project for turning < the army
into a revolutionary force. The idea seems
to be that the young male Australian shall
do two or three years’ training under officers
elected by, and removable by, the political
machine, and then retire into private life,
carrying his weapons with him, so that for
the next 30 years he may be part of a
trained and well-weaponed force taking its
orders from, and maintaining its organisa-
tion under, the Council of Action or Labor
Head Centre. Service in the new de-
fence force is to be voluntary, so that the
army will belong to the well-organised party
which can drive its young men into the
ranks —under penalty of disqualification as
unionists or otherwise. As for a handful
of police with batons and revolvers, it would
count not at all if the revolution, armed to
the teeth out of the public funds, was
under fair management. The Australian
Council of Action, with its scheme of a
nation under arms, is a rare survival —a sort
of dodo or pterodactyl among governments.
Presumably it is a government after a
fashion, though the governed are rather in
the dark about how it came to be one. It
is, at any rate, so sure of its position that
it proposes to abolish the soldier’s oath of
allegiance: he is to be under no promise not
to turn his ill-gotten gun on the Common-
wealth and on his countrymen, either in a
lone-hand civil war or acting in alliance with
an invader, colored, discolored or otherwise.
+ .
Immigration and Other Quotas.
Australia maintains an expensive Trade
Commissioner or Bagman-General in the
United States to keep our American cousin
posted up as to what an easy mark this country
is for any durned smart person with notions
to sell. From 1914 to 1918 Australia had each
year, on an average, to dig out £7,000,000 of
gold to pay Uncle for goods which he sold to
us, and for which he refused to accept our
goods in exchange. This was either our
own gold (badly needed to pay interest on
our debts), or gold got from other nations in
exchange for goods, or gold borrowed at pbsurd
interest and charged up to posterity. Then
Australia began to send Bagmen-General to
push trade, and they pushed it so vigorously
the wrong way that in the , year from June,
1918, to June, 1919, this country had to find
nearly £19,000,000 of gold to pay for Yankee
substances brought here to make our own
worker idle and superfluous. Later details
are expected when the Federal statistics are
a little less behindhand, but nearly every
steamer that goes George Washington-
wards carries its tank-load of Australian
gold/* The outflow in this one direction ab-
sorbs all that the Commonwealth produces
and often more. No other country is paid
tribute to in this amazing fashion. In return
trie United States is the only iatnd of free-
dom which occasionally arrests the Australian
on arrival and puts him in bug-infested dur-
ance vile with a herd of miscellanies, on the.
novel charge of being one too many. A law,
passed in raw haste to limit immigration,
provides that each crowd of aliens may add
the same fixed percentage to its number each
year. Therefore if there are a million linns
in the Union, and their hostility or incivility
or criminality had caused the panic, it would
be allowable, on a three-per-cent basis, for
30,000 more Huns to come in annually, while
with 8000 peaceful Australians already in
the country only 240 more may come in. The
next one is surprised to learn that he is a
malefactor, and is liable to be dungeoned till
he can be deported. No doubt this is well-
meant, and is merelv the result of careless-
ness and red-tape, but Australia, would enjoy
a higher reputation and be treated with more
respect if it didn’t contrive to give the un-
lucKy impression that it rather prefers to
be kicked. There isn’t the slightest hope
that this country’s Bagman-General, sitting
like a beggar at the door of greatness, will
find profitable markets for us in a land which
makes a fetich of selling—not buying. lie
should leave. And something might be done
by enacting that the immigration laws with
which other nations treat us may be meted
out to them. And the quota idea might be ap-
plied to goods as well as people. In other
words, when any nation’s dealings with us are
permanently one-sided, and especially when
they are so one-sided that all the produce
of all our gold-mines won’t pay the difference,
that place should have its allowance of ex-
ports to us fixed at the amount that it
takes from us. The next bale that comes
here after the quota is filled need not be im-
prisoned or treated with bugs and incivility
only sent back. Certainly a check must be put ■
some day on the policy of keeping our fac-
tories closed to make room for imported
notions and of borrowing on the security of
the children to pay for them. There is pre-
cedent now in the United States immigration
laws, and overwhelming reason in the con-
dition of the exchanges to begin with Uncle
Sam.
• ♦
Disfranchised.
“John Folding” is in difficulties: —
The next Federal election promises to be the first
since 1903-4 at which I shall not trouble to either
work or vote. When IV. M. Hughes last went to
the country, as the friend of the soldier and the
Empire ''and the foe of Bolshevism—the three poli-
cies are really one—l supported his party. That
was about the time he passed along George-street in
Sydney on a lorry surrounded by men in uniform,
waving the Australian flag, and wearing three service
hats one on top of the other. In the interval events
occurred which impelled him, on his last visit, to
avoid a deputation from the R. S. League as if it
menaced his life. And yet his callers only wanted
to ask him to fulfil some of the promises he and his
followers made to the Diggers during the war. Not
all of them. Such was the language of hyperbole
employed when the country was in need of volunteers
that it would be senseless to try to bind down our
oratorical patriots in any general way. All that
body of opinion which is represented by the present
League executive aspires after is to get justice for
the comparative handful of disabled ex-Diggcrs.
Nationalists, both in the Senate and the Represen-
tatives, continually bring forward cases of men who
went away in the full pride of health and strength
and came back wrecks, who were blown up or even
(as in an instance quoted by The Bulletin recently)
blinded by shell-fire, and who, nevertheless, have
been declared ineligible for pensions by the Repatri-
ation Commission. The recent amending measure
will not secure the reinstatement of these men, for
a reason Parliament must know very well. The
soldier-members of the Nationalist party go on com-
plaining to their leader, but they do not fight him;
they do not even threaten him. In short, they are
as insincere in their way when they imply that, by
speechifying, they have done all they can for their
former comrades, as Hughes is when he points to
his Repatriation Commission ar.d says: “There you
are! All three Commissioners ex-members of the
A.I.F. ! Why blame me for their Pensions policy?”
Political frauds are often admirable, even inspir-
ing, when they are perpetrated for some great
national object. But the Nationalist Government
does not seem to have any definite objective to justify
its breach of faith with the Diggers. It might
say franklv to them: “We meant well. But we
lack the money to fulfil the promises we made; and
hard economy is now called for unless the Common-
wealth is to go bankrupt. You can test our bona
fides by the luxuries we are denying ourselves and
our friends.” But in Nationalist circles almost any
mention of economy—outside Repatriation eeonomj
is greeted with derision. Mr. Hughes made one of
the comic hits of the session during the last debate
on Parliamentary salaries. On being reminded of
what the Massey Government had done in Maoriland,
he replied that he was prepared to imitate Mr.
Massey— to the extent of being photographed in the
same sort of clothes. 'The spirit behind this tom-
foolery—which may be fun to the legislators but is
financial doom to the taxpayers—finds expression in
immense Departments which grow' continually in im-
portance and expense, and in lavishness in other
directions.
There is a reason .for the cynical opportunism
which has distinguished Hughesism for the past
couple of years. As a War Government it was both
immune from public criticism owing to the censor-
ship and occupied with a single effort to which
all prejudices in favor of civil liberty and even
common justice had to yield. The Constitution
slept, and the Prime' Minister ruled like a Sultan.
With the return of peace his administration was
required to function on its merits; and it showed
itself, almost immediately, to be a hopeless instru-
ment for the purpose. Its origin supplies the
explanation. Hughes is a Conservative to-day, not
by conviction, but by force of circumstances. He
never wanted to leave the Labor party, and when
he did so, to avoid being expelled, he made no
attempt to join the Tories (or Liberals, as they then
called themselves), but instead formed a Ministry
of Labor men whom he had taken over with him.
Nationalism was born of the determination of the
anti-Laborites not to go on paying the piper in
the form of votes unless they were allowed to call
their share of the tune. Some of his most preposter-
ously incongruous associates have dropped out by
death, resignation or appointment abroad—lifelong
opponents, such as Forrest, Watt and Cook —but
others remain— -Ryrie, Millen, Groom —who have no-
thing in .common with him but a liking for power.
A Government which has come together under such
circumstances, and remained together long after the
occasion which first excused the union has van-
ished, is bound to lack principle—bound to play
the well-oiled weathercock to every gust of popular
opinion. It has lost everything but office.
It will be said that there is an alternative: that
the anti-Nationalist can vote Labor. Disgust of one
party is, of course, a contributing factor towards
impelling an elector tp vote for the other; but there
must be something else. There were spacious days
when the Labor policy was one to enthuse a man,
when the Federal Labor part}' was the only one in
Australia with big ideas and the courage and capa-
city to put them through. Turn from that period
to the present, from the constructive proposals which
figured in every Labor address before the war to the
barrenness of the moment. For all it has to offer
in the way of productive thought or effort, the once-
splendid movement might as well be dead. And
because of all these things t shall not vote next
year. The politicians have disfranchised mo.
Income-taxes and Road Dressing.
This well-looked-after country is blessed
with three overlapping ana competing
authorities that collect land-tax (Federal,
State and municipal), and the first and
second also collect income-tax. By .some
oversight mayors don’t collect income-tax
yet, but hope is not wholly lost. Each
professes to believe it is the only extor-
tioner and that if it leaves the taxpayer
enough to live on he should be a happy
man. The Federal crowd doesn’t know
that the State crowd exists, and the State
crowd says darkly: “Am I my brother’s
keeper?” In two directions at least the
point has been reached at which taxation
exceeds income, and that sort of thing can’t
last long. One case is that of the big pas-
toralist in dry country, which is most coun-
try in Australia —the man of violent
fluctuations, of big successes and big failures.
In the year when he makes £60,000 the double
tax absorbs £30,000. In the year when he
loses £40,000 the tax gives nothing back. So
the average of two very ordinary years may
be £lO,OOO income and £.15,000 income-tax.
A rarer specimen is the prospector who, once
in a lifetime, gets beyond the bare subsistence
line and makes a “punch.” It is an unusual
thing to do, especially when the mineral car-
case is so well picked as it is now ; but it
happens. The reward is, perhaps, £lOOO cash
and 30,000 fully-paid one-pound shares in the
Hopeful Brass Alining Co. —immediate value
a copper or two. The whole £31,000 is
treated by the law as cash income and as
regular annual income, so the man who made
the one “punch” of his life finds himself
owing, as one year’s tax, at least 10 times
as much as he possesses, and possibly more
than the income of his lifetime. Very little
sympathy and still less relief is forthcoming
for either of these persons, especially from
a party whose mission it is to pursue the
“capitalist,” and especially the wage-paying
“capitalist.” In fact, if the Boys of the Old
Brigade return safely from the At. S. Hales
election, whenever that may be, they propose
to double the State income-tax on certain ot
the wage-paying class, and to greatly reduce
it on the wage-receiving, class. The 1 ederai
authority not being officially aware that there
is a State Government doing such things; any
more than a cardinal would be likely to know
the Salvationist bandsman in the next street,
it is not worth while to look to it for assist-
ance — sa y in the form of relief from baby-
bonus taxes and other idiotic exactions. Aus-
tralia has an awful quantity of government,
but the quality of most of it isn t good
enough to top-dress a road with.
♦
In the Consulship of J. Carruthers.
The awfulness of the Dooley Government s
second Budget sent Joseph Carruthers. of
the Ala State’s Legislative Council, riding
down the night wind of the past. Allowing
for the saponaceous smugness, which dis-
tinguishes all his utterances —it is partly
congenital, partly derived from a lifelong
study of Samuel Saules— Joseph s re-
marks are interesting:—
Not so long ago I was Premier of N. S. Wales.
My term was from 1904 to 1908. I had to govern
the country and to see that it paid its way on a
revenue of' £10,000,000 a year. I took office with
a deficit of £4,000,000 or £5,000,000, at a time
when it was impossible to float loans, and when
there were processions of unemployed, whose atti-
tude was militant. Three years afterwards I re-
duced the public debt. That was the first time it
had been reduced since we got responsible govern-
ment in 1854. 1 left office with no unemployed and
with work for everyone. There was no extravagant
expenditure, and after paying off the deficit of over
£4 000,000 there was a surplus of between
£3’000,000 and £4,000,000. I was told that it
could not be done —that a policy associated with
economy would mean privation and hardship ; that
the only way to find work for the people was to
go on borrowing and spending. 1 think that bubble
was pricked during my term of office.
Joseph grows old, and his memory for de-
tails is not as good as it used to be. Actu-
ally he was Premier from August 29, 1904,
to October 2, 1907. The net revenue in
his first year of office was £11,336,918; in
the second, £12,283,082; in the third,
£13,392,435. His net surpluses xvere
£141,843 in 1904-05, £896,218 in 1905-06.
and £592,638 in 1906-07. In short, he has
understated his income and overstated his
credit balance. As for the reduction of debt
he refers to, the country owed £82,321,998
in his first year of office and £85,607,832 at
the end of the third year, albeit there was
a drop of 12s. Iod. —from £55 13s. 9d. to
£55 os. lid. —in the per capita indebted-
ness, thanks to increase of population.
AVhat Joseph may fairly claim is that he
paid his way, and had money to spare for
emergencies, without looting the taxpayers;
and that the country prospered without a
borrowing debauch. Compared with the
desperate record of the Dooley Govern-
ment’s Treasurer, who got through 34A mil-
lions of revenue and 15? millions of loan
last year, and had a deficit of £445,000, his
achievement is magnificent. The highest
return Carruthers ever received from in-
come-tax was £292,523 in 1906-07. Lang,
14 years later, relieved the income-taxpayers
of £4.399.000, and wants to separate them
from another two millions before June 30,
otherwise there will be a deficit of
£] ,979.000. In the last year of Joseph’s
administration the State gained 16.455
people by excess of immigration over emi-
gration. ’ In the first six months of 1921,
when the Dooley Government was shovel-
ling out a million or more a week in the
process of subsidising work-stoppages and
finding doles for all and sundry, 174,435
persons came into the country and 181.619
went out. A large percentage of the lost


T!l e Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A u &* 1
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Population migrated to Mainland, where
Irehind r m neDt - rUn t by - a dr y old North of
cut h rm i IS , r< r duc J ll S taxation and has
cut bonowing to the bone. And last week
the el , JT° Un, i e - d t tl^ at 40 ’ 000 members of
all thi v fol ' whlch d ooley has been doing
ob^ToWingT0Wing and taxing and basic-
rpv and hour-reducing were out of work,
i nothing extraordinary about
i°*f H DaeßUtheks, and if Joseph could
cany on for three years without plundering
nvM.rff- a^e4)ay ? n F section and borrowing
in • Jddnn £ m sight and calling into existence
legions of unemployed it can be done to-
tn.y' Und< : r tbe night sort of administra-
10tl the thing would be comparatively easy,
tor there are lots more employing industries
tian there were in 1906 and 1907. But
Booley and his appalling crowd have gone
m ? enthusiastically for robbing the child-
ren s inheritance to provide work and doles
tor their supporters, for collaring the legiti-
mate profits of industry to meet the losses
on their ruinous loan jobs, and for inflating
wages and prices and reducing working
hours to. the loan-job level. The tree is
now bearing, and Ma State is gathering the
fruits thereof-—a prodigious debt and deficit,
a staggering load of taxation, a record
slump.
The Disgusting Habit of Work.
The crazy conspiracy to force up the cost of
production by 84 per cent, when the value of
all products (the fund out of which the wage-
cost has to be paid) was falling has had the
only possible result. It was reported the
other day by trades-union authorities that
there were 40,000 men out of work in the
Ma State, and it was added that the figures
were far from complete. That was natural:
when the first 40,000 had registered and no
work was available for them it was not worth
while fop the next 40,000 to broach the sub-
subject. The union bosses didn’t ask for the
Bjj per cent, extra in money, which would
have been at least intelligible. They insisted
on taking it out in time—loafing time; dry-
rotting time; money-spending time. But
industry didn’t happen to have a margin of
8-J per cent. In fact, with the price of the
things it had to sell gone down one-third or
more in most cases, it was in great straits
to pay even the old war-wages. Other com-
munities have been forced to meet the crash
in war-prices by reducing war-wages by 25
or even 50 per cent.; but Australia, with a
boundless faith in the possibility of paying a
pound for 10 shillings’ worth of work and
charging the difference to posterity in the
form of loans, put up a spectacular defiance
by trying to raise wages instead, and thus
set an example to a hidebound world. Find-
ing the storm was worse and the mast gone it
decided to be original and put on a lot more
sail. It was not merely that the men in
N. S. WaleS'who pay wages and have no loan
fund to pay them out of were ordered to give
the old amount in return for at least one-
twelfth less value. They were also in-
formed by the Government that their income-
tax was to be largely increased. Seeing
nothing in the outlook, especially as the go-
slow has greatly reduced output and added
that to the other difficulties, many employers
have either shut down their works or are tak-
ing only the more profitable jobs or making
only the more profitable lines. In this situation
a special interest attaches to a pronounce-
ment made the other day by the secretary of
the Boiler-makers’ Union when reporting to
Sydney Trades Hall that “trade is as bad as
ever, and hundreds of members of the union
are idle” :—■
We have been successful in getting the Federal
Government to honor the N. S. Wales Government
proclamation re the 44-hour week matter, and both
Garden and Cockatoo Island employees are now en-
joying that privilege; but if they desire to keep it
they wjji have to watch and strictly guard it and
look with disgust on the employee who hankers
after overtime. In view of what I stated previously,
all employees in the other shops will have to do
likewise.
The theory of diseased minds that work
should be looked on with dispust, and that
only loafing and leaning or crime are manly
occupations, has caused a lot of trouble and
will yet cause a lot more. For under the
conditions for which this mental disease is
responsible it costs so much to get anything
produced that work is either going to other
countries to be done or is not being .done at
all. We can hide the consequences for a
little time longer by borrowing; but we
can no more escape them than the drug-fiend
can who staves off trouble by adding a little
more to his daily dose.
— ;
The Folly of being a Skilled Shellback.
As a master mariner shes it: —
To-day is the hour of the unskilled worker. The
pick-and-shovel artist holds sway. He has nothing
to sell except brawn and muscle, and the cultivation
of these atrophies his brain and makes him trucu-
lent towards those who .have to earn their bread by
brain-work alone. He cannot understand loyalty
to an employer, who, after all, in most instances,
has pushed himself by sheer hard work into a posi-
tion that enables him to provide work for other
people besides himself. Instead of getting either
consideration or a fair deal, the employer is
heckled by the chronic strikers among the unskilled
labor organisations, and the skilled men of most
industries are left languishing when the spoils are
divided. Up then go the wages of “the proletariat,”
while the wages of the “bourgeoisie”—as communists
dub skilled men—automatically collapse. Person-
ally I know what hard work is. I started my sea-
life 32 years ago, as a cabin-boy on a wind-jammer
at £1 per month, and have since been ordinary sea-
man, apprentice, A. 8., fireman, officer and master;
so as regards salt water I can claim to be an oracle.
The Merchant Service Guild was the first organisa-
tion of employees to be registered under the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Act, and ever since it has
resorted to constitutional methods when adjusting
its grievances. But has it paid to be law-abiding ?
Recently the seamen and firemen were given a rise
in wages; and because it was a few shillings short
of what they claimed, they held stop-work meetings
all over Australia to protest against the “greed”
of the owners. Mostly, their aggressiveness wins ; for
they know they have nothing to lose and everything
to gain. The “old man,” on the other hand, knows
that there are a bunch of duly-qualified officers under
him eager to climb. His officers are competitors in
the industrial market, and not co-workers. The
spud-peeler and the A.B. have nothing to fear in
this wise. They face the future calmly, knowing
that, with a few exceptions, they will remain on
the same plane indefinitely, and not desiring that
it should be otherwise; for inflated wages and con-
ditions for the unskilled laborer have stunted and
destroyed ambition.
But how are skilled navigators rewarded for their
moderate and law-abiding attitude? While seamen have
squeezed out another rise in wages the Union S. S. Co.
has submitted a log to the Merchant Service Guild sug-
gesting a reduction in officers’ wages—ls p.c. for
masters and 20 p.c. for officers. In addition the co.
TRYING TO LIVE VP TO IT.
“Hello, Jones, a new suit? What’s the occasion?”
“Well, I’ve just bought my new season Sydney Ferry ticket, and I thought I ought to
look as though I could afford it.”
proposes a 56 hours’ week, a reduction in the over-
time rates, and one day off per month as against the
old five!
There is something wrong somewhere, and it looks
as if the “dictatorship of the proletariat” had
already arrived—that qualified, certificated men were
just so much flotsam drifting around at the mercy
of aggressive unionism. Yet it takes seven years
to make a master mariner, and the examinations in
navigation and seamanship are becoming harder every
year. Some cos. refuse to engage as junior officers
men over 30 years of age; with the result that
many an unfortunate shipmaster in the forties or
oyer, sacked for some slight mishap or other, finds
himself in the ranks of the great army of unem-
ployed on shore. An A.B. may be sacked for any
offence, but the next day he has no difficulty in
getting another ship. With the navigator it is
different. Out of one company and he is out of all,
and mostly he has to go to another country, where
he is unknown, to follow his profession.
In these circumstances, what a profession to turn
a lad’s thoughts to!
It is possible for a man to drink beer for 40
years and have no more beer in him at the
finish than at the beginning. N. S. Wales
land settlement is much the same. The other
day an end. was made of the breaking-up of
Mahonga and Urangeline, and settlement will
gain wonderfully on paper in consequence.
Otherwise it won’t. The two questions as
to where settlement goes and where yesterday
went are a pair. Between 1911 and 1919
rather over four million acres of public land
was “alienated,” and another four million
acres were taken up by conditional purchase,
and with all this added to previous dealings
the end of 1919 found less than four million
acres under crop, and it was a fast-diminish-
ing quantity. The breaking-up of big estates
goes on, and close settlement with it, and
then the Big City had to get three extra
Federal members the other day, while two
were taken away from the country because
the country had grown emptier in too many
places. The N. S. Wales wheat-farmer
had his taxes multiplied by about 10 between
IS9I and 1921, and because not one new town
arose in the interval he had to send his
wheat, on an average, 284 miles by train
instead of 111 miles as before. Wherefore
all Ma State may be cut up and settled six
times over, and have fewer people settled at
the end than at the beginning. It is the
beer-drinker who won’t fill.
“Smike” : It is to be hoped, that the murder
of little Alma Tirtsciike has thrown
enough limelight on the unsavory character
of the eastern end of Bourke-street to insure
a cleaning-up. The long-continued misbe-
lravior of that area is a scandal which reflects
gravely upon the police. Almost any day
there is some' kind of disturbance in the
street, or in one or other of the numerous
alleys that empty their unwashed populace
into it. Known criminals, vagrants of many
tints and decrepit females lounge around
getting full of beer and argument, and by
G p.m. are ready for violence. As a com-
paratively recent resident in the neighbor-
hood I have seen more unruly behavior there
in a week than I had come across in all my
life before. Fights are common, gun-play is
not unknown, and bag-snatchers and plun-
derers of drunks seem never in want of a
profitable victim. A while back one gentle-
man proceeded to settle a dispute with an
automatic, and quite lately a sodden person-
age, carrying more money and liquor than
was good for him, was cleaned out in a
lane behind a well-known pub in broad day-
light, and had to get home in his socks.
Saturday afternoon" and night are favorite
times for picking up unconsidered trifles
from the thirsty and the reckless, and the
police display such a masterly ignorance of
these events that suspicion regarding their
attitude is inevitable. For one thing, some
of the men have been so long on the beat
that they have become too familiar with the
greasy loafers who hang about with the
swarm of low-grade bookmakers and racing
touts that aet in the way of decent citizens.
But the main trouble lies in one or two pubs
which are the rendezvous for all sorts of
shady character's, and in which many if not
most of the villainies are hatched.
X2X : llalf-a-dozen enthusiastic young
Australian scientists are trying to organise
an institute wherein any kind of scientific
research may be carried‘out. They include
three doctors, a chemist, a physicist and a
biologist, the last being a woman, and all,
besides being the holders of ’varsity degrees,
have more or less distinguished themselves
in their own fields. The institute is to be
self-supporting, members giving so many
hours " day to the practice of their bread-
and-butter professions, the rest of their time
being devoted to research work in the labora-
tories of the establishment, and neither Gov-
ernment nor private aid is to be sought.
When they have obtained the sum needed to
make a start, they are going to take a house
large enough to accommodate them and to
contain the laboratories required, and then
they will all move into it so that things
may be done more cheaply than if they were
living apart; and as the concern is not to
be limited to foundation members, any fur-
ther additions to the band will mean a de-
crease in cost. Sydney will probably be the
home, of the institute, and negotiations for
premises have already been opened. The
idea is well worth encouraging, for it is in
such places in other countries that a good
deal of the scientific progress of the last
100 years has been made; and under pre-
sent conditions it seems useless to expect
the ’varsities to accomplish anything worth
while in this direction.
“M.D.” on a co-operative scheme: —
The resolution of the women doctors of Sydney
to open a clinic in Surry Hills for the treatment of
women and children is a praiseworthy one, and suc-
cess should attend the scheme from the start. Such
an institution has long been wanted, and the wonder
is that in a city whose population approaches
1,000,000 the idea has taken so long to germinate.
What has stirred the ladies to action is, no doubt,
the small number of hospital appointments available,
and the large demand for them as a means of intro-
duction to a discriminating public. All doctors
look askance at lodge practice, but any form of
hospital work is regarded with favor. In the big
hospitals money and influence talk just as in other
walks of life, and if one wants to get a job in one of
the special departments one has usually to “fetch and
carry” for an assistant-surgeon, who rejoices in what
a*medical paper calls “a most important and much-
sought-after appointment,” for a year or more; and
then the candidate for hospital honors is not sure
of being appointed to the permanent honorary staff.
The lady doctors have, doubtless, despaired of
getting appointments, and, having a laudable desire
to be in the swim, have clubbed together and rented
premises for the treatment of out-patients. As time
goes on and funds are available this will doubtless
blossom out into a fully-equipped hospital for women
and children. The women doctors will be able to
fix their own hours of consultation, will be free
from the interference of committee men who are
always looking for complaints against them, and
will rejoice in a freedom of movement they would
never get in one of our big institutions.
♦
“Clifford Snook” wants more exams.:—
At about this time of year someone always writes
to the papers about the futility and barrenness of
the examination system. And, as many roosters
reply when one rooster crows in the night, letters
pour in from pedagogues and parents till all is
confusion. No doubt exams, are permeated by a
soulless uniformity and all that; still no one'can
put anything new into the multiplication table
without getting it wrong, and many other things
suffer from the same drawback. Personally I would
extend the examination system. I would extend
it far into old age. I would have at least a rudi-
mentary examination for electors. I would have
a stiff examination to qualify for the Candidate’s
Certificate, without which no person could stand
for Parliament, and only persons with a specially
good pass would be capable of holding portfolios'.
The community is protected against the untrained
doctor and lawyer, and the law-maker, who is both
and many other things besides, should also have
to piove his capacity. The exam. I "suggest would
include reading, writing, arithmetic, accountancy
(I presume that some day the Ministry will get out
of the habit of telling members with a leer that
the money is spent and if they don’t like it they
can lump it), political economy (including paper
money), good manners and a sound knowledge of
Scripture. Anybody who fails to see where the
Scripture comes in may write to me, care of The
Bulletin, enclosing stamped addressed envelope for
reply. I would even have an examination for
Governors, covering general knowledge, elocution,
constitutional law and sobriety. The constitutional
law would guide his Ex. through his very few duties
and the sobriety would prevent him getting the
law mixed. As for the elocution, speech-making is
his chief occupation, and he might as well do
it with as little “er” as possible. As one reason
for my boundless faith in the examination system,
there is, or was, a legal light in Australia who was
either 12 or 20 years struggling to qualify. As
the candidate can fail two or three times a year
this represented a long effort. Possibly he only
knew one bit of law and had to wait till it
happened to come round. The system had the
merit of keeping him out a long time, so that there
was one less lawyer for the country to support.
And it had the merit of letting him in at
last, so that his services weren’t wholly lost to thi
community.


The New Streamline Model
is an ideal Present.
It is often so difficult to find a present that is both
useful and ornamental —The Onoto Streamline is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it combines with
its elegant design all the practical utility of Onoto—
the Pen—safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every handwriting.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO..LTD.. Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
WA
THE
ONOTO INK-BEST FOR ALL PENS,
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Model 501, 10/15 H.P., £650.
Complete with Italian body.
Colonial Body, £675.
FOR EFFICIENCY, STABILITY,
ECONOMY AND COMFORT,
you will find nothing comparable
with the F.I.A.T.
You may pay more but you will
not get better value or satisfac-
tion.
For the first time in years we are in a position to give immediate
delivery. Call and inspect, or let us send you particulars of all
models available.
TERMS ARRANGED.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICE McNEIL, General Manager. . Telephones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From a N. S. Wales Gallery-man
Greg McGirr’s bolt from N. S. Wales State politics
to look for a Federal seat leaves Premier Dooley
winner in a disturbance which looked for a time
almost certain to end the other way. McGirr, by
instinct a limelighter and inordinately vain, fought
hard in the caucus to get the succession to Jack
Storey, and, failing, toiled still harder to get the
party committed to the fantastic schemes advocated
by its wilder spirits. Up to the breaking of the
storm caused by Speaker Levy’s resignation, McGirr
had made good progress. But in the eyes of friend
and opponent, Dooley emerged from that little affair
with greatly enhanced prestige. Dooley’s faith-
fulness to his party, his steadfastness and coolness,
heavily discounted McGirr. Within a day there
was scarcely a man in the caucus who did not see
that had McGirr been at the wheel the party would
have been wrecked during those days of intrigue and
wirepulling, in which Dooley had borne himself
so well. When Dooley set about recasting his Minis-
try McGirr’s name was Mud. The party—rescued
from the jaws of death, so to speak—realised it
would be well rid of him. Dooley left him a minor
portfolio, but generously forebore to get his election
as deputy-leader revoked. Greg made a hurried
canvass of caucus and quickly sensed the truth —
that he was now almost unanimously mistrusted. That
night he decided to quit, and the man who exercises
the greatest influence in Labor politics in N. S.
Wales—but whose name is seldom seen in print
and never in - that connection —rubbed his hands
and was well satisfied. He had told them all along
that McGirr was an untamed goat and would prove
it.
Of Hughes’s new colleagues Foster and
Bruce are expected to be longest in acquir-
ing the graceful habit of obedience to their
chief. Bruce is understood to have a lot
of “independent” views that may have to be
dealt with in the Cabinet room. He is—or
was as a private member —opposed to the
principle of Government-owned steamers,
and Hughes should have a high time trying
to either convert his junior or drive him to
some compromise that will be distasteful to
both. Foster may be more amenable to dis-
cipline ; but, though he may be induced to
go slow on the North-South railway, he will
probably be harder to handle over Canberra.
He is paying his first visit to the “Capital,”
and the Canberra crowd is waiting his re-
turn with anxiety. If he proposes to -cut
down the works in that sacred region, he and
brother Lamond will find it difficult to live
together in amity.
With an increase of £1,307,000 in the
revenue and loan funds available for all
manner of impermanent and unproductive
works, the Queensland Government managed
last year to produce a surplus of £9830. If
the performance is repeated this year it will
be a proof that the age of miracles has re-
turned, At the end of six months expendi-
ture had beaten income by £1,009,615. lie-
venue slumped £200,215 compared with the
first half of 1920-21, and outgoings were
£179,643 more. Also, the position in the
Railway Department was £288,659 worse
than at the corresponding period of last
year, when the railways were in process of
achieving their record annual deficit —
£1,739,000.
Walsh, the imported trouble-maker who
said that if 2000 Chinese wanted to join the
Seamen’s Union they would all be admitted,
found an ally last week in Barweil, Premier
of South Aus. Barwell’s suggestion, which
removes him from the list of possible Primin-
isters, is that “the wonderful potentialities”
of the N.T., down to the 20th parallel of
latitude, should be developed by colored im-
migrants, with full civic rights. The U.S.A.
decided to develop its semi-tropics with
colored labor, and then discovered that, while
it didn’t develop them worth mentioning, it
bred a race of “poor whites,” and a problem
"ALMS, FOR THE LOVE OF ALLAH, ALMS !”
“Mr. Dooley is preparing his appeal to the elector!” —Sydney daily paper.
so appalling that the nation has simply given
it up in despair. A few months ago it was
mentioned that Barweil had never been out-
side Australia. He ought to have held his
tongue till he had seen America.
Humor goes about on muffled feet to the
effect that N.S.W. will have to pay (or
owe) lialf-a-million over the Dooley Gov-
ernment’s wheat guarantee with which it
bought votes in its happy childhood. It
promised half-a-crown a bushel on top of
the Federal guarantee of 55., and then had
tjie price pf wheat for local use pushed up
to 9s. per bushel for a whole year to save
it from loss —In other words, it first bought
votes and then made the public pay the
price in the shape of dear bread. Inciden-
tally, the A.W U. proceeded to hold up the
farmer for extra wages so as to get the
half-crown from him before he had got it;
and when this country’s wheat had to be
offered abroad much below the local price
it came under the anti-dumping laws; and
millers stopped work because they couldn’t
export flour from nine-shilling wheat in
competition wifh foreign flour made from
six-shilling wheat. Finally, the new season’s
crop came on the market, and with it offer-
ing at a little over ss. the tail-end off the
old lot departed into Hades, financially
speaking. So besides paying for the votes
in dear bread the State will now proceed
to pay in higher taxes.
The Queensland redistribution, which isn’t
likely to be meddled with by Parliament, has
shattered State Treasurer Fihelly’s hopes of
finding a safe seat at the Federal elections,
unless Charlie McDonald makes way for him
in Kennedy. Brisbane is a possibility, since
the alteration of boundaries favors Labor
more than the other side, but* Donald Charles
Cameron, a scarred veteran of tw T o wars,
holds the fort. And a dour Scot or Scotch-
Australian is the hardest of all candidates
to shift. There is also a fighting chance
in Capricorpia, where W. G. Higgs won
as a Laborite, with a majority of 1613. in
1919. But there are more Ministerial than
Opposition votes among the 6000-odd added
to the constituency, and the staunch veteran
who was excommunicated for treading on
the corns of a few obscure wirepullers at
the Trades Hall is convinced he can dust
the floor with Fihelly or anyone else.
Three months late, as it always is nowa-
days, the Federal Government issued some
figures showing that the first quarter’s
revenue for the financial year was £128,905
more than last year, and that expenditure
had increased by £3,982,362, and the outgo
was nearly a million ahead of the income,
and nobody knew what to do about it, and
nobody cared much. The war debt grows
apace despite the peace, and prospects are
the color of a coal-mine at midnight. If it
was possible to fipd a Premier-Treasurer
who would take the same pride in keeping
his accounts square as the manager of the
A.M.P. Society does, it would be a blessed
relief. Yet if the manager of the big life
office owed his elevation to the fact that he
had been a trade-union secretary, and if he
held his job precariously by the votes of the
miners of Bendigo, he might not be a great
success either.
The time has arrived for the County of
Bourke, which is Melbourne, to set up as a
City State, and let the rest of Victoria fish
for itself. The redistribution gives Mel-
bourne and environs 11 Federal members,
while the balance of Victoria is entitled to
only nine. Either of them would make a
more imposing State than Tasmania with
five Representatives. In the last nine years
the Cabbage Garden metropolis has acquired
122,515 new electors, while the rest of the
State gathered in only 5668. It is agreed
that the settlement of the outside places is
an important matter, and the results show
tnat a- Melbourne Government never knew
anything worth speaking of about country
settlement, and has now lost the art alto-
gether. A Cabinet in a different environ-
ment might do something.
Some of Hughes’s admirers want him to
desert Bendigo and stand for Deakin, the
new Melbourne electorate, but the Haw-
Hawthorn people and others are not keen.
Jowett, whose own electorate (Grampians)
has been wiped out, and .Tack Leckie, who
has been out in the political cold since
Indi dropped him, are looking around.
The proposed change in Federal electoral
boundaries gives Foley, M.H.R. for Kal-
goorlie, the largest constituency in the
world. It extends from the South Aus.
border on the east to the ocean on the west,
and includes all the blank spaces in the
North-West to Wyndliam. Its area is
900,000 sq. miles —more than that of Vic.,
Tas. and Queensland combined. But mere
extra mileage won’t annoy Foley, who finds
joy in reminding members from Victoria
and the Speck that their States would be
considered as suburbs among his con-
stituents. In future he probably won’t be
able to see the two eastern midgets without
a microscope.
Another attempt is to be made at the
A.W.U. Conference to disqualify Freemasons
as candidates for office. In the same spirit
conference is to be asked to take sides on
the Irish question, although there are over-
whelming reasons why the Irish question
should be dropped. These outbreaks of alien
bigotry help to explain (1) the smashing de-
feat of the A.W.U. nominees in the Senate
selection ballot, and (2) the revolt of thou-
sands of unionists against the latest impu-
dent demand for lucre to “establish” an
A.W.U.-eontrolled daily.
The way of the Gadarene swine:—
Bananaland’s revenue for six months .. £5,256,095
Trust Fund receipts for six months . . 2,594,754
Total . . . . .. .. .. £7,850,849
Expenditure from Revenue .. .. £6,265,710
Expenditure from Trust . . .. .. 2,367,720
Expenditure from Loan .. .. .. 1,404,200
Total.. .. .. .. ..£10,037,630
A .country that spends ten millions on a
revenue of five millions (or 7f if you in-
clude trust receipts) is going down a very
steep place indeed..
S. M. Herald must have writhed when
the home-coming Mark Sheldon told one of
its reporters that “America’s Protective
tariff had done wonders for her in the past,
but now it did not protect her enough.”
The same is true of Australia ; but, then,
Australia, unlike the U.S.A., is trying to
make the tariff support the burden of the
44-hour week and loan-job rates of wages.
A tariff, as Scott said of literature, is a
good stick but a poor crutch.
From a Federal Gallery-man :• —
Though ex-P.M.G. Wise professes loyalty to the
Hughes Government, his constituents continue to re-
mind him that he was elected as an Independent, and
doesn’t owe allegiance to any party. The point, ham-
mered into an admittedly aggrieved member,
threatens interesting developments, inasmuch as Wise
has hinted that his “loyalty” mustn’t be construed
into a promise of undeviating support in any and all
circumstances. What will happen when the House
resumes business in the middle of the year nobody
can tell; but it is certain that Hughes will find
the same number of old enemies on his flank, with
the prospect of their number being increased by
one or two Nationalists sitting behind him. He
hasn’t quietened his party by his reconstruction.
Of course, a deep sense of cruelty and injustice
abides with unsuccessful office-seekers' whilst Minis-
ters themselves aren't unanimously joyful, mainly
on account of the elevation of Bruce to the second
most responsible portfolio in the Cabinet. His Tory
leanings are making some of the good-as-Labor
Nationalists very uneasy.
One of the humorous clauses of the latest
N. S. Wales Land Bill provides that a trustee
may mortgage land held in trust to raise the
amount of the tax leviable under the bill, just
as if power to mortgage the land had been
contained in the deed declaring the trust.
Plainly Loughlin, the intelligent framer of
the biil, believed that there was no chance of
the tax being set aside out of profits of work-
ing , the land. But what possibility would
there be of a trustee or an owner borrowing
on a holding when the Crown, at a moment’s
notice —not even three months, as provided
in the previous measure —may resume his
land, and pay the value fixed by the Ad-
visory Board to the Master in Equity, m
the very probable event of an equity suit
between the landlord and the mortgagee !
MICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Violent scenes preceded the ratification by the
Dail Eireann of the Treaty with Britain. (The
voting was 64 to 57.) Michael Collins was con-
temptuously described as a limelight-hunter who had
never fired a shot in the war against the Black
ahd Tans. And De Valera says the Republic still
exists and is going on.
They’ve ratified your pact, Mick,
An epoch-marking fact, Mick,
But wigs were seen
On College Green
Before they passed the Act, Mick.
A stirring deed you’ve done, Mick,
And brighter shines the sun, Mick,
For Erin dear, .
But much I fear
Your woes have just begun, Mick.
Till lately, like Eurythmic,
You-towered above your kith, Mick;
But now old friends
Asperse your ends
And hold your fame a myth, Mick.
For, finding war a dud, Mick,
And sick of shedding blood, Mick,
A v peace you brought
With honor fraught—
And so your hame is Mud, Mick.
’Twas roses all the way, Mick,
When Ireland stood at bay, Mick,
But, now the fight
Is over, spite
And bile will have their day, Mick.
Though never known to quail, Mick,
In battle or in gaol, Mick,
The envious sneer
And ribald jeer
Bombard you in the Dail, Mick.
Because, as fits the brave, Mick,
To Erin peace you gave, Mick,
No peace you’ll find
From slander blind
And hate this side the grave, Mick.
The heavens are wild and black, Mick,
The wolves are on your track, Mick,
Shake hands, old foe,
Before they throw
Your carcase to the pack, Mick.
N.S.W.
TUART.


AUSTRALIAN ARTIST;
“This study of the Fitz-
Roy Alps you can have
for £250.”
GALLERY BUYER; “Stick it into m old frame and
call it The Matterhorn,’ by Conrad van Slush
and its worth to you £2ooo—to us columns of
eidogy on our perspicacity id buying the master-
piece.” / v
Judging by some of the purchases, this is the Felton Inquest Committee"
PICTURE BUYER: ,f You want £5OOO for that, though
when I m»w you about it last year your price was
only £3750.”
DEALER: “Ah, yes, sir-—but last year it didn’t have
a cobweb on it.”
THE
national gallery
graveyard.
> The burial of ’ an OW
Master.,
MELBOURNE’S (INTERNATIONAL GALLERY.


IF NOT THIS
'ft
I
, THEtM this J
When you cannot go to the sea bring fresh breezes into your
home or office by using “THE WHIRLWIND FAN ”
ELIZABETH ST.
MELBOURNE
1C
CO. LTtt
CLCCTfUCAL
_
• s-i x " v
—304
KENT STREET
SYDNEY
NOBEL-GLASGOW
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
’
y- ’
Monobef
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ftirriT
ift'FREE
0/\ &'-A\AN POWERFUL SPEEDY— LOW*PRICED
0
Quick Gears Pty. Ltd., 75 Penders Street, Thornbury, Victoria
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank:—
Profits on
Net Repur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
Profits. posits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1908.. 61,784 599 5 p.c. = 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6,, „ 32,366 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 .1211 6,, „ 32,366 22,000 241.550
1911.. 76,180 711 7„ „ 37,761 21,500 259,180
1912.. 93,381 1413 8,, ~ 43,155 14,000 296,819
1913.. 107.694 1315 8,, ~ 43,155 15,700 346,973
1914.. 118,0.36 1315 8„„ 43,155 15,700 407.469
1915.. 97(685 2215 8„ „ 43,155 16,600 447,614
1916.. 196 2615 8„ ~ 43,155 17,000 498,270
1917.. 107.917 3615 8„ ~ 43,155 18,000 548,647
1918.. 169 3615 ‘9 ~ „ 48,549 18,000 615,882
1919.. 108.180 4317 10 ~ ~ 53,944 20,500 653,935
1920.. 165.179 4519 10 ~ „ 53,944 22,500 747,189
London Bank of Australia and Commercial Bank
of Tasmania acquired.
Reserves taken in, £582,164 .. 1,329,353
1921.. 976 4519.10 p.c.= 128,807 22,500 1,445,541
It is a much changed E., S, and A. Bank
which now presents figures to June 30 last.
The big London Bank of Australia was
taken over just a year ago, and on March
1 the little Commercial of Tas. was bought
out. The ; purchase consideration of the
London Bank was somewhat involved: its
pref. and ordinary shareholders had the
option of calling for E., «S. and A. ordin-
aries and cash alone. How the deal
was finalised is not of much consequence
now. Interest centres in how the big E.,
S. and A. is constituted. Paid capital at
the 1920 balance was £589,177, including
calls paid in advance. By June, 1921, it
had expanded to £1,319,807, and reserves
had. benefited by £582,104. Reserves, after
paying final divs., totalled £1,445.541, or
£125,000 more than paid capital. In addi-
tion the E., S. and A. still shows £2,440,466
in three lots of stock, which represent the
best that could be done for depositors when
the bank crashed in the ’nineties. All except
a haflf-million-odd is perpetual stock, and,
therefore, for all practical purposes fixed
capital. So the E., S. and A.’s funds are
as follows :
Paid capita] .. .. £1,319,887
Reserves' . . . . 1,445,541
Stock . . . . 2,440,466
Total £5,205,894
Liabilities on account of customers at June
30 comprised £11,042,810 of fixed deposits,
£11,509,915 in current accounts, and
£2,955,684 of bills payable, notes and other
commitments —altogether a few thousands
in excess of 254 millions. The bank thus
had the care of £4 ISs. for every £ of its
own funds. That is a mild proportion—
£B of liabilities to £1 of funds is generally
regarded as a prudent limit in Australia.
It means that the bank can widen its con-
nections considerably without calling on
shareholders for further supporting capital.
How shareholders’ funds, stock and money
entrusted to the E., S. and A. had been put
to work at June $0 last is shown next -
Liquid assets —
Cash and bullion.. ..£5,092,141
Short-call money"-.. .. 1,115,4145
Public securities , . .. 882,577
Bills receivable, etc. .. 3,851,313
: £10,941,447
Advances . . . , ~ ~ 19,069,034
Premises . . . . .... 774,817
Total assets . . . . £30,785,298
The position of the E., S. and A. from the
viewpoint of current creditors was as fol-
lows. Almost £43 of every £lOO was cov-
ered by cash, gilt-edged securities and other
rapidly realisable assets. That left
£14,566,962 to be otherwise protected. The
balance-sheet showed £19,069,034 of ad-
vances and “other assets” (the book value
is less provisions made over many years for
bad and doubtful debts and contingencies)
and £774,817 of premises. Both E., S. and
A. and London premises have been
steadily written down for many years: the
“written off” column of the introductory
table shows how the E., S. and A. has
treated its property account. So there were
written-down assets totalling £19,843,851 to
protect £14,566,962 of liabilities not covered
by till-money and Government paper. This
means that ’ one-fourth of the value of ad-
vances and premises, as shown at conser-
vative valuations, would have to go before
depositors and other creditors could lose a
penny. And the assurance of safety is the
stronger, too, because the affairs of tbe three
banks which constitute the new E., S. and
A. were thoroughly investigated before
amalgamations could be effected.
The outlook of the E., S. and A. share-
holder 30 years ago was black. The posi-
tion of its creditors was so bad that in
desperation they took lOU’s for their money
—one-fourth in 4 p.c. debentures and roughly
' the same proportion in 4 p.c. terminable
receipts, in 3 p.c. perpetual inscribed stock
and in redeemable 3 p.c. deferred Stock,‘but
eligible for a maximum 44 p.c. (The latter
rate has been paid for 20 years.) The de--
posit receipts have long since disappeared ;
the deferred stock is being bought up by
yearly appropriations of one-fourth of pro-
fits. Tne larger earnings resulting from
the amalgamation have had an interesting
influence on this old agreement. Instead
of the £17,981 which was set aside in 1920
to repurchase stock, for the past year
£42,936 was appropriated. The stock is,
of course, at a heavy discount in the market;
so 1920’s contribution bought up £22,500
worth, and as usual that amount was struck
off premises account. While the old credi-
tors are still in the mud—the paper which
they were prevailed upon to accept is, as
illustrated by the experience of the de-
ferreds, not worth anything approaching
face are again being
fattened. Their position is very snug and
prospects gilded, thanks to (1) the volume
of old deposits permanently tied to the
business at low interest rates, and (2) the
extent of. the reserves which the recovery
from the old troubles and war earnings
gave.
* * *
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office.- —Established primarily to
handle workmen’s compensation insurance,
this State office soon extended to all lines, in-
cluding life. The workmen’s compensation
branch is, of course, the largest; insurance of
risks is obligatory, and the State office was
given a monopoly of the business. How the
figures have erown is shown hereunder:—
Workmen’s Compensation Department.
Voted to
Ex- other Re-
Income. Claims, penses. Branches, serves.
1917. . £192,477 £91,292 £22,284 £3,000 ]
Bonuses, £18,717; preliminary 1 £50,204
exes, written off, £6980
1918.. 249,303 132,169 28,049 6,000) , nAorn
Bonuses, £23,030 ■ j 11°.2.>9
1919.. 284,794 175,644 36,778 15,000 167,631
1920.. 299,189 213,111 46,255 12,199 195,255
Default assessments, £19,224 .. 176 031
1921.. 324,978 216,705 57,026 5,000 222,278
The premium basis has been explained in pre-
vious "Wild Cat” reviews, and the only
alteration of any consequence in the past
financial year was the discontinuance of the
10 p.c cash bonus on premiums and its re-
placement by a discount of 5 p.c. tor prompt
payment of premiums. But’ in the domestic
workers’ section policies were again renewed
without premium, this being the third year’s
free insurance in six. Kates generally were
to have come up for review, but the Commis-
sioner bears out what The Bulletin re-
marked 12 months ago. He says: “I am of
opinion that the period covered from the in-
ception of the office to the end of this financial
year is rather short to give a stable basis for
the revision of rates.” Several years more
must elapse before the business can. be re-
garded as offering trustworthy data for fur-
ther interference with rates. It is question-
able whether premiums are not now, gener-
ally, at bedrock: last year’s surplus repre-
sented only 2s. lOd. in the £ of income, though
the Department is not called upon to pay a
penny in taxes. Some lines may, of course,
have been turning in good profits; but a cur-
tailment of rates for that business would
certainly have necessitated increasing pre-
miums on sections which gave little, or per-
haps no, profit. And not all the £46,247
surplus was retained by the branch: £30,000
of it was voted to the general reserves of
the Office and £7500 to the' compassionate
grant fund. Though reserves of £222,278 are
shown in the table, actually only about
£99,000 remains with the branch, the balance
having been placed in-reserves on which it
may have no call unless it gets into trouble.
A more favorable claims rate was experi-
enced last year than in its predecessor. Had
losses been on the same scale, the surplus
would have been about £15,000 less than that
disclosed. The all-round proportions of
“earned premiums” swallowed by claims and
exes, have been as follows: —
Claims Expense
Ratio. Ratio.
1918 . . 66.6 p.c. 11.45 p.c.
1919 .. 68.9 „ 14.45 „
1920 .. 75.1 „ 15.5 „ .
1921 .. 70.3- „ ' 18.35 „
The expense rate has moved in the wrong-
direction. Not only is the lodging of retuTns
by employers compulsory, but the Commis-
sioner is also empowered to inflict fines:
£3854 was collected in that way last year,
and deducting that amount from the admin-
istration outgo the cost rate was still 17.13
p.c. That, however, does not give a wholly
. satisfactory- view of the charges on the
branch. Including £5OOO subsidy paid the
Miners’ Phthisis department and the £7500
voted to the Compassionate Grant Fund, the
charges against the Workmen’s Compensa-
tion department represented 21.4 p.c. of total
ineohie. While the outgoings are on such a
scale, the policv-holder may be getting “cost-
price” insurance, hut it is not as cheap as it
might be. Whatever advantages may be
, claimed for the State monopoly, some insur-
ers, at least, are getting a poorer deal than
they could obtain by genuine co-operative
enterprise—such, for instance, as was organ-
ised by the Victorian manufacturers, who,
although their co. pays both Federal and
State taxes, get their business handled at
half the cost of the Queensland State Office.
The complete monopolisation by the Gov-
ernment of workers’ compensation insurance
has not yet been justified. The taking out
of policies bavin" been made .obligatory, and
a new basis of compensation having been
fixed, comparisons with the go-as-you-please
days when Private Enterprise had the field
to itself in the northern Stqte are no guide
■to the beneficenqe or otherwise of the State
monopoly. The Queensland workers are ad-
mittedly getting a better deal than formerly :
that is due wholly to the Act which granted
increased benefits, a fact generally overlooked
by people demanding State monopolies else-
where. The State Insurance Office is not
the Act; it is merely the machinery which
administers the Act. Compensation having
been fixed, the question is whether a Govern-
ment monopoly can perform the services for
insurers as economically as, or more cheaply
than, any other organisation. If it cannot
there is no justification for a State cornering
the business. The State office is in some-
what the’ same position as many mutual life
offices : there are co-onerative concerns, pay-
ing handsome divs. to shareholders, which
can give the insurer more than offices which
have no share register. Still, five years’
experience is not adequate to judge definitely
whether a State monopoly of the business is
desirable.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery Co. (Mel-
bourne), from the time 7s. 6d. per share
was written off :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1909. £4,581., 2 p.c. =£1,562 £.19 £4,666
Unexplained additions 6610 11,276
1910. . 8,184 5 p.ci = 3,906 4278 15,5.54
1911.. 8,183 6 „ „ 4,688 3495 19,049
1912.. 11,843 6 „ „ 4,688 7155 26,204
1913.. 10,506 61,, „ 5,079 5427 31,631
1914.. 9,446 7 „ „ 5,469 3977 35,608
1915. . 9,520. 7 „ „ 5,469, 40,51 39,659
1916.. 5,541 7,, .. 5,469. 72 39,731
1917.. 6,288 5,, „ 4,687 1601 41,332
1918.. 8,703 6 „ 5,625 3078 44,410
1919.. 9,549 7 „ „ 6,562 2987 47,397
Recoveries 3075 50,472
1920.. 9,446 Bp.c. =. 7,500 1946 52,418
Recoveries 2562 54,980
1921.. 11,033 14p.c. = 13,125 52,888
Melbourne Castlemaine Brewery Co. has not
brewed for 14 years. Its beer-foundry was
one of those which were closed down in
1907, when the numerous metropolitan brew-
ery cos. combined to end, the “ruinous com-
petition” which .had previously existed. That
combination • produced the Carlton and
United Breweries, Ltd., and this co.’s interest
in that float was £102,590 of ordinary
shares. But the Castlemaine directors were
so doubtful about the paper being worth
that figure that they protected it with a
reserve of £25,625. The scuttling of the
brewery and incidental changes necessitated
a revision of book values. In 1908 £40,875
of the old capital of £125,000 was written
off. About five years' ago paid capital was
increased from £7.8;125 to £93,750 by a
half-crown call to meet maturing debentures.
Even then the co. was very heavily in debt,
and it was hinted that it might even be
necessary' tq.sell the £5125 of pref. shares
in the Carlton and United which had been
taken up. But since 1917 the directors have
unloaded properties rapidly, and'big changes
have shown up in the balance-sheets :
1909. 1917. 1921.
Debentures ... ..£77,659 £39,483 £38,31,3
Mortgages .. .. 17,036 10,622 3.083
Other debts . . .. 29,123 16,443 331
Properties . . . . 117,585 118,506 13,106
Advances, etc. . . 3,244 3,402 62,084
Combine brewerv shares 76,875 82,000 82,000
Cash, etc. . .* .. 77 443 35,393
According to the published accounts very
little more was got for the properties sold
than the written-down values at which they
had appeared in the books: realisations in
.1917 are stated to have produced £6OO profit,
in 1918 £478, and nothing whatever has
been admitted bv the accounts- since. The
“recoveries” shown in the introductory table
were “profits earned in past years and only
this year received.” Whether something
more than has been disclosed was won from
the sale of properties cannot be ascertained.
The big item, apart from the Combine shares,
is shown as follows: “Sundry advance
accounts, secured by mortgages, contracts
of sale, life policies, etc., after providing for
bad and doubtful debts.” The valuation
given the Carlton and United shares in the
table is as the directors treated the asset in
the beginning—that is, less the realisation
depreciation reserve of £25,625. But for
some years they have included the holding
at full face value and taken the protecting
reserve to the other side of file balance-
sheet. Perhaps, after all, the Combine has
done better than the Castlemaine directors
anticipated and the shares are worth nearer
their face value. In that case something
can be added to reserves set down in the
table. The divs. which the Castlemaine has
received from it indicate how things have
gone
1909 .. £3075 I 1918 .. £8,230
1915 . . 9395 j 1919 . . 8,788
1916 . . 6269 | 1920 . . 11,860
1917 ..' 5886 | 1921 . . 1.1,894
If the Combine shares are worth face-value,
men the Oastiemaine after payment of the
latest div. had net assets of £172,203, equal
to 275. 6d. per 17s. 6d. share paid to 15s.
The co. has thus made a remarkable recovery
from its 1900 entanglements. Cash assets
nowadays are only a, few thousands short
of all liabilities ; a dozen years ago the co.
owed £94,000 on debentures and mortgages
and was leaning on the bank and others
for £29,000 more.
* * * *
Australian Class Manufacturers Co.,
Ltd. —This co. at the close of 1915 amal-
gamated the Melbourne Class Bottle Worlds
Pty., Ltd. (which had been started in 1872)
with the Waterloo Class Bottle Works, Ltd.,
and Vance and Boss, both of Sydney. It
established works in all States except West-
ralia, and had a remarkably successful
career after modern methods had been intro-
duced. Having av.eraged about £22,000 p.a.
profit on a paid capital of £270,000 up to
March, 1919, the disclosed profits moved to
£51,100 for 1920, and £05,524 for 1921, capi-
tal having advanced to £442,489 at the latter
date. Tq finance further extensions £175,000
of 9 p.c. ciim. prefs. were issued' and snapped
up last year. In 1919, W. J. Smith, who
had been responsible foy the amalgamation, '
but had withdrawn from the management of
the co., .established in Sydney the Zetlanfi
Class Bottle Works, Ltd., backed by power-
ful interests. That co. has had a meteoric
rise and has bagged some huge long-distance
contracts. With modern glass-blowing
methods it also has made luscious profits,
and to cope with its contracts within two
years increased nominal capital from £15,000
to £250,000. The co. has at present 155,233
£1 shares fully paid and 65,431 more paid to
r>s.
These two big competitors, who have prac-
tically controlled the bottle industry in the
Commonwealth and the bottle market in
Maoriland, have decided that it would be of
mutual advantage to get together. So it is
proposed to form a new cq., the Australian
Class Manufacturers Co., Ltd., with a nomi-
nal capital of two millions, in which each
of the present cos. will get share for share,
the old A.G.M. first capitalising £llO,OOO of
reserves which it has accumulated in its
short life. Paid capital will be approximately
a million. W. J. Smith will be managing-
director of the concern, which will start excel-
lently equipped and with practically all the
big contracts worth having in its grasp; The
management is thus able to estimate fairly
accurately the profits for about five years;
and as they are expected to show an im-
provement on those earned by the old cos.—
a saving should be effected by concentration
and on overhead charges—it is not surpris-
ing that the Zetland directors recommend the
amalgamation to their shareholders as en-
suring “one of the soundest and most lucra-
tive investments.” An investigation of the
affairs of the two amalgamating cos. consid-
ered in relation to the contracts (running
into some millions) on hand, suggests that
divs. ( ven better than the 10 p.c. which has
been paid by both should be possible if all
goes well. It was probably the anticipation
of imnroved profits which led the promoting
cos. to leave so many unissued shares at
command. The market is not likely to see
much of the scrip; the concern is partially
co-operative: practically all the big bottle-
users are. substantial holders, and the other
shares (apart from the prefs., of course) are
not widely distributed. The A.G.M. proposes
also to manufacture sheet-glass sufficient for
the Commonwealth’s requirements. None
has so far been produced locally.
* * * * :
During the war there were many- who
thought the Jap would take the place of the
German in the metal business of the world.
The dozens of courteous srentlemen from
Tokyo who visited Broken Hill and studied
the field and its workings from end to end
strengthened the idea —mining-engineers,
geologists and chemists from Nippon were
amongst the visitors, and in order to get
a footing they went so far as to open nego-
tiations to buy out one of the smaller mines.
However, Authority stepped in and said
“Nothing doing.” The biggest business done
was in zinc-slime concentrates, which are
anathema to all spelter works. Eventually
the .Tap buyers decided they had made a
mistake, and the contracts were cancelled
at a cost to them of over £150,000. The
German is again after lead concentrates,
and owing to the exchange situation it is
difficult to see how local industry can com-
pete, although our metallurgy is equal to
if not better than Fritz’s. Still the heads


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would- appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and* are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for'current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle,; which keeps remarkably
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— AdVt. [2
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
For all conduit purposes there is one superior
pipe—Pioneer Wood Pipe. It means economy in
first cost, handling and laying, .and low cost in
maintenance, Pioneer Wood Pipe can neither rust,
corrode nor foul, and besides conveying sparkling
clear water for drinking purposes it is excellent
as a conduit for acid fumes, mine culm, brine, tan
liquors etc. The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* • » >
ASBESTOS.—The right class of Asbestos is found
in serpentine areas. The Asbestos. Slate and Sheet
Manufacturing Co., Ltd., “Asbestos House,” corner
York and Wynyard Streets, Sydney, use large quan-
tities, and prospectors knowing of likely deports are
advised to communicate with this company.— Advt.
* * » *
Inventors.— Have voii an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassei, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.—Advt,
* * * »
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Clnillis Mouse, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• * . * •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writs
bourne, and
us for Inventors' Guide
-Advt.
Simon-Oarves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plantssuperphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.. Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * # «
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s k Oertling’s
■Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure. Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv kCo
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.— Advt.
* * * #
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydp°v.— Advt.
The use of Pulverised Fuel has passed the experi-
mental stages. The aggregate heating surface of
boilers now fired by this method totals 1,000,000
square feet. Plants are now actually under con-
struction in the Commonwealth for the Wallaroo and
Moonta Mining and Smelting Company, Limited
S.A ; Australian and Portland Cement Company;
Geelong, Victoria; Electricity Commissioners, Victoria
(Newport Power Station), from designs and with
equipment supplied by the Fuller Engineering and
. ul l er , . Lel ? lgh Companies. Represented . throughout
Australia by Elder, Smith and Co., Limited, Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth.— Advt
Dalgety U Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAyS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.Iv.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking' out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri*
button of the estate to the Legatees. ■
JOHN J. GARVAN,
i Managing Director.
o-
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Comimny Ltd- Australasian Asrents. 26 30 Clarence St..
Sydney.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
of Broken Hill industry are said to be opti-
mistic about retaining the smelting end of
c G i business here. Rumor lias it that the
►Sulphide Corporation may in future send
its concentrates to Pirie instead of Cockle
Creek.
* * * *
On Monday, in Brisbane, Bank of Queens-
land shareholders agreed to sell their ’busi-
ness to the National on the terms agreed
upon by the two directorates. Simultane-
ously, in Melbourne, National shareholders
supported their directors’ proposal to pur-
chase for cash. So, at the close of this
month, the Bank of Queensland will disap-
pear from the list of Australian banks.
* * * *
At last the rubber outlook shows signs
of improvement. For the first six months
of last year imports by the London market
exceeded exports by an average of 6600 tons
raw rubber per month. But sales improved
gradually, until in October four times as
much was being exported as in the earlier
months of the year', and curtailed produc-
tion having reduced imports to three-fifths,
sales actually exceeded shipments. Though
there were still unsold stocks of 69,000 tons,
the price for first-grades improved to lOfd.
That is, of course, a wretched return, and
there has been a relapse; but there is a
general feeling that the tide has turned and
that the rubber-producing cos. will have
better opportunities this year, especially as
many have got costs down.
.** - *
A preliminary stocktaking of N, S. Wales
mining operations in 1921 shows that only
in gold, production did the State do better
than in the previous year—and that was the
worst since the ’fifties. In 1852 the gold
dug was worth £2,660,946; by 1907 the out-
put had dropped to under a million and for
1920 to 45,9070 z. (fine), worth £207,746.
Last year 51,1730 z. (£217,370) were got.
These figures are based on gold at standard
price: for the first nine months of last year
£126,721 premium on sales abroad was also
distributed to producers. The coal trade
Was active last year, but the output is not
likely to better 1920’s record of 10,716,000
tons. Otherwise, owing to the Brokefi Hill
hold-up and the poor metal markets, produc-
tion was considerably less than for the previ-
ous year. Prospectors and small producers
helped to prevent a serious decline in the
tin output; only a few of the larger dredging
concerns kent at work during the market
slump.
* * * *
Y-Water, Emmaville (N.S.W.), has ended
its career. It was an ambitious project, but
it failed to produce up to expectations. For
many years it has been nothing more than
a philanthropic institution, no dividend hav-
ing been declared since November, 1913,
despite the high prices which have ruled for
tin. Some of its records are : Starred sluicing
April, 1909; stopped April, 1921; cubic
yards treated, 6,188,500; tin oxide won,
2984 tons; average per yard, 1.081 b.; men
employed when in full work, 150; wages
paid, £171,258; firewood used, 118,140 cords,
which cost £86,445; stores, machinery, re-
newals, etc., £76,700; average wages per
week, 1919, £402; average firewood cost per
week, 1919, £272. The plant was the larg-
est steam-sluicing outfit in Australia ; it was
perfect in every respect except perhaps that
it was a steam plant—it is a matter of
opinion whether a cheaper power could not
have been installed at lower initial capital
cost. The total weight of machinery carried
on the pontoon was 250 tons. There were
four tubular drybaek boilers and one double
Babcock and Wilcox boiler, together capable
of developing over 1000 i.h.p. There were
three Beilis and Moreom engines with an
aggregate brake-power of 960 at 375 revs, per
minute. The nozzle pump was a Thompson
three-stage 20in. turbine pump direct, cap-
able of discharging 6000 gallons of water per
minute against a pressure of 601 b. per sq.
in. There were two Thompson 14in. gravel
pumps, with suction and delivery enlarged
to 16in., each of which, working under nor-
mal conditions, was capable of handling 2100
yards, of dirt and water per hour against a
head of 100 ft. The main reservoir has a
capacity of 70,000,000 gallons; the storm-
water races leading to it at the base of the
Gap ridge are over six miles in length. The
reservoir and races cost over £BOOO. These
water rights have been purchased by the
Associated Extended; to the greater part of
whose property, the water will flow by gravi-
tation. No wonder the “Wiry” (as it was
called) is described as having Jjeen “one of
the best mainstays of the town; hood returns
or bad returns, low prices or high prices, its
pay-roll never lessened, and what is per-
haps more satisfactory, never faltered”;
and one ean well understand the lament and
the hope of the local editor, “Yale, Wiry—
you were good while you were with us and
we only hope to see your like again,” Any
hope that Emmaville may have rests on a
probability that a continuation of the deep-
lead may be discovered. It is not reasonable
to assume that this lead ended abruptly in
the rich pothole recently worked by the
Vegetable Creek Co.
Hopes are high at old Lucknow (N.S.W.).
On the shoot of arsenical pyrites recently
uncovered by the South Lucknow Syndicate
on the joint in the 62ft. drive, 50ft. from
the shaft, a winze has been sunk 10ft. While
the vein material maintains its width of
oft. to 7ft., the pyrites shoot has widened
to nearly 2ft. The quality of the ore con-
tinues to improve (the 'top stuff went
21dwt.), and it looks as if the shoot when
sunk on will gradually assume its true posi-
tion to the hanging wall. If so, the rich
Prince of Wales Feathers arsenical pyrites
may be expected. A 2-ft. pyrites shoot is
'one of Lucknow’s biggest, so the little syn-
dicate has visions of being rewarded for its
faith by something big. The find, of course,
still requires a lot of proving, and as the
shoots worked in the old days lived down
700 ft to 800 ft.. the syndicate has so far only
nibbled at the formation.
* * * »
“R.W.8.”: The bauxite deposits at Rop-
er’s Ridge, Wingello (N.S.W.), should be
a scene of activity in the near future. Six
leases totalling 250 acres were taken up by
Australian Alumina Co., of Melbourne, and
prospecting work has proved over 4,000,000
tons of ore on two of them. These deposits
were investigated in 1899 by J. B. Jacquet
and L. F. Harper, of the N.S.W. Geological
Survey. At that time the price of alu-
minium was lower, the market much smaller
and cost of manufacture considerably
higher than at pi'esent. Ore yielding less
than 50 p.c. alumina was unprofitable. The
French Government has for some time been
threatening a heavy export duty on bauxite,
which hints that supplies in that country
are being depleted. U.S.A. is the largest
aluminium-producing country in the world,
but the mines there only turn out sufficient
for home requirements. An export duty on
French ore would hit the British manufac-
turers hard, as practically the whole of their
supplies come across the Channel, the Irish
mines having long ago ceased to provide
suitable material. Probably no larger de-
posits than those of Wingello are known any-
where in the world, and they stand out con-
spicuously in comparison with others in the
Empire. As pointed out by geologist Harper
after his visit to the field in January last,
the stuff is not high-grade. This statement
is not contradicted, but the co.’s expert, ■ M.
J. Martin, who has carried out exhaustive
tests, has proved that an average extraction
of 36 p.c. pure alumina can be got, and he
reckons this is well up to results obtained
elsewhere. There is no-mwan why the elec-
tric power, fluxes and electrodes necessary
for converting the oxide into metal cannot
be obtained in the Commonwealth. The
residue left after the alumina is extracted
contains 80 p.c. ferric oxide, and should find
a ready sale. Titanium is present as an im-
purity, but not in over-large quantities.
* * * *
The process for the low-temperature car-
bonisation of coal has made further progress
in Britain. The possibilities of the process
in saving valuable by-products and leaving a
satisfactory fuel have long been known in
the laboratories; the difficulty has been to
do the thing payably on a big scale. Close
Bros, have installed 20 retorts capable of
carbonising 200 tons weekly at Barnsley
(Eng.), and, according to an independent
expert report by Sir Percy Girouard, have
“provided all the data necessary on a com-
mercial scale to warrant placing the informa-
tion before interested countries or enter-
prises.” Girouard’s report, which goes fully
into costs and probable revenue, declares that
the industry “appears to be one of paramount
national importance.”
n * * *
Hampton Celebration (W.A.), having de-
cided to treat at the mine the 50,000 tons
proved above water-level, is purchasing a
100-ton-per-day mill which should be ready
to crush towards the middle of the year. The
directors anticipate “fair profits” from the
ore available, and with the cash they intend
to sink the main shaft to at least 4Ooft. and
see if at that depth there is any improvement
in the Great Disappointment.
* * * *
The test of the mill is about to be applied
to Devon (W.A.). Recently the chairman
told shareholders that the new 15-head mill
and cyanide plant would start at an early
date, that good returns were assured, and
that dividends would be paid before long.
But there are sceptics.
* * * *
Old Ida H., which in the four years 1902-5
paid 135 p.c. in divs. from gold won at
Laverton (W.A.), is nowadays without a
producing mine. Two years ago the co.
reconstructed, struck “gold mining” out of
its title and went in search of tin in Nigeria.
One property there (13£ sq. miles) has
promise, but it has not been equinned because
of the metal-market depression; another
show has failed. Now Ida H., going back to
its first love, has taken an option over a sq.
mile of a new goldfield in Nigeria which is
spoken well of by geologists.
* * * *
A Bullfinch Prop, circular to shareholders
confirms Tin? Btttxettn’s recent statement
that the co. has decided to leave Westralia
for Southern Nigeria. Its new option em-
braces two square miles of gold-bearing mos-
quito-plagued country at Jebba. Gt. Boulder
and Ida H. have also taken areas on appro-
val in the same locality.
Another attempt is being made to boom
the south end of the Ivalgoorlie field. One
small piece of drill core, said to have come
from there, is stated to have assayed 13dwt.,
and others sent to the Mines Dept, are
expected “to give much better results.” The
Gt. Boulder, Associated Northern and Boul-
der No. 1 and others have been looking for
new mines in the State for years, and though
they have spent large sums without success,
so far they have shown no inclination what-
ever to put money into the south end of
their home field.
Ivalgurli (W.A.) got £20,000 cash-down
from Oroya Links for its belongings. Share-
holders meet next month to sanction liquida-
tion, and meantime the market maintains
that the winding-up will yield rather more
than £1 per share, provided the income-tax
authorities don’t grab too much.
* * * *
“Grassy Flat”: The fine old plucky crowd
which created the Bendigo goldfield are mostly
in the Back Creek Cemetery. More’s the
pity, because mining would not have been
allowed to perish by the old crowd, which
helped to raise £80,000,000 of gold in 70
years! It is a new crowd which is
sneering at the three men who have un-
earthed a huge deposit of rare earths
and valuable clays and pigments near
White Hills, and which they are now work-
ing. Artist Arthur Woodward, who taught
painting at the Bendigo School of Mines,
noticed the workmen trying to put the founda-
tions for the new freezing works in pure
white china clay. Analysis revealed a kaolin
with less impurity than any hitherto found
in Victoria. Sinking revealed red, yellow,
blue ochres, pigments of all sorts, a nearly-
pure silica, talcum, and, best of all, an almost
pure graphite pigment. For the making of
paints and colors, Woodward, who knows the
chemistry of paints, has proved these pigments
to be of exceptional quality. He has dis-
covered processes for making paint without
using white-lead or zinc-oxides, and experts
say he has succeeded. In fact, the earth-
colors used by the ancient Greek and Roman
artists, namely, white, yellow ochre, red ochre
and black, have been found in vast Quantities
at Grass Flat and White Hills, spread over a
tertiary plain. These pigmentary mineral
earths have been found in great abundance,
purity and variety at depths down to 120 ft.,
the strata lying conformably one over the other
in flat beds, without a single drop of water
having appeared in the workings! The rocks
below 70ft. contain organic remains of an
oily or waxy character, which point to coal
at depth, and possibly oil. Gas is present
in pockets. A paragrapher who tilted at_this
new windmill referred to the heat of Ben-
digo’s deep mines as fatal to oil. So it
would be if this new valley of clays, shales
and carbonaceous sandstones had occurred by
a freak in the silurian belt. But they exist
in tertiary rocks, the silurian or gold-bearing
rocks having tapered off and disappeared a
good distance west of the new clayfield.
* * * »
Tyrconnel North, nowadays at Mt. Black-
wood (Vic.), in its latest report talks of
numerous reefs, leaders and formations
“carrying gold,” hut in no instance are values
given. “Prospects are Very promising,” say
the directors, and because they have an idea
that the spurry formation, when fully de-
veloped, will provide “considerable” quanti-
ties of ore worth treating, a battery is to he
rushed up as soon as a suitable plant is
sighted. There are now 40,275 live shares
and 32,025 forfeiteds, and, to keep going, in
September the ss. shares were increased to a
nominal 10s. They were called up to ss. 2d.
at the close of the year.
• * «
Keen on handling that £50,000 offered by
Hughes for the discovery of free petroleum,
a 10-year-old kiddy came to the Vic. Mines
Dept, the other day with a
bottleful of oil, which he said he had skimmed
off the top of a pool near a. garbage tip at
Richmond. His ma thought the oil had
oozed up from below. Analysis showed that
the liquid was neatsfoot, which had. probably
leaked out of a tin thrown in the garbage.
Still the Dept, had more sympathy for the
youngster than it has shown for the people
who, one of its experts declares, mistook oil
which had leaked from the boring plant for
crude petroleum.
* * * *
*A Launceston (Tas.) syndicate is equip-
ping with a powerful suction dredge a tin
show at South Mount Cameron, about five
miles from Pioneer. There is a large and
unbroken flat over a mile in length at the
base of Mt. Cameron, forming a natural
catchment, with extensive low-lying terrace-
ground to the south. Years ago a branch
flat at the western end was worked pri-
vately with handsome results. It is ideal
ground to treat, being free of stones and
timber. The faces range from 15ft. to
30ft. deep, with values averaging approxi-
mately tin oxide per yard. The wash
carries gold, which is also being recovered.
The syndicate recently had two clean-ups
aggregating 32 tons oxide and 2oz. gold.
Consolidated Goldfields (MX.) had an
adverse run in its latest financial year: • de-
spite the profit made by the Black water mine
the co. went £10,500 to the bad. Heavy in-
terest-redemption and general charges, costs
of litigation with the late David Ziman
(£5000) and £4716 written off for develop-
ment were the main causes. Only three of
the mines were operated during the year,
and on these the working results were:
Wealth of Nations, loss, £4093; Progress,
loss, £2889 ; and Blackwater, profit, £13,290.
The net operating profit was thus £6308. Deep
sinking is to be tiled at the Progress in an
endeavor to locate the faulted ore-body below
No.ll level, and Dr. Henderson, of the MX.
Mines Department, has been called in for
advice. The ore-reserve position of this once
great gold-producing co. to support the Lon-
don office in all its glory is: Wealth of
Nations, 16,000 tons, averaging 11.58dwt.,
and Blackwater, 86,650 tons going B.47dwt.


Go l!
Hr
Urn
AH !!. ONGCOP.E.
Pk<2.ugjVi 1!
it would txz.
EVERYTHING FOUND.
"The A.W.U. Conference is to be asked to resolve that the shearing rate be £10 for a week of 36 hours, with fares both ways and everything found."


Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful* Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management; E. T. Cheescman.
GoodTothe
Last Drop
m
A
4BBOTS
MGER
TAeßeer w/fAoufaAm/.
73r<ptipd from PureTfo/t iftopr On/y
. »69i
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Scientific Perfection
• . at last.
The New I&21 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is j'ist to hand, and is
the highly successful result of. many years’
research by the Scientists at the Hears Labora-
tories.
This, Model is smaller and neater than all
others,, and is recommended for its curative
powers b3' all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10. years, and is
the only proved '
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
James Coates, one of the Maorilanders in
the New Year “honors” list, was for years
general manager of the M.L. National Bank.
Later he was called to London to sit on the
board of directors. Born in Auckland 70
years ago—his father was secretary to Hob-
son, first Governor of the Windy Isles —-he
joined the Bank of N. S. Wales as a lad and
pushed up quickly. Incidentally, he made a
pot of money out of shares in the old Waihi
mine: either because he knew something or
had a dream lie put his shirt on the judg-
ment of “Long Drive” Walker. Life was
easy afterwards. The big, handsome Coates
never married, and lived for most of his life
with a sister in a picturesque home over-
looking Thorndon Bay. In his Wellington
days his main relaxation was to daily mount
a powerfu 11 y-framed hack and ceremoniously
ride 10 miles, insisting that every man
should allow a gale to blow through his
whiskers for at least one hour out of the
24. He was a bosom friend of Seddon and
Ward.
After holding up Australia’s end at the
English Air Ministry as liaison officer, Major
W. A. Coates has got back to Melbourne
with the girl who went to London last year
and married him. It was through Coates
that the British
air heads made
their offers to the
Commonwealth of
half-a-dozen small
airships and as
many German aero
planes as they
cared for. Both
offers were de-
clined.
JOHN EST ELL.
N.S.W. Minister
for Works and
Railicays, the
daddy of the Dooley
Cabinet. He feels
old enough to want
a rest from
politics, and will
not be a candidate
at the general
election in March.
Gone to his rest at Ballarat, Captain J. H.
W. Makin, to whom De Wet gave his sword
after being cornered by a detachment under
Makin at Kaffir Ivop in the Orange Free
State. Makin was with the Royal Innis-
killing Fusiliers in the Boer War, had also
fought in the second Matabele War with an
Imperial regiment, and in the Big Trouble
saw service m France with the B.E.F. He
was a son of Col. Frank Makin, of Adelaide,
and his wife’s dad is Col. Sleep, of Ballarat.
“Exile” meets two mighty atoms: —
Two London financial giants included in the New
Year title-list are great little men—Robert Nivi-
son, stockbroker, and R. W. Jeans, general manager
of the Bank of Australasia. The former becomes a
peer, the latter a knight. Nivison is sft. sin.,
Jeans oft. 4in; both are thin and small; that one
red-headed, this one brown-haired once, both now
grey. I have known them both for over SO years—
them and the other two big stockbrokers who formed
the group which has. handled all Australasia’s loans
on the Stock Exchange: for the last 40 years. The
other two were Sir Robert Inglis, long chairman
of the London Stock Exchange, and Faithfull Begg,
of the same body. Jimmy Inglis, once a Minister in
a Henry Parkes Cabinet, was a brother of Bob’s.
Walter Bentley, the actor,' is a brother of Faithfull
Begg’s. Robert Nivison was a bill clerk in the
London and . Westminster Bank, and would easily have
been its general manager had he not chosen the
better path to fame and fortune through the Stock
Exchange. Now he is broker for India, Canada,
South Africa, Maoriland, the Commonwealth and
all the States thereof. He is easily the biggest
underwriter in the Empire, and therefore greater
than-Pierpont Morgan, of the U.S.A. His fortune
must be colossal. Nivison’s sole joy when I knew
him was theatre-going. Jeans is an extraordinarily
powerful little personage under whose wise guidance
the Bank of Australasia has grown more like the
Rock of Gibraltar every year. These four financial
mastodons all came from Scotland, the breeding-
ground of bankers, brokers and insurance managers.
Though none of them might be able to see a joke,
yet by instinct they could see a profit under every
condition of low visibility at atty distance of time or
place.
Ages of High Court Judges: Chief Justice
ivnox, 08; Isaacs, 66; Higgins, 70; Duffy,
69; Rich, 58; Powers, 68; and Starke, 50.
I ive of the seven are Australian-born.
Justice ' Cussen, one of Victoria’s new
knights, is the most modest of citizens. Pie
called at the Premier’s office one afternoon
and told the secretary that he desired to see
the Cabinet, which was then sitting. “Oh,
you can’t do that; its never done,” answered
that official with a tolerant smile. “But,”
said the visitor, as he examined the rim of
his hat—“but I have been summoned to
attend.” The secretary was puzzled; then
he got a brain-wave. “Oh, you are Mr.
?” “Justice Cussen,” said the caller.
In two seconds he was in the Cabinet room.
He had come up to have the customary per-
sonal interview regarding a prisoner sen-
tenced to death. If he had been the other
sort of man, he would have sent his associate
or tipstaff before him as a herald.
“0. Blin”: A certain personage who has
frequent clashes with his secretary, with
the . result that the latter has already re-
signed about 10 times, has got into the habit
of soothing the valued official after every
argument with a little present accompanied
by a gracious letter. Following one row
relations were restored with a gramophone.
This had hardly been installed when the
harried celebrity became extra-explosive, and
to/ his horror saw his aide silently take up
his hat and leave the room. This was un-
precedented, and the absence of the secre-
tary on the next two days almost confirmed
his boss in the belief that the injured slave
had departed for good. However, the latter
turned up on the third day and confessed
that he had been greatly touched by his
chief’s thoughtful gift. It was a record
for his gramophone—“ Abide With Me.”
Both Frank Jackson, the new super, of
Sydney fire-brigades, and Sparks, his pre-
decessor, started life as seamen. But Sparks
then went to the London fire-brigades,
whereas Jackson wore his first helmet in
Sydney—3l years ago.
When Capt. William A. Bennett died
Sydney lost one of its best-known “mud-
pilots.” He belonged to the old school of
shellbacks—trained in the Worcester and
secured his “tickets” in sail. Coming to
Australia towards the end of last century 'in
one of Lund’s Blue Anchor steamers, and
liking the look of it, he stayed. For some
years he was in the China trade; then he
joined the pilot service and stayed there till
his death. It was not only Sydney Harbor
that he knew like the back of his hand ; he!
was quite at home in that. maze of creeks
and bays known as the Hawkesbury and
Broken Bay, and was generally given the
job of piloting tripping celebrities on this
run. The last trip lie made was from
Windsor to Brooklyn with Edward I‘. He
leaves a widow (a daughter of late Balmain
shipbuilder “Johnny” Booth) and five chil-
dren.
Cut out by a lower tenderer, John Buck-
ley, of Condobolin (N.S.W.), is retiring from
the job of mail contractor at the age of 74.
He was only 16 when he first carried mails
as.„nn employee of J. T. Grace on the Con-
dobolin-Hay run. In 1874 he got his
first contract on his own account, and he
has been transporting mailbags ever since.
It must be pretty close to an Australian
record.
F. Hughes, who as municipal clerk saw
Malvern grow from an outer-suburban shire
to a city, has written his last minute. Much
as he loved Malvern, he must have been
fonder of the soil of his birthplace, Ballarat,
for it has supplied the little plot in which
he rests. He was 67.
The carving-up of the' Riverina seat in the
House of Reus, will give J. M. Chanter a
decent ■ excuse for gracefully retiring from
politics. He will be 76 next month, and,
with slight breaks in, 1904 and 1918, has sat
in Parliament for 37 years. He was Sec.
for Mines in* the Hibbs Ministry 33 years
ago, but only for seven weeks. He is a
native of Adelaide, and married at aS.
The selection of W. A. Perkins to fill an
empty space in the N, S. Wales Assembly
left Cooma without a coroner, and three
corpses were kept waiting while the Quean-
beyan official 'was sent for. He is J.ohn
Gale, a hale young chap of 91, who made
nothing of the journey, and was prepared to
see that the dead bodies got a fair deal with-
out, waiting for: a rest after liis trip.
Two, of the , cosiest billets in Queensland
civil service have fallen to' Arthur Melville,
who becomes Under-Secretary for Lands in
place of G. L. Board, and W. L. Payne,
who drops into Melville’s swivel-chair as
Assistant Under-Sec. Melville is 41, and
has been 23 years-in the Department;
Payne, who is a barrister specialising in
land law, is 10 years younger. They are
both Old Boys of Brisbane Granimar.
Baron Clifford of Chudleigh, who was
known as plain Bill Clifford in the Speck—
that was before he unexpectedly inherited
SOOO acres in Devonshire —has become a re-
ligious philosopher, and written “The Por-
tals of Evolution.” He is coming to have
another look at the Speck shortly.
Probably the oldest working journalist in
Australia is John Gale, who founded the
Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) Age 52 years ago,
and still does a bit for the sheet. Gale, who
is now 92, has been on the Inky Way for 75
years, which is probably, a world’s record.
For a while he spoke for Murrumbidg.ee in
the Assembly.
Barrister H. G. RYAN, secretary of the
British Empire League in Melbourne
No Vic. Ministry has had so much
patronage to bestow as Lawson’s. And it
has another string of appointments to make
this recess—Supreme Court judge, Public
Service Commissioner, Under-Treasurer, Sec-
retary of * the Neglected Children’s Depart-
ment and Secretary to the Premier. Mor-
rison’s term as P. S. Commissioner may be
extended for a year; Minogue, Under-Treas-'
urer, is likely to retire in March; Molloy,
Sec. of the Neglected Children’s Dept., has
thrown' up the sponge; Short, Sec. to Pre-
mier, will be GO in March, and will take
his curtain.
“Bill Bowyang” locates some old sea-dogs:
Several of the crew of H.M.S. Basilisk, which was
in charge of Captain (now Admiral) John Moresby
when the British flag was hoisted over Eastern New
Guinea on April 24, 1873, are still alive. Admiral
Moresby is now in his 88th year, and lives at Fare-
ham, Hampshire. Lieuts. Mourilyan, Waters and
Shovtland anrl Dr. Haines are also living in the Cold
Land. Midshipmen Pitt and Vincent Smith are re-
tired captains. Gunner Bentley is still above ground,
and Daniel McGregor is assistant shipping inspector
to the Marine Department of Bananaland. Lieut.
Hay ter died in England soon after the Basilisk left
Australian waters. Lieut. Smudge was in charge of
a gunboat at Bermuda when he was accidentally
killed more than 20 years ago. His only son- is
organist of the dockyard chapel at Portsmouth.
Three officers of the Redfern (Sydney)
Council have 104 years’ service between
them. The town clerk (R. W. Grierson)
and his deputy have been in charge for
37, and the caretaker has taken care for
30 years.
The late Dr. William Bernard Kelly,
R.C. Bishop of Geraldton (W.A.), was the
first Australian-born priest to capture a
mitre. He took
over his diocese
when it was cut
off from Perth 23
years ago. His
energetic vicar-
general is De a n
Graber, of North-
ampton, who was
some years back
inspector of R.C.
schools in Mel-
b O’U me. Dean
Drayne, of Car-
narv o n, who. is
vicar-forane that
is, holds some of
the Bishop’s pow-
ers in the northern
part of Westralia
—is an old boy of
.Christian Bro-
thers’ College; St.
Kilda, and gradu-
at.ed into the
priesthood fr o m
Manly.
DR. COLE , Mel-
bourne's City
Coroner, who has
had to handle the
Tirtschke case.
Harry P. Henty, a member of the Mel-
bourne firm of James Henty and Co., is
the head of Victoria’s historical family. He
is a grandson of the eldest of the four bro-
thers who landed at Portland in 1835. Grand-
father James Henty grew sheep at Port-
land, and later got into the Leg. Council.
His descendant is interested in the Com-
mercial Bank, the Perpetual Trustees and
other financial institutions.
Fred Smith, who recently closed his book
of adventures at the Darwin Hospital, had
been on Australian outposts of civilisation
most of his life. For the last 11 years
he was camped on the Alligator River, where
usually his only companions were the blacks
he employed in wild-game hunting. It was
at this camp that George Davis, who recently
landed 5000 finches and other wild Creatures
at the Sydney Zoo, made his headquarters.
President Manifold, Baillieu, Jones,
Sternberg, Merritt, Crooke, Smith, Kief nan,
layne, Aik'man, Beggs, Harris, Crockett,
Angliss, Adamson, Richardson and Brawn
will retire from the Vic. Plush House by
effluxion of time at the end of May. Mani-
fold will liave to seek re-election as Presi-
dent when he gets his walkover in the
Western Province. But nobody wants to
remove him from the Chair.
Dear Bulletin— I n my opinion a large
number of the world’s misfortunes are due
to Adam’s brother. The one bright spot in
Adams career was that he ate the fruit or
the trunk or the branches of the Tree of
Knowledge and came to know the difference
between good and evil. His brother didn’t
eat s the fact would have been important
enough to get a mention if he had. In fact,
the young man’s ignprance made him so un-
important that he wasn’t spoken of at all.
So his descendants, most of whom are in
N. S. Wales politics, don’t know good from
evil to this day, especially round about elec-
tion time. But they find it easier to do evil
because there is more of it. —Yours frequently,
Solomon M.
Unless old Henry Button, the historian of
Launceston, had his leg well pulled, Tasmania
had a forerunner of vvilliam Buckley, the
wild white man, .in Samian. Emanuel Jervis,
commoplv known as Sammy Cox. who alleged
that he was the first white man to live in
the Speck and spent over 20 years with the
abos. Sammy’s story was that he was born
in 1773 at Shenston Park (Eng.), and at 10
went to sea with his uncle, Captain John
Jervis. In 1789, while they were on a voyage
to the South Seas in. the ship Regent Fox,
the-boatswain scared the youngster with a
yarn that his uncle intended to maroon him
on a desert island ; so when the ship touched
the Speck’s coast for water, young Jervis
marooned himself. He was adopted by the
abos. and wandered about with them till he
ran up against white men at Hadspen,
probably about 1812. There he lived with
a family named Cox and became known by
that name. Sammy died at Launceston in
1891, at the age, according to this story, of
115. Button says he confirmed the general
truth of Sammy’s statements, and that a re-
presentative of the family came from England
and said the storv was true. But history
does not seem to know anything of the
voyage of the Regent Fox, John Jervis
master, to the South Seas in 1789.
A TIRIN’ DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The red dawn fades away,
But darker grows the day ;
I ’ear the Padre pray.
’E flops beside me bed,
And bows his blinkin’ ’cad ;
They comprez that I’m dead.
All snug beneath the Jack,
No more to ’ump .the pack,
Nor ’obble to the Quack.
The band leads orf the show ;
With solemn step and slow,
And arms reversed we go.
We pass that gay old coot,
The General and ’is soot —
Gripes, what a crook serloot!
The- partin’ guest is sped,
Dust uniter dust is said,
Some clods fall on me ’ead.
The rattle o’ their gear,
The foo-de-joy I ’ear,
Then orf they go for beer.
All ’urry from the scene,
To rush the wet canteen—
That’s where I might ’ave been!
I was surprised a bit,
Though none of it’ll fit —-
They’ve slung me angels’ kit!
This ’arp ’ll send me grey.
More nectar, si’l vous plait;
I’ve ’ad a tirin’ day.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WILLIAM JAMES DIGGER.


Hi
' • ■ • - . •••
'mk i
. > -
SMS
. *
IO
mi
mm
.AJO
. .. ' * *»
s
I
i®p
JfASBESTOS
I NONCONDUCTING
ICOVERIMG
■■
*
■
.-;
..
v ' 4
FOB
BOILERS
m
m
r ADAMS
Asbestos
boVERING
ft FOR
■ft - '
ADAMS ffiHi
SBESTuSp^oj^g
’ft
ASBESTOS
COVERING
. FOR ALL
ISTEAMHEATEp
kiu w i«r\ai/f n mcCTfiC
ry% p fa A%5l El H-2ft I U 2ft
J-JI NON-CONDUCTING
BCHLERI COVERING
rrEAM-PIPES% 7e/ o»
■yLpWT.. 4CWT.
EAMPIPES
SURFACE
N. 4CWT
_ : ’.
,
! .! ' '
m' ' '
I
■ i-r
t , ’ |
■/nr
%
i •
M
m
i
J
r
n
II I
■aWjglßl
PREVENTS LOSS OF HEAT BY RADIATION IN BOILERS AND
CONDENSATION OF STEAM IN PIPES.
The many advantages of covering Boilers and Steam Pipes with a good non-conducting
material must, of course, be obvious to anyone who will give the matter a moment’s consideration.
Covering your boiler means preventing the heat from escaping, and it naturally follows that, by
doing this, you are saving your fuel. Boilers exposed to the weather must, of necessity, suffer
most from being uncovered. In the case of a boiler in a very exposed position, experiments were
made to test the difference in consumption of coal before and after it was covered. The difference
was 45 PER CENT. Just imagine at the end of 12 months the difference ihat would make in the
coal bill.
IN MANY INSTANCES BOILERS HAVE BEEN CONDEMNED FOR THEIR BAD
STEAMING QUALITIES, WHEN A GOOD NON-CONDUCTING COVERING WAS ALL THAT
WAS NEEDED TO MAKE THEM AMPLE STEAM PRODUCERS. Several such have come
under our notice.
By covering your Steam pipes you can prevent the steam from condensing in them.
Four Boilers and Steam Pipes insulated at Goodlet & Smith, Ltd., Steam Saw
Mills, Harris Street, Pyrmont, Sydney.
We claim to have the most efficient staff of insulating laggers in Australia; moreover, our
Asbestos Heat Non-Conducting Composition is the best obtainable; the raw material is obtained in
Australia and is manufactured entirely by us at our own Depot in Sydney, and is in no way connected
with the manufacture of other materials of like nature now on the market.
We shall at all times be pleased to receive details of your requirements, or, if you so desire,
send our Representative to inspect your plant, when we will submit our quotation at per superficial
square foot (according to thickness of insulation necessary) for material and labor. We will also
supply the material alone at lowest market rates.
We guarantee all work done by our laggers to be entirely to your satisfaction.
■ . •
a
SYDNEY:
|7M7soarence St.
MELBOURNE;
Slfe Collins St
BRISBANE;
Cr. Howard & Mary Sts
PERTH; J
33-35 King St
ADELAIDE:
96 Currie St .
WaStSt.
LAUJtCpYOH:
3i tan er#, St


For Hot Summer Days,
Men who prefer Summer Underwear of the lightest, cool-
est variety find perfect satisfaction in Peapes’ British-
made Cellular Cotton Underwear.
This is extremely porous, yet very strong—giving excel-
lent service notwithstanding frequent laundering.
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
Undershirts 9/6 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 1.1/6
Trunk Drawers.. 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/- 12/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Weighs
but
6 Pounds.
sSS:
S 3
PRICE
ONLY
£l7/17/-
THE WORLD'S BEST PORTABLE TYPEWRITER.
For the past 14 yelrs the Corona has stood
the test, and to-day no lesa than 400,000
satisfied users testify to its remarkable dura-
bility. ",
Buy only a machine past the experimental
stage. CORONA users are our best advertise-
ment.
Sole Distributors: ,
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Plrie Street. Adelaide.
SOCIETY
EXASPERATING.
“ There's a foreign couple living in the flat
next to us, and tlieg are a torment to
my wife.”
“Shame! What do they do?”.
“Quarrel all the time, and she can't under-
stand a word they say.”
“Spare Corp”: In N.S.W. there are 39
members of the Blinded Soldiers’ Associa-
tion, w’hich has put each of them in the
way of augmenting his special pension of
£4 a week. But there has been a hint of
the usual shabbiness in the treatment of
one or two men who have been denied the
full pension and receive but £2 2s. a week.
One of them is blind in one eye, but only
partly blind in the other. Another is named
Farciiy, and his case is worse. Blinded in
one eye, he was crossing a city street when
a motor-car, dashing upon him on the blind
side, knocked him down, and he lost the
sight of the othef eye. An application for
the full pension was then made, and denied
him on the ground that his blindness was
not the result of war service.
* - * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: Some marriages simply
won't come unglded. A friend of mine, who
drew a blank (that’s what he called her) in
the matrimonial lottery, left her at Towns-
ville (N.Q.) 10 years back and went to
Melbourne. Twelve months later he walked
into a restaurant and there was his missus
waiting at his table with a menu in her
hand. Three weeks later he arrived in Syd-
ney, and while scanning the notices pasted
on the window of a registry-office his wife
stepped out of the door. During the next
fortnight he met her several times. He en-.
listed in 1914 and served until the end of the
war; then, receiving his discharge in Cairo,
he went to England, and 10 months later
boarded a steamer for Australia. At the
head of the gangway was his wife, who was
stewardess in the steerage. Reckoning that
fate was against them, the quarrel of 10
years back was patched up, and the couple
are now living happily on a N.Q. sugar-farm.
* * * *
“Howitzer” : When Bluey’s girl had claimed
the bonus he deserted her and enlisted in the
A.I.F. During a stunt in France he was
badly wounded, and only for the heroism of
a Digger cobber would have remained in No
Man’s Land. After going to Blighty together
Bluey and his rescuer were invalided home
to Aussie. The other chap’s people were
there to meet him, and Bluey was being
introduced all round, when his heart stood
still, for he found himself face to face with
his old sweetheart —the sister of his rescuer.
J was at the wedding.
* * * •
“Monaro”: Re deferred weddings (B.
22/12/’2l). Just prior to her marriage the
youngest of a Bananaland family of 17 dis-
covered that Mum and Dad had been slightly
remiss. The family held a consultation and
decided on a double wedding—one by force if
need be. But there was no need for com-
pulsion ; the old people had been thinking the
matter over for some time. The double wed-
ding was a great success. The 17 children
came as far as 1200 miles to witness the mar-
riage of Mum and Dad, and the festivities
lasted a week.
“Hepta”: Those Jewish battalions (B.
8/12/’2l) didn’t arrive in Egypt till about
March, ’lB. I saw them training at Taran-
to (Italy) at the end of February. As
troops they were pretty rough, and in the
attack on Es Salt and Amman, when they
were acting as supports, one battalion was
spread out for
miles along the
Shunit - Nimrin-Es
Salt road. The
poor devils were
making heavy
weather of it; pro-
bably they hadn’t
been in the hellish
Jordan valley long
enough to become
acclimatised, and
their march disci-
pline was nil. In
great contrast
were the 8.W.1.’s
(dubbed, on first
appearance, Br i-
tain’s Worst In-
vestment, but later
called the “Black
Anzacs”). These
nigs put up a star
performance in the
attacks on Damieh
bridge-head and Es
Salt, and after-
wards “kicked it
in” to keep up with
the mounted
troops. When the M.L. Brigade reached
Swalia the 8.W.1.’s were only about five
miles behind and going strong.
“Auburn”: When one of our cobbers, an
ex-Digger on Philip Russell’s run in
Bananaland, was accidentally shot on an
off-day when some of us were out shooting,
the manager determined that he must be
given Christian burial according to the
tenets of the faith he had followed. Although
there were several real and nominal Catho-
lics on the station, no text of the* R.C.
burial service could be found. So the man-
ager produced the Anglican service, and, as
the next best thing, asked an old Xavier
(Kew) boy to read it. “You read it,” said
the old Xaverian, “and I’ll ‘Amen’ every
word of it and honor you all my life.’
The manager did, and the notes of
grief, comfort and hope never sounded
grander, and never was the service recited
with more sincerity than by. that plain
man who wanted to do a duty to the dead.
The scene was the death-rattle of bigotry
in all of us who witnessed it.
-* * ■* *
“Drummer”: A well-known Melbourne
bagman lately had a distressing experience
on arriving at his home town from a Ben-
digo tour. He snapped his single grip from
the rack and made for the nearest cab. He
had proceeded as far as Market-street when
a policeman, accompanied by a grim female,
overtook him. The Hop was in a taxi, and
drew up across the cabman’s bow. demand-
ing immediate surrender. While explanations
were going on, the commercial presented a
sorry spectacle to a scornful crowd that
openly detested him. Bagman was accused of
making off with a female’s lugga,ge, and the
distraught spinster was shrill and tearful.
On looking at the two grips, Bagman eon-
THE PUNTERS.
You'd better cut out the ponies, girlie—
you don't know a thing about horses."
“ You're just jealous. Why, last week I picked one that came third.”
fessed his fault: he had taken the wrong
grip, but innocently, and to prove this to the
incredulous spectators and the unbelieving
Hop he opened his grip and exposed jewel-
lery worth several hundreds. Then the
spinster opened her bag, the one the com-
mercial was accused of purloining. It con-
tained a couple of undressed hens.
Hr # * *
“Bildad”: The simple explanation of all
these wet week-ends in Sydney—there has
been a procession of 18 of them —is that
someone has found out how to make rain and
is giving his device a thorough trial before
putting it on the market. Then if he doesn’t
get his price I suppose he will make both
ends of the week wet and bring all the coun-
try rain to the city till the Government
climbs down. I have my eye on a mean-
looking person whom I believe to be at the
bottom of the business.
* * * *
“J.E.T.”: Those early Christians who
went to the lions had nothing to put up with
compared with a Melbourne woman who,
though she has had both arms and both legs
amputated and is constantly in pain, remains
cheerful, and ascribes her cheerfulness to her
faith. Portions of her limbs were cut off at
various times in attempts to save the remain-
ing bits, and surgical operations came to her
with the regularity of the rent-collector. To
break the monotony she also lost her voice
for some months, but this came back. The
woman spends much of her time appealing
for funds on behalf of the Homoeopathic Hos-
pital, where she was caryed. She writes
letters with a pen fixed between two sticks,
which she manipulates in a remarkable
fashion with the tiny stump of an arm.
A FEMININE SOLUTION.
THE IGNORANT HE: “ What is it the girls
find so attractive about Mabel?”
THE SOPHISTICATED SHE: “Her wealthy
brother.”
“Cartot”: Most mysterious murder cases
re-introduce the person who sees the mur-
derer in a dream. He turned up in numbers
at police headquarters in Melbourne, while
public excitement over the Tirtschke horror
was at its height, and offered to assist the
detectives by giving accurate descriptions of
the ghoul. The fly in their tin of margarine
was that each supplied a description totally
different from that of the others, and when
the harassed and busy detectives politely
shooed them off the premises most of them
became indignant, and one lady announced
that now she knows why the police are ne.ver
able to catch criminals.
“Xox” : The Melbourne press lost its head
over the murder of the little girl Tirtschke.
Expressions of horror are very proper in the
circumstances, but to stir up mob passion
for vehgeance is surely over the odds. One
paper printed a leader hinting that if the
police.were not more sprightly there would
be recourse to the sudden methods of Western
America. Another sheet advised the popu-
lace to keep its eyes on “lodgers,” who, in. the
view of some sapient “student of crimin-
ology,” furnish the bulk of driminals:—
Has any lodger developed unusual symptoms of
nervousness and anxiety, since Saturday last, or
been taking great quantities of alcoholic liquor ?
The lodger who remains in his room with the door
locked 'all day, while drinking freely, and shows
great unwillingness to open the door even for neces-
sary purposes, is generally suffering from the fear, of
the consequences of some great crime.
As a natural consequence of these outbursts,
last week, when the police grabbed three or
four persons who w'ere presently able to give
satisfactory explanations of their movements
on the day of the murder, a very ugly feeling
developed in the neighborhod of the Eastern
Arcade, and if any of the alleged “suspects”
had been spotted by that multitude there
would have been blood to wipe up.
* * *
“Sixenate”: The Sydney Coroner’s record
for last year shows that the Evening
Bloodstain had no difficulty in living up to
its reputation for offering gay news. There
were inquiries into 529 deaths, 10 of them
murder and five manslaughter. The rail-
ways and tramways killed 44 persons—-One
more than motor-cars —and 68 persons were
drowned. Poison was the most popular
form of suicide, 54 choosing that way out.
Incidentally, only 74 of the violent deaths
were attributed to intemperance. Did
sobriety kill the other 455 V ’
* * *
“Emerald Green”: Bernard Hall was
lately accused in Melbourne
of “insulting” Hans Hey-
sen over a point of nation-
ality. What the alleged
insult amounted to seems in
doubt, but it is certain that,
whatever Hall’s feelings to-
wards Heysen, they did not
affect his artistic judgment,
for he recommended for pur-
chase one of Heysen’s pic-
tures on show at his re-
cent exhibition, and was
probably surprised when
that voung man chose to feel
huffed and withdrew his
canvas, subsequently selling
it to Melba.
“Wodgil”: My ancient (and unhappy)
warrior was a German. He fought ggainst
France in 1870, came to Australia, was
naturalised and joined the volunteers. In
1902 he got a long-service decoration; I saw
the deed done. In 1915 he was in camp as
a full private in the A.I.F. Hundreds of his
fellow-rookies knew his history, and one of
them confided it to a pieman, who blew the
gaff to a squash merchant, who tipped the
wink to a waitress, who handed it on to her
boy in the Intelligence Department, _ and
they passed him out. He was rising 65.
VOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Somewhere a clock chimes out the midnight hour,
And at the sound shrill whistles split the ear;
It is the time good resolutions flower
And mud is heaped on the departing year;
Myself can see it pass without a tear —
Its golden days were far between and few —
So over half-a-pint of supper beer
I make my vows for 1922.
I’ve noticed that my waist-belt’s getting tight,
And often I feel muddy in the -head;
I swear to slave at dumb-bells every night
For half-an-hour before I go to bed;
A healthy mind is only won, ’tis said,
By rising when the milkman comes at dawn,
So every day before I’ve breakfasted
I mean to feed the fowls and mow the lawn.
Tobacco is a curse: I’ll cut it down
To (at the most) a plug of light per week,
And I must save the car-fare into town
By walking through the Gardens. I could eke
My scanty living out by teaching Greek
To backward students in my room at nights,
Instead of wandering into town to seek
Nirvana in ephemeral delights.
But these are little things; I’ll make the most
Of all the godlike powers that in me dwell;
I’ll answer letters by return of post,
Read Samuel Smiles, improve my mind, compel
My brain to send out sparks from every cell.
Eureka! Here’s the New Year well begun!
The world is in its morning! But- —ah, well!
I thought the same in 1921.
VICTOBU.
RANN DALY.


s'
A
%
at*.
Z&L
|m
n
y
n
□
S 3
stm
WHEN “summer skies are darkly blue”
the Australian woman seeks the drench-
ing sunlight of the beach and the bush.
Now, more than ever, does she appreciate the
luxury and benefit of the creamy foam of mild
Palmolive Soap.
Fierce sun and harsh wind play havoc with
tender skins. Palmolive takes the sting out
of summer and keeps the skin of infant and
adult soft and cool and free from irritation.
A skin can be healthy and blooming only when
its pores are clean and able to perform their
vital functions.
Palmolive Soap—containing Palm and Olive
oils, those wonderful soothing and healing
cosmetics discovered by the wise old Egyptians
—is the finest cleanser and safeguard of a
tender and delicate skin.
Wash the face gently with the velvet, creamy
lather of mild Palmolive and massage it softly
into the skin. When this foam is rinsed away,
it carries off the impurities which clog the
pores and are the foundation of skin infection
and disfigurement.
Palmolive is at
once a cleanser,
a tonic and a
balm, Though
so thorough and
beneficial in ac-
tion, it is as
gentle and mild
as a zephyr.
Palmolive clean-
liness is different.
You will appreci-
ate it.
Sells Everywhere at 1/3 per cake
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will be
sent post-free on request by The Palmolive
Company (Australasia) Ltd., Broughton House,
Clarence Street, Sydney.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
MONKEY BRAN B
' WON’T WASH CLOTHES
v\
IM.
M 3.
-but keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
AT ALL GROCERS.
"For Ever Best/"
STA(S
LA6ER
TOOHEY'S.
“P.L.” : Queensland Health authorities are
very busy rat-exterminating. A dozen years
ago, under Dr. Ham, the Health Department
raided the rat from Dan to Beersheba, but
he still survives, numerous and unbeautiful.
One result of Ham’s campaign was that
Brisbane housewives discarded traps and
poisons and left the killing to the Govern-
ment gangs. The Health Department there-
fore wasn’t surprised when it received this
letter:—
Dr. Ham.
Sir, —Please send up two men with traps to
my house in Paddington. There is a big rat in
my kitchen.—Yours, etc., Mart Jones.
“X 657”: Australian cities may yet have
to do without policemen, seeing that magis-
trates have lately fixed the price of attempted
bobby-murder at £2 for one or two members
of the party, and nothing for the other 27.
It isn’t worth while being a cockshy and
an outlaw at the price. A law providing a
liberal gaol sentence for assault in company
would meet the case to some extent, but the
wild originality of the idea would paralyse
the orthodox vote-hungry legislator. Aus-
tralia has lots of good gaols going to seed,
because 45 per cent, of its tough criminals
are only fined a trifle, and another 45 per
cent, are released under the Worst Offenders
Act. And the country is proud of the fact
that its bad citizens are out battering the
Law with impunity and bottles. It is called
“the gratifying decline of the prison popula-
tion.”
FIRST COMBED FIRST SERVED.
FIRST KNUT: “How do you like my new
hat , Bill?”
SECOND KNUT: “Where did ya strike it—in
a raffle?”
FIRST DO: “No —at the barker’s.”
‘Spare Corp”: The Digger who had an
unusual run of good fortune in a game of
chance was usually nervous about the next
stunt. One man had the amazing experi-
ence of getting the turn-up of the remaining
five to a crib hand of three fives and a
knave—thus scoring the “possible,” 29 —and
then, playing solo, striking an “open meserp”
THE H. C. OF L.
But I can't make it out. Your clothes cost
a lot more this year than last. Aren't
things cheaper?"
I es, dear , that's just it. There are so
many more bargains.”
in one day. He was sp superstitious about
it that he decided not to move into the line
with his battalion that night. He became
a deserter, was captured—and, a Fritz shell
lobbing on the clink, he became a total
casualty. Another man, just after a pay,
cleaned out a two-up school, and was killed
with SCO francs in his pocket.
“Blackfriars”: Governor Weigall’s plight
only makes public in Australia a pretty for-
midable worry of
the Colonial Office.
Nearly every Gov-
ern o r who has
come here in re-
cent years has lost
no time in letting
his Downing-street
bosses know that
financially the
thing is no catch.
When Queensland
and Victoria did
without Governors
for fairly long
terms a year or
two back, a
Colonial Office
chief showed me a
stack of complain-
in g letters, and
was quite relieved
that he need not
search the land
immediately for a
couple of qualified
men. The son of
a former Governor
(afterwards made
a peer) was “ap-
proached.” He
knew Australia as
a lad and is very
keen on it; but
“No, I can’t —I’ve
got my young
family to think of,”
he said, and sor-
rowfully turned the
unprofitable jo b
down.
“Camelero”: Some Diggers brought home
que'er souvenirs. One Light Horseman
carefully retained the tail of each of
his horses killed in action. Another -Dig.,
who was a hospital orderly, brought back
a collection of bullets extracted from 20
wounded men who subsequently died—the
lot went into a tobacco-tin. Incidentally,
poor old Daddy Lohr, of theatrical fame,
started out years ago to collect bullets that
had killed people. I wonder what became
of his little lot?
“S.T.S.”: There is one simple answer to
“Loco” and others (B
22/12/’2l) who ex-
pect things to happen
that are on the face
of them unlikely, and
claim that happen
those things do. The
answer is that they
don’t, or not oftener
than they should.
Many quite honest
people, women especi-
ally, are convinced
that when they take
out an umbrella it
doesn’t rain, or that
a wanted article in a
chest of drawers is
always found in the
last one to be opened.
When the umbrella
is provided and
used, when the
wanted article comes
to hand in the
first place tried, no
impression is left on
the. memory, though
it happen (as it does)
far the oftener. The
abnormal makes an
impression, on all of
its few happenings,
and so the mind is
tricked into believing
it normal. Will
“Loco” oblige with, a
list of the countless
thousands of solitary
accidents that have
happened without an-
other following on
them? Not he; they
have been forgotten !
“Tarwoona”: You could hardly find two
men who looked at the horrors of war in just
the same way. Personally, two common sights
always affected me more than what others
thought much grimmer spectacles. One was
when a stretcher case came down the line.
But it wasn’t a grey, pain-racked face or an
immobile form with a blanket drawn right
over the head that got me—it was the end
of the stretcher where the boots protruded
from under the blanket. Those boots,
waggling and swaying, with their hobnails
glinting in the sun, or hanging limp and
mud-encrusted ! They were so horribly out
of place. Made to bear a man upright, and
now when his body was mangled and torn
they bobbed and swung on the end of it!
The other thing I’d meet on a road near the
reserve, trenches —a new shell-hole, the bot-
tom still damp and the lumps of earth not
yet started to fall apart; about four yards
away a shattered rifle near a jumble of
equipment, and then the irregular red stain
on the pavd, dust-flecked, with little pools
still in the cracks and holes; but crisping
up on the edges. That patch of blood always
gave me the qreeps.
“Jesmond” : “Jobber’s” nomination for the
Ancient Warrior Stakes (B. 29/12/’2l) runs
nowhere. Mine saw service in the Soudan,
India and S’Africa. Mahogany hair-stain
was necessary before he could get accepted
for the Big War. A severe wound nearly
finished him, but not quite. He is now 71,
and a verger in a Vic. church, and tolling:
the bell keeps him fit for the next scrap.
* # * *
“Dingo”: ’Tis but a puling infant “Job--
ber” (B. 29/'L2/’2l) seeks to win the
Ancient Warrior Stakes with. I have two
better colts in my stable. Stuart-Robertson
fought in the Franco-Prussian war of ’7O,
and afterwards took part in various alter-
cations in different parts of the world. When
he enlisted in August, 1914, he was but a
lad of 68. He was wounded carrying a rifle
as a full private at the ghastly massacre at
Loos, but was subsequently given a commis-
sion in a Labor Corps. My second string
is a military cook to a French guard on a
railway bridge near Audricque. He gave me
a good salute and a drink which he asserted
was coffee. Unlike Stuart-Robertson, he
took no part in 1870. He was then too old
to be called up.
“Ron H.” : Mv wife was admonishing our
son and heir for being naughty. “You’ll be
sorry when I die,” she said. The silence
that ensued was broken by his sister, aged
four, and proud because she had been good.
“I won’t, will I, Mummy?” she piped.
* * * *
“Ron II.”: I can quote a better case than
“A.V.L.’s” (B. 22/12/’2l). The happy
couple were married in a southern . Riverina
(N.S.W.) town at 9 a.m., and at noon the
bride was a mother. This record is spoilt,
however, by the fact that the new arrival
lived only four hours. A few years back, on
a North Coast (N.S.W.) farm, a pair were
married by a travelling parson at 10 a.m.,
and at 8 p.m. the bride presented her lius-
band with twin boys. Both these young-
sters are still alive.
TT Mirza ’:• A 'recent unsuccessful attempt, in
'ii i rev ive an executed gentleman re-
calls the most scientific though most grue-
some effort in that line. It happened in
1 ranee some years ago and created quite a
sensation. No sooner had the guillotine done
its work than the head was swiftly carried to
a well-equipped laboratory, the temperature
Vnn°Ti ml :ls ma hitained by steam'heat at
; i .V, iher ' e ’ .means of glass and rubber
tubes the cut carotid arteries were connected
to an electric motor which pumped saline
solution containing dextrose and oxygen
through the horror. But though the pump
wa-s kept o-oing for Hours the head never gave
any indication of intelligence, much to the
disappointment of the assembled ghouls of
my profession.
* *
* *
“Tin Hat”: A sensational entry into the
profession of enticing handbags and such-like
Irom the couples who do the parks and
beaches at this season was recently made b •
Melbourne boys of nine and eleven.
At ot, lx lid a they noticed a young lady place
a wallet beneath a hat which lay beside her,
and, manoeuvring across in pretended play,
they lifted the wallet and got away un-
suspected. The prize contained bank-notes
tor ±l5O, yet the voungsters managed to
spend it all but £52 in the course of a week
or so, when their Croesus-like extravagance
brought down suspicion. Meantime the cheer-
mgmews that a young lady’s bag is liable to
hold such a plum has given a fillip to a pro-
fession which, on account of the continued
cold weather, has so far had a rather slump-
lsh season.
* /* * *
“De Oriel” : A strange soul-saving device
rears itself upon the Omeo-Bruthen (Vic.)
road. It is a huge wooden sign, nailed to a
large tree in the middle of the fairway, and
it bears on a black ground a vivid yellow 6ft.
skull and crossbones, and the one word: “Re-
ONLY GIDDY WITHIN REASON.
EVE: “ The motion of the boat males me
feel quite giddy.”
ADAM: " You might be better up on the
boat-deek.”
EVE: “Oh, no, I’m not that giddy!”
fleet!” As the horses usually bolt when they
see it, there isn’t much time for reflection
when it’s in sight.
JANUARY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, the blessed warmth of the sun, and the smell
<' of the grass and clover,
And up in the blue of the sky the milky arc of
the moon!
Here there is deep content, where the spreading
pines bend over,
And the brittle crack in the heat of
the summer noon.
The bay is a sapphire shield, and the old red hulks
are lying
As still as the yellow isle on guard at the harbor’s
mouth ;
Up on the silent hill-slope scarcely a breeze is sign-
ing,
Only a far, high cloud drifts slowly to the south.
The manuka is abloom like snow that fell ir.
December;
Tall as a child of seven the flowering grasses
stand ;
And the flower of the flax is red —oh, heart, ’tis a
day to remember!
And it’s summer, summer, summer, all over the
happy land.
And where is there space for doubt, and where is
there room for sorrow ?
Oh, summer of deep fulfilment, my heart is a flake
of foam
On the sunlit crest of a wave of hope for the
dawning morrow,
When I’ll wake to the certain knowledge of joy
that is coming home!
Maoiuland.
ROBERT A. SMITH.
SINCE THE CONFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a form majestical,
Full-bosomed, marble-browed, and tall,
Come walking in a garden old.
A fillet bound her hair of gold,
Her robe of snowy whiteness hung,
And trailed the violets among.
She held three ribbons in her hand,
And led beside her through the land
Three poodle dogs, with nice pink bows,
All curled from brows to pattering toes,
Three dogs, each with its bell and rqif—
The contrast sure was strange enough.
I wondered much that one so' strong,
So grand, and grave should lead along
These tykes absurd. The three might stand
Within the hollow of her hand.
When; came the light I softly swore—
’Twas Peace, and these the Dogs of War!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


& Emms -
m
: 'V'
■ ■»
■■ if
v
■
'
■
■
VX:
m ■
H
.
• • '
I MiHHI
■
Hi
mam
mm
I Bill*
?v - ’ ;
s?
— w
■
.
Bi
111111
wmmrn m mmm
•■•? i
-v
gggigiii
&
m
■llll
Ml—
—
■
i
aftiflit i
in
ml
mm
111111
■
■■■■l
■■
s■ :
.
■
■<s
;
Mm
m
■■■n
wmM
.
mm
4,
1111111111
WBBm
mm
■
1
■
>■•/;,; -J
■
1 *
m
■
'
■m
■
:
:
... SiSJ
■iAl
-v i |||gpgjjg
■1
■
.. ' :
.:;• :• V:
. ** ; . v , *s.ss«'
.
B ■
■
Si . ; ":
■
1 .: ■:
■
: m
mmm
~:
■■■ ... ' V
..' .*... :'. . '.
. ■ "..:.;
'w«' j
-V.':
a a
Ub
Hi
■■■
’.; : .;' : i\'
m
■■
" Engulf’>d in oceans deepest wave”
(Wagner's "Flying Dutchman ”)
The great musician-pianist, violinist, singer
-moves us to profound depths of feeling
with his artistry; his emotional qualities. By
his technical dexterity we are merely awed—if we notice it at
all. One appeals to our inner sense of consciousness—intel-
lect, if you will—the other to our intelligence only. The New
model Beale Player-Piano is not so much an instrument of
tremendous technique as it is an instrument of interpretation
Technique it has, certainly, as all good musicianship rests on
a foundation of adequate technique. But its devices for in-
terpretive control of that technique provide the characteristic
which will interest you most. The New Beale is a musicianly
instrument supplying a means of expression to the inarticu-
late musician. It has no limitation for artistic playing other
than that of the operator’s own understanding of his theme.
oA descriptive illustrated booklet sent anywhere post free.
BEALE gCOMPANYIP
Showroom
340 George Street,SYDNEY
&
Head Office and Factories:
41 47 Trafalgar St., ANNANDALE
BRANCHES-A 7 ./SVIF.; Bathurst,
Lismore, Newcastle and Wasrga.
Victoria: Maples in all Mel-
bourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart;
Maples, Launceston. S.A.j John
Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.; J. A.
Thomson Co., Limited, Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
•92 Queen St., Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay
and Cairns.


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
11 R. /TOWNS # ro.. Svflwpy. Aff-pnfg
Wilson’s Ear-Drums
Make the Deaf Hear.
They are the only device
refract and focus waves of
head, and assist the hearing
can be heard at all.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
in the world that will
sound upon the drum-
power where any sound
They are constructed
on scientific principles,
are soft and pliable, and
soothing to the most sen-
sitive ears. Anyone can
wear them with perfect
comfort. They positively
cannot injure the hear-
ing nor irritate the ears.
The price (not more than
the consultation fee of
an aurist or physician)
is £l/1/- complete.
They usually last about
two years.
Mrs. Wni. roster, of 35 Edward Street, Sheppar-
ton, Vic., writes, July 24, 1921: —“1 have much
pleasure in testifying to the benefit I have received
from the use of Wilson’s Ear-Drums. I have been
wearing them for several years, and have not had
any trouble with them. They are very comfortable,
and I could not do without them. I consulted
several leading specialists without success.”
Write for Free Booklet or order now.
H. WILKINSON,
Room 14, 178 Collins St.
MELBOURNE.
A Signal Success
e
King George Itf
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
«■
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Pic-k” : If “Big Bend” (B. 22/12/’2l) is
really determined to stop martins from building
under his verandah, an easy plan for shooing them
off the premises is to hang an empty beer bottle
in any draughty place near the nesting area. The
moaning sound caused by the air passing over the
bottle-mouth scares them away for good. But why
not let the little fellows go on with their job and
guard against any unpleasantness below by suspend-
ing something under the nest? They are good Aus-
tralians.
AT THE MEAT MARKET.
MRS. MOSQUITO : “I can’t make up my mind
whether to take fillet steak or top-side.”
“Jim Carew”: I have a friend from the
N. Territory staying with me, and at present we are
in the thick of an argument. He says that in the
N.T. a man can always get his bearings by simply
hunting for a beef-wood tree. According to him
the bark on the western side of this, tree is always
missing, and the surface wood dead. I spent three
and a half years in the Territory and never noticed
it. Can the Abo. Council settle it for us?
* * * *
“Te Whare” : It is difficult even to esti-
mate the time taken by certain birds that breed
in the Far North to reach Australia, which is their
summer restaurant. The pilgrims include the Jack
(or Australian) snipe, sea (or Australian) curlew,
knot, stints, spine-tailed swift, etc. The pilgrimage,
it is said, begins in July and August, some birds
breeding in places farther north than others, and
being thus earlier driven out by approaching winter.
I have flushed Jack snipe in N.S.W. South Coast
swamps about the middle of September, and, assum-
ing the birds to have left their breeding-grounds in
Southern Siberia, Japan, etc., about August 15, the
great journey of several thousand miles would have
occupied about 28 days. The extreme north coast
of Australia would, of course, have been reached (by
the snipe) several days earlier. When a snipe wishes
to change his address, he mounts straight up to a
considerable height and then dashes off in a bee-
lirte. I have seen gun-driven birds abandon their
low, dodging flight and act thus. In the case of
the space- and time-annihilating swift (spine-tail),
the top speed is put at 200 miles an hour. Hence a
non-stop journey of several thousand miles could be
covered in a comparatively short time. This bird
-—except when skimming over, water and drinking
in transit—rarely slackens its speed. Sea curjews
and stints are comparatively slow on the wing.
Another remarkable pilgrim is the silver-eye, which
was unknown in Maoriland (where it is now com-
mon) before 1856. One would hardly credit that
this small bird of comparatively weak wing-power
could perform a non-stop journey of 1500 miles.
* * * *
“Tipp”: “Ganesha” (B. 10/11/’2l) wants
to know where the best axemen come from. After
a long and varied experience I give the damper to
Gippslanders for all-round bush workmanship, though
lassy supplies the largest percentage of choppers.
Among the jarrah of the Sou’-West Victorians stand
alone, and everybody who’s been there knows that
a jarrah-jerker is something like a sawmill and
steam-hammer thrown into one.
* * * *
“J.M.H.”: The other day, here at Kal-
goorlie (W.A.), I saw a small bird, I think
a tit, furiously struggling and flapping its wings
on the ground. On investigating I found that
one of his legs was in the hole of a trap-door spider,
and the trap had closed fast upon it. With
a tjvig I raised the trap, but the bird was still held.
Glancing down the hole I saw a huge spider, one of
the largest of the species I’ve ever seen, clinging to
the bird’s leg. After a little trouble and with the aid
of the twig I persuaded him to let go, and the bird
flew away. To me it is remarkable that the spider
had the strength to hold the bird.
“Mirang”: “Jimsey” (B. 20/10/’2l) and
others say dogs won’t eat bandicoot. Well, I’ve a
dog here (N.T.) that will eat bandicoot, raw or
cooked, skinned or not. I’ve never found him worry-
ing over the fur, nor vomiting after a meal. Every
N.T. bushman I’ve spoken to about it ‘reckons that
“Jimsey,” “J.C.S.” and others are talking through
their hats. Apropos, I had a wallaby that always
insisted on sharing my meal if bandicoot or duck
were on the menu.
“Colub” : The possibility of an anti-venine
for any kind of snakebite seems to have been
brought appreciably closer. Hitherto the great dif-
ficulty has been that an antitoxin was of use only
against the venom of the species of snake from
which it had been prepared, and as there are at
least several hundred venomous kinds of wrigglers
in the world, it would require a large shop-full of
antitoxins to ensure that the one needed was always
at hand. Two chemists in India,
however, while investigating
snake poison, were struck with
the fact that while the protein
substances present in the venom
varied considerably with each
species, there were always present
in any kind of poison at least
three of these bodies, one of
which seemed to fulfil towards
the other two the functions of
a nucleus. Further investigation
led them to the belief that it
was the central one of these
which acted as the principal
toxic substance, and that its
effects were varied in some way
by the action of the bodies
specific for the variety of snake.
Hence they concluded that if the
varying proteins were extracted
from a sample of venom and an
antitoxin prepared only from the
constant central body, it would
be efficacious in all cases qf snake-
poisoning. Experiments on rab-
bits seem to indicate that they
are on the right track, and this is also borne out
by come work done at an American university with
the anti-bodies made by them. In the latter case
an animal into which rattlesnake venom had been
injected \yas treated with an anti-venine made from
the central toxic body of cobra-poison, a nd the effects
of the former were considerably checked.
“E.S.S.” : The lubra is fast disappearing
from the homesteads where she was once a familiar
drudge. In old days she helped to make life in
lonely places easier for white women. Only those
who had to rely on her industry and bush knowledge
knew how important a part she played in the “rough-
ing” stages of settlement. Often she was the missus’s
only female companion, and a comradeship existed
between them that is hardly understandable among
later generations. As a servant she was cheap—
except to feed: she carried away in her dillybag to'
her camp all she could get. As a set-off, she was
useful in obtaining game, fish and honey for
the rnissus - and she was handy for running mes-
sages, hunting up horses and cows, minding the baby
and finding nests in grass and scrub when eggs were
wanted. For ss. a week and meals, supplemented
with any old clothes —whether frock or trousers
didn’t matter —and a bit of tobacco she would do
anything required. But she couldn’t be persuaded
to get up early—except to go to the races. She
arrived at th# kitchen about breakfast-time, and
required her own breakfast, which she sat down to
at the woodheap, before she eo#nmenced work. And
she liked to get back to camp before dark. No over-
time with Maggie.
“Thorley”: In March, 1908, we shifted
house in Toowoomba (Q.), and when we got to the
new place a young white leghorn rooster didn’t
answer the roll-call. Three weeks after, to the
day, the boy was sent to burn a box of rubbish that
was lying in the corner of the yard. On pulling
“WHEN THE DEVIL WAS WELL.”
DOCTOR (to patient who has not paid his hill for over three years): “I hear you’ve had
a good win in Tatt.’s, Mr. Mackay. I suppose you’ll be sending me along a
cheque soon?”
P ATIENT: “Yes, doctor, that I will, as soon as I’ve paid up me just debts.”
out the litter, he unwrapped a very sickly and
only fractionally alive rooster. Evidently he had
been overlooked when we were freeing the other
birds, and in our hurry the paper packing and litter
•had been thrown in the box, temporarily interring
him. He survived his three weeks’ fast, fattened,
and became sultan of a harem.
* * * *
“Zanthus” : It might be worth the while of
an ornithologist to go out to Hatch’s Creek in the
N. Territory where the wolfram comes from. A miner
with a taste for that kind of thing reckons that
there are several species of painted finches and
several of parrots there that have not yet been
described. It is quite likely. From so accessible a
place as Naretha, on the East-West line, F. Whitlock
lately secured a new species of parrot, the Naretha.
JUST IN PLAY.
THE BRICKY : “So poor old Bill’s gorn. A
good Moke Bill; ’e ’adn’t a’ enemy
in the world.”
HIS VALET : “Wot did ’e die off”
THE BRICKY : “Got ’it on th ’ ’ead with a
bottle.”
questions. Then it came to Mrs. Cliff’s turn. Mrs.
Cliff was an omnivorous reader of snippet publica-
tions, and knows how many grand pianos placed
one on top of the other it would take to reach the
moon, and how long the smell of an adult gorgon-
zola cheese would be in travelling from Kamschatka
to Peru. “Do you ever find any frogs?” said the
seeker for knowledge. “Do I ever find any what,
mum ?” demanded the perplexed miner. “Do you
ever in your digging find any frogs buried in the solid
rocks?” “Gorstruth!” gasped the digger—“here’s an
old party thinks I’m minin’ fer frogs!”
“Veronal”: “Temora” (B. 15/12/’2l) is
quite right about the recurrence of trouble from old
snakebites. The leg of a man who was bitten by
a black snake over 16 years ago has given .trouble
periodically ever since, but usually at long inter-
vals. The bite was. near the ankle, which swells
and sometimes turns black, and has on occasion
called for skilled medical treatment. I saw the
limb when last affected, and it looked very ugly.
“Mabie”: Dq apple-growers know they
have a valuable ally in the common black wasp, or
hornet, in their fight against the codlin moth?
Mrs. Hornet gaily bores her way into the moth-
infested apple, secures the caterpillar, performs the
necessary operation to paralyse young codlin, deposits
him in her nest with his mates previously captured,
artistically coiling him round about his fellows, then
seals the lot up inside the nest and leaves them there
until her young brood are ready to sit up and take
nourishment. I have one nest with about half a
dozen codlins well and truly preserved in it.
“Hepta” (MX.).: It was a useful-looking
neddy and the auctioneer opened up with, “Come
on, some of you cockies; give us a starter for
nag. He’s just the thing for the milk-cart.” One
bewhiskered cocky asked: “Will he go in harness,
Jack?” The auctioneer looked round at the Maori
vendor. “Hey, Hori, will he go in harness?” “Oh,
yes,” said Hori, “he go te harness oright; but” —
with a snigger—“ton’t you put te plurry cart on!”
“Gumdigger” : In the G.P.O. at Bowen
(N.Q.) when I was there (1909.-1914) the remains
of a giant rock-python were draped round the room
as a frieze! It was 19ft. from start to finish. The
next biggest thing to this in the snake line that I
have seen was a “tiger” shot in the district. I
saw it measured with a tape—loft. Bin.
“Dido”: Near where we pitched our holi-
day camp a small, sun-dried, weather-beaten man
of about 60 was hard at it sinking a prospecting-
shaft in tough, yellow reef. Two or three members
of our party interested themselves in his operations,
and plagued a naturally reticent lone hand with
(Continued on page 22J
THE GREETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ere laggards wake from slumber
The dawn is up and dressed
In royal robes and rosy,
With dewdrops all aglitter,
Like jewels on her breast.
As she comes o’er the mountains
With rounded cheeks ablush,
The waiting wild birds greet her —
“Good morrow,” chimes the magpie,,
“Good morning,” sings the thrush.
Green gum and golden wattle
Receive her courteously
With bloom and leaf wind-shaken,
While Jack the Jester greets her
With jocund melody.
Broad pastures make a carpet
Beneath her glowing feet;
And as her splendor deepens,
The big earth yields her tribute
Of fragrance, cool and sweet.
The' thankful rivers murmur
Through nodding reed and rush ;
And, as they preen their feathers,
“Good morrow,” chimes the magpie,
“Good morning,” sings the thrush.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


ADVENTURE NOVELS
in the
“Bookstall” Scries of Australian Novels.
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST FICTION LIBRARY.
OVER 100 VOLUMES BY FOREMOST AUTHORS.
SALES EXCEED TWO MILLIONS.
1/3 each. 1/4£ posted.
“THE MAKER OF PEARLS” - - - - by S. W. POWELL
An excellent Islands story.
“YELLOW SILVER” by EDWARD MERYON
Adventure in the Backblocks of Western Australia.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH” - - - by DON DELANEY
A great Australian bushranging story.
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-LAUNCH”
by ARTHUR H. ADAMS
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER” - - - by RALPH STOCK
ADVENTURE NOVELS OF THE NORTH.
By JACK McLAREN:
“THE SKIPPER OF THE ‘ROARING MEG,’ ” “RED
MOUNTAIN,” “THE SAVAGERY OF MARGARET NESTOR.”
By BEATRICE GRIMSHAW:
“THE CORAL QUEEN,” “QUEEN VAITI,”
“WHITE SAVAGE SIMON.”
Over 100 novels to select from in the “Bookstall” Series.
Obtainable from all Booksellers and Bookstalls in the
Commonwealth.
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE (FREE).
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
m
stand on
m
AVI V
Q'O
S '5
WfrtimQ
h‘,i 5
«.//%■
BEC.U.i.PAT.O^^
tfVj
Hanuf ®etu r «®
WORKS
PORT HECHtS
TEXACO
FIRE!
YOU need not fear the flying sparks if your
buildings are protected with Texaco
Roofing.
It will burn; true, it is not absolutely fire-
proof—but Texaco Roofing is remarkably fire-
resistant, and therefore greatly reduces the
risk of fire spreading to nearby buildings.
Texaco Roofing adds to your security. It
may be the means of a very considerable sav-
ing in money.
But, first, last and always—Texaco Roofing
makes a good roof—absolutely weatherproof,
low in cost, and enduring.
Texaco Roofing is made of selected, pliable
felt, thoroughly saturated and coated on both
sides with carefully-tempered Texaco Asphalt,
prepared specially for roofing in the world’s
largest asphalt plant.
ft comes in rolls of convenient size, com-
plete with cement, nails and printed instruc-
tions. It can be easily laid by unskilled
labor.
Just call on your nearest dealer. Ask him
for Texaco Roofing.
Office Addresses of
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY.—Auto House, 143-145
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
NEWCASTLE.—Carrington Chambers, Watt Street,
Newcastle.
MELBOURNE, VIC. —Chancery House, 444 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BRISBANE, Q’LAND. —Exton’s Buildings, Queen
Street, Brisbane, Q’land.
PERTH, W.A.—St. George’s House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, W.A.
LAUNCESTON, TAS.—4O St. John Street, Launces-
ton, Tas.
WELLINGTON. N.Z.—22 Customs House Quay, Wel-
lington, N.Z.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Richards-Upton Buildings, 53
Customs Street East, Auckland, N.Z.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Richards Buildings, Currie Street,
Adelaide.
¥
jti
Squam Deal
TAILORING.
Big Purchase.
New Shipment per S.S. Karmea.
NAVY SUITINGS
GUARANTEED DYE.
Pure Indigo Twills, London Shrunk —nothing to
equal them for wear. A Saving of at least 30%
on your Suit. Owing to our Continental buyers
having taken full advantage of a temporary drop
in the market, let us prove to you what a correctly-
designed, perfect-fitting suit should be.
WRITE FOR
PATTERNS.
WRITE FOR
PATTERNS.
ORDER
£lBjB|-
SQUARE DEAL SALE
Linings, Trimmings, etc., are of the same high quality as the
material. The Cut —the Latest —and a Perfect Fit is Guaran-
teed or acceptance is not expected.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
c
Home-measurement Chart, Tape, etc. All free.
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
fwe
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
O'WC/te
0,
*
JONES
5053
Look at it
AND SEE why “Rex »
Luncheon Cheese is the
choice of every health-
wise woman. The
hygienic tin brings this
Cheese to you in perfect
condition. It is never
exposed, never handled.
SMELL IT and see how fresh and
dainty it is.
TASTE IT and see how delicious
Cheese can be. Note the rich, yet
mild flavor of “Rex”—a flavor made
possible only by the “Rex” method
of preparing and Canning.
CREAM IT with a knife—“ Rex”
Cheese spreads just like butter.
Always buy “Rex”
in the hygienic tins.
Sold everywhere.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.


FULL FASHIONED 8 MOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the ROTHF&
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS
Ls£22
“Cazna”: Despite “Ganesha’s” gil>e at
“fancy stroke” axemen (B. 10/11/’2l) most of Aus-
tralia’s best carve out theiik living by hard work
with the implement. There are no pros, in the
sense “Ganesha” means. Dave Roberts, who recently
clipped 50 per cent, off the 15-inch standing : cut '
record, was for veai's Australian’s mightiest sleeper-
hewer ; W. J. MacLaren, with over 150 contests to
his credit, has yakkered hard in the Vic. bush all
his life; while the Westons, the Handmeres and
numerous other big guns all swing' Douglas in the
bush for their daily crust.
“Graeme” : I never knew of a name more
violently resented than “Paddy” is by Chinese in
Bananaland, Years ago as I was returning from
school at Dalby two vegetable Johns passed, and one
of our mob dared me to yell out the word. I took
up the gauntlet—and got the hiding of my life. A
cook at the Royal Hotel later on attempted to stab
a boarder for the same offence. I don’t mind calling
a Chow a thief and even a liar (which makes him
still more ropeable), but when it comes to addressing
him as Paddy someone else can haVe it on his own.
And I’ve never learned the reason of it.
“Wee Bobbie”: We haven’t got the 25ft.
crocodiles of Northern Australia here in the Solomons,
the largest specimen I’ve heard of being only 14ft.
6in. ; but what they lack in length they make up in,
ferocity. On Lunga plantation the horses used to
stand a good deal in the river in the heat of the day,
and one morning we found a big upstanding animal
with a touch of the draught in him dead about 50
yards from the bank. His hind leg was smashed at
the pastern and hanging by a piece of skin, a foot
square was torn off his flank, while his sides looked
as if he had been crossed frequently with a pair of
sharp-toothed' harrows; The home was tackled in
less than 4ft. of water, and it savs something in
favor of the prad that he struggled ashore with a
broken leg and his entrails trailing behind him and
CAN’T TELL A CHAPEL BY ITS
OVERCOAT.
“Your little chapel over there looks very
primitive!”
“Well, 'e edden; 'e's Baptis’.”
an alligator thrashing him into a bruised mass the
while. Withiir 24 hours a three-year-old steer was
found floating in the river with a smashed thigh. A
few days later one of the plantation men got the
marauder with a .44 in the eye. He was only 12ft.
long. But he could bite.
“W. Blister”: How is this for a close
shave? One night, near Baneannia Lake (N.S.W.),
during a thunderstorm, Harry Barlow had sought
shelter under his waggonette, and beside him crouched
his two dogs. Suddenly Barlow, who was dozing,
felt one of the dogs lurch against him. When he
tried to push it away he found the animal was stone
dead, having been struck by lightning.
TAKING NO PART IN THE SPORT.
ANGRY FARMER: “Yer d —d loafer, didn't yer see that notice?"
TRAMP ( who hasn't had a bite ): “Yes;, but I guess the fish seen it first."
‘•Sir Spen”: It was drought-time at
Bourke and the cattle on Mrs. O’Blank’s run had
been decimated, so she placed the remainder in
charge of her son Pat, who set out with them up
the Bafwon way for grass and water. All went well
till they reached \Valgett, where- Pat joined a two-
up school. He soon did in his cash, and then
played the stock. He lost the lot. But he was
truthful about it when he wrote to the old folks
at home:—
Dear mother, we had orful bad luck with the
cattle, i loosed old strawberry an bauly an aight
steel’s in no time, i was tailin em on foot round
Walgett wen they got goin an i coodnt head em.
* * * *
“Billy T.” : Bearing on the question, “Do
snakes meamerise their
prey ?” I have some
testimony. Three of us
had gone out from a mine
three or four miles from
Wallace Town (Vic.) into
what was then called the
State Forest. We struck
soda springs in the bush,
and a quantity of the
finest watercress I have
eyer seen. While sitting
eating the lunch we had
brought with us, we
noticed several rabbit
kittens stirring among the
cress, and Leeming, the
half-caste whose real name
was. Ming Lee, went on
hands and knees to catch
one. The little creature,
not as large as a medium-
sized rat, did not attempt
to stir, but remained rigid
till Leeming seized it.
Instantly the half-caste
sprang to his feet. He
had seen a snake under a
bramble not- two feet
distant. Infuriated by the
loss of his lunch the old
serpent darted at Leeming
ar.d struck twice, with
the second strike practi-
cally uprooting its poison
fang on the buckle of the
man’s leather legging.
If that rabbit was not
hypnotised he was
paralysed with fear.
“Jim Carew” : The spur of the male platy-
pus (B. 10/12/’2l) is not poisonous. In 1892 Pro-
fessor Semon, of Jena University, who came to Aus-
tralia principally to study the ceratodus, or lung
fish, dissected and made a microscopic examination of
the spurs of the platypus. He found them to be
ductless. He surmised that they were used only
as a rooster uses his spurs—as fighting weapons. I
don’t .doubt that people have been poisoned by
being struck with the spurs of a platypus, but the
poisoning was caused by some decaying matter
being on them at the time.
“Hecagus”: We dropped a five-plug bomb
from the stern of our dinghy last Sunday into a
12ft. pool and awaited results. Exactly four secs,
after the explosion a scaly snout appeared quite
close to the dinghy and amid much froth and bubble
its owner attempted to board us. Soon the cranky
flattie was awash and there was a vacancy for a
crew; but we all reached the bank safely. Mean-
while our shore cobbers had opened on the ’gator
with an automatic. Later in the day we found
the reptile (a 14-footer) dead on a sandbank. Both
eyes had been blown out by our bomb. A post-
mortem produced several bones, presumably shin-
bones of horses, and a horseshoe. Next time I
go bombing ’gator-infested creeks in N.Q. it will be
from the deck of a stouter ship than a 10ft. dinghy.
“Talanoa” : I h'ave noted "Box 20’s” recipe
(B. 25/8/’2l) for tanning sheepskins. Now, can
any Abo. give me one for tanning single hides?
* * * *
“Big Ack’’: On the Piccaninny Creek,
between Mitiamo and Panoobamawm (Vic.), there is
a white, post bearing the following warning:—
W hen this post is covered this crossing is danger-
ous.
But it isn’t only the country yokel who does such
things. This notice was in the window of a city
quack:—
If you can’t read this your eyes need attention.
He told me it was the best advt. he’d ever exhibited.
“Comet”: Queer nesting-places? In the
Clermont district (N.Q.) I saw a crow’s nest built
on the rocker-arm of a 50ft. windmill. There were
four eggs, and all appeared to be doing well despite
the fact that they rolled from side to side when the
mill pumped. I suppose Pa Crow thought the idea
might save him tramping the floor in l , the small
hours of the morning.
* * * *
“Veronal”: “Jim Carew” (B. 15/12/ "
doubts whether young spur-wing plovers, not being
web-footed, can swim. I think every
wild bird can swim, or, at any rate,
paddle. Once when I disturbed a
nestful of fledgling wagtails (black
fantail) in a tree overhanging a
river, one chick alighted in the water
about 6yds. out from the bank. He
promptly paddled back to land.
Similarly dotterels, which aren’t web-
footed, sometimes flutter into water
when a nest near a stream is dis-
turbed, and float on the surface,
simulating broken wings. But they
promptly swim back to the shore
once the coast is clear. The young
coots, swans, wild ducks, etc., simply
tumble out of the nest into the water, where they
are quite at home from birth.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : Bob Boland was manager of
the Quaker’s United, on the Pancake lode. He was
almost a confirmed bachelor of 45. In fact, he was
wholly confirmed till he met Mrs. Brit, who lived in
the house at the panels, the Quaker’s United hav-
ing pitched within her home paddock. Brit, when
he went - to glory, had left her 300 acres, various
cows, and a portable mortgage which the widow
was slowly shifting with the aid of the Quaker’s
United, which paid substantial surface damage and
provided a market for her butter and milk and
bacon. When Boland first saw Mrs. Brit he began
to be less confirmed as a bachelor than he had been
formerly, and on discovering that Johnson, one of
his facemen, was bucking up to the widow, he
sacked the man. Until he was quite sure of his
own intentions it would be necessary to hold the
widow in reserve, so to speak. But Mrs. Brit was
a bright and winsome woman of 33, with a lively
and inviting eye. So Macgregor had to be sacked,
and then Spills, the blacksmith. Boland was now
quite convinced the widow must be his and his
alone; but he was a shy man, inexperienced in
handling Eves, and he could think of nothing better
than to go on sacking interveners. He sacked Coleman
and Right and Bridges, sent Stevens the braceman
back to Ballarat, and presently all hands realised
that to be seen smooging with Milly Brit meant
the sudden jerk. Circumspection was employed, but
Boland was an astute observer. Efe sacked Bayles,
and Jim a whim-driver, and Tom the engine-driver.
The last three were fired on the advice of Prince,
the battery man, who was keeping an eye on Milly
in the boss’s interest. For those he sacked Boland
substituted married men, preferably with large,
young families. Then one day Boland came on Gand,'
a blaceman, in the widow’s orchard, with his arm
about the widow’s waist. Gand was buying peaches.
Boland glared a moment, shocked at' the treason!
“Gand,” he bellowed, “you’re fired. Go up to the
office, get your money, and get off this lease.” Milly
protested. “You are sending away all my cus-
tomers, she complained. “I’m sorry, ma’am”
replied the manager. “But I’ll have you see what
1 m drivin’ at, if I have to sack every man on the
was Boland’s proposal. But unhappily
Milly had been married for over a month —to Prince
the batteryman. ’
* * V * *
“Topi”; Tell “Jimsey” (B. 3/11/’2l) to
place a plateful of kerosene under his child’s bed
and he 11 catch all the fleas about. I have netted
42 in a night.
* * * *
“D.F.”: Bullocks swallow all sorts of
things dried-up snakes, bones, leather, old boots and
odds and ends. But about the queerest in its tastes
was one belonging to Mervyn Calvert, of Huonville
(Tas.), which recently tried to swallow a full-
grown porcupine and died in the attempt. So did
the porcupine.
*** * .
“Pick”: Tell “Jim Carew” (B. 15/12/’2l).
who ridicules “Airey’s” assertion about spur-winged
plovers swimming, that once when I was duck-
shooting on Tilba Lake (N.S.W.) I winged a spur-
wmg, whose rii-a-tit overhead had given warning
to all the ducks along shore. He fell out in the
lough water, and at once set off for the opposite
shore half-a-mile away. I met him again on the
other side an hour or two later, and, except for
his maimed flipper, he was none the worse.
. ‘
“J.J.D.”; In my district (Cowra, N.S.W.)
whirlwinds are very frequent. I have counted as
many as 50 in one day. But immediately the sun
sets whirlies are off. Why?
*.* * *
“J. 8.0.”; A couple of men in this Lower
Murray district were out shooting the other day
when one trod on a large brown snake. The wrig-
gler struck at him, but it happened to be hampered
by having a large Jew-lizard half-way down its
throat. What are the odds against treading on
snakes in the midst of a swallowing act?
* » * •
Malaita”: Re “Bouragi’s” comments (B.
29/12/’2l) about the rhinoceros-beetle being found
in the longas. This beetle has been known in the
British Solomons and (late) German New Guinea
foi as long as the oldest hands can remember, yet
no shareholders are worrying. Damage is certainly
done, but the amount is infinitesimal provided there
is careful management. Most of the trouble is caused
while the trees are young, especially on the bush
line, blit as they come into bearing the damage be-
comes less and less. A certain plantation in the
British Solomons was very bad with beetles in the
early days, but with care the place has been brought
to maturity with hardly a loss, and now, with the
trees fully bearing, it is seldom one is found damaged
and never to such an extent that it becomes a loss.
PA’S PRIDE.
CHICK: “Poor, dear father seems peeved.,
mother!”
M A: “It’s only his dirty pride, my dear.
He can’t understand why they passed
him by, and took a mere cockerel for
Christmas dinner!”
“Mii'ool”: The other day I killed a snake
about 2ft. 6in. long of a color hard to define, but
its skin shone with varied opalescent tints, mostly a
bluish-purple. Marked distinctly on the head was
a dull copper-colored triangle. Some of my friends
say he was a copper-head, others are certain he was
a moon snake. Which are right?
A ROUGH CROSSING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Steve Lisle went after Annie May,
Tom Hyland’s only daughter,
Though Tom had oft been heard to say
He d wade through blood and slaughter
Before his girl should walk the aisle
With such a wretched blob as Lisle.
Then came the night when Hyland caught
Poor Steve his love confiding.
Tom with a thick pick-handle fought;
Steve took a fearful hiding—
His skin and hair were seen in flight,
Like insects on a summer night.
Steve in the township showed next day:
His eyes were black ; he had to trundle
Upon a crutch his devious way;
His head was done up in a bundle.
Steve lisped to us his wraps above:
“Yeh see, blokes, I bin crossed in love!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


PS
'
'
'> '- ' %
’
m
:
Ht\ J
IT*
-
"/"AsSIS
■ I Vj
ISSill
& *> ♦* i
•V . .
’
* ' -r'-
' ' A • - - ,
. : ' ‘
m
V
ftt 11
n
j
F
- H • m *
,* I |
% > i %
*
*
II
* ..._*>. :
.
' t m ' • .
1111111 l
L
lok *» ’
' V^v
v cs®
JV',/ *" v
V**.
.
-,J '' -•
%
„,.V,
;,.»■ ?
;
iiiili
lM
.V
& J i -
? f. k;
+
''' ’
I' fe
? ; ; .
■A s^x
)/> 1 '
A /
a
H
~a . .^
■V _
■Hi
‘
;’ : ABj| fe; ;
' ,spfH
s
lii
‘
iili
iilil
ir■
■
* -
:m
teffilll
•::• ■■ i
**'t.
Siliii
: ' :
B: ■'
-i®
H!ll
;.'
; :
-
When motorists year after year use the one
make of tyre you can be certain that they
are satisfied. A glance at the tyres on the
cars of your friends-or those on the roadside
—indicates in no uncertain manner what a
large proportion of motorists use Dunlop
“Railroads.” In fact, you can see that
are easily the most popular with motorists.
Why? Here's the reason! It takes continued
absolute superiority before any tyre becomes
an established favorite with motorists. It
must be better and keep on being better-
than its competitors. An isolated case of
big mileage is not enough to maintain its
popularity. It is the general average, consis-
tent long and dependable service, that wins
and holds the patronage of motorists. To
do this calls for extra mileage and value
ahead of other makes. “Railroads” un-
questionably ensure these essentials to
economical motoring, and every “Railroad”
can be confidently bought with the cer-
tainty of obtaining thousands of free-from -
trouble miles. All garages can supply
in beaded edge and straight-sided types.
Use “Dunlops.”
It pays
ALL STATES
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
AND N.Z.


A
c
k '
H
( (
IV.
r
if
a
V.
IV^
From
63/-
Men’s “Orient” Ready-to-wear two-piece Sports Suits, embodying
the newest style features. Well cut, perfect fitting, yet allowing
ample freedom. Made by David Jones’ from high-grade materials.
English Tweed, fancy grey mixture 63/-
Drab-colored Donegal Tweed 757-
Fine quality Fawn Gabardine. .- 115/-
All-wool Saxony, grey stripe. .. . . 1357-
Grey Flannel Sac and Trousers 100/-
David (Jones'
for Service
Opp. G. P. O. SYDNEY Tel. City 6336.
BALL BEARINGS.
Heavy transportation of work in mines, foundries and engineering establishments entails enormous
manual labor if plain bearings are used. If, however, your trucks and skips are fitted with SKP Ball
Bearings, it is possible for one man to start a truck heavily loaded with a mere push of the hand, and
to keep it in motion by slight continuous pressure. Furthermore, SKF Ball Bearings need lubrication
only every other or every third month, whereas plain bearings require frequent oiling.
Write for full particulars.
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO.
PTY.
ITD.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne
Distributing Centres at Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Perth, t *■* *
The Methods of a Model.
FTl®® model seated herself on the dais.
She was not a young woman, but.
there was a strange beauty in her
pale face with its clouds of dark-brown hair.
I went over and arranged her draperies.
“Do you mind if I take your hair down?”
I asked. “I want to do it up in a particular
way.” She nodded, and I pulled out the
pins. I was astonished at the flood of soft
hair they released.
“What wonderful hair!” I exclaimed.
“You must let me paint you some day with
your hair down” I buried my hands in
the thick, silky masses of it. “I know some
girls who would give a small fortune to have
hair like that.”
She only smiled rather sadly. I knew
there had been much trouble in her life.
As I painted I encouraged her to talk. At
last my own curiosity overcame me, and I
asked what she did to make her hair so glori-
ous.
“Mine is always coming out,” I told her.
“I suppose I should have it cropped as most
women-artists do.”
“I’ve never, been in a hairdresser’s shop
in my life,” she said. “I’ve only used one
or two old-fashioned recipes which I make
up myself. I always shampoo with stallax.
I find you only need about a tablespoonful
to cleanse one’s hair thoroughly, and so it
does not work out at all expensive in the end.
Once I tried something else, but may hair
did not dry all soft and bright as it does
after stallax, so I returned to the old recipe.
If it shows any tendency to fall out, I obtain
some boranium from the chemist, and mix
it with a little bay rum ; that soon makes
it grow thick and strong again. Perhaps
you wonder why at my age —I’m fifty, you
know —I haven’t grey hair? Once it did
begin to look faded and streaky, but someone
told me that the only real way to restore
the color was by dissolving some pure tam-
malite in bay rum and applying this lotion
to the hair each day. It’s wonderful stuff,
but people so seldom think of using any-
thing so simple, do they?”
“They don’t, indeed,” I answered, “but
you’ve opened my eyes. You must write it
all down, if you will be so kind. And now
shall we rest? You must be tired.”
As she nodded her head gratefully the
sun flashed qn her head and brought out
unsuspected golden lights in that wonderful
hair.
After a brief interval she resumed the
pose. As I re-adjusted her head I noticed
the extraordinarily beautiful texture of her
skin. • What claims she had to beauty, I
reflected, were due to the wonderful perfec-
tion of detail—she bore the closest scrutiny.
I lingered longer than was necessary over
the arrangement of her head in order to
admire the clear, fine tone of her skin. He"
complexion was almost colorless, but the
skin showed hardly a crease; the lips, I
noticed, looked warm and healthy, and her
eyelashes gave her rather pale eyes a
shadowy beauty. Feature for feature, she
was not pretty, but there was a charm about
her that grew on one, and no one could deny
the loveliness of her soft hair and satiny
skin.
As I painted everything feminine in me
wanted to ask her if she had any secrets for
keeping that wonderful skin, but politeness
forbade. To my joy, however, she resumed
our former conversation.
“It always seems to me that old-fashioned
remedies are the best. Of course, I have to
consider the question of keeping such looks
as I may have, because being a model is
precarious work, and the market is over-
stocked with old models of the wrinkled
white-haired type. I always treat my skin
rather carefully because I look on it as busi-
ness capital. Every night I massage it with
pure mereolised wax, which I wash off in
the morning with warm water. That clears
the skin thoroughly, because the oxygen in
the wax absorbs all the waste outer tissue
of the skin, and exposes the new complexion
underneath, which is quite fresh and smooth.
Of course, this treatment is a great pre-
ventive of wrinkles, for they never have
Dme to form.
I have taken to using something for my
iips lately, as they used to be so dry and
sore. I bought an ordinary stick of prolac-
tum, and I do not think you could find any-
thing better. It is so soothing, and it gives
one’s lips just a nice warm healthy look,
without any hint of make-up.
“I am very interested in all you have told
me,” I answered. “I wish I could tell you
some things, too. But I don’t believe there
is any little secret you don’t know.”
“I have not yet found anything really
good for the hands,” she told me, holding out
a pair of shapely but roughened ones ; .“house-
work makes them so red and dirty!”
“Ah ! I exclaimed, “then I can give you
one tip. Get some bicrolium jelly from your
chemist; you’ll find that it will get all the
ingrained dirt right out of your hands, be-
sides making them beautifully soft and white.
I don’t know where I should be without it
myself.”
She thanked me very sincerely, and the
time being up, prepared to go.—Advt.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
V^briA
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
SCHNA?^
“tT STANDS ALO^®-
POWER
%
§8
j
J^
n
wu
«
m
m
m
m
y
i
y
n
GENUINE BALATA BELTING.
If a scrupulous search were made
in your power-plant you would
possibly find that a good deal # of
the power generated is being lost
through faulty transmission. The
use of a speed indicator will fur-
nish you Avith undeniable evidence
that DICK’S Original Balata Belt-
ing delivers its full quota of
power, consistently, year in and
jear out.
The accidents that happen to the
average belt —Sudden breakdowns,
stretching, shrinking or slipping—are
unknown to DICK’S Original Balata
Belting. It efficiently overcomes the
most abnormal conditions of service.
Every thread of the belt is scientifi-
cally treated with Waterproof ,• balata
gum, rendering it impervious to condi-
tions of dampness, heat, steam, dust,
etc. Its long life and absolute effici-
ency make it. the cheapest-p.er-year
belting on the Australian market.
Write for Free Copy of the Balata
Belting 800k —a Catalogue for
Engineers.
JAMES HARDIE S COY. LTD..
SYDNEY.
York arid Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE.
540-2 Little Col-
lins Street.
ADELAIDE.
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND.
The Queensland Machinery Co., Albert Street, Brisbane.
bopks on the ground of morality. “There is
altvays somebody inferior to the general pub-
lic,” he • said, “incredible though it may
seem.”
When a young man from the U.S.A. once
came to see him, and started by saying that
if English literature was talked about in
America his name was sure to be among the
four or five discussed, Moore made the
Whistler-like reply : “You need not mention
the names that are on the tip of your tongue,
for they would lead us into by-paths away
from the subject. You have come to speak
about literature, I understand?”
You get widely different accounts of
Moore’s character. “He has gorgeous igno-
rance,” a well-known poet told me. “He
thought Spenser lived in the reign of Henry
the Eighth. ‘Look at his language!’ he said.
He had no idea that Spenser could have been
consciously archaic.” Another declared to
me that Moore could make no use of books,
but gathered all his material from conversa-
tion. He was very receptive, and if he was
writing about music, art or theology, he would
associate with musicians, painters or savants.
And once, when speaking to a friend of
“A.E.,” about Moore’s curiously sympathetic
portrait of the mystical poet-artist in “Hail
and Farewell,” I learned what “A.E.,” the
hero, had said to his biographer: “My dear
Moore, your affection for me is as inconveni-
ent as the fondness of a porcupine for a
child.”
LOUIS ESSON.
Blasphemy and Free Speech
The action taken by the M.L. Attorney-
General in prosecuting John Glover, editor
of the Maoriland Worker, for blasphemous
libel raises interesting questions as to the right
limitation of free speech. The subject of the
prosecution is a poem by Siegfried Sassoon
called “Stand-to: Good Friday Morning.” It
first appeared in a London periodical and
later in his collected edition published by
William Heinemann in 1919. It reads a£
follows: —•
I’d been on duty from two till four.
I went and stared- at the dug-out door.
Down in the frowst I heard them snore.
“Stand-to!” Somebody grunted and swore.
Dawn was misty; the skies were still;
Larks were singing, discordant, shrill;
They seemed happy; but I felt ill.
Deep in the vvater I splashed my way
Up the trench to our bogged front line.
Rain had fallen the whole damned night.
O Jesus, send me a wound to-day,
And I’ll believe in Your bread and wine.
And get my bloody old sins washed white!
The lines appearing in the indictment upon
which the charge is based are the last three,
detached from their context. This is, of
course, outrageously unfair; as a matter of
fact, the whole poem should be read in con-
junction with the others in the book. Then it
would be seen that what the verses lack
in technique is made up in good faith and in-
tellectual honesty.
Sassoon is one of the most outstanding of
British poets. Educated at Marlborough
and at Glare College, Cambridge, immedi-
ately on the outbreak of the Great War he
joined the Sussex Yeomanry, gaining his com-
mission in May, 1915, in the 3rd Welsh
Fusiliers. He received the M.C. in France
and served for three years there and in
Palestine. From the beginning he saw war,
not as a series of victories and defeats, but
as a glory obscured by pestilence, filth and
despair. To such conditions different natures
responded in different ways. He wrote from
the inferno itself —a sufferer, sensitive to the
misery and weariness around him, allowing
himself to be lashed into fury by the utter
callousness of those in “cushy” jobs at home.
In intensity the only writers that equal him
are Andreas Latzko and Henri Barbusse.
He is a hater of shams, of the unctuous piffle
that frequently passed for patriotism and, in
particular, the hypocritical cant of many pro-
fessedly religious people. Take, for instance,
“They”:—
The Bishop tells us: “When the boys come back
They will not be the same; for they’ll have fought
In a just cause: they lead the last attack
On Anti-Christ; their comrades’ blood has bought
New right to breed an honorable race.
They have challenged Death and dared him face to
face.”
“We’re none of us the same!” the boys reply.
“For George lost both his legs; and Bill’s stone
blind;
Poor Jim’s shot through the lungs and like to die ;
And Bert’s gone syphilitic: you’ll not find
A chap who’s served that hasn’t found some change.”
And the Bishop said: “The ways of God are
strange!”
The point at issue is whether the publica-
tion is blasphemous libel. This question,
under Section 150 of our Crimes Act, is one
of fact, left to the mercy not of a special
jury but of a common one. This means that
counsel must make some sort of inquiry into
the religious beliefs of the jurors, of whom in
all probability none will have heard of Sas-
soon or have any knowledge of the tendencies
of modern literature. For a country that
can place on its statute books the most dar-
ing divorce law in the world, this is parochial
in the extreme. As to blasphemy, it has
been held that it is constituted by the pub-
lication of any nrofane words vilifying or
ridiculing God. Jesus Christ or Christianity
in general, with intent to shock or insult
believers, or to pervert or mislead the igno-
rant. It must be a great relief to most of
us that everything which misleads the igno-
rant is not blasphemy; still, the intention is
the essential ingredient of the offence, though
this may be presumed where such a result is
the natural consequence of the publication.
The harm that in the eyes of the law may
come from blasphemy is twofold. In the
first place, a riot may be caused, but if these
lines caused a murmur the poet was well
rewarded; and in the second place, religion
may be undermined and public morals sub-
verted, and concerning that the less said the
better. Towards the middle of the 19th cen-
tury a broader view was taken on this sub-
ject, and Mr. Justice Erskine, in Shore v.
Wilson, decided by the House of Lords, held
that any man, without subjecting himself to
penal consequences, could soberly examine the
truth of the Christian doctrines; and later,
in Rex v. Foote and Ramsay, Lord Coleridge
laid down the rule that if the decencies of
controversy are observed, even the funda-
mentals of religion may be attacked without
a person being guilty of blasphemous libel.
These two cases embody what has been
deemed to-day to be the only law consonant
with modern ideas of toleration and religious
equality.
It is very important to remember that
Sassoon wrote as a soldier, with the din
of the guns in his ears. The beauty that
he saw was of a kind that Somerset
Maugham defined as being something won-
derful and strange that the artist fashioned
out of the chaos of the world in the tor-
ment of his own soul. Many are apt to lose
their faith in God when plunged into a great
despondency. Here the war-weary speaker
may or may not have been an atheist. What
he says is this: “Every single thing is so
terrible that I feel You have deserted me.
Give me a wound that will take me back to
Blighty and I will believe, I will sin no
more”; and he says it as a soldier would
say it. If he had said: “I am an atheist.
Give me a wound and I will cease to be an
atheist,” would that have been blasphemy? I
am sure it would not. Surely, then, the fact
that it is expressed in verse does not make
it so. What does? One can only reply,
“Either ignorance or bigotry.” We may
not agree with the sentiments contained
in the lines; but that does not make them a
blasphemous libel. Nor is blasphemy a
matter of good taste or bad in the narrow
sense. And when considering even that
question of good or bad taste we have to
remember that Sassoon was picturing the
horrors of war. Did it make soldiers feel
like that? Sassoon has been there. The
M.L. Attorney-General has not been there.
From this point df view the more horrible
Sassoon can make his picture the better
peace propaganda it is. We would admit
that at once if the thing was done with paint
on canvas. And that being so the question
arises whether, assuming that war is un-
christian, the real blasphemy is not with
those who, by prosecutions and otherwise,
attempt to clip the wings of those who would
show its horrors.
W.E.L.
Tchekhof and the Russian Drama
It seems to me that to read the Russian
dramatist Tchekhof is to get a better under-
standing than any history can give you of
what has happened to Russia im recent years.
Born in the small town of Taganrog, on the
Black Sea coast, in January, la6o, he died of
consumption at a German health resort in
1904. All except a few months of his life
were spent in Southern Russia, He was
intensely Russian —not more Russian than
the Russians themselves, but more capable
of explaining them to the world. His genius
was in a sense creative, but it was more
illuminative than creative. Also it was
photographic. His characters are drawn
with so much sympathy, so much insight, so
much literary and descriptive power that to
see them on the stage is like watching living
people in an amphitheatre. It is as though
the men and women who fought hopeless
fights with death in a Roman circus had been
put back. The lions who always win in
Tchekhof’s plays are the lions of destiny, and
the puppets who go down before them are
the more tragic because they do not quite
realise (as the Roman victims did) with
what they are contending.
Tchekhof owed no special debt to his ances-
tors. His grandfather had been a serf and
his father kept a grocer’s shop in the little
Black Sea town. There the boy grew up,
and there, as one of a numerous and hard-up
family, he seems to have been more cuffed
and kicked than most boys. But somehow
or other his parents managed to give him a
high-school education, and when they moved
to Moscow young Anton Tchekhof went to the
University there. As a University student
he wrote and studied with grim determina-
tion—wrote short stories for a Moscow paper
and studied medicine between whiles. By
1884 he was a full-blown doctor. For the
remaining 20 years of his life, in spite of
declining health, he mixed the two profes-
sions, medicine and authorship, the former
gradually being abandoned as the fame of
the writer grew.
His enduring monument —his real message
to the Western world—is contained in his
five principal plays, “Ivanoff,” “Uncle
Vanya,” “The Seagull,” “The Three : Sisters”
and “The Cherry Orchard.” Russian char-
acter and temperament live in these works;
the fatalism, the philosophy, the driftwood
quality are all there. So, too, is the un-
Western habit of mind, suggestive at times
of a child who has lost his way in a wood.
There js clever dialogue ; there are patches
of humor; there is beauty of expression;
there are notes of understanding such as you
find in no modern playwright. But over it
all the raven of tragedy broods heavily ; the
ominous bird will never shift from off the
door. “Ivanoff,” produced in Moscow when
the author was 29, is the earliest of the
five and (with the possible exception of “The
Three Sisters”) the gloomiest._ The chief
character is a man of 85 married to a sick
wife and loved by a young and (for a Rus-
sian) comparatively buoyant girl; but
neither the love of the girl nor the freedom
given him by his wife’s death can avail
against the intolerable sense —a peculiarly
Russian sense —of the futility of life. So
on the eve of his second marriage he
ends everything with a pistol shot.
“Uncle Vanya,” the revised version of a
play originally produced as “The Demon,”
is only a shade less morbid than “Ivanoff.”
It has the advantage, however, that it does
not end with suicide. In “Uncle Vanya”
there is a charmingly sympathetic woman
character, the girl Sonia, who tearfully con-
soles her uncle, choking back her own grief:
“My poor Uncle Vanya, you are crying!
You have never known what happiness was.
But wait, Uncle Vanya, wait! I have faith,
I have faith.” (She wipes away her tears.)
“We shall rest.” (She embnaces him.)
“We shall rest.” It is poignantly sad, in
view of the fact that the lonely girl’s lover
has just passed out of her life for ever, but
the note of unselfish affection saves it from
utter gloom. Then there is “The Seagull,”
the only play of the five, so far as I can dis-
cover, that has been staged in Australia.
Gregan McMahon’s Repertory company
played it in Melbourne in 1911, and played
it very well. It was a literary success and
should be well worth reviving. FoiMn spite
of the tragic ending and the mostly tragic
atmosphere the characters live, and have a
charm all their own. The girl Nina, who
comes to grief in the old melodramatic way,
sacrificing her “innocence” to the spoilt and
petted Trigovin, is just as natural and like-
able as English heroines of melodrama are
the reverse. And Constantine, the young
author who “beats bis unfeeling bars in
vain endeavor,” is the sort of figure you
meet sometimes in fiction and sometimes in
real life, but rarely in such sympathetic guise
as here. The shot of his own revolver that
kills him sounds like the hammer stroke of
destiny itself.
Last there is “The Cherry Orchard.” It
was produced in Moscow in 1904, just three
months before the author’s death. It was
hailed by all the critics as a great work of
a great dramatist; for by this time Tchekhof
had arrived. And his place in Russian and
European literature has not since been ques-
tioned. In “The Cherry Orchard” the
characters are of the same type as hereto-
fore ; they cover a wide range, from peasant
to upper middle-class; and they talk of trivial
things and weighty things, solving nothing
and enduring everything. The most likeable
male character, lets the woman he cares for
pass out of his life because he has not spirit
or confidence enough to tell her of his love.
The ancestral cherry orchard is bought over
the heads of the owners, and the owners —a
widow and daughter —drift out, as the cur-
tain falls, to a future of exile, somewhere
unknown.
In this kind of play you see the genius of
Russia and the doom of Russia. You under-
stand why the country went to pieces in
1917; why it is in pieces yet. For the char-
acters that are Russia —the people who live
in Tchekhof’s plays —have no real belief in
either the future or themselves. They can
love, and pity, and weep ; they can be brave;
they can be unselfish; they can question;
they can endure. But they lack the some-
thing that matters —the constructional some-
thing that can look beyond the present and
rises superior to. any defeat. An Englishman
or a Frenchman may be a pessimist by con-
viction, but he inherits a sense of racial
pride, a belief in his country if not in him-
self, that gives him a national as well as an
individual vitality. And though he may be
an individual failure, he believes instinctively
that there is something worth dying for—a
creed, a country, a hope, a religion—whether
he is capable of dying for it or not. _ With
such a consciousness at the back of his mind
he rises from the wreck of thrones and the
overthrow of governments as he rose in Eng-
land in 1645 and in France in 1792. But
the Russian lacks the phoenix quality, which
in its essence is the quality of faith. That
seems one reason why the new Russia is so
slow to arise. The problem is to instil a
semi-Asiatic, always fatalistic people with a
belief (or even an illusion) that life is worth
living. Lacking such a or illusion,
any nation must go co the wall.
ALFRED BUOHANAN.
A Satchel of Books
The Historical Records of Australia, Vol 3, Senes
111, consists of orders, memos, police proceedings and
the like issued or taken in Van Diemen’s Land
during 1820. There is no outstanding feature,
though the whole gives a vivid picture of the
barrack-like life of the period. The printing and
make-up are as usual admirable.
Turns of Fortune, by Robert Holmes (Blackwood).
A book for those who would like to know what sort
of job a probation officer has —a probation officer
being a sort of city missionary whose work lies
among those who fall into trouble but are given
another chance on condition that they put themselves
in the hands of this Samaritan, his job being to
find them . a job outside gaol. His yarns, told
straightforwardly, justify him.
Hark House Days , by Mary E. Fullerton (Endacott,
Melbourne). Memories of childhood spent in a
selector’s home in the Gippsland mountains, pub-
lished in the Australasian and Leader, and “now
collected and placed before a larger public.” Written
with pains and sympathy, they will make a strong
appeal to many a man and woman who came out
of just such a home and just such a circle and
moved presently to the city, as the authoress herself
did. In the fidelity with which she records the little
things she is as photographic almost as Henry
Lawson.
The Thing, by Gertie de S. Wentworth James
(T. Werner Laurie). You learn early that the
heroine Corina has “an insatiable desire for being-
made love to, and there is every indication that
hers is one of those tropical temperaments which
lead to trouble all through life —in youth because
men want to add extra fuel to the furnace, and in
maturity because they have to blaze away in pitiful
restless loneliness without anyone wanting even to
feel the glow from the flames.” From which a
very discerning reader might conclude that quite
a lot of hectic and very Gertie Jamesisli things are
about to happen to Corina. They do. All wofully
cheap—but Gertie sells by the bucketful.
Erik Dorn, by Ben Hecht (Putnam). An unusual
book by a man who can write and is careless of
convention in both matter and manner. It is in the
main an intimate study of a modern male American
mentally unstable, superficially brilliant and over
sexed. This is worked up on a background of social
facts and tendencies touched on with a cynical
sureness. With much clever writing in it, the
book is unedifying and leaves a bad taste in the
nose—the stuffy odor of bedrooms needing sunlight
and fresh air. And the men weep—this is recorded
by Hecht and so many other American writers and
picture producers as a matter of course. Does
the male Yankee do this thing habitually?
The Art of Blamire Young. A special number
of Art in Australia, uniform with the Arthur
Streeton and Hans Heysen books, and a notable
addition to the fine series this house is turning out.
There are nearly 40 excellent reproductions in color,
a selection which adequately shows Young’s range
and style's and in addition J. F. Bruce, M.A., gives
a sketch of the artist’s life and an estimate of his
work. Blamire Young’s water-colors must always
be provocative of argument because of his tricky
technique, but with all the talk it has to be con-
ceded that he represents a force in the development
of this branch of art in Australia. Thus this book
is a sort of milestone, and as such it is of special
interest apart from the intrinsic beauty of it, which
is a very definite quantity.


cjhuljil;k;'l272720
The Flag
for
Woo I growers,
and no strong puff is needed to attract
owners to it.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
give such good service and so consistently
secure top results, that sheepmen find it
invariably pays to consign wool—
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON,
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THE BARRY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing- is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
V
SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors'
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydiey
Sole Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Sydney Agent:
R. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade ZillC DUSt— Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES —Various grades.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Producers’ Association
LTD,,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ALDERDICE
Brassfoimdry, WARRNAMBOOL.
Prompt Delivery
Plumbers’
Requisites
Windmill
Pumps
'Medium Bibs, Stops, etc., Jin., fin., lin.
Standard Bibs, Stops, etc., lin., fin., lin.
Hose Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
. Ferrules, etc.
Tank Cocks, fin., lin.
Well Pumps, Bore Pumps, Artesian
Cylinders, Check Valves, Ball Valves.
[2
SB
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
manufactured throughout
h y CHKIBTOPHEK
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing: use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
C J
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
We will
show
a
shape,
every
week, t
4
mM
F.L.C. Pipes
are made by
French Diggers at
St. Claude (Jura), France,
and only the finest flawless
Briar is used in their manufacture.
98 Smart Shapes, Plain and Silver-mounted.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a postcard to
Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you where to get one.
THE WORLD'S BEST PIPE.
NON-CRACKING CORSICAN BRUYERE.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS
Against Cracking or Burning.
Any P.L.C. doing so within that
time will be replaced FREE.
Illustrated is Style 502,
Silver-mounted,
15/-
A TOOL ROOM NECESSITY
Australasian Agents:
Toolmakers declare this
machine to be of the greatest
service and indispensable to a
well-equipped shop.
For grinding hardened dies
and punches, truirig the legs of
jigs and similar work, you will
find the
Brown 8 Sharpe
No. 2
Surface
Grinding Machine
just the machine you need.
If you desire further informa-
tion we: will gladly send our
catalog, so that you can buy
intelligently and realise the
many superior features that
this machine contains.
Sc ruttons Limited,
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Dept. “ G.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Paudh”; If anyone lias a gold brick he
can’t sell, let him try his luck in Wairoa
(M.L.). No need to dust the brick, so long
as the weight is plausible. A week or two
ago the Magistrate’s Court there dismissed a
case against a native charged with obtaining
£460-odd on the “pretence” that he had
found a mine containing (1) large quantities
of gold, and (2) a diamond nine feet long,
four feet high and shaped like a dog!
* * * *
“Quebracho”: One of the national ser-
vices rendered by the Hughes line of steam-
ers is to bring us some of the things we
have here but are too shiftless to use. The
other day the Australrange reached Sydney
with 421 packages of quebracho wood-extract
from Argentina via Antwerp. It is bad
enough to import wattle-bark from S. Africa,
but it is over the odds to drag tanning
material from S. America as well. For
apart from the wattle-bark that we don’t
look after we have in Australia mangrove-
bark, mallet wood and dozens of other excel-
lent tanning materials.
• * * •
“Mirza”: A golden opportunity awaits
any firm of manufacturing chemists enter-
prising enough to exploit the medicinal pro-
perties of the pawpaw ( Oarica papaya).
The latest Therapeutic Notes prove that
the digestive ferment of this fruit acts in
acid, alkaline or neutral solution, thus help-
ing digestion even after the food has left
the stomach. It is capable of converting a
thousand times its weight of meat into pep-
tones, and its activity is unaffected by most
salts and antiseptics. Sir William Whitla,
an eminent authority, considers it infinitely
superior to pepsin, the normal gastric fer-
ment which acts only in acid solution.
* * * *
“Callitus”: While foreign countries, from
Argentina to California, and from the
Riviera to Maoriland, have been planting
Australian trees in all sorts of likely and
unlikely places, there is a strong school in
Australia which holds that imported trees,
especially pines, are the only ones worth
growing in this continent. But Queensland’s
Forest Director, E. H. Swain, doesn’t belong
to it. His department has been experiment-
ing a lot with Australian trees, and reckons
that they will beat the exotics hands down.
The lioop-pine, Bunya-pine and two species
of cypress-pine have all done well, and so
have tallow-woods, blackbutt and other euca-
lypts. Some of the eucalypts planted on
Fraser Island have grown over 50 feet in
seven years.
* * * *
“P.L.”: The striking of oil in the Blackall
district (Q.) will surprise no one who has
followed the history of J. H. Hart’s sinking
for water on his Springfield selection. Hart
spent £17,181 on this work and got down
7000 ft.—-alleged to be the deepest sinking in
the. Commonwealth. At a depth of 5450 ft.
the drill passed through shale from which
kerosene and paraffin-wax were obtained,
and Hart retains a plug of the latter. On
one occasion an imported expert was holding
forth in Hart’s presence on the impossibility
of finding oil in Australia. “The country,”
he remarked, “is too old: —too old for oil.
They are simply wasting money.” Hart
produced his plug of paraffin. “Maybe you’re
right,” he said, “but what d’ye call that?”
The expert called it a surprise. The Blackall
Land Court, in recognition of Hart’s enter-
prise in spending nearly £20,000 in sinking for
water, decided not to increase his rent on
Springfield, but the concession only applied
to the one section where the bore was sunk.
A little more consideration to so enterpris-
ing a citizen would have done no harm.
* * * *
“Tauwarra” dips his pen in gloom :
With copra down to £9 per ton at Moresby, and
rubber unsaleable at any price, planting in Papua
has come to a standstill. Most of the plantations
are past the development stage, and are rapidly
coming into bearing, and for a time it looked as
though the patience of Australian investors, and
the bullocking labor of the small men, would be
rewarded by a steady and increasing flow of divi-
dends. The unexpected collapse of prices—far below
the pre-war level—with no corresponding decrease
in the cost of foodstuffs, implements, plant, ocean
freights and other charges, has been disastrous. None
of the companies has reached the dividend-paying
stage, and in most cases every available penny of
capital has been spent in bringing the properties into
bearing. The outlook for investor, planter and
worker has an overlay of gloom, and unless the
Commonwealth Government steps in with some sys-
tem of temporary advances, or the banks overcome
their objection to leasehold titles, valuable estates
will be closed down, the jungle will choke them,
and of thousands of pounds of Australian
capital will be irretrievably lost. Normally about
6000 native laborers are under indenture in Papua,
in addition to an equal number of “casuals.” To-day
there are less than 1500 boys “signed on” for all
purposes, and this number is gradually decreasing.
The almost complete cessation of planting activities
is reflected in a steadily diminishing revenue, which
is derived almost entirely from import duties. Last
year Papua imported, principally from Australia,
nearly half a million pounds’ worth of goods. It
looks as if the 1921 total will be less than a quarter
of that. This alone means a heavy loss to Australian
manufacturers and merchants, and—what is of more
importance —the , loss of a market over which they
have enjoyed a virtual monopoly for many years. Is
the disastrous fiasco of the Northern Territory to
be repeated in Papua ?
SUCCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not as a conqueror I ride
Through leagues of eager shouting streets;
I have no large and splendid pride
In daring stunts or noble feats;
Yet something thrills me to the bone
And makes me feel I stand alone.
No epic flights my pen may reach,
No social grandeur marks my way,
I have not grasped the lightest peach
That grows upon the bough of pay ;
In fact, I should be rather rash
To even dare to mention cash.
But something more than common men
I still can brag of in the whisper
Of this plain black and simple pen—
-1 have grown lettuces jar crisper
Than the green rhymes of any poet,
They’re hearting finely; and I know it!
K.S.W.
P.O.M.


!
&
*
AC
STORAGE
R V
BATTE
*
✓
*
A'
r rt /
The list of possible bat-
tery insulating materials
contains dozens of differ-
ent woods, fibres, com-
pounds, natural materials
and patent preparations,
but there is only one good
enough to suit the partic-
ular battery user. That
is Willard Threaded Rub-
ber Insulation. You get
it only in the Still Better
Willard Battery.
STORAGE
BATTERY
W
rgw, „


GIFTS for SMOKERS
A “Magpie” Pipe makes a very
suitable Gift for any Smoker.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
“MAGPIE”
PIPES
are
100% Australian.
Cool and Sweet
from the First
Fill.
Guaranteed not
to burn or crack.
MADE BY RETURNED SOLDIERS.
Stocked in a variety of Styles by Leading
Tobacconists.
Wholesale only from
C. W. MOORE,
119 York Street, Sydney.
or
“MAGPIE” PIPE FACTORY,
Rear 15 McCracken’s Avenue,
Northcote, Vic.
9
: SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
If Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/-
Send Your Best Friend
one for CHRISTMAS.
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
76 PITT ST., SYDNEY
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
This is the BEST
Way 5 to Mark
all Linen
I
k
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear. Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH’S WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —12 doz.7/6 6 doz. SI- —3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH ETS:
85 CU3ITT ST., RICHMOND, VIC.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
A Great British Product
2%, 5 and 8
Horse-power
Stationary,
Semi-Portable
Portable.
'""urn
WlHttf
P ETTER
n cine
JUNIOR
OIL
(Runs on kerosene.)
The Reliable and Economical Power
for Driving Industrial and
Agricultural Machinery.
OVER 20,000 BEING
SUCCESSFULLY USED TO-DAY.
Made by PETTERS, LIMITED,
Yeovil, England.
Australian Representative:—•
LEE Iv. MURRAY, A.M.I.A'e.E.,
DALTON HOUSE,
115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents:—■
BRISBANE: The Intercolonial Boring Com-
pany, Ltd., 450-460 Ann Street.
SYDNEY: The Crudo Engineering Company,
3 Barrack Street.
MELBOURNE: The Kidd Milking Machine Co.,
Ltd.. 495 Bourke Street.
ADELAIDE: The South Australian Farmers’
Co-operative Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin St.
W\
%
Lubricating
Australia’s Industries
The development and improvement in implc-
meats and machinery during the past ten
years have aided the farmer immeasurably in secur-
ing bigger yields from each acre of ground.
Farm implements and machinery mean farm prosperity.
The most important single factor in keeping such equipment
•t its highest efficiency is scientific lubrication.
During the past 25 years the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Limited has
worked hand in hand with the inventor, the manufacturer, and the farmer m
raising the the standard of lubrication, so that the mechanical operations on the
farm could be accomplished smoothly, efficiently, and with a minimum of repairs
and depreciation.
Inventors and manufacturers generously acknowledge the help given by
this Company in solving their lubricating problems.
Farmers accept the name of the. Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. on &
package as an assurance of correct lubrication.
the work must go on.
Ask your storekeeper
for free booklet,
“ Petroleum on
the Farm.”
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
M 5 A
Lubricating Oils
Abrade for each type of service
: VACUUM OIL COMPANY PBPj
/
Jl
The Fragrance of
the Flower itself
Zenobia Perfumes faithfully reproduce the delicate
and lingering fragrance of sweet English flowers.
They give a charm and personal daintiness unobtain-
able by the use of ordinary scent. Delicate, yet last-
ing ; elusive, yet distinctive; subdued, yet refreshing.
Three favourite perfumes are
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, an exquisitely delicate fragrance.
Zenobia Night-Scented Stock, a sweet bewitching perfume.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the original scent of this name.
Zenobia
are obtainable at most high-class Chemists, Perfumers and Stores,
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd., Loughboro’, Leicestershire, 5 Eng.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only)—
KENNETH BUCKMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for New Zealand
(Wholesale only)
NEWSON & CO.,' LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
jSVWBOwI
-AUTOMATIC S
SAHITAJWSPWyW W
The “Walbow” when not in use.
HERE IS AN IDEAL
SANITARY SYSTEM!
One that is thoroughly up-to-date
and convenient for unsewered
homes, the
“WALBOW”
SANITARY SYSTEM.
Makes homes away from the sewer
as convenient and a' tractive as those
in the city!
Its automatic sanitary spraying device positively prevents the
breeding of flies and mosquitoes, and it is convenient and
healthy in every respect.
•
The simple mechanism cannot get out of order, and will last
a lifetime.
A necessity for every family.
Write or call for full details.
Pri ce complete.
THE WALBOW
SANITATION CO.
53 Rose Street, Darlington,
SYDNEY.
Showing
action
of spray
(seat
removed).
m
«OM ATIC
IfIisANITARy SPISAYE
“A.H.”: Beat this for coincidence. A
returned Digger recently applied for a
miner’s right, and drew his regimental num-
ber-2719.
“Gunnah”: “Big Bend” (B. 22/12/’2l)
calls to mind a battalion cobber who believes
in the luck of his regimental number. For
just on two years he has had a ticket in
every sweep promoted by Tatt.’s, and always
asks for the same numbered ticket. Al-
though he has not yet struck the big prize
he has drawn one fiver and three horses.
Two didn’t start, and as far as we can
gather the other ran up a lane.
“Wilfrido”: In a M.L. court a little while
ago questions in cross-examination centred
on the people who went to a certain dancing-
hall for which the rent had not been paid.
Counsel wanted to find out who was run-
ning the place, and was, therefore, liable
for the rent. “Are you not, Miss X., an
habituee V” “Gome, come, Mr. Costs,” a
horrified Bench chimed in, “There’s abso-
lutely no suggestion of impropriety in this
case.”
If the old Dooley Government had lasted
a little longer N.S.W. might have had (Jo
Ministers to pay instead of 13. And it still
may. The A.L.P., which gave orders to
Dooley, has an idea that Ministers should be
more or less replaced by committees of five;
though whether it is thought that the 65
should be paid £2OOO a year each is not
known. The only sure thing is that nobody
would be expected to do the alleged work
for nothing; for in the manufacture of pro-
fitable jobs the Labor party has shown a
capacity amounting to sheer genius.
“D.F.” : There is no lack of material for
a complete history of the Speck. The official
MS. documents, which J. Moore-Robinson has
been indexing and putting in order, nr™.her,
for the period 1825-1900, 2600 volumes of 270
pages each. They supply, among other things,
detailed information of the origin and pro-
gress of Port Arthur, perhaps the most in-
famous of Australasian penal settlements.
There is Arthur’s autograph minute, dated
September 7, 1830, giving instructions for the
foundation of Port Arthur, and the report of
J. J. Russell, the first commahdant, giving
details of the landing at the settlement on
September 22. Port Arthur was not origin-
ally designed as the super-penal settlement
it afterwards became, but as a timber station
to be worked by convicts, like Birch’s Bay and
other places in the Speck.
“Sixenate”: A seaman who suicided the
other day gave due notice that he was going
to spend all his money and then “do himself
in.” He got through £2B in eight days; then,
having 12s. Id. in the bank, he drew out
another 10s., spent it, and wiped himself out.
The leaving of the odd 2s. in the bank illus-
trates a very common reluctance in small
depositors to close an account. Savings banks
have hundreds of accounts which have not
been operated for years, but can’t be
closed because of a shilling or so left in
them. In many cases, of course, the small
credit stands for a pathetic hope of making
the account active once more; but that’s
hardly a hope that a very pessimistic suicide
would entertain. Other banks get over the
difficulty by making a charge of ss. a half-
year for keeping an account, so the trifle
soon disappears from the books.
“0.K.”: The old complaint that “the cli-
mate is changing” begins to carry w< ight
in Melbourne, anyhow. Rainfall recoided
for 1920 was about 10 per cent., and for
1921 about 14 per cent, above the average for
64 years. But" rainfall is only one feature.
Whilst Melbourne has been waxing wetter
it has been growing less sunny in the sum-
mer months. Of late years there has been
not infrequently a dull monotony of cold
days in December and January, and the
Cup week in our latest November is now
remembered as an oasis of comparative
warmth in a desert of chilliness. Indeed,
young men cannot remember a really hot
Cup week or even Cup day, such as was
the rule rather than the exception in the
eighties of last century, when seasons were
more clearly defined. No weather is unsea-
sonable nowadays in Melbourne; and from
all talk about the “glorious Australian cli-
mate” the pro tern, capital of the Common-
wealth ought to be counted out.
“Hanno” on a smellful subject:—
“Azrim’s” hazard that the odor of freshl'y-dead
bodies (B. 22/12/’2l) is due to deficient oxygenation
and lactic acid may be correct, but I don’t thim<
it is. The substance which forms in a body imme-
diately life ceases (sarcolactic acid) is altogether
odorless. More likely the odor is due to the forma-
tion of bodies closely allied to the ptomaines, or
amines, and from which the highly-poisonous pro-
ducts of decomposition, such as neurine and cada-
verine, are later formed, these being found generally
about four days after death. It is possible that the
first-formed bodies originate at the exact instant of
death, and that even the cessation of life in all cases
is due to them, no matter what the complaint that
brought them into existence. In other words, always
during life an exact equilibrium is maintained be-
tween these compounds and another set, and when
the equilibrium is destroyed by disease or accident
the former gain the upper hand and death at once
ensues. Before long we may be able to express
both life and death by means of a chemical equation;
indeed, it is probable that ws could now indicate
the equation for life.
“Theophrastus”: The Yankee scare-talk
about Germany’s discovery of synthetic
gold is —just talk. There are about 80 known
elements, or simplest for/ns of matter. Of
late scientists of the Wghest repute have
claimed to have obtain/d minute traces of
elements by the drastic treatment of other
quite dissimilar elements. In addition, the
radio-active elements are changing at vary-
ing speeds into other elements. But all this
really has little bearing on the making of
synthetic gold. Man cannot in any way
influence the spontaneous changing of the
radio-elements, and there has been bitter
controversy over the “transmutation”
claimed by Ramsav, Rutherford and others.
But assuming that a breaking-down of an
element by man is possible, it could only be
achieved by disintegrating an element into
two fragments, or new atoms, each weighing
less than the original. Gold is an element
with, comparatively, a very heavy atom, and
the only raw materials possible to work on
for its synthetic production are a few
elements of still higher atomic weight, which
are so rare and uhique in properties that
they are actually more valuable than gold
itseß.


STAV
m
m
JiJNOSNHOfa-t
<>»st>u™
JOM^pWItOKJ,^
wp|7py»
111 &3©o3ffls
n
SK?
i 1 —^
&u©BCJ3&
£
PLJ®
&
as
Mi
i>slk»
LX
*32*
SfiK
«MJM
miii
sw*
3*3
IJ
;SS£
S=
c ßgnew Tour Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking ? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to ke§p clean—they require but little care.
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON
379 Kent St.
& SON
Sydney, N. S. W.
“HIS MASTERS VOICE”
THE PERFECT GRAMOPHONE.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE” is the instrument
which the world’s greatest artists have
selected as the best to reproduce their artistry,
and their records are only heard to their best
advantage when played upon the instrument
specially constructed for the purpose.
“His Master’s Voice”
The World’s Choice.
We stock all models of “HIS MASTER’S
VOICE.” Each instrument is complete with
every effective modern device for the perfect
reproduction of records.
CABINET MODELS.
GRAMOLA No. 2 ... . 85 guineas
GRAMOLA No. 3 .. . . 68 guineas
LIBRARY GRAND ... 54 guineas
STUDIO GRAND .... 37 guineas
The MELBA 36 guineas
TABLE MODELS.
The TASMAN
The ZEALAND
The AUSTRAL
The JENOLAN
The EXCELLO
25 guineas
23 guineas
17 guineas
18 guineas
12 guineas
iCJIGIZ.
I
*n.
£>• <;
\y
ivl
BRANCHES
BRISBANE
NEWCASTLE
TOOWOOMBA
ROCKHAMPTON.
LISMORE
SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
AND FULL PARTICULARS
OF OUR EASY TERMS.


cjhuljil;k;'l272720
%e largest selling
quality pencil in
theyvoxl&
TENUS
PENCILS
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
V. *
V-
s XI
O \V/
WPS*
, J 'l* vnn» .
JjMjfc <
U\
1
*
\
RIDE A
BICYCLE
BUILT OF
BSA
FITTINGS
It will serve you as a reliable and
ever-ready servant for many years
and will cost practically nothing in
upkeep during that time.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH
Handbook post free
A
B.S.A.*
L_r_—
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Qo. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
If anv illustration appearing m The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—3B per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.S3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Guaranteed chemically pure
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
the: colonial rubber co. ltd.,
Head Office, 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney,
Also at
Ask youf
Garage
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street,
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
For Every Smoker
During 1922-
—there is a GBD Pipe that will give
maximum smoking comfort every
day.
Made by London experts from genuine
French Briarwood, thoroughly
matured, GBD Pipes ensure a cool,
sweet smoke always.
Get on the track of smoke comfort
now —buy a GBD to-day.
Many
shapes
popular
From
8/6
On
Sale
Everywhere.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Pongo”: That 50-mile row of the Finn
brothers, which “D.F.” (B. 15/12/’2l) considers the
finest bit of distance rowing done in Australia, was
beaten by a little job done by Mick Rush. Half-a-
cer.tury ago the famous old-timer was living
at Rocky Mouth, now Maclean, Clarence River, and
he rowed Mrs. Rush and her sick child to the doctor
at Grafton and back —a distance of 72 miles —all
on the one day. A heavy farmer’s boat was used.
* * * *
American economists are arguing that
motor-car prices are bound to be forced down by
the simple fact that the country is “saturated’
has got all it can possibly use, and so must manu-
facture only for export, or for the mere replacing
of cars worn out. There were only 70,000 in use
in the U.S.A. 15 years ago; and now there are
9,000,000, which is one to every 12 inhabitants,
or about one for every two adult white men, native
born.
* * * *
“Smike”: Clem Hill still holds a few re-
cords that will take a lot of beating. His total
of 3271 against English teams in Australia and his
2660 in English-Australian Test matches are ahead
of any other player’s aggregate before or since. If
Armstrong continues in the game, he will probably
overhaul Hill’s tally of 2930 in the struggles be-
tween Vic. and S. Australia. The big fellow s
figures are now 2843. But he needs 428 to beat
Noble for the prize for the highest aggregate (2829)
in the Vic.-N.S.W. engagements. As he has only
four innings to get the required number this season,
it is very probable that he will have to wait for
the 1922-3 term to put Mary Ann into second place.
Meantime Armstrong’s future remains a subject of
speculation. A while back it was alleged that he
was going to live in Sydney as manager for a
whisky firm; but according to his people he has
made no definite decision on this point.
* * * »
“Smike” : Though there is no excuse for
the language used by batrackers in the Vic.-N.S.W.
cricket match in Melbourne, there are grounds
for protest over the conduct of the game. One fea-
ture of the contest was the protraction of the inter-
vals for lunch and afternoon-tea and the custom of
beginning and knocking off two or three minutes
on the wrong side of 12 and 6 o’clock. Another
standing grievance was_ the absurd caution of the
batsmen, who prodded at soft ones which Harry
Graham or Hill would have pounded to the boun-
dary without hesitation. And as if the batsmen’s care
was not enough, bowlers were instructed to try
“leg” and “off” theories with the usual clusters
of fieldsmen on each side, and the usual large
majority of balls passing untouched by the person
holding a piece of stationary wood in Ins hands. The
dreariness introduced into cricket by “scientific”
methods would make some ot tne ueparteu grants
of the game turn in their graves.
* * * *
“J.”: Sam McVea, who died in America
recently, was one of the whitest blacks who ever
drew on a glove. Stripped and masked, he was that
most beautiful sight in Nature —a perfectly-formed
man. Jeff Smith, who fouled Les Darcy to
escape a hiding on points, was the only human
being I ever saw to approach McVea for
grace of line and movement. McVea was the
blackest of all the coon boxers, and as regards his
face the most hideous. He was also the humblest
and the best-behaved. He never stated his ability
to beat anybody: the furthest he went was to hope
for the best. ” And he always seemed anxious to
turn from his own achievements to those of someone
else—preferably Langford. He held, in 1914, that
every pugilist in the world, including Johnson, was,
in his heart, afraid of Langford. McVea was a
delightful boxer to watch, of the classic, upstanding
type, and the cat-like left hook for which he was
chiefly famous was like Johnson’s upper-cut: it
penetrated any defence.
The news that Jack McAuliffe, ex-liglit-
weight -champion of the world, is touring Ireland
in search of a heavyweight to beat Dempsey, recalls
that Erin as a direct supplier of front-rank pugs
stands on about the same level as Palestine. Jem
Roche, whom Tommy Burns licked in Dublin in
1907, was the last native-born Hibernian to bear
even a faint resemblance to a champion. And yet
the Irish, like the Jews, have persistently led in
this department in other countries. Many of Eng-
land’s best, from Deaf Burke onwards, have been
Irish on both sides when they weren’t Welsh; and
the fight which is usually regarded as the first
official contest for the championship of America was
that in 1882 between John L. Sullivan and Paddy
Ryan. John L., though born in Boston, had Irish
parents. In Australia, as in the U.S., the list of
champions and near-champions reads like the roll-
call of a Self-Determination League. It is a melan-
choly fact, however, that most of the unchallenged
masters, the Napoleons of the noble art, have been
niggers—nonpareils such as Peter Jackson, Johnson,
Langford and an army of others.
* * * *
A majority of Australia’s Test cricketers
should clear nearly £lOOO apiece for their year’s
work —£400 for the English tour, £BB from
S’Africa, and £125 for the five local Tests,
plus their payments for inter-State games. W. G.
Grace was said, by one perquisite and another, to
have made about £l5OO a year out of the game
while in his prime, but the average English ama-
teur-pro. is satisfied with a secretaryship, or other
camouflage job worth no more than £lO or £l2 a
week. The well-paid Australians are in a sense more
truly amateurs than many Englishmen who would
fall dead at the thought of walking out of the
pros, gate' at Lords. That is to say, our men —
overseas tours apart—make cricket a week-end
pastime while with their lilywhite brethren on the
other side it is a business. But, according to the
stern standards of, say, the prize-ring, one and all
stand in the same category as the blackest coon
that ever transferred himself by virtue of his punch-
ing ability from a wharf side barrel life to a £lOOO
motor-car one. The annual domino championship
seems to be one of the few sports we have left that
remains free from any suspicion of taint.
* * * *
Gabled lately from Maoriland that, in
winning the Islington Plate at Auckland, the Absurd
-Leta colt Thespian ran the mile with Bst. 21b. in
“36 3-5,” incidentally finishing a couple of lengths
in front of Gloaming. This sets up a new Austral-
asian record, “two-fifths” better than the speediest mile
ever run in the Commonwealth —“37” by Green-
stead at Randwick and by Cetigne at Flemington.
That such time should be registered by a three-year-
oid is amazing, for only very occasionally have
horses of that age been able to run a mile right out
with older animals. Speciality is the only colt to
do it of recent years at Randwick, and when he
took the Doncaster he carried 71b. less than Thespian
and spent nearly lsee. longer on the journey. M.L.
has always been a home-from-home for racing
records. Taking the 11 racing distances from 4 fur-
longs to a mile and three-quarters, the Dominion
claims records in five of them, and equal time with
the Commonwealth’s best for a sixth —Winning Hit’s
10 furlongs in “3£,” the time put up by Beauford
in the Craven. The claims for supremacy are Gloam-
ing’s 45sec. for four furlongs, at Wellington;
Machine Gun’s 58sec. for five, at Christchurch; Kil-
boyne’s “10” for six, also at Christchurch; Duo’s
“58f” for a mile and three-quarters, at Welling-
ton ; and Thespian’s “36 3-5” for a mile. Until
Remmon put the seven-furlong Tramway Handicap
of 1920 past in “244” M.L. also claimed the record
at that distance for Arrowsmith —“251,” at Christ-
church. By the time test M.L. horses are, up to
10 furlongs, much speedier than the gees at Rand-
wick. But for that matter four of the last six
A.J.C. Derbies have been won by animals brought
across the Tasman.
(Continued on page 53,)


cjhuljil;k;'l272720
isttß Engines
For Kerosene, Petrol or Town Gas.
“Seven years without a penny for repairs!”
E. STARLING, Esq., Dalby, Q., writes, 24th August, 1920:
Would like to mention that my 2 2 "horsepower Lister,’
which I have had m constant use for seven years, is work-
ing better than ever. It has not cost a penny for repairs
since I installed it.”
R. LUNN, Esq., Mossman, N.Q., writes, December 22, 1919:
In connection with 8-h.p. ‘Lister’ Engine, I would mention
that we commenced work with it on the 9th August, 1913,
and it has averaged about four nights a week, and is
running as strong to-day as when we first started it nearly
62 years ago, and cost for repairs only 9ch, being for a
1 ripper Spring renewal. But that should be charged to
the Magneto, leaving the engine blameless.”
Are you thinking it is about time you had a reliable
engine? Are you wondering how you can select one
by performances?
Well, have you read those two letters on the left? Aren’t
they the sort of evidence you want—the experiences of actual
users? We have tried to tell you before that the “Lister” is
reliable, that it has practically nothing to go wrong, that it
has the long life which only British construction can give—
and perhaps you thought it was only “advertising talk.’’ But
here we show you two letters representative of the scores in
our files from all over Australia—don’t they prove our claims
and more? And reliability is not the only point about the
“Lister” Engine. Look at the
LISTER FEATURES: Automatic Lubrication (“Oil once a month—the engine does the
rest”), Throttling Governor, H.T. Magneto Ignition, Pump Fuel Feed, Mechanically-
operated Valves with adjustable tappets, Detachable Water jacket Head and Dust-proof
Casing for all working parts.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD .... Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD Brisbane
MALLOCH BROS Perth
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD Hobart
There is genuine comfort in the thought that your Hupmchile conserves fuel
by making every gallon go farther. Owners demonstrate that the Hupmobile
gives 25 miles per gallon in actual running on the road.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase.—ll 2 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3% in. bore x 5 in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication.—Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clinchers or 32in. x 4in
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
i. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720


A. Sar.E ders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/10/-
\ funders’ fine Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
Cj
n
A Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £35.
Smaller Dia-
monds, £25..
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set fine double-cut Diamond,
£6/10/-. Smaller Dia-
monds, £5/10/-
■ nsMSßuz-tw v
A.
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15cc. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Trefoil Riiig,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £25/-
Smaller Diamond,
£2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever
movement, £3o* Smaller Diamonds, £4:O, £3o*
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Octagon Wristlet Watch, full jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Larger Diamonds, £25, £3O-
- Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Square Wristlet Watch, full jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Larger Diamonds, £25.
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scarf
Pin, ISct. Gold,
£3.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring. 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ fancy Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch, ISct.
Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamonds', £5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Links,
set double-cut Dia-
mond, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Sounders’ fine white double-cut Diamond Single Stone
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £35,
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED
POST FREE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ Diamond Cluster three-bar Bracelet, 15ct.
Gold, £2O. Smaller Diamonds, £l5.
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp.
Railway Station),
SYDNEY.
A Powerful Water Raiser
for Farm, Station or Orchard
The
“BILLABONG”
Windmill
is doing excellent service in many parts of the Commonwealth. It is made
in Australia and specially designed to suit Australian conditions.
Smooth and easy-running—substantial in construction—and a Quality
mill through and through, the “Billabong” is without doubt a leader of
its class.
A special feature of the “Billabong” Windmill is the patented Speed
Regulator and Governor that will not allow the wheel to “race” in heavy
winds, while the bearings are so accurately aligned and sensitive that the
lightest breeze is converted to useful power. It is a usual sight to see a
“Billabong” Mill working when others are idle.
When fitted with the Automatic Tank Supply Regulator, the “Billabong”
stops or starts itself according to the level of the water in the tank. This
allows you to go about your other duties without any fear of stock being
left unwatered, or of any wastage occurring by
overflow from the tank.
If you are looking, not merely for a windmill,
but for real Windmill Service, investigate the merits
of the “Billabong.”
The “Billabong” Book is post free for the
asking—shall we send YOU a copy? Write NOW I
*pm *^a-
- \
ft *
2 Sal
o
a
IWZ7,/'
0
x
fp*\
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720


Amusements.
|y| ELISA XHEA'i'Ufc, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SELZNICK.
Missing Friends.
Re WILLIAM LANDSBOROUGH,
Deceased.
Lionel boyd landsborough, last
heard of at 'Suva, Fiji Islands, is re-
quested to communicate with the Public
Curator of Queensland, Brisbane, before the
thirty-first day of March, 1922.
Dated this fifth day of January, 1922.
F. W. MOLE, Public Curator,
Brisbane.
Legal Notice.
I
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES. IN EQUITY.
No. 8870 of 1920.
PURSUANT to the direction of the Master in
Equity made by virtue of the Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in lts E^ t 1 ab |®
Jurisdiction dated the 26th day o£ ~f us f us^ FT
the matter of the Trusts of the wiL of MICHAh
O’MARA late of Rock Lodge Young in the State of
New South Wales farmer deceased in a suit NumDer
8870 of 1920 wherein Janies Michael Durning is
Plaintiff and Margaret Putt Catherine Samuels Ellen
James Michael O’Mara the younger Sarah Northover
Bedelia O’Mara Elizabeth Maude Cormack and Ciaia
O’Mara are defendants by which said Order it was
referred to the Master in Equity to enquire whether
James O’Mara a son of the abovenamed Michael
O’Mara deceased and named as a beneficiary under
the will of the said Testator is living or dead or
whether the said James O’Mara pre-deceased the
said Testator with or without leaving issue surviving
the said Testator the said James O’Mara or the
children if any of the said James 0 Mara or the j
legal representatives of such of them as may have
survived the said Michael O’Mara who died on or
about the 4th day of April 1919 are hereby required
in person or by their solicitors on or before the
20th day of February 1922 to come in and prove
their. claims at the Office of the Master in kcfttitj
Elizabeth Street Sydney New South Wales by filing
an affidavit in support thereof or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the benefit
of the said decretal order.
Monday the 27th day of February 1922 at the
hour of 11 of the o’clock in the forenoon at the said
Office of the Master in Equity is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims, .
Dated this 14th day of December a.d. 1921.
W. A. PARKER, Master in Equity.
L. L. HOGAN, Solicitor for Plaintiff, Young.
Bv his Agents:—
McELHONE & BARNES, Solicitors,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
OF CITATION.
To TIMOTHY O’BRIEN formerly of , Boulder in the
State of Western Australia Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia citing you
to appear and answer the Petition of Rose Amelia
O’Brien of Boulder praying for a dissolution of
marriage and for the custody of the children of
the marriage on the ground that you on the 6th
November 1918 without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted the said Rose Amelia O’Brien your lawful
wife and without any such cause or excuse left her
continually deserted from that time to the present.
IN DEFAULT of your not appearing you will not
be allowed to address the . Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereof. AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within 45 days after the date of this publi-
cation to attend in person or by your solicitor at
the Central Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
in the State of Western Australia and there to
enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
(1.5.) T. F. DAVIES, Registrar.
BALFOUR, SCOTT and MUfIR, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Boulder, by their Agent, GEORGE
HORT JOSEPH, of 2ft Weld Chambers, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
[To be advertised twice in The Binlevin, a news-
paper published at Sydney, at an interval of one
week. —T.F.D.]
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
that
SELL
<sy i
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
If you are fond of drawing you can
easily be taught how to make money in
your own home. There is such a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr. J. C. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by his easy
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexesT are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks himself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don’t
YOU Learn?
The Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Pays” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks will be very pleased
to write you his opinion of it —free.
But write for the book now, and judge
for yourself.
J. C. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W,
SYDNK Y’S CHIEF THEATRES
J. C. WILT.TAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BOY.
CRITERION:
SINBAD THE SAILOR.
ROYAL:
MERRIE ENGLAND.
PALACE:
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY'.
HOST'S - THEATRES, MELIiODUNI!
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
A UNIVERSAL STAR PRODUCTION,
NO WOMAN KNOWS.
HARRY CAREY in
THE FREEZE OUT.
Prices as usual.
tb£lP©m
When you see a Pillar Box
remember to get an Onoto.
The Onoto is like the Pillar Box—always
ready for your letters.
A twist with thumb and finger releases the ink,
and the Onoto writes on without giving you a
moment’s worry. The Onoto fills, itself too, and
when sealed by a turn of the hand it can no more
leak than you can get your letter back after
posting it.
And like the Pillar Box —the Onoto is a British
Institution —made by De La Rue of London.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO.. LTD.
Bnntaill Row, London, E.C. 1.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS
C. WILLIAMSOX, LTD., MELISOUKJNt.
- ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
JOHN T>. O'HARA in
THE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S THEATRE.
MARIE TEMPEST and GRAHAM BROWNE in
TEA FOR THREE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. \\ dliamson, Ltd.
Now Touring Victoria.
BEN & JOHN FUELER. LTD., MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE
BLUEBEARD.
PALACE THEATRE,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Prices. Matinges Daily.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA K. YOUNG in
CHARGE IT.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
"jg RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
rHE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Tasmanian Tour:
NATIONAL THEATRE, LAUNCESTON.
Season Commencing SATURDAY, JANUARY 28.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gold Seal
(oNGOLEUM
AIT.MOI
GUARANTEE
GHaBANTEED
SATISFACTION
OR YOUR
MONEY -Will
REFUNDED
'/At*.
1
1
ia
mxTfrr
m
m
*9
<r
X.
nSV
v\
NC
sX
*
x^
5s
X
IS
N
A\\ \ -
For Your Bedroom
The bedroom, more than
any other room in the house,
needs to be kept dust-free
and healthfully clean.
It's the easiest thing imagin-
able to remove dust and fluff
from the smooth sanitary
surface of a Congoleum Rug.
A damp mop does it in a
moment.
They are so inexpensive that
anyone can afford them, yet their
beauty adds immeasurably to the
attractiveness of the home.
They come in artistic patterns
suitable for every room in the house
and are made in the following
sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
or write
Brown & Dureau JLtd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


Virginia Cigarettes
10. for 9d. 20 for 1/6
Count the points —
of " Prince Charming ” cigar-
ettes their delightful mild
fragrance due to the beautifully
mellowed and ripened Virginia
leaf, the perfection of their
paper and packing. The “ Prince
Charming is thoroughly
worthy of its name. It is
the Prince of cigarettes and a
favourite with all.
T
s
\~w,
■ £S>.
Manufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd., London , England .
A 24
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
Royal “Merrie England”
Criterion “Sinbad the Sailor”
Palace “The Private Secretary”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOlt COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Laughter of Fools”
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood”
King’s ; . “Tea for Three”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum ; Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“You’re in Love,” with the trappings ancl
appurtenances thereof, will vanish from Syd-
ney Royal to-morrow night. On Saturday
the gap will be filled by “Merrie England,”
concerning which favorable reports come
from London and, Melbourne, not to mention
Moonta and Mundabundanoona.
* * * *
“The Boy” is still dragging his step-
father along the primrose path at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. And Arthur Stigant’s
efforts to eat soup and wink at a ravish-
ing vision in pink silk and perforated hose
at the same time is a source of abiding in-
terest to elderly gentlemen who have tried
to compass the two operations.
* * >;■ *
On Tuesday Frank Harvey was seen for
the last time in his spinster-taming act, and
locked the door finally on the anguished
maiden lady who bursts into the supposed
bridal chamber with a piercing ‘Am I too
late?” On Saturday the heroic Walenn, of
Gilbert and Sullivan celebrity, will essay to
discover, at the Sydney Palace, whether a
generation that endured two helpings of
“Scandal” has any appetite for a late-Vic-
torian farce—“ The Private Secretary,” to
wit.
** * *
The panto at Sydney Criterion, with
Jennie Hartley, Grade Lavers, Jack Can-
not, Phil Smith and Hassan’s Cat to keep
it moving, continues to be a streak of joy
in a flitch of gloom. Among other things,
it boasts a large and elegant assortment of
a fundamental of art and a staple of modern
civilisation. Namely, Leg's.
As charming and artistic a trio of song-
birds and music-makers as have been
heard since the Spring are now nested at the
Sydney Tivoli. Popular soprano Carrie
Lanceley renders exquisitely “Love, Here Is
My Heart” and the Bach-Gounod “Ave
Maria,” with : the popular “Cornin’ thro’
the Rye” for 1 an extra. Emily Finn lifts
her violin to the skies, and Rosa Walton,
piano accompanist, makes a hit also with
light ditties. For the rest, Wilkie Bard
drops out on Friday, and Togo, the Japanese
juggler, will help to hold the fort till Satur-
day, when the heavens will open and pour
Ella Shields and Bert Gilbert upon a hungry
earth.
*
Don Byrne swings into the film busi-
"The Boy," at Sydney
Majesty's.
Magistrate Burridge
(Leslie Holland ) as a
jujube fiend.
ness with “The
Woman God
Changed,” at Syd-
ney Lyceum. Sena
Owen, the heroine
of this strenuous
melodrama, starts'
out with a murder
to her account;
and this sets her
a hot pace which
only terminates
with the last reel.
“The Affairs of
Anatol” are shown
at the Globe —not,
however, the
affairs of the
naughty Anatol of
Schnitzler, but
those of his Ameri-
can cousin, who,
of course, only
plunges into the
surf with thc« best
intentions. Flapper
limbs with the
lightest covering
occupy the Crystal
Palace sheet. The
title is “tip in
Mary’s Attic.” The
H aymarket is
causing a great
rustling of mar-
riage licenses. It
asks its patrons
the pointed ques-
ti o n “Are You
Legally Married?”
“Sherry” is the
near - intoxicant
poured out at the
Strand.
“The Laughter of Fools,” at Melbourne
Royal, revives memories of “Peg o’ My
Heart.” There is the same old haughty dow-
ager with the bounder son and superiaw
daughter wreaking their dreadful breeding
on the poor female relation whose over-
whelming sweetness ensnares the first afflu-
ent youth who happens on the scene. Added
to this time-worn plot is the incredible
head of the household, who finds his family’s
snobbery offensive, and connives, between
his spasms of vegetable gardening, to pro-
mote a bright future for the relative afore-
said. A flavor of American stage fiction
is given to the play when the stonebroke
ancient buys for £5OOO a worthless property
which is almost immediately snapped up by
a railway company that hands the mad in-
vestor a profit of £2OOO. John D. O’Hara,
who oJays the part, only needs a Hayseed
hat and a corn-cob pipe to introduce a whiff
of old Missouri into the stately atmosphere
of the Grieg household. As it is he is
Yankee enough in his methods, and occa-
sionally drifts near a sniffing sentimentality
that can only be relieved by a large ban-
dana. Nellie Mortyne, as Mrs. Grieg, pours
out the vials of her pride on all and sundry,
whilst maintaining her lofty station on an
immaterial income. Eileen SparkeS’s con-
sistent extravagance of pose and gesture
leaves the nasty Mabel without a redeeming
feature. Roger Barry pictures Bertie’s de-
pressing haughtiness with more propriety;
but all his acting cannot bridge the social
and temperamental gulf between Bertie and
the lovely hero, Frank Freeman. An in-
come of £15,000 a year doesn’t prevent
“YOU'RE IN LOVE," AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Frith as Aloysius
Win, an escaped
husband.
Frank descending to menial tasks and
blithering about the joys of shelling peas.
Also he has the same heartache for the
down-and-out as an earnest mission-worker.
Frank is a manly figure, and Doris Kendall
is impeccable as the dutiful angel Doris.
Lorna Helms, as a nightmare servant made
up like the “Before Taking” of a medicine
advt., precipitates a pile of crockery over
the. footlights and reveals a red under-gar-
ment at hilarious intervals. A further dash
of imbecility is imparted by Pirie Bush in
attempting to attach himself to the frigid
Mabel: and old friends J. B. Atholwood and
Eardley Turner have too little to do as a
picturesque, old-fashioned lawyer and a
breezy representative of a railway co.
** * *
The J.C.W. production of “Babes in the
Wood” continues to be a feast for Naughton
and a show for Gold, whose voices were
never intended to reach the back rows of
Melbourne Majesty’s. The pair make no
lasting imnrehsion with their rather foggy
patter and their conventional antics, yet
they delay the progress of events and are
permitted to rush into situations where most
of the other principals fear to tread. Appa-
rently no sense of proportion afflicted the
producer in allotting the duties L” his tre-
mendbus east. Maid Marion (Nellie Leach),
after one song and a few perfunctory appear-
ances in the first, act, ventures rarely, if ever,
into the second; whilst the handsome Norah
Delaney is seemingly forbidden to overwork
anything but her face. Just for the sake of
her position as the panto’s hero, there ought
to be more room for her, and a wider respon-
sibility could be given to Percy without leav-
ing him overwhelmed. During the show
Billy professes a yearning for a job as a
policeman or a. clerk in Australia House, but
he needn’t grumble—as Baron Bazouker he
has hardly more to do, and presumably gets
a big salary for doing it.
* * * *
Bluebeard’s whiskers are. still waving in
the forefront of affairs at Melbourne Prin-
cess’s, and his voice has not abated in
violence after many days of roaring at
Fatima de Tisne. For her part, Fatima
has not become a less seductive titbit for the
potentate’s harem, nor has her young rival
in daintiness, Polly McLaren, lost any of her
power to charm with her festive legs. 1 oily s
dancing amounts to a Great Event in Lhe
panto, because it outshines the compara-
tively heavy footwork of other soloists and
the ballet.
***:!•'
In “Tea for Three” at the King’s, Graham
Browne is still nursing a platonic affection
that shows an occasional flicker of the cave-
man spirit. In all stage fiction there never
was a philanderer whose emotions are so
difficult to diagnose. When he gets Mrs.
Carter into his room he is both intimate and
distant —at one moment respectfully worship-
ping, at the next almost ready to soil her
record and dash into the limelight as a co-
respondent. No wonder the funereal hus-
band is baffled by his lady’s fashionable
acquaintance. Probably the real reason why
Philip was urged to suicide was not because
he was a possible rival, but because his enig-
matic behavior was giving hubby brain-fag
when he wanted his mind fresh for high
finance.
s’: * *
Apparently nothing mars the success of
Fuller’s “Babes in the Wood,” at Melbourne
Palace. Certainly the orchestra is under
strength and there are openings for a few
more Venuses in the ballet, but these short-
comings are hardly noticed in the general
interest in George Ward and Les Warton,
who have an amazing amount of dialogue
thrust upon them. But 'their humor often
justifies their lingering in the limelight.
Their gramophone item, in which Warton
as a human record beefs out bits of opera
and then absent-mindedly drifts into “Just
Before the Battle, Mother,” is still able to
bring laughs from even the doorkeepers.
* * >:= *
Owing to the alleged demand of General
Desire the foolish and freakish “Dance of
Death” has been revived at Melbourne Tivoli,
and The Bulletin prays for the forgiveness
of the management. Still, the present Tivoli
menu is not all gruesomeness and banality.
There is Ada Cerito specialising in character
comedy numbers and getting a good hand with
every item. Also Riekaby’s robust humor is
making a fresh start in life with the new
Dago feature, “Okey De Poke,” and in the
more fruity Cockney melody, “They Built
Piccadilly for Me.”
** * *
What a sister will do for a distressed
musical brother and his extravagant wife is
explained with harrowing detail in “No
Woman Knows,” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this
week —a tale-of self-sacrifice that the movies
dote on. It is a pleasure to turn from this
weepy fiction to the death-defying behavior
of Harry Carey in “The Freeze Out,” or to
the amorous demonstrations of Betty Ilil-
burn and others in the impassioned “You
Can’t Kill Love.” The Majestic is mainly
concerned with the exhibition of Fannie
Ward in “Common Clay,” a drama proving
that even a Judge can be too careless in mis-
laying one of his offspring. The second item,
“Dollars and Destiny,” has passages as sweet
as a pastoral poem, but again thtere are
periods of gambling and misery to point the
moral and distend the tale. At the Britan-
nia “The Cup of Life” is brimming oyer with
Oriental sensationalism, whilst for a small
coin at the Melba stray bachelors can in-
spect the elixir of wife in Gloria Swanson’s
version of Elinor Glyn’s “Great Moment.”
But this page wishes Gloria would find a less
fantastic dressmaker.
- $ $
The Pierrot-Punch people have had a
change of management, and John Howden,
Paul Dulac and dancer Fred Mackay now
run the Melbourne seaside show. They are
a musical crew, and have bagged quite a lot
of native talent from the ’Varsity Con. John
Gough, a youngster of 18, threatens to de-
velop into, something extra on the ’cello, and
Edwin Hames puts in a little good violin
work. With Myrtle Skewes at the piano
they do some ambitious trios.
** * *
Haddon Chambers and his last play:—
Preparations are afoot in London for the staging of
Haddon Chambers’s last play—-a comedy of modern
life entitled, felicitously enough, considering that
the interest moves round an old gambler and his
daughter, “The Card Players.” Evidently it was
the late author’s pet bantling; at any rate he assured
Malcolm Watson, the London Daily Telegraph critic,
that it was the best thing he had ever done. He
did not live to quite finish it: the last half-dozen
pages had to be written by another hand. But as the
story was well known to several of Chambers’s inti-
mates, there was little difficulty in rounding the
piece off. Lyn Harding, excellent actor and the
latest to become a West-end manager (he is at George
Alexander’s old Stand, the St. James’s), has “The
Card Players” in hand and will take the part of the
old gambler.
Australia knows comparatively little of her leading
dramatist. That he was born in Sydney, that the
friends of his boyhood knew him as Charley, and
that he is dead, all are aware of. That !he wrote
“Captain Swift,” “The Idler,” “The Tyranny of
Tears” and other things most people know. But as to
the kind of fellow he was little has been said. There
is quite an air of prehistoric mystery hanging about
the man’s name for his Australian countrymen.
Haddon Chambers went to England at a compara-
tively early age, having satisfied himself that while
the lot of the ordinary man of letters in Australia
was one of austerity, the dramatist was wholly
superfluous. Almost immediately he ceased to be an
Australian. Although in his earlier comedies there
was some recognition of the existence of his home-
land, he really had no more use for his native country
than she appeared to have for him. That infatua-
tion which took hold of Johnson 120 years earlier,
when he said “No, sir, when a man is
“Bluebeardat Mel-
bourne Princess's.
Jim Gerald as the
Dame.
tired of London he is
tired of life,” soon pos-
sessed Chambers. He
was more completely
won over than the
ordinary Australian;
the fog veiled us from
his eyes entirely, and
meeting him in any
gathering of celebri-
ties at the time when
“T h e Tyranny o f
Tears,” for example,
was filling his purse,
you would have taken
him for an English-
man of the rather
elderly school, mod-
ishly mannered, full
of arts and graces,
kissing fair fingers
with a murmured “My
very dear, sweet
lady!” and a play of
'the hand that should
have been graced with
a cambric kerchief
and set off with
silken laces. One
Australian thing he
retained—the local
color. His complexion
was evenly tanned and
illumined with fine,
dark brown eyes, and
as he greyed he assumed a rather distinguished
appearance, and there went with it an increase
of amiability and an access of gallantry. He was
prepared to make love to every woman he met. He
now more than ever suggested a successful understudy
to Brummel; only the skirted coat of figured satin,
the white ig and the laces were necessary to the
completion and perfection of the beau.
His attitude towards the dames was always that
of the devoted squire. His exaggerated courtesy set
London laughing. His graceful bend over a white
hand, his murmured devotion, his neat, epigram-
matic compliments broadened all smiles; but an
ever-present sly suggestion that he top thoroughly
understood the humor of the situation disarmed critic
cism, and there was no man in the set he most
favored more liked than he.
The author of so many popular plays might easily
have been a very prosperous man. But Chambers
had two detrimental qualities: he was incurably
improvident and incredibly lazy. He never wrote
except under compulsion, and then the whip had
to cut deep. The profits of one play being dissi-
pated, and the final avenue for the raising of tem-
porary loans closed, he would get down to his
lank slips of copy once more, and labor with the
feverish energy of a man who hates work. Remark-
able success attended his toil: no play of his could
be dubbed a failure. In funds again, once more the
butterfly was free to favor the flowers with his deli-
cate attentions. He was welcomed at scores of
big country houses, and spent his time flitting from
one garden to another, toying, not with a rose
here and there or a chance lily, but with every
bloom of the hothouse. This dalliance was main-
tained as long as a few guineas were available to
tip the servants; then back to his muse went the
dapper philanderer.
No experience could teach Chambers the value of
money. Having been miserably “down to it” for
a few months, with his exchequer replenished he
went after the involved life again with the lavish
zest of a p'rodigal with ten thousand a year. A
friend met the playwright fresh from a swell house
where the servants had got the last of his purse.
Only certain small unpledged royalties re-
mained to see him through a trying time, but he
was brisk, bronzed and buoyant as ever. They next
met in New York, whither Chambers had gone to
supervise the production of a comedy, and the good
friend was carried off to the dramatist’s “poor dig-
gings,’’ which proved to be a suite for which he was
paying nearly £7O per week.
Norbell”: I’ve got him at last, after
searching the pitchers for him for years
and years. _ I’ve seen the heroine, the
hero, the villain, the butler, the housemaid,
detectives, Hops, Chinamen, toughs, boobs,
Rubes and sundries go to the ’phone and
ring up, long distance, short distance, it
mattered not what or whom, and always
they knew the number they wanted, off-
hand and without consulting the telephone
book which is never there. “Give me Har-
lem —Medicine Hat, Q 1906758!” yells the
sub-title, and those super-movie memory-
experts remember that string of figures, as
well as the ’phone numbers of all Non
Yoick, and the blue-grass country besides,
without a flicker. But last night I found
my man. The telephone-book was hang-
ing ready to his hand, as it never was
before, and prior to ringing up the district
attorney, or the Senator, or the janitor or
somebody, my hero actually looked up the
number in the book ! Hooray!


YOU
CAN OWN A UNIT
WITHOUT LEAVING
YOUR PRESENT
BUSINESS OR POSITION.
Write or Call
TO-DAY
PEANUT PLANTATION
IN NORTH QUEENSLAND
WITHOUT LEAVING YOUR PRESENT OCCUPATION
AND EARN
£32 A YEAR - £32
FOR AN INVESTMENT OF £7l,
PAYABLE £l5 DEPOSIT AND BALANCE OVER FOUR YEARS,
WITH A FREEHOLD FARM THAT ACTUALLY
COSTS YOU NOTHING
IT PAYS FOR ITSELF.
WE DO THE WORK AND BUY YOUR CROP
BOOK EXPLAINING HOW AND WHY—FREE
From Sales Managers,
R. 5. Hodge & Draney,
1.0. A. Chambers,
Queen St., Brisbane.
WORTH
E. W. R. McMillan
lO Castlereagh St.,
Sydney, N. S. W,
YOUR
A.R.i. (A. E. Forsaith, Mgr.),
440 Little Collins St.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
INVESTIGATION
PLEASE ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO BOX 51. HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
HARDWARE MERCHANTS 5 IMPORTERS
BUILDERS’ 5 PLUMBERS’ SUPPLIES
GAS, WATER s STEAM PIPES s FITTINGS
t LACKEY s PIER STREETS
I-lAYMAMiET, SYDNEY
Telephone Citv 3820
Cable t Telegraphic Address
FALCO, SYDMETY'
EARTHENWARE CISTERNS.
Sanitary and Everlasting.
Watch for the opening of our Showrooms this month at
342 Pitt Street, City, where you will see the
Best in Sanitary Fittings
The best is never too good in your home.
There is nothing to surpass in appearance,
finish and utility the Earthenware Fittings
illustrated here. When building or renewing,
let Falconer supply the Sanitary. Fittings—
Wash-hand Basins, Washing-up Sinks, Lava-
tory Goods, etc. We stock them in a variety
of excellent designs at prices which compare
more than favorably with other makes.
WRITE TO SANITARY DEPT., P.O. Box 51, Haymarket,
for anything you may require. We will quote you promptly.
COUNTRY ORDERS.—We specially cater for the country
trade, and execute all orders with Special Despatch.
WHITE ENAMELLED
EARTHENWARE BASINS.
Always Clean and Sanitary,
a
MOTH


m
■
m
l
m
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONTde PjETt
T 4 CdstlerecKtft St. Sydn©Y-
Phono City 9325.
Capital §, 300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera/ Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very Avell
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I, Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
-
POVERTY
POINT
T[?]t & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Lud”: The old brigade of English theat-
rical knights (Irving, Alexander, Wynd-
ham, Tree and Hare) having vanished from
the scene, the only “Sirs” left to keep up
the dignity of the profession—Frank Benson
and Martin Harvey—must have felt a bit
lonesome. Now, however, the cast is
strengthened by the veteran but still vola-
tile Charles Hawtrey and the younger but
thoroughly capable Gerald du Maurier.
Most certainly the new knights have done
splendid work, both as actors and as man-
agers. But what about Oscar Asche? There
is not a man in Britain who comes near
him as actor, manager or producer But
perhaps he is so busy at his theatre that he
hasn’t time for the necessary cultivation ot
Sassiety.
“ YOU’RE IN LOVE,”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Field Fisher as Percy Pinklove, and Millie
Engler as Mrs. Payton.
“Thorold Waters”: Dead stage-knight
John Hare was one of the band, including
the Bancrofts, Wyndham and Forbes
Robertson, who brought the actor’s social
status to a point from which it has lately
receded a good deal. They were as accept-
able among the countesses as they were in
their own theatres. Their conversation was
not all about box-office receipts. It was
Hare who made Londoners desert the Strand
playhouses occasionally and go to the Court
Theatre in the wilds of Sloane-square. W.
S. Gilbert lured him back towards the
Strand by building the Garrick for him out
of libretto profits, and he had gone right
hack into the Strand when, at the Globe, he
gave the critics something to talk about in
Pinero’s "Gay Lord Quex.”
“T.R.H.”: When the will of the late Sir
John Hare comes to be proved it will be
found that he left little more than a name for
kindly but indiscriminate charity. I inter-
viewed him for a London paper 20 years
ago in his dressing-room at the St. James’s
Theatre, and during my stay he helped six
stranded actors. When I remarked “He
gives twice who gives quickly” he immedi-
ately replied, “Yes, because he’s sure to b.e
asked again soon!” Like Henry Irving,
Hare lost a small fortune through a fire in
the building where his most valuable scenery
was stored. Four years ago the sight of his
left eye practically went, and towards the
end the poor old chap was almost blind.
Hare was a t.t., but never sought to impose
his dry opinions on others.
“Cornstalk”: The mail brings news of the
appearances in New York of Esther Mitchell
and Marion Marcus Clarke, the former in
“Madras House” at the Neighborhood, and
the latter in “The Great Why” at the Park.
Miss Clarke is a gitana, and is well noticed;
Esther Mitchell has so far very little to do,
but keens in the picture.
“Q.K.”: The lazy smile and unconventional
method of Miss Lee White seem to have been
fetching the Lon-
don public once
again. She has
had eight or
nine years of “un-
diminished popu-
larity” in London,
and considering
that she does so
very little save
sing ragtime songs
in a comparatively
thin ’Murkan
voice, and smile
always the same
smile, her ability
to “grow upon” tht
audience is hard
to explain. The
personality does
the trick, but one
is puzzled to know
how it is done.
Apparently she is
an idol of her own
sex rather than of
the men. Marie
Tempest, for in-
stance, regards her
as a fascinating
artist, whereas
many a male hab-
itue of Australian
“Bluebeard,” at Mel-
bourne Princess's.
Jack Kirby as Willie
Wigtail.
Tivolis has been
bored to death by the large lady.
“Orb” : Now that Hawtrey and Du Maurier
have been knighted there remain very few
misters among the mummers who took part
in King George’s “command” performance
of “Money” at Old Drury on May 17,
1911, "in honor of the Visit of their Im-
perial Majesties the German Emperor and,
the German Empress.” Others in the cast
were Bancroft, Hare, Wyndham, Tree and
Alexander. When we sret Sir Dot Bouci-
cault, Sir Weedon Grossmith and Sir Cyril
Maude, the cast of “Money” will suggest
“When Knighthood was in Flower.” When
Charles Hawtrey’s brother Bill was in
Australia he told me that Richard Gan-
thony, the man who wrote “A Message
from" Mars,” had hawked that play from
manager to manager, off and on, for l'i
vears. Then “my brother Charlie” got
hold of it, saw its possibilities, and made
a fortune.
“T.W.”: Mention of Haydn’s “Creation’
(B. 15/12/’2l) recalls that oratorio is on its
last legs in Britain. No new works have
been produced there for more than a decade,
and oratorio audiences in the Albert Hall
are getting very thin, while the provinces
have less and less of that form of entertain-
ment. Vocalists who used to sing “The
Messiah” 20 times in a winter season are
now surprised if they include even that most
favored- oratorio more than twice a year in
their bookings. Many of the old musical
societies who kept up oratorm have gone
west for lack of funds, partly because of the
war, partly through their own sturdy adher-
ence to a musical form which would have
died before this but for the revivalist efforts
of Elgar, Walford Davies and Villiers Stan-
ford.
“Rienzi” : Bernard Shaw can now claim
that his plays have been staged in more coun-
tries than those of any other living drama-
tist. Well known throughout the Empire,
he has also been produced in both Ameri-
can continents, China, India and Japan, and
every European country barring Bulgaria,
Turkey and Portugal. Probably it will be
a while before the fragments of Bulgaria and
Turkey will be able to provide him with an
audience, but he has started his conquest of
the Iberian peninsula. A Madrid journalist
named Brouta turned the Irishman’s “Pyg-
malion” into Spanish lately, and its presen-
tation at the Eslava Theatre in the capital
proved such a gold-mine to the producer that
he is now clamoring for more of Shaw’s
stuff. It is not unlikely that “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion” will be the next offering,
as it deals with Spain’s peevish colony of
Morocco.
“E.T.”: The revival at Sydney Palace of
the ancient money-spinner, “The Private
Secretary,” with the Gilbert and Sullivan
comedian Charles Walenn in the oleaginous
rOle of the curate who didn’t like London,
should bring many an old suit away from its
mothballs. Few pieces have retained their
popularity for so long as the happy-go-lucky
Charles Hawtrey adaptation, first produced
in England in 1883. Australia’s first Bev.
Robert Spalding, the late Frank Thornton,
had been a Gilbert and Sullivan artist. His
name figures in the original casts of “Pina-
fore,” “Pirates” and “Patience.”
“Nella”: Yes, Chidley was a professional
mummer for a time. He broke out on the
stage in South Aus. about 1886, and toured
the “smalls” with a dramatic co. He was
Colonel Challis in “Alone,” one of Rignold’s
star parts. Chid told me he was not a
success, and recounted how one newspaper
had said of him that if he had only been
dumb he would have made a hit, as he
looked the part. And no doubt he did.
Chid went to Melbourne in ’B7 and earned
bread and butter as a black-and-white
artist. He had a room in the city, where
he worked, ate and dossed, and he always
kept a second bed for the stray drunks and
derelicts he collected on his midnight
rambles. He was a target for the profes-
sional cadger till the end. I once asked him
why he troubled over such,people. “I am
more interested in life’s failures than in its
successes,” was his philosophical rejoinder.
Eardley Turner, in his verse (B. 5/l/’22),
refers to Chid’s “two-piece” costume. It was
a “one-piece’’ garment of Assam silk. How
do I know? Well, I made ’em for him.
In spite of his kink, a good chap, and a
clean-living gentleman.
“Ibsenshaw”: It occurred to me that the
£140,000 left by Marie Tempest’s late hus-
band, Cosmo Gordon-Lennox, couldn’t have
been all made out of writing plays. It
wasn’t. The actor-dramatist inherited a
large fortune from his mother, Lady Alex-
ander Gordon-Lennox. But he went on
working. And his work was good.
“T.R.H.”: If the chief function of the
theatre is to amuse the public and the
principal actors get knighthoods for doing
it, well, why shouldn’t cricketers receive
similar honors? Arthur Mailey, for in-
stance, recently helped to get hundreds of
thousands of people in England out into the
fresh air to watch performances with bat
and ball, which is far better for everybody
concerned than sitting in a stuffy theatre.
“T.W.”: It is a wise musical aspirant who
lays hold of the canned-music crowd before
he tackles platform work seriously in
America or Britain. At one time it was
the rule to make records only after an artist
had captured his public, but Peter Dawson
and others broke that tradition down. Among
'other Australians John Amadio, and in Some
degree Una Bourne, have established their
hold in this way, and now the London dailies
have splash ads. entirely devoted by a
leading disc proprietary to the Australian
Malcolm McEachern, “the world-famous
basso.” One way to become world-famous
is to have that sort of statement shouted on
your behalf by people whose shouting counts.
“Lud”: They all do it. Petite Fayette
Perry, the Yankee song-and-dance artist
seen in Australia in “Very Good Eddie” and
other Tait productions, has, after marrying
and leaving the stage for ever, gone back to
the boards again. This time in London. She
has been appearing in a revue at the Royalty
called “Ring Up, taking the place vacated
by the English post-card beauty Phyllis
Dare.
“Hamfat” : Constance Talmadge adds her
name to the long list of film stars who have
parted from their husbands and have a
divorce looming. He is a wealthy Greek
tobacco merchant, who eloped with the lady
10 months ago. Their trouble is alleged to
be merely incompatibility of temper. He
wanted her to forsake the films—not a re-
markable wish in view of recent exposures.
“Lond.”: Bernard Shaw kept his first-
night audience for “Heartbreak House” in
their seats from 8 till 12. As so often
happens when an audience’s nerves are get-
ting raw, an accidentally significant line in
the play fairly asked for trouble. “When
is this going to end?” the heroine had to
say; and the house took the cue. The baling
bucket was used after that, and within a
week the curtain was down at a trifle after
11.
“Frinigga”: Mary Pickford has used all
her influence to glorify herself at the expense
of art in a film version of “Little Lord
Fauntleroy.” She plays the small boy as
well as the mother, but never succeeds in
looking like him. The difficulty of filming
must have been enormous; in “Stella Maris”
the two strongly-contrasted girls whom she
played met but once, but here the mother
and son have often to be on the screen
together. The real credit thus belongs to
the producer, who has, among other things,
to make Mary look a head taller in one
character than in the other,
“THE BOY," AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S .
Constable Styles (George Blunt ) and his
amazed expression.
“0.K.”: Quite as unalterable as the
grotesque he-dame and the serio-comic baron
of panto tradition are the pair of duplicate
dance-abouts who pervade every sort of
panto, no matter how clumsily they have
to be dragged in. Disguised as sailors, rob-
bers, bailiffs or whatnot, these low-comedy
twins are sure to happen. Comparatively
young Australians remember the popular
exhortation of the sailor to his mate —“Smile,
Bill, smile!” They were one of the first
pairs of comedy twins to kick their heels
on the, local panto stage, and the same
couple, or others like them, have happened
ever since.
“Lond” : An unusual sort of picture is the
American “ ’Way Down East,” now having
packed houses at the Empire. The theatre
has been taken for nine months at least, and
the piece will not be shown anywhere else
in England meanwhile. When its London
run ends, it is to go on tour, not to the
ordinary film houses, but to a few of. the
leading provincial theatres, exactly as if it
were a success of the spoken drama.
“Gazer”: Others have noted the reluc-
tance of the Australian film-maker to spread
the name of the author of his play’s being
across the moving scene. The American
producer gives his author a good show; so
do the Englishmen and the Italians (now
producing pictures that make Yankee stuff
look cheap and vulgar). But here there is
a disposition to hustle the writer out of
sight. One reason has been whispered to
me in a confidential aside. Australian news-
papers, it is said, are so 'meanly jealous of
one another that to make a noise about any
man on the staff of one is to invite the
others to show cannibal bloodthirstiness.
“S.S.”: While “The Sign of the Cross”
w*as being played in Melbourne, the fat,
boozy patrician who provides that small
allowance of comedy relief the Barrett
drama affords excited great appreciation in
the bosom of a stallite by the realism of
his drunk scene. At one stage the spectator
arose and delighted the wdiole house with
his elocution, saying, “Struth, ole bloke,
you’re worse’n I am.” Ushers argued with
the interpolator and threatened to eject him,
and he was still and composed till well on
in the next act, when the red-nosed Roman
came out again, wholly sober, and absolutely
in his right mind. The stallite was puzzled.
He leaned forward to examine the grog-
blossomed Dago more narrowly; then his
moan penetrated to every corner. “Sober
as a judge! S’elp me, howja do it? Look
at me, and I ain’t had one since eight
’clock!”
“Alwyn” : Kathleen Key, the little Ameri-
can actress who played opposite Snowy
Baker in “The Fighting Jackeroo,” has hit
a high spot as the Singer in the Wilderness
in the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam. Before
her visit to Australia she was leading lady
with Douglas McLean. Lionel Attwill
(here with “The Whip” co.) has also scored
heavily on Broadway in “The Grand Duke”
at the Lyceum. The Creole Fashion Plate
is regarded as a dangerous rival of Julian
Eltinge, the famous female impersonator. He
appeared on the Tivoli circuit a few years
back, and is now head-lining at Broadway
Royal.
THE LAST OF THE SQUOIRES.
[OR THE BULLETIN.]
“The English squire is passing, and may soon be
numbered amongst his country's antiquities.’’—Argus.
’E be passing, ’e be passing, be the good owd English
Squoire,
With ’unting crop and cap and boots complete,
And ’is Manor, which fills profiteers with envious
desoire,
And ’is. Park, in which the fox- and stag-hounds
meet.
’E be passing, aye and dang it, but it puzzles me,
I vow,
To imagine what the theatres will do without him
now.
’E be passing, 'e be passing, be the squoire of forty-
odd,
The scheming ’ound that smokes ’is cigarette,
While he sneers and swears and spurns the laws of
England and of God,
And risks his moated grange upon a bet.
’E be passing with ’is Missing Wills an’ Mortgages
an’ all,
And I’m fearful that ’e’ll bring down melodrama in
’is fall.
’E be passing with the others, the Young Squoire of
morals chaste,
Who sticks to humble village-maids like glue,
And rebukes the leering city chaps who grab them
by the waist,
As city chaps in pickchers alius do.
But although he goes as Claude de Vere, yet Still,
thank God, he’ll stay,
As the film-fan’s dream-boy, Tom B. Punk, of Noo
Yoik, U.S.A.
x.s.w.
J.B.D.


Save your Hocks from blowfly losses
—COMBT'
SHEEP JEIIER
m
1/2
3
YOU must jet your flock sooner or later, because jetting is the only certain
method of protecting and relieving the sheep from fly attack. Reports
of Government tests and letters from leading pastoralists prove this.
Further, jetting is not only effective, it is quicker and far cheaper. Read
what the Corinda manager says on the right.
Don’t Wait Jet Now.
Spending money on other methods of fighting the blowfly means wasting
money and losing sheep. Jet now—with a “Comet” Jetting Plant—ana
save your flocks without affecting the quality of the wool.
The powerful “Comet” pump is tested to 3001 b. pressure, far more than you
need for the worst infestation. The patented handpiece guarantees
immediate and complete “shut-off.” The exclusive agitator keeps the
heavy jetting solution evenly and completely mixed at all times.
You must have these features for successful jetting, and you. get a
“Comet.” Ask us to send you our illustrated descriptive booklet post tree.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville.
Cheapest and most effective method
of beating the blowfly.
CORIND A, via ARAMAC, July 5, 1921.
We consider the “Comet” Jetting Plant a
most efficient machine for jetting sheep. It
is a very compact plant, easily operated and
easy to shift about the run. We consider it
the cheapest and most effective way of com-
bating the blowfly pest.
Using the two hoses on our plant and with
an ordinary double sheep branding race, we
have jetted 3200 ewes in a day. The 30-gallon
tank, with engine at from 801 b. to 851 b. pres-
surej does about 125 to 135 sheep, half to
three-quartered woolled, jetting around the
crutch and over the tail.
(Signed) FRED RICH, Manager.
S.W. oil
s wfii— s
SAWi
ssr-i-
-SS!
, Ur
s>***&
m
I lI'M
m
m
m
•(mwMw
m
m
li/Aui‘/W</l
MV'
mi
& -
H 1.3
B
A
A pulley for every purpose
Certain prejudices exist in the general engineering
trade regarding pulleys. Some engineers prefer the
wood split pulley and will use no other. On the
other hand there are places where a metal pulley is
essential.
On this point we are ready to meet you with un-
prejudiced advice and a type of pulley for every
purpose—the pulley you want. We offer pulleys
with an interchangeable bushing system for fitting
to any size shaft within the range of standard bore.
“DODGE” Wood Split Pulleys. “DODGE” Cast-iron
Split Pulleys. “PHILIPS” Pressed Steel Split Puileys.
Whatever your opinion as to type, be sure to specify “DODGE or PHILIPS for
dependability. Catalogues and Price Lists on application.
SOLE AGENTS:
PARKE, & LACY CO. LTD.
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, FHILP St- CO., DTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LIttiTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WHITTYv
'-* v
maker!
r. W.«{-.?>*
t &??*.&
kssss
A**
■*-<?.
CAMPERS
Jf ARBLES’ Camping Specialties can save you
time, trouble and expense.
SHEATH-KNIVES, best tempered Steel, with
Safety Guard, splendid ed>a for skinning;
length 6 and 9 inches,
10/6, 15/6 to 30/-
SAFETY AXES—Small hand-axes with patent
safety guard 10/6
LUMINOUS COMPASS. Accurate and reliable,
for pinning on coat * 12/6
WATERPROOF MATCHBOXES, Metal, an abso-
lute necessity 5/»
Folding FISHKNIVES, neat and compact,
10/6
MARBLES’ APERTURE SIGHTS, for all rifles.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
SOLE AGENTS,
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
• Xi C^ lia k South Aus. by six wickets
in Melbourne last week. In the light of Vic.’s
great opening on the first day, it wasn’t much of a
victory to chortle about. A great second-innings
paitnership by Smith and Loveridge, who made over
200 between them, was responsible for S. Aus. escap-
ing the expected innings defeat. When Loveridge
joined Smith the board read 6 for 109, and ’most
everybody felt that the end was near. But the two
hung together until the next day, and with the help
of an active tail brought the total up to .'l5l. It
was a game effort, for which Smith especially is to
be commended. He doesn’t sparkle, but once set has
an almost impenetrable defence.
* * * *
The feature of the N.S.W.-S. Australia
match in Sydney was the bowling of the weighty
veteran Whitty. Aided by the southerly breeze he
was able to swerve so disconcertingly as to be prac-
tically unplayable. On Monday he took the first
seven N.S.W. wickets for 66. Ambler, the S.A.
keeper, also showed first-class form. Savage, the
home team’s last-minute pick-up, didn’t. G. Mor-
gan, of Glebe, who got 52, is a very fair colt, and
was the only man on the home side to put un a
decent score, although when he was batting with
Andrews, who was trapped off Whitty at 24, the
Australian Eleven man made him look coltish by
comparison. S.A.
batted tediously against
the good-length bowl-
ing of Scott, Wall and
Hendry. Scott, although
not as fast as he was
a couple of seasons
back, got a kick out
of the pitch, and, until
the advent of Pellew
(81) and Rundell (78)
looked like going
through the side. The
brightest feature of the
fielding was Andrews
at cover. The barrack-
ers’ “No” whenever a
ball travelled in his
direction was a de-
served testimonial.
Pellew does not, like
his brother, sacrifice
his wicket in the inter-
ests of spectacular
cricket, but his field-
ing, in the family posi-
tion, was fast enough
for anyone.
J. TRAVERS, the
old South Aus-
tralian left-hand
howler and pre-
sent-day cricket ,
oracle.
The resumption of Melbourne district
cricket on Saturday was not distinguished by any
surprising performances. Licidicut did best as a
bowler with 5 for 26 for ’Roy against Saints, the
seasiders fading away for Is 3, whereof the, chief
scorers were Ponsford 34 and Ellis 57 ri.o. As ’Roy
had closed with 6 for 335 (Kiernan 123 and Cody
90) there was a large margin in their favor. Wal-
lace (6 for 46) was the devastating element in
P’ran’s defeat of North by 161. North scraped up
100, whilst the shop suburb had rattled up their
261 for the loss of 5 wickets, the innings being
closed on the first day of the round nearly a month
back. Griffiths (70) and Brown (54) extricated
’Wood from a difficult position in their battle against
South, the Magpies ultimately winning by 20 runs.
Hartkopf, the inter-Stater, contributed a fine 83 to
’Cote’s 163, which was 37 short of a first innings’,
victory over Melbourne. Hawthorn-East’s 316 was
134 too many for Richmond, whose most confident
bat was Dean (70). Carlton declared with 6 for
236 (ex-N.S.W. player O’Keeffe 63), and nearly had
a straight-out victory against University. The schol-
ars made 94 in their first try, and had lost 7 for
89 when the clock saved them from disaster.
“Norbeil”: Sydney will put up with
almost anything. On Monday, January 2, the Cricket
Ground authorities announced that the gates would
be opened at 10.30 for the Queensland-N.S.W.
match. At that hour about a hundred enthusiasts
were waiting at the Paddington gate. I was one
of ’em. We waited till 11.30, but the gates remained
shut, and then, though no notice of postponement or
any other intimation of any kind was made, the
crowd drifted away. I went into the Agricultural
Grounds next door, for the Highland gathering, and
paid 2s. to see two or three dispirited youngsters
flinging in the rain. At one o’clock there was a
hiatus for an hour and a half, followed by a few
spasmodic efforts at foot-racing; then it was
announced that the balance of the programme would
be carried out on Jan. 28. But no pass-out checks
were given for the rest of the show that patrons
had paid good money to witness.
South Aus., hunting for fresh cricket
talent —-bowling in particular—set a city XI of
colts against a combined team from the coun-
try at New Year. As usual, the countrymen,
coming mostly from matting, put up a bad first
innings on the turf, but a good second, and the
Adelaide lot, left with under 100 to win, got home
by only four wickets. The chief discovery was
Meyer, who made 42 and 37, and (when tried after
a good many others) took 4 wickets for 36 and 5
for 27.
* * * *
Fast-bowler Jack Scott (N.S.W.) showed
a return to his best form v. South Aus. last week.
He has been out of big cricket for two seasons
through synovitis. Playing for Marrickville, he
began Sydney premiership cricket round with 101,
and in four completed innings has knocked together
• 230 and taken 9 wickets at an average cost of 32.88.
* * * *
Jack Ryder’s 242 v. S. Aus. last week has
been beaten only twice by a .Victorian—-Armstrong’s
250 in 1911 and 245 in 1920, both against S’. Aus.
Ryder has shown great form since he got back, his
efforts being 38 and 85 v. N.S.W., and 242 and 18
not out v. S. Aus. —383 runs, averaging 127.66.
* * * *
When Jack Scott (N.S.W.) smashed A.
Smith’s hand on Friday he put out of action the
grittiest batsman in the S. Aus. XI. Smith's five
first innings have produced 1 and 104 v. N.S.W.,
122 and 3 v. Victoria, and 3 v. N.5.W.—279 runs,
averaging 55.8. When at home he plays with West
Torrens.
* * * *
J. K. Ayres-Oosterlaak was the most con-
spicuous of the Springboks on their first appearance
at the Melbourne Sports Ground on Saturday. The
tall African snatched the 100yds. scratch challenge
from D. W. Gale by 2yds. H. P. Kinsman, also
from the Dark Continent, was a close third. Gale,
however, ’ reversed positions with the hyphened Afri-
kander in the 300yds., just streaking home amid tre-
mendous excitement in the Vic. record time of 31
l-10sec., which is 3-sths of a second shorter than the
previous best, put up by Yankee sprinter G. L.
Parker on the Melbourne Cricket Ground in 1914.
The tourists were too clever in the 440yds. relay
race, their time of lmin. 4-ssec., ruining another
Vic. record. But they hadn’t a man to touch the
middle-distance champion, J. H. Newman, who
breasted the tape in the 1000yds. three yards ahead of
another speedy Victorian, P. J. Carroll, who had the
African candidate, D. Leathern, two yards astern.
“The Emu”: Ira G. Emery, who manages
the Springboks, is connected with the early days of
Australia through his father, the late Eldridge G.
Emery, who came to Melbourne in the ’fifties and was
one of the Eureka Stockaders. He also drove the
first and the last coach that ran between Geelong
and Ballarat for Cobb and Co. In the ’sixties Eld-
ridge won the (professional) 400yds. championship
of Australia from one Joshua, an Englishman. The
stake was for £ 1 a yard each man, or a total of
£BOO, which is the lai’gest sum ever competed for
in an Australian footrace. Emery, jun., is the
trial horse for all Springbok aspirants, from 100yds.
to 10 miles.
* * * *
A. W. Winter (South Sydney), at Fair-
field (N.S.W.), recently did 31ft. 3in. in a standing
hop, step and jump (without weights). Australia’s
previous amateur best was 30ft. sin. by R. Glover
(Q.). The world’s figures (35ft. 6in.) were put up
by H. Courtney in Ireland in 1898.
* * * *
On Saturday the Kangaroos met Cumber-
land City, and had their 26th English win. Scores:
Australia, 25 points (7 tries 2 goals) ; Cumberland
City, 12 points (2 tries 3 goals). The first spell
was all in the. .miners’ favor, hut on changing ends
the visitors got the upper hand, and towards the' “no
side” blast were simply over-running the enemy.
Cumberland were too solid for Lutge's ,191)7-08 Kan-
garoos, and McKivatt’s 1912 tourists could only
beat them by 5 points to 2.
On Saturday Percy Smith (Drummoyne)
licked N.S.W. mile swimming champion Moss Chris-
tie by 4vds. in the 440yds. championship of the
Western Districts at Wqolwich. The time, smin.
43 2-ssec., is a record for the race. Frank Beaure-
paire covered 880yds. in llmin. 24 2-ssec., which
is but 4sec. outside his own best for the distance.
He cut out 300yds. in the remarkable time of 3min.
34 2-ssec., 2 3-ssec. outside Norman Ross’s Austra-
lian and world’s best for the distance. M. Campbell,
whq,-_won. the 13-years’-old schoolboy 50yds. cham-
pionship recently in 30sec.. did the trip on this
occasion in 26 4-ssec.. while E. Burns, another
youngster, covered the stretch in 25 3-ssec. Charl-
ton (14), of Manly, swam 200vds. in 2min. 30sec.,
and during the week was clocked to do 440yds. in
omin. 52sec. —which was but 18see. worse than
Beaurepaire, who annexed the event.
A world’s record for a restricted class
boat race was established on Port Jackson last Satur-
day when 44 16-footers turned out for the N.S.W.
championship. Most of the crack 18-footer pilots
were pressed into service, but they stood no chance
against Arthur Roderick, who had charge of Arline.
This craft, which w'as making a first appearance
after being out of commission for about 12 months,
crossed the line with the first bunch and w'on prac-
tically all the way. Vaucluse, in the hands of Fred
Newton, was second 24 minutes away. Of the
mighty fleet that started" only three others finished.
Tlie first ocean race of N.S.W.’s yachting
season was decided last Saturday under the burgee
of Sydney Amateur Sailing Club. Conditions were
so bad that only five of the 12 noms. started. The
limit boat Adelina actually took two hours to reach
the open water. Dendy’s Seabird slowly drew away,
was first back in harbor, and eventually landed
the race with over 4min. to spare from Waitangi,
which preceded Adelina by 3min.
At Sydney Stadiufn on Saturday night
Bert Spargo demonstrated to Louis Garcia, of
Mexico," the size of the gap which yawns between the
old soldier and the recruit. The clever boy whom
the visitor in the hectic pants outed a fortnight
ago always looked in danger; the knowledgeable
GEORGE COOK,
the Australian
heavyweight —-
Carpentier's latest
opponent.
Spargo faced with the
same class of attack
always looked safe.
He had won 12 out
of 15 rounds when
the foreigner realised
that without a knock-
out or its equivalent
all was lost. But
Garcia could not have
done the trick if he
had kept in action all
night. His wallop is
useless unless it is
allowed to land on a
more or less station-
ary part of the human
frame, and Spargo
never permitted that.
There was hardly a
dissentient voice when
Joe Wallis crowned
the clever Victorian.
A son of Bob Fitzsimmons—who was 47
when he was knocked out in Sydney by Bill Lang a
dozen years ago—has just stepped into the front
rank of the American cruiser-weight division. He
did it by beating Fay Keiser. Keiser is the man
who made such a mess of Billy Shade, who went
through all Australia’s best light-heavies a few
months back.
Sydney Hippodrome’s chief event ended
in an unprecedented manner on Monday night, when
Joe Wallis; who was refereeing, left the ring half-
way through the 13th round, waving his arms in
the air to indicate disgust. He was too weary of
the exhibition to disqualify anyone, though, as the
Frenchman Dupre consistently ran away' from the
other lad, Flynn, a decision might reasonably have
been given against him. As a result the event will
go down in the books as “unfinished”—a common
legend in the days of the P.R. when the police broke
up three fights out of four, but almost unknown
nowadays.
* * * *
One of the features of the Dempsey-Car-
pentier film which struck Australia was the army
of police employed to keep order. It is the same
at most Yankee sporting gatherings, apparently.
Thus, at the recent fight at Cleveland (Ohio) be-
tween featherweight champion Johnny Kilbane. and
Danny Frush —a foregone conclusion, which at-
tracted only a handful of 25,000 —there were 95
policemen in attendance. And they were needed.
When Kilbane outed his man a riot started round
the ring, in the course of which a score or more
citizens were clubbed. At Sydney Stadium a
dozen policemen meet all requirements, week in
week out, and the huge place has not known a
serious disturbance since Newcastle arrived there in
194.4 to see Les Darcy lick Fritz Holland, and being
disappointed, tried to burn the place down. At Mel-
bourne and Sydney Cricket Grounds during Test matches
the number of J. Hops used inside and out is even
smaller relatively to the size, of the crowds. In
the words of a member of the last visiting Eng-
lish XI, “One bobby can do with a crowd in Aus-
tralia what it takes a dozen to do in England.”
He ungraciously put it down to hereditary dread
of the uniform—on the mistaken assumption, .appa-
rently', that all Australia and not a mere fragment
of it had a birthstain.
In last week’s race on the Waiwanui
(M.L.) for the world’s sculling championship, the
ex-amateur Darcy Hadfield led from Dick Arnst
after the first few strokes, and keeping up the pres-
sure won by 10 lengths in 19min. 45see. Hadfield
is 10 years younger than Arnst, and a far better
waterman. The winner was only once defeated as
an amateur—in the Olympic games at Antwerp, when
he was out of form. He won the Kingswood Cup
at Henley in 1919, and beat Alf Felton in the
Army Championship in Paris at the end of the war.
Jim Paddon (Australian champion) will probably
be given an early fly at the title by the new holder.
* * * *
At the Huon (Tas.) regatta the other day
one of the speakers at the luncheon was Osborne
Greeves, a nonagenarian, who remarked that this
was the 71st annual regatta and he hadn’t missed one
of them. Another old-timer at the show was the
Esperanto, which entered for the Ketch Handicap.
She left the slips 80 years ago.
* * * *
At the Vie. Amateur Cyclists’ Union .car-
nival on Melb. Exhibition Oval last Saturday night
encounters occurred between G. Thursfield (champion
of Transvaal and finalist in Olympic Games) and A.
V. Brown (Vic. and Australian amateur sprint cham-
pion), who, prior to the war, was one of the leading
pro. wheelers in the Commonwealth. In the half-
mile Thursfield waited on Brown till they entered
the straight, then drew away and won by a good
length in 65sec. He repeated the manoeuvre in
the quarter. Time, 31 4-ssec. However, in the
mile, Brown woke up, let Thursfield do the work till
the bell, and then jumped away with a couple of
lengths’ lead, which the Springbok failed to wholly
wipe out. Brown the winner by half-a-wheel in
2min. 28 2-ssec. In the five-mile scratch race
Thursfield was really there to pace for Kaltenbrun,
the Olympic long-distance rider. He slowed it for
’Brun, who got a big break on the field and looked
like getting a lap lead, when W. Jenyns (Vic.) woke
up to the joke. At the bell Kaltenbrun was in
charge and led into the straight, but the Vies, were
too good for him, Brown getting the verdict by a
small margin from S. Bamsden and Tom Vandersiuys
(both of Vic.), with Kaltenbrun fourth. The watches
showed 12min. 4 2-ssec.
'* * * *
Prince Foote, John Brown’s favorite and
the pride of his stud, broke a blood-vessel on Fri-
day and died shortly afterwards. The 1909 Mel-
bourne Cup winner was one' of the most perfectly
conformed horses in Australia, and in his compara-
tively short career as a sire had been responsible
fqr such near-champions as Pelaw - Main, Prince
Viridis, Prince Charles and Richmond Main, who
was second to Artilleryman (both being on the
7st. 61b. mark) when Australia’s biggest race was
won in 3min. Prince Foote took the A.J.C.
Sires’ Produce Stakes as a two-year-old, and went in
to win the A.J.C. and Vic. Derby, both Legers and
other classic events. He was an Isinglass through
his dam Petruchka.
* * * *
“0.K.” : The results of two “straight six”
races at Flemington on New Year’s Day revived
discussion as to whether horses racing on the out-
side have the pull over those that get the inside
running, where the ground is rendered compara-
tively firm by persistent wear, tear and repair.
There is no reasonable doubt that the Flemington
straight, from the place where it merges into the
circular course, is sounder going on the so-called
“outside” (which is really “inside,” seeing that it
is nearer to the judge’s box) than on the far side.
Again and again it has happened in the Newmarket
Handicap, the Standish and other flutters, that
something has come with a rattle close under the
judge’s box as though it had been waiting for the
disadvantaged toilers to wear themselves out. As
often as not two out of three, or even all three,
of the placed horses in a big field for a V.R.C.
sprint race have been in the “outside” division
at the barrier; and though the result of a New-
market may not be as dependent on the draw as
the result of a Doncaster or Epsom Handicap at
Randwick, every well-informed punter prays that
his fancy may draw a marble among the teens or
twenties. The condition, of the ground has some-
thing to do with the success of “outside” competi-
tors, especially in soft weather. Let the ground-
keepers tend the course never so carefully, they
can’t alter the fact that the more worn side of
the track is continually being filled in and flattened
out, whereas the side nearest the judge’s box gets
a better chance to harden naturally. The going on
the extreme inside is the least sound, because; never
a race is run round the turn in which something is
not hugging the rails, but the horses nearest the
rails are at least more favorably placed for keeping
a straight course ■ than those in the middle, who are
at full liberty to bear out, or bear in, as the, spirit
moves them. Here, perhaps, is the explanation of
so many winners of six-furlong events at Flemington
having drawn a high number from the lucky bag.
They got a double advantage. The going was a
trifle more firm on the outside, so called, and the
rails kept them straight if they had a natural dis-
position to swerve to their right. In the rarer
case of a nag being disposed to hang in the high-
numbered marble is no use to it.
* * * *
The Rover, winner of the last Australian
Cup and runner-up in last Melbourne Cup, was
saddled for the Bagot Handicap at Flemington the
other Monday, and a good few punters threw away
on John Wren’s fitful gelding ere it
became evident that he hadn’t been prepared to stay
the distance. The Rover receded from s’s to 12’s
in the betting and ran in great style for about half
the journey, so he will probably be heard of again
in the early autumn —if allowed to carry a little
flesh on his bones. Although not a dandy in appear-
ance The Rover looked a cut better class than most
of his opponents in the 12-furlong race, in which
Bright Plume, the hurdle-racer, nearly brought off a
Godby coup. It is the misfortune, of Bright Plume
to he usually not quite good enough for the job, on
the flat or over the sticks. Jle was reckoned the
very best of good things for a G. N. Hurdle when
rank outsider ijandule beat him, and on the flat the
Plume has gone within a head of a big win more
than once. But he lacks brilliancy.
No horse-reporter seems to have noted the
remarkable general resemblance between the results
of the V.A.T.C. meeting on Boxing Day and those
at Flemington on January 1. The jumping double —
Foreigner for the Hurdle and Monrose for the
Steeple—was the same at both meetings, and on
each occasion Crimson won the last race of the day.
Also Glenard finished third in both Steeples. These
figures amounted to a very unusual coincidence, but
they were not the whole story. Girralong, Lisnavane
and Grey Abbey filled the places in the Malvern Han-
dicap at Caulfield. Grey Abbey, Lisnavane and Gir-
ralong finished second, third and fourth in the Stand-
ish Handicap at Flemington. For the two-year-old
race at Caulfield the first three youngsters were Lil-
lerie, All Serene and Elton. At Flemington in
the Criterion Handicap, the order was All Serene,
Lillerie and Elton. That makes a strong coincidence
in five out of six events. And in the principal rate
of the day Miss Pihkerton finished third each time.
* * * *
“Thurmgab”: Isn’t this pretty nearly a
world’s record? At Narromine (N.S.W.) races about
nine years ago Dennis Meyers trained and rode the
horses that won all the races on the card. Camp,
who won four, belonged to “Murgah” Mack, of
Narromine station, and La Bronte, owned by youhg
Cluff, on the Bogan-road, won the other two. Inci-
dentally, they were two of the worst-tempered brutes
I ever saw. Camp had to be flogged and led to
the post, and then started with a stockwhip behind
him, and when a vet. fixed La Bronte’s teeth he had
to throw him, and he squealed like a pig the whole
time he w T as on the ground.
THE ETERNAL TRIANGLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Pliiin-clothes Constable Carlin said that accused
had been a betting- man, but was now ‘down and out’
through his enslavement to drink. Twenty years ago
accused was by ladies the most sought-after man of
North Melbourne. Look at him now.” — Age.
Ah, Beauty is Disaster’s child, and peril lies in
Charm :
Like prize cement they smooth the outcast’s path;
Since both attract the ladies, and in numbers lies
the harm
Where ladies are concerned. The aftermath
Is always some activity which points to ruin’s brink,
For the ladies lead to betting, and betting leads to
drink.
Strong drink, persisted in for long, produces dire
effects—
The rheumy eye, the crimson-tinted nose,
The shaky hand, the wheezy voice, each one of
which deflects
The ladies’ love; and as his beauty goes
The fading Juan seeks for cash for those who from
him shrink;
Which leads to further betting, and so calls for
further drink. *-
Now gaze on the Adonis of some twenty years ago:
He stands before the world a seasoned sport,
But bankrupt, while the ladies fair whom once he
used to know,
Decline with such a horror to consoit.
He points a good old moral, does this stone-broke
human sink—-
That ladies lead to betting, and betting leads to
drink.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


“ The Murdoch
Sports Service.
Murdoch’s Tennis
Requisites
The Finest Selection in the Commonwealth,.
RACQUETS.
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon, 90 /-
Slazenger’s “Lambert Chambers,” 90/-; “Doherty,” 87/6; “E.G.M.,” 85/-; “Ren-
shaw, ” 45/-; 95/-; “ Special Demon, ” 62/6; “ Whitehouse, 63/-;
“Lyceum, ’ 87/6.
Ayre’s “5.N.D.,” (S’. N. Doust Autograph), 87/6; “Davis Cup,” 87/6; “Tournament,”
72/6; “A. 1.,” 55/-; “Handicap,” 40/-
Spalding’s “Surrey,” 47/6; “Tournament,” 47/6; “Service Special,” 57/6; “Lake-
side,” 37/6; “Vantage,” 45/-; “Model D.H.,” 56/6; “Gold Medal,” 70/-
Spalding’s Special English, made in their English Factory specially to our order:—“Gold
Medal De Luxe, ” 92/6; ‘ ‘Tournament,” 60/-; “Service, ” 67/6; “C. 5.,” 70/-;
“Lakeside, ” 37/6.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Cow’s Special Racquets, “Eclipse,” 18/G; “Forward,”
25/-; “ Tournament,” 30/-; “Invieta,” 45/-
Jeffries’ “Globe, ” 47/6; ‘ ‘King,” 45/-; “Crown,”
62/6; ‘ ‘High Tension,” 75/-
F. A. Davies’ “Cambridge,” 60/-; “Unity,” 72/6;
“Oval,” 52/6.
“Special Hexagon,” best English Ash, hexagon frame,
oval throat, strung with English Gut of special
quality. .A superb racquet, 67 /6.
“Champion,” Hexagon Ash Frame, oval throat, strung
with perfect English Gut. Wonderful Value, 55/-
TENNIS BALLS.
Slazenger’s, 33/- doz.
Ayre’s “Championship,’
32/- doz.
Dunlop ’a 30/- doz.
Murdoc h’s “Tourna
mcnt,” 30/- doz.
Murdoch’s “Practice,” 27/- doz.
All England Practice, 23/- doz.
If ordering by post address your letter
to Desk li.
Send for Illustrated Sports Catalogue.
Postage Paid to all parts of Australia.
MURDOCH’S
In Park Street Ltd., Sydney,
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
BE HEALTHY and BE HAPPY!
m
.
■
You don’t know that life is really worth living unless you are
physically fit. If your nerves and muscles are working properly
you’ll find that the world is a jolly good old place after all.
You’ll enjoy your work, enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure
and enjoy the company of those around you. Good health i«
the most glorious asset man can have, and
YOU CAN HAVE IT.
By taking up Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course
of Health and Strength .Culture you can build up the
organs that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from
the system, and make the whole body work in perfect
harmony, as Nature intended it to. Then you will feel
the wonderful glow of perfect physical fitness. The
difference will surprise you! The exercises are clear
and simple, and are adapted to YOUR particular require-
ments.
You can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course if you will send for “Snowy” Baker’s booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture.” It will be
bound to interest you. If you want better health just
write your name and address across this advertisement,
and send three stamps to us, we will forward the book.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,*
20 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
■22 RIM FIRE.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
mmsmm
ALL BRITISH
Hillier’s
Chocolates
.Packed in Poxes
3~, S'g. 7'e,l2'e.
£1 and £l'lo'o.
Posb free bo any address in Ausbralia.
Mailed bo you on the day they are made.
162 PITT STREET
SYDNEY.
m
i ' 1
n
Ml
/////
“The Stockma
BLACK or TAN
2716
luHy--s^a s b nedCal f, wit H
;ElastisjSide!randPoußleTags;,-
Dust "aß(i ; - light,-
lcQiah>f table,-, serviceable ;~-easy-
off. ihe “‘Stocky
traKan horseman should be with-
'ouL" Obtainable injjlLsizes. ,
///
/'//
"A
.•-■;>
jssty
"^•'V-iri:
*42
mm
\?*> /^2>-
■\?fPskk
i '• w %Z, »•• * f -4 r
, , V<4^# / ;sr£'v
r fW^f\P-.
XT
;r
Mr;
.^r
iJtit
3
ii I
ijij |i»
'yfaMy retun^^ :
&'! (
Ji^i
i 4 SP
iJ’f W-j FifV'< Y'PxfsHFxj
; :j\j *^ v \ v) y, ,yc
<u^Si——
rrrr:
/\
sssgr aira
«ssss;;q
ggfc;ig&
1%
&SSS«Mi
e.
244-254
v) itn


The Smartest Hat Styles
at Farmer’s Sale-prices .
MEN who take a just pride in their personal
appearance insist on quality first, regard-
■ less of cost. They will be impressed
by the smartness of the hat illustrated; a
"quality” style, its moderate price is typical of
the reductions at Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale.
SRl —Men’s soft fur Felt Hats, in the
most popular shape of the season ; in light
grey or steel. Edges are bound or plain cut.
Usual Price, 25/-. Sale Price, 22/6
Less the 10 per cent. Cash Bonus.
Farmer’s, Sydney
" The Store for SMen”
HUIIMI
V
Box 497, G.P.O.
We Pay Carriage.
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON- INTOXICATING
■zm
If it ran't.
It's Better
A tin of "BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s (all shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Green Bros., Balmain Co-Op,, Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
'h suburbs and country. Or postage paid 1/9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[P]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1533, 11609.
“Them new-fangled darnces ain’t no good,”
Witheringly said the M.C. at the New Year’s
dance in “The Mechanics” of a township 30
miles from Melbourne. He was the local
butcher, a hefty six-foot-two with shoulders
like a bullock’s, a returned badge on his
store coat, and a voice like a whiplash.
“Them jazzes—they do as they like. No
two couples keep 'to the same steps—jig-
gerin’ round, that’s all it is; jiggerin' round.
I’ll tell yer what it is,” he added after a
thoughtful pause, “They go to London an’
they go to Faree an’ they , go to America to
learn darncing to teach Australia. There’s
noo darnces and noo darnces, and not a noo
square darnce in the lot of ’em. Strike me,
the Larncers is noo enough, yet they’re
tired of the Larncers already. Darncin’ will
go to blazes if there are no square darnces.”
Just then the orchestra (piano, concertina
and mouth-organ) struck up a valse cotillion
and the M.C. got to work. Round wavered
the sets in a circle; then “Woop-ya!” he
snapped, and the circle dissolved into pirouet-
ting twos. Another order like a pistol-shot
from the big man, and an intricate figure was
worked out as by machinery. The crowd
on the floor was thick as bees, and the
matrons of the district were jambed close on
the narrow forms along the wall. The men
wore “store” boots, not as heavy as hobnails,
but far from the thin “pumps” of the dandy.
Yet with it all there was the grace of
orderly dancing and an absorbed attention to
step and rhythm. The M.C. is going with
the passing of square dances, but the country
is conservative and is letting him go grude-
ingly. “Can you beat the Walse Wien?”
asked this particular one. “There is some-
thing you can order. And take it from me,
they’ll never get the quadrille out of my
district.”
Mrs. Alex. Landale, president of the hos-
pitality committee of the Victorian League,
caught three picturesque lions for her last at-
home at Aroona, Toorak. These were
the Indians on their way to the labor con-
ference at Fiji. The V.L. is a woman’s
affair, but some men simply had to be raked
in because the dusky gentlemen couldn’t per-
mit themselves to meet women hostesses
alone. The League was all a-flutter, but
various husbands came to the rescue. Several
military men were among the crowd, as Lieut.
Hissam-ud-Din has. a distinguished war re-
cord, and was a friend of Birdwood’s.. He
turned up in khaki, topped by a fascinating
turban. The Hon. B. Venkatapati Raju
is a member of the Leg. Assembly
of the United Provinces. He wears
Bond-street clothes and a white. towel
about his head. Then there is Goobind Sa-
hay Sharma, a member of the Leg. Council
of the Provinces. He wears a lovely one-
piece frock buttoned right up to the neck,
white puttees and a snowy turban. Mrs.
Landale had all her reception rooms elabo-
rately decorated, and served tea in the ball-
room. Hilda Byron Moore was her right
hand in the entertainment. Hilda has just
spent some months in India, so she knew just
the right thing to do.
Viscount Dunwich, in white duck and a
naval cap, accompanied the Earl and Coun-
tess into town the other day. The Countess
seemed to be as proud of her tall 18-year-old
as most young-looking mothers are of their
big boys. He was presented to a group of
Ministei’s and other politicians recently. And
still he regards us as a “ripping crowd.”
The end of 1921 saw the finish of the
first year of a successful housekeeping ven-
ture conducted at the ’Varsity by Gwen
Jones and Beryl Woinarski, both graduates
in domestic economy and domestic arts. Be-
tween them they manage the cafe and restau-
rant run for the benefit of students, and that
it is a benefit is obvious when you learn
that they get a first-class meal for Is. 3d.,
or Is. sd. if a customer wishes to be really
gluttonous and have extra vegetables.
State-school teachers are getting ready to
celebrate this year the jubilee of free, secu-
lar and compulsory primary education. The
Act did not come into operation till January
1, 1873, but it was passed in ’72. Inciden-
tally, Frank Tate, the doyen of depart-
mental permanent heads, will complete 20
years’ service as Director of Education on
February 26.
Saunders of New York—he is manager for
the Vacuum Oil Co. in Java —has just
booked an Australian girl as a matrimonial
partner. He is engaged to Shirley Cook, of
the Edgar Warwick Vanity Fair Co. She
is a daughter of Mrs. Whatmough Cook, of
Melbourne.
Osborne Fairbairn sends a coo-ee from
Blighty that he has just fixed-up to wed a
Cold Country damsel named Ridley, who did
her bit as a V.A.D. The clan (Osborne
is the eldest of the Charles Fairbairn sons)
is making quite a liabit of marrying overseas.
Osborne’s elder sister is the wife of ex-gent.-
help General Wheatley ; Stevg and Fred Fair-'
bairn’s sons tied up with English gii-ls;
George Fairbairn’s late daughter married
Major Balmain; Aunt Jess Fairbairn also
married and settled in the Fog many years
ago; and Rita, a sister of the late Mrs.
Charles Fairbairn, is the wife of a British
naval officer.
The late Admiral Bridges’s son and heir
did not let much grass grow between his re-
cently-announced engagement to English
damsel Peggy Fort and' the knot-tying. The
wedded pair will arrive in Australia at the
end of the month and survey the bridegroom’s
Western District sheep-patch. His mother
and unmarried sister are tripping back later,
when the liolland covers will be stripped off
the furnishings at their Toorak place.
From the whispering pines at Manly, on
the Sydney side, comes word of the engage-
ment of the handsome widow of the late Dr.
O’Shaughnessy, of Albury,, and recently one
of Manly’s smartest frockers, to J. J.
Dobbyn (“Barcoo” of The Bulletin), of
Longreach (Q.), and part-owner of Innes
Vale, Mitchell, in the same State. The pact
means the resumption of an interrupted
romance staged on the banks of the Murray
in the years when the world was young.
Joseph Mack, of Warrnambool, and squat-
ter Joseph Mack, of Berry bank‘station, are
distantly related, and there was a daughter
Mary in each family. Mary Mack, of Warr-
nambool, died suddenly in Melbourne re-
cently, and the Berrybank Macks have been
distressed and embarrassed by condolences
from folk who thought the bereavement was
in their family. Mary of Berrybank writes
that she still exists, and is busily preparing
for her wedding with young Gillespie on
January 26.
One of the Diggers who met at Anzac
House to protest against the sackings from
the Defence Department said the Storemen
and Packers’ Union has just about as much
time for returned warriors in the stores
branch as a pig has for sideboards. Whether
he spoke of furniture or the cheek adorn-
ments sacred to butlers was not quite clear,
but as the allusion seejned to be apt either
way fellow-Digs. chuckled over it.
Marian Marcus Clarke, writing from
America, says she hoped to be back in Aus-
tralia for the New Year, but matters con-
nected with the copyrights of her father’s
stories took longer to fix them than she bar-
gained for. The book business is, however,
now in fairly good trim, and later she re-
turns to the J.C.W. people. She has had a
flutter in one New York theatrical produc-
tion, and has studied parts in several
new plays. “An extraordinary number of
new things have failed in America during th.e
year,” says Marian. “One reason is that
there are too many theatres. They have
sprung up like mushrooms —seem to have
taken the place of saloons closed by Prohi-
bition.”
Here is the latest of Francis de Bourguig-
non, who is back again in Australia after giv-
ing a number of concerts in Europe and
America. Francis, whose youthful talent
earned him a profes-
sorship at the Brus-
se 1 s Conservatoire
before the war, had
his trial by fire on
the Western front,
and when invalided
to London was an-
nexed by Melba, who
included him ih her
concert party which
toured the Common-
wealth two or three
years ago. On his
return to London he
was soon hailed as a
coming master of
the keyboard, and
among his press-
cuttings is one which
refers to his seven
recalls for his part in Schumann’s “A Minor
Concerto” with Sir Henry Wood’s Orches-
tra at the Queen’s Hall. As a rule, recalls
are not allowed at these concerts, and seven
of them are described as “unprecedented.”
In Melbourne again as part of the immi-
gration machinery is A. T. Sharp, who kept
the Vic. immigration candle flickering in
London during the war years and after.
Sharp, a onertime editor of the Agricul-
tural Gazette, was a leading spirit in the
Anzac Buffet in London, and has since de-
served well of Australians for getting Eng-
lish and Scotch people to tend the graves of
Diggers who ended up in hospitals in the
Cold Kingdom.
Ex-Mayor J. G. Aikman is mourning
the death of his elder son, Rae, who man-
aged the Melbourne Coffee Palace, one of the
Aikman properties. -When down at the
family home at Mount Martha the young
man—he was only 28 —got appendicitis, and
though he had skilled surgical attention he
did not survive the operation. The other
son, Keith, is at Cargellico (N.S.W.).
Andrew Armstrong, who has been
the guest of Dame Melba recently, says the
proper way to pronounce “Dail Eireann” is
as if it were spelt “Doil Errin.” He ought
to know: he is a member of an old Irish
family, and his home is at Ferbane, in
King’s County. '
The Patersons —mamma and the two
girls, Petty .and Esther —blew into Melbourne
last week, positively breathless after a posi-
tive orgy of doing and seeing in London and
Paris.
The Argus Mackinnons saw the old year
out with a Hielan’ gathering at their Toorak
castle, and echoes of bridge and roulette and
music and bagpipes filled the halls. There
was 'a real mayoral banquet, reinforced by
bonbons filled with toys.. Midnight was
ushered in with a bowl of flowing punch, fol-
lowed by handgrips and kisses, which had
their embarrassments in a gathering of
friends, acquaintances and strangers. In the
midst of it Admiral Sir A. Everett very effec-
tively registered bewilderment.
The Mackinnon knight, by the way, has
hoisted an auction-sale board on the front
fence, and when the Red Sea cools he hopes
to convoy his family back to the heather.
The Stork had a busy time in Toorak dur-
ing the plum-pudding season. Among the
little Australians deposited on the best door-
steps were a new daughter for the cheery
Deputy P.M.G. and Mrs. Bright, another son
for the Pultney Mein pair (she was a
daughter of the late Mrs. Sam Staughton),
and a son and heir for the John Bowies.
A few words from H, L. Penfold-Hyland
about a recent “matrimonial cause” :— :
An Adelaide contributor /to The Bulletin’s page
for Southern women (29/12/’2l) said: “In one case
his wife followed him into the room, and presently
saw him jump from the window.” This is not cor-
rect. My wife did not “follow him into the room,”
but watched from the alcove, and could not pos-
sibly see the window from the position in which she
was sitting. I told her the whole truth afterwards,
and if I had not done so perhaps she would not have
obtained the verdict. The cross-examination by Mr.
Villeneuve Smith, it is said, “was a triumph, if an
easy one, and made Mr. Hyland an unhappy man.”
I can honestly assure you that Mr. Smith’s cross-
examination bored me to tears, and all I can say
is that if Mr. Smith was at his best when I was
under cross-examination, then there is a very good
opening indeed for a barrister in this State. Where
Mr. Smith scores is that no detail is too small for
him to enlarge ' upon to the jury, whereas his
“learned” brothers are apt to pass mountains by as
anthills. Mr. Smith’s constant repetition of ques-
tions brought forth-a rebuke from the Judge, who at
one juncture stated: “Mr. Smith, you have asked the
witness that same question at least three times
already.” If my case is a fair example of the jus-
tice obtained by going to an Australian Law Court,
then, I advise the many unhappy couples to settle
their differences at home. Private-inquiry agents’
evidence should be deposited in the waste-paper basket,
as, although at least three of these imaginative scav-
engers said they had seen the lady in question and
myself at Henley Beach and Glenelg, we have never
visited either of these places in each other’s company.
Unlike the average defeated person, I would like to
mention that Mr. Justice Poole’s summing up was,
in my opinion, exceedingly fair, and the just and
honorable way in which he conducted the case won
my admiration.
Those railway employees who are also
tenants of the Department received a cheer-
ful Christmas box in the form of a notice
that their rent would be raised about 200
per cent, from Jan. 1. Small three- or four-
roomed gatekeepers’ cottages (or cottages
that were occupied by gatekeepers before
the days of cattle pits), of ancient design
and build, with no conveniences such as
bath, copper, etc., have hitherto been rented
at from 18s. to 225. 6d. a month. Now the
rent is being rushed up to £3 10s. or more
a month. With the notice (which was ante-
dated a week or 10 days) was a promise
that an agreement for signature would be
forwarded in due course. That’s when the
storm will burst.
The Grand Hotel at Warrandyte had a
great shivoo to usher in the New Year. The
hotel hangs over the little river which buzzes
down the hills through the bush and scrub
to a dinkum mill-wheel that half obr artists
have put on canvas. Several- notable
painter-men have summer-houses perched on
the cra|gy banks, and they joined in with the
procession of motor-parties that tooted up
from town for the fancy-dress jazz. One
devotee of Warrandyte is ex-Judge Bevan,
down from the tropics, who poses pic-
turesquely on the bridge and makes poems to
the mill-wheel.
Paris is trying hard to introduce ankle-
length and crinoline skirls. But the women
simply will not give up the knee-)ength and
the blissful freedom of their understandings.
So a compromise is being made, and tae
newest skirt is built on the idea of a brolly
—ypu wear it collapsed or expanded. ex-
panded it is a short skirt; collapsed, it diops
many inches lower. Thus you may be
crinolined, but when jazz-time comes the
brolly fixture (articulated at intervals) tails
in limp ribs about your nether extremities.
A simple little advt. in the S.A.
30/12/’2l) that has got every second wile
in the city looking sideways at her husband:
Would a kind, respectable Man Lend a respect-
able Young Lady £2 for holidays? Very much
in need. Apply “Holiday,” this office.
This photo shows Frank Hanna, a young
Melburnian w h o
has a notably fine
baritone reinforced
by a real dramatic
manner. He hails
from Ascot Vale,
an d served at the
French front with
the 4th Division of
A.I.F. Artillery, after
which he transferred
to the 2nd Aussie
Motor Transport.
His voice was in
training before he
got into khaki, and
when the Armistice
happened he once
more turned atten-
tion to it and put in
a year under King-
ston Stewart, at the Aeolian studios, before
making several successful appearances in
London and the provinces. And now he
cherishes hopes of o etting back across the
seas one day for a second course of English
voice cultivation.
Mrs, Alger, who was Lassie Forbes before
she married a Ceylon tea-planter, is here
with her small son John, who has reached
the school age. She has brought a cartload
of embroideries and brasses, which she will
unload in the Display Block before- steam-
ing back to her husband and four little
daughters. The Algers substituted rubber-
trees for tea-bushes, and there’s sorrow in
the household now.
Australia is a frank and unaffected demo-
cracy. At a popular Melbourne pub there
was a great holiday gathering-together
of sheep-and-cattle men of three ( States,
with a sprinkling of townsmen. Through
a break in the chatter drawled the
“superior” tones of a knutty young-
ster. “Verray rough fellah,” he said
—“looked like a dashed swaggie, y’ know!”
There was, a vivid silence; thqn six-foot-
three of grey-headed squatter, owner of half
a county and a shearing tally of six figures,
rose slowly. “Go on, young man,” he
begged, “what about your dashed swaggie.
I've carried a swag !” “So have I!” snapped
other voices. The young man buried him-
self in smoke-haze: he had misjudged Ins
company.
A coo-ee from Adelaide: —
The dance given by Mayor Cohen in the Town Hall
to celebrate the passing of 1921 was the most popu-
lar that has ever marked an Adelaide New Year’s
Eve. At 10.30 his Ex., Lady Weigall and the staff
(keen dancers all) turned up, and after supper his
Ex, spoke from the balcony through a megaphone to
the tremendous crowd below, who cheered and sang
“For He’s a Jolly Good Fellow” and “Auld Lang
Syne:”
The Tokyo Town gambling cases ended in the
police being prevailed upon to withdraw the infor-
mation after first asking the Bench to say that the
withdrawal must not form a precedent. A touch
of melodrama was infused into the proceedings by
the defending K.C. intimating that the Moulden lady,
who was the king-pin of Tokyo Town, was in court
prepared to “suffer” in place of the four gents,
cited as having infringed the law.
The train from Perth the other day brought 220
boys, of from 12 to 18, members of the Young Austra-
lia League, an institution that believes in travel
to educate the youthful mind They were given a
civic welcome by Mayor Cohen at the Town Hall
and turned loose upon a six-day programme of
sight-seeing that had been arranged for them.
When the big bowling corroboree came to an end
Thomas Crase, sec. of the S.A. Bowling Association,
and chief executive officer of the carnival, was
handed a handsome gift from the inter-State trundlers
after some appropriate remarks had been made by
J. R. Melross a Tasmanian visitor.
The Port Town Hall was too small when the
local Mayor tendered a public welcome to the
Diggers’ friend, Sammy Lunn, M.8.E., and his wife,
who returned a few days ago from England, where
they were entertained by everyone from the King
downwards. The day they arrived about 2000
people were on the wharf at the Outer Harbor to
meet them.
Ella Shields was the guest of their Exes, at lunch
at Government House before she packed her trunks
for Sydney.
Adelaide is, at time of writing, getting its share
of the rains that caused the floods in the eastern
States. The English Pierrots have been obliged to
shut up and wait till the clouds roll by; but the
Humphrey Bishop co., more fortunate, has been able
to move its show into the Exhibition Building.


:
-.—
...,
£
...
: r
J2B"
::
v saOg=
,<c\
m
" ■
/*T,
m
v
,: .
IPH
liiiSilli
si
4
m
m>
m
V
w
m
:
*£»■
3t
J-
m
a*
v>‘
5/
V,
|§lgMi
if'
H
gft
Uj£&
. m
Uf
• 1 *5.
as
s
SHSKsI-.%-■.
»
p
m
m
.
<$ - v
i i :■,
.
{y
Vi
£4si
c
Electric Gull
r
Liberty ,
Electric
Vacuum
Cleaner
l
»)
HLP 2 >
--and now she has more time
to herself! ”
ELECTRIC service in the home means
Home Light and Power Unit
lightened work and more spare time for
the housewife.
Think for a moment what such service
means.
It means that every room, porch and
outhouse can be instantly flooded with electric light—brilli-
ant and plentiful. No dangerous matches, messy lamps,
fuss or delay. You simply turn a handy switch—that is all.
No more pedalling the sewing machine; no more trudg-
ing to and from the hot stove on ironing day; no more
broom sweeping. A.G.E. Electric Sewing Machines, Irons
and Vacuum Cleaners do the work, and do it quickly and
well. No more stuffy rooms, A.G.E. Fans bring cooling
breezes right into the home.
The A.G.E. Home Light and Power Unit now makes
this service available to you in your home.
Full particulars of A.G.E. labour-saving
devices, and showing how easily you can
obtain them, will be sent post free by
return for the writing of a card.
Write it now.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDN ETY"
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
116 QUEEIM STREET
Phone : City 3510
Box 2517 G, P. O.
Phone : Central 2646
Box 538 G. P. O.
AGENTS:
BRISBANE-The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus-
tralia Ltd. E.S.C.A. Corner Edward 8C Charlotte Sts
TAS.—Oliver SC Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
ADELAIDE —Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Currie St.
PERTH Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Limited
"Mazda House,” 894 Hay Street.


Under
Royal
Warrant
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
c?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
SOCIETY HAS CHOSEN THE
Wentworth Cafe
AS ITS FAVORITE RENDEZVOUS
-—and no wonder, for hostesses who entertain there are certain of absolute
satisfaction at a minimum of trouble and anxiety. They merely have to
issue invitations, which rfre invariably accepted with joyous alacrity—the
Wentworth management does the rest.
HAVE YOU TRIED THE
FAMOUS BUSINESS MEN’S 3/- LUNCH?
BOOK YOUR TABLE.
CITY 9931.
'THE NAME
'is
m
mm
* *4?
?yOM C**\. „
VK^
fo*
(fO**
Oi*
p wC
©OO
rtv-
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
After an illness that has lasted since her
arrival in England, almost two years ago,
Mrs. Titheradge'died last week in London.
She was the widow of Australia’s old-time
favorite mummer, and 'the mother of at
least two present stage successes, Madge and
Dion. One daughter is the wife of Frank
Cochrane, the producer who introduced the
Cobbler’s Song to -Australian audiences in
“Chu Chin Chow” ; and another gifted and
good-looking daughter, Frances, is Madge’s
understudy. Mrs. Titheradge was an omni-
vorous reader, and her speech was as beau-
tifully distinct and resonant as that of her
famous husband, who, incidentally, never
failed to consult his small, vivid-eyed wife
concerning every part he was about to play.
Great sympathy goes out to her one daughter
in Australia, Mrs. Herrick Knowles, of Rose
Bay, with whom Mrs. Titheradge made her
home until Madge’s longing to see her
mother again became too insistent to be
denied. Pretty little Nina, the youngest and
only unmarried one of the big brood, has
been for the past few months serving but-
tered buns to baronets in a small and exclu-
sive Bond-street tea-shop kept by friends of
the family.
The new hospital for women and children
in Surry Hills, just opened by Sydney’s lead-
ing medicine-women, is the outcome of the
Medical Conference in Melbourne last year.
Dr. Lucy Gullett and Dr. Emma Buckley
came back so impressed by the hospital for
women in the Victorian capital that they
infused their enthusiasm into their sister
medicoes here, and the institution in Lans-
downe-street at Surry Hills is the result.
Dr. Biffin and Dr. Gullett are in the fore-
front. The hospital already has its patients,
though the official opening does not take
place for another fortnight. P.S.—Dr. Emma
Buckley is to sample matrimony at an early
date with Mr, Peter Turkington.
The Venetian Carnival brightened up the
head of Mosman Bay in patches on Satur-
day night. The rain in the early evening
put an end to any ideas residents had of
looping hundreds of paper lanterns across
lawns, and hanging topaz, emerald and ruby
necklaces around the water’s edge. Most
householders contented themselves with
switching on all the electrics, though here
and there a balconied front, high on the
Cremorne side, having its crop of colored
lights under cover, sprouted against the
blackness of the night like some gorgeous
pantomime castle. Small launches showing
scarcely a light slipped around the points as
though some masked and dominoed gallant
were their mysterious cargo ; while the ferries
rustled with detached insouciance beside the
piers, as though to say “Even if we are
only in our everyday frock we have the
gayest carnival dress of all.” Rockets and
Roman candles winged across the night at
tong intervals; and at even longer intervals
a slim moon shrugged a petulant shoulder
through a rent cloud.
The first meeting of the executive com-
mittee of those who have banded together
to send little Princess Mary a wedding gift
from the women of N. S. Wales was held
in the Mayoress’s rooms last Friday. It
was decided to receive contributions, which
had been fixed at one shilling, at the Town
Hall. The mayoresses of all municipali-
ties and the wives of shire presidents are
being circularised asking for their co-opera-
tion and the opening of lists in their dis-
tricts. As the wedding takes place early
in February, it is necessary that the lists
should be closed not later than the 31st
inst., otherwise the house on which the
bridegroom-to-be has just spent a million
pounds may lack a set of aluminium pots.
The puff-ball of ridicule doesn’t fly at
the Boy Scout as readily as it did before the
war; and the weird upholstering of Little
Willie is almost forgotten in the good habits
the youngster is taught. After sounding
opinion the adult brains behind the move-
ment decided that it was time to give a
wider public an idea of what the boy-scout-
ing business really means; wherefore over
5000 beribboned youngsters, representing
“troops” in every part of Australia, have
been wearing their khaki in Sydney this
week past. The G.-G.’s ear has been caught,
and he trained across from Melbourne to
say “Een gonyama, gonyama,” or whatever
it is the man has to say who undertakes the
desperate job of addressing a corroboi’ee.
(And the scout shall answer “Een gonyama,
gonyama” with “Invooboo. Yah bo! Yah
bo! Invooboo.” The which interpreted
is “He is a lion.” “Yes, he is hungrier
than that. He is a politician.” Or words
to that effect.)
A harbor excursion planned and hostessed
by Miss Charles Fairfax for visiting Scout-
masters on Saturday was an unbounded
success in spite of the speckled weather.
Over 150 accepted the invitation of this
patron saint of the Scouts, and the catering
was not the least of the things that will
make the outing a bright spot in the memory
of the visitors.
While _ the Scots Wha Hae were piping
their defiance of the weather at the Agri-
cultural Grounds, and trying to toss the
caber and to grapevine amidst crossed swords
with the gaiety of their nation, Randwick
lawns were being churned into mud-baths
by the goloshed feet of 20,000 who for the
most part failed to pick the winner. Any
enterprising umbrella-mender might have
made a fortune, for the untrustworthy gamp
turned turtle by the hundred in vain at-
tempts to weather the storm. Skunk furs
and navy tailorings were Mrs. Sep Levy’s
protest against the weather; tall Helen
Laidley staggered through the day tightly
buttoned up jn a mauve topcoat; and the
Spencer Bfuntons and the MacCormicks
helped make up the 20,000.
r Everywhere still linger the echoes of New
Year parties. Suburbia dashed in its
hundreds to the Wentworth and cheerfully
paid 255. a head for the privilege of ushering
in the New Year amid white-and-gold
decorations, with the garden pavilion flaunt-
ing its thousand and one shaded lights
through the long, open windows. The Pacific
at Manly, too, drew its following, but they
were mostly house-guests, and the only break
in an otherwise decorous evening occurred
during the early courses of the dinner when
somebody started flnging the paper streamers
around too soon. A bunch of kiddies from
Queensland scrambled so energetically for
the streame*-ends that presently it was difti-
cut for a mother to distinguish child from
paper. The waitresses got caught in the
flying ends, but unwound themselves as they
revolved about the tables as cleverly and
noiselessly as an Egyptian mummy slips out
of its wrappings. Mm Jimmy Burns,
fragile but fairy-like in a wonderful black
lace dress, was voted the noted-looker of the
evening. Another handsome black-dresser
was Mrs. Willie Dunlop; and Mrs. Julian
McKay, from Queensland, dipped into her
lucky chest and dragged forth still another
dress to rivet the eye of her fellow-boarders.
Mrs. Stuart Macphail entertained a family
party over a bank of blue pink hy-
drangea ; and an assortment of Wills-Allens
and Mrs. Reddall’s cropped fair head added
to the joyousness.
And, incidentally, here is a true story
about the water-front caravanserai. The
flapper of the gay surfing togs wore an ex-
pression of utter boredom during the New
Year deluge, and towards evening she un-
burdened her soul to another young thing
in the lounge. Sweeping the environs in
comprehensive contempt for the knitting and
cards and books in everybody’s hands she
complained: “Why, a girl I knew once
called the place "The Terrific’. I know what
I’d call it.” Her eye lighted on the man-
ager, who was crossing the horizon. “I’d
call it ‘Gray’s Elegy’!”
Herewith Falk’s photo of the well-known
Sydney girl Tien Hogue, no - / in London,
who in a few days’
time weds Lieut.
Buy Wyatt, R.N., of
Melbourne. T h
lady is a good-looker
who followed the
stage in Australia
with unvarying suc-
cess and few “rests”
from the time of her
first appearance in
“Quinneys.” A year
ago Tien set out in
search of London
triumphs, but seems
to have got tangled
up with the golden
threads of matri-
mony instead. Tien’s
father, old journalist
Jimm y—for years
he edited Sydney Evening News —was at
one time the State’s Minister for Educa-
tion ; and all good Australians still cling to
the memory of her brother Oliver, “Trooper
Bluegum.”
There was a great gathering of the Foys
at Narrabeen on New Year’s Eve. Mrs.
Ward, who was a Foy before she was Mrs.
Mackin, entertained 37 of the clan proper
or by marriage at her little shack, which,
except for a few garages and marble baths
and things like that, lacks all the modern
conveniences. Between nine and ten the
guests began to arrive in all the best-known
makes of cars, and song and dance passed
the time till midnight. Then Mrs. Ward
pulled the string of a monster bon-bon over
the centre supper-table, and out fell a
shower of gifts, one for each guest. While
these were being unwrapped a motor-horn
tooted, and up to the cottage rolled a motor-
lorry on which were piled a mountain of
packages, New Year and Old Year—a two-
some of Mackins —and Father Time. After
the three had read their scrolls, Time and
Old Year slipped away and left the stage to
pantalooned and bewigged ’Twenty-two,
who thereupon commenced distributing his
lorry-load. Card tables, armchairs and the
like were handed around as freely as hankies
are distributed by the ordinary woman. To
young Mrs. Mark Foy fell a set of china
coffee-cups in silver filigree holders.
Vern Barnett, Sydney’s best-known accom-
panist, greets you from this picture: and
you'd never guess
from the gentle look
of him that he
started out in life
as a dentist.
Through studying ac-
companiments with
Edward Sykes he
thought he would
rather draw music
from the ivories
than extract them
from the human
gums; and so it
came about that be
worked for 12
years with Andrew
Black, whose
famous Bechstein
grand is now the
pianist’s most prized
possession. Mr. Barnett is conductor of the
Enmore and Manly Choral Societies, and
of the choirs of the Petersham Congrega-
tional and St. Andrew’s (Summer Hill)
churches. In addition, the energetic musi-
cian supplies all the organ music for the
Welsh Choral Society, and teaches six days
in the week.
Of course, Leura Golf Club had its New
Year party in spite of the weather. The
wide verandahs wore trails of Dorothy Per-
kins roses and pink and gold electric lights.
The Summer Colony turned up in force,
and the rooms were thick with Christians
and Meareses, Rankins and Merewetliers:
and the popular Portus girls took a hand
in the festivities. There were Wades and
Moreau and Huxtable girls among the
250 who welcomed in the New Year on the
prettiest spot in the Mountain village. The
banks of beautiful flowers were sent by the
R. M. Pitts, of Wentworth Falls.
Other New Year parties were given by the
Edmund Playfairs, while the McMasters, of
Mudgee, and O. B. Meares —the bachelor
wool-prince of the district—plunged into a
succession of picnics and dances that sound
like the days when the world was wide,
Kathleen Meta Anderson, a dark lass with
a speaking eye, whose father was a Queens-
land banking-man, has promised to wed
Victor, who is a younger brother of the
Tivoli’s managing-director Harry Musgrove.
This makes Victor a nephew of George Mus-
grove and a son of Harry, w T ho managed one
Australian eleven.
Joseph James Punch, one of the youngest
lieutenants of the A.F.A., who married Mary
Kathleen Costigan. of Young, the other day,
is a nephew of Judge Edmunds, and a sheep-
grower at Dalby (Q.), He and brother
Pete, who was best man at the wedding, left
their properties in the care of a manager
while they Avent to fight the Hun. The end
of the war found Pete trying to get a
gassed heart into perfect action again at
Austinmer, and any resident there will tell
you that he had quite a lot to do with start-
ing the excellent life-saving club at the sun-
Avashed beach.
Charlie Oakes, who arranged the pro-
gramme for the Prince’s visit, helped to
stage-manage the marriage flutter of only
son Roy last Saturday. The hundred-year-
old St. James’s looked on unruffled while
Padre Russell knotted the strands of the
young man’s life' to those of Lily SeAvell. of
Bellevue Hill. Ivory satin draped over
Flemish lace formed the bridal finery.
Bride’s sister Violet carried a pale-pink
bouquet in contrast to her powder-blue
bridesmaid frock.
Alton Kingsley, fifth of the soldier-sons
of the Percy Clarences of Camira and .New-
bold stations, Clarence River, met Irene
Alice Mackey 7 at St. James’s, and then left
for a honeymoon. Bridegroom’s sister Jessie
and bride’s girl-friend Carmen Moran were
in attendance, while Harold Mackey and
cousin Grafton Reay lent their support.
Principal Bennett, the learned ex-mission-
ary who teaches the young Methodist how to
shoot into a reverend at the training-college
at Enfield, had a second yvedding on Satur-
day. The more than middle-aged widower’s
new Avife was Reid, a lady 7 Avith a
record of good work in hostels and elsew r here.
Captain Lachlan Mac Allister, of the 4Sth
Regiment, whose face beams down from the
Avails of the Mitchell Library, was the
maternal grandfather of the new mayoress.
Grandma Mac Allister rode in the first train
that steamed out of Sydney on the occasion
of the opening of the first railway in Aus-
tralia.
It isn’t going to be any years’
course for most of the lads and lasses who
are now pursuing a brass-plate through the
Sydney Medical School. Of 160 first-year
students less than one-half got through. One
surprising student—that Alan Canny who
was a brilliant dux of Sydney Grammar in
1920—not only gained “high distinction” in
every subject, but took every prize but one
offered for first-year “meds,” and that one
he shares with another student. The Medi-
cal School has known the dazzling perform-
ances of Hunter and some others; but this
sort of record is new to it.
Englishman Philip Wilson, whose silvery
tenor used to be heard at the Conserva-
torium, has been lifting his voice .in Lon-
don’s Wigmore Hall. Australians present
were agreeably surprised when it was an-
nounced that, owing .to sudden illness, the
accompanist whose name appeared upon the
menu would not be present, but that Philip
would be assisted by Miss Margaret Chal-
mers, of Sydney. She proved a most accom-
plished substitute.
Norman Zions, the fine-looking Padding-
ton boy who was so well known in amateuh
mumming in Sydney before the Big Disagree-
ment, and was resident at the Paddington
Hospital for Women, has a brass-plate now
in famous Harley-street. But you will look
in vain for the name of Zions. He is Dr.
Norman Haire now.
Madeline Rossiter is returning to Austra-
lia for a brief visit. What a versatile woman
she is ! She not only sings, plays the piano
and violin, and dances, and does all these
things well, but for the latest Indian produc-
tion of “His Little Widows” she designed the
frocks, arranged the dances, and then, owing
to the illness of Dolly Prince, stepped in at
less than two days’ notice and played the
lead! Incidentally, she is divorcing the
journalist she married 18 months ago.
Smart Sydney remembers the Leaheys,
who hailed from Ashburton (M.L.) and
traded hats to the affluent under the title
of “Kays” in King-street. One of the sis-
ters took her millinery art to London, where
she secured a West End trade; but matri-
mony threatens soon to engulf her.
Next Saturday, wet or fine, the Institute
of Journalists will waken the ghosts .of
Vaucluse House by holding a social evening
in their midst. On that night the moon
will be at the full, and it may be vouch-
safed to secretary Tom Spencer to glimpse
a hooped and riiigletted lady : ghost inhaling
the perfume of the magnolia-tree on the
lawn.
Hundreds of Digger officers who had won
a Blighty in France convalesced at Cobham
Hall, the home of the Earl of Darnley, who
as cricketer Ivo Bligh married an Austra-
lian girl. But things are not what they
were for earls with heavily-taxed moated
granges, so the other' day Lord Clifton,
Darnley’s heir, hung up his hat in the office
of a London auctioneer and property agent,
and started to earn a crust like any other
decent youngster might—and should.
Lawyer Bill Curtis, of Point Piper, was
another New Year host on a large scale —
his affair was for the young. This Mr.
Bigheart has adopted the two sons of a
brother of his who was lulled during the
influenza epidemic in Maoriland. His own
only olive branch is a daughter not yet
eligible for the flapper stakes.
Outgoers on the Sonoma were the jolly
Freddy Shipman couple, Mrs. J. D. Fitz-
gerald and Mrs. Edmund Playfair. Bookers
by the Themistocles include Mrs. Kelso King
and step-daughter Olive, who has such a
•nice way with a pen.
Still another American woman journalist
has descended upon Sydney. Mrs. A. P.
Hatch is on a world-tour in the interests
of the Pictorial Review. She hasn’t raved
about our Harbor, but she has about our
beaches, the nretty complexions of the
women, and their smart dressing at the
races. It was the betting that surprised
her: they have little or none on races in her
country. About prohibition, she thinks
good has come from the closing of the
saloons, but harm from the manufacture of
poisonous substitutes. She believes the
saloons are "one for good, but that the con-
sumption of light wines and beers will soon
be permitted. From Sydney the writing lady
goes on to Melbourne, and thence to Maori-
land.
Still another concert co. goes out from
Sydney to the North Coast. Harry Thomas,
well-known reciter and entertainer, has
arranged and is managing the venture.
Myrtle Thorne, billed as “the Australian
Clara Butt,” is the big draw.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Annie Fihelly, a pretty dark-haired sister of
Acting-Premier Jack, said “I will” to P. J. Mc-
Loughliu at Dara. Father Lane tied the knot, Jack
gave the bride away, and sister Catherine was
bridesmaid. After the voice had breathed, Mrs.
Jack entertained the wedding party at the Belle
Vue. Archbishop Duhig - , P. J. McDermott, and
Justice and Mrs. McCawley were among the guests.
Capt. Trotter, who went to Gallopili with the
2nd Light Horse, and gathered up most of a shell,
has won the secretaryship of the new Health Board
from a field of 64.


Endorse Rexona
Every day the fame of Rexona grows, until it is now
world-wide. Most of all our noted theatrical artistes are
Rexona Girls, for they know how much personal
attractiveness adds to charm, and have learned by
experience that the use of Rexona and Rexona Soap is
the shortest road to health and beauty. Note what these
famous Stars say of Rexona and Rexona Soap, and if
you are not already a user of the Rexona Products, start
their use to-day. Rexona will keep your skin in perfect
condition, and free from all blemishes. Rexona Soap
gives natural beauty to the skin and hair.
Are You a Rexona Girl?
The Rexona Girls’ Club is now many thousands strong.
All Rexona Girls are beautiful girls, for beauty and
Rexona go together. Why not be a Rexona Girl, too?
To be a Rexona Girl is to use Rexona and Rexona Soap,
which ensure that clear, fresh skin and beautiful hair
which go so far to give any girl that natural charm and
beauty which is her rightful heritage.
Girls! Beautify Your Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double
the beauty of your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy,
abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and charming as
anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona
Soap. A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair
has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess
oil, and in a few moments you have doubled the beauty
of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for
ever stopping itching and falling hair. If you care to
have pretty hair, and lots of it —get a tablet of Rexona
Soap to-day.
Why Not Enjoy a Good Complexion?
You cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you
wash your face do you realise that it is not enough to simply remove the
dirt, but that your skin needs a soothing, healing influence to keep your
complexion fresh and free from blemish? Scented toilet soaps are often
very pleasant, but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware. Many
of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its
delicate texture. Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way
help to improve the skin, but Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an
absolutely pure soap, but is medicated on the same principle as the famous
Rexona Ointment, which is known throughout Australasia as the Rapid Healer.
That is why Rexona Soap really does for the skin and face what cosmetics
are supposed to do, by ensuring not only a clean face, but a pure and healthy
skin, and thus gives you a clear complexion.
Rexona,
THE RAPID HEALER,
1/6 and 3/-
Rexona
Soap,
1/- per Tablet.
*7777?
54.
%
mwm
m
a
OR THE \. y/'
ii
mmm
J
Mn: i
m>§
MEDICATED SOAP
M
Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney, N.S.W.
r/«iV
§BsB
Era
"e 5
mm
V
“llcxonn is a won-
derful Healer , and
l always keep a
tin of it handy
\
Miss Ivy Shilling.
“I have never come
across a Soap like
Rexona before. So
lovely for the Skin
and Hair”
Miss Lottie Collins (Jun.).
■IBS
*
“Rexona and
Rexona Soap are
worth their weight
in gold.”
Miss Madge Elliott.
1
:Ki
i::usmtru
-■ “ru
“I think Rexona
soap truly delight-
ful.”
Miss Cecil Bradley.


Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Send for
Mr. Harry
J. Weston’s
instructive
and interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen.’’
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by the Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work are given.
The Weston method
is simplicity • itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by a
series of easy, pro-
gressive lessons
gives you a
thorough grounding
in the basic prin-
ciples of art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
many successful
Weston pupils have
done? You have
the benefit of
Mr. Weston’s
personal advice
on every lesson.
3T
e\'
Send three stamps to-day for booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal .School of Drawing,
101 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
N «
SHIP BRANO
delicious
Summer Dishes
“Man vl a cturers
I CUFFGHD LOVE S- C9IPSYDNEY
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
a
StrOSCH®"
WORK
SHIRT
An exceptionally strong work shirt
that forgets to wear out. Colors
are guaranteed—FAST! Comfort-
able to wear, hard to wear out. Plain
Shades and Stripes. Offered at the
new, low-level price.
ORDER YOURS TO-DAY!
'Pikeffrolhers
*■ X i m i ted
TOOWOOMBA- BRISBANE - TOWNSVILLE
PLEASE WHITE TO DESK »W.’
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTi.ES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Alluvial and other Gold.
Also Platinum.
We desire to buy for melting
purposes.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
INFORMATION IS SOUGHT as to
descendants of JAMES SHANAHAN,
who left County Limerick between ISIS and
1830, and settled either in Sydney or New
Zealand. He had brothers Maurice and
Edward, the former settling in America in
1848. Address C.P.8., c/o Box IS2, 0.P.0.,
Sydney.
A" NYONE knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON,
please communicate with F. SAMPSON,
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
No. 98
a >
m
Hi
The “Texas” Ranger
Cowboy Saddle.
No. 98 is a popular saddle at a reason-
able price. It is made in nut brown
leather, without fancy stamping, and
the seat and cantle are in one piece of
stout leather. The skirts are lined with
felt, and it is double-rigged with two-
cord cinchas and plain wood stirrups.
-/SI/213
Freight Free for Cash with Order
to any Station on N.S.W.
Railway System.
Write for Cash Price Delivered to other States.
Write for our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
showing
The “Western Hero” Texas Saddle £lB 0 0
The “Pride of the Prairie” Texas.. 18 15 0
The “Western Stampede” Texas . . 18 15 0
The “Winton” Australian Stock Saddle 16 5 0
The “Longrreach” Comfort Saddle.. 16 5 0
The “Kemp” Poley Saddle 14 10 0
And many others.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers 8 Polo Specialists, 395 George Street, SYDNEY.
WHILE SADIE DANCED
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Her dainty shoes grew sad. But the
gladness, the smartness, the very “new-
ness’’ soon returned —Sadie always uset
Bostock’s
Shoe Dressings
White Liquid Dressing—for Canvas Shoes.
White Liquid Dressing—for Suede Shoes.
Black and Brown Liquid Suede Cleaners.
Bostock’s Polishes. Ltd., Sydney.
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES RAZOR
THIS RAZOR and share withthous&nds of others the
I that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
mmm
&o:
Ar
<b
N
Guaranteed
in order for two years free.
m
PLATED SPOONS AND FORKS
FINEST ENGLISH MANUFACTURE.
The articles illustrated are of the Highest Quality, and offer the best value
obtainable. These Spoons and Forks are triple silver-plated, and are recognised
as the best substitute for Sterling Silver.
Drummond’s also carry a selection of these in Sterling Silver.
All prices are based on to-day’s reduced cost of production, and a comparison
of price and value is invited before purchase.
Mm. JBrummonii & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
5.0. H.: Westralia hasn’t yet reached
quite one-half of Victoria’s total gold output. In the
best “diggings” year (’56) Vic. reported 12i mil-
lions sterling. Westralia’s best (8j millions) was
in 1903. N. S. Wales only twice got above two
millions —the last time in ’62. .. .Huffin G.: Never
suggested that the boy should leave school at 15.
What was trounced was the “idiotic system” of
wages-board awards, etc., which penalise the father
who keeps his boy at school till he is 17 or 18
Newborn: Thanks, but we’ve already thrown that
delightful bloomer at Newbolt... .P.S.W.: Yes; and
a few days later the same Argus reported that a
vacancy for a private sec. to the Priminister had
existed for some time, nobody being found “suited
to his somewhat exacting needs” R.H.D.: Rather
ingenious doggerel; but it doesn’t run as smoothly
as topical doggerel should... .G.N. (Carlingford) :
“The Gap” suffers a lot from general debility and a
little from corns... .Edward Y.: Tame little bit of
commonplace... .W.J.M.: All of it has been better
said before.... Quasi: Pretty horrible.... Warra-
dulla: No harvest there... .Graeme: Poor verse....
Spadger: Can’t offer even half a farthing for it....
Becky: “The Princess” can’t be admitted to our
peerage... .A.D.M.: You want to get a better notion
of what verse i 5.... Alan B.: Solemn and du11....
-g J.M.S.Y.: “Our British Blood” curdles at the thought
of it.... Thuringale: Spoiled in the telling... .X-
Ray: A dud A.L.R.: Doesn’t thrill C.E.M.:
The verse keeps falling over its own feet; the prose
is just a gathering up of commonplaces S.V.G.S.:
Poor stuff poorly written M.K.M.: Doesn’t say
anything that we could honestly ask sixpence for...
Oliver B.: A fine thing suitable for recitation by
Hebrew gentlemen on the road to Zion:—
England for me, my home, my country,
Ever-amazing wealth and fertility;
The ever-spreading beauty where ever you go.
A lovelier place. Surely say no.
England ■is mine, with its ever-green grass,
No droughts to sadden one’s eyes.
Where ever you go or where you pass,
Nothing to make one heave or sigh.
England for me with its lovely land,
With its foxgloves, honeysuckle and roses;
Not to forget the bluebells join hand in hand;
Add to all, all its glories.
Ah, yes; dear old England, my dear old home,
Where the summer gives its wondrous scenes ;
Babbling- brooks, tree-fringed ponds, lovely loam,
England for me where it’s forever g.ee—
....Alex.: Nothing there. .. .C.G.R.: Only ordi-
narily bad.... E.C.H.: Poor in both matter and
manner... .H.R.M.: “Wun Li” creaks too much. Go
through your stuff with an oil-can, and make it run
more smoothly. And then knock away all the stilts.
.... Iphigenia in Trouble: Hasn’t much resemblance
to verse.... Richard P.: Nothing in “Dicky”....
W r .F.T.: The yarn fails in the telling; and the fact
that it is true doesn’t help it.... Bungawalbin: Not
up by some distance Echap: The verse is too
bumpy.... W.E.L.: Haven’t an idea what it means.
. ...E.R.D.: It’s so “blind with fierce love” that it
hasn’t a touch of feeling... .L.L.: Summer verse
too slight... .John J.: They have a heavy movement
like grand opera walking in porridge R.R.P.:
Thin and unreal J.M. (Wahroonga) : It wants
sand-papering M.B. (Bondi): A hash-up of ele-
mentary text-books is no use 4/2020: As empty
as the deadest mai’ine on the track to Booligal
E.H.W.: Begins nowhere and gets to nothing
David L.: Doesn’t strike u5....G.M. (Gore): It
saddened the darkest hour of a long rain-storm
H.B. (Punchbowl): Commonplace Alan D.: None
of them quite up D.D.D.: Doesn’t get near
M. : Much too long for its interest A.E.D.:
No force or beauty in the verses A.A.C.: The
verse doesn’t carry it L.G. (Petersham): You
got a workable refrain, but didn’t have anything
worth while to use it on Maine: The fact that
the men at the foot of Sugarloaf are of all sorts
and sizes is hardly a theme for verse... .E.D.
(Randwick) : Glad it causes you such joy, but we
cant let you talk about it... .Conditional Purchase:
“Last Straw” is too machine-made... .Jack K.:
The feeling is all right, but the verse is very
ragged. See if you can’t do better with it
N. : Not well enough done E.J.R.: No im-
provement .... 4 to 8: Curious thing how a certain
type of mind thinks a bad smell humorous
V. : Doesn’t get near J.L.D.D.: Read good
verse, and then begin Cainb: There are dead
camp-fires all along the track you’ve taken
E.M.C.: “Lover” hasn’t quite enough distinction....
Roger: Lacks sincerity T.M.: “Luck” won’t
make a story of that size; but there’s a good Abo.
par. in it... .R.D.: Some of it is acceptable. Watch
your ear it’s liable to get you into trouble by
passing false rhymes like damn—man....Q. Cum-
ber: You’ve left it too late.... R.W.C.: Off
our beat; but you should sell it easily enough.
There’s quite good color in it Raldo: Suspicion
of unoriginality is thick upon them Mikkie
Kitten: Right off Tiie Bulletin’s track.... Sach:
Might be of interest if you said who the flag-
wagging lady was... .H.E.S.: You’ve arrived exactly
a year too late... .C.A.M.: No hope unless you
compress more Sestertius: Too long; but you
might place it elsewhere L.F.C.: Heard nothing
more of it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.C.: Drawing feeble and gag old E.G.: Very
amateurish yet F.H.: Nothing in it T.G.:
Not up J.S.: Woeful drawing C.G.: A black
and purple nightmare. ... G. 11.: Shakspeare never
deserved that E.H.: Not quite up A.E.: Out
again L.G.C.: Misses E.H.T.: Too stiff
W. : Might do something if you broadened your
style C.M.: Some merit, but not enough
C.P.H.: Variation of old gag C.L.W.: Suspic-
iously un-Australian E.C.P.: Been done before.
. ...J.8.: Sketches in blue ink useless.
“L.F.S.”: The decay of the churches has
gone further than we .suspected. In fact,
in Tasmania they’re burying ’em, and to
make sure are doing it twice over. At
Scottsdale (Launceston Examiner report) :
On Sunday afternoon, the funeral of the the Presby-
terian Sunday School were held during the morning
and evening, in St. Andrew’s Church. There was a
large congregation on each occasion.
“M-”: This reply to a history-examination
question at a young ladies’ seminary ii
Toorak (Vic.) shows that girls “howl” ah
wrnll as boys. Asked what she knew abou«
Oliver Cromwell the lassie replied : “He wah
a man who made people go to church and
not commit adultery on Sunday. This irri-
tated the people very much.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First.-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, o 4 (J gp,.;,,,. Street.
481 o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Fakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 8, 1922,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAA'iSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
-Banking, Public Companies, &c.
TH£
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000; Iteserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Mon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAV.IKS; K. II!
MACARTNEY ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, I\ C M G •"
110-v. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Art 1803.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman -
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarwood, F.G.P.A. ;
George F. Todman ; Hon. F. j AUO smith, M.L.ci ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: 3. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250.000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 106 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital £625,000
Reserve Fund .. . • •. .. 620,000
£1.245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Shipping, eu».
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 16th FEBRUARY, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 16th MARCH.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S, NIAGARA. FEBRUARY 16.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class; £5O
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Weilington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States ean be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 2ntl FEBRUARY, 1922.
MARAMA, 2nd MARCH.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
'
/
•C-'TVJ
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3* TO 4i WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
I’airi-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors
OOO'OOS‘BI3
ooo'ooo'e
ooo f ooe‘c
OOO‘OOO f S3F -
The lion. Sir Charles. K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Kobert L. Faithfull. Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Wall;or.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street. E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London!
Agents and G< respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
.. £2,909,025
.. £2,360,000
.. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
pf
« 5
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
J. W. Maearthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. IT. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEOIIGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Rirchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORFiESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J 1 NEW
enolan Caves, «*««.■
Nature’s Masterpiece For a Delightful Holiday.
SPECIALLY ORGANISED PARTIES LEAVE SYDNEY DAILY.
Luxurious travel by speedy train and touring motor through enchanting forest and mountain
3 DAYS’ TOUR £4/17/6
4 DAYS’ TOUR £5/14/-
5 DAYS’ TOUR £6/10/6
scenery.
Covering first-class rail, motor and hotel expenses en route. Accommodation, dancing and enter-
tainment at Caves House, and Daily Caves Inspections.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
BOOK AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
ShlnDing*
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances pennitting.)
FOIt MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street,
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350. George
Street.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Huddart ParkerL^l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and rice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, .Philp & Co., Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BVIiON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAIi SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasnenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OItARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-clasr, on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IKOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzro.v Estates, Ltd.
Blacklieath Collieries, Utd., and CaledoniaH
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. 00., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand. Ltd. Huddarf, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messagede,s Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth. Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown,


Nothing Better in Watches.
Fx & N R”'wateh Can be better f ° r hard bUSh USe than our celebrated “Super
81 years’ experience in every make of watch throughout the
We publish our opinion that there is no better,
stronger, more durable watch than the “Super Fx & It” Watch,
in o rofoundly accurate, too. A “Super Fx & R” Watch goes to within
10 seconds a month.
Then, too, they last a lifetime, and stand horseback rough wear better
than any watch that we know of.
~ , bever s, with 15 jewels, they are fine value when one considers
that the Customs collect 48 per cent, of the cost price.
Fairfax § Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery
Mouse in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 8 25 Hunter Street.
Gent.’s O.F. Oxi-
dised Steel “Super
Fx & R” fully-
jewelled Lever,
84/-
That Ice Cool Comfort
When the Sun is
Like a Furnace
HAVE you ever felt like you’d give
a hundred pounds to feel cool on
those intensely hot days when the air
is like the inside of a baker’s oven ?
Well, there’s no need to. You can just
lay out a few shillings on Aertex Cellular
Underwear—the coolest hnder-garments
in the world. Aertex clothes you with air, keeps your skin cool,
and lets it breathe! -■
Every inch .of the Aertex material contains air-cells which keep
you cool and healthy. Every garment is real value fo money,
and is cut and fashioned on tailor-made principles, so that it fits
you like a new air-cooled skin.
A
*
CELLULAR
UNDERCLOTHING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
To be obtained from
all leading Outfitters.
-' -
: i
Meerloo
I QT n
AERTEX
ondo
TH.j Label on all Garments
If any difficulty in pro-
curing, please write—
Cellular Clothing Co.,
Ltd., 313, Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
THOMPSON S CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co- Etd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister its Co. !Lt<L
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
liONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & DeekeSj Fenchurch Street.
Dependable Guns
<K=
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
“SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about Tib. r» wiiq !
Delivered, /m.£>l \J
Delivered, £,C>/5/-
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
WE REPAIR
GUNS g RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
. , English H.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
ban els, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices Jhere quoted are subject
to change without notice.
jirh
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b. 4? 1
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid, Swl 0/113/ **
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
-ISIISITF
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5/15/-
— POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN ... 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeiess for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L,
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7fib Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
MYRROHLUS TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and js specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3cl. extra).
Steven’s
5.8.6. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
cjhuljil;k;'l2cjhuljil;k;'l27272072720
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30m. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6Jib. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B 8 Ejector, 05/- Freight paid,
■ ftlicfc Simmons /ft?,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Enjoy
What
0
v:
Do you enj’oy what you eat? If you don’t your food does not do
you much good. There is no way to maintain the. health and
strength of mind and body except by nourishment. There is no
way to nourish the body except through the stomach. The stomach
must be kept healthy, pure and sweet, or the strength will go down
and disease will result. Dr. Sheldons Digestive Tabules are the
remedy that everyone should take when there is anything wrong
with the stomach.
Dr Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are the only digestant or combination of
digestants that will digest ALL classes of food. When you take Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules everything you eat tastes g<?od, and every bit
of nutriment that it contains is assimilated and appropriated, by the Wood
and tissues. Did you ever hear of a man or woman being sick or weak
who could eat heartily, and who enjoyed their meals? Every man, woman
or child who is sick, puny or weak can soon eat heartily and enjoy, every
meal if they use Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
Eat all the good wholesome food you want, then take one or_two Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules and you will see the difference. It doesn t
cost you much to prove it, then you can eat all you want, whatever you
want, and if you use these tabules you can look the whole world in the
face with a beaming eye, and you will have a cheerful spirit, pleasant face,
vigorous body and clear mind and memory, and everything will look and
taste delicious to you. That’s real living. Get a tin of Dr. Sheldon s
Digestive Tabules to-day and start at once.
<D*SfIELDONS
H6\
% .-. V
Undoubtedly I have
a sharp tongue in
my head .
I take good care of that.
You see, for safety razors, a sharp
tongue is a virtue —you need it for
your morning shave. It is certainly
the only kind of tongue whose sharp-
ness is tolerated before breakfast.
I am “ Valet ” Auto Strop, the razor
that sharpens itself. I need no
“gadgets” or stropping machines
—all I want is my strop. If you
will let me slide up and down
that strop for ten seconds every
morning, I’ll undertake to give you
at least a month of perfect daily
shaves with every “ Valet ” blade.
That’s the way I save men trouble
and expense.
You will find me waiting for you
at any good razor shop.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
THE STANDARD SET No. I consists of
heavily silver-plated, self-stropping ' ‘ Valet ”
Auto Strop Razor, 12 “Valet” blades and
“Valet” strop, in handsome o*7 /£5
case lined velvet and satin • J
Made in England.
Obtainable from all high-
class dealers.
The word “ Valet" on Razors, Strops, and
Blades indica 8 the genuine f/Ti dnct of the
Auto trop Safety Razor Co., L d 1*97-207, City
Road, Loudon, E.C. 1.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Sunset in the Bush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STOOD before the western gates of eve,
And saw the portals of the opening sky.
When dying gleams the distant gullies
. leave,
Set wide to let the lingering day go by.
With trailing robes of splendor on she came,
And, sinking slowly, set the heavens aflame.
The blazing glory thrown athwart the sky
About tbe west in flaming fires was flung;
Their streaming splendors, spread abroad on
high,
The heavens around with changeful colors
hung;
The lonely east afar in dismal grey
The wonders watched of that prismatic play.
Deep crimson billows surged across a sweep
Of pink translucent fringed with pallid
gold,
And shot with fiery opal tints that leap
Through gleaming pearl-shells, all their
hues unrolled;
And o’er the splendors of that changeful sea
Came faint, far whispers of Infinity.
Wan, moving clouds above that bright sky
passed
In solemn march, majestically slow,
In life-like images, like shadows cast
Upon some magic screen that come and go;
They crossed the shadowy stage before me
there,
Paused, played their parts, then vanished
into air.
Here stood a king, an angel floated there;
Here towered an ogre, there a maiden fled,
And boats, beasts, horses, knights and forts
there were,
Moving and melting as they slowly sped
Long trails of cloud, pale images of life,
Its hopes, its joys, its tears, its fears, its
strife.
Whence came these shapes, and whence this
cooling air,
Or I who watched beneath the watching
trees?
Who am I? What? Or whence? Or why?
Or where?
What answer lies deep hid in scenes like
these,
That sweep with me to some far end con-
cealed,
To Nature known, not yet by her revealed?
Like waves that beat some rock-bound coast
upon
We ask and question, still she goes her
way;
The life she wills, relentless, still moves on,
And with it we, till ends our little day.
Yet here in this still bush some answer lies
That waits the reading ’neath these change-
ful skies.
The western air with level light was blent;
The upland slopes beneath the trees grew
dim;
The browsing cattle lowed in deep content;
And carolling magpies poured their evening
hymn;
The gathering kookaburras, chuckling nigh,
From bare high branches hailed the darken-
ing sky.
With healthful scents the quiet air was
filled,
The balmy gum-trees spicy odors threw,
And earthy breaths from paddocks newly
tilled
Were blent with freshness of the falling
dew;
The breathing earth, the cool green trees
o’erhead,
A solemn incense o’er the soft scene shed.
Light, lifting airs across the shadows ran;
Soft, drowsy rustling stirred the leaves
afar;
The flaming splendors of the west grew wan ;
And faint and low appeared the first pale
star.
The solemn air, with dying radiance blent,
Disposed the soul to reverie and content.
Now gathering greyness lulled the drowsy
sky;
The lengthening shades night’s stealing
steps foretold;
The hastening hares from hillside pastures
hie;
And drooping bluebells drowsy petals
rolled;
The wailing curlew, in its heavy flight,
Proclaimed to distant glades the coming
night.
The plaintive plover called from marchlands
nigh; „ , ,
Amid the trees the mournful mopoke
cried;
The flying-fox flaoped low across the sky
To orchards far, whose fruit his food sup-
plied ;
And. peeping timid from his leafy boughs,
A hungry ’possum bent his furry brow.
Along the road afar a teamster’s fire
P»eside his camp shone redly through the
Some cattle’bells came softly tinkling nigher
Subdued and sweet upon the evening
breeze *
And through the dark, from some lone farm
A twinkling light gleamed like a cheering
star.
Now fell the night in solemn silence veiled;
A holy darkness hid all objects near;
A dog’s far bark his answering comrades
hailed :
A distant rider’s horse-hoofs struck the ear.
Then all was still; the listening night and I
Alone kept vigil ’neath the quiet sky.
N.S.W.
G.M.V. KEARNEY.
Peter McGlew’s Crime.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AWAY UP in the thinly-populated nor’-
west of Westralia most events come
in at a snail's pace; hut now and.
again one passes with the rapidity of a race-
horse, and such was the winning of the last
£5O required to complete the Rev. Peter
McGlew’s church. The parson had fine-
combed his whole enormous but almost
empty district, letting nothing in the shape
of money slip through his fingers; but now
he had returned wanting this last £so—
to the little port which was his
base. It was a hot, hazy day, and McGlew,
riding in out of the dust, fed and watered
his horse in the Resident Magistrate’s stable
where he had carte blanche.
Without seeing the big smudge of black
smoke oceanwards, anyone could tell that
the monthly steamer from the South was due.
The male portion of the port donned their
drill suits, while on verandahs white muslin
skirts were to be seen. Even the hotch-
potch mongrel camp brightened up a little.
There was always a bustle when the boat
arrived.
Behind cane blinds, near the bar of his
hotel, sat Billy Boyce, the publican. He
had no need to siir himself or go down to
the jetty. Nearly everybody in the town-
ship passed through his hands one way or
another. Even Peter McGlew had business
with him, for, as Boyce mopped the per-
spiration from his face, he heard a crunching
step verandah, and the next moment
the reverend gentleman appeared before him,
words of greeting on his lips.
“Down to see the boat in, Mac?” asked
the publican pleasantly.
"I did not hurry to see the boat in,” said
McGlew, and came straight to the point. “I
want £5O to complete the church, Mr. Boyce.
I’m relying on you for the amount.”
The seagrass chair creaked with the pub-
lican’s chuckles. “You’re cooler than my
drinks,” he said. “You preach against my
business, which is my living. You say that
my trade prepares people for a hereafter of
Hell. Now you ask me to give a portion of
my hard-earned profits to the building of a
place in which you'll preach further leg-
roping. Away with you, man!”
“You are my last resort, Mr. Boyce.”
“The last port of call, eh? Well, Mac
old man, I’m sorry, but my ill-got gains art,
not going to you. It would be suicide for
me. I make money selling good or bad
liquor ; you want me to pass it to you to
wreck me. I make it a rule to give nothing
to anybody who is against me. You ask me
to break that rule. Do you ever break your
church rules?”
“No, but I would be prepared to if I saw
good in the breaking.”
Billy Boyce gave vent to noisy glee, in the
middle of which he stopped abruptly.
“Hullo,” he said, “here comes young Tregur-
ton back —singing drunk. Listen to him.
He came down from Nutarra station yester-
day. Came to meet Delia Seely on the boat;
but I think he’s gone blue on the plan. He
mustered up Dutch courage on my whisky,
b.ut he’s coming back without her. It’ll be
whisky forever now, and you’ll preach that
my whisky sent him to the dogs. Not a
word about a woman —oh, no!”
“Arty Tregurton is surely not afraid to
meet Miss Seely,” remarked Peter McGlew.
“The case in a nutshell. Tregurton is
afraid. He and Delia had the devil of a
row before she went south on her holiday.
He may be able to manage her dad’s station,
but he can’t manage her.”
“It’s a pity. I reckoned on marrying them
some day.”
“Your fee’s gone, parson,” laughed Boyce.
“She wrote to her dad by last boat’s mail
specially asking that nobody should meet
her. That was a crack for young Tregur-
ton, eh? Her nag’s in the stable at the
back.”
“Well, whv did Arty come?” asked Mc-
Glew.
“Got an idea that he could fix the matter,
but didn’t take enough water with it. She’ll
do the GO miles up-river in two days, stop-
ping at Munta station the first night.
There’ll be a flare-up if he tries to go with
her. Don’t say anything, Mac —he’s right
here now.”
Arthur Tregurton, whose erratic song and
general air of carelessness were no real mask
for his worked-up feeling, stepped on to the
verandah. He stopped singing at the sight
of the Rev. M'cGlew and nodded casually to
him ; then he sought Boyce’s eyes.
“Passengers won’t be ashore for another
hour or so,” he said. “Trouble with the
doctor, I think. Give me another drink
and I’ll go for a gallop to clear my head.
Then I’ll” Cutting his words short, Tre-
gurton strode into the bar out of their sight.
“Going to the pack,” whispered Boyce.
“He'll never marry Delia Seely.”
The Rev. McGlew placed a restraining
hand on the other’s arm. “I’ll marry ’em
within a week,” he said boldly.
“How can you say such cool things on
such a hot day?” cackled the publican.
“I’ll marry ’em within a week,” repeated
Peter.
“You’re depending, I suppose,” said Boyce,
“on your knowdedge of human nature ns
studied from the pulpit? Well, I’m pinning
my faith on to my knowledge of human
nature as seen from behind a boozing bar.
They’ll never marry, Mac.”
“I’m willing to”
“Wait till I give Arty his drink,” inter-
rupted Boyce. * “Don’t go, I want to talk
more with you, Mac. Listen to the man
thumping the counter!”
When Tregurton had swallowed a couple
of whiskies he made his exit swiftly and
sought his saddled horse. Peter McGlew,
watching him from the hotel steps, turned to
•find Boyce chuckling at his elbow.
Arthur Tregurton, capable manager of old
“Falcon” Seely’s Nutarra station, browned
with nor’-western years, steeled with nor’-
western hardships, sprang astride his horse,
and savagely dug his heels in. His mind was
in a willy-willy of doubt and fear. Soon a
couple of miles had shot beneath his horse’s
(Continued on next page.)


Are You Too Paying the Pri
pf)
H
a
m
i
r
x
Every
Picture
Telia
Story
We all seek life’s comforts and pleasures, but many of
us pay too high a price for them. Continued over-
working, late hours and loss of sleep gradually roll up an
account that brings sickness and enforced rest. Weak
kidneys is the common penalty. Daily backache, dizzy
spells, headaches, rheumatic pains and kidney irregu-
larities are warnings of kidney weakness. Don’t wait!
Neglect may lead to gravel, dropsy or fatal kidney
disease. For quick relief help the weakened kidneys with
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Doan’s have
brought new health and happiness to thousands of
sufferers. Many of them live here in Sydney. Ask
your neighbor.
SYDNEY PEOPLE TELL OF THEIR CURES
BY DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
FROM ROZELLE.
Mr. M. Dowling, 25 Roseberry Street, Rozelle, Sydney, says: “For about
three years I suffered a good deal with my kidneys, and during that time was
treated by doctors and tried different remedies, but nothing did me any good. My
back used to ache fearfully, and it was as much as I could do to stand up straight
after bending over a little while. I had liniments rubbed in, but the relief was
only temporary, the pain being soon as bad as ever. The kidney secretions were
very much disordered, being highly colored and scanty. My general health was
far from good, and I often used to feel so ill I could hardly attend to my work.
One day I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and the thought
occurred to me to try this remedy. I bought a bottle, and in a few days I began to
feel better. As I went on with the treatment the improvement was maintained,
and by the time I had used four bottles I was cured, £ll signs of backache and
kidney trouble having entirely gone. I am in splendid health now, and have only
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills to thank for my recovery.”
FROM CAMPERDOWN,
Mrs. T. Smith. 25 Bridge Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says: “A member
of my family, suffered, agony from rheumatic pains all over the body, and was
completely crippled with the ailment for months. The pains were particularly
severe across the small of the back, just over the kidneys. We had a doctor
treating the case for a good while, but his medicine did not do anv good, ana
at last he said he was afraid nothing more could be done. We then tried hospital
treatment, but that also failed. It was right on top of this that we were advised
to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and although we had verv little hope that
they would do any good, we got some to try them. After taking two or three
bottles there was a little improvement, so we persevered, until a perfect cure was
effected, using in all 12 bottles. We cannot say enough in praise of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, and consider the cure a marvellous one.”
Four years later Mrs. Smith says: “The cure referred to still holds good. I
an L Sl ] re Doan s Backache Iyidney Pills were better known there would be less
suffering , m the world. ’
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Backache
Kidney
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores, ,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
hoofs, clcmds of dust piling up behind him.
lhen he pulled up, cursed himself, apologised
to his horse, and returned.
Leisurely he rode back in the blazing sun
past the hotel, the store and the Resident
Magistrate’s house, on the verandah of which
he again saw the Rev. Peter McGlew in
earnest conversation with his great friend
Jack Weld, the Resident Magistrate.
Down at the jetty the steamer was along-
side. White dresses and white drill suits
u ?j Vec * anc * Steamed in the sunshine on the
old barnacled structure. Tregurton dis-
mounted, fastened his horse to a post, and
walked along the jetty.
Miss Delia Seely, the fresh bloom of the
South on her cheeks, stood chatting to a
number of friends. She saw her former lover
coming towards her. She first paled a little
at the sight, then her heart fluttered; the
color returned to her face and deepened. It
was all very foolish, but she turned her back
on him.
Arthur saw the deliberate act, and the
panic in his mind almost surged out of
bounds. But he stepped forward, singled
her out, raised his hat and offered his hand.
Of course Delia answered; but somehow she
was more interested in the steamer’s mast
than in Arthur’s homely offer.
“Miss Seely,” he said in constrained tones,
may I speak to you for a few moments?”
She stepped aside with him, seeing no way
of evading the interview; but it was she who
spoke first.
“Mr. Tregurton,” she said icily, “I wrote
and specially asked that nobody shomd n,. , „
me.”
“Quite true,” he retorted; “but I have
come down-river on business.”
“I beg your pardon,” said Delia, and such
is the peculiarity of women that his remark
hurt her far more than his- presence. "I am
sorry ; I took it for granted that you came
to meet me.”
“My business,” responded Tregurton,
steadily, “is to see you safe to Nutarra sta-
tion.”
“Indeed! Then you will please not ride
alongside me on the road.”
“The road is free to all.”
Their eyes met —in hers, blue anger; in
his, brown determination. Then Delia Seely
again turned her back on Arthur Tregurton.
The daughter of old “Falcon”. Seely did
not linger at the port. She announced her
intention of riding up-river straight away,
intending to reach Munta run by moonlight.
She ate a bite or two, drank a glass of
lemonade at the hotel, and was soon atop of
her chestnut hack, bidding good-bye to all.
And as she rode away, looking back and wav-
ing, she saw Tregurton riding after her.
Then, behind him, she saw the Rev. Peter
McGlew, mounted on a prancing horse belong-
ing to the Resident Magistrate, with whom,
it wal well known, the parson could do any-
thing.
There was no sense in trying to run away,
because her chestnut was not characterised
by speed. Besides, there was McGlew to
keep Tregurton from becoming objectionable
or impulsive. When Tregurton saw the par-
son he cursed him threefold beneath his
breath for an interfering fool. McGlew
smiled and tried to tone down the abrupt-
ness of Arthur’s speech. Together they over-
took Miss Seely.
It proved to be a most trying ride for the
trio. Delia and Arthur would not speak to
each other, each seeking to hold MeUlew
in conversation, and each breaking in on the
other’s topic. The parson was calm but
anxious. Deftly he tried to run subjects into
smooth channels, tried hard and persistently
to use conversational material interesting to
both, but it seemed useless. When they
reached Munta the breach had actually
widened because of one of Arthur’s replies
which had indirectly attacked Delia, caus-
ing half-an-liour’s fearful silence. But
McGlew never gave up hope when his mind
was fixed on a thing.
The three travellers made a late start
from Munta the following morning. The
Munta household hung on to them, and when
finally they were allowed to proceed they
were loaded with sandwiches and tea and
sugar and a billy to boil at Beedle’s Pool.
Already the sun was putting a hot top on
everything. The drab leaves of the dwarfed
mulga and river gums hung listless in the
stilled air. Distant willy-willies lifted red
columns high up in the sky.
They stopped at Beedle’s Pool, glad of the
rest and shade to be had there. McGlew
gathered wood, and lit a fire; Tregurton
busied himself getting the billy full of water,
and lifting out the long grass-seeds; Delia
opened and spread the sandwiches. Soon
they began to eat and drink.
It was McGlew who broke the silence after
they had finished (heir snack. He glanced at
Delia and thought he saw a softening in her
blue eyes. He looked at Tregurton, and
saw only impatience and impotence.
"Well,” lie said (and they both noticed
that he spoke in deeper tones), “in a few
more hours we will be at Nutarra, and the
pleasure of riding with you will be over. I
shall return down-river to-morrow.”
“Then this has only been an idle jaunt,
Mr. McGlew?” exclaimed Delia, surprised.
“Not so,” said Peter McGlew. “My mis-
sion is very much from being an idle one. I
have committed a great wrong. I have
abused my high calling, I have violated one
of the principles of my own teaching. I am
guilty of sin. I have ridden with you to
try and cleanse my mind.”
Such self-condemning words coming from
the lips of one held high in the esteem of
all who anew him made his listeners open
their eyes wide at his confession. The Rev.
McGlew, beloved by all river and port folk,
guilty of the common weaknesses of men —
it was incomprehensible. Sin? Their good
padre? Thev gazed at his downcast eyes
and bowed head.
“I have crumbled from my high office,”
said McGlew. “I am no longer fit to preach.
I came along with you intending to unbur-
den my soul, to hear you condemn me, to
understand better my unworthiness as a
man of God. But I feel I cannot sit in
silence while you speak. I feel I must be
alone w r hile you think. Open this envelope,
and judge me. I shall return in a little
while.”
Taking a long gummed envelope from an
inside pocket, McGlew placed it at their
feet. Then he arose wearily, and walked
quietly away. Tregurton stared at the en-
velope ; Delia stared at it. What damning
revelation did it contain? What secret laj?
within it? Their eyes met in mute inquiry.
They were aghast.
“‘Poor beggar!” muttered Arthur. “Who
would ever think ? Who would”
“He was always so good,” Delia broke in,
gently. “'He was always so”
“Poor old Mac!”
“Always so—so kind.” Delia dabbed her
handkerchief at the two little tears which
had sprung from her eyes. “It must be
terrible for a clergyman. They must feel
it so. The petty troubles of others must
be nothing to his feelings. We feel our
little shortcomings”
“Ours are not little shortcomings,” put in
Arthur, hotly. “At least, mine are not.
Mine are appalling and ghastly. I have
been mad, Delia. I”
They had forgotten all about Peter
McGlew until he stumbled back on them.
Delia did not withdraw her hand from
Arthur’s grasp.
“Mac,” began the young station-manager,
“Delia and I think we have no right to hear
your confession, or read what you have done.
We think there is none without weakness.
Rather would we help you than judge you.”
“You haven’t even opened the envelope?”
said Peter McGlew, surprised.
“No, we do not feel equal to reading an-
other’s secret. But if we could only
help”
“Oh, my dears, but you can help—it is
in your hands,” cried McGlew, dropping on
to his knee. He grabbed the envelope, tore
it open, spread a blue document before them.
It was a special marriage-license, granting
leave to Arthur Tregurton, bachelor, to
marry Delia Seelv, spinster, and it was
signed by that high dignitary of the port,
John Weld, R.M. and Registrar.
They stared. What else could they do?
Tregurton recovered first. “But, you old
dunderhead,” he shouted, “this is no crime.
This is Providence!”
“It isn’t often the right thing is to hand
when you most want it in the Nor’-West,”
said Delia, making the shade warmer with
her blushes.
“The crime lies not in that beautiful docu-
ment,” said Peter McGlew, his eyebrows
arching, “but in that which led to it. I
wanted £5O to complete my church, and I bet
—can you see my crime? —I bet Mr. Boyce,
the publican, that T’d marry you pair with-
in a week. It was £5O to a threepenny bit,
the said threepence to be stolen by me out
of the collection-plate, and to be nailed in
Boyce’s bar for him to exhibit. I was to be
branded a thief. Now you will understand!”
Delia Seeley sprang to her feet. “Let us
hurry home,” she said. “I want the eve of
my marriage spent with my mummy.”
H. E. RIEMANN.
The Dry Gum-tree.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHRISTMAS was close at hand, and as
Argyle McCallum and his wife looked
through the kitchen window at their
cornfield where the tall stalks were showing
fine full ears of ripening grain amongst the
long green leaves, Mrs. Argyle reminded him
that he had not kept his promise to remove
the big dry gum-tree, with its wide-spreading
dead branches, from the corner of the field.
She made him remember the numerous
ploughshares he had broken on its roots, and
the trouble, bad language «nd expense that
would have been saved if he had got it out
of the way five years ago. as he had promised.
Argyle sighed wearily, and to placate hi§
wife promised her that early in the New
Year he would remove the tree, roots and all.
Now, as everyone knows, the cockatoos
thrive in their thousands where the Mur-
rumbidgee flows, and Argyle’s cornfield was
on one of the flats on the banks of that
river. On Christmas morning Mrs. Argyle
awoke early, 'as usual, and peeped through
the. window overlooking the ripening corn.
What she saw fairly astonished her —the
cornfield was white. She called out to
Argyle, whose snores reverberated from the
bed, that the place was covered with snow.
Ilalf-asleep he hurried to the window and
exclaimed: “Bust my buttons if it ain’t
cockatoos on the corn ! Get the gun quick
and I’ll fix ’em.”
The old double-barrelled muzzle-loader was
brought and about half-a-fiask of powder
poured down each barrel, a wad of paper
rammed tightly in, and then it was dis-
covered that not a grain of shot was to be
had. With the initiative of the Australian
eocky-farmer, Mrs. • Argyle brought several
boxes of tacks, recently purchased, to her
lord, who poured them into the barrels and
rammed a wad of paper on top of them.
Now the old scout cockatoo, who was
perched high up on the old dry tree in the
corner of the field not 50 yards from the
window that Mrs. Argyle had peeped
through, spotted her. He promptly gave his
warning screech that danger was nigh, and
when Argyle cautiously poked his gun
through to fire the cockatoos had risen from
the corn and assembled on the old dry tree.
Every branch, every twig was white with
them. Argyle shut his eye and pulled the
trigger. The recoil knocked him over, and
as he rose to the window to see the result
of his shots he was astonished to see thou-
sands of birds flapping their wings on the
tree as if unable to leave it.
After a few seconds the tree began to
stir. Then gracefully it rose, roots and all.
Wonderingly Mr. and Mrs. Argyle Mc-
Callum watched the miracle of the cockatoos
flying down the river tacked to the old dry
tree.
E.J. SHEEHY.


clif *■' —^
UMi *B6 iaM »fiSB
T^PP?P
■ X „ tt- *’ I
s f * ’J|i If
V Si
r%5:-M
R
‘—A 5f ~
v--
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WiSTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
Vhe R/V&r Picnic
The DECCA just makes the
delightful difference between en-
joyment and complete enjoyment.
Try it I Have it on the river with
you. Music wherever you go.
No trouble, easy to carry,
compact, never in the way.
Fine tone, clear reproduction.
m
THE PORTABLE PHGMGGRAPH|
3 Models —•
Leather Cloth ..... £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide . £lO
Obtainable all over Australia
from all Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors :
Stanley E. Green, Ltd.. 379, Kent Street, Sydney.
•SOT*!??
%
9ft
IEEES
Sss
GOOD
A good clear complexion has much to do
with success in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can alway*
Small Pill-
Small
Dose—
CARTERS
■ ITTLE
IVER
Pi LIS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source of
a. healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver
They curt
Biliousness,
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
PFRG
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Office-
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
yi
Australian Mutual
'
Provident Society
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
RenvVjgfon
REM
HCTON
=!A.
&
§
iiis&iiAi ii
/= /M'WPXX
n$MO
mMOi
m
*
Three-Fold Safety
The Remington Model 51 Automatic Pistol is ab-
solutely safe. There is no danger of accidental dis-
charge because of the three safety devices: (1
automatic grip safety, (2) thumb-operated safety levei£»
(3) magazine removal safety.
Remingtoth
/or Shooting Kighi
SPECIFICATIONS: Caliber, .380; length, 6 5/8 in.*
. thickness, 9/10 in.; weight, 21 ounces unloaded; finish,
null black; magazine holds seven rimless automatic
standard cartridges, one additional cartridge in chamber.
Cartridges, .380 APH (9 m/m *
Browning Short) rimless auto-
matic standard metal cased or
soft pointed, the same cartridge
fts is used in other American
Automatic Pistols of this
v caliber.
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
c-s
ailtc,
,H »a.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Iiryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.O., Melbourne
TO ENJOY LIFE
You must be able to take the food you fancy without
discomfort—you can aid digestion and assimilation and
insure maximum nutrition by occasionally taking a
dose of the famous family remedy, Beecham’s Pills.
Under their safe, gentle, but powerful influence, you
can shake off a host of troubles which tend to make
life miserable. Dyspepsia, headaches, biliousness and
constipation, to mention but a few, will disappear;
and you will be blessed by joys of solid robust
I health. These wonderfully efficient pills are
\ the favorite medicine of thousands of families. /
What Beecham’s Pills have done for them they
can do for you. After taking a few doses
you will have every reason to congratulate
yourself on your progress. You may look
forward to renewed good health, and
to the happiness which attends a life
free from all dyspeptic ailments.
There is no need to deny yourself
your favorite dishes they will
not inconvenience you if you
TAKE
BEEcmgrc PIUS
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney.
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.
Refrigerating 8 Ice-maki
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —-which is pertinent to the times
—their I)EI'ENDABI LIT Y counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
J. WILDRIDGE & S
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
LTD.,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
'* r AM
*!****'h ui, i
y/
cjhuljil;k;'l272720
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK'S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough. Bucks. Eng
£2700 for 1/-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecondPrize valued£soo
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may possibly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N.S-W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon Secretary,
Council Chambers, Blackheath, N.S.W
“Dre:
VI7 • .
Wire Strainer
126
m
each
Post Free
i\ Dse
(Patented)
10/ft
1 fa# I V
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and
Dreadnought is fully
excellence of
maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820. Still going strong
el
£
fi
:r
Vk
/
K
us
«
8Q
f
s^^
*SB3Z
«*a».
fc
v
iT
7
■J
\k
ssSSS?-'
V
V-
kM;
/r
fe
ChW>*
/j
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL SERIES. No 28. PHILIPPINE*.
Johnnie Walker: “ The Natives are very polite here.”
Hemp Planter: “ The Filipinos have a great respect for Age and Quality.
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND,
