

%y~
m
HI
i
IILhM
a
u
m
mi.
nmil
m
%
I'll
»
f Hi
S&:
11"
~~=X<r=-
3®&=S
if
gr
Sa2Z7fe
'i
w
mm
S£:
;
-T
> s
IMIiH
m
ii! .I'fS
■
UJil''
i M ’»
'll,l
;; «',*. !: !i:;:
Hi.
''til
i li|,
I"
I i'
I '.»•
mm
Hl»i'
",'i
ilji',
i hii iii. i
lii'illifjiii!
wmd
PICTURE your home equipped with mod
ern electrical conveniences—electric light
in every room, a fan to keep you cool in sum-
mer, a vacuum cleaner to sweep the carpets
and remove the dust from furniture and drap
ings, a motor-driven sewing machine, and
cooking devices that permit the preparation
of meals on the dining table. All these, to-
gether with the electric iron and machines for
washing dishes and clothes, are within she
scope of elec-
tric service.
You can secure this comfort even though your
district is not reached by electric wires.
The G-E HOME LIGHT 8c POWER
UNIT has been specially designed to furnish
electric current for every use in the country
home. Its engine will also drive pumps,'
churns, separators, and other light machinery
Write to-day and learn how easily and economi-
calli.vou can bring electrical service into your
home.
Australian General Electric 0 ltd.
Mazda House,
Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
Box 2517 (t.P.O.
’Phone: City 3510.
Mazda Hours,
Cr. Queen & Little Collins Streets.
MELBOURNE.
Box 588 (4.P.0.
’Phone: Central 2046.
BRISBANE, Q.—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Etd..,
corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver. HOBART and EACNCESTON.
ADELAIDE. B.A.—Charles Atkins & Co., Etd.. 88-90 Curriie Street.
BERTH. AV.A. —Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Etd., “Mazda
House,” 894 Hay Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2226.
Thursday, October 12, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General-Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
iVIUIUWI,
Never Been Taken Up or Repaired
This is the record of a large MANGROVITE BELT installed
in an important refrigerating chamber. It drives direct from
a 50-H.P. Electric Motor to a Compressor, and has run con-
stantly 24 hours a day since installed in June, 1919.
Conserve your power, and eliminate belting worries by
installing the proven Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting.
Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co., Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark k Co. Pty, Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
DENTAL
REA
M
C
Who is the best judge
of what you should use to ensure clean teeth and
a healthy mouth? Surely,your Dentist! Ask
his opinion. He will tell you that there is no
particle of grit to harm your teeth in
DENTAL CREAM
He will tell you also that you require a new
tooth brush every month or two, and that if you
desire a clean mouth and good health you should
use Kolynos twice a day and visit him at least
twice a year. Dentists throughout the world use
and recommend Kolynos daily.
TEST A FREE SAMPLE
Please send me a free sample
of Kolynos Dental Cream
Name..
{Mr., Miss, or Mrs.)
Address -
To
“B.‘
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., O’Connell Street, Sydney; FELTON
GRIMWADE & CO. PTY. LTD., 342-346 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne; ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., Eagle Street, Bris-
bane; A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., 42-46 Currie
Street, Adelaide ; FELTON, GRIMWADE & BICKFORD
LTD., Wellington Street, Perth.
K. 102
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
IVI >3 1 U 37; lat >V<
0.U4
On
HU
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bae-
tcricidaUy as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the fooJ
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
A Handbook of Coue.
“The tfructice of Auto-suggestion by the
Method of Kmilt Coue,” by C. Harry Brooks
(lieorye dllcu -& Vnunit-. Our copy from Cole's
Book Arcade, Sydney.)
t in a recent review of Professor Uaudouin’s
“Suggestion and Auto-suggestion” this page
observed that a shorter, less technieal and
more practical work on the methods of Emile
Ooue would till a public want. To some
extent the present volume does it, and the
vvinter, who is in his 34th thousand, since
first publication in March last, may almost
consider himself a Best seller. A foreword
by Cou6 hiuiself states that the instructions
contained in the book are ample lor the
individual practice of auto-suggestion.
Some 15 years ago the late Dr. Emil Reich,
who lived on white meat and white wine
ami died of an aneurism, delivered a
series of futile lectures on "Plato,” under
the auspices of the fairest ladies of the aris-
tocracy of Englaud. The lectures attained a
vogue, being given at Apsley House,
Glaridge’s, and other resorts of the great,
to an audience carefully selected by a com-
mittee of duchesses. “Reich, Plato and the
Duchesses” for a time was a standing caption
of the London daily press. The Hungarian re-
fugee did himself quite a lot of good, and the
duchesses, anyhow, did not do themselves any
harm. Plato, being dead and buried many
centuries, could only turn in bis grave at
the weird explanations that were offered of
his doctrines. Reich’s Platonism was a
typical example of a "fad,” and a study
of Mr. Brooks’s little volume creates an im-
pression that Coueism is to some extent a
creature of the same tribe. Baudouin’s book
was extremely judicial in that it was
most restrained in its claims. If it was
weak through its technicalities, it was strong
through its limitations.
Where Brooks errs is in providing the
reader with certificates of Coughs cures, whilst
the description of the Master at work is very
much overdrawn. This is a pity, because
later the author deals quite clearly and
effectively with the limitations of the Cou6
system. After reading chapters I and II
the neophyte will be liable to imagine that,
except for fractures and such-like, a course
of Coueism will cure anything, and in a
remarkably short time. However, even at
the risk of offending believers, it is impos-
sible to accept the proposition that the Coue
formulae will banish asthma, bunions, tubercu-
losis and a large number of painful internal
disorders. And it is simply trifling with
the truth to pretend that, (say) acute appendi-
citis can be successfully treated by resolutely
gabbling “Ca passe, pa passe, ca passe." That
is where the fanatic is likely to ruin Cou6-
ism. No one can give Australia a blacker
eye than the disillusioned immigrant; and
no one can and will destroy such good as
Coueism is capable of doing more readily
than the sufferer who has tried it and
found it wanting.
The best chapter in the book is the last.
“Induced Auto-suggestiou,” it begins, “is not
a substitute for medical practice,” and that
is the best sentence in the chapter. Coueism
is practical optimism. It can do nothing by
itself, but it can assist therapeutic and sur-
gical treatment. There is nothing particu-
larly wonderful or new in it. It is what one
may call a reverse operation. By auto-sug-
gestion we can, and very often do, produce
unhappy and depressing conditions. By
auto-suggestion we can with equal ease pro-
duce happy and exhilarating conditions.
Cou6 tells us to do so, and in an age of
formula? gives us a formula with which to
do it. Actually, in a sane world, neither
Coue nor his formula would be necessary,
because the teaching of Cou4 is the teaching
of the obvious. It is at this point that the
Nancy, practitioner’s real contribution comes
in. And his contribution would be unneces-
sary were it not for human imperfection.
With the great majority of mankind the
imagination is more developed than the will,
and, therefore, the imagination can conquer
the will. With only 2 per cent, of humanity
does the reverse condition obtain. That 2
per cent, grit their teeth and say: “I am
not ill,” or “I am going to get better,” and
do recover. With the other 98, to attain the
same result it is necessary to work through
the imagination—to provide a formula that
will create a belief.
It is doubtful if any cult of modern times
has developed so rapidly and so widely as
that of Coue, which is in itself a tribute
to the power of the imagination. Put quite
simply, Coueism reduces us back to child-
hood. We put ourselves in exactly the same
position as the child who bruises its foot
and whose mother rubs the pain away. With-
out seeking in any way to depreciate the
efficacy of the method, its very success is
a striking commentary on the mentality of
the flay. A process or a doctrine, if you
like, practised in every nursery since the
Garden of Eden, is paraded as a scientific
discovery, and, like Mohammedanism or the
latest song, gathers innumerable adherents
in a brief while. There is nothing new to
it. There is nothing even sensational in it.
If it contained some novel scientific fact or
theory, its vogue would be more comprehen-
sible. The jargon of the conscious and the
subconscious, though stimulating, means
nothing to the ordinary reader. '-Coueism is
normality. Normal humanity is optimistic.
Optimism helps medicine, but it will neither
lengthen a short leg. nor shorten an over-
long one. It is such appeals to the credu-
lous that create the incredulous. They are
a brazen exploitation of the public.
Arnold Wall
For the man who once wrote “A Parable
of Fiddles,” and heard “a lost breeze in the
elms of Heaven,” there must always be a
hearing; but very seldom has a book been
given to the public which more studiously
tries to misrepresent its author than Arnold
Wall’s latest volume, London Lost and Other
Poems (Whiteombe and Tombs, Auckland).
Hidden away in it is some really
fine work —not much, yet enough to be worth
while. But the difference between the writer’s
best and his worst is the difference
between silk and sacking. It is to be re-
gretted that he has spread the sacking so
widely and folded the silk up so neatly.
Arnold Wall’s topical verse is poor stuff;
his humor is thin and frayed at the edges:
he writes long screeds of sheer commonplace
in the wobblg-and-bump metre which is an
irritation to read ; and then he sits down and
sings for a line or two as purely and sweetly
as any of them. All this probably means
that he has not taken himself seriously, and
that he does not realise either his gifts or
his possibilities.
His ear will tolerate rubbish like this: —
No more shall you charm me, dear dainty Ourisia,
Your broad fields of mountain-musk starred with
white blossom,
Euphrasia, Raoulia, Phyllachne, Celmisia,
No more shall you strike the deep chord in my
bosom.
And this :—•
Ever toiling, ever questing,
Ever working, ever winning,
Ever toiling, rarely resting,
Ever ending and beginning,
Ever finding, ever losing,
Now ascending, now descending,
Ever driven, never choosing,
Now beginning, never ending;
Such is man, and all the glory
Of his little troubled story.
That holds all the delicate music of the cop-
per that boils up the week’s dirty clothes,
and is about as brilliant as the water when
it ceases to boil. He can do even worse; and,
what is more remarkable, his taste will allow
him to collect it and print it in a book some
years afterwards. But he can do this also:
Which would you rather be,
An angel of light,
Swooping with splendid ease from the terrific height,
You and your millions in armor glittering bright,
Down, down, down,
Like stripes of hail
In your gleaming chariots and mail,
On a foe that is no foe,
Who surges up from below,
Surges and boils up, up, in swart and desperate
state
With the grim and gritting teeth of hate,
Foredoomed to defeat,
As the day to the night must yield,
You, fore-tasting the victory easy and sweet,
And the bivouac in triumph, in glory, and rest on
the stricken field,
Your sword-edge glutted with devils’ blood,
And your wounds smoothed dut and made good.
Just pleasantly warm,
And the feel of omnipotence tingling and thrilling
along your right arm?
Or a fiend of the pit,
Breasting the steep-up slant at the thrones where the
Virtuous sit,
You and your millions of bold and stern companions
in sin,
Aflame to begin
The hopeless, glorious fight
In Fate’s despite.
Brandishing high your long and slender blade,
Toiling in spirals aloft and aloft like billows of
smoke,'
Up, and up, and up,
Preparing and nursing the stroke
(Which you know must fail)
To deliver, if only one, on the smug, smooth mail,
Fore-tasting the pain and the shame and the terrible
fall,'
Scarred, riven and spent,
Back to the yawning pit with all lost, all,
To the stinking twilight and smutty deeps of Hell,
With eternity stretched out before you to mourn and
repent,
And your bosom all swollen with pride and dis-
honor ; yet knowing well
That the Cause was nobly lost,
And unbroken courage remains,
In spite of the reek and disgrace and alternate fire
and frost,
And your heavy chains?
That is the exact mood of the reader of
“Paradise Lost,” suggesting and amplifying
Milton’s picture and questioning his view of
the combatants. In itself it is hardly more
than an achievement of the class-room ; but
it shows boundless possibilities in rhythmic
expression and genuine imagination.
Here is the sestet of a sonnet which shows
similar quality:—
Now reign full flush the glories of the rose,
Great gouts of crimson splashed upon the green,
And tragic rioting hues of sunset born;
The far-off gleaming mass of virgin snows,
The golds and pearls and creams and amber sheen,
And porphyry of the columns of the moon.
The last line is beautiful, but it does not
rhyme. The obvious thing is to regard
“moon” as a misprint for “morn” ; but that
would make it absurd, as it is a description
of sunset.
Perhaps this on “Writing English Son-
nets” may explain a lot: —•
In my back-yard I keep a savage dog,
A thick, deep-chested, shaggy, villainous beast,
And once a week I take him out to walk
And with his fearful mien astound my neighbors,
Who marvel at my mastery of the beast.
But on the morning when I take him out,
I go upon him armed, he being chained up,
And cudgel him, and scold and swear at him,
And fling myself with fury flat upon him,
Roll him in dust, choke him, and cow his spirit:
Then, having changed and washed myself and him,
I lead him forth full in the eye of noon,
I, cool and easy, he, all sleek and shining,
Smoothly and soberly strolling through the town
While the world smiles upon the splendid pair ;
At home we call him “Crusty” for his temper,
But when we walk abroad in harmony,
So meek he seems and sweetly tractable,
The waggish call him “Oby” for “Obedience.”
AVell, the sonnets referred to are not strikingly
obedient. While they show such rhymes as
“wreaths”-“deaths”; and such evil lines as
“Richly honor the noble dead with wreaths,”
there is evidently still a growl in the beast.
But sonnets are only written in the manner
described by one who is too indolent or too
superior to learn the game. Those who
would write the sonnet must think in the
sonnet; and a very good medium for think-
ing in it. is. Arnold Wall is like the un-
skilled batsman with the quick eye, who can
go to the wickets and make runs (he has
been known to drive the ball right oyer the
pavilion and out of the ground), but who
plays shockingly bad cricket between his more
adventurous strokes. He is so good at times
that it is a marvel he does not do better; he
is so bad generally that it is a wonder he is
not aware of it.
The Origin of the Drama
The origin of the Greek drama is fully
explained by scholars; the Japanese drama
developed on native soil in the Middle Ages.
Yet it comes to us with something of a
shock when we discover that masks and a
(Continued on page 25.)


a
Frocks of Distinction Keenly Priced
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
2)210/55
These Distinctive Frocks reveal features of unique
attractiveness. That simplicity, which is the essence
of smartness, is the keynote struck by the designs—
and a sincere regard for the exigencies of economy
has tempered the judgment of the designers.
They are representative of the appropriate and
dainty Frocks for present wear offered in profusion
in Anthony Horderns’ Fashion Salon.
Many other charming styles are illustrated in our
portfolio of Summer Fashions. Write for a copy;
it will be posted free on request
ORDER BY MAIL.
You can, with confidence, post your
order. The same service and satis-
faction are assured as though you
attended the store personally.
Crepe de Chine Frocks
D2lO/33. —C HiEanfl FROCK
fashioned of Crepe de Chine, cut on
simple lines, but smartness is added by .
the pouched effect of the long-waisted
bodice. The round neck is handsomely
worked with a Cornelli embroidery de-
sign, and the narrow belt and sash endp
of self material finishes the waist. Obtain-
able in Navy, Nigger, Mole, Black, Mastic
and Putty. Sizes: S.W., W. and O.S.
D2lO/35.— I) AIN T Y CREPE DE
CHINE FROCK, following magyar lines,,
and showing the long waist-line. A hand-
some embroidery design has been adopted
to ornament the bodice, and . a French
Fold adds the finishing touches to the
round' neck and short sleeves. The waist-
line is encircled by a narrow belt, which
is completed. with sash ends. Colors:
Nigger, Navy, Black, Mole, Putty and
Mastic. Sizes : S.W., W. and O.S
Art Jersey Silk Frocks
I)B34S.—EXTREMELY MODISH
FROCK in Silk Jersey Cloth. A wide
tuck is evident in the skirt, and beads
have been employed to adorn the
sleeves and skirt, and also gives the finish-
ing touch to the narrow belt at the waist
line. Colors: Black, Nigger, Putty, Mas-
tic and Navy. Sizes rS.W., W. and O.S.
P 2381. —ATTRACTT.\'.E ROBE -in Silk
Jersey Cloth, falling in. soft, graceful lines,
The round neck and sleeves are effectively
embroidered with Silk Floss, the latter
being trimmed by tiny steel beads. The
narrow' belt and self material complete
the waist. Colors: Navy, Black, Nigger,
Putty and Mastic. Sizes: S.W., W. and
0.5.,
GSi
cSfec:
1
a
£§»
L l/ : ,
l/ i 1 l jjjljff £
rfrfi
I
K 1 M $
M&JfM Sfi
$ jpw #
£ga
l ■+ i
|&
jTr!
sir?
V,H (
II
£' EF
14 s
*:l',i A
«',»:»* * T i*i
\ i . Hr
!!;UK
I 1 l—T’ltJ"
1
v' S 3
1-18
£;Wrßfta t ■irj.r'
rt.du KnfSfirirJ
45i-tt
w
I#’
raft
Z>2384
-VZ345 \
n
=E
Price 45/- each. Price 67/6 each.
;We Pay Carriage on Fashion Goods in N.S.W.,
and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
■imuii
Box 2712 G.P.O.
&
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY. c ,„


How to Win
Life’s Great
Race —
A Charming
Smile and a
Handsome Face
m
Bn
mm
m
:
■
111
■HI
I Ilill
II!
m
,
W
X
.
\
■■l
is
/I
Ills
ill
SI
i
/ /•'■■■
Mw
DOROTHY
H AWT REE,
a beautiful
Rexona Qirl.
(From a
photo.)
Be Dainty! Be Pretty! Be Attractive!
Be a Rexona Girl!
Use only Rexona and Rexona Soap.
. - R exona an d Rexona Soap are the Rexona Girl s aids to beauty. With their assistance she
rids her skin of blemishes and pimples, keeps her hair and scalp in such perfect condition that
she is the envy of all her friends. But the Rexona Girl is not selfish—she does not keep the
secret to herself, but wishes all the world to rejoice with her. Over 5000 girls have written to the
Company the glad news that they are Rexona Girls, and find the Rexona Products the most
wonderful aids to health and beauty.
They say that Rexona Soap keeps their skin and hair healthy and beautiful, and should be
used by every girl who values her good looks. They say they are always finding new uses for
Rexona, arid many of their letters contain a photograph which shows by its beauty that these
users aie getting the best results in health and happiness. Are you satisfied with your looks?
Why not become a Rexona Girl, too?
Why Not Enjoy a Good Complexion ?
ou cannot if you do not care for the delicate skin of the face. When you wash your
face do you realise that it is not enough to remove simply the dirt, but that your skin needs
a soothing, healing influence to keep your complexion fresh and free from blemish? Scented
toilet soaps are often very pleasant, but do not assert this influence, as you are well aware.
Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry up the skin and destroy its delicate
textures. Even the better class of such soaps do not in any way help to improve the skin,
but Kexona Skin and Facial Soap is not only an absolutely pure Soap, but is medicated on
the same principle as the famous Rexona Ointment, which is famous throughout all of
as the Rapid Healer. That is why Rexona Soap really does for the skin and
face what cosmetics are supposed to do, by ensuring not only a clean face,
but a pure and healthy skin, and thus gives you a clear complexion.
Girls! Beautify Your Hair!
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty
of your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft,
lustrous and charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with
Rexona Soap. A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been
neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin. Rexona Soap cleanses the hair
of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments you have doubled the
beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of dandruff,
cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for ever stopping itching and
falling hair. If you care to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a tablet of
Rexona Soap to-day.
REXONA SOAP, 1/-
'Vxs < f
2£te
iSS
228^0
(?
im
c;
Ms
1


PINKETTES
FOR BAD BREATH
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning, a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative— an
excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach con-
ditions which cause symp-
toms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pink-
ettes act without causing
sickness, or griping, or after-
effects of strong purgatives.
i/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
lAUNDRENA
TheDamfy Womans lavouiiteSfarch
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie-
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C?L T ? SYDNEY.
HAWA||
THt YEAR ROUND PLAYGROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
sdf
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or wrjte direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
'-V:
“The
Stockman
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side—a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
18111
FINNEY, IS EES (Eft. CO. LTD
BRISBANE.
9
g o
Disp ense
it h that
R E Y
HAIR. Let
it be changed
to a youth-
{ul deep
WALNUT
COLOR,
harm} essly
and perma-
nently. You’ll
feel young
; v
.< s a
jt
again. Procurable from all chem-
ists. Get a packet to-dav.
r
3^
MEXICAN
WAINUT STAIN
The Next Best Thing
to the Natural Limb!
When the need arises for an artificial limb, you of course require the best
obtainable —the next best thing- to the nattfral limb.
You cannot be too careful in the selection of an artificial limb. You must
have an article that copies nature to the very last possible detail, presenting
anatomical accuracy, strong, service-giving construction, and a price that
places the limb within the means of modest incomes
DENYER’S ARTIFICIAL- LIMBS
have all these desirable features. They present the most up-to-date method of
supplying the deficiency of an arm or leg.
Our many years’ experience of surgical needs has placed us in the position
of being able to give expert advice on matters of this sort and we will
gladly do so, FREE. Secure our advice on your case.
Denyer Bros.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
sd
■W//M
'smtzzi
w
m
AM*
maw/////////,.
EPocd
m
% %
1
ONOTO
INK
Best
for all
Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
4
A
<•>
3r
«9k
SK
/«KN
Championship
Calibre
Championship calibre goes be-
yond national boundaries; cham-
pionship calibre brings interna-
tional fame.
Tennis is an international sport.
Players like Brookes, Anderson
and Patterson are justas famous in
America as Tilden and Johnston
are in Australia and New Zealand.
Shaving is an international nuis-
ance, but it can be made less of a
nuisance with Mennen Shaving
Cream. Mennen enjoys interna-
tional fame because it works just
as well with hard water as with
soft, with cold water or with hot
Let me ask you, “Would Men-
nen Shaving Cream enjoy inter-
national fame if it did not check
up with championship calibre?’*
The test is in the tube.
CM«ss«e Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE ft CO., LTD.
249 George Street, Sydney
James Bmith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
\\v<
an
fgs
A REAL
RAZOR
k edge
The
PLUM
RAZOR
Made from the finest Sheffield
Razor Steel, tempered and
ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our
own experienced tradesmen.
Price 12,6.
Pair in Presentation Case,
Post Free 25/"
Blades fin. and fin. set ready
for use, and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Craig 8 Aitken
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
f'r'
<:
When you strike a road like this
—make a mental
resolve to get a
BROOKS
CANTILEVER SPRING SADDLE
in time for the next bad patch—or why not
do it now. Send your name for a Catalogue
J. B. BROOKS & Co, Ltd,
Criterion Works, Birmrasrham.
f
sf
h gs
The best remedy for
the worst roads.
Jt gents In Australia :—
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, Ltd., 31a Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Foresight.
On some such wintry night, when I am gone,
And you sit brooding by the fire, alone,
With bended shoulders, and with cheeks so
wan,
Sudden you’ll hear the rain-washed front-
door blown.
And if you see me not, white-clad and still, _
The grave-dust wet upon my blinding hair,
All swift the scept of jonquil flowers will fill
The room —-and you will know that I stand
there!
Victoria.
MYRA MORRIS.
Blue.
l know there are blue flowers that haunt
the mind
With perfume. Greybeard Winter loves to
sing
Of violets that herald tardy Spring
In skies of lapis-lazuli confined.
Autumn alone, when storms have made her
blind,
Out of her tents of morning may not bring
One bluebell for a late remembering
Of Summer’s larkspur light and lupin wind.
But I have seen the blue of blue, my child.
And now I know wherever blossoms grow—
Forget-me-not, in hues of Paradise,
Delphinium and loose lobelia wild,
And every flowyr born blue to toss and blow
Are but the spirit matrix of your eyes.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
St. Hilda Road.
The world by now is joyously awake,
The cars towards the city smoothly go,
Purring along in swift unceasing flow.
From here it seems no jarring sound they
make.
Dappled by shadows, waggons slowly take
The country way. the middle road they keep ;
The drivers hunched up in their seats asleep,
With driving reins, festooned around the
brake.
The clean new sunlight in a golden flo.id
Makes glorious vistas of the painted trees,
Arching the roadway as a glowing frieze
Stencilled against the pale blue morning sky.
Sore-wounded Autumn splashed them with
her blood,
For her brief day to reign in majesty.
VICTORIA.
BRUCE LONIE.
The Fallen Flower.
I knew a rose that met its doom
Through a song sung in a dusky room ;
In a scented shower its petals spilled
As it tremblipg died, by music killed;
The leading note, the master-sound
That shattered it, the singer found.
Annihilated we may be
Some morrow by a melody—
For has not each of us his Note
Within the universe afloat?
Perchance in harmony most rare
Enmeshed, or in some old, sad air
Familiar all our days, it still
May sound, and Destiny fulfil.
When Time, who holds the key to all,
Strikes the last chord, we too shall fall.
n.s.w.
MARJORIE QUINN.
The Potter.
Communing in his soul,
Enthroned amidst gold stars,
A dream upon God stole
Lifting Earth’s sundering bars;
He gazed across the earth
With glance of pitying pain,
At griefs masked by men’s mirth.
And gay lives lived in vain.
His thrilling utterance fell
Like rain upon parched land,
“That men I love so well
My soul could understand!”
This cry, and all was still,
And in that face divine
Large eyes began to fill
And through the darkness shine.
The w T orld that could not hear
That cry in whole or part,
That could not feel him near,
God gathered to His heart.
NEW YORK.
HELEN JERMOME.
Two Women.
I.
Her man, cast out by fools, by God accurst
(As said the priests), stood ’neath the
gallows-tree.
“Be brave,” she sobbed. “Dear, love is ours
tQ keep!
Forgive me that-1 weakly sorrow and weep!
I love? you always as I did when first
We kissed. Together we shall wake from
sleep
And be one joy through all eternity !”
He looked at her with love that flamed
through pride,
With pride that made love sweet. So, smil-
ing, died.
11.
Her man was true and strong. He held
her dear,
Past all things else; so, walking by her eyes,
Was armed with faith exultant. And she
swore
That never in God’s world was lover more
Devoutly loved.
A boobv beckoned.... “Here!
“Dear love'!” she cried, and kissing o’er
and o’er
The fool, she muttered, “This is paradise!”
The lover marked the wreck of truth and
pride,
And, suffocated by that shame, he died.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


V7l.
Octobee 12, 1922.
THE
- w v '\k
i i
■ m
ffl rn £, ■
X
‘
•m
vm
1
m
4 No ! BUT its just as good as


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Tost Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transit Usion by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2226.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1922.
PmcE 6n.
“The Fuller Government has premised to hold a Referendum, hut absolutely refuses to fix a date-for. it.”
THE ADVENTURESS: “How dreadful if I were to choose one and then find it was the other that had all the votes!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, oi
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 George Street, Syrlnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Meldoukne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months. £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; S months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
M onager.
Specinl Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are 'liable to be
rejused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., ally picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions trill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of This Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IK. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Bouse, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Bole, Bolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The Brilish-Auslralasian,” 31 Bigh
Bolbdrn, London, IK.CM.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Datrson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana Bouse, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Eastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
IJ.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn dCr Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Fort Said, Egypt.
Hong Kono. —Brewer and Co,, Pedder Street,
Bong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lK. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Barry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EC).
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper) :—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: yoz.,
lid.; for every additional ?.oz., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: )oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
ffie'fyxzlZetvn,.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1922.
CALLED BACK.
By his recent astonishing exhibition of ingra-
titude to, and contempt for, the Liberal
party, to which he owes his present position,
the Priminister made the re-emergence
of that party inevitable. He has said many
foolish things, and done few wise ones, but
he never committed a more outrageous
blunder than when he held forth in the fol-
lowing strain at the N.S.W. Nationalist
conference: —
You have heard a lot about the resuscitation of
the Liberal party. The report is a bogey—a bogey
to frighten children with. The Melbourne press
says that the Liberal movement is again on foot.
You can take it from me that it is not on foot, but
on a bath-chair, being wheeled about. Sometimes it
is a little better. Sometimes a little worse. But
always it is on a bath-chair.
One can imagine what would happen if
Lloyd George referred in the same wound-
ing terms to the predominant partner in the
British coalition, which came into existence
about the same time as the ill-starred Aus-
tralian arrangement. He wouldn’t hold his
job for 24 hours. The Conservative party
would immediately withdraw its support, and
without that support the Government, or
what remained of it, would be in a hopeless
minority. If it didn’t resign at once it would
be defeated on the first hostile motion, and
at the ensuing general election the Lloyd
George group, despised and rejected alike
by the Conservatives, the Laborites and the
Wee Free Liberals, would be wiped out.
That would assuredly be the fate of the
Hughes faction if its present associates
returned to their old allegiance and it had to
contend simultaneously with, the Liberals,
the Country party and Official Labor. If
the Liberals hadn’t rushed to the rescue
when the second Hughes Ministry wasv tbt d
tering it must have disappeared in 1017,
The coalition is one of the unravelled
mysteries of politics. In the retrospect it
is amazing that a party 36 strong should
have allied itself with the rump of a hostile
party, 13 weak, on terms which involved
the surrender of its policy, its organisation,
its rig;ht to representation in the Ministry
according to voting strength, and even its name.
Had the Liberals stuck out they might have
ruled Australia for a decade. They would
indisputably have won the 1917 election
hands down. But in an evil hour for both
the party and the country they rushed
blindly into the one-sided fusion manipu-
lated by Hughes. Their tired old leaders,
Cook and Forrest, were so anxious for a
respite from political turmoil (or so hungry
for office at any price), while the country
was at war, that they allowed the Prime
Minister to take Webster and Jensejs' into
the Cabinet from his party of 13, although
there were only four Liberal Ministers from
a party of 36. The Government assumed
office on February 17, and the election took
place on May 5. The result showed what
would have happened to the Hugheseliers if
the coalition hadn’t come along, for while
the Liberals increased their majorities every-
where and wrested several seats from the
other side, their allies fared badly in pre-
dominantly industrial constituencies and
owed such electorates as they won to Liberal
votes. Thomas, who had held Barrier for
16 years, abandoned it without a struggle.
Hughes himself retreated from West Syd-
ney to Bendigo, just as he is now retreat-
ing from Bendigo to North Sydney. Spence
(Darling) and CARR (Macquarie) wbre de-
feated. Jensen (Bass), Webster "(Gwy-
dir), Lynch (Werriwa) and Archibald
(Hindmarsh) got ih, but all four lost their
seats in 1919. With Burciiell (Fre-
mantle) contemplating retirement,
(Grey) and Bamford (Herbert) in for the
fight of their lives, and Story, who suc-
ceeded Dankel in Boothby, about to be
shoved aside by the S.A. Liberals, who are
tired of pulling the chestnuts out of the fire
for an avaricious group that couldn’t win
a single seat at the State election, it is
highly probable that the only original
Hugheslier left in the next House of Reps. Will
be Hughes himself. If that is so he will
have preserved his political carcase by fawn-
ing on the charity of the alleged patient in
the bath-chair, for North Sydney has been
the softest Liberal snap ih the Cothfabn-
wealth for 2l years. In fact, he will be, the
decrepit person in the bath-chair.
* * * *
The immediate result of the bath-chair
speech was a declaration of independence by
Watt. Stung by the contempt that pierces
the hide, and the ingratitude that is sharper
than a serpent’s tooth, the man who was
Hughes’s lieutenant for three years and a
quarter hit back to the following purpose:—
Liberalism is not a decrepit invalid.' It is a vital
force and a living power. Anyone who thinks that the
gospel of Liberalism is dead or moribund decries his
own judgment and slanders a great movement. The
National Government has been in existence for
five, years and a half. The chief force that made
it. possible and kept it together was Liberalism.
That party has been quiescent and patient;
but, of course, there is a limit to the continued
exercise of such patience. It has been generous to
Nationalism, and it does not deserve the taunts to
which I have referred. If I aril any judge of its
personnel and its past it will not take these taunts
from anybody. I stand unchangingly for the basic
principles of Liberalism. As long as I am in Parlia-
ment I shall always do my best to uphold! those
principles, and shall be prepared to vote out people
who do violence- to them.
That is, the most definite utterance that has
com, e. out. of Watt’s mouth since he parted
cbmpany with the Prime Minister in 1920.
Along with the Cocky party’s rejection of
“the olive-branch,.” which didn’t make its
appearance until Hughes had exhausted the
possibilities of the big stick, it is an omen
of ruin to the coalition —a coalition which is
essentially dishonest and unnatural and
which has exhausted what small amount of
usefulness it ever had. It ensures that the
Cockies will not lack for allies in the next
Parliament, nor those Liberals ,who are
weary jof Hughesism for leadership. In
sober truth, the modern record of the party
to which Watt has proclaimed his adhesion
doesn’t correspond to his glowing account of
it. Liberalism -lost caste in 1909 by associ-
ating with Cook and his rabble of Tory Free-
traders. It made a worse break eight years
later by becoming responsible fop the madden-
ing bureaucratic variety of socialism and
for the inept and capricious 7 personal govern-
ment identified with Hugßes. But in the
early days yf the Federation it was a truly
national and richly constructive party, and
its achievements were great. “ It can only
regain its old ascendancy by returning to its
best traditiohs and building on the founda-
tions that King&soN ~ and Deakin laid.
However, Hugh®*, without intending it, has
done the Liberals a service. His scorn has
pricked them back to life.
THE SUPERFLUOUS ARMIES OF
AUSTRALIA.
Doctors usually treat cases of active alcohol-
ism by prescribing further doses! of the
poison—administered, of coutse, with dis-
crimination. This is because tin) human
body tends to establish a.statd of toleration
to mild poisons introduced* within its
economy, ai}d, though such a condition is
morbid, it has to be treated gently, lest' its
sudden disturbance prove injurious to the
patient. In cases, equally morbid, of men-
tal toleration —whether induced by self-
complacency or by sheer laziness, no such
hair-of-the-dog methods are necessary. But
the politicians of the Commonwealth decline
to accept this proposition in regard to the
mental inertia t which 1 afflicts .the Aus-
tralian people where (say) finance is con-
cerned. As often, as heroic measures
are demanded the politicians reply that
economy is a remedy which may -only be
applied with caution. Cut off from the loan
market poison- with rash abruptness the body
politic would quidkly die'—or so the, -tax-
payers are asked to believe. And meanwhile"
the five million-and-odd people of this con-
tinent carry a mortgage of £800,000,000.
In ordinary commercial life the directors
of public companies are accustomed • to-,
address themselves determinedly to the.ex-,
tinction of mortgages over their assets. They
do-it by ' reducing to a minimum the non-
productive costs of their businesses. If,
then, an extraordinary general meeting could
be called of all,the citizen-share holders of Aus-
tralia, it is fairly safe to say that a resolu-
tion would be carried urging the directors
to institute a general policy of economy, and
to make a start by cutting down the over-
head expenses. Australia’s overhead charges
are, of course, the costs of government.
Government is required to maintain the
machinery of the law courts, provide police
protection, oversee the education of the
young, care—in a broad way—for the
public health, preserve the interests of the
Community in unalienated lands, safeguard
the country from foreign aggression, anti so
forth. The job is no small one, and has to be
regarded as a legitimate charge on industry
-—a necessity, not a luxury. But a busihess
that has been hard hit by some industrial or
other cataclysm is disposed to look coldly
on palatial premises, brass-bound furniture,
uniformed commissionaires and corona-
coronas for its directors’ meetings. And
it should be the same with States which
have just passed through the cataclysm of
h mighty war. Australia, both in the
Federal and State spheres, should permit
itself only that modicum of govern-
ment which cannot be done without.
This rules out of consideration for the time
being all shop-window displays—costly de-
velopmental works which are not likely to
be profitable within, say, five years—-expen-
sive social legislation of the experimental
order, Ministerial junketings, elaborate office
buildings, and a hundred other extravagances
that will readily occur to any Student of the
daily press.
* * * •
In 1920 the value of the total production
of the Commonwealth was £350,000,000. In the
same year the cost of the Governmental ser-
vices—exclusive of the Railways and Post
Office, which produce occasional small sur-
pluses—-was £40,000,000. Far the largest
single item on the expenditure side of the
ledger was the salary list of the civil ser-
vants. These citizens, who attend to the
routine of administration, enjoy a privileged
position. They obtain it in the first instance
by competitive examination, and they are
maintained in it by the absurd theory that
the civil service must be, from some alleged
peculiarity, in its essence, a life job. This
mistaken belief is largely responsible for the
high cost of government and, incidentally, it
entirely responsible for the discontent
within the public services. Work has to be
remunerated in accordance with some definite
basic principle. That basic principle is usu-
ally, in commercial circles, the economic
value of the work performed. This is equit-
able, and it has also a very pronounced
advantage to the business man in that it
enables him to calculate in advance his cost
of doing, business. In Government depart-
ments the principle does not obtain. There,
length of service is the prime factor in fixing
remuneration, so that, in theory, a servant
becomes progressively more useful to the
department he serves by the mere effluxion
of time. This may possibly be true as re-
gards the potential value of the individual,
but it is equally true that no Government
department can provide more than a rela-
tively small number of jobs the value and
responsibilities of which develop pari passu
with the salary increments of their incum-
bents. The facts are, of course, that in Gov-
ernment departments, as in all large institu-
tions, the responsible jobs are few, while the
routine jobs are many. Big business recog-
nises this fact when it pays a fixed scale of
wages for routine work, and specialist sala-
ries for the services of its expert executives.
The Public Service cannot do this. By reason
of its “till you’re 60’’ contract with its em-
ployees, it finds itself undef the necessity
of paying too much for routine work and
too little for expert work. There are officials
in the N.S.W. Public Service on a salary
scale ranging approximately from £350 to
£430 "per annum who spend most of their time
writing out cheques and salary-sheets. Even
supposing this is worth the lesser sum —
Which it is not —can it be argued that it
becomes some £l2 more valuable to the com-
munity from year to vear?
♦ * * •
The principle of increment because a ser-
vant grows older, except within very
narrow limits, is due to be scrapped. In
up-to-date commercial circles modern office
machinery has enabled the business executive
to place routine work in its proper place—
that is to say, in the hands of juniors. Re-
organised with these modern aids to the
quick despatch of business, Governihent
departments could be made at least 30 per
cent, more efficient, by employing juniors—
with service to terminate at the age of 21,
when the most promising could be re-engaged
—at salaries such as obtain outside Govern-
ment departments. This would necessitate
the creation of a well-paid executive staff
to oversee and organise the work of
these juniors. The price of the extra effici-
ency thus obtained might easily be a 40 per
cent, decrease from the present inflated
standard. Since our politicians are sup-
posed to be building with an eye to the
future, the Commonwealth’s eight Public
Services may be justified to an extent ; but
since the upkeep of these hordes is a tax on
the future as well as on the present, it is
our duty to see that they cost as little as
possible. Australia’s motto for many years
to come, in jus'tifre both to the present and
to" future generations, ought to be: “Cut the
overhead.”
SHIRKERS OR WORKERS.
In Australia —primarily a pastoral and
agricultural country —66 per cent, of the
population live in the towns. The primary
Industries being of a purely rural character,
only 12| per cent, of the population is en-
gaged in them. Of the remainder 62 per
cent, is dependent; that is, does not work
for 'direct remuneration. Industry absorbs
12 per cent., and commerce an equal pro-
portion. The professions, domestic ser-
vice and transport split the balance three
ways pretty evenly. So show the figures
of “The Commonwealth Year Book,” and
the diagnosis is that the tail wags the dog,
whichever way the animal is regarded.
The primary industries carry the country,
representing 86 per cent, of the exports for,
iricluding ore and metals, 90 per cent.).
Less than a quarter of the populatiofl is
engaged in producing and hanHiin™ oo
cent, of the trade by which the countrflif'
Considered from the export noint nt h'es-
the rest of the population are idlers ar/ 6 "’
°r anything else useless, and the exDort nn !
of view is the one that mittpra hf° rt polDt
ports are the only posliblf means^Sr^'
nf pay i ng ltS way - Exports pay for im
ported goods, and for those invisible imnorT
m which Australia specialises—loans JnLlr'
tion. exports must pay for the s dl f
carriage and marketing. Australian L ?
hnd an export surplus of £25 000 000V 0
annum to pay interest on bans and
is every prospect of this total being further
increased each and everv nner
things are to-day SyS nPr S a f s
meat,°°a nasty .fituation'wouM be® create?
because there is nothing else to fall Wa
on. Australia has no industrial reserves
stands or falls by the primary industries and
they live and die by the rise and fall of
world-panties which is the price of other
producers’ gbods, as good as, or better J
worse than those of Australia, in the world’s
markets, llie importance of all this is that
every load that is put on Australia is a load
?Bjk e industries, which have to
shoulder 86 per cent, of the total. Even
load on these industries is a further obstacle
to meeting world-parities, or, in other words
*rm a • rt b er obstacle to marketing produce’
The producer who cannot market his pro-
duce hies his schedule—whether that pro-
uucer is an individual or a nation
Another way in which the tail* waes the
dog s related to the 12 per cent . 8 She
population which is engaged in industry
social legislation has been based largely on
the ground that Australia is a country free
from special privilege. The attempts to
create a social hierarchy, as in pre-war Eng
land have been bitterly fought, and have
tailed. Hut this does not mean that class-
distinction has been abolished. On the con-
trary, this _ country, which boasts that
pas .no leisured class, has one, and one
which is paid to be leisured, and very wel'
paid, too. A basic wage of four pounds-odd
a week for leisured labor proves that the
tail is by far the most potent portion of
the canine anatomy. The whole theory of
a high basic wage is unsound, socially
and economically. Unfortunately, power-
ful interests, outside labor, headed bv
the publicans, bookmakers and landlords,
support it to their own ultimate damnation!
Socially, it is unsound because it is the stul-
tification of worth and individual effort.
Economically, it is so because it loads in-
dustry at the start with a high-production
cost that leaves little or no margin for the
better remuneration of skill. The level of
the basic wage in Australia is fixed not bv
the high cost of living, but by the high cost
of gambling. Labor’s original misconcep-
tion—jealousy of special privilege, except its
own privilege to be highly paid to back
horses—is shown in its enmity to immi-
grants, due to the desire to prevent compe-
tition ; in its absorption of craft unions in
the big industrial unions, whereby the skilled
worker is subject to the mandate of the un-
skilled ; in its restriction of apprenticeship,
which bodes ill for the future of all indus-
tries, in its Opposition to piecework and co-
operation, lest the worker shall earn more
than the shirker. Admittedly, the original
object aimed at was praiseworthy, namely,
the maxiipuin of occupation; but when the
corollary, the minimum of effort, was added
industry started on the slide downhill. When
the corollary was amended to the maximum
of payment for the minimum of effort, it slid
downhill faster than ever, and has brought
up with a bang. Having achieved this
result after loading all the dice in its
own favor, Labor looks round aghast, and
with a brave gesture dispatches Harden, the
Emperor of the Washout, to Moscow to
take lessons from Lenin and Trotsky on
evolving something out of nothing. There
is no reason why order should not emerge
from chaos, but Garden is not the per-
son to perform any such magic feat. The
accomplishments of Garden and his like
have been the creation of that class cleavage
which Labor set out to prevent: the restric-
tion of that productivity which alone can
supply capital expansion, increased employ-
ment and high wages: and the rapid descent
of Australia to the pit of bankruptcy. Still,
the Gardens have not been the only ones
to blame. They have been aided and abetted
by corrupt politicians, by the boodlers of
the civil service, and by the unintelligence of
the employers, the so-called astute capital-
ists. The whole stable calls for a thorough
cleansing.
Australian industry will remain a wash-
out so long as the country is hypnotised or
bulldozed into the illusion that the Common-
wealth belongs to a small minority of the
people, who live on it; and so long as this
small minority can arrogate to itself the right
to decide who shall and who shall not work,
and the terms employers shall agree to for
the privilege of helping them to do nothing
or the next thing to it. Our country may be
the shirker’s paradise : it certainly is the true
worker’s hell. The revival of Australian in-
dustry can only follow the acceptance of
these essentials. A fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay will reduce the cost of pro-
duction, to a level which would create a de-
mand. The higher the basic wage the lower
the effective wage, because of the consequent
rise in prices. The higher the actual earned
wage the higher the effective wage, by reason
of the fall in prices. The limit of wages is
the ability to buy. An industry cannot pay
out more than it takes in. The manufacturer
who produces what he cannot sell is an
optimist who deserves to meet his creditors.
YELOOP.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lunching with the Baby.
W. M. Hughes was not long in bringing
his electioneering artillery to bear on the
position taken - up by A. B. Piddington in
North Sydney. On the day following the
definite announcement that the K.C. would
stand, the Prime Minister lunched with the
prize-winning Sunday Times baby, and
was photographed during an interval !in
the feast with the infant and its parents-
who are residents of North Sydney. Cheek-
by-jowl with this interesting politico-domes-


tic interior the Times published a raking
attack on Piddington —the most prominent
feature being a charge that, having been
appointed to the High Court Bench, and
having then found that a section of his pro-
fessional brethren were hostile, he re-
signed. The inspiration of the reproach
(which, incidentally, every practising mem-
ber of the N. S. Wales Bar knows to be
untrue) is clearly disclosed in the point of
view. To Mr. Hughes the idea that a
man who had once got into a tart-shop of
the dimensions of a High Court judgeship
should ever get out, unless withdrawn by the
hand of death, affords incontrovertible proof
of defective mentality. And yet both
Federal and State Benches would be a good
deal stronger if there were more aspirants
of the Piddington and fewer of the Hughes
calibre. Brazen hide which refuses to take
public opinion into consideration where
private interest enters into the matter, may
serve in the political world, to an extent,
but it vastly lowers the tone of a judiciary.
When Archdale Parkhill had to be dis-
credited in North Sydney the other day the
same underhand methods were employed.
Mr. Hughes lunched with the baby, so to
speak, and with mysterious suddenness it
was discovered by a number of Hughesite
enthusiasts that Parkhill (who had been
requisitioned by every Nationalist League
branch and sub-branch in the constituency)
had no chance of winning the seat; that
Parkhill, a Protestant, was distaste-
ful to Protestants, and so on. If
the electors of North Sydney are
not the unreasoning gulls that W. M.
Hughes obviously takes the Sunday Times
readers to be, they will see through this
humbug, which, in truth, belongs to the dark
ages of electioneering. They were robbed
of the chance to vote for Parkhill by the
agency chiefly of a petitioii alleged to have
been sighed by 9000 electors in about four
days. And now, obvioqsly, they are to be
assured by Hughes, through complaisant
organs of the Sunday Times class, that the
same faithful 9000 will regard it as an out-
rage and a disaster if anyone is allowed to
appeal for anti-Labor siipport conjointly
with himself. The fact is, of course, the
issue in North Sydney has no more to do,
to-day, with the professional status of Mr.
Piddington than it had to do, last month,
with the status in Protestantispi of Mr.
Parkhill. Wliat the thinking electors
want from W. M. Hughes are assurances
that he will no longer oppose a return to
constitutional government as it was known
in Australia before the war; that he will
put an end to the departmentalisto-gone-mad
which is burdening the Commonwealth with
an ever-increasing load of debt; that he will
do more for the White Australia principle
than talk about it, and, as a beginning, help
to make the Far North habitable by com-
pleting the long-overdue South-North rail-
way. If the Prime Minister could pledge
himself to such policies, and do it with suf-
ficient conviction to make the average elec-
tor of discrimination believe him, he would
not need to worry about the competition. for
votes of one like Piddington, whose very
sensitiveness on points of taste, not to say
honor, is capable of being twisted into an
indication of political worthlessness. But
Mr.. Hughes has never been like that, and
so. in lieu of a policy, we shall have him
lunching with North Sydney babies —sec-
tarian babies, Loyalist babies, anti-Bolshe-
vik babies —and dodging the only questions
that matter, from now right up to polling
day.
A Stricken State.
Queensland is in a poor way these days,
and still tending downhill, though it is by
nature the richest of the States, as well as
being the second largest. Its copper-mines
(it once produced as much copper as all the
other States put together and the industry
is quite young) are closed almost unani-
mously. Even the big Government mine,
with the burdened taxpayer to lean on, has
been suspended. Mount Morgan, the gold-
copper show which is ambng the mineral
aristocrats of the globe, is ekeing out a sort
of existence on a Government subsidy, and
with the fall in the price of gold the subsidy
is proving dismally insufficient. The cattle
industry, almost equal for size to that of all
the other States combined, has begged an
export bonus from the Commonwealth, to
keep it from bankruptcy. The railways
are in a condition of pathetic hardupness.
The Commonwealth has been approached to
give the State a boost by building a Federal
line across it, mostly at the charge of the
other States, and in a double sense at the
charge of South Australia, which paid with
a land grant of 260,000 acres per mile for
the said railway to go across its territory.
Two of the three local banks have sold off
,to an outside institution on terms which
suggested small faith in the future. The
railway charges and the taxes ,are the
highest in the Commonwealth, while the
savings-bank deposits are below the Com-
monwealth average. And it is difficult to
imagine how much worse things might have
been had the worst trouble not been post-
poned by methods described by these two
entries in the Federal statistics for the year
to 30/6/’22
Revenue, direct State taxation being
£4 17s. 2d. per head, as compared
with £2 10s. 3d. in Victoria ..£12,601,031
Borrowings, raising the debt from
£69,680,764 to which
addition was over £ll per head, and
made the total peace debt £lO4 per
head 10,701,288
£23,302,319
It is pretty hopeless to look for another loan
year like that, unless the Prime Minister
comes forward with the money—and con-
sidering that Queensland has the third big-
gest batch of Federal votes to dispose of,
and that at heart Hughes and Theodore
seem to be kindred souls, it is hard to guess
what that eccentric gymnast may not do.
Yet if Queensland doesn’t find more such
loan years the prospect suggests famine and
skeletons walking abroad. The State Gov-
ernment has entered on its eighth year, and
though the party it represents is so detested
that it can barely return one Federal mem-
ber out of 16, and even captured a smatter-
ing of aldermanic jobs with difficulty at
last time of asking, there is nothing to show
that it won’t last another eight. It
has dug itself in, as the Dooley Ministry
at Sydney might have done with a similar
majority to dig with, and with its pocket
boroughs and its wonderful array of ghost-
voters it has made itself independent of mere
public opinion to a marvellous extent. In-
ternal dissension, or panic, or bad general-
ship with its ghost army, may kill it, but
it has proved itself remarkably proof against
the ordinary risks of the game. It has mufih the
same idea that the king (meaning itself)
should be pretty much a law unto himself as
the four English Stuart kings had, and it
took not bight but 85 years to get rid of
them. They came lawfully, like Theodore,
but unlawful means were needed to make
them go. Not only ignorant tyranny but
uncertainty —the kind that haunts countries
where no one knows from hour to hour when
Abdul, the sultan, or Achmet, the bashaw,
will break out in a new place—hangs over
the land. In addition to huge taxation and
huge railway rates, two things that pulled
down the (Queensland cattle-men were the
commandeering of their stock at nominal
prices to feed the State butcheries, and the
doubling of their rents, contrary to the terms
of their leases; also the stupendous fines
levied by dating the increases back to the
Dark Ages. The late Government of N. S.
Wales had, a somewhat similar device, but it
failed. A court, the majority of whose
members were to hold office at the Minister’s
pleasure, to have the power of reducing
prices and charges retrospectively, and its
capacity of retrospective forfeiture was to
be such as would stagger humanity. The
Abduls and Achmets enjoy the pomp and
profit of doing these things, but they are bad
for the country. Queensland is becoming
a land of dull apathy, and men with Some-
thing to lose are acquiring the habit of .con-
cealment which the Moor or Tunisian used
to have when the bashaw took his \yalks
abroad. The Australian will never, never,
never be a slave, but it is quite likely that,
With proper encouragement, he may become
a colorable imitation.
How Bolshevism Comes.
Compton Ford takes a gloomy view of it: —
One can find in the pages of Dostoeffsky an
explanation of, the decadence of the Australian
Labor party.' Dostoeffsky regarded that develop-
ment of the sinister side of Labor politics, now
so noticeable in Australia, as an inevitable
phenomenon. Years ago, in “The Possessed,” he
foretold, not only the state of chaos into which
Communism would plunge his native land, but also,
to the minutest detail, the demoralisation which
is now afflicting Australian Labor. There is no
heed here to dwell on the pass to which Labor has
come in Australia. The contention of Catts and
co. that it is rotten with corruption is merely coun-
tered with, “What about yourselves?” Dostoeffsky
claims that Such cynicism is an inevitable outcrop of
Labor politics in their more advanced stage; more-
over, and further, that an essential part of grown-up
Communism is a dark undercurrent of thinly camou-
flaged criminality.
It cannot be claimed that Dostoeffsky is a
Tory. Tzardom sentenced him to four years’
hard labor, and made him spend 10 of
the best years of his life in exile. lie
wrote then as a bitter enemy of the old regime, but
as one who could not see that hate and greed were
improvements upon incompetence and obscurantism.
In. “The Possessed” he reviews the whole revolu-
tionary position. More in sorrow than in anger, he
concludes that the high command of revolutionary
socialism consists of a handful of adventurers seek-
ing to persuade their dupes to overturn the existing
order with a view to seizing power for their own
advantage; and that the logical consequences must
be starvation, slavery, and—if the -experiment- is
tried on a big enough scale —the complete destruc-
tion of civilisation,
“The Possessed” is prefaced by a quotation from
Pushkin, which has a strangely Australian ring:—
Strike me dead, the track has vanished!
Well, what now? We’ve lost the way.
Demons have bewitched our horses,
Led us in the wilds astray.
The Possessed are, of course, the dupes of Com-
munism and its associated “isms.” The Demons are
those who are in “the movement” for their own ends.
Dostoeffsky has depicted, in Verhovensky, a master-
revolutionary who is not a social reformer at all.
He never reads; has neither culture, views about
society, nor faith in humanity; but possesses a
malevolent genius for destruction and an arid con-
tempt for all that is tender and sw r eet in human
nature. He has an ingenious plan of creating uni-
versal disorder, and, in the midst of chaos, of seiz-
ing the executive authority, but fails because human
nature is not so base as he thought it.
When the book appeared it was hailed as a gross
libel on the revolutionary movement, especially the
passages in which the author emphasises the darker
side of what is now known as Bolshevism. But
certain people in 1917 succeeded where Verhovensky
failed, and the present-day world has documents to
go on. Dostoeffsky makes one of the disillusioned
revolutionaries say:—
Not a single nation has ever been founded on
principles of science or reason. There has never been
an example of it except for a brief moment through
folly. Socialism is, from its very nature, bound to
be atheism, seeing that from the very first it has
proclaimed that it is an atheistic organisation of
society, and that it intends to establish itself
exclusively on the lines of science and reason. But
these play a secondary part in human existence. So
it will be to the end of time.... There has never
been a nation without a religion; that is, without
an idea of good and evil.... Reason has never had
the power to define good and., evil. It has always
mixed them up.
In the person of the fanatic Shigalov, Dostoeff-
sky mercilessly satirises the doctrinaire type of social
revolutionary—not the cynical opportunist like Ver-
hovensky, who does not really believe in human
nature at all, but the madman who is prepared
to go to any lengths, in the name of the people,
to revolutionise society, “even if it means cutting
off a million heads.” Shigalov announces to a
meeting of Verhovensky’s committee that he has
solved the social problem, tlfough he is perplexed
by his own conclusion: —
My conclusion is a direct contradiction of the
original idea with which I start. Starting from
unlimited freedom, I arrive at unlimited despotism.
I will- add, however, that there can be no solution
of the social problem but mine.
Here the whole Communistic position is envisaged
and shattered in a few words. Shigalov goes on
to explain that his system involves the division of
mankind into two unequal parts. One-tenth enjoys
absolute liberty and absolute control over the other
nine-tenths. The others give up all individuality and
become an obedient herd.
Having looked at Bolshevism, or Shigalovism,
as he calls it, from the angle of the pure-hearted
fanatic, Dostoeffsky drives the indictment home
by examining it from the view-point of Verhovex-
sky—the man highest up, the master-mind who re-
gards ethics as an invention and human beings
as so many gulls. Verhovensky confesses that
Shigalov is a genius. “He has invented equality,”
says Verhovensky, and then proceeds to define it:—
Everyone belongs to all, and all to everyone. All
are slaves and equal in their slavery. The great thing
is equality. To begin with, the level qf education,
science and talents is lowered. A high level of
education is. only possible for great intellects,
and they are not wanted. Great intellects will
be banished or put to death. Cicero will have his
tongue cut out; Copernicus will have his eyes put
cut; Shakspeare will. be stoned —that’s Shigalov-
ism. Slaves are bound to be equal; _ in the herd
there’s bound to be equality—that’s Shigalovism....
To level the mountains'is a fine idea, not an absurd
one. 1 am for Shigalovism. Down with culture!
We’ve enough science... .The one thing wanting in
the world is discipline. The thirst for culture is an
aristocratic one. The moment you have family ties
or love you get the desire for property. We will
destroy that desire. We will make use of drunken-
ness, slander, spying, corruption. We’ll reduce all
to |fr common denominator. Complete equality!
Verhovensky then explains where he comes in:—
But it needs a shock. That’s for us, the Directors,
to look after. Slaves must have Directors. Abso-
lute submission, absolute loss of liberty.... The real
Shigalovians will have no desires. Desire and
suffering are our lot: Shigalovism is for the slaves.
But Shigalovism, while conceived on right lines,
is too slow for Verhovensky. He proposes to temper
it with crime, and proceeds to tell of the unconscious
agents and abettors he will have —those who strengthen
revolutionary movements without knowing it.
The teacher who, to his children, laughs at
Gon is on our side. The juries who acquit every
criminal are ours. Among officials and literary men
we have lots, and they don’t know it themselves....
Do you know how many we shall catch with little
ready-made ideas? When 1 left Russia crime was
insanity. Now I find that crirhe is no longer in-
sanity but merely commonsense—almost a duty. But
these are only the firstfruits...»One Or two .genera-
tions of vice are essential now, monstrous, abject
vice by which men are transformed into loathsome,
cruel, egoistic serpents... .We will proclaim destruc-
tion. Why is it that idea has such a fascination?
But we must have a little exercise. We will set
fires going. There’s going to be such an upset as
the world his never seen before. Russia will be
overwhelmed with darkness, and the world will
weep for its old gods.
But has all this anything to do with Australia?
Yes; every line has an Australian application. There
are Veriiovenskys in every Labor executive in the
Commonwealth. There are Shigalovs in every league
and union branch. Many Australians know how true
it is that the reverse side of the Labor shield is
corruption, confusion, mutual antagonism and a
hatred of humanity. And, while Mick Shigalov
is allowed to froth in public, 811 l Verhovensky is
the real power working tirelessly and secretly behind
the scenes.
Chaos in Government.
N. S. Wales ought to enter upon a healthier
political era wiui the departure for London
of Brenner Fuller and the taking over of
his job by Oakes. Fullerism is as uncon-
stitutional, in its way, as its antithesis,
liughesism. Hughes is strong; Fuller is
weak. Hughes allows no rivals near the
throne of office; Fuller can hardly get
near it for them. Hogues has little to fear,
except from avoWed enemies; Fuller
catches the glint of the stiletto behind every
Parliamentary arras, while Macquarie-street
fairly trembles from the sapping and mining
which goes on continually beneath his feet —
and the stilettos belong to his supporters,
and the underground workers are his col-
leagues. The citizens of N. S. Wales, torn
between the Czaristic methods of Hughes
and the anarchic ones of toe Fuller Minis-
try, have almost forgotten what true Cabinet
government means. The Fullers know
nothing, for example, of the doctrine of
joint Ministerial responsibility; or if they
do they refuse to have any traffic with the
thing. Hardly a week passes but some
Minister —usually it is T. J. Ley, the
Gregory McGirr, or Angora goat, of Nation-
alism—comes out with a public pronounce-
ment which has to be publicly contradicted
by his leader the following day. Over and
over again Ley has promised L.O.L. gather-
ings that legislatioh directed at the “Ne
Temere” decree will be introduced “immedi-
ately,” regardless of the fact that many of
N. S. Wales Nationalism’s most financial
supporters-Mfie Hugheses, Daltons, Shel-
dons, etc. —are R.C.’s; and over and over
again he has promised the Cold Tea people
that terrible things will be done forthwith to
the liquor trade, regardless of the fact that
the liquor business is as conservative, politi-
cally, as it can be, and that —pace the little
crowd of elderly suburban women who
patronise every Prohibition rally—its
deadliest enemies here, as in Russia, are the
revolutionaries. The effect of this kind of
thing is that neither the State of N. S.
Wales nor the nominal head of , the Govern-
ment knows where Cabinet stands for a
week at a time. When Sydney Daily Mail
recently accused the Fuller Administration
of having entered into negotiations to. lease
or sell the State silos to a private syndicate
the Premier denied the charge. Nobody
doubts his personal honor, and it was readily
believed that he did not know of the negoti-
ations. But then, under the extraordinary
travesty of Cabinet Governtoent which N. S.
Wales has been experiencing for some time
past, the Premier might well be one of the
last members of the Assembly to hear of an
arrangement of the sort. He denied some
time ag’o that he was going to London; but
his colleague \vho said he was going at the
time knew better, as events have proved.
He denies that he means to take the Agent-
Generalship ; and yet all those who hope to
succeed him are agreed that he will take it.
He denied on Shturday last that his Minis-
try is to be re-constructed after his depar-
ture ; yet, obviously, it will have to be re-
constructed, assuming that Oakes intends
to get business done, and does not intend to
be put into a series of false positions in the
process by the accomplished underground
engineers-who want his position. Under the
British system of Cabinet government the
Premier i§ neither, a dictator like Hughes,
nor a cipher like Fuller. His position, is,
in a sense, judicial. He weighs the pro-
posals of his colleagues, and because he is
their leader, to whom they have every rea-
son to owe loyalty and respect, they accept
his judgment; and the result goes to the
country as the collective 'decision of 'Cabinet,
for which Cabinet is collectively responsible.
The Hughes arrangement may be good
Czarism, the Fuller system may be go'od
Sovietism; but there is nothing British
about either of them. And in a British
community like this the reactions of the one
policy are liable to be as pernicious as those
of the other.
• •
The Bourgeois State that Pays Its
Way.
Last week McPherson, the Victorian
Treasurer, presented his fifth Budget,
and announced his State’s sixth sur-
plus since 1916. The surplus was
•£34,938, which of itself is nothing to write
home about, but it makes a respectable
showing alongside the Ma State’s disgrace-
ful deficits —£1,329,000 in 1921-22, £445,000
in 1920-21 and £1,560,000 in 1919-20. More-
over, the Victorian revenue (£19,871,000, or
£l3 a head) was modest compared with that
of N. S. Wales (£35,774,000, or £l7 a head),
and McPherson was able to say that he
had increased by £16,000 the annual con-
tribution to his loan-redemption fund, which,
inadequate though it is, now stands at
£2,754,000. Whereas, the N. S. Wales Trea-
surer cheerlessly confessed that he had no
redemption fund, and didn’t see any prospect
of getting one. Again, Victoria made ends
meet, and set something aside for Cohen,
without resorting to burglarious taxation.
The income-tax is its main impost, and th<*
highest rate is a shilling in the £l.
or threepence less thafi the loioest rate
inflicted in N. S. Wales. Except that
concessions have been granted in re-
spect of death or sickness in the tax
payer’s family, the Victorian schedule has
stood unaltered for five years. In N. 8.
Wales, on the othto' hand, “revision” of the
incotoe-tax is an annual event; and always
the revision is uptoanl and at the expense
of the oppressed middle-class. Under Lang.
the Labor Treasurer, the revising process
resulted in the addition to an already bufden-
somfe tax of rates ranging from 4d. to Is.
3d. in the £l, the increases being more than
the full rates charged in Victoria. That was in
1920, and next year, the customary deficit
having resulted, Lang wanted to increase his
revised tax by another 30 or 40 per, cent.,
requiring an additional £2,000,000, he ex-
plained to “balance the ledger.” One of his
bright proposals was to make companies pay
3s. 9d. in the £ on top of the Federal tax
of 2s. Bd., the Labor notion being that com-
panies are enemies of the struggling masses
and ought to be encouraged off the earth.
This profound idea, and the kindred belief
that the way to the proletarian paradise lies
through the Taxation Department, where the
enemies of Labor are ruthlessly cut up
(Labor, of course, is exempt), are in full
operation in Queensland, with the result that
the people who used to invest in companies
now put their money into tax-free war stock
and a large section of the industrial popula-
tion is supported by doles. Very different is
the Victorian attitude, as McPherson ex-
presses it: —
The Government is fully alive to the advantage of
keeping taxation at its lowest point. With high
taxation cheap living is not possible. Money taken
by taxation for governmental purposes contracts the
ability of our citizens to assist in land development
and to invest in industrial enterprises, and is fre-
quently a direct cause of trade stagnation and un-
employment. As a result of the taxation of this
State being the lowest, as compared with the other
States and the Commonwealth, capital is being
attracted to Victoria and invested in industrial and
land development, and large organisations from over-
seas are registering their head offices in this State.
In the jargon of the Labor-socialist, this is
painfully bourgeois. Still, it is one of the
explanations why Victoria, its inferior re-
sources notwithstanding, is in a far sounder
condition than N. S. Wales or Queensland,
which have been run for years on the prin-
ciple that oppressive taxation (of the other
fellow) is a thing good in itself. The truth
is that even the wage-earners are better off
in non-Labor Victoria than they are in the
States whose Labor Governments have bor-
rowed madly for their benefit, exempted
them from the burden of paying the interest,
and crucified the middle-class in the process.
•
A Political Pharisee.
Dear Bulletin, —According to W. M.
Hughes, “the soul has passed out of Labor,”
and likewise its “brains.” The clear infer-
ence is that these elements left the ship when
he was ordered off the quarter-deck. It is
further inferred that the escaping soul and
brains, whose passing he deplores with “utter
sadness,” obtained reincarnation in the new
political entity which he created by a fusion
of Socialism and Anti-Socialism, and bap-
tised “Nationalism.” Labor may be in a bad
way both spiritually and mentally (in the
opinion of many of us it is) ; but what
of the Anti-Labor party that boasts Hughes
as its dictator?' Has it displayed so much
soul- or brain-power that it is now in a posi-
tion to talk down to others? How t much of
either came into play when it was decided to
scrap, for the duration of the war, Magna
Charta, Habeas Corpus and the Bill of
Rights, which together form the main under-
lying principles of our Constitution? How
much mind and morals were required by the
Government, which was Hughes, to institute
a censorship which was infinitely stricter in
this militarily out-of-the-way part of the
world than in London itself? And where
was the “spiritual psychology” of which he
speaks, with the air of a sole proprietor, in
suggesting, during an advocacy of the Anglo-
Japanese Alliance, that Australians and
Japanese might yet be fighting side by side
against the U.S.? Some other features of
the. Hughes dictatorship have been the black-
birding of natives in the Pacific for Naura,
the unauthorised wooden ships deal, the scan-
dals associated with sugar, wheat, flour and
the war service homes, and the mysterious
manner in which “honors” have been ladled
out to men of means who became Hughes’s
friends after he became Prime Minister.
Speaking recently to a gallery of Sydney
Nationalists, this self-sufficient muddler said,
with his customary complacency: “We must
live on our deeds.” And, further, “I have not
looked at tie problems confronting the Com-
monwealth through a club window or a rail-
way carriage.” It is safe to say that if Hughes
had to live on his political deeds —meaning
his good ones —he would die of malnutrition :
and, as for his outlook, it is as constricted as
that of any club man or first-class railway
tourist. For the world on which he looks is
a mirror, a flat surface which reflects little
but W. M. Hug Hes and the interests and
ambitions of Hughes. It has been said that
Australia must endure this colossal egotist


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - - ... . . . _ £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS - - - - . . . £300,000
ASSETS EXCEED- - - - - - - - - . . . - - - £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
' SELBY P. WOOD. J:P., Governing Director.
. AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
because there is no one capable of taking his
place. And it is on such impudent propa-
ganda that Hughes has lived and humbugged
the country for years past. As a fact, there
is not a capital city in the Commonwealth
but contains scores of professional and com-
mercial men, of probity, ability and relative
altruism, who are capable of running this
country (1) as a free State, and .(.2) as an
honest business proposition. Hughes has
done neither, during the whole of his record
reign, In the circumstances it will be time
for him to talk , about a party that has lost
its sotll and intellect when his own party
finds either of these assets. —Yours, etc.,
Anti-Snuffle.
»
Artisans Gone Wrong'.
Bitter words from a Vic. medical man: —
After having trifled with the matter for the best
part of ten years, Melbourne University decided, the
other day, to do something about the student who
consistently, goes down at examinations —and having
come to this bold decision it immediately hedged.
The problem of the young man—the girl undergrad-
uates are mostly conspicuous by their success at
examinations—who clutters up his Alma Mater by
crashing year after year at the annual tests is one
that is afflicting most of the Australian ’Varsities
just now. But Melbourne is in the worst position of
all. And it feels the strain of its intellectual' dead-
wood the more severely by reason of the paucity of
its endowments. There is food for profound thought
in the discovery that in the Victorian University
about 75 per cent, of the students likely to be affected
by the Professorial Hoard's decision to ask them to
explain why they have failed four, five, six, and, in
a few cases, ten times at the one examination arc to
be found in the Paeulty of Medicine. One bright lad
was revealed as having started his medical course in
1898, and as being not much more than half-way
through it in the present year of grace, while others
had been gamely struggling along for varying periods
of from 10 to 15 years for the five-year course. Mel-
bourne has never been noted for the severity of :ts
medical examinations, save in anatomy, the major
part of which comes in the early years of the course,
so that the only conclusion even the most sympathetic
friends of such students can arrive at is that Nature
meant them to be anything but doctors. Yet, pro-
vided they continue to display that quality of dogged-
ness which enables them to take anything from twice
to four times the length of time that others require
to obtain a degree, the majority will eventually
graduate—if they don't die, beforehand, of senile
decay—and in any case there is always the chance
of striking an examiner sufficiently kind-hearted to
be moved into letting them through as a reward r.f
persistence. The whole matter is one that calls for
urgent and prompt attention—and of a different kind
from that which Melbourne University’s Professorial
Board proposes to bestow upon it. Like most other
Australian problems, it will be found, on careful
scrutiny, to have its roots set deep in the blight of
party politics, being more or less the outcome of the
vote-catching device of cheap education, and the cry
for “the opening of the University to the poorest."’
Under Victoria’s present educational system lack of
wealth is no bar to the acquirement of a University
education, provided that the aspirant possesses the
ability to read and write; and' medicine being a
genteel and sometimes lucrative occupation, number's
find their way into it with no better intellectual
equipment than the smattering of brains that Nature
dowered them with when she made up her mind that
they should serve the world as hodcarriers or under-
takers’ assistants. One result is that the community
finds the care of its health in the hands of a host of
indifferent practitioners all falling over one another
in their anxiety to make a living. But it is in the
University itself that the most serious consequences
are to be seen. The enormously increased flow of
students through them has meant that classes have
become so congested that the imparting of instruction
in many respects has become farcical. Clinics may
be found consisting of from 25 to 30 students, instead
of the four or five of some years back. The embryo
medicoes gather around a bed, some not being able
to see more of the patient than the head or the feet,
and are instructed in all the intricacies of an unusual
case, with the knowledge that the next of its kind
they will encounter may be in practice! Practically
all research in the laboratories has ceased, for the
reason that the staff has not sufficient time in which
to carry out its ordinary duties of teaching, let alone
those connected with original investigation. And
when University research stops the scientific and cul-
tural progress of the State comes to a halt. Thus it
is that the Commonwealth has had to obtain from
abroad the greater part of what new medical and
scientific knowledge has come its way in the past 10
years. And, plainly, unless something is done about
it, things Will grow increasingly worse. A start could
be made by abolishing the useless and unnecessary
bursary system—an arrangement which has done
nothing whatever towards helping those who should
be helped, and which has resulted in the presence
within the institutions of those who have done so
much harm to them. It can be taken as a foregone
conclusion that if a youth possesses that enthusiasm
for medicine or any other of the learned professions
which ensures his making a success of the one that
he enters, he will find a way to get through the Uni-
versity, regardless of what his financial situation may
be. In fact, in the old flays, many of those who rose
to be brilliant leaders in their chosen walks of life
were of this kind. No gain is obtained by a country
from the possession of large quantities of mediocre
talent, instead of small quantities of first-class men,
and no profession is any better off for the presence
within its ranks of men who have no interest in
their work and no love for it, and have entered it
only because it appeals to them as an easy ar.d
socially-desirable means of making a living, and be-
cause a ridiculous education system -that had
its birth in the exigencies of party politics
has made it possible for them to gratify
this ambition. When our Universities are cleared
of these encumbrances many of their financial
troubles will vanish, for they will then have some-
claim to be considered centres of culture and learn-
ing, and will have no difficulty in attracting endow-
ments from people who, at the present. time, object
strongly to lavishing money on places, whose only
aim in the scheme of things is to provide, a number
of youths with a passport to an easy life, in the shape
of a smattering of knowledge and a professional
diploma.
The Murray’s Mouth.
Half-a-century ago, South Australia, with
a handful of population and no money to
speak of, tackled single-handed the problem
of the South-to-North transcontinental
telegraph line, which linked up all Aus-
tralia with the outside world. To-day it
has to face another big problem of national
interest, the mouth of Australia’s one great
river. There is a big traffic along the
Murray, but sooner or later it takes the
train and is dragged away over the hills to
Port Adelaide. The river’s mouth is itself
frankly hopeless, with a shifting channel,
alternation of deep water and shallow, and
THE LOST TENANT.
AUS. (to Labor politician) : “ You’ll never get him back till you get your house re-built."
ugly currents. It is a real feat for any
kind of craft to get through at the best of
times. One of the schemes proposed is a
cut from Goolwa, on the lake just inside
the mouth, through the neighboring sandy
peninsula. It would strike shallow water
there, and require enormous piers into the
deep, but this plan was recommended by
the American Johnston when he came to
advise on the Murray locks. His alterna-
tive proposal was a canal from Goolwa,
about 10 miles to Victor Harbor, on that
Encounter Bay where Flinders encoun-
tered the Frenchman Baudin. The water
there is deep, but the harbor is not ideal.
Judge Boucaut, when Premier half-a-cen-
tury back, threw a long jetty-bridge across
to Granite Island, which shelters it, and
made a breakwater which is admittedly not
long enough. The trouble is that John-
ston advised either scheme as practicable
for about a million sterling. The Harbors
Board of S.A. now says either must cost
at least twice that, and it recommends the
long canal. Harwell told a deputation,
which included Lance Stirling and Simp-
son Newland, that he could see no way
but getting “further advice from other ex-
perts,” and promised that the matter would
be taken in hand at once. Certainly the
question of a river port is urgent, because
otherwise the line through the Adelaide hills
will have to be duplicated, and that seems a
foolish expense if the river trade, and all
the wheat from the lately-opened mallee
country just east of the Murray (it used to
be known as “the 90-mile desert”), can be
sent out by the natural exit.
In a review of the Victorian soldier-settle-
ment scheme Treasurer McPherson states
that the number of Diggers provided with
land up to June 30 was 9493. During the
same period a succession of slapdash Ma
State Ministers, Nationalist and Labor,
accomplished the settlement or ruin of 7205
of their own warriors, and Wearne, the
present incumbent, admits that between 400
and 500 of them have cleared out-
-280 from ready-made farms bought when
land values were sky-high. The same
gentleman confesses that “the failures
in Victoria have been very much fewer than
in this State,” and explains that the Vic-
torian system is administered by one board,
whereas four boards have been muddling tbe
business in N. S. Wales —one to issue quali-
cation certificates (war service in any
capacity used to be the qualification),
another to buy the land, a third to grapple
the Digger to his block, and a fourth to
mother him or put the bailiff in, as the case
may be. At present a select committee is
inquiring (1) why Ma hasn’t settled her
quota of 8405 (2) how many of the 7205
areas are actually occupied, and (3) how
much more than the £12,000,000 already
spent will be required to make the harassed
holders solvent. It is certainly striking
that Victoria should have done more than
a fair share of the settlement job tolerably
well, while N. S. Wales was doing less than
a fair share intolerably badly.
One of the few score bills rushed through the
Queensland Parliament before the Theodore
Government scampered into recess was a
measure providing for “the insurance of un-
employed workers” and for “auxiliary pur-
poses.” It is the old Loafers’ Paradise Bill
under a new name. By it the Government is
empowered to compel employers to go in for
building extensions, where such are deemed
necessary; to put pressure on local authori-
ties in order to get work-producing operations
going; to start “labor farms” and a multi-
tude of other expedients for absorbing out-of-
works. One-third of the cost of all this
philanthropy is to be borne by the
State, one-third by the employers and
one-third by the employees; and there
is to be a governing council com-
posed of the Minister for Works, the Regis-
trar of Friendly Societies, the Director of
Labor, a representative of the unions and one
of the employers. Having bred unemployed
by the thousand, Theodore and co. feel it a
sort of duty to provide for their bantlings at
other people’s expense, and the fruits will
be more officials, more taxation, massive addi-
tions to the £174,000 spent in relief doles
last year, and, in the long run, less employ-
ment. Salvation by sumptuary laws' is ar
expensive luxury.
It has been remarked that the gentry who
are swift in urging the workers to take over
the control of industry and produce for use
instead of prolit are slow in backing the
idea with their own money. Encouraged by
Cocky’s success in the co-operative field and
relying on practical support from the local
soshers of industry, a party of Fremantle
(W.A.) unionists started a co-operative
grocery. Remarks on the funeral from the
local Herald:-
Co-operation in supplying groceries to the union-
ists of Fremantle has failed lamentably. The work-
ers have proven conclusively that they do not want
their own store, It has gone into liquidation. The
only co-operative movement which is afforded generous
support in Fremantle is the co-operative beershop
(i.e., the Workers’ Club). The workers must have
realised long ere this that it isj only by co-operatioh
that emancipation will come. They do not want to
be emancipated—not in the direction of obtaining
their household goods from their own store. But
beer —well, that is a different story. Co-opeiatovß
are astounded to find that the strongest industrial
centre of this State cannot support a small store
like the one which has just busted.
However, the Fremantle Labor leaders are
still strong for the socialisation of industry.
Blind to the lesson of the busted store, any
one of them would undertake to step from
his dingy union office into the management
of Millar’s Karri and Jarrah Co. or the
Great Boulder, and run it better than the
hireling of a loathsome capitalism, experi-
ence ’in these matters being, of course,
unnecessary.
“Ack F. C.”: The Versailles Treaty—hit-
ting what it didn’t aim at, as usual—did the
Boche a good turn when it limited the
horse-power of German aeroplane engines,
Fritz, the resourceful, set to work on new-
lines, and the results are already striking.
Allowed only 60 horse-power for single-seater
machines, he has produced a ’bus capable of
a higher speed and climb than our record
sinele-seater, which carries a 400-h.p.
engine. For 'planes which carry two or more
passengers, he is allowed but 180 h.p. With
only this power a Junker all-steel mono-
plane has just carried nine passengers; and
in speed, climb, range and ceiling its per-
formance beats those of our best bomber
and twin-engine “rangers.” Faster and
cheaper to operate than British ’buses,
German commercial 'planes last year flew
some 500,000 miles, a distance half as much
again as British ’planes. The dark side of
the picture, from our point of view, is that
every commercial ’plane is a potential war
'bus.
—— + —
“Talwarka” (Port Moresby) : If “Will
C,” (B. 27/7/’22) has ever attempted to
convince ah educated Jap of the innate jus-
tice of the White Australia policy, dr a
Whiskered elder of a tin tabernacle of the
evils of Prohibition, he will appreciate biy
difficulty in interpreting the attitude of the
White American to lynch law. Negi’des have
Suffered in Southern U.S.A. for many Osten-
sible reasons (including chicken-stealing).
but if the investigator probes deeply enough
he will find the sex impulse—the white
Woman on her pedestal—at the bottom, of
the sorry business. The reconstruction
period which followed the Civil War ieft a
stain on the Yankee’s record in the Soiith
Which half-a-century of peace and prosperity
has not effaced. And it is largely owing to
the activities of the Ku-Klux-Klan and simi-
lar organisations of white men that the white
race dominates the South to-day. The people
there are grappling with a sinister problem,
a problem which cannot be solved by the
enactment of “Jim Crow” laws or the pro-
hibition of mixed marriages. The lack of
a “color sense” is a racial fail ; ng of the
Southern European. It has already resulted
in the ' almost complete demoralisation of
Latin-America; has ruined Portugal, and
has overthrown still earlier civilisations of
the Old World. With these lessons before
him, the white American cannot afford to
adopt an attitude of toleration to the color
question, and lynch law is only one of the
results. I am unable to follow “Will C.”
when he traces a relationship between illit-
eracy and crime. Accepting his statement
that 5.4 per cent, of the native whites in
Georgia are illiterate, and that the inhabi-
tants of that “wild region” hold the record
for unauthorised slaughter, to what depths
of depravity must I consign my own coun-
trymen, when the trustworthy Knibbs states
that in 1911 15.5 per cent, of the white
population of Australia were illiterates?
For once, I find myself in accord with Wil-
liam Randolph Hearst, who has lately
advocated a “co-operative agreement among
all white peoples to maintain the ideals and
the standard of morals of the white races
against any menace from the other races
who have different ideals, standards and
principles.” If we in Australia believe that
w r e can always maintain these ideals by Act
of Parliament, Heaven help us when the
testing-time comes!


u
1
r
m.
In SYDNEY it’s “The Australia.”
This great hostelry has no rival—it is unique in its social atmosphere, its
luxury of appointment and excellence of cuisine. In every department its
reputation is one to be envied—nor could it be otherwise with a hotel whose
one aim is the comfort and pleasure of its guests.
Ask for the Rate Card, which furnishes details of the many modern
features of “The Australia,” as well as of the notable moderation of charges.
‘ —after all, there’s only ONE ‘ Australia ”
pv
floiel
PBEMIEB
HOTEL
OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Features of “The Aus-
tralia” include Steno-
graphic Bureau, Turkish
Baths, Ladi e s’ and
Gentlemen’s Manicure and
Hairdressing Rooms, Mag-
nificent Lounge, Bars and
Billiard Room, Flower
Stall, Sweet and Book
Stalls, Theatre-booking
Office, Motor-hire Office
and Safe Deposit.
RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast,
from 12/6; Double Room,
with Breakfast, from 25/-;
Rooms with Private Bath and
Toilet, with Breakfast: Single,
25/-; Double, from 32/- per
day. Suites de Luxe, rates on
application.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Tuart” : The Priminister’s intimates
that he has never read a line of li. G. Wells
since that person described him as “a mask,
a hoarding, something surrounded by touts
that was dully trying to put it over me.
Kipling will be the next to come under the
ban. In one of his topographical pomes
Fowyard has written :
I will go down to the summer sea,
And out by the windy North.
Where the Long Man, called Piddington,
In towering pride looks forth.
It is too invidiously prophetic to be endured.
Exit Kipling to blithering blazes.
In their crablike progress towards the poli-
tics of the 17th century, the Theodores of
Queensland are getting near the Bill or
Attainder stage. On the last day of their light-
ning session they shoved through a measure
confiscating the money found on the men
who tried to square Brennan, M.L.A. for
Toowoomba. The attempted squarers got three
months apiece without hard labor, and another
nine months in default of a £soo' fine, anc *
the Judge said nothing against their draw-
ing on the funds in their possession to liqui-
date the obligation. By attaching these
funds along the retrospective enactment
route, the Government may conceivably treble
their punishment. But the whole matter is
in suspense, the accused having appealed.
So strong will be the opposition to
a Vic. Assembly redistribution scheme
giving country districts less than 40 seats
that there is not much hope of carrying
Lawson’s proposed reduction from 65 to
60 seats. Sixty seats means 36 country and
24 metropolitan on the plan he suggests.
Three of the country electorates would be
semi-metropolitan. Forty country to 2o
Metropolitan constituencies would be more
acceptable to the area outside Greater Mel-
bourne. At present there are only 21 city
divisions, including Brighton. Anyhow, the
Redistribution Bill won’t see the light this
session.
“Stellsby”: Those Public Works Com-
mitteemen who motored over the route of
the North-South railway were fortunate to
have the Treasury behind them. A few
items of apparently unforeseen expenditure:
£420 17s. 9d. to a Melbourne firm for supply
of motor-tyres and tubes, £ll7 19s. to another for
benzine, £lO9 19s. sd. to another for motor-acces-
sories £358 19s. Bd. to an Oodnadatta (S.A.) firm
for provisions, cartage, railage, etc. and £279 7s.
Od. to a Darwin firm for railage, cartage “and goods
supplied.”
A Federal jaunt of this kind is generally
profitable for firms along the route. Vet,
not long ago one Murray Aunger rattled the
whole distance from Adelaide to Darwin and
hack without being put to the necessity of
changing I lizzie’s tyres.
“Gallery”: Melbourne Age is booming
Willie Watt as the “white hope” who is to
down Hughes. But Watt is in no hurry to
take the ring. He has even denied that he
has been training with Earle Page in the
coal-cellar, and adds that there is not even
the glimmer of an entente between him and
Pratten, who has already been named as
his chief of staff in a Liberal-Cocky fusion.
William Alexander’s present attitude is that
of a mere spectator of events, content to
remain an obscure patriot if only his well-
belbved Liberalism triumph. But whoever
found the quality of self-effacement in a
politician with a chin like his?
Labor selection-ballots are becoming such
unabashed exhibitions of ruffianism that they
call for suppression by the police. The two
held in the Sydney State electorate last
March were so notoriously corrupt that the
smell hasn’t disappeared yet. There have
been two likewise in the Cook Federal con-
stituency, and both have been upset on the
ground of cronkness, while each faction con-
cerned in the argument is splitting the welkin
w T ith remarks about the rottenness of the
other. At Newtown on Saturday night an
abortive attempt was made to end the con-
troversy by laying out one candidate with a
bottle. Coming on top of the cases in which
five good unionists were gaoled for trying
to help the Cause by voting early and often
for Sydney Labor aldermen, all this points
to the necessity for tightening up the pre-
cautions against, and increasing the penal-
ties for crooked business in State and Fed-
eral elections. The chances are that for
every fraudulent vote cast for Bragg, the
organiser, in the selection-ballot. 20 such are
polled for him against the hirelings of Flute.
AIN'T NATURE GRAND!
“The latest Federal statistics show a rise in the price of practically all necessary commodities.”
Without additional taxation, Vic. Trea-
surer McPherson proposes to balance the
current year’s ledger and have £26,000 to
the good on a revenue of £21.000,000. _ Last
year he had a surplus of £35,000, which he
applied towards paying off the unfunded
debt which accrued before he came into
office, five years ago. When more revenue
from some source seemed inevitable, he
found the inevitable “stocking” which
Michael Minogue (whose second .name is
Andrew) aided and abetted him in filling.
Out of this little pile (£301,000 which got
stacked up in the Liquor Licensing Fund)
he is lifting £125,000. On roads £2,000,000
is to be spent in four years and on school-
houses half-a-million in three years. Pail-
way extension, including the Rivenna lines,
bridges over the Murray, opening up of land
for overseas and Cornstalk settlers and the
hurrying-up of the electricity (Morwell and
Sugarloaf) schemes were the other points
of a non-spectacular but very practical
Budget.
Queensland Assembly grows more like a
Balkan Diet than a Parliament on the Bri-
tish plan. Last year it legislated, after a
fashion, for three months, and royally loafed
for nine months. This year the Govern-
ment, impatient of the old superstition that
measures should be fully discussed, closured
debate 41 times, and armed the Premier
with proxv votes, 121 of which were exer-
cised. ’ In" the result, members have retired
from business for the . spring, summer,
autumn and part of the winter, proudly con-
scious (at least, some of them are) of having
passed 38 bills, a £12,000,000 Budget and
loan estimates totalling £5,000,000 in 184
hours. These methods of making the laws
and controlling the public expenditure may
do for Mexico or the rabble of peoples in
South-east Europe. But they amount to a
monstrous travesty of Parliamentary gov-
ernment, as the English-speaking nations
know it.
The tuppenny-ha’penny crisis created by
Lawson and co. in Vic. Assembly over the
appointment of a select committee on the
Electricity Bill petered out as expected.
Lind and Downward broke away from the
other nine Hayseeds (who had yoked up
w.th Labor for the nonce), and the Ministry
had a majority of s:x—32 to 26. Hogan,
Lemmon and Thomas (Laborites) were
opportunely absent on party business, and
Alison, one of the Cockies, is still on the
sick list. If the four absentees had been
there, and had ranged themselves with Allan
and Prendy, the Ministry could have pulled
through by two. Twice in the one sitting
the Cockies split. Solidarity, fortunately
for Lawson, is not the watchword of the
Hayseed dozen, who have not yet quite re-
covered from the dissolution shock they got
14 months ago. All the same, there is no
reason why Lawson should go out looking
for trouble by proposing unwanted investi-
gations into deliberately-planned Cabinet
schemes.
After a 68-days’ hearing, Justice Isaacs
has delivered a 65,000-word decision in the
wool-tops case, in which the Commonwealth
Government and the Central Wool Com-
mittee are plaintiffs. F. W. Hughes’s Comb-
ing, Spinning and Weaving Co. is defendant,
and the amount involved is £252,000. ’S’Onah
found for the Government on the facts, but
the question how judgment is to be entered
will be decided by the Full Court. In pass-
ing. Isaacs exonerated Chris Watson of
mala fides but put it all over F. W. Hughes
in a manner of speaking. Both are, of
course, intimate friends of the Priminister.
An unexplained feature of an extremely
mysterious case was Watson s presence in
a transaction connected with the Japan
trade, of which he has had little or no
experience. About the only really satisfac-
tory detail, from the public standpoint, was
the Judge’s acid denunciation of the futile
legal attempt to throw mud at John Higgins.
A Parliamentary Commission is sitting in
Perth “to inquire into the effect of the
Federal compact on the finances and indus-
tries of W.A.,” and the first witness was
Jimmy Gardiner, a sometime State Treasurer,
now retired from public life. Jimmy began
by inflating his lungs and discharging a tre-
mendous blast of vituperation at the way
the State has been robbed and swindled by
an unscrupulous Commonwealth; any man
who should sit down to write the history of
the Federal “steal” from W.A. under the
Surplus Revenue Act would “have to do it
with a handkerchief in one hand and a tin
of disinfectants in the other, because the
business stank.” After the witness had got
this and a lot more in the same strain off his
chest, including some wild rhetoric about
“the chains of vassalage biting into the
bones of a free people,” somebody asked
him if he were a secessionist. But Jimmj
admitted, rather gloomily, that he wasn’t.
“How are we going to get secession, he
asked, “when within our own borders are
four or five districts that want to secede
from us?” Nobody answered that, and the
Commission adjourned for luncheon.
A deputation of members of the N.S.W.
Parliament bearded the Premier last week
with the impudent suggestion that the
salaries of country members should be in-
creased by £175 p.a. The mendicants took
away nothing, except what used to be known
as “a fl<m in the ear.” Premier Fuller pointed
out that his Government had been returned
pledged to reduce Parliamentary salaries,
that it had redeemed its pledge, and that to
rescind such action within a few. months
would be a shocking piece of bad faith. But
C 4 members, more than half the House, had
signed the petition, it appeared, and some-
body, after the direct frontal attack had
failed, asked what the Government would do
if a private member’s bill were brought for-
ward and passed, authorising the rise from
£OOO to £775. “Instruct the Treasurer not
to pay a penny of the money,” replied the
head of the Government with admirable
bluntness and decision. The deputation left.
If it didn’t get what it wanted, it got all
it deserved.
By 24 votes to 10, Vic. Assembly threw
out Labor-member Ted Cotter’s Compulsory
Voting Bill. Baird, Chief Secretary, who
led the opposition to the measure, said that
it would be time enough to talk of manda-
tory voting when there was forced enrolment
in the State, as in the Commonwealth.
The Vic. Wheatgrowers’ Corporation
Act, which expires at the end of 1922, is
not to be re-enacted. The Corporation is
to be continued as a registered company,
and D. 11. Gibson, formerly M.L.A. for Gren-
ville, has been made chairman of the Board
of Control in place of Bill Hill, M.H.R.,
who desires a spell from directing on Wheat
Boards of one kind or another. Bill will
have plenty of other business to occupy him
in December.
Federal Treasurer Bruce, enlarging on
our magnificent resources, meaning, as mag-
nificent resources do for the most part, no-
thing done and nothing doing, pointed out
that our debt is heavy, but not overwhelm-
ing in view of our splendid assets, notably
our railways. Seeing that the asset men-
tioned falls short of paying its own way as
a general thing by hundreds of thousands a
year, to hold it up as a boon and a blessing,
in the interest-paying sense, is to be respect-
ful and grateful to the wolf who gnaws your
heart for also eating your liver.
From the Federal Gallery
The Country party is hopeful of increasing its
strength in December at the expense of both Nation-
alists and Laborites. Though Wienholt is retiring
from Moreton (Q.) this loss is expected to be offset
by the capture of Wide Bay from the ancient Corser.
Gwydir and Riverina (N.S.W.) may also come under
the control of Earle Page, though the sitting mem-
bers, Cunningham and Chanter, will take some shift-
ing. Hume is regarded as another Cocky seat, but
with a strong Nationalist standing anything may
happen. Parker Moloney may even get back, lie
has unquestionably improved his prospects, which
at one time looked remote, by astutely bidding for
the unattached rural vote. In the Speck the solemn
Bell, who has often been out of tune in the National-
ist chorus, is suspected of a desire to voice bis
earnest approval of the Farmers’ programme. Wil-
mot is also understood to be tired of Atkinson, who
lives in a sort of political twilight between Liberal-
ism and Nationalism, and is rarely definite on any-
thing except the retention of his billet. The agri-
culturists declare that they have Wilmot in the bag,
and also speak enthusiastically about their Victorian
prospects. Jewett, they aver, is going to grab
Bendigo, ar.d Gibson, a brother of the present
M.H.R. for Corangamite, will relieve Arthur Rodgers
of the necessity of representing Wannon. Further-
more, George Wise, of Gippsland, is to be numbered
with the slain. That the Nationalists feel doubtful
about Gippsland’s future is shown by Hughes’s pro-
posal to make a hurricane tour of the electorate at
once.
DISSED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"I am one of those members whose seat has been
taken from him ; I am to be torn reluctant from the
arms of the most intelligent, brightest and fairest
electors the world has ever known.”— Jowett, M.Ii.R.
for Grampians, in Hansard.
They never growled my screw 1 wasn’t earning;
They wrung my hand repeatedly and vowed
My wit and wisdom, eloquence and learning,
Were qualities to make the Grampians proud.
I thought them a remarkably discerning
And singularly estimable crowd,
So bright, so fair, it lacerates my heart
To know that we must part.
’Tis passing sad when Reps that once were trusted,
Chaps hailed aforetime with effusive cheers,
Find their names mud, their mana bent and busted,
Their sentiments provocative of jeers,
Themselves by disillusioned and disgusted
Constituents heaved out on tingling ears.
Aye, ’tis a galling thing beyond a doubt
Thus to be emptied out.
But, oh! more bitter far than mere rejection
(Which means you’ve earned a peremptory shovel
Is it, when you were sure of re-election
As that to-morrow’s sun will rise above,
When you repaid warm trust with deep affection
And passionate esteem with glowing love,
To find, some morning, that no seat it there,
And you are—in the air.
They found no fault in me, and none accuse me.
Exits like mine both friend and foe may mourn.
The wild laments of tho«e who may not choose me
Again, across the Grampian hills are borne.
From clinging arms supremely loath to lose me
Behold an M.ll.R.reluctant torn!
0 crowning infamy of dissolution,
Redistribution!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE SPRING EXHIBITION— FROM THE PICTURE’S POINT OF VIEW.


Manufacturing Quality Belting
for Sixty-four Years
Having manufactured quality leather belting for more than half a century,
and directly controlling every process of manufacture, from raw hide to
finished belt, we can guarantee the quality and service ot all
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Honeer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
Interstate
Interstate
Agents —
Agents —
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder, 409 Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry
& Co., Edward Street,
Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co.,
Ltd., Townsville.
\ONE£B
i
i^BL!Sn^%
s AUSTRALIA: John
McKell, limpson
Street, Port Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Horace
Summers, Howard
Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety suse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
*** * .
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Q na - 1 y
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. =:
Hi S'
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The People’s Prudential Assurance
Co. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Assur-
: - - ■ ■ and Divl- Out- ance
Aug.,- Income. Claims, dends. goings. Fund.
1005. . £13,1)56 £5,467 £7,081 £12,548 £7,196
1910.. 19,586 8,291 8,443 16,734 19,594
1915.. 25,577 9.178 9,690 18,868. 43,877
1916.. 27,236 8,840 10,825 19,665 51,448
1917.. 29,290 ,9.785 12,859 22,644 58,094
■ ' 1918. . 31,135 8,642 12.162 20,804 68,425
1919.. 34,480 12.266 12,907 25,173 77,732
• 1920.'. 39,432 12,519 15,695 28,214 88,950
-■ '1921.. 42,996 13.384 15.522 28.906 103.040
1922. . 47,144 12,849 17,006 29,855 120,329
The People’s Prudential is a steady little
plodder: the management is content to show
only slight expansion each year and live
within its means. “The directors have ever
made security to the policy-holders and sharer
holders the first consideration,” says the
latest report, “and held aloof from the very
dubious practice sometimes adopted of
obtaining business upon extravagant terms.”
Established 20 years ago, primarily as a
“benefit” office, the Prudential nowadays
does little of that class of business ; most
of its operations are life and endowment
insurance, both Ordinary and Industrial,
though the accounts do not separate. the
figures of- the two branches. Valuations are
made triennially, and Prof. Moors, the co.’s
actuary, is now investigating the position as
at August 31. Until details are available
the true state of the Prudential’s affairs is
hot ascertainable; but the valuation has
proved so satisfactory that the actuary
has already recommended a reversionary
bonus of £1 p.c. for each of the
three years since 1919. At previous
investigations divs. to shareholders were
made' up to an average of approxi-
mately 10 p.c. p.a.; during the past three
years interim distributions have been at that
rate, and possibly a bit more will be added
when the actuary determines the Surplus
which was available for policy-holders and
shareholders at August 31.
In recent years the Prudential has grown
more ramdly than in any other period of its
life. In five years annual income has ex-
panded 60 p.c.. and the assurance fund has
more than doubled. The expense rate,
including divs. with management costs, has
behaved in this way:—
1910 . . £43 2 2 p.c.
1914*.. 45 14 4 „
1915 , . 37 17 9
1916 .. 39 14 11 „
1917*.. 43 18 0 ~
1918 . . £39 1 3 p.c.
1919 .. 37 8 8 „
1920*.. 40 13 9 „ ■
1921 .. 36 2 0 „
1922 .. 36 1 5 „
*Expenses include £lOOO bonus paid to
shareholders.
Excluding divs. and bonuses to shareholders
the expense rate is now not quite 34 P-c. of
all income, compared with 35.61 n.c. in IJ2U
and 41.88 p.c. in 1910. The statement of
exes, would be much more satisfactory if
the accounts separated Ordinary and Indus-
trial operations: figures as now presented
give no clue as to costs in the two depai t-
ments. A feature of the accounts is that
though very little medical business is now
undertaken’ “payments to the medical pro-
fession and chemists” last year represented
26 p.c. of total claims and lio less than 8.1
p.c. of total premium income. .
At August 31 the assurance fund amounted
to £120,329. and in addition there was
£lO,OOO of shareholders’ capital. Liabilities,
including notified claims, amounted to only
£615. Mortgages are the co.’s principal in-
vestments, no less than £86..390 J 66 P.c.) of
total assets of £130,944 being in that hne.
The co. has always exercised care in making
advances, and regularly for many years has
reported that “no interest whatever was
overdue” at the balancing date. Other assets
at August 31 were : Government securities,
£25 879; loans on policies, £3593; cash and
bonk debts, £14,478; and office equipment,
£6Ol.
* * * *
The Southern Union General Insur-
ance Co. of Australasia, Ltd. —Th s insur-
ance office was promoted in July, 1920, to
handle all classes of underwriting, except
life. Nominal capital was fixed at two
millions. Though the promoters received no
gift scrip and all shares taken up were to be
paid for in cash, not all the money put up
has gone to the co. Promoters, or at least
their nominee “underwriters,” have reao°d
a great harvest from the flotation. The
privilege of placing shares was given to_a
Security Underwriters Co., domiciled at the
same Melbourne address as the insuiance
co., but no information is available
as to who comprised the underwrit-
ing concern. The share canvass was
pushed so energetically that at J une 30
1,700,805 £1 shares had been sold. At the
close of September 100,000 more had been
placed, leaving approximately only 100,000
to be sold to secure subscription of the whole
of the two milhons nominal capital. Most
of the shares had been paid to 4s. at the
balance, and paid capital amounted to
£353,885. But no less than £101,517 of
that had been paid away in commissions,
representing almost- ss. 9d. of. every £ paid
up. So all the prospectus talk about the
cleanness of the float- and of the co. having
been “organised along the most conservative
lines possible” has proved mere bunkum.
Those who were induced to subscribe by the
alluring promise of “an absojutely safe in-
vestment, coupled with a remunerative
return,” are now confronted with a
sheet which discloses that 28.7 p.c. of the
cash paid in has been taken by share-
salesmen.
The Southern Union appears to have
been ■ developed in the interests of the
scrip-sellers. The general pmet.ee in
insurance cos. is to raise fresh capital
when the voiume of business demands or
justifies new issues, and when an increase is
justified by underwriting returns manage-
ments rarely have difficulty in raising ample
funds at par, or at a premium. Tjie Southern
Union has been selling scrip far in excess of
the requirements of its underwriting, and
the co. has been loaded with very -stuf costs
to get this unnecessary capital. Policy-
writing had been proceeding lor 18 months
when the* accounts closed in June, and. net
premiums for the period amounted to just
under £5(5,000. On the basis that funds 1-j
times net premiums is a fair protection for
policy-holders, intact capital of less than
£lOO,OOO would, have sufficed had the
whole of the £56,000 premium income been
won within 12 months. Instead, the manage-
ment had called in £353,88a in .June, and the
share-canvass was proceed.ng actively until
September. If funds now intact could earn
5 p.c. net, a premium income uf £153,000 per
annum, producing a very favoiab.e uncter-
writing profit of 15 p.c., would be required to
enable lu p.c. to be earned on £353,*85. The
co. is. therefore, capitalised far beyond
the present requirements of the business,
and annual premium income must be at least
three times that for the past 18 months, and
of a healthy class, before shareholders can
reasonably begin to hope for the “remunera-
tive return” which the prospectus talked of.
The large capital naturally means excellent
baek.ng tor present policy-holders. The
Southern Union holds in Government securi-
ties alone almost enough to cover losses four
t.mes the premium income for the 18 months.
Incidentally, the published accounts
and the directors are “gratified to report,”
a “net profit” for the period amounting to
£3724 after meeting £18,753 of claims and
pay.ng £46,241 of expenses, which no doubt
included costs of establishing branches
throughout Australasia. That "profit” is a
delusion : for while all premiums paid to the
closing date of the accounts were fully taken
credit for, no allowance whatever was made f r
additional claims likely to arise that
business. The £3724 “net profit” was merely
the surplus of income over outgo at June 30,
without making any provision whatever for
unexp.red risks. On the basis that 40 p.c.
of a year’s premium income is a fair provi-
sion for josses which might reasonably be
experienced, the management of the South-
ern Union should have reserved at least
£15,000 of its premiums. If that had been
done underwriting for the period under re-
view would have shown some thousands
loss.
* » * *
Buckxey and Nunn, Ltd., soft-goods re-
tailers. of Melbourne, who, to escape double-
taxation. shifted their headquarters from
London to the Commonwealth in 1019. In
the following table goodwill (£60,741) has
not been regarded as an asset
r Dividends—
Pref. To Re- Re-
Profit. (7 p.c.) Ordinal'}'- serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ ,
1919. . 42,659 10 p.c.=18,274 ]
Preliminary exes., etc., written 5 10,972 4,830
off. £13,413,
1920. .102 626 10,780 10 p.e.=18,521 j
Preliminary exes, written off) 72,086 76,916
£1239. J
Reserves capitalised, £63,613 .. 13,303
1921.. 71,447 10.500 12*p.C.=31.804 29.143 42.446
1922.. 67,816 10,904 15 „ „ 38,165 18,747 61,193
At the height of the boom Buckley and Nunn
gave its ordinaries a one-in-three share-
bonus. Since then the rag trade has experi-
enced its worst slump in values, and both
warehousemen and retailers have been dip-
ping into reserves to balance Profit and Loss
accounts. On the whole, the retailers have
come through better than the warehouses ;
both were stocked beyond capacity with
high-priced goods when overseas manufac-
tures flooded the market with arrears of
orders, but the wholesaler had to wait until
the retailer unloaded before any demand set
in for his stocks, and then sales had to be
made on the basis of new replacement values.
The heavily-stocked retailer was fortunate
in having a good demand for his wares,
favorable seasons and the last kick of war-
finance having maintained the publics spend-
ing capacity. Some of the softgoods re-
tailers showed losses; others, like .Buck-
ley and Nunn’s, have come through tee
troublesome period with _ good profits.
despite the reserve capitalisation this co.
paid 121 p.c.; on ordinaries for 1921, 15. p.c.
last year, and has in the two years put into
visible reserves an amount equal to 11% p.c.
on its bonus-enlarged ordinary capital. Pro-
fits are not so large as they were a few
years ago; but, considering all the circum-
stances, they are very handsome: _ ‘“the num-
ber of daily customers and individual
sactions,” says the directors’ report, were
greatly in excess of any other year, but
owing to the lower prices ruling, greater
expenses in handling have been entailed,
which accounts for the slight decrease in
net profit.”
The co.’s headquarters until a few years
ago were in London, but they were sliilted
to Melbourne when Robert Reid’s, with
which' Buckley and Nunn’s is closely allied
(three directors of. the warehouse concern
.are on its Board), brought its register to
Melbourne to escape double-taxation. In
the move B. and N. issued locally £150,(K)0 of
7 p.c,- prefs. to repay £13i.625 of English
debentures on which it had been working.
Incidentally, the 1919 profit is shown in the
introductory table after paying debenture
interest; other profit's include divs. pay-
able to nref. holders. Balance-sheet move-
ments over four years are shown in this
comparison:— . _
1918. 1920. 1921. 1922.
£ ' £ £ £
Ord ' riuital . 182,738 190,838 254,433 254,433
Pref. capital Nil ISoioOO 150,000. 160^000
Debentures 131,025 ■ ■ ■ n a
Other liabilities 151,824 175,680 172,199,108,727
Premises, etc. .. 145,709 105,343 16a>{66 181,32
Plarl etc 26,492 33,949 34,231 42, 4
Book debts .. i. 81,457 102,240 105,415 100,213
Stock .. •• 202,201 267,177 279 151 255,230
Cash •• 20,174 36,603 56,876 82,751
Stocks still look large, but the co.'s bus.ness
has continued to expand during the perma
of slumped values: in four years £3o,bib
net additions have been made to premises.
At the July balance the iIoO.OOO of piefs.
were backed by stocks (at cost and under),
book debts and cash £270,4<0 m excess of
all outside liabilities. And though goodwill
still stands in the balance-sheet, at £bo,<4l,
net tangible assets were £61,190 larger than
the £254,433 of ordinary capital after the
year’s final divs. had been pa.d.
The Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd.
(Ilobait) . To Re- Nominal
Profits. Dividends. seiv s. 1? -•
1912.. £7,508 6 p.c. = £6,804 £704 £{6.540
10l l 7 ,82 0 „ „ 6,804 9.8 1 < ,»18
1914.. 11,683 6 „ „ 6,804 4,879 22,397
1915 11 140 6 „ ~ 6,804 4,336 26,733
1916 10 623 6 „ „ 6,804 3.819 30,552
ion:: s.oKo e ;;6,sot l.sm 32,39 s
1918 9 957 6 ~ 6,80 S 3,089 35,487
lom" 8 042 6 6 S6B 1.174 36,661
1920.': 10,244 8 ” „ 8,127 2,117 38,778
1921.. 34. "10 10 „ „ 11,610 23,100 01-878
Premiums on new shares, 697 6
Ass<ts written up •- 63 000 125,575
1922.. 29 155 124 p.c.= 16,054 13,101 138,6.6
Transferred to capital, £30,000.. 108^676
Twenty years ago 9s. per share (£60,(50)
was written off capital, the oos. shares Paid
to 255. being reduced to guinea shares paid to
16s For the next 17 years shareholders
received onlv 6 p.c. p.a. on their written-down
capital, though meanwhile large reserves were
accumulated. Bub hydro-electric powSr and
the establishment of big Industries in the
Speck have given the Cascade Brewery new
life For the past year a 121 p.c. div. was
paid, and some of the capital treated as lost
in 1902 is now being, replaced: £30,000 ot
reserves are being employed to pay calls of
4s. per share. Incidentally, for reasons not
stated, the “brewery portion of the undertak-
ing” has been sold to a new co., Tasmanian
Breweries Pty., Ltd., in which the Cascade
has a controlling interest. Brewery proper-
ties have apparently not been transferred, as
they still figure, independently in the Cas-
cade’s accounts. The “undertaking —what-
ever that may consist of—has been passed
over at a price approximately £63,000 in
excess of book values. Possibly a large slice
of that was for goodwill, and in the absence
of information to the contrary the reserves
shown in the parent co.’s balance-sheet must
in future be regarded to some extent as
nominal only. •
This shows the co.’s revival in another
wav * —•
’ Gross Profits, Debenture
Rents, etc. Expenses. Interest, etc.
1910.. £28,493 £14,602
1916.. 32,006 17,250 . 4133
1019 31,494 19,422 4139
1920 ’ 45,997 31.510 4348
lot?:: 60 456 37.122 4412
1922.. 74,818 43,358 3453
For many years the management was endea-
voring to reduce indebtedness, which, for a
time, exceeded the Daid capital. During the
past seven years liabilities have been got
down froth £107,458 to £61,876. The go.
also had a lot of funds tied up ill unrepro-
ductive properties. Four years ago the
management was re-organised, a sawmill was
put to work on the timbers on some of tin;
co.’s land, and an effort was made to build
up an export trade for Cascade brews. The
management has also been developing a cider
and cordial business. One way and another
the co. has maae a good recovery.
Balance-sheet figures, at June 30 com-
pared with those of other years as follows:
. 1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Mortgages* deposits £80,927 £75,091 £69,707 £57,1-18
Overdrafts, etc. .. 20,531 13,618 11,350 4,728
Hotels, properties,.
Stock and plant. . 40.629 43,329 50,370 21,9 M
Boole debts, etc... 22,446 29,464
Cash etc. • • 184 4,147. 2,357 1,754
Shares in other cos. - - 557 102,964
The co. is now much more comfortable than
it used to be, and with the industrial future
of the Speck assured the Cascade Brewerv
should do better for shareholders than in
the years when debenture-holders and other
creditors demanded the first consideration
of the management. The improvement has
been even better than the balance-sheet
figures disclose : local industrial activity must
have favorably affected values of the co- s
numerous property interests.
* * * *
Nokth Bkoken Hill, Ltd., from the time
assets were written up and all reserves wore
capitalised, capital being increased from
£200,000 to £OOO,OOO
To-Re-
June Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve.-.
1914 £336,441 ,45p.c. = £270,000 £66,441 £143,2(9
1915.. 131,940 5 „30,000 101,940 240,209
1910.. 311 293 40 240,000 71,293 316,502
jni7., <js'’“Al 40 ~ ~ 240,000 114,741 431,243
392,244 40 „ ~ 240,000 I! 141,732 572,975
1919 297,668 *3O = 180,000 117,668 690,643
“SR*. *?"«**.) *"• n6 ' s;l
1921.. 21,430 i* 11 ,,,. onrt } 8,130 724,501
Written off, £ 13,300 J
1922.. 53,604 Nil 53,504 7 <3,005
On December 0 North’s will distribute 2s.
per share (10 p.c. = £60,000), the first div.
since iUaren, lull). Evmenuy tne improve-
ment snown in the co.'s latest accounts,
made up to June 30, is being maintained.
Xnroughout the strike period and since
North B. 11. has shown a profit at each bal-
ance, but surpluses over booK vuiues result-
ing from the sale of old metal stocks sup-
plied the credit margins. At the 11)20 bal-
ance, for instance, concentrates on hand
were valued at iOoSU, but they added
£lO 371 to receipts in (lie 1921 financial
year. The latest accounts probably more
closely approximate actual results of the
year’s operations than have any other
accounts presented by the co. Load on hand
at June, 1021, was valued at £23, and that
was the average price realised during the
period. Stocks at the latest balancing-date
were taken in at the same figure.
Not all the £53,504 profit shown in the
introductory table came irom mining. During
the year 80,923 tons crudes were ra.sed, but
92 340 tons were milled The value of mine
products was £293,208. against which was a
mine expenditure of £237,942, which in-
cluded the costs of pushing ahead with the
new ventilation shaft, the completion of
several winzes and the opening-put of the
southern ore-body at 1400 ft. Against this
working profit of £55,265 were debenture
interest, administration costs, _ royalties,
taxes, etc., totalling £20,741, leaving a bal-
ance of £28,524. Interest and divs. from
investments, and a trifle of unexplained addi-
tions to reserves, made up the profit shown
in the table. The directors finally appropri-
ated £lO.OOO for depreciation and £13,333
for a debenture sinking fund, a round
£30,000 being left at Profit and Loss, repre-
senting one-half of the div. which it is pro-
posed to distribute five months after the
balancing-date. This comparison tells in
another way how North’s position had re-
covered at June 30: —
1919. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liquid assets £880,555 £842,986 £805,128 £862,488
Liabilities •• 186,375 167,354 161,8-8 103,010
Surplus £694,180 £675,632 £643,300 £709,473
The surplus of liquid assets, including
£386025 of shares (face value) in other
COS.-B lI.A. Smelters, £200,000; Electro-
lytic Zinc, £150,000; British-Australian
Lead Manufacturers, £2o,ooo—w.as larger
at June 30 than at any other balancing date.
There was no serious decline in the liquid
position during the troublesome period; it
did fall off £50,000-odd between 1919-21,
but' meantime, ■ the contract for the sale ot
zincy tailings to Amalgamated Zinc having
expired, the co. laid out a lot of funds on a
flotation plant of its own._ . .
Paid capital is £600.000 in, £1 fully-paids.
The whole of that capital and a substantial
bit besides is represented by the surplus of
investments, cash, stores and. metal stocks
over and above all liabilities, including
£119,300 of debentures. Some of the invest-
ments may be worth a good dear more than
their book values, but that is for the future
to decide. In addition, the co. has a well-


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* • » .
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adan.iax Asphaitum Roofing, it
is made from best long fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. IVni. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * «
A difficult problem in connection with irrigation
has been solved by Pioneer Wood Pipe. It saves
about 33 per cent, of the cost of metal pipe, has a
huger capacity, lasts longer, and, as it cannot foul,
pit or corrode, it never requires cleaning out.
Wood Pipe is used on large undertakings throughout
the world. If interested, write to-day for the free
68-page illustrated book on the subject. All in-
quiries to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
. _ —Advt.
* _ * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth arid foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
oourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* * * #
Simon-Caaves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and eontractois lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products ; tar-distilling and benzol
etc., plants; sulpjjuric-aeid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washinjfplants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co. ’Ltd'
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
‘‘1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-h.h.p Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).— Advt. 1
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Ptv., Ltd. have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 349
Flindevs-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt. “
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
panv. Ltd. (incorporated bv Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
§nn
safe;
WHAT CAN BE DONE
on the
“CURVILINEAR”
PATENT
CONCENTRATOR
A Rhodesian buyer writes:—
“Eiffel Flats, 15th June.
“We have a Table working here, cleaning up an old mill site. It paid
for itself in one month. The motive-power consists of four natives, har-
nessed to an old farm-hojse gear. This is connected to a small line shaft
attached to the Table. The feed is carried to the Table by other natives in
tins. The total overall cost of running the Table (everything) is about
12s. per day of 10 hours. We will probably be installing another shortly.”
Christie 8 Norris,
England,
Disintegrators
for
Pulverising any
Material
of the Most
Improved Design.
•StocKed by
JjNk
to* -
or
GUTHRIDGE UMITED,
Mining & Electrical Engineers
Camperdown, SYDNEY.
equipped mine which, down to 1400 ft., still
has proved ore reserves of 2,600,000 tons,
and excellent prospects of furtner large ton-
nages. Government Geologist E. C. Andrews,
in his recent comprehensive survey of the
field, declared that, if the laws of symmetry
behave, workable bodies should live at
1700 ft. and that the North may expect an
addition to ore reserves exceeding 2,000,000
tons.
Chairman Moulden, at the Broken Hill
South meeting, stated “confidently, that, dur-
ing the past year, Broken Hill cos. selling
their products (lead and zinc concentrates)
to the two big Australian metal organisa-
tions —Associated Smelters and Zinc Pro-
ducers’ Association —netted a higher finan-
cial return than they could possibly have
obtained, by selling such productions to
overseas buyers.” This is the half-truth
which conveys a wrong .impression. During
“the past year” producers were not at
liberty to deal with overseas buyers, except
under almost prohibitive restrictions, and
there has not yet been any material modifi-
cation in this respect. Taking the state-
ment as literal truth, what justification was
there for the recent strenuous propaganda in
favor of export duties on ores and concen-
trates?
* * * *
Great Western Co-operative Silver Lead,
which owns a show in the Broken Hill dis-
trict, is to be run on the principle that
‘ every worker on the lease must be a share-
holder.” It is a novelty to apply this rule
to a public co., and the experiment will be
watched with much interest. Where, prac-
tically, all hands are to be “captains,” it
may. be difficult to reconcile conflicting
opinions and provide for any effective con-
trol. They are the weak links in all co-
operative and profit-sharing schemes.
* * * *
“Hambone”: The B. 11. Prop, has taken
advantage of the sis months’ cessation at
Port Waratah steelworks to put its house
in order. Much of the old plant has been,
or is being, scrapped, altered or overhauled,
and when the works reopen many of the
old hands will see a great difference. One
labor-saving device installed is a mechanical
conveyor for shipping rails, in which the
human element has been almost entirely
eliminated. Many well-informed people in
Coalopolis maintain that a mistake was
made when American methods of manufac-
turing steel were adopted. Recent develop-
ments, including the visit of F. R. Mitchell
to England, indicate that a move is being
made to remedy some of the weaknesses
which experience has revealed.
* * * *
Capt. E. de Hautpick, in reply to the re-
marks of a “well-known, oil geologist” (B.
5/10/’22), explains that in discussing the
Commonwealth’s oil prospects he did not
refer to surface indications. He is “of the
opinion of Frederic Clapp,” former Chief
Geologist of. the U.S. Geological Survey, who
says: “Various surface indications of the
occurrence of oil arc found throughout the
world, in the form of oil- and gas-exuda-
tions, mud-volcanoes, bituminous dykes,
even lakes of asphaltum, etc., but surface
indications are not essential, and in the
analysis oil occurrence is found to be inde-
pendent of the existence of surface indica-
tions, even though these may lead to its
discovery in some region.” In De Haut-
piek’s opinion the indications of the occur-
rence of commercial oil-deposits, conform-
ably to the British and American modern
schools of oil geologists, is the fulfilment of
the following conditions in the order of their
importance:—
(1) Presence of rocks of sedimentary origin not
older than Ordovician ;
(2) Sufficiency of carbonaceous sediments of the
sapropeletic type, originated from waxy and resinous
matter of higher plants ;
(3) The nature and degree of metamorphiam they
have undergone (the carbon ratios) ;
(4) The presence of the sufficient thickness of
sedimentary rocks (sandstones, sands, limestones,
shales, etc.), to form oil-basins with solid cover to
prevent oil from seeping away or being pushed to
the surface of the earth by underground waters ;
(5) Their degree of saturation with salt water;
(6) Such artesian water conditions as do not pro-
hibit the accumulation of oil; and
(7) Suitable structural features and textural varia-
tions formed by gentle folding or faulting as to
arrest the underground moving waters, which are the
principal agents of oil storage into commercial pools.
“These conditions exist in several places in
the Commonwealth,” adds De Hautpick. In-
cidentally. he recently published a compre-
hensive “Oil Geological Sketch Map of West-
ern Australia,” based on the work of the
Geological Survey, showing the various
leases, and indicating where, in his opinion,
there is not a hope of tapping oil.
* * * *
“Peter”: Notwithstanding other claims,
Government Geologist Blatchford did “dis-
cover” bitumen on the Okes-Durack Co.’s
oil area (W.A.). No doubt residents
knew of the bitumen before Blatchford, and
probably aborigines had not'ced it before
them. The point is that it was the discovery by
Blatchford, as the special technical investi-
gator for the Government, that gave the
matter importance and encouraged investors
to subscribe. Possibly Strevens tested
rocks and bitumen samples in the bush.
Blatchford sent a number of his .samples to
the State mineralogist for analysis and his
rocks to the State petrologist forlfletermina-
tion. Blatchford, Mahony and Ivessal may
be unanimously of opinion that ? ipil exists ;
but the following are the opinions" they have
officially expressed concerning the proba-
bility
Blatchford. —With regard to the possibility of
the existence of a payable oil-basin in the under-
lying beds, it would .be mere conjecture to offer an
opinion, it is certain, however, that mineral oil
did once exist in the locality, and the certainty
as to whether it still exists ea,n be proved only by
systematic survey work and boting.
Kessal. —There are good structural indications and
definite indications of oil. There seemed every like-
lihood that this area would disclose an oilfield, and
it remained for a bore selected in the best position
to prove that.
Mahony. —Where the bitumen is found the geologi-
cal structure favors the escape of mineral oil, and
there is little or no chance of finding an oil deposit
in the immediate neighborhood of Oke’s Find or
Negri homestead. The anticlinal fold 1 have already
mentioned is, however, a most favorable structure
for the concentration and preservation of underground
supplies of oil.
• « » •
At the Mararoa meeting the news was
given out that old Bill Henderson is con-
cluding his connection with the co. Hender-
son went into the Mararoa at the jump,
managed it all through its early troubles,
and to the stage of distributing iquarterty Is.
divs. Henderson was at best when at
Meekatharra. He spent yeirs in trying to
pick up another good show for the co., but
never struck a winner. The JAght of Asia,
at Cue, was a sad disappoiiitjnent, for the
shoot that looked so well when he inspected
the mine proved short and pqtchy when
opened up.
H. W. Gepp, as heavy father for
Zeehan and Rosebery, is at Work on a report
for the Electrolytic Zinc directors, proposing
the erection of a mill to treat the complex
ores of that district. He appears to be out
to take up the old job of the Merton crowd
at Zeehan. There the Hun burnt a pretty
penny, though the experimenting no doubt
paid indirectly. Electrolytic Zinc has
the Hercules and the Mt. Read to get going,
for they cannot hold up £7,000,000 or
£8,000,000 of ore indefinitely, no matter the
power of Collins House. Gepp’s scheme
is not to Smel.t locally, but to apply concen-
trating methods to thb field. He has all
the flotation improvements to go on, and
ample cash at call. The West Coast has
always had to upon customs buyers,
and, with Cockle Creek out, they have
nothing to look forward to to-day save that
Gepp is to be their salvation. That de-
pends on his terms. As it is intended that
the mill shall feed Port Pirie, another link
in the chain of monopoly of base-metal con-
trol for that enterprise is being forged. As
a side-line Gepp will use the copper in the
ore to make blue-stone for the use of
orchardists. He has the promise of his
Board that if he is satisfied he can make a
do of the scheme he can go ahead. He can
afford to lose a bit at the mill while doing
customs work, in order to get experience
for treating Hercules and Mt. Read ores on
a big scale. Charges can be adjusted to
keep the loss low, but at the same time afford
the miner some inducement to peg on.
Six new cos. are now being worked as
separate units of Bendigo Amalgamated.
The one which oh present showing seems
likely to give a good account of itself is the
Hercules, where a satisfactory find has been
made at 520 ft. There is distinct evidence
of a steady revival of the mining industry
of the district, and in most instances the
promising developments are in long-neglected
shallow areas.
* . * * *
The miners at the Morning Star, Woods
Point (Vic.), having shown no desire to.
withdraw from their opposition to award
rates of wages, the directors have arranged
to replace them with other men. Forty un-
employed returned soldiers, with little "or no
practical knowledge of mining, but with a
very keen desire to earn some money for
their families, have been sent to Woods
Point, where they are being trained for gen-
e>-nl mine work. They are stated to have
shown such aptitude that it is anticipated
that within a week or two stoping operations
will be in full swing.
* * * •
New Blue (Bendigo) crushing last week
returned SGGoz. from 652 tons, a trifle over
lldwt. per ton, which is a big improvement
on some recent returns.
* ' * * *
North Blue, Bendigo, is applying all
attention to the shallow zones which have
not been prospected. Driving is now pro-
ceeding on a large spurry formation at 588 ft.
with encouraging prospects, a trial crushing
yielding lodvvt. per ton. North Blue has
a. long section of unexplored ground in this
section. Other systems of spurs are to be
tested as opportunity offers. The co. is in
the fortunate position of having a large
amount of dead work already done.
♦ * * *
Working Miners, Kevington (Vic.), strug-
gles on. For- £2O 000 snent on develop-
ment it has returned gold worth £4240. The
result would have settled anyone else except
S. J. Flam, but he has always fancied tne
mine. The reef is got by tunnelling.
r lhe last go on the stone to tbe south went
only lidw't., so the suggestion that the co.
should have a shot to the north, where
there are better chances, is being followed.
Now manager Ainsworth, in Iso. 4 tunnel, is
trying to pick up the downward run of
Dellar s shoot. He has a few prospects,
and there is talk of getting the battery
started. Overhead this shoot was not
worth much, so it cannot be relied upon save
as a stand-by.
* * * *
What a farce copper-mining has been in
Queensland during the past year—at least,
as regards the value of the production to the
fetate t Mt. Morgan produced many tons,
but only at a considerable loss to the co.,
while the taxpayers saw contributions
filched from revenue to try and cover up the
losses and keep the miners’ wages up,
Hampden-Cloncurry, gambling on an antici-
pated rise in the market a year ago, de-
cided to get a lot of good ore out of tbe
Trekelano and stack it ready for a gay
time when a resumption of smelting opera-
tions became justified. The 60 men there
have just lost their jobs, and the thousands
of tons of ore are likelv to lie at grass for
a considerable time, -fudging by the present
market outlook, and meantime the interest
charges on the outlay are a dead loss. Einas-
leigh came to an untimely lend after losing
a Dot of cash in the last spell, and of what
use is the small quantitv of copper produced
by the gougers at Clon-’urry? They pick
only the richest stuff, and so, perhaps, spoil
a good mine to make wages under difficult
conditions. Copper l’fted Queensland to
dizzy heights in 1935-10. but lately it has
been a millstone round the State’s neck.
* * * *
Queensland gold yield last month was
93490 z., compared with 26010 z. for Septem-
ber, 1921. Last month Mt. Morgan helped
with 52790 z., so that on other fields the
increase was only 24690 z., and Gympie con-
tributed most of this from the No. 4 North
Phoenix. Charters Towers—or really
Clark’s—-showed a falling off, but the Oaks
registered a 100 p.c. increase on its small
output. Still the prospects for improve-
ment are healthy: Normanby isn’t on the
list yet, and Mt. Coolon is certain to in-
crease its yield shortly.
No. 4 North Phoenix, Gympie (N.Q.),
still continues to get surprisingly good re-
sults from small ore tonages. Last month’s
crushing of 135 tons yielded 18790 z. of
smelted gold, or nearly 14cz. per ton, while
one a couple of months back averaged 28oz.
Out of the latest crushing the co. has paid
a further 2s. 6d. It is now erecting a bat-
tery of its own, and the next crushing will
be put through it. All the gold has come
from the stopes off the 7S4ft. level, and at
latest these were showing anything up to
15 inches of fair ore, with some very rich
patches. The black slate floors still con-
txnpe in the south drive, and they are prac-
tically a certificate that the gold wall be
there as long ag there is a quartz vein or
leader. There appear to be further rich
crushings ahead, but the market is not los-
ing its head: there is not enough rich stuff in
sight to justify any excitement.
* * * •
Beaudesert district has been overhauled
by Geologists Milsom and Reid recently,
and tests made of the supposed seepage at
Dunn’s bore. Dr. Milsom has confirmed
his previous opinion that it is a natural oil.
However, his oninions proved unpalatable
to the locals, who intended boring on Dunn’s
farms in the hope of getting a gusher. He
advised them not to do it, as the nature of
the oil indicated that it migrated there,
probably in small quantities. As to the
possibilities of the district the doctor is not
yet enthusiastic. He was disappointed in
not getting further superficial evidences of
oil.
The financial strain of keeping the Trekc-
lano open has proved too much for Hamp-
den-Cloncurry, and the mine has closed
down, throwing 60 men out. The Trekelano
has proved the chief string since the
Duchess faded; the co. has been taking out
high-grade ore for the past year, and stack-
ing it ready for a smart jump-off when
copper improved. So far, the market has
failed to oblige.
* *
Arthur Clarke, of Cairns (N.Q.), has got
a group interested in the possibilities of
several low-grade gold deposits in the coun-
try between Mt. Mulligan and the Palmer
River. A sampling party has just returned
from trying out Mt. Madden and Mt.
Buchanan, and thev are very optimistic
about the latter. Both shows were tried
many years ago. but failed to attract. Mt.
Buchanan is a large ironstone blow, carrying
values which are stated to have aver-
aged 19dwt. on old-time assavs. Clarke is
satisfied that it will run 10dwt., and con-
siders that Bdwt. will pay well, mined by
oDen-out. That average certainly should.
considering that the Oaks manages to
scramble along on 3dwt. The probable
tonnage or of the auriferous body has
not yet been stated, but they are declared to
be enormous.
Mt Quamby, Cloncurry (Q.), has only a
hand-to-mouth water-supuly tor a co. which
has nretensions to a very large tonnage of
ore, which can be mined on the open-cut
system lhe supply has been replenished
J-U in tae water-shaft, bringing the
totai to -.it) gallons an hour, but as this is
shaLow-ground water no one can say how
long that rate will last. The mine will not
show its best until large tonnages are
smoothly going through the battery without
interruptions.
( ** * •
S’African mines give more than half the
wmrid s gold production, the annual yield
B >°^> ooooz -. worth approximately
£34,000,000 The quantity of rock crushed
is about 24,000.000 tons, the recovered gold
contents of which are about 270 tons
roughly, one ton of gold is produced for ever?
working day. The whole of the bullion is
now treated at the Rand Refinery by the
chlorine process. There has been a remark-
able recovery from the effects of the war
ana the recent revolutionary strike. Altered
working conditions have made for economy,
the most notable change being the reduction
of the number of natives working in the
mines by 5000 as compared with last
year. Working costs in the aggregate now
amount to a trifle over 20s. per ton, savings
for July last compared with June snowing
from 2s. to 3s. 6d. oer ton at different mines.
J-he improved position induces Abe Bailev
to that “the Rand has never had a
better chance than it has now. The majority
ot the low-grnde mines are now on a payable
basis and with working costs as at present
the life of the Witwatersrand mines has
doubled ” The July yield of 730.6400 z.
(fine) was 54,9400 z. in excess of that of
Jure, and constitutes the largest monthly
aggregate since that of July, 1920, when the
yield was 736,0000 z.


ToothacKe duni\£ ' kEALTK WE.EK" is
bad enough >—< ,tut what -^rice
CLERGry/WAtrs SORE TrtROAT dur ivib
ELECTION WEEK ! "The patient 51
Sajmg "PUTKEP.irIG &LAZ&S" |*
w *deaf dumb.
"pROPsy” is a
distresst'nb compMt
lets hoj?E
(j&MMISSIONEP. O-APP 7j II
learned ewoMoti
dwriVig "REALTrt 1 I
iaJ£6k“ to |
&v Speedy cure
How about a -iri£> To Washing tom
|or e>,r» indefinite stay at a salary
of. £Sooo yzd' -for theft
crushed, ecli-fsed, nobody loves we
-feeling
PH/Sic i AM 1\
k%AL \
CREakIC PaQS., bitten
by the AealtVi 0U&
■fries to (decide.
■ j v\lhicb Ibnic toi^Ke
"the I (Ass tVie (qirb madeS
of Wilug dunn<?
" MEAuYr v;££K." r& mST 6
Calculated tb reduce
Vlis buwp of
(ORO MAJOR "PickVAirnrrm^ton *SWANioN
.Succumbed "tb an attacK op
"Tkirpterivvitis ‘j m Ay
set |V» ( i/j (olikK
the subject* is.
liable to see things.
M£akwh»u& / the
"AC»£. h will Contrite
to bnn£ ( W
this b J&y cm <tf»e l '
Flunk it" w fhe.eye \
S^stew\. _
"TSa {•rupvej* l^
HEALTH WEEK IN MELBOURNE.


English Riding Breeches
at Peapes'
Peapes, always noted for tlie excellence of their Riding
Garments, have recently opened large consignments of
Riding Breeches from Britain and India.
These are most durable in material, and cut in approved
Australian fashion.
In English Garbicord, Dark-Faw r n or Green-Grey, with
belt loops, cross pockets to button, hip pocket with flap to
button, lace legs, knees strapped with soft leather 637-
In Indian Khaki Cord 30/-
Or Indian Khaki Drill 22/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state waist and inside-leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for a copy of Peapes* new Catalogue,
dfg
MONKEY BRAND
WONT WASH CLOTHES
-but keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
/
%
m
v\
AT ALU GROCERS.
M 3.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Lexite”: The man who headed the funeral
of Henry Lawson as it made its way to
the cemetery was an old friend —Fred
Haines, who now the baton for the
Police Band. “Old Henry always said he
wanted a band for his funeral,” said Haines
after the march, “and 12 years ago he told
me, jokingly, that he’d like me to have the
job of leading it.” It was the public funeral
that put the Police Band ahead of the pro-
cession. But for that a voluntary Musi-
cians' Union band would have offered to
play the poet’s remains to the grave.
In one day’s issue of the Argus last week
were recorded the deaths of four women
whose comb.ned ages were 355. The widow
of Hiscocks, discoverer of gold at Bunin-
yong, Vic., was aged 86. Mrs. Maria
Evans, of Lawson, N.S.W., was 80 at her
death, and had witnessed the running of the
first Melbourne Cup. Miss Isabel Hunter
passed out at Camberwell; she landed in
Melbourne in 1849, and was going on for 90.
The fourth death was that of Mrs. James
Doeg, at 102. She was a Melbourne resi-
dent of close upon 80 years’ standing. These
samples all appeared during Health Week, as
if to imply that the labors of the Board of
Health are not essential to longevity, at any
rate.
“Tliorold” : There have been only two edi-
tors of Sydney’s Catholic Press. The
first was Perrin, a lean, much-whiskered,
apparently uncombed and thoroughly-
matured journalist, who had previously run
M.L.’s Tablet w r ith much ability. Perrin’s
place in Dunedin was taken by Rev. Dr.
Cleary, and it was his step to the episcopate.
On handing over to Tighe Ryan after clash-
ing with the Catholic Press crowd, Perrin
migrated to Westralia, and carried on the
good scribal work for the R.C.’s for some
years more.
Treasurer A. A. C.
COCKS, of
N.S.W.’s Fuller
Ministry.
Arnold Weinholt, who has left the Federal
Parliament for good, is one of the most un-
assuming of men, yet has had all sorts of
wild adventures. In the war he won the
D. 5.0., Military Cross and Bar, was a
prisoner for six months in East Africa,
and escaped. Not long before the big
trouble he went lion-hunting on his own,
got his arm and wrist broken by a lion, and
had to do the setting himself. And fie bas
Boer War service to his credit.
Peter Low, of the south-eastern district of
S. Aus., dropped into Adelaide Register
office lately, and was tapped for a column
of reminiscences about Adam Lindsay Gordon,
whose widow he married in 1873. She died
only three years ago. “He was called
‘Long Gordon,’ ” says Low'. “He was the
soul of honor, a gentleman every inch of him,
and a splendid husband.” But Adam seems
to have had his drawbacks in this respect.
He swam the Glenelg River on horseback
once, when it w r as in flood, rather than wait
for the punt to cross, and made his wife
accompany him.
S. 11. Smith who takes Peter Board’s
place as N.S.W. Director of Education and
Under-Secretary, was born at Wollombi 57
years ago, and, the son of a teacher, has
risen from the teaching ranks himself. One
of his brothers, Dr. Grafton Elliott Smith,
distinguished as an Egyptologist, is Dean of
the Faculty of Medicine, London Uni., and
another is Dr. S. A. Smith, of Sydney ’Var-
sity. S. 11. Smith has written many edu-
cational books, and he founded, and for
many years edited, the departmental maga-
zine. The summer schools for teachers are his
idea, and he also established the correspond-
ence schools for bush youngsters. A promi-
nent member of the Historical Society, he
was president of that body in 1919.
“Thor”: It’s a shock to read(B. 28/9/’22)
that “Betternot” Walfington is alongside his
70th milestone. He doesn’t look more than
50. Fifteen years back, he started seriously
on the cultivation
of a mild baritone,
and went round
regularly for
treatment to a
house infested with
tenors in Elgin-
avenue. By the
way, he kept that
voice well out of
the limelight when
in Australia, leav-
ing all the singing
laurels to his
friend the Earl of
Shaftesbury, who
was something of
a tenor in his spare
moments.
C. WEB-
GILBERT, official
sculptor to
the Australian
War Museum.
Geoff Hurry, who has got the selection as
Nationalist candidate for the Bendigo seat
which Priminister Hughes got scared out of,
is a member of a Kyneton legal family that
has been the repository of the family secrets
of local folk for 60 years or thereabouts.
He w r ent to the war as a major, and came
back a lieut.-colonel. Tom Brennan, lead-
ing light of the Criminal Bar, was by far
the ablest of the four nominated for pre-
selection, but his unsatisfactory polling
against Clough for the Assembly last
year discouraged the Liberals. Hurry is
Chancellor of the Anglican diocese of Ben-
digo, but no wowser.
“Derf Commor”: That old song, “It Makes
No Difference What You Were, It’s What
You Are To-day,” might well have been
written after a trip through the canefields
of North Queensland. In Home Hill (N.Q.),
within a radius of, a mile, the cutters in-
clude, among ordinary hard-fisted sons of
toil, three ex-insurance-agents, a couple of
remittance-men, an ex-major in the A.1.F.,
an ex-bank-manager and another who was
recently editor of a N. S. Wales country
newspaper. And they make a good fist of it,
on the whole.
Swanson is to have a third term as Gaud ;
Mayor of Melbourne, like Hennessy, the
late Sam Gillott and ’Enry Weedon. As
knighthoods went to that trio, a K.B.E. for
Swanson in January or June looks like a
safe bet.
Victoria’s ex-Gov. Stanley wall arrive in
Australia next year. He is a director of
the Australian Mercantile Land and Finance
Co., and is coming on an inspection tour.
Apparently he is not in a great hurry to
return to the House of Commons. Or it may
be that the opportunities are lacking, and
that he will have to wait till he comes into
the Sheffield barony to renew his acquaint-
ance with the business of legislating.
William Sydney Christie, a former N.S.W.
Sergeant-at-Arms, in which job he succeeded
“Larry” Harnett, went out last week in his
50tii year. The son of a surveyor (formerly
a Queensland pastoralist), he travelled the
bush with his father until he joined the Lands
Department in Sydney, and subsequently
mqved on to the Parliamentary staff.
A long-distance bumble was Henry John
Ison, just dead at Tamworth (N.S.W.), aged
73. Elected to the Municipal Council in
1883, he remained a member till he died,
except for one gap of two years.
E. M. Horsington, who steps into Jahez
Wright’s political shoes in the N.S.W.
Assembly, was born at Maryborough (Vic.)
in IS7B, and got a State-school education
among the odors of Footscray. He roughed
it in four States and many callings, and is
now r secretary of the Federated Engine-
drivers and Firemen’s Association at Broken
Hill.
“The Deacon” : Archbishop Redwood, who
recently arrived in Sydney from M.L., is
not only the first priest bred in the Shaky
Isles but Australasia’s first Marist Father
and first home-bred archbishop. The lat-
ter is a point worth remembering when
imported Irishmen are netting all the plums
at the disposal of the Church, to the detri-
ment of the locally-born and -trained priest-
hood. The primary object of the Arch-
bishop’s trip across the Tasman is to visit
his relations, the Redwoods, of Queensland.
They are sporting folk, who own and have
bred some very useful gallopers.
Barrister A. Nugent Robertson, who died
at Mona Vale (N.S.W.) the other day,
aged 66, had little legal practice, but got
occasional jobs as Crown Prosecutor on
country circuits. For 31 years he had been
the legal visitor at mental hospitals, in the
metropolitan area, and he did a good deal
of journalistic work and wrote some novels.
A few years ago he got into legal holts with
the Balmain Ferrv Co. Robertson had
been seeing a friend off on the ferry, and
had paid his entry penny at the turnstile,
but, when he wished to come out again, the
attendant demanded the exit penny. This
Robertson refused, and was “detained.” In
the action he got £lOO damages, but the
Ferrv Co. went to the Full Court, where the
verdict was set aside, and the costs came to
more than the penny exit-fee.
Frank Tate, who is just on 59, talks of
retiring in a year from his job of Vic. Edu-
cation Director; but after his coming trip
to Europe he may feel different about it.
His personality has been a big asset to the
Government, and a successor of his calibre
is not in sight, though M. P. Hansen,
the understudy (who is now picking up
wrinkles abroad), will do fairly well.
He will do even better when he learns to
jettison some of his deference to politicians
who are temporarily Ministers. Tate has
a way of his own of appealing over the heads
of Ministers and Parliament to the people,
without, apparently, crossing the boundary
line.
“T. 0.1.” : Hugh M. Mackenzie, of Malvern
(Vic.), who was 86 on October 4, arrived
in Melbourne in 1852, in Governor Latrobe’s
time, and joined the Customs Department,
from which he retired on pension 30 years ago.
He was in charge of one of the Customs
boats which patrolled Hobson’s Bay in the
days of Governor Ilotham, who specialised
in pimping, to see that the service was con-
ducted on quarter-deck lines. One night
Mackenzie saw T a pair-oared boat trying to
evade search. He overhauled it r and found
Ilotham in the stern sheets, disguised. The
officer pretended not to know his capture,
and was making for Williamstown with him
when his Ex. disclosed himself. The other
man in the boat was one Colonel H. H.
Farquharson, who had had a row with a
brother officer over a lady, and subsequently
left the service and came to Melbourne to
look for a job. When Macarthur, as Acting-
Governor, opened Parliament under the 1856
Constitution, he got Farquharson a billet
as Usher of the Black .Rod in the Leg.
Council
“Pat Bushie”: I nominate for the “Family
Occupation Stakes” the hotel-keeping Mar-
tins of Nyngan (N.S.W.). Mr. and Mrs.
Martin, sen., control the Court House Hotel,
Nyngan, and their sons are Mick, Imperial
Hotel, Trangie; Jim, Imperial Hotel, Nyn-
gan; 'Walter, Railway Hotel, Nyngan; and
Ernest, Royal Hotel, Elouera.
- “.’Doha”: I nominate Lester Bates, 59th
’Battalion, for the Operation Stakes, open to
all-corners. He has been under an anaes-
thetic 45 times, is minus five mbs and a lump
of shoulder blade, and has a hole in his back
like a rabbit burrow. His philosophical
summing-up of the situation is “Can’t growl;
ipy blanky bootlaces are still intact.” He
is now at Caulfield Repat. Hospital, was a
bush worker in pre-war days, and hails from
Korumburra (Vic.).
“Coot’’: In connection with the jubilee
now being celebrated in the Victorian scho-
lastic world, a Pioneers’ Day was arranged.
Fqr the purposes of the event, a pioneer
was defined as one who had been in the
service before 1875. There were 583 vet-
erans on the invitation list. The oldest is
97, there is another aged 95, a third of 92,
and a couple who have passed 91. One of
the. two latter wrote remarking that, if any
tennis matches were being arranged for the
great day, he would like to be entered.
Nollig”: Tell “D.F.” (B. 14/9/’22) that"
if he cares to search near the stone wall
on the Harrington-street side of the old St
David’s Cemetery, Hobart, he will discover
a dinkum tombstone, erected in 1802, “to
the memory of George Ivearley, who died
OWEN
DIXON, K.C.,
of Melbourne.
15th July of that year: also Joseph Ivearley,
born May 30, 1805, died August 5, 1805.”
The lettering is barely decipherable, but
there’s “the oldest inhabitant” right enough.
He will have to get in early, though, as the
City Council has decided to transform the
cem. into a rec., retaining only those monu-
ments which are deemed historical.
“T. 0.1.” : Re Brice Frederick Bunny, who
was “called” in England in 1844, and came
to Melbourne in 1853 (B. 28/9/’22). I can
assure “Petronius” tbat while in practice, on
the Eouitv side, in the late ’fifties, 8.F.8. did
wear an artificial eye. I have seen it oft
while Bunny was pleading before “Old
Moley” (Justice Molesworth). Possibly,
when he got his commissionership, which did
not necessitate appearances in court, he dis-
carded the eye and wore a shade.
When Under-Treasurer Minogue retires
from the Vic. Public Service he’s going to
be missed. He has originated many of the
best legislative schemes which various Min-
isters have explained in Parliament and
modestly taken the credit for. More than a
year ago he went under the surgeon’s knife,
and his health has never been up to the mark
since. Yet he keeps his cheerfulness, and can
still tell a good yarn, and show where a few
thousands may be saved or won by the State.
“Lexite”: The name of Smith is exalted
once more in N. S. Wales by the appoint-
ment of S. H. Smith, Assistant Under-
secretary for Education, to the job of Direc-
tor, which Peter Board is vacating. Smith
has had a lucky career, for although he had
already made his mark as an educationist,
it was an accidental association with Board
in which he showed his capacity for good
work that gave him the jumping-off place for
his present position. The new Director is
a man with a courteous but somewhat cold
manner, who has developed into a thorough
departmentalist, and has a physical resem-
blance to the Noble Earl of the stage. His
educational work includes the establishment
of correspondence schools for Outback kid-
dies, and the personal compilation of about
30 school text-books.
Died at Levuka recently while on a health
trip, Capt. C. E. de F. Pennefather, one-
time Comptroller of Queensland Prisons,
police magistrate, Governor of St. Helena
(the island prison at Moreton Bay) and
holder of many weird and adventurous jobs
in the early days of Northern Bananaland.
English born, he became a master mariner,
and first entered the Queensland service as
a harbormaster. Later on, he had charge
of a cutter polce-patrol which ranged as
far as Western Papua.
Prof. William- Mitchell, who came to Aus-
tralia with an Edinburgh degree nearly 30
years ago, and has sat in the Chair of
Philosophy at Adelaide ’Varsity ever since,
now wants to step down. Mitchell, who
looks the part of a professor more than any
of his colleagues, and has a comfortable
private fortune, is by no means old, and
proposes still to carry on the job of vice-
chaftcellor, which he has held since 1916.
Suggested for the vacant philosophy billet
is McKellar Stewart, of Melbourne, who
lately had a close run for a similar chair in
Sydney.
A. S. W. Whiddon, secretary of Whiddon
Bros., who collapsed in his office and died
at his home at Neutral Bay (Sydney), the
other day, was a son of, S. T. Whiddon,
boot salesman, who represented Cook in four
Parliaments (1894-1904). He was 49 years
of age, and was well known in Sydney com-
mercial life.
WAR NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw the blood-thirst leap within your eyes
While we stood listening to the newsboys’ cries—
“ The final extra.... War news of to-day....
The British Cabinet and what they say”....
And swift I saw your soul become a guest
Revisiting some valley of unrest.
I saw your lithe brown fingers swiftly move;
I saw your lips—those tender lips of love —
Part swiftly like a rift of scarlet silk
On teeth, close-set and cruel, that gleamed like milk,
While, with the prescience of a finite thing.
Your mind saw red in its remembering.
And, as I watched, I glimpsed within your heart
The blood desire. I guessed the poisoned dart
Fashioned within your dexterous hands take flight
And fell its victim, quivering in your sight. .. .
Then I grew proud, for I am woman-wise,
And yours the conqueror’s strength that women prize!
N.SOV.
LOLA GORNALL.


1
A
■
A
S'
S'
n
——ll
DELCO-LIGHT means comfort m
the home, convenience for the
housewife, and economy.
nr
m
IV $
/
/m
/ • ;;
' • X.S-:
■ i
L_
.r.ll
:■
- ‘ ' 1
■ 7 V ; : ■
* .v ***' * S '*
a
What doYour Friends
Think of Your Home?
In modern homes, where the refinements of living are
appreciated, you will usually find installed DELCO-
LIGHT.
Not merely because electric light affords greater conveni-
ence and comfort, but also because it enhances the
beauty of the home, makes the most of interiors and
permits porches, sleeping verandahs and grounds to be
brilliantly lit.
DELCO-LIGHT provides ABUNDANT light and power
at negligible cost, requires little attention, occupies small
space, and is practically self-operating.
DELCO-LIGHT operates so economically that It Pays
for itself.”
There are 25 DIFFERENT MODELS, one of which
exactly suits your needs.
Write to your nearest distributor for Booklet B.
WARRURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
WARRURTON, FRANKI MELR., LTD.,
Rourke Street, Melbourne, Vic.
PARSONS & RORERTSON, LTD.,
Grenfell Street, Adelaide, S.A.
SMELLIE & CO., LTD., Rrisbane, Queensland.
GILRERTS, LTD., King Street, Perth, W.A.
W. F. & E. A. STEWART, Launceston, Tasmania.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
As indispensable as the spare
tyre—
K.B.
LAGER
Take it on your next motoring
tour.
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
moan
comloi't
sii]lo. B© not
take a suktituio
All Moa^ofS
Makers
AIFX sf£wAßr
O LTP
Ste
&
Mari/
sdf
SOCIETY
GRALIC
SPECIAL [?]ESERVE
[?] Whissky.
The first Anglican church in Australasia —
the first of any denomination, in fact —was
erected and opened in 1793 on the triangular
space yvhich connects Hunter, Bligh and
A SHREWD MOVE.
“Why ever did Molly divorce her husband
and then marry him again?”
“To get another trousseau, stupid.”
Castlereagh streets. Parson Johnson was
the builder, at a cost of £67 12s. llid., as
shown in the builders’ printed statement.
The church was destroyed by fire in Oct.,
1798, and was never rebuilt. Some years
ago it was suggested that a memorial cross
should be raised on the site, and £250 was
collected towards the total cost of £5OO,
Captain J. H. Watson, who is interesting
himself in the matter, suggests that the
clergymen of the diocese, (numbering 280)
could easily raise the other 1250 needed.
“Stellsby”: “Norbell” (B. 28/9/’22) asks,
“Has any human being ever heard of
an Aussie pdilu?” I dunno, but I’ve met
an Italian Tommy.
I was admiring
Garibaldi’s statue
in the square at
Spezzia when a
Dago foot-slogger,
speaking in the
dialect of the Old
Ivent-road, put the
hard word on me
for a fag. It
appears that when
Italy repudiated
the Tr i p 1 e Alli-
ance my Cockney-
Dago acquaintance,
.and _his father—
an Italian clothier
from Pennyfields—
were on a visit to
the paternal birth-
place, and the son
was promptly-
stampeded into the
Latin Army. I
remarked that, see-
ing he was a Bri-
tish subject, it was
a clear breach of
international 1 a w
to claim him for
military service in
Italy. He replied
that it was of no
consequence, for he
would have enlisted
had he been in
England. He added
that his “old man”
kept him well sup-
plied with funds,
but “Capstans”
and “Player s”
were at a premium
in Spaghettiland,
hence his reason
for cadging a fag.
We exchanged one
or two Vermouths
at a cafe before
parting, both re-
gretting heartily
that the liquor was
not Bass and the
venue the Strand.
“O’D.”: Brisbane camps between the S’s of
the Brisbane River, and, although it is nearly
a century since Oxley first looked upon the
stream, the city has succeeded in building
only one bridge over it. Another one
is a few miles out of Indooroopilly.
This latter bridge carries train traf-
fic, but Victoria Bridge, which divides
North and South Brisbane, lias gone_ no
heavier than trams, which now find it difficult
to push a way between motor and other
vehicles. Brisbane threatens to build another
central bridge, down the Valley, or New
Farm, direction. But then the northern
capital has always been a devil of a
threatener. It started its sewerage works
in 1858, and has been threatening to finish
them ever since.
* * • *
Adelaide has been having a prolonged
smile at the expense of Premier Barwell.
Two boys of 16 were charged at the Child-
ren’s Court with “offensive behavior.” It
appeared that in the quiet suburb of Kent
Town they had been chucking “throw-downs”
at one another, and one of the crackers
accidentally fell in a citizen’s garden. There-
upon two stalwart young constables, armed
with revolvers, chased and caught the male-
factors. In cross-examination, the police
foolishly objected to disclose whose garden
had been the scene of the anarchist outrage,
but counsel for the defence had no difficulty
in showing that it was Barwell’s. The S.M.
dismissed the case. Barwell, questioned in
the Assembly, said that he knew nothing of
any precautions the police might have taken,
and added that “the papers had made a
great mouthful out of a trifling incident.”
Yates, secretary of the Labor party, there-
upon gave him the handsome assurance
(which may or may not have been double-
edged) : “There is not a man connected with
the party who would do you a personal
injury.”
» * • •
“T.R.H,” among the pharmacists:—
Re “G.P.” (B. 28/'9/’22) on chemists. I nave
beer, taking thyroid-gland treatment for a long time,
and the chemist invariably asks for a prescription.
Personally, I do not think drugs are more easily
obtained here than in England. There I could
always buy 10 per cent, cocaine for inflamed eyes
without a prescription, or veronal, or chloral for
insomnia; but I cannot get the far less dangerous
paraldehyde here without a medico’s “chit.” Still,
the unscrupulous chemist has found a way of evading
the law by keeping a dilapidated medico on the
premises. You “see the doc’’ and he prescribes just
what you want. That is why the stink of sandal-
wood oil is still noticeable among the pimply-faced
fraternity in dirty bars and restaurants. And the
chemist who won't sell the insomnia-racked drunk , a
sleeping draught will produce a large bottle of
methylated spirits for ninepenee!
* * ■* *
“Tauwarra”: When Frank Hurley gave
his seaplane a trial spin over Moresby, the
other day, he did his bit towards “raising the
THE BEGINNING OF WISDOM.
“We girls dress more simply than when you were a young man.”
“ Perhaps; but you know a lot more.”
“Yes; that’s why we’re not afraid to wear a lot less.”
white man’s mana in Papua. One old dame,
from Hanuabada, was frankly sceptical at
the start. “This fella masin [machine] no
gottem hinge,” she grunted. “Which way
he flappem wing b’long him?” Later, she
was heard to fervently thank God that she
had lived to see white men fly'ng in the air
“all same blurry duck.” Wild with excite-
ment, a small cook-boy divested himself of
his loincloth and waved it at the pilot, until
a scandalised John Hop hunted him off
the street. Another youth is reported miss-
ing. When last seen he was making for the
Seventh Day Adventist Mission, 30 miles
distant, with the avowed intention of break-
ing the news to the elect that there was
something doing in their line at last. My
cook-boy summed it up this way: “Before
I bin see’m boat he go down b’low, all same
fish [submarine], I savee motor-car, pikisers
[movies], lannis [launches]., and altogether
some’tin’ b’long white man; but this fella
flying-mgsin, I can’t savee, taubada. White
man he savee too much!”
* * * *
“Bullwhanger”: The hardened old salts of
the Port Jackson ferries affect a deep-sea
.jargon and generally refer to the land as if
i.t were miles away. Recently I was stand-
ing in the gangway of a
boat while she was being
berthed, when the skipper
blew along. He was dressed
in correct, nautical, double-
breasted rig, and wore his
“high-pressure” cap tilted
rakishly over one eye d la
Beatty. “Nice day,” I ven-
tured. “Yes,” he answered.
“Very ’ot ashore, though,
very ’ot, but the glass is
falling and it won’t be long
before you see the old ‘J.B.’
at the fore.” He meant the
white flag with those letters
on it which is flown from the Post Office
tower when a southerly buster is reported
from Jervis Bay.
* * * *
Albert Dorrington, from London :
The British press teems with paragraphs about
the hold-up gangs and heavyweight blackguards,
camp-followers of the turf, who terrorise every man
or woman suspected of carrying 10s. in his or her
pocket. A recent experience of my own may be of
interest. My last visit to Epsom was in company
with Tom Lees, one-time champion of Australia.
We were lucky enough to back a couple of 20 to 1
chances. Leaving the course shortly before the last
event we tumbled into a homeward-bound ’bus.
Instantly we were joined by a four-deep queue of
the “bhoys,” who soon crowded the ’bus and the
exit in particular. Without ado we were asked to
give particulars and a fairly honest reading of +h
financial barometer. Under threat of instant murder
we were commanded to “show our stuff.” Lees was
holding more than a hundred pounds in notes a u
his reply was characteristic of the man who ha
once given Peter Jackson the fight of hk life. Saiii
Lees: “I’ve got a couple of bob for mv fare, "am l
this ’bus is going to open at the sides and bottom
if it costs me a bean morel” Followed a short
harangue among the “bhoys” as to the swiftest method
of dealing with us. And again Lees chipped j,
“I’ll toss you bunch whether it’s going to be •
scrap or drinks at the next pub. In any case pa
rather scrap than buy the awful beer in this coun-
try!” The trouble about the scrap was the rotten
condition of that Epsom ’bus. It might have gone
on carrying retired cheesemongers and ham-trimmers
and busted punters till the crack o’ doom. But it
was never designed to carry the unholy shell-blast-
of wrath and fury that were suddenly "unloosed im
side. A fat “bhoy” guarding the exit disappeared
from view, locked in the conductor’s fierce embrace
About 13 sheets of plate window-glass went after
them, followed by the dreadful tattoo- of. smitten
stomachs and jaws. The London race-crook is t
good stayer when his dirty left functions on the
dimple of the overfed racing capitalist. When
it doesn’t, well “You see,” Lees explained
afterwards, “I break rules when the picnic goes to
pieces in a ’bus. I could see that a certain red-
necked fellow was the big key in that bunch. When
I broke the door-frame with him the rest couldn't
get out fast enough. They’re just the same in
America. Anyhow, fighting in this country is a lot
cheaper than buying out of it.” And Tom Lees will
be 64 next birthday 1
* » * »
“Exul”: At the request of some cow
cookies in the Huon district, Tasmania, the
Government expert went down to deliver a
lecture on scientific dairy farming. He
began by describing the most profitable
types of cows, and then went on: “Now
I’ve told you about the cows that pay, I’il
tell you something about the cows that
don’t pay.” At this juncture O’Leary, the
local storekeeper, strolled into the hall, and
misapprehended the line of argument.:
“That’s right, Mister,” he applauded, “lay
it on thick. The hall’s full of them.”
* * * ft
Derf Commor”: “Herodot” (B. 21/9/’22)
is quite within bounds about Bananaland’s
two-up schools. One reason why the nolice
look leniently on the pastime, so long
as it is not conducted too publicly,
is that a “school” is a sure haunt of
“wanted” birds. In N. Queensland in par-
ticular, every hard-case stranger makes his
way to a “school” as unerringly as a swal-
low to its nest. If the said stranger is
wanted by the police in any other town, the
rest is easy. In most places the school is
run by a man who can use his fists, and the
knowledge that the ring-keeper is able to
whip his weight in wild cats does a lot to
prevent rows.
* •» * •
“Randolph Rentless”: Licensees of the
doomed pubs in Surry Hills and other over-
taverned Sydney districts are not worrying
greatly. When a hotel goes out a rate is
struck on the neighboring ones that stop in;
and the compensation paid to both land-
lords and licensees is on a liberal scale. As
some of the pubs are doubtful paying pro-
positions unless the risk of defying the law
is taken, the compensation for getting out
of business is not infrequently a godsend.
Of course, there is a lot of Sunday trading.
Thirsty citizens favor on weekdays the nub
that will serve their Sabbath wants; and so
the stickler for the law goes to the wall.
Throughout Surry Hills on Sunday the pub-
corners are decorated with loafers, waiting
THE VEILED INSULT.
“My husband said, to-night, that my cooking
was real woman’s work.”
“What did he mean?”
“That it was never done.”
to explain to alcoholists where beer may be
obtained, and quite satisfied to take liquid
pay for the information.
(Continued on page IS.)
EUPHEMISMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Isadora Duncan, the American dancer who recently
married a Russian poet, returning to the United
States., wit h_’iJEf. JiUsbahd,J. \vasiireliJaedApexmissiQj)'"to.
enter. No definite charge is made against the lady,
but it is hinted that her ‘very liberal views regard-
ing social conventions’ have led to the embargo.”
—New York caule.
A man with a speech that is frequently thick
Is Boggs, M.L.A., for.Kafoozalem Crick ;
A breath like a hat-peg is iiis, and a “hie”
Of truly appalling dimensions.
Some people aver he’s “a <terror for booze,”
But a kindlier method of phrasing you’ll choose
If you simply ascribe to him “liberal views
Regarding the social conventions.”
Claude Bingo’s romances, so frequent and free,
Set soft hands uplifted at five-o’clock tea.
He’s been cited again ani again as co-re.;
He’s always transferring attentions
From this matron to that. If you gave him his dues
You might say he’d fill Brigham the Mormonite’s
shoes,
But his friends gloze it over with “liberal views
On the subject of social conventions.”
At the Artists’ Shivoo the high-kicking was fine
The night that the whisky got into the wine.
Some hinted at orgies. Down McEllione’s spine
The shivers made frigid declensions.
Were there Bacchanal capers? Nay, let us excuse,
When lovers are tripping and clinging in twos,
Stiff nips may induce less conservative views
On the nature of social conventions.
Better, sure, to tone down than to over-impute.
So when next you observe some impassive galoot
Keep his seat in a tram with a lady afoot,
Or eat peas with a knife, or spit close to your boot,
Don’t mutter irascibly “Mannerless brute!”
At the risk of unpleasant dissensions.
True noblesse its votaries rather will guide
To reflect “He’s eeeentrie, it can’t be denied,
And precisians might label his manners as ‘snide,’
But our views on such matters may sharply divide,
And doubtless he stands on the radical side
With respect to the social conventions.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


*4
ff
m.
**k At*
fSKI
*
%
iff •
-:
•>' «
ii
- -'--
;' ,
iff?' 5
:
•s
m
m
.
<
zmm
f A
k
N
►
%
THE WORLD’S ECONOMY CAR
WHAT A W.A. USER THINKS OF HIS CITROEN CAR:—
In the course of a letter to Messrs. Gilberts, Ltd., Perth, a local motorist makes
the following eulogistic reference to his Citroen:
“Mav I be permitted this opportunity to tell you how good a car the Citroen is.
Week in and week out, in spite of frequent startings and stoppings, she gives me 36 to
40 miles to the gallon of petrol, and 1000 miles to the gallon of oil,
to the country it is an evil day when she does not average her 50 miles. Lontiai y
to the rubbish I have heard and keep on hearing re country roads, she negotiates
these and bush tracks as well in thorough ‘dinkum’ fashion. She is very
and exceedingly comfortable to ride in. Sturdy as the oak, she gete there when
you ask her, and does it well. My original tyres are still on,. after 12 monjths, ana
will still be on after another 12 months, for they will average about 12 to 15 thousand
miles and more. My repair expenditure to date is idL nmn l® xP r el S’ morl*
thing included, come to 2d. per mile; perhaps a little under. Can liMymore.
Excuse my enthusiasm; I cannot possibly help it! Owners name on request.
“One of the most efficient and remarkable cars
built to-day.”— “Light Car.
The unequalled performance of the Citroen is ample proof of its
efficiency—and the basis of its economy.
ni
THE.
AGENTS -
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
Gilberts, Ltd., _
47 King Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND.
Websters Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Clifton Hill, Victoria.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
AGENTS —
TASMANIA.
Co-operative Motors Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND.
N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc.,
Christchurch.
Leyland Motors Ltd., Wellington.
Factory Representatives:
W. A. Crowle, Ltd.,
Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
CITROEN


Further Price Reductions
In the Well-known and Reliable
ELGIN LEVERS
at STEWART DAWSON’S.
The Famous “ELGIN” Watch has
been before the Public for years, and the
name itself is synonymous with dependa-
bility.
3888
B
m
m
Prices from £4 4s.
In Ten-Year Gold- Filled
Hunting Cases - - - - £4 4
In Twenty-Year Gold-Filled
Hunting Cases - - - - £6 0
In Twentyfive-Year Gold-
Filled Hunting Cases - - £7 0
Also in 9ct. Gold ----- £ll 10
And in Sterling Silver Cases £4 10
0
0
0
0
0
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (N.S.W.) Ltd.,
185-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET;
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER; SYDNEY.
“Billbav” : During the recent war scare
I was reading some daily-paper sentiments
aloud to a cobber, and presently reached
the inevitable place where the effusively-
patriotic scribe opined that if the “fall-in”
were sounded in George-street at that
moment every ex-Digger would rush to the
colors. Then upspake a seedy-looking indi-
vidual who held a cornet and a collection-
box. “Dunno about, the ‘fall-in,’ ”he re-
marked. “But I bet ‘defaulters’ would
fetch most of my old mob.”
“Mut Quad” encounters another case of
class distinction :
Since the Vic. Closer Settlement Board sub-
divided many holdings in the Goulburn Valley and
settled hundreds of fruitgrowers there, the local
agriculturist considers himself entitled to look down
on the ’newcomer, even as the squatter was wont to
look down on the humble selector. Inquiring from
a bewhiskered wheatgrower the other day at Shep-
parton (Vic.) for a person whose proper calling I
had forgotten, I mentioned his name and said I
thought he was a cockie. “Not on your life, son,”
said my informant. “He’s no cockie. He’s only a
blanky starling on a closer-settlement block. You’ll
find him near some fruit-trees an’
a few handfuls of mud at Orrville.”
4% I found him and had my first eyeful
of a starling.
THE HINT.
TALKATIVE BARBEE (about to lather ): “Do you mind shutting
your mouth, sir?”
TIRED CUSTOMER: “No —do you?”
“Valamac”: “Jackeroo’s” statistics (B.
21/9/’22) concerning big-gun shearing-sheds
in Queensland are far from complete. He
says eight Queensland stations shear over
100,000 sheep, and puts Noyen at the top of
the list with 140,000. What about Isis
Downs and Terrick Terrick? The former
shed shears a total of 180,000 this year,
while Terrick Terrick is at present at work
on a mob of 177,000. And there are many
others unincluded in “Jackeroo’s” list, such
as Barcaldine Downs, Nieve Downs, Mount
Cornish, Wellshot and Werenda, all well
over the 100,000 mark. By the way, Isis
Downs is at present considered the most
up-to-date shed in West Queensland. It
is built in a semi-circle, with the wool-tables,
presses, etc., in the centre (so as to be con-
venient to all parts of the board), and all
machines and presses a?e driven by elec-
tricity.
* * * *
“Wilfrido”: In a M.L. court the other
day a man was charged with being
drunk and assaulting the police. 'He
was a civil servant, who bitterly re-
gretted the jamboree, and, as he walked
past the three newspaper reporters he
handed one of them a florin, whispering:
“Split this between you and keep my name
out of it.” With a look of infinite disgust
(for the journalistic soul soars above Midas)
the scribe banged the coin down on the
table in front of him. Just then a seedy-
looking individual, who had been charged
with inebriation and given another chance,
walked past the table, pocketed the spurned
florin nonchalantly, and faded off with the
air of an Elijah for whom ravens had pro-
vided a pick-me-up.
• * * *
“Ramolino”: I got this one from a Wes-
leyan pastor in my own (M.L.) district. A
.brother cleric desired to be relieved of a cer-
tain Sunday service. A substitute was sent
to take his place, and the clergyman arranged
to meet his locum-tenens at the station.
When the train steamed in, only one young-
man stepped out, and he was not in clerical
clothes. “Are you Mr. Blank, the Metho-
dist clergyman?” inquired the local pastor.
“Oh, no,” corrected the new arrival: “it’s
me indigestion makes me look like that.”
“Arev’s” view of it: —
The first year of exile from England is the hard-
est for the immigrant. The womenfolk, especially,
when the novelty has worn off the new life, long
for the home faces, and their chief desire is to
.save enough to return. In their haste to acquire the
fares, the newcomers develop into the “mean
Pommies” whom the Australian derides. The home-
sick immigrant saves enough for the return fare;
then he thinks he might as well save a little more
instead of going back empty-handed to admit fail-
ure. By the time the nest-egg has grown the immi-
grant has made friends and is becoming Austra-
lianised. If the desire to see the homefolk is still
as keen, and the wanderer returns to the Old Coun-
try, he finds that things seem different. He may
not understand that the change is in himself; but
it is not long before he books his return passage and
settles down into a very .good imitation of a native-
born Australian, which, considering that we all come
of the same stock, is not surprising.
* * * *
“Boomerang”: “Old Sofala!” The name
brings up memories of the boom days, of
roaring pubs, gamb-
ling hells, slant-eyed
Chows and roughs of
all nationalities. Now
a few pensioners are
the sole supporters of
the town’s two
crumbling pubs. .In
its wildest days there
were 29 pubs and 26
stores, nine of the
latter run by Chinese.
There Larry Foley
first earned a reputa-
tion by outing three
hefty lads in quick
succession. He was
backed by Steve
Swain, uncle of Emily
Soldene. Bill Day,
who later went bush-
ranging, put up a
new record for a side
wager of £lO by
carrying an anvil
weighing 3cwt. 91b.
three-quarters of a
mile. R. D. Meagher’s
father was the ser-
geant in charge of
gold escorts. Wally
Hickenbotham, veteran
trainer, claimed it as
his birthplace. Fitz-
gerald Bros., of circus
fame, were also born
on the Turon. James
Rutherford (Cobb and
Co.) made a fortune
there with his coaches.
There were so many
thousands of Chi-
nese in the place
that a celestial circus played the same turns
every night for six months to packed houses.
And to-day it is as silenl, as lonely and
almost as poor as the grave.
“J.H.” (London) on some Northcliffe
idiosyncrasies:—•
Many fairy-tales about Northcliffe’s personal
interest in his employees have been going the rounds
of Fleet-street since he died. Whatever truth there
may have been in the legend in the early stages of
his career it is safe to say that not 5 per cent,
of the thousands of journalists at Fleetway
House, where the Amalgamated Press had its head-
quarters, Carmelite House, the home of the Daily
Mail, Evening News and Weekly Dispatch, and
Printing-house-square (The Times), ever saw “the
chief.” I was at Fleetway House for about six
months, but, although Northcliffe was then in Eng-
land, I can vouch for it that few outside the direc-
SUE KNEW.
"Just going out for a little fresh air, dear."
“You mean a slight draught.”
tors were known to him by sight. Beyond a fugi-
tive visit lasting perhaps 10 minutes, at intervals
of a fortnight or longer, even the directors rarely
saw him. He had a wonderful suite of offices at
Fleetway House, complete down to the last detail,
including a luxuriously fitted bathroom and a pri-
vate dining-room, with a chef (almost invariably
unemployed) always in attendance. His sanctum
was lined with bookcases filled with gorgeously-
bound editions of Answers, Forget-Me-Not, Bow
Belles (the London servant-girls’ Bible), Sexton
Blake (a penny-dreadful series), and scores of other
money-spinners which had assisted to build
up his fortune. Heaven knows how many
editors (tame and otherwise) are housed on
the Harmsworth premises. Anyone who can
run a publication at a profit is quickly
roped in, provided with a staff, paid a good salary
and retained or fired according as the venture con-
tinues to pay or does the other thing. Security
of tenure is unknown: editors come and go
so quickly that you lose count of them. Two hardy
annuals, however, seem to survive—Arthur Mee,
the peppery, excitable, somewhat wowserish person
who runs the Children's Newspaper, the Chil-
dren’s Encyclopedia, Harmsworth’s Self-Educa-
tor, My Magazine, The Children's Treasure
House, and so on; and J. A. Hammerton, a shrewd
Scot, formerly associated with Mee, but now his
deadliest rival in the Encyclopiedia field.
• * * *
“Maski”: Coming up to the Islands last
trip we were given proof of the diverse ways
in which suspected plague sufferers can be
medically examined. At one port we stepped
in solemn procession over a box —to show
that our groin glands were not enlarged.
At the next we filed past the medical Rkada-
manthus with our hands held high in the
air. Followed a port where we trooped
past in bunches as quickly as our names,
dr anyone else’s, could be called out. But
the most popular medico of the lot was one
who stepped on board with a jovial grin,
and, observing, “All right, you’re examined,”
passed below for a “spot” with the skipper.
• « • »
“Bilbav”: My Digger pal halted our war-
time gin-crawl outside a popular hash-
foundry in the Strand. “Watch me get a
new riding-crop,” he said. It seemed a
strange place to buy crops, and in a state
of mystification I watched him breast up to
the girl at the cash desk. I then saw her
hand out a bundle of more or less swagger
sticks arid whips; out of which my
friend took his choice. “It’s dead easy,”
he explained afterwards. “You just burl
in, say you left the thing the night
before, and take the best of the bunch they
show you. I’ve dam’ near paid for mv
leave on the game, so far.”
“Lip’s” story of the forgiving wife:—
“Lexite’s” lady, who twice married and divorced
the same husband (B. 7/9/’22), reminds me
of a casual couple who
lived in a Sydney suburb.
After some years of
married life Blinks’s affec-
tions began to stray. They
strayed so far and so fast
that Mrs. B. had recourse
to legal proceedings; and
in due course the name of
Blinks apeared in the
evening papers under the
heading of “Marriages
Dissolved.” That night a
very contrite Blinks
appeared at the back door
of his former home. Either
the ex-wife had got tired
of living alone, or some of
the abject one’s old attrac-
tiveness still lingered, for
after a brief parley he
was readmitted to the
home and to the rights
and privileges of a hus-
band. As to the re-tying
of the severed knot, well,
neither alluded to it.
Blinks had never been very
financial, and during his
wanderings had become less
so, while Mrs. Blinks’s
affairs had prospered with
the aid of a legacy. A
little persuasion, and her
cheque settled the cos;;s
of the divorce. With this
off his mind, Blinks again
strolled off and cleared
the name of the lady to
whom Mrs. B. wouldn’t
play second fiddle by
marrying her. A year
or so later he was back
again at his former wife’s
door. His second venture
having proved unsatisfac-
tory, he had, it appeared,
a proposition to submit.
If No. 1 would take him
back once more he would
arrange to divorce No. 2.
But No. 1 couldn’t oblige.
She offered, however, for
old times’ sake to let him
give her away at her wedding the following week.
“Lexite”: There is a little boy in Sydney
with a better lot of ancestors than most rich
folks can boast. His father enlisted in the
A.I.P. in 1917, married (though a minor)
before embarking, and was killed. The
dead man’s father had died O.A.S.
with the first N.S.W. contingent in
S’Africa, when the future Digger was
two. The great-grandfather of the pre-
sent child was an Imperial reservist, who
was called back to the colors at the time of
the Soudan trouble, and left his bones in
Egypt. The great-great-grandfather was
killed during the Crimean War, when his only
son was six months old. His immediate pro-
FAMILY PRIDE.
P OM: “Our family has a crest.”
AUS: “Our cockatoo’s is yellow. What's
yours?”
genitor was killed on Indian service, and was
himself only an infant when his father
went down in the Peninsular War. Thus,
for six generations, the head of the family
has died for his country, in each case leaving
a male child to carry on the tradition.
HIS MOTHER'S BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I would like to point out, in justice to the young
men who make mistakes, that.... it is the girls and
young women who are to blame... .There has sprung
up a new amusement among young women. It is called
‘pirating’ or ‘the glad eye.’ ”•—“A Mother of Sons,”
Sydney Sun.
Ah ! do not blame me if my feet
From paths of virtue stray,
For naughtiness in every street
Obstructs my righteous way;
And though towards virtue I would bear,
Fair pirates board me everywhere.
They rake my decks with glances bright,
My very soul they raid ;
And what would happen in the night
If I should shriek for aid,
But scoffs directed at my pluck
By those who envy me my luck?
What weapons have I for my part
Against assaulting eyes?
With grappling-irons on my heart
These wretches claim their prize.
And though they lead my feet to vice,
Upon my word, it’s rather nice!
So if I stray I hope you’ll lay
The blame where it belongs.
1 mean to walk the holy way,
But pirates cruise in throngs,
And overcome ine with their might.
I’m meeting one, alas! to-night.
N.S.W.
AN ERRING SON.


SOUND ADVICE
PAINTERS!
1
LISTEN
U!
FX 1
Vc
sss
rtnt
1 r mm
Z<\
f,
.41
y
e*
■- ,L V A*" 'x\
'fAv.uUa A_
/ J A / A<S . I i/Tt)
Wirw^
\
.
\
**s£!*,
$$
—Sfc
raw)s
)
X
?s
;D OIL
j
VJ
s.
Buy Australian Oils.
for
Manufactured
Australians by Australians
to suit
Australian Conditions.
NEDGITTII*
o?ie boy on the bag
guarantees quality *
e
HEAD OFFICE ‘ASKING ST SYIISrEYCmfe-.PaiTamatta)
AGENTS.-
-Messrs. Harrisons. Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S Exton. d
(7o T,ld Queen Street Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage tk Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launces-
ton; Messrs. William Adams <k Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle
Street, Adelaide.
[Jispnifty
IMI
iFEGITT ir* t
MEGGITT \J*
PARRAMATTA
"yAeJboi / on thehaq
guarantees quality


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
139 PITT '.STREET, SYDNEY. .
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-66 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSEANI) BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGEE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAEIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIEDING, GREN-
FEEE STREET, ADEEAIDE.
“King George IV
n
•25fc2fc2J&6^i
TH e'TOP NOTCH" SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Cases containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5 - GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case
Liquid, 37/6 per drum
F.o.b. or
f.o.r. main
/tusti alian
Ports.
Manufactured in Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne
497 Collins
Street.
Sydney:
7 Hamilton
Street.
Brisbane:
339 Elizabeth
Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“W.H.H.”: A well-known Centralian
Afghan, Karuni Bux, left Alice Springs on a camel
at 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday (13/9/’22) and arrived
at Oodnadatta on the following Sunday night, thus
covering about 340 miles in five days. The last day’s
stage, from Hamilton Bore to Oodnadatta, was about
80 miles. Neither man nor camel appeared the
worse for the trip, and on the following morning
Karum was doing his work as usual.
“F.H.R.”: “Heredot” (B. 21/9/’22) asks
if animals commit suicide. Not often, but I saw a
horse do it once. It was near the end of a very
severe winter, and on my first trip to Aberfeldv,
Gippsland (Vic.). The only way out from Wal-
halla was to ride by a 3ft. track cut round the side
of the mountains. The packer I went with had a
string of 20 horses, one of which was loaded with
two bags of chaff —the feed for the whole team.
Whether it broke her up to have to carry all the
feed outside of her and not enough in, or the agony
of her terrible sores became too much for her, I
don’t know, but at a suitable place she reared back
and over —and an ancient messmate stopped her
500 ft. below with practically every bone in her
body broken.
•* * * *
“Stellsby”: Melbourne Akgtjs (9/9/’22)
reported:—
A black-headed albatross followed a steamship
across the North Pacific for 3000 miles without once
furling its wings. It stir ted from a small island
near Japan, and when tt~ > ship was 1900 miles from
the nearest Alaskan port it turned abruptly and tiew
toward the west.
One might sail from the Cape to the Horn and on to
the Cape and hardly lose sight of an albatross. In
the South Atlantic and Southern Indian and Pacific
oceans the huge seabird will be found as far north
as the 13th parallel; but I defy any ancient mariner
—unless he has seen snakes —to say truthfully that
he has met the species north of the Line.
* • » *
“Lignite”: Re the introduction of rabbits
into Australia (B. 14/9/’22). I was born in 1843,
on the Paterson River (Vic.), and when I was six
years old I first saw rabbits. My mother was a
native of the same locality, and was quite familiar
with rabbits at that time. So Bunny was here before
me. The land along both banks of the Paterson had
been given in grants to men from the British Isles,
and they had a mania for introducing things they
were familiar with—pigeons, rabbits, peacocks, etc.
They even brought the prickly-pear to use as hedges
for their orchards.
* • * *
“Russo”: “Aramac’s” pig, that weighed
4001 b. when dressed, was only a sucker compared
with a Tamworth barrow bred in Tasmania and sold
in the Melbourne market for 4124. When dressed
it weighed 6801 b., the live weight being slightly over
8001 b. That bit o’ pork undoubtedly put up an
Australian record, if it didn’t hoist one for the world.
» * * *
“Ragur”: The longest sloughed snake-skin
I ever found w'as that of a carpet-snak;e. It
measured lift. 4in., and the only hole in it was
one of about 14in. long, where the reptile’s chest
would come if it had one. I have often found them
as “E.J.D.” describes (B. 14/9/’22), but never once
turned inside out. Up in N.Q. I
have frequently seen sloughed snake-
skins twined among the branches of
bushes and small trees. Apart from
the assistance the branches are to the
snake in getting out of his overcoat,
I understand the reason for the eleva-
tion of the undressing-room is to get
out of the way of ants. It is a com-
mon thing to come across a snake
being eaten alive by thousands of
ants while half in and half out of his
old skin. During the sloughing
season they seem to be too exhausted
to defend themselves, and quite unable
to get away.
* * *
“Ex ul”: “Azrim” (B.
7/9/’22) says that the venom of the
black snake (Pseudechis porphyriacus )
“causes death usually by intravascular
coagulation.” That, in human beings
at any rate, is a rare mode of death
from it. Watkins-Pitchford says
that colubrine venom acts primarily
on the respiratory centre, and that
death does not usually take place
until the passage of some hours. O.
J. Martin distinguishes three methods
of death from N.S.W. black-snake
venom: (1) Almost instantaneous,
from intravascular clotting as a result
Of extremely rapid absorption. This
in large animals is very uncommon,
and requires that the venom be in-
jected directly into a vein, an opera-
tion which Fangs very seldom per-
forms. (2) When the poison is more
slowly absorbed it affects the heart
and respiratory centres simultaneously,
but the greater the concentration of
it in the circulation the greater the
incidence of its effect on the heart,
whereas the slow, continuous absorp-
tion has the greatest effect on the respiration.
(3) Delayed death may occur, rarely, from the effect
of the venom on the lungs and kidneys.
* » * »
“Paul C.”: Re “Ack F. C.’s” inquiry (B.
7/9/’22) as to why wild animals raoe along in front
of the headlight of a car at night. They are not
fascinated by the light; but, on a dark night when
they get right in the glare of the lamp, they race
straight along because they can see where they are
going, while on each side of the lamp-lit road
there appears an impenetrable wall of blackness.
As animals don’t believe in running their heads
against a wall, they keep on in the lane of light.
Try it, though, on a moonlight night, when the
power of the headlight is discounted by Luna, and
objects outside the limits of the motor-light are
distinguishable. You will find that Bunny and his
bush pals will immediately leave the glare, and
dive in great haste into the fainter side-light.
THE PRICE OF GRIEF.
“Well, Sal, Hr. Simpson and I are leaving Bulgulla to-day for ever.”
“Mine berry sorry you go away, Mrs. Simpson. You gibbit bottle ruin, mine go and
have a good cry.”
“Phoebus”: “L. & Tommy’s” collie, who
mothered, or rather fathered, the orphan chicks
(B. 21/9/’22), reminds me of a cocker spaniel
of mine that turned her attention to some
motherless baby ducks after losing her own
litter. The ducklets palled up with her
quite happily until they commenced to paddle
in the drain and the dish of water. This consider-
ably troubled the spaniel, and she promptly lifted
them out of the water, rolled them over and licked
them dry. The family’s fondness for wetness persisting
she eventually became desperate, and one day, after
an arduous morning spent in rescuing them from
drowning, she carried the mightily surprised brood
upstairs one at a time and deposited them on the
bedroom rug. After that the youngsters bolted each
time they saw her coming if they were disporting in
water; so, after a few chasings around after the pro-
testing brood, she gave it up as a bad job and left
them to their own devices.
• » • *
“Agricola”: “Profundus” (B. 7/9/’22)
made an error when he said a bone is “mainly sul-
phate of lime.” He should have said it was phos-
phate of lime and magnesia. Incidentally, if the
composition of bones had been better known by Aus-
tralian stockmen they would not have been so slow
in realising the great significance of phosphates to
our farming interests. Bone-chewing by stock clearly
proclaims the shortage of the bone-forming minerals
in the vegetation they graze on. The same elements
are essential to the well-being of every cell in the
body of the animal.
* * * *
“Centre”: “Park’s” par. on the youngster
with a goat for a foster-mother (B. 14/9/’22) re-
minds me of an infant whose mother died while
bringing him to light some years ago, out beyond
Bourke (N.S.W.). No woman being near, the father
enlisted the sympathies of a forlorn ewe that had
lost her lamb. The result was entirely satisfactory,
the sheep supplying the necessary nourishment direct.
The foster-mother learned to understand the young-
ster long before his father did. Whenever he de-
manded a meal she would promptly come and lie
beside the boy, so that he could help himself.
* * * *
“Wessel”: The late Frank Jardine was
either well in the running for the abo.-shooting
record, or a good leg-puller, according to the Count
de Beauvoir, who took a run round Australia in
1866 and wrote a book, which has escaped transla-
tion into English. The Count says that Jardine dis-
played with modest pride his favorite rifle, on the
stock of which were 38 cuts, one for each nigger
sent rvest. He also told the Frenchman that in his
hut near Somerset he had two other weapons, one
with 15 marks and the other with a mere 12. The
grand total was 65—a good score for a youth of 24
or so.
“The Overlander”: My entry for the
Queer Accident Stakes: While on watch one dark
night my horse stumbled and fell, and in the mix-up
on the ground my foot got securely hitched in the
reins. Thinking I was in for a rough spin I felt
anyhow for the moment. Then Gladsome tried to
rise, but failed. After a while 1 managed to get
the hitch off my leg and investigated. I found that
the surcingle had been left very loose, and in some
curious fashion had got over Gladsome’s elbows, thus
preventing her from regaining her feet.
» * * *
“Ross’s” drama of Outback :
A prospective mother on one of the out-stations of
Yandama, in far-western N.S.W., through a miscal-
culation found herself at the critical time all alone
except for her husband’s 13-year-old brother, 100
miles from a doctor and 40-odd from the nearest
human habitation. Fortunately the place was con-
nected by ’phone with the home-station, and to this
and to the lucky arrival of the husband in the nick
of time, she owes her life. The doctor set out on his
trip at 8 p.m., but before leaving instructed the
husband over the ’phone in the essentials of the
science and art of midwifery. These lessons he was
able to supplement at two stations en route. His
instructions were faithfully carried out, and the
woman displayed unbelievable nerve and coolness in
the face of an appalling situation. She said after-
wards : “I felt that once I started to lose my nerve
Bill would go to pieces, and that would be the end
AUTO-SUGGESTION.
of everything.’’ Unfortunately, the child of this
intrepid pair lies buried in Central Australia, for
when the doctor arrived at 2.30 a.m. he was in time
to succor the mother but too late to save the little
immigrant, who was a bit premature in any case.
The mother’s age was 25, and the husband was still
in his teens a year ago. The primitive living condi-
tions, which the unkind elements and our unstates-
manlike legislators impose upon people out back,
turn boys into full-sized men at an early age, and
make dinkum Australians of them, too.
(Continued on page 22.)
WEANERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you’ve punctured faith’s frail bubble, and you do
not want to think
Of the past and what a love-lorn fool you were;
If your brain is hot with trouble, and your mood is
ripe for drink
Or murder as an outlet from despair;
If you ride with melancholy and the ghosts of Might-
have-been,
Or suspicion that you didn’t dare to prove,
Or the thoughts of Kit or Molly—if you want to
* vent your spleen—
Try to wheel a mob of weaners on the move.
You will soon forget self-pity and grim thoughts of
suicide
As you flog your sweating nag into a run;
You’ll forget the face of Kitty as you settle down
to tide—
And your willing kelpie staggers, nearly done.
For despair is soon unseated when the weaners start
to fan i
Like a crowd before a band's collection-box;
And self-pity, overheated, soon dissolves within a man
When the sweat begins to trickle from his socks.
Love’s What-might-have-been won’t daunt you as the
weaners gain the brush,
And your footsore kelpie gives it best at last;
Thoughts of suicide won’t haunt you when beneath
a bough you rush,
And you realise that death has just swept past.
You’ll find very little leisure and but little time to
think
Till you see the weaners snug within the brake;
Even then the dreams you treasure of those blushes
rosy-pink
May get shattered as the ground begins to quake.
AN EXPERT.
“D’yer know anything about grubbin’?”
"Yaas. I used to keep silk-worms and collect butterflies."
When you hear the brake-pegs splinter as those
devils start to rush —
Oh, you’d give your soul to stop that kelpie's
bark!—
And ten souls to be a sprinter. As for May’s best-
powdered blush,
That won’t help you to wheel weaners in the dark.
QUEENSLAND.
SYD. S.


STONEWALL SHOES
9 A The dependable Boots,
liV* far V ■ guaranteed to outlast
others because they are made from
selected Box Hide, Wax Stitched, and
reinforced with a Military back. Have
Three-decker Soles, clumped with
genuine “Stonehide” Leather, made in
Broad and Medium Last. The
“STONEHIDE” Sole, with which they
are clumped, is of picked heavy leather
tanned through and through, with a
resistance the quality of which is not
excelled by any known process. Plain
Toe or Toe-capped, 23/6. N.S.W.
Post, 1/-; Interstate, 27-
Same Boot in Tan, 24/6, plus Postage.
Same Boot for the Boy: 10 to 13,
15/11; 1 to 4, 18/6; 5, 21/6. Postage
1/- extra.
State Your Size and Wire or Write for »
Pair by V.P. Post to
JACKSON’S LTD., SYDNEY.
Ask for our New Free Catalogue.
dacfo&oiPb
4-13-5 PITT ST,, 99 LIVERPOOL ST.
(OPP PEOPLE S ) (OPP central couRT
380-2 PITT ST., 198-200 GEORGE ST.
|QRP. ANTHONY HORDERNS') (NEAR NOCK A KtRBVSi,
SYDNEY.
■ V
THEI" STON EH IDE'
CLUMP SOLE
Hie Stonewall dump Sole Boot
i
1853—1922.
PALING’S
PIANOS.
»
When Pianos have stood pre-eminent for nearly 70 years
there are definite reasons for this prestige.
It is a strong reason why you should buy your Piano
or Player Piano from an old-established house that has
stood the test for this long period.
Palings’ Victor Pianos are instruments of true Musical Quality. They are sold on Easy
Terms, which makes the purchase of one an easy matter.
CATALOGUES FREE.
Since 1853. Our Keynote—Quality.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
in
a
1
338 George St.
gvnMev"
Lismore
Newcastle
Rockhampton


Every dear little Flower
sweetly proclaims the charm of its fragrant life and
beauty in the daintiest way imaginable in Lepit s
exquisite Perfumes.
In fairness to one’s own good taste, or as a gift to a
friend, nothing is more acceptable than Perfumes such
as these—the pure, natural extracts of the flowers.
Try the alluring “Fior Di Notte” (Night’s Flowers), Rose D’ltalia,
Ninfea (Lily ot the Water), or “Chevalier du Roi” (Knight of the
King). Ask to be shown the many other varieties, and also the Lepit
Toilet Soaps and Cremes.
AT ALL GOOD PHARMACIES AND PERFUMIERS.
LEPIT
I Perfumes
GATTINO & CO. LTD.
Australian Representatives,
39-41 York Street,
Sydney.
LEPIT
From the Fairest
Blooms of Italy.
Kfltr-i
the Summer Camp
ABBOTS
I LAGER
THE BEER WITHOUTATSVAk
“Derf Commor”: Bill and I were biking
it from Iyah to Keebah, on the Bowen line (N.Q.),
and the going was extremely bad. At last we came
to a bit of road that it was impossible to ride over,
being full of “debbil-debbil” holes. “We must be
on the wrong track,” I remarked, “because they
told me the road was like a billiard-table.” “Hell,”
growled Bill, “this is like a billiard-table all right
—but there’s a flamin’ lot of pockets in it!”
“Cartot”: Is the common tick, which has
worked such havoc among Australian stock, indige-
nous to the country, or imported like the rest of our
pests ? I have heard it stated, on fairly good
authority, that the parasite was first introduced in
187 C, when the British-Australian Cable Co. brought
12 Indian cows and bulls from Singapore to the
N. Territory. Some years later, a pastoral company
took up land in that part of the Territory where
the Indian stock had been, only to find that the
country was swarming with tick, which eventually
killed nearly all its cattle. The majority of breeds
of Indian cattle are immune to tick poison, cen-
turies of contact with it having bred up a resistance.
On the other hand, there are biologists and ento-
mologists who declare that the insect is a native
of Australia, and advance many arguments in sup-
port of their claim. Personally, I think that it is
imported. The tick must have a host, such as a
horse or a bullock, and, if it is indigenous, how did
it get on before there were any domestic stock here?
Kangaroos and wallabies wouldn’t have afforded it
the accommodation that it needs; and, moreover, it
doesn’t seem to attack these to any great extent.
* * * »
“Jim Carew” : Just two years ago a school-
teacher friend of mine on the Upper Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) bottled a four-foot snake in spirits, and
now it has just finished shedding its skin. The
original coat peeled off in pieces a couple of inches
square, leaving another complete skin underneath.
Is there a similar cas on record?
TAKING NO CHANCES.
COCKY: “Wodger doin’? Didn’t I tell you
to fetch the coxes up from the bottom
paddock?”
CHOOM: “ Gimme time. I’m blazin’ me
trail in case I get lost.”
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides) : Out on the
reef the other day I saw Bob and young Bob care-
fully watching a deep pool with weed at the bottom.
As I came up they drew out of the water a stick
with what looked like a small packet on the end.
“We been makum fish drunk, master,” explained
Bob. Sure enough, soon a fair-sized mullet came
out of the weed and swam about, quicker and
quicker, till at last it catne near the surface. It
hit the rock several times, and finally got weaker
and weaker till Bob hit it with a stick, then put
it in his basket. I saw a dozen caught in this way.
Bob told me that they chew the bark of a certain
shrub, wrap it up in banana leaf and tie it on a
pole, which they push down into the weed at the
bottom of a pool. A faint milky substance diffuses
in the water and causes the boozey effect. Bob also
remarked, “S’posum you swaller that feller grass
when you chew him, you die plenty quick.” The f..h
revive if put. into another hole. Any Abo. ever seen
it done ?
HIGH FINANCE.
“Can ye change a tin-bob note fer me, Cassidy?"
“Share an' I can—if yer linds me tin bob.”
“Bogan Bill”: An old drover recently
told me that on his last trip he had taken delivery
of a particularly wild mob of cattle, and the first
few nights on the road they had. a stampede each
night. Then he hit on the expedient of fastening a
ring of lanterns to trees right round the . camp, and
from that time on there wasn’t a single stampede.
I never heard of anything like this before, and when
I was droving I always found cattle quieter on a
dark camp than on a firelit one. What is the
experience of the Abo. Council ?
• * * *
“Booyong”: Dr. Dobie, one of the very
early pioneers on the Richmond River (N.S.W.), once
wanted an aborigine skull, and promised an old
Binghi £1 if he would find one. The doc. assumed
the old chap could easily dig one up. In the course
of a week or two Peter delivered the goods. Dobie
thought it looked a bit on the fresh side, but could
get nothing out of Peter. It subsequently turned
out that the old heathen had killed another black-
fellow and buried his head in an ants’ nest until the
little fellows had cleaned it up.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “Jimmy ’Possum” remarks (B.
14/9/’22) that bullock-drivers about the Banana-
land coastal areas do well to negotiate the local
roads with from four to six tons on board. Let him
come on to the Barcoo and be introduced to one
Grant, a teamster who only a week or two ago
shifted 104 bales of greasy wool into Yaraka siding,
the head of the railway line that dives into the
setting sun past Blackall (C.Q.). And since then
we have heard of two other piles of wool that were
consigned off two teams at Malverton, not so far
west on the same line —one of 103 bales, the other
of 105 bales. The loads were not so heavy as they
might have been on account of the fleeces being
light, owing to the dry season; nevertheless, to load
100-odd bales so that none will fall overboard is no
small undertaking, and to pilot the lot on bush
tracks to its destination requires tact.
“Lofty”: “Bioko” (B. 27/7/’22) wants
to know if Binghi blushes. I can’t say exactly; but
a touring circus enticed one in to ride an outlaw,
in Boulia (Q.), and the moke proving too good for
the nig., he was spread-eagled against the side of
the ring, with the seams of his tight-fitting store
pants embarrassingly burst. The crowd cheered as
the abo. backed out of the tent. He re-appeared a
few minutes later with a new pair of strides, and
the audience yelled, “Come on, George, have another
go.” George shook his head. “Nah,” be said, “I too
’shamed.”
* * * *
“The Overlander”: Talking of “Fizzers’
(B. 20/4/’22 and 31/8/’22), what about Joseph
Hogan’s 360 miles a week, running the mails be-
tween Tibooburra (N.S.W.) to Nocundra (Q-)• This
worked out at about 18,720 miles a year,' and he
kept it up for several years. He used either vehicle
or pack, and he had to run in his horses at most of
the changes en route. What made his performance
the more meritorious was that he would have most
of his Sundays home, “spelling” as he called it
—which meant breaking-in colts. While on duty, as
a side performance, he would often catch a colt
and put him through a rough education.
* * * *
“Jim Domino” : The emu is a brainless cow.
Recently, while riding a boundary fence, I came on
Mrs. ’Mu doing the block. Evidently the sight of
my beautiful dial was
the signal for her to
beat it, and, failing
to poke through the
netting, she decided
to knock the plurry
fence down. At least
it looked like it, for
the pace at which she
charged the fence was
remarkable. She
crashed into it several
times, then finally hit
a post. ’Twas the Last
Post, for I read the
burial-service. Another
time I saw a mammy
Emu and her young
chicks out for a morn-
ing’s peck. Suddenly
there was a swish, and
a hawk swooped. Mrs.
'Mu saw the move,
and, with feathers
ruffled, intercepted it.
The hawk came again,
this time flying low,
and slow enough to
entice the overgrown
for. 1 to give chase,
which she did. She
looked a winner about
100yds. from her
family, when lo! the
pursued one changed
his tactics, half looped
the loop back over the
emu’s head, and flying
with great rapidity
was back to the chicks
and had picked one up
and was away before
the silly chook realised
what had happened.
Trotting back to her
youngsters ma seemed
to count them, and,
damme, find them cor-
rect, for she walked away with an air that said:
“There, me dears —trust your old mother to put
these fellows to flight.” By the way, has any Abo.
ever seen an emu break?
* * * *
“Pleece”: Papuan nigs., if unspoilt by
missionaries, have a decent code of their own.
Although he reported me three times for thrashing
him, and regularly stole my tobacco, my bush
houseboy, when signed off, “by request of the magis-
trate,” chose to await my return from a short
journey to repay a borrowed Is. By so doing he
missed the chance of a sail to his village, 30 miles
away—rather than rook me or leave the cash with
my mates! How many whites would rather tramp
30 miles than overlook repaying a bob?
“Beri”: It is strange that Collins, who
came with the first fleet and acted as Judge Advo-
cate and general law-juggler to
the infant colony, omits all refer-
ence to the boomerang in his “His-
tory of the English Colony in New
South Wales from 1788 to 1803.”
This book is admittedly the best
of the early histories, and, natu-
rally, the habits, demeanor and
weapons of the natives come in for
special study. Constant raids on
the food supplies—the colony’s life
hung by a very slender thread in
this respect on several occasions—
and innumerable corroborees, cere-
monies and affairs of honor gave
Collins every opportunity to ob-
serve Binghi’s weapons, and he
devotes many pages to their de-
scription. Surely had such a
remarkable weapon as the boomer-
ang been in use by the Sydney
natives he would have mentioned
it. My theory is that the local
tribes did not use it at all, and
that any early Sydney pictures
that include it, and even the
present City coat-of-arms, are at
fault.
“Tren” : Re birds diving on to roofs and
iron tanks. Years ago, in the main street of Yea
(Vie,), I saw two kookaburras ’plane from the top
of a pine-tree on to the galvanised wall of a shed
50yds. away, and they landed with a whack that
dented the iron. Both fell to the ground apparently
dazed; but they soon recovered sufficiently to fly
back to the pine and have another go. Same
result. Still unsatisfied, they flew again to the tree,
and tried once more. This time one struck the iron
where it was nailed to an upright, and collapsed,
never to laugh again. This won the event, for the
other johnny, without a glance at his dead mate,
returned to the pine, and fof half an hour shook his
head violently, "his method, I suppose, of curing a
headache.
“Kel”: I think “Wee Bobbie” (B.
31/8/’22) is wrong in saying the dangerous fish
pointed out to him in the Solomons can kill a
man. It is the stone-fish, which was paragraphed in
the Abo. column some little time back. I know
of cases in Samarai where natives were touched by
them, and the shock made them sick for days; but
the nigs, always recovered. If “Wee Bobbie” has
one speaied (which is quite easy, as the fish are
sluggish in their movements), he will find that its
belly is flat, apparently to suit its habit of resting
on a stone. I remember an officer of a war vessel
at Samarai treading on a sea-porcupine in the baths,
and he suffered greater agony than the victim of the
stone-fish. It took three men to hold him down
before he lost consciousness. The natives give both
a wide berth.
“Archhell”; Re weight-lifting and carry-
ing (B. 21/9/’22). I saw George Whieldon, near
Mirboo (N. Vic.), carry six coils of plain fencing-
wire over a chain, just for fun. I don’t know what
he would have taken on for a bet. Of course, we
loaded him up—two coils on each shoulder and two
over his head. The coils weighed lcwt. apiece.
“Trochus”: I was rather surprised to lind
in the pars, on sea-snakes (B. 31/8/’22) that some arc
said to be deadly. In the N. Territory waters I’ve
seen half-a-dozen different kinds—black, grey, black
and white, yellow, etc. The abos. handle them with
impunity, and I have done the same. Binghi says they
are not poisonous. The black and white, by the way,
shifts himself sideways when on land, and the track
of a six-footer on sand looks as if the crawler was
at least a foot in diameter.
“ J.W.R.” submits a study in contrasts: —
He was known as “Dirty Dick,” but the adjective
was quite inadequate. In mind, body, habits and
speech he was vilely foul. In appearance he was
the limit of repulsiveness—doubled-up with old age
and infirmities, all his limbs gnarled, his hands and
feet covered with gouty knots, his hair matted with
grease and vermin, and his skin wrinkled like the
neck of a prize merino ram, the rolls consisting,
principally, of agglutinated filth. His clothing was
saturated with all abominations, and a glue factory
would have blushed at his odoriferousness. His
language was revolting in its obscenity and blas-
phemy. He was bloodthirsty and fiendishly cruel to
all living things. He had fought in the Crimea,
and the sole incident of that tragic time which was
impressed on his memory was the spectacle of sol-
diers slitting the throats of cattle as they landed,
and a furious scramble among the men to get drinks
of the hot blood. His hut was an indescribable
aggregation of putrescence that never knew broorn
nor scrubbing-brush. Both it and he were objects to
be shunned ; but police and other officials had, per-
force, to call on him occasionally. It was my duty,
now and then, to hold converse with the old man,
whom I usually hailed from eoo-eeing distance. But
once, to my horror, he insisted on my going into the
hut, as he had something special to show me, and
wished to arrange with me as to its disposal after
his death. He removed a pile of sacking, and dis-
closed an old-style sea-chest with brass protecting
bands and his name on the lid in brass tacks. The
box was polished to perfection. Out of wrappings
of oilcloth and at least a dozen sheets of brown
paper he produced his soldier’s uniform, wonderfully
preserved, and a certificate that as a gratuity for
good conduct during the war he was entitled to £l4.
1 was literally itching to get away, but had to wait
for the surprise packet. More oilcloth, more brown
paper’, reams of tissue paper, and, finally, rolls of
cotton-wool, which enveloped a child’s pinafore made
of expensive linen and trimmed with exquisite hand-
worked lace; also a dainty pair of bootees of hand-
knitted silk. The sight of these treasures which had
THAT WOUND-UP FEELING.
MRS. FORDS-ROYCE: “Gracious, John, hurry
up and start! You make me feel like
a clockwork mouse!"
belonged to his “little darling- Lizzie” (dead more
than 60 years) caused the old man to sob, and tears
trickled down his grime-indurated cheeks —a strange
metamorphosis in such a case-hardened compound of
beast and fiend. It transpired that this was the
anniversary of “little Lizzie's” birthday, that once a
week he polished the box, and that once a year, for
60 years, he had opened it to gaze at its contents.
He didn’t live long after this; he was removed to a
hospital and expired within half an hour of having
his first—and last—hot bath.
SONG-TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Southward comes the sun
And the swallows follow;
Bright is everything—
Blade and bud and wing.
Hearken how they sing—
Happy thrush and swallow!
Lovers of the flowers
Through the bush are straying.
Bracken to their knees —■
Pleasant courtesies
Pass between the trees
In the breezes swaying.
Rosy dawns begin,
Golden noontides follow,
Lovely and apart.
Earth’s secret sweets upstart,
Sings the happy heart
With the thrush and swallow.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


CJfier dinner.
<v\
as
7;.
€
f'M
ft
n.
tu
21
1
gg==g»
rOZk
i r v -
li;j/MM!i»
lIUII II
yW-
c\
B,
-v
<r
sa
i
- m. «r.O)jv
** \ W-l- .»
4J>^>
\ ' v
•r
"N
Tfr^y
\
i /
--mtd
ns
?»•
»a
w"
*A
*~7
22
:,S
..(TT-
mm-*
&
»
m
X
:%
m
-
m
%
!
=§>
Xl
24
&
, Hi
i ! - \
y
Jim
m^4
\/y
w


I jig
ml Hfi ; |»k
■ irlra ,
inmnnmi
dmm
STORAGE
BATTERY
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Are you satisfied to have
the benefit of some Wil-
lard battery improve-
ments or do you want
them all? If you’re hard
to satisfy, insist on getting
a genuine Willard Battery
made in the Willard
factory. Then you’ll be
sure of genuine Willard
plates, first-quality mate-
rial clear through, Willard
workmanship and Wil-
lard inspection. Willard’s
staunchest friends are
men who are too partic-
ular to be satisfied with
ordinary batteries.
*/i T


chorus were used both by the Greeks and
the Japanese, and that their dramatic repre-
sentations had other features in common.
Is it possible that a hint of Greek method
found its way across the whole breadth of
Asia, missed all the intermediate countries
and lay dormant for a dozen centuries in
Japan before it came to life in the first
rude efforts to produce life-scenes on the
stage? We know that there were long-
distance interchanges of culture in very
early days. Greek art, filtering througti
Samarkand, did slightly influence Chinese
art; and it is quite possible that
at an earlier period Chinese art may have
influenced Greek. But the influence in such
cases was direct and immediate, while at
the time when the Greek theatre had real
power, the Japanese people had not yet
risen above a level of barbarism similar to
that of the Saxon and Germanic tribes. Of
course, the dramatic similarities do not
prove anything convincingly. The two re-
mote peoples may have hit upon the same
ideas by the merest accident; but this is
much harder to believe than that somewhere
behind both was a common model which fur-
nished the historic link between them.
A consideration of the matter heightens
this probability when account is taken of
the history of English drama. Greek drama
was, in the first place, a development of the
religious dances at certain festivals; Jap-
anese drama, a dozen or more centuries
later, arose from an almost identical source;
English drama had its beginnings in the
miracle plays by which the monks of the
Middle Ages sought to teach moral and reli-
gious lessons. But in the case of the Eng-
lish stage we know that, though it was of
native growth, there Avas always present in
the minds of its better-educated patrons
some knoAVlcdge of the theatre as it had
existed in Athens and Borne. Is it not toler-
ably reasonable to suppose that not only
the Japanese, but the Greeks also, had some
knowledge of another theatre too fine for
their immediate requirements, but never
wholly forgotten?
Another link in the possible chain is fur-
nished by the Song of Solomon. This work,
the date of which, from internal evidence,
can be placed about 050 n.c., has been
shown by modern scholarship to be the
fragment of a drama arranged in scenes
and developed by a chorus similar to that
of the Greeks. Thus, two or three centuries
before plays took definite form in Athens,
there existed a fully-developed form of the
drama; and that drama was in an Asiatic
country. Consider next the place of the
Song of Solomon and its relation to Hebrew
literature. It stands quite alone in the
preserved writings of a nation, and it is
shown by our scholars to have been pro-
duced in the northern kingdom of Israel
before the foundation of the city of Samaria.
Tirzah is mentioned as the northern capi-
tal in the drama itself; and Tirzah was
only the village capital of the first revolt-
ing kings. So the first drama we can trace
in the world was played in Northern Pales-
tine to village audiences, to Asiatic shepherds
and vine-dressers far from the world’s great
centres of culture. Yet it is not a crude
piece of work, but a fragment of a well-
Avritten and carefully-constructed play; and
it is scarcely conceivable that it Avas a first
attempt in an unknown art. What is much
more probable is that it Avas a Hebrew
attempt—and by no means the first —to imi-
tate an art well known and understood in
cities farther east; and that some-
Avhere in Asia there was a well-de-
veloped drama, dating beyond 1000 8.C.,
of which the works of Sophocles and
the No plays of Japan are distant
echoes. It is, of course, possible that the
Song of Solomon may have been written by
a foreigner at the instigation of King Jero-
boam himself ; for, although the drama in
its original form was a glorification of a
peasant girl’s constancy and a peasant’s
love, it had a political significance. Jero-
boam was. the brilliant young man of the
North Avho had incurred the displeasure of
Solomon, and had spent years of banishment
in Egypt. After Solomon’s death he led the
revolt against centralisation and the domina-
tion of Jerusalem, became king at Tirzah.
set up riA r al shrines at Bethel and Dan. and
did all in his power to break the religious
attachment of the people to the southern
city. Naturally, there would be literary, as
well as political, propaganda, and the play
would be the surest means of all of reaching
the people. In the little drama Solomon is
the bloated and unattractive old Sultan Avho
has snatched a northern maiden away from
her home, and Avho tries, with the assistance
of the women of his harem, who act as chorus,
to seduce her by his display of wealth and
power. The girl sighs only for the real
lover, who has found his way to Jerusalem
and is looking at her even then from the
AvindoAvs across the courtyard, “showing
himself through the lattice.” He cries to
her familiar words. She is his do\ T e in “the
secret places of the stairs.” The dream
motive of the second act, Avhere the girl
thinks she has met her lover, must
been very moving, as Avell as her attempt
to escape, when she went forth and was
beaten by the city watch and had her veil
torn from her. Doubtless, many of the pas-
sages are out of place or have lost their
context; for the Jews, who preserved the
book in the general gathering up of Hebrew
literature about five centuries later, had no
more idea what it meant than the Chris-
tians to whom they handed it on. What is
now clear, however, is that Solomon is not
the hero, but the villain of the piece; and
Avhile Tirzah was the northern capital, and
Jeroboam reigned as king, it was the thing
most to be desired that he should appear so.
The North was thus represented as embody-
ing the simple virtues, while the South,
instead of being a religious force, was shown
as a place of overgi*own luxury and vice.
So far in the unfolding of the plot I have
followed a modem scholar; but conjecture
might take the tale a little farther. W T hat
happened to the girl? My authority thinks
that Solomon, worn out by her persistence
and obstinacy, released her. But there is
surely another ending suggested in the frag-
mentary text we possess. Here is the pass-
sage. with the substitution of a marginal
reading for one proper name:—
I went down into the garden of nuts.... Or ever
I was aware my soul set me on the chariots of my
willing people.
Return, return, 0 Shulamite; return, return that
we may look upon thee. What will 3'e see in the
Shulamite? As it were the company of two armies.
Now, what has happened? Is it not mod-
erately clear that the girl was snatched from
the very harem garden and all the power of
Solomon by her lover, with “the chariots of
my willing people” leading “the company
of two armies”? And what more likely than
that the lover himself was Jeroboam, whose
exploit drove him into exile, but gave him
the prestige which afterwards caused him to
be elected king?
There follows all the extravagance of inti-
mate love-making, while they “lodge in the
villages.” Then the mother cries her wrel-
come. All the references are to places in
the North. But the political obtrudes itself
at the end.
My vineyard, which is mine, is before me; thou,
O Solomon, must have a thousand, and those that
keep the fruit thereof two hundred.
Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companions
hearken to thy voice: cause me to hear it.
Exactly! This same Solortion, who stole
the girl, is taking the unearned increment
from all our fruit-growing. Awake ! Arise !
The people are listening. It is the whole
reason for the revolt of the North in two
sentences.
Then the girl calls from the wings, “Make
haste, my beloved,” and the curtain falls.
No other drama has survived from Israel.
There may have been theatres in Jezreel in
the great reign of Ahab,; but no record is
left of them. The real sources may be found
far back in the Aryan-conquered countries
of Central Asia; for these link with Europe,
and there are hints of a prehistoric drama
there. Ancient Ireland in this, as in most
other matters relating to early culture, sup-
plies that hint. Dr. Douglas Hyde, most pro-
found of Irish students, tells us: “I think
it nearly certain —though I cannot prove it
—that in former days there was real acting
and a dialogue between two persons.” He
adds a footnote referring to a statement of
an Irishman in America that, in his youth,
he had actually seen the Ossianic lays acted.
That should amount very nearly to proof.
If there was dramatic representation of old
Gaelic themes still in vogue in the 19th
century it is comparatively certain that
there was real drama far back in pre-Chris-
tian times; and if plays were shown in Ire-
land it is tolerably sure that they were also
shown in Gaul and right through to the
Black Sea. So the knowledge of the dra-
matic idea did not first arise from the Greek
dances of the Dionysia any more than it
came from the monks of England or the
Buddhist priests of Japan, but was rooted
in the old soil of Europe and Asia in times
so remote that they defeat even conjecture.
What we know as origins are merely re-
vivals.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Incongruity
Life is incongruous. It runs in zig-zags
and epicycloids occasionally, but mostly in
no defined course at all. A combination of
kaleidoscope and delirium tremens best de-
scribes it. It has its rational streaks, but
they are a poor, thin bundle in the thread.
From .another planet you would hardly be
aware of them.
-But the persons who claim to depict life
as it actually exists —the novelists and
short-story writers —deliberately warp,
wrest and twist the facts of existence to an
ordered sequence, and impose certain imagi-
nary laws of their own upon them. The
more “realistic” the writer, the more arti-
ficial the sequence imposed. The modern
fancy for huge, inter-related novels dealing
with the life and adventures of a single
individual is a case in point. A large piece
of human existence, cut with a breadsaw out
of time as it swept past, by an intelligent
beast living in the fourth dimension, would
simply show 7 a swarming motley of jarring
influences. There would be no heroes except
such as were villains the next minute, no
defined characters that did not fade away
immediately, and no sequence of ordered
events, for the reason that order is an arti-
ficial quantity, and life, a mutual phenome-
non, has nothing in common with it.
The novelist at heart recognises this, but
cannot translate it into words. He there-
fore calmly sits down and unravels a long
thread of a single person’s life, not as it
occurred, but as it would appear to occur
to the person concerned. Naturally this is
a subjective view, and (as far as life is con-
cerned) a tissue of falsehood and make-
believe just as much as every other auto-
biography.
Still, the sense of order in this arrange-
ment appeals so much to the average reader
that he is taken in by it. There sits the
central character in the spotlight, and
around him, in nicely-arranged concentric
rings reaching to the horizon, are the other
characters in gradually-lessening importance.
An individual does not exist except in so
far as he touches on the‘central character;
and the latter himself is generally depicted
as an unchanging organism with a pre-
determined appanage of set passions, pur-
suing, and eventually attaining, some pre-
decided purpose; whereas the average man
usually arrives blindly at old age a.nd some
unexpected niche simultaneously, wondering
why his whiskers are white and how the hell
he got there.
For in actuality a man is not always the
chief character in his own life. Life is too
haphazard for that. The Victorian novelists
of the Dickens and Thackeray period recog-
nised this dimly when they see-sawed rapidly
from the action of (me group of characters
to that of another group in sequent chap-
ters. This gave a fine kaleidoscopic effect,
spoilt by the unlifelike division of the char-
acters into hero, heroine, villain, comic
relief, irritable old gentleman, or the rest of
the obvious labels current in the era, to say
nothing of the massing of the company for
a “happy curtain” in the final chapter. The
realistic school that followed touched actu-
ality, with the promising habit of suddenly
throwing about three dozen characters
rapidly in front of the reader for a start;
but the characters still “set,” hard-
cast, poured out of moulds, an excellent
frozen tableau of human beings as they
chanced to be at one second of their lives.
Followed the welter of so-called “historical”
stuff, with its posturing puppets dead from
birth; then the revolt, by way of the modern
“natural” repertory-drama, to the present-
day fancy for a long-winded, fact-crammed
narrative of a single being—with the rest
of life which accompanied it in Time omitted,
or used as filling or foils for the back-
ground. As a man may be a hero to his
typiste, a pirate to his trade-competitor, a
villain to his office-boy, and a coward before
his income-tax, with no guarantee that these
attitudes will not be interchanged or reversed
before the next new moon, “character” as
such may be said to be more or less evasive
and unfixable. This alone is one of the
characteristics of life w-hich makes it fluid,
incongruous, and as indescribable by mere
fixed words as a rapid stream of water is
incapable of being fixed to the soil by driv-
ing nails into it.
Perhaps music, which has a more chaotic
mental effect than the written word, ap-
proaches Life more nearly ; but the plain fact
of the matter is that Life is without sequence
or order, other than that of Time. The
planet dreams—inconsequent visions flit
across the cosmic sleep—and we happen to
be in them.
The modern novel, with its mathematics of
emotion and its action-patterns, resembles
that fluttering example of Incongruity,
Human Life, as little as a suburban wall-
paper resembles a forest.
ANTON DENNING.
A Satchel of Books
One who encounters Anatole France for the first
time in La Vie en Fleur (Calmann-LC*vy; our copy
from F. W. Preece, Adelaide) will be apt to wonder
why the Vatican should have put his works on the
“Index.” It is the story of his boyhood. In the
serious, cultured and profoundly religious atmosphere
of an upper middle-class French family he acquired
that love of Greek and Latin literature which was
to be reflected later in such works as “Thais.” But
there is no gorgeous word-painting here, and no
Pagan outlook on life. During much of the book he
laughs gently at himself; and all through it he
writes about simple things in the simplest language.
It is a tribute to the soft yet penetrating light,
which he casts on a number of delightful characters
—-his boy friends, his mother, his tutor —that the
book should have run through 14 editions in France.
It is a work that should be used in every French
class as a model of technical skill and economy of
phrase. *
“To no Woman,” writes Sir William Arbuthnot
Lane, in a preface to Safe Marriage (William lieine-
mann), “has it been permitteef to do the same
amount of good as, and to save more misery and
suffering, both during and after the war, than Miss
Ettie Rout.” Her war work, for which she was
awarded the Reeonnaisance Francaise (the Republic’s
premier decoration for women), was done at the
Anzac Soldiers’ Club in Paris, where she devoted
herself to saving the men from venereal disease. This
book is, in a sense, the outcome of the experience
so gained. She states her theme in two sentences,
in an early part of her book: —
“The chief obstacles to early and happy marriage
are financial, and these would largely disappear if
women were able to control fecundity. The chief
obstacles to healthy marriage are the venereal dis-
eases, and these could be extirpated in two or three
generations if sexual cleanliness was properly taught
to all adults.”
Without any beating about the bush she proceeds
to advocate birth-control, and to indicate to her
readers how the thing may be effected. Not that
she fails to realise the necessity of increase on
the part of the white races; not that she favors
immorality in any shape or form, but because she
holds that mothers have rights as well as children,
and that one healthy child is of more value to the
State than three sickly ones. In this connection
she quotes, with effect, from an address delivered
by the King’s physician, Lord Dawson, of Penn,
before the Church Congress at Birmingham, last
year:
“Generally speaking, birth control before the first
child is inadvisable. On the other hand, the justifi-
able use of birth control would seem to be to limit
the number of children when such is desirable, and
to spread out their arrival in such a way as to
serve their true interests 'and those of their home.”
Care, continence, cleanliness —these are the virtues
on which she harps tirelessly from the beginning
of her book to the end. It is probable that the
British Empire would be revitalised sufficiently to
lead the world, if not rule it, for a thousand years
to come if her views, which are those of most of
Britain’s most eminent doctors, could be generally
imposed. But there seems little hope that they
will be. False modesty and false morality, the
twin Molochs to which millions of innocent children
are being sacrificed every year, have too finn a hold
on the people of our race.
Mr. Prohack, by Arnold Bennett (Methuen).
This is a sparkling novel, evidently written at high
speed by a man wh® was enormously entertained by
his subject. Briefly, Mr. Prohack, a British
Treasury official, is unexpectedly left a large fortune,
and Bennett whimsically describes the poor fellow’s
unhappiness in endeavoring to make the fullest use
of the money. Prohack is a delightful character,
with a Shavian intensity of irony in his conversa-
tions, but all his mordancy and humor avail him
not against the implacable social “push” of his wife,
aided and abetted by her son and daughter. Apart
from the characterisation and the story, the
book is well worth reading for the diverting snap-
shots of scenes in the lives of the Idle Classes. Ben-
nett’s method in these moments is near to farce,
but this doesn’t discount the note of derision that
breaks out at odd times in a chilly pungency of
expression. The lady who “looked 40 in the theatre,
50 in a garden, and 60 to her maid at dawn,” is
only one of numerous victims of a satire that pal-
pably feels it has a public duty to perform.
Canine Distemper: Its Complications, Sequelae and
Treatment, by Hamilton Kirk (Railliere, Tindall and
Cox, London). An impressive collection of material
concerning a disease the etiology of which is still
by no means exhausted, and affording a comprehensive
review of all available theories and clinical facts
bearing upon it. The book is of particular value to
the vet. and the student, but also might well find a
place on the shelves of all fanciers.
In court-martial cases, even where professional
soldiers are engaged, it is the commonest thing for
the prosecutor to leave an essential part of his case
unproved. Say the prisoner is charged with “steal-
ing goods, the property of a Comrade.” The prose-
cutor may prove the theft up to the hilt, and close
his case without showing that the articles taken
were the property of a comrade —or of anybody else;
whereupon, if the prisoner’s friend knows his job,
an acquittal will ensue. Such casualness is to be found
occasionally in courts where professional lawyers prac-
tice, and it is to obviate it that T. S. Crawford, M.A.
and barrister-at-law, of Sydney, has written his
Proofs in Criminal Cases (The Law Book Co. of
Australasia). Let it be assumed that Brown stands
charged with the crime of “assaulting one preserving
a wreck.” This book first shows how the indictment
must be drawn, and then details the four things
that have to be proved—that the vessel was wrecked;
that the assaulted one was trying to preserve it or its
contents; that Brown was guilty of the assault, and
that his intentions were evil. The omission to
sheet home any of these points will bring about the
discharge of the accused, however patently guilty
he may be, and here is where the book is likely to
be as teluable to budding defenders as it certainly
will be to newly-fledged prosecutors. At the end
of the volume there are notes on “Onus of Proof.”
and “Circumstantial Evidence,” and a table of
alternative verdicts, with the governing section in
each case —all interesting to the layman and invalu-
able to the practising lawyer.
The inky Way
“Lou”: Twelve months ago I couldn’t find one of
Henry Lawson’s hooks in the Brisbane Library. A
few days ago 1 had another look, and found none.
Perhaps they’ll wake up now.
“P.A.L.” (M.L.): Tins Bulletin’s appropriation
of Tom Glover leaves black-and-white art at a low
ebb in Maoriland. Glover’s pre-eminence in Indian
ink has been noteworthy for some time now, and
latterly so many demands were made on him that he
had to resort to a multitude of aliases. Being an
honest chap, T.E.G. stuck to his name all the time,
abbreviating it and twisting it, but always keeping
within its alphabetical limitations. During the war
(he was just off to it when he went down to a shat-
tering attack of pneumonia) he did some election
work for a Wellington daily, appending his name to
his sketches backwards, thus, “Revolg.” Whereupon
a reptile contemporary slung the bitter taunt at the
daily that it was employing a German!
“J.E.L.” : Edward Dyson (B. 14/9/’22) errs slightly
regarding the first date of publication of Marcus
Clarke’s work, “His Natural Life.” I possess, in a
good state of preservation, bound copies of the Aus-
tralian Journal, in which this novel first appeared,
in March, 1870, and also an autographed copy of
the work as it appeared in book form; the two differ
somewhat in version. My late father was a personal
friend of Marcus Clarke, and I have heard him relate
incidents illustrative of the erratic nature of the
novelist, including the one told by Mr.
Dyson about Clarke’s chancing it with the
Bank of Australasia’s ledger totals. Clarke
had contracted with the publishers of the Australian
Journal to supply monthly instalments of “His
Natural Life”; but on one extra-joyful Christmas-
time he liad no copy ready, and the Journal had to
go to press with an apology to its readers. As
Clarke himself explained to the publishers, “some
good-natured friend or other will say I have over
plum-puddingcd or hot-whiskied myself in honor of
the so-called festive season, but I can’t help it.”
“D.”: English periodicals are apparently in pretty
much the same financial position as the newspapers
(B. 24/8/’22). The owners must have felt that the
only alternatives to going broke were the introduc-
tion of new features, and an increase in size. This
has been very noticeable in the high-class journals,
especially in the Saturday Review. Other periodi-
cals introduce “Spring numbers,” “Summer
numbers” and “Special numbers” at double
the price. The new feature I have noticed
in the Fortnightly, the National and other re-
views is the introduction of an article dealing with
a French subject, with copious quotes in that tongue.
Every month one may notice this innovation in one
or other review. The conservative old Saturday
Review, whose policy for ages has been changeless
where all was change, has gone one better, and it
is a decided improvement to read the Paris letter
in the French tongue. It gives to it an appropriate
atmosphere, and enables home truths to be more
delicately conveyed. But there are other changes in
the Saturday which will make old subscribers wonder
whether they are awake or dreaming. It has been
altered, and enlarged, and topics are discussed which
were formerly on the “Index Expurgatorius,” e,g.,
“The Turf.” Also, the old journal has gone in for
stories about Bulletin length, the first one appear-
ing on July 1, 1922. In addition to this there is
another enormity—the first of a series of caricatures
by “Quiz.” “Saturday” stories by well-known writers
such as Maugham and De Stacpoole are promised, but
if the first one published is a sample, short-storv
writing in the Cold Country must be about played
out.
“Hullo, Jack —another new hat! You're cultivating extrava-
gant tastes lately, aren't you?
"Well, I wanted a hat for business, and this only cost me 21/-
at David Jones'. It's Australian pure fur felt, too. I
call that economy; not extravagance."


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
Ihi broflird
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and ltoof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HAIDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B'd’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
3D Currie St., A tie I aide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z*
Judge by Results.
Records, experience and the example set by
thousands of growers prove the wisdom of
this advice.
SEND YOUR WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
VITAMITE! VITAMITEH
You Ask, What is Vitamite?
We Answer the Question.
tT is a Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria, which, when
placed in the soil, increases by millions, supply-
ing the much-needed Nitrogen to plant life.
When the great American national increased-food-
production stunt was in full force, one of the Direc-
tors, A. S. Gould, F.R.H.S., publicly staked his
reputation on VITAMITE, and won all along the line.
For the increased production of all plant life it
stands absolutely alone for Flowers, Vegetables,
Fruit and Wheat. Give it a trial; if it doesn't do
what we say, money returned.
A trial packet, with full directions, capable of
inoculating 10,000 seedlings, post free, 2/6.
THE AUSTRALIAN VITAMITE CO.,
192-94 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
99
“M.L.
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
09 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Culvrulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
•EGISTEREO
TIAOE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY,
ISSsSii
Australasian Representatives:—•
Norman Baker & Longhurst
60 York Street, Sydney.
Science gives proof of the
Nutriment in
gs
Everyone must have nutriment to maintain health
and strength, and the energy to live a useful life.
/£e?ss)i
..V.Toiu.
mnmw
A PURE
COO LIVER OIL
EMULSION
W
aw
A Medical Scientist recently demonstrated that the
nutritious elements in Cod Liver Oil are consider-
ably greater than in a food so rick in fat as butter.
This discovery reveals the secret of the phenomenal
success and popularity of HYPOL, which contains
50% of .the finest Cod Liver Oil from the Norwegian
Fisheries, but blended so skilfully with the hypo-
phosphites of lime, potash and soda, and so en-
ticingly flavoured, that it is just as pleasant to take
as it is wholesome.
Doctori recommend HYPOL largely for the following
Complaints, and it never fails
Coughs
Colds
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Anaemia
Debility
Influenza
Nerves
Measles
Rickets
Loss of Weight
Whooping Cough
There’s some distinction and originality about HYPOL.
Substitutes are “not as good.”
INSIST ON GETTING HYPOL,
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. PROP. LTD.. Melbourne.
Skandia
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Jackeroo : The Theodore Government is
still tearing scalps off the Q. wool-dukes and
beef-barons. At the recent .Land Court
Appeals in Brisbane 41 squatters, whose
appeals were disallowed, were required to
pay, in the aggregate, £50,040 as retrospec-
tive rent
w * • *
“Macte” : Re the preservation of eggs, dis-
cussed by ‘-Tiberias” (B. 29/6/’22) and
Cruma (B. 20/7/’22). Take two cups of
coarse salt and one cup of lime. Pour boil-
ing water on the mixture, and- leave it to
cool. Then dilute with about half-a-kero-
sene-tin full of water. I have used this for
years, and never known it to fail yet.
. Ack F. C.” on subtleties: Last week my
wife purchased a pair of corsets, scheduled
as rustless,” and, of course, Yankee-made.
-Lnc rustless secret was disclosed yesterday
when the family Pom., unblushingly invad-
ing the privacy of the wardrobe, pulled sev-
eral cane supports from the stays. Again,
I recently purchased a sitting of champion
eggs guaranteed non-broody strain. True
to label the chickens were non-broody—
every bally one was a rooster.
‘‘M. Magee”: “Ilecagus” (B. 14/9/’22)
growls because his “made-in-Japan” tooth-
brush lasted only a fortnight. Well, mine
lasted three days, and for another thx-ee
I was occupied in removing alleged bristles
from between my teeth. But, even worse
than the small brown man’s toothbrushes
and lead-pencils, are the “made-in-Japan”
underclothing. They wash about as satis-
factorily as one of those wafers that are
supplied with ice-creams.
* * * *
“^l'chbeU”: I agree with “Gnarek” (B.
21/9/22) when he states that Australian
timber is not altogether neglected by fur-
niture-makers. In Melbourne most manu-
facturers use no other timbers, Australian
hardwoods, blackwood and Queensland
maple being the favorites. I’ll back a suite
turned out of any of these woods to put any
imported stuff in the shade. I don’t know
why silky-oak is not more extensively used.
I saw clock-cases made by Duff’s, in Mel-
bourne, from it, that excelled anything I
ever saw in the wood line.
# #
“Azac”: “Shammy” leather, retailed at
fancy prices in any old shop, is no rela-
tion whatever to chamois leather. The word
“shammy” is supposed to be a corruption
of the dinkum Swiss-French word “chamois’’
—a small deer —but as a matter of fact both
the word and the leather are corruptions.
The stuff is mostly made out of sheepskin.
Sometimes goatskin is used where goats are
plentiful. The skin is put through fully a
dozen processes, but the trouble is well worth
while, especially if the manufacturer is en-
terprising enough to cut the finished product
up into neat squares and brand them with
a trade-mark showing a deer jumping a
chasm, or something to that effect, in order
to up the “shammy” with the chamois.
South Aus. has been celebrating its manu-
facture of the latest type of “mountain
engine” for use on the steep grades and
sharp curves between Hobart and Launces-
ton. S.A. Chamber of Manufactures took a
party to the Perry Co.’s works at Gawler to
view the new production, beside which the
locomotives locally used looked like infants.
Perry, head of the manufacturing co., claimed
that the powerful engines used in the U.S.A.
are ugly, whereas the new Australian design
is “on most pleasing lines.” L. C. Leslie,
of Melbourne, is the designer. Hague, S.A.
Minister of Railways, speaking at the inevit-
able lunch, regretted as a good Australian
that it had been necessary to send abroad for
the steel and iron, and hoped that New-
castle would still be “in a position to com-
pete” with other centres of manufacture.
Adelaide’s little river, the Torrens, is giving
more trouble than it is worth. In the six
miles between city and sea, it gets lost in
reedbeds, and works away partly to the north
to the Port River, partly to the Patawalonga
at Glenelg. Several times each winter it
floods the Henley Beach road, also portions
of Henley, which popular town is now spread-
ing back from the sandhills into the reed-
beas themselves. Also, it is silting up the
country. A deputation from various muni-
cipal bodies has asked the Commissioner of
Public Works to take on some (unspecified)
scheme for meeting the trouble, and a bill
is promised this session. The Engineer-in-
Chief of S.A. has recommended a bold plan
of cutting a true mouth for the Torrens
through the sandhills; but experience shows
that artificial watercourses of this kind have
a horrid way of choking up.
“Lexite”: “Ynot” (B. 21/9/’22) hardly
puts his finger on the main reason of the
difficulty in securing apprentices. Under
the Repat.’s Deceased Soldiers’ Children
scheme, efforts have been made to push all
the children into apprenticeships as they come
of suitable age; and the main difficulty is
with the kids themselves. Every healthy-
minded boy, apparently, wants to be either
an engineer (preferably electrical) or a
motor-mechanic; failing the achievement of
their fancy,- the big wages for boy’s unskilled
work exercise too big a pull. Engineers’
apprentices start with 11s. per week and rise
only by half-year half-crown lifts, yet. quite
apart from the Repat. beneficiaries, who re-
ceive an extra allowance to help them
through, there is a crush for those appren-
ticeships that is really amazing. But the
insurgent boyhood of to-day cannot be in-
duced to look at other callings. This, more
than the difficulty of maintenance felt by
parents, is the real trouble. Nothing but
the making of apprenticeship at some calling
compulsory will wipe out the attraction of
dead-end jobs.
» * » *
“George Rich”: To “Rus” (B. 17/8/’22)
and “Cruma” (B. 20/7/’22) I would recom-
mend as egg-preservatives lard or common
salt in preference, to treacle (messy) and
vaseline (expensive). Eggs put down in
salt seldom betray the date of their birth
or embarrass the vendor when palming them
off in the profiteer season, as “gathered dur-
ing the week.” very worst specimen of
a salted batch I struck recently was far too
good to throw at Hughes.


'8
m m/
sab
y i/bnoc/ifj. AcsojQ spuGjj^oo^
PETER
.DAWSONS
X
Wrr , ii' , T , l
ilifeiy/i
i
-H
-mmzm
U
111 Llii
SCOTCH WHISKY
the brand of historic lineage.
WHISKY virtue lies in its
age. Only pure, well-
matured, very old whisky is
blended into “P.D.” Brand.
Hence its appreciation as
everyone’s favourite Scotch
—everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.
Distillers, GLASGOW,
SCOTLAND.
feILLABONG
TROUGHING
PUMPS-MILLS
See those grooves at the end of each
length of “Billabong” Troughing. They
fit into each other —lock like a vise—
lock out leaks.
The Troughing cannot pull apart. The
frame, legs and cross bars are made of
angle steel. Put them in place, tighten
up with a spanner, and you have a
rigid galvanised-steel Trough any length.
There is a size for cattle, sheep and pigs.
WON’T PULL APART—STANDS JOSTLING —WON’T LEAR.
Will your watering appliances stand the test of the coming Summer? Order early and save twice.
“Billabong” Mills and Pumps meet your needs at that reasonable price you have m mind. We make
a pump for most agricultural, pastoral or mining purposes. Write to-night.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY. LTD.
324-330 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
391-403 BourKe Street, MELBOURNE
\
ki
uG
y//
>y
a
i
to
S' - ****
N -217
4*
DS
2
<3s
*r
H
n
r:
<*2>
s'
fti Q
)A
Si£>*
to
%
i
locks
ni
ou^
Va c
- =3S
*s^
«“<V
fef
MS
o*
jIT
5^4
A
*'*
ainwnuimuikl


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
‘‘ half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines —
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain’s Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are ( *ld and gentle in their action and
pleas*. to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
<L
P*
S^'
vJtv-i
c.lO
TV't
dM°
Mt"
CV-^*
u^'ln
Ciui
pt«> ok -
(ac
S 3
6^
VAE>^
ta' N
£v\*
s>N
*Y-
SVO*^
\/e>
i®
<y
CHAMBERLAIN'S TABLETS are
an ideal preparation for relieving
Boils, Pimples and blood disorders.
They cleanse the stomach and liver,
thus purifying the blood. An occasional
dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
prevent a recurrence of the Boils.
If you wish to try before you buy, send
your address and twopence for postage to
Chamberlain’s Ltd., 520 Riley St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Chamberlains
dfg
Tablets
sdf
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
Some Causes of Profit and Loss
The manner in which the machinery of a factory is run to a great extent
controls the profits. If power is lost through the use of old-fashioned plain
hearings the profits will naturally not show as favorably as they might.
That is why every works-manager should inquire into
5Kp
BALL BEARINGS.
Let him ask any business associate who has had experience with SKF. He
will be told of lubrication bills that are trifles, of production that, with the
same facilities, is larger than it ever was, of overhead expenses that are down
to a minimum, and of a total absence of profit-losing breakdowns due to
faulty bearings
He will also learn of tremendous horse-power saved, of friction eliminated, of
the necessity of inspection and lubricatiota only three or four times a year, of
how the ball bearings look after themselves—even in the case of shaft
deflection SKF Ball Bearings, being self-aligning, adjust themselves.
j; -.- ;
Illustrated literature posted to any address on request.
.. ;■ ' \ ■T' ; .. v
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
DISTRIBUTING CENTRES ALSO AT
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
BB 22/3.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W A.) Ltd
37 King Street.
‘•Sucre”: Squatters in the Gayndah (Q.)
district are now busy rolling up their
"blueys” and tramping west. The invader
that threatens them is cotton. Quite re-
cently million acres of their back yards
have been resumed by the Government for
closer settlement.
“Exul”: The house opposite the hospital
was on fire, and the glare came through the
window of the room prepared to receive the
man who was on his way back from the
operating-theatre. The surgeon, remember-
ing that patients emerging from an anaes-
thetic often interpret quite wrongly things
happening around them, directed the nurse
to pull down the blind. “It might give him
a bad shock if he comes to and thinks he’s
dead,” he explained.
Lieut.-Col. Semmens, lately criticised for
holding two jobs under the Repat. scheme,
comes of a Cornish family which landed in
Adelaide in 1848. When the Vic. diggings broke
out the head of the clan trekked overland
to Bendigo and started burrowing for gold.
His son, Thomas, the parent of the Repat.
expert, was apparently not a member of the
expedition, but another boy, John, humped
a pick and swag and now claims to be Ben-
digo’s oldest resident. He has been living in
the same spot for over 70 years. Up till
three or four years ago he was the city’s star
ornamental gardener, and turned a lot of
waste land into miniature Edens.
“Lip” adventures into the industrial whirl :
To anyone in need of a few hours’ diversion I
recommend a visit to a few of the gentlemen who
advertise “Partner Wanted” in the dailies. I have
tried it recently; my first call was on an alleged
hotel- and business-broker. He was a young man
with a brisk manner and codfish eyes, who came
quickly to the point. “Seventy-five quid will get
you a half-share in this business,” he said. “Twenty-
five goes into the bank for our exes., the other 50
is for me for teaching you the business.” 1 asked
for particulars of the business whose intricacies I
could master for such a moderate sum. He gave
them. “I stay in the office ; you go round to differ-
ent pubs and wineshops” (I’d often done this before
without paying any premium, but I did not mention
it) “and ask them if they want to sell out, and if so
at what figure. See? Say you’ve got a pub that
wants to sell out for £2000.” He jotted down
“ £2000” on his blotting-pad. “We make .it
£2260.” Another “ £250” on the blotting-pad. “A
buyer comes along and we sell at our price. The
owner gets his £2000; we get £250 —£125 each.
We ought to get four of those a week ; that’s a clear
£5OO a week each. Five hundred pounds a week
each! And that’s under estimat” When 1
recovered I was two blocks away.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Old Henry Lucy, in
his latest book of reminiscences, gives a
pathetic account of the closing days of
Robert Lowe, Viscount Sherbrooke: —
A poor, broken-down old gentleman, pitiful to
look upon by those who remember him in the
House of Commons fighting his way against terrible
odds into the front rank of statesmanship. His
once brilliant mind is blurred. He was always
short-sighted. Now, all lights are dim to him,
and he is led about like a child by the faithful
friend and sometime secretary, on whose head he
in his old age placed a peeress’s coronet.
Lowe was a prominent figure in the Sydney
of the ’forties as barrister, journalist and
Parliamentarian. When he and W. C. Went-
worth were elected the two members for
Sydney in the pioneer Australian Parlia-
ment, the Sydney crowd drew him in tri-
umph through the streets —a compliment
they did not pay his more distinguished and
deserving colleague. Lowe was the, idol of
the Sydney populace, but in London he was
mobbed and howled at in Parliament-street
when, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, Ihe
proposed to put a tax on matches. Bryant
and May’s factory girls would have given
him a bad time if they could have got within
arm’s length of him.
“Kapunai’s” island romance :
On a Government station, near Port Moresby, :he
corporal of Native Constabulary got the necessary
permission to marry-, and take his wife on the
“strength.” He duly passed the word along the
coast to his betrothed’s village, about 150 miles
away, and a dusky lady transpired. The happy
man mentioned casually to the officer-in-charge
that she was not the love of his life at all; in fact,
till the moment of her arrival he had never seen
her. Still, he went on philosophically, as she was
on the spot she would do. And they’ have lived
happily ever since.
“U.P.”: In sparkling wines and brandy,
Australia is supplying more and more of
its own requirements. Prior to the war
22,000 cases of the former were imported
annually, but the last figures available
showed a drop to 8000 cases. Australian
brandy is also rapidly gaining in favor. The
pre-war importation of brandy was 200,000
gallons a year—now it is only 60,000 gallons,
while the annual consumption of Australian
brandy has increased from 120,000 to nearly
200,000 gallons. To produce this latter quan-
tity takes about a million gallons of wine,
so the brandy business means a big thing
to Australian vignerons.
“Hydro”: The “honorable understanding”
method has evidently reached Australian
contractors. At a recent meeting of the
Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Board in
Brisbane, the secretary announced that four
tenders were received for the supply and de-
livery of stoneware or concrete pipes. The first
was for £4427 12s. Id. The second was for
£6265 4s. 2d., and the third for the same
amount. Members were wondering whether
this was merely’ a remarkable coincidence,
when the fourth offer was announced—
£626s 4s. 2d. once more. Whereat, several
members remarked “Collusion” simultane-
ously. A more favored method nowadays is
for collusive firms to submit varying tenders,
after arranging that all shall whack the
profit, whichever secures the job.
“Exul”: The incompetence of some magis-
trates was strikingly demonstrated by two
cases tried recently at Hobart. A ruffian
was found guilty of starving his domestic
animals. Three of his tied-up cows were
shown to be weak and emaciated from want
of food, while a fourth was dying from the
same cause. Of two pigs in a sty, one was
dead. The other, in the Avord of the in-
spector, “was mad with hunger, and a liv-
ing skeleton.” It had eaten part of its
dead mate. For this dastardly piece of
neglect and cruelty the defendant was
asked to pay £3 and 30s. costs. In the other
case, tried the next day, a man was convicted
of playing draw poker in a hotel and handed
“£2O or seven days!”


If
’
i; /
L
.
m
■ H
■HI
mm
Chocolate
I do like my Daddy—zee
what he's brought me home!
The Fam o u s Red Box
Chocolates. Mailed to you
the day they are made.
Prices:
3/-, 6/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-
and 30/-
Post Free to any address in
Australia,
gs
162466 Pitt Street;
a bo
Cr. George S King
Streets, Sydney.
S!
..m
W. ■
nis!
Jfw
&
£
2m3KSm*m
rw
-Sfcr
-a«
/$*
TEXACO FARM PRODUCTS
The progressive farmer realises that Quality means service, and the
fuel that gives more power to his internal-combustion engine, with less
consumption and freedom from carbon, is the fuel he has been in need of.
Texaco Power Kerosene is that fuel —its service assures him of
maximum engine power and economy in operating costs. It is always
of the same high standard of quality.
Farmers prefer Texaco Farm Lubricants because they maintain the
running of tractors and other farm machinery at their highest efficiency,
smoothly and with the minimum of wear and tear.
Texaco Lubricants defeat friction and keep down expenses.
There’s a Texaco Lubricant for your every lubricating need;
Texaco Tractor Oil, Texaco Harvester Oil, Texaco Separator Oil, etc.,
and Texaco Greases.
Ask your nearest dealer.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEXACO
X
a
A
Good Values in Men’s Headwear & Footwear
from Lassetter’s Catalogue,
a copy of which is yours,
Post Free, for the asking.
dfg
MW I.—Men’s Pur Felt Hats, light grey
shade, black band, bound 2§in. leaf.. 25/-
MW lA.—Men’s Felt Hats, slate and
light fawn shades; black band, cut edge.
Sizes, 6j to 71 10/6
MW IB.—-Boys’ Felt Hats, grey, brown
and slate shades 9/6
With stitched edge, in light or dark grey mix-
ture. Sizes, to 6| 9/11
MW 3.—Men’s Fur Felt Hats, light
grey and dark grey shades, black band, stitched
turn-over edge 25/-
MW 3A. —Men’s Fur Felt Hats, light
grey, steel grey and slate shades; black band,
cut edge, 21in. leaf 32/6
MW 4A.—Men’s Real American
Native Panama Hats, of best quality.
Sizes 6f to 7 7} ..., .... 25/-, 30/-, 32/6
MW sA. —Men’s Fur Felt Hats, light
grey and slate shades, black band, cut edge,
leaf will turn down if desired 15/6
MW 2.—Men’s Fur Felt Hats, light grey,
steel grey and slate shades; black band, stitched
turn-over edge. Best quality and good shape 37/6
MW 2A. —Youths’ Felt Hats, slate shade,
black band, cut edges. Sizes 6A to 7.... 10/6
MW 2B.—Bovs’ Panama Hats, with strap,
4/11
With black band, and leather inside.. 6/11
With strap, and leather inside 7/3
With black band, and leather inside 7/9
Real Native Panama Hats, with strap 12/6
MW 4.—Men’s Fur Felt Hats, light grey and
dark grey, black hand, cut edg'e, 2Ai n. leaf 30/-
MW 4A—Men’s White Helmets, cork-
lined, ventilated head band. Sizes 6g to 7-J,
14/6
92 pages
illustrating
everything
from Fashions
to Farming
Machinery.
1
MW s.—Men’s Soft Calf Riding
Boots, light standard screwed soles,
and strap on elastic side to ensure
longer wear 21/-
Same style, in Tan Willow Calf 25/-
Also stocked in Black Glace Wallaby,
with sewn soles 21 /-
MW (i.—Men’s White Can-
vas Lace Boots, with chrome
hide soles 25/-
Same make, with plain leather
soles .. .. 21/-
MW B.—Men's
Tan Puttee Leg-
gingS, military
shape, with strap.
Blocked in one piece,
correct cut and finish,
22/ 6
Also Tan Front-Spring
Leggings 25/-
When ordering please
state calf measurement.
MW 7.—Men’s Glace Kid Lace
Boots, welted soles. A smart, dressy
shape 32/6
Also in Tan Willow Calf 32/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE ALL OVER AUSTRALIA ON ALL GOODS IN THIS ADVERTISEMENT.
F. LASSETTER <EI CO. LIMITED,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4 \<2. Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
HINTS FOR HUSBANDS WHO
FEEL JUST A LITTLE TOUCHY
IN THE MORNING—A
New
‘TjiflfSr
SAFETY"' RAZOR
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 lied and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
D. O. M
BENEDICTINE
Is the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
W. & W. 63
COLEMAN
Quick-Lite
LAMP
THE LIGHT RIVALS THE SDNLIGHT
Your Quick-Lite will always give a
300-candlepoAver light. No better light
is possible for reading, for sewing, or
for knitting. Imagine a light 20
times better than you get with an
old oil lamp—that is Coleman Quick-
Lite.
fi
j*; •
It has Two
Mantles, and the
Light does not
cast Shadows.
Burns Gas made
from Petrol, and
Lights with a,
Match.
Less Trouble—Less Danger.
Don’t, worry about Quick-Lite. It, is built for
strength, and burns safely in any position.
No dirty wick or smoky chimney. Made of
brass and beautifully nickelled.
Price 95/- each.
From Ironmongers and Stores, complete with
Spare Parts for converting into a Hanging
Lamp.
Write Coleman Factory Representative, Box
1083, Melbourne, when dealers do not stock.
GOVERNMENT
sd
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4% INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. Pi
I to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
U' l ' l -■
■ m
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich., U. S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Matlnc-Enftlnes arc made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenlv balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
25-21 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.SJL
Ceble Address-KERMATH
fg
THE STORM KING
LANTERN.
350 Candle'
power.
Burns Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/-
Also Table Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— Lux Light
Co., 495 Collins Street Melbourne
Positions Vacant.
MINING ENGINEER & ASSISTANT
WANTED
TO sample and survey extensive alluvial
deposit in New Guinea.
Four to six months’ engagement, leave
early date.
Reply,, stating age, training and experience,
and salary wanted, to A. MOLINE, Com-
monwealth Chambers, Bendigo.
THE SPECIAL
FORD PLUG
is the finest plug made for
the Ford engine for which
it is expressly designed.
Excess've lubrication will not impair its efficiency.
Cleaning is made easy by the 2-piece construction,
and the hexagon fits the standard Ford spanner.
£-in. taper gas thread - Model AF3
Metric thread - Model PF3
Packed in sealed bronze metal boxes .
aP*
Varied currencies and duties make
it impossible to advertise fixed
selling prices. Full particulars
and prices can readily be obtained
from wholesale importers,
dealers and garages everywhere.
LODGE PLUGS
LTD.
RUGBY, ENGLAND.
NOTE. The best results are
obtained with the spark-gap
set to *o2in. with magneto
ignition and *O3 in. with coil
ignition. The Lodge Gap
Gauge makes the setting easy.
NV/^
A.-
jivlotkerWlLi!
KlMg
Wl
Pir&E
COMJDJUATSEn
sdf
/lakes Lovely # Lakes.
and Babies Iknve om it
“Sir Spen”: Business competition and
racial feeling are equally keen in some parts
of Australia, and so in the main street of
a N.S.W. North Coast town a soft-drinks
emporium displays this slogan:—
Drink here before the day goes.
The point is that a brace of Neapolitans
have a shop opposite.
“Splinter”: The old church at Port Mac-
quarie, N.S.W., ha_s lived in six dioceses.
First, it was in the diocese of Calcutta,
when Australia was only an archdeaconry ;
next in the diocese of Australia. Then it
became, successively, a part of Sydney, New-
castle and Grafton and Armidale (com-
bined). Now it is in Grafton. It doesn’t
look very uplifted, either.
“Flicker”: “Big Ben” Rounsevell, ’listed
as G.O.M. of S.A. (B. 21/9/’22), has
scant honor, it would seem, in his own
municipality. In front of his home at Glen-
elg was a row of fine Moreton Bay fig-trees
which he was intensely proud of, having
planted them himself. Such was. his regard
for the things that he even waged a dignified
warfare (usually through his coachman)
with the youth of the vicinity who had bird-
nesting ambitions. (I have left portions of
skin and clothing on those trees myself.)
The Glenelg Council decided, the other day,
that the trees were a nuisance, and in spite
of considerate suggestions that they might
be left for a bit longer, the majority of the
Bumbles refused to hear of such “sentimen-
talism.” So the trees have been grubbed
out, and no one is advantaged, while “Big
Ben” is vastly annoyed and hurt.
“Bouragi” exhibits scepticism :
“C. Coral” (B. 10/8/’2‘2) tells of a new diving-
dress recently tried at Thursday Island, the same
consisting of “a rubber contraption with windows
fitting over the eyes, and a metal device on each
side of the mouth which regulates the air supply.
Nothing else but a weighted belt is worn.” Nobody,
accustomed to diving, will credit the possibility of
such an apparatus having been used successfully at
“40 fathoms.” Thirty fathoms is about the limit
for divers with the regulation “suit.” “C.C.” has
evidently no conception of the fearful pressure per
square inch which water exercises on a diver at
this depth. A naked man would be drowned at
once—filled with water through his pores. In the
ordinary dress a thick elastic air-cushion protects
the diver, and even then he is in danger from the
air which is forced into the blood stream. For this
reason, the last thing he desires is to be “lowered
and raised quickly,” a merit “C.C.” claims for the
new invention. Such a thing means sudden death,
and has killed hundreds of divers before the trick of
slowly raising a man from deep water in several
stages was discovered.
“Morehead” : Parson Evelyn George Mus-
champ, rector of Holy Trinity, Launceston
(Tas.), who has been annoying a few of his
parishioners by his High Churchism, is one
of the most likeable Anglican shepherds in
the Speck. A B.A. of Oxford, he went to
the Apple Island in 1907, and has been
variously headmaster of Hutchin School,
Hobart, rector of Sorrell, Hogley and Long-
ford, examining chaplain to the Bishop of
Tas., and chaplain in the A.I.F. His wife
was a nurse in the General Hospital at
Manchester.
John Garibaldi Roberts (B. 21/9/’22) is
well known in Melbourne literary and artis-
tic circles. His friends frequently foregather
in his fascinating library at Hastings-road,
Hawthorn. To Roberts, Dennis dedicated
his “Sentimental Bloke,” and John Shirlow
his “Melbourne Set of Etchings.” A son fell
at Mont St. Quentin, and Roberts, a great
admirer of the Melbourne sculptor, is natu-
rally taking a keen interest in the great
statue Web Gilbert is preparing for the
famous Mont.
“Randolph Rentless”: A Sydney street
cadger, who was presented at court the
other day on a charge of mendicancy, turned
out, upon being searched, to have £lB 6s.
about his person. How much he had else-
where was not ascertainable, but the police
had their suspicions. Some time previously
the fiaale half of a mixed team of beggars—
one blind and the other deaf —passed out.
The lady partner then retired, and on her
death, shortly aftenvards, she was found to
have left over £BOO personalty, as well as
considerable real property. This is the
modern touch in the cadging profession. The
money is no longer hidden in an old stocking
or under a mattress; it is banked with the
object of defeating burglars. In open-
handed Australia the phrase “poor as a
beggar” has long ceased to have any mean-
ing.
Old “Moore’s Almanac” predictions for Sep-
tember imply trouble ahead for the Unspeak-
able One. Consider this: “The sun’s oppo-
sition to Uranus is bad for Turkish affairs.
The eclipse of September 21 will prove dis-
astrous to Turkey, and the vestiges of the
Ottoman Empire will be scattered to the
winds of the desert.” The trouble is that
the Bolshies who are backing Kemal Pasha
just now do not subscribe to Old Moore’s
periodical.
“Aramac” : “Ship Rock” (B. 31/8/’22) is
right in saying that silky-oak and bean are
beautiful furniture woods, but the sole reason
for the general preference for maple is that
when cut “on the quarter,” that is, across
the grain, there is nothing to equal it for
fancy designs. I have a small piece of maple
by me, picked up in a local timber-yard,
and ingrained in the wood is a lifelike design
of a fern. Also, there is no wood I know
of that hangs together when nailed like
maple. I have just broken a new hammer-
handle in endeavoring to draw an ordinary
2in. nail from a piece of 3 x 2. The nail
had .only been in five minutes, so it wasn’t
rust that was holding it. Oak is all right,
but it is only used for palings up here
(N.Q.).
“U.P.”: S.A.’s busiest financial institution
is the savings bank. The total amount to
the credit of depositors was, on June 30,
£14,841,155. The population of the State is
505,069, and consequently the amount held
by the bank represents close on £3O each for
every man, woman and child in the State.
The operations of the Commonwealth Sav-
ings Bank have made practically no differ-
ence to the State institution, excepting that
the latter had to get new country agents
where the post offices were doing the busi-
ness. The S.A. Savings Bank gives p.c.
interest, but for some reason the Common-
wealth Savings Bank branch only credits
depositors with p.c.


Y
It
/a
FITTINGS
Build the Perfect Bicycle.
The bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings is depend-
able, looks good and is cheaper in the long run
than the machine which in first cost is much
less than the B.S.A.
You can compare a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings by every possible test with a
so-called cheap bicycle, and you will readily
under stand why a B.S.A. is the cheapest machine
in the end.
Year in and year out this bicycle will give
unfailing service, providing many hours of real
enjoyment because of its easy running and comfort.
The choice of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is a businesslike decision; the economy,
reliability and freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A. a sound investment
which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. riders say there is nothing to equal the satisfaction which the bicycle
of the “Three Piled Rifles” gives.
The range of models and constructional improvements shown in the B.S.A. catalogue
will illustrate why the bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is so popular.
Look for the B.S.A. three piled rifles trade-marks; they
are stamped on the Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat-
pillar Lug, Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back
Stay Bridge, Hubs and Pedals.
These trade-marks carry with them a guarantee of long
and reliable service, and are backed by a reputation of
over sixty years’ standing.
B.S.A. Fittings are Guaranteed Interchangeable.
. .
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained. Don’t
be put off with “pattern fittings,” but look for the B.S.A.
Trade-marks on EVERY PART. They are your guarantee.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
TRADEMARKS
Send for B.S.A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
REPRESENTING THE B.S.A. CO., LTD., BIRMINGHAM.
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.
l\


A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, rustic stand,
£7/10/-
SEND FOR
LATEST
CATALOGUE
IT’S
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Cut Crystal Glass Bowl,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
£3/10/-
TABLE
APPOINTMENTS
A, Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Gadroon
’esign, hand burnished; Sugar and Cream gilt-lined, £l5.
Others, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
WE POST
ALL
ORDERS
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, detachable dishes, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished, without
engraving, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, AX
quality, hand engraved.
In three sizes, £3, £4, £5.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £3/10/-
is*
If climbing hills on top speed is your hobby*
you’ll like the Hupmobile. But if you are
the wise type of driver who appreciates a
“great” intermediate speed, and knows when
jto use it, you’ll love the Hupmobile like a
brother —and win most of your wagers.
Hupmobile
ffl
m
m
c
SI
I
i
r
a
minim
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
PHffiNIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
112-320 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO„ LTD.,
Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARM E R S’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION. Welling-
ton, N.Z.
G- 9


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Discovery of Australia. By
G. ARNOLD WOOD, M.A., Professor
of History in the University of
Sydney. With G 9 Maps and Illus-
trations. 255. net.
The Saturday Review : “I have read with
profit and enjoyment ‘The Discovery of Austra-
h<i’; in fact, I have become seized of what to
me is such a mass of fresh information on this
subject that I feel almost as if I were taking
some share in the discovery... .A most fascinat-
ing narrative of high and splendid adventure.”
SIR ROSS SMITH.
14,000 Miles Through the Air. By
Sir ROSS SMITH, F.R.G.S. Illus-
trated with Photographs. 10s. 6d.
net.
ROLF BOLDREWOOD.
Robbery Under Arms. A Story of
Life and Adventure in the Bush and
in the Goldfields of Australia. By
ROLF BOLDREWOOD. Cloth
Boards. Is. 6d. net; sewed, Is. net.
The Miner’s Right. A Tale of the
Australian Goldfields. By ROLF
BOLDREWOOD. Cloth Boards,
ls. 6d. net; sewed, Is. net.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post free
to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR JUNE:
GENOA.
THE DRIFT OF AMERICAN OPINION.
IRELAND AT THE CROSSROADS.
THE COMMUNIST EXPERIMENT IN RUSSIA.
LETTERS FROM EGYPT
Also Articles from “Australia,” “Sew Zealand,”
“United Kingdom,” “India,” “Canada” and
“South Africa”
Cyclopedia of Farm Animals. Edited
by L. H. BAILEY. Fully illustrated.
255. net.
Cyclopedia of Farm Crops. A popu-
lar Survey of Crops and Crop-making
Methods in the United States of
Canada. Edited by L. 11. BAILEY.
Fully illustrated. 255. net.
Live Stock and Farm Mechanics.
By JOHN H. GEHRS, 8.5., M.S.
Fully illustrated. 6s. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Amusements.
O YI)N 15 Y'S CIII 15 F TIIEA TII E 8
J. C. -WILLIAMSON'. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
1- - CRITERION:
AMBROSE APPLEJOHN’S ADVEN-
TURE.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
JC. WILLIAMMU.V, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
ITER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
THE MERRY WIDOW.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MARY,
A WHIRLWIND OB' DANCE AND MELODY.
tf I NO'S THEATRE. W 15 I. 15 O C U N K
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Grant.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
PA Li ACE TREAT It E, MELBOURNI
r Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER. LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
TWENTY-SEVENTH WEEK ON SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best."
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
Matinees Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MISLIIOU ItN 1
AI mo SYDNEY.
HE LUXE, BOURKIS STREET, and LYCEUM fov.
Prince’s Bridge).
RICHARD TALMADGE in
THE UNKNOWN.
Also,
J. WARREN KERRIGAN in
THE .HOUSE OF WHISPERS.
Prices as usual.
gyg A.IES'i 1C THEATRE. MEIJiOI l{\K
GREAT SHOW-WEEK ATTRACTION.
PRISONERS OF LOVE.
A GOLDWYN FEATURE.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SIIA KS PEA HE A N
PRODUCTIONS
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Australasian Representatives: AVILSON & SODEN..
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Casttemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
‘THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos, 5 and 113.
(-BRANCH WORKS AT WILLI AMSTO \V N, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
far Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. Minks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd-
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PEKTII:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch- Street.
HUNDRED GUINEAS PRIZE
For Best Australian Play.
"'pilE DAILY TELEGRAPH." Sydney,
offers a Hundred Guineas Prize for
the best Australian Play. The Judges are
Hr. Oscar Asche, Professor M. W. MacCal-
lum, and Mr. W. Farmer Whyte, Editor of
The Daily Telegraph. Sydney.
The Prize Play must contain at least two
acts.
There is no restriction as to subject,
time or place.
The author must be either Australian-
born, or must have resided in Aus-
tralia for at least ten years.
No adaptation of any published book will
be accepted.
Plays that have already been-printed or
acted before a public audience arc
disqualified.
Each play sent in must be typewritten
with amnle spacing to facilitate read-
ing.
The play must bear a nom de plume
only on the title-page, and must b<
enclosed in an envelope addressed to tin
EDITOR, “DAILY TELEGRAPH,”
SYDNEY, and MARKED “AUS-
TRALIAN PLAY” It must be
accompanied by another sealed enve-
lope with the nom do plume plainly
written on the outside, and contain
ing the correct name and address of
the writer.
A complete synopsis and a separate
synopsis of each act, together with the
Dramatis Personae, must be given on
pages following the title.
The competition will close at 12 noon
on December Ml. 11)22.
The winning play will bo published in
The Daily Telegraph, which will
have the entire publication rights.
This applies not only to the prize
play, but also to any other play that
may be thought worthy of publication
All acting rights will be the property of
the winner of the prize.
Every effort will be made to ensure the
safe return of the rejected plays, provided
stamps to cover postage accompany the
MSS., but no responsibility is accepted
No correspondence can be entered into' in
connection with the competition.
Missing l-'rieml*.
MISSING PERSON INQUIRED FOR.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
WILLIAM GRAY, formerly of Cat-
lins and Dunedin, New Zealand, general
laborer, and last heard of at Nelson 37 years
ago, is asked to communicate with
THE DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
DUNEDIN.
.Miss ini; Friends.
TN the Matter of the ESTATE OF SAMUEL
RENNEY, late of Gladesville, deceased. Intestate.
The next-of-kin of the above-named' deceased,
who formerly resided at the Coffee Palace, George
Street, Sydney, or anybody knowing the whereabouts
of his next-of-kin, are requested to communicate
with the undersigned, furnishing:—
(a) Particulars of relationship;
(b) Date and place of birth of the deceased; •
(c) Occupation of deceased.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
4th September, 1922.
JDE JANE SMITH, late of Joel Joel.
Victoria, spinster, deceased. Will
any person knowing the whereabouts of
GEORGE SMITH, known sometimes as
GEORGE BARR or GEORGE SMYTH, a
brother of Jane Smith, last heard of at
White Cliffs, New South Wales, or if dead
the date of death, and where, please eom-
uunicate with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES
CO., LTD., S 5 Queen Street, Melbourne.
TflO save Lovegrove loss will HARRY
JL LETT communicate with WESTON’S
regarding transfer of Takapuna section?
For Sale.
pNGINE. One Vertical Triple Expansion Drop
*-* Valve Rotary Pumping Engine, in good working
order. Makers, Austral Otis Co. Steam Cylinders,
21 inches by 374 indies by 57 inches diameter by
3-feet stroke. Pump Plungers, 271 inches diameter.
Capable of pumping 9,000,000 (nine million) gallons
of water or sewage per day against 150 feet head with
1601 b. steam pressure. Will be dismantled by
Hoard’s workmen. On appointment being made can
be seen working at the Melbourne and Metropolitan
Hoard of Works Pumping Station, Spotswood. Ten-
ders, addressed to the Secretary, 110 Spencer Street,
Melbourne, must be accompanied by a deposit of 5 per
cent, on amount offered, and lie forwarded not later
than Tuesday, 24th October, 1922.
Leeal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
A MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
To LESLIE BARTROP formerly of Hawthorn Vic-
toria steward.
WHEREAS LYLE BLANCHE D’ARCY of Prahran
in Victoria has filed her Petition against Claude
Monteith D’Arcy of Launceston in Tasmania
cabinet-maker for a dissolution of marriage and the
said Claude Monteith D’Arcy has filed an Answer
charging you with having committed adultery with
the said Lyle Blanche D’Arcy TAKE NOTICE that
unless within twenty days from the publication here-
of you enter an Appearance and file a reply to the
said charge at the Registry of our said Court
Macquarie Street Hobart in Tasmania the said Court
will proceed to hear the said charge and to pro-
nounce sentence in your absence.
Dated at Hobart in Tasmania this 28th day of
September One thousand nine hundred and twenty-
two.
(Signed) W. O. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
James Edgar Heritage of Number 55 Patterson
Street Launceston in Tasmania Proctor for the
said Cbiv'ip Mnr.teilli D’Arcy.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
ALL HOTELSX
TOBACCONISTS'!
D
EACH
in?
actual
SIZE
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 Cigars, 6/-
25, 12/6;
50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 b GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
SONG COMPETITION.
£l5/15|- PRIZE.
Recognising that the attractions of Manly would receive a tremendous amount of publicity
by the publication of a suitable song which would sound the virtues of Manly as a seaside resort,
Mr. J. It. Trenerry, Editor of The Manly Daily, offers a Prize of Fifteoi Guineas for the
words of a song which will be adjudged the most suitable composition for setting to music.
-il addition to the above prize, the author of the song will be paid half-yearly a royalty of
one penny per copy on all sales for five years from the date of publication. Should the song
hit the popular fancy, the royalty would probably run into a very substantial amount.
CONDITIONS.
The song must consist of four verses and chorus. The verses should preferably consist
of eight lines each, with chorus of four lines. The treatment of each verse with a separate
chorus may be adopted.
“Manly by the Sea” must be the title adopted by each competitor. Necessarily the treat-
ment must embody the natural beauty and attractions of Manly, in order that all the outstand-
ing characteristics of Manly as a seaside resort will receive consideration.
No entrance Tee is charged, and any competitor may forward more than one composition.
Each composition must be over a nom de plume, and the full name and address of the
competitor must be written on a separate slip of paper, and forwarded, with the competitive
composition, to the Editor of The Manly Daily, 18 Svdney Hoad, Manly, on or before
October 31.
The proprietors of The Manly Daily reserve the right to publi* in The Manly Daily any
composition submitted for competition.
The decision of the judge or judges appointed by the proprietors of Tiie Manly Daily to
be considered final and without appeal.
All compositions to become the property of The Manly Daily.
The copyright of the successful composition to be vested in the proprietors of The Manly
Daily.
Following adjudication, a further substantial prize will be offered for a setting of music
to the words.


An Alston'Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply ,of Water for
Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light winds, stronger or
more durable, lower in cost, or easier and cheaper to erect and
maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all ' sizes,
from 6ft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the
largest works in Australia, devoting its whole
attention to windmill construction.
Expert advise and Illustrated Catalogue
free on application.
Alston Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS Pty. Ltd.
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia
5a
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Cairo”
Criterion “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure”
Royal “The Peep Show”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ..“The Merry Widow”
Royal “Mary”
Palace “Spangles”
King’s “The Sentimental Bloke”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Flushed with a first-night success, “The
Sentimental Bloke,” at Melbourne King’s,
ought to add richly to the income
of its author. The piece is a tliree-act
comedy-drama, retaining the homely senti-
ment of the original verses, but not without
frankly farcical. intentions as regards the
doings of its nondescript characters. For
instance, ’Erb, the handy man of Uncle Jim’s
farm, who shambles in and out in deep
yokel distress over a lost set of false teeth,
provides a big share of humorous relief to
the simple romance of BfiJ and Doreen.
’Erb happens first into Mar’s evening party,
heightening its festive spirit with his rustic
imbecility. Later on, as a peripatetic omen
of worry and trouble, he rattles the hero,
who is waiting fretfully expectant of becom-
ing a father. Then there are Artie, the
grocer's boy with vaudeville ambitions;
Effiie, his donah, suffused with admiration for
his nimble fancy; and Ginger Mick, the
philosophic pushite and rabbit-merchant,
dinging determinedly to his passions for
horse-racing and stoush. Those figures con-
tribute heavily to the droll periods of “The
Bloke,” which are really more numerous and
striking in popular effect than the deftly-
threaded story of Bill’s regeneration. No
better Bill could have been found than Walter
Cornock, whose rise from the craft of petty
embezzlement to the responsibilities of civi-
lised parenthood is never over-emphasised, or
broadened to the extent of damaging its
probability. Tal Ordell, as Ginger Mick, is
equally good. Any deviation into caricature
would have ruined the ruby-headed bunny-
liawker, but Ordell keeps Bill to the strict
path of veracity, scoring greatly with a
whimsical undertone and an appealingly
negligent manner. “Artie” Apps is given a
soda-fountain personality by Herbert Walton,
who finds an acceptable opportunity for brisk
burlesque in a temporary tiff between Bill
and his tart. Uncle Jim’s uncurbed whis-
kers are fitted on to the countenance of the
capable Edward Landor, and Leslie Gordon’s
’Erb is a hairy reminiscence of a Steele Rudd
Wayback. Arthur Shirley is the head of the
gang that tries to deprive Uncle of a non-
existent gold-mine, while Freddy Brown
appears as the inconspicuous youth versified
as the “Stror-’at Coot.” Eileen Alexander
seems a bit superior to Doreen’s station in
life, and might be more clingsome and affec-
tionate, but she is attractive in all personal
aspects. Iza Crossley, who considers her
Artie “a trick,” is an exceptional exponent of
suburban pertness, and enjoys every minute
of her part Stella Payter’s impersonation
of Mar is affected with spasms of elderly
raillery in her pursuit of Uncle Jim, and
“THE PEEP SHOW,” AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
George Willoughby as Nosey, and J. H.
Wakefield as Albert in “The Piano
Next Door."
Alfreda Bevan presents, the requisite Bes-
semerLsed front as the hardy nurse when
young Bill arrives. The scenery, which
comes from Harry Grist’s brush, is notable
for a semi-circular glimpse of Spadgers Lane
seen through a mouldy foreground arch.
* * * *
“Mary,” which arrived at Melbourne Royal
on Saturday, is a welcome testimony to the
abounding excellence of the Australian
chorus-girl. The present writer’s most vivid
recollection is that of the swaying, lissom
damsels swirling in to the rum-ti-tummy
measure of “Tom, Tom, Toodle” in the first
ac-t. Also, there is another memory-haunt-
ing picture of the Exquisite Eight in crino-
lined pink and inveigling flat hats compen-
sating in their saucy loveliness for the
Cyril Ritchard song they have to support.
This young man, still somewhat unpolished
in his tone of voice, has the usual qu ck-
stepping engagements with Madge Elliott,
whose hurricane advance in sophistication
is shown by her playing a designing young
widow without a trace of the debutante
manner that distinguished some of her early
flapper parts. Maude Fane is subdued to
the extent of relying for success on her
own delicate charm, and it must be said
that when she appears in the Polly P'eachum
Costume in the second act, the tremendous
admiration of the chorus-men, ordinary
fatuous in its extravagance of arm-play,
appears a fair tribute to the sweetness of
the vision. Ethel Morrison, who is another
victim of the Yankee Providence which is
always finding gold-mines or striking oil
for restoring busted Rockefellers to then-
former plane of affluence, adds archness to
her comeliness in her devastating turn with
comedian Percy, an incredible stage French-
man, who is Marceau by name and morceau
in almost every other particular. Cecil
Ivellaway’s cool composure as a cute finan-
cial adviser is a refreshment after the heat
and dust kicked up by Percy’s resilient Gaul.
Roland Hogue is likewise unassertive as the
Kansas house-builder who returns with
enough cash to pay 1000-dollar tips.
Occasionally, the music in (the show is
merry and bright,
but, barring the
“Love Nest” duet,
which causes sen-
timental throbs in
the about-to-be-
rnarried, there is
rather a dearth of
tunes that make
the heart beat
faster.
:]c sj: *
T he canoodly
strains of “The
Merry Wid o w”
waltz are still be-
guiling old and
young at Her
Majesty’s, M e 1-
boui-he. Likewise
Dan i 1 o Ilowctt-
Worster continues
to give the girls at
Maxim’s a tur n
and perform the
giddy horseman
act with a lot
more aplomb than
he showed on the
first night. And
“The Sentimental
Bloke," at
Melbourne King’s.
Edward Landor as
Uncle Jim.
Cannot has resumed duty as Baron Popoff.
* sjs si: *
“Spangles” is now over 200 not out at
Melbourne Palace. As the show is appa-
rently to remain over the racing season,
there is evidently a strong managerial in-
tention to fracture the Australian long-dis-
tance record put up in the long ago by “Our
Miss Gibbs."
Fred Barnes is the latest addition to Mel-
bourne Tivoli bill. He is a fairly attractive
warbler of songs that the advt. alleges are
the rage of London. His most precious out-
burst is “The Black Sheep of the Family,”
which is starred as his “own famous composi-
tion.” Ethel Hook has departed, and Elliott
and Godley are reappearing in a fresh lot of
musical items. Among the rest Gene Gerrard
continues to give beer an unnecessary advert
tisement. Still, he is humorous and is full ot
unaffected gaiety.
#* * #
“The House of Whispers" is making
Hoyt’s, Melbourne, audience feel spookish
this week. Warren Kerrigan is paid to
shudder fearsomely before he solves the mys-
tery of the lonely home. In Hoyt’s other effu-
sion, “The Unknown,” Richard Talmadge
holds the mirror up to Douglas Fairbanks
in a terrible struggle with the profiteerage.
The Majestic’s money-spinner is “Lucky
Carson,” which shows how to reach Wall-
street from a London dock without previous
lessons in high finance. One of O. Henry’s
stories, “Whistling Dick’s Christmas Stock-
ing,” provides the material for the Majestic’s
other picture, “An Unwilling Hero.” At
the Melba Wallace Reid is engaged on a
record motor-car drive entitled “Across the
Continent.” Apart from the attractiveness
of Mildred Harris, the leading lady, the dress
goods in “Habit” should keep the unfair sex
herding about the pay-box at the Britannia.
Thirty-eight canvases at Melbourne Fine
Art Society bear witness to the exuberance
of Norman Lloyd as a landscape painter.
Practically every scene is overstated in
terms of yellow, blue and violet. Also the
brushwork is Haunted until you are dis-
tracted by the suggestion of a clever fellow
showing off his mastery over his medium. This
insistence on technique is particularly evi-
dent in “The Quarry,” and in the beauteous
“Harbor from Athol.” Clouds skirling in
cobalt skies, or massed in stormy terraces,
are just as vividly handled as the gold-plated
effects of simple sunlight beating on the
still waters of a harbor bay. ' It is all
theatrically successful, and admittedly repre-
sents the best-seller form of art at its high-
est pitch of efficiency, but the genuine pic-
ture-lover will prefer the comparatively
quiet “Boat Houses’’ and the soothing “Sun-
light and Shadow.”
* * * *
John Rowell’s display at the Melbourne
Athenaeum is only satisfactory in one or
two of the smaller efforts, of which “Silvery
(No. 33) and “Spring Pastures”
(No. 63a) are conspicuous examples. The
largest subject, “Evening Eight,” is a rather
bald undertaking. This artist is more in-
teresting in his still-life work. Daffodils
and a small brass pot are sincerely depicted
in “Brown and Gold.” A study of zinnias
(No. 53) provides the only flare of color
in an undemonstrative exhibition.
* * * *
Adelaide Royal has been filling in time
with an amateur show pending the
coming of Emelie Polini. The seals
get the big type at the Majestic, Palmetto
and other clever people filling a good bill. The
Prince of Wales’s and King’s are both now
given to melodrama. The latter has also
Friday-evening amateur trials, in which the
mostly youthful competitors are required to
imitate some member of the co.; George
Cross is the latest to have the advantage of
seeing how others think his job ought to be
done. In pictures, the York has the old
“Two Orphans,” elaborated by Griffith into
a spectacular “Orphans of the Storm.”
\Yondergrapli puts on a real three-round
boxing contest twice a day, to introduce
Wallace Reid as a world’s champion on the
screen. The other houses are mainly a
matter of popular names: Harold Lloyd at
West s, Eugene O’Brien and Alma Rubens
at the Grand, Mary Maclaren and Charles
Jones at the Pav.
* * * *
Sydney Theatre Royal housed a monster
audience on Monday afternoon for the Lilac
matinee in aid of the Royal Hospital for
Women. Nellie Stewart, as Romeo to the
Juliet of her daughter, Nancye, was the
star turn. W ee Georgie Wood gave some of
his sketches, and Belgian Consul Segaert
and his daughter supplied a French
comedy. Kathlyn Hilliard and her hus-
band George Baker, of the “Peep Show,”
handed out some of their best; and
M°na Magnet, Sam Stem and J. H.
Wakefield, Dan Booker, Leyland Hodg-
-59 n „ an \TT t l ! e T wo Henrys, Maggie Foster,
Nella Webb, Josie Melville and Frederick
Mackay did likewise. Mrs. T. H. Kelly, as
demanded Mercy if not justice in
thrilling tones, and 'an orchestra, under
Adrian Amadio, dispensed stringed sweet-
ness.
* He s<
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, “Cairo”
bates no jot of its kaleidoscopic mag-
mficence, lhe streets continue to throb
with Oriental crime, and the fireflies to flit
over the sleeping Nile, and the tom-tom and
the drum to bang, and the pilgrim and the
camel to pad the hoof, and the pantiug
dancers to whirl their white limbs in mad
abandonment, with Ali Shar, the strong
man from Persia, towering over all the pul-
sating scenes like the Queen’s Peace in some
forgotten bit of poetry. A feast of glitter-
mg things and an orgie of thrills and trills
and frills is “Cairo.”
„ ‘‘ Tlie Show” is in its last lap at
Sydney Ibeatre Royal, It moves on to Mel-
bourne, where it is guaranteed to make un-
successfu! punters forget their losses and
jilted lovers cease to worry about their false
affinities. The “Naughty Princess,” a stu-
pendous comic opera, will whirl into the ken
of Theatre Royal patrons on Saturday week.
October 21.
* 0 * H:
At Sydney Criterion Ambrose Apple-
jolin, the intensely respectable bachelor gent.,
and Captain Applejack, the shockingly re-,
prehensible buccaneer, continue their de-
mands on the impersonating powers of Law-
rence Grossmith. It is a part that shows
a fane comedian at his best.
* * * *
Wee Georgie Wood’s latest scream at
Sydney Tivoli is “The Nursery,” in which
he appears as a just-engaged pantry-boy,
mist, ken by the new governess (Dolly
Harruer) for the son and heir, whom she
is thereto dominate. Sam Stern is popular
m liddish and Dago impersonations, and
Con Coleno is a daring wire-walker. Burr
and Hope are as musky as ever, whilst the
little Delevarites and violinist Maggie Foster
evoke much interest.
At Sydney Lyceum Jack Pickford rides to
fame and the one and only piece of fluff on
the strength of a deal in pickles. Agnes
Ayres, at the same house, is “Bought and
Paid For” by a wealthy admirer. Rudolph
Valentino, the eminent male vamp, spreads
himself at the Rialto in “Stolen Moments.”
“The Adventures of Robinson Crusoe” is in
its fourth episode at the Majestic. At the
Empress is Ben Turpin, slapstick champion,
in “Step Forward.” A chase after a stolen
emerald engages the attention of the entire
east in “The Green Flame” at Hoyt’s, which
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Hunter and Bob in a bottle-snatching
novelty. The drunk displays wonderful
intelligence in hiding the bottle.
edifice also presents u Deadwood Dickish
special entitled “Trooper O’Neil.” Hay-
market relies chiefly on Richard Barthel-
mess in “Sonny”; and next Saturday night
will see “The Sin Woman” open up at the
Town Hall.
Gertrude Boxall, the soprano, back in
London from her world’s tour with the
Quinlan Opera Co., tells a story about
Itosina Buckman’s husband and the rioting
blacks in Johannesburg. The outbreak
occurred while “Butterfly” was being played,
with Maurice D’Oisly as Pinkerton: —
When the news that the Kaffirs were on the war-
path was announced, Maurice, who would have made
a first-class fighting man if he had not been an
operatic singer, altogether lost his temper, drew his
sword in front of the audience, waved it above his
head, and shouted, “Let the devils come 1 What do
we care?”
“Personally,” adds the lady, “I preferred
the devils’ room to their company. Maurice’s
sword was made of tin !”
“The Laureate of the ’Loo” : I notice that
Sydney Sunday Times is offering a bun-
dled quid to the writer of the best Aus-
tralian song. “We want,” says the editor,
“a prize Australian song. Not a formal
anthem, but any song which has lyrical life
and expresses Australian sentiment.” Now,
the great thing in all these competitions is
to gauge the taste of your judges. “Every
paper,” as J. F. Archibald used to say,
gets what it gives.” Eagerly scanning the
pages of the Times, I presently came on a
song (it is by Jed Christie and Paul Wilson,
of Chicago, 111.) which the management had
thought worth printing, music and all. Con-
sider some of it:—-
BETTY.
First Verse :
Out on the beaches, where nice little peaches
Are giving their daddies a treat,
Each little cutie has one sweet petootie,
Or hoping a new one to meet.
Quite fussed and excited, I’ve lost my heart maybe,
But I’ll say I’ve found me a right clever baby.
Chorus:
Betty, Irresistible Betty,
You’re the sweetest little petty,
Pretty petty, in the whole world.
I said the whole world,
I mean the whole wide world to me.
Betty, fascinating Betty,
Since I learned to call you Petty, pretty Petty,
You’re the dearest, I said the dearest,
I mean the most “expensive” little girl to me.
Perhaps Australian sentiment cannot attain
to that lyrical level, but here goes:—
POLEY.
First Verse :
On our selection we’re in subjection
To a goddess, I’ll tell you how ;
For everybody’s oppressed by poddies,
And that blanky incubus, 'the Cow.
We’re down ar.d out, fed up, flummoxed, fairly
busted ;
We’re overwhelmed with Cow and dam’ well dis-
gusted.
Chorus:
Poley, inexpressible Poley,
You’re quite beyond control-ee,
You’re a horrible enormit}-, you cow. I remarked
you cowl
You’re a constant nightmare to me,
Poley, unutterable Poley,
I hate the sight of blanky Poley, Rolev Polev.
You’re the vilest, I said the vilest,
I mean the vilest cow in all the cow eountree.
I have other work of similar literary quality
to the above, and if I don’t win with some
of it I propose to go to Chicago and com-
pete from there in the American language.


“From Manufacturet to °arer”
Murdoch’s save you
Middlemen’s Profits
TO those who visit Sydney’s Famous
Showground this week, Murdoch’s
Manufacturing Exhibit will prove of
engrossing interest.
Every stage of manufacture in Men’s and Boys’ Wear
is shown, from primary treatment of raw material to the
finished product.
And the message of the display is conveyed with crystal-
like clearness. Murdoch’s supply “DIRECT FROM
MANUFACTURER TO WEARER.” The unnecessary
expense arising for double and treble overhead charges,
freight costs, wholesalers’ and jobbers’ profits—all are
completely cut out, thus providing Murdoch’s with the
means of supplying a BETTER QUALIT { Garment at
a LOWER PRICE.
Men’s Bathing Costumes.
Murdoch’s famous “Surfo” make One-piece, in
Plain Black or Navy, or Black, Navy and Grey,
with colored trimmings of Red, Sky, White,
Purple, Royal or Gold. Sizes 32in., 34in.,
36in
Larger sizes at slight increase in price.
9/6
Men’s Cambric Shirts
Fashioned in Golf Style, with soft gauntlet
cuffs, reinforced Linen Neckband (no collar).
Dependable Cambric in neat Blue and Black
Stripes on White Ground
5/6
Men’s “Cawooia” Singlets.
Murdoch-made All Wool, of splendid quality,
guaranteed unshrinkable, short sleeves; 34in.
and 36in
Other sizes at slight increase in price.
Underpants to match from 12/6 to 14/11.
11/6
Evening Attire.
Men’s High-grade Dinner Suits, made from
choice Pin-point Fabrics, guaranteed fast Black
with first-class quality silk facings and best
trimmings throughout. Ready for immediate
service
£7/7/-
Men’s Blazer Coats.
Very Smart All-Wool Navy Flannel Blazers, of
extra quality, made in attractive fashion by
Murdoch’s experts. Your choice from either
Red, White or Gold Cord trimming
52j6
Boys’ Strong Knickers.
The famous Murdoch-made “Toughtex,” a
material that is practically untearable. These
sturdy Knickers show a fine dressy finish, in
Mid or Dark Shades, plain knees and strongly
lined. Fit boys Bto 10
Other sizes at slight difference in price.
7/11
The Murdoch—New Design
Sac Suits for Men
are so perfectly proportioned, so carefully graded in sizes, that
every figure is assured of correct and comfortable fitting. Made
from the New Spring and Summer Australian Woollen Tweeds.
Smart Brown, Grey or Fawn Shades, and the most attractive
Stripes in harmony tones. Coat, Vest and Trousers complete.
Ready to Wear
63/-
MURDOCH’S
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney,
“ The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store.”
When ordering suits please
give waist, chest and in-
side leg measures; also
height. Address your
letter to DESK It.
%
■
M
ll
■
I
K
1
life;
X
mt
0
iL
r
J
r"
8
ft
\
\
im
v*
7/// 1
»r
v
<Sr : -
«
□
<vr n
4J
®
/J?
w
i 3
MURDOCH’S PAY POSTAGE TO ALL PARTS OF AUSTRALIA.
Send for a copy of our new Illustrated Summer Catalogue—FßEE!


Carlyon’s Hotel, Esplanade, St. Kilda.
The Most Up-to-date and Best Appointed Hotel in Australia.
Telephones in Every Room. Suites on Telephone or Telegraphic Application.
Dine Here, and Dance in our Famous Ballroom De Luxe,
which Enjoys Tremendous Popularity.
Telegraphic Address: CARLYON, St. Kilda, Victoria,
TELEPHONE:
Windsor 5330.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Snell”: Suddenly and all unannounced,
the Firm had produced a leading lady from
somewhere up its sleeve. She was much
larger than the usual importation, and she
was to appear presently in frivolous musical
plays. She was declared to lie from
all the known London and American
theatres, and an artist of extraordinary parts.
She made her first appearance in due course,
and was found to be bad to middling, or
even worse. She was discussed in the
theatre bar after the performance, and
George Tallis was as enthusiastic as usual
in his capacity of the faithful hound, en-
larging on the lady’s beauty and great capa-
bilities, till a small pressman chipped in
plaintively: “Tell me, George, now, ’pon
honor, didn’t she come out as ballast?”
“D.”: Marie Lloyd, who died in debt last
week, was a genius, a-d she had the weak-
nesses that so often beset genius in the
vaudeville business, as elsewhere. Insane
generosity, a quick temper, a romantc
disposition ana a passion for the cup that
cheers —all these combined to keep her poor
and (so far as it was possible in one of her
sanguine temperament) unhappy. She was
married three times, and all these ventures
were failures—more particularly the last,
when she took for the worse a raffish jockey
named Dillon. She was the perfect expres-
sion of the Cockney young woman of the
early years of the century (a type that has
An impression of the late MARIE LLOYD
as she appeared when last in Australia.
vanished as completely as Sara Weller before
the inroads of universal education), and as
such the audiences of places like the old
London Tivoli and Pav. adored her. No
music-hall favorite before or since the days
when her star was in the ascendant had her
capacity for instantly gripping an audience,
and no one, with the possible exception of
Bessie Bell wood, could sail so close td the
wind, and get away with it. She had several
sisters who .were good-looking edit-ons of her
rollicking, buxom self (Alice was, perhaps,
the pick of the bunch), and they all went on
the ’tills, and got. West End engagements,
too. But Marie was the only outstanding
member of the family, the actual name of
which, by the way, was Wood.
“Blackfriars” : Lawrence Irving, now bio-
graphised with his brother H. 8., by Austin
Brereton (B. 28/9/’22), went nearer to
histrionic genius than any other English
mummer of his day, bar Lloyd George. He
was subject, however, to “mental” intervals,
which prevented him from getting a good
managerial grip in the stvle of his father
and brother. During the two or three years
before he was drowned in an Atlantic
calamity he devoted himself almost entirely
to Russodrama, of which he had been an
advocate in old Henry’s day—-but an inten-
sive course of . Russ an morbidities is not the
best dispeller of mind-clouas..
“Topee”: “F.L.H.” (B. 2S/9/’22), touch-
ing on Santley’s liking for the parts of
Valentine and Danny Mann, recalls that the
old un prided himself on his histrionic more
than his vocal
ability. This pre-
ference was not
shared b y Carl
Rosa, for one. In
Rosa’s Christmas
season at Liverpool
in ’7G Santley got
£BO per appear-
ance, singing on
alternate nights,
lie had stipulated
for two perform-
ances of the
“Lily,” and one
each of the
“Porter of Havre,”"
Halery’s “Water-
Carr i e r” an d
Ralfe’s. “Siege of
Rochelle” —all good
acting parts Th y
were easily the
poorest houses of the
bunch. Carl Ro~a
(at no time an
easy man to get
along with) was
especially d : fficult
on these nights, and
my father, who
leased the theatre
on a share basis,
was always de-
tained by urgent
business in Man-
chester till the bill
was changed. Snaz-
elle, then bearded
like the par d,
“The Sentimental
Bloke,” at
Melbourne King's.
Walter Cornock as
the Bloke.
sang a minor . „ .
part in Nicolai’s “Merry Wives the same
season.
“Toby”: “Nella’s” par (B. 14/9/’22)
about, the chune played to brighten “The
Man Thev Could Not Hang” reminds me of
an incident in the earlier days of the films.
I w T as running a rotten Sunday-night show
at Her Majesty’s, Perth. The lady at the
ivories d dn’t know much about the busi-
ness ; still, we thought she was doing all right
when she rattled off “The Man with the
Ladder and the Hose” for Horderns’ fire.
But she reached her limit when Queen Vic-
toria’s funeral was flashed on the calico.
Taking a swift sidelong glance at the trail-
ing pageantry of woe she brought. down the
entire edifice with “Good-bye, Little Girl,
Good-bye.”
“T.W.”: When Santley published his
reminiscences it was remarked that he had
confined his attention almost solely to his
youthful contemporaries. Ivirkby Lunn was
a noteworthy exception. The buxom contralto
he picked out as the most versatile and cap-
able artist in all his recollection, and that
tribute, coming from a man who was
impatient of the moderns, was the most flat-
tering the lady ever had. I can recall one
crowded week when Kirkby Lunn d’stributed
her energies amonf r three performances in
the Handel Festival at the Crystal Palace.
Amneris in “Aida,” and Delilah in Saint-
Saens’s opera at Covent Garden, two recitals
of German lieder at one of tne smaller Lon-
don halls, and a Chappel ballad concert at
the Queen’s on the Saturday afternoon.
Surely a record for versatility and gruelling
vocalism.
“Hambone”: Another case for the oppo-
nents of sensational fill-ums. Recently
a youngster of 15 toppled over a 150 ft. cliff
near Newcastle (N.S.W.), and was dead
when recovered from the sea. The cause
of his fall was the crumbling of the cliff
edge on which he was posturing. His last
words were, “This is how Robinson Crusoe
does it,” and with that he struck an attitude
of diving into the sea, a thrilling stunt in
the “Adventures of Robinson Crusoe,” the
celluloid serial of the minute. And it’s
boomed as an “educational” film!
“0.T.1.”: Apropos the oldest. amateur
actors in the Commonwealth (B. 5/10./’22),
Mr. Devine’s record at the old Polytechnic
in Bourke-street, Melbourne, is beaten by
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant. Sixty-
two years ago he made his first appearance
as an amateur at the Prince of Wales’s
Theatre in Lonsdale-street (on the site of
Rowe’s Hippodrome), in a drama “Hofer,
the Tell of the Tyrol.” That was before
£ £ Smith built the Polytechnic Hall in
Bourke-street, which he opened as an ana-
tomical museum.
“Norbell”: “Santander’s” gibe at the Mel-
bourne moralists who are shocked over
“Fatty” Arbuckle’s resurrection comes pat
at the time time when it is stated that
“Squizzy” Taylor is to figure in a movie
now being perdooeed by some Amurrikan
film-faker at Caulfield (Vic.). At the
third Arbuckle trial the District Attorney
said some pungent things concerning the
movie industry at Hollywood, and spoke of
“ditching” picture actors who offended
against propriety. That should prove a tall
order, for G 7. A. Atkinson, in the London
Daily Mail, calls Los Angeles “a modern
Gomorrah.” Besides slating the private
laches of cinema stars, he accuses them bit-
terly of “every kind of prurient malpractice
in celluloid.”
“Second Murderer”: Unruffled by the argu-
ment among “Orb,” “Gnarek” and others
Poverty-pointers, as to who is holder of the
long-distance Shakspearean championship,
Allan Wilkie is serving out the bard's plays
in Maoriland, and at Christchurch has just
announced his 559th consecutive Shak-
spearean performance. By the way, a recent
allusion in this column to Ben Greet as
being a likely record-breaker reminds me
that Wilkie was at one time a member of
Gleet’s co.
“T.R II.”: “E.T's.” reference to “Daisy
Bell” (B. 2S/9/’22) reminds me that Frank
Dean’s original chorus was: —
Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do,
I’m half crazy all for the love of you ;
It won’t be a stylish marriage,
I can’t afford a carriage.
But you'll look smart, my own sweetheart,
In a neat little donkcy-cart.
But just at that time the first Humber
tandem came out, and he altered the last
lines to
But you’ll look sweet, upon the seat
Of a bicycle made for two.
Certainly an improvement on the original
doggerel.
“Pitt Streeter”: Pantomime will have a
good look-in this year on Sydney boards. The
Tait-Williamsons will produce “Cinderella”
at the Criterion; George Marlow stages “Bo
Peep” at the Grand Opera House; and the
Fullers, being short of theatres just now,
have taken the Hippodrome for “Mother
Goose.” This in addition to their usual
“annual” at the Newtown Majestic. A
season or two ago we were told that panto-
mime was on its last legs. But there’s
still good money in ’em.
“L.H.P.”: An indifferent film version of
“The Old Curiosity Shop” is going the
rounds of Australian picture-houses. Poor
as it is, it summons up memories of Fred
Marshall’s famous impersonation of Quilp,
on which old-timers love to descant. Sydney
saw it at the Gaiety, Castlereagh-street,
in the ’eighties. An earlier vers'on of
the novel was made popular by Maggie
Moore as the Marchioness, and J. C. Wil-
liamson as Dick Swiveller. But the thing
must have been dramatised at least 20 times.
“Todgil”: Eile’en Alexander, who was
Dennis’s final pick after an exhaustive
search for a Doreen for his “Sentimental
Bloke,” is a Maoriland girl, and Melbourne
King’s is the first Australian theatre in
which she has appeared. A shining light
for a while at a beach show, she had her
elocution brushed up by Mrs. Gibson Young.
Iza Crossley, who is cast as Effie, another
“bonzer tart” in the production, is the
daughter of Frank Crossley, whose name
has figured on numerous Australian play-
bills. Two of Bert Bailey’s old “Selec-
tion” co. who figure in the “Bloke” are
Alfreda Bevan and Leslie Gordon. Alfreda
is the Nurse who keeps pushing the
frightened and tremulous Bloke off the door-
step of his bush home when a tremendous
Event is happening inside; and Gordon en-
cases himself in the homely garments of the
rouseabout, ’Erb.
“Lud”: The broadly-humorous Connie
Ediss has just started on what gives promise
of being a steady job in London’s West End.
The old Australian favorite is appearing in
a new musical piece called “The Smith
Family,” at the Leicester-square Empire,
with Harry Tate as the male head of the
show. She is well provided with songs
the music of which has been supplied by the
tuneful Nat Ayer, who perpetrated “If You
Were the Only Girl in the World.”
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Jack P. McGowan, one
of the first Australians to appear in Yankee
films, is the central figure in “Hills of Miss-
ing Men,” now invading these parts. When
a youngster, McGowan went away to the
S’Afriean War, and he hasn’t come back from
it yet. After the Boer business, he joined
a Wild West show, and thence took to
stunting for the pitchers. One of bis brothers
was killed at the Landing. Another, who
was also with the A.1.F., is managing a film-
show in Melbourne.
“Paree”: A Parisian dramatist has an
absolutely novel idea in a successful society
drama, “The Masked Woman.” A wicked
baron makes irregular overtures to a doctor’s
Sam Stern,
Hebrew
comedian at
Sydney Tivoli.
wife, and she, turning him down scornfully,
blurts out a professional secret told her by
her husband, that the baron has an incur-
able disease. He swears revenge, and gets
it by bequeathing all his vast fortune to her,
leaving everybody (including her husband)
to suppose the worst.
“T.W.”: Is it quite fair to George Clut-
sam to say that Alfred Hill has composed
more opera than all other Australian writers
of music put together (B. 28/9/’22)? Clut-
sam’s ambitious “A Summer Night” was
performed first at London Majesty’s, and
later at Covent Garden. Ilis four-act
dramatic opera, “King Harlequin,” had a
good spin in Berlin a year or two before
the Clash. Lots of lighter opera stuff also
stands to his credit, as well as a couple of
hundred published songs, ranging from "Ma
Curly-headed Babby” to the exquisite
“Myrra.” Also, he has written much piano
and chamber music.
“Dido”: The attendant found him in
front of Mollie’s cage at Melbourne Zoo.
Mollie is the almost human gorilla who
drapes herself in a potato-sack and smokes
cigarettes. She has a piece of mirror, too,
and takes quite a feminine interest in her
eyebrows now that the thin dark line is the
thing in frontal hair. The man was look-
ing at Mollie and he was weeping. He had
a photograph in his hand, and, finding him-
self observed he ventured an explanation.
“She is so like my poor, dear, lost wife,” he
said. “What, tne monkey V” gasped the
attendant. “Yes, the monkey. Looks like her
and acts like her.” “And is she dead ?” “No,
gone off —gonemff with a showman.” “Well,
I wouldn’t cry if I was you, not if she was
like that. I’d sling up my hat, and wish
the showman joy.” “Yes,” moaned the
grass-widower, “but it’s just occurred to me
there must be a pile of money in her in the
show business.”
“Jacky Roo” (Lond.) : Cyril Maude is
back in a farce called “The Dippers,’
founded on the novel by Ben Travers, but
the critics are lukewarm. Cyril is not the
actor we knew in Sydney. As the Pali.
Mall Gazette puts it, “he relies far too
much on his own familiar chuckle and other
cast-iron mannerisms.” The hit of the
production is made by Binnie Hale, one of
the younger actresses. She is quite first-
class.
“Ex-Englishman”: English films are get-
ting strenuous. One studio is advertising
for a python, which has to strangle the vil-
lain in an E. M. Dell story ; a “property”
snake, it is explained, wouldn’t give the
desired thrill. The villain’s opinion on the
point is not stated. But the most really
humorous bit of “publicity” is an announce-
ment that a Sheffield audience, witnessing
the sensation-scene in a screened ver-
sion of Charles Reade’s convict story,
“It’s Never Too Late to Mend,” was
“completely unnerved.”
“Lond.”: Film producers in England con-
tinue to rely on proved plots. Besides
Dumas and Dickens and Thackeray, they
are now drawing on such unexpected sources
as Hardy’s “Mayor of Casterbridge,” White-
ing’s “No. 5 John-street,” Compton Mac-
kenzie’s “Sinister Street,” and Wells’s
“Kipps.” Walter Besant and Mrs. Henry
Wood also are being given a fresh lease of
life on the screen.
THE ARTIST OUT OF PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Flossy wed her William stout,
A gentleman who dealt in wood,
That she had cut the stage right out
Was generally understood.
Henceforth she nothing had to do
But coo and bill, and bill and coo.
Love in a cottage Flossy tried,
And stuck to it for three long years,
Then to the footlights off she hied.
It doesn’t seem that William cares.
He keeps to wood as sold in cords,
And she is sticking to the boards.
Now Bill to state his case proceeds,
And all, says he, is for the best.
She gets the constant change she needs,
And William gets the constant rest.
Flo acts upon the stage with nous,
But like a fool about the house.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


A
STANDARD MODEL.
"UJOLSELEY”
TEN - H.P. CAR
WOLSELEY TEN-H.P. 2-SEATER.
Similar in all respects to the - model here
illustrated, except that it had a stream-line body
and a few minor adjustments for track work.
Breaks the previous 24-hour record
and with it breaks 69 other records as well.
Beats a car 8 times its capacity
and nearly 6 times its rated H.P.
Here are the actual figures:—
Cubical Capacity
1261 c.c.
Previous Holder 9655 c.c.
That is pretty good going even for an English car; hut, then, as these figures prove, the
“Wolseley” is the best car of its rating that is made in England.
Remember it is English
brains, skill, experience and craftsman-
ship that built this record-breaker, and
that every “Wolseley” Car has just
exactly the same superb qualities of
design, workmanship and materials.
For economy of running costs, for comfort
of riding, for ease of driving, there is no
car to beat the “Wolseley,” be it Ten,
Fifteen or Twenty H.P. Model. The
* Wolseley,” as this new record proves, is
far ahead of all other cars of like capacity.
The “ WOLSELEY” Fifteen and Twenty Cars
are built in exactly the same way, with the same quality of workmanship and material
as the Ten. Book your order NOW.
Delivery from Stocks.
REPRESENTATIVES:—
VICTORIA: DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Eourke Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES: DALGETY & CO., LTD., Phffiip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., Richards’ BuiMings. Carrie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: ADAMS MOTORS, LTD., 847 Hay Street, Perth.
N. ZEALAND: G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS BROS., WeLmgton; TODD BROS., Dunedin; LEREW MOTORS LTD., Napier.
WOLSELEY MOTORS PTY., LTD,
i 7
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.),
339 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD./ Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
HEALTH MEANS SUCCESS
The man who is in perfect physical condition is the man who is
going to make his mark in whatever walk of life he has chosen.
Good health depends upon the organs of the body performing their
functions properly.
THE BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF
HEALTH CULTURE
will tone up the entire nervous and muscular system. Each
pupil who takes the course is trained under the personal
supervision of Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, and the exercises
are given in accordance with individual needs.
YOU can have perfect health by enroll-
ing as a student of the Baker System.
Write your name and address across this advertisement, and
mail it with three 2d. stamps, and the interesting booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self Culture,” will be forwarded
to you.
REG. 1. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BKOTHEKS,
“The All-Bound Champion Athlete of Australia/’
175 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street
(Corner Crown Street), SYDNEY.
W"
m
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Xotliing occurred during the third and
fourth days of the A.J.C. Spring meeting to dispel
the impression that it was the finest that Randwick
has ever seen. The attendance fell away a bit on
Saturday, but that was only to be expected since
Beauford had retired for the season and Gloaming
was on his w’ay back to M.L., from which, being an
aged horse who has been racing for five seasons, he
is hardly likely to return. True, there were David
and the Randwick Plate, but the big black had
only Speciality, Furious, Prince Charles and
Basella to beat, and none of them could make him
get up a sweat. Great-were the profits that rolled
into the club’s coffers, and they will help the com-
mittee to realise old plans for the extension of the
amateur phase of the sport, which means the cur-
tailment of proprietary racing. It is in process of
acquiring the pretty Warwick Farm course, and
Moorefield and Canterbury Park may follow. There are
too many racecourses about Sydney,' and far too
many meetings of the business variety, wherefore the
A.J.C.’s new enterprise is to be supported.
In the 10-furlong Craven Plate Gloaming
came into his own. The old horse indisputably
proved himself Beauford’s master. For the third
time the brown son of Beau Soult tried to break
him up, and once more he failed to do it. Wise
at length to Wood’s methods. Young waited on the
flying leader to the turn, drew up to him at the
distance, and ran past him with little effort, to win
easily by three lengths in 2min. 4sec., Violoncello
being a length behind Beauford. Had the Maori-
land horseman ridden the same style of race in
the Spring Stakes, instead of letting Wood get a
break on him, Gloaming would have won that, too.
But Young is not a first-class jockey.
In point of fact, there are very few first-class
jockeys about. At Randwick there were only two,
VVood and Pike. Kelly, the Victorian, is good,
but he didn’t shine on Rostrum in the Shorts,
when the bonny son of Roseworthy was flukily beateri
by Vodka. Sleigh, Munro and Johnston are pro-
mising boys, but Sleigh rode at least one poor race
(on Comptroller in the Clibborn Stakes) ; indeed,
the trouble with fashionable apprentices is that they
have their off days. But there was a lot of bad
riding during the round, particularly in the
Metropolitan, which was an uncommonly rough
race. Nor was the training, in some cases, up to
the mark. It is the modern fashion to prepare
horses for distance races by restricting them to
sprints and half-pace work, but that regimen doesn’t
suit every steed. Two of the places in the Metro-
politan were filled by horses who had been raced
into form over journevs that tested their stamina;
and the third horse had had a solid old-time pre-
paration. There were huge stretches of daylight
between this trio and certain heavily-backed nags
that were supposed to have been got into perfect
condition by six- and seven-furlong gallops.
Shepherd King is beginning to distinguish himself
at the stud. His fine colt Cliffdale annexed two
races at Randwick, and at Ascot (Q.), on Saturday,
Kingslot credited the imported horse with a minor
classic. Going out at evens Kingslot made nearly
all the running in the Queensland Guineas, and
won with his head in his chest.
* * * *
To many the V.R.C. October meeting
looked almost as prophetic as it looked three years
ago',' when Lucknow' won the Stand Handicap, and
N ightwatch took the October Stakes from their
joint stable comrade, Chrome. On Saturday the
brilliant winner of. the 10-furlong event was Stare,
who seems to have bettered expectation by giving
121 b. to Sister Olive and the highly uncertain Heir
Apparent. The hero of the w.f.a. race was Tanga-
looma, and between- the two performances there was'
nothing to choose. It is hard to believe that Har-
vest King can turn the tables on Tangalooma in the
Caulfield Cup, only a week from now, or that the
tall brown gelding and ,iwtty little Stare are likely
to be blown out by anything save, perhaps, Violon-
cello, who came along last year, after showing much
the .same form as he showed at Randwick last week,
an4won well. —Tangalooma was a great disappoint-
ment that time, but hm trainer has doubtless learned
by experience what not to do with him when he is
well.
• * * *
The first day of the V.A.T.C. meeting
should reveal the strength of the forces from N.S.W.
And if there be any sort of truth in the talk one has
heard about the pretensions of imported horses in
Scobie’s stable the Toorak Handicap ought to bring
it to light. But this is written before even the
acceptances have been declared.
• • • ■ *
Not much has Itcen-heard-of the Westralhn
crack Easingwold since he arrived in Melbourne by
the overland train. But out of Perth comes the
news that a local moneylender with sporting'inter-
ests, one Bill Lean, unavailingly offered £3650 for
the chestnut, plus a handsome consideration if he won
either of the Cups. The' Eat'On' Lad-BafiloO horse
ought to have a Qaulfleld Cup, or at least a Cantala
Stakes chance if he is worth that. The Westralians
swear that he is very little inferior to Eurythmic,
but Melbourne critics are politely sceptical.
# * * *
Adelaide Hunt Club Cup had a curious
finish. The Navy, winner on the last two occasions,
was again a hot favorite, but hit a fence and clouted
off his rider, who, however, stuck to the reins and went
in pursuit. Hans Andersen was about 30 lengths
ahead at the last jump, but was beaten in the run
home by the little-thought-of Terowie, owned by the
master of the Mount Gambier Hunt. The Navy was
a bad third. Alan McFarlane was on Hans Andersen,
but ought on medical, advice to have been in bed.
-However, he came, out an hour later and'won the
Bracelet Handicap cleverly on his father’s Cattelo.
The usually unlucky Charles Irwin won a raoe the
same afternoon with his well-bred Powder and
Patches.
The bowlers are having their turn in the
second round of Sydney premiership cricket. For
Manly v. Glebe, Jimmy Randell, who specialises in
“googlies,” bagged 7 for 59 (four clean bowled).
A. Asher (Sydney) made a wreck of Marrickville by
taking 6 for 48; and H. L. Hendry (Waverley) col-
lected 6 Randwick wickets for 51, while C. G.
Macartney snared 1 for 53 and hit up 42 for Gordon
v. Western Suburbs. It was a bad day for some of
the colts. For example. N. Phillips, the Randwick
stylist, who scored 153 against Uni. in the first
round, was out first ball, and Walford went for 1.
E. K. Brown (Central Cumberland), however, con-
tributed 108 v. St. George (he had made 127 n.o.
the Saturday before), and N. Boazman, a youth from
C. of E. Grammar School, weighed in with an
arresting 88 not out, helping Uni. to put up the
best total (271) of the day. The most vigorous
knock was that of the ever-youthful E. L. Waddy,
who plays for Central Cumberland. His 72 included
three sixers and 11 fours.
Another impression of IVO WHITTON,
amateur golf champion.
Collmgwood were most conspicuous in the
opening of the Melbourne cricket season on Satur-
day. They knocked up 7 for 213 against Carlton,
L. Keating getting 67, the top score of the day,
and Nyman making 4&. Lampard celebrated his
change from P’ran to St. Kilda by contributing
67 to the seasiders’ 165 against University. Free-
mantle, bowling well for the students, bagged 5
for 32, but this achievement was beaten by Rodger-
sen, of Melbourne, who scuttled 7 of Hawthorn-
East for 29, the whole side going for 161. Love,
of Richmond, outed five ’Cote bats for 22, but
’Cote’s fall for 135 was largely due to the goed
catchirg of the Sindrey brothers, who were respon-
sible for seven casualties. South took the after-
noon’s booby prize with 118 against ’Roy. Park
and Woodful, the "two cracks of tfie team," left for
the pavilion after patting up 12 and 18.
“Winkle”: There is much fuss over the
destination of the trophy for the best-bowling aver-
age of last season in our local church competition.
This is what it’s all about. With one match to go
Smith and Jones, of opposing teams, were level,
each having taken 28 wickets for 60 runs (average
2.142). Then Smith got four wickets for 37 runs
(average for match, 9.25), and Jones, who had a
bad day, 1 wicket for 27 runs (average for match,
27). Smith was, of course, immediately hailed as
the winner. But when the averages were re-compiled
it was found that Jones had won with an average
of three, while Smithy, despite his superior final
performance that seemed to give him the bauble, had
the poorer average of 3.031. Now, the trophy is
being kept by the association until some simple
and satisfactory explanation is advanced for these
apparently lying figures. Can anyone supply it?
S.A. Cricket Association toM its members
at the annual meeting that it now has in hand
£lO,OOO in liquid assets, and will at last get lo
work on the long-promised extra pavilion, which will
give them a seat" from which they cannot be elbowed
out by casual women and children visitors. - A. M.
Petti rger, a veteran cricketer, has retired from the
committee after about 30 years of Bervice. At the
resulting election Joe Travers was sent in as the
new member, Gordon Campbell easily retaining his
seat. Travers was Adelaide’s best slow bowler fully
20 years back, and once got Into a Test match. He'
has kept up his form astonishingly, and is still a,
force in club matches.
* •* » - *
“Harold Hardupp” : Had the just-retired...
Arthur Christian remained in one of the States
which have an international cricket status, instead
of going to W.A., he might have made a big mark in
the summer game. A fine left-hand bowler and bat,
lie had only just come to the front rank when he
left Victoria for the West in 1906. Since then
he has played in every international and inter-
-State match in which Westralia was concerned.
In 16 years of cricket, his batting average in only
two years dropped below 30—-one year it was 18.2
and another 26.6; and it went as high as 69.7. The
average over the 16 years was 38. He was-a big
wicket-getter, too, his best bowling average for a
year being seven runs per wicket, and his worst
16.31.
* * * *
The football season in Adelaide-eame to
a sudden end without any challenge round. West
Adelaide, though only just scraping into the final
four, made hay of Torrens, second on the list, and
looked very like doing the same to Norwood, who
were comfortably minor premiers and had beaten
South Adelaide in. the other semi-final. -But the final
proved merely humorous. West, who include that
fine trio, Peters, Hamilton arid Barnes, could do any-
thing with the ball except put it through the goal.
They kicked 12 single-pointers before getting their
first sixer, and at the end they had the horrible
record of 2 goals 16 behinds. Norwood, with some-
thing less than an equal share of the play, had made
fair use of their chances, and won comfortably with
9 goals 7 behinds. West are an unusually small
team, and were giving away on the average a stone
in weight and quite two inches in height. Norwood
were second to Port Adelaide last year. They had
a great record in the long ago, but have not pre-
viously been top since 1907.
* * » •
On Saturday 50,201 persons—the writer
being the I—enjoyed1—enjoyed a glorious Spring afternoon and
an exciting game between Fitzroy and Essendon in the
Vic. League final, incidentally contributing £2261
to the League and the M.C.G. management. The
game was fast, close and keen, but a bit too crowded.
Seven minutes from the close the scores were even.
Then ’Don got a point and strove to hold it. But in
the last five minutes the Maroons swept all before
them, forced two goals, and, then, taking no chances,
kicked two more to make certain—9 goals 14
behinds to ’Don’s 6 goals 9 behinds. ’Roy’s best
was Snowy Atkinson, their full-back; be* kicked
vilely, but in stopping Essendon attacks he was as
solid and reliable as Cheops’ bit of masonry. The
’Dons did well to step up to third this year from last
in ’2l. They were premiers in ’ll and ’l2, since
when they hadn’t been in the “final four.”
* * * *
“Snow”: At Mudgee (N.S.W.) on Satur-
day Albert Glanville, the Sydney ped., was beaten
over 76 and 100 yards by Cyril Meers, of Mudgee.
Meers i§ credited with having done the former dis-
tance in 7 l-ssec., and the latter in 9 4-ssec. If fast
watches were not used these times place him among
the world’s champions. J. Donaldson’s slickest 100
on a grass-track was 9 3-Bsec. A. E. Duffy’s best was
9 3-ssec.
» » * •
Some fine athletes are coming along in
the N.S.W. colleges. J. E. Wiseman, of Newingtoo,
cleaned up most of his school’s championships, win-
ning the 100yds. in 10 3-ssec., the 220 in 25sec., the
broad jump, the high jump and the 120yds. hurdles.
Altogether Wiseman scored 45 points—the highest
ever registered by a Newington youth. He will meet
Bayldon and other muscular Christians in the G.P.S.
tests at the week-end. Another husky youth is C.
Morrissey, of St. Ignatius’, who won the school
discus throw (93ft. Sin.), the shot putt (40ft. 5-Jin.),
the 120yds. hurdles and the broad jump, and is a
fine cricketer and oarsman withal. Powerfully-built
(he scales 13st. 101 b.), Morrlssev is still only 19.
» * * »
In a brisk nor’-west blow on Saturday
Pastime, formerly 18ft. champion of Queensland,
proved too slick for the rest of Sydney Sailing
Club’s fleet over the Clarke Island-George’s Head
course. With a 4min. start and Sid Holmes on the
bridge, Pastime was in front at George’s Head, and
although Keriki (2min.'). also of Bananaland and
well handled by Lan Taylor, made a great race of it,
Holmes’s craft had 30sec. in hand at the finish with
Kismet, off the honor mark, in third money.
* * * *
Sid Beck, one of the best all-round water-
men in Australia, began the Sydney swimming
season promisingly, winning his heat of a 50yds.
race in 25see. flat. But he would have had to go
faster than Weissmuller to get a place in the final,
and Sid is not up to that standard yet. The winner
got over the 50 yards in 31sec., and he was on the
Bsec. mark. With so many improving youngsters in
the business the handicappers are going to have
trouble this year.
Unlike the hapless Joseph, Eddie Ramies,
the Californian featherweight, was given ample time
to get Into proper condition before making his first
appearance, and a fair-sized crowd saw him stop
Packy Macfarlane, of Newcastle, in 17 rounds at
the Sydney Stadium.
Ramies is a very good
boxer, and was much
too fast and clever for
Macfarlane. His left
hand was seldom out of
the Newcastle boy’s
face, and he connected
with man}’ damaging
rights to Packy’s jaw
and body. Mac was not
idle either, and landed
some hefty lefts to the
ribs, which seemed to be
the Yank’s tender spot.
Ramies boxed very
carefully, and wasn’t
fully extended,
although he started
most of the rallies
and looked a sure
winner after the sixth
round. But Macfar-
lane’s form was far
below that he showed
against Mcßride.
“SPEC"-RAMIES.
who stopped
Macfartane in
17 rounds.
Australian boxers abroad are still succeed-
ing in getting themselves into trouble. Jim Tracey,
billed in America as a champion from these parts,
rnoi Luis Firpo, the Argentino heavyweight, at
Buenos Aires, and was outed in the fourth round.
Geo. Cook, who was to have met' Marcel Nilles, the
French heavyweight, injured a hand and was unable
to carry out the engagement. Albeit Lloyd wanted
to take his place, but the promoters wouldn’t have
him at any price. His form has been too bad. So
Nilles knocked out Rogiers, a Belgian, ■ instead.
• * * *
The Australian middleweight title has
changed hands again, the new owner being Alt'
Stewart, a graduate from the ranks of “preliminary”
fighters. At Melbourne, on Saturday night, Alfred
outpointed the long, lean Ring, and got the arbitra-
tor’s decision after having bled like a pig for a
good part of the journey. Stewart’s exhibition was
vigorous and promising, albeit he has a long way to
go before reaching the class of Dan Creedon and
Jim Hall.
• * * #
Fighting as a welterweight, Archie Brad-
ley, the bright youth from Gympie (Q.), roughed
his way to victory—at least the referee said he had
—over Tommy Uren at Brisbane on Saturday night.
Uren, who is a middleweight, had trained down to
lOst. 91b. to meet Archibald, and was palpably
weak in the clinches. Still, he thought he had won
on points, and a large section of the crowd was of
the same opinion. A suspicion grows that Bradley
is more of a wrestler than a boxer.
• * * *
“Winlde”: Greenfalls should have had
more sense. He knew no more about rowing than
my foot knows about. snipe-shooting, yet he per-
mitted himself to be barracked into \vageriug £1
that he could row a racing slrelil a distance of half
a mile up the river. “Snowy” Carlson, the tormen-
tor, put up the other quid, “Scotty” Prass held the
stake, and to the Yarra that very lunch-hour they
went, accompanied by as many mates as were
granted an extra half-hour’s time off. Those com-
pelled to remain behind were anxious, for the cream
of the joke was that Greenfalls was confidently ex-
pected to capsize the shell—and he couldn’t swim.
Their conversation became gruesome. Each had an
anecdote telling of some horrible boating fatality;
and one lucky fellow enjoyed a few minutes’ noto-
riety as a prophet—he had dreamt during the pre-
vious night of a man drowning. Just as the lunch
hour was over, “Scotty,” the stake-holder, was seen
pedalling a bicycle desperately towards them. Was
he, with the instinct of his race, merely trying to
avoid losing half-an-hour’s pay, or had the worst
happened? When he alighted he was bombarded
with anxious inquiries. Clearly he was dead beat,
but he managed to gasp out: “Grand! The shout
cost seven-and-six, and then we beat the barmaid for
half-Grdollar! ”
» * * »
“15-30”: Suzanne Lenglen has broken out
as a tennis critic. Of Tilden she writes that “he
owes his tennis ability to his physical advantage?
rather than his strokes. Great height and reach
are tremendous assets in lawn tennis.” But if height
and reach were of such importance, the Australian,
VVertheim, would leap into front rank, and the
midget Californian, Johnston, would be dispossessed
of his place as Tilden’s most serious rival. It is
really stroke play and headwork that count, and in
those departments Tilden and Johnston are ahove all
competitors. Tilden’s stroke work, on the word of Nor-
man Brookes, is the greatest on the globe, and to
depreciate such an equipment as his in the face of
evidence demonstrating his superlative control of the
ball, is either prejudice or imbecility. I have watched
Tilden closely, and .1 have never seen him at a loss for
the proper stroke for a critical Drives off
either hand, volleys sliced or plain, half-vollevs a*
delicate as Brookes’s, - or lifted up into soaring and
disconcerting lobs, come alike from a racquet which
can spin the ball anyway in service, or belt it in
straight like a shot from a gun. Admittedly Tilden
is tall and active, but then, so is Anderson, and
despite the closeness of the results in the matche-
between them, there is no comparison between the
two games. Anderson has one great ace —the
forehand drive —but he doesn’t carry a handful of
trumps elsewhere. Tilden will produce a winning
shot in all sorts of ways, and the grace and deftness
of the stroke suggest that he knew three or four
hits back that he would be called upon to produce it.
Much rubbish has been written about the art of
“anticipation,” but I firmly believe that Brookes
possessed it and that the two leading Yankees are
very promising pupils.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Doping is a common practice on Australian
courses.”
A tear that good old jockey shed,
And slapped the horse upon the flank.
“A noble nag that was,” he said,
“Now he’s a cabhorse, and can thank
The cursed drink, sir, for his fall,
The bloomin’ whisky beats us all.
“He had a splendid turn of speed,
But lazy was about his work.
At first a drop would meet his need.
Two whiskies in, and, like a Turk,
The Ensign got right down to it.
That year he won a tidy bit.
“They gave him brandy in a bucket,
And Ensign mopped it up with glee.
He got at last he couldn’t chuck it,
And often went upon a spree.
I’ve heard him cornin’ ’ome at night
With neighin’s wild, uproarious tight.
“Why did he neigh? We must infer
Tile liquor-takes us all the same. ‘ :
He thought that he was singin’, sir.
At times he seemed to feel his shame,
When he went staggerin’ by, pore horse,
Hic-cuppin’ blind upon the course.
“They always dosed him on the track,
And he’d go surgin’ with a leer,
A hequinc dipsomaniac.
Rum, gin or whisky, brandy, beer,
And even wine he wouldn’t flout it,
Of late he couldn’t go without it.
“He sank so low that he was sold
To haul a cab about the town,
And now he’s prematurely old,
And, as you say, completely down.
He’s got the boozer’s eye, you see,
The boozer’s limpness of the knee.
“He’d do just anythin’ for drink.
He’d rush the brew’ries. Often he
Kicked into pubs, and once, 1 think,
He burgled a distillery.
You know how ’tis. Like us, pore cow,
He had to have it, anyhow.
“A Pussyfoot was here to-day,
Inducin’ of the ’orse to hedge
On booze. I heard the cabbie say
Old Ensign he has took the pledge.
But as a mercy, mate, I think,
i'll stand the old sport just one drink.”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


$
W.
I
1
A leader among smaller size tyres
&E
THE Goodyear 33 x 31 in. Tyre is made carefully and pains-
takingly in a factory devoted exclusively to the manufacture
of small tyres.
It has the famous Goodyear All-Weather Tread and is of the
Beaded Edge Type.
Reports from all over the world show that this tyre for small or
light cars has won unquestioned leadership.
And it occupies this position by reason of its quality and its
construction. Only the highest grade long staple Egyptian cotton
is used in its manufacture.
The carcase is sturdy; it is amply cushioned with tough and
resilient rubber stock.
It will prove to your advantage to equip your car with Goodyear
All-Weather Treads. They wear long and give unusual satisfaction.
NOTE PRESENT REDUCED PRICES
30 x 31 in. All-Weather Tread Fabrics £6/10/-
30 x 31 in. All-Weather Tread Cords £7/10/-
Obtainable from Service Stations and Dealers everywhere
IrC
NT


A New Service for Men—
EVERYTHING PERTAINING
TO THE SAFETY RAZOR
Ac the Men’s Hat Counter, Ground Floor, Market
Street, a full range of well known makes of safety
razors, blades, strops and accessories is exhibited.
A special feature is the “one-day service” with regard
to re-grinding razor blades, which, if left before the
luncheon hour, will be ready at mid-day the following day.
Regrinding: Durham Duplex blades ...dozen, 1/9
AH other makes dozen, l/3
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
“The Store for Men.”
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba.
Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney. ..
Associated with Mr. I.e\y is a well-
known French chef, whose engine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
The Countess had an uncomfortable few
minutes when she arrived at the Vic. State
Schools’ Jubilee Exhibition, without notice,
for an informal visit the other day, and
found she had no coin. Her children and
the “shoffer” were also penniless. Then
somebody identified her, and the doors flew
open. She must have felt as awkward as
Herbert Brooks (Deakin’s son-in-law) the
time he went to hear Lloyd George in Eng-
land. As his pocket was bulging and the
J. Hops were jumpy about bombs, he was
compelled to disclose the contents —a few
buns he had bought hurriedly to ward off
hunger’s pangs in a three-hours’ wait.
Dr. Stanley Argyle handed his younger
daughter, Betty, to Eric Hill Harrison for
better or for worse on Oct. 3 at Toorak St.
John’s, amid peach blossoms, the pealing ot
wedding-bells and the earliest revelations in
Spring fashions. The bride fluttered in soft
white draperies trailing a back panel of
silver brocade, held out of the dust by a
white-frocked infant, Gwen Foster, whose
brown curls supported a natty little poke
bonnet. Orange blossoms wreathed Betty’s
pretty head and budded over the ears under
her grandmother’s Limerick lace wedding
veil. She embraced the usual sheaf
of ’ white lilies. Beryl Lawrence and
Doris Umphelby walked behind in white
crSpe georgette with semi-detached bands of
silver ribbon striping the front and hinder
skirt widths, and girdles of glittering bugle
beads, while silver-bead embroidery lent an
expensive air to the floating angel sleeves,
and edged the frilly effects on the spreading
white hat-brims. Each bi’andished a bunch
of mauve magnolias. H. Byrne, assisted by
a Langlands-Jack brother, supported the
bridegroom. The wedding feast was served
in a pink-lined marquee on the back lawn
of the Argyle home. Mrs. Argyle was in
navy blue crgpe de Chine with a black-
fringed hip scarf and black hat flying clusters
of ospreys, and held mauve flowers. Her
elder daughter, Mrs. Edmond Lillies, struck
a sombre note, in black crepe hangings
girdled with jet, topped by a black head-
piece with a sleek feather spread along the
brim. She, too, clutched a mauve posy.
The elder daughter of the Bridges lady has
come back from Sydney with a trained
nurse’s certificate in her kitbag, but, as she
has a matrimonial engagement in the offing,
her nurse’s cap and apron may not be over-
worked. She was to have been married to
her Singapore rubber-planter last year,
but the fearsome slump in the stuff you make
tyres and dummies out of necessitated a post-
ponement.
A sudden outburst of Spring sunshine
gladdened the landscape for the Seamen’s
Mission fete on the Simon Fraser dame’s
Toorak lawns on Saturday afternoon. The
attendance seemed insignificant as. compared
with the number and social weight of the
stalls people. Lady Forster, smilingly ami-
able in suitable brown tailorings, blew in to
open the affair with Captain Pitt Rivers.
The vice-regal purse was empty and
the vice-regal arms full of packages
when her Ex. finally made her exit;
quite unlike but that’s another story.
The Norman Brookes and Ronald Murray
matrons sold perfectly spiffing handliies —at
a price ; Mrs. Bertie Austin headed the bri-
gade in charge of the produce kiosk, and
the two youngest daughters 'of the Parker
knight looked after the butter-and-egg sec-
tion. Mrs. Arthur Payne helped in
the tea tent, while Mrs. Canon Snod-
grass, Miss Tracey and a Godfrey sister
stood behind the Harbor Lights Guild dis-
play of fancy goods. Miss Nyulasy sold
cakes at a terrific speed, and other vendors
of perishable and imperishable things were
the Edward Miller dame, Mrs. Gilruth and
Mrs. Morrice Williams.
Letters from Australians in England dis-
close the fact that Joe Cook’s long speeches
bore English audiences, and they are getting
as tired of hearing him say he 4s a Stafford-
shireman as they were of being told by Andy
Fisher that he was a Scot. Some day Aus-
tralia may get a native-born High Commis-
sioner wlio will talk of the land that pays
him his screw as home, and not as a place
of sojourn. It hasn’t had one yet.
The Best dame staged a mixed two-
stepping frivol of grown-ups and flappers
for her second chick, Phyllis. The affair hap-
pened'in the marquee used for Margot Best s
coming-out dance on the previous week,
and though the rain came in torrents it
mercifully kept off the dance floor. Ine
hostess wore lilac satin facings, and Miss
Phyllis w’reathed the waist of her pink and
mauve chiffonery wdth fuchsia blooms.
Helen Jerome, who has written some good
Bulletin verse in her time, and is now
definitely settled in N’York, has written a
book on “Woman,” which Boni and Liveright
are publishing next month. It is dedicated
to her friend, H. L. Mencken, but traverses
many of the unfavorable views that remark-
able Writer takes of the sex.
The Jack Hooke widow, whose late hus-
band fell at the Landing, snapped her pretty
fingers in the face of Convention by fluttering
under the virginal bridal veil and orange
blossoms for her second knot-tying at the
Brighton Anglican Church the other evening.
Dr. Egerton Hill was the happy man. The
church was a blaze of white lilies and Jap
blossom, and Claud Shilling relieved the
register-signing interval with a song. Harold
Iluon handed his sister over, and Arthur Hill
acted as his brother’s second, with the assist-
ance of Frank Daley. The bridesmaids,
Annette Hume and Meredith Hill, were in
satin, one in yellow, one in blue, each flying
a veil to match from a lace head-band fastened
with red roses. Little Ivy and Meg John-
son followed after in yellow frockings, bear-
ing gilt baskets filled with rose petals, which
they afterwards threw before the newly-weds.
To save the wedding-ring from going astray
it was hitched to a white cushion carried by
a self-conscious little boy in a satin
suit. The bride’s mother —the widow of
squatter William Iluon, who owned De
Iverilleau station (N.S.W.) —hostessed a
health-drinking party at her Brighton home,
garbed in pink charmeuse, with a black vel-
vet headpiece.
The Harold Grimwades’ elder son, Thorn-
ton, has been condemned to several days
in a darkened room, as a punishment for
viewing the eclipse with the naked eye %
Young Thornton, who was badly damaged in'
a motor-cycle spill some time ago, has only
just returned from a setting-up trip in the
Far East under convoy of his parents.
Dave Player, who passed over recently,
■was always in great request at charity con-
certs, school break-ups, etc. Comic songs,
to which he played his own accompaniments,
were his specialty. He w r as once one of a
concert party to the Austin Hospital for
Incurables. His funny items were keenly
appreciated, and after the concert, as he
helped to pass round the tea and cakes —
which the party also provided—he noticed a
melancholy-looking woman sitting by her-
self. He went up to her, offered her a cup
of tea, and remarked in his best manner: “It
must be a bit dull here at times, but I was
very glad to see you laugh when I sang my
song.” “Oh! You didn’t see me laugh,”
snapped the melancholy one. “I look like
that sometimes because I have facial paraly-
sis.” Dave was a brother of Dr. Charles
Player, and a brother-in-law of Dr. John
Cooke, of Prahran, who met his death last
year at Armadale through a train accident.
This handsome profile, photographed by
Lafayette, belongs to Mrs. W. M. Robins.
Her husband is an
official in the Mint,
and she is one of
Melbourne’s most
popular matrons,
always to the fore-
front in any charit-
able or patriotic
cause. Mrs. Robins
was a member of
that splendid
women’s committee
which helped to run
the Blind Asylum so
efficiently, but which,
for some unexplained
reason, wms compul-
sor i 1 y disbanded.
Melbourne knows her
and the George
Tallis lady as insep-
arable chums.
Sydney Ure Smith was banqueted by the
Victorian artists during his visit to Mel-
bourne, Bernard Hall, Web Gilbert, W. B.
Mclnnes, H. B. Harrison, J. S. McDonald
and others foregathering to give him the
glad hand. Norman Lloyd, who was exhibit-
ing at the Fine Art Galleries, got an invi-
tation addressed to Norman Lloyd Jones.
They mixed up his name with C- Lloyd
Jones, and when they proposed his health
they got further muddled by referring to
him as Lloyd Rees. Now they have dis-
covered that there are three Lloyds in the
artistic field.
Canon Digby. Berry died while on
his way back to Australia to visit his
daughter at Heidelberg. Up to the time
he left for Johannesburg, 15 years ago, he
w/as fond of the sectarian limelight, though
his great ability nobody questioned. For
a while he acted as Warden at Trinity Col-
lege w’hile Leeper w r as away in England,
38 years ago; and subsequently vicared at
Essendon and East Melbourne.
Major Alan Currie has got back to his
Western District acreage, Ercildoune, after
some months spent in India, pointing out
the great possibilities of Australia to army
officers about to shed their regimental trap-
pings. As a result of his eloquence, qu.te
a number of Anglo-Indians say they are
coming hither.
Friday afternoon’s meeting at Ston-
ington showed that the Girls’ Guide
movement is moving all right, but there is
an urgent need for funds. Our Most Gilded
don’t seem to have backed up their enthusi-
asm with the expected big cheques; therefore
the public is again to be called on to come
to the rescue with the usual philanthropic
frivols, even though the hospitals, etc., are
crying aloud for help. Incidentally, though
the smart girls’ schools are forming guide
corps, the factory ’ands are held up for lack
of leaders. Mrs. Norman Brookes is doing
her bit by pointing out the sunny side of
Girl-Guiding to the latter section, and Mrs.
Charlie Lyon is looking after the literary
uplift part of the business.
Herewith Monteath’s view of Eileen
O’Keefe, w’ho lately professed an air of
motherly concern in
Vance Palmer’s
“H ap p y Family,”
staged by the Pion-
eers. She had a
somewhat similar
part in Louis Esson’s
“The Battler,” at
the Pioneers’ kick-off
a few weeks back,
and was the homely
Irish servant i n
Stuart Macky’s
“John Blake,” which
wafted a convict at-
mosphere over the
footlights a little
while later. Previ-
ously Miss O’Keefe
lent her Boucicault-
ian accent to the
Mermaids for the
Eroduction of Yeats’s “Land of Heart’s
lesire,” and her bright work relieved the
Ibsenish gloom that settled down on the
same society’s version of “The Tragedy of
Nan.” A conscientious lady with a deep
literary varnish, she combined with Alan
Murray in an elocutionary recital last year,
and treated the audience to morceaux from
Walter de la Mare, Rupert Brooke, Brown-
ing and Francis Thompson. And she threat-
ens another evening soon, devoted exclusively
to Australian verse.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan will be sadly missed in
many Melbourne households. She leaves few
relatives, however. The best known of them
is General Charles (Plevna) Ryan, the
A.M.C. “head,” who has more decorations,
foreign and British, probably, than any
doctor in the Commonwealth.
Marjorie Browne, a Scottish lassie, is
leaving her native haggis to fulfil a,
war-time promise to marry Herbert, ot*
the sheep-growing Officer brothers. It won’t
cost the ex-Anzac gunner' and his bride any-
thing to furnish their kitchen department,
thanks to the Kerang returned soldier, who
thoughtfully hosted a kitchen-tea spree in
the local hall for his old cobber, who after-
wards had a whole vanload of the best
aluminium, brooms and floor coverings de-
livered at his new concrete humpy. One
Officer brother w r as killed in France, and
another, whose experiences include two
and a half terrible years as a German war
prisoner, now’ feeds his flocks on the Christ-
mas Hills.
As Hitchcock is about to start on a trip
to England, he has declined a sixth term as
Mayor of Geelong. McWhae will be able to
show’ him off as one of Vic.’s provincial mer-
chant princes, and it’s just possible that
George V. may have a bauble lying handy to
pin on his coat.
Death has claimed three venerable women
during the past few days. Hannah Regan,
who passed out at Elsternwick, said she was
104, and at her death w’as in full possession
of her faculties. She arrived in Port Phillip
Bay in the Afric in 1852, and after living in
Ballarat for 37 years spent the remaining
33 in Elsternwick. Elizabeth Hiscock, who
died at Ballarat, aged 85, w’as the daughter-
in-law of Thomas Hiscock, whose discovery
of gold in Hiooek’s Gully, near Buninyong,
on August 4, 1851, directly led to the rush
which started at Ballarat. Mrs. Hiscock
left four sons, five daughters, 55 grandchild-
ren and 18 great-grandchildren. The other
of the trio was Miss Isabel Hunter, w ho w’as
84 when the end came for her at Camberwell.
She was one of the oldest residents of Mel-
bourne, having lived here since 1848.
Having got over the crisis of his own
making in the Leg. Assemhl.v, Premier Law-
son threw himself joyously into the “Back
to Castlemaine” affair. He went to school
again with the old boys and girls, but at
North Castlemaine the others insisted upon
making him teacher. Major-Gen. MeCay
had to take on the same role in the centre
of the village, but the part w’ould be more
familiar to hitn, as he had to play it in
earnest in his younger days. As a fun-
producer the old-timers’ hop, with concer-
tina and tin-whistle for the band, was ex-
celled by nothing on the week’s programme.
Unless the come-backers are to be set down
as unredeemable liars, Castlemaine has sup-
plied the brains and machinery for running
the Cabbage State for the last 60 years.
To assist him in warding off the boredom
of celebrating his second anniversary in
Australia, the G.-G. snared a couple oi
dozen newspaper men for lunch, ine con-
tingent consisted mainly of subs., and tor
their sins his Ex. inflicted upon them some
polite platitudes. But the subs, got their
own back by—publishing them.
The Rennie sisters will hostess an after-
noon at-home frivol on Sunday, Oct. -2, at
St. Nest’s, the old South Yarra home oi tne
late Mrs. Sam Staughton, when the recep-
tion-rooms can be hired for dance or other
parties.
To enable State members to join in the
Federal election campaign, there is talk or
winding up the session by December 1. pre-
mier Lawson is agreeable. He wants to be
fit enough to enjoy his trip, which is to
begin on January 6 —if all goes well.
Some gossip from Adelaide: —
Women who had looked to the Hunt Club
Races to give a first airing to their Spring finery
cast dubious glances at a leaden sky, then tucked
georgettes and muslins back into their boxes, and
themselves into winter raiment and furs. But if
the Arctic day was bad for clothes it was excellent
for racing, and a huge crowd turned up, including
the usual hunting devotees who seem to live in
hollow legs between whiles and only emerge for
these particular affairs. The Murrays came down in
time for the first event, and were at the official
lunch, to which the Club admits women as well as
men. The Cup went, as usual, to a south-eastern
horse, and the Ladies’ Bracelet to Mrs. Alan McFar-
lane, her horse being bred by her husband and
ridden by her son. lie, by the way, got out of bed
to ride the winner of this race (he has now done it
four years in succession) and to land Hans Andersen
second in the Cup, after which he took himself and
his temperature of 103 or so back to the blankets.
The Glen Legoes have booked passages for Eng-
land early in November. Their eldest daughter is
already on t’other side, having gone with Mrs.
Dudley Ryder and Mrs. Duncan-Hughes some months
ago. Mrs. Albion Tolley and her son and Mrs.
Tolmer went by the Nestor, and Mrs. Guy Fisher
and her two small children by the Esperance Bay.
Mrs. Fisher was farewelled at the Queen Adelaide
Club a few days before she left, with her sister-in-
law, Mrs. Warden and Mrs. Britten Jones as joint
hostesses.
The Alliance Frangaise is bemoaning the. coming
loss of its secretary, Miss M,abel Boothy, who is
handing over her minute-books and other insignia
of office at the end of the year. Miss Violet de
Mole was responsible for the programme at the
society’s final meeting this season a lecture on the
life and works of Molifire.
The latest charity ball was one at Unley to raise
funds for the branch of the School for Mothers which
that suburb has set its heart on. Mayor and
Mayoress Richards took the show under their wing,
and philanthropically set aside a room where the
less nimble of toe could play bridge or spillikins
instead of jazzing.
The Orpheus Society has roped in J. M. Dunn
as its new conductor, vice E. A. Daltry, resigned.
He has been organist at St. Peter’s Cathedral for
years, and has made its music a thing of beauty
that brings packed congregations for special festivals
and on Sunday nights.
The Brookman dame has temporarily forsaken us
for the eastern States, wherein she plans a three
weeks’ holiday.
The long-awaited “Ugly Duckling’’ chipped its shell
to some purpose at the Theatre Royal on Thursday
evening, and proved how amply worth while was all
the planning and preparing that had gone to its
hatching. The Murrays, who had taken Dr. Gerald
Hayward and Mr. W. Gunson with them, cast appre-
ciative eyes on the show from a box, and the rest
of the audience included anyone who was anyone
and hadn’t been roped in to perform. Every seat
was taken and any spare cash you had about you
was promptly annexed by sellers of sweets and pro-
grammes and posies and streamers, under the wing
of Mrs. Stanley Murray, Mrs. Charlie Coles, Miss
Dorothy McDonald, Mrs. d’Arenberg, Mrs. Villeneuye
Smith, Mrs. Helpman and Mrs. J. Marshall. Sylvia
Whitington led the orchestra (all Conservatorium
pupils), Winsloe Hall conducted the music he had
written, his wife was frock designer a»d producer,
and the Hackett dame headed the committee that
saw to the necessary business of publicity and seat-
booking. One of the star, items was a farmyard
ballet, with really excellent solo dancing by Maxine
Tolley (turkey), Evelyn Hyland (pigeon) and Bobbie
Helpman (duck), and for. characterisation Edith Aird
as the Queen Mother carried off the palm, with Fred
Winsloe Hall and Thora Gordon Short as runners-
up. On the second night the show went with an
even greater swing, and the final curtain saw such
a wholesale casting of flowers and streamers that
the producers and principals were nearly smothered
by one and strangled by the other. There were
clamorous demands for a speech, but Winsloe Hal!
would have none of that, and when he’d cleared him-
self sufficiently of streamers gave a hurried signal
for “God Save.” Proceeds are for the Limbless
Soldiers, the Benevolent and Strangers’ Friends’
Society, and a prospective and much-needed convales-
cent home for children.


> * u
wSmimmmmMm
\ ' : > •
wm®
m
. —a *rn
«<'. I*# " -,,c '
. »
';. : -C'
m
m
fix :
fh
m
m
k.
\
-:.c-:.' ::•
■
s
m
m
;
S./'TWB-
I
m
H
■ ' ■'■
;
• ; --v ; -'
**■
1 li
S HIPoT S
*
Q^iiheUirx/o
are renowned for
their comfort and
their quality—a
quality which
stands alone and
has never been
approached. :: ::
Ask your Mercer
for them. :: ::


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 191!
CfMfIPM
ME PLUS ULTRA
1
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO LTD,
Jewellers and Gem Merchants.
(k i
WHOLE PEARL NECKLETS
The Company has a comprehensive
collection of Pearl Ropes, Pearl Neck-
laces; also of loose specimen Pearls.
The variation in the prices is regu-
lated by the color and perfection of
the Pearls.
The Company maintains a large stock
of loose Pearls, from which a selection
can be made, and their experience is
always at the service of customers.
Prices range from £l2/10/- to £2750.
Estimates and full particulars sent
free upon request.
SHOWROOMS:
34 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Savon, Parfum, Poudre
v
k
I w y /; ■{ i / ? '- n ■ jl
M /: )l V
cr.;
What makes her such an
Enchanting Pearl?
Why? Don’t you know?
‘ An ERASMIC Girl!
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Wednesday’s sunshine brought out the
prettiest frocking of last week’s Rand-
wick meeting—a lyric note being struck
in muslin and voiles, and lace drapings.
One of the most striking dressers was
Mrs. Vivers, in an ivory morocain,
cunningly simple as to line, slipping
from the shoulders into a short cape etlect.
Another backer of ivory tints was Mrs. Tom
Dixson, who hedged on her millinery, which
was rose-pink in hue. Mrs. Mick Meagher,
from Bathurst, alternated between moonlight
blue and cream in her frocking, but seemed
terribly attached to a large black hat that
carried a bunch of ospreys like a typewriter
brush beneath its brim. Mrs. Sep Levy’s
navy-blue tailorings sported a few furlongs
of silver braid, and flaunted the übiquitous
short cape. Mrs. Tony Hordern’s hat
stopped the eye-traffic as abruptly as the
crossing cop’s white hand. A fair helping
of a gaily-hued parrot rested thereon,
and the color of her frock suggested
a nicely-done biscuit. With her were Mrs.
Ken Richards, and the slim Pitt Rivers lady,
who combined black satin and panels of
cream lacA and wore a small black satiii-and-
lace hat. Mrs. Colin Duncan (who was
Cecily Catterall), somewhat plumper and
even prettier than of yore, weighted her
black silkiness with gold and green embroid-
eries, and was among the crinoline-hat
brigade. Rupert Clarke’s lady was stun-
ning in clothes that suggested a golden
glow. Little Mrs. Alec Gordon’s frocking
was a symphony in brown. Mrs. W. G.
Stead nearly rent her oyster-satin in twain
for joy at Gloaming’s win.
Oscar Asehe was there, looking like a
lamb being led to the slaughter, and trying
to shelter from the October sun under an inad-
equate straw hat. whereas nothing less than
a small tent could have been of tlie slightest
use to the poor dear. Mrs. Willie Collins,
again with the vice-regals, was in white
that carried entanglements of mist-like lace,
and furthermore had a Spanisli-looking veil
of black lace dangling from a white hat.
The Jellicoe lady cheered her navy-blue
frocking with red beads, and sported a red
feather in her hat. Dame Margaret’s mil-
linery stuck to pastel tones from the soft
blue feather in her hat to the heavy lace
panels of her frock. Mrs. Vincent McCauley
was one of the graceful dressers of the meet-
ing, aud Mrs. Tom Dalton greeted the open-
ing day in a cherry-toned hat, ringing the
changes later on with cream and lavender.
.Miss O’Keefe (whose original race-dress
was stolen on her own doorstep) managed to
preserve a brave front in a cream lace and
black satin confection. A pretty mixture
was Margaret Knox’s red-and-white crepe
de Chine and small white hat; and a small,
dark flapper, whose navy dress was a ruffle
of tiny frills edged with white from hem to
waist, was another Official Stand attraction.
Dorothy Coffee, in grey lace, and a starry-
eyed MacDonald child, in soft white satin
that carried a Hawaiian-like top skirt of
moonlight-blue fringe, made an attractive
twosome.
Pianists Winifred Burston and Muriel
Fletcher wore graceful models in black and
dull blue —the combined color effect being
like a Ming glaze. Mrs. A. E. Hughes’s
yellow skirts billowed in front of the mem-
bers’ stand till it seemed as though the lawn
had suddenly developed a crop of butter-
cups ; but her light was suddenly eclipsed
by the lady whose flowing satin draperies
looked as though the entire Loyal Orange
Lodge had designed its make up—bright
orange from the towering paradise plumes
in the hat to the tip of the skirt. Its
wearer stood close to the band before and
during a whole race. “That’ll crab the
luck of poor old Loyal Irish again,” Sighed
a youthful punter in the members’ stand;
“now, I’ll have to pick a horse with a
Scotchbyterian name.” And that’s how it
happened that Gilray carried four half-
crowns to victory!
The Macarthur Onslows showed a gleam
of originality over a race party during
bookmakers’ week, though perhaps it was
only a far-off echo of Goodwood. It was a
packet luncheon (after the style the otnee-
girl and boy orders from the shop around
the corner), but, of course, glorified by
luxurious sandwich fillings, cheese straws,
olives, crystallised fruits and champagne.
The Graham lady (widow’ of Sydney’s
well-liked medico-mayor, and herself the
daughter of a parson) is to unlock the door
of St Saviour’s, Redfern, Parish Hall, next
Wednesday, at 3 o’clock, so that Sydney
Anglicans may pour in to a sale of w’ork.
This little shrine wants at least £2OO to keep
the bailiff out, and seeing that it supports
one of the most nourishing church day-
schools in the diocese it deserves all the help
it is asking for, and a bit Over.
The fame of Lute Drummond’s “Stories of
the Operas” has spread till the ripple has
lapped against the doorstep of Government
House. His Ex. and Dame Margaret say
they will drop in at the Con. next Saturday
evening, when the story of “Thais? will be
repeated, with Jean Drummond{and..Clifford.
Lathlean singing the, arias of the beauteous
vamp and the Monk - who Took the Wrong
Turning.
The vicejregals visited the Arts and
Crafts’ Exhibition in the Education Depart-
ment on Friday, and sprinkled the official
blessing thereon. While there is nothing
outstanding about this year’s exhibits* there
certainly is no falling awmy from the Soci-
ety’s standard. Vi Eyre’s inlaid pottery
catches the gaze, as do some of the glazes
of Ernest Finlay; Iluntly McCrae, a clever
cluck of noet Jlugh, shows some gai(y-hued
pottery, hatpins and buckles and Stanley
Lucas sends heanfCoijs from
Newcastle. Embroideries of Australian de-
signs strike an original note, arjd the hand-
woven scarf by Joan Mackenzie is a thing
to win every woman’s fancy*,.
Kilmorey, the Point Piper home of the
MacCormieks, staged the gayest party of
Race Week bin Friday nicht. Everybody who
had been at the Shm and Tony Hordern
shivoo. and the Maearrhur Onslow Randwick
luncheon, turned up again and . thronged; the
two big reception-rooms for jazz ' and talk
to the accompaniment of a perfectly wonder-
ful orchestra, which was quarantined in the
small room off the dancing area. . The win-
dows were alt thrown wide” to the
moonlight night, and there was lots of veran-
dah space? for the sitters-out, not? to mention
a. near-Spanish courtyard where a fountain
played, apd a gay awning closed out the too-
fervid stars. Vice-royalty turned up at this
flutter, and with the blue-clad Dame Mar -
garet came General Chauvel’s wife, very slim
and pretty in draped white silk. Mrs. Pitt
Rivers suggested a background of water-lilies
and lagoons in the greeny-blue frock sheDore
in the garden scene of “Pamela.” The Mae-
Cormick lady herself wore black aud silver,
and —model and unmadern hostes&S-refrained
from dancing. Daughter Alison wrapped
her fairness in salmoiLpink tints. The quiet
Lachlan Mackinnon couple lent an air of
comfortable well-being to the gathering; but
the Lawrence Grossmith pair, she very large-
eyed and fragile, were the big hit of the
evening. They came-On after “Captain Apple-
j6bn,”~with the Judge Gordon couple. Mrs.
Harry Whiting' (Melbourne;) wore a year’s
tribute to King Solomon in the gold of her
dress. Mrs.?. MacKellar was another out-
standing good-looker. Sam Hordern was
there, with Doreen and Audrey, and Beatrice
Kelly was another of the younger set, her
Burne-Jones hair nearly hidden by a wide
band of silver. Charlie Cropper, sec. of the
A.J.C., brought down the house by absent-
mindedly drawing out his watch and, through
sheer force of habit, timing the final jazz.
This is a photograph by Ashby Studios
of Lady Jellicoe, who is returning shortly
to her sailor hus-
band in M.L. Her
father, C h a r 1 es
Cayzer, founded the
“Clan” line o f
steamers, and was
thereby responsible
ror one of the
of the
shipping world.
Starting in a com-
paratively small
way, he finished up
the possessor of three
Scotch estates, a
house in Belgrave-
square ati d a
baronetcy. The pre-
sent head of the
house of Cayzer is
her nephew, but one
of her brothers—the
present chairman of the “Clan” line —is also
a Bart, and a millionaire.
Lady Jellicoe returns to Sydney to spend
another day with Dame Margaret before
she leaves for Maoriland by the Tahiti.
The Chauvels are the guests o T f his Ex.
and Dame Margaret Davidson, at Govern-
ment House. So also is Capt. Hammond,
A.D.C. to Bananaland’s Ex. Hammond, by
the way, is engaged to Miss Graham, of
Sydney, whose father used to manage the
Bank of N.S.W. in Brisbane.
The race-week dance for Cranbrook, engi-
neered by Mrs. Tony Hordern and Mrs.
Colin Stephen, will drop a trifle like £2OO
into the hat. The cards, which cost 30s.
each, were not issued to the public, so the
parquetry ballroom on the water’s edge was
not overcrowded. The way from the house
was canvased in from any changes in the
weather, though here and there a wide-flung
flap showed a glimpse of something very
like Fairyland—high, cold moonlight, shining
oh blossom-laden trees; a ferry-sprinkled
harbor and gaily-colored lights, cherry and
golden in the greenery. And after the
champagne supper, the scenery took on an
added radiance. The dance was a mask-
and-domino affair, hut the bubble mystery
was- pricked at an early moment by the fact
that nearly everybody knew what her neigh-
bor was w earing, and as the dominoes were
mostly sober in hue, the dance gained in
gaiCty when they were discarded. Mrs.
Toriy Hordern wore black-and-silver freck-
ling,'and twined a wreath of green leaves in
her hair. Little Molly Owen, in jade color-
ings, won a place for herself in the beauty
stakes. Mrs. Vivers woVe a period dress in
old rose, the skirt hooped, and her
golden hair bunched in ringlets. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly was in her Venetian Cos-
tuirfe w hich won pride of place at the Artists’
Ball. Mrs. Pitt. Rivers hid glittering rai-
ment iff fit. blue domino nearly the entire
evening. One of the most charming effects
was achieved by Mrs- Colin Duncan in black
silkiness fhat carried the product of a
Krupp factory in steel beads. Muriel
Fletcher wore , a softly black, hooded
dress that slipped off tile shoulders in the
Georgian way. Mrs. Sep Levy, Helen Laid-
ley, Mrs. Mick Dalton, some Onslows,
Osbornes and McMasters swelled the gath-
ering, while Mrs. Lee Falkiner and Mrs.
-Harry Whiting were among the Melbournites
; present.
This is a Buchner portrait of A. B, Pid-
dington, K.C., who will battle feir the North
Sydney seat with
W. M. Hughes. A
N. S. Wales native,
he is a son of the
late Archdeacon Pid-
dington, of Tam-
worth, and he mar-
ried a daughter of
Canon O'Reilly, thus
becoming brother-in-
law to one of T ( he
Bulletin’s most
respected contribu-
tors. He took a
prominent part in
the agitation for
Federation when fie
was M.L.A. for Tam-
worth. In the in-
tervals of a busy
legal and official life
he has edited and
written a number of books.
Una Barton slipped into the matri-
monial sea so quietly last week that
the ripple didn’t spread beyond the
front pews of St. James’s. At half-
past 2 on Thursday she met Oscar
Ireland there by appointment, view to mat-
rimony ; Padre Garnet Portus, the bride-
groom’s brother-in-law, was also on the spot,
and the knot-tying went forward without
loss of time. Once more Woman was proved
the braver sex, for the lady met her
fate with never a bridesmaid in support,
whereas her ’groom (who is an Engineer-
Lieut.-Commander in the Navy) was backed
by Lieut. Clarence Bridge, R.A.N. The
bride’s wedding garment w r as a pretty after-
noon affair or sand-colored georgette over
the same shade of satin, and, thrown back
over her straight-brimmed hat, she wore a
sand-colored Chantilly lace veil that fell to
the waist. She, by the way, is a grand-
daughter of Russel Barton, of Russel Lea,
Five Dock, the place which, since the War,
has become a shell-shock hospital. Her new
husband is of the Newcastle Ireland clan.
The pair sail by the Tahiti on the 32th for
America. "
The Fair of Fairs, of course, is to be the
one in aid of the new w’ing of St. Vincent’s.
This will be opened by Lady Davidson on
the 38th in the hospital grounds, and will
last for three days. The big attraction is
to be a set of the Cries of Olde London,
organised by Mrs, Bertie Kelly, after the
Schiavonetti drawings. Her husband will
shepherd -the orchestra, Monica Scully’s
pupils are to dance, and Dr. and Mrs.
Silverton (she was Dulcie Huxtable),
Lute and Jean Drummond and Clifford
Lathlean, Kathleen O’Connor (Bowral),
Mrs, Mick Meagher (Bathurst), Queenie
Mort, Elsie Austin and Josephine Marks
are just a few’ of the names on the three
days’ programme to be given in the quad-
rangle of the Nurses’ Home, the booking
for which opened at Paling’s the other day.
A feature of the outdoor attractions will
be the pavilion designed by Beatrice Kelly.
The official opening of the new wing comes
off on Sunday, the 15th of this month, with
his Ex. as skipper and Archbish. Kelly as
sky pilot.
The dance at Sam Hordern’s was another
of the week’s social thrillers, as was the
luncheon party given by Edith Hill at “The
Hut” on Sunday. The Lawrence Gros-
smith couple were the lions of this feed.
Mrs. Lawrence, who was a well-known
dancer as Coralie Blythe, is a pretty, fragile
thing, at present recovering slowly from
heart strain caused by trying to juggle with
a grand piano.
The Alfred Milson home at Kirribilli has
been bought by its next-door neighbor, the
Loreto Convent, rumor says for £lO,OOO.
The family goes travelling before finally
deciding on its next permanent rooftree.
Mrs. Alfred is a clever amateur photographer
and has attracted notice with her exhibits
in shows of the camera art in London. Thr
Prince was wildly enthusiastic over her work
on his visit here.
The tercentenary of Molifere occurring on
October 37, the Alliance Frangaise is com-
memorating the event by producing his five-
act comedy, “L’Avare,” at the Playhouse.
After a roan is 300 years dead the amateur
Thdspian may feel sure there’ll be no kick
coming from him, whatever happens.
Little Marian Ellis Rowan has painted
her last flower. A daughter of Charles
Ryan, of Derriweit, Maeedon (Vic.), she
ranged far afield in pursuit of bird and
bloom, and received at exhibitions nine
gold and ten silver medals. Her Austra-
lian journeys included Perth to Kimberley.
Brisbane to the islands in the Straits, and
along the coast of New Guinea, inland to
George Town, and from Somerset to the
Batavia River in the Gulf of Carpentaria.
The Federal Government last year purchased
for the nation her paintings of Australian
and New Guinea native flora and of the
latter country’s birds-of-paradise and butter-
flies, subject to Parliamentary approval.
This latter has still to be given, so the tiny
woman with the quick-moving, bird-like body
had not the satisfaction of knowing whether
her lifework was to remain in her own
country, as she desired, or go to America,
which had already made some bids for it.
That Australia might keep this wonderful
collection Mrs. Rowhri offered to take as
part-payment some land in New Guinea,
which she intended to use as a training-
ground in copra-growing for returned sol-
diers. In October, 1875, the artist married
Caf»t-F. C. Rowan (nojv dead), one of the
heroes of the Maori War, She was the
writer of “A Flower-hunter in Queensland,’’
“A Guide to the Wildflowers of America,”
“A Guide to the Trees of America” and
“A Guide to the Southern Flowers of
America.” A striking feature about the
intfepid little lady was her toilet exquisite-
nesS, which years in the wilds had not
blunted. Like polished shells were the finger-
nails of the small hands which at her last
exhibition to Sydney shook every now and
then With the malaria she had developed in
her tropic wanderings.
The T. J.Daltons were other party givers
of Race Week, starting with a dinner dance
at the Wentworth, and ending with an inti-
mate jazz affair at Wheatlcigh. The Apos-
tolic Delegate, by the way, carried something
in his pocket from the Vatican for fair-
haired Mrs. Tom —a gold rosary of exquisitely
.{Chased beads on a chain Of finest links. With
it the Pone sent an autographed photograph
of himself, and a special message written on
the back thereof.
A Brisbane postscript:—
: His Ex. went to Hamilton Reach aboard W. A.
Douglas’s yacht Mohra, for the first day of the sail-
ing season. Artilleryman Hughes and his wife
were on the boat, as well as Babs Ricardo (daughter
of the S’African Major), Colonel Parsons and the
Percy Harts. The lazy old Beaver carried Yacht
Clubites, with a ukulele band to enliven things,
and the James Loves on the Sweetheart had a party
of professors and majors. The newly-fledged Motor
Yacht Club tore by on the launch E.N.R. The
Yacht Club dined his Ex. in the evening, and
Tom Welsby left his beloved Moreton Bay to be
present.
Nora Halford tea-ed three prospective brides this
week, in an oriental scheme which included gladioli
and Iceland poppies, snapdragons, in brasses, and a
riot of sweet-pea. Mrs. Halford, in black gorgette,
helped, and singer Nora wore white chiffons, with
lime and black headgear. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson
played for a vocal programme, in which Nita Alt,
of Sydney, took part. The three brides-to-be were
Ellie Wardrop, Jean Cullen and Marry Corrie, who,
on her marriage, goes straight to India with her
Major Paine.
A. H. Chisholm gave a tea, in the . Gardens, to
E. J. Brady and daughter Moya, the other day.
Queensland writers were represented by M. Forrest
and Steele Rudd.
Mrs. A. P. Greenfield, a few nights back, called
the tune to which about 70 guests danced, to honor
Mrs. Henry Forster, from Sydney.
Bats and cats and squirrels and ghostly pump-
kin faces, with twilight effects—until the company
were unmasked at half-time —were part of the creepy
ensemble of the Yeronga Tennis Club’s ball. But.
notwithstanding these and the grim printed souvenirs
that were handed out, it was a frolicsome evening,
the frivol reaching a whirling culmination in a
furious confetti battle. Derrick and Pass were
responsible for the shivoo.
At Dr. Morgan Lane’s home, his priestly brother
arranged an afternoon for the Irish players, when
the songs of the land of Pat were given and
acclaimed. Father Lane, who is in Archbish. Duhig’s
job while the latter is over in Rome, passing the
time o’ day with the Pope, scribbles a bit in his
spare time, and even Bulletin readers know his
pen-name.


gsd
HARDY BROS. LTD
Jewellers,
Diamond and Gem Jewellery
a-'.y--
A?
>K<
&M
Sss
'<*#
P
•tf.w
lf®s
y
*/*
i
tiiM
SH
3«£s
•&Vj
Handsome Diamond
and Sapphire Bow
Brooch, all Plati-
num; in case —
£3so
Visitors to Sydney should not fail
to inspect Hardy Brothers’ exclusive
display of Diamond and Gem Jewel-
lery. The artistic designs, choice-
quality gems and high standard of
workmanship will appeal to dis-
criminating purchasers.
An illustrated Catalogue is posted
free on request, or a selection of
goods can be sent on approval if
desired. -•-* v
Five per cent, discount for cash.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJeu>eilefs <Sa <s 'iluerxmi^/Tx.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
398 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
fg
Spring is Here
with all its outdoor attractions.
A camera will enable you to
keep a permanent record of
your pleasures.
The Lightest
Camera
in the
world.
The
Aluminium
“ Ensignette ”
No. 2
For Roll Films —Daylight Loading—
is a dainty little British-made Camera
which fits the waistcoat pocket and takes
clear, crisp pictures 3x2.
Made in 2 Models—the Ordinary and
the De Luxe, the latter being fitted with
an astigmat lens.
REDUCED PRICES.
No. 2, with Single Achromatic Lens, £3
No. 2, with Extra Rapid Aplanat Lers, £3/12 6
No. 2, with DeLuxe Anastigmat F 6.5 Lens,
£7/12 6
lIP
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba.
Adelaide— 41A Rundle Street.
Melbourne—266 Collins Street.
Auckland—l 44 Queen Street.
Brisbane—93 Queen Street.
Wellington—42 Willis Street.
E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
Undeniable
Fact of the
Superiority
Tone, Touch and Durability
of the
GULBRANSEN
ZSuo^cnce/rto
PLAYER PIANO
is evidenced by the wonderful enthusiasm
shown by owners of this remarkable
instrument.
The Gulbransen Duo-Concerto provides a com-
plete control over the stroke of the piano
hammer, and that is why this remarkable
player can, and does, really produce perfect
tone color, and in the hands of anyone, after
a little practice, rivals the musical performances
of the highest class of virtuosi.
Whether the piano is played by hand or by the
foot-pedals, perfection of tonal values is the
aim of every performer.
Call in and play the
Duo-Concerto for ten
minutes, and then you
will fully understand
the enthusiasm that is
shown for this Player.
12
10
9
4
6
7
6
If through sentiment or for some other reason
you would not care to part with your own
piano we will convert it into a Duo Concerto
Player Piano, containing all the latest
improvements.
CASH OR TERMS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
o
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
King & King, Brisbane.
Findleys Proprietary,
Hobart and Launceston.


Cuticura Talcum
Is So Refreshing
A few grains of this exquisitely
scented powder dusted on the skin
soothes and cools, and overcomes
heavy perspiration. It is an ideal
face, skin, baby and dusting powder
and takes the place of other perfumes
for the skin.
Soapls.,Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
' Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
LEARN TO DRAW!
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
(is
! tV
You can
learn to
in a k e
effective
o r i K i n a 1
drawings in
a short
period under- the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Each lesson is
given under the
personal supervision
of Australia’s fore-
most commercial
artist, Mr. Harry
J. Weston, who
criticises and cor-
rects the exercises.
Big salaries await
successful students
in the field of art!
Why not learn all
about this profit-
able hobby ?
Send your name
and address and
three stamps for
Mr. W e s t o n’s
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen,”
which tells all
about the
course, fees,
etc., and gives
examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawinp,
168 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
£7/?e SPer/ecf
©ffffHSg IPJkBTJE,
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST,- BEST
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
%!^ ,e ALEx Cowan © Sons, fe>
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. ,Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
N I' l 3 sizes of all Chemists >
xNv and Stores. Xl
s»
v.V'
i §
IM
I *
HORLICKS
malted milkg.
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the Bisiti.su Australasian,
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians iu Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Rismsii Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends. Use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
New South Wales
Chamber of Manufactures
All-Australian Exhibition
The exhibition of Australian industries—the finest
ever held in the Commonwealth—is creating great
interest.
The big attendance at both afternoon and evening
sessions since its official opening testifies to the
excellence of the display.
Hundreds of Interesting Exhibits
Also
OPEN-AIR PICTURES
showing our factories at work,
and a
WAR-TROPHY MUSEUM
with a rare collection of trophies shown for the
first time in N.S.W.
OPEN DAILY FROM 12 noon to 5 p.m.
EVENINGS FROM 7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
UNTIL. NOVEMBER 18.
Admission 6d. ; Children 3d.
W. J. DONNELLY, Secretary.
Another Great Reduction.
BUSTUii
'S&ae&rm be--
“Fx and R” Rustless Table Knives, half-dozen 32/6
Dessert Knives, half-dozen 27/6
Our great efforts, both here and in London, to get prices back to reason are
being rewarded daily, and we now can announce our superlative rustless knives
as being reduced from 70/- to 65/- a dozen for tables, and from 60/- to 55/- a
dozen for desserts.
These superlative “Fx and R” Knives are the BEST made in Sheffield.
Each bears only a very small etched brand. No hideous brand all over
the blade.
Besides the above, we also stock a fine quality British Rustless Knife at
27/6 the half-dozen tables, and 25/- the half-dozen desserts.
Our prices are the lowest in Australia, but our qualities are the best.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
rvi^lr^
I
*
ww
I
l
\v
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING.
The perfect preparation for cleaning Canvas, Nubuck and
Suede Leathers. Dries snowy-white and will not rub olf.
6d. per bottle.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 91, Haymarket.
sdf
gsd
fgs
dfg
“Maxa”
Manganese
Steel.
Jaqties
Gyratory
Stone Breakers
Capacities
from 1 to 400
Tons per hour.
PORTABLE ROAD PLANTS, ELEVATORS, Etc.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOG No. 30.
Manufactured by
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Represented by:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, LTD., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, X.S.W.
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO., 218 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
Messrs. FRANK R. PERROT, 883 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Ao notice (except oj a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. A 7 o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Robert O.: No use writing in that cart-
befoie-the-horse fashion... .R.T.K.: “Other Years”
is commonplace; “Theft” is a little better, but
badly out of tune... .Nimshi: Not for u 5.... H.W.
(Coogee): You are only lamenting the fact that
some decent teachers put education above mere
utility; and you don’t make the lament interesting.
. ...T.S.G,: Not our style. . ..Jay: Not quite....
0.R.: Must go back. ... F.A.M.: Yes; humorous
drawings and pars are paid for R.11.C.u A sonnet
should be at least grammatical... .John G.: The
horrible slaughter of a man for taking a bird’s egg
isn’t improved by the wholly impossible method of
his death... .R.D.F.: Not up by some distance....
Peter K.: Very bad verse that has the additional
defect 'of being meanfngless.. .. J.W.F.: No. .. .
0.D.W.: Don’t like it.... Leola: Here’s as much of
the epic as we can And room for: —
His first evening
He thought he’d take a stroll.
And turned toward the meadows
To watch some horses roll.
He might have gone a mile or so,
Then with horror stared
A bull came crashing onwards
With roars he never heard.
His chance was spiall,
lie glanced around in haste,
Then ran towards a waterhole
And cursed the loneiy waste.
For an hour the bull did keep him,
Then lie went away.
The youth crawled out on the bank,
Wet, tired and cold he lay.
The sun was hot, it dried him fast,
He sat up and thought the matter out.
The bull had mistaken him
For a hag of chaff.
A light came to his features,
He gave a strained laugh
That bull mistook me
For his calf.
. ...D.E.W.: Takes too long to say things that don’t
matter, but otherwise well enough written
Edwin W.: Picture-show stuff... .S.S.L.: Verse thin
and weak N.B. (Rushcutter’s Ray): Verse too
rugged to carry it J.E. (Goulburn): An over-
worked idea Tyum: Not up...G.E.R.: Very lame
stuff.... Betty B.: A poor yarn shockingly t01d...
Rimukiwi: The ideas aren’t original J.II.
(Burra) : We’re not particularly interested in being
told the general features of a storm in bad verse. ..
D. : Horrible rhyming Nick H.: A little music
in it, but otherwise very unattractive Aristide:
Unlikely unpleasantnesses grouped together in a
fashion to bore the reader at the place where he is
intended to gasp Bullet: It’s an easy way to
make the metre bump out—just putting a “did”
before some of the verbs and leaving out a “the”
whenever it gets in the road E. 0.: “Summer”
has a few bad spots. .. .W.H.L.: Rubbish Henry
S.: What’s the idea of spelling words phonetically
to suggest that the speaker pronounces them
wrongly? For instance, your man says “night” in-
stead of “knight.” Now, how do you distinguish
between the pronunciation of those words?....
A.H.G.: Your curse directed at the people who
bundle up wattle-bark might be better if it
occasionally paused for breath John R.: No good.
....Brian: Thin idea; and you can’t rhyme “dust”
i with “crushed” 5.0.5.: Nothing there Q.P.:
Hardly worth sending mere descriptions in verse. . .
E. : “An Idyll” has a horrible second line....
W.K.K.: Novel in gasps doesn’t interest Norman
C.: Misses. .. .Jay : No point there. . .J.L.1.: “Water-
lily” too long and 1005 e.... Burrundie: Rather an
aged lament.... Ethel W.: About as bad as usual.
. ...Kat: One stirring stanza of “Emancipation”:—
No more will I grope to wrong from right,
For now 1 see a pure and guiding light.
See humble heroes, with a manhood complete,
In those (once hopeless) who feel the footpart beat.
See women, with faces aglow and hearts afire!
For, to render service to all (a grand desire),
See children (once wishing the world that they were
dead)
Gathering hope (by the way) to mingle with their
blood, that red.
. ...C.G.A.: “To-day” is rather thin.... Charles G.:
A mass of commonplace bumping and wallowing....
L.S.C.G.: Impossible... .L.L.: Doesn’t strike us
5.E.8.: Ancient idea horribly handled in places....
Terre Verte: Too muddled. .. .J.M.H.: No life in
them.... Michael F.: Misses. .. .James B.: No good.
. ...T.R.S.: Four pages of dreary platitude about
the deadness of religion... .E.J.: “The Burden of the
Innocent” misses by yards. Metre and setting are
so like—and yet so far after —-Kipling’s “Tomlin-
son.”
TO AUTISTIC. (AND INARTISTIC)
CORR ESPON DEN IS.
C.W.M.: Probably use one suggestion... .C.A.G.:
Hopeless drawing... .J.McE.: Painfully old gag.
.... J.W.R.: A pound or two spent on your hobby
will do you no harm.... S.M.: Weak in both matter
and manner... .R.H.C.: Suspiciously un-Australian
look about that court sketch and the punt on .the
river... .A.T.: Amateurish —the whole bookful....
C.T.: You’ll all have to learn to draw before guineas
begin rolling-your way. . . .A.E.: What did happen
to that gent.’s face?.... J. 8.: Below the mark....
F. : Drawing shows some promise if original; but
gag too labored.... S.T.: Looks like a fashion-plate
copy alongside a man of your own. Is it ?
"Billy T.”: It happened somewhere along
the Ninety-mile stretch of beach, Gippsland,
Vic. The day had been very hot, and a bunch
of mighty hunters before the Lord made for
the sea, with the intention of relieving their
aching limbs with a long spell in the grateful
ocean. They came out upon the sands where
the ill-draped body of a man lay, with the
feet awash, dead, as they at first imagined,
but sound asleep, as they subsequently dis-
covered, Right up to Within nine feet of
where the man snored in blissful oblivious-
ness, a huge shark was floundering, half
out of the water, obviously bent on doing a
bit of shore hunting. Given another five
minutes, and lie would probably have reached
a leg of the sleeper, in which case there
would have been yet another mysterious dis-
appearance in the district. A couple of
shots sent the shark flopping into deeper
water, which he reached plus two bullets.
The sleeper sat lip. He was a freckled man,
with ginger whiskers. He had been in swim-
ming, and had gone to sleep under cover of
his shirt merely. He Watched the depart-
ing shark a moment, and then he said : “Aw
dinna thoenk yili be expectin’ ony rewarrrd
for drivin’ awa’ yon beet of a feesh.”


snipping.
ORIENJT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2*4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
j in 29 Days,
Ry way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 18.
VENTURA.
10,0(10 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H = North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND HOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m.;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAIt SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars applv:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, I’HILP
& CO.. LTD.
Wanking, Public Companies. *c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. . . .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 360;000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Hep,,-it stock 3.091,669 4 5
IiiRKCTOus —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray ;) James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manaqkr— M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney.: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves ~ .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yahwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman ; George
F. Tod man ; Duncan Carson ; H. A. Russell ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
Oeiterai ilaiutgei . (J. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
v Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
?: MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
: . Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout; Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of .the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
. SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund" S übdivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies oi about £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. .. .. .. £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping,
ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BEIWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 23rd NOVEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Sinootli-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
1 lie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey ncross America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 14th DECEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4\ WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
1 1
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £O4 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills,' Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
SUEVIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Itighest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
* SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
*DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to ,•
I)ALGETY AND COMPANY. LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Ueserve Fund
Kenerve Liability
Directors;
£5,640,700
3,600,000
5,640,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Bihnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfiill, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker,
bra no B. S'. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald. J. Blaeic, M.L.C.
Auditors: S.: E. Laidley, Esq.A. G. Milson, Esq. GeneraUlanaper: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—.-George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Ttirea'dneedle Street, E.C-
-3GO Branches and Agencies in Ihe Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout -the-world.
Cable remittances made to, Tmd“drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected.' Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
sdf
JanHustralia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Tost Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of-the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.20 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
OH AULTS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for out ports).
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Burns=Philp Tours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TR Y YET- ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, EUROPE,
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, also SPECIAL
BOUND EASTERN TOURS and ROUND WORLD
TOURS,
Apply our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
Bvirns-PHilp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHIRP & CO., DTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart ParkeiLll
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Svilney and Melbourne to New Zealand poits
~nd vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa fortnightly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIE ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdne.v.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Slighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United'Steam Navigation Co. I,td.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and l’itzroy Estates, Utd; ,
Ulaekhealth Collieries, ltd., and Caledonian
. Collieries, -Etd. ....
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS. FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers, Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. ■ Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of . New Zealand, Ltd. Iluddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents fdf Messageries Maritinies Co.
.BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg. Bowen and Cook town.
The Famous "K-4” Marine Motor: £llO
and up, according: to equipment. 4 cylinders
—4 cycle—3sin. x 4in. —medium speed. Uses
Benzine or Kerosene. Suitable for boats from
20 to 40 feet. Write for Catalogues.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)!
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/., New
Book of Puzzles, 1/., Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1 /-. Magic Made Easy, 1 /.. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS,
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
{ ~.f)
v "7
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 2/ -
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breach
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/8
COPPER
SHEETS
Australian Manufacture.
USUAL QUALITY AND FINISH.
STANDARD GAUGES AND SIZES.
PRICES RIGHT—DELIVERY PROMPT.
Please Favor Us with Your Enquiries.
MANUFACTURED BY
Austral Bronze Cjc>. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane and Newcastle; (Mel-
bourne) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, Adelaide and Hobart.
Perth: Geo. Kent., Ltd. Wellington, N.Z.: Jones & Co., Ltd.
A Farmer’s Testimony of the CASE Tractor:
“My man (a novice) is handling it quite all right, and I am satisfied I
will be able to do all my work cheaper and quicker than with horses.”
V-
m
■ v>
0
■
sr
m
*
*
ANOTHER REASON WHY THE
CASE
Kerosene, Farm and General Purpose
Tractor
IS THE TRACTOR FOR AUSTRALIA.
Stony ground, stumps—almost any rough
country—the CASE takes it as it comes
without damage, its good clearance and
staunch wheels ensuring satisfactory service
in any class of country.
The CASE Tractor
IS MADE FOR HARD USAGE.
Another good feature of the CASE is its
safety-breaking device, which, when the
plough sticks fast on a stump, automatically
causes tractor and implement to part with-
out damage.
Further points of superiority are given in
other advertisements. Follow all these
reasons and your choice will surely be the
CASE—“The Tractor that knows no
rival.”
Commonwealth Agricultural Service Engineers
LTD., "
Head Office: Adelaide, South Australia.
New South Wales Branch:
17 MARTIN PLACE.
SYDNEY.
CASE Service
in Australia is
backed by a
well - equipped
e n g i n e e ring
works, and
spare parts are
obtainable when
required.
Farmers interested
in cheaper produc-
tion find the CASE
Catalogue most
helpful. There’s a
copy for you. Sign
and send this corner
alip to-day.
aierosene
Tractors
Grind Detour Plows
Ail
. <3°yt>
— e, gp
C «>v£
p v V
ciy ~ *
<> V A\
\V
RELIABLE GUNS
BY WORLD-RENOWNED MAKERS.
TRY US FIRST FOR ALL SPORT EQUIPMENT.
SUNOL FINE CUT
TOBACCO.
The World's Best.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
m
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun. 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. q V
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gull, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £6/5/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES ,
m
u
818. Altendorf and Wright’s'High-grade
. i v . , English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-ii*eh
els, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
IJatent fore ‘ ends » highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
MuKttfi'ia.
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high
grip, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7ill).
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid,
file-cut rib, pistol
£l6/16/-
gsd
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight 10/10/
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid, £l5
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/6 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 9/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/0 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS ... lO O lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
fgs
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gull, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Gieener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2£in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7}lb Freight paid,
*l4/14/
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles and Guns without
first obtaining a license.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
df
top action solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steei barrel, 30m.f or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. B 8 EjcCtOf, 65/" Frei £ llt; Paid.
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Plaza Tooth Paste
A Dental Luxury.
,
I
MISS >|
SACK
{from a photo
Plaza devotees are more numerous every
day, and one of the most charming is Miss
Fairmont Sack, who finds Plaza Tooth
Paste a wonderful dental cream for cleans-
ing and beautifying the teeth. She writes
us as follows :
There is only one Tooth Paste for
me, “Plaza,” which has made me
feel very proud of my teeth. 1 find
it a wonderful dental cream for
cleansing and beautifying the teeth,
and I shall recommend it to all my
friends.
(Sgd.) FAIRMONT SACK,
Neri-Brae,
Marion Street,
Killara, N.S.W.
Preserves and Beautifies
the Teeth.
Plaza Tooth Paste hygienically cleanses, polishes and
whitens the teeth. It is an entirely new kind of Tooth Paste
that will delight you. A pure white dentifrice with just
the right taste, which forms a creamy lather in the mouth
and preserves the teeth from discoloration and decay. Run
your tongue over the surface of your teeth after using
Plaza Tooth Paste, and see how smooth and clean
they feel.
Note how it tones up the gums and keeps them
in perfect condition. It is an active in the
prevention of Pyorrhea. Try this delightful new
Tooth Paste; it is a revelation. Large Tubes 1/0
gsd
fg
sdfs
Large
Tubes,
1/6
m
4
«
ill
A GOOD
MOVE
Insist on Getting
Rex Luncheon
Cheese— —!
People like it because of its taste and delightful
piquancy—because it is perfectly digestible—
easily spread—can be used without butter—
and for many other reasons which can be found
by buying and trying it to-day.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE contains all the
valuable digestive properties of perfectly
matured full cream cheese.
Don’t ask for a tin of Luncheen Cheese. Say
“Rex” Brand and get it.
Sold in hygienic tins
by Grocers everywhere.
FOG GIT F JONES LTD.
At the Telephone.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MOTH was throbbing on the pane,
Hot quiet lay along the street;
The dead dust seemed to sigh for rain,
The world dragged down my heavy feet.
With hearing tense to my desire
I sought an answer from the night;
The hee-haw of the braying wire,
Pulsed to the moments in their flight.
Then sudden quiet.... and a cry
Thin as a bat’s whine on the air....
A little chill of fear went by;
I felt the rising of my hair.
What spoke to me? A voice as cold
As a lost Wind on moonlit ice,
A far voice, brittle, sere and old —
Out of the night I heard it thrice.
The silence seemed as hard as steel
About that sound of death-in-life;
My trembling soul was keen to feel
The thought that pierced it like a knife.
I was as one who sees a door
Creep open in a still, hot air,
Who hears a step upon the floor
And, gazing, knows that none is thei’e;
As one who, in the crowded street,
With sudden lifting of the head,
books upon eyes he longs to meet
Ere he remembers they are dead ;
Or as a man who writes his thought,
And finds beneath his moving hand
Some dreadful word he had not sought
That chills his heart to understand.
Yet surely no clear thing was said
In any speech my ears had known,
Though, like a language felt and dead,
I knew the meaning from the tone.
Then, clanging back to place and time,
Like a swift bell on morning seas,
The black mouth spoke the hurried rhyme
To waiting life—“ What number, please?”
Crossed wires? Ah, fears between the stars
That cross cold currents shrill with pain!
Not wires, but trembling ether bars
Sent forth that S.O.S. in vain.
Was it a God upon a cross,
Beyond the last light glass may scan,
That wailed of universal loss
A dim plaint in the ears of man?
Ah, dreadfully T seemed to know
The pain behind that midnight cry;
And, shuddering, from the stars shrank low
Lest distance suddenly should die.
A grey moth throbbed upon the pane,
Hot quiet lay along the street. ...
Earth was still earth I felt again
The good weight dragging at my feet.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Mr. Pennefather.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. ALFRED ANGUS PENNE-
FATHER, a prim little gentleman
with close-cropped side-whiskers,
stood before the door of the Sydney Hotel —
it was at that corner of George-street where
Union House towers skyward to-day—and
surveyed the equipage which was to convey
him to Parramatta. Beside the burly figure
of landlord Tom Dungannon, ex-Life Guards-
man—six-feet-two, red-faced and jovial—he
looked an insignificant atom of humanity,
and his clothing and bearing were in curious
contrast with those of the people who passed
along the street, or came and went from what
was Sydney’s leading hostelry in those days.
New South Wales was not very well
dressed in 1824, and his immaculate beaver
tpphat, blue tailcoat with gold buttons, tight
white buckskin breeches, shining Welling-
tons with little tassels at the knees, yellow
gloves, black-satin stock and gold-topfied
Malacca-cane were enough to account for
the half-awed giggles of a pair of bare-footed
Currency lasses, who stood on the corner
and gazed at him in wonderment. His back
was very straight and his shoulders very
square, and he was such a little dandy of
a johnny-come-lately that none who saw him
would doubt his very recent arrival in the
colony, any more than that he was obviously
one of “the Quality.”
But the close-cropped, iron-grey showing
below the curling brim of the high hat, the
clean-shaven mouth and chin, square jaw
and firm and resolute lips quite clearly indi-
cated that he was not a little gentleman with
whom anyone might be too familiar. The
bright eyes under the heavy brows had some-
thing of fierceness in them, and though he
might look as if he had just stepped out of
Piccadilly, he had an air of being quite at
his ease in George-street or anywhere else
that did not invite liberties. He was alto-
gether his own man, and there was a look
of sharp efficiency about him that was elo-
quent of his intention of remaining so.
Mr. Dungannon drew his attention to the
horse. A fine upstanding bay he was, scrupu-
lously groomed, and the high curricle behind
him shone with new paint and polished brass-
work. In the drivers seat sat a wizened old
man as little as Mr. Pennefather himself.
He was in his shirtsleeves, and wore a kan-
garoo-skin cap. His brown forearms, re-
straining with tightened reins the reefing
and champing steed, anxious to be off, were
like those of a mummy. He wore a black
patch over the sightless socket of his left
eye, and underneath his chin was a fringe
of grey whisker. He had the face of a comic-
paper Irishman —long upper lip and all—
and his Spindleshanks were shoeless and
without stockings.
“Fifty guineas, y’r honor, he stood me in
—to Mr, Justice Wylde—an’ I’d not take a
hundred for him this very moment. That’s
an ]orse any gentleman might sit behind
a-goin to see the Gov’nor. He’ll take ye
to Parramatta in but little over the hour.
Tis not the like of that turnout ye’ll meet
mere an’ back —nor anywhere in th’ colony
Th’ gig was young Mr. Calder’s—him that
was aide-de-camp to Gov’nor Macquarie. He
gave it me when he was a-goin’ oft' with the
old genral, two year ago—on account of a
httle sarvice I’d done him that saved his
bacon Oh, a young spark, sir—a blood!
1 could tell you stories of him would make
ye laugh till ye cried. One time he come to
me, and he says”
“ Ye f> yes, Dungannon,” interrupted Mr.
1 ennerather impatiently. now. Some
other occasion, pray—-some other time. I
am anxious to reach Parramatta as soon
as possible. My business with his Excel-
lency is urgent—very urgent. Pray, call
the groom, and let us be off. I must see Sir
Ihomas Brisbane with the least possible
delay. Pray, summon the person who is to
drive me to Parramatta.”
"There he is, y’r honor—Micky Moriarty
one-time one o’ th’ best jarvies in Dublin
town. Wasn’t ye, Micky? They sent him
here over th’ ’Ninety-eight trouble, y’r honor.-
But he ain’t forgotten how to handle th’
ribbons.”
Mr. Pennefather frowned as he stared at
the monkey-like little figure on the high seat.
Good gad, Dungannon—am I to visit
his Excellency in the company of this scare-
crow? What do you mean? The fellow’s
half-naked. Surely he has a pair of boots
and a coat! Good gad—what an object!”
The person alluded to thus impolitely was
not, apparently, perturbed. He took a quick
glance at Mr. Pennefather with his one
twinkling little black eye, and then turned
his head and spat over the off-wheel, giving
no indication that the startled protest of
Mr. Pennefather had impressed him in the
least, or that he had any intention of vacat-
ing the exalted position he occupied.
.Mr. Dungannon’s genial visage clouded
with a look of astonishment. That anyone
but a soldier should be taken exception to
on the score of his apparel, in Sydney,
struck him as distinctly odd. It was a
moment or two before he had sufficiently
recovered from his surprise to summon to
his aid all his stock of innkeepers’ diplomacy
in order to reply to his guest. He stooped
towards Mr. Pennefather and hoarsely whis-
pered behind his hand.
“Oh, y’r honor,” he said persuasively,
“take no notice of him, if ye please. Shine
or rain, summer-time or winter, th’ little old
fellie’s always dressed alike. He’d not put
on jacket nor boots f’r th’ King himself,
Gawd bless ’im. But he’s a great one with
horseflesh, careful an’ sure, an’ I’ve never
had a sarvint I trusted better. ’Tis true
enough, y’r honor, he’d never do for
a coachman in th’ Mall—but ’tis dif-
ferent here. Nobody but a sojer is ex-
pected to attend much to his clothing in
these parts. An’ I’ve no one else I’d trust
with Caesar for three days—away from home.
None but Micky has to do with him, an’ in
this dam’ nest o’ thieves—savin’ y’r honor’s
presence—there’s none but Micky I’d trust
with this ’ere job. He’d give his life for
that there ’orse —he would, indeed. Indeed,
Mr. Pennefather, sir, I do assure you you
couldn’t be in better hands yourself than in
Micky’s. Please to take no notice of his
looks. Lord knows, he ain’t a beauty!”
“But, look here, my good man, ’tis a posi-
tive insult to his Excellency for anyone to
make his appearance before him with such
a coachman. I do not know the Governor,
but I have letters of introduction to him—
and a favor to ask. For myself, I could
endure this creature” —he spoke quite in the
ordinary tone of a voice that carried singu-
larly well —“but I dare not chance encoun-
tering Sir Thomas in Parramatta, for in-
stance, seated beside this —this comic person.
I cpuld not dream of it. Pray, try and
find”
Mr. Dungannon interrupted him with a
smile of relief lifting the anxiety from his
countenance. He chuckled as he replied.
“Oh, then, sir, if that’s all, the matter’s
settled. ’Twas but Monday s’ennight, I do
assure you solemnly, Mike Moriarty drove
th’ Governor himself to Liverpool in this ’ere
gig, behind Csesar. So pleased the Gen’ral
was, he give Micky a guinea for himself—
didn’t he, Micky?”
The impassive baboon above them croaked
without looking down :—•
“He did that, sorr.”
“Ah, well, if that’s the case,” said Mr.
Pennefather, as one who is persuaded against
his better judgment, prepatring to mount the
wheel.
As they drove off up George-street, Mr.
Dqngannon, looking proudly but gloomily
upon the disappearing equipage, mutter
anxiously:—•
“Dammit, me little eoeksparrer, whoever
ye may be, and whatever sort of an almighty
swell you are, ye’ve done y’self a bad turn
be lettin’ Micky hear ye speak of him like
that. Before his very face, too, by God!
‘ What an object!’ ” he quoted Mr. Pennefather
to himself, laughing as he thought of that
gentleman’s first impression of hi 3 Jehu;
“and said he was a scarecrow! Now, I’d
like to know what Micky’ll do to ye for
that— for he’ll get even. Damme, yes, or
my name’s not Tom Dungannon ! Well, well,
I know th’ horse won’t suffer. An’ ’tis not
my place to act drill-sergeant in manners to
th’ Quality. Gawd—l could teach a few of
’em!” he chuckled as he went inside.
“Quite a character, your coachman, Mr.
Pennefather,” remarked the Governor as he
led his visitor into the study in the new
Government House which his predecessor
Macquarie had built upon the hilltop above
the river, almost on the site of Captain Phil-
lip’s redoubt. “Quite a remarkable little
fellow. He drove me to Liverpool 10 days
ago, and entertained me immensely. Quite
a droll. The time on the road passed most
pleasantly. A veteran of ’9B, too. Dear
me, how time goes! Six-and-twenty years,
eh? Pray, be seated, Mr. Pennefather. I
trust that my good friend Micky made your
drive out from town a short one. ’Tis not
ordinarily a very interesting route.
Lieutenant-General Sir Thomas Mak-
dougall Brisbane, K.C.8., fine enough soldier
to have been on Wellington’s staff, distin-
guished astronomer, and somewhat indif-
ferent colonial Governor, smiled out of his
kipdly dark eyes pt the dapper little man
who sat himself down upon the opposite side
of the big writing-table with the several sorts
of mathematical instruments on it. It was
long since he had contemplated any indi-
vidual so splendidly arrayed as this.
“Thank you, your Excellency. I found
the road not uninteresting. ’Tis my first
excursion into the interior of New South
Wales since landing in Sydney, so. of course,
everything was novel and strange to me.
Quite unlike our English countryside—don’t
you think so? But as to my driver—for
whose appearance I really must apologise,
(Continued on next page.)


Buk
am
Stands Alone for the Treatment of
ECZEMA, ULCERS, SORES, RINGWORM, PIMPLES, PILES, etc.
ZAM-BUK not only prevents a sore place taking “bad ways,” but
it actually kills off’’ any dangerous germs that have gained an
entry through the ulcerated or broken tissues.
For these reasons Zam-Buk stands supreme as the perfect
treatment for all diseased, ulcerated or suppurating conditions of
the skin, whether it be the children’s heads when ringworm and other infectious troubles
are about, or for eczema, ulcers, pimples, bad legs, piles or any Etching, inflamed or
poisoned condition of the skin and tissues.
The antiseptic properties in Zam-Buk first attack and kill off the microbes or germs
that are the cause of inflammation and disease, rooting out these germs and cleansing and
purifying the . tissues; then, when this is completed, Zam-Buk, beneficently assisted by the
aid of Mother Nature, proceeds to cover the once-disfigured and diseased parts with a
growth of new, healthy, sound skin.
MEDICINAL
and
TOU-LT
FOR
if
bath
and
HURSERT
THE PERFECT SOAP
FOR A SORE, TENDER OR DELICATE SKIN.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is more than
ordinary soap. Its medicinal qualities
penetrate through the pores, uproot disease,
and improve the workability of those func-
tions of the skin on which the bodily health
so largely depends.
For the housewife whose hands and fingers
are sore with domestic duties; for baby’s
chafed and tender parts; for the daughter
who would preserve her skin clear and
fresh ; for the husband needing a refresh-
ing wash after the day’s work —for every
member of the family, Zam-Buk Medicinal
Soap is the purest, most healthful, yet
withal the most economical soap to use.
1/- Der tablet of all chemists.
Mother & Child's Skin
Eruptions ended by Zam-Buk.
Mrs. F. Lee, of 28 Bridge Street,
Bendigo, says:—“My little girl
Evelyn's blood was out of order. This
caused her skin to break into a severe
rash, which merged into eczema. The
eruption spread in the form of ugly
red patches all over her. body.
“When everything else failed, Zam-
Buk subdued pain and purified and
healed Evelyn's skin in a wonderful
way.
“I also found Zam-Buk invaluable
in a skin outbreak of a similar nature.
The outbreak caused me the greatest
misery. Zam-Buk soon brought com-
plete and lasting cure.”
SPRING BOILS & SORES
Quickly Removed by Zam-Buk.
Mr. A. Laport, 27 Pyrmont Street,
Sydney, writes: —“l suffered great
pain through a rapid succession of
boils. No sooner would I get rid of
one crop of these, than another would
appear. I tried poulticing and other
methods of treatment, but never could
find a cure until I tried Zam-Buk.
“This Balm ended the throbbing,
pains and brought the boils quickly to
a head, after which the cores and bad
matter all came away, and all trace
of the troublesome boils disappeared.”
Wherever you are and whatever your
skin trouble, Zam-Buk is the most
reliable “flrst-aid” to keep handy.
Zam-Bulc;
1/6 and 3/6 per
lox, of all Chemists
and Stores.
n
Z. .
a
OtW 6
K
Mm*®' 4
BUB
eralDp^
~001110
Curs*
•"Hiumm'.J* *'**«,"'*»»
Xirsi
MIN
Tt"
L ‘>9o 4llf . c "*^.7j;v
• CU
• MUfSIS
500(5 • BUttM*
**s
Wi
• puts • • (czeN4/^
• MtUMATISH • SCIATICA SAD 1*65/ i
s?OCAT\O*
a
MtADS
•AC AS
CMAAPI
MAM O
v**Q</Ai.l£o
c*/c*ir**s.
cii *iAreas.
Cfcitsrs
ra ora ah
s*omrs*e#
C£Af£AAl*X
though the landlord informed me-’twas his
usual livery, even when driving your Excel-
leney as for my . singular coachman, why,
I cbuld not get him to utter one word the
vvhple _way out here. Simply attended to
hist driving, and preserved a silence that
would not even admit of a ‘yes’ or a ‘no.’
Had I not heard him reply to a remark of
Mi> Dungannon’s before we started, I should
have supposed him to be deaf. However, I
tanpy lie was merely surly.”
llie Governor laughed as he picked up
a E a .*} er i IO . m . e table.
Ah, I imagine our good Michael is a
m t OC v HT te hkely - ~T 1S often so
vr 1 n. e * T 1 - >’<>“ wlk excuse me,
Mr. I emiefather, if we attend immediately
to the purpose which gives me the honor of
joui ..nipany here to-day. I had your letter
trom town yesterday—with your introduc-
tions. I am in the midst of a somewhat, in-
tncate piece ot work in my observatory just
noiv, and my assistant, Ilerr Rumker, gets
ndgety at my absence a man ot moods also,
t i ai e cataloguing the stars of the Southern
Ha 6?!! a e ’ y iu l kl,o :y- ITay, what can I
■n'ViP ln I le ,™. utter . y° u aI1 r U( . le to— tke
case ot tins—ah—this prisoner, John SimtnV
my dear Mr ‘ pennefather
wltk y our desires.
Mi. I ennefather drew his chair up closer
and . lean . fo ™f tie spoke
W „ , i, w f ei i 6 r a ari f A l 6 pernor into
.t-jvr y « . y ao v, es °n 11S confidence.
_rill i?ni7o -iVf ynur Excellency—as my letter
o'. informed you—l orster and I enne-
otP; Jjllleo ln s ' *nn I ields, have too Honor
?,„ Q a< y confidential advisers to her
le 110 e . ss , Macklo, who, your
i WI , doubt!less recollcct, was a
Spanish lady whom lus late Grace married
ia I'Ui.nsubr when serving with Ins
legiment there before coming into the ducal
fi a ' 9 mentioned to you that her
VVp 0 « .?° interested m this young man,
imim/miif 118 to Ul i, e !nsisted oil my
Wl ”t i personally to New South
Hales to make inquiries about him. May
r T egard
about toSnfonn you ” a tmt WIICI 1 am
a A T mderingly
? nd nodded.
Mint ,„v c?n r . se ’ my dear sir,
' , •' ! , esponsibilities are not tres-
1 ‘ T>£ aa ‘ fVtw 1 ai V \ an ? - a attention,
uvv'aU n c fatll<l ' almost whispered it.
tbi« vm’n J r! L 1 en . 9y ’ the thnt
A; 5 nmn, this prisoner of the Crown
—this—ei—Join, Smith—is her Grace’s
. T r i t
nvw lifted. He leaned
“iw e \T^ ai T> ng at f * r 1 J
' n ennofjitlier. But I had
witliniir A<sn t^ at T t 1<? , Dn M Mackl.o died
L a 'i } " aS ( l iute inider tk ; at im -
And a pr^orier— dear ine!”
thH oi 161 1 w eai i e,d 11S tlu ' oat . and
tnis time actually did whisper, lie had be-
come pale, too, as the Governor noted, with
boaltb a arm tor 11S poss * k^e condition of
• , . . ~ _
,I,,fV--vp 1 • nv, ( f,l rh!of ° S T> P ainf li! ‘ In ‘
', ; 'f d ' eiy unfoitunate. Before her inar-
<i„e some June before—her Grace had
been—ah—indiscreet, shall we say? Unfor-
tunately so. And there was a consequence
ot this lamentable lapse. You understand,
your Excellency—a consequence. It was a
son. This young man, John Smith, is that
unhappy consequence. Very sad. Very
unfortunate. Extremely deplorable.”
“Dear me!” murmured his Excellency,
“Indeed, yes—very!”
Mr. Pennefather went on.
“Well, your Excellency, there is not much
to say. This young fellow was sent to Eng-
land as a child, educated there under the
name of John Smith, and liberally endowed
with funds by his unhappy mother. But—
most terribly unfortunate—he got into a
brawl in a gambling hell in Longacre, killed
a bully, and only escaped hanging by an hair-
breadth. Backstair influence at Court
alone saved his neck. He was trans-
ported for life. But since the Duke’s
death his mother, with that natural
maternal affection which is the—ah—
divinest inheritance of the sons of men, has
decided that she cannot live without him.
Against our advice, I must say, she began
to move in the matter of securing a pardon
for him—and, in short, I have in my posses-
sion a free pardon for John Smith, per ship
Mangles, Number 2422, at present believed
to be in New South Wales. I trust”——
“A pardon ! Have you, indeed, Mr. Penne-
father? I shall be most happy to act upon
if. indeed yes!”
“A. moment, your Excellency. You must
be pleased to recollect that her Grace the
Duchess has never seen this young man since
he was a baby, and has no 'idea of what he
j s like, his character, or anything about him.
That is why I am here. If, having seen
him, I approve of him, I am to present this
pardon to your Excellency with a letter from
the Secretary of State instructing you to
act. But, if he should appear to me to be
an undesirable—to be altogether impossible
—then I am to leave him here, only making
such arrangements as may be permissible for
the amelioration of his ’lot. One of those
local pardons, perhaps. Has your Excel-
lency learned anything as to the whereabouts
of this John Smith?”
I' ll 6 Governor had become very interested,
He stood up and handed Mr. Pennefather a
Pa “ Yes. You are very lucky, my dear Mr.
Pennefather. I congratulate you. The
Superintendent of Convicts reports to me
that lie is at Windsor, in assigned service, at
the present time. You are, indeed, lucky—
he might have been at Port Macquarie or
Norfolk Island, or anywhere. Take this
paper to the Chief Magistrate at the Hawkes-
bury, Mr. William Cox, and be will do
everything to further your desires. It is
quite close to here—2o miles, or so. Let
us fi°P e ffiat your view of the young man
will be n happy one. But I am sure you
will do your duty, sir. And now, I must
ask you to excuse me. I am really in fear of
Herr Rumker. An eccentric, you know.
You will go to Windsor immediately, I pre-
sinned”
’ “To-morrow, vour Excellencv ”
He thanked the Governor profusely, as he
bowed and withdrew.
sir Thomas heaved a sigh of relief. Fie
was mi]C h more interested in errant stars
than errant duchesses,
* * * »
On the sunny September morning follow-
ing, Mr. Pennefather and his grimly taciturn
coachman drove out along the turnpike road
that leads through Castle Hill to Windsor,
Past little clearings in the tall timber,
througii long avenues of scented wattle, by
an occasional neat stone cottage and infre-
quent untidy huts with skillions at the back,
the splendidly pacing Caesar drew them
through the sweet and exhilarating breezes
of a lovely morning in the early springtime,
Magpies sang in the bush, and . now and
again the weird guffawings of kookaburras
would move Mr. Pennefather to question bis
companion as to the strange and striking
hullabaloo that echoed through the sun-shot
aisles of the forest.
But no word at all for him had Mr.
Michael Moriarty. That strangely silent and
depressing person had not even acknowledged
his quiet genial “Good morning” as he came
out into the yard at the Woolpaek to take
his seat in the curricle, had received his
directions as to driving to Mr. Cox’s at Clar-
endon with a stiff nod and a non-committal
grunt, and had steadfastly refused to be
drawn into any sort of conversation.
So Mr. Pennefather had to content him-
self, as the rapid miles Hew beneath the tall
wheels, with the sound of the clatter of
Cmsar’s hoofs upon the roadway, the clear,
blue sky stretching above the treetops, the
changing views of virgin forest and infre-
quent tilth, the splendor of the sunshine and
his own curious reflections as to the strange-
ness of the circumstances which had brought
him these twelve thousand miles to travel in
the company of one who seemed to be rather
ape than man. He was half-asleep and nod-
ding when the jolting stoppage of the vehicle,
the cessation of the hoofbeats on the metal,
and the sudden rearing of the big bay geld-
ing rudely brought him to his senses.' Con-
vulsively gripping the rail of the seat, he
opened his eyes to a startling realisation of
disaster.
Three ragged ruffians, two of them armed
with muskets, barred the highway, whilst a
fourth—a tall, dark, handsome fellow—
gripped CaesaFs headstall at the bit and
forced him backwards. There was something
familiar in this man’s countenance which
struck Mr. Pennefather vividly, even in this
moment of surprise.
“By gad! The Duchess!” he muttered, as
his fascinated gaze took in the young man’s
features.
With astonishing agility the wizened
Michael vaulted over the side of the curricle
and began, a furiously-passionate, grotesque
little figure, to dance and gesticulate at the
roadside. His dumbness bad vanished, and
his harsh tones and barsli words broke the
stillness of the bush in a disagreeable and
discordant clatter.
“Take him, b’ys—take an’ bate th’ blag-
yard. ’Tis him I sint ye word of from Rose
Hill las’ night. May th’ Divil have um—
bad luck to um ! ’Tis’th’little bucko’s a-goin’
to tli’ Oxberry for to plan th’ downfall of ye
brave b’ys that’s taken to tli’ bush—th’ dirty,
ugly baste. A speslml Gov’mint man, he is.
so he is—can take ye an’ hang ye widout
so much as a patliernostra for y’r pore sowls.
’Tis tli’ new head p’liceman, he is. Oh, give
um h—l, now ye’ve got um !”
Surprising things happened then to Mr.
Pennefather. lie was hauled roughly from
liis seat to ail accompaniment of curses,
thrown upon the ground, his pockets emptied.
and then, coat, waistcoat, and shirt having
been torn from his back with' little gentle-
ness, be was dragged to a tree, where they
tied his arms round the trunk and made
ready to administer castigation with the
reins.
“My good men—my good men!” cried the
bewildered little gentleman, grasping the fact
that he was the victim of some diabolical
plotting on the part of the amiable Michael,
"Listen to me a moment, I beg of you. Just
a moment. You are making a hideous mis-
take. Pray, be careful. A mistake, I say!
I am not what you take me for.”
Behind him screamed and pranced the
wizened Irishman, a little goblin of malicious
fury, his monkey-face distorted with rage
and literally foaming at the mouth,
“ ’Tis no mishtake, thin ! Give it um,
b’ys! Belt th’ goots out o’ th’ blagyard—
he’ll not shpare your backs. Give it to um,
Spanish Jack—hit um a welt, Jack Smith,
Lace the b—d!”
The tall, dark young man stepped up be-
hind him and brought the doubled reins with
a resounding smack across his shoulder-
blades.
Mr. Pennefather squealed.
“Ah-h—O my God !” he screamed. “Stop!
O Christ! Man, I say, for the love of
Heaven!” _ ■
“Give it to um, Spanish Jack—give um
h—1!” bawled Mr. Moriarty.
The victim tried to twist his head round
to see his assailant. Again came the b!ow r
of the bard leather on his naked back. Again
he yelled.
“John Smith, John Smith!” be called
loudly. “You’re to have a free pardon and
a passage home. Only stop! O Cod, do-
liver me!”
A roar of laughter, above which Micky’s
shrill screech rose loudest, came from the
other men in the roadway.
Mister-new-Cliief-Constable-of-the-
Ilawkesbury, and you’re to have two dozen,
For being what you are, and to impress upon
you, my good sir, the goodwill that Spanish
Jack, alias John Smith, bushranger and lifer,
per ship Mangles, number 2422, bears to-
wards you and the system. We will get on
with it, if you please. No doubt you’ll be
promising me Governor Brisbane’s job be-
fore we finish. This is only three”
“Ouch!” yelled Mr. Pennefather.
When he came to himself Mr. Pennefather
found that he was being driyen back to Par-
ramatta, and that Mr. Moriarty was solioi-
tous as to his injuries, and indignant with
the miscreants who had maltreated him.
“The bloody blagyards!”_ he said. “They
thought ye was Sam th’ Nailer, tli’ new head
p’ljceman at th’ Oxberry, so they did. I
cuddn’t tell um nay. They’d not believe me.
Glory be—’tis an’ outrageous thing, so it is!"
Presently Mr. Pennefather spoke, feebly
and hesitatingly,
“Moriarty,” he said, “there will be ten
guineas for you—to say nothing of this.”
Sir Thomas Brisbane, in the following
week, received a brief communication from
Mr. Pennefather. It did not recommend the
extension of a free pardon to No. 2422, John
Smith, per ship Mangles, nor even a condi-
tional one. So, 12 months later, that unfor-
tunate love-child w r as choked to death out-
side Windsor gaol.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


W;
Si
pm
■r?m
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIIIOHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office-80 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
i
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
D. fi W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
ironmongers and
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy,
Keep hopping and hoping if you w
.THINK OF
m
S'
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cud.
if you have
Wool 8& Skins
to Soli.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
T All IFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
unavoidable,
ErrorsofDiet
Mei Represtnlattvti t
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
It sometimes happens that the food we eat does
not agree with us —probably because we have
unintentionally eaten too much or because the
quality of the food varied. The unpleasant
symptoms which follow errors of eating and
drinking are speedily relieved by an occasional
“ dash ” of ENO’s “ Fruit Salt ” in a glass of
cold or warm water. Your chemist sells
FRUIT SALT
uil
fg
sd
fg
sdfg
sdf
Quality counts
in the long run
gs
THERE are days when your shooting is
not what it should be —you return
home disappointed with general results —
you were not as keen as usual —you had
many chances, but something was wrong.
It makes a big difference what cartridges
you use. A good-looking cartridge is not
always what it appears to be. Are you
sure you are getting your money’s worth
in shooting value ?
Even if you are obliged to pay a little more,
why not have the best that can be bought and then see if
you don’t enjoy your day’s shooting to the utmost.
KjOjTl/flotOfl . cartridges give entire satisfaction
d-i and YOU can prove it.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative P. 0. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
ARE YOU BILIOUS 9
ARE YOU FAGGED 9
ARE YOU CONSTIPATED 9
TAKE
Bcecham’sPills
IF YOU ARE BILIOUS
It interferes with work, pleasure and happiness. Everybody
is so at times and in many cases it makes life a burden.
The fault is with the stomach, liver and kidneys. The action
of Beecham’s Pills is prompt and certain, and they will in
a short time afford relief.
WHEN YOU ARE FAGGED
That “run-down feeling” is caused by your overworked
digestive organs not doing their work properly. Beecham’s
Pills will set them right, invigorate the system and restore
the "energetic feeling” of good health.
IF CONSTIPATED
It is important to know that constipation causes a very
large proportion of ill health, especially amongst women.
It can be prevented if Beecham’s Pills are taken whenever
nature requires assistance. Comfort and happiness are sure
to follow the use of BEECHAM’S PILLS.
“Worth a Guinea a Box.”
Sold in boxes, labelled 10id.. ls-lid and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
dfg
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting, FJour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
s
These British
Rings are
standard equip-
ment for the
best-known
cars in the
world.
gfjf
Prices of BRICO
Piston Rings:—
Up to and including
2|in. dia„. . 2/6
Up to and including
4in. dia. .. 37-
Up to and including
sfin. dia... 4/0
SPHINX
British Sparking
Plugs.
Noted for their inde-
structible construction.
We have them to suit
ALL ENGINES.
4/9 each.
9
ODG
LODGE
British Sparking
Plugs.-
Known the world over
for their high-grade quali-
ties and workmanship.
We have them to suit
ALL ENGINES.
5/6 each.
All Plugs sold from our store are POST-WAR stock.
What better
than a Mascot?
Price List of a Few :—-
Emu 25/-
Bulldog . 27/6
Kangaroo .... 20/-
liion 27/0
Aero ........ 10/-
Horseshoe .... 12/0
Swastika ..... 8/6
Boomerang ... 7/6
All Splendidly Con-
structed and of the best
finish.
i
The HEART of the
AUTOMOBILE.
The FAMOUS
SCHEBLER
Carburetter.
A Model for every Motor,
whether Land, Marine or
Aero.
To be Schebler Equipped
is to travel
MOKE MILES for
LESS PETKOL.
For PUMPS that will efficiently inflate, TRY US*
Prices from 18/9 each.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR-ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.


Accumulators
Manufactured Jay
Pritchett 8 Gold and Electric Power 8 Storage Co. Ltd.,
England.
i — m
. ' ,v'V-
f £>- - —‘- ,' ?pS|||jg^ lljis vf '
■
a
■ 1
m j
it
- ■
2r "gp *5
K ..*'"■“*»■•«**' JSf, „
*’ ■*,* . A, »<■«”•>•
•,.!., ! if
I
era
ss
13¥§r~
-S
hM
i
QB
&
lIP'
1
iti
sjU
go2g
*3
\l
il£
%
mM
\
fi***
800 K.W.H. Battery supplied to the Hornsey Borough Council, working on a 3-wire general supply system.
iL2 .io.
& m
5! I
:
ixi 1
■ V
■ 4'
m
m
at
M
a
111
l LV
This is an equipment suitable for a 50-
country house or station battery.
IN all installations, whether they be for Power
or Lighting, the main requirement is that
their Power-output is right up to specification
and their operation and service is unfaltering.
By using only the best of materials, and
having the most capable and widely experienced
engineers in charge of the manufacturing pro-
cesses, the batteries made by Messrs. Pritchett &
Gold and Electric Power & Storage Co., Ltd.,
are used in many countries throughout the world
in the most important work.
The British Government use P. & G. and
E.P.S. Batteries extensively for Naval and Sub-
marine work, and numerous Power Stations are
equipped with their large stationary-type cells.
The smaller-type cells are specially suitable
for country use, where owners of large stations
desire power either for Shearing, Electric Light-
ing or domestic purposes, and a P. & G. and E.P.S. Battery can be supplied that will efficiently
and satisfactorily meet the demand and give the user the service he expects. Station-owners in
N.S.W. who have had these Batteries claim that they have given most satisfactory service.
We invite your inquiry, and will be pleased to give our
advice relating to any Accumulator or Battery problem.
Write to-day for Catalogues to
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
ENGINEERS and CONTRACTORS,
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence St
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins St
Cor. Edward & Mary Sts.
PERTH:
33-35 King St
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth & Morphett Sts.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt St.
