

im
mem
38
1111111 l
rA
£
“S,
*
&
m
>k
rS*
| §jNj| *
A
% »V&ml
'•c
<=A
SSK
<=£<?
a>
if
m
m
b/ r
w
7?\
i 3.
±
m
SsC
4.
!>0
I^^>-
te
r
ass®
m
V, &
:•:•:•>
i
ft
I
mammm
m
m
Ssk&StJJ
;i &
at
****
HTFH
(The Car That Keeps Faith).
THE CHANDLER SIX GIVES YOU
THE SERVICE YOU DEMAND.
Thoughtful men, in selecting a motor-car, And in the history of
the Chandler Six a source of real confidence.
The Chandler Motor of to-day is the development of the
Chandler Motor of 9 years ago. embracing refinements and improve-
ments which have been the natural development of these years of
service in the hands of thousands of owners, and the constant
sincerity of its builders.
Motors of one type and another have been heralded and retired
within those years. But the Chandler Motor, its true superiority
proved in service on every roadway in Australia, has lived and gone
forward into a place of distinction.
THE CHANDLER SIX,
Famous for its Marvellous Motor.
We can supply for IMMEDIATE DELIVERY a Standard jP/jQC
Model Seven-passenger Chandler Six Touring Car for XUy«J
Ring City 2567 and arrange for a demonstration.
Marcus Clark 8 Co. Ltd.,
Showrooms- 147-51 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0, 2209,
Thursday June 15, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


now ready. Posted free to any address
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
42S George. Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
, new revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
mmi
si r
1m
A|,i
irs
Standardised for Service
The tanning process to which
MANGROVITE LEATHER or RAW-HIDE BELTING
is subjected is standardised and tested by experts
to ensure the uniformity of excellence for which
this belt is celebrated.
Mangrovite Belting delivers maximum power because
it is prepared under rigid supervision from specially
selected Australian ox hides. Order Mangrovite now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 Yonit Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
MMIUmiHiU, V( - - - -
BOURNVILLE cocoa
I THE COCOA WITH THE DELICIOUS FLAVOR
1 CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE—“The Standard of Quality.”
*1
\
/.
akin
/%
er
re*
v
Pfi/m
GOJVjD&AT&En
/lakes Lovely Lakes #
and Da ties liinve on if
o
m
m
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
&
m
~ Im
m
Mad
vanou
styles
sizes
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door tripe, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
Last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom, .icy-hot tea pot
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Last Few Weeks.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
In aid of the Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee).
£llOO Ist PRIZE £llOO
£5OO 2nd PRIZE £5OO
£3OO 3rd PRIZE £3OO
and
105 Other Prizes valued at £BOO.
- •' . '<■ [f. \ ■ '
Positively Drawn 30th June, 1922.
Winning: numbers published in this
paper July 6, 1922.
1/- ONLY—TICKETS —ONLY 1/-
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughout the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, BLACKHEATII, N.S.W.
Hudson's Eumenthol Jujube*
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes hab led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.-
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Cougrhs, Colds,, Sore Throats and
Prevention .of Consumption.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'hgjhjkjlkl;l'
A. The Larynx c
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial:
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
A Financier Speaks
In What Next in Euro lie? (George
Allen and Unwin) Frank' A. Yanderlip
examines the position of every Euro-
pean country in turn. Almost all his state-
ments are based on information gathered by
himself on the spot: his informants range
from Arthur Balfour to Krassin, the Bol-
shevik. His chapter on Russia begins with
the statement that under his presidency “the
National City Bank had established impor-
tant branches in I’etrograd and Moscow”:
he drily adds, "I was an interested spec-
tator of the way in which the Bolshevik
Government took over those institutions.”
Still, he thinks Bolshevism "is not now as
black as it has been painted.” “It has
greatly strengthened its position.” The fall
of the Soviet Government “would lead to a
long period of anarchy.”
We' ail know that European credit is
snowed under by worthless paper money.
The German mark has fallen almost as low
as the Kaiser. The Italian lira and Aus-
trian krone make economical wall-paper,
while the Bolshevik rouble seems destined
for'still humbler purposes. \Ye know that
paralysed credit means paralysed industry,
general unemployment, vanishing food sup-
plies. starvation. That is the position of
Europe liow, and ,it cannot last. Might Bol-
shevism save her? Lenin now knows better:
he has repudiated Communism. Experience
has taught him what Australia learned 30
years ago from the New Australia adventure
in Paraguay—that in this world of very
human humanity the dreaming idealist’s
opium orgies of delight are always followed
by a dreadful awakening. In spite of Lenin
Russia survives, hut only because 9.1 per
cent, of her population are peasant-landlords,
to whom the very word “Communism” is
anathema. Had I.enin’s revolution covered
Western Europe with its industrial popula-
tion centred in great cities, what would
now he the condition of England. France,
. Germany, lt dv ? Italy did try the experi-
ment of Bolshevism in her factories —for
just a fortnight. Then it was stamped out,
not by Government troops, but by the work-
ers themselves. No. Escape seems impos-
sible for Europe, either by regeneration or
revolution.
Enter America. Mr. Yanderlip sots down
civilisation’s opinion of America in the Great
War with unemotional accuracy. She sold
munitions to the Allies year after year until
she had amassed one-third of the world’s
available gold. Her loans were made con-
ditionally on the money being spent in
America. With a magnificent gesture she
rushed into the lurid pall of battlesmoke
just in time to rush out again with hardly
a scratch, and —having won the war —doffed
her spotless uniform and donned her wreath
of ready-made glory. While Europe was
still one vast hospital, with the late belli-
gerents lying prostrate, some at death’s door
through internal disorders and 'all more or
less delirious, America burst in with her
hill for 2,20(1,000,000 pounds. John Bull
shut liis eyes tight and pretended to he un-
conscious. The lesser Powers fainted.
France shrieked' “Mon Dieu !” and had to be
quietened with morphia injections.
This levity is not ill-timed. It fittingly
leads up to the grotesque fact that America
has never really wanted to be paid in the
only way Europe could pay her —in goods.
She well knows Europe cannot pay in gold.
All Europe’s gold is safe iu America’s safe.
If the Allies now offered to pay in goods
even the annual interest bill (£100,000,000)
America would instantly shut out those
goods with a prohibitive tariff in order to
save her ohm industries from destruction.
For the same reason England cannot allow
Franco and Italy to pay their debts to her,
nor can the Allies allow Germany to pay in
goods her war indemnity 1132,000,000,000
gold marks), which would, theoretically, go
far towards ye-establifehing their credit.
Repudiation? Mr. Yandorlip shakes a
warning finger at the very thought of it.
“America for many years to come will be
the grqat world-reservoir of capital.” If
Europe repudiates her debt that reservoir
will be sealed to any further flow in the
direction of Europe. Recovery is improb-
able, repudiation unthinkable, revolution un-
imaginable, repayment impossible. Europe
lies at the feet of the Statue of .Liberty—
bound hand and foot.
Mr. Yanderlip is sincerely sorry for
Europe. He thinks she ought to pay her
debt. He also earnestly wishes her a quick
recovery of trade and credit. lie honestly
hopes she' won’t die- —for her own sake, as
well as his own. Nothing is more depress-
ing than to see in the obituary column the
name of an old pal who owed us a “fiver.”
Ilis great idea shall now unfold itself, in
his own words as far as possible.
His proposal will mean for America “the
most substantial material advantage that has
ever flowed from any single political act.
More important than the material gain, there
Would bo spiritual gain which would give us
a moral leadership.”
“I would like to see every dollar that can
ever be paid to us by our debtors for years
to come devoted to the rehabilitation of
European civilisation, which alone can en-
sure the repayment of Europe’s debt.’’
“Europe’s debt would be repaid, not in
dollars to us, but .in kind within her own
borders. A considerable part of what'"we
received might be used as a revolving fund
of credit to be loaned to nations for specific
purposes and expended under joint European
and American supervision.. . .If we convert
the debt due to us into a debt due to
humanity, the whole world will want to see
it paid.. . .the urgent needs of every country
shall be satisfied. .. .transport must he re-
organised ... .hydro-electric power fully uti-
lised. .. .Eastern Europe must have a modern
grain-elevation system. . .the. newly-awakened
passion, for education in the Balkan States
must be encouraged... .the illimitable grain,
fields of Roumania and South Russia must
he worked by modern machinery.” Mi-.
Yanderlip “would propose to England the
establishment of great scientific labora-
tories” : he would give to Italy, “if she
agreed to have it,” the means for establish-
ing great schools of applied art. He ap-
proaches the victory-flushed and lovely lady
of Europe with even more tactful defer-
ence; “Even France might agree that
some of the money she paid us could, in
turn, be expended on objects in France that
would work out for the benefit of mankind.”
Even Henry James’s "Americam” could
liardly have put it more delicately.
News just cabled of Mr. Pierpont Mor-
gan’s presence in Paris deepens our interest
in the opinion of this other American finan-
cier. We are told Mr. Morgan proposes
another “colossal” loan to Europe—when
Europe cannot pay the interest even of her
present debt! Mr. Yanderlip’s suggestion
seems better than that.
DOWELL O'REILLY.
Mencken and Nathan
Joint editors of The Smart Set for
some ‘years' now; and mirroring each other’s
beliefs and antagonisms with astonishing
loyalty, 11. L. Mencken and George Jean
Nathan have achieved a position in American
criticism that is only denied them by the
staid professors they belabor so roundly.
Mencken is a Saintsbury in cap and bells,
and has been dubbed by the Mercube de
France "the ablest American critic since
Poe.” Nathan, whom Gordon Craig con-
siders “the best of all theatre critics,”
discusses the drama of America and else-
where in the impressionistic style of Shaw
and Lemaitre, though lie has .none of Shaw’s
Puritanism and little of Lemaltre’s decorous
gaiety. Like his forceful comrade, Nathan
uses all the weapons of farce and irony,
slapstickihg his English, saucing lus victims
with vinegar and asn foetid a, jarring virginal
minds with Rabelaisian quips, but ever
betraying beneath the clowning and vigorous
bladder-work a sensitive appreciation of
art and beauty. Ilow he and Mencken came
together one does not know, but their union
has caused more perturbation in the literary
and theatrical dovecots than has appeared
there since the lu.sty days when Frank Har-
ris was editing London Saturday Review.
Mencken's books, apart from those written
in collaboration with Nathan, consist of a
dozen provocative volumes'. His study of
Bernard Shaw’s plays—the first to appear
in any language, by the way—was one of
his ’prentice efforts, but it still stands out as
a rare interpretation of the Irish writer.
Mencken isn’t enraptured by him. He
has christened him the “Ulster Polonius,”
and has scornfully accused him of “stating
the obvious in terms of the scandalous.”
This raking phrase is a sure thrust at the
charlatanry and superficiality of Philoso-
phy’s Bernhardt; but Mencken, like many
more, is appreciative of the wit, trenchancy
and impassioned brilliancy of the language
that has served Shaw as a funk-hole from
the drum-fire of many critics. Wells;
or rather “The Late Mr. Wells,” has become
another of Mencken’s bates noires, because he
has extemporised a sort of aristocratic social-
ism from loose reading of Nietzsche and Gov-'
eminent Bine Books, and has written vast
tracts in the guise of novels, with a pulpit
in every chapter. Of Conrad Mencken
speaks highly, but he declares that though
Arnold Bennett’s books “bustle with charm-
ing detail,” and “radiate the humors of an
acute and extraordinary man,” “they are no
more than collection's of essays defectively
dramatised.” Mencken is at his best in
dealing with his own countrymen, of whom
he has no illusions. As an example, listen
to him on the Yankee deity, William Dean
Howells, as a critic:—-A
One finds him loosing a fanfare for W. B. TriteS,
the Philadelphia Zola, and praising Frank A. Mousey
—and one finds him leaving the discovery of all the
Shaws, George Moores, Dreisers, Synges,. Gate-
worthy's; Phillipses and George Ades to the Pollards,
Meltzers and Ilunekers. Busy in the sideshows, he
didn’t see the elephants go by- • • -Here tempera-
mental defects hampered him. Turn to his “Mv
Mark Twain” and you will see what I mean. The
Mark that is exhibited in this book is a Mark
-whose Himalayan outlines are discerned but hazily
through a pink fog of Howells.
Also Mencken doesn’t regard Jack Lon-
don as a first-class artist, and he has sent
the distressing Professor Vebleu, Brandcr
Matthews, O. Henry, Robert Chambers and
many another crashing from his pedestal.
And in the midst of this sacrilegious behavior
he cries tauntingly : “Find me a second-rate
American in any of the arts and I’ll find you
his master and prototype among third-,
fourth- and fifth-rate Englishmen. . . .A mon-
grel and inferior people, our function,
we choose to believe, is to teach and inspire
the world. AYe are wrong. Our function
is to amuse the world. We are the Bryan,
the Henry Ford, the Billy Sunday among
the nations.”
'There is no space to consider Mencken
as a wit and apliorist. but his “Little Book
in C Major” is worth treasuring for such
things as “When a husband’s story is. be-
lieved, he begins to suspect his wife,” and
“The charm of a man is measured by the
charm of the women who think he is a
scoundrel.” Nathan is also capable of a
hinging piquancy, as witness his remark that
“J. M. Barrio is the triumph of sugar over
diabetes.” But, generally speaking, Nathan
is more robustious in technique, more richly,
endowed with a talent for salfimbanquerie
and the depreciation of stage almighties by-
grotesque similes and parallels than his
fellow-worker in disillusionment. He has
dismissed “-'Esthetic Dancing” with the
scoff that “it stands to art what a Japanese
junk stick is to an old maid’s tearoom.” He
has cremated Belasco in an incendiary para-
graph. lie has laughed at Ibsen and Pinero,
and has frankly recorded among the plea-
sures of his existence, which include roof-
show wenches and the decollete farces of
Avery Hopwood, his first hearing of works
bv. Dunsany, Schnitzler and Hauptmann.
Contrary to this he labelled Maeterlinck
“Beethoven on a mandolin, Rossetti in
passe-partout" and snuffed out the Broadway
genius, Eugerie Walter, with the contention
that he “takes a story intrinsically devoid
of melodrama, writes that story on the
smallest possible number of Western Union
(Continued, on page 25.)


hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Economise on Your Winter Overcoat
at Anthony Horderns’
l>,
kJJ ('
0 a
V H V
1
A •'
i
Wishing to acquire much in Overcoat quality
and comfort—while spending economically—
the man who shops wisely will consult
Anthony Horderns’, knowing that he will
find there a splendid variety of the right type
of garments. And he will find the prices
remarkably keen.
Post your order if a personal
visit is inconvenient. All Mail
Orders receive the expert atten-
tion of our Mail-order staff.
r
y
v
m.
& 7 •
•/
limit I
Carriage Paid on Men's Wear
in N. S. W.j and to the Nearest
Port on interstate Orders .
The “Hordernia” All-wool
Australian Tweed Sac Suit
Newest designs in Grey and Brown
effects. Coat has two-button front,
outside breast pocket, centre seam,
no vent.
Vest has medium opening, four
pockets.
Trousers have side and hip pockets,
plain or cuff bottoms (as illustrated
at left).
Price . 59/6
Other Prices:
70/-, 85/-, 95/-, 110/-
Macintosh Coats.
Macintosh Coats, in Fawn Parramatta Cloth,
designed with Raglan shoulders, convertible
collar* Sewn seams throughout, vertical pockets
(as illustrated above).
In Heavyweight, with belt—
Prices . . . 55/-, 62/6, 75/-, 119/6
In Heavyweight, without belt—
Prices . 50/-, 70/-, 115/-
In Lightweight, without belt—
Prices 32/6,84/-
The Raglan Overcoat.
Easy fitting, slip-on shoulders, patch
or vertical pockets, strap or turned-
back cuffs, centre seam and vent,
lined foreparts (as illustrated at
left).
All-Wool Australian Tweeds, dark
shades, in Brown or Grey mixtures.
Prices: 63/-, 65/-, 84/-, 95/-
English Tweeds, in Dark Effects—
Prices *
95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-
Highest-grade English and Scotch
Tweeds-
Prices: 147/-, 168/-, 189/-
Fashionable Overcoats.
The Raglan Rainproof Overcoat.—
Unbelted style, as illustrated at right,
is a commendable style for all
occasions.
This popular garment ensures per-
fection of comfort and is designed
with easy slip-on shoulders, but-
toned to neck or step collar; patch
or vertical pockets, strap or turn-
back cuffs, centre seam or vent,
lined with check. In Fawn Gabar-
dine.
Price
105/-
f&Y
2-aX
r-«.
f*
HI. I
i*l
i/C
I
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
7elephone: City 9440.


Keep a KODAK Album
: . /
P' .
-
i ]
A Kodak Album will preserve for you
all your pleasantest recollections It
will be a unique volume —no other
in the world could have the same
interest as this pictured story of the
happiest times in your life.
Make a start with the pictures to-day—you 11
find them easy with a Kodak.
The No. 2 Folding Brownie has all
the simplicity and dependability that
made the Box Brownies famous, but
is more compact and has a wider
sphere of usefulness. Makes pic-
tures 2] x inches. Price, 52/6.
Box Brownies range in price from
12/G.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior
is a thoroughly reliable camera of
high efficiency. It is thin and com-
pact —specially designed to fill the
needs of the amateur at a low cost.
Fitted with the autographic feature.
For pictures 2-\ x 3;} inches. Price,
87/-
The new, complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to any
address (except New Zealand ) for Gd., to cover postage.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley ; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street.
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
His Masters voice
i
K
o
u
R
C
A
M
TETRAZZINI
PADEREVSKI
CHALIAPIN
DESTINNOVA
EIFETZ
B
The world’s
most famous
artists.
In no other way can you hear such a
galaxy of wonderful artists as you
can on “His Master’s Voice.’’
“His Master’s Voice” Records are made by the most renowned
singers and instrumentalists in the world.
Through the medium of “His Master’s Voice” it is possible to
gather together in one’s own home a company of musical celebrities
such as no monarch could engage.
To hear the world’s greatest artists at their
best, play “His Master’s Voice” Records with
“His Master’s Voice” Needles on an * His
Masters Voice” Instrument.
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments range in
price from 1 1 guineas to 91 guineas.
Write for Catalogue, Record Lists and name
of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“His Master's Voice 1
Read. Trade-mark.
"Gramophone''
Read. Trade-mark


PINKEITES
FOR SICK HEADACHE
Most people suffer at regular
intervals from sick-headache. The
trouble is caused by accumulation
of poison in the digestive organs
and this poison produces nausea
and the headache follows.
These distressing attacks may
be avoided. Pinkettes are dainty
little sugar-coated ovals that act
so gently that they are the ideal
laxative to use in correcting a
tendency to sick headache. They
have no unpleasant effect to make
them objectionable to the extra-
sensitive sick-headache patient.
Old-fashioned harsh purgatives
will not do at all in such cases.
1 /3 per bottle every where.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning “ Bulletin.”
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE AVELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Btreet, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
This is the BEiT
Way to Mark
all Linen
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
MM
msm
Are so Easily Sewn On.
Your Clear,Woven Name in Fast Color is
always ready to attach to any Garment or
Material. CASH’S WOVEN NAMES
offer protection and individuality and are
a Boon in every household.
Prices —12 doz.7/6—6 doz. 5/- —3doz. 3/6
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH ET£;
85 CUBITT ST., RICHMOND, VIC,
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
Oi / ;*Tt *.«;
iT
%
As an aid to beauty nothing
surpasses lovely
Walnut Hair
A worthy sotting to the most
beautiful face.
Make the most of your hair,
lisa
DR. ALLEN S
WALNUT STAIN
and you will be delighted with
the improvement in your
appearance. Harmless, per-
manent, waterproof. All
chemists.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
WHOLLY
AUSTRALIAN.
Made in Australia by Australian chemists
who know the needs of Australians,
“Eudenta” possesses a fragrancv that is a
sheer delight, and antiseptic properties that
effectively combat the ravages of decay.
Ask your Chemist
for “Eudenta.”
1/-
a tube.
m
"'MI
•Hl'ljl
Hi 1 >ih
a
I Ml
i!
KM'
MA'*
m
lira
<Lt
V
s® iHiisi
:
Hot Water
Instantly.
MALLEY’S COMPLETE HOT WATER SYSTEM
gives direct service to your Kitchen, Bathroom, Laundry and Bedrooms
simultaneously. It is a most simple system to operate, being exceptionally
economical, perfectly safe and free from bother or trouble. Worked on
the automatic principle—a tiny pilot light operates at the turn of the
faucet, and hot (or boiling) water flows immediately.
Ideal for the modern bungalow and home, for hotels, hospitals, boarding-
houses, etc.
A specially illustrated booklet dealing with this practical system
posted free from our Dept. B. DEMONSTRATIONS DAILY.
JKGxlleifif jQfi
66LiverpOo! St (Tomer Ken t St,
a. few steps from George St
Ml3sir.gr Friends.
ttANLEY.—JOHN HANLEY, formerly of Berwick,
Vic., or any person knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with C. HANLEY, Narre Warren,
Vic. Important.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
m
■
Wm
wsa
'////'
mr
'4mm
m.
the
PLUM
m
Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but —
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/0 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, fin. or Jin., set ready for use and guaranteed anc!
kept in order for two years free.
Plum Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post fret
anywhere.
Country visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon in
Sydney.
Y//SSAM S
Andrade’s Entertainment
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
SOME MAGIC.
Playing Card to Matchbox 1/3
Haunted Ace Trick 2/-
Billiard Ball Trick 3/6
Linking Rings (pocket size) .... 7/6
Diminishing Pack of Cards 5/-
Chung Loo’s Fire Eater 2/6
SOME THINGS—
Grease Paints, Wigs, Beards, Masks,
. . Ventriloquial Heads.
CATALOGS FREE. How To Make Up, Guide to
f >
• *
House,
SOME BOOKS.
Simple Card
Tricks That
Anyone Can Do
With Ordinary
Cards, Without
Sleights.. 1/6
Up His Sleeve,
the latest book
for the profes-
sional .... 8/6
Funniest Foup.
Farces, in one
book .... 2/-
the Stage.. 1/6
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Jewel House.
The jewel house is painted green,
Its curtains are of amber sheen,
With Eastern rugs and polished floors,
And carved bronze handles on the doors.
The rooms are swept with gentle light,
The walls are picture-hung and bright,
While through an open window blows
Scent of violet and rose.
I see the table trimly set
With bowls of fragrant mignonette,
Blue-handled cups, the coffee’s steam,
The butter’s gold, the honey’s gleam;
And afterwards —an hour that brings
The clash of chords, the throb of strings;
Slim hands that weave with strange
romance
Scherzo, fugue and Eastern dance.
The night is swept with wind and rain,
But in my heart I see again
The jewel house with walls of green
And curtains wrought from amber sheen;
While through each open window blows
Memory sweeter than the rose.
QUEEN STRAND.
A. GORE-JONES.
The Picture.
The incommunicable ecstasy
That is as old as earth’s brief span of
Time
Breaks in a flood. Waves gather strength
and climb,
Waves of fair gold and topaz and porphyry
And pearl that blushes to rose, till the high
sea
Of heaven is all one music, with deep chime
Of star to star unveiling, pulse and rhyme
PerfeJc in the stupendous harmony.
Oh, glory of the sunset! Sweep and sway
Of beauty incarnate in earth’s visible
breath!
Vast laughs to vast through all the
astounding clear
Bewilderment of the picture. (Ends the day
In praise. Love cries, ‘‘Behold! there is
no death!”)
The picture, mirrored in your eyes, my
dear!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
Rosemary and Rue.
With Abel dead on rosemary,
And Cain asleep on rue,
Shall there be water in the sea
To weep the sorrow due?
The ragged tent of Adam Khan,
Beneath a sycamore,
Was black for death when day began
And black when day was o’er.
The angels at the fiery gate
Stood tall on feet of gold;
And night had taken for his mate
A hag whose face was cold.
But Eve went up a darkened stair
With steps of whispered fear
To dash a word of angry prayer
In God’s astonished ear.
The rainbows trembling round the throne
Made holy lights of green—
The Ancient bowed above His own
And dreamt a submarine.
And Adam Khan in heavy trust
Grasped hard a flaming sword,
With solemn blood to keep from rust
The glory of the Lord.
But Eve had gathered rosemary,
And Cain had gathered rue;
And all God’s hell of memory
Wept fire between these two.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Fruit.
Fruits are the- flashing gems of fantasy
Hanging from bending branch and slender
vine—
Fig, persimmon and ebon mulberry
Fashioned as secretly as gifts divine.
Pawpaw.s all jasper, little emerald limes,
Cumquarts of topaz, grapes of amethyst—
Sold by the buckets in old summer times—
“ Sixpence the lot” —all fresh and Bris-
bane-kist.
Fruits are the jewels of a poet’s dream,
Apples of amber, sun-plump ruby plums,
Jet blackberries beside a mountain stream,
And mangoes onyx-red as hennaed thumbs.
I’ve seen bananas on the Proserpine
Glowing like luscious bunches of pure
gold;
Great granadillas pendant on their vine—
Lumps, of clear chrysolite the genii hold,
Cherries I’ve plucked beneath a Lawson
sky—
Garnet, cornelian, pink tourmaline.
I’ve gathered apricots at Ivuring-gai
Sardonyx-yellow and as sweet as wine.
Fruits are the fairies’ gorgeous jewellery
Hanging from vine and tree in this rich
land.
I picked a peach this year from my own
tree,
Its silvery bloom grew mellow in my
hand.
And as I turned it I beheld again
Gooseberries, beryl in the Moss Vale sun;
Quinces of jacinth in an Ipswich rain,
Melons of jade upon a western run;
And oranges and lemons, loquats, pears,
Pouring a golden perfume over me,
In all the magic that green Nature shares
Who moulds and makes this fairy jewel-
lery.
N.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


£????
Your Unnecessary Bill
For Necessary Figuring
Have you thought of it in this light before? How is it in
your business? Look around your office —do you see anybody
* figuring with a pencil or pen? If you do the chances are that
you are losing money on the operation, for there are very few
figure jobs now-a-days that cannot be done more quickly, more
easily, more accurately and for less cost with a machine. As
one Burroughs user puts it:
“We have made use of the little Calculator on every con-
ceivable figure job where all we want is the answer. It is
saving us at least two hours a day and we would have to have
more help if it were not for this machine. It has more than
oaid for itself.”
Perhaps you think a Calculator would not work out satis-
factorily in your business, but the fact is that the Burroughs
Calculator has been put to work in thousands of places, under
all sorts of conditions, and it has never failed to do its work and
save time and money where properly used.
The Burroughs Calculator
This handy little machine-easy to learn, easy to operate—will
figure invoices, wage sheets, costs, stock taking, discounts, sales
distribution, production charges, engineering calculations—any-
thing involving addition, subtraction, multiplication or division.
Ask us to show you what
the Burroughs Calculator is
and what it will do for your
business by reducing costs
and preventing expensive
errors.
A demonstration will put
you under no obligation and
you will probably find this
machine just what you need
to take care of the figure
work of your business.
r
Sola Importers of
burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham and East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
??
m m
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
i Adding —Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines
4409


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2209.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1922.
Price 6d.
CONCENTRATING ON THE LITTLE ONE.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australiu for tlie White -Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, S.vdne'\ N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to anv APDttKSS is Australasia, weekly:
Id months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To anv address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s. ; 6
months,- 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
reiused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form o/
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS- when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed it not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Ainnteurs in IHack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, \ or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn — will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotcli, Ludgale Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London L.C.hJ
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street
London, E.C.; "The British-Australasian,” ol High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
USA — Chicago: J. Roland hay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago ;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco, yew York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn A Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Jlong Kong. „ ,
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singaitore. . .
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Bailhe Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . , „ , „ .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fi.ii.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropote
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon A Go-tch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of Tun Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: joz.,
lid. : for every additional 20z., Id. United Kingdom,
A'll Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: J/Oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere : 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
tHeft/TL.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15, 1922.
ON THE HOME FRONT.
During the Great War the soldier on short
leave in England often came across Olym-
pians who made him feel rather a mean-souled
character. They denounced the Pope for his
efforts in the cause of peace (“Damme, man,
he’s a snivelling pro-Hun!”), and insisted
that no settlement would suffice unless dic-
tated at Potsdam (“Ay, sir, we’ll bring the
swine to their knees in their own capital, if
we have to go on fighting for another 20
years!”). Some of Sassoon’s poems which
were popular amongst the spiritless wretches
in the trenches and the gunpits (“Sing
to us English!” and the like) revolted
the manlier type of patriot; he saw
in such works a motive force that
might diminish, to an undesirable extent,
the tide of hatred which was flowing so
healthfully between Boche and Britisher.
The humble Expeditionary whp listened to
the brave words of the “Never-endian,” as
the impenitently provocative Jingo came to
be called in England (the lower orders of
Germany had a coarser phrase for his Prus-
sian prototype), was highly impressed usu-
ally—until he found that the irreconcilable
was “D.A.A.G., Tidworth,” or “Town Major,
Etaples,” or something similar; had never-
engaged in more perilous work, and never
intended to do so. Sydney is the storm
centre, the Europe, of the racial, or as some
with debatable exactitude call it, the sec-
tarian, row which is fostered so devotedly
by certain clergymen and politicians in Aus-
tralia; and this war has its “Never-endians,”
like the other. - Needless to say, the fire-
eaters who are prepared to see dreadful
things happen before they will abate a jot of
their extremism, are not the privates of the
warring legions, but the brass-hats. For
example, the Rector of St. John’s within the
University (Father O’Reilly) and Arch-
deacon D’Abcy-Ibvine.
These two leaders are alike only in
their love of a row. The Rector
carries heavier intellectual artillery than
the Archdeacon; he knows how to handle
English; and has a sense of humor —-
all formidable controversial weapons.
D’Arcy-Ikvine is heavier, less cultivated, than
O’Reilly, but more sincere: the latter often
gives an impression that he has started, or
plunged into, an argument chiefly from the
virtuoso’s desire to show how brilliantly he
can perform. This may have some bearing
on the fact that while D'Arcy-Irvine is
angrier when roused, O’Reilly is far readier
to be roused, or, that failing, to do the rous-
ing himself. Almost his first public act, on
returning from the Irish Race Congress, was
to shout: “I am still a rebel.” What was
his object? To rebut a suggestion that he
had changed his views on the Irish question?
No one in Australia had been foolish enough
to hint at such a thing. Then the idea must
have been to lure a protest out of a clerical
S.O. on the enemy’s side. And of course
the protests duly came—oyer real names,
palpably bogus names, and initials in the
press; and in the form of speeches, sermons
and scandalised interviews elsewhere. It.
was a great offensive, from the point of view
of the rival 11.0’5.,. and the snarling and
counter-snarling has not died down yet.
There is no reason why Father O’Reilly
should not be a rebel: Fox, Rhodes, Glad-
stone, Lloyd George and others who have
done much for England and the Empire were
rebels in their time, and the same applies to
many of the greatest figures in English litera-
ture. Nor is there any legal reason why he
should not proclaim himself a rebel. It is
a free country still, despite the prevalence of
a type of autocrat who has laid down a 'Sal-
vationist’s tambourine to take up. a Minis-
ter’s portfolio. Similarly, there is, in prac-
tice, no constitutional reason why Arch-
deacon D’Arcy-Irvine, and some of those
lesser lights of the Churches who seem to
love England passionately, despite their
Teuton names, should not set about Irish
priests as opportunity offers. True, the
habit of stirring up hatred between section
and section has been held to be seditious:
but then most of the normal activities of
any party politician are seditious, so that,
if the strict letter of the law were adhered
to-, one of the first to find himself in a dock
might be W. M. Hughes. When Arch-
deacon D’Arcy-Irvine recently conducted a
dreary wrangle with a country priest, in
the course of which he tried to show that a
British prelate’s imprimatur on a political
work by an obscure Irish writer meant that
it had been authorised by the Pope, he
could not, as a reasonable man, have ex-
pected to convince any but the already con-
vinced that Benedict XV. had read the
book. No: he was actuated by the same
amiable motive that impelled Father
O’Reilly to present himself as a rebel —a
desire to annoy the other side, and, haply,
induce someone to burst into the always
complaisant Sydney dailies and -push on the
creation of dissension, malice and. unchari-
tableness. It is all perfectly legitimate—
as a war measure. During the world-tragedy,
whose effects are still being felt even in this
favored land, it was called “establishing
morale.” In England recognised masters of
the art such as Horatio Bottomley —now
debarred for a season from patriotic effort —
were subsidised in various ways for their
skill in this direction, and honored and
entertained by historic figures like Haig and
Beatty. However, the question that about
95 per cent, of Australians are asking with
ever-increasing vehemence at the moment is:
‘What in God’s name is the good of it now
that the world-war is over?”
* * # *
Everyone realises the harm it does to all
but a relative handful of parsons, priests and
politicians who, without this more or less
chronic religio-racial disturbance, would
quickly become as obscure as are most of
those beribboned desperadoes who, from a
thousand base camps, shouted defiance at
the Kaiser throughout the fighting in Flan-
ders. Each fresh argument that is made
public over Ireland or over a sectarian ques-
tion causes Brannigan to lose business
because he is a Catholic, and McHaggis to
be boycotted because, he is a Presbyterian.
Families are divided, .husbands and wives
estranged, and friendships ended for no other
reason than that a politician, imagining his
stock to be waning, has made up his mind
to give it a fillip by stirring up the mud that
represented most of his support at the pre-
vious election; and employees are sacked,
subscriptions withdrawn from hospitals and
hectic slanders circulated because one fol-
lower of the Prince of Peace has grown bored
and decided to divert himself and consoli-
date the faithful by means of a press brawl,
or because another adherent of the gentle
Nazarene has mistaken a liver attack for
an onset of Empire patriotism. Nothing
did so much to kill militarism on the other
side_ of the world as ’ the militarist home-
service officer; and nothing is doing more to
discredit religion and Parliamentary Govern-
ment here than the militarist clergyman and
the sectarian politician. How can anyone
tgke a soldier seriously who puts on a uni-
form and instead of fighting urges others
to fight? How can anyone take a politician
seriously who is influenced in every move
he makes as an Australian legislator by
something that is supposed to be happening
in Belfast or Dublin? And how can anyone
take churches seriously whose best-adver-
tised members preach toleration every Sun-
day and disseminate hatred during the rest
of the week? The salvation of Australia
from a state of affairs which the propaganda
of religious bigots and ultra-Nationalists has
brought upon Ulster rests with a very few
men. Either side, Irish or anti-Irish, could
accomplish it inside six months. It is a
matter of one set of clerical and political
brass-hats, or another, making up its mind
to retire from a fray which, while plainly
amusing to the participants, leads to no
useful conclusion, nor ever can. The moment
either faction abandons the limelight and the
braggadocio, the cheap threats and the
cheaper sneers, and declines ,to be drawn
back to the old ways by gibe or vituperation,
at that moment the “Irish trouble” will begin
■to expire of- its own futility as regards the
Commonwealth. If, on the other hand, our
O’Reillys and D’Arcy-Irvines and their
mostly foreign captains and subalterns are
unwilling to forego their sport, bloodshed is
an eventual certairity. And, as always in
warfare, it is not" the brass-hats but the
privates who will suffer.
OPPRESSED NATIONS AND THE
KIND OF MEN WHO FREE THEM.
Within the last half-century or so a number
of little nationalities, long and, to all appear-
ance, hopelessly, submerged, have come to
the surface again. Some, like Poland, were
fished up from the depths by friends who
used the chapter of accidents for bait.
Others, like Serbia and Italy, had in the
main to fight their own scrap or make their
own opportunity. Ireland, now half-immersed
and either coming up or going down again
by a process of suicide, ditters from the rest
because the leaders of other successful
national movements were men of infinite
patience and illimitable silence, who didn’t
think their lives wasted if they achieved even
half the work, and died with hopes for the
other half. The Irish leaders, inaugurating
a free fight in the old prison house just as
the doors began to open, starting a civil war
for control of their .new Parliament before
any Parliament is elected, making a scram-
bling, ill-managed war on a neighboring
State before their own State has really com-
menced to act and has got its Constitution
back from the job printer, are intensely in-
teresting but unpractical They lack the
art of lulling the enemy into security, and
biding their time. It showed a tempestuous
genius for the inopportune to adopt the only
certain course for calling the Saxon soldiery
back when, after 750 years, they were just
going for good. The Poles, also a fantastic
folk of fits and starts, misrht indulge in such
vagaries (though they were guilty of none
quite so remarkable), for three strong
nations and some smaller ones were ready
to spend their last discredited paper money
to keep the revived Republic alive in their
own interests. But Ireland has no stra-
tegical value to anybody save itself, unless
someone wants a buffer between the Isle of
Man and the Atlantic Ocean, and though
allies might turn up in the course of years
—for most things and most people do turn
up eventually—there are none in view at
present.
If Milosch Obkenovitch could have been
resurrected from the grave he has inhabited
for t>2 years, and hadn’t proved too old for
use, he might have been the leader for the
occasion—provided the Irish gave him a
chance. Nothing much less hopeless looking
than the re-establishment of Serbian “inde-
pendence” about 1817 could be imagined.
Perhaps one-third of the Serb lands were
recovered, Austria and Turkey holding the
rest. Both gave the glassy eye to the new
State, and the international eye was even
more glassy then than now. A certain com-
munity of race and bigotry made Russia a
distant friend; but the little inland State,
shut up between two enemies, couldn’t get
out, even on public holidays, to shake hands
with a friend. Other nations gave it moral
support, now and then, because the terrors
of the Napoleonic struggle made them start
at the very shadow of another conflagration ;
but the support amounted to little. Serbia
was short of population, money, arms, defen-
sible frontiers and education. The last had
been mislaid under Turkish rule. Under the
same rule the Greeks lost even their lan-
guage and their alphabet. It took 12 years
for the new “Prince” to secure recognition
by the fezzed oppressor, and then he started
business as a tribute-paying sub-monarch
with a Turkish garrison in his capital. It
took 40 more years to get rid of the garrison
and another 11 years to get rid of the tri-
bute and make the fragmentary kingdom
independent. The Obrenovitciies were
wicked, also they were mean. They lacked
some of the social graces, being true children
of the Pig-dealer, their father. They were
rather short of the tidy habit of dying in bed.
But both they and the Karageorgevitches,
who bickered with them for the throne —and
got it when the last Obrenovitch passed
unregretted to his eternal reward—had some
outstanding qualities which differentiated
them from the picturesque De Valera and
co. They could wait with vast patience, and
scheme hard, and fish silently in troubled
waters. They were good fighting men, and
had a useful knack of snatching concessions
out of defeat. They always preferred mur-
der to civil war, because the latter was apt
to annoy influential foreign residents and
lead to foreign interference. Their eye tvas
always on their Ulster, though they neither
orated nor wrote poetry about it. And 101
years after the tentative beginnings of their
Free Stale the reward came, and the empire,
lost for centuries, was restored. It may
remain or it may not.
* * *
Cavour, the supreme statesman of his cen-
tury, also differed in some respects from
Michael Collins and Rory O’Connor,
When he became Premier of the speck king-
dom of Piedmont and the isle of Sardinia he
found it little more than a vassal of Austria
as the result of the disastrous war of 1848-
49. The only job he saw ahead of him was
to recover three Ulsters —Lombardy, Venice
and the Trentino —from an overwhelming
Power; to upset six or seven local despots,
two running bigger shows than his own; to
prevent the freed States from doing the Kil-
kenny-cat act afterwards; and to make
union out of 1000 years of disunion. Gari-
baldi and Mazzini pictured a wonderful
mob-rising of the unarmed, untrained popu-
lace, a sweeping victory under 27 or 72
enthusiastic but inexpert generals, and then
a free-for-all scramble for fhe united throne,
with a preference for no throne at all, but
a republic. Except that he had considerable
military skill, which De Valera and co.
appear wholly to lack, Garibaldi wouldn’t
have made a bad Irish leader of the higher
type. The man of patience and statesman-
ship said simply that there would be no inter-
nal Kilkenny cat. He proposed to make
Piedmont such a model State in a benighted
land that when there was an Italian throne
to be filled the Piedmontese sovereign would
be the only possible candidate, and the
republic wouldn’t even enter for the race.
He kept his word about the model, and all
the Liberal thinkers of the world grew inter-
ested. In 1855, when the Franco-British
alliance began to wonder if it hadn’t bitten
off more of Russia than it could digest, and
the fear lest Austria should come in on the
other side kept them awake at night. Cavour
sent the Sardinian army to have a bad time
over a strange quarrel in the unpleasant
land of Crim Tartary, and many of his old
friends said that nothing in the realm of theo-
logy would be bad enough tor him when he
died. But he established an informal alliance
with the two W'estern Powers, and called
round with the bill for the debt ot gratitude
with the patience of the born dun. He cre-
ated a feeling that Austria was the com-
mon enemy. As an addition to the debt of
gratitude he sold his master’s indefensible
old French duchy to Napoleon HI. in re-
turn for the loan of French armies with
which to recover the three Ulsters from
Austria, and he experienced the bitterness
of death when the little painted C-HSar par-
tially failed him and only Lombardy was
recaptured after all. It was his one mis-
calculation. But he ppset three small local
tyrants and most of another in the scuffle,
and when the referendnms that he contrived
produced a unanimous vote for annexation
to 1 iedmont and a minus quantity against it
everybody knew that the scheme of the Model
Kingdom was a success. Next, the restless
Garibaldi was started out as an agent, who
could be either used or disavowed, against
Naples, and Bomba’s kingdom fell like a
bandbox eaten by white ants. Its people
also voted almost as one lazzarone for annex-
ation to the Model Kingdom. Cavour died
but bis policy lived and his ghost went
marching on. In 186(5 the Italian army was
lent to help Prussia against "Austria, the
recovery of Venice being the price. In 1915
it ivas lent again to the old. friends of the
Crimean alliance for service against the
Huns, and as repayment the Trentino—the
last of the three Listers—was gathered in.
The process lasted 63 years from the first
move to the last, and the machine which
Cavour set going kept moving all the time.
Real Liberators run in various shapes in-
cluding adventurers of minor agricultural and
pastoral origin, like Juarez of Mexico and
David of Scripture; princes like Orange
and long-pedigreed blood-stock such as Vasa'
Bolivar and Cavour. But they have been
much alike in the fact that there was no
difficulty in picking out the one figure on
the crowded stage that was the Liberator
He wasn’t Smith to-day and Jones to-
morrow, with a tendency on the part of
each to be Brown. The flickering, come-and-
go. cat-on-hot-bricky character of recent
Irish leadership lends an aspect of unreality
to the landscape, and makes it suggest ii
mirage with an eruption in the background.
At first De Valera and Collins were to-
gether, at least one being the real goods.
They separated amid the usual execrations
but Collins got the army. Then De Vateki
borrowed the army. Next Collins and De
Valera came together again, but while they
were becoming reconciled it seems that
Rory O’Connor took the army without
leave and left with it, and where it and he
and the general elections are now is uncer-
tain. Members of the original old Libera-
tors Union, which was in its heyday in
the time of Queen Victoria, who ivere finan-
cial and in good standing, avoided low comedv
of that sort. J
THE ART AND PRACTICE OF VOTE-
SNARING.
There is a sense in which W. M. Hughes
was cheated of his destiny, as Bonaparte
said after his failure to take St. Jean d’Acre.
Circumstances made him the head of a Gov-
ernment, but Nature obviously intended
him to be an election-agent. He is a
brilliant campaign director in the wrong job.
ihe qualities which gain him elections and
sustain him in power, and in which he excels
all rivals—his skill in inventing catch-cries,
his flair for political meteorology and under-
ground engineering, and the acuteness with
which he excites ancient prejudices and ani-
mosities against liis opponents when things
are looking dangerous—are the qualities, not
of the statesman (Hamilton, Lincoln,
Gladstone, Deakin never had them, or dis-
dained to exploit them), but of the slick cam-
paign boss. So, also, are the ignoble attri-
butes he has exhibited at critical stages of
his career; for example, his continuance in
office after the defeat of the second conscrip-
tion referendum, and his acceptance of a
present of £25,000 from his wealthy patrons.
In each case he acted according to the
standards of the election hack, who looks for
success at any price, even honor, should it
come into the argument, and a thumping
bonus on top of the salary after the tumult
and the shouting. No first-rate man in like
circumstances could possibly have hung on to
the job or taken the money. But any candi-
date’s offsider would have behaved preciselv
as Hughes did.
It is when a general election is in sight
that the Prime Minister is seen at his best. A
bungler in a department, a spoilt child in the
council chamber, hopelessly ignorant of
finance, abysmally incapable of shaping, or
even sticking to, a national policy, he is a
master of the science of getting votes.
Which seats are in danger, which are safe,
how this State may be confirmed in its
allegiance, how that State prevented from
going over to the enemy—these and kindred
matters are constantly in his thoughts. His
sources of information are extensive, and
generally pretty trustworthy; his methods
skilful in the extreme. To some doubtful
constituencies he addresses honeyed promises;
to others subtly effective appeals to the bias
of patriotism, or of provincialism, or, if
the case is desperate, of sectarianism, His
energy is boundless. With unwearied
activity he rushes from Victoria to West-
ralia and thence to Queensland, intent on
consolidating the factions which have
hitherto supported him, and setting . his
opponents by the ears. A survey of the
political chessboard convinces him that the
fate of his Government will be decided in
Queensland. With Victoria doubtful and
South Australia hostile (N. S. Wales is safe
enough, since the effort to put Watt or some
other Liberal in his place has been stigma-
tised as “a base Victorian conspiracy”; and
little damage can be done in the smaller
States), a reverse in Queensland might be
the end of him. So to the pivotal State
Hughes proceeds, with the usual regiment of
retainers and reporters, and spouts wherever
a crowd can be collected to hear him. From
the N. S. Wales border to North Queensland,
and back to Brisbane, he goes, distributing
platitudes here and compliments there, with
a suitable allowance of snuffle. At Rock-
hampton he talks of cotton, at Bundabeig
of sugar, at Townsville of fhe fine physique


of the Northerners, at Cairns of the beauty
of the children and at Gladstone (or some-
where else) of the bonus on chilled beef.
And he doesn’t forget to remind the returned
soldiers, in case they have forgotten it, and
vote for the other crowd, how He \von the
War. At a meeting of Brisbane Diggers he
is overcome by emotion :
In the dark hours, when the struggle seemed almost
too much, and when it seemed no longer worth while,
it was always a source of comfort and inspiration to
me to feel that the soldiers of Australia believed
in me.
Foch couldn’t say more. ' Perhaps r ocu
wouldn’t say as much. * #
The Prime Minister returned south to re-
ceive the congratulations of the National
Federation. His tour is regarded by that
body as an event memorable in the annals ot
electioneering. He is believed at headquarters
to have made Queensland safe for democracy
or, at least, for Bayley, Bamfoko, Cam-
ekon, Corser, Mackay and Higgs. In the
north-eastern State, now that the beef bonus
lias been settled, nothing is talked of
but the sugar agreement. The planters want
a. renewal of that agreement for five years,
and nearly every other section of the com-
munity, Premier Theodore and the A.W.U.
included, is supporting them. During King
William’s progress through Bamforo’s elec-
torate, that exuberant ancient predicted that
the agreement would be renewed. Bam-
ford’s boss did not confirm the prophecy,
blit did n6t deny it. He contented himself
by saying, in carefully-chosen sentences, that
“the policy of the country in regard-to sugar
had to be determined by Parliament, and
by the Government so long as it retained the
confidence of the majority in Parliament,”
and that he was “glad to hear that the N.Q.
farmers appreciated the‘agreement arid re-
cognised the part which the National party
had taken in securing it.” A week later the
pear had ripened, and at Buridaberg he
spoke in these terms :—-
The sugar industry is suited to the tropics, and
the sugar industry must be preserved.' I' am ilot
going to say any more here than elsewhere as to
its advantages, but 1 would remind you that the
agreement, which you admit has been an excellent
one, was due to the National party, and the National
party alone. To get any laws passed, or any agree-
ment ratified, the Federal Government must have
a majority in both Houses. If you want the agree-
ment very badly, or such an agreement as will
stabilise the industry, whether the conditions be iden-
tical with those of the present agreement or not;
if you want that more than anything else, then
you ought to ask yourselves how you are most likely
to get it.
Which, freely translated, means: “The
Hughes Government finds office congenial,
and the Hughes Government must be pre-
served. If you want to get your agreement
renewed vote the Hughes ticket. If you
don’t, the Lord help you.” It is a calam-
ity to the country that the sugar industry
should be made the sport of vOte : catching
politicians, a pawn in the dirty Party
game. It should be the aim of all
decent legislators to make it independent of
the sordid bargaining of faction leaders and
the whims or prejudices of uninstructed elec-
torates. A patriot would take bis stand on
the principle that since sugar is the greatest
of North Australian industries all good Aus-
tralians ought to be nrepared to make a small
financial sacrifice in its interest, and ulti-
mately, in their own. That, would be a
statesman’s way. But it is not little
Willy’s way.
OUR MEAT TRADE.
A statement made, according to a press
cable, by John Elder, of the firm of John
Cooke and Co., who is now in London, sets
one wondering whether we Australians are
ever going to develop any self-respect in our
transactions with the outside world. Mr.
Elder is annoyed (1) because, in defiance
of a given promise, the Argentine continues
to dood the European market with its meat,
which, being chilled and of high quality,
ousts our frozen meat from the market; and
(2) because the British Government wont
do anything to help us.
Whv should the Argentine slack up to let
us into this market‘d It has spent years
trying to beat us there. It has planted the
hundreds of thousands of acres of delta land
which it owns with lucerne, so as to be
able to turn off its cattle young and fresh
and iuicy. Under adverse conditions, and
at enormous expense, it has built up a beef-
cattle population three times that ot our
own It has faced, and successfully with-
stood, the frequent ravages of foot-and-
mouth disease, from which we have never
suffered. In the improvement of its Herds
it has gone into the European markets and
bought the best bulls that money could buy.
A demand for £lO,OOO for a Shorthorn sue
of outstanding quality has not daunted the
Argentine on several occasions. Ihe banks
have helped. The shipping companies and
railways have helped, and the breeders
themselves have shown an enterprise which
would take away the breath of most Austra-
llBAs for Australia, till the Yankees arrived
a few years ago, our meatworks, with one or
two notable exceptions, were the most out-of-
date in the whole world. Our shipping and
railway 7 arrangements have always been
execrable. We have killed our cattle at
five years old when they are full of muscle
instead of meat, while other countries have
been saving themselves three to three and
a half years’ maintenance cost by fattening
and killing at from eighteen months to two
years. While every other cattle country has
been encouraging the use of pure-bred,
early-maturing stock our meatworks have
given little or no encouragement to the prac-
tice until quite recently, and our Railway
Departments' have absolutely discouraged it.
It costs several times more to send a stud
beast by rail in N. S. Wales than it does
to send an ordinary beast. South Africa
pays the oversea passages of pure-bred bulls
brought to the Union. That gi ms the South
African buyers in the European markets an
advantage of somewhere in the region of
£2OO per head in the English-purchasing
market over Australian buyers. Canada
gives the man who wishes to buy breeding
heifers free travel and expenser. to and from
the nearest big stock saleyards, and free
freightage of his purchases back to the farm.
Under this system 70,000 head were pur-
chased bv farmers in Canada last year, and
it is not difficult to understand why the
Canadian cattle population has increased
one-third since the war began, while ours
has increased onlv one-eleventh. In the
Argentine and Brazil nothing goes out but
The best. In Australia, the rule has been.
"Anv old thing will do.”
Tne general meat situation, and m pai
titular Australia’s troubles, may be stated
in simple terms. During a P en °“
which began several years before the war
the decline of meat consumption per capita
—even though aggregate consumption has ail
times increased —has been regular and per
sistent. Everyone in Western Europe has
become accustomed to eating a little less
meat. The war period and its high puces
have helped. In 1920 the demand per head
of population for meat in Europe was con-
siderably less than it was in 1913. iet ! n
that year oversea countries dumped down m
England and on the Continent just a few
hundred tons more than the importation ot
1913. Hence, there was a margin for buy-
ers to pick and choose, on. The worst went
to the wall, and the worst happened to be-
long to poor old Australia with her modest
eight per cent, of tlie total supply.
The Australian cattle-man, then, has no
just cause to growl at his treatment oveiseas.
He has not bred what the oversea market
wants or has wanted for a couple of decades
past. His meatworks —the intermediaries
between the Australian producer and Brit-
ish consumer —have been content to accept
the tail-end of the market, and have failed
to spe an inch beyond their noses until the
trouble fell upon them. Our Governments
have shown a systematic tendency —quite
involuntary, no doubt, but not,: less harmful
—to retard the industry’ by their railway
and taxation methods. And the Australian
workman has done his bit —<ind a very con-
siderable bit—to add ,to whet amounts to a
national disaster. .: .» • , '
We have killed a promising Eastern trade
already by the despatch of meat which was
allegedly ho credit to the country,. We have
almost lost our European trade, and we are
reduced, apparently, to the lowly expedient,
of going, cap in hand, to the Argentine to
ask for mercy, to the Bsitisli Government
for protection, and to our own Government
for doles. <
When we have set to work to build the
industry on a basis of early maturity, with
its accompanying economy of breeding costs;
when we have efficient railage and handling
of cattle and meat; when our Governments
are reasonably friendly instead of unreason-
ably extortionate to industry, and when our
workers realise that injury to an industry
of this character is a blow struck at the
whole community, rich and poor, we shall
have more occasion to be proud of ourselves
than we have at present. We have brought
all our troubles on our pwn heads, and if we
don’t profit by the lessons they provide we
will deserve all we get.
M. H. ELLIS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Export Trade in Bruisers.
Since the Armistice malle it safe for profes-
sional -love-fighters to travel, there has been
a procession of such worthies from the Com-
monwealtli to parts abroad. None of these
feather-pillow warriors fought for Australia
on the field of battle. All were satisfied to
keen the flag flying (for, rather, draped)
about the posts of a AO-foot ring, in which
inglorious environment* at least seven of
them have been well whipped. Sadden-
ing as the fact is, millions, of people are rather
crazy about pugilism, and thousands of
newspapers feature it lavishly, wherefore the
dismal exhibitions of tibese duds have done
Australia some harm. Not only has its
athletic prestige been dowered by their
almost unbroken succession of defeats (and
the athletic prestige of a- nation counts for
something nowadays), biflt its name and re-
putation have been to advertise a
ragged lot of alleged “champions” who are
after gate-money and nothing else. And,
in at least one notorious instance, the honor-
able term Digger has befcn appropriated by,
or applied to, a boomed mountain of meat- ,
poor pug and poorer citizen —who, at a
critical stage of the war, was publicly in-
vited to enlist and hung his head in silence,
if not in shame. If Australia House was
anything more than an expensive imposition
on the taxpayers it wortld intervene swiftly
to prevent the glory of the Diggers being
exploited by, or in the interests of, third-
rate bruisers who did all their fighting on
the Bushcutter’s Bay front. And here
Albebct Dorrington, now a special writer
for Northcliffe’s Dairy Mail, takes up
the parable : ,
Until the other day I had overlooked the fact that
Britain’s alliance with Japan had terminated, and was
not to he renewed. This oversight was brought home
to me by a casual article I had wijitten for the Lon-
don Daily Mail. It was headed “Where Dkmi’sly
Might Fail,” and, sought to prove that Japanese jiu-
jitsu was once responsible for the sudden overpower-
ing of the late Peter Jackson, in Foley’s White
Horse Hotel, Sydney, by a Jap visitor.
Entering the office a couple of days after the
article was printed, I discovered a pile of corres-
pondence about the size of a wool-bale, mostly
addressed to me.‘ The letters came from all parts of
the U.K., from politicians, pugilists, parsons, wrestlers
and advertising specialists. About 13,000 of these
people wanted to know why I was providing the
Japanese with swelled heads and filling their souls
with martial impudence and the canker of pride.
An equally numerous tribe wrote applauding the
courage of the little brown man who went for
Jackson. Meanwhile the U.S. cables got to work
on a story I told of Tom Sharkey, who got a bad
throw in Tokio at the hands of a* coolie basket-
seller.
Then people began to ask why Japan does not
export her judo men. The answer I received from
the Japanese Embassy, in London, wasthat Tokio
does not permit such revelations of her strength
or weakness in physical culture. No Japanese would
be permitted to wander abroad advertising "himself
as the champion of Japan, as the moral effect of his
defeat at-the hands of a foreigner would be regarded
as little short of suicidal. The official at* the Em-
bassy was also good enough to point out (not with-
out some cynicism of manner) the example of two
Australian heavyweight boxers, now in London, adver-
tised as champions in their own country, and suffer-
ing defeat after defeat in the ring for the, sake of a
little money 1 Were these men, he asked, at all
representative of the brave Australian dead/ who lie
in France and elsewhere?
Prpbably in the history of boxing no two men
have used the name of their copnfry so consistently
as Lloyd and Cook in their endeavors to attain
publicity. Cook was chosen by Carpentier as an
opponent likely to offer him the least resistance, for
at that time the Frenchman’s hands were still suffer-
ing from the effects of his fight with Dempsey.
In the ’nineties Australia sent abroad the finest
team of boxers in the world. While Americans re-
sented their appearance, they often doffed their hats
to the name of the country that bred them. The
other night, in a London boxing-hall, I witnessed
the spectacle of a Canadian bruiser walking slowly
across the ring in Lloyd’s direction to deliver the
knock-out. The Canadian paused for a full three
seconds, and then, without the slightest opposition
from the Australian, knocked him down.
In Australia the superstition evidently still sur-
vives that when a nian grows a neck like the bole
of a woolly-butt and thighs to match, he has got
his ticket for the pi’ize : ring. As a matter of fact
both Cook and Lloyd represent a type of pug that
became extinct about the time of TOm Cribb and
“Deaf” Burke. In the flesh Jack Dempsey is leggy
and can sprint like a hare.' I am prepared to wager
£loo'that neither Lloy'd nor Cook could win even a
fat man’s race. Fitzsimmons could travel a ’hundred
yards in almost even time. Carpextier, in evening
clothes, is the real Family Herald type of drawing-
room dude, and is as far removed from the Cook-
Lloyd species as a panther from bears.
Japan is right in putting the judo-grip on men',
likely to prostitute her name. So long as mere...
physical force is a symbol of a nation’s vitality, the .
symbol is worthy of the nation’s homage—as it is',
in Japan. The small chorus of Australian pressmen
in London that sang the praises of Australia’s
“champions” have got to live down the fact that
both men are now content to act as professional
chopping-blocks for second-rate English pugs! And
next to the “champions” that come here from Aus-
tralia English pugs are the worst in the world.
About a Crash that Is Overdue.
A sound of acute listening fills the air
above Queensland, where the shadow of a
great, tense Ear is over all the land. It is
waiting (the Ear is) for next election, and
the crash of doom which will indicate the
downfall of -those who have misruled Aus-
tralia’s fairest province for seven years.
The condition o'f affairs is quite sufficient to
justify the expectation that the end is near
—if affair's Count. Under THEODOBK Queens-
land has changed from the State with
fewest unemployed to the one with the
record workless army, and from the only
one where the whole railway system showed
a surplus over working expenses and inter-
est to the only one which, despite the highest
charges in the Commonwealth, has hardly a
really solvent yard of line to its name. The
taxes have nearly trebled. The copper
industry is moribund, and the cattle industry
lives by the aid of a Federal subsidy. Yet
Queensland used to stand for half the copper
and half the cattle in the Commonwealth.
Revenue is falling, including income-tax
revenue, which falls along with the income.
The world-famous Mount Morgan mine has
been driven to appeal for State aid. Recent
returns showed factory employment to be
diminishing, a.nd two of the three Queens-
land banks have sold out to an institution
which lives outside the Theodore orbit.
South Australian Senator '.WILSON, who
recently toured the Land of Desolation,
returned to say that the end of the reign of
chaos is at hand, and, seeing that the party
which runs the State can hardly get an
alderman, Representative or Senator of its
own sort into a seat, this should be so. And
vet, unless the dominant handful is tired of
itself, like Diocletian and other weary
institutions, it is hard to see why it
shouldn’t rule and dispense with the
people for another 7 or 17 years,
barring some strictly unconstitutional pro-
ceeding to put it out. The present crowd
arrived, mostly because the community
assumed that Liberty takes care of itself,
that the shirkers and the I.W.W. sympa-
thisers who reached for power while better
men were at the war weren’t dangerous,
and that it was absurd to think of any
form of usurpation in a land where Liberty
is inherent and automatic. No one had
even provided a statute for the readjustment
of constituencies when discrepancies became
too marked, yet such a law, with the Upper
House standing in the way of its repeal,
would have produced startling results in
1920, when the soldiers were mostly back.
The “gerrymander” of the electorates was
so complete that 15,602 Government sup-
porters returned 10 Theodore supporters,
while 49,574 were required to return 10
Oppositionists. It took only 1362 men,
women and ghosts to return Premier Theo-
dore, but it required 6345 to get a seat for
Oppositionist Barnes. Imaginary voters
on the roll were estimated at 56,481, that
being the number that the State Registrar
found, and which ths Federal one didn’t find.
The election of 1920, despite all these signs
and wonders, reduced the Government’s
majority from 20 to 4, but that may have
merely been because the party managers were
over-confident, and miscalculated, and didn’t
work its miracle apparatus hard enough.
One way and another prophecy is unsafe —
as usual. The Ministry, having no Upper
House to hinder it now, may devote its last
days and the tail-end of its majority _ to
creating 12 reliable new Theodore constitu-
encies out of 12 paddocks. On past form it is
precisely what that astonishing body might
be expected to do.
The Dud Senators of W.A.
“Swansider” : Federal Minister * Pearce,
who was despatched by his chief to West
Australia to discover how much ice Minis-
terial candidates as such will cut at the
next elections, has returned with the infor-
mation that “there is no talk of a split.”
Pearce’s forte is platitude rather than skil-
ful equivocation; nevertheless, this state-
ment, even if it is strictly true in what it
conveys, is utterly false in what it infers.
The recent breakaway in S. Aus. came about
because the dominant party refused to carry
on its back any longer certain of Hughes’s
followers, w T ho had nothing to recommend
them except the fact of having left the
Labor party in 1916 with a Prime Minister
who has since made it his business, as it
•was his interest, to try and keep them in
Parliamentary life. W.A. has been tried even
higher in this regard. It has had to put up,
for the last six with three Senators
whose feebleness snd incompetence were
bywords in the Labor party long bef<'"-e the
war. It was common talk in W.A. in 1915 that
Henderson, Buzacott and He Largie had
exhausted the patience of the Trades Hall
and were to be scrapped at the first oppor-
tunity. Labor had had plenty of time to
weigh them, for one dated from 1901, an-
other from 1903, the third from 1910. De
Labgie had brought little but obloquy on
the party (as in his connection with the
unsavory Chinn case), and the other two
were the merest ciphers. Somebody chris-
tened them “The Terrible Three,” and the
names of the State Labor politicians
who were to dispossess them at the
next selection ballot were openly dis-
cussed and forecasted. Then came the con-
scription row, and these extraordinarily
lucky politicians found themselves foisted
on their opponents, warmly credentialled by
Forrest, the man whom they had spent
their entire Parliamentary lives in abusing
and endeavoring to belittle- and thwart.
That was the price W.A. paid for the
Hughes-Cook-Forrest coalition —to be com-
pelled to keep in the Senate three blown-
out persons who would have been a doubtful
acquisition to an up-country Roads Board.
Nobody but Forrest could have induced the
anti-Labor organisation in W.A. to swallow
them, and it taxed all his persuasive .powers
and influence to get the swallowing done.
Wrily and reluctantly it was at last accom-
plished, with many shudders and much spit-
ting, and the three wore put in for another
six years, as a reward for placing country
before party, as the phrase went. Probably,
once the plunge had been taken, the great
bulk of the trio’s new supporters would have
been ready to make the best of tliem, if
there had been any best. But there have
been no more than fleeting glimpses of any
of them in W.A. since. As Labor members
at least they, had to keep in touch with the
Trades, I,lull and the trades unions.; as
Nationalists they have receded into abso-
lute obscurity. If the three were to
walk down St. George’s-terrace, ’ Perth,
in a bunch, it is exceedingly doubtful
.if one person in 50 would know them.
In .the Senate itself they go for
nothing except as voting counters, and
in a House where there has only been
one Oppositionist up to the present, such
counters are superfluous. It is incred-
ible that any National or Liberal organ-
isation will be found to endorse them
again, in preference to candidates who
haven’t fallen down on their jobs. Senator
Pearce himself hasn’t had the temerity to
suggest that such endorsement is their due;
without being keen-sighted, Pearce is doubt-
less still capable of seeing the sun at noon-
day. Therefore he contents himself with
recording his impression that there is “no
talk of a split in West Australia.” That is
so. There is no necessity for talking about
it, or for putting party machinery to work,
as in South Australia, for the discarding
of such of Hughes’s proteges and poor rela-
tions in Parliament as have outlived their
usefulness to everyone except the Prime Min-
ister. It. will just happen, and there is no
reason why it should involve any schism
whatever.
•
Loyalty in N. S. Wales.
The Fueler Government, which came into
office largely on the Loyalty ticket, has a way
that is all its own of delivering the patri-
otic goods. The first opportunity which
the party got of showing its superiority to
the Dooleyites on the preference to soldiers
issue was in connection with the formation of
the Ministry. A whole herd of highly-
qualified business and commercial M’s.L.A.
with bright records as fighting soldiers
offered — Rosenthal, .Taques, Hugh Main,
Bruxner, etc. They were passed over in
favor of a gang of party hacks, who, with
one exception (and he was given a fill-up
job) have never risked so much as a push
in the neck for the Empire. Last week an
opportunity offered to give one of the many
Digger-accountants of N. S. Wales a fat
job—that of investigating the Clyde Engi-
neering Co.’s affairs. Treasurer Cocks (as
vehement an Imperialist as any in the State
during the recent election) could find no
one more suitable to appoint than a native-
born German. For some time the soldier-
settlers at Bankstown have been in difficul-
ties with the poultry-farms which the
Nationalist party got so much credit for pro-
viding them with when the war-fever was on.
A few days ago, under instructions from the
Minister for Lands (Wearne), the fowls,
pens, coops, etc., of some of the men were
seized, while other have been evicted.
Births are expected shortly in families
which, as a result of the Fuller
Government’s astounding action, are faced
now with destitution. The Dooley crowd
had faults, and to spare, but on the whole
they gave the Digger who was up against it
a lenient spin: and certain it is that no
Labor Minister got down to fowl-snatching. By
wav of a set-off against a deal of extremely sor-
did anti-imperialism, the Fuller Govern-
ment has issued a ukase that every school
child must daily salute the Union Jack. It
is explained to the children that the flag
must be loved and honored as a symbol of
Government. But what are the real senti-
ments of a N. S. Wales child likely to be
in regard to Government—the only Gov-
ernment it knows, the one which sent its
father to the wars with the assurance that,
if he returned, nothing would be too good
for him, and shortly after he did return stole
his fowls and kicked him into the street to
starve?
« ■ •
Self-made—or Machine-made?
Smiting himself on the chest the other day,
as an embodiment of that industry, ener'vv
and ability which is warranted to unlock
or batter down all doors, the Right Hon.
William Hughes, Hon. LL.D. of Edin-
burgh, Glasgow, Birmingham and Cardiff,
D.C.L. Oxford, etc., told a Cairns (Q.)
audience that on the only previous occasion
when he had visited that town he had
arrived in the galley of a coaster with a soli-
tary half-crown in his pocket. It was only
a year or two ago since Hughes boasted to
a Sydney audience that lie had put in a
couple of reluctant nights in the Domain in
his time. It is generally regarded as a
commendable trait in a self-made man,
whether he be a soap-manufacturer or a poli-
tician, to be unashamed of his humble begin-
nings. That is not to say, however, that
the habit of bragging on the subject, which
is so characteristic of this class, is relished
by those who have to listen to the same.
And there is a certain disingenuity about


T h i Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 3000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soun
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
the manner in which Hughes does this worn
old act, which makes it even less palatable
than it otherwise might be. He owes nearly
everything he has to the Labor party, the
newly-formed organisation that he joined in
1894, which floated him into the Federal
Parliament in 1901, and which, in 1910,
swept Australia at the polls. Hughes came
into a movement where any man with a
talent for playing to the gallery was bound
to go high. Some went to the top who
couldn't even play to the gallery, such as
the ineffably dull and mediocre Fisher. Re-
view in the mind’s eye a few of the men
the Labor movement made when it tv as in
its vigorous infancy, and then speculate as
to how far some of them would have got
without it. What hope would one of the
Hughes type have had, for example, if he
had arrived in N. S. Wales with (say)
Henry Parkes, or in Maoriland with
Richard Seddon? Here were men of con-
siderably less education and natural advan-
tages than Hughes, who had to make their
own ladders, in default of finding one ready
to hand. The Labor pledge was no key to
open doors for them, or no club with which
to batter down obstacles. Hughes raised
himself by his capacity for tickling the ears
of the groundlings: he did it like an artist,
but he found the stage and the theatre
waiting for him. From his perpetual vaunt-
ings about what energy and ability will do,
it would almost seem as if he entertains the
delusion that he created the real framework
of his fortunes himself.
More Voices from the North.
This bit of description is by Earle Page,
M.H.R., re the state of affairs at Darwin,
commonly supposed to have been reformed
out of all knowledge before he arrived there:
It was necessary for a person to visit Darwin to
find out that the ornate system of government in the
Northern Territory, instituted by the Hughes Gov-
ernment in 1911, had completely failed. Uue hour’s
visit would reveal an incredible and appalling state
of affairs, and serve as an explanation of the tremen-
dous waste of public funds. One-quarter of the
population live on Government rations, and there
are three different departments responsible to Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and Adelaide for their orders.
There are vacant offices in public buildings, yet one
will And Government departments renting offices from
private owners. There are two health officers, one
the Government Medical Officer, the other the Port
Officer. They operate under different controls. Clerks
with fancy titles, drawing twice the rate of pay
they would draw in any other part of Australia, are
also prevalent. Another big thing is that ordinances
have been made in Melbourne to dUtl with local
conditions, and have proved totally unsuitable to
this area.
And if a time comes when ordinances are
made at Canberra, which is further from
Darwin than Melbourne is, they will still
prove unsuitable, especially if Hughes is
the ordinancer. Change of location will
leave him the same Hughes. The leopard
changes his spots, that is to say, he carries
his spots to all sorts of spots; but he re-
mains the same old spotted leopard. Sup-
posing that Cairns, also up in the tropical
wet region, was similarly administered, there
is no reason to doubt that it would likewise
be a shabby and pitiful failure, bringing the
contempt of the white and colored world on
the Australian race, instead of being a
bright, prosperous, growing place with 7500
inhabitants and a future. And Harwell,
now a knight, would rave about it also to
the effect that nigger labor was the only
road to salvation. Cairns, if turned into the
capital of a new State, so that it could
attend to its own future, instead of living
on the scraps, oddments and leavings of the
Brisbane intellect, would presently have
75.000 inhabitants instead of 7500, that
being the way the Australian is built.
The fairly even distribution of population
in England has been ascribed to the fact
that that little land is cut up into small sec-
tions, with their administrative capitals at
London, Barry, Oswestry, Liverpool, Bar-
row, Hull, Manchester, Westminster, Mary-
land, Derby, Birkenhead, Swindon. York.
Stoke-on-Trent, Port Talbot, Cardiff and
even Shakspeare’s leafy birthplace of Strat-
ford-on-Avon. That is to say, there are, or
were, independent railway managements at
all these places, and the spot where the
means of communication are controlled has
enough of the features of a capital to pass
in a crowd. Cairns is too far from its seat
of government (90S miles) to get much
attention. Wyndham (W.A.) is further
12177 miles) and. worse; Darwin, ruled
from a distance of about 3200 miles, is
furthest and most horrible. Also, it has not
a single vote with which to bribe the office-
hungry Hughes; nor can it threaten that
intrepid horseman but funkv politician with
the withdrawal of one. So, being devoid of
the necessary means of corruption, and all-
Australian patriotism being the deadest of
dyad letters, the great rich Federal posses-
sion _is left by the wavside for the first Bol-
shevik to pick up. If it were Paradise it
would be left just the same.
Sowing the Cotton-mill Seed.
A cotton, scheme which is likely to involve
the handling of a great deal of loan money,
and also provide a text for many election
speeches, is mooted in Queensland. The
idea is to resume, apparently at one swoop,
over 670 square miles of excellent Central
Queensland sheep country for closer cotton
settlement. The sheep being now the one
payable quadruped we have, some people
think that the bullock land further north
would be a better field for experiment, the
bullock having already filed its schedule. The
Federal Government, taking an almost im-
perceptible interest in practical things,
offered a bounty, good for eight years only,
of 10 per cent, on the value of cotton pro-
duced provided not more than £60.000 worth
was produced, the payment being limited to
£6OOO per annum. Nobody enthused over an
industry that was only to last eight years,
and the bounty called for in the final years
was only £22. Between 1867 and 1874
Queensland had quite a brisk little cotton-
export trade, also based on a bounty, but it
also died when the bounty fund ran dry.
Such funds are always liable to, run dry, and
sometimes they gallop, rather than run. Sue-
KID STAKES.
“Mullumbimby, Friday.—The Government’s defence policy was made available by Mr. Massy Greene,
Minister for Defence, at Brunswick Heads to-night. Estimates are being prepared providing for a
reduction of £1,760,000 on defence expenditure.”
THE STATESMAN : “Note, ma'am, this little feller will give yon just as much protection,
he’s cheaper, and, that leaves more money for our salaries.”
cess kills them. If an indirect bounty on
wheat, by carrying it on the railways at less
than half cost, or a direct or indirect cash
bounty on that or anything else, multiplies
production out of all knowledge the bounty
bill eats up the revenue till there is nothing
left with which to pay Parliamentary salaries.
Then it stops -with a crash, and the end is
more sudden than the beginning. The little
cotton boom up north, which the Theodore
Government intends turning into a big
boom, rests on a State guarantee of a price,
and if, in a run of bad years, that guarantee
falls due on 670 square miles at once the
result may be fatal. Apparently the idea at
the back of the movement is the same which
Queensland worked on and perished on 60
years ago—to furnish raw cotton, in com-
petition with the cheaD Egyptian, Hindu and
Central African, to the cotton-mills of Eng-
land, and import our cotton shirt from there
as usual, thus losing the manufacturer’s
profit, and the taxes that might be collected
from the manufacturer and the workmen and
their dependants, and paying two needless
freights on the tonnage of the shirt.. At least
Governor-General Forster, who has no need
to discourse through his hat for lack of
access to sources of infoiunation, gave the
industry this unsatisfactory blessing:—
Great Britain uses £200,000,000 worth of raw
cotton annually. Last year. ... £50,000,000 went to
Egypt. Now just at present £50,000,000 coming
to Australia would receive a great welcome —and
£50,000,000 worth of Australian cotton would re-
ceive a great welcome in the old country.
Another view, which should not be over-
looked, is that, by the time the £50.000,000
worth of Australian cotton is ready the
welcome may be as dead as mud. owing to
vastly increased production in Africa or
Brazil or somewhere. The situation may
be worse than in the London meat market,
which has been seized on by the Argentine,
and worse than it was in the wheat market
in the two-and-sixpenny days. On the other
hand Australia has sent away as much as
£20,000,000 in a year for cotton goods, which
suggests a wide field of endeavor. If this
country cautiously, yet firmly, planted, say,
200 square miles of cotton to begin with, and
at tfie same time sowed one or two square
miles with tall cotton mills, it would have
a sure market for its cotton (a turn of the
tariff screw would assure the market and
the grower also, even if the country wearied
of paying bounties), and, as cotton-spinners
have mouths on them, a better market would
be provided for wheat and beef, not to forget
beer. There would be two sets of taxpayers
instead of one. One-half the industry-—the
manufacturing half—would be proof against
the boll-weevil, also against rabbits, drought,
tick, cactus, lantana, Patterson’s curse and
wild dogs, and nearly proof against hail. And
our shirt would be white, whereas, no matter
how much white cotton we send away on its
12,000-miles’ journey, the shirt that trapeses
back all that weary distance may be as black
as ink. The idea that we are born to be the
vegetable Johns of Europe should be dis-
couraged.
Still After the Dollars.
Austealla’s High Commissioner in the U.S.
cost £8049 for the last nine months of the
present financial year, and about the only
visible proof that he has impressed Uncle
SAiPUEL with the fact of our existence is
Washington’s new Tariff Bill. It raises the
duty on iamb-meat from Id. to 21d., and on
sheep-meat from gd. to lid. per lb.; also it
bumps up the duty on live animals. It puts
a big new duty on hides j .raises, the wheat
duty from 21d., to 15d. (Is. 3d.) per bushel
and makes the rate on scoured wool Ibid'
per lb. Apparently the tariff on greasy wool
is unaltered. In addition the President nun
at any moment raise the duty on anything
to any amount, or prohibit the goods of any
country altogether. So, while the rates pro-
posed are calculated to shut out everything
this country has to sell, the position is
that if Australia does send along a cargo in
spite of them the duty on that sort of goods
may be put up 1750 per cent, just as the
vessel is tying up to Uncle’s wharf, or trade
may be prohibited entirely. The last pub-
lished accounts showed Uncle selling us
nearly 24 millions’ worth of “truck” in the
year to the great damage of our own fac-
tories; buying a shade over 11 millions’
worth, and holding out a tobacco-stained
paw for almost 13 millions’ worth of gold or
bonds. Now he evidently means to get the
.whole 24 millions in gold or bonds. Nobody
supposes that Uncle has any special ani-
mosity against us in thus singling out our
products. He has probably just decided that
Australia is the stupidest, most docile and
most scared young woman of her size on
earth (young women of our size "are rare),
and the mild and kissable qualities of the
Trade Commissioners from this side excuse
the idea. The case calls for the only kind
of measures that that kind of person under-
stands—not, that is to say, for a turning of
the other side of the worm to be trodden on
afresh, but for something much more dras-
tic. Two ideas suggest themselves to begin
with. One (already propounded in The
Bulletin more than once) is a prohibition
law of our own, providing that, when the
imports received from any country in one
year have reached the total value of our
exports to that country in the previous year,
the receipt of goods from that country shall
stop dead till the following New Years Day.
Then there would be no 13 millions of bor-
rowed gold, or 13 millions of bonds redeem-
able in gold that must be borrowed later, to
pay annually to any Uncle for the privilege
of having our own people workless, and
dependent on useless public jobs done with
still more borrowed money. Another need,
which has just arisen, is an enactment to the
effect that when or if the Commonwealth
exercises its right to take over the State
debts, the taking-over, and the consequent
Federal guarantee, shall apply to debts due
inside the British Empire, and to none other.
Our own people, and the Old Man in London,
who is by far our best outside customer, and
is a kindly soul and willing to take payment
in goods, should be the only preferred credi-
tors. Otherwise, considering the precedent
set by the Queensland Government, the con-
solidation of the debts may be hampered
eventually by the existence of a monster lia-
bility to a peremptory creditor, demanding
Immediate payment in unattainable metal.
Aetek having the old famine on hand for
some two years the latest news is that either
it or a fresh shortage is “spreading towards
the Ukraine, once the granary of Russia,
and to Trans-Caucasia.” In addition some-
thing is said about a prospective corn short-
age in the central provinces—another fresh
outbreak. The last bulletin about the Soviet
•paper money was that £6,000,000 of it (face
value) was worth 605., and it has probable
lost that value now. The fatalistic moujik
Jet go the habit of growing surplus gram
when the only buyer paid in this currency,
and he is probably too weak to regain it.
If there was a surplus anywhere it is likely
that the famine-stricken trains are too weak
to drag it about. In other words, the big
country is practically divided into food-tight
compartments, each of which must dree its
own hunger-weird. It is an item iu the
struggle for a scrap of real money—not
paper “secured on the entire public and pri-
vate assets of the country,” to quote these
Australian Labor conferencers who had what
they thought was a new revelation in 1916
and after—that the tombs of the old czars
and czarinas have been opened on the chance
that some trinkets were buried with them.
The tale about Russia’s woes being dne to
“the blockade”—the one which the Lenin
party, started when it locked out its credi-
tors in 1917 and swallowed the key—has
gone out of use. Countries like Japan,
China, and, for the 30 years 1814-1844.
Paraguay under Fkancia. have gone into
voluntary blockade, and with good-to-
middling government they apparently found
it a desirable condition, and prospered. Any-
how, they had to be dragged out of the con-
dition. The Tibetans, Koreans and, in some
degree, the Boers also made a pet of the
blockade. Sovietland really appears to have
a score of blockades now, caused bv those
inside being too weak to get out and those
outside not wanting to go in.


This Pure Wool Tweed
Sports Suit £5/5/-
Peapes have tailored this for comfort, warmth and distinctive
appearance.
It is of Fawn Herringbone West of England Tweed —all pure
wool, winter weight.
The coat has double-breasted lapels, three-button front and
four patch pockets. Strong leather buttons give it a decidedly
smart finish. The pleated back Iras a half-belt and vent.
The trousers have side and hip pockets and permanent turn-up
bottoms.
A suit that will be much appreciated for sport and general wear.
Peapes' Exceptional Value .. . £5/5/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest, waist and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sr
EXTRAORDINARY
PERFORMANCE.
In the BRISBANE TO SOUTHPORT
PETROL AND RELIABILITY TEST.
June 3, The STANDARDISED OVERLAND
secured the first place i.n the open event by
showing
52.1 MILES PER GALLON
in the Petrol Test and full points for Relia-
bility.
Such remarkable mileage proves conclusively
that The Standard Overland is truly
THE ECONOMY CAR.
Standardised
£395
Complete with Spare Tyre and
Tube.
Let us send you further interesting facts about this fine Car.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICK McNEIL, General Manager. ’Phones; City 582-8-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Priminister’s vote-hunt in Queens-
land and his carefully-calculated bursts of
rapture about its vast potentialities gave
Theodore a chance to say something stinging,
but he made a poor joh of it. He lamely
alluded to the small rhapsodist as “a new
Columbus.” The expression has no point as
regards Hughes, but, it is singularly applic-
able to Theodore himself, the man who, in
his quest for a New World of loans (the Old
World having gone cold on the subject) dis-
covered America.
Boatloads of Italians, sugar-farmers mostly,
continue to reach Queensland. There were
273 in the last lot that landed in Townsville,
and they proceeded straight to the canefields
without a penny of Government aid or even
asking what was the latest award for sugar
workers. It is recorded they knew only one
English word —a word hateful to alleged
Australians of the Moscow breed —the old,
honest sabre-cut of Saxon speech, “work.”
If this kind of immigration continues the
A.W.U. executive will have to declare it
“black” or something, or the habit of disre-
garding Government grants and pauper
rations and getting to grips with hard toil
may spread and demoralise the dupes of
Bo I sh.
The self-raising salary idea still gives
political indigestion to those who Cannot
Forget. The Vic. Taxpayers’ League has
started a little Federal election campaign of
its own to bump those Reps, who Oliver-
Twisted in 1920. The late King Canute
did something equally futile; but he had his
tongue in his cheek. The £lOOO-a-year men
feel, when they look through their cheque-
butts, that the Taxpayers’ League has its
“cheek” in its tongue.
“Federal Politician” states a case:—
In the days when N.S.W.’s Dooley smiled and the
taxpayer looked sour, a suburban alderman waxed
eloquent in his little forensic forum against the
iniquity of the said Dooley in laying a heavy hand
upon two virtuous policemen for being so indiscreet
as to expect a dyed-in-the-wool local Labor hench-
man to observe the by-laws. At the time Dooley
called the alderman a liar, and the're the matter
rested. When Dooley in due course died the death
and “good old Charlie” Oakes reigned in his stead,
the alderman waited on the new custodian of the
departmental records to ascertain the truth. And
finding it to be in his favor, he published it. The
effect on Dooley was interesting. Being found out
didn’t seem to trouble him, but he was almost
incoherent with indignation that his successor should
have committed the crime of letting an outsider
know the truth. Driven by his wrath into bringing
a new bull into the world, he declared that the only
constitutional way for a departmental fact to leak
out was “by tabling it on the floor of the House.”
It is just here that I join issue with Mr. Dooley.
Departments, like politicians, are only servants of
the public, and the easier the public’s access to
their actions the better for the public. If bungling
officials can combine with conniving politicians to
keep secret facts which the public is entitled to
know, what chance has the public got of reasonably
decent self-government ? And if the only way a
small departmental truth can be told is to have a
swapping of party lies about it in Parliament, what
chance has the House got of doing any useful busi-
ness?
Dicky Foster, who sold his independence
for a mess of offis, sees no humor in his
position as a South Aus. Liberal in a
National Government. In fact, he grows
purple when he thinks of it, though his col-
leagues find comfort in the announcement that
the Liberal Union has not yet decided to
oppose him. All the same, the Union
has informed Richard that if he leaves his
constituency during the election campaign to
speak for Blundell and Story in Adelaide
and Boothby, he will w r alk the plank in a
hurry. Time was when this would _ have
aroused Foster to fury, but his association
with Hughes has apparently taken all the
pugnacity out of him.
Donald Cameron, M.H.R. for Brisbane,
one of the seats Labor hopes to regain
at the next elections, is suspect of political
ability, despite his evident desire to remain
in the background. He is rarely heard to
make a speech or offer a criticism by way
of interjection, yet there is said to sleep
under his little flat hat a first-class intelli-
gence that is too tired to wake up. Possibly
the real reason for Donald’s indifference is
the feeling that he could go short of £lOOO
per annum without having to beg in the
streets. Weird legends have grown up in
the lobbies about his wealth. They are all
based on ushers’ gossip regarding his freedom
with tips. In this respect Cameron is as
open-handed as were Bruce Smith and Willie
Kelly in former days.
Nearly 45,000 square miles of N.S.W. In
the neighborhood of the Murray is closer to
Melbourne than to Sydney, though if Port-
land and Twofold Bay wete made available
much of this area would save a pile of money
by forgetting the existence of both cities. It
is, however, orthodox to assume that only
A FAMILY TROUBLE.
“What's up with Mr. and Mrs. Labor?"
“They’ve lost their majority, and they’re trying to find where it went to.”
Sydney and Melbourne exist in this connec-
tion, and neither party would allude to the
other’s shut-up port any more than two
gentlemen would allude to each other’s
family skeleton. So a clumsy arrangement
is in the air by which Victoria is to extend
certain of its sft. Bin. lines across the Big
Trickle into N.S.W. and add another frill to
the mixed-gauge problem. A certain area is
thus to have its commercial capital at Mel-
bourne and its political, educational and bor-
rowing metropolis at Sydney, unless it bolts
some day and gets a place of its own. Vic-
toria was glad at first at the idea of swell-
ing the trade of Melbourne. Then it ap-
peared a trifle less glad. By-and-bye it may
be wretched. “Settlement” railways haven’t
been all that the human fancy painted them,
even when the Government which made them
secured the unearned increment on the public
lands and collected the taxes from the new
settlers. If another Government does these
things, and the first Government is the
second one’s tenant and more or less its sub-
ject, amusing events should happen.
On Saturday the N. S. Wales Labor Con-
ference decided by a handsome majority that
it had no use for the Bolshevist objective
adopted at Brisbane last year. Having done
which, it practically handed over the A.L.P.
executive to the tender mercies of the
A.W.U., although Blakeley and other
A.W.U. leaders have, in a political sense,
gone to Moscow. This was a piece of folly,
and wildly inconsistent withal; still, the re-
jection of the “socialisation” madness may be
counted to the majority of the delegates for
righteousness. It is a stage in the purifica-
tion of the party from its foreign taint.
The only remarkable feature of the Speck
election is the emergence of the Country
party as a factor in island politics. Unre-
presented in the last Parliament, it will
hold the balance of power in the next. So
far as the exaspcratingly slow count has
gone it looks as if the Cookies will own at
least five of the 30 Assembly seats An
eleventh-hour announcement of an impend-
ing reduction in railwayman’s wages helped
the storm-tossed Labor party, particularly
in the industrial electorates, but not to vic-
tory, The party is sure to win 11 of the
13 seats it had in the old Assembly,
although it will be hard put to it to get
more. More, however, it hardly expected.
The most disappointed of the party leaders
is the Nationalist Premier Lee. He was
confident of retaining the majority he had
gained at two elections, but it has faded
into thin air. In the circumstances, he will
have to drop his morose hostility to the
Cookies if he hopes to remain in office.
With characteristic bluutness Vic. Trea-
surer McPherson told a deputation of fruit-
growers, who wanted him to provide £3OO
a year for an organiser of open markets in
Greater Melbourne, that they should pay
their own organiser. lie pointedly reminded
them that the cost to each grower would
work out at lOd. a month. Mac. has done
more than any other modern Vic. Minister
to help the “producers” by establishing open
markets; *and the pitiful cadge for lOd a
head made him feel sore. But begging
parties of “producers” are accustomed to
being more tenderly handled by Ministers,
and the deputation looked excessively wild
when they went out.
Business management of municipalities
has received a bit of an ad. at Launceston
(Tas.), where, for the-first time since 1914,
the! City Council has had a surplus for the
municipal year. Certainly the surplus is
only £2883, but that is a lot better than
Bumble’s annual deficit. F. M. Nicboll, late
of the State Hydro-electric enterprise, is the
Council’s business manager, and artificer of
the credit balance.
“Gallery”: The fact that Hughes delayed
his return to Melbourne beyond the date
originally intended lends color to the sus-
picion that he has been trying to get Banana-
land into the right temper for an early elec-
tion. The big northern State demands special
attention from the Priminister. It is im-
portant that his party should retain the
seven seats it now holds. The Cookies have
hopes of shifting Groom from Darling Downs
and Corser from Wide Bay (though that, at
least, isn’t probable), and Labor-leader Charl-
ton talks of annexing Brisbane, Oxley and
Carpentaria. His party is particularly keen
on seeing the last of Higgs. That veteran
campaigner is already hard at work, recog-
nising that his old allies and present enemies
have dug up a promising candidate in F. M.
Forde, M.L.A. for Rockhampton, and a
humorous speaker.
A feeler has been thrown out by the Vie.
Ministry about increasing the income-tax,
but. the country Libs, and the Cocky dozen
will strenuously oppose any addition. Pos-
sibly the Government’s idea in bringing the
question forward is to ward off any attempt
at reduction of railway freights.
"Billy C.” : Tell "Bendigo Nationalist” (B.
20/5/’22) from me that Hughes will have
the fight of his life to hold Bendigo. In
1019 there were promises of freezing works
and woollen mills, but they haven’t material-
ised, and young Bendigonians are still going
to Melbourne for lack of local industries to
keep them in the old toAvu. And there is a
strong disposition, even on the Nationalist
side, to blame the Priminister for it. It
may be desperately illogical, but there it is.
New branches of the National Federa-
tion are forming fast in the Vie. electorates
of Corio and Corangamitc, both threatened
with alteration under the redistribution of
seats scheme. The idea is to secure pre-
selection of favored candidates, sitting or
Avishful to sit, and the boom has brought
out neAv men enthusiastic for the favored but.
apprentice hands at political engineering.
“Ar-r-rre you a Nationalist*/” bawled a heck-
ler at one newly-elected branch president. "I
am!” he replied with conscious pride. “An
what-t-tt is a Nationalist'/” demanded the
questioner. “I’m not. quite sure,” said the
chairman, thoughtfully. “But,” he added,
firmly, “whatever it is, I’m it!”
“0.K.”: Another of William Hughes’s
glowing predictions:—
1 predict that within half a century from now
Australia will have a population greater than Great
Britain has now. or ' will have then.
Pin William into a corner and ask him to
give reasons for his wild prophecy, and
Heaven only knows how he would manage
to Avriggle off the pin. In the past .‘>s years
the population of this country has increased
about two millions, but in the next 50 years
it is to continue bounding upwards at the
rate of about 20 times as fast. America
in its younger years never made such an
increa&e. Canada doesn’t dream of it.
S’Afrrca would laugh at the thought of it.
But Australia, cut off from crowded old
countries by 12.000 miles of Avater and
rising shipping freights, is going to do all
this that it may be fulfilled Avhieh Avas
spoken by the Prophet Billy. He makes one
tired.
In a mad whirl of mud and butter at
Sydney Labor Conference (the mud Avas
hurled at his fellow-Ministers, the butter
slammed on himself), JMcGirr, the Mother-
hood man, darkly hinted that polities
wouldn’t detain him much longer. It is
only five minutes or so since this slippery
egotist was going to smash Catts, M.H.R.,
in the Cook electorate. Five minutes before
that he had presented himself with one of
the neAv seats, Grailville. If McGirr does
slide out of polities it will be the only useful
thing he has done in that sphere. Politics
is no game for a man who hasn’t as much
fixity of purpose as an orphaned calf.
The Dooley Government of N.S.W. had
a genius for always getting the Avorst value-
for its loan money, and Minister ’Enley, Avho
has the house-building muss to clean up,
probably thinks he has struck the Avorst
patch. Gladesville is seven miles from Syd-
ney, and the nearest big industry is the
lunatic asylum. There the late demented
Cabinet put up streets of three-roomed
shacks which can’t be sold, save at a loss,
for less than £lOOO each, and can hardly
be let for less than nothing. Only a slummy
sort of mind would cultivate that kind of
tenement, especially as the kennels aren’t
even weather-proof in many cases. Why the
Dooleys didn’t set their unemployed to build-
ing much-needed schools instead was pro-
bably because schools are mostly wanted in
the country, and the Dooleys considered it
harsh —almost cruel—to send a supporter
beyond the second tram section. It took a
whole “Board,” with an office and a regi-
ment of clerks, to build the Gladesville joke.
This body has left off work, and has pre-
sented no balance-sheet for nearly two years,
but it still calls round for its salary.
APPLIED KNOWLEDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The marked success of Premier Mitchell (W.A.)
on his recent financial mission to London is
attributed,” says a cable, “to his plain, blunt
style, innocent of all graces of rhetoric. ’ .
At dialectics he’s esteemed a noodle,
He leaves to gallery.plaving M.L.A.’s
Echoes of Burke, Gladstonian flapdoodle,
The patch that’s purple and the flowery phrase.
Ah ! wheh it comcß to tapping Bull for boodle
It isn’t throbbing eloquence that pays.
The burning plea, the tense, impassioned pose —
What shall they profit? Nothing. Jimmy knows,
Brother, if you a Three-Ball sign were seeking
f Assume to soak your ticker, if you please),
Think you that Dan O’Connor's gift of speaking
Another bob from Cohenstein would squeeze ?
Or that a Bottomley’s impassioned shrieking
Or even that of a Demosthenes
Would make your uncle, touched and thrilled, put
by him
His Jewish caution ? If you do—just try him !
Say, did you ever hear a peroration,
Embellished with a rhetorician’s craft,
Adorned with wit and apposite quotation,
With passion packed and learning, fore and aft,
That ever raised a mortgage from a station
Or moved a banker to an overdraft ?
No? And no more has Mitch, of W.A.,
lie, too, has been a banker in his day.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE LAST VOYAGE.
So swift he came before, with shining wings,
And now so slow —so slow!
The herald winds are weird with whisperings
Of what rare freight his homing vessel brings.
Balder the Beautiful his slow dirge sings,
’Neath Southern skies aglow.
’Twas for a dream, a splendid dream, he died,
As Earth’s great spirits still,
They who from beaten tracks dare turn aside,
Take dreams for food —and one rare dream as guide.
Nor was his dream’s accomplishment denied
Ere swift Death worked its will.
And they will lay him ’neath his own sweet sky
With honors sweet and new
That grieved Earth shows, when her great air-lords die.
Above the shrouded aeroplanes will fly.
But he —so long their mastei—still will lie,
Nor stir the thrilled day through.
But all his hopes and plans and ardent schemes
Shall find accomplishment.
His youth’s great promise living Youth redeems;
Others will give fulfilment to his dreams;
His zeal and ardor still the vital streams
That feed their high intent.
QUEENSLAND.
ENIL BULLOCK.


o
m
MOS
CO
YBi 7
electScal*^~^
111 >
trzi
\!^tv
\' V A
JMS
SWS
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
j 21 Elisabeth Sh
Melbourne
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
213 Clarence
St., Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
M o n otoe I
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety suse
Detonators
Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you, and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he may maladminister the Funds?
Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
of 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW. UNDER THE COMPANY’S. CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000.
Write or call for Booklet.' Manager:' R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia, from
the time it amalgamated with the Colonial
Bank :
Dividends Writ- To
Mar., Profits. (8 p.c.). ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
1919* £145,099 £78,789 £lO,OOO £56,310 £1,130,234
1920.. 299,781 160,000 20,000 119,781 1,250,015
(94 p.c.)
1921.. 336,610 190,000 20,0.00 126,610 1,3«6,625
Bank of Queensland purchased.
Premiums on new shaves. . 163,164 1,539,789
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 350,168 203,050 25,000 122,118 1,061.907
*Six months.
Four Australian banks are now in the pre-
sent National Bank Co. It took over the
Colonial in 11)10, and at the beginning of
this year the Bank of Queensland, itself an
amalgamation of the Bank of North Queens-
land and the Boyal of Queensland, was
acquired on terms very favorable to the
National. No more than actual shareholders’
funds was paid for this ready-made Northern
business, nothing whatever having been
charged for goodwill. So the deal has not
cut into the National’s reserves; instead, as
the Northerners were invited to take up
National £5-paid shares at £7—and holders
of 30,939 of the Queensland’s 45,000 shares
accepted the terms —the purchasing bank’s
reserves benefited by extra share premiums
which would not have been forthcoming from
its own shareholders. The National offered
altogether 100,000 new £8 shares to be paid
to £5 at £1 premium, 45,000 being available
for Bank of Queensland holders. Those not
taken up by the latter were placed with
National proprietors, and reserves have been
increased by £103,164 of share premiums.
When all calls on the new issue are paid
the National’s paid capital will total
£2,725,000. and the balance of share pre-
miums will increase visible reserves to
approximately £1,070,000. Prior to taking
over the Queensland business, the National
ranked about fifth in size for deposits anlong
Australian banks, but the three millions or
so of business from the Queensland deal
places the National ahead of the English-
owned Union and ’Asia, making it the third
bank of the Commonwealth. The summary
of denosits and advances for the first quarter
of this year places the banks in this order:
Deposits. Advances.
Bank of N. S. Wales . . £48,672,522 £42,233,300
Commercial of Sydney . . 28,425,715 23,743,768
National 26,607,957 20,567,152
Union 25,193,670 21,245,756
Australasia .. •. • • 24,442,649 23.969,235
E. S. & A 21.038,487 20,712,604
Commercial of Australia . . 15,707,003 11,720,770
Victoria 10,097,251 8,904,032
The Commonwealth Bank’s deposits (exclu-
sive of Savings Bank deposits) totalled
£22,028,567. Of the 253 millions of Austra-
lian deposits held by the trading banks the
National had nearly 10.5 p.c.
This shows liow the National’s business
has grown since it took over the Colonial
(the 1918 figures are the totals of those of
the two old banks) :
Liabilities.
1918. 1921. 1922.
Notes .. .. £50,667 £49,524 £49,003
Bills, etc. . . 1,689,320 1,724,292 1,262,397
Free deposits . . 8,333,880 10,869,348 12,853,80 l
Fixed deposits.. 10,253,320 13,322,183 14,603,742
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 9,276,189 10,448,363 12,800,257
Advances . . 13,503,709 18,352,615 19,605,619
Premises, etc... 586,367 640,994 789,199
At March 31 all liabilities exceeded 28|
millions, of which £12,800,2->7, or nearly
44.5 p.c. was held in liquid form. So,
despite the pressure put on the bank by
abnormal trading conditions, the proportion
of liabilities within more or less handy reach
was entirely satisfactory: it means that, in
the event of an unexpected rush, the National
could have found Bs. 9d. in the £ without
much effort, that is, provided Government
securities, representing about 2s. lOd. of
that amount, were readily convertible into
cash. There was £15,968,736 of liabilities
not covered bv liquid assets, but they were
protected by £19,605,619 of advances and
premises written down to £789.199. Book
values of both advances and premises have had
careful attention in recentyears, and 12 months
ago the auditors gave their assurance that
there was then “no doubtful account on the
bank’s books which was not adequately pro-
tected by special reserves.” Also, in the
84 years since the Colonial was linked up,
£75,000 has been written off premises.
Besides the visible reserves there are, there-
fore, large internal accumulations. Only
those inside know the extent of these con-
tingency reserves, but as the banks chair-
man has admitted that regular provision has
been made for the worst, they are no doubt
considerable. During the period of high prices,
exchange difficulties and war-financing, the big
banks had excellent opportunities, and few, if
any, of them took credit for the full extent of
the extra earnings. So far as the National
is concerned, the affairs of all four component
banks were subjected to close scrutiny prior
to effecting amalgamations, and this ransack-
ing of the vaults should assure the public that
no valueless paper was included among the
assets. Any losses which have been incurred
since those searching investigations were
made have doubtless been fully provided for.
The £122,118 profit remaining after paying
10 p.c. on capital and writing £25,000 off
premises is assuring on that point.
The National of Australasia is not only
to all appearances a strong bank from the
view-point of its creditors, but it is in a posi-
tion to further extend its operations without
taxing its strength. When all the new capital
is in it will have funds aggregating nearly
£4.400,000. On the basis of present lia-
bilities it will be carrying about £6 10s. of
the public’s money for every £1 of its own
funds.
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney) :
AVrit-
June, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. Deficit.
1911 .. £2,510 21 p.c. = £ 1,075 £1,061 £11,852
1912 .. 5,576 6 ~ ~ 2,580 1,844 10,700
April,
1913 . . 5,824 7 „ „ 2,508 1,840 | „
Debenture exes., £527 j ’
June,
1914 . . 11,449 31 p.c. = 1,795 6,340 ( ~ nnn
Debenture exes., £7640 j ’
April,
1915 . . 13,621 7 p.c. = 5,997 5,300 ! 12 257
Debenture exes., £504 j
1916 . . 21,151 8 p.c. - 11,953 7,500 10,559
1917 . . 25,306 8 „ „ 14,007 9,209 8,469
1918 .. 31,202 8 „ ~ 17,088 10,200 4,555
Reserves.
1919 . . 38,598 8 „ „ 19,868 7,610 6,565
1920 . . 42,987 8 „ .. 20,488 8,454 20,610
1921 .. 37,403 10J „ ~27,259 10,000 20,754
1922 .. 45,597 10 „ „ 32,473 12,500 21,3i8
This co. made a start in the .suburb of Bal-
main 14 years ago: it acquired electric
rights by Act of Parliament in return for
relieving the municipality of its garbage-
destruction problem. It extended its field, in
competition with the City Council electric
enterprise, by capturing the exclusive
rights, with 20 to 45 years still to run, to
supply juice in four other municipalities.
The co. has a hold over 10 sq. miles of the
most densely-populated inner suburbs in
which there are 31,200 residences and fac-
tories, and in which considerable industrial
expansion has lately taken place. During
the past 12 months 1628 new consumers
were enrolled, and though there are now
nearly treble the number of customers there
were six years ago, the total is still only
10,824. So there are prospects of consider-
able further expansion. During the past
year 143,000 new shares were offered and
taken up, and paid capital has expanded
from £262,426 to £351,025; meantime
£125,320 was spent on power-house, equip-
ment and services. How the enterprise has
grown since early in the co.’s career and
during the past 12 months is shown in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures: —
1911. 1921. 1922.
Capital £50,000 £262,426 £381,925
Debentures . . . • 25,000 50,000 50,000
Other liabilities. . . . 9,450 59,873 49,935
Land, plant, mains, etc. 72,011 413,875 539,173
Stocks, etc. .. .. 1,784 24,952 24,975
Book debts . . . . 921 15,403 20,592
Cash, etc. . . . . 17 15,868 16,246
The 143,900 new shares are paid to ss.
each, so the directors have the call on
£107,925 when additional funds are required.
They are making provision for further expan-
sion, and orders for new generating plant
to cope with prospective demands in the
winter of 1924 are to be placed at au early
date.
The co. has been very successful so far,
and with a continuance of the present cap-
able management it should continue a pros-
perous career. It is more or less under Gov-
ernment regulation, and the latest 10 p.c.
div. was made possible only by the Court
granting an increase of ,4d. per unit (the
co. had claimed ,6d.) as from July 1 last
year. But though the eo. is likely to do
even better now that costs are receding, the
prospects of the concern growing very fat
are remote. The Corp.’s charges are con-
trolled by Act of Parliament, and the muni-
cipalities have the right to purchase, at
valuation, at stated periods. The suburban
councils are so hard-up, though, that there
is little likel’hood of their agreeing to com-
bine to acquire the undertaking so long as
shareholders do not become too grasping.
The recent troubles of the City Council Elec-
tric Light Department, due to interference
by aldermen with no business or technical
experience, have done much to shake faith
in municipal enterprise. The bigger the
Corp. grows the more secure .should become
its position, and efficient control should en-
able it to pay good divs. and at the same
time supply electric : current: at prices which
will compare favorably with the big City
enterprise which encircles its field.
- » ■*
The Country Producers’ Selling Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney)
Bonus
to Con- Written Re-
March, Profit. Dividend. signors. Off. serves.
1912.. £3,590 5 p.e. = £ 984 £BO9 -- £1,077
1913.. 6,975 74.,. ~ 1731 2872 3,449
1914.. 9,058 8 ~ ~2000 4237 £lOOO 5,270
19 L 5. . 6,081 7 - ~ 1750 3498 500 5,603
1916 9,479 7 „ ~1750 5295 1000 7,037
1917.. 9,081 7 „ „ 1750 4.826 1000 .8,542
1918.. 8,626 7 „ „ 1750 5383 500 9,535
1919.. 9,067 7' „ ~-1750 5208 . 500 11,144
1920. .'15,186 8 „ ~'2OOO 8092 1000 15,238
1921.. 2,373 Nil Nil’ Nil 17,611
1922.. 4(237 -10 p.c. = 2500 4307 500 14,541
The Country -Producers’ paid no divs. or
bonuses in 1021, hut this year distributions
have been made to both proprietors and
clients. The former received 10 p.c. on capital
—the best div. so far paid—rconsignors of wool
have had 30 p.c. of commission charges rebated
(in 1920 it was 20 p.c.), but other bonuses
are smaller than those of two years ago.
These distributions suggest that this more
or less co-operative concern has made a good
recovery ; blit actually "not nearly the. whole
of the amount passed out was earned during
the past year. The divs. and'bonuses took
£6807; the profits of the period amounted
to only £4237. So reserves had to be tapped
for £2070 to provide the distributions and
£5OO for an addition to depreciation
reserves. As reserves had benefited by
£10,500-odd of surplus profit, during the pre-
vious five years, the directors no doubt con-
sidered it good policy to extract a little in
an adverse period with a view to holding
business against competitors. The feature
of the latest accounts was that gross earn-
ings receded to a couple of hundred less than
those of three years ago, but working and
other exes, are so much heavier that the
outgo was £4657 larger. Owing to the
severe drought of a couple of years ago and
tin' more recent depressed markets, the
C.P.’s turnover is not so big as it used to be;
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1912 .. 32,046 319,316 14,208 £19,212
1915 .. 41,961 385,918 24,123 29,721
1919 .. 38,361 237,842 10,160 44,021
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 49,158
1921 .. 25,697 238,426, 15,507 35,003
1922 . . 34,009 220,509 17,168 43,850
The co. opened the past year with a carry-
forward of 14.814 bales wool, and at March
81 still had 9730 bales on hand. But it'
present markets hold, wool difficulties should
disappear during the current year and the
position again become normal. The outlook
for live-stock is not nearly so bright, and
during the past 12 months pastoral agency
cos.’ earnings suffered severely as a result
of the poor demand and ve’-y low values.
The inclusion of War Loan, cash and
“other assets” with freeholds, leaseholds,
buildings, furniture and plant prevents any
satisfactory examination of the co.’s position.
At March 31 there were sundry creditors for
£52,671 and clients and others owed the co.
£38,991, leaving an excess of liabilities of
£13,680. The big composite item stood in
the books at £82,171, but there was a
mortgage on premises of £16,000, and £6807
was appropriated by the directors, leaving
assets with a book value of £39,684 to pro-
tect £25,142 of paid capital. That calcula-
tion does not take into account £6OOO re-
served for depreciation, which may not be
wholly required for that purpose.
• • * •
National Mortgage and Agency Co.,
of Maoriland : -
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911 . £41,149 121 p.c.= £25,000 £16,149 £190,997
1912.. 41,669 121 ~ „ 25,000 16,669 207,666
1913.. 41,056 121 „„ 25,000 16,056 223,722
1914.. 40,789 121 ~ „ 25,000 15,789 - 239,511
1915.. 39,356 121 „„ 25,000 14,356 253,867
1916.. 30,729 121 ~ ~ 25,000 5,729 259,596
1917.. 33,994 15' „„ 30,000 3,994 263,590
1918.. 38,223 15 „ „ 30,000 8,223' 271,813
1919.. 38,940 15 ~ „ 30,000 8,940 280,753
1920.. 47,188 15 „ „ 30,000 17,188 297,941
Share premiums ... 31,250 329,191
Loss.
1921. . 9,605 10 p.c.r? 24,598 294,988
It is very many years since this 45-year-
old . English eo„ which is pastoral-financing
in Maoriland, failed to earn a div. But
last year’s loss of £0605 did not cause any
concern among its proprietors; they received
divs. totalling 10 p.c., following on four
prosperous years in which 15 p.c. p.a. was
ladled out. Excluding the premiums on new
shares, after payment of the latest div. visible
reserves shrank to almost 1917 level; but
there a r() accumulations in the National
Mortgage which do not me.et the eye. Scotch
caution is an asset in the big concern, so
during the flush war years the management
put an extra bit up the sleeve in anticipa-
tion of any troubles which might follow the
collapse of the boom prices. The co. holds
Government and other securities with a
book value exceeding a quarter-million, but
that was the valuation in low markets and
the securities are now, worth much more.
Despite the cut into reserves to pay the
handsome div.- —the 10 p.c. was tax-free —
the co.’s chairman “without reservation”, de-
clares that - the,distribution was "on a-con-
servative basis. .. .and we have not departed
from the careful policy which has been fol-
lowed by the Board for many years past. ’•
One result of last year’s slumped markets
was to dispel the illusion of the greater .-pros-
perity many Maorilauders thought had be-
come a permanent feature of their indus-
tries. So property values retired to normal
again, and the dangers attending inflated
values have disappeared. The National
Mortgage, which had lived through one other
Maoriland collapse, did not take the recent
boom values seriously, hence the slide to
normal had no effect on the securities back-
ing its advances; and the restoring of values
and trading to a sound basis again has com-
pensated for the few thousands loss on last
year’s operations.
At the latest balance the book value of
mortgages exceeded a million, advances on
wool and produce totalled f 114,434, and
clients’current accounts were overdrawn a
half-million-odd. In these three lines the
co. had £1,629,552 owing to it. Stocks had
a book value of £147.714, premises £61.202,
and £265.276 of English and Dominion secu-
rities and cash were held. All assets totted
up £2,103,844. and as paid capital is only
a quarter-million, supported at. the balance
by £310,613 of reserves, the co. was leaning
heavily on outsiders. More or less current
liabilities amounted to £743,336, though
with that total was included a large contin-
gency reserve accumulated in the boom years.
The bulk of the financing is on sound lines;
unlike many Maoriland produce-financing cos.
this one has no faith in deposits—at the
balance it was working on £799,895 of deben-
tures, mostly Scotch money left with it for
five-year periods. Taxation is the big co.’s
bugbear nowadays: it is called upon to pay
12s. 9d. in the £ of its profits to British and
Dominion Treasuries. Maoriland takes Bs.
9d.; the English tax is Os., of which 3s.
is rebated on account of M.E. payments, but.
another Is. is demanded by the new Corpora-
tion-profits tax.
# # * *
The YVestualian Trustee, Executor
and Agency Co. (Perth) :
Writ-
Divklends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1014. .£1587 254p.c.=£1650 £14,983
Oct., 1914.. 881 10 „ „ 700 £lBl 15,104
Apl., 1916.. 1207 10 „ „ 700 567 15,731
Oct., 1915.. 1573 10 „ „ 700 873 16,604
Apl., 1916.. 1698 241 „ „ 1700 16.602
Oct., 1916.. 1102 10 „., 750 352 16,954
Apl., 1917. . 1721 23J „ „ 1750 16,925
Oct., 1917.. 2047 10 „„ 800 1247 18,172
Apl., 1918.. 2043 221,,,, 1800 243 18,415
Oct., 1918.. 2098 10" „ „ 850 £77 1171 19,586
Apl.*, 1919.. 1426 213,,,, 1850 19,162
Oct., 1919.. 2260 21 ~ „ 1900 360 19,522
Apl., 1920.. 1681 10 „ „ 900 781 20,303
Oct., 1920.. 2864 21 „ „ 1900 964 21,267
Apl., 1921.. 2300 21 „ „ 1900 400 21,667
Oct., 1921.. 3026 21 „ „ 1900 1126 22,793
Apl., 1922.. 1994 21 „ „ 19C|0 94 22,887
Profits as given by the table are erratic;
but periodically bonuses to the staff are paid
from profits, and on this occasion £1035 has
been so appropriated to pay 10 p.c. on
annual salaries. Whether these bonuses
are to be considered as part of wages, or are
additional recognition of the staff’s efforts
The Bulletin does not know. These staff
bonuses are at times illusory: there was the
instance of a big Sydney co. which paid
its .employees four weeks’ wages every calen-
dar month and then, in its annual accounts,
paraded its generosity by showing the pay-
ment of the four weeks’ arrears as bonuses!
Anyway, the Westralian Trustee Co.’s
bonuses are, so far as shareholders are con-
cerned, regarded as working expenses in the
introductory table, And the old proprietors
can well afford to throw a morsel to their
employees now and again, for when dividend
time comes round they regularly have a
great feast served up to them. Eleven years
ago paid capital was £10,000; £BOOO lias
since been transferred from profits, so the
21 p.c. divs. are now giving a 38 p.c. p.a.
return on the capital of 1011. This div.
rate is made possible only by the extent of
the reserves still intact after the transfers
to capital. Paid capital is now £lB,OOO, and
there are reserves, including £2OOO in an
investment fluctuation account, totalling
£22,887. However, changes in capital
account are impending: a couple of years
ago the directors decided to provide a new
home for the co., and a building site now
represents £6472 of funds. Tenders for
new premises recently closed, and additional
capital will probably be raised at an early
date to finance building operations.
The co.’s trust business is still growing
steadily: 3J millions of funds were under
administration 12 months ago, and at April
30 last £3,376,113. Five years ago they
had not reached two millions. For the pro-
tection of clients against losses by faulty
administration or fraud the co. has £40,000
in hand as a sort of bond, and shareholders
have undertaken to provide £32,000 more
if the worst should happen. Practically half
of the funds are in premises and the new
building site, and the balance in more or
less readily convertible securities. The new
capital will further strengthen the support.


Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * * *
Water schemes are permanent and economical when
Pioneer Wood Pipe is used as the conduit. Engineers
who wish to cut down installation and maintenance
charges and yet secure a service that is superior to
that of metal pipe should write for our 68-page
illustrated book on wood pipes. It is full of informa-
tion interesting to engineers. All inquiries to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road,
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* » * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writs
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
• • • t
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* " * « #
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydnev stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quav
(East). — Advt. "
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage,
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUT WHOLE BOTTLES.
IL'CKKR & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE r IY) GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate Is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC."
Gt. Britain
New Zealand,
Dally
Ordinary. Deferred,
3/- 1/6 |
,
Week-end.
fid. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 3'4 1/2 If c (, S* Qito Tx
i 11/8,20 words)
U.5.A... .. 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms. Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
281 Georgia Btreet, Sydney. TeL City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St. Melbourne.
Tei. Central £OB4
J. MII-WARD. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
r
&
BOORD&So*
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
- Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Airents. 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Be
DT
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
u
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
“Anode”: Speculation is rife as to the
reason of Bill Baillieu’s visit to London.
Quite likely he Avent there to get the benefit
of the English summer —with a little busi-
ness on the side. Given a Avild guess I sug-
gest the possibility of a new Lead Conven-
tion, and to relieve the monotony be might
agree to take over from the Imperial Gov-
ernment the mucli-talked-about zinc-concen-
trate contract. It would probably suit
Electrolytic Zinc very well to take over this
contract for a consideration —a considera-
tion Avhich might run into a couple of mil-
lions, and which Avould allow Electrolytic
Zinc to double its plant and practically con-
trol the world's zinc market.
Concerning Lyell’s netv chief: —
The appointment of R. M. Murray as g.-m. of
Mt. Lyell in succession to the late Robert Sticht
is probably the first in which an Australian who has
spent the whole of his professional career in the
service of one mining co. has become its chief
boss. Murray completed his University course in
engineering at Melbourne at the end of 1899, and
in 1900 joined the staff of Mf. Lvell as surveyor
and draughtsman. At that date the co.’s principal
occupation was winning pyritic ore from the Mt.
lyell open-cut and smelting it with the addition of
siliceous flux, some of it barren, some of it metal
bearing but very poor. The grade was between 2
and 21 p.c. copper, and by the middle of 1903 it
was a great, struggle to maintain even that grade,
In August of that year the io.' absorbed North
Lyell, and shortly afterwards Murray was promoted
lo the position of assistant-engineer, under the late
"• T. Batchelor. When the latter died, in 1906,
Murray was appointed acting-engineer-in-cliarge, and
later engineer-in-charge of the mine department.
During the next few years, in addition to two or
three serious strikes, Murray bore the whole brunt
of the tragedy of the fire. That tvas a severe trial
through which he ultimately came with complete
credit, despite bitter attacks made upon him by
the various Labor organisations-, and despite the
lack of that amount of moral support which he could
have expected from the Board of directors. Last
year, when Sticht’s health failed, Murray was made
assistant-general-manager, and the drastic changes
which have been made in the co.’s policy in the
last few months are in all probability due chiefly
to his ability to recognise realities and to his
courage in acting on his convictions. His outstand-
ing quality is the possession of an extremely sub-
stantial backbone. He can ascertain facts, weigh
them, and, having arrived at a considered conclu-
sion, he is well able to offer resistance to opposition
if and when it conics.
ConmionAveulflt Oil Corporation retorted
30,783 tons sliale in the year ended Bept. 30
last, and produced 2,822,723 gallons crude
oil and naphtha. Fell’s experiment of “retort-
ing in situ ” (burning shale in mine),
although to some extent, unsatisfactory, is
still considered to be practicable. The
accounts show a net surplus of £6343, plus
Government bounty, £13,231; making
£19,575. From this is to be deducted the
debit balance of £4625 brought in, and 0 p.c.
on debenture stock (£7414), leaving £7535
to be carried forward.
* * * *
Mersey Valley Oil Co., formerly Victas
Shale-oil Co., lias three test bores going down
at Latrobe (Tas.), on the east side of the
River Mersey, under the superintendence of
Captain de Hautpick. a Russian petroleum
engineer. Two of the trial bores drilled by
the Goldfields’ Diamond Drilling Co. at the
base of a triangle Avere stopped at 300 ft.
Ntratigraphieally the country is reported to
be correct for oil—sandstones, mudstones,
clays, limestones and again mudstones and
shale. The third bore at the apex of the
triangle is down to about 600 ft. without
much change in the strata. Another thing
to be noted with pleasure in this Avill o’ the
wisp search for oil is that the Southern Cross
Oil Co., of Melbourne, is cleaning out its
oil-shale mine and getting ready to instal
five retorts to treat 20 tons each, giving
a capacity of 100 tons of shale daily, aver-
aging 40 gallons of crude oil per ton, or
roughly about 4000 gallons of crude per
diem. Shale containing kerogen, and known
as tasmanite, occurs all the wav from Pul-
verton to Devonport, the seaport of the
N.-W. coast, and though there may be many
hurdles and fences to be jumped and baulked,,
at last a genuine effort is being made to
strike oil in tAvo ways—by drilling and by
distilling.
* * # *
The May issue of the Queensland Govern-
ment Mining Journal did a little oil-eo.
promotion spruiking. On the strength of a
report by Dr. K. R. Moure, the Journal
labels the vicinity of the Narrows, - near
Gladstone (X T .Q.), as “a likely petroliferous
area,” and iidds that Moure’s claim “is prac-
tically confirmed by Government Geologist
L. C. Ball’s report on the Port Curtis dis-
trict, while Professor David has publicly
stated that the Blackall district, which is
in a direct line, is, in his opinion, favorable
for the retention of oil.” In one report Mr.
Ball expressed the opinion that owing to
the small area of tertiaries it was improb-
able that a commercial oil-pool of any size
would be discovered in the area mentioned,
and that, “while prospecting for oil should
not be discountenanced, the field’s present
claim to notice lies in its oil-shales and fire-
clays.” But what constitutes the “direct
line” Avhich leads the Journal to link up
Gladstone Avith Blackall for oil mention?
Reference is also made to Dr. Jensen’s in-
vestigations into oil possibilities, but his
map shoAvs that be Avas referring to the
northern coast and the area iu the neigh-
borhood of Roma exclusively. The Journal
also credits Dr. Moure with this ungramma-
tical statement in his report: “General and
geological features of the area covered by
my examination is in the main of tertiary
age, and has been classed as pernio-carbon-
iferous by the Queensland GoA'ernment
Survey Department.” In the Geological
Survey map the area is designated as ter-
tiary, Avith devonian around —and, also pre-
sumably, underlying it. But there is cer-
tainly no classification as “permo-carbon-
iferous.” Gladstone Oil-Wells, N.L., is in
process of flotation —nominal capital £75,000
in 150,000 10s. shares, of Avhich 100.000 are
offered the public for subscription—and no
doubt the remarks and blessings of the Gov-
ernment Mining Journal will not be over-
looked by the promoters.
The perpetrators of the Beaudesert (Q.)
oil joke must be enjoying the publicity
attained, tentative inquiries having come
from Melbourne as to acquiring an area for
drilling, owing to the press boost it got.
Mines Minister Jones ssav the shoAv first and
then deputed a geologist to make an inspec-
tion. The samples sent to the Government
Analyst contained refined kerosene, but as to
hoAV it got there probably the Avell-OAvnet
doesn’t knoAV. While a feAv local enthusiasts
do not yet regard the bubble as burst, it is
practically impossible for crude oil to have
remained there undetected, OAving to the flat-
ness of the strata and the number of avolls
Avhich have pierced it in the surrounding
selections having given no indications.
Everything seems to be going against the
share-market boom in oil shares expected
in Perth during June. In the first place
Frcney’s docs not expect to commence boring
for a month later than anticipated ; on top
of that the State-OAvned s.s. Bambra, Avith a
cargo of oil men aboard, stuck on a mud-
bap k near Shark’s Bay. However, the cargo
Avill arrive in Perth in due course, and the
share market may be expected to talk soon.
•'.' # » #
Some Electrolytic Zinc shareholders are
swinging a cleaver because that co., like
Metropolitan Gas, got out its issue of de-
bentures Avithout letting the shareholder in.
The happening Avas mouths apo, and if things
were so good then why did these share-
holders not then storm Baillieu Avith de-
mands to be let in on the ground floor? W.L.
shouted out from the hilltops that a loan
was on, and George Swinburne put on the
trimmings. So any canny Scot could tell
the Ayay the wind would blow, for when the
Baillieus and Swinburne go putting on u
favorable green a decent score is expected.
Still, most holders thought they were to
have the right to say “No,” but they should
have howled at the time of the issue, not
when the market had been shouldered up
20 p.c. by the Aveight of inetal behind the
guns. All this does not dispose of The
Bulletin’s old plank that every issue of
shares, bonds or stocks should have its pros-
pectus, be advertised and offered to share-
holders. Vic. Minister Arthur Robinson has
a bill on the stocks to deal with prospec-
tuses, and this gap in co. practice is a
matter Avhich should be given attention.
The brown coals of Victoria are dealt Avith
in Bulletin 45 of the Mines Department by
11. Herman, late chief geological surveyor anil
now briquetting engineer to the Electricity
Commissioners. From the history it seems
Cosmo XeAvbery analysed brown coal in
1866, so that it is 56 years old, and practi-
cally still virginal. The Royal Commission
on Coal reported on the fuel in 1891, and
recommended a bonus of £5OOO for the first
100,000 tons of briquettes manufactured in
Victoria. If Parliament had reversed the
subsidy and voted £lOO,OOO for 5000 tons of
briquettes, Victoria would have been inde-
pendent as to' fuel and power, instead of
paying tribute to the Coal Vend and its
workers at the rate of 40s. a ton. The
bulletin is highly technical and the plates
and figures very interesting. There are
three big brown-coal areas: Latrobe River
Valley, Altona and Port Albert, and the
greatest of these is, of course, Latrobe Val-
ley, alias Morwell, alias Yallourn, where the
Electricity Commissioners are opening up.
Latrobe area is 200 miles long and covers
600 sq. miles, of which 150 contain coal; 50
have been proved not coal-bearing, leaving
400 to be tried out. Port Albert area occu-
pies 200 sq. miles, 40 proved and 150 to be
tested. Altona area, 10 miles from Melbourne
G.P.0., has not been fully explored, and
may be 20 or 200 sq. miles in extent. Xo
estimate of tonnages is given of Yallourn,
but Lai Lai is stated to have 40,000,000 tons
and Port Albert area from 200 to 1000
million tons. Geologically, physically and
chemically the resemblance between the raw-
briquetting German coals and the Morwell
stuff is very striking, Morwell briquettes
will be made with pitch extracted from the
Morwell coal-tar oil.
When the slump in New Langi Logan,
Ararat (Vic.), came, the yarn went round that
heavy ground had made things groggy in the
mine A study of Alex Peacock s half-yearly
screed, just out, discloses another factor
fhf at which the average man was blissfully
iT. thl ; nu hlS f lS , v tha . t . th ? s ?- called bump
m /he big lead extends tor
hundreds of feet from No. 3 rise south to
the main east drive. Thus an island lived
there in pre-histonc days, and with the river
swirling round it on either side the gold
,f Viifar from of' the
--nrY' f Mme ' ma . n , ager Bil j Toole admits to
audit of unpayable ground, and now avows
that the last loOtt. ot work down the gutter
has got him out of crab-holes and bars to a
level bottom where prospects are less sickly.
I his bump coming in so soon after the junc-
tion with the Cathcart tributary isn’t a
pleasant bud, for it whittles away all the
big hopes that a decent-sized patch of wash
wtUk* b S°'T meeting of the two beds,
V\ ith the aid of the blocks thereabout 12700 z.
was got in six months from 683 fathoms, or
3<dwt. per fathom. Calls were shunted for
the rime being, and even now Peacock tells
that the average quantity of gold “at present
recovered meets expenses.” The old asser-
tion tnat the yield will be increased as more
men are taken on is served up again, and
there is an additional statement that experi-
enced alluvial miners are scarce, and as
onl) old hands can be employed in the areas
talked about by loole, its odds on that New
Iwo-Ptm, 1 L B j} p ronno to call Jist ’
ba t n ,k LotJOO, so it may get there
..ooner than 1 eacock seems to count on. The
rVc GDo a n sopped ” p f 1 70,616, and another
tiu.WD has gone for plant, with never a div.
on the horizon. let the old deep leadite
pays up whenever Jimmy Mackay sounds a
loud pibroch.
• * • •
, r a k> t is heard about the British
Aletal Corporation taking New Guinea Cop-
pers output J. L. Wharton does not explain
why lie has passed by the local buyer. Budd,
one of the B.M.C. s managing directors, used
to tag to \ man, Younger and Bond, but he
scorned Lis old Hun partners so heartily
atter war began that, he got K.B.E.’d. Then,
when the Corporation was boosted into pro-
minenee to promote Empire dealing in non-
terrous metals against any German gang, he
took on his present job. But that is no
reason why the overseas crowd should be
selected to sell for the New Guinea concern,
o, *, ~ .* A 1 ~ * ,
.Shareholders in the Daisy Queen, once the
Hampton Daisy, have been extremely patient
h, e 'matter of calls, and therefore deserve
all the luck that may come their way. Perth
holders particularly are sanguine of ultimate
success, but the new manager (A. East) re-
ports that although the 190 ft;. level is opened
up for a length of 240 ft. average values are
ous. oyer a width of o 0 inches. In present
conditions these values and dimensions are
on the hnc side. Of course, working
costs are expected to be low, but it
is as well to poiut out that there are many
items of expenditure other than working
. which a mining co. is afflicted,
’’ hue Daisy Queen shareholders may he
commended for their pluck, they should not
at this stage expect too much.
* * *
Recently the Golden Butterfly Co., oper-
ating the Banker lease, near Southern CHoss,
announced its intention of winding up. This
decision, however, brought such a prompt
offer to take the mine on tribute that the
latest official announcement is to the effect
that it has not been “quite” decided to clean
ltp the^ concern.
rv
1 e closing of the Linasleigh State copper-
mine on the Etheridge (N.Q.) field last week
looks like the end of a show that has had a
long and chequered career since it was dis-
covered by the late Richard Daintree on one
of his geological ramblings in 1867. Smelting
was at one time carried on there when it
lacked a railway, hut since the show was
acquired by the Chillagoe co. in 1911, and
later by the Government, it has been the
chief supplier of copper ore to the Chillagoe
smelters, production reaching up to 25,000
tons ore per year. For a lode of its width,
up to 25ft., it has not gone deep (between
600 and 700 feet), and the ore at the-
bottom has been getting leaner, although
last year a new shoot averaging 10 p.c. was
reckoned likely to keep the prine open for a
good while longer. The State did well out
of the mine up to 1921, but with the bottom
out of the market it has been a drag since.
Tt wns bio- on on 0)1 tr> ernnlnv 130 bonds
It was U!g enou„n to employ XOU nanus
recently, many of whom are trekking for the
Lady Jane, which the state is furnishing
with the defunct’s machinery. The Lady
Jane’s ores are reputedly richer, and will
keep the copper smelters going at a smaller
loss than the Einasleieh’s nartlv owing to
loss tnan tne rnuasieign s Patt'J owing to
the great save in railway freight. The Minis-
ter for Mines States that the closure may not
be permanent, but the local prophets who
were there at the death don’t give it a
• # *
“W”. Tile KMtnm loval nf Hia Trino«h.io-h
\\ . . J.he bottom 1. el ot the Llius.c i„h
must have cut out of 10 p.c. ore ratiicr sud-
denly or Queensland Mines Minister Jones
would not have had the rails up so quickly.
-Xo one can rell how W. 11. Nv'oodhead, oi
Broken lJill fame, got the mine in his hands
in early Chillagoe days. Wisely he soon
dumped it safely into British laps, but like
all other district shoAvs, it could not stand
heavy loading. Woodhead finally harnessed
Linasleigh to Reid’s pack of Chillagoe dere-
licts when they wanted an infusion of any-
thlll® ; but even it couldn’t save Chillagoe
from the grave.
The Xo. 1 Ida bore, put down bv the Gov-
ernment driller on the Ida lease granted to
the late Jim Watters, does not look as if it
is likely to waken the Palmer held (X.Q.)
from its long slumber. It was knocked off at
4Uoft. after passing through several layers
of black slate which the old prospector con-
fidently reckoned would bring in the gold.
The reef was expected to be cut at a depth
of about 370 ft., and it was shoved down an
extra 30ft. in case the reef took a steeper
dip. A number of quartz leaders were cut
at 380 ft., Avhich may or may not have been
on the line of the reef, but, anyhow thev
were hungry-looking enough to have swal-
lowed the driller. The log of the bore shows
black slate and sandstone with a bar or two
of diorite thrown in, but there is no demand
for these commodities on the field.
* * * #
A vein of asbestos has been unearthed by
a couple of prospectors in the Pine -Mountain
district, near Ipswich (Q.). S 0 far it does
not look likely to assume importance, oAviug
to the inferior grade material Avhich has been
exhibited from it. The country, however, is
serpentine, from which most commercial sup-
plies of fibrous asbestos are obtained, so
there is a possibility of better grade stuff
being found at a depth beyond surface
AA'eathering.
• • * .
“W’gabba”: Brisbane coal-lumpers have
been squealing about the falling-off during
the last couple of years of the coal export
and bunkering business, resulting in about
one-third of the men being now unemployed.
Apart from general slackness of trade, the
Jumpers’ friends, the miners, have tried to
impress on former overseas customers how
undesirable Ipswich coal really is by refus
ing to mine it reasonably free of stone. There
has been recurrent trouble in a number of
Ipswich mines for years past owing to the
amount of stone tveighed in as coal, and the
shipping cos. have not been slow in dropping
to the loav calorific value of the mixture.
One colliery, the Iledbank, finally closed on
account of this trouble, and then Avent to
the expense of securing a Avashing plant,
which has not vet had a fair trial owing to
a recent strike. So. if the lumpers arc
looking for scalps, they might dangle those
of the miners Avho have not played the
game. The cleanest IpsAvich coal is nothing
to boast of, and sceptics may be convinced by
a run in the train from Brisbane to the coal
centre. When carelessly mined the fuel is
atrocious.
* * * *
South Africa’s diamond output in 102!
Avas 806,643 carats valued at £3,103,400.
Sales totalled 530,106 carats for £2,161,800,
or 81s. 7d. per carat. The record year Avas
1019, Avlien total sales were 2,648,031 carats
A'alued at £13.370,700, or 10ls. per carat.
The latter, hoAvever. was not the record
price, for in 1020 117 s. per carat Avas aver-
aged.


Helf? ?
ZISi2
iW
iw<iic&Vov*
‘j>on> (k'c) W
2>bW oW
witk rtl®
Vie&N/yv/^i^Virs
G.-i'ac.e.^'tilvKZ.ss
■\\\<Z KtynotZ
conseW&toty, but t ot Y+&cjic<z.
Ekhveeu
Hooks'S- You. stfill Hlvs ei&wCiZ WiHl j "
OdwdW. cU&*, ke'6 \u6t wjW oika
A W>on to k^o'ii-e, Yion-cUnciyuj .kusW^is--.
OveYwincUvi^
V 5
-tknllirKJ Vat”
UttU n&lc<-Y
RELIEVING THE MAN SHORTAGE.
‘Wanted, Gentleman, tall, good address, to join dancing party, all expenses paid.”— S. M. HERALD.
Science solves the wallflower problem.


X
57/0 pair
To Your Own Measure
r T'HE meticulous care in Tailor-
-*■ in;*—the robust quality of
materials, and the approved fitt-
ing for Hiding Comfort are the
distinctive features of these
Riding Trousers. They are
tailored from serviceable shades
of F.iwn, Grey, and Grown
Garnett Gabardine of sturdy
durability, an possess remark-
able resistance to wear. Write
for Patterns and S. M. Form.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville BRISBANE Toowoomba
Correctly Cut
RIDING
TROUSERS
During the Winter
months have Stout
with luncheon or supper!
WHITE HORSE
STOUT
WHITE HORSE
ALE
With dinner drink
Ale; ’tis appetising.
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1021 Model Meal’s “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT ATD TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Ross Smith was the Harry Murray of the
A.F.C., his full tally being: K.8.E., M.C.
and bar, D.F.C. and two bars and the
A.F.C. (Air Force Cross). lie also hau
the 4tli-class Order of the Nalula.
John Mott ram Guest, the G.O.C. Mel-
bourne’s little army of bellringers, is 78 years
old, and has been pulling the Sabbath ropes
since he was 10. I.n 1882 lie founded the
Melbourne Society of Bellringers, a body
which knows not sectarianism, and manages
the chimes with utter impartiality for both
the St. Paul’s Cathedral (C. of E.) and St.
Pat’s (R.C.).
Aid. Pat Roberts, Mayor of Redferu (Syd-
ney), whom the local branch of the A.L.P.
has expelled along with Gallagher, presi-
dent of the Tramway Union, is a tireless
pursuer of trouble. The Labor Caucus in
the Council (consisting mostly of tram-men
and laborers) were chiefly instrumental in
heaping the rabbit-skin on him. Then he
started to hit things up. He it was who
hoisted a flag half-mast on the Redferu Town
Hall once when the Sinn Fein forces re-
ceived a setback. Also, he caused a motion of
sympathy to be conveyed to the relatives of
Mc&winey, the Dublin Lord Mayor who
starved himself to death ; granted a 44-liours’
week to the municipal employees; and
shooed a captured German gun out of the
local park. He earned his expulsion from
the A.L.P. for working for Ratcliffe, the
“dummy” Labor candidate in Botany, who
was elected in defiance of the Central execu-
tive’s ukase.
Prof. E. O. G. Shann, vice-chancellor of
Perth ’Varsity, who represented Westralia
at the recent Uni. conference in Melbourne,
is a Victorian and son of a pressman. While
his dad was editing the Wjmmera Star.
Horsham, young Shann won a Wesley
scholarship in the State School. He had a
high-speed scholastic career, and at 21 was
taking acting-professorships. His brother,
Frank, is prominent in Melbourne second-
ary school work.
“Six Points” : Sydney Anglican Synod will
be minus its most interesting figure this
year, H. W. Little, representative of St.
Saviour’s, Redfern, having turned in the job.
During his three
years in Synod he
nearly gave Arch-
gaiters Wr'i g h t
and the Low
Chu r c h faction
heart disease
He fi r e d in
such delicate and
embarrassing ques-
tions that at last
Wright gagged him
by deleting most of
his problems from
the business paper.
Amongst his many
useful activities
was the starting
of the row that
drove the Church
authorities to re-
pair their exten-
sive slum proper-
't ie s. Little i s
now on the Even-
ing News staff,
where he .is re-
ga r d e'd as an
expert on a 1 1
ecclesiastical mat-
ters.
Sydney Gaud
Mayor
McELHONE.
P.M.G. Poynton is the oldest of a brood
of 15. The matter came up in Melbourne
one day during a talk with Edward P.
The youth had met a Poynton in Westralia
and inquired if he was a relation. “Yes,”
said the Minister, “he is a distant relation
of mine. In fact, he is the 13th member of
the family.” “Unlucky number —13,”
burbled Wales. “Oh, I dunno,” answered
the other. "My brother is general manager
of the Midland Railway Company, while
I’m only a butt for abhughes.” He didn’t
spell it that way, but that’s what he meant.
At the time a little storm in the Cabinet had
ruffled his dignity.
“Tiberias”: In 1914 the Indian Govern-
ment asked Australia for some aviators to
form a flying unit for service in Mespot, and
Lieut. G. P. Merz was one of five who went.
Just before leaving he had bagged his M.D.
at Melbourne ’Varsity, and his medical
knowledge was a blessing to many a malaria-
_stricken patient in the Basra Hospital,
“where he spent most of his spare time.
Later, he and Lieut. Burn, of Wellington
(M.L.), were forced to land in the desert
owing to engine trouble, and some gentle
Arabs achieved merit in the eyes of the
Prophet by wiping them out.
Just dead in Adelaide, his original home,
11. A. Gerny, who recently came back from
London with typhoid upon him. He joined
up with Elder, Smith and Co., acquired a
special knowledge of metals, and was sent
first to Melbourne then (in 1914) to Lon-
don, to supervise that side of the firm’s
business. During the war he carried through
several missions on his special subject on
the Continent for the British Government.
EVERYTHING DEPENDS ON
THE CAT.
“The future movements of the Prime Minister
are at present uncertain.” —News item.
Keith Smith, home again in Adelaide,
seems to feel that he hardly has the right
to be still alive. “I cannot understand even
now how I missed being in that flight,” he
says. "My train was a bit late, and then
I stopped to watch some motorists doing. a
speed trial round the track at about 120
miles an hour. But I had my flying things
on, and was walking towards the machine ;
I had got to within about 100 yards when
it started off. Itoss knew 1 was on the
grounds, and it is inexplicable why lie went
up without me.”
A relic of Melbourne University’s early
days passed away last week. John Simeon
Elkington, whose death befell at 82, went to
school in Victoria 75 years ago and became
a scholar at a time when any sort of cul-
ture was an uncommon thing in the new
land of gold. Elk.ngton professed History
and Political Economy at Melbourne ’Var-
sity, and held his position long after his
acquirements were less notable than his un-
pedantic habits.
In the Adelaide City Council, Lundie plea-
santly moved, as an amendment to a resolu-
tion congratulating Harwell on his new
ritle, that he be styled “Sir Piebald,” but
Mayor Cohen refused shudderingly to accept
it. Harwell settled at Port Pirie after tak-
ing his degree at Adelaide ’Varsity and
made a local reputation, but was hardly
known in the city till he was sent to Parlia-
ment in 1915. After that his rise, was
rapid: Attorney-General under Peake in ’l7
and Premier on Peake’s death in ’2O. He
is a ready speaker, a fighting politician, and
a keen and industrious head of departments.
The middle name that-is'a positive asset
to some people is an encumbrance to others.
McGregor Jones and Murray Smith may be
right enough, but when a laboring gardener,
whose name has to be put in the Gazette
is 'called Charles Baronet Simpson, or the
like, it is something of a handicap. Bent
recognised early in life that “Adolphus” was
no good to him, bo he buried it in his market
garden and didn’t resurrect it even when
he became Premier of Vic.
Nothing maddens Senator Pearce so much
as the caricaturist's habit of showing him
with two prominent front teeth. The pro-
truding fangs are mythical, but black-and-
whiters adhere to it with a persistency pro-
bably increased by Pearce’s anger. There
is a yarn that Pearce once showed an aggra-
vating drawing to a colleague and asked if
he could explain the offending incisors.
“Well, I don’t know,” said the other sooth-
ingly. “I suppose the artist has got to put
in something.” Perhaps that explains the
behavior of various cartoonists. They feel
that in Pearce’s face they have to put in
something.
Of the 11 men whom W.A. contributed
to the first Federal Parliament 21 years
ago only two are dead, Solomon and Forrest.
Three ex-Laborites, Fowler, Pearce _ and De
Largie, have managed to hold their seats.
Of the other half-dozen, taking ex-Senators
first, Staniforth Smith is Commissioner for
Lands in Papua, Alex. Ma’fheson is a
baronet in Scotland, Norman Ewing is a
Judge in Tasmania, and Ned Harney is a
K.C. in London or Dublin. Kirwan, of
Ivalgoorlie, who was a foundation member of
the Reps., is a State M.L.C. nowadays,
and Hugh Mahon went to Europe recently
on an Irish race conference.
“T. 0.1.” : Apropos James Greenwood, the
“Amateur Oas u a 1
(B. 25/5/’22). There
was an Australian
James Greenwood of
some fame. From
being a Baptist min-
ister he rose, or fell,
into the editorial
chair of the S. M.
Hkrai.D, and as a
sort of side-line
started the “Free,
Secular and Compul-
sory Fduca t i o n
League.” with George
Richard Dibbs as
lieutenant and Walter
S. Buzacott, the ship-
chandler, iis secre-
tary. On the strength
of ’ this Greenwood
was returned to the
Leg. Assembly for
East Sydney, but he
sat in only one Par-
liament. lie was
really the father of
the present N.S.W.
primary school sys-
tem. notwithstanding
what Henry Parkes’s
admirers may sa y.
Buzaeott once said
to me: “Parkes was
an obstruction-
ist until lie saw that
were winning, when
he agreed to introduce
our Bill to the House
and engineer, it through. Parkes was always
an opportunist.”
William Head, of ' Elsternwick, who went
out at 84 the other day, was the oldest liv-
ing Victorian native white. He was born
in a tent on the Yarrn bank, near the present
Ivew. in 1838, and was the eldest of a family
of 10. In 1800 he married into the Priest
familv —formerly well-known sawmillers ot
the Grampians (Vic*.) and now compiling
heaps of sawdust in the north-east corner ot
N.S.W. —and fathered six sons and six
daughters, all still living. Several of his
numerous grandsons were at Gallipoli—two
stayed there —and one went with the original
New Australians to Paraguay in the Royal
Tar, and eventually settled m ( annua.
Strong-man Clarence Weber is a nephew.
Mrs. Hume Beats on. who passed out at
Bundaberg (Q.) recently, aged 87, was the
widow of a naval captain, and daughtei or
Dr. William Butterfield Algeo, who came to
Sydney in 1838 in charge of the first free
immigrants. She went to lid in 18(8, had
12 years’ pioneering there, and lived the rest
of her life in Queensland’s fatal climate.
Everybody who is anybody in the 4 ic.
Chief Secretary’s Dept, has been changed
since Charles Stuart McPherson succeeded
Callaway as Under-Secretary 16 months ago.
The moves include a new chief clerk and
accountant in the central office, Inspectoi-
General of Prisons, Chief of Police, Secretary
of Neglected Children’s Dept., chief clerk
of Lunacy Dept., medical superintendent ot
Royal Park depot for waifs, two governors
of Pentridge, Deputy Inspector-General of
Prisons (G. C. Morrison takes this on as a
side-line), Assembly Sergeant-at-arms, Sec-
retary to Public Service Commissioner, and
Secretary to Premier. This sort of thing
makes for nervousness, and Matt Baird, tile
constitutional chief of all the chiefs, doesn t
look too comfortable, seeing that there will
be a re-sliuffle of portfolios when McPherson
bows himself out of the Cabinet to get
ready for the Reps.
Admitted as a solicitor of. N.S.W. . last
week Clive Waddington Davies, ex-Digger
and air pilot. After taking a bombing squad-
ron out one day he lingered behind to see
the effect of the raid, and was cut off by
eight Herman ’planes under the renowned
Richthofen. Davies brought down one be-
fore the Fritzes got him, then from 1800 ft.
up he spun to earth, unconsciousness and
a prison camp.
“D.F.”: The Shoobridge clan in Tas-
mania has just been celebrating the arrival
of their ancestor, William Shoobridge, who
fame as a settler in
1N22. lie grew some
of the Speck’s first
hops at New Town
soon afterwards, and
his descendants have
been growing hops up
the Derwent Valley
most of the time
since. \Y. R. and R.
M. Shoobridge, both
going strong, were
among the pioneers of
the Speck’s export
trade in apples.
T. O'CALLA-
GHAN, one time
Chief Commis-
sioner of Police
( Vic. ), first presi-
dent of the A N.A.
and a member
since 1573; at
present a magis-
trate on Mel-
bourne's City
Court Bench.
“Groper”: “Yoyang” (B. IS/> r >/’22), writ-
ing on the wreck of the Sydney Cove in 1707,
is puzzled about the captain’s Christian name
because one authority refers to this
hardy native of Glasgow as “Guy” Hamilton,
and another as “Gavin.” Which is correct,
he asks. The answer is, both. I have a son
christened Gavin Hamilton, but he is always
Guy, except on state occasions. I’m from
Glesga, too.
“Machete”: I’ll wager that old George
Sim was annoyed when the cherubim post-
man handed him his Bulletin of June 1, in
which the one-time M.L.A. for Carpentaria
(Q.) is described as a Bradford man. lie
was a Scot, a son of the manse, and only
went to Bradford when his meenister parent
took a call there. At 25 he travelled Europe
for a linn of Yorkshire spinners, and thus
picked up French, German and Italian. Ill-
health brought him to Australia, and gold-
mining (chiefly at Croydon) got him for
good. It was his espousal of the Chillagoe
railway that wrecked him with his party;
but a whiter man never walked.
A. G. (“Smiler”) Hales is married again,
and to please his new wife —a Scotch body
with a lleilan’ accent —wears kilts, lie still
writes vociferously. During tin* war he
was a valued contributor of anti-Hun stuff
to Bottomley’s John Bull.
“Rondibilis” : Norman Lindsay has once
lgore unintentionally battled the reporters with
his picture-titles. In his Sydney show of etch-
ings he has had “Micomicon” (the kingdom
of humor) reported as “Microcosm” and
criticised as a morbid analysis of sex! One
or two shows back he had two pen-and-inks,
“Serious Things,” a garden scene of love
and laughter—the only really serious things
in life—and “Man’s Heaven,” a cavalier
looking at a mass of women and devils —a
hint that we must take the two together. The
labels got somehow reversed, and one anxious
reporter wrote that “Serious Things” made
one think very seriously.” It would be inter-
esting to know what the honest lad meant —
but even more so, perhaps, would be the
revelation of what his editor thought he
meant.
Gertrude Johnson, who has now made
good as a coloratura prima donna in the
Covent Garden English season, owns a father
who used to conduct the choir of St. Mary’s,
the big li.C. church on the West Melbourne
Hill, in days when its music competed
strongly with that of St Pat.’s and St.
Francis’. Johnson, now a solicitor with a
country practice, was pi-oud of a top C
which he used to throw with enthusiasm into
the part singing of Ernest Wood’s Lieder-
tafel.
“T.R.H.”: “Rienzi’s” (B. 25/5/’22) par.
re statesmen who have no love for caricatu-
rists recalls that W. E. Gladstone (“Grand
Old Man” to the Liberals—“ God’s Only Mis-
take” to the Conservatives) wrote to Harry
Furniss suggesting that he was “overdoing
the big collar.” It was held to be a valid
objection, and Furniss cut down the famous
neck-gear a bit. Joe Chamberlain objected
bitterly to Carruthers Gould continually car-
tooning him as a fox in the Westminster
Gazette, but Gould refused to amend his
ways. Even Lloyd George appealed to the
French Government to influence the artists
on both the press and the stage to make their
caricatures, of him less abominable.
THE LASCAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ilis slop-made suit is of a British cut,
His boots are good Australian, and his tie
Was woven somewhere Melbourne way ; his hand
Bears a gold ring a Pitt-street jeweller wrought,
And in that hand he carries with an air
A tattered magazine from U.S.A.
But over his brown eyes and sepia face
And pointed beard of wiry, iron grey,
ilis head is swathed about with dingy folds
Of the thick turban, worn perhaps to prove
The part he thinks with —that is Islam still!
QUEENSLAND.
M. F.


Tobacco and
Cigarettes
-
i
m*
: • .
SRIf
ii
%?
Sydney.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
LONDON
MADE
THE PIPE THAT
STANDS THE TEST
OF TIME
AND CONSTANT USE


-
mm
m
mm
w.
' . *
10N SQUASH
ss. ■ . »
Schweppes’ Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of,
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition. 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
CARLYON’S
Hotel Esplanade,
St. Hilda.
Melbourne’s most modern Hotel.
DANCE
at our own Ballroom De Luxe.
DANCING NIGHTLY.
Windsor 5330.
Society
TOO CIVIL.
“I saic Daphne Cole yesterday.”
“Is that the catty girl with the red hair?”
“Yes. She said you played your part per
fectly.”
“Oh, it can’t be the girl I was thinking of.”
“Randolph Rentless” : The queerer sex was
in evidence at a Melbourne wedding last
week, in which the petitioner and the respon-
dent in a divorce suit of some nine months
earlier were the contracting parties. The
husband had gone astray, and, on being
bowled out. pleaded for a reconciliation,
and promised reform. The wife’s reply
was that he would have to go
through with it before a Divorce Judge,
to the confounding of his partner in
sin, and the purging of his own guilt, but
that, after the decree had been made abso-
lute, she would remarry him. The terms
were accepted, and now a stricken husband
and a self-satisfied wife are on their second
honeymoon; several lawyers are the richer;
and somewhere in the background a lady
co-re. is making enraged remarks about the
perfidy of in:in.
* » * *
“Sol M.” : Brennan of the torpedo and the
mono-rail is reported to have produced the
helicopter at last, and Brennan’s reputation
is something to go upon. The helicopter is
an airship which will go .straight Up as Elijah
did, and not require a large, smooth park to
rush around in while getting up speed before
it can leave the ground, with the result that
it sometimes dashes out its brains against a
fence and never leaves. It can come down
straight and softly, on any old maid’s garden
that is large enough to hold it, whereas the
ordinary machine needs an acre or two of
carefully-harbored space to tear round in
while trying to stop. And the true heli-
copter can linger in the air and brood, instead
of hurtling to earth, killing its crew and
slaying cows and horses promiscuously. In
short, it should put air navigation on a wholly
new footing, and moke its past a back
number. In view of this encouraging news
it might be worth while to ask the inventive
genius if his faith in the mono-rail is still
unlimited, and whether lie can improve on
tlie old model. The mono-train was to
solve all break-of-gauge problems by having
no gauge at all. The one-wheel car was to
run on one rail, keeping erect like a bicycle
while it ran, but uot falling down like one when
it stopped. It was to be capable of taking
amazing curves at almost any speed, leaning
over like a yacht in a gale, and rushing steep
gradients as a horse does a fence. So far
as I could see and learn the small-scale trials
were quite satisfactory, but no country with
money to burn had a variegated railway
system to unify when the mono-rail dawned
on the world, and none wanted to scrap its
chief possessions in order to replace them by
any freak, however miraculous. Now a big
country, very near here, is looking for a uni-
form gauge—unless the talk about it is fill gas
and gaiters—and the helicopter man may hold
the key to the problem. A train that will
stand on one leg on land seems at least as
plausible as a ship that stands on one leg on
a cloud.
* * * *
“Xorbell”: The news that the Christchurch
(M.L.) Bungs have given up measuring out
“nips,” and now hand the bottle to then-
clients, as in pre-war days (B. 8/6/’22),
reminds me that S. Aus. publicans have
always favored the former practice. It
used to be quite a surprise on coming over
from Casterton (Vic.), where they passed
the bottle, to find that at Mount Gambier
(S.A.) the firewater was doled out like
tiuc. camp. eo. By the way, S. Aus. was,
and is, remarkable for its “butchers,” the
local name for long beers, which are un-
known by that alias anywhere else in Aus-
tralia. Also the crow-eaters invented the
famous “pinky,” which was the last word in
h.e. fantods, spotted bunyip.s and blue blither-
ing blazes.
* # * «
"0.K.”: When an Irish theatrical ch.
struck Svdney the other day an esteemed
Australian poetess was inspired to a lyric
(“The Irish Players”) beginning:—
Coming down to see the play.
Sang my heart the whole brown way:
“Fairyland with torches white
Comes to town this little night;
I shall laugh, for I shall see
Dublin laughing home to me.”
And so on. There are thousands of English-
men and women in Australia, aud many of
them write decent verse. Yet who ever heard
of one breaking out this way?—
THE ENGLISH DRAMA.
Strolling forth a show to see
Sang my soul with purest glee
“Heaven’s brightest light divine
Now on Austral soil will shine,
London, beaming through the mist,
Lures me to our playhouse tryst.’’
Then the drama to my ear
Brought the sounds I hold most dear—
Piccadilly's languid drawl,
’Ampstead's joyous laugh, and all;
Sweetest songs of youth were sung
In my noble native tongue.
Was the drama good or bad ?
It was JLondon. As a lad
In the Bank of England's shade
Stood I, waiting for a maid.
Tears ran down my nose because
Back in London town I was.
Plays to which I often go
JMostly do affect me so;
Mummers acting English parts
Must appeal to English hearts,
Therefore am 1 darned exotic
When I’m truly patriotic.:
And so forth. Why do English people never
break out in this exuberant fashion? Far be
it from me to deplore the fact that they
don’t: I simply want to ku*>w why they
don’t.
“Lee-oh”: Captain Matthew Clayton, a
Manurewa (M.L.) nonagenarian who died
lately, commanded Money Wigram’s frigate-
LOST HIS NOVELTY.
“I don’t like your husband half so well as
when I first met him.”
“Don’t apologise. I’ve got that feeling my-
self.”
built ship Kent in 1800. She was London-
bound from Melbourne with passengers and
gold, when, off the Azores, she fell into an ex-
pensive calm. Clayton had stages rigged port
and starboard 2ft. above the water; got out
all the oars, and put passengers and crew
on to them by turns. The ship’s fiddler and
a passenger, who also played, were stationed
at the gangways, where they scraped away
at lively tunes, and it was grog-oh at fre-
quent intervals. He thus kept his hilarious
galley-slaves at the oars for two days, by
which time they had pulled his 1000-ton ship
into a breeze. The Money Wigrarn ships
were no clippers, yet, by judicious handling
of the Kent, Clayton once beat the famous
Marco Polo and Blue Jacket on the run
from England to Melbourne; and in ’62, at
the helm of the same craft, he outsailed four
China tea-clippers—the Robin Hood, Falcon,
Ellen Rogers and Queensborough—from the
Equator to London.
* * # 9
■ “TAW ; The discovery that the new Mae-
Farland library building at Melb. ’Varsity
has converted the quadrangle into an out-
door auditorium has recalled to many ex-
Digger officers and n.c.o’s their astonishing
first experience in the huge quadrangle of
Kasr-el-Nil barracks, Cairo. The mildest
word of command given there became sten-
torian, and soon everyone who had to call
“ ’Shown !” or “By the ri’! Quee’ Marrch /”
began to dream that as soon as the war was
over he must get across to Italy and be turned
into a Caruso. Then the Aussies gave wav
to a Pommy garrison battalion, arid a num-
ber of glittering dreams ended.
* * • •
“Tupara”: The Maori half-caste is a hefty
and prolific customer, in spite of what light-
ning-visit writers of the Foster Fraser breed
now and again assert. I know several
“hapus,” or small tribes rather than i’ami-
lies, descended from old-
time traders and coast-
wise sailors, that are liv-
ing proofs of the fact.
Thus the tally of Mrs.
Nat Bates, a centenarian
dame of mixed blood who
passed out the other day,
on the shore of Foveaux'
Strait, was 12 sons and daughters, 54
grandchildren and 53 great-grandchildren.
The blend of hardy sealer-whaler and
ivoliine. goes a long way to preserve the
Maori blood, though it is 'pretty well diluted
these days.
# # * *
The community-owned hotel at Renmark
(S.A.) continues to boom. The committee
has just announced that it hopes to give £5OO
shortly towards a fire-brigade station. £5OO
for a soldiers’ memorial, and £5OO towards
town drainage: this on the too of about
£BO6O given for public purposes within the
past three year's. The hotel does a large
residential business, and is aspiring to make
its bar the b-ggest and best in Australia.
The profits of recent years have been so big
that the committee has decided to reduce
trading hours by altering the opening time
from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m.
* « f t
“Friday Island”: An aftermath of the
war, as exemplified in several recent deaths,
including that of a distinguished surgeon, is
the occurrence of tuberculosis in the lungs
of those who were gassed. An added mis-
fortune, from the
point of pension
assessment, is that the
disease often does not
show until two years
after demobilisation.
Should T.B. then
appear, the victim has
a hard job to con-
vince the official mind
that the disability is
due to war service.
Nevertheless it is be-
coming painfully com-
mon for doctors to be
consulted for suspi-
cious chest complaints
by gassed men who
were demobilised (and
rightly so on the then
medical knowledge)
as medically fit three
and four years ago.
In most cases, no
doubt, the strain of
hard work (espeeiallv
in artisans) has
further devitalised the
lung tissue injured by
the gas, thus afford-
ing a favorable lodg-
ing-place for the
tubercle bacillus. It
, r ~ , is a big problem, and
a Medical Commission might be asked to
investigate it in fairness both to the Victims
and to the public that is liable to infection
from them.
• c • •
The peril of Republicanism is passing in
Jiiiigland, if it lias not already passed. The
truest barometer is the behavior of the
royal family which is governed by the advice
ot students of revolutionary “form” who are
seldom far out in their reckoning. During
the dark days of the war when thrones were
falling fast; when the futility of the Rus-
sian dream of world-brotherhood remained
to be proved; and the British working
classes were in a perilously restive mood
the Queen, Princess Mary and other promi-
nent royalties almost lived in the East End.
Photographs of the Queen appreciatively
consuming a sample of the output of a
Municipal Soup Kitchen, of the King
munching the fare of a Popular Night Re-
■ll Princess Mary smiling bright I v
while holding an insanitary infant (labelled
£*he loves the humble toiler’s bairn”)
these examples of the Palace publicity-
mun s craft affronted the discerning eye in
every illustrated paper. There were no
State balls and no “Courts” in the old
acceptation of the word; and the propa-
gandist even set it abroad, as a means of
reconciling the humbler type of Britisher to
his ruined beer, that the King and his guests
had taken to teetotalism. The Queen has
not been photographed in a soup kitchen
for a long time now. The vintage cham-
pagne and port are in evidence again at the
royal dinners. And last week a Court “of
unexampled splendor” was held “with full
trains, feathers and magnificent -display of
priceless jewellery, and all the other ‘fea
tures of the pre-war Courts.” All’s well
with the dynasty.
* * • *
“Randolph Rentless”: “Tom, Dick and
Hairy as a synonym for men in the "street
seems to have done its dash. I inspected a
roll of trainees recently, and in 40 names
found five Hectors,
four Roys, four Doug-
lases, three Victors
and -three Edwards,
but only one William,
one John and one
Henry. There was
never a Dick or e
Tom in the bunch
NOT GUILTY.
NICE LITTLE FIRL: “P— please, sir. don't
tool; so cross. I never dirtied it!”
“Curragh”: Ranged up alongside of a few
or the. true-blue Reds who hastily began
extending our railway five weeks before the
last N.S.W. State election. They were
playing poker. “What’s the stakes?” I
asked. “Ten thousand roubles a rise,’’
drawled the dealer. Thev let me in for
threepence a rise.
JOURNALISTUS JUBILATUS: AN ORATORIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is he who most truly may say ‘The world is
mine oyster’ ; he who most ably may ‘grasp the skirts
ol happy chance and breast the blows of circum-
stance’ ; he, indeed, whose head ‘beneath the blud-
geoning of chance,’ is likeliest, though bloody, to
remain unbowed.’’- —Peroration to a Sydney Morni.no
llekald leader, 27/5/’22.
Baritone :
M hen thought has reached its meagre end
And tearing hair is all in vain
(The printer’s devil’s at the doer;
The basket’s littered on the floor)
What pitying inky god will bend
And soothe the leader-writer's pain?
.Tenor :
Bind it in pigskin, chained with gold,
Unto the editorial chair—
The Dictionary of Quotations
With all the latest variations.
Well-seasoned cliches, trite and old
As King's Man’s speech—all, all. are there.
Recitative :
Kngland, my England
(Life is brief and Art is long),
My country right or wrong—
And lest that maxim we forget,
Lord God of Hosts be with us yet.
A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.
Be good, sweet.maid, and'let who will be clever.
G wad some power the giftie gie
To be or not to be.
And since ’tis true ’tis pity (and pity 'tis ’tis true)
King out the old, ring in the new 1
Literary Editor:
Word-drunken, maddened with the juice
Of concentrated poetry
In bacchic whirl, with pen for thyrsus swinging,
Dripping not wine hut ink, our dithyramb singing,
Journalists on the loose,
Dear book, we worship thee.
Chorus ( fortissimo ) :
A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles, a thing of rags
and patches,
More sinned against than sinning,
Funny without being vulgar (inverse ratio),
There are more things in Heaven and earth, Horatio,
For in the beginning
God made leaders for quotable songs and snatches.
N.S.W.
PRO BONO PUBLICO.


Brandy Sir!
/X
our
\\\^
%
A
I
\.\y
»
\' v*
Y^s
mi
m
am
I
i
\
R\l»
m
-ffjwfl/
5^
/I
• JflJ>Asw.; 4
I !!
(V
!
I !
I 1
,7.,’
X
F
Jil
o
r
F^
i
- f ? :
Kii
a**
CHATEAU TANUNDA
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in moat of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
"For Ever Best.”
STA 6
LAGER
TOOHEY'S.
“Callan Park” on a religious matter: —
It was recorded in a Sydney paper the other day
that a youthful missionary had arrived out of the
void at a seaside town and started to preach to the
thoughtless holiday crowd on the beach. He was
in a sailing-boat, which he moored opposite his ic-
luctant congregation, and lie had a gramophone, which
at intervals delivered hymn-tunes. The venture was a
failure, both spiritually and financially. Uninvited
he came: unregretted and unremunerated he left.
As he turned off his instrument, drew up the kellick,
and hoisted the sail a number of children threw
sand at him. A small boy fired several shots with
a catapult, and but for the providential arrival of
a favoring breeze things might have gone hardly
with him: some of the older people were already
looking about for stones, and one or two expressed
regrets that they had left their revolvers at home.
Such was ever the fate of the prophet. As I look
at it they all make the same mistake —that of
endeavoring to paint with too broad a brush. They
try for effects in the mass rather than in detail.
Suppose this missionary, instead of seeking to scoop
the pool, in the form of the conversion of 50 or 00
sinners, had concentrated on one. Say the leading
village alcoholist. By the time this character had
been argued into sobriety the visitor would have
acquired a certain status of prestige. lie might
turn next to a prominent Christian —one of those
who in the name of “the Church” or “the Open
Bible” spend their time spreading scandal and
fomenting rage, uncharitableness and hatred. One
authenticated conversion, here, would give the re-
former such a reputation as a miracle-worker that he
cOuld safely hypothecate his gramophone, and with the
proceeds engage the nearest picture-palace for
the following Sunday. The congregation would not
be merely local: it would arrive from every part
of the country ; and, speaking now with the autho-
rity that great achievement alone gives, he would
begin to lope in converts by the score. In all
probability the wave of popular approval and
amazement would enable him to found a new religion,
with himself as its Messiah.
* * * *
“Diggers’ Batman”: “Happy George,”
otherwise Captain Blank, of the Nth Batt.,
had a naturally rueful visage, and a face-
wound on the Peninsula had added to the
effect. Compared with the habitual expres-
sion of “Happy’s” countenance, a Methodist
prayer-meeting would suggest a carnival of
mirth. lie was a good officer, but his
gloom-stricken features got on the Diggers’
nerves sometimes. On one occasion (it was
A COMMUNITY OF
INTEREST.
“I'm going to marry Edgar when I groin up.”
“Do you like him so much as that?”
“It's not that—hut he likes the same kind
of lollies as I do.”
a demonstration designed to divert the
enemy’s attention from an impending French
attack) “Happy’s” company marched towards
the line, with bayonets fixed and shining in
the sunset. As an exposed position was
reached Fritz started to plough the scenery.
It was plain murder while it lasted —a whole
platoon was wiped out in one hit —and, when
comparative shelter was reached, the sur-
vivors were in a painfully frayed state.
Then it was that the concentrated misery on
Blank’s face afflicted a platoon sergeant past
endurance. “For Gawd’s sake, ’Happy,’ ”he
yelled imploringly, “try an’ look as if you
really liked the war!”
* * * *
“Exul” : J. L. Purves, K.G., was the only
Victorian .silk of recent years who special-
ised in mud-slinging. Most witnesses were
terrified of him. He turned his reputation
to artful account on one occasion. His
HER PREFERENCE.
“Maud wants to hare her finger in everything."
“Yes, and in an engagement-ring, for preference."
clients were appealing against a will o.n the
grounds that undue influence had been exer-
cised upon the testator (a widower) b.y his
housekeeper. This lady, under cross-
examination by l’urves, reversed the usual
.roles, and her tart replies gave her all the
honors of the encounter. Repeatedly she
scored him off, and nobody could quite under-
stand why the usually assertive brow-
beater had become so lamblike. But when
he addressed the jury his legal brethren per-
ceived the depth of his strategy. “Gentle-
men,” he said, “you have seen how the wit-
ness dealt with me, a man skilled in con-
fronting strong-minded people. What chance
do you think that that poor old man, the
testator, would have had against her?” The
jury’s verdict amounted to the answer,
“Damall!”
“Borom” : In one Australian city a man who
was once a professor in a famous English
University daily cleans boots and shoes at his
stand in a side street, disguised from possible
old acquaintances by means of a flowing
beard. Cause: Drink. The beer-herb was
also to blame for the descent of a once well-
known barrister, who is now boots and rouse-
about in a N.S.W. country pub. Solicitors
once prosperous, now outcast and battling for
a crust, are comparatively common, both in
the back country and in the city. Indiscreet
usage of clients’ cash was usually the origin
of (heir downfall. One I know of is a book-
maker’s clerk. As a rule, doctors.sink the
lowest—morally, if not financially. I recently
came across a medico who, 15 or 20 years
ago, possessed an extensive practice in a
fashionable suburb. Matrimonial complica-
tions knocked him out, and he is now run-
ning, in partnership with an unqualified
quack, whom he “covers” from the
Law, an institution of the kind that ad-
vertises the cure of “private diseases of men
and women.” Nine-tenths of the medieoes,
however, go down in connection with what
the Argus and Herald report blushingly as
“certain operations.”
“Morehead”: The spiritual divagations
of Annie Besant always bring to mind
,my friend Snaith. He first cut a
figure in religious circles as a Metho-
dist Sunday-school teacher, and a year
or so later was a promising young lay-
preacher. At that time High Church Angli-
canism was just finding its legs in Australia,
and Snaith caused his Puritan forefathers
trv somersault a number of times in their
graves by joining up with Canon Green in
Adelaide. -Later he became a prominent
figure at Christ Church, Sydney. The inter-
nal strife in the Church of England was
very bitter, and it was easy for harassed
disciples of the Oxford Movement to step
across into the Roman camp. Snaith pre-
sently did so. Then W. H. Spencer (of
the Telegraph) started his New Church
in Pyrmont. Deeply impressed, Snaith
renounced R.C’ism and was received into
the new sect. After a year or so,
in the course of which he presided
capably and often at the harmonium,
his attention was attracted by Chris-
tian Science, and he linked up with the
Sydney followers of Mrs. Mary Eddy. The
war came, and five years of blood and
destruction shattered all his convictions
about faith-healing. When Leadbeater and
the “Star of the East” crowd took over the
old Wesleyan Church in Regent-street
Snaith deserted the musty, damp drawing-
rooms and the shady mediums that had
charmed him awhile and embraced the pomp
and symbolism of the Liberal Catholics. Tuat
is the shrine he worships at to-day. Yet
indications suggest to the knowledgeable in
such matters that his soul-movements are
cyclonic in character, and that the Methodist
portion of the Kookwood Cemetery will yet
hold his remains.
“Billy Cann”: Recent mention of A.I.P.
doctors brings to mind “The Plumber,” a
2nd Brigade M. 0., who had one invariable
prescription for a large class of ailments.
It was in the days of Pink’s marmalade,
Frean’s biscuits with an occasional onion,
and a bread ration now and again—unless
Lemnos Island got in first or “Beachy
Bill” upset arrangements. Practically
everyone on the Peninsula had stomach
trouble and dysentery raged. “The Plumb-
er’s” advice to all hands was “Get your
mate to rub your belly.” Time came when
he himself, going the rounds of the trenches
with a visiting M. 0., was seized with cramps
in the stomach and kicked up considerable
dust. As Soon as lvis plight was realised,
his own pet admonition was chorused at
him from every side. “The Plumber’s” mate
just then happened to be a colonel.
“Dido”; Chapel-street, Prahran, Mel-
bourne’s best suburban business street, has
one peculiarity, and that is its truly amaz-
ing display of women who are doing their
best to render assisted immigration unneces-
sary. Elsewhere ladies who are in that con-
dition “in which ladies wish to be who
dearly love their lords” take cover from the
vulgar eye. Not so in Chapel-street, where
on any day you care to pay it a visit you
will find _ every third dame palpably and
proudly in the condition euphemistically
called “interesting.” I don’t know to what
extent the vital statistics of Prahran and
district bear out the promise of Chapel-
street, but I do know that this thorough-
fare is singular in presenting the greatest
embryo baby-show observable anywhere in
any of the States. Race-suicide is to Pr’an
what the wearing of long skirts is to St.
Ivilda.
* * * *
“D.F.”: A deal of nonsense has been
talked about the wickedness of sending con-
victs to Australia in the bad old days. 'What
has been overlooked is their luck in having
a place like Australia to go to; some much
worse portions of the earth were tried in
the interval between the closing to trans-
portees of what are now the United States
and the sailing of the First Fleet. In
April, 1755, for instance, Under-Secretary
Nepean (the N.S.W. river was named after
him) persuaded Captain Cartwright to take
a few of “Britain’s erring children” (as
some historian calls them) to his settlement
on the Labrador coast. Cartwright went to
Newgate and made a selection, but they
expired too soon to be of use to him. A
shipload was then sent to West Africa, but
they died so fast that it was pronounced
inequitable to send to certain death men
who had been sentenced to something less.
» » * *
"Harold Ilardup”: One of Sydney’s light-
ning marriage-tie manufacturers solemnised
a dual wedding last week, at which the
orange blossoms, in a manner of speaking,
had been set off with vine leaves. In the
evening the newly-weds returned to the pas-
tor’s tabernacle and explained that he had
united the wrong people. AYhat with the
excitement and the novelty and the beer
(more particularly the last) the signatures
had gone in the wrong places. The cleric
heaved a breath of relief as he explained that
this purely documentary mix-up was capable
of adjustment. But, in case it hadn’t been,
he found a certain large-minded readiness to
condohe his error and make the best of
things. “Of course, if there’s any difficulty,”
explained the more sober 4>f the two bride-
grooms, “we don’t mind letting it go, do we,
Liz? How about you, Bill? You’re not
going to go and cause a lot of unpleasant-
ness, Vera, and get someone into trouble
for bigamy or conspiracy or God knows
what?” The general opinion was evidently
that if the mistake could be promptly righted
well and good : but that, if it involved too
many technicalities, all parties would be
content to take what they had got.
* * * •
“X2X”: The excuse put forward by the
Melb. Hospital superintendent for excluding
women doctors from casualty wards seems to
me to have several holes in it. The atmo-
sphere of the casualty room is not different
to that of a.ny other part of the hospital. In
a big metropolitan establishment there are
as many women as there are men among the
patients. Occasionally a drunk given to pro-
fanity wanders in, but as he is generally
accompanied by one or more policemen, he is
easily suppressed. In any case drunks
form less than one per cent, of the total
treated. At the city hospitals in Syd-
ney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth, women
are employed on the casualty-room staff to
just the same extent as they are on that of
the general staff. In England, during the
war, they were often to be found in sole
charge of the place. Altogether, there seems
some ground for the feeling that the action
taken in Melbourne is part of a campaign
directed against the sex by male members of
the profession who fear encroachment on
their hitherto prescriptive rights and exclu-
sive jobs.
* * * *
“Exul” inflates his lungs above the snow-
line :—•
It should not be long now before the members of
the British Expedition make their final dash for the
summit of Mount Everest. Whether they reach it or
not, apart from impassable geological obstructions,
MORE FATAL STILL.
“Hasn’t your egg been cooked long enough,
sir?"
“Yes, but uot soon enough."
is largely a question of breathing. The air in the
higher reaches contains very little oxygen, and a
great deal of it is needed by the muscles that are
put to hard use in a big climb. Oxygen is carried
to the tissues by the red corpuscles of the blood.
One of the effects of living for a time at high
altitudes is to considerably increase the number of
these. Muscular exertion, among other things, causes
the production of carbon dioxide (002) and it is
this that stimulates that part of the brain which
controls the respiratory apparatus. Now 7 less CO2
is formed at great heights, but fortunately lactic
acid is also formed during exercise and can supplant
the form’er stimulus to a large extent. But as the
blood becomes more acid its power to carry oxygen
diminishes, and this has to be compensated for bv
an increased rate of breathing. The climbing party
will probably carry with them supplies of oxygen,
in bags or light cylinders, to overcome the deficiency
of the upper air in that essential. The whole busi-
ness is really a physiological experiment on a large
scale.
BREAKING HER FALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She wore a lovely musquash coat
That cost one hundred fair.
The little hat that seemed to float
Above her storm of hair
Was worth another twenty-five.
Her diamonds were fine.
“How do these blessed girls contrive?”
Inquired a friend of mine.
The young man sitting by her side
In his triumphal car,
Displayed an air of foolish pride,
And smoked a fat cigar.
“Tht lad3'’s fallen recently,”
Said I. “It happens oft.”
Said he: “I’m very pleased to see
She fell on something soft! ”
VICTOIU.4.
BILLY T.


- ■
- :
i -
•~r
-mi,- - I t-i-T-iH-MiT imrimn titih n ■ rm-nr-'i- rit ij.Tj.iir-[ri»i>f.lir ill M P§Ki£ S&Sp
:
1
■ ■•"■■■ ■ ■
■-•■- • rt •
sisi*ai
! ~ v
W.v.'TVB
;
■ . t
UONQCO VV^Wltw^SEs
£9
■;?
m
m-*
wmm
m *■ * <v
*> ■.»
f- ' (< ;,v
$t$RW
wtim
■ .
w;-. ~ilri ' * *vi
:/, - *v, \ ‘ 1 /*!!
:- • ■
HSigtt H
* '' os
* '
,
nE&& ♦ ./ ,i : > , , w
V* v i-t p? :
iii KMi ?mmm
I;
•***£
mm
.
mm
WSmm.. , . . ..^
■
rnsmmm
„ ■*.,**•?
Mms
WSSmIL
t
j>> i~ s .V/i•«. ■ v-'v' v i
tfe
* !
ia
KPtp
‘ - :
a
:#
'•4 *
swsf
iiSifgi
' IIS
.
sg&lp I
H §lBll
* qg&j* -
*A|»< :
’
H §HBI
1111111
pp
: --•
51*. “ ISSSE
: i i-'W
,\
i-' ■.. «> 'S’ •' ■:.. J
mam
'
,
# ,
U :<■
a
.
»4*f Mm i
-.-
ms
M
s-'i„ a '%W9p|(W I S(
•■- •
Will
si
-
:■ ■••--
'
*s®*gfsfKayj&
-.-; i> ;
mmm-.rj x i
-ycSP£* * '
■
Sts
•, f&g&kp* <4*a
''. S, Vi- 'ii’i ■'4i-X V ! •'\ S N
.
!aa
pp»«i


CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
„ OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
ALEXANDER & SONS LTD
BRISBANE & SYDNEY
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents :
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“The Overlander”: I’ve got a double entry
for the Endurance Stakes. Mick Knight, a half-
caste abo., was running in mail horses on Salis-
bury Downs (Western N.S.W.), when a rabbit-hole
brought his mount down. In the mix-up Knight
got both ankles fractured, and the neddy, which
fell on him, had his neck broken. The man
eventually worked himself free, after being pinned
from 4 p.m. till 8 p.m. Being eight miles from
anywhere, he crawled to some saplings and tried to
break a pair of crutches, but finding that useless, he
ANSWERED.
POMMY : “I can trace my ancestors for
twenty-five generations back.”
COCKY : “ That’s nothin’ to shite about. I've
always found the older the seed the
poorer the crop.”
decided to crawl the eight miles. It wasn’t exactly
like crawling over a linoleum floor, and the coun-
try was gruesomely burry. Knight had matches
and tried to attract attention by setting alight to
dried burr-bushes at intervals ; but nothing came of
)t. Before he had crawled far he ran a mulga
stick, about 4in. long and the fineness of a thin
nail, into his leg above the knee; but he kept on
and reached the mail-change at 8 a.m—l2 hours
after getting clear of his dead horse. He was
driven to the Broken Hill Hospital, about 200 miles,
where he spent several pleasant weeks with a
poisoned leg as well as two broken ankles. Knight’s
other trouble happened on Thurlo Downs, adjoining
Salisbury. While shooting: birds, a cartridge burst
and blinded him in one eye. At the time he was
“dogging” 30 miles out, and, thinking he might
never come back, he got a horse, rode several miles
around his traps, hung them on a tree so that
they would be easily found by his successor, and
reached Thurlo the next day. Then he lit out for
the Broken Hill Hospital, where the surgeon ex-
tracted a cap and anvil from his eye.
“Smilax” : The Melbourne Weekly Times
(20/5,/’22) has put the cat-rabbitos clean in the
shade. Among the office-bearers of the Warrnambool
Racing Club it included:—
Hon. Veterinary Surgeon—Mr. A. W. Knight-
Bullawarra, from a mare by Sojourner, son of
Pilgrim’s Progress and sire of Doiran.
I asked the gentleman indicated if he had seen it,
and his complacent comment was, “Well, anyway,
I’m no common draught.”
* # * *
“Ivaitoa” : What about your wool-pressers?
Frank Stevens, on his own, hand-pressed 58 bales
of greasy wool, averaging over 3ewt., in eight hours.
At Oondooroo, near Vir,ton (Q.), two years ago, 1
saw him tit bales, carry, press and turn out three
bales to his two mates’ two bales. The three of
them, with two ordinary Ferrier’s presses, were turn-
ing out 95 to 108 bales a day, and wasting about
an hour out of eight waiting for wool.
* * * *
“Tin-pot Bill”: In an old Bulletin the
other day I noticed that someone who eulogised the
mousing capacities of the mopoke charged the bird
with being of an unfriendly disposition. He is just
the opposite, for of all our feathered pets he is
the most gentle and friendly. He flies without the
slightest sound, and will flop on the pillow at
night and rub his soft downy head against one’s
face or neck in the most affectionate way. By-the-bye
the mopoke does not swallow his food straight away
—mastication is performed by muscles at the back
of the mouth. if “mopo” catches a mouse he
retires to his perch and apparently goes to by-by
with the tail of his victim dangling from his bill.
Eventually he emits from his mouth a small ball
of fur and bone. I believe this is characteristic of
the owl tribe.
* * * *
“Smith”: A horse at Renmark (S.A.) has
played on the local magistrate a trick resembling
something out of .-Esop’s fables. The nag was sold
for £25, but the buyer swore it was quite worth-
less. The S.M. gave a verdict for return of the
money with costs, and added: “The horse will then
revert to the vendor —if he chooses to take possession
of it.” He did. The very next day the magis-
trate went out motoring and got bogged. The man
who came to his aid was yesterday’s defendant, aid
it was the libelled horse that sturdily hauled the cat-
out of the swamp.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Pa Carson was an elder at the
Cactus Town Presbyterian Church, and when the new
“meenister” called at his place he took the good
man out to the milk-
ing-shed, where the
Misses Carson were go-
ing lickety-split on a
large bundle of red
cows. There, as they
stood listening to the
surge of new milk, an
invisible milker poured
out plain and assorted
profanity for the bene-
fit of a peculiarly
obstreperous cow. The
language was just a
series of long, linked
expletives of the sort
expressly forbidden by
our leading clergymen
and all the etymological
authorities. The Rev. Macpherson
turned pea-green, and moved on vvitli
the intention ot entering an objection.
It turned out to be Miss Jessie, the
eldest of the three Carson girls, who
all graciously helped in the kirk
choir. The Rev. Macpherson was
astounded. Carson was stung to fury.
As a reputable elder his escutcheon
was indelibly smirched. Both burst
out at the girl. “It’s no use,”
explained Miss Carson, “that cow won’t
give down a drop of milk if you
don t cuss her hair, hide and hoofs.
Dad s milked her for years, and he’s accustomed her
to it.”
* * * *
“Blister”: Perhaps the owner of the Ford
whose engine started of its own accord (B. 18/5/’22)
is a pastmaster in “auto-suggestion” to be able to
dispense with the usual gymnastic performance inci-
dental to starting up a “Lizzie.” Anyhow, I’ve been
among petrol engines for the last 20 years and know
four-stroke and two-stroke engines, but search me if
I’ve ever met a “sunstroke” type of benzine engine
yet. “Tinpot Bill’s” explanation is miles wide of
the mark, and apparently so is his postscript about
the d.t.’s.
*.* * •
“Silas”: Albert Dorrington, once well
known to Bulletin readers, is still freelancing in
London. He recently wrote an article for the Daily
Mail on what he calls “dead claims,” meaning
worked-out mines. No Australian miner ever speaks
of a dead claim. Dorrington tells of dark, deep
round holes in the ground. Occasionally, as where
country can be relied upon to hold itself for all
time, you may strike a round hole, or, at any rate,
an oval shaft, but many a miner has gone right
through his career without seeing one. However,
when Albert winds up with a story of a “dead mine”
m Queensland, known intimately to himself, in which
Chinese were continually disappearing, and explains
that it was subsequently ascertained that a great
bull alligator had made his home in the lower
workings we realise that facts are supererogatory
for the purposes of the narrative.
THE HARASSED AMATEUR,
THE COOK : “I want an extra ' alf-dollar a
week from you blokes all round. This
cookin' is harder work than what I
thought it was."
THE RINGER : “But you don't know dam' all
about it.”
THE COOK : “ Don't that make it all the
harder work?”
“Girofla”: Horses in the Chillagoe dis-
trict (N.Q.) have a terrible enemy in the “Chilla-
goe” disease. Just when Neddy is beginning to look
fat he suddenly sickens, his appetite goes, and he
soon becomes a bony wreck. The disease somewhat
resembles an acute bronchitis, inasmuch as quarts
of clear, viscid liquid are coughed up, The
majority of horses affected die, and those that recover
never regain their former vitality. While no ex-
tensive research has been done on the subject, the
disease is doubtless an infectious one. Anyhow, the
germ seems to have a particular liking for cosy,
well-strawed stables, as well-groomed, stable-fed
neddies are attacked mote often than those on grass.
Among stockmen the general opinion is that the
cause lies in something that the horses eat. One
vet. suggested that the disease is bacterial, and does
not show itself until the resistance of the horse to
disease has been lowered by habitual stable life or
some previous sickness.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: In a small Bogan River
(N.S.W.) creek I caught a small eel about lOin.
long. Excepting for a small spike or horn about
half-an-inch long in front of his head, he was exactly
like other eels; but his flesh was far superior. Old
Bogan Bill told me it was a “Looven eel.” Has
any other Abo. met him?
* *- * *
“Te Whare”: The short-tailed petrel
(mutton-bird) still walks into the pot, in spite of
the efforts of nature-lovers to protect it. This
advt. from a Speck paper is evidence:—
Mutton Birds.—This season’s catch, and Holt’s
Brand. Casks containing 400-500 at 30s. per 100.
100 birds for 325. ; 60 for 15s. 6d. ; 12 for 4s. 2d.
Cash with order.
How many mutton-birds does it take to make a
square feed? Assuming that three of average size
would mean a good blow-out, the meal would cost
about Is., which is cheaper than either beef or
mutton. Incidentally, barraeouta, tailer and shark,
as well as man, play havoc with these birds, which,
of ooui*se, breed annually by the thousand on islands
in Bass Strait and elsewhere in the South.
* * * *
“Erica”: Tell “Warrawee” (B. 16/3/’22)
that the soaks he saw on the top of the Baw Baw
plateau, Gippsland (Vic.), are not on the highest
ground. I have just made an investigation and found
one on Mt. Erica, but noted that, although it was at
an altitude of about 5000 ft., the surrounding slopes
rise on either side to about 50ft. These slopes
are composed of very thick peat, interspersed with
granite boulders. The snow, which lies in this
country for at least seven months in the year,
thoroughly soaks the peat, and the water works
slowly to the lower level. As rain is of weekly, if
not daily, occurrence, the soak and the little stream
at the outlet are easily accounted for.
“Dr. Nil”: Do animals die of heart
failure? (B. 18/5/’22). Years ago I was motoring
in the country when I met a buggy and pair. It)
those days it was etiquette to stop one’s engine to let
horses pass. I did so, but, although I was over 100yds.
from the turnout at the time, the two prads would do
nothing but snort and
shiver and rear. I got
out to help the driver
(whom I knew) to coax
his horses past, but le-
forc I could reach them
one of the pair gave an
extra rear, then fell over
the other stone-dead. The
driver was very civil about
it, and didn’t ask me to
pay for the mare, so I
didn’t like to ask for a
post-mortem. But he said
she was quite young and
had never had a day’s ill-
ness in her life. Another
instance: In the days cf
1881-82, near Coonabara-
bran (N.S.W.), when kan-
garoos were thicker than
mortgages, I took a hasty
pot-shot with a muzzle-
loader shotgun at an “old
man” from behind a bush
not more than 15yds. awuy.
He jumped about 6fc.
straight up into the air
and fell in his tracks,
gave a kick or two, and
by the time 1 reached
him he was dead. One of
his thighbones was stick-
ing through the skin for
two or three inches, and
proved to be fractured in
two places. There was
not a single pellet in him.
Being a rotten shot and
excited, I hail clean missed
him. I presume the terri-
fic jump he made caused
the fracture and “broke”
his heart, poor chap!
“Rita”: Lack of imagination is not a bad
thing sometimes. A Scandinavian swagging along
the east coast (M.L.) took a wrong turn, missed
his footing and brought up at the bottom of a
cliff with a broken thigh. He lay there for two
days before he was found. In hospital a visitor,
after condoling with him on the physical pain he
had suffered, suggested that even worse must have
been his mental agony, lying helpless with no hope
of rescue. “Do you know, mister,” said Square-
head solemnly, “it’s a funny thing, but I was just
beginning to think of that when the chap picked
me up.”
* * * *
“Isisford” (C.Q.) : Someone has had hold
of “Barcoo’s” nether extremity regarding the
“Wilga—not Wilby—waterhole” (B. 18/5/’22).
The legend got its start through a weak-minded man
being left as caretaker of a house owned by Oolin
Bertram. I lived near there, and have often heard
the weird sound, like a woman in pain. One night
I followed it to a large tree overhanging the river.
Next day a man from Ruthven climbed the tree, and
in a hollow limb found a nest with four young owls
in it. As to Binghi’si view of it, I have lived in
THE SLUMP IN VALUES.
MRS. WOOLPACK : “You used to say before
we were married that you worshipped
the very ground, beneath my feet.”
MR. W.: “So I did , my dear. Your farm
was worth twenty quid an acre in those
days.”
the district since 1884, and have seen lots of blacks
fishing at the Wilga hole; and I saw one buried
there —Milbung Tommy. It used to be a common
thing for bushmen who came that way to be asked:
“Did you see the Wilga ghost?” but the owls are
at the bottom of the whole business.
(Continued on page 22.)
OBSESSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where can I fly from the haunts of men?
Do I seek the woods and the cloistered ease
Of moss-grown trunks and leafy boughs?
Picnic parties beneath the trees
Poison the air with clumsy rows,
Litter their scraps about the grass—
Paper and tins and broken glass.
Where can I fly from ihe haunts of men?
Do I wander far on the windy down,
With wild thyme crushed beneath my feet?
A score of folk from the nearest town,
Clubs on shoulders, laughing meet:
Whack their balls through the shining air—
Never dream Pan sits piping there.
Where can I fly from the haunts of men ?
Do I sail away on the sparkling sea?
Liners and yachts all pleasure-bound
Brimming with lights pass close to me.
Visions of dancers, music-sound,
Break on the heaving moonlit wave—
When for a mermaid’s song I crave.
The stretching plain, the gleaming sand,
The white-foamed ocean, sun-kissed hill,
All are marred by a careless hand,
Spoilt by feet that are never still.
Echoes answer the vainest talk,
Grass spreads smooth for the proudest walk—
Ah! Where can I fly from the haunts of men?
N.S.W.
D. A. I.


FIVE NEW NOVELS
leach
BY AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
“THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.”
Adapted from the play by Bert Bailey and Edmund Duggan by Hilda M. Bridges.
An excellent novel of the popular play.
“A COLT FROM THE COUNTRY,”
by Arthur Wright
Another great story by the author of 14 popular Australian novels, whose
sales run into hundreds of thousands.
“ROGUES AND RUSES,by Con Drew
Another excellent volume of humor by the author of “The Doings of Dave”
and “The Jinkeir.” “Rogues and Ruses” gives twenty-three amusing
incidents in which “crooks” figure with varying success in sporting and
other enterprises.
“THE PEARLS OF CHEONG TAH,”
by S. W. Powell
A new novel by the popular author of “The Maker of Pearls,” “The Great
Jade Seal,” “The Trader of Kameko,” “Hermit Island,” etc.
“THE BOSS OF KILLARA,” by Vance Palmer
One of the best Australian novels of recent years. A fascinating story of
the sheep-country.
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels
1/- each (1/2 posted).
All Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Write for Complete Catalogue (free) of
120 NOVELS BY THE BEST OF AUSTRALIAN AUTHORS.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
THE Fiction-publishing House of the Commonwealth.
TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
z
m
Know the Joy of a Faithful Motor,
EEP every part running true to
JV form. Be sure you have the right
lubricant.
Each moving part—every one of the
many bearings, the gears, cams, valves
and pistons—is but a single small unit.
Yet their condition will make or mar
the pleasure of driving.
When your motor’s working faithfully
—every part perfectly lubricated—your
mind is free for relaxation.
A KNOCK or loss of power—and your
thoughts cannot get away from
the machine —the engine you should be
unconscious of.
Texaco Motor Oil is right for your
motor because it is based on definite
knowledge of lubrication requirements.
When you buy Texaco you buy honest
and thorough lubrication for every motor
part under every motor condition.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TE
mco
o
A
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
The Music
of
The Spheres!
/• r/
rc
O
The ancients thought that when the Planets moved in their celestial spheres they produced
wonderful ethereal sounds.
How the Science of Music has advanced since then!
To-day we have the most wonderful music produced by Paling’s up-to-date
PLAYER PIANOS
which transport us from the world of every-day things to a
WORLD OF MAGIC AND ROMANCE!
The works of the Great Masters, the most delicate creations of the Great Modern School of
Composers, the toe-tickling jazz, the numberless melodious love-songs—all can be played with
zest, vim and art on these wonderful Instruments!
WRITE FOR
FREE CATALOGUES
AND PRICE LIST.
338 George
SYDNEY..
EACH INSTRUMENT
IS SOLD
FULLY GUARANTEED.


Every roll of genuine MALTHOID carries this label.
m
Y
3
%
MALTnOI
MARK
TRADE
£
M
¥/
0
0
OTHERS
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Sydney.
/ r'
w
r~-
m
wceo
d-892.
When You
ask. for
Lager-
J^ABB
The Beer
without
a Rival ”
“Cleveland” : “The Moralist” (B. 11/u/’22)
says that litho-fracteur cannot be exploded in the
open air. Well, I dunno —there are a number of
one-handed fishermen along this (Q.) coast whose
fingers must have been nibbled off by beche-de-
mer slugs. But one man I know took a lot for
granted when lie was carting cases of condemned
gelignite to burn. Being in a hurry one trip he
tore open the cases and opened up the packets,
wheeled the noddy round on arrival at the place
of sacrifice, tipped up the drav and woke up next
morning. The marvel is he woke up at all, as there
were fish in the hole excavated by the disturbance
when 1 last saw it. As it is, he can sit through
a Chinese grand opera unmoved, and even “Cuman-
avadrink” leaves him cold. Will “The Moralist”
say whether this was due to the horse sneezing or
to the arrival of a meteorite ?
“X”: James Houston, Te Houka (M.L.).
claims the record thresh of the season—loo bushels
of oats per acre.
* * * *
“Tauwarra”: When “Colub” says (B.
6/4/’22) that Australian snakes cannot compare in
deadliness with the cobra, rattler and other foreign-
ora he quotes shaky figures. India, for example, has
224 people to the square mile, as against Australia’s
1.8. Then, while the bulk of India’s population
goes barefoot the Australian favors bluchers. Fur-
ther, a bitten nigger usually curls up and dies ;
but even the Australian kid has been known to
amputate his finger with the family axe before
yelling for assistance. (See any Bulletin of any
date.) Finally, 3000 deaths per annum among
320,000,000 —1 in 100,000, —-is nothing to write
home about. In Papua, where, except for density
of population, conditions generally are analogous
to India, 1 find that in 1918, out of 6000 indentured
natives, mostly employed on plantations, seven died
from snakebite, and I believe that the death rate
in the populous native centres is relatively high.
Even if snakes only bite Brown Brother when he
works for the white man, seven fatal cases in a
populatioil of 250,000 make the Indian figjures look
silly. Of course, “Colub” may bar Papuan wrigglers,
but they are practically identical with those of N.
Queensland. The important exception is the tiger.
If I claimed him for New Guinea, I would simply
be starting an argument.
# * # *
“The Rumpus” : The other day I saw Mr.
Binghi, Mrs. Binghi and Binghi, junior, walkii g along a
back street towards the outskirts of Perth (W.A.). They
were dressed as blaekfellows are usually attired, but
the old man wore spectacles, his missus carried an
attache case and a blanket over one shoulder, and 1
THE MORNING AFTER.
NERVY ONE (gazing into the hairbrush in-
stead of the hand-mirror ) : “Gorstruth,
I do w0ant a share!”
the boy bounced an india-rubber ball. Casually I
inquired where they were bound for. “Back,” said
the head of the family. “The dam’ town is dead!”
“Broadaxe”: Several wild birds besides
those mentioned by “Veronal” (B. 30/4/’22) feed
with domesticated fowls. I’ve seen black duck,
wood-duck, scrub-turkey or mallee-hen, magpie,
brown thrush and even the flat country bower-bird
come along for their crib.
4» . * * *
“Imbaga”: While commending “A.W.L.”
(B. 27/4/’22) for his protest against the Papuans’
slaughter of Torres Strait pigeons in the Fly delta,
I don’t think he need worry about their possible
extinction. These birds swarm in millions in those
latitudes, and if every' man, woman and child in
Papua were to eat nothing but pigeon for 100 years
it would make little difference to their numbers.
No other pigeon in Papua musters anything like as
strong. Their nesting habits may account for this.
Every tiny islet with which the Papuan coast is
dotted is almost covered with nests in the breeding
season, while the mainland 100 or even 25 yards
away doesn’t prospect an egg. The natives say this
system dodges the depredations of c-us-cus, goanna
and snake —and for once brown brother may be tell-
ing the truth.
CLASS DISTINCTION.
THE BOLSHIE: “What an outrage . com-
rades! All those fine acres of green
herbage for a few fat old sheep!”
“Bullo”: “Zanthus” (B. 2.”/2/’22) credits
F. L. Whitlock with saying that the big bustard
can fly off with its young. 1 lived for years
where this bird hangs out undisturbed —on the
Ashburton River, Nor’-Wcst W.A.—and have studied
it well. Its feet and toenails are made for
walking, not perching, and it cannot close them
till they are brought up almost to its body; so
how can it pick up anything with them? Also, it
must run at least 10 or 12 feet before it can rise
from the ground ; so, again, I ask how can it grab
a youngster with its feet and get up into the air?
I have flushed hen birds with young hundreds of
times, and the nippers are always left.
“Wessel”: Why go poultry-farming when
Alexandra parrots are worth £4O apiece? A clutch
of five would be worth £2OO, and a lot of fowls
would have to work
overtime all the year
round to make that.
This parrot belongs to
Central Australia, and
isn’t common there,
but there is no reason
to suppose that it
won’t breed in capti-
vity. It’s worth try-
ing anyhow. Tli e n
there is the farming
of birds-oi-paradise—
an absurdly easy sort
of job. Old travellers
told tales about this
bird having no stom-
ach and living on dew.
But it is a hearty
feeder, like its relative
the crow, and has a
wide range of diet,
from currant-cake to
green leaves and bana-
nas. With a couple
of hundred birds-of-
paradi3e, plucked at
suitable intervals, and
a few Alexandra, parrots
as a side-line, a re-
turned man ought to
do a heap better than on the Repat/s chook-farms.
“Gy Cyclone”: In the Esperanto of the
Pacific “bullamacpw” means tinned or other meat.
One boy, questioned as to the breakfast bill-of-fare,
after a moment’s deep consideration put it thus:
“Him banana "belong bullamacovv.” He meant saus-
ages. Another boy, trying to indicate a saw, got
round it this way: “Brother belong haxe. Pushim
’e go; pullim ’e come; kai-kai [eatl wood.” When
you consider their limited pidgin-English vocabulary,
the boys did pretty well.
**. ■ * »
“5.8. W.”: Re “Crooked Mick’s” inquiry
(B. 27/4/’22) of bushmen standing damper on end.
I have been baking bread and johnny-cake for a
few years, and find the most effective way to treat
either after coming from oven. (1) Stand on edge,
when it will cool off with a hard crust. (2) Wrap
up well in thick cloth or blanket, and leave till
quite cold. In this way the bread or cake will
have’a soft crust. If bread or damper is laid flat
on a tin or table the side so treated becomes wet
and sodden.
* * * *
“Final”: Tell “W. Blister” (B. 25/5/’22)
that in North Queensland there’s a white girl mar-
ried to a full-blooded aboriginal; and, what is more,
the knot was tied by the missionary father of the
bride.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : I saw little, whiskered “Crum-
by ’ Hull first when he was breaking stone at the
instance of the Ballarat West
Council for repairs to the old park
road. The other “brokers” were
glad to have the school kids help-
ing on their heaps, but Crumby
shooed us off with some violence
of language. A few days after
they had finished and left I was
amazed to find that Hull’s heap
had disappeared in the night.
Every stone had gone, and the
ground was smoothed so that you
might never guess there had been
a heap there. I don’t think the
council knew it had been defrauded
of a heap. Six or seven months
passed; then Crumby reappeared
and started working an old mine
near the road. He rigged a bush
windlass, and began hauling stone,
which was carted away to a bat-
tery at once. I ret ognised the
metal, rough brown quartz reef
shot with leaders such as had tom-
posed Crumby’s heap. It showed
gold freely. Hull was distributing
reef and other stone among it, but
I was not deceived, being at 13 a
tremendous gold-seeker mysel!.
When I saw Crumby again, in
the garden of a neat cottage
in Ballarat East two years later,
I asket! boldly: “How much did
she go?” He grinned. “Four
ounces to the load!” lie whispered.
“T.P.”: This is a Wimmera ( Vic.) record.
J. B. Cranage shifting bodily a large house, from
Kalkee to Horsham, found the road soft beneath the
upper crust. There was some delay and then ihe
load arrived at its site on Dooen-road hauled by 02
bullocks. Three old-time bullockies, talking an
ancient language engineered the little team. There!
*■»■»»
“Atom” : “Tinpot Rill’s” story about the
Ford (B. 18/5/’22) whose engine started to buzz
in the street, with no one near it won’t bear the
acid of science. His explanation is all at sea;
mechanically and scientifically it is an impossibility.
Even with the cooling water of the Ford engine
at boiling-heat (212dcg. Falir.) this heat is a hat-
ful of thermometers below that required to ignite
a charge of petrol vapor; so that, even with an atmo-
spheric temperature equal to that of boiling water,
the Peak Hill Ford engine would not start as ex-
plained by William. The normal temperature of
a Lizzie engine after half-an-hour’s running is round
about 190 deg. Fahr.—not hot enough to cause spon-
taneous ignition. Might I suggest that William is
probably in error regarding the absence of a bat-
tery? With a battery a short-circuit may cause
one start; but even then the chances of the pistons
coming to a standstill in the position necessary for
a series of starts are remote.
* * * *
“Pat Bushie”: We were lounging in the
shanty, telling yarns to while away the hotter hours
of the day, when Mick Casey chipped in: “If any
of yez wants ter see a rale good foight, jest fetch
round th’ best yer’ve got ter ’ave a go at my
stallion cat.”
“Gouger”: McLennan, the birdologist, re-
cently killed a brown snake at the Coen (N.Q.),
measuring 9ft. 3in., with a girth of Bin., that
had three poison fangs—two on the right side of ihe
upper jaw, side by side, and one on the left. The
fangs were 10 millimetres long and hollow, not
grooved. As additional armament to the upper jaw
there was one tooth on the right, behind the
fangs, 2imm. long, and on the left two of the
same length. The lower jaw was backed up by
two rows of small teeth, the two at the extreme tip
being each 3mm. long. A second brown snake,
killed the day I am writing this, was armed with
four poison injectors, two on each side of the
upper jaw, placed side by side, and he had a
similar .additional armament of both jaws to that
of the first-mentioned reptile. As these snakes
'•» extremely vicious, and when biting have been
known to shake a small animal vigorously, they
would certainly leave punctures from the long
teeth on the lower jaw and the long teeth behind
the fangs; so the two-puncture indication of a
poisonous wriggler’s bite goes overboard in their
case. The poison is a thick," crystal-clear liquid,
which rapidly coagulates on exposure to the air.
Enough was taken from these two pets to poison
a herd of elephants. What on earth Eve wanted to
play with such crawlers for beats me.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: Re stingarees and their
spikes, mentioned by “Bill R.” (B. 27/4/’22). I
don’t dispute the size of any ’ree in the aptly-
named Mystery Bay (N.S.W.), but when “Bill It.”
says he has the barbed prong of a specimen I
lose faith in his veracity. A stingaree does not carry
a barb. The weapon is rough at the base, and comes
to a fairly sharp, smooth point, otherwise the beast
would be anchored in its victim’s flesh after inser-
tion. My statement that it is impossible to take
hold of the stingaree because of its slimy flaps holds
good. I was talking about the ’ree when he attacks
you in open water. Anything can be held when
caught in a net—even a greased lawyer.
“Kilang” (X.T.) : What’s “Jesmond” (B.
9/3/’22) making such a song about? The average
woman consistently carries as heavy weights as a
man. I know of one young woman who, after
nearly half-a-lifetime spent in the N.T. (where Bar-
well says white women can’t live), can still lift
a 50 of flour on to her shoulder and carry it 100
yards. Another Territory woman often carries a
child weighing 321 b. for three miles at a stretch
without a rest. And washing-dav in the N.T.,
when the blacks have gone bush (a frequent occur-
rence), means a woman drawing water from a well
with an old-fashioned windlass and an eight-gallon
oil-drum, and then carrying anything from 8 to
20 kerosene-tins of water 10 or 12 yards at a
stretch, to empty them into the tubs. Of course,
if “Jesmond’s” lady juggled with a 2001 b. flour-bag
then I take off my hat to her.
♦ * » *
“Gutter (M.L.) : Whaka told me about it
when he got back from Mokau: —
“To-morrow of last week,” he said, “I see Hori
sneak down to te river and py and py 1 go down and
see him in te water with te big sprash. ‘What le
matter?’ I say. He say ‘Shut up! I kill te poaka
—trown -him.’ ! say, ‘Why don’t you cut te troat
—tat te way.’ Hori say, ‘You frash Maori know all
’bout kill te pig, but you don’t know te Mokau
Maori. Spose I cut his troat he squeal so loud all
te Maori come along borrow te piece of pork. No
prurry fear. I trown him.’ ”
* * # #
“J.T.K.”: “Bouragi” (B. LS/5./’22) ap-
pears to have hit on the correit pedigree of my
“potato-tree.” 1 have since sampled the potatoes
and find them, when boiled, deliciously floury, though
somewhat almondy in taste. The potatoes break
crisply from (lie main root, and to date I have
gathered about 15. An old gardener told me thac
the tree bears regularly for three years and possesses
certain sex peculiarities. This implies that though
the tree will grow from a slip, if a wrong cutting
is taken the parent tree will die. Can someone
enlighten me on this point?
* * # *
“Veronal”: The other chi.v 1 struck what
appeared at first sight a honey-bee with pale, sky-
blue bands around the abdomen buzzing lovingly
about some sweet-scented native flowers. It turned
out to be a species of honey-fly that doesn’t build
a comb. I have since seen these showy insects
sucking nectar out of garden flowers. The dan-
gerous bot-fly, by the way, isn’t unlike a small
honey-bee. The celerity with which the insect
strikes and deposits its tiny white eggs on horses
and certain other animals is an eye-opener. The
eggs become attached by some glutinous secretion to
the animals’ hair.
* * * *
“W. 0.3”: Can any Abo. tell me how long a
baby ’roo adheres to the nipple after birth? My
tame grey wallaroo has a joey aged 10 months
which she continues to suckle despite having a six-
weeks’-old youngster In her pouch. The presence
of the new arrival was unsuspected until about
BOTH RIGHT.
HE: “If you hadn’t been so long dressing we
shouldn’t have missed the train.”
SHE : "And if you hadn’t hurried me so we
shouldn’t have to wait so long for the
next one.”
a week ago, as no cessation of the suckling of No. 1
had been observed. They spend most of their time
on the house verandah, so any prolonged disinclina-
tion on mother ’roo’s part to let the elder joey
drink could hardly have escaped notice. The one
in “baulk'’ is fat and well and seems quite unaffected
by its big sister’s milk shakes.
TO A RED AUTUMN LEAF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.s.w.
Can you be dying,
Little red leaf,
And on your cheek lying
No pallor of grief?
Does age hot dismay you,
Nor death coming after ?
Why has time, the old thief,
Not robbed you of laughter?
. The secret, I pray you
O gallant red leaf!
NINA MURDOCH.


n
n
□
n
31
-%a
U
ft
r,
T
?o
10
in
a
a&'
£
«u.
Oo
rxrv.
at the cars and motor cycles on the road, it is
obvious that the majority are using “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYRES
There are good reasons for such preference, but the out-
standing one is that “Railroads” are made to withstand
many thousands of miles of running on Australasian roads,
and they deliver better tyre service to motorists than any
other tyre on the market. No expense is spared—the best
of everything goes into “Railroads,” with the result that no
other tyre equals them for mileage, freedom from trouble,
and economy. It undoubtedly pays to use “Railroads.”
All Garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
ALL STATES
'(A
V?
AND N.Z


A
wM^M
/ h
mS.
.
w-.iwm
'■■■■A
i
IS
V'-—L
h
mwH'
■: '/'■
■ m.
\ %C' :
The Oil Hidt Pistons
nPHE forming of a perfect
A piston ring seal is a test
Shell Motor Oils successfully
perform day after day in the
strenuous running of thou-
sands of Motor Cars. This
result is accomplished by
reason of the purity and
correct body of each grade
of Shell Motor Oil—the Oil
dependable.
jn'VERY drop of Shell
Lubricating Oil is our
accredited representative, ex-
pressing Shell reliability and
reputation. This ensures an
efficient piston ring seal which
guarantees maximum engine
power. Use Shell Motor
Medium—or whatever grade
of Oil our Recommendation
Chart advises for your Car.
lint Cau Net.
I MEDIUM
MOTOR OIL
ME BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CU»
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
"KIT
For super-service—
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT
SHELL MOTOR OILS
The British Imperial Oil Company
LIMITED
ALL STATES AND
NEW ZEALAND
Shell Motor
Spirit is as
pure to-day
as it was 20
years ago—
and just as
superior.
C 12.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
IU
01
o
n
c
1
m
Dodge Brothers dare not fall below the high esti-
mate which has been formed of them as motor car
manufacturers.
Naturally, this knowledge of what is expected by the
buyer, breeds a deep sense of responsibility.
In the factories, it has the effect of inspiring Dodge
Brothers with a constant and careful oversight of all
the manufacturing operations.
The entire institution is honestly permeated with the
idea that quality and performance in each Dodge
Brothers Motor Car, is paramount and all-important.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
V'
&
A
M
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
> Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, /nc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Just Charming
Gy PHLOX.”
A CAREER is all right, Audrey, as
far as it goes; but I don’t think
it is sufficient to satisfy the aver-
age woman’s heart.”
I suppose, Aunt, that’s why you gave
up your medical practice and married Uncle
Edward.”
\es. I was getting on in years when I
mairied. I had begun to feel that want of
companionship with someone I could really
call my own—someone who was more to me
than a friend.”
‘‘Those are my sentiments, Aunt. I feel
I have a more interesting career than most
women with a lectureship at the University
and my research work in archeology, but
there’s something wanting.”
And that something, my dear Audrey, is
a husband. I’ve been through the same thing
myself, and I know—it’s the same old story,
old yet ever new. I loved my profession as
you love yours, but alone it was unsatisfy-
ing.”
“Yes, Aunt. I realised that when I saw
Nita Anderson’s radiantly happy face as she
announced her engagement to be married;
then I realised that even a career does not
compensate for a life of single blessedness.
You remember that jolly girl who passed so
hiilliantly in Arts! She’s going to marry
Professor Butler.”
And 1 think, Audrey, it’s about time
I you looked around for a husband. You’re
| not cut out for an old maid, though of late
you i e acquired one or two little prim Avays,
and the average man does like a little bit of
fluffiness about a woman.”
“What do you mean?”
“I mean that you want to take more pains
Avith your general appearance; fluff out your
hair a bit, and so on.”
‘‘But I don’t happen to have fluffy hair.”
‘‘Then you’ve got to fluff it; also to im-
Prove your skin ; in fact, Avhere Nature has
been deficient, supply the deficiency Avith
ai t. That s AA’hat I do. But I promised
to meet Uncle at G o’clock, and it’s nearly
that now I must be going. Good-bye,
Audrey, and think over what I’ve told you.”
Audrey Johnson was thinking over what
her practical aunt had suggested when she
was interrupted by someone wrapping on her
study door.”
‘‘Come in,” she called.
Professor Livingstone’s pretty wife
entered. She had come to ask Miss Johnson
to join in a send-off to Nita Anderson.
After this had been satisfactorily arranged
they talked of all kinds of things.
Audrey had often noticed what pretty,
fluffy hair Mrs. Livingstone had, and Iioav
beautifully she dressed it. Why not ask
her for some hints on hairdressing?
Mrs. Livingstone felt quite flattered at be-
ing asked for advice by clever Miss Johnson.
“So much depends,” she told her, “on the
way the hair is shampooed as to whether
the hairdressing will be a success. Per-
sonally, I always use Stallax,” said Mrs.
Livingstone, “and I find it makes the hair
beautifully glossy, fluffy and easy to dress.”
“And that’s just what I want,” replied
Miss Johnson.
. “Do you ever use a hair tonic?”
“No, I’m afraid I’ve never given much
thought to my appearance, but I intend to
turn over a neAV leaf in that respect.”
“I can give you a recipe for a simple,
home-made tonic. You buy a package of
boranium from the chemist, mix it with
a quarter of a pint of bay rum, and rub into
the scalp occasionally.
“Do you know,” Avent on bright little
Mrs. Livingstone, “a little while ago I Avas
getting quite grey, and I happened to hear
a woman in a chemist’s shop ask for tAvo
ounces of concentrate of tammalite and three
ounces of bay rum to mix with it. She
then turned to her friend and said that there
was nothing like it for restoring grey hair to
its original color. I thereupon ordered the
same, and now I haven’t the sign of a grey
hair.”
“I’m glad to knoAV of that, too, for I’m
continually pulling grey hairs out of my
head.”
“But, Miss Johnson, when you begin to
look after your hair you must also look
after your skin, and I find that there’s
nothing like mercolized wax for keeping the
skin soft, clear and free from blemishes.”
“My aunt Avas telling me that I badly need
a skin food, but she didn’t tell me what to
use.”
“All the well-preserved women I knoAV
seem to use mercolized wax. It contains
oxygen, and removes the old worn-out skin
so imperceptibly and painlessly that you
don’t knoAV the process is going on until
some fine day one of your friends Avill re-
mark, ‘I don’t know what you’ve been doing
to your skin, but it’s like a baby’s.’ ”
“Then, that’s certainly the cream for me.”
“Well, if you care to come round to my
place when you have time I will show you
a pretty Avay of dressing your hair. Ajelieve
me, my husband always keeps me up to the
mark, and is delighted to hear people whis-
per as we pass, 'Look ! isn’t she just charm-
ing?’ ”
Bierolium Jelly for whitening the hands
—all chemists. —Advt.


FKe
Purest
Spirit
in tKe
\U>rM
SffIIWXJE
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schn a*^
STANDS ADO^’E"”
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
L
COLDS
0
CROUP
LUNG
TROUSU3
ta
m —<■—WW*WI»UW>JII.>'(r'WI
CMCST
AFFECTIONS
telegraph blanks, throws away half the
blanks,” and causes what is written on the
remainder “to be recited by a company of
actors in a rapid, nervous and confused
whisper.” Nathan is a sardonic humorist
whose half-dozen books are written in the
most remarkable mixture of vaudeville
patois, haunting phrases and marbled Pater-
like prose that one has encountered in
modern letters. There is hardly a page
without some delightful ambush for the
reader. He swoops on imbecilities and ban-
alities with unerring skill, and he records
his discoveries without any resort to the
fat and faded cliches that represent the
armory of the average show-reviewer. And
the worst of his work to the theatrical man-
ager is that he makes every fault an inflic-
tion, every sham a shame. Some years ago
Nathan, master of many tongues, toured
Europe and heard many plays in their own
languages—which experience doubled his
power and authority. Yet the most interest-
ing thing about him is yet to be said. In-
stead of making a big city his birthplace he
first saw the light in the dull railway-junc-
tion of Fort Wayne, Indiana.
C. R. BRADISII.
Poets and Wesleyans
In the recent controversy between
Quiller-Couch and the Wesleyan President
as to whether a total abstainer could be
properly equipped for high literature, an
important point seems to have been missed.
Of course it is quite correct to say any-
thing as long as it is calculated to annoy a
Wesleyan president on a prohibition plat-
form, but “Q.” overlooks the reason why all
the great poets have shown an aversion from
the blue ribbon. Bernard Shaw, like the
good Methodist he is, puts forward the moral
argument against drink as producing a state
of fuddled happiness that destroys self-
criticism, assuming his now stereotyped ges-
ture of intended arrogance with “Shelley
and I.”
Drink does not make poets, nor is beer that
alluring and destructive flame for the moth
poet it is supposed to be. Even less is it
an authentic draught from the Hippocrene
of inspiration. No great poem could be
Written by a drunken man, though possibly
fair verse might. Swinburne, for example,
probably could have dictated poems, inebri-
ated, standing on his head, and trying to
count _ in Chinese at the same time ; perhaps
he did. Drink did not interfere with
Mozart; but his control over the subconscious
processes of his mind was absolutely unique
and has nothing to do with the normal pro-
cess by which the concentration of the
creative act is attained. Intrinsically the
fascination of drink for the poet or artist is
not on account of the mental exhilaration he
gets out of it, which is by no means the
exaltation through which lie creates. It is
because drink is an element of that necessary
debauch, that spiritual saturnalia which is
the inevitable reaction of all strong and pro-
found natures to existence. Falstaff is an
essential element of Shakspeare’s character.
But though Shakspeare must have got:
drunk fairly often, it was not the act of
drunkenness that produced Falstaff. Falstaff
is an attitude towards life: lie represents
the freedom of the tavern, the symbol pro-
jected in actuality of the inner freedom and
bacchanalia of mind that produced “Venus
and Adonis” and “Antony and Cleopatra.”
If Shakspeare had been a drunkard he could
not have written any of these, for he would
have destroyed his control over his mind.
That is, if he had been only Falstaff, he
could never have uttered the lyric passion
of such a figure as Cleopatra ; but his spirit
would never thus have danced with the gods,
if he had not got drunk with Falstaff in a
tavern.
From the vitality of our response to what
there is of freedom and laughter in Existence,
is born the vitality of our Spirit. Shelley,
quoted by Shaw as a fellow abstainer, shows
how water poured in at the mouth comes
out in the poetry. Shelley lacked utterly
any vital reaction to Life, and, as Keats
told him, he lacked all massed and golden
beauty. Of course it was not the water
that diluted the verse. The same moral
failure put water into his menu and his
poetry.
When will mankind and the U.S.A.
learn that to impose an external re-
straint is merely to confess fear of
temptation, and that to suppress desires
in fear can only end in a visit to a
psycho-analyst? Let the Methodist, the
savage, or the organism with no mind, and
therefore no control, seek restraint and pro-
hibitions, for they are the rabid with need
of chains and penances. The debauch is
for the free, and always will be only for the
free, the licentious and prodigal spirits who
are masters of Life. Shakspeare or
Beethoven, whose dreams of a divine splen-
dor of passionate bacchanalia would be
enough to shock a thousand congregations
of Methodists to a sudden death, or, if
realised in concrete and actual form, make
a moral nation like the U.S.A. explode in
fragments to the heavens in one vast out-
burst of horror, are the least likely to be
afflicted by dipsomania or satyriasis.
“Q.,” then, is at least right in spirit in
upholding the divine necessity of drink
for poets, though for the creative mind
the wines of earth will bear only the
vaguest tincture of his real drink —the wine
of Dionysos that liberates spirit to ecstasy
and beauty. This no Methodist can ever
prohibit, and, as he can never know of its
existence, he will not even try to, expending
all his hatred on the earthy emblem.
JEAN ANDRADE.
The Opportunism of Wells
1 o Linds ay’s defence of Wells (B.
J 0/0/ 22 ) resolves itself in spite of its ela-
borate wording into an apology for the man
"as become lost in a literary maze from
which he will never find escape until he once
more substitutes the key of sincerity for
the rolled-gold one of opportunism. Since
ms early writings Wells has become essen-
tially a runner-after, not a setter-up, of
new gods; but though he has never set up
a new god lie can at least claim lie has
always been in the vanguard of the chase to
the new shrine once the popular tally ho!
seemed assured. When the war brought
back to a large mass of minds the belief
in God, then Wells believed in God with
a very loud voice—-and at quite high prices
per column. God is not found at the bottom
of an inkwell—Truth, we are told, hides
more remotely—He is found in fasting and
prayer and in meditation in desert places,
but W ells would make Him available in a
publisher’s office. So we have the spectacle of
the novelist-evangelist worried over sacer-
dotal and spiritual matters in "Mr.
Britling” and “The Soul of a Bishop.” He
did not retire to a monastery or theological
college to study the soul question from all
its facets; instead he unloaded on his un-
critical public such things as “The Soul of
a Bishop,” which is a chaotic mingling of
psycho-analysis and spiritual misgivings.
When the bishop, whose soul is in jeopardy,
and who has worried himself brain-sick over
the problem of accepting or rejecting the
creeds, seeks a doctor, this is how the medico
talks:—
tou see the trouble in such a case as this is
peculiarly difficult to trace to its sources, because it
conies just upon the border line of bodily and mental
things. You may take a drug or alter your regimen
and it disturbs your thoughts; you may take an
idea and it disturbs your health. It is easy
enough to say that all ideas have a physical substra-
tum. It is almost as easy to say with the Christian
Scientist that all bodily states are amenable ro our
ideas. The truth doesn’t, I think, follow the border
between those opposite opinions very exactly on
either side. I can’t, for instance, tell you to go
home and pray against these uncertainties and
despairs, because it is just these uncertainties and
despairs that rob you of the power of efficient prayer.
The medical man talks like that for eight
pages, then dopes his Grace with a draught
of the elixir of God and turns him into
Piccadilly. But does the book point ,u
definite acceptance or rejection of the creeds,
or finish up with a suggested ritual V Not
at all. Therefore, Wells in this instance
has failed on the point that Jack Lindsay
claims for him of trying to replace disorder
by order. Again the reading public isn’t
concerned whether Wells “frees his spirit
from the nightmare of an omnipotent God”
or not. A novelist is expected to entertain,
to create; not to run the scientific, economic
and sociological problems of the day through
the sausage-machine of his own untrained
brain, and serve them as a rehash to a world
which H.G.W. seems to regard in the nature
of an enormous boarding-house, of which he
is the mental landlady. “Roman Lawgiver”
and “Pragmatist Position” are fine-sounding
but erroneous titles when one thinks of
H.G.’s latter-day effusions. Take, for in-
stance, “The Secret Places of the Heart,”
running through Nash’s Magazine—did I
say running?—boring a long and toilsome
tunnel to what threatens to be the usual
cul-de-sac ending towards which the omni-
scient author leads his reader by means of
a miner’s lamp, the meanwhile crying: “Be-
hold, I said ‘Let there be -light,’ and light
was made!” It is called a novel—it is really
an essay in psycho-therapeutics, and the
principal characters are a doctor and a
successful business man. It is the secret
places of the business man’s heart that are
being spring-cleaned, and a young Mac-
quarie-street medico who has applied the
psycho-therapeutic vacuum to the human
engine for some years declares that; as
handled by 11. G., it would heal as efficiently,
spiritually and mentally as a suddenly-
exploded bomb would anatomically. Which
brings us to our argument. Jack Lindsay
claims that Wells is trying to evolve a con-
dition of order in the State and Society
while he admits his mania for disgorging a
hastily-acquired mass of knowledge and
facts. That the knowledge is at most “a
little learning” and the facts don’t always
hold water, the apologist doesn’t add. But
a writer who only adds a mountain of words
and a jumble sale of ideas to the problems
of the day is not evolving order. He is only
making confusion worse confound id-—and
building up a bank balance.
NORA MCAULIFFE.
In the Matter of the Contributor
The man who tries to cram as many words
as possible on small scraps of paper, and so
save a halfpenny a year or so, marks him-
self as one who is unlikely to have aDy
special writing gift. The lady—it is gen-
erally a lady—who uses a large, sprawling
display of ink, who does not punctuate ex-
cept in the places that are obviously wrong,
who scrawls all proper names so badly that
their spelling is in doubt and who never
dreams of revising her copy may be a sort
of genius at times, but. slie always has a
sloppy and untidy mind. The person who
uses cheap abbreviations is certain to have
no feeling for words; and as words are the
basis of literature he ought to turn his
attention to other matters—say, the abbre-
viation of trees or weeds or railway tickets.
If he makes his language-insulting marks
merely, because he is in a hurry, it is time
for him to learn that haste and craftsman-
ship won’t mix. The person who doesn’t
realise that to write illiterate sentences and
confuse moods and tenses while offering an
alleged literary criticism ought to attend a
night-school and exchange criticism for a
study of grammar. The person with a buck-
ing typewriter who insists on putting the
product of the poisonous creature on the
literary market is a kind of criminal. He
knows that editors will have to guess the
meaning of the animal’s snarls and jumps,
but hopes that they may guess wrong, and,
by substituting for his headless common-
places and bow-legged tags the thing he
never thought of, write bis matter for him
and give him the credit and the cash. The
person who possesses a moderately-good
typewriter but keeps his lines as close to-
gether as possible and leaves no margin is
unlikely to have his copy printed. There
is no known way of revising it; and where
that is the case it is always in desperate
need of revision. The haughty litterateur—
it is the word he would use—who sends
along insulting, cynical or superior letters
with his screed is the ultimate and tran-
scendent super-ass. An editor is not a
person, hut a machine. True, there is a
human editor on the premises, a live man
working hard and dealing out wisdom and
fair play in equal measure. But officially
the editor is not flesh and blood. He is
part of an organisation which begins with
lead- and printer’s ink and soars up into
poetry. To throw insults at him is like
hanging bricks at the eternal hills; to ap-
peal against his judgment is like making a
moan to the stars ; to patronise him is like
saying ‘‘good dog” to the sea. Day in, day
out there are persons who assail newspaper
offices with remarks about having "read
your excellent paper for years” or hoping
there may be space in “your powerful
columns” for 11 little poem. The poem is fre-
quently described as “dashed off” —and it
generally looks dashed off. If the writers put
the time occupied in writing the utterly useless
and vapid accompanying scrawl into read-
ing over their copy, writing their names and
addresses on it and sticking a pin through
the loose sheets it would improve their
chances of success. If they spent another
five minutes in looking at the thing the
world would be sweeter for the delay. Dur-
ing that five minutes the following ques-
tions should be asked: Has this been done
before? Is it in any sense worth while?
Does it mean anything? What would Bill
(your least literary friend) think of it? What
would Edward (your most literary friend)
think of it? What do you honestly think of
it yourself? In the case of verse add also:
Does it rhyme faithfully? Does it scan
faithfully? Would you read it if anybody
else had written it? Has it any freshness
either of phrase or idea? Why did you
write it? Have you any idea at all what
verse is? There are a lot more questions
that might lie asked and answered within
the five minutes, but these will do to go ,o.n
with, and they are likely to be of much more
service than the covering letter.
In addition to honest people who may err
in ink through folly, there are a few liter-
ary sneak-thieves —people who copy matter
already printed and offer it as their own.
They always fall in eventually: often at
the first attempt. They then go on the
black-list which every office that pays for
outside contributions keeps in a prominent
place. The literary thief is one of the most
revolting of characters. That is the reascii
he is rarely prosecuted for getting money
under false pretences and sent to gaol—it
wouldn’t be fair to the burglars.
C. O. M
A One-novel Man
Reminiscences of Rolf Boldrewood (by
his daughter) that have recently been ap-
pearing in the Australasian revive a half-
forgotten wonder of mine as to how the
same man could write one book so good and
follow it with others so execrable. And yet
even the tripey tales had a certain vogue in
the ’nineties —“Robbery Under Arms” car-
ried them on its back for a little. W hen I
first arrived in Australia, nearly 30 years
ago, the famous bushranging story (read at
the other end of the world) had gripped me,
and I craved for more Boldrewood. A
number of people helped me to gratify (and
more than satisfy) the craving. They lent
me “A Squatter’s Dream,” “The Miner’s
Right,” “A Colonial Reformer,” etc. Also,
they assured me they were good yarns, and
the array of them in the bookshops suggested
that they were at least respectable sellers.
But, by the time I had ploughed through
them, the only sentiments left behind were
infinite boredom and mild bewilderment as
to how the delineator of the Marstons could
have inflicted on his public such deplorably
unconvincing and wooden figures, spiritless
scenes and stodgy reflections. The words
put into Dick Marston’s mouth are graphic
in their homeliness and vivid because of it,
but the English of all the other Boldrewood
books I ever read is utterly pedantic and
forced, just as the incidents intended to be
moving are about as exhilarating as cold
boiled cabbage. Boldrewood ought to have
been able to write a rattling good yarn about;
the early-da.v Australian goldfields, for he
knew most of what was to be known about
them. Per contra, Anthony Trollope was
only a globe-trotting impressionist. Yet in
“John Caldigate” (a book probably quite
unprocurable nowadays) there is a picture
of the early Victorian diggings that is still
indelibly fixed in my mind, although the
waving-whiskered Anthony must have gath-
ered all the material for building it from a
few acquaintances in Australian pubs and
clubs—none of his knowledge was first-hand.
There are one or two chapters in “John
Caldigate,” though the Australian scenes are
only an episode in the book, that read like
a bit of bygone Australia preserved in
black and white by an alien craftsman
whose specialty was the portrayal of life in
English cathedral towns. But it is doubt-
ful if Boldrewood’s warmest 'admirer would
contend that “The Miner’s Right” ever held
a scene or a character worth preserving.
Doubtless Rolf Boldrewood wasn’t the first*
novelist who wrote his only real romance
.because he had something to tell and subse-
quent dreary imitations of romances because
it piaid him to tell something, or anything. Is
anything that R. D. Blaekmore wrote read
nowadays, excepting “Lorna Doone,” or was
anything else he wrote ever worth reading?
CLAVERTON.
“Oilskin”: I hold a copy of the Perth (W.A.)
Gazette and Western Australian Journal of July
5, 1834, edited, printed and published by one
Charles Macfaull. Its price is Is., and it consists
of four pages, not quite the size of The Bulletin,
choked with manifestos issued by Peter Brown,
Colonial Secretary. Apart from an article dealing
with the marauding disposition of the blacks, and
the announcement that beer is quoted at 245. per
doz. and kangaroo Is. per lb., the main item of
news is:—•
“By the Eagle schooner from Sydney, we have our
files of the Sydney Herald and Australian up to
the 19th of May. They contain nothing of particular
interest or importance.”
Curious what little change 88 years' have wrought.


TOP VALUES !
Winchcombe,
Carson’s
J AUCTIONS.
A Peep Into His Future.
Send your Rabbit, Fox, Whiptail and all
other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY R. & J. DICK, LTD.
THE BARRY STEER SPRIT PURREY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
%
‘VO
D
ifS m
s*.
o -0-.. S
l:K
us.
,«/<OT, - ■
./•'® *
■w
yiv
;, 1 /
v)
e.;<r
.7/
<&>
Vn»
C/op
•o
g
<§
Q
d
a*
o
i •
ffi 9
2X 9 - /■ «. rS^c,
Nature lias her
moments of
sweetest charm,
not when a tropi-
cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
7ENOBIA
Zenobia Lilt of the Valley—a per-
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom—the
original perfume which, in name, has
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Zbnobia Night
Scented Stock—a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
Newson & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
ZWOBlft
EN
hiu?
the
VALLEY
fuller-lehigh
PULVERIZED FUEL-FIRING SYSTEMS
are Far Beyond Experimental Stages.
COMMERCIAL-SIZED UNITS NOW BEING INSTALLED IN
AUSTRALIA FOR:—
Australian Portland Cement Co., Geelong.
Electricity Commissioners, Newport, Victoria.
Wallaroo & Moonta Mining & Smelting Co., South Australia.
National Portland Cement, Limited, Tasmania.
Victorian Railways.
We can show you a Plant in operation.
Send for particulars to
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
AUSTRALASIAN ENGINEERS FULLER LEHIGH CO.,
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [1
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Sole Agents for Australia
and iSouth Sea Islands—
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
NELSON (SL ROBERTSON,
l5-17 Loftvis Street, Sydney.
p
lEGISTERED
TRADE H»*‘
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
It unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
aa^aafei
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
Lime.Pol’asfi &Soda^
ouiMi emulsifying & flavoring
Ingredient's
507.
IS
A
Cod
Oil
Li
ve
X>
hcS'
es/
snoymf&Cefa/afout
The manufacture of this famous medicine is not
surrounded by closely-guarded secrets.
As the diagram shows, HYPOL contains 50 per cent, of Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural Oil endowed with nutritive and healing
qualities that no mysterious formula can equal.
With the added Hypophosphites, and pleasant flavouring, a most
enticing and strength-giving Emulsion is produced.
HYPOL is a famous remedy for Chest Complaints, and
a great restorative in all cases of sickness.
Those of delicate constitution should commence
to-day to take HYPOL.
Made by FELTON. GRIM WADE & Co. Prop. Ltd. Melb.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Business, Robbery, etc.
"Zantlius”: One of the toughest steamers
on the Australasian coast is the W.A. Gov-
ernment’s Eucla, which periodically rolls
from Albany to Esperance and back again.
Built originally for the Irish cattle trade
she is going strong after about half-a-century
at sea. Her skipper, Captain Douglas, has
spent most of his life on the run, and
knows every reef and rock of its 300' miles
of coast.
* • • •
Hear the bitter cry of a citizen of Moresby
in the Papuan Courier :
Vegetarian Gentleman in Government Service
(teetotaller) will sell ICE CHEST (small size).. In
spite of unlimited cash, unable to procure ice.—
Ivonidobu, c/o Courier.
Even for a vegetarian in small caps and a
teetotaller in brackets, what a useless posses-
sion is an ice-chest when fate forbids the
purchase of the only stuff that keeps meat
sweet and makes beer worth while.
* * * •
Mildura fruitgrowers have long wondered
why their products appear in the commercial
column of the Argus under the heading of
the Import Markets.” Of 11 lines of dried
fruit quoted recently nine are supplied almost
wholly by Victorian fruitgrowers, one other
is supplied in part, and dates are about the
only item in their proper place. Reason sug-
gests a heading such as “Dried Fruits,” but
apparently conservatism is superior to rea-
son where an Australian industry is con-
cerned.
* * *
“Sucre”: The Dago has been f iling his
pockets with “sugar” from cane-farming for a,
great number of years, though “P. Airey”
and “Jack Hogan” may not have brushed
shoulders with him. I was storekeeping
at Brandon (N.Q.) six years ago, and
supplied the steaka-da-egg men with the
best of eatables, cheese, olive-oil, prunes,
dates and Pilsener lager. They worked and
lived on the communal principle. I never
saw one drunk or workless in the five years I
lived in the district. Now the enterprising
immigrant from Mediterranean shores is pick-
ing the eyes out of the Atherton tableland
the richest country in N. Queensland, if not
in Australia^
The S. Aus. vintage is expected to be
only about six million gallons as against
the lecord yield of eight millions last season.
The average has been torn down by the
noithern vineyards, where heavy rains in the
flowering season and scorching’ heat in Feb-
uiary, did much damage. In the old ones
about Adelaide, and to the south the yield is
good, and the new vines on the Murray are
doing well. It may relieve cold-teaites to
know that a large part of their crop is
being dried for currants.
* * * *
“Hambone”: A liquid chemical prepara-
tion, claimed by its inventor and the people
pushing it commercially to prevent the de-
struction of jute-bags by rats and mice,
has wandered casually on to the market
without an excessive amount of trumpet-
blowing. The juice is the result of many
years experimental work by a North Syd-
ney doctor, and has undergone some strin-
gent tests successfully. The solution is sold
0.p., and after it has been diluted in 20
times its own bulk of water, the bags are
immersed until thoroughly wet. Cost per
bag, one penny. The preparation does not
taint the grain, and it has been proved that
rats would rather face Dr. Purdy than touch
the treated bags. If the stuff proves itself
Cocky ought to save the inventive doc. from
the necessity of an old-age pension.
* * * *
“Randolph Rentless”: The coolie Chow,
who is smuggled into Australia at the rate
of at least a score or so a year to work for
his Confucian boss in vegetable gardens, is
about the only justification left for the
phrase “Chinese cheap labor.” The skilled
Chow cabinet-maker in Sydney demands
award rates nowadays; and in the islands
Chow carpenters are being paid lbs. per day.
One Chow I know, who sits down with
more or less Christian friends to nlay poker
and can lose a hundred ouid without turn-
ing a hair of his pigtail, is the boss of four
vegetable gardens. He has no idea of bring-
ing his wife and family out of China; he
returns there once a vear. Ultimately he
intends to return for good. But his coolies
will remain.
“Bill R.”: “The Wanderer’s” contention
(B. 25/5/’22) that some Australian woods
beat American hickory for axehandles, was
well proven in Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) the
other day. A Jingera bushman lobbed into
tO" r n with a cartload of handles made from
white messmate, which he offered for 18
pence apiece. They were Australian stuff
and he wasn’t rushed with buyers. But
when he offered 10 bob to any man who
could break one, the town sat up. A lb-
stoner selected one of the handles, placed it
across the water-table and jumped on it. It
stood the ill usage without a creak. He then
put one end in a post hole and bent the
timber nearly double. It suffered that strain
also. But by that time it was the only
handle left. The crowd had bought up the
rest in armfuls.
“Azac”: Government experimental sta-
tions, herds, flocks, etc., very seldom pay for
upkeep. If there is any adverse comment
the taxpayer is told they are not there to
pay but to teach farmers, pastoralists and
dairymen how to do things along the right
lines. One object-lesson, at least, fell rather
flat the other day when the report of some
N.S.W. official herd-testing operations was
published. During the official testing year
iust closed, 540 privately-owned and 100
Government pure-bred cows were tested
under the United Rreeders’ scheme, and of
these 400 and 77 respectively reached the
standard. This means that the number of
standard milkers owned privately is 85.1
p.c., while onlv 77 p.c. of the Government’s
cows reached the same standard. It is to
be hoped that these particular Government
herds pay, as they are certainly no object-
lesson.


$4
m
&
JA
II
¥
i
* $£
fw
*ft
ft
T
m
~v
J^\\\\%\\\\\\VV^^%7
u
§£
rr
t, 1 x
m
YMt/mf. ;{aS
s^*S
V
%3
r jf
\
r
4.
!- . >
rr
j . > •.
> - \ v >
i®<-
1 •>>
IT is a truism that one half the
world does not know how the
other half lives—or works. The
age is so wonderful that familiarity
with great structures and new
machinery breeds contempt for the
unseen forces which are largely re-
sponsible for their rapid and success-
ful accomplishment.
The edifices of olden times took
in some cases one hundred years to
complete. To-day the same structure
is completed in as many weeks-
In the erection of the North Shore Bridge,
Sydney, as with many bridges already in
being, the small and insignificant Oxy-Acetylene
Welding Blowpipe will be largely responsible for
the rapidity and solidity of the work. Sections
which previously were riveted or bolted together
will be completely fused by the powerful Oxy-
Acetylene flame—the structure being made one
homogeneous indestructible mass of metal. But
bridge building is only one pha>e of Oxy-Acetylene
service. Comox Welders are available for every
factory plant, garage, machine shop, farm, and
home. No metal repairs are too difficult, too large or small.
The Comox Welder makes all broken metal parts strong, as
new for a trifle compared with the cost of replacement.
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN AND
ACCESSORIES LIMITED
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Agents :
Melbourne. —Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street.
Adelaide.—Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Grenfell Street.
Brisbane. —Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street.
Launceston. —Harrison Bros. & Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street.
Perth-Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
Suva, Fiji—Brown & Joske.
The North Shore Bridge,
Sydney, as it will appear
When completed.
COMOX


\/ENUS
V PENCILS
he laryeg selling
quality pencil in
the wovll
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A DRINK
THAT IS
AS
REFRESHING
AS IT IS
BENEFICIAL
BE SURE
YOU ASK
FOR
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
LIGMOLUENE
a
§
m
The
FI A IT
Chemists
Recommend
\* • i
For the Skin.
Every skin trouble,
whether superficial or
chronic, quickly yields
to the Liginolliene
treatment.
Liginolliene is un-
rivalled for the treat-
ment of Eczema,
Barber’s Rash, Ring-
worm and all skin dis-
eases.
AH Chemists
[5/6 & 7/6 tin:
or send 1/6 for
sample tin to
MALYON 8 SONS,
Sturt St., Ballarat.
Restful to the Eyes
Laurel Kerosene
The sott soothing glow from the lamp filled with
Laurel Kerosene is restful to the eyes of the
young and old. It makes reading and sewing by
night a real pleasure.
Laurel is clean burning and absolutely uniform.
It feeds freely to the wick and burns clearly and
steadily to the last drop, leaving no sediment in
the bowl of the lamp.
Laurel is equally good for heating and
cooking.
Don’t say Kerosene-
Say “Laurel”
<r
w
w
iynv
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PP P~!
LQ3
Throughout Australasia.
ALDILRDICIL
Brassfotmdry, WARRNAMBOOL.
Prompt Delivery
Plumbers’
Requisites
Windmill
Pumps
'Medium Bibs, Stops, etc., £in., fin., lin.
Standard Bibs, Stops, etc., £in., fin., lin.
Hose Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
Ferrules, etc.
Tank Cocks, fin., lin.
Well Pumps, Bore Pumps, Artesian
Cylinders, Check Valves, Ball Valves.
[2
fXON
*
•t
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE —Collins Street, Melbourne.
Established 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund Account
Reserve Liability to
Shareholders
Total
£5,000,000
£2,661,125
1,593,164
1,249,743
£5,504,032
Directors Slß JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager-. JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 135 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 23 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. Sir Robert Philp, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 42 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 20 branches,
LONDON OFFICE —7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the. World.
Robert Stout, C.J. of Muoriland, thiuly-
thatched, cherubic of countenance, smoothly
bland and the wearer of an impressive ziff, is
nearing the end of his judicial tenancy. He
landed on the Shaky Isles in 1845, and was
successively a school teacher, Prime Min-
ister, Minister for Education, Attorney-Gen-
eral and ardent no-license advocate. He Avill
be missed from the Bench by everybody but
the bloke in the dock, who has grown to
hate the heavenly smile with which Stout is
wont to deal out “time.”
“Coot”: Johxr Thomas Smith, mentioned
(B. l/6/’22) as the owner of Melbourne’s
first Treasury building, had many other
claims to distinction. He holds Melbourne’s
mayoralty record, having been in the chair
seven times; he was the builder and pro-
prietor of the city’s second theatre, the
Queen’s; he was the first schoolmaster and
• a member of its first Leg. and for a time
Minister for Mines. Also, he imported the
first donkey (four-legged 1 into A r ictoria. He
brought it from England in 1858, after he
had been to the Cold Country to present an
address from the Corporation to Queen Vic-
toria on the occasion of the marriage of the
Princess Royal. After that until Smith’s
death no Melb. panto, was complete without
a John Thomas’s donkey.
“Gregor” damps a blanket: —
It would not be practicable, as several Bulletin
writers have recently suggested, for Australia to grow
all, or even a fair proportion, of its medicinally-used
vegetable drugs. At various times in the past
attempts have been made to establish materia-
niedica farms such as there are in parts of America.
The last was close to Parramatta, in N. S. Wales.
But the results were discouraging. Strychnos nux
vomica, for instance, from which such substances as
the alkaloid strychnine and its salts, tincture of
nux vomica, etc., are obtained, has been proved to
require the climatic conditions prevailing on the
west coast of South Amercia. The quinine tree,
Cinchona calisai/a, is another instance of this. C.
calisaya occurs naturally in the hinterlands of
Peru and Brazil, in the Javary region of the latter
country. A sine qua non before it will flourish
anywhere else is a hot, steamy soil and atmosphere.
Often a medicinal plant will grow when transplanted
to foreign surroundings and look all right, but the
yield of the active principles contained in it will
be only a fraction of what it is in its natural
habitat. Of course, there are some plants with
medical value which could be grown here easily
and successfully. One is the medicinal poppy,
Papaver somniferum. Every year Australia imports
about £40,000 worth of opium and getting on for
£20,000 worth of morphine, heroin, apomorphine,
narceine, omnopon and other opium derivatives, all
of which are used for medical purposes. There
are other drugs to which the same applies, but as
for the large scale production of materia-medica
substances —well, it’s out of the question.
Perhaps the luckiest man of all those con-
nected with the Fenian mine, Meekatharra
(W.A.) —which, after having gold to the
value of about a million sterling torn out of
it, is at last beginning to look exhausted—is
W. H. James, a Sydney-sider. YVlien For-
tune came tapping at W.ll.J.’s door he was
plain Bill James the barber, of Geraldton,
the Murchison seaport. The lady appeared
in the guise of an old patron, who wanted
£5O for an eighth share in the Fenian. James
took some days to think over it, and when
the deal finally came off it was with the air
of a man who is doing a good turn for an
old friend that he paid over. Will.am makes
his investments at Randwick nowadays; but
the most preposterous of outsiders will never
give him odds like those he took in his shav-
ing saloon in the young morning of his career
as a money spinner.
“Zantliu.s”: A woman copyist working
amongst the archives of Paris brought to
light the fact, unknown by all the his-
torians, that in 1772 a band of French
argonauts landed in W.A. and took formal
possession of the country on behalf of
France. It is quite possible that a thorough
overhaul of the material in Lisbon and
Madrid, and also in Lima and Manila, might
throw quite new light on the discovery and
early exploration of Australia. Since the
Dutch struck it within less than 20 years of
their first voyage to the East Indies, it is
hard to suppose that the Portuguese bad not
done so during the century and a bit that
they had previously been sailing what they
called the eastern seas. It is certain that
they reached New Guinea within 15 years of
their first voyage across the Indian Ocean,
and Australia is just about as handy. But
then the Arabs had been prowling about the
East Indies long before the Portuguese
appeared and finished the conquest of Java,
a few days’ sail from N.-W. Australia, in
1478.
“Blanc”: The S.I.AV. fakir was by no
means the rarity that “Ashmead” (B.
25/5/’22) would seem to imagine. One of
the most famous battalions in the A.I.F. (I
regard it as the most famous) had the fol-
lowing cases. A man took off his boot, put
a bullet through his foot, put the boot on
again and reported wounded by a Jacko
sniper. Two tied the tapes of their rifle
covers to their triggers, jerked the covers
from the muzzle-end, smashing and scorch-
ing the jerking hand beyond repair, and re-
ported accidentally wounded while commenc-
ing to clean their rifles. These two cases
were not connected, but both men were
bowled, out through forgetting in their agony
to untie the incriminating tapes before re-
porting. A fourth put a bullet through his
foot after heaping sandbags thereon to col-
lect the scorch ; a fifth held his knee tight
against the butt of his rifle while firing a
grenade and let the kick smash his kneecap,
hoping, as he later admitted, merely to get
synovitis; a champion boxer blew half his
hand off, the last thing to be expected from
a stoush-artist. These men certainly had grit
of a sort. All the cases occurred during fright-
fully strenuous times. Not one of the men had
ever been regarded by his platoon as a Din-
kum or even a likeable character; still, t
would be the last to call them coward*.
What would psychologists call them?
“Norbell”: I knew that the house short-
age was pretty acute in the Speck, and I’d
been told that some of Hobart’s citizens were
camping out in the Domain in tents, but
it came as a bit of a surprise to see this
ad. flashed on the screen at a Launceston
picture-show the other evening: “Wanted,
central. 3 or 4 unfurnished rooms, kitchen-
ette. Apply”


Exquisite and Exclusive
Jewellery.
Pearl Drop
Pendant,
£BO.
Fine Diamond and Platinum Bow
Brooch,
£4O.
Diamond and
Platinum Pendant,
£2O.
Extra-quality, Gem-set Platinum Watch, on Moire Silk Band,
£5O.
All Platinum and Diamond Brooch,
£B4.
Finest-quality Diamond and Platinum
Bow Brooch,
£lOO.
Drummonds’ selection of Diamond Jewellery, Watches, etc.,
offers the choicest that is to be had in quality, design and
workmanship. Every article is made on their own premises
bv highly-skilled jewellers.
Illustrated King or Watch Catalogue sent Post Free
to any address.
®Sm. Brummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
0
v
%
‘Royal Cord’ * Nobby * 'Chain' • Usco'
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
‘FIRENZA.
SAFETY FIRST!
Earthenware Electric Fires are Shock Proof.
An earthenware electric fire is the only form of radiator
which provides absolute freedom from the risk of shock.
Easily cleaned by polishing with a damp cloth —ornamental
and economical.
Stocked in various colors: White, Brown, French Grey
and Black.
Our showrooms in all centres dis-
play earthenware fires, and types of
radiators to suit any home.
Illustrated list on application.
BRITISH MADE.
British General Electric Company Limited
NEW SOUTH WALES, except Newcastle District—MAGNET HOUSE, 154-56 Clarence
Street, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE—London Bank Chambers, Scott and Bolton Streets.
VICTORIA & SOUTH AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 590 Bourke St., MELBOURNE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 203-07 Murray Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND—Norman Bell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND—MAGNET HOUSE, 8 Willeston Street, WELLINGTON;
■ 238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
TASMANlA—Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone Co., Ltd., HOBART.
FlJl—Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.
«[•
wmm
mmw«m wit ***"; : ~ I
gassinnliSSl
skmSSSS!


Hotel de Luxe
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
lIALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners. Week Da vs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND
Tels.: Y3OOl. 3002. Apply Manager.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & '
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
4
“ THEY COME AS A BOON St A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL St THE WAVERLEY PEN.'
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
t -i
■,v.
%/
/ V
> 9
mV
V
?6fx
I :J^,
u\
X*i
'■U
n»»"'
RIDE A
BICYCLE
BUILT OF
FITTINGS
It will serve you as a reliable and
ever-ready servant for many years
and will cost practically nothing in
upkeep during that time.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH
Handbook post free
k
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
hill
m
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
takim*' URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood-vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THK SIGN OF THU TEMPORAL ARTERY.— (Dieulafey’a Temporal
SiK»-) “IT you should see between the eye and the root of the hair
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
vour arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
the most dangerous of alb viz... Uric Acid.”
I>r. J. h. S. BOTAIi.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABRISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from Cll ATE LA IN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
ONOTO INK-
BEST FOR ALL PENS.
Ask for
the New
Streamline
Model .
When you want to write, the Onoto is
always ready. When you have finished,
a twist with finger and thumb turns the
Onoto into a sealed tube, which cannot
leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of
ink, the Onoto Fills itself in a flash from
any ink supply, and cleans itself in filling
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Pipes
of
Quality.
Century-
Old
Briar.
The upper pipe features MARCEE-DE-LTJXE —a pipe of
super quality. Made from century-old French Briar,
specially hardened and seasoned, fitted with vulcanite
mouthpiece and excellently finished.... 15/-
The lower pipe shows a M ATI CEE —one of the famous
GBD quality —made from French Briar Root guaranteed
over 100 years old. Neatly marked —a pipe to be
proud of. 107-
all TOBACCONISTS AND STORES.
If you cannot obtain these pipes locally, send remittance
to "Box 502 G.P.O:, Sydney, and your order will receive
prompt attention.
From July 1 County Court Judge Moule
is to have 12 months’ leave. He was fitted
on to the Bench 15 years ago by the Bent
Government. It was a magnanimous act on
the part of the Premier, as Moule was the
man who displaced T'ummas for six years m
the representation of Brighton in the Beg.
Assembly. Moule has attended mainly to
insolvency work.
Died the other day at St. Kilda,
Vic., Dr. Leger Erson, a medico who
carried his clinical thermometer from
Maoriland to the W.A. goldfields, and thence
to Melbourne, where he has been prac-
tising for 15 years. He was a bustling,
beaming little man who loved to dabble in
public affairs. In W.A. he sat successively
on the Day Dawn and Ivalgoorlie municipal
councils, where his radiating geniality was
an offset to his extreme unpracticalness.
When he got back to Vic. it took little induce-
ment to get him to stand for Kooyong in the
Reps. Nominally a Laboritc, his principal
plank was a demand that the Commonwealth
should subsidise the drama, and begin by
building a National Opera House. This was
too much for Isooyong, and a materialistic
body of electors sent him back to his con-
sulting-room, minus his £25 deposit.
Adelaide University is going in for resi-
dential colleges for the first time in its half-
century of existence. The start is to be
made on the denominational principle, which,
while rotten in theory, has worked in
other Australian cities. Anyhow, the Uni-
versities can’t afford to provide colleges, and
there being no “pious founders” in this coun-
try to do so, the religious bodies, with their
wide power of raising funds, have to step
in. A big meeting in Adelaide Town Hall
resolved that a start shall be made with an
Anglican college. But sectarian spirit is not
very high in S.A., and leading members of
various other sects appeared on the plat-
form ; while the promoters promised that
no distinction as regards creed would be
made among the students. The Weslevans,
stronger in S.A. than in any other State,
are likely to follow suit before long.
When Australia House, London, was at
the zenith of its glory it held 429 employees
(most of whom, some people said, knew
nothing about Australia), and the salaries
were £118,702 per annum. That wasn’t
war expenditure; the giddy pinnacle was
reached long after the war. And Australia
House is only one of the seven establish-
ments this country maintains on the other
side of the world. Its vastness was due to
the dull but magnificent Fisher, who, like
his pupil, Hughes, had one remedy for every
ill—a new batch of annointments. This
wonderful pair spent the money which
should have built the South-to-North rail-
way in loading the Northern Territory with
nine departments and nine loads of officials.
Therefore the place became a vast loss, and
because of the loss the idea of nigger labor
for the North has got a new lease of life.
Logically, of course, the same crowd should
advocate niggers in Australia House, and
babus are easily found in London.
“Vulture” tells of a recluse and his
library :
Not all hermits are civilisation-proof. This one
was so unbarbered that the end of his nosS* and his
eyes were the only parts of his countenance visible,
lie visited the township but once a month for Ids
old-age-pension and his tea, sugar and flour, spending
the intervals, it was generally understood, in poring
over a filthy book which looked to be far older than
its possessor’s hedgelike whiskers. Nobody seems
to have thought of offering any other volume—but
then he gave no one a chance to offer him anything.
He was a rigid anti-conversationalist. One day he
blundered into the local institute. The librarian, at
closing time, had to get the township’s John Hop
to eject him. The contents of the place constituted
civilisation’s whisper in the recluse’s ear. His
savage thumps on the library door every morning
long before opening-time moved the citizens to
promise him a library of his own if he would resume
his less hectic existence in the bush. There was a
whip-round, and a cart full of books went out to
his cave. The drivers saw what, a little way off,
looked like a fanatical religious ceremony, consisting
of hand-flinging and leaps; but arrival on the scene
revealed that it was an exhibition of fury and des-
truction. The old chap was reviling and kicking
and jumping- upon his one-book library, which was
shedding leaves like a fowl shedding feathers in a
fight. “Curse yer!” he was yelling. “Forty year
ago the long-coated feller who taught me ter read
yer said yer was the on’y book in the world 1
Misled for 40 years, an’the world full o’books ! Me,
as is a heavy reader!” A leaf fluttered to the grin-
ning onlookers. They picked it up. It was a page
of the Bible.
“Digger’s Batman”: There were men in
the A.I.F. who couldn’t tell you the right
name of a single officer, except the one in
charge of their platoon. Most of the heads
were known by nicknames. In my lot, for
instance, there was “Texas Jack” (who had
revolvers belted on each hip), “Pierpont”
(because his name was Morgan), “Windy”
(whose sobriquet explains itself) and so on.
A cobber of mine was pulled up by the C.O.
as he was leaving the exercise field. He
explained that his officer had sent him off.
The C.O. insisted on the officer being parti-
cularised, refused a description and demanded
the name. “I don’t know his name,” stam-
mered the man, “I only know they call him
‘Boozer.’” “Look here, do you know my
name?” demanded the C.O. “You don’t!
Then what do you know me as, blast you?”
The Digger tried several evasive answers,
but on being cornered with a threat, decided
to give the truth a fly : “I never heard your
name, sir. All I know you as is ‘Mudgu,ts.’ ”
“Lud” : Cinema play-plots do occasionally
bear some relation to real life. Here’s a
true story which, in various guises, is no
stranger to the screen. A new comedy, “The
Lass o’ Laughter,” was recently acquired
by Alfred Butt (one of the “nobs” in the
London theatrical world) for production at
the Queen’s in Shaftesbury-avenue. The
piece is the work of two comparatively un-
known provincial actresses, Nan Marriott-
Watson and Edith Carter, who wrote it in
their spare moments on tour. It was sub-
mitted to a London manager, who refused
it, as one of the authors puts it, “without
thanks”: a London agent returned the MS.
just as contemptuously. A little later on the
young women produced their play themselves
at Leamington—an easy run from Fogtown.
It was a success and various West End
managers made offers for it. One of them
was the gentleman who had turned it down.


■ ■ ’
' .
m
Hi
Hi
:v*;
111
«
m
%m
n
■
il l&x > N*W'*>^>»'>.-^-w<Av'^ l xWY<<^>>WyW»»x* l >A>wwwwxw»y<»x
*^^"^«^^^^^-T^wrt^rT^l^^T^“rrrTrwTrr , rrT'rT'i'« v v':^■f-TrTTrTTTTTTtT^TTTTn , TTt ,^nf~rrs^> TTTl'’rw§Ss--l/ M i
mm
h
vm
Wjy-.'m
1
s m
':" ■?. '"./■ ZL" *
, :
me
, :K
it V J
. V' <■
j£
IMUI
iw
mtm
- -
- V.
m
- .... •■
V
■
Ml
:-} r \m :' v3l
■
p
se?s
Hi
i
? ,•/
5 E :
SssSSffiSi&SteK!
*Ss»*a£i£S?S*
~.. ~.
. ■ ■ ;
■
IV
Wa
U&c<2¥ 3*4&ro*£2te&tt«
? /
x-x '»y'< :■%& -
nM ■
II
//'mi
// f A
*■
ill
3sa*S&a*g*gS^
■
AIM
w
LIM
.*■• ■ *
•: V.:
.. Si.
IHH I
■ ,
o m?m
% mm
;' t V
IISPiIiSI
: oSSES
h m
; i |
'» MW*. 1
ix ?•*
>• V\v.
■ V
* x '$ A
I
r - , <&,
mm x
;
W.
»HKI
HI
■HHHI
':
.
SMflfi
Hi:
i
>. . : ’ ''' x .. ..: .
||J
5C
&* <jo *. ', - * (i - < ,v; <«> 4** ' i
X '■ . t , i 'iT 'v'v, '?. fs'' ■ ,
,-vl-
U«y -, ' -%r w * !
■Hkx"- ".v
~ v
■
e
'mpanionsfiiv of aP(aijL
vr~i lano
is never
-enewtf.
ing the first month of possession does one explore
the uttermost depths of a player-instrument’s capacity
for good fellowship. Nor yet in the second or third months.
Great indeed is the pleasure of those early days of ownership—but sensuous
rather than intellectual. True intellectual enjoyment comes a little later —when
one’s use of the various controls has become instinctive. Then it is that the wonder
ful, never-ending power of the player as an entertainer is experienced to the full.
The New Beale Player-Piano combines in one instrument more of those proved
devices for interpretive control than have hitherto been obtainable.
Printed matter post free.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
BEALE
AND
UR
COMPANY
par
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES—/V.5. 1V.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania : Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. IV.A.: J. A.Thomson
Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE 6C COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street (Opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane.
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rochampton, Townsville, Mackay.


A. Saunders’
double-cut. Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£75.
A. Saunders’ 16ct. Gold Links,
set two double-cut Diamonds,
£B/10/-
Smaller Diamonds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brocoh, 15et.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring. I Set.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Bing. ISet. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18< t. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Disffnond
Scarf Pin,
16ot. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
16ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Three-bar
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
Exclusive Diamond Jewellery
A. Saunders’ Lady’s v>ct. Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £lO. Others, £5/10/-, £O/30/-,
• -£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Expanding W'atch Bracelet,
full-jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£l2/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Square
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, fancy dial,
£l2/10/-
ORDERS BY POST.
We give Special attention to the satisfactory fulfil-
ment of Orders 1/ Mail, the same care being given
to your Requirements as if you called personally.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Broo'ch, lbct.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. G-cld, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. jSaunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, Millgrain
Setting, 18ct. Gold,
£3O.
A.. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
ISct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £llO,
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintilj' engraved,
20/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
"Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ot. Gold,
£l2/10/-
V. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 16ct. Gold,
£35.
JEWELLER, 805-815 QEORQE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
iN
n
1
/
'\V\\<
as
'A
*!»«
s Oohnson
■“**<H
Better Floors— Better Homes
Well kept floors—poashed with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
cPaste — Liquid — Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson's
Wax —there is no substitute
S. a JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St Sydney, N. S. W.


Amusement'
SY 1> NK VS CIII K T TIIKAT U E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON', LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
CIO I I- 111 ON ■
THE GREAT LOVER.
ROYAL:
THE LIE.
PALACE:
THE FIRST YEAR.
T OW N HALL. SYI) > EY.
* JUNE 20.
INTERNATIONAL TOURS LTD. present
GUY MAIER
and
LEE PATTISON,
in
CONCERTS OF MUSIC
FOR TWO PIANOS.
For Sale.
Newspaper For Sale.
fPHE NEWSPAPER PLANT AND
X BUSINESS of the Kukri Kurri
Times, established 18 years. Published
weekly at Kurri Kurri, the centre of the
South Maitland coalfields. To an energetic
newspaper man or printer this is the chance
of a lifetime. Only once changed hands in
18 years. Good reasons for selling.
Particulars and price
REG. C. POGONOSKI,
Proprietor,
1 143 Beaumont Street, Hamilton.
Public Notices.
TO ARTISTS.
NATIONAL ART GALLERY OF
N.S.W., SYDNEY.
The Archibald Prize.
T.V terms of the Bequest of the late J. F. ARCIII-
-1 BALD, the Trustees of the NATIONAL ART
GALLERY invite artists to submit paintings in
competition for the above annual prize, which will
be awarded to the BEST PORTRAIT, “preferentially
of some man or woman distinguished in Art, Letters,
Science or Polities, painted by any artist resident in
Australasia during the twelve months preceding the
date fixed by the Trustees for sending in the pic-
tures.”
Portraits painted during the year 1922 will be
eligible. Paintings suitably framed must be
forwarded free of expense and responsibility to the
National Art Gallery, the Domain, Sydney, on or
before the 31st day of December, 1922.
One prize will be awarded, the value of which
will be approximately £4OO. Forms of conditions
on application. G. V. F. MANN. Director. (Y 3319)
Diggers Can Realise on Their
Gratuity Bonds at Lowe’s.
THOUSANDS HAVE DONE SO
DURING LAST 12 MONTHS.
To many Diggers a Gratuity Bond has been
more in the nature of an Endowment Policy
—Their record of service at the Front con-
stituting the premiums. Being the possessor
of a Bond under such circumstances is not
of much avail to those in need of immediate
cash. However, Lowe’s offer a solution by
which Diggers can realise, in the shape of
Men’s and Boys’ Wear, on Bonds up to £3O.
All the holder of a Bond of £3O and under
has to do is to see the Secretary at Lowe’s
George Street Store (opposite Queen Vic-
toria Markets). He will undertake all the
work in connection with the transfer, and
selection can then be made, of Men’s and
Boys’ Wear, to the full value of the Bond
with interest added.
By this means Diggers can obtain first-class
tailoring-to-order, ready-made suits, hats,
shirts, boots, boys’ clothing—-in fact, any-
thing that Lowe’s stocks —at the same price
as an ordinary customer. It takes only a
few days to do the whole job. without the
slightest trouble. Over £20,000 worth of
Holds have been accepted during the last
12 months, and not one Bond-holder has
been disappointed.— Advt.
Monarch
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Everything Ends In Smoke.'
Let the “Smoke” be
a Good One!
Monarch Cigars have a full
Havana filler of selected leaf
of high quality, chosen with
the greatest care and entirely
hand made.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d. each.
Special sampling cabinet con-
taining 10 cigars. 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9; 100,
46/-
Post paid to any address in
the Comonwealth.
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 Georgs Strset, Sydney.
Distributors for Club Reil
Cigar Factory.
THe Cig'ar
for Quality
Amusements.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
I’ItOIII CTIONS
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
Australasian Representative. HUGH l>. WILSON,
17 'I he Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
QX TOUK, DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
C. WILLIAMSON, Llli., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEW COMIC OPERA CO. IN
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY.
THE ORIGINAL ABBEY* THEATRE COMPANY.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
U OYT’B THEATRES, MELBOURNE
* 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
WHY ANNOUNCE YOUR MARRIAGE?
CARMEL MYERS in
A DAUGHTER OF THE LAW.
Prices as usual.
The famous English
HUMPHREY BISHOP
COMEDY AND OPERATIC COMPANI
Under direction J.. and N. Tait,
KING’S THEATRE’ MELBOURNE.
Amusement*.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“She has no tqual.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
Matinefis Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
1* he sistine choir.
MELBOURNE CLOSING JUNE 17
BRISBANE OPENING JUNE 20
ADELAIDE OPENING JUNE 28
gIiITANMA ’•’IIEATEK. A! ELRO U liN li.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION Pl( TURKS.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, .MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGKAPII, I’ATHE,
WO It I n Sl.rl «!■ | 7\’lt-K
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
IP'VERSHARP leads are made to ex-
actly fit all Eversharp pencils And
a pencil as good as Eversharp is worthy
of leads specially made for it—particu-
larly when they cost no more than
ordinary leads.
For the Man of Action
/""VNE'S pencil bespeaks one's
moods and habits Nibbled
point —dull lead—whittled tip—each
reveals distinct characteristics.
Just so an Eversharp bespeaks for
its user the same accuracy and effi-
ciency that the pencil itself contrib-
utes to the user’s work. Eversharp
has a patented tip which insures a
firm point that is always sharp with-
out ever being sharpened It has
pocket clip or chain ring
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A
Be sure it's an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO ARE. Ltd..
Remington House, Liverpool St* Sydney
The NEW EDISON means
happy winter evenings.
The cold, wet evenings of winter are here now—and
with their coming every member of the family
feels disinclined to go out, even when the attraction
101
DDuDOBeQ
is a concert or the theatre. Some-
how, it is more comfortable at home
by the fireside!
But, after all, there’s no real need to go- out, for
the best of music is at your command tjhrdugh The
NEW EDISON—the perfect home entertainer;
and the one instrument that does not merely;imitate,
but faithfully Ite-Creates the performances' of the
world’s greatest artists just as you hear
them in the concert hall.
Yes! You need a New Edison this winter.; Write
now for descriptive literature tfo Thonfcas A.
Edison, Limited, 364-372 Kent Street,
Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture,!
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON GIIASBY,
F. Agricultural Editor of the
Western Mail, Lecturer in Agricul-
ture and Fruit Growing, Perth
(Australia) Technical School. Fully
Illustrated. ss.
Pork Production. By Prof. W. W.
SMITH. With a Chapter on the
Prevention of Hog Diseases by Prof.
It. A. CRAIG. 10s. net.
Science of Dairying. By W. A. G.
PENLINGTON, M.A., Science Tutor,
Auckland Training College, New Zea-
land. Illustrated. 3.5.
The Book of Butter: A Text on the
Nature, Manufacture and Marketing
of the Product. By EDWARD S.
GUTIIRIE, I’h.D. Illustrated. 11s.
uec.
The Book of Cheese. By CHARLES
THOM and WALTER W. FISK.
Illustrated. 12s. Od. net.
The Story of Milk. By JOIIAN I).
FREDERIKSEN. 9s. net.
Dairy Farming. By Prof. C. 11.
ECKLES, D.Sc., and Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 9s. net.
Dairy Cattle and Milk Production.
By C. 11. ECKLES, D.Sc. Illus-
trated. 12s. Od. net.
Manual of Milk Products. By Prof.
W. A. STOCKING, 10s. net.
Milk and its Products. A Treatise
upon the Nature and Qualities of
Dairy Milk and the Manufacture of
Butter and Cheese. By IIENRY H.
WING. 13s. net.
The Modern Milk Problem. Its
Sanitation, Economics, and Agricul-
ture. By J. SCOTT MACNUTT.
Illustrated 10s. Od. net.
Co-operation in Agriculture. By
G. H. POWELL. 13s. net.
Mathematics for Students of Agri-
culture. By Prof. S. E. Rasor. 10s.
net.
Beginnings in Agriculture. By A.
It. MANN. 7s. Od. net.
Productive Agriculture. By Prof.
J. H. GEHRS, B.S. Illustrated.
Is. Od. net.
The Teaching of Agriculture. By
G. A. BRICKER, M.A. Ss. Od. net.
Elements of Agriculture. By Prof.
G. F. WARREN. Illustrated. 10s.
net.
The Principles of Agriculture.
Edited by L. H. BAILEY. 10s. net.
The Principles of Agriculture. By
C. A. STEBBINS, M.S. Illustrated.
Bs. net.
The Small Grains. Bv M. A. CAR-
LETON, M.S. 17s. net.
The Wheat Industry. Bv N. A.
BENGTSON, A.M., and D.‘ GRIF-
FITH, A.M. Illustrated. Os. Od.
net.
Field Crop Production. By GEORGE
LIVINGSTON. Illustrated. 10s. net.
The Principles of Agronomy. A
Text-book of Crop Production. By
F. S. HARRIS, Ph. D.. and GEORGE
STEWART, B.Sc. Illustrated. 10s.
net.
The Corn Crops. By Prof. E. G.
MONTGOMERY. Illustrated. 12s.
it. - .
The School-Book of Farming. Bv
L. 11. BAILEY. Os. net.
Effective Farming. By H. O. SAMP-
SON. 10s. net.
Farm Management. By Prof. G. F.
WARREN. Illustrated. 13s. net.
Farm and Garden Rule-Book. Bv
Prof. L. 11. BAILEY. Illustrated.
17s. net.
Manual of Practical Farming, Bv
JOHN MCLENNAN, Ph.M. Illus-
trated. 12s. .net.
Electricity for the Farm. By F. I.
ANDERSON. 10s. 6d. net.
Spraying of Plants. By E. G. LODE-
MAN, 12s. net.
Chemistry of Plant and Animal
Life. By H. SNYDER, B.S. Third
Edition. 12s. 6d. net.
Elementary Chemistry of Agricul-
ture. Bv S A. WOODHEAD,
M. F.I.C. 3s. Od.
The Fertility df the Land. By
ISAAC PHILLIPS ROBERTS. 20s.
net.
Soils: Their Properties and Man-
agement. By Prof. T. L. LYON,
Prof. E. O. FIPPIN and Prof. 11. O.
BUCKMAN. Illustrated. ISs. net.
The Soil: Its Nature, Relations and
Fundamental Principles of Manage-
ment. By Professor F. 11. KING.
12s. net.
The Chemistry of the Garden. By
HERBERT H. COUSINS, M.A.
With an introduction by J.
WRIGHT. F.R.11.5. 2nd Revised
Edition. 25 % net.
Agricultural Meteorology. The
Effect of "Weather on Crops. By
J. WARREN SMITH. 13s. net.
Crops and Methods for Soil Im-
provement. By ALVA AGEE,
M.S. Illustrated. 10s. net.
Soils and Plant Life as Related to
Agriculture. By Prof. J. C. CUN-
NINGHAM and W. H. LANCELOT.
Illustrated. 9s. net.
Macmillan's Illustrated List of Books
on Agriculture, etc., will l>e sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


A Signal Success
e
orgelV
WISW
The TOPNOTCHScotch.
We made the
IURHAMI-IuPLEXI
Safe Razor
to take the place of your old
standard open razor. Take
one in your hand! It’s got
the old familiar feel of the
old-fashioned razor!
BUT IT’S SAFE.
mum
AH Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor —feel it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it- It's a revelation 1
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Night Out”
Criterion ‘‘The Great Lover”
Royal “The Lie”
Palace “The First Year”
Hoit’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall ... Guy Maier and Lee Pattison Concerts
MELBOURNE- SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Little Dutch Girl”
Royal “The White-headed Boy”
Palace “Spangles”
King’s Humphrey Bishop Co.
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
In Wee Georgie Wood, the programme at
Melbourne Tivoli has acquired the posi-
tively best vaudeville sketch “turn” the city
ever saw. That is to say, the combination
of humorous realism in the little comedy,
and truth in the impersonations, has not
been rivalled within this paper’s recollection.
A thick-set boy of 10 or 12, with a husky
voice to match his appearance, is saturated
with the gospel of Deadwood Dick, and his
duologue with Mother concerning The Gang
he is captain of, and an evening party at
Auntie’s, whereto he is invited to go and
sing, supplies an entertainment that lasts
about 45 minutes and seems not half so
long. An incidental policeman, who hasn’t
come to arrest the boy after all, is a minor
consideration. Viewed from the d.-c. Georgie
Wood looks hardly more than the age he is
supposed to be. His legitimate, straight
character-acting is one long laugh, inter-
rupted only by the boy’s sobs when Mother
smacks him, or his spasm of alarm when
the policeman drops in. The sketch is well
written and brightly staged. Dolly Ilar-
mer, remembered as a panto girl, makes her
reappearance as George’s substantial parent,
and the two capital songs her stage offspring
sings are natural outcomes of the domestic
story. “Black-hand George” is going to he
talked about at every Melbourne tea-table.
The appeal is universal.
S: * :je *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the endeavor of
“A Little Dutch Girl” just at present is to
live down some press notices that conflicted
violently with J.C.W. nublieities concerning
that not very interesting hybrid. Every-
thing produced by the Firm in a fairly im-
portant manner commands a certain mea-
sure of attention, and if the efforts of Rene
Maxwell, Gracie Lavers, Gee, Steyne and
Flemming can make the attention very re-
spectful “A Little Dutch Girl” will put its
deriders to confusion. Meanwhile the
strength of principals hardly looks equal
to the job, nor is the assistance of the
chorus worth very much.
v :Jc ;J{ >|c
Except that Ada Reeve lias put two song
changes into her portion of “Spangles,” the
show at Melbourne Palace remains as it
was from the outset of the boom. The six-
tieth performance was recorded last week, and
still the grocery emporium is run on operatic
lines, whilst Gus McNaughton in the toy-
shop is the weird, peculiar kid who flies to
his widowed mother for consolation, and re-
“A Night Out,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Alfred Frith as
Pinglct. “Henpecked!
I'm so henpecked
that when I'm in my
hath I look like a
grayere cheese!”
news his gambols every time she kisses his
infant brow and slaps his brother by way
of balancing the account.
3! * 3« *
Melbourne’s Mermaid Play Society will
have three nights out —June 22 to 24—at the
Playhouse next week. The coming double
bill is “Soiree on the Neva,” by Lenglen, and
“The Marriage of Columbine,” by Harold
Chapin. They should be interesting offer-
ings on the altar of Literary Drama. The
♦
Russian story deals with Petrograd aud Bol-
shevism in 1920. The author, Lenglen, has
quite recently scored a success in New i'ork
with “Czarina,” a play that gives a big
name-part to Doris Keane. Chapin, who
was killed in the war, was a brainy young
dramatist who specialised in “working-class”
characterisation, and his “Marriage of
“Columbine” will presumably be as forcible
in its way as his “The Dumb and the Blind,”
the curtain-raiser to “Mr. Pim Passes By”
when it was played by the Marie Tempest
company at the King’s.
At Melbourne Royal, where they are pre-
paring to receive “The White-headed Boy,”
the difference between an honestly droll
story of Irish life and the unintentional
absurdity of “The Bat” wil be revealed on
Saturday. Until then .“The Bat” will flap
its wings in darkness and dabble them in
blud as before.
* * * 3s
Humphrey Bishop’s alert vaudeville show
at Melbourne King’s was bound to do it.
“The Gnat,” fresh from the topical factory
of Edward Elliott, the ventriloquist of the
co., is a lightning parody of that wondrous
bird of prey which is about to Vacate its
nest at the neighboring Royal. With Bren-
nan as an imperturbable lady who orders
all corpses to be taken into the library, and
the rest of the Bishop forces doing their
bit on similar lines, the skit at the King’s
keeps the initiated well and truly tickled.
* 3s * *
The Sistine Choir has extended its season
at Melbourne Princess’s, and will repeat the
now familiar “O
Salutaris.” “Bene-
dictus,” “Alleluia,”
etc., until next
Saturday’s matinee.
In a theatre where
an Italian opera
company sang for
many weeks whilst
the war was still
young, the Italian
tang in the Choir’s
voices is much
more noticeable
than it was at the
Town I-lall.
❖ sje i]i %
Melbourne Town
Hall has seen the
last of Seidel, but
Spivakovsky is to
give three final
farewell piano reci-
ta 1 s t o-n ig h t
(Thursday), Satur-
day and next Tues-
day. The violinist
came into his own
at the finish, and
it was a crowded
hall that heard
him play himself
off the premises
with Dvorak’s
Humoresque for
his valedictory en-
core. On the 24th
conies D’Alvarez, a
“Spangles,” at Mel-
bourne Palace.
Gus McNaughton as a
prehisloric motorist of
the future.
contralto singer, of whom the advertisement
can saying nothing too glowing.
* * ijc
“Why Announce Your Marriage?” at
Iloyt’s, Melbourne, is a bedroomy farce that
is liable to extract a distressed giggle from
the sourest Christian En'deavorer. In more
serious vein we have the problem of a police-
man’s daughter (Carmel Myers) trying to
save a waster brother from the clutch of
the law. At Iloyt’s Lyceum the Pathe star,
Dolores Cassinelli, has an exciting time in
“Tarnished Reputations.” The Majestic’s
main suit is Pauline Frederick in “Roads of
Destiny.” It is not O. Henry’s devious tale,
but a muddled melodrama in which Pauline
plays with incomparable spirit. “Snow
Blind” is the follow-on. “Why Girls Leave
Home’* is now lecturing to parents at the
Britannia, and a “Glorious Day” shines at
the Melba.
** * *
The work of Miss A. M. E. Bale is con-
spicuous for good color and vivacious treat-
ment in the Women’s Art Club line-up at
the Melbourne Athenaeum. One canvas, un-
accountably entitled “Electric Light,” is a
, simple, unaffected study of a smiling girl
who deserves to be dressed in something
brighter than brown. The well-fleshed hip
of a plump young Venus, who is tickling an
owl with a peacock’s feather, is an unusual
feature of interest in Miss Cumbrae Stew-
art’s chief adventure in pastels. She offers
another peep at a half-nude in No. 113, but
the face is too beautiful to be true. Marion
Jones, now in England, sends a well-painted
portrait of a flinty-looking, white-haired
matron which has rather a repellent effect.
A smart sketch of Marie Tempest by Dora
L. Wilson takes the eye, and there is a self-
conscious nude by the same artist that is
overwhelmed with the name of “Circe.” The
portrait of a young lady (No. 26) by Miss
M. Pye is defective about the right eye.
Weak painting is noticeable in the facetious
Mascot” from the same brush.
Ihe. Prince of Wales has jumped to the
front in Adelaide shows with a revival of
the old “Dean Maitland.” Fitzberbert has
played the lead in it in the same house be-
fore this, but now he takes a smaller part,
a real parson, Frank Gorman, coming in
as the silent Dean with crime on his con-
science. It is a sound rendering, and Gor-
man includes an unusual touch by breaking
into song. The ladies are rushing' the York.
In "Wild Honey,” the heroine was twice in
the grasp of cave-men, and was saved onlv
by timely firearms. In “The Sheik” there
is no gun available. Of course, the censors
have taken care that the lurid details of
the novel are net presented. On the other
hand outdoor effects are staged on the
large scale. Harold Lloyd is particularly
funny at Wondergraph, and Clyde Cook at
the Pav., which also starts a stirring series
of “Leather Pushers”—a pleasant way of
indicating stousli. The drama at West’s is
very domestic and American. The State
Orchestra, with Foote conducting, has
crowded the Town Hall for an evening rang-
ing from “Lohengrin” to “Aida,” from Sulli-
van to Schumann.
** * *
At Preece’s Gallery in Adelaide is a good-
sized show of Eldershaw’s water-colors.
Since his residence in Tasmania he has come
on greatly, justifying the judgment of the
body of backers who made an artistic career
possible to him. He is strangely old-
fashioned in his effects, the figure in the
landscape foreground and the arbitrary
brown tree-foliage recalling the traditions
of away back in the last century. And he
has the strength of .treatment which water-
colorists so often lack.
** * *
Frank Craven’s “The First Year,” which
arrived at Sydney Palace on Saturday, is
a comedy wherein lurks, one is invited to
believe, a moral—like the olive in the cock-
tail. It is that, if Edwin and Angelina—
in this case Tommy and Grace—can steer
past the preliminary matrimonial rocks, the
rest of the voyage will be plain sailing. But
whether the pair at the Palace would have
reached the blue water of peace and safety
unless Tommy had made a financial punch
by selling some real estate which he had
picked up cheap for 125,000 dollars to a
railway company is a little doubtful. The
babe-to-be whose existence is delicately indi-
cated might have done it. And again it
mightn’t.
The scene is laid in Missouri, IT.S.A. The
geographical setting is responsible for a
doubt as to whether Phillips Tend as “Tommy
1 ucker” is trying to use the Missouri
accent forcedly or employing the down-east
lank one naturally. His pronounced “burr”
might even be plain West of England (Bris-
tol or Somerset). Still, it doesn’t detract
from Ins handling of the part; it may even
improve it. Marjorie Bennett is an attrac-
tive Grace, perhaps at her best when she
is dragging a timid lover over the proposal
stile. Lorna Helms as “Hattie” satisfied
the audience. Maggie Moore as Grace’s
mother, and H. B. Roberts as “Dr. Myron
Anderson.” the young couple’s deputy pro-
vidence, are old favorites who never go
wrong.
** * *
Louis Bennison gets his gun for absolutely
the last time to-night (Thursday).. He will
jump from Sydney Royal to tiie Criterion,,
and from a rollicking role to a romantic
one. on Sat.mhiy. The new play is “The
Great Lover.”
* ❖ sj: ije
“The Lie” will transfer to Sydney Royal
to-morrow (Friday) night; Emelie Pol'ini
and Frank Harvey leading the migration,
and the decayed baronet, his butler, dog and
thirst bringing up the rear.
* Jjc *
Wesley Barry is getting every variety of
laiiid) from the mild giggle to the robust
out-back yell or howl in Booth Tarkington’s
enrod.” The picture is at present at
Sydney Ilaymarket. Here also is Olive Tell
m ‘Love Without Question.” Miss Tell •
plainly a descendant of Bill of that
name—blunders into situations every
bit. as ticklish as the fruitarian one
winch immortalised her illustrious an-
cestor. At Hoyt’s Australian Harry
Carey (hero of the woolly pants and arni-
chaiy saddle) is first glimpsed in “Man to
Man as a beachcomber. But the scenario-
writer is too much of a tradesman to let
him remain there, and he duly finishes up
on the prairies. The supporting film has a
monkey for the star role—a scheme which
has its virtues. The animal having no pockets
is unable to horde a fabulous salary A
w per diem is all it asks. Harold
Bell \\ right, America’s leading pink novel-
“f l or Jf ale ,P e 0 has his “The Shepherd
of the Hills showing at the Shell.
** * *
When the shadows lengthen in Pitt-street,
Sydney, the gallery-girls gather outside Her
Majesty s Theatre. The magnet is “A Night
Out, ’ which will be remembered In stage
history until it is forgotten. In it Frith has
a part that fits him like a glove, and Maud
I ane exhibits some new mannerisms that
suit her not at all; also, there is no dearth
of clever people like Madge Elliott, Millie
Engler, Cyril Kite-hard, Cecil Kellaway, Field
Fisher, Jack Hooker and Rita Nugent. And
the public eye rests approvingly on Eve
Gray, although the winsome young woman
says little and abstains from song.
THE HUMPHREY BISHOP COMEDY
CO., AT MELBOURNE KING’S.
Humphrey Bishop conducting his orchestra ,
and Bert Crawford, the jazz drummer.
Sydney Tivoli's pair of new arrivals, Belle
Pollard and Walter Whyte, reveal a reper-
tory that ranges from the popular yearn-
song to the operatic gem. Sam Stern and
his character-sketches, and George Arm-
strong, of the one leg and the delightful
voice, are still booming. j_>ut Talbot
O’Farrell makes his final exit to-morrow
night, and George Carney and Malcolm Scott
will be the headliners as from Saturday.
* * s£ Hi
Jascha Spivakovsky once more linked up
with the Orchestra at Sydney Town Hall on
Saturday night, and with its assistance
demonstrated Tschaikowsky and Mozart in
a manner that deserved a bigger audience.
The Mozart Concerto in A Major was a
triumph of musical rapport between the
Orchestra and the piano. Skalski had his
instruments well under the baton, and the pian-
ist’s rounded purity of tone in the Andante
was a thing as vividly beautiful as a growing
tree. But of course it was in the Tschai-
kowskv B Flat Minor Concerto that Skalski
and Jascha really got into their stride. It
was then that a vista of the boundless
steppes, and free-booters and free lovers, and
the shattering of the stone tablets that held
the Ten Commandments filled the echoing
spaces. After the pianist had dashed a cool-
ing spray over his temperament by shaking
hands with the Smiths 1 * Joneses and Robinsons
back of the stage, he returned in response to
the howling dervishes in front, and restored
them to cathedral calm by turning his
perfect technique on to Brahms’s Capriceio.
** * *
Another post-mortem :—•
Two recent Sydney exhibitions of paintings—by
Penleigh Boyd at the Education Galleries, and by
Septimus Power at Horderns’ —were well above the
average. Yet neither .painter’s work was of that
quality which impels the critic to go back and
back—which is the quality that makes art live.
Boyd fails because he believes, like many other
painters, that in landscape he must dictate to his
subject. lie has formed a habit, which was very
evident in his best work, “The Top of the Hill,’’
of modifying all lights and shades in the fore-
ground in order to centre the chief contrasts in the
near middle distance. Ilis work must lack convic-
tion, while, for example, he continues to lower the
relative tone of the sky (as lie has done in his
“Serenity”) to such an extent that it becomes unrea-
sonable to believe that it could be the source of
the light which falls on the landscape. Power does
not go as far as he might for apparently similar
reasons, and because even more than Boyd he
relies on a hold and too-obvious technique. This was
least noticeable in “Beach Scene, Hastings.” which
with others of his small pictures constituted his most
convincing and, therefore, his best work.
“Cornstalk”: Kathlene Macdonell, the
lady who dashed a hand-mirror on the stage
floor when some Sydney gallery girls tittered
during the first performance of “The Willow
Tree,” has been appearing on Broadway in
“The Deluge.” S. J. Kaufman, the critic,
remarks unkindly that Kathlene “has not
begun to act the part of Sadie as Pauline
Lord acted it.”
From the boss of the Presbyterian Inland
Mission, Carnarvon (W.A.) :
Please accept my thanks for inserting the letter
of “A Bushman” (B. 20/4/’22) dealing with our
distribution of reading matter to men and women
out back in this district. The blessing which you
bestowed upon the appeal in that letter has evi-
dently caused it to grip the hearts of your readers,
for from all over the Commonwealth, and even from
far away N.Z., there has come a stream of maga-
zines and papers which will be very usefull indeed.
Where the sender put his name on his parcel I hare
endeavored to acknowledge his kindness direct, but
may I ask you to convey to those who sent magazines,
etc., anonymously our best thanks? The large
stocks which are now coming forward will enable us
to considerably extend the scope of our operations
and to keep the various shearing teams in the dis-
trict well supplied with reading matter.


STROPPING ?
I carry it
in my Head
O
¥/
V M
im
STANDARD SET (No. 1)
contains heavily silver-plated,
self-stropping razor, 12 tested
" Valet ' blades and genuine
"Valet" strop, complete in
durable case lined 2716
velvet and satin , “ * / v
I AM a self-sufficient sort of a razor, 1
know exactly what a man needs in order
to get a smooth, perfect shave every morn-
ing, and 1 am designed to do the whole job,
not just a part of it.
Easily the most important part of a shave is the operation
tnat goes before—and after. Ihe stropping and the cleaning.
My way is to do my own stropping. I carry a device
in my head which strops my blade accurately and quickly.
You should see me run up and down a strop. You don’t
have to worry about “touch” or knack. You don’t need
any separate stropping machine.
There is no need to detach my blade even for cleaning.
A rinse in water and a rub along my strop is sufficient
to leave the edge of my blade keen for the next shave.
Ask for me at any good razor shop— my name is
“VALET”—and my surname is “AUTOSTROP”
the razor that sharpens itself.
1 would like to make your acquaintance I
“VALET
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PI lIP SON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The word "Valet" on Razors, Strops and Blades Indicates the genuine product of tie Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng,
ROAD-MAKING MACHINERY. The “RUWOLT”
All Australian Made.
i
tk
mmoLt
%
/T
XggK
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR and TROMMEL
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORI,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION.
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHASo RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE { Hawthorn * 675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS?
"RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


1
m
V
m
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR. INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT dePIETE
D.EI. COY. LTD,
74 Ccjstlere«a<£h St. Sydney. 74
Phono City Q 325.
Capital §. 300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the y.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and 1. Co. Ltd.”.
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle. N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
J97a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
[?] Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“E.T.”: Joseph Coyne and Wilkie Bard
lost little time getting back into harness in
London. Wilkie was warbling “1 Want to
Sing in Uproar” at the Victoria l'alace a
few days after he got: off the boat, and
Joseph was immediately “approached” re-
garding an engagement to play his old part,
Prince Danilo, in a revival of “The Merry
Widow.”
Boy Redgrave was a little too warmly
attached to the stuff that leudeth its color
to tiie cup, with the result that be was not
the most reliable man to have about the house.
“A Night Out,” at
Sydney Majesty’s.
Cyril Rite-hard as
Paillard, who studies
lore from hooks.
On one occasion,
when lie was ap-
pearing at Mel-
bourne King’s, he
played a longish
part in a highly
emotional drama in
such a manner as
to win the warm-
est encomiums of
an Argus man,
who met him after
the show. The
pressman wru u g
the actor’s hand
“A fine hit of
work,” said he.
“The art that con-
ceals artifice.. I
never saw a drunk
so admirably sue
Rested, o-r with
such fine restraint,”
“T am glad you
liked the restraint.”
said Redgrave. “As
a matter of fact I
was as tight as a
lord all through
that act.” On an-
o t h e r occasion
when lie had been
r a t h e r overproof
throughout a play
the Age, possibly
with a trace of
sarcasm, praised
him for a “sober
piece of work.”
“Sober !” said the pro. “What a wonderful
actor I must be!”
“Rondibilis”: “Sarc” (B. 25/5/’22)
clamors for modern items in our concert
programmes. But whom does he understand
by the moderns? And which of them, any-
how, is capable of providing lighter fare than
the “heavy German stuff”? Is it Ornstein,
with his childish jumble of meaningless notes,
Scriabin with his “mystic chords,” or the dim
impressionism of the French? If he wants
light music where is he going to find a more
delightful example than Schumann’s Carni-
val, which Spivakovsky played? If “Sarc”
were not so indiscriminate he might touch a
genuine fault in the usual concert pro-
gramme—banalities such as Liszt’s Campa-
uella and Rigoletto Paraphrase, with their
noisy fireworks, which no visiting pianist
seems able to escape, or the far-too-great
emphasis laid on Chopin’s meagre gamut of
emotion. Liszt especially should be cleared
out of concert programmes, not because he
is "heavy” but because he is shallow.
Guy Maier and Lee Pattison. the duo-
pianists, who open at Sydney Town Hall
next Tuesday, are the first two-pianos vir-
tuosi to arrive in Australia. Numerous
compositions have been written for four
hands. Then why has not the sensible device
of using two pianos in the interpretation of
such compositions long ago superseded the
device of playing them on one piano? Chiefly,
one supposes, because nobody thought of it
before. Possibly, too, the difficulty hitherto
of securing two pianos of a like touch and
tone. Maier and Pattison have brought
their pianos with them —six concert grands.
"Lip.”: More work for the film censor.
Recently, in a Sydney suburb, some boys
were arrested for burgling f5O-odd worth of
goods from an empty house. Questioned by
the police as to how they had got in, they
said they had secured the key. which was in
the lock on the inside of the door, by means
of a trick they’d seen "on the pictures”—
they knocked it on to a sheet of paper
placed ruder the door, and then withdrew
the paper. They named the picture and
theatre.
“T.W.”: In later years Savoyard Rutland
Barrington, the best of all Pooh Bahs, had
been an exception
to London’s tradi-
tion, or fiction,
that once you win
your spurs you
can call round
again as often as
you like. Barring-
ton was by no
means dodderingly
senile, but he was
almost pushed by
a callous public
out of the arena
in which contem-
porary Gilbertiaus
Henry L y tto n,
Courtice Pounds
and Ila.vden Coffin
can still find jobs.
A short concert
tour in which I
supported Barring-
ton a year or so
before Europe sent
out her SOS had to
be abandoned half-
way through be-
cause the chap in
the box-office got
his hands frost-
bitten. Yet the
famous old Savoy-
ard had more life
in him at that
“Spangles” at Mel-
bourne Palace.
Jess Sweet as Lord
W'yser.
timf> than either Coffin or Pounds.
Dion Boucieault is claiming, with A. A.
Milne, author of ‘ Mr. Pim Passes By,” a
record for prompt acceptance of a piay.
Milne at his home in Sussex sketched out
one morning the first act: of “The Truth About
Blayds.” JAB., with Irene Vanbrugh (who
is Mrs. D. 8.) motbred over from Brighton
to lunch, heard the idea, liked it, and
accepted it on the spot. The gamble has
since proved highly successful. ’
Blackfriars”: George Tallis, lvay Bee.
was from the beginning of his associa-
tion with the Firm a first-class battler for
("very Williamson production, good, bad or
indifferent. He has never been known to
admit to an outsider so long its a play was
running that it was anything but the very
best. When Mrs. Johnny Sandes walked on
the stage with statuesque frigidity in “A
Royal Divorce,” Tallis got a scribe, not on
Sandes s Aunt'S, into a quiet corner behind
a whisky and soda and enthused. “What
do you think of her? Isn’t she great?”
"Yes, she’s great,” said the newspaper fel-
low'. “So’s an iceberg.” Tallis persisted
that the lady was Mrs. Brough and Irene
Vanbrugh and Nance O’Neil and Lillah
McCarthy ail rolled into one. Fheu! Time
has told its tale. About the period when
the G. I*. Huntley kind of musical contrap-
tion came into vogue George waxed quite
indignant with an inappreciative pressman
who was just leaving for Europe’s fortune-
fields. “It’s no use you going to London
if you don’t like that kind of piece,” said
Tallis. “You’ll see nothing else there.”
“Easily remedied,” said the unabashed
scribe. “I’ll go to Madame Tussaud’s in-
stead.”
“Lud”: Hugh J. Ward has Robert Court-
neidge helping him to pick winners in the
way of plays for Australian consumption.
Well, what Robert doesn’t know about the
game isn’t worth knowing, and his most
recent visit to our shores should convince
him that a good British-made play efficiently
acted is much preferred to the Yankee
variety. Hugh ,T. has made an excellent start
by acquiring “Sapper’s” “Bull-dog Drum-
mond.” James Bernard Fagan’s “The
Wheel” and Murick ton Hoffe’g “The Faithful
Heart,” all pieces of great human interest
and full of acting chances.
From The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic:
Somewhat staggering to many Melbourne theatre-
goers was the local Herald's “appreciation” of de-
parting Frith: —
You had only to see him in “A Night Out” or
“Going Up” to realise that a comedian with his
genius needs no meretricious aids; he has onlv to
be himself and the laughs just come. Quiet" and
natural, never hustling for effect or falling back
upon mere grotesqueness of make-up or exaggeration
of voice or gesture,'Alfred Frith is not onlv the out-
standing comedian in Australian musical tomedv to-
day but a gentleman whom it is a very real pleasure
to meet.
Without denying that frith is a courteous citizen, of
more culture than the average, one may stick to an
oft-expressed opinion that he lacks the first essential
of a real character actor, lie talks straight at the
audience all the time, whether in soliloquy or in dia-
logue. He never resembles the character lie is sup-
posed to impersonate because lie is always Fi :th,
working his familiar grimaces and habitual trick ol
pushing out his head from the nape of the neck.
Having written of him in The Bulletin that he is
‘‘like nothing on earth,” I can agree with the state-
ment that, he “needs no meretricious aid or mere
grotesqueness of make-up.” His own contorted coun-
tenance is his make-up, and his antics are his gro-
tesqueness. He excites laughter by the same plan
that a clown grinning through' a horse-collar excites
it. The method is no more legitimately funny than
that of the comedian who paints his nose red and
makes odd noises by way of attracting attention.
In one of the musical comedies aforementioned Frith
was supposed to be a successful artist: in the other
a popular novelist. Could anyone who ever saw the
late Bobert Brough in a farcical comedy part
imagine him grimacing a character (a “straight”
character) as Frith did? In a minor part where-
the humor of the situation turned on bis appearance
of surpassing ugliness, or oddity—as when he played
a life-saver in a bathing costume whom a girl chose
to adore—Frith is quite the right mummer for the
job; but as a violent grimacer in a lion-grinnu etui
character, supposed to be an unremarkable citizen
engaged in sane flirtation, the restless laugh-raiser
is just a personality who identifies himself with
exaggeration. The very sort of mummer, In short,
that the Herald says he is not. In plays where
the comparative naturalness of his colleagues give
his exaggerations peculiar distinction, Frith's man-
nerisms amuse the large number of people who are
not out of sympathy witli him. But the minority,
who considered that his methods put him out of tie
picture, are also large, and to them the term
"genius,” applied to a farceur whose lace is his
fortune, seems ridiculous. The public taste is some-
what vitiated by all contagious laughter which the
stereotyped extravagances of an odd-looking- com-
edian provokes from the unthinking. J think of a
brilliantly droll artist playing of old to a £3O
bouse at Melbourne Majesty’s, as William Collier
did on his beoond night, and then the roars of merri-
ment at Fritli’s grimaces make me weep. This is
written in no spirit of unfriendliness to a quick-
witted man of parts, who knows the full strength
of bis entertaining capabilities and puts it forth
with a will.
’•’ Lady Forbes-Robertson, whom
\\ ard engaged tor a season last week, is an
actress likely to catch the popular vote in
Australia. The J.C.W. experience with
Lady Maxwell (Norah Delaney) in panto
was not so joyful as to induce further
appeals to Sassiety favor, but the other is
quite a different sort of titled proposition.
"Second Murderer”: When Wilson Bar-
rott din “Hamlet” in Australia his very first
hue had the critics up in arms. Instead of
"A little more than kin, and less than kind”
he made it “A little more than kin and less
than kina d, * and all the wiseacres and
quidnuncs wrote columns of erudition to the
papers about it, till even the publicity man
was satisfied. When Milne did the Moodv
One he made the line “Xay, then, let the
Devil wear black, for I’ll have a suit of
sables, ’ read, “a suit of scarlets,” and there
was the devil to pay. The newspaper pow-
wow lasted until Milne wrote a learned ex-
planation larded with many several sorts
ot reasons” and settled the question to the
satisfaction of everyone—including the pub-
licity man But when Allan Wilkie made
/us suit ot sables into a “suit of sabells,”
with the accent on the bells, nobody worried
about it. Wilkie, a Shakspearean scholar of
some tonnage, is very conscientious over
such phtlologic details, and so I suppose
him to be justified. Certainly “sabells” is
more euphonic than “sables.” But what
was his publicity-fiend doing?
“Norbell”: Hobart is rather starved for
theatrical attractions nowanights. and has
to console itself with its .three picture-shows.
Harry Frahm, mechanist for Alfred Dam-
pier in the long ago. is still in charge at
the Royal, where he has been brushing awav
the cobwebs from the front door for the
last 25. years. I met a pessimistic stage-
hand outside the National, which called itself
the Empire when Nellie Stewart opened R
a dozen years ago. “Things are crook,” he
affirmed, ‘the Humphrey Bishop crowd are
billed to open here next week, but they’re
sure to renege.” True enough, the aban-
doning of their visit was announced that
nisrht. The? Famous Diggers have been
doing remarkably well at the Temperance
Hall, much assisted by the priceless foolerv
of Claude Dnmpier, the sfllge johnny par
excellence.
•‘M.F.A.” (Loudon) : A Paihe camera-
man filmed the big Vickers ’plane on its trial
run with the Vickers pilot and Ross Smith.
Having secured a satisfactory picture he
returned to earth at the same time as the
Vickers. Ross Smith then started on his
flight with Bennett, and the Pathe operator
was a witness of the dreadful sequel. But
his earners had been packed away.
“Silas”: It was when the motor-’buses
were running along St. Kilda-road to the
TOBCHA SEIDEL,
the violinist, at Mel-
bourne Town Hull.
Esplanade that
Australia’s fattest-
over pro. got on
one of the big
coughing billies at
the Junction. The
’bus had not gone a
quarter of a mile
before a spring
gave way, and all
aboard had to un-
-1o a d themselves
an d mount a
Brighton - ro a d
tram. This went
pretty well till it
came within 300
yards of Domain-
road, when some-
thing cracked, and
the tram dummy
was utterly dis-
abled. Again the
passengers d i s-
inounted. This
time they rushed a
South Yarra tram
coming round the
curve. The fat-
test of the profes-
hi o n made the
dummy, and was
climbing a b o a r d.
wh e n a coarse
wretch of a man
gasped: “Gors
truth ; you again I
„ • , , . Ain’t nothin’
fcom to convince you you shouldn’t ride on
trains r
co O K ” : The popular success that Nancye
Stewait scored in "The Recoil,” a gloomy
ittle one-act drama tried at a Melbourne
benefit matinee, was almost inevitable
.Nancye is a graceful, intelligent artist, and
the part ot an anxious young mother, plead-
ing, in the first place, with a hotheaded pig
ot a husband on behalf of a siek child and
f.Ar 11 shriek mg at. him and calling him
Murderer!” because his mania for striking
had chanced to cause the child’s death was
a simple melodramatic part that any bright
actress could play forcibly on traditional
fines. But there was no revelation of Bern-
hardtian genius in Nancye Stewart’s tears
and shrieks. The performance was not a
character study—just the usual clever pre-
sentation of a refined and gentle wife con-
verted into a virago by tragic circumstances.
Such a wife and mother never can be con-
verted into that sort of virago, except in n
theatrical th ri l lev. Nor is any mother’s
burst of mad rage whilst weeping over her
just-dead child humanly probable. These
situations are dear to the stage, and an un-
thinking public accepts them as true to
nature, but they are not real tests of his-
trionic talent. They are only tests of born
aptitude in the art of “putting it over.”
Nobody doubted the born aptitude of Nellie
Stewart’s daughter. Before she went to
America she seemed deserving of bigger
opportunities than the Firm ever gave her.
“Beamish”: Nella Duval, who figures in
Ada Reeve’s “Spangles” at the Melbourne
Palace, owes her wide Continental experi-
ence to the fact that she is the daughter
of a French father and a Russian mother,
both in the show business. Her mother was
a dancer and is now helping dad, a movie
actor working for Path# Freres in Paris
Miss Duval played with Seymour Hicks and
Douglas Fiirber in London, and was in the
cast of a Dutch company doing “The Geisha”
in Holland. Another of lier engagements
was in Max Reinhardt’s Berlin production
of “The Miracle.” which paralysed the
criPcs when staged in the Fog a few years
back.
The second number of tlie new series of
Airr in Austbalia is well turned out. The
numerous illustrations are admirably pro-
duced (no periodical in the world is show-
ing better results in this respect at the
present time), and in subject they range
from local landscapes to the figures and oddi-
ties of Hardy Wilson’s collection of Chinese
art. On the literary side there are reviews
of art and architectural exhibitions in four
capitals, done b.v authoritative critics; an
interview with Melba by A. G. Stephens;
articles dealing with painters and painting,
music and poetry : and the last instalment of
Hugh McCrae’s line poem “Joan of Arc.”
Also, there are verses bv those brilliant
youngsters Kenneth Slessor and Jack Lind-
say. Altogether a remarkably varied and
interesting number, even if it does .not soar
so high in the matter of the rich glory of its
color reproductions as the best of its pre-
decessors.
TESTIMONIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man who invented the movie show is a man
that 1 fain would praise,
For the movie show is the place I go when I strike
distressful days.
When I'm up to my neck in adversity, and my
ruin seems quite complete
I can get respite from my cares at night at the
Pictures down the street.
1 don’t care a fig for the drama straight or flic
vaudeville slult' one hears,
For they fire their guns or they crack their puns
till the noise offends my ears;
They bellow their lines or they howl their songs
till 1 feel a wreck, no less;
Put they lack the balm of the twilight calm that
the movie shows possess.
My home is a cold and cheerless house, where the
garbage is overproof,
Where the baby howls and the boarder scowls -and
the mortgage sags the roof.
The wife has a tongue like ,a hungry flame and a
temper to fan the glow,
But I quite forget all my troubles yet at the local
movie show.
For less than a bob I can take the wife; for a while
she remains serene
As she views the ways of the film roues that disport
upon the screen.
The man who invented the movie show has earned
my affection deep—•
It’s the only spot of the whole darned lot I’m sure
of a peaceful sleep.
VICTORIA.
VAIBEN LOUIS.


ADD TO THE<
with
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Permanency, Beauty, Comfort and Protection from
Air-dampness, Heat, White Ants, Rats &, other Vermin.
THE BEDROOM.
A bedroom with fine large wall panels lends itself to artistic treatment
in stencilling. With the use of “AdamO” .Board, it is possible to introduce
the type of room seen in large American country homes, at a very
small cost.
THESE are the advantages possessed by Interior
Walls, Ceilings and Partitions which are built with
AdamO,” the wonderful new Australian Wall-
board. In addition, another most valuable feature is that
AdamO is a strong fire-retardant, and forms an extra
safeguard to the home against possible carelessness by
the children, and other wavs.
CAN BE SAWN
JUST LIKE WOOD
and nailed without cracking.
4 his fact alone makes
"AdamO” most valuable to
one wishing to build the in-
terior walls and ceilings
without the assistance of
skilled carpenters or builders.
ERECTED QUICKLY.
“AdamO” being light and
rigid is easily handled; one
man srlone can tit a sheet as
large as 10ft. x 4ft and have
it fixed and nailed within 4
minutes. A whole room may
be completed in less than ii
day, and then painted or
kalsomined immediately ; the
work is clean, too : no mess,
litter or dust, to disturb any
other part of the house. One-
inch flat-headed nails are
used for fixing, and the divisions in the board are neatly concealed by the wooden cover battens
which are afterwards applied.
There is no substitute for “AdamO.” It is quite distinct from all other kinds of Wall or Ceiling
materials in that it is extremely tough and rigid without being brittle. Its great strength
comes from the hard-seasoned Australian wood-fibre being subjected to enormous pressures
during manufacture.
Though only 3-10 in. in
thickness, “AclamO” Wall
Board will withstand more
than its share of hard usage
and knocks to which all
walls and ceilings are occa-
sionally subjected, and, fur-
ther. its surface is proof
against chipping, cracking or
falling, which sooner or later
conies to plaster or ordinary
wall and ceiling materials.
OLD ROOM
WITH
BATTENS
READY FOR
“ADAMO.”
r.
LZ3Ca|
jFEd
! ?=
FT
5 5
LSJI
S
0 . ■
“ADAMO”
BEING FIXED
LINED AND
FINISHED
WITH
“ADAMO.”
“ADAMQ” WALL AND CEILING BOARD
for Re-modelling, brings the old interior
up to date and gives it a new lease of life.
THE DINING ROOM.
with walls and ceilings of “AdamO” looks both dignified and cool.
Owing to “AdamO” being a non-conductor of heat or cold, a room of
this material in the hot Inland Districts is ideal—and at the same time
inexpensive.
TAKES PAINT BEAUTIFULLY, and Kalsomine or Wall-paper may also be used.
The fine, smooth surface of “AdamO” lets the color spread evenly and holds it for long periods
in fine condition.
NOT AFFECTED BY SEA-AIR OR MOUNTAIN MISTS.— “AdamO” is speci-
ally treated right through, to resist atmospheric dampness, and other causes. It will
neither bulge nor warp when correctly applied according to the simple instructions given
in print to every user.
“ADAMO” WILL PAY YOU right from the commencement. It compares favorably
with any other building material in price, and being comparatively light, the cost of railage
and transport is considerably reduced.
BEST METHOD OF FIXING.- The very best results are assured with “AdamO”
when the correct method of fitting it is followed. This information will be gladly supplied
on application to users and those interested.
STANDARD SIZES OF “ADAMO” SHEETS.— widths: i ft. Gin., lft. lOin ,
2ft. 6in., 3ft., 3ft. Bin„ 4ft. Lengths: Oft., 7ft. Gin., Bft„ 10ft„ and 12ft.
WRITE NOW FOR FELL PARTICELARS, ETC., TO
Sole Distributors for Australasia
WILLIAM ADAMS $
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE:
521-523 Collins Street.
BRISBANE:
Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth & Morphett Sts.
NEWCASTLE:
Watt Street
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron Street.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: HERNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton,
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
BECKONS
Northern trades cool
Hawaii in July and August,
making it an unparalleled
vacation resort. Surfing and
swimming —NO SHARKS
sailing, game fishing, golfing,
hunting, hiking, motoring,
mountain climbing and Kil-
auea—living volcano —-all lend
enchantment to the Crossroads
of the Pacific. Booklet from
nearest travel, ticket agency,
or
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii,
U.S.A.
FOX RIFLES.
WINCHESTER REPEATING RIFLE, 25/20,
32, 38 and 44 Cal. Under lever action. Foil
and half magazine. CARBINES and RIFLES,
£B.
MARLIN, 38 and 44 Cal. REPEATERS. Under
lever action. Full and half magazine.
£5/10/- and £O.
ROSS .303 RIFLES. The cheapest and best
rifle obtainable. £6/10/-
BROWNING F.N. AUTOMATIC .22 Cal.
RIFLE. Fires 8 ordinary .22 Long Rifle Cart-
ridges. 95/-
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC, .22 Cal. A neat
and accurate rifle. £9/15/-
REPAIRS TO RIFLES AND GUNS DONE
ON THE PREMISES.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPPRTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
Seeing that top weights Fiscom and liright
i’lume fought out the hurdle race on the second day
of the recent V.K.C. meeting, and that King Neptune
(who has no National engagement) ran away from
his field in the previous hurdle, it doesn’t look as
though \ ictoria would have any new talent to speak
of this jumping season. The point will probably be
settled finally at Caulfield during the month, but
meanwhile Fiscom is backed as though he were a
better thing for the National than last year, in spite
of his extra 311 b., whilst iioisel, who ran away with
the Australian Hurdle 10 months ago, is strongly
fancied. Bright Plume, an old established top-
notcher over the little sticks, would have been a
favorite, of course, but for his having resumed a
former leg-trouble in his triumphant race with
Fiscom. For the Steeple nothing much is talked
of but Mountain God, though on paper he has none
the better ol' it with Wooloo, who chased him home
in last National after fairly rushing past Doiran, and
beat both of them in the Australian Steeple, where he
ran second to Gazomp.
At Moonee Valley last Saturday nothing
not already talked about came into notit e over the
sticks save Agar, who took the steeplechase from
Wooloo on a protest. Agar will meet the older
stager on three pounds better terms in the National,
but whereas Ins breeding (by Blanknev 11.) indicates
stamina, the lightweight is not familiar with the
National course, as Wooloo is. Another of Blank-
ney ll.’s sons, Hoisel, easily defeated Shivarider over
the hurdles, but in this ease the runner-up had 51b.
the worst of it on their National handicaps. If
speedy old Hoisel, however, jumps cleanly in the
big event Shivandcr will need to improve' consider-
ably on his Moonee Valley performance. Between
now and .July 8 there is time, of course, for Shivandcr
to get all the jumping practice he wants to strengthen
bis muscles. Fiscom, who needs no practice over
the sticks, dug himself into his position of National
favorite by winning the Junipers’ Flat with l ist.
131 b. up. A solid bit of work, considering that
Ptrope, the runner-up, who had Cairns aboard, was
reckoned a good thing.
» * » •
Ale. Treasurer McPherson, who believes
in legalising the betting-machine, is collecting sta-
tistical information for Morlev, M.L.A for Bar won
(but not for the Bal wuns), whose Tote Bill, is to be
submitted to the I,eg. Assembly next month. Mac-
kinnon and Byron Moore have told Mac. that if the
implement is authorised the V.K.C. will ask only
a moderate cut. Mac. wants to retain for the State
at least as much as it is getting now from race
gambling ( £1(10,000 p.a. from betting tickets and
£13,000 from peneillefs), and that may mean as
much as 5 per cent, of the coin staked.
“Fax” : Seemingly a good attempt will be
made to give the totalisator in Victoria (when it
comes) the chance it had in its S’Australian be«in-
nmg but was denied by the N.S.W. Parliament
when the salvation of Jke.y Mo was ordained. Ryan
of Essendon, is to move in the Vie. Assembly that
whereas the deduction shall be limited to 10 per cent.,
the racing clubs shall take 71 per cent, of it. On
the other hand, the V.R.C., knowing its own busi-
ness better than Ryan does, favors a “moderate”
deduction for the clubs, estimating that the popu-
larity of a not-more-than-10 per cent, tote will
bung increased business on Saturday afternoons., and
be good for revenue all round. Treasurer McPher-
son will support the machine if it is to abolish
bookmakers from courses, but Pennington, Assistant
Minister for Agriculture, has returned from the West
burning with desire to maintain bookmakers side by
side with the machine. Which, of course, seems
to be based on the idea that the machine will be
sweated of 124 per cent, as in N. S. Wales. If a 10
per cent: limit is legalised, bookmakers will be left
to live on owners, trainers and professional gamblers
m general. The public will get a fair go .at the
tote; also the difference between tote and book
prices will soon have a chilling effect on those s.-p.
saops that keep many hundreds of cormorants in
luxury, whilst thousands of punters are religiously
doing in their spare cash.
Visiting owners made unusually little out
of the Autumn racing campaign in Adelaide. Every
place in the four big races—City, Goodwood and
Adelaide and Birthday Cups—went to local horses
The A.R.C.’s three-day meeting, being held on the
city parklands, has a free flat, and the half-crowns
of the “outside” punters rolled into the totalisator
now at last provided for them. As a result, the
A.R.C. had the pleasure of beating the £lOO 000
record which the S.A.J.C. had established at ’ the
Adelaide Cup meeting. But the Port Adelaide el»b
now has to be reckoned with as a competitor. The
Port Adelaide Cup at Christmas will be worth
£2OOO, which will make it the richest race in S.A.
* * * *
Back in Adelaide from Palestine, David
Fulton, a prominent sportsman before he went to
the war seven years ago, tells of racing over there. It
was mostly military, but Jaffa has now got as far
as having ordinary or “civilian” meetings. The
Arabs take enormous interest in the sport, but
cannot be got to entrust money to the totalisator,
preferring to bet among themselves —mostly in
goats. Also, they are an infernal nuisance to the
judge. Most of the onlookers are mounted, and
take it as a matter of course to join in for the
last furlong or so of ever}' race, so starters and
non-starters all pour past the post in a bunch.
"Also ran" has a wide significante in Palestine.
“Gilroden": Who lias boon putting up a
tale on “Fra” (B. 25/5/’22) ? When a man is lucky
enough to draw a horse in a Tatt.’s sweep, lie’s the
only one outside the office who is aware of the fact.
It's not until after the race that names and addresses
of prizewinners are published. There is certainly
a lot of laying- off done, but the person drawing the
gee-gee lias to set the ball rolling. Just as Tatter-
sail s never divulge the names and addresses of
drawers of horses before a race, so they never under-
take laying off or hedging, as between drawer and
horse-owner. The rule is absolute in each case.
Melbourne's junior harriers had their
annual 5-mile spin at Caulfield on Saturday. Over
150 faced a bleak wind in fragile garments and
raced en masse for about the first mile. Then the
field began to straggle out, and it was soon seen
that the winner would come from a bunch of half-
a-dozen, who were divided by a large stretch of
scenery from the rest of the field. L. Dubois, of
Coburg, proved the best man, and reached home 100
yards or more ahead of H. Featherstone (E. Mel-
bourne), who beat 11. Allen (Melbourne) for third
place. On the points alloted to the various teams,
Coburg, with 107, were second to University, whose
tally was 101, though their finest runner was ninth.
The St. Stephen’s squad was third with 108.
* * * *
F. Bailey (South Sydney) was the winner
of a five-mile cross-country race in Sydney on
Saturday. There were 47 starters, and Bailey got
home first in 29min. 34sec.—18seo. faster ‘ than
J. 0. Greenfield (Botany), with H. Swinbourno
(Botany) ssec. away. Bailey has shown capital
form in open races, and is the most promising colt
seen out this season. Botany Harriers (15 points),
with second, third, fourth and sixth places, took
teams honors from South (48), St. George (49)
and East Sydney (00).
* * * *
Er.ic Apperley showed great grit in cap-
turing the N.S.W. golf title last week. In the
semi-final, G. T. Balconibe was 7 up after the
morning round, but Apperley played magnificently
after lunch and beat his man 1 up. In the final
Apperley met his cousin, 11. W. MtLclland, and
again he had an uphill fight, winning after two
extra holes had been played, on the 38lh green.
Adelaide is promised another first-class
golf course. Since the Glenelg links were lost, those
at Seaton have had a monopoly, except for nine holes,
much interfered with by cows and other pedestrians,
on the North Adelaide parklands. Rivalry would be
welcomed, and Herbert Bymill, who has had a good
deal to do with Seaton, has formed a syndicate to
make a new course at Locklevs, between the city and
Henley. The country is similar to that of Seaton,
and within two or three miles of it; and it has the
advantage of being served by the existing tramline.
“Id-30” : The Davis Cup contest seems
to be offering an outlet for the surplus energy of
the Latin aristocracy. Last year one of Spain’s
representatives was Count de Comar, a dapper young
man who played first-class tennis in the tie with
Britain. And now Italy has selected Count de
Morpargo, who, in a three-set match with the brilli-
ant Captain Barclay in London, took a love set and
ran the Australian to 10—8 in the deciding scrim-
mage. The Count, whose service is said to he as
severe as Patterson’s and who* has the finest backhand
drive yet seen in England, has got the tennis public
thinking hard. lie won nine games in succession
HERB THOMPSON
and BAT MILLS,
winners of two
Saturday-night
fights at Sydney
Stadium.
from Barclay, and apparently only lost through a
sporting acceptance of an umpire’s bad decision. Tf
Italy has any more like him the fight for the chal-
lenge round will be unprecedented. In fact, the
prophets on this side will have to revise their
opinions about the job ahead of Australia.
“Linesman”: Captain Barclay, who has
been performing well in English tennis, is the son
of a Launceston (Tas.) ironmonger. He first shot
into notice in 1915, when he wrenched the Speck’s
Singles Championship from J. L. McGough. After-
wards he went to India, where he did so well that
he was invited to represent that country in the
Davis Cup. He declined the honor, apparently
because he felt that he had a better chance of quali-
fying for England, where he has been living for some
time. However, he wasn’t picked, and unless he
changes his mind regarding tile Indian offer, he
will have to be content with the role of looker-on.
Barclay’s recent successes suggest that he has im-
proved out of sight since he appeared in Tassy. In
those days he was a fairly good place-hitter, with
a modest spin service that any moderate player
could take. According to the cables he has quick-
ened up his game and frequently produces a sendee
ace. 4
* » * *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) are
acclaiming W. Ross, a 16-year-old sculler, as a
coming top-note her. The other day the youth badly
defeated Cliff Richards over the Sandgate-Hexham
course. He sculls cleanly, is well built and sits
a boat beautifully, and if his handlers don't over-
work him there’s a heap of filthy lucre in sight.
Some of tlie cracks in the sculling world are getting
up in years. Paddon and Arnst, for instance, are
not far off' 10.
“0.5. H.”: Queensland Uni.’s win in the
inter-’Varsity boat race in Adelaide was well desert ed.
The Banana landers reached the judge’s boat two
lengths ahead of a hot Melbourne crew stroked by
J. M. Buchanan, who was Victoria’s stroke in the
inter-State event on the Parramatta. Another
accredited Vic. oarsman in Maling was in the Mel-
bourne boat. It was Brisbane’s third try for inter-
’Varsity honors. In their first effort they came
third. Last year they finished second, after lead-
ing to within 200 yards of the finish; their cox.
threw away the race by steering out of his course
to round a dredge moored in the river. This jear
they had only 11 men available to pick a crew from,
but thejeight finally chosen proved good enough.
Big Frank Walters, who died at sea off
Colombo last week, was a topnotch Vie. cricketer
:tn '-ears ago. He visited England in 1890 with
Murdoch’s fourth Australian XI; but it was a wet
season and Frank failed to strike form. On his
day he was a beautiful batsman —stylish and sound.
The sixth round of Sydney Rugby League
matches produced two surprises and a lot of rough
play. At the Sports Ground Glebe ran all over
South Sydney, scoring 24 points (6 tries 3 goals) to
7 points (1 try 2 goals). The pace set by Glebe
demoralised the Southerners, who were hot favorites
in the betting. Burge and Gray distinguished them-
selves for the winners, whose midget custodian
Murphy kicked a great goal from the field. In a
brawling game at Ashficld North Svdnev beat
Western Suburbs by 36 points (8 tries 0 goals) to
7 (1 try 2 goals). Referee Muvrav was kept busy
cautioning the put-in-the-boot brigade. He sent
Vest, Western Suburbs’ skipper, off the ground.
Duncan Thompson played a magnificent game for
North. ’Varsity’s performance at Sydney Cricket
Ground was as unexpected as that of Glebe. The
Uni. boys beat Eastern Suburbs by 18 points (4 tries
3 goals) to 10 (2 tries 2 goals), it being their second
win to date. Their backs were splendid, and their
ruck men tackled and barged through to such pur-
pose that East could do nothing with them. Bal-
main administered the usual weekly hiding to St.
George-—l 9 points (5 tries 2 goals) to 5 (1 try
1 goal). Glebe and North Sydriev now head the
competition list with 10 points apiece, and Holder
leads among the individual point-scorers with 4
tries and 13 goals.
The Maori Rugby Leaguers Lave won a
niatih. At Brisbane on Saturday they met a local
XIII, and. after being six points to the bad in the
first spasm, during which the Northerners crawled all
over them, used their weight and condition to some
purpose after “lemons,” and ran out winners -bv
23 points to 22; Housingn, Paki, Faulkner, Te
Whata and Morrison scored tries for them, and
Ilufty kicked four goals. For Bananaland Stanley
(2). Brown (2), Paten and Richards notched tries,
and Paten gpalecl twice.
-“Centurion”: Queensland football is get-
ting as crapulent as Queensland politics. Recently
the Soccer referees in Brisbane went on strike and
the games had to be refereed by novices. Now the
Rugby League is having a turn. The Brisbane
players recently formed a union, and when the Q.R.
League talked of disqualification the players promptly
disqualified the Q.R.L. and set up a rival Brisbane
Rugby League with a ground of its own. Then,
when a good gate-money match against the Too-
woomba League came due, the original League had
no players. Toowoomba thereupon embraced the
new Brisbane League and whacked a holiday gate
with it. A noble invention of man is professional
football.
* * * »
While playing in a Rugby Union match,
N.S.W. v. The Rest, at Manly last week, Bob Shute,
a fine Uni. forward, was badly hurt in*a scrum, and
died from concussion of the brain. Poor Shute had
shown grand form this season and, all going well,
would have represented his State against the Maoris.
A Sydney Grammar boy, he did his bit against the
Hun. He was a son of Dick Shute, who was trea-
surer to N.S.W. Cricket Assoc, in the ’nineties.
* * * *
“Tren” : Though Australian football is not
old, as field games go, some of its cleverest ex-
ponents have an inherited genius for the game. Take
the Rankins, of Geelong. Their father, Ted, was a
dashing player in the old days. One of
the sons, Cliff (he had a turn at Rugby
with the A.I.F. team), headed the list of
Vic. League goal-kickers last year, and looks
like repeating the trick this year; another,
Bert, is acknowledged to be the best centre playing.
Charlie Pannam, Collingwood’s greatest wing man,
has a worthy successor in his son. Last year Pan-
nam fils represented Victoria in the inter-State games.
Then there is Mel Morris, Richmond’s cleverest
player. He is prevented by the district scheme
from stripping for Melbourne, for whom his father,
Arthur, and his uncles, Jim and Maesmore Morris (the
actress’s husband), were famous ’bailers in the past.
There is also young Moriarty, centre-forward for the
unbeaten Essendon; his father, Geoff, placed full-
back for Fitzroy in their palmy days. Then, again,
“Fishy” Taylor," Richmond’s champion in Associa-
tion days, has a son who is regarded as the “Tigers’ ”
mascot. After playing with several junior teams,
each of which were premiers in turn, he joined
Richmond, who straightway won their first League
premiership, and repeated ‘the performance the fol-
lowing year. He has now played for premier
teams in seven consecutive years.
* * ~ * *
Essendon continue their unbeaten career
in Vie. League football, and on Saturday added
Melbourne’s scalp to their list. Up to the last
quarter Melbourne bad a fair say in the argument,
but after that the “Same Old” piled on points reck-
lessly and won by 93 to Melbourne’s 42. Richmond
are looking dourly on their new pennant, and won-
dering whether they have more than Buckley’s chance
of hoisting another beside it. They have now lost
four consecutive games ; two more and their rame is
Mud. On Saturday Fitzroy put it over them —72
points to 51—m a game that was as willing, as any-
bodj wanted it. Carlton, on their own ground, had
their work cut out to down St. Kilda, and only
managed it by 9, points to 86. The honors of the
day were with Collingwood, tackling Geelong on the
seaside ground, alawys a
d i ffi c u 11 proposition.
’Wood are training their
new men in the way of
the good footballer—to
play always for the team*
and do his job regardless
of what others do. Also
their forwards have learnt
their business—to stay In
their places, pass to the
best-placed man, and kick
straight. So, in drizzling
rain, with a sodden, greasy
ball, they achieved 1!)
goals 6 behinds —120
points—to Geelong’s 57
points.
CHARLIE HARDY.
the famous North
Melbourne Rover, who
plays with Essendon
League this gear.
Recognised by foot-
ball enthusiasts as
one of the best Rovers
playing Victorian
football.
Professional boxing is in a bad wav in
Sydney. Poor matches and high charges arc killiii"
the game. This was vividly illustrated at Hush"
cutters Buy on Saturday night, when only a few
hundreds paid the tariff demanded (21s. Bd. l'(h lOu
3s- * 3d '- ) i. t T s , ee rater ?at Mills
(l°st. 0,1 b.) outpoint Jack Dillon (10st. 61b.) in
2° two-minute rounds, and the little-known Thomp-
son (list. 131 b.) win a scrambling, stopgap scran
',:>!» / HUt (list.). It wan a bill that would
have been reckoned dear at five-three—two—one in
the old days of the Gaiety and the Golden Gate.
By keeping his good, though not great, left
working with precision from the first .round to file
twentieth, Jamito (9st. 2Gb.) won his mill u-iti,
Bud Ridley (9st. 3|lb.), at Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night. It was not until half iho rounds
had sped by that the Tank started to tight. Bv thal
time lie was miles behind on points, and though he
made up some of the leeway, lie failed to knock the
1' llipmo out. And. barring a foul, that was the
only way he could have won.
* * •
Billy Shade, who got a fictitious renuta-
■V°h,n n inln^ rull fi by u!‘ ipp . 1 i ,g nlen abo,lt 11 s lone and
«i iialt than hiniselt, has found his level in
the U.b.A. Beaten on points by Harry Greb and
mil l ' B U? , rs, he was kayoed in two rounds bv
BUiy Miske, whom Dempsey knocked kicking in a
ley minutes. Shade is the man whom the engaging
Wren talked of sending against Carpentier for a
side-wager of £lO,OOO, or it may have been
£lOO,OOO. Which only proves, if proof were
needed, that the Stadium potentate is the worst judge
ot a, boxer in the Commonwealth.
* * » *
T.1t.11.”; J{e Starlight, the old colored
boxer (H. 25/5/’22). When 1 saw him in Mel-
bourne not long ago, he was still as particular as
ever about Ins dress, and carried a nobby stick with
metal adornments. No pugilist of modern times has
had a more varied career. Hound about 1916-17
Star, was cook on a coastal steamer, and a rattling
good cook, too. Later, he turned actor and had
a part, of sorts, in “Chu Chin Chow.” Star., by
the way, fought Fitzsimmons when that celebrity’ was
merely a rising young Sydney boxer. Years later he
n l e V ?f le . * hrisp for the heavyweight championship
ot Britain. And he must have been quite 50 when
he went nine fierce rounds with Dave Smith ( atut
2o or thereabouts) during the latter’s progress
towards the middleweight championship.
Albert Dorvington to The Bulletin
At the moment my energies are centred on Demp-
sey’s movements. He is difficult of speech and doesn’t
seem ta understand the talk of Englishmen. He
appears to have been bred in the world of American
slang—a fearful and wonderful medium of conversa-
tion. I enclose a letter I received from Tom Lees,
now resident in Brighton, England.
The letter in question will interest many old fol-
lowers of pugilism. It was evoked by a reference to
Peter Jackson having been thrown by a Japanese
sailor in Larry Foley’s bar. According to Lees:
“It was I who threw Jackson twice, once in Buf-
falo, N.Y., where I gave him the ‘flying mare,’ and
a few months later in London, when we met in the
old St. James’s restaurant, Piccadilly, over 30 years
ago. It all occurred through money matters when
we were partners ill a boxing combination in
America. Certainly the Japs are great wrestlers.
They are as quick as cats, and they could beat any
champion alive, and I would back my opinion with
money. I have met in the ring and fought hard
battles with four of the greatest men who ever
lived —Peter Jackson, Billy Farnan, Joe Goddard,
who fought Jackson a draw in Melbourne, and Bob
Fitzsimmons. Jackson beat me for the Australian
championship in 1886. Previous to that I beat
Billy Farnan twice, and Farnan beat Jackson twice.
While I was training to fight Jackson I stopped Fitz-
simmons in four rounds at the White Horse Hotel.
Sydney. There is a living- witness to my affair with
Jackson in Piccadilly—Tom Brown, a racing man,
who was present at the time with Pony Moore,
Charlie Mitchell’s father-in-law. If anybody disputes
these facts, tell them to put some money up and
refer them to me. Though 64 next June, I am not
broke. I met Joe Goddard three times. I beat
him twice, and he gave me a great hiding once in
Queensland.”
Tim “Tndiannnolis 500.” the longest and
most dangerous whiz in the American motor calen-
dar, has been won by J. Murphy, who headed the
field from the starting pistol to the finish and covered
the distance in shr. 17min., which gives an approxi-
mate average speed of 94-1 miles per hour. This is
a world’s record and is 5 m.p.h. speedier than the
previous best, put up bv the more celebrated Ralph
dc* Palma in 1915. T. Milton, who ■ was first in
1921. stuck to a comparative churchwarden’s pace of
about a mile and a half a minute. Murphy’s winnings,
including a swag of special prizes, amount to the
American equivalent of over £7OOO.
VALEDICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"St. Ronan’s, a member of the Orleigh Park stable,
is to be given the benefit of a spell. ’ —Racing item.
A second or a third you've inn
’Twixt New Year and Deccanber, ’oss;
But never yet a race you’ve won,
As far as f remember, ’oss.
So punters all who wish you well,
\\ ho faith to you are pinning most,
Suggest that when you learn to spell
You’ll spell “First past the winning post.”
VICTORIA,
O. K.


WOULD YOU FIGHT or RUN?
If you can’t fight you must run away,
with-’* consequent loss of self-respect
and the shameful after-thoughts that
will haunt you like a nightmare.
hack of confidence move than lack of
courage might be the real cause.
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
We can give you that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which will ena lc
you to act a man’s part should the
' necessity arise.
Leant Boxing by Post.
We teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing-
in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement, and post it to us with three
stamps to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,’’
AND PIiOTHKKS,
119 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
Agggm 22 RIM FIRE.
T^pch'Wl
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly T ested and Quality Guaranteed.
THE
ALL BRITISH
V,
AUTOMOBILE
ENGINEERING.
MACHINE TOOL
ENGINEERING.
TYPICAL ENGINEERING INDUSTRIES USING
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
FINE TOOL WORK.
k
r.,
Every important Engineering
Industry uses Jessop’s Steel.
Crafts such as Machine Tool-
mak i n g an d Automobile
Engineering each find that the
special grade of Jessop’s Steel
evolved for their particular needs
does its work more satisfactorily
than other steels.
Jessop’s Steels are tough,
wear-resisting, dependable steels,
specially graded for those indus-
tries which not only appreciate,
but demand, the very best in
steels. If it’s a steel problem let
J essop’s Engineers co-operate
with YOURS.
MAILLER & QUEREAtf, Atlas Buildings, 406 Collins St., Melbourne,
AGENTS FOR
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
w>
J
m
SUIT SATISFACTION
AT LOWER COST.
“LINCOLN-STUART” TAILORING
is now as it has always been—the direct road to complete and
permanent Suit Satisfaction. Faultless Cutting and Flawless
Workmanship applied to MATERIALS of GUARANTEED
QUALITY ONLY produce a degree of Distinction a.nd Class,
inimitable at charges so unquestionably moderate as those we
feature.
OUR SPECIAL
SUIT-TO-ORDER
£51 1 51
represents the best of present suit Investments, providing, as
it does, beautiful English and Australian Tweeds and
Worsteds in a limitless range of Tasteful Designs, and
Fox’s All-Wool Indigo-Dyed Cheviot Serge, definitely
guaranteed against fading.
Your choice of these Splendid Textures (which could not
be obtained ordinarily except at guineas beyond bur charge),
in a “Lincoln-Stuart” Tailored Suit to Order at £5/15/-, means
Suit Satisfaction permanent and complete, at a Certain Cash
Saving.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
LINCOLN, STUART 8 CO.
PTY.
LTD.,
“ Tailoring Specialists,”
244=54 FLINDERS STREET. MELBOURNE.
£
r
m
m
A
a
V
u
»
R
PUR
FOODS
OK} 4-
Rex Ham Pate
The Ideal Spread for
School Sandwiches!
Good for them—economical for you ! There you have the
reasons for the popularity of “Rex” Ham Pate.
Try it! “Rex” Ham Pate as a Sandwich filling gives their
healthy little appetites plenty of encouragement.
Besides it is wholesome food—the country famed “Rex”
Ham with its inviting mildness and delightful flavor—pre-
pared so invitingly that no appetite could possibly resist it.
Its real Economy will quickly make “Rex” Ham Pate a
favorite in your home.
“REX” HAM PATE IS “REX”
HAM IN MOST ECONOMICAL
FORM—TRY IT!
Sold by all leading Grocers.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
Ml


A warm Travelling Rug
m
i
rvi
1
is essential to comfort.
: The enforced bodily inaction of travelling
makes a warm wrap essential. The week-
I end outdoors is rendered more enjoyable
with a cosy rug —also a boon as extra
bed covering at night. Pure wool rugs
of Australian manufacture, closely woven,
are featured at Farmer’s. 72 x6O inches ;
weight, four pounds. Fawn, grey, and
brown shades. Splendid value at 30/-
Farmer’s, Sydney.
Carriage paid. Box 497, G.P.O.
Australian Serviette Rings.
YES, AUSTRALIAN* THROUGHOUT.
AUSTRALIAN SILVER,
AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY,
AUSTRALIAN WORK,
AUSTRALIAN PRICES,
BY AN ALL-AUSTRALIAN FIRM.
Heavy Solid Silver
Serviette Rings, 9/.
net.
We fPeak of Australian prices because they are far lower than those of imported
Serviette Rings. The Customs Duty alone on the imported goods is 421 per cent,
apart from importing and exchange expenses. ~ ’
Our Napkin Rings are of very pleasing designs, of somewhat
of cleaning. Our famous non-profiteering prices make them
value rings offering.
plain styles, for ease
the cheapest and best
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PROF [?]
MISSES MONN[?]DOYLE
Phones Cantrel 1532, 1533,
The Victoria League makes a valiant
effort to keep social Melbourne’s brains
from fixing themselves in its jazzing feet.
Just now it is running a sextette of lectures.
The first was released on Friday afternoon,
when organist Lloyd talked about British
music to a full house in the Queen’s Hall.
The musical doctor discourses as well as
he plays, and he carried his hearers so skil-
fully down the musical track that the intel-
lectual exercise was more like a joy-ride
than anything else. There was much ap-
plause when he stressed the British stupid-
ity of denying our own goods and habitually
canonising foreign music and musicians.
Wagnerian circles sat up when he patted
Sir Arthur Sullivan on the back, and there
were audible sniffs when he said daringly:
"Music is not music unless it sings.” Cap-
tain Pitt Rivers, who conies next on the
list, will hold forth under the elongated head-
ing “Primitive Communism and its Rela-
tion to Modern Developments in Russia and
Elsewhere.” The genial gent.-help speaks
nicely, so Collins-street Assembly Hall
should be filled on June 29. Tickets cost
2s. a time, and the Olympian “tone” of the
audience is alone worth the money.
The Maudesly dame was one of those who
gave tea-parties afterwards. She did it at
the Alexandra Club. A small but lofty-
domed crowd turned up, with Archgaiters
and Mrs. Lees as the star guests. The medi-
cal knight, Avith his daughter Cecil, helped
to look after the company, and a Avhole
string of Avearers of names illustrious in
trade, finance, law, etc. (the local equiva-
lent t^ie Parisian Faubourg St. Germain
set), drank tea in the superior way of people
who appear to be doing the beA T erage a
favor.
At Toorak St. John’s, on June 1, Celia,
one of the Willie twins, breathed
the customary a'oavs ; the other interested
party being Roy Parbury. She Avore a
simple little Avliite frock with side panels
of Brussels lace, Avhich has been in the
family for umpteen generations. These
draperies were reinforced by a tulle bridal
veil and angel sleeves. The other twin,
Rosalind, having been assailed by a cold,
her place as chief satellite fell to another
sister, Myra, Avhilc the bridesmaid’s insig-
nia Avent to a cousin, Cora Spowers. The
last-named was aided, comforted and sus-
tained in her duties by the bridegroom’s
sister Maisie. It sounds like a terrible mix-
up, but the Avedding Avas perfectly legal,
and, apart from that, the three bridesmaids
looked scrumptious in silvery-grey drap-
eries topped with black tulle hats. '
Australian artist Colin Colahan, has
proved the virtue of the Meldrumism lie im-
ported into his painting by having & canvas
hung in the Royal Academy. Colahan, who
promised Avell as a black-and-Avhiter, Avorked
under Meldrum for some time in Melbourne,
and even Avent further than his voluble
mentor in his relentless naturalism. He
wrote a challenging introduction to the book
in which Meldrum defined his attitude to
Art and Nature, and the orthodox painters
Avho then shuddered at the youth’s opinions
promised him a short and unhappy future.
But Colahan has courage, confidence and
the means to gratify his ambition, and the
fact that he got into the Academy at his
first try will possibly make his detractors
think that there may be a lot in him, after
all.
Lillian Russell, the exrstage lady who
died at her Pittsburg (U.S.A.) home last
week, seems to been considerably
confused with Ella Russell, an American
prima donna whom George Musgrove im-
ported to Australia and who was one of the
vocalists at the State concert in Melbourne
Exhibition, attended by the Royal George
and Mary. Each of the Russells called her-
self Madame, and both Avere notable for
their diamonds. But, Avhereas Ella was
associated Avith grand opera, Lillian made
her name as a comic-opera girl, and Avas
mainly remarkable for her frequency of
marriage. She had three theatrical husbands
ere she married A. P. Moore, of Pittsburgh,
and acquired an odor of sanctity from his
political connection. Lillian Russell’s second
husband was Edward Solomon, composer of
“The Vicar of Bray” and other operas not
so well known outside of America. Solomon’s
wife divorced him on account of Lillian, or
the lady’s husband divorced her on account
of Solomon. Anyhow, Avhilst divorce pro-
ceedings were pending Lillian Russell
appeared in a new opera (of which Solomon
was conductor) sporting a big brooch which
displayed the word “Ted” in flashing dia-
monds. This shocked the sentimentality of
a New- York audience, and Lillian was
denied a hearing that night.
Great preparations are afoot for the wed-
ding of the Merson Coopers’ one ewe lamb.
Duleie, with Xavier de Bavay. The “1
wills” are to be said at St. Patrick’s Cath-
edral on June 19, and afterwards as many
of the numerous friends as can be squeezed
into the Cliveden flat will foregather there.
Queen’s College blossomed into a dance
at the august Wilson Hall of the ’Varsity
a few nights ago. The fine old carv-
ings were rather fussed at having
baskets and festoons of roses hung over
them. Sugden, master of Queen’s, came
along with his wife and daughters; also Dr.
and Mrs. Leonard Mitchell, Dr. and Mrs.
Silberberg and the Bainbridges.
It’s a pity the example of the woman who
walked a ipile at Echuca to vote at the Leg.
Council election for the Northern Province
was not jhore generally followed. In the
South-Eastern Province, where there were
four candidates running, a shade under 21
p.c. of the electors turned up to mark ballot-
papers, and of that number 8.51 p.c. marked
them incorrectly. At one booth in this
constituency there was but one vote recorded.
There must be a humoj’ist left among the
billstickefs. The other day right under-
neath the “Vote for H. 11. Smith” placard
a man of paste left uncovered from an out-
of-date mission poster the words, “And all
his sins shall be forgiven him.” The elec-
tors, as a fact, were merciful, and Smith
has been given a six-years’ renewal of his
seat in the Council.
The Abgus Mackinnon knight has sold
his Toorak castle, Corry, to a syndicate of
vandals who intend to carve its nine acres
of park lands into villa allotments. Very
little is left of Old Toorak, either as regards
its mansions or its residents nowadays. It
will soon rank with the rest of Suburbia
and panto, “gags” about its “classiness”
will sound ages behind the times. The
belted knight (or are knights merely
braced/) is about to convoy his little dame
and their spinster daughter to the cold
Mecca of the indigenous plutocrat for an
indefinite period.
. J* Dennis has now put the fin-
lshing touches on his dramatic version of
'l he Sentimental Bloke,” and it will
piobably see the light in Melbourne towards
the end of the year. “Den” has spent many
busy months getting the play into shape. His
thoroughness may be gauged from the fact that
tne script has been rewritten several times.
Bert Bailey has been secured as producer,
and his admiration has been aroused by
Dennis s workmanlike skill in handling his
scenes. Indeed, Bailey declares that, with-
out its previous advertisement in picture and
verse, “The Sentimental Bloke” would be a
winner.
This is how Broo-
thorn’s camera sees
Marie Power, the
Queensland contralto
now in Melbourne.
Her plu m p and
pleasing personality
is known on both
sides of the Tasman,
as she has twice
toured Maoriland—
first. with Philip
Newbury and then
with Harry Dearth.
And her deep con-
tralto notes have
been heard further
afield than that—
even in opera in Bos-
ton, the place where
people tipped tea in-
to the harbor and now carry flasklets of
whisky in their stockings.
There was a heavyweight Bar in the
Second Civil Court the other day, represent-
ing the three parties concerned, when Cussen,
J., made the order for handing over £67.000
for the benefit of the fairly mature children
of the widow of Malcolm McEacharn, the
shipping magnate. She was one of the
seven children of J. B. Watson, of Bendigo,
who left close on a million when he shuffled
off 33 years ago. She gave a release of her
Jife interest to enable the coin to be paid
over to the trustees of her son Neil and to
her two titled daughters Mary (Lady
Guthrie) and Annie (Lady Mitehell-Thom-
son). Another £3OOO and a year’s accumu-
lation of income are to follow when a few
adjustments are made, income-tax paid and
(of course) costs deducted. It is almost
forgotten now that Malcolm McEacharn was
member for Melbourne in the first Common-
wealth Parliament. He never forgave the
city for later preferring little Doctor
Maloney.
A quotation from the letter of an Austra-
lian officer’s wife in Quetta that should be
of passing interest to the Barwellites:—
India is called the land of poverty and swank
the my of poverty is all round us. Colonel Blank,
a British officer who beguiles some of his lonely
hours by coming to see us, has to keep his wife
and family in England—too poor to run a home
for them here. ...My servants’ wages tot up to
a week —black labor, with a white streak repre-
sented by an English nurse. Ayahs, so heavily fea-
tured in Anglo-Indian novels, can't be trusted now
—might drop one’s best-beloved infants over a cliff-
side by way of getting even with the “Engeleese.”
.... First week here I had to wrestle with a native
cook's notions of sweet-making, etc. He thought
30 eggs a day a fair thing for our wee family. No;
colored labor is not cheap.
Charles Sykes has been celebrating his
diamond jubilee as an Australasian organist.
Born at Hudders-
field. Yorkshire, in
1843, he took over
the organ at a
neighboring church
at the mature age
of 11, apd when he
landed in Dunedin
in 1862 he was
already a performer
of some repute.
After 16 years of
Maoriland he came
to Melbourne and
started to make
music at St. Fran-
cis’s It.C. Church,
Lonsdale-street. Fol-
lowed a period of 13
years at St. Pat.’s
Cathedral, during
which he added further cubits to his musi-
cal stature, aud then he went to St. George’s,
Carlton, where be is still accompanying the
Masses with bis old-time skill. In 1880 he
was one of the selected organists at Mel-
bourne’s Exhibition, and for a while he offi-
ciated at the Town Hall. Sykes, by the
way, once thought of piano-punching as a
career, and just before he left the Cold
Country he tutored the young Duke of Edin-
burgh on the instrument.
Clarice Malyon and pianist Elsie Fraser
gave a recital at the Assembly Hall the
other night before a crowd that looked like
a mob of Polar bears. Clarice’s soprano
was set off by a gorgeous gown of fuchsia
tints. She weighed in with many exclusive
French songs dug up from old collections,
and Mona Mcßurney, the translator of sev-
eral into English, was in the delighted audi-
ence. Elsie Fraser, at the piano, glowed
in a gold frock banded with a vivid rod
Oriental girdle. Prof. Laver came along
with a covey of Con. girls to applaud, and
the encores were too numerous to mention.
Maggie Dickenson, who is dancing with
her fair-haired husband in the London revue
“Pins and Needles,” has sinned up as lead-
ing girl in one of England’s Christmas
pantos.
Commander Hargreave’s wife blew in from
Singapore last week to do a round of visits
among her sisters. She used to be Nellie
Wheeler, one of Vic.’s smartest young squat-
tocrats, and her dad was M.L.A. for Dayles-
ford for years ’nd years. The Hargreave
daughter is now at school-girl age, and is to
be sent to a down-south seminary.
A mound was heaped over David John
Coutts, vice-director Melbourne ’Varsity
Conservatorium, on Saturday. Ballarat
nurtured his youth, and at 31 lie took one
of Melbourne’s first musical-bachelor degrees.
Two years later, _ in 1806, he commenced a
teaching association with the Con., and was
thus, in point of years, senior to Ormond
Professor Laver, whose record is 25 sum-
mers. A prolific and sometimes effective
song-writer, sound organist and examiner
of Commonwealth-wide reputation. Coutts’s
place will be hard to fill.
There is no more mention, seemingly, of
Allan’s Wednesday afternoon concerts at the
Assembly Hall. In another place they might
have filled a want—especially the want of
aspiring young musicians to be heard in
public. But the Assembly Hall! It is in a
Collins-street building which suggests banks,
accountants and brokers. No outside sign
informs you where to find the place, and
when you climb some steps to reach an
entrance hall you seem as far away as ever
from the spot where the concert is to trans-
P u ’f- with luck a dispirited attendant event-
ually (discovers you wandering about among
the offices and informs you that the Assembly
Hall is hidden down a side-turning of this
general place of business. A hopeless sort
of a place, altogether. It is where enter-
tamments go to get lost, you’d imagine. The
.ttle Queen’s Hall across the road is an
inviting spot by comparison, although it
stands next door to the Argus office.
Archgaiters Lees has gone one better than
the scorners of thrippennies for the collec-
L on-plate. He has begun (save us!)
throwing off” at saxpenny contributions.
He told a yarn the other night at the Mis-
smnary Society about an invitation to him
by phone to take up some sixpenny shares
m a gold-mine. Naturally he spurned such
low-priced scrip—but he might have nibbled,
with true clerical waggishness,
had ±lOO a share been suggested. Then
came the moral, which speculators in
r utures (spelt with a capital F) are ex-
pected to take to heart and act upon.
Prof. Lyle, of the new birthday knightage,
married one of the Western District Mil*
lears, proverbial for a gentle philanthropy
which neter screams aloud. The lady,
whose Toorak garden is famed for its variety
and wealth of floral growth, has always
kept the best blooms to be sold for some
patriotic or charitable effort. Their brainy
eldest daughter. Dr. Mary Lyle, tied up
lately with ex-Rhodes scholar Ned Herring.
She won’t fly a brass plate, but will pro-
bably turn her medical knowledge in the
direction of scientific research.
This is what Thorold Waters, who has
been there, has to say on the sub-
ject : I suppose one ought to be de-
lighted at Melba’s "discovery” of a Sydney
basso and various contraltos. Still,
there are considerations that the diva
may have overlooked. A singer who can
raise £l5OO over and above his steamer
fare has some show of staying the course in
England, providing he is unencumbered—and,
incidentally, the rule about encumbrances
applies to women singers, who mostly find
their husbands a drag on them unless the
men wisely hold on to their jobs in Aus-
tralia. Without the £l5OO he has au excel-
lent chance of striking trouble. It has
always been quite impossible to make a grub-
providing proposition of even the best vocal
asset in England within two years of arrival,
unless preceded by a reputation from Brus-
sels, Vienna ior Milan : and conditions to-day,
when so many of the old provincial musical
societies have collapsed, are worse than ever
before. Almost weekly the cables inform
us that Australians recently landed in the
Chill Country are already shining in opera,
but the shine is on a co-operative basis, and
there may or may not be divs. It seems to
be far easier now to get the news of one’s
successes flashed across the wires. Melba
and Crossley, Amy Castles, Rosina Buckman
or Stralia never tfcoretl so well in the cables
as Gertrude Johnson, Florence Fawaz, “Aus-
tral" and other recent, dbbutists have done,
Nevertheless, there are signs of a trickling
back of disappointed aspirants. As I said
before, it takes quite a lot of money to stay
the course. In any case, Britain has only
room for a few Australian Calves and
Plancons at one time.
Adelaide’s postcript:—
Lieut.-Gov. Murray did his bit iu the celebration
of the King's birthday by a levfie and a huge dinner
at Government House. The latter was for men
only, and the invitation list run to over 50. A few
nights later he dined Sastri at the Adelaide Club,
with a. Minister or two (Governmental, not clerical),
Josiah Symon and Paddy Glynn among the guests.
Our city fathers have informed us that we must
now walk to the left, .after having implored us for
years to keep to the right. However, as no one
lakes any particular notice of the new by-law there
should be no violent confusion as the result of the
change.
The State Orchestra gave its second concert before
an audience that had barely elbow room even in
the organ galleries. Maude Puddy was at the piano
in a Schumann Concerto, and acquitted herself so
well that she had a special call all to herself and
was given a small garden of flowers.
The Dick Hawkers and family are off to England
via the Cape. Their fellow-passengers Included
Jack Bakewell, who lives in England but rarely lets
two years go by without putting in a summer at his
house at Mount Lofty, and Col. Angas Collins, wbo
has been paying old friends in S. Aus. a brief visit.
Annie Besant did not waste much time as she
passed through on her way back to the West. Arriv-
ing by the Melbourne express on Sunday morning, she
went to a Theosophical Society meeting in the
afternoon, lectured on Great Britain and India in
tlie evening, and filled in the intervals by meeting
as many local Theos. as she could. Nominally for
the two days she was here she was staying with IV.
B. Rounsevell at Glenelg.
Frederic Chappie is temporarily on the sick list—
the result of a bad fall on the Y.M.C.A. stairs when
on his way to a Council of Churches meeting. No
man could have chosen soberer circumstances for
such an accident.
The Moore-Morgan wedding duly came off the other
day. He is the youngest son of H. P. Moore, mana-
ger of the South Australian Co., and she the Ran
Morgans’ daughter—one of the younger set that had
the time of its life during Edward P.’s visit.
Adelaide was surprised to learn that Albion Tolley,
who died a few days ago, was 73. He didn’t look
it. With his brother Fred he built up the large
wine-and-spirlt business which is now a eo. He
was a great gardener, yachtsman and sportsman in
general.
The two keen theatrical amateurs, Maud Brooks
and Edith Ward, who for many years have worked
up shows in aid of charities, have decided to shake
the wattle-dust from their feet and live in England.
They have sold their beautiful old home, Halton
Brook, and a few nights ago gave a farewell per-
formance in aid of the S.P.C.A.
A very swanky bridge and jazz tea was given at
the Grand Central Hotel the other day by Mrs. Jule
Wendt, whereat the hostess glowed in rich black
velvet against a background of pink roses and car-
nations.
The widow of the late James Melrose is the latest
society woman to start importing models and novel-
ties. One advantage about these people in business
is that they know their friends’ tastes, and can
proceed accordingly.


Oo
a
1
O
O
m
o
s
c
is.
• X
&X
o
a
a
o
e
N>
Vi
X
Q
. V
%
3
YOU love Winter... but no woman
loves the pinching and coarsening of
her skin, the harsh, drawn feeling
suffered by her face when chilled by the
buffeting of a cutting westerly.
To counteract the ill effects of winter winds
it is necessary to keep the skin as healthy
as possible; to free the minute pores and
glands of clogging impurities of dust,
powder, and natural oil secretions, so that
they may function properly. Cold winds may
sting but cannot harm a skin wisely cared
for and properly cleansed and nourished.
Cold creams alone cannot be depended on
to do this cleansing and nourishing—nor
can ordinary soaps. A soap is needed rich
in natural oils; a healing, soothing cleanser
that you may massage thoroughly into your
skin with utmost safety.
Use Palmolive.
Use it because it contains the bland and beneficial
oils of the palm and the olive, known and highly
f'-’4
J?
prized as beautifying cleansers
by the women of Ancient
Egypt. These natural oils are
so efficient and so pleasant
in themselves that Palmolive
Soap does not require to be
medicated nor artifically per-
fumed or colored.
Palmolive penetrates. Gently but certainly it
reaches the minutest pores, cleansing and freeing
them from all impurities that impede the natural
healthy action of the skin.
How to use it.
Work up a soft, creamy lather with Palmolive
Soap and pleasantly warm water; massage it,
gently but thoroughly with the finger tips into your
skin, then rinse with clear warm water and finish
with a dash of cold.
Your skin is now not only perfectly cleansed
but soothed and well able to withstand the
harshness of Winter weather. If exceptionally
sensitive it will benefit by an application of Palmolive
Cold Cream before exposure to the cold, and powder
is harmless when dusted upon a complexion so
perfectly prepared.
Palm and Olive Oils were the highly prized cosmetics
of the women of Ancient Egypt who found them of in-
estimable value in the preservation of their beauty.
To-day these valuable oils are far more potent than in
their earlier crude form and easier of application for,
scientifically blended, they form the principal content of
a fragrant cake of Palmolive Soap.
Prove also the Perfection of
Palmolive Cold Cream; Palmolive Vanishing
Cream; “Violet of the Nile” and “Egyptian Rose”
Talcums; “Palmole” Face Powder; Palmolive Face
Powder; Palmolive Rouge; Palmolive Shampoo.
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
The guest size cake of Palmolive Soap will be sent post
free, on request, by the Palmolive Company (A ustralasia )
Limited, Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney .
hgjhjkjlkl;l'


Under
Royal
Warrant
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Charles ileifaA
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
CHAMPAGHC
QiarksHeidsiec*
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
Powders
A garden party in June is cold cheer, but
the Victoria League doesn’t seem to mind
taking its pleasures sadly. Battalions or
visiting and local took the long
journey out to the Justice Cullens lawns
one afternoon last week and disported them-
selves on the spongy turf like woolly lambs
in Spring. A brass baud tried to cheer the
afternoon with Gilbert and Sullivan’s exhor-
tations to “Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes,
but its sweetness was wasted o’er an almost
manless Eden; and, anyway, most of the
Eves were too busy ruminating on papers
they had read or were to read to bother
about putting any sparkle into their optics.
The Cullen lady did the honors in soft grey
frocliing, and pretty daughter Ailsa wore a
melting sky-toned arrangement of blue and
grey shimmery panels topped by millinery
of soft-toned satin, and carried an unneces-
sary but colorful old rose parasol. The
Mitchell knightess was present, and brought
her C.B.E. from Victoria. The Hughes lady
was a handsome frocker in black cloth and
furs, and even indulged in the luxury of
mauve orchids. Mrs. MacCalluip and Mrs.
Barff and the educational Mr. Goldie sup-
plied sky-scraper intellect; the Wade lady
edged cream cloth tailorings with black fur;
Mrs. Earp wore an ear-tickling collar of
grey astrakhan on a black redingote; Mrs.
Baldwin (she was a Windeyer) came late
with her colonel husband; Maoriland dele-
gate Mrs. Samuel wore a small toque em-
bedded in a black jet coronet, and Mrs. Sar-
good was navy tailoring where she wasn’t
handsome furs! But what is the connection
between education and black jet? All the
millinery architecture had either supports
or ornamentations of the trembling glitter
beloved of grandmamma. In the evening
Mrs. Toohey thawed the Leaguers before
enormous wood fires in the three reception-
rooms at St. Monica’s, which had been
turned into a bower of golden brown chry-
santhemums and autumn-yellowed leaves.
Elizabeth Bay and her husbands and daugh-
ters had been bidden to the flow of wit and
learning, and no less than three justices had
been snared. The clever Scully sisters pro-
vided entertainment in the form of musical
monologues, and Mrs. Alex. Gordon was re-
sponsible for an extra. Supper was plucked
from a buffet that ran the length of the
dining-room.
Artist Arthur Streeton and his dark-
haired lady had the petulant Verbrugghen
as travelling companion across the Pacific.
Henry was in a state 'of purring content-
ment at that time, and he and Mrs. Streeton
(who used in pre-marriage days to be a pro-
fessional) did some fiddling. The instru-
ments are brothers who had not met for
centuries; both made by Joseph Guarnerius,
and both from the self-same piece of spruce.
Arthur, having settled his family in London,
is returning alone to California, Honolulu
anc} the llockies to get themes for new can-
vases which he will exhibit in one-man shows
in America —the wife of one steel king has
already commissioned a portrait.
The four Art Societies of Sydney are
combining to make the Masquerade Ball on
August 21 the success of the dancing season.
The cause is a good one—the disabled, sol-
diers’ pottery. Government House is giving
its support, and housed the preliminary meet-
ing in the big ballroom the other afternoon.
Gladys Owen and Gayfield Shaw are secre-
taries, and Mrs. Cecil Hordern and Ernest
Watt will look after the financial end. The
general committee is representative of the
Royal Art Society, the Society of Artists,
and Society of Women Painters and the
Society of Etchers and Painters.
, Lord Loughborough, who has been stay-
ing at the Carlton while his good-looking-
family moved out of the Ashtons’ place and
on to stay with the Wills-Allens, had a
couple of ‘strokes of luck in succession at
the races. There are murmurs of a win
exceeding £2OO at one meeting and £4OO at
another —but people always exaggerate these
things. Anyhow, Melba was delighted to
hear he had won anything. The young man
is a great favorite with her. He is the
only human being, so far as is known, who
addresses her, umebuked, as "My child.”
Still more popular with the diva, though, is
Captain Feakcs, who took over the job
which Captain Claudie Cumberlege laid
down. He is her special dancing partner,
and at the Pat Osbornes’ ball the other
night they took the floor together with inde-
fatigable zest.
Talking of Melba. Sir Andrew Armstrong,
Bart., who died suddenly in M.L. the other
day, is a connection of hers bv marriage.
A brother succeeds him in the title and in
an Irish estate of some tonnage. He was on
his way to stay at C’oombe Cottage when
he took ill.
The Catholic Women’s Association gave
the young things from the R.C. Hostel their
yearly night out in Paddington Town Hall
last week. Ur. Fallon’s blue-satined wife
extended a cordial hand to five little debs.
Mrs. John Barlow, president of the Assoc.,
wore some beautiful Chantilly lace and her
Papal decoration; Judge Coyle’s pink-frilled
chick brought a pretty mother in mist-blue
georgette that carried a heavy cargo of
gold-embroidered grapes, and Mrs. Jack
Meagher’s pink and whiteness rose above an
old rose and silver creation. An interesting
figure was young Mrs. Austin Chapman, a
Belgian who had to flee before the advanc-
ing Hun.
Mallee, the twin daughter of the late
William McCourt, M.L.C., and Mrs.
McCourt, of Vaucluse, has engaged herself
to Frank White, second son of the "Whites
of Mulga, near Cobar. Mallee and
Myall are the god-daughters of the late
George Reid and his friend Jimmy Graham,
a doctor who got his K.C.M.G. for skilful
mayoral work at Sydney Town Hall. At
the time Speaker McCourt learned his wile
had brought off the double event Macquane-
street was also interested in the twins of the
Gregory Wade pair. Mallee McCourt is
assistant matron at the Cobar Hospital.
The Dr. Dan Kellys have bought and
settled in Warranilla, at Kirribilli, . where
the Edmund Bartons once lived. Ihe
entrance hall is panelled and galleried in
the style of some old English homes we see
on the stage—the sort that make the right
background for a huntsmen’s chorus, or for
the tenor when he is'waking up the house-
hold by treading on all the creaking stairs
in bis efforts to warble C in alt through
the heroine’s keyhole.
Rosa Gore reports finding London in the
same place. Mrs. Noyes and daughter
Helena, who left Sydney in company with the
millinery queen, dropped in on Malta, where
Helena's brother is on the Ajax. Sydney
has another Maltese link with N.S.W. —old
Governor Strickland is keeping a stern eye
'on its political constitution.
Eve Garrett, winner of the Evening
News beauty competition, has turned the
deafer of her two lovely ears to the pro-
posals that have poured in on her from in-
fatuated students of the revivified paper.
The reason is a sound one: her heart is
already bestowed. The lucky young man is
Rex MacNaughton, son of the Queensland
Judge, whose clever daughter’s portrait was
in this page last week. He is studying law
in Brisbane.
The women members of the Irish Players
are all good-lookers of the vivid type, though
they couldn’t make up that way for “The
White-headed Boy.” The Murphy colleen,
with the violet eyes, before taking to the
stage, acted as literary amanuensis for Lady
Gregory; Miss Desmond, the neglected sister
in the play that has just been taken off, Las
Venetian hair that would send Augustus
John into a transport, and the soft skin that
looks as though made of dew and milk and
pink roses. Maire O’Neill, Sally Allgood’s
sister, spends all her spare time on horse-
back. Now the wife of the brilliant G. 11.
Mail’, she was once engaged to poet play-
wright Synge, and played his “Deidre,
which she put together after his death. He
was working at it till the end.
Here is Monte Luke’s picture of Mary
Whidborne, who introduced Eurhythmies to
Australia. She is a
Licentiate of the
Royal Academy,
London, and studied
the piano at the
Berlin Conserva-
tor i u m for four
years. Her special
subject she learned
in Berlin, Helleran
and London, and
came to Australia
under engagement to
Prensham, the
swagger Mittagong
girls’ school. Her
pupils are giving an
exhibition at Her
Majesty’s on .Tune
29 to help the Citi-
zens’ Returned Sol-
diers’ Bpnefit Fund. They will also act
W. B. Yeats's “Land of Heart’s Desire”
with eurhythmie interpretation. Energetic
Mrs. Charlie Pfeiffer, of Darling Point, is
the organising secretary.
Mrs. Harry Whiting, who was Ruth
Lumsdaine, has been entertaining heavily
during her visit to Sydney. One luncheon-
party which she gave at La Corniche—
Brock’s old place, by the sea, on the Pitt-
water-road—was attended by some 70 guests
who arrived in 14 cars. She is going with
Mrs. Oliver Osborne to the hotel at
Kosciusko (the State venture which Tummas
’Enley is trying to sell to someone who has
never seen it in the summer) as soon as
the snow arrives.
Harold Adams plunged into the icy harbor
last week, and at the imminent risk of his
life towed a lady ashore who was on the
point of drowning. For this effort he has
been recommended for the Royal Humane
Society’s medal (the V.C. of civilian life),
and Ruby Adams, whose youngest brother
he is, is highly delighted.
Mrs. Edgar Falkner, of Toowoomba (Q.),
claims to be one of the very few members
of her family who lias lived or hung out
on a stationary ship. She is staying on
the Tingira with her niece, _ Mrs. Howard,
who is the wife of the captain.
The party of the week-end was the Admi-
ralty House fresh-air cheerio to the members
of the Victorian League, and the Red Cross
executive. The Leaguers, as it were, threw
their mental windows wide, and after their
indoor concentration of the week walked
erect under the free wind of Heaven amid
flower and shrub of the old Kirribilli Point
garden. The G.-G.’s gentle-eyed lady being
still down with a cold, Mrs. Pitt Rivers mur-
mured the words that cheer but not inebri-
ate. The Hughes and Mitchell knightesses
were of the party, as was Eadith M alker.
A handsome dresser was Mrs. Royston
Davey, sleek in black chiffon velvet. The
same soothing fabric enwrapped Miss Con-
sett Stephen. Kirs. Mackinnon brought her
0.8. E. and smart tailorings, and tall Ruby
Broad flashed a shimmer of peacock hues
against the soft winter afternoon. Mrs.
Tooliey and Mrs. James Ashton were other
outstanders in the surging waves of femi-
ninity.
Apropos Melba’s remarks about its being
time that Australia produced a male voice
m the world s cham-
pion class. There’s
one tenor echoing in
Europe who gets
near it—Cecil Sher-
wood, of Sydney. As
Lionello Cecil (the
Italians simply
couldn’t, get round
“Sherwood”') he has
already appeared
over 500 times in
leading operatic
roles in Italy; and
has enough press
bouquets from the
Pisa and Venice
papers to keep a
Domain dweller in
bedd i n g for the.
w i n t e r. The
Rassegna Melodbammatica sent a special
correspondent to Pisa to hear him make his
debut as Arturo in Bellini’s “Puritam
when lie got a dazzling reception. He also
stepped into the leading role in “Rigoletto”
vacated by Bond, Italy’s idol, and instead
of the stone-cold hearing he had feared he
was wildly applauded. London has heard
him and liked him as a concert singer, and
even the cautious Manchester Guardian
remarked: “He sang an aria of Puccini, and
one of Verdi, lavishing top notes with a
control of breathing that appeared miracu-
lous. There was no mistaking his great
abilities nor the impression they made on
the public.” Pathd Brothers have obtained
exclusive rights over his nightingale notes.
Vivacious Mrs. Jessica B. Lee married her
returned-soldier architect, N. Osborne Eng-
land, at St. James’s one morning during the
week-end. It was kept such a secret that
the verger is still going about hissing “S-sh !”
Jessica has a splendid war-work record, and
made some of the best speeches in favor of
voluntary recruiting that Martin-place
ever heard. A real Australian, born and
grown up on an outback station, she inter-
ests herself keenly in the problems of the
woman on the land.
Hardy Wilson took away with him on the
Aeneas memories of at least one epicurean
delight from among the tons of farewell
meals that had been thrust upon him. It
was a dinner at the home of Lindquist, of
Sweden, prepared and cooked by Von Goes,
of the same land, and while the exquisite
flavors were slipping into the guests’ in-
teriors Von Goes supplied bright and discur-
sive instruction on the bouquets of the varied
juices of the Vine.
Mrs. Venour Nathan, of Haling Cottage,
Burradoo, organised a show recently that
made the district rub its eyes—a gay
andanee patchwork affair in aid of the Ber-
rima Hospital. The lady herself was down
for no less than seven turns, and the re-
mainder of the programme was contributed
by the local squattocrac.v. Every seat in
the Empire Theatre was.taken, and several
carloads turned up from Moss Vale and
Sutton Forest, including Mrs. 11. Bell John-
son from Summerlees, and Mrs. Box
(Melba’s sister). The gate-money totted up
to nearly £9O.
Emmie Finn, for a while the violinist of
Carrie Lanceiey’s Melody Maids, changed
her name to Bannon recently, the ’groom
being of Castle Sometbing-or-other in dis-
turbed Erin. As a schoolgirl Emmie won
a London musical scholarship, but as she
was young and submarines were out seeking
whom they might devour the scholarship had
to lapse. The Sisters of the Mercy Convent
taught her music.
Hostesses who entertain Sastri, P.C., will
have to go warily when it comes to feeding
him. He is a Brahmin of the highest caste,
and no flesh of animal, bird or fish must be
eaten, nor must dripping in any shape or
form be used in the preparation of his food.
Vegetables, fruits, butter, cream, eggs and
so on form the gentleman’s chief articles
of diet, while pure water, fruit juices and
mineral waters are his only drinks.
Monsignor Rella will take back some
puzzling idioms to the linguists of the Vati-
can. Speaking at a function the other Sun-
day he said, “1 thank you on behalf of my-
self and” (pointing to the choristers) "my
kids.”
Sleekly-dressed Sydney took the guinea
and half-guinea hurdles with smiliug faces
and filled the Town Hall one afternoon last
week for the Melba matinee, garnering what
farewell golden notes they could from the
Queen of Song as consolation for tl.eir own
little notes to which they had, Tosti-like, said
farewell for ever. Fashion and furs occu-
pied a vice-regal enclosure that simply
bristled with Exes., aides and private secre-
taries. Positive palpitations of enthusiasm
ran over the carpet square when the Voice
poured out the silvery sweetness of pretty
Mrs. Pitt Rivers’s composition, "Trois
Femmes.” And the G.-G. and his lady and
Captain the Honorable Pitt Rivers regis-
tered just, as much pride in their clever
young woman as new-contralto Clarice
Coles’s family connections did in their
prima donna. Melba, who clothed herself in
what was apparently a litre or two of the
Blue Danube, finished with the usual speech
and “Home, Sweet Home.”
Lieut. Franklin and his bride are settled
in their home Witcliwood, Killara. The
bridegroom, who belongs to the Jervis Bay
Naval Station, has been given a job on
11.M.A.5. Brisbane for three months.
Brisbane Curd, the Customs expert Aus-
tralia loaned to the Imperial Government
during the war, arrived in Sydney by a
recent American boat with his wife, who
was Fanny Wells, of the Tweed River
(N.S.W.). Brisbane —named after his
native city—hung out his sign at Australia
House till the Armistice; since then he’s
fine-tooth-combed Customs Conditions all
over Europe and America—even shy Czecho
Slovakia escaped him not. He has brought
the accumulated store of his travels back to
Australia, and expects to roof it all at the
Fremantle Customs headquarters. At the
moment their native north claims the pair,
and is turning its eye on the up-to-the-last-
minute frocking of the lady.
A few remarks from London: —
Anne Williams, of the East Melbourne Con. staff,
jumped off at Tilbury the other clay on her year's
holiday trail through musical-land. Her hag (Melba's
parting gift of fine leather, with outward and visible
signs of platinum and precious stones) is generously
stuffed with Dame Nellie’s introductions to friends
and people that count. Anne is in for a good time,
and she hasn’t wasted a minute of it, so far.
Australian artists —some forging toward success,
some otherwise—are plentiful in London. But you
don’t run up against ’em promiscuous-like: the area
is too vast. At the Lyceum Club the other day I
saw three in a row. They were Jessie Masson (Mrs.
Harpents), Ivy Phillips and Violet Somerset. Jessie
Masson, growing big and buxom, lately returned from
Vienna, where her piano recital met with much
approval. The Viennese live on music (they haven’t
much else these days) and know all about it —and
their verdict is that there’s lots of brain at the back
of Jessie’s work. I believe she is contemplating a
London recital. Good-looking Ivy Phillips (the S.
Aus. singer) is finding musical London well disposed
towards her, and engagements are coming her wav.
Violet Somerset (Melb.) is coming on; perhaps she
lacks “presence,” but she has that subtle little
indispensability known as artistic feeling.
William Perrin Norris, the Melbourne sawbones
who was one-time boss of . the Commonwealth Medical
Bureau in London, is still breathlessly pursuing
science on this side of the world. He was in France
a little while back to attend the meetings of the
International Office of Public Health in Paris.
Kathleen and Violet Dickens, late of Melbourne,
and grand-daugliters of Charles, are going in for the
Mrs. Todgers stunt. Only it will be done in the
West End, and will be called “taking in paying
guests.” They are practical and plucky girls, they
love London, and have many friends. In spite of
the seeming irony, it must be some fun to hare an
ancestor who is a National Possession. Londoners
love their Dickens, and devote endless time,
money and print to the upkeep of his memory.
And international homage is paid him —there was a
great ceremony the other day when the French
Ambassador made a presentation to the “David
Copperfield” Library on behalf of the French Repub-
lic. The Dickens Association (with G. K. Chesterton
as president and an 18-year-old quarterly to spread
Dickensiana) organises pilgrimages all the year
round to the various Dickens shrines. By the way,
Mrs. Perugini, the author’s daughter, still enjoys
life and an un-Dickensian cigarette. She has a great
circle of admirers, and is as sprightly and modern
in thought as one half her age, which is 80 or
thereabouts.


“ It's a
Murdoch . ”
m
m
This Guinea Hat
to you for ——15/6
WHEN Murdoch’s quote this as a GUINEA Hat you
may safely value it at 257-
Now it comes to you for 15/6 —simply because of
an unusual buying opportunity at the mills.
These Smart Soft Felts are blocked in the most
favored shapes from Pure Fur Felt of fine texture;
2iHn., 2Jin. cut-edge brims in shades of Grey,
Slate, Pearl and Steel, with Black Bands; 2iin.
stitched-edge brims in Dark Slate, Drab and
Smoke, with Black bands; also Grey and Slate
with silk-bound edges and Black bands.
Your Size and
Favorite Shape.
To convince you of its sterling value Murdoch’s
offer you this hat with the guarantee— absolute
satisfaction or money refunded in full. If
writing address your letter to DESK R.
POSTAGE PAID ON ALL GOODS.
M
URDOCH’
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney
S
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
'■■ s -'':iSv : *.&i3i
«
? „ . .-
a j» «yi gv
a W't J# I
' i? *
* •.-.■Tv.-:• • /: • •:,•••;>.-vy/.-%*. v ■ .>->
8 8
*fs
WE
I !
o s ®
HL. t,
& £*
=^2l
for
Consistency op
aUALITY"
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS.
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
The experience of Hupmobile owners shows
that in the important item of tyre mileage the
Hupmobile stands exceptionally well. The
Hupmobile displays the same saving' traits in
the use of petrol and oil; and costly or
extended repairs—barring' accidents—are
practically unknown to the average owner.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3% in. bore x 5 V 2 in. strode, 83 x 140 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric —two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carb ur etter.—A djustable.
Fuel System.—Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Flutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clinchers or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type) or wire.
Color. —Any color
I. PHIZACKERLEY. 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourbe Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pine
Street, Adelaide, South Australia. , .
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.. LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street.
Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.’C
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TO N> Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out .the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
3
few
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
138 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under tbe management of P. Ilennessy.
Have You
An Open Mind?
—or are you one of these suffer-
ing hesitants still trying to defend
old fashioned shaving soap, while
over two million men blithely
enjoy the gorgeousness of the
Mennen shave ?
The peculiar thing is that most
of these Mennen Shavers were
like you before they succumbed
to my appeals.
It may take you months, but
eventually you’ll fall. Then you’ll
enjoy your first real shave. But
why wait? Your chemist, drug-
gist or perfumer has Mennen
Shaving Cream waiting for you.
Have you an open mind?—
Willing to be convinced ?
(Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 George Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
Public Notice.
BUSINESS PRINCIPLES.
FOR COUNTRY STUDENTS.
A CORRESPONDENCE COURSE OF
INSTRUCTION in this subject is
now being conducted in connection with the
Sydney Technical College. It is intended to
provide training in Modern Commercial
Practice for Students preparing for Account-
ancy Examinations, Business Men, Clerks,
Teachers, Municipal Officers, etc. Write for
Syllabus, “Technical Education Extension by
Correspondence,” to J. NANGLE, Super-
intendent of Technical Education. Sydney
(Y. 3304.)
*l,l r 'v?
Ill,„ lf H
"urn
rrrrrrvrrrrrrm
wwiyjlll"
m
»MIU
wi
THE GENUINE
BALLARAT
COLLAR.
BUILT FOR
ENDURANCE.
This is a Lined-top, Double-strap Collar, Hand-stuffed with Rye
Straw. See how the rim is laced to the body side, away from
the hames, and greatly increasing the strength.
ONCE YOU BUY A BALLARAT YOU WILL
BUY NO OTHER STYLE FOR HEAVY WORK
Price 57/6 up to 20in. Over 20in., 1/6 per inch extra.
Black Collars, 1/- extra.
Kangaroo Hames, unbreakable, 22/6. Hame Straps, 2/- each.
Freight paid on Orders over £3 for Cash. Write for our Illustrated Saddlery & Harness Catalogue.
Walther # Stevenson Ltd. i 395 George Street, Sydney
oS' oc k
3
$ v<
AN O
9f
©«7l
Quality Governs Value
The Product of a world-famous firm of high-grade
Shoe Manufacturers,
BosToCk's
SHOE POLISH
imparts a lasting lustre to the shoes and adds greatly
to their life. COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price fid. per tin.
ship brand
CORN FLOUR
for Delicious Cookery
J NO SUBSTITUTE CAN REALLY '
TAKE ITS PLACE
Sold EVeryWhere
MANUFACTURED BY
\ Clifford Lotto 0 Co. Ltd. Sydney ,
Missing Friends.
TROY. —Anyone seeking information rela-
tives late Mr. Troy, born Limerick.
Ireland, and who came to Australia some
years ago, please communicate with
Mrs. KATHERINE TROY SCIIWEPPE.
5G52 S. Green Street,
, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Maude; ‘Tom aee late, dear."
May: "Yes. Don was detained, but he was so tactful that I couldn't be angry with
him”
Maude: “ Why, what did he say?"
May: "Nothing, but he brought me some H ILLIER’S CHOCOLATES."
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
.Vo notice (except of a hostile character) trill be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
Liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Arthur Toombes: Thanks for the state-
ment of Einar K. Kvaran (or was it John O.
Odsson?) that “when the commercial treaty between
Spain and Iceland expired Spain announced that Ice-
land would no longer be favored unless she permitted
the importation of Spanish wines.” Why shouldn’t
Spain take that stand, anyhow?... .R.G.: Con-
sider you haven’t the slightest chance of getting a
Boyal Commission on your drainage scheme. Nor
would you derive anv_ benefit if you got one. No
good ever came out of a Royal Commission yet
Rabbit Trapper: Not up E. 8.: Nowhere near
a, record... .G.J.McB.: Your yarns will have to be
newer than this 0ne....8.N. (S.A.): Send address,
and caricatures correctly titled will be forwarded...
S.G.W.: Sonnet too wooden.... Adelaide <P.: Not
much use understanding the “Problems” even in the
poorest verse when the solution is not suggested....
Keith E.: No mirth there... .J.J.L.: Nice little
“Nell” doesn’t cry for print... .W.M.N.: Doesn't
strike us Warradulla: Gets to nothing.... Stanley
D.: Not up P.8.P.: Same old sort.... W.M.S. (or
some other flourishes in lead pencil) : It “hath” not
the quality that “doth” make it worth while....
J.B. (Stirling East): Shockingly poor. Such verse
would never “boil a p0t”.... May K.: No “vesper
bird doth melodize” in this paper.... Bush Bard:
Not improved... .T.R. (Dubbo) : Schoolboy stuff....
G. Whizz: Your “endeavor to make this clear”
ended in futility.... R.Mclt.: You can’t rhyme
“sport” with “thought” in this paper... .Ibis:
Doesn’t make an article... .L.A.R.: Cut out the
extravagances and the things that mean nothing....
Bellerive: Island idyll gets there: —
Six men in a cannibal land
On the enterprise of trade,
In rover’s style to explore the isle
. Encamped in the palm-tree’s shade.
Dangers tiiey’d faced in the tropic wilds,
Strong men in their active years.
Together they smoked and cheerfully joked,
In a land of the primitive spears.
Rustled a snake in the waving grass;
Softly wafted the ocean breeze. ,
The moon divine did brightly shine
Upon the leaves of the rippling trees.
Surprised by a tribe of merciless blacks,
A spear and a club-armed band,
At midnight gloom they met their doom,
By tht fiends of cannibal land.
. ...L.N.C.: “Kisses” miss... .Frank If.: A collec-
tion of antiques A.D.F.: “The Light” is mostly
darkness... .S.S.A.: Very dreary humor... . Jasmine:
Feeble flutter K.J. (New Farm): Cheerless as the
memory of last year’s income-tax... .B.L B.: You
say you know it is no good ; and yet send it along
with semi-abusive remarks... .D.F. (Rockhampton) :
Too much like a school essay.... Chris. N.: Don’t
try to steal another man’s method... .P.J.L.: It
made straight for the basket... .J.E. (Bendigo):
Not up...,Lilac: Nowhere near.. . . J.M.F.: Don’t
like it... .P.J.M.: Your opinion of our opinion
received.... Alice: “Memory” just says the old things
in the old way. .. . T.T.M.: Too long and too loose
... . Q.P. (Wellington): Must go back, .G.8.L.:
Have it your own way, then: —
Journeying through Queensland,
O’er the Outback tracks,
A drover with his flock of sheep ! t
Once came across some blacks.
Speaking to the chieftain
He noticed on his arm
A very battered wristlet watch—
His “debbil debbil” charm.
“What’s about the time, Jim?”
He asked just as a lark.
The chief glanced at his watch and said
“It’s plurry nearly dark.”
L.G.: “Emotions” misses.. .W.E.L.: “Education”
not bright enough... .A.B. (Waverley) : Heavy, aud
the knowledge shown of the game is thin N.S.:
Lou assert about a dozen times that the birds sing.
Any reader will believe you if you say it once. Birds
mostly do sing. ...The Listener: You don’t seem to
have heard much P.L.F.: None is uny use....
P.8.P.: The “froth” on wine is rather a novelty....
Francis D.: No use pretending to write verse and
merely flopping down a few loose rhymeless phrases.
.... DonaJbain: But the greatest of gaol poems was
written in Australia.... Titwillow: Nothing in it...
C.P.T.: Not a gleam of light thrown on matters of
common knowledge. He’s very dead, anyhow. .. .
Chas. J. N.: Send it to the girl. It might sound
good to her, if she’s not too particular. .. .Cameo:
This is not the Spring, and your verse produces no
illusion to the contrary A.D.M.: Chopped-up prose
of that sort is a mere fraud when you try to put it
over as verse A.L.D.: Nothing in it Mary N.:
‘‘The Moon” is a very badly used luminary. ...
S.D.J.: Wobble-and-bump verse of an evil kind....
S.A. (Geelong): Nothing there Nellie J.: It has
a little thin suggestion of improvement. .. .D.V.A.:
Mad in grammar, scansion and idea... .P.A.O’M.:
There have been worse first attempts... .A.S.A.: A
wearisome yarn P.A.M.: The attempts to be mirth-
ful fall down rather heavily. . . . J.H. (North Sydney) :
Not up P.F.L.: A story ought to be about some-
thing Mascot: The fact that the sun rose is duly-
noted.... Outie: The verse ruins the matter... .Just
Called: Misses.... Phemie: Take a shorter cut and
you might arrive somewhere... .G.8.L.: No good
Sakalo: Get a pick and shovel and dig the yarn out
of the “garlic” mass A.L.P.: “Jutland” is several
years behind both in time and quality.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS.
J.W.G.: Nothing in it....8.M.: Suspiciously un-
Australian G.W.W.: Out K.0’8.: Don’t strike
us. .. .R.H.: Misses. .. .L.S.: Awful drawing. . . .K.F.:
No use for Russian whose mouth has fallen out with
his nose.... H.E.R.: Weak gags and weaker draw-
ing. .. .W.A.H.: Curious looking women; where do
they live?... .A.C.L.: Falls down in the drawing.
“T. 0.1.”: After a business existence
of over half-a-eentury Hordern Brothers,
Pitt and George streets, Sydney, have
merged into a limited liability company
with a capital of £400,000. Of the five direc-
tors, four bear the name Hordern, the fifth
is Mr. F. J. Smith. The firm first came into
being at Cook’s River-road, Newtown, where
the late John L. Hordern in 1868 opened
a drapery business in a moderate way. He
told me in 1872 that his ambition w T as to be
in trade in the heart of Sydney, but that his
mother, with whom he lived in Abemarle-
street, Newtown, objected. In 1878 Mr. W
T. Pinkey, chemist, Pitt-street, retired from
business, and J. L. Hordern occupied the
premises which were next E. Way and Co’s.
In 1881 a sister and two brothers joined
J-h and the firm became Hordern Brothers.
When J.L. died it is understood that he be-
queathed his interests to his sister. Though
now a company, it is still a family business.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-0 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days.
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JULY 12.
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons. 17 Knots. Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies. Xc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated tinder the Companies Act 1863.
Manager at Sydney: E, PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE --- KIUSHANE.
Brunches—London, .Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman •
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Ivin<*
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Ruudle Street).
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.G.2),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director ; A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS,.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
CHANTS DRAFTS
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 106 Pitt Btreet.
Paid-up Capital £625,000
Reserve Fund .... .. .. 650,000
£1,276,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625.000
£1,900,000
Heap Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about £2*575,000
Accumulated Funds • • • • • • £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shlpptnr. etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE, 11 a.in.
MAKURA, 20th JULY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, Oth JULY, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE. 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHU* CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
THE IDEAL WINTER TOUR TO
JAVA
(THE GARDEN OF THE EAST)
BY THE BURNS-PHILP LINE.
The palatial and sumptuously furnished steamer “MARELLA” leaves Sydney on
the Ist July, followed by s.s. MONTORO on the Ist August.
A Wonderful 7-weeks’ Trip through Smooth Seas and Sunny Climes
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHI Ll* & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Iteserre I'unil
lleserve Liability
Directors ;
000'009'SIS
000‘000'S
000‘009'S
ooo'ooo'sat
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles It. Mackellar, It.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert. L. Faithfull, Esq.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black
M.D,
, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. Hondon Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 183-1.
Capital paid up ~ £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. fl. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout x e w South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Bane, E.C.
London Bankers—The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s‘Bank, Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE
lIMITCn INSURANCE
Uni I LU COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire on « u l cla “ es VTl f
• Buildings. Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. llents also assured.
Marino Riek<s on Wool, Merchandise,
Marine KISKS Hullg of Vessel - s> Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
339 Little Lonsdale St M Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
THINK OP
SCHUTE
0 El L.L & O Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention,
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(3d. weekly-—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alina), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
“Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen at«l Townsville.
Huddart ParkcrLjsi-
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
"|"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasnenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. OHARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at' 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second : class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO.. LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Mari times Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, dun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


Three Suitings
Specially Recommended by Lowe’s
for Country Wear.
Suits-to-order. 84/- and £5
! 'fi
ii
u
m
/ ;
W'
Q /i
%
£
m
m
ft
J
I
swm
fi,
%t V
'
1
A
m
&
a
e
m
<:4
A
d
i'll
f,i
A guarantee of money back if a suit is
unsatisfactory is the strongest possible
proof that in “cut,” patterns and quality
of cloth Lowe’s Suits to order are all they
are claimed to be—the best.
Australian Tweed.
F.E.i.—Men’s Sac Suit to order, of Australian Tweed,
in all standard and latest patterns. Though this material
is, naturally, not as finely woven as the more expensive
Suitings, it is a solid-wearing and style-retaining Tweed
admirably adapted for country wear. Tailored
to order in any desired style. PRICE
84
99 Serge,
F.E.2.—8/len’s Sac Suit to order, of Fox’s No. 99 Serge.
This serge is the world’s best at the price, sole rights of
which, for Australia, have been secured by Lowe’s. It
is a pure wool suiting of guaranteed Indigo dye.
Tailored in any style. PRICE
£5
Vicars’ Marrickville Tweed.
F.E.3.—Men’s Sac Suit to order, of Vicars’ famous all-
wool Marrickville Tweed, in popular checks, herring-
bones, pencil stripes, grey and brown shades.
Tailored in any style. PRICE
£5
Lowe’s
Sell it
for Less.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Stores
all over
Town.
LOWE’S, LTD,,
Box 1622 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
Please sand me patterns of 84/- Australian Tweed and
£5 Fox’s No. 919 Serge, and Vicars’ All-Wool Marrickville
Tweed Suits to' order.
NAME ADDRESS
B. 15/6/'22.
IfLD
We carry the finest range in Australia
Kindly send your Gun License
when ordering.
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
“.4 marvel at the price. 9 '
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin..- round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Mb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26 =
s3a
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Bille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges. 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid. JJ/"
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
JL
sss
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Ilift. designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round. JSin. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 25/""
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered" barrel, take down, weight 6*lb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight,
paid •
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
flua
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Itiile, 1906
Model IC-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles -2
short, long, or long rifle cartridge!.; weight, about
tw.l. ..ags
“A cheap and reliable weapon.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Uiile, 22 calibre, 11. F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-liardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight.
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marhct.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
Indies. Magazine hoids 15 cartridges. Weight silb r. q
Freight paid,
MYRROHL America. TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 2/- large tube (post free).
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24iu. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid, £B/10/-
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £9
BIG. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 18t#2 Model.
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about s|lb Freight paid,
£7/15/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
qc
‘j
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Mr. Phil Smith
Enjoys a Rexona Shave.
AIK. PHIL. SMITH (from a photo),
What about me for a “Rexona
Boy”? Every blessed day of
my life I use Rexona Shaving
Soap, and not for worlds would
I use any other. You can take
it from me there is nothing like
the Rexona Triangular Stick
when you want to shave in a
hurry in the morning. It
lathers flue, and makes that
beard of mine as soft as swans-
down. That is saying a lot, so
when I tell you there is nothing
like Rexona Shaving Soap, I
mean it. So here’s good luck
to Rexona.
The original “Rexona Boy.”
(Sgd.) PHIL SMITH.
Her Majesty’s Theatre,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Rexona Shaving Soap —
The Triangular Stick.
Rexona Shaving: Soap makes for comfort and hygiene in shaving* and tempers
the skin against wind and bad weather.
It will be found the most economical Shaving Stick on the market, but care
should he exercised not to dip the Stick in the water, but wet the face, and apply
the Shaving: Soap dry. A few applications with the shaving brush will quick y
produce a thick, creamy lather, which lasts and thoroughly softens the near ,
leaving the skin In a healthy and hygienic condition after the shave.
Everyone should use a Medicated Soap for slaving, for, after going over the
face with the razor and removing the beard, the skin needs a protection from the
germs carried by the dust, which everyone has to face.
Rexona Shaving Soap is the highest standard erff .Shaving Soap that it is possible
to produce, and a good Shaving Soap means everything to a shave, for if the beard
is properly lathered a shtavo is a delight: but it' the beard
is not properly lathered, blit is stiff and harsh, it is not
only severe on the user but hard on the razor. ,
Rexona—the Triangular Stick—l/6.
HDIIS 9NIAVHS
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAM STO WN, VICTORIA.)
Invite Enquiries for ANY MACHINERY
PROPOSITION such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
Color.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Where the rainbow meets the ground, shall a crock
of gold be found.”
ON these grey days I dream of color.
Oh, to hold
The rainbow in one’s arms and m
one’s soul. .
Staining dour fancy with its streak ot gold,
Winding its ribbons for some gay maypole
Of whims* ; to entreat the damask rose
For its fresh crimsons ere the freshness
goes!
To steal from mountain tops the distant
blue,
The amethyst of valleys wdien the sun
Tries to pry there, the misty morning
through, .
Or, ere the blaze of sunset s fire is done.
To lock it in a secret chest, and see
Through the black night it burning end-
lessly !
Oh, to take for your own the apple-green
Of fragile leaves before the summer dust
Has blotted there, to dull the fairy sheen,
To keep your spoil secure from moth and
rust,
With all the changing opals of the sea
Mosaie’d in the tiles of memory !
Distilling scarlets from the desert-pea,
And ebon of its glossy heart, to find
A yellow wattle fixed eternally
In the dark, unswept corners of the mind,
Carrying with you earth’s sad trails along,
Color on color, shouting to a song!
The dazzling liveries that wild things dock.
The gjint of bronze-wing’s feathers, or the
ring
Of pure cerise about the bower-bird s neck,
Blue of those wrens whom cold Julys hear
sing,
The pert vermilion cap the'broiga wears,
The soldier-reds the parrot’s shoulder bears!
Suffusing hues in glass or china, rayed
With prisms flilelied from gems for buyers
eyes,
Lacquer and pearl grave Orientals made,
Fine Persian carpets and bold Tyrian dyes,
Tribute to gods, flung down a tawny stream:
Graves of dead kings where broken emeralds
gleam.
Stone slabs enamelled in a sapphire hue,
Half-buried in a drift of yellow sands,
Beneath a sky so wonderfully blue
We know that Allah holds it in his hands!
And pray he spill a morsel, lest we die,
There must be blue to spare in such a sky !
Ribbons on city counters, rolled like tyres
For pixy cars. A vivid heliotrope:
A radiant pink. The ciel a bride desires
To make her garter of (that she may hope
For luck in loving—as the old saw goes!)
Fastened demurely with a silver rose.
Peach blossoms blowing over sodden grass,
Time-reddened walls, and orange creepers
flung
Over brown balconies where jade moths pass,
Oh, color has a universal tongue,
And, like a wild reveille, how it calls
From tower to tree, from water unto walls!
I think some lives are starved for color, so
They hunger for it. As a flower might lie
Over a vault’s cold floor, sick for the glow
Of that fierce sun that burns an unseen
sky—
For there be those who, seeking treasure,
hold
They need the rainbow more than all the
gold!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Revolt of Youth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lIE Right Honorable William Shar-
land, P.C., M.P., ethnologist and
sociologist, as well as politician,
sailed the Coral Sea and tried to forget the
class war. His departure from the storm
centre had been no act of mental cowardice;
the man was physically incapable of further
strain when he left England. The quiet of
the Coral Sea, the soft, sleep-inviting
threshing of palm fronds over golden beaches
and coral, rice-white in its death, and blue
seas so blue as to be purple and sleepy and
stale —all these had made a new man of him:
not the old man rejuvenated, but a new man
with a new outlook, new sets of beliefs; even
a sane ideal to replace the old formulae and
the shibboleths of his class education. For
what did Oxford or Cambridge matter here
where the air blew sweetly to the mouths of
the great ones of earth as to the mouth of-
the coolie? And of what significance West-
minster Hall, when here he caught himself
envying the second mate and the super-
cargo because they pulled at ropes without
weariness? He smelled the soft, spiced air
that blew about the islands, and suddenly
knew that Westminster Abbey calls for dis-
infectants; and in this chain of Edens that
he floated through—link by link of. Paradise
—all the opulence of London flourishing by
the side of poverty that rotted; all the
immorality of a starving class cheek-by-
jowl with the insolence of a ruling one; all
his terrors and pessimisms suddenly fell
away from his memory, and he became a
natural man, as in the beginning of the
world—before privilege seized more than it
could eat.
In his wanderings he had collected dovs’
teeth, necklaces, arm-shells, pineapple clubs,
carved w r ashie-washies, arrows tipped with
human bones and cassowary claw’s, casso-
wary thigh-bones, daggers which had often
given the coup de grace of the lung-thrust to
long pig and the victims of the cooking-pots,
limepots and spatulate knives of ebony,
ramis and the skulls of men. They cauebt
not only the sociologist but also the little
artistry of the man —hitherto almost unsus-
pected by himself. He saw that they welded
beauty to use; that in these weapons and
furniture of the chase, of the table and of
love the highest efficiency was added to
beauty of form. Little by little he began
to wonder whether the civilisation of people
who starve the w T eak and kill armies in the
interests of trade could stand comparison
with this civilisation of the Coral Sea where
no man starved, where no man held food
at the expense of another, where forestallers
were not and a man’s head was secure upon
his shoulders until he met a stronger man
who craved it for a house-decoration; and
he asked himself seriously the question of
the failure of civilisation, and answered it
out of these most recent experiences. This
black man’s civilisation endured to the hap-
piness of its individuals, because it was
simple and direct; because it knew not lying
for government; the clumsy falsification
called “diplomacy” to hide weakness, and
the five-and-twenty thieves and hucksters
who insinuate themselves between every
buyer and every seller. From that consid-
eration to the next was easy; the immorality
of governing by old men vvho are so near
to the cemetery that they care little for
anything that may happen; the wrong of
old age governing youth; greybeards and
an.-emic ancients making wars in petulant
egotism that young* men must slake with
blood. And he went on, soothed by the
quiet and spurred to discontent by the care-
less comfort of these people of the Coral
Sea, and beginning to see things as they are,
essentials without trimmings or exaggera-
tions.
The schooner he had chartered made her
way under sail from Samarai to Sudest. Then
in a calm her kerosene-engine sputtered east-
ward at six knots to llennell Island, to San
Christoval, over to Aola near Guadalcanal-,
and then by New Georgia to Choiseul; south
again to Ysabel, and round to the east coast
of Malaita, where politics are mostly battle,
murder and sudden death, and the rules of
debate are fixed by the strongest man with
the heaviest axe.
Malaita affected the mind of the Right
Honorable Sharland, P.C., M.P., as being
too much like Europe during the Great War,
and he made north again to Tulagi, and
there heard of something which sent him to
Bougainville.
Bougainville was a false alarm, but the
Right Honorable-and-all-the-rest-of-it took
joy in yet another cruise around the Bay
of a Thousand Ships. So he had six months
of voyaging full of pleasure of new things,
and the mask of civilisation fell from him
and he lived happily and healthily and
laughed aloud, forgetting that loud laughter
is bad form, and remembering that the
highest expression of education is naturalness.
The half-year made him hard of muscle
and clear, brick-red of skin; he had seen
pearlers and trepangers and all the reapers
of the sea, and had come to know men as
they really are —men who were kindly as
naturally as they were ribald, and with as
little thought. And at long last he came
to an island, a long way west-nor’-west of
the Shortlands, and had his first lesson in |
the essentials of government. _ A Govern-
ment official with two swan-black and glossy
village constables —singlet and sarong and
brass armlet all complete—had sailed in
their cutter as consort to the schooner to
bring the white man’s justice to a village
all waving palms, taro gardens, contented
pigs, bananas and grass houses, with the
tides tinkling through the coral trash for
music all the day and night.
They arrested their man easily, a big j
black with a curly nose and plaited beard,
lie chewed his betel contentedly as he sat
handcuffed on the beach waiting for the
cutter’s boat to take him far away to trial,
and hearing not the weeping women of his
house about him; and Mr. Sharland stood
before the prisoner and asked the Govern-
ment official for the story of the crime.
“It’s easy enough,” said the Government
man, yellow as Californian gold by reason
of many bouts with black-water fever and
cinchonised to irritability. “This chap had
a fine garden, and a woman broke into it
and ate a dozen bananas or so; so this chap
killed and ate her.”
“Good gracious, indeed! But why?”
“Oh, justice!” replied the jaundiced white
man irritably. “They eat bugs for the same
reason. Ask ’em why and they tell you
that one bug kaikai me; then I been kai-
kai him !”
“But to kill and eat the woman !”
“She kaikaied his bananas, so he kai-
kaied her. You can’t explain to them; their
sense of justice is more natural”.... He
grinned at his own joke to come. “They’ve
got no Equity Court in the Coral Sea; it's
commonsense and facts for them.... Come
on! Tagarama, or Funny Face, or what-
ever your dam’ name is. Boat he stop”. ...
He became irritable again immediately....
“Start him with the flat of your foot, Bawa
—can’t wait all day. So long, mate!”
He took his prisoner to the waiting boat,
leaving Sharland. P.C., M.P., gasping in
his mind at the even-handed justice of the
Coral Sea, and the “So long, mate!” which
latter did not surprise him as much as it
would have done six months before, and
left behind it a suggestion of friendliness
and. equality the Right Honorable had begun
to like. The new justice interested him
also, and he stayed on this island where
there were no Equity Courts- and no Privy
Council to appeal to, and no circumlocu-
tion, and where circumstantial evidence was
made conclusive by punishment arriving
hot-foot.
The supercargo of his chartered schooner
introduced him to Magari, the chief-elect,
a big, fine, intelligent man, wielding the
chief’s power already, although technically
it was still in the hands of his father, a
white-haired, grizzled-bearded, quavering old
fellow —dwindling to the wreck of a once-
strong and dominant personality. The son
administered while the father thought he
did, although the old man’s administrative
acts were but little more than insolent inter-
ference with subject-rights. He interfered
with the planting of the gardens, bitterly
despising the American steel spades which
had displaced the digging sticks pointed and
hardened in the fire, telling the nursing
women of their foolishness in hiding their
babies from the mosquitoes under the white
man’s mosquito nets, instead of hanging
them up in the smoke of the fire, by which, as
all genius knows, the child is not only saved
from mosquito bites, but is also rendered
tough in the skin by being smoke-dried, be-
sides securing an elegant curvature of the
spine from its crescent-shaped position on
the smoke-net.
He insisted that it is better for fishermen
to laboriously shape fishing-hooks out of
pearl-shell than to use steel hooks won by
barter from the white man ; and it seemed
(Continued on next page.)


Every Picture
Tells a Story n
9L
%
m
m
W
-r
Home Again—with the
Same Old Backache!
Does every day bring the same old, nagging backache?.
Do you rise in the morning lame and stiff? Drag
through the day with your back a dull, unceasing ache?
Evening find you all played-out,” thinking only of a
little rest before to-morrow s weary grind? Then don’t
be discouraged* Realise it’s merely a sign you haven’t
taken good care of yourself—been overworking and
haven’t had enough exercise, rest and sleep. This has
l? £ly Str f med , y °7 kldne y s - So instead of worrying, just take things easier for" awhile and
1 elp the weakened kidneys with Doan s Backache Kidney Pills. Then, if it's kidney backache,
y u 11 soon get over it and the headaches, dizziness, tired feelings and bladder troubles will go, too.
Doan s have helped thousands and should help you. Ask your neighbor.
TWO INTERESTING CURES.
A MAN’S CASE.
Mr. Thomas Spence, Harriet Villa, Park Road, Auburn, says“ For rears I
was an engine-driver on the N.S.W. Railways, and for a long-time prior to mv
retirement sutfered greatly with my kidneys. I think the constant exposure had
the effect of weakening these organs. The first warning I had of anything
wrong was a pain in the small of my back. This soon began to trouble me a S
kinds 3 bn r ' vas often so bad tbat 1 could hard ly move. I took medicine of all
!w d % It 1 1 SOt - n ° b v ettei \ and sometimes I used to wonder if ever I would be
'fhovl mal V e a , long ,story sbort ’ 1 at last R°t Doan’s
ailment completely, and'‘ I have ’mytidneyTslnce!” **
si,,ce F Do«ff A Mnw'Vffl? cTrS me foS? TJS'Zr ""
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. J. Smith; Bonnie Boon, Duncan Street, Arncliffe, Sydney, says:—“Mv
kidneys were in a bad way for some time and I suffered terribly from
tack ache in consequence. I could not stoop freely: in fact, all my movements
were handicapped owing to the nagging ache that used to catch me across the
kidneys. My rest at night was broken, and during the day I felt tired and
languid, having no energy for anything. I w.as advised to try Doan’s Backache
!. hey I ills, so sent for some at once. They worked wonders in mv case, giving
eliet almost immediately and gradually effecting a complete cure. Six years
in V fW P^ ed ?, ince 1 used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I have been'well
all that time. ’
years later Mrs. Smith says“l still have great faith in Doan’s Bayk-
iifem ww n T Pll , s - 1 „ alwa 7 s kee P « bottle in the house, and whenever I feel a
mtie off color take a few doses, and I am soon quite all right again.”
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
to liim that much time was being wasted
by the purchase of ancient Snider rides for
the chase, when any hunter or artist in his
time had cheerfully given a year of labor
to the making of a disc or pineapple club,
lie certainly admitted the Snider to be
quicker and more certain, and that the
owner of a line pineapple club had often
returned hungry and empty-handed from
the chase ; but it seemed to him that hunger
and emptiness were better than this impious
abandonment of old ways.
“Dear me,” said Sharfand, P.C., when the
supercargo had explained these matters, “it
sounds to me just like Lord Buckthong’s
speech at Leicester on Freetrade. But are
you sure you've got it rightly? Ask one of
those black men.”
“I’ve got it right all right,” replied the
supercargo, “but I’ll ask Arona there all
about him. Hey ! Arona that one old feller.
. . . .What matter that one he stop.”
"Ob.” said the fuzzy-haired boatman he
had addressed, “that one father longa big
teller chief, plenty old feller that one he
stop. That one altogether talkem outa turn
too much.”
“You were quite right, then. Mr. Saddler,”
*did the Right Honorable to the supercargo,
hut if he keeps on talking out of his turn
too much, as they felicitously style it:, what
is likely to happen?”
“f dunno! Bisson, the acting chief, is
very fond of him—They all are, and they
stand a lot, much more than the old chap
ever stood when he was young and powerful.”
“Much more! How, indeed?”
“Well, they say when Badoba was young
he killed his mother-in-law.”
"Indeed, and why?”
“She sat down in his presence and ate
lisli.
But. good Heavens did lie kill her for
that?”
Of course! No mother-in-law may sit or
eat in the presence of the son-in-law: and
she did both. She must have been mad, of
course, before she forgot herself like that,
because every woman here is well trained
long before she has a chance to be a mother-
in-law.”
“But that’s terrible.”
"No Tear. If a man doesn't rule bis
mother-in-law with a rod of iron how the
devil is he going to preserve authority? Why,
if there were no penalties a mcfther-in-law
would own a man’s house in no time.”
True, trued I've heard of disputes of
the sort, and unhappy marriagejs, and all
that sort of thing; and separation of hus-
band and wife from that very cuirse. These
people are very enlightened, very enlight-
ened, indeed.”
“I just think (hoy are. They know things
:ind don t torget ’em. They’ve got no police,
so it’s deatli to steal —because ilfs such a
sneaking thing. And this chap Magnri. he’s
making this island the most comfortable this
side of the line. Why, one day yvlien some
white men came to see him he l*id a table
and plates and a cloth—and serviettes, no
less. Hasn’t got ’em now', of course ”
“And why?”
“Magari’s gins took the tablecloth for
ramis,. and two boys pinched the serviettes
Jor loincloths. They were too frightened to
give them back when they found out that
Magari knew, so they burned the lot, and
Magari clubbed ’em all nearly to death. >So
modern improvements haven’t had a chance
since then ; but Magari’s old man is against
everything, and if he keeps on preaching
that old crusted Tory stuff Magari will put
him in his class quick and lively.”
"Really'! The revolt of youth !”
"Many a time I’ve wanted to hit old men
on the top of the head when they told me
the world used to be better when they
were ymunger. The old wasters try to make
you believe that the sun was brighter and
steaks were thicker, and there was more
bite to the whisky. It’s a way they have
of telling the new generation' that it’s a
poor thing, anyhow. Just to hide from
themselves that they have changed, and the
worlds the same good old place and always
will be.”
“I have noticed that myself,” said the
Right Honorable. "Old men hiding their
dyspepsia with the belief that food hasn’t
the same taste.”
Is either it has—to them,” said the super-
ego. “But hell! that’s their fault; not
the food s. You mark my words! Badoba
wiJ] talk out of hif? turn once too often.”
Two days later Badoba did. His grand-
daughter, the round, cinnamon-tinted
daughter of Magari, had the modern female’s
advanced views on marriage. She threw
down an old chief of many pigs, toias and
canoes, and handed herself over to a young
man of Dalini—a great swimmer and hunter!
but of low financial value. Still, he had the
countenance of Magari, and his girl’s aunt
spoke well of him; so Badoba bad little to
go o.n. But Badoba was an obstinate
though quavering, old man. He could not
forget that a man has power of life and
death over his family. He knew that he had
killed his mother-in-law for the shocking
..crime of sitting down and eating in his
presence; and he refused to admit that
times had changed. So lie tried to attack
the girl, and was repulsed; and then to
strike her lover, and received the kick of
msult with the flat of the foot, delivered well
bemud Badoba’s back; and then Badoba
went to his son, and commanded him to kill
the girl and the lover for the insult. Being
respectfully refused he became abusive; and,
beiug old and able to do without sleep, he
spent the night complaining, arguing, .yam-
mering, until he drove Magari frantic.
Next day he repeated his demands for
loveugc, and the village took sides; and the
men of Dalini intervened until it appeared
.that two peoples who liked each other, and
intermarried, and ate pigs’ kidneys and pork
oracklin together, would be forced to tear
at one another’s throats. And that con-
tingency did not please Magari, who believed
in peace, modern improvements and Snider
rifles; and hated inter-tribal fights that, would
bring to the villages concerned white men
and black police, to arrest and hang men, and
burn the long houses, and shame them ail
before their women. He begged his father,
vs horn he loved, to be reasonable, and forget
the insult he had himself invoked; and
Badoba struck him, and the spittle from
Badoba s foaming mouth was wind-blown to
Magari’s haunches.
Then Magari left his father, and took
counsel in the long house; and the council
decided that Badoba talked altogether out of
his turn, and that the village did not like
him too much.
It was bright and early next morning
when the supercargo awoke the Right Hon-
orable Sharland, P.C., M.P., and told him
that the schooner's whale-boat was ready
to take him ashore to see the fun.
“FunV” repeated the Kight Honorable,
What fun V
■‘Magari’s full up of papa,” replied the
supercargo. And this is where papa
takes the hint.”
Before they landed they heard the beat-
ing of the snake-skin drums, and as their
boat’s keel furrowed the sand they heard
above the rushing of the water up the beach
the murmurs of a people roused to action
and ready for a grea* event
Then from the chief’s house Magari led
Badoba, his father. They were handfasted
like white lovers, or black young men who
are friends; the old man, all his ill-temper
gone, looked up lovingly into his son’s face
Tears ran down the cheeks of both: the
women behind them were crying, and the.
procession of villagers that ’ followed dis-
played the keenest grief of the imminence,
yet with no loss of resolution.
“Where are they going? What are thev
going to do?” asked the Right Honorable
Mia rland of the supercargo.
“1 don’t exactly know: but it’s going to
be uncomfortable for Badobn.”
“But he goes quite willingly.”
1 lien you can bet it’s all in accordance
with tradition, and the old habits; or that
bold, black Tory would be kicking like a
steer. Come on—let’s keep up with Magari.
I hey ve got the star parts in this.”
Magari, still hand-fasted with his father,
lett the beach and entered the long, dappled
aisle of palms, and thence into a darker and
more uneven track in the jungle. The
jungle silence struck the chattering proces-
sion dumb as it walked. On the fallen leaves
that never Crackled, because in that moist
heat they rotted wet and changed to humus
in a w cek of steam and dew, there ivas no
sound of footfall, and through the heavy
breathing they heard the great drops of
collected rain fall and spatter on a frand
when the head of a palm filled and welled
over.
And old Badoba looking up trustfully,
lovingly and cheerfully to his son. went on
with the tears running down his cheeks.
The jungle thinned as they came to a
more-open pocket of great blocks of coralline
limestone overgrown with vines. The
greatness of these single stones, piled on
one another carelessly, as if giants had
neaped them so in sport, had made these
nJack men ascribe superhuman activities to
tins place; Badoba, in whom tradition—
which is 9b per cent, lie—was stronger than
in any, seemed satisfied now that he had been
hi ought to this place sacred for nothing hut
the superstition of Toryism. He loosed his
hold of Magari’s hand, and took the hand
in both his own; Magari, full of emotion, eni-
Inaeed liis fatherj twice, and then turned to
n-M irian "h° stood immediately behind him.
-the processaptt found its erving-tongue
again, and wailed once, to be stopped by a
sign from Magari as Badoba sank to his
knees before his sou. Tueu Magari, taking
the club from the man behind him, raised it
as the liight Honorable .Shariand turned his
own face away. The Englishman heard that
crunch, as of a walnut shell broken under
a foot; and then lie looked again, and saw
Badoba lying dead, and .Magari, his face
convulsed by grief, standing over him with
the bloody club in his haud.
"Take me away,” said the Right Honor-
able Shariand to the supercargo. “I feel ill."
“Come on, then. You’re too soft for this
climate. But there’ll be peace and quietness
on this island for a bit; now that the Con-
servatives have been defeated at the poll'.
You can’t beat the Labor party, old bird —ir
does things. Hold up ! Badoba died happy
because they wiped him out according to tin
old laws.”
At that stage the Right Honorable Shar-
iand became violently sick.
The Right Honorable Shariand. I\(j.,
M.T., left his charter at Thursday Island,
and Joined a 8.-P. liner for Singapore nt
route for England. His nearest fellow-pas-
senger was a bishop who had been a mission-
ary High Boss for a dozen years, and who
deprecated greatly the mental backwardness
of the people of the Coral Sea. According to
the Bishop they were impossible of enlighten-
ment ; they could not understand the sym-
bolism of the Sgprament—administered with
cocoanut milk instead of wine (because it is
a penal offence to supply natives with alco-
hol) ; they refused to love their enemies,
because they had barely enough love to go
round for their friends; and their attitude to
Jonah and the whale was one of ribald scep-
ticism.
"Quito impossible, quite!” said the Bishop.
"They are mentally deficient. After com-
paring them with even the lower classes of
England I lose all heart.”
“I join issue* if I may,” replied the Right
Honorable Shariand, thinking of British
Party government, a ruling class that rules
bv shibboleth and petticoat influence, the
House of Lords, and all the bishops that
therein arc. "These natives have their own
ways, and many of them are admirable, vet
they are cursed with traditions almost' as
much as we are.”
“Mv dear sir,” said the shocked prelate.
Tradition ! Tradition is what our govern-
ment is based upon.”
“So much the worse for us,” replied the
Right Honorable Shariand. "I have recently
visited an island where the —er—Progres-
sives—or, as my friend the supercargo called
them, the Laboi’ites—had——er—a debate—yes
a debate—with the last of the Conservatives,
and the Laborites won. We in England
might in this terrible—er—national crisis—
might with advantage adopt some—er—such
drastic methods for such of our supposed—
er—leaders as insistently live in the past!”
And then he told the shocked bishop the
story of Tagarama, who ate the woman,
who ate the bananas; of Badoba, who killed
his mother-in-law because she ate fish in his
presence; and of Magari, who, for the good
of the people, killed Badoba, his father, when
Badoba talked out of his turn altogether big
feller too much.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


BS
%
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in. stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 4 14.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
...__ . . * *
Queensland Agents- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featliereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— 89 Queen Street Melbourne.
CONCORD
N. S. WALES
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
MOTOR CARS
Studebaker builds on the principle
that there is no substitute for
quality. This policy was estab-
lished more than seventy years a£o
when the business was founded.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studehaker Year
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
LIGHT-SIX 5-Seater
Cord Tyres
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
Requisites
Stocked.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to tiie times
-—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
VVe study your requirements and design the layout of your
riant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an , initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at vour service.
J. WILD RIDGE. & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at
Perth;
Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Auckland, N.Z.
Remington
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting
hgjhjkjlkl;l'
for Shooting Righ&
Ask your dealer to show you Remington rifle 9. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25, 30, 32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request.
p
M
C -5
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.F.0., Melbourne.
TAKE*
9
f.EL
m
X
THE WORLDS
FOREMOST-
MEDICINE
©/e omi6 v
BETTER STEELS for
BETTER MOTORING
Just as soon as a car or truck leaves the city blocks
behind it faces road conditions that only the best
steel construction can meet with safety and economy.
The best steel, and the best steel only, is Worth
its place in the motor vehicle in Australia.
AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE’
MOTOR-CAR STEELS
are all-British and world renowned for strength
and durability. This week w r e list
S.D.I2 —Air-Hardening Nickel Chrome
Steel. (For Gears, etc.) Supplied annealed,
ready for machining. May be Air-Hardened,
or Oil-Quenched.
5.D.20 —Oil-Hardening High Tensile
Nickel Chrome, Steel. (For Shafts, Axles,
Spindles, etc.) Very tough, and will withstand
great .shock and strain.
Send your inquiries and ask for book, “Balfour’s
Hints on Steel,” post free.
The Eagle g Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co.,
Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston
Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46
Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie. Paul & Gray, Ltd.,
Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L. Milligan, 32a
Argyle Street, Hobart; .John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Charles
Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
E ON
GOOD LOOKS
A good clear complexion has much to do
with success in life, especially for women
.—and for men too. You can always
have “good looks” if you take Carter's
Small Pill-
Small
Dose-
Small
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source of
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active liver.
They cure
Biliousness,
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
'"rj
isli'wTwy
"•■ta*
Sin
is;
HORLICECS
MALTED
MILK
a Food-Drink which maintains
a d strength nourishes
nd invigorates the whole system,
"ake HORLICK'a daily. It
>mbines the valuable dietetic
properties of Milk, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
R. G. WATKINS CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


Born 182.0- Still going Strong /
jj
f.
?
X
m
IS
Sn
' L>
///,* t 1
.---
S
53
'At.
4EZ2
iTv>
wr
1
»
2s
v*.
■
V
'^2/
V/m
S^? —
iig
7
11
/.'’* ,■ X
(saffy
ssa-.-—««
L3£§3
«u» ' ■: J
'^Z
%
/
$
TS
Wo
W-*5
' 4
C
:k
&
OiL-N*.
a
Jk
The “ Spaniard's.” Hampstead Heath.
Built in 1620 —« favourite haunt of the
picturesque highwayman, Dick Turpin.
Shade of Dick Turpin: “Ah, ■ Johnnie Walker ’—lf only I ha<
yi ■ ~,V'
been alive to rob you o ; f a bottle or two.”
.
TOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers. KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
