

*Ghe Hall .Mark
of LAMP SERVICE
W
J'-'-V
m
r f { M,
am mm
V ■‘^ > V
m
■
-• ... ..£• ■ !
i^HJl' a^HH
;
j§" •
A: r>* :,.*»>?. Ha
.
t«-ai
j , .. • sh V ty ' < ' t,'
/M% ..#gp'.
Sw ■ f. LMtIIBBP
4111 V t
> M' r>, # JA s
4f - I ! e^sjr^^W*
/. ,-l. ‘ 2
4'-- »v«
f i
/ 14^
:; J Kill
....
:
dn
>
*
.' i #
1
• • >3
J
. :,
J
■
I
/i
a
w
# j
r *
Just as the hall mark is a guarantee
of sterling silver, so is the trade mark
G-E EDISON on an electric lamp an
assurance of its sterling quality.
Look for this trade mark on
all electric lamps you buy.
enc
35-45 WENTWORTH AVENUE
SYDNEY
ĥ
116 STREET,
ME LBOURNE
Phone : City 3510 Box 2517 G.P.O.
BRISBANE, Q. —-The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia,
Ltd. (E.S.C.A.), corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
' TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver, HOBART & LAUNCESTON
Phone : Central 2646 Box 538 G.P.O.
ADELAIDE, S. A.—Charles Atkins 6c Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie St.
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins 6c Co. (W.A.) Ltd., “Mazda
House,” 894 Hay Street,
LE-/
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2190.
Thursday, February 2, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Have you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
DYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE. LTD., 428
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431.— Advt.
ħ
The Manufacturer’s Mascot.
Mangrovite Leather or Kaw-Hide Belting, by its
unfaltering reliability, its bulldog grip on the
pulleys and its strongly recuperative powers, has
definitely reduced the cost of transmission in hundreds
of factories.
MANGROVITE BELTING
is the entirely satisfactory result of manufacture
standardised at a high level of excellence. Its
installation in your power plant will aid economical
production.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing: Director,
* 49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA:, Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 897 Littlo
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
ritish.
The
All
S
LIGHT CAR
The Car for the Owner-Driver
The Standard Car has fulfilled
every demand expected of it. It
has unusual power, and is especially
economical in running costs.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied
v V*'-
Standard Motor Car Co., Ltd.
Coventry.
Agent:
v I. PHIZACKERLEY, %
\ 168-171 Elizabeth «
S.\ Street, si x
SYDNEY. tfHlllii
rr
.mil'll 1 "' 1 "
r k
0
M
inn English Garden lives again
A fragrance of England's best loved flowers, as real
and true as if borne to you through the quiet evening
air in an old - fashioned English village garden
such is the fidelity to nature of Zenobia Perfumes.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the choice of faultless taste,
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, dainty and bewitching in its appeal,
Zenobia Night - Scented Stock, another favourite perfume,
sweet and fragrant.
ENOB
±>IW
the
Valley
£ENOBI^
h
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd.,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Agents for New Zealand (Wholesale only),
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia (Wholesale only).
KENNETH BUCK MASTER, ’
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney. S
So
Zenobia Perfumes
are obtainable at
most high - class
Chemists, Per-
fumers & Stores
100% Efficiency Ideal' Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club, school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an “IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN BE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users:—
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON.
JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
MARY ROBERTS RINEHART.
AUSTRALIA :
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTH. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHILIP RUSSELL, Esq., Beaufort.
The “IDEAL JUNIOR” is_ specially made for private lawns. Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
w
Sac.
i i
E
ĥ
C. J. WHITE & SONS,
COUNTRY RBPIUOSEXTATIVaES WANTED.
ħ
64
IS
y
-
SSSK
Sold Everywhere.
m
&
m
*
The Red Page
The Rewards of Genius
What is it,, I wonder, that prevents the
official and academic mind from giving
genius its due? Why should the Laureate-
ship in England be held by a nonentity
whose silence is more attractive than his
verse? Why should the French Academy
consist mainly of sterile “intellectuels” ?
Why should the Nobel Prize for Literature
be bestowed almost invariably on the wrong
man ?
The answer is, I suppose, that official
honors are awarded at the discretion of
eminently respectable old men whose train-
ing and outlook make it highly improbable
that they will appreciate new forces, new
ideas, new methods, new men. It is not
that they are unintelligent—far from it.
It is simply that they are just as incapable
of appreciating new and original genius as
Johnson was of appreciating Milton, or
Pope would have been of appreciating
Wordsworth or Keats. To the elderly man
of set, conservative views, the very "origin-
ality of the newcomer is an offence and a
personal affront, for it implies that the
ideas and methods which have served him
for half-a-century should be tossed into an
attic with the other dusty lumber of the
years.
Some such explanation must lie at the
bottom of the melancholy mistakes that have
been made in the bestowal of the Poet Laure-
ates!) ip, the only honor that a British subject
can look forward to, unless he aspires to
sit cheelc-by-jowl with all the best soap
manufacturers and profiteers.
True, there have been two periods
when the Laureateship meant something,
the first ranging from Spenser to Dry-
den, with Samuel Daniel and Ben Joii-
son in between, and the second from
the appointment of Wordsworth in
1843 to the death of Tennyson in 1892.
But one has only to recall a string of half-
forgotten names to realise how dreary is
the intervening blank. Thomas Sh a dwell,
who succeeded Dr.vden when that genius was
removed from office in 1688, wrote some
fair comedies, but is remembered mainly as
the original of the ridiculous “Og” of Dry-
den’s deathless satire. Nahum Tate (1692)
helped Nicholas Brady to write a metrical
version of the Psalms, and when he had
nothing better to do gave the world improved
versions of “Richard the Second” and “King
Lear” that must, have made Shakspeare
writhe with anguish in his grave. Nicholas
Rowe (1715) is remembered mainly be-
cause he was a friend of Addison, Swift
and Pope and an adept at worming himself
into Government positions. The Rev. Law-
rence Eusden, who followed him in 1718,
is not remembered for anything. The
wretched odes of Colley Cibber (1730) are
long since forgotten. Of William Whitehead
(1757) not a line lives except a lament
that an allowance of wine and a few pounds
a year do not necessarily lift a man to very
lofty flights
His muse, inspired by sack and pension,
Without a subject or invention,
Must certain words in order set
As innocent as a gazette ;
Must some half-meaning half disguise
And utter neither truth nor lies.
His successors were Thomas Warton (1785),
a scholar, an antiquarian and a respectable
poet: the egregiously dull Henry James Pye
(1790) ; and Oriented, laborious, heavy-
footed Southey (1813). Not until Words-
worth was appointed in 1843 did the honor
fall to a man who could carry on the tradi-
tions of Spenser. Jonson and Dryden. Tenny-
son, the facile and ingenious, was still more
successful. But even Tennyson could not
ripple on for ever, and in 1892 there began
another dreadful blank which has grown
more appalling with each decade.
Glance at the little versifiers in turn and
you will have found one way to a just esti-
mate of the Laureateship. An even better
way is to recall the men—-Marlowe, Shaks-
peare, Herrick, Donne, Pope, Gray, Scott,
Byron, Keats, Shelley, Coleridge, Moore,
Browning and Swinburne —who have had the
distinction of remaining officially undistin-
guished.
And the Laureateship is only one of many
proofs of the inability of official or semi-
official committees to keep up with the
march of educated opinion. When Moliere,
Pascal, Balzac, Beranger, George Sand,
Gautier and a score of other immortals
stand outside the gates, who can say whe-
ther the Frenchman’s highest glory lies
within or without the Academy? And who
can accept the Nobel Prifce as the highest
mark of literary distinction when Kipling is
preferred to Swinburne and George Mere-
dith, when Rabindranath Tagore and
Romain Rolland and sundry Teutons are
exalted above Thomas Hardy? Though it
is too late to do justice to Meredith and
Swinburne, the trustees of the Nobel Prize
still have a chance to honor themselves by
honoring Thomas Hardy. But if anything
is to be done for the great old man it must
be done soon, for he is 81. Every genuine
lover of literature will hope that the trus-
tees do not again pass over the last of the
Victorian giants, the man whose immensity
of vision, grim sincerity, unswerving fidelity
to nature and unfailing sympathy with
human weakness lift him into the front rank
of novelists, not merely of to-day, but of all
time.
G. C. DIXON.
Australian Child-Literature
When I was ever so small something hap-
pened to the banks in Queensland where my
father kept his money. You might not think
banks had anything to do with little children
when you see them standing so broad and
big in the streets, or when you walk in and
Avatch the men behind the counters moving
among the books, the figures, the money. And
yet, evidently, banks have a great deai to do
with children, because when something- hap-
pened to those Queensland banks I was sud-
denly flung out of the big house where I was
born into a mean room in a street as black
as horror, the most important thing about,
it a rubbish heap which in wet weather used
to move up and down like a wire mattress
if you jumped on it. Out of the sympathetic
arms of a nurse-girl, Avho had been careful
what tales she told me, I was thrust into the
unsympathetic hands of slum children, and
for my playground, instead of a magic
garden with fountains and goldfish, I had the
streets, the rubbish heap and the many
empty houses that stood like ghosts in the
city to which the banks had been so unkind.
An invalid mother left me and my smaller
brothers and sister very much to ourselves
and the poor children of the streets. So in
and out of their houses we went, and it
was there, when there was no one to stop
up my ears, I heard “Little Red Riding
Hood” and the other to me terrible tales.
Typhoid, caught mercifully enough, has-
tened my removal to the bush. Who shall
ever tell the nameless torture of the pre-
sence of wolves and giants in that fever
room I had left? But it was soon forgotten
in the home where my mother had been born.
The Queensland nuts were ripe when we
arrived, the gum-trees were canopies of
creamy blossoms over our heads. The bush
world was far lovelier than the garden of
my babyhood. It was, indeed, fairyland—a
real fairyland after what seems to pie, even
now, purgatory. And I learned in that bush
that Australia has a fairy world of her own
and that, as sure as her gum-flowers woo the
bees, the day of the making of her own child-
literature is npt so very far away.
For out of that green and golden bush one
twilight came a brown teamster on a piebald
horse. He brought a waggon, some logs, bul-
locks that drew them, a dog, a frying-nan
and a camp-fire. With him came mates, and
soon the camp-fire had taken the place of the
rubbish-heap in my life. There was a world
of difference between the shade of the wag-
gon and the bullocks and those dreary, empty
houses, with their cracked windows and the
empty, terrible, echoes of bare child-feet on
the stGps and through the rooms. There was
a world of difference between the brown
bushmen and the half-starved men and
women of that rubbish-heap street of pain
and sickness. And the fairy tales came back,
for the brown men used to read them slowly
from my fairy-tale book. It was their in-
troduction to most of them. But always
they were told side by side with other tales—
their own tales, which they had picked up
on the long roads of silent thoughts and
dreams. The most popular was “The Trot-
ting Cob.” It was a marvellous story as
told, with all the color of the cattle, the
ghostly rider of the cob, and the brave
drover who one night dared the fiends and
pursued the cob and its ghost-rider; caught
him in a hollow of the hills and found that
he was no spirit, but a cattle-thief who
used the theatrical ghost method for business
purposes.
That tale would thrill us as no fairy tale
told by German or Frenchman or Arabian
princess ever could. It moved with mystery.
It Owned a hero brave—Jack Dunn, or gal-
lant Tom Hogan, or whoever the great and
noble slayer of ghosts happened to be—and
it ended most happily. There was terrific
movement in the breathless breaking of the
cattle as the trotting cob’s hoof-beats sud-
denly were heard through the stillness of the
night, coming softly, mysteriously, clippity-
cloppety, clippity-clop, nearer and nearer.
There was magic in the way in which the
cattle scented the danger and gradually
awakened to the horror of this ghostly cob
and its terrible rider, all clad in white, and
tall as men in dreams are tall, coming nearer,
nearer, nearer. The Lair on the beasts would
stand on end, the drovers would shudder and
shiver, the dogs’ tails would wag right off
with fear sometimes. Blacks had been known
to turn white when the cob was heard in
the distance. Then the cattle would sud-
denly break away with a roar of hooves as
the terrible trotting cob with the ghost on
his back dashed into the midst of them. In
the morning many of the best beasts would
be missing. In all faery there is not a
braver hero than gallant Jack Dunn, the
drover, or big Tom Hogan, who,, one night,
even when the cattle were in flight and his
dog howling with terror and the blacks turn-
ing white with horror, and his mates covered
up in their bunks, leapt on his own good
horse and pursued the ghostlv rider to a
hollow of the hills, and brought him back
into the light of the eamp-fire with the sheet
still round him, and the great branches of
trees which he had used for pointing arms
stretching out in the starlight, and the
horses’ wooden hooves which he had used for
the distant hoof-beats dangling helplessly in
his hand.
But there was an even better tale than
that—“ The Tale of the Horse that Died.”
It took a bushman nearly an hour to tell it,
and the laugh at the end was as big as
thunder. It is known in some form or other
all up and down the roads of Australia.
The Bunyip is a poor myth in comparison
with the old man who lives so far away in
the West that people say of him in North
Queensland he pulls down the sun * every
night and winds it up for work in the morn-
ing ; and “Billy from the Wire Fence” is
already real in the land of Australian faery.
In everv bush home the mother is tempering
the old tales just as in every city school
every good teacher is counteracting the old
tales by tales of her own invention. A very real
world of faery is growing up in spite of the
old tales, many of which were never intended
for children.- -
ZORA CROSS.
Dunsany
i Politics do not interest Dunsany. The
author of “A Dreamer’s Tales” and “The
Golden Doom” is a poet. He is a fine feudal
figure engrossed in creative literature. When
at home, he lives with his wife at Dunsany
Castle in County Meath; but not the epi-
curean existence of a kid-gloved hedonist, as
one might think. Ilis life is one of action
as welraas, reflection. He was educated at
Hton 'art Sandhurst and saw service in
South lAi ,\ca. During the Great War he
was a Main in the sth Royal Inniskilling
Fusiliers, and after recovering from wounds
sustained in the Dublin Riots he was sent
to France. He loves cricket, is reputed
to be the best pistol-shot in /Ireland, and
often spends whole days in the saddle. In
the last 15 years, besides publishing nine
(Continued on page 25.)


a
A
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SALE
Offers Exceptional Scope for Economy
Reductions in Crockery.
ROUND AMERICAN GLASS SALAD BOWLS;
lOin. Usual Price, 6/6 each.
Reduced to 5/11 each.
FRUIT STANDS; on foot; Sin. Usual Price,
11/- each. Reduced to 9/C each.
BELGIAN GLASS CAKE STANDS; Sin. Usual
Price, 4/6 each. Reduced to 4/- each.
PRESSED FLAT FLUTE PICKLE JARS. Usual
Price, 5/6 each. Reduced to 4/C each.
PLAIN TRIPLE LIP GLASS SAUCE BOTTLES.
Usual Price, 3/3 each.
Reduced to 2/11 each.
PLAIN CRYSTAL GLASS FLOWER TUBES;
7in. high. Usual Price, 4/. each.
Reduced to 3/3 each.
CUT CRYSTAL GLASS PICKLE JARS. Usual’
Price, 11/6 each.
Reduced to 10/6 each.
CUT CRYSTAL GLASS VASES ; 6in. high. Usual
Price, 7/9 each. Reduced to C/ll each.
PLAIN ROUND GLASS BOWLS; star bottom;
7in. Usual Price, 4/6 each.
Reduced to 3/8 each.
GLASS PRESERVING JARS; porcelain-lined
Cap. 1 quart, igal.
Reduced to 11/- 14/-doz.
CUPS AND SAUCERS; foreign china; gilt block
handle.
Usual Prices 13/6 15/3 doz. .
Reduced to 12/G 13/6 doz.
CELESTE BLUE BAND GILT CHINA BREAK-
FAST CUPS AND SAUCERS; English.
Usual Price, 30/- doz.
Reduced to 27 /- doz.
Wall Papers Reduced.
Suitable for Sitting-rooms, Drawing-Rooms, Hall
and Dining-rooms.
Usual Price 2/6 3/- 4/- roll.
Reduced to 2/3 2/6 3/3 roll.
SATINS, suitable for Best Bedroom and Dining.
Room. Usual Price, 6/- roll.
Reduced to 5/3 roll.
FRIEZES to match Wall-papers, 104 inches.
Usual Price 4d. 6d. 9d. 1/- yd.
Reduced to 3 V<> d. sd. Bd. 9d. yd.
Patterns posted on application.
Savings in Paints.
UNIVERSAL MIXED PAINTS.
ORDINARY SHADES.
Tins, each.
lib. 21b. 41b. 71b. 141 b. 281 b.
Usual Price lOd. 1/6 2/1.1 5/3 9/9 19/-
Red. to 9t6d. 1/5 2/9 5/-9/3 18/-
WIIITE AND YELLOW.
, Tins—each. ■,
lib. 21b. 41b. 71b. 141 b. 281 b.
Usual Price lid. 1/8 3/3 5/7 10/9 21/-
Ked. 10%d. 1/7 3/- 5/4 10/3 207-
SIGNAL RED, WAGGON RED, CARDINAL RED.
r Tins, each.
lib. 21b. 41b. 71b. 14lb. 281 b.
Usual Price 1/- 1/9 3/5 6/- 11/6 22/6
Red. to lid. 1/8 3/3 5/9 11/-21/6
Horse Clothing.
Suits of Horse Clothing, comprising Hood, Quarter-
Sheet, Pad and Roller.
LIGHT INDIA SERGE HORSE CLOTHING,
chocolate color, vellow Melton Cloth binding.
Size sft. 6in. sft. 9in. 6ft.
Usual Price £lO/10/- £lO/10/9 £lO/13/6
Reduced to £B/5/- £B/7/6 £B/10/-
LIGHT INDIA SERGE HORSE CLOTHING,
Fawn color, Red Melton cloth binding.
Size Oft. 6in. sft. Din. 6ft.
Usual Price £lO/8/- £lO/10/- £lO/14/6
Reduced to £B/5/- £B/7/6 £B/10/-
SAXONY SERGE, White and Blue check, light
Blue Melton cloth binding.
Size sft. 6in. Oft. 9in. 6ft.
Usual Price £9/9/- £9/11/6 £9/14/-
Reduced to £B/5/- £B/7/6 £B/10/-
Horse and Cow Rugs.
All Rugs fitted with Cross-web Belly Straps,
Breast Strap, Fillet Rope.
“TRIUMPH” NAVY CANVAS, felt lined.
Size 4ft. 6in. sft. sft. 6in.
Usual Price 3-3/9 34/6 35/-
Fcfhlced to 28/- 29/- 29/6
“GUARDIAN” HEAVY NAVY CANVAS, felt
lined —
Size 4ft. 6in. sft. 6ft. 6in.
Usual Price 41/- 41/6 43/6
Reduced to 34/- 34/6 36/-
“PAL.U'L” EXTRA-HEAVY NAVY CANVAS,
felt lined —
Size s f t. sft. 6in. 6ft. 6ft. 6in. 7ft.
Usual Priee 48/- 48/6 49/6 50/- 51/-
Red. to 40/- 41/- 41/6 42/- 44/-
Anthony Horderns’ Sale, now in its second week, continues to make
splendid bargain offerings the rule instead of the exception. The
all-embracing character of the Sale makes it particularly welcome,
including, as it does, the departments of all-round utility, as well as
goods for Summer Clearance, in the sweep of reductions. For this
reason Anthony Horderns’ Sale presents every economy-seeker with
the opportunity of saving money on present and future needs.
BARGAINS IN MEN’S WEAR
Men’s Suits Reduced.
ALL-WOOL AUSTRALIAN TWEED MADE-TO-
MEASURE SUIT, in Drown and Grey effects—
the most remarkable value in Sydney. Usual
Price, £4/4/- Reduced to £3/15/-
READY-TO-WEAR SUITS.
THE “HORDEUNIA” SAC SUIT. Coat has 2-
button front, roll collar, out-breast pocket, no
vent. Trousers have side or cross pockets, hip
pockets, plain or cuff bottoms.
Grey and Brown Tweeds, medium and dark
shades. All sizes. Usual Price, 59/6.
Reduced to 57/6
Vicar’s Tweed (All Wool), dark designs. Sizes:
3,4, 41 to 71. Usual Price, 65/-
Reduced to 62/6
Fancy Tweed, neat designs. Sizes: 3,4, 41 to
71. Usual Price, 69/6.
Reduced to 65/-
Dark Grey All-W T ool Tweed. Sizes 4 to 6-1. Usual
Price, 84/- Reduced to 79/6
Medium and Light Grey Tweed. Sizes 4 to 91.
Usual Price, 90/- Reduced to 85/-
Vicar’s Tweed, Grey effects. Sizes 4 to 71. Usual
Price, 97/6. Reduced to 92/6
Brown and Grey Mixture Tweeds. Sizes 4 to 71.
Usual Price, 100/- Reduced to 95/ -
Grey and Brown Fancy Worsted. Sizes 3 to 81.
Usual Price, 115/- Reduced to 110
Grey Fancy Tweed. Sizes 3 to B}. Usual Price,
119/6. Reduced to 115/-
All-W'ool Fancy Worsted. Sizes 3 to 81. Usual
Price, 126/- Reduced to 119/6
Grev Worsted and Fancy Stripe. Sizes 3 to 7.
Usual Price, 139/6. Reduced to 132/6
Savings in Shirts.
COLORED GOLF SHIRTS.
GOOD QUALITY ENGLISH ZEPHYR AND
CAMBRIC, V-cased neck, double cuffs; neat
designs. Usual Price, 8/11.
Reduced to 7/6
FANCY ZEPHYR, V-cased dressed band, soft
double cuffs and detached collar. Usual Price,
li/- Reduced to 9/6
FANCY ZEPHYR, V-cased band, soft double
cuffs and detached collar; neat stripes of blue,
black and helio. Usual Price, 11/6.
Reduced to 10/6
WHITE GOLF SHIRTS.
WHITE MERCERISED, dressed band, V-cased
front, detached collar to match. Usual Price,
14/6. Reduced to 12/6
WHITE MERCERISED OXFORD, dressed band,
V-cased, detached collar to match. Usual
Price, 14/6. Reduced to 12/6
TENNIS SHIRTS.
WHITE MERCERISED, collar and pocket. Usual
Price, 7/9. Reduced to 6 '9
WHITE MERCERISED, collar and pocket, and
bands. Usual Price, 10/6.
Reduced to 9/6
BEST WHITE MERCERISED, collar and pocket.
Usual Price, 12/6. Reduced to 11/6
BEST WHITE MERCERISED DRILL, collar and
pocket, and bands. Usual Price, 15/6.
Reduced to 13/6
SILK SHIRTS.
MEN’S HEAVY-WEIGHT PLAIN FUJI, with
collar and pocket. Usual Price, 35/.
Reduced to 32/6
MEN’S HEAVY-WEIGHT PLAIN FUJI, with
golf cuffs and detached soft collar. Usual
Price, 37/6. Reduced to 35/-
Tools of Trade.
BRUSH BOX JACK PLANES, Australian-made,
with English Double Irons, 2jin. Usual Price,
16/-
Reduced to 14/6
9 RUSH BOX SMOOTH PLANES, Australian-made,
with English Double Irons, 21in. Usual Price,
16/-
Reduced to 14/6
MATHESON’S OVALO SASH PLANES, without
templets—
}in. fin. fin.
Usual Price 8/9 8/9 9/9 each.
Reduced to 8/- 8/- 9/- each.
DISS'TON BALL AND SOCKET, SAW CLAMPS
Usual Price, 16/9 each.
Reduced to 15/- each.
DISSTON HAND SAW, skew hack—DB x 26 x 10
points. Usual Price, 18/6.
Reduced to 15/-
DISSTON HAND SAWS, straight back—No. 12 x
26 x 9 and 10 points. Usual Price, 21/6.
Reduced to 18/-
CHAPMAN’S CARPENTER’S BRACES, ball-
bearing plated head—
PERFECT HANDLE BALL PEIN HAMMERS.
Usual Price, 4/6.
Reduced to 4/-
CHENEY ADZE EYE NAIL HAMMERS—
Nos. li, 71.
Usual Price 6/8 7/-
Reduced to 5/9 6/6
Gardening Requisites.
POTATO GRATES. Usual
Reduced to 5/-
42in.
4/9 each.
3/9 each.
Usual Price,
8 bar SKELTON’S
Price, 7/6.
DAISY GRUBBERS-
i- it.. 24in.
Usual Price 4/fi
Reduced to 4/9
SWAN NECK DRAIN SCOOPS
10/6.
SKELTON’S 4-Prong MANURE^ORKSL 0 Usual
Price, 11/-
WARD & PAYNE’S REAP to 9/6
„ . No. 4. No. 5.
Lsual Price 2/6 2/9 each.
Reduced to 2/- 2/3 each.
GEM GRASS HOOKS (XTIB2I. Usual Price, 2/8
Reduced to 2/3
WARD k PAYNE’S 6in. GRASS SHEARS.
Usual Price, 3/3.
Reduced to 3/-
HOSE DIRECTORS (Rose and Jet)—
Jin. lin.
Usual Price 4/- 5/6
Reduced to 3/- 5/-
HOSE DIRECTORS (Rose, Jet and Tap), 1 inch.
Usual Price, 6/6.
Reduced to 6/-
DISSTON’S No. 4 DUPLEX PRUNING SAWS—
12in. 14in. 16in.
Usual Price 5/- 5/3 5/6 each.
Reduced to 4/6 4/9 5/- each.
AVERY No. 40 DUPLEX PRUNING SAWS—
14in. 16in.
Usual Price 4/6 5/- each.
Reduced to 4/- 4/6 each.
SOCKET STEEL RAKE HEADS—
-1- 14- 16-tooth.
Usual Price 4/3 4/6 4/9 each.
Reduced to • • 4/- 4/3 4/6 each.
Furniture Reduced.
BEDROOM SUITES.
"THE STANMORE,” Oak or Maple Bedroom
Suite, comprising 2ft. 9in. Wardrobe, with
bevelled mirror door, hanging space, with
shelf at top, 3ft. Toilet Table, two drawers and
shelf, bevelled mirror; 2ft. din. Washstand,
rouge marble, tiled back, cupboard and towel
rails. Usual Price. . £lB/18/-.
Keiluced to £l7 /2/G
DINNER WAGGONS.
Bft. 6in. wide, Maple, or Oak finish, Borneo
Cedar, three-tier, square supports; on casters.
Usual Price, £B/19/6.
Reduced to £3/5/-
SIDEBOARDS.
sft. wide, Oak or Maple, large bevelled mirror,
two shaped brackets, two long drawers and
cupboard, with carved panels. Usual Price,
£2l. Reduced to £l9
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES.
5-piece Suite, finished Rosewood color; compris-
ing settee, two corner chairs and two small
chairs. Usual Price, £l9/10/-
Reduced to £l7
MUSIC CABINETS. ,
Cabinet for sheet music or pianola rolls; fitted
with glass doors and sateen panel; in Maple,
finished as desired. Usual Price, £5/19/6.
Reduced to £5
Savings in Bedsteads.
FRENCH BEDSTEAD, lin. posts, head and foot
enamelled Black, with two-ply wire mattress
(DXI7). 6ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. Usual
luce, 55/- Reduced to 47/6
BEDSTEAD, 1 Ain. posts, brass rods
anr * f°°t, brass spindles on footrail
6ft. 6in. x 3ft. Gin. Usual Price,
147/6 - Reduced to 130/-
FRENCH BEDSTEAD, 2in. parallel posts,
enamelled Grey, with nickel rods, knobs and
corner mounts. (DX9O3F). 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in.
Usual Price, 175/- Reduced to 160/-
WAX FINISH MAPLE OR OAK BEDSTEADS
with open panel head and foot. (DX546).
6ft. 6in. x 3ft. Usual Price, 107/6.
Reduced to 97/6
ITALIAN BEDSTEAD lin. posts, bow end foot,
enamelled White, fitted with close wove double
wire spring mattress. (DX94O). 6ft. 6in. x 3ft.
Usual Price, 117/6. Reduced to 107/6
OAK BEDSTEAD with panels in head and foot,
round posts and knobs, iron side angles.
(DX533). 6ft. 6in. x 4ft. Gin. Usual Price,
£lO/7/6. Reduced to £9/7/6
THE “KNUTSFORD” BEDSTEAD. 3
panels in head and foot, and richly carved
cluster of fruit in centre of panel (DXSIB).
6ft. 6in. x 4ft. 6in. Usual Price, £l9/17/6.
Reduced to £l7/17/6
Household Ironmongery.
KENRICK’S CAST
side—■
Usual Price
Reduced to
Usual Price
Reduced to
KENRICK’S CAST-IRON PRESERVING PAN!
Enamelled White inside —-
, 16in.
Usual Price 47/-
Reduced to 42/-
TINNED STEEL FRY PANS—
-Bin. 9in. lOin. llin.
Usual Price 2/6 2/11 3/6 4/-
Reduced to 2/3 2/8 3/3 3/9 4/
KENRICK’S CAST-IRON SAUCEPANS, Enamell
inside—■
Usual Price
18in, --20 in.
55/- 71/-
52/6 64/-
12in.
4/6
Usual Price ..
Reduced to
KENRICK’S
inside—
Usual Price
Usual Price;
GREV ENAMELLED STEWPANS, with Enamell
Covers—
2pt. 34pt. spt.
Usual Price 5/3 5/9 6/9
Reduced to 4/3 5/3 6/
Usual Price
Reduced to
spt.
13/-
11
WRITE FOR SALE CATALOGUE.
A Copy will be Posted Free on request. Every
page points the way to economy without precedent.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440


The Houses of Montague 8 Capulet
DID RAYMOND RILKEARY?
A Northern Rivers Encounter.
it probably started over a comparison of pumpkins. These Northern
Rivers men are very keen agriculturists, sportsmen and all-rounders.
They know all the points of a racehorse. They can tell you of poor
Harry Searl s exploits on the water. They will argue that if Les Darcy
had lived he would have outed Carpentier, and they will discuss for
hours the much-debated question as ,to whether Victor Trumper or
Governor-General Macartney was the more finished batsman.
From pumpkins it was not a far cry to policies. Not Jimmy Dooley’s
policy, nor George Fuller’s ditto, but life policies.
It is not unlikely that an echo of the age-old argument between
Dick Teece, of the A.M.P., and City Mutual George Crowley as to which
institution should be enshrined in the hearts of Australia had reached the
Dorrigo and penetrated as far back as Raleigh.
However there was one man at Bellingen who had decided views
on the subject, and ip one of the local papers under date sth November
last he published the following:—
E. J. RAYMOND; Broadway.
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
•. 'V< .(
A STRIKING CONTRAST IN BONUSES.
Actual Results of one of my A.M.P. Policies,
Whole Life, Table A, Amount £3OO, effected by
me in year 1896:—“
Reversionary Bonuses prior to 1920. . £I7T 0 0
Reversionary Bonuses for one vear,
1920. 0
Total Bonuses ..
.. £lB6 2 0
„r, Ci , ty Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited,
Whole Life Policy, 15 payments, effected by one
of its Policy Holders in the year 1899. Amount
£soo :
Reversionary Bonuses prior to 1920. . £93 6 8
Reversionary Bonuses for one vear,
1920 . . . . '. . 650
Total Bonuses - .. .. .. £99 n 8
Average Rate of Bonus per annum for each
£100: .
A.M.P. Policy .. .. .. .. £2 .9 7|
City Mutual Policy .. .. .. 0 18 l"
I have five policies in the A.M.P. Society.
E - R - w * RAYMOND, Sub-Agent for A.M.P., Belligen
modest 6in. advt. met the eagle eye of a
representative, one Kilkeary, who hailed from the land
and he went one better with a 1 2in. reply as follows:
City Mutual
of shamrocks,
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
„ T r, TTT STRIKING contrast in bonuses.
; r ‘ *v rr. Raymond is no doubt quite correct in bis comparison published in
the issue of this paper dated Saturday, November 5, but the alphabetical gentleman
m question is talking of the dim and distant last century, when the City Mutual’s
rl?v\;,T e v leS ? £loo ’ o Po> and its annual income less'than £5O 000 To-day the
City Mutual s invested assets exceed £2,000,000, and its income is £500,000 per year
* vead l h T, col . u Panson of policies effected in 1909, and judge which Office gives its policy-
holders the neice results. MR. IIAIMHND CAN HAVF Pfiß THE T,OC*T
HOSPITAL IP THE A.M.P. CAN SHOW ANYTHING LIKE THE #ITV MUTTTAT’S
FIGURES FOR THE PAST TEN YEARS LlA .r MjiUALb
£lOOO POLICY. TABLE A. (Whole Life).
Reversionary Bonuses for the Years 1909 to 1920.
Year.
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
A.M.P. City Mutual Life.
M. D. KILKEARY,
Inspector.
■ '• ■ , ; .. : ’ —
The ire of the alphabetical gentleman was promptly raised by
the attitude of the man from Erin, so he forthwith absorbed 18in. of
the next issue of the various district papers much to the gratification of
the shareholders of these highly esteemed journals. This is what he said:
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
kv Mutual is evidently very concerned about the comparison of bonuses
published by me, and the public will be glad to' be further enlightened by straight-
forward replies to the following questions:—
1. How comes it that a NEW policy in the City Mutual receives a Reversionary
Bonus of £3 per £lOO while a policy OVER 20 YEARS OI.D only receives £l/5/-
2. Is this in accordance with the “Mutual” principle, which implies equitable
treatment for all members.
3. The following figures were taken from the two Societies’ Annual Reports
_ . ' Premiums Re- Cash Bonuses
Society. ceived in 1920. divided in 1920. Percentage
A.M.P £3.488,301 £1,336,402 38 3
City Mutual ...... 299,875 90,000 30.0
Does not this prove beyond the shadow of a doubt that the AVERAGE
bonuses of the A.M.P. are larger than those of the City Mutual, and that the
•*»— of *"* °"«'
Following is the comparison of Bonuses referred to above:—
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
A STRIKING CONTRAST IN BONUSES.
Actual Results of one of my A.M.P. Policies,
Whole Life, Table A, Amount £3OO, effected by
me in year 1896:
Reversionary Bonuses prior to 1920.. £177 0 0
Reversionary Bonuses for one vear,
1020. .. .. .. '.. 920
£lB6 2 0
C\ iy T M ,’ !tu J.' ~L lfe Ass u r ance Society. Limited,
Whole Life Policy, 15 payments, effected bv one
of its Policy Holders in the year 1899. Amount
£5OO: —
Reversionary Bonuses prior to 1920.. £93 6 8
Reversionary Bonuses for one vear,
1920 ' .. 6. 5 0
Total Bonuses £99 11 8
Average Rate of Bonus per annum for eachi
£100: i]f]f
A.M.p. Policy .. .. .. .. £2 9 7-S
City Mutual Policy .. . . .. 1 5 0"
The A.M.P. gives the larger bonuses anrl a SQUARE DEAL to everv Policv-hoMor.
ss E. J. R. W. RAYMOND, Sub-Agent for A.M.P.. Bellingen.
In the local papers much of this print was in capitals, so Kilkeary
was put on his mettle, he went for bigger capitals still. In fact, *
1 caps" one might call them. He took half a page for his
the result that the shares in the local papers went up to a
The following is Mr. Kilkeary’s reply adorning pretty well
of the next issue.
answer, with
big premium,
the half-page
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL, LIFE.
1 have Pleasure in answering the questions propounded by Mr. E. ,T. R. W.
Kaymona as follows:
1. Hovv conies it that a new policy in the City Mutual receives a Reversionary
.Bonus of £3 per £lOO while a policy over 30 years old only receives £l/5/-, and
Is this in accordance with the “Mutual” principle which implies equitable
treatment for ail members?
Before I answer it, however, may I ask the alphabetical gentleman in question:—
a comes it'that he does not use a brain brush now and again, and
i. Why doesn’t he take the trouble to obtain the correct information?
THE ANSWER IS AS HOLLOWS:—
the. City Mutual receives a Reversionary Bonus of £3 per
I .7 .. . —„„ —*»•»,» lovcivcn a IVKVCJ-Hioiiary Bonus or *3 per
£lOO when the policy is 20 years in force, and £3/10/- per £lOO when it is 25 years in force
is there any other question Mr. Raymond would like to ask? I shall be
/ IIfIDDV T.(\ flnswpr him oil fho fima
Now
...... uuj Vtuci I|,UCOUOU XVXJL . JLAU
extremely happy to answer him all the times.
Let it be known for general information that:—
1. In size of bonuses.
2. In a square deal to every Policy-holder.
8. In liberality of conditions.
4. In generous treatment to its constituents, and
.. ®**}er in which life assurance Institutions can be compared
WoS mODEL LIFE SfpJcE. 0F SYDNE¥ ' ESTABLISHED 1879, IS THE
M. D. KILKEARY, Inspector.
It will be noted that he never touched Question 3, possibly because
he suspected that Tybalt Raymond was calling in the aid of powerful
auxiliaries from “Pitt Street,” and so he thought it best to hedge. Of
course the percentage in a matter of this sort proves nothing of the sort.
It depends entirely on the age of the person assured. A school boy with
a smattering of mathematics knows that the cost of Reversionary bonus
of £3O added to the policy of a man aged 35 is a much smaller proportion
of the premiums than in the case of a similar bonus granted to a policy-
holder 50 years of age. The question proves “beyond the shadow of a
doubt” that the man who asked it was talking through his neck.
One might as well say that if Laddie Blue won the Sydney Cup in
2.40 and Sister Olive pulled off the Melbourne Cup in 3.14, does it not
prove “beyond the shadow of a doubt" that Poitrel would beat Eurythmic
in a mile sprint?
However, Mr. Raymond did not press this particular question,
possibly he recognised its stupidity. As a sort of compensation, though,
he let himself go to the extent of half a page this time—fresh dividends
and bonuses to the lucky shareholders in the aforesaid papers -
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
Mr. Kilkeary, the Inspector of the City Mutual, in his latest advertisement, says:—
Policy-holder in the City Mutual receives a Reversionary Bonus of
year* 1 " bri^foirce 6 ” tlle policy 18 20 years in force, and £3/10/- per £lOO when it is 25
. my advertisements I gave^ACTUAL RESULTS of City Mutual policy for £5OO
issued in 1809, which received a Reversionary Bonus for the year 1920 of £6/5/- being
at the rate of only £l/5/- per £lOO. '' ’ 1 &
a t , herefore i * lr / Uk yayy is not deliberately mis-stating the fact of the case, he
doesn’t know what he is talking about. ’
It must be one or the other. I leave the public to judge
The public wants FACTS, not statements bv Mr. Kilkeary.
N.B.—Perhaps Mr. Kilkeary will now brush his own brains.
E. J. R. W. RAYMOND, Sub-Agent for A.M.P., Bellingen.
And here is the fifth round, gloves oft this time in earnest. The
Northern Rivers have not seen such a willing go for years, and if the
contest goes the full 20 rounds, as many interested residents hope, the
local hospitals will benefit, the energetic newspaper folk will be able to
come down to the Show next Easter with their pockets well bulged, and
the people generally will have an exhilarating time.
A.M.P. SOCIETY v. CITY MUTUAL LIFE.
The alphabetical gentleman is “bluffing."
And. what is worse, he knows he is bluffing
Ami, what is even still worse, he knows that I know he Is blufflne
Bluffers 3 doMt in ]fke° this blUff &nd ask for tbe cards to be laid on'thß table.
* '° ns “ d 1 “•»* “»
<t. "r„;* ys ,2». “f‘2?„ pro ,!iri, * a “'~T«,s
sa.v something now with equal profundity. I e ay met- /am crops—hut I wilt say
Something more, and something which, just now, wil. lie very much to the point
Ihe hospitals nan. mom. hivar., properly conaneie liospitai is desperately
hard-up for funds. In fact, I will go further and say that any is
not desperately In need of funds should he closed immediately os l» ltal tnat 18
ell, here’s a chance for our deserving local institutions.
, .J wd * P u «P £5OO, and invite Mr. Raymond to put up £5O. The proceeds to eo
to the local hospital, and the Shire President or Shire Clerk to be referee
is partl/^causA^” tike am °i Unt I ll a6 ‘L my alphabetical friend to subscribe
The issue Vs t„ !£“*, rt f utter ’ aart P art ]7 because I like my chances,
this paper. Here it ? 8 absolute correctness of my announcement in a recent issue of
Policy-holder in the City Mutual receives a Reversionary bonus of £1
in force » POUCy 18 20 yßarS in forCe > and pTttOO when it js
Now, I want no bluffing, no win, tie or wrangle business in this matter— no shillv-
EFFECTEdVtoe A -WHOIVI a v r. AKK RKF BItIMX(; TO POLICIES
nr r 111 lp l A pub WHOLE LIFE TABLE, AND ACCEPTED AT SETPfT TfATFS
I am not going to be side-tracked by an isolated case of one in a thousand accepted
at sub-standard rates, or loaded up for a weak heart or diseased kidneys and a re te
comprise ninety nine ner b ” na ® es paid to ordinary policy-holders, whose contracts
comprise ninety-nine per cent, of the company’s constituents under that table
put 11 pa no the r'f 500 'to £5O R SUe an ?, Pa l d the monev ovep to the hospital. I shall
for the past ten veais «OTond’s that the bonuses paid by the City Mutual
V’ j p « ~ y eapB on every policy are greater than those paid by the AM P
bonuses’ to bv\ho d cfty a Tvr h l rd i f f °° the al P babeti cal gentleman’s £5O that the
wMeb wm be £aid by the A °* n6Xt ten years wiU be neater than those
If pressed to say how much greater. I will hazard a guess and sav that tliev will be
two
COME ON NOW, MR. RAYMOND! DON’T EET AMP. STAND FOR “AEE
MERELY PUPP.”
■ M. D. KILKEARY, Inspector.
Up to date, however Mr. c ßp.yro.ond has not corre up for the sixth
round, although the gong has been beating since the 7th January last.


PINKETTES
FOR BAD BREATH
Those who find their
breath bad in the morning, a
bad taste in the mouth and a
furred tongue, will find Pink-
ettes—the new laxative— an
excellent remedy. They
correct the stomach con-
ditions which cause symp-
toms; regulate the liver and
remove constipation. Pink-
ettes act without causing
sickness, or griping, or after-
effects of strong purgatives.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
21/-
FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
Full Direotions with Every Machine,
Send a Stamped Envelope for a
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House. Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Auslialasian A cents.
‘Eveivlte
Safety
r
This little'oaruet
in a box will shave ym
wherever you are .
wherever you go> as long
as you live , for 4/11
Outfit Complete prith 8 Blades 4/11. Extra Blades 2 6 do*.
POST FREE from
row isLEs&eE?
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling”
h
Small Pill—
Small
Dose-
Small
Price
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
by taking
Carter's
Little Liver
!Pi 11 •» the
Great Liver
Invigorato r.
Thousands
have attained
success by their
timely help.
Just try one
after meals.
ĥ
NURSERY
POMADE
©
n
lie
i
1
lit <**
iitr*^
ill
7m
K :eps the scalp free from nits and
ail other t-ouales that school kid-
d are liable to get, 1/- from
y ..r chemist, or direct from
D cl D’ & SAINSBURY PTY. »_TD.,
349 Flinders Lane, Melb. [1
Veterinary Needs
for Stockowners.
To meet an ever oecuring emergency, up-to-date
stockowners keep a handy kit of Veterinary
Appliances on the spot.
Quick Veterinary 'attention to stock saves the
stock-owner many pounds per year, and this
quick attention is impossible without the nght
veterinary needs.
The Denyer Service makes a specialty of these
veterinary needs, and every stock-owner should
get in touch with this service for the most up-
to-date Instruments and Appliances indispen-
sable to efficient and profitable raising of stock.
DENYER BROS.,
VETERINARY
SPECIALISTS,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Most Modem
Emasculator
is the Denyer Triple Crush. With
this Instrument the quickest,
easiest and most efficient, method
of castration known to Veterinary
science is obtained. The Denyer
pattern Emasculator is hand-
forged from the best steel, ensur-
ing longer serviceability.
PRICE 60/-
Postage - 9d. Extra.
Send to-day for our Free Catalogue
of Veterinary Instruments and
Appliances.
Cheapest per cut!
Every tooth on a circular saw must be of highest quality
steel to maintain fast, clean cutting. Demand this
quality always when you buy a saw. It is the feature
which makes
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Circular Saws
cheapest per cut. “An Eagle on a Eagle” Circular Saws
are made from Double-Extra Crucible Steel and supplied
®*-E ON
•Illlllimii
J9S®
U«*
in 15 different patterns of teeth. Any
size holes or gauges. From 4in. dia.
Address Desk “A” for prompt
attention.
The Eagle &, Globe
Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co. Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-8
Swanston Street, Melbourne; Cliff
Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road,
Kalgoorlie; Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott
Street, Newcastle; 11. L. Milligan, 32a
Argyle Street, Hobart; .John Reid &
Nephews, 3-1-6 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
h
As Simple as Posting a Letter.
I Jr
a
C3fe
When you want to write, the Onoto is always ready.
When you have finished, a twist with finger and
thumb turns the Onoto into a sealed tube, which
cannot leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of ink, the,
Onoto fibs itself in a flash from any ink supply, and
cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD..
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pena
THE HEALTH OF A
COMMUNITY.
depends very largely upon the efficiency
of the sewerage system, which in the city
arid nearer suburbs, is perfect. But in the
past, unfortunately, those who live out-
side the sewerage area have had no
but to expose themselves to
the dangers, and face the unpleasantness
of a very inadequate system. But this
is all changed now—
ATIC
SANITARY SPRAYE
Showing action of spray (seat
removed.)
The “WALBOW” Sanitary System
provides in a most simple and inexpensive manner, perfect sanitation for every
house that is not connected with a sewer. It is an absolute safeguard against the
danger of disease-carrying insects. It has an automatic disinfectant spray and
self-closing lid, which prevents the breeding of
flies and mosquitoes, and kills all germs.
It has no complicated parts, and its strong
brass pump will last a lifetime.
Price, £5 Complete.
Write or call for details.
The Walbow Sanitation Co.,
53 Rose Street, DARLINGTON.
City Show Room, 45 York St. Sydney.
TEL.: CITY 7799.
M
-automatic
The “Walbow” wheji not in use.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Words.
Had I a million dreams to fling
In lines of fragrant fire, I’d sing
The long-dead ages back again
To some divine, immortal strain,
Till, high and clear, as when they blew
From vanished flute and trumpets true,
I’d waft the magic thoughts I found
Through lyric vales of violet sound.
Had I a harp of wipd and sun
My soul along the strings should run
With speed of passion, throb of power,
Scattering the notes like lieht a-ttower.
Though I were but the morrow’s dead
Fire of wild words should wrap my head.
As here I flung my life, my breath
Clean in the stinging eyes of death.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Life Music.
A black man blowing on a shell;
A slim youth with a calamus;
Far up the hill the pack mule’s bell —•
All these are in the chain for us:
The chain that links us by a sound
To men who hid in caves, and crept,
Stealthy as panther on the ground,
To steal a woman while she slept;
To bear her homeward as the light
Came flooding in the ring of earth ;
To teach her by his lust and might
The mysteries of love and birth.
The soft wind sighing in a tree;
The river laughing in its bed ;
The far-off sobbing of the sea;
The lark’s outpouring overhead —
All these are in the chain for us,
... . u_ me uiust bring:
The falling sand’s fine susurrus.
The trumpet with its summoning;
The coo of doves in summer days;
The sparrow twittering on the vine;
The march of blood that Passion plays
In your heart throbbing over mine.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Sea Call.
When the clouds have towered over, when, the
draggled wrack has thinned,
Creeps tne beauty or the moon-hush in the
footsteps of the wind.
Faintly then across the silence, stealing shyly
o’er the swells,
Chimes the silver-slippered headland like a
peal of fairy bells.
Then the lone lost waves of twilight cry and
cry beside the sand,
And the sobbing ocean currents fling their
arms about the land.
Then the white breeze brings the music soft
from many a magic place,
With the foam-light in her raiment and the
star-white on her face.
I have worshipped dawns and sunsets, mar-
velled at their regal worth,
Girdled like a rope of jewels round the
patient, plodding earth;
Heavy-footed winter lying stark as fate and
grim as death,
Summer tiptoe ’mid her cornfield standing
straight with bated breath.
I have heard the laughing river speaking
shyly from the shade;
But the gipsy feet must follow wfhere the
gipsy path is laid;
Stronger than all bushland voices, prattling
flower and whispering tree,
All the wild sea-call.ng seeks me and my
sea-heart seeks the sea.
Blithely go the stumbling steamers'; every
spinning screw-wake flings
Singing threads across the ocean like a wild
harp s tautened strings.
Bravely from the harbor portals many a
noisy barque is hurled
Straight into the face of Distance, driving
blindly down the world;
Propping to the racing combers, lurching
where the shrieking gale
Gallops o’er the toppling surges, volleying
from sail to sail;
Fumbling at the loosened gasket, whistling
shrill and wrenching there,
Till the racked sail cracks to tatters like a
wisp of silver hair.
Oh, the ships against the sunrise, darkly
flung upon the sight,
Drum of surf on mystic islands drifting,
drifting by at night;
Great bull-breakers running swiftly, ram-
pant round an iron coast,
And the muffled fo’c’s’le singing, and a
joggling rudder-post!
Oh, the stress of foul grey wehther, swirling
winds and shouting seas,
When the gnarled fist of the tempest beats
her down upon her knees!
Oh, the radiant tropic splendor when night’s
curtain is withdrawn —
Mellow like a yellow lanthorn slung between
the dusk and dawn !
Comrades of the tall green Water, joy is
neither bought nor sold ;
You may find the way is weary, though your
feet be shod with gold.
Unto every man his calling, each to each
the choice is free.
Every wind that wanders landward brings
the calling of the sea.
I shall leave the city’s bondage, all its
dross and false delights,
Shape Ime course and snug the canvas. One
by one we’ll drop the lights,
Leave the jargoning of barter to the petty,
gilded clod,
For the brothers of the seaways journey
hand in hand with God.
VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


*
t
fi
v
*
//
*
Si.
7
Gee! That was some shave!
A shave so close that your face stays smooth and soft
all day, yet so comfortable that the skin is not made the
least bit tender. That’s the sort of shave you get with
(jilleife
SAFETY RAZOR
h
The Fulcrum Shoulder, Channelled Guard and Overhanging Cap are
extraordinary improvements that will shed new light on your ideas of an
easy shave. They leave the whole length of the Gillette blade free to do
its perfect work, while absolutely guarding the face from scraping, cut-
ting or any irritation. They make each blade give many more shaves, too !
The New Improved Qillette
is now on sale everywhere.
See it for yourself, to-day!
The economy and convenience
of its service will quickly com-
pensate you for its purchase.
V '
30/-
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR CO. OF CANADA LTD., Montreal, Canada
Wholesale Distributors : S. HOFFNUNG SC CO. LTD., Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide
MADE IN
ĥ
CANADA
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2190.
THU USD AY, FEBRUARY 2, 1922.
Price 6d.
THE BANDITS OF PARTY GOVERNMENT.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the VV.blte Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tiie
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co.. 214 (loorsre Street. Svdnev. V.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Oeeice : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO STJBSCRTRERS.
.(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ax y apihiess in’ Austualasia, weekly:
12 months, £ 1 65.; 6 months, 135.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 165,; 3 months, 7s: 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc'.', which should he crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manayer.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright' by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
I 1 he Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When 3fS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs, in Klnck and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions wider which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, llreams Duildings, London IC.C.i;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, lt6 Fleet. Street,
London, 1:.C.; "The Dritish-Australasian,” ol Uigh
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetoivn and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
V.S.A.—Chicago: J. Roland Ray Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan lloulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neiv York: Brentano’s. 6th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City.
Eoyi’T.— Jacques. Horn A Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kojifi.—Brewer and Co., Pedder Street ,
llong Kong.
SiNpAi’OßE. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. . •■ISC V \
Ceylon. — W. G. P, Perera, 16 Baiilie Street,
Colombo; R;-B. Perera and Co., 8 Baiilie Street,
Colombo.
Papua) —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker. Sura ; Harry Gardiner; Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Hates.
Single copies of Tun Bulletin (.registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe
Islands, 10oz., hi.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
IGoz., lid. Onhl one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, hoz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1922.
CONFERENCES AND CLEAN HANDS.
It is easy to trace the inspiration of W. M?
Hughes’s dramatic -call last week for a con-
ference between workers and employers; he
has been getting politic;) 1 ideas from the
same source for the years.
Lloyd George has settled the Irish ques-
tion, so ILugiIES wants to do away : --hy
similar means' with the.,pld .industrial row
which s our equivalent of late
problem. But on vital - issues
are dangerous things in' these days when
almost every' word spoken at them is made
public. It is the .nenalty 6f
diplomacy.” tlndey the did system_>jiation'
might be secret]y' committetL-to'"g- / war which
it abhorred ; but puzzled or
divided while the negotiations were in pro-
gress by tlie Arguments and interpretations,
pro and con., evolved from the representa-
tives’ remarks by interested parties out-
side. If a conference is not to play the
part of a barrel of dynamite, which needs
only the match of suspicion to produce cala-
mitous results, it requires (1) to have be-
come inevitable by the time it is called, and
(2) to carry its sincerity and good faith
on its face. The Irish problem was solved
the other day partly because, for the first
time in history, England was honestly re-
solved that it should be settled fairly, and
partly because the precise moment had
arrived for Englishmen and Irishmen to
reason together. The position was that Ire-
land was being ruined and England dis-
graced; that the Sinn Feiners could not stop
these processes of their own accord, while
the English could not hope to ston them by
force; that Ireland was terrified of the pros-
pect of the reapplication of terrorism and
that England was, if anything, more terri-
fied at the prospect of having to go back
again to violence. A settlement was easily
arrived at in such circumstances.
* * * »
An example of what happens when the
necessary conditions are absent is now being
afforded at Washington. So many young
men who had seen what war was cried out
for peace that the old men began to hope
or to fear, as the case might be, that the
world was ready to disarm. Those coun-
tries which, like the U.S.A. and Britain,
had no more worlds to fight for, faced the
new situation with enthusiasm • others, such
as France, which believes that its life is
still threatened, began by being cold on the
subject and ended in an atmosphere of open
hostility. After the first splendid gesture
of Mr. C. E. Hughes, the Conference de-
veloped into an unedifying series of wrangles
based on a desire not to cut down arma-
ment-expenditure, but to pile it up. France,
which is better able to diminish its navy
than either Britain or Japan, inasmuch as
it does not import anything like the same
proportion of necessary foodstuffs, insisted
on the right to build ‘ 90,600 tons of sub-
marines. Ninety thousand tons in a fleet
of 175.000 tons! Japan fought hard for
its most formidable capital ships, gained a
half-win on tiffs issue, and, according to a
cable of last Thursday, is “continuing the
construction of the battle cruisers Amagi
and Akagi, which will be converted into
aeroplane carriers.” The - aerodromes of a
monster like the Amagi could house enough
bombing-planes, ammunition, repair material,
spares and nilots to raze a great city to the
ground. The public sums up a conference
in much the same way as a Judge arrives
at an opinion regarding the credibility of a
witness. The test is general demeanor. Con-
fronted with this standard, the Washington
Conference emerges bathed in suspicion. It
is not only the worldly and the cynical who
have become filled with doubts as to the
bona Tides of most of the delegates; not only
the Internationalists, who began with the
conviction that nothing of value to the
world could he expected from such a gather-
ing ; but conservative-minded men of the
highest character. Thus the Hon. Edward
Lyttelton. D.D., a former headmaster of
Eton, sneaking at Chatham (Eng.) the other
day, said :—•
The nations are not now arming as they were
before the war, simply because they haven’t the money
About a year ago the War Office wrote to
the leading students of science at Oxford and Cam-
bridge and instructed them to turn their attention
to the inventing of a poison-gas capable of quickly
destroying whole towns. They refused to accede
to this request, on the ground that they were not
going to dishonor science by putting it to so ignoble
an end. But the point was this: if England is
thinking of such things other countries are doing
the same.
In short, the nations still lack the will to
peace. They have had a dreadful lesson,
but it has nor been sufficient to humble
them. The atmosphere at Washington is
much the same as that of the Anglo-Irish
peace conference would have been if it had
sat shortly after the Easter rebellion, or,
for that matter, at any time before the
Terror. None of the nations is prepared
to make big sacrifices of dignity and of
material possessions, as both the Irish and
the English did in London the other day.
And this sentiment, communicated to the
masses outside by propagandists, working
chiefly through the press, has caused dis-
trust, even bitterness, amongst peoples who
were fairly friendly before the suggestion
was made that the world should never fight
again.
» * # •
It is this danger that faces us now.
Mr. Hughes has almost unlimited evidence
to prove that something is hampering
our production, pastoral and agricultural
as well as industrial, to a ruinous extent.
Premier Theodore, of Queensland, had,
a cable last week from the London
representatives of the Bananaland beef
exporters which stated that South Ameri-
can meat was beating Australian on
the European markets because, inter alia,
the dressing of our meat is at present very
unsatisfactory; and he was urged to “use
his influence with the union to assist the
trade by the exercise of greater efficiency
on the part of the workers at the meat-
works.” Obviously, if Australia is to com-
pete overseas in this line it will have to
work somethingjike the same hours and for
something approaching the'' same ,wages as
its foreign rivals. The local meat-dresser
is as skilful as any: the reason for his
poor work is a matter of slackened effort.
Slackened effort and strikes spring from the
sapas cause; and in the first half of Inst year
1.43.0,271 days’ labor was sacrificed by
strikes in the Commonwealth. The number
of workers in factories throughout the_Oom-
•mpntveaith has increased' by nearly 50.000
riffhcff 1914; yet .ijn terms of prewar money-
values Aheir total output has fallen by 15
per cent. 'lffie trend is well exemplified
an intimatmxf of last week that Jo'iTX"
I.ysaght, Lta>v of Newcastle (N.S.W.
“will probably close down early in February,
as. in face of the very low prices at which
galvanised iron and black sheets can be
imported, they cannot ffvith
the imported article.” “PusTff up the tariff
still 'Ligher,? the half-baked economist will
say. lsnt Australia has if only
to pay itsMuterest hill. .IL-XOpst thus enter
Wto compefitloir-with -those nations" which
Qiave takejuLheir coats'ifffXind' started to
war, or with those-oiations whose
primfffy producers are having their manu-
facturing needs supplied by theSe^cheap pro- '
ducers. So the one and only solutibn of our
present discontents is work and economy.
In other words, all-round sacrifice. When
Lloyd George met the Irsh delegates he
gave the conference a lead that could not fail
to satisfy the delegates and the world of his
bona fides Is W. M. Hughes prepared to
do as much when he meets the delegates of
Australian industry? During the first half
of last vear his Government appointed 60
new highly-paid officials, reoresenting an in-
crease of £45,000 p£r affnum in' salaries, .as
well as a herd of minor officialsr—ff~tfteaele-
gates are to take him or one another seri-
ously. they will have to receive an assur-
ance that this variation of the go-slow craze
will be ended. At the Prime Minister’s
instigation M’s.P. raised their salaries by
a trick as inequitable as any strike. The
workers are not likelv to listen w ? th natience
to reasons why their wages should be re- _
duoed white the PaflTam puMriaris’ iTPgotten
pay ffetflains as it is. WhaFit'all amounts
is ths* frag’’* ihon"’!' the industrial r>o°i-
tion is, there still remain many who insist
that it is not so black as it has been painted,
and may in any ey»nt be bettered by further
strife; and that, if this spirit is not banished
at the outset and replaced bv one embodying
an appreciation of the national peril and
a will to peace, the conference must fail.
And if it fails it will be worse for Aus-
tralia than if it had never occurred.
THE NEWSPAPER MONOPOLY.
The public has a bigger interest in the over-
throw of the boycott against the Sydney
Daily Mail than appears on the surface;
The fate of an individual newspaper is
neither here nor there. The Daily Mail
may even for a time benefit by its rivals’ ill-
judged efforts to suppress it: a British
community is always inclined to rally round
an institution that is assaded on unsporting
lines. Hut tue public memory is snort. The
large suburban population Oi. Sydney winch
is able to pay- 2d. tor a morning paper, and
many thousands of other people throughout
N. S. \v ale's, know only one way of acquir-
ing the new-s which they are accustomed to
take with the breakfast egg, and tnat is by
lifting it off the front verandah or lawn.
If the privilege of be.ng so distributed by
the regular news distributors is to be
confined to a few sheets, those sheets alone
will survive in the long run. When the
Irish Cripies Act provisions dealing with
the boycott were rushed through the House
of -Commons forty-ocTd years' ago, a majority
of the members had little or no sympathy
with either Lord Erne or the gentleman w r ho
w r as collecting his rents. The English squires of
the day heartily oespised the Irish landlords
—'absentees, tor the most part, whose
interest in their estates was confined to
wringing money out of them. But they hated
the boycott and were determined to check
it, for the same reason that their ancestors
h.ad combined against the Sta~ Chamber. . It
was an assertion of the British distrust of
the exercise of arbitrary power whether by
a Stuart sovereign or an organisation of
Irish peasants or Australian newspaper
proprietors.
» * * *
Some monopolies are in the public interest
and can be justified accordingly. It is claimed,
no doubt with strict justice, that we could not
have the postal service we have got if the State
had not made a monopoly of it. Overhead
charges are the bugbear of most industries;
and by the amalgamation of many small
concerns those and other outgoings can be
reduced, and in many cases finer plant and
higher-grade scientific and professional men
can be employed. On the other hand, a
monopoly may simply exploit the public;
and in considering the quality of a monopoly
its’ purpose has to be taken into account. Is
its object the reduction of operating expenses?
There can be no such suggestion in this case
of the newsagents’ boycott. On the contrary
the idea is to refuse to the newcomer a
share in the existing news-distributing
agencies, so that he may be put to the
expense of establishing new agencies; and,
incidentally, he will be refused the oppor-
tunity of contributing anything to the
maintenance of the existing agencies. The
monopoly sought after is therefore quite
opposed to that class of monopoly which may
justify itself on the grounds of economy. For
the most part a deleterious monopoly merely
charges the public excessively. But a news-
paper monopoly is liable to do much more
than damage the public in its pocket. It
is not necessary to, go back further than the.
late establish the priceless value of
propaganda'from the standpoint of anyone
with an axe to grind. One of the functions
of a free press is to stand between Govern-
ments and the public. The moment the press
is no longer in a position to assert that right
it becomes what our papers were under the
War Precautions Act, what most of the
British papers were under the Defence of the
Realm Act. The paper that has lost its
independence can only say those things about
persons in authority which do not matter.
Its voice is silenced on almost all big public
scandals. It is more concerned to obscure
than to reveal. Behind a veil of this sort
intolerable, conditions arise—nepotism, gross
extravagance, and every kind of interference
with the liberty of the subject. A group of
papers which embark on a boycott for
monopolistic purposes have thus sacrificed
a good deal more than principle, though the
fact may "not become immediately apparent.
All are destined, sooner or later, to truckle
to those with' whoin the say lies as tb
whether or no their privilege shall be legis-
latively attacked. The measure of danger
to the public thus,becomes a matter of the
size of the-profits that spring from the
mion-opoly, If " the
'tagratiye every~for)iij4a'bre Parliamentarian,
rift, 'likely- to . beepm? “Safe from serious
criticism iff time;, and the mouths of both
' corrupters and corrupted will be necessarily
closed on the subject ‘of all other injurious
monopolies.
* ' * : /*• * #
It is on these broad grounds that the
campaign of the S, M. Hjjra.ld and Daily
TelegTUpii deserves to be ghallengeg., ...As
it happens, N. S. Wales nas. an instrument ..
whi<h may be ending the Mandaty.
out off,lmnd. ■ Section 12 of
Prevention Act :
If the ProsiffcrVt has reason to believe (a} that
-.any person is using any unfair method of eomnoti-,
tion or discrimination in trade in any necessity*
commodity; and (b) .that a proceeding by him in
respect thereof will be tdthe . interest-of -the’ public,
he may serve upon such person- a complaint stating
his charges in that respect, and calling upon such
person to show causer why..he should not "be ordered
to cease from using such unfair mgthod, .. ' '
Counsel would have to satisfy the Court on
two points— (1) that a newspaper ig . a
necessary commodity, and (2) thatXan
“unfair method of competition or discrimiria--N,
tion” is employed. It might even be neees-'
sayy, .0p.,.., the : first jjeint, to show that a
penny paper is a necessity. That a news-
paper of some sort is such a commodity
scarcely calls for much proof at this time of
day; and if a twopenny paper is necessary to
a merchant or a barrister a penny one may
be said to be necessary to a rock-chopper
or wharf-lumper. The Courts have sensibly
held that motor-cars and evening dresses are
as essential to somp peonle as boots are
to' others? Office "the President was con-
vinced'that daily papers fv'ere necessary
commodit’cs their gazettal. as such, would
follow automatically, the subsequent penalty
for discriminating against them ; n trade by
unfair methods being a £.V>O fine, and an-
other £lOO fine for each subsequent offence.
The question whether they are or are not
necessaries is certainly one that needs to
be tested, and so does the other point as
to whether an enforced boycott of a reput-
able newspaper on the part of the regular
distributors of newspapers is unfair If
the decision should be in the negative in
both eases the Act calls for amendment No
Australian State is .likely to acquiesce in
the proposition which such a pronounce-
ment would establish in practice that
however its population grows, and however
many new parties, political and otherwise
it evolves, it must be limited to its present
supply of morning dailies unless there be
behind any new' venture enough capital to
establish’ not only a new paper but also
a State-wide chain of news-distributin'-
agencies.
ABOUT “THROWING OPEN THE
LAND.”
Next to the demand for loans (regardless
of interest rates) and railways (all leading
lo the big cities) the mqst persistent urge
of the perfunctory and rule-of-thumb
reformer is for “throwing open the land”
—as if it was a door or a boot-trunk. The
assumption that the land is shut and parties
unknown are sitting on the lid is very pre-
valent,' and to advocate the shifting of the
parties off the lid is an easier business than
going into details about the creation of new
factories, new ports, new industrial towns
or even a new sinking, fund. There is
absolutely no brain-fag involved in "throw-
ing open the land,” and it supplies, in the
alleged Sitter on the Lid, an easy mark
for the easy art of vituperation. Just now,
business being slack, the people who offer
to open Paradise for a consideration are
active. Joseph Cabruthers wants to
remove the obstruction sufficiently to make
room for his million farms. So far as N. S.
Wales is concerned, Dooley intends doing
something enormous if he gete back to
power. A strenuous bishop who uses his
pastoral crook beside the Darling has a
scheme for throwing open the dry Western
Division bodily—or, at least, 80 million
acres of it. And the S. M. Herald recently
gave prominence to a seer who stated:—
It is our locked-up Crown land that is responsible
for our small population. Ninety per cent, of
Australia is still Crown lands and our different
Parliaments have not handled that problem.
And at this point the Federal Statistician
has brought his figures about land settle-
ment and other matters a year closer with
interesting results.
The land-throwing brigade is divided into
two companies. One, represented by the
S. M. Herald sort of person, reckons all
land going to waste if it isn’t in private
hands, and quite ignores the fact that a
vast proportion of the “Crown lands” are
occupied and toiling as hard for a living
as if the private monopolist owned them.
The other section, represented by the pre-
sent N. S. Wales Government and the pre-
-sent Queensland Ministry, holds that it is
private lands that are a curse, while Crown
lands are wholly desirable. The two howl
in chorus about “throwing open,” yet they
howl in exactly opposite directions. The
resemblance is that one lot ivould borrow
money to turn private lands back into Crown
lands, w’hile the other would reverse the
process. The real situation, so far as any
locking up is concerned, is nothing to have
hysterics about. The Commonwealth, apart
from the Northern Territory, which is in-
accessible, and where land sales are pro-
hibited. covers nearly 1600 million acres.
Of this about 164 million acres were at
the end of 1919 sold and the other 1436
millions weren’t. But 815 million acres
were leased, and it was mostly on this area
that men struggled to raise the bullock and
the jumbuck, which latter stands for the
only industry in which Australia, big as it
is, contrives to be supreme. If that area
is waste it seems a pity, comparing the suc-
cess of sheep with the comparative failure
of wheat, that there isn’t more waste like
it. That leaves 621 million acres apparently
unused except here and there by our black
brother. But this includes the Great Vic-
toria Desert, Gibson’s Desert, the Great
Stony Desert, other parts of the riverless
country, some salt lakes and other places
whose existence land agents scoff at, but
which no one can" rub off the map. So the
locking-up isn’t w T hat it is often vaguely
represented to be..
Tins' simple idea of the loud'politician on
the hunt for votes is that the sheep should
-be. chased off to make room for the myriads
-of would-be wheat-growing selectors (Aus-
tralia has f ; w of any other kind) who exist
mostly in hi§ -imagination. The drawback
is that sheep are this country’s one com-
plete success in the matter of soil produce,
and if the success is cursed off the map
Australia will be in a poor way-, apart from
its cattle and its factories; When the
•Federal authority collected his last figures
. the Commonwealth-Mood first among sheep-
owners, with Russia, second (its-.figures
were for 1914, for the "bedevilled land can't
fftyj&n print statistics
.third. As a cattle-ownbr it" stood'-, ninth
on a long list. As an owner of horkes it
ranked eighth. Against these figures the
results of the long wheat struggle were very
disappointing. Austrajia has so concen-
trated its agricultural mind on wheat v that
that cereal occupies half its cultivated area.
As one result Australia ranked/3.4th (coming
after Rouupinia) as a producer of this loaf
'material though it only
sgrew' wheat on a' carefully-selected area, it
rff]uke.d 29thAm a list of 32 recognised grow-
ing'b'ffbuntrieS for. production > per acre.
In thd matter Australia was 18th
for quantity produced, and 26th in yield per
acre. In the matter of maize, it was 18tn
for nuantity. coming after little specks like
Serbia and Bulgaria. In its output of barley
it rank 25th on a list of 28 recognised pro-
ducers. In other crops this country wasn t
placed. »
•« * •
Yet the small agriculturist, alleged to be
shouting out for breathmg space on wnicn
to ’-nise wheat, barley, oats, potatoes, maize,
sorghum, sugar, turnips and other veeptaoie-
hasn’t been whollv unoared for. 0
th° States are a trifle skimny in their mtor-
mation. but N. S. Wfffes certainly is not.
The Ma State has “thrown open’ rather
over 60,000,000 acres by sale, m addition


to nearly double that space thrown equally
open by lease. Of the sold area roughly
8,000,000 acres is in allotments varying from
dnp to 500 acres, and 15,000,000 acres is
in little farms measuring under 1000 acres.
Yet when these figures were published the
whole space under crop was less than
4.000,000 acres, and it was diminishing fast.
Where the farm-lands that are thrown open
go is not clearly explained, but they go.
One reason is that wheat, the Million
Farmers’ pet vegetable, is a very poor crop
when grown for export during seasons of
abundance in competition with Russians,
Siberians, Indians, Italians, Spaniards,
Hungarians, etc., all of whom are in a much
larger way of business than we are, and
especially in view of the fact tha| our yield
puts us only 29tli on a list of 32, and that,
for want of a big industrial population to
furnish a local market, an exceedingly large
proportion of the Australian crop lias to
make a 12,000-mile voyage.
* * -X- *
Last year it cost about 10s. to carry 100
tons of goods one mile on tlie N. S. Wales
railways. Wool paid 245. per'mile because
it is a sturdy- plant and has to support the
railways in the same way as it does the
State generally. Wheat paid 4s. 7d. per
mile because it is, by reasqp of the draw-
backs emihierated, the poor member of the
family. If there was much less wool and
much more wheat, other conditions as to
population, etc., remaining the same, the
N. S. Wales railway system would very
likely make an end of its troubles by closing
automatically for lack of means to pay the
wages of the porter at Mullumbimby
Junction.
GOVERNMENT BY BLUE FUNK.
In Australian politics there are two parties.
Often there is a pretence of a third, or even
a fourth; but that is mere delusion or sheer
humbug, though naturally members are not
always willing to publicly, confess it. Our
two real parties are the Terrorists and the
Terrorised. The Terrorised include Nation-
alists, Liberals, Country parties and other
offshoots and segments; the Terrorists
count in their ranks the direct Laborites, the
1.W.W., the Bolsheviks, the 0.8. U,, the
Socialists, and other -ists and -iks whose
ideal is the upheaval of the present Social
system, with a view to the substitution of
the under- lor the upper-crust.
The situation was very much the same
before the war; but since the conquest of
Hans and the establishment of a bewilder-
ing Russian republic, the feeling on both
sides has been greatly intensified, and
Australian politics have developed into
revolutionary aggression on the one hand
and determined siavinsr-off on the other. The
actual political needs of the people are lost
sight of in a grim contest between the
flushed party that pulls the ugly faces, and
the pale party which lives in fear and
trembling, but is animated by a great deter-
mination not to allow the affairs of the
country to pass wholly into the hands of a
combination that grins so hideously. *So
political economy in this country has degener-
ated into a sort of sham light between a
party threatening demolition and another
party resisting the destructive elements and
bent merely upon self-preservation. And
therein-lies the whole weakness of the present
position.
For self-presei ration, which is loosely said
to be the first law of nature, inspires the
only necessity for measures that the
Terrorised recognise; consequently Australia
is being run by a combination of forces
giving small or no consideration to the
further needs of the people, satisfied that
they are doing their whole duty to the nation
while they succeed in keeping things as they
are by warding off the Terrorists and avert-
ing, for the time being, a condition in the
Commonwealth analogous to that in Tetro-
grad shortly after the Bolsheviks attained to
power. But do not blame the Terrorised
wholly for this. While the men who declare
themselves capable of hanging our capital-
ists, shooting the middle-class, impoverishing
the intellectuals, and giving over to the
rabble the ownership of such goods and
chattels as might be preserved from the
flames are being held back, the masses,
cannot reasonably look to the Terrorised
statesmen for good domestic, industrial, or
financial legislation. While a madman with
a torch is busy spreading petrol over the
parlor furniture is no time to sit-in conclave
over a new diet for the baby.
That' some very astute mind among, the
Terrorists is responsible for this condition
I think 'highly probable; I can account for
it in no other way. There is not in this
country the smallest justification for . the
belief that any considerable section of the
community is really bent .upon a policy of
wholesale brigandage tempered with assassin-
ation.^ I In faet ? the country has on) jr .recently
supplied a magnificent piece--of evidence to
the contrary, which it provided, from among
its young men a. fighting force larger than
England; hafi .ever thrown into,.a foreign field
previous Jo 1914,. It did- this solely for. the
purpose' of putting down brigandage and to
give security to life and property. The
Commonwealth is filled with a thrifty people
who avail themselves of their savings’ banks
to the utmost, who are particularly strong
on having and holding their own homes, and
in whom a sense of respect for their own
property is very keen indeed. When you
respect your own property you are a
natural fighter for the rights of the other
fellow’s, since it is true that the man who
puts a match to his neighbor’s house en-
dangers his own. Nevertheless there is a
settled belief in the possibilities of a revolu-
tion on Russian lines strong enough to
divide our politicians definitely into Terror-
ists and Terrorised. And I say that some
astute tactician is responsible for it.
A strategy of the prize-ring favored by
that astute master-craftsman, Jack John-
son, and adopted by many smaller fry
amongst the fighters, is that of “rattling”
an opponent. It is done in several ways,
hut the aim is always the same—to make-the
other fellow so ill-tempered that he may pre-
sently “lose his nut” and begin to fight
wildly, like an ignorant savage, instead of
coolly and cautiously, like a calculating
scientist. The “rattled” fighter drops his
guard, and the result is an inevitable liek-
ing. The process is simple: the diplomatist
simply breathes insults into his opponent s
ear when tuey are in clinches. Another
method, and this is the one most favored by
our political Terrorists, is to contrive to
scare the foe into “dropping his bundle” by
looking diabolically wicked, and breathing
the most abominable threats of mutilat.on
and death before the fight begins and
throughout the rounds. By acting in this
way the political Terrorists have succeeded
in so rattling their opponents that the latter
are apparently incapable of shaping like
strategists, and fight only a strictly defen-
sive battle, in which they inevitably lose
on points.
Now and again the people, greatly im-
pressed by the agony of apprehension visible
upon the Terrorised, rise up. with some
emphasis and wipe the representative Ter-
rorists from such of the high places as they
may hold, reducing them to comparative
impotence. With what, good result? Do
the Terrorised express relief? Freed of the
incubus that has so long oppressed- them,
do they set to work in a spirit of happy
optimism to give the country the measures
it needs, and to devote themselves to the
problem of relieving taxpayers, or strength-
ening them under their heavy burdens ? No !
They remain the abjectly Terrorised, and
seek nothing better to offer the electors than
the alternative of maintaining them in a
condition of chattering trepidation, or
restoring to place and power the Terrorists
who seek to bring about a social upheaval.
While this condition remains, what can we
hope for from our Parliaments?
Edward Dyson.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
How Fools Grope in Daylight for the
Obvious and Find It Not.
The secret, if there is one, of the emptiness
of the Northern Territory is that it has
always been the horrible example of Absentee
or Stepmotherly Government. On the
mainland, anyhow, the fixed rule among the
self-governing States is that the bigger the
State the more vacant it is. Hence Vic-
toria, the smallest of the group, comes first
in point of density, with N. S. Wales,
South Aus., Queensland and Westralia fol-
lowing in due order. Tasmania is only one
point out of place; it is second for density of
settlement whereas it should be first. If
Maoriland was in the Commonwealth it
would occupy exactly its proper place in the
argument, being one size bigger than Vic-
toria, and one place below it for density of
habitation. But the great empty, areas that
are the despair of politicians to whom the
obvious is a sealed book —the blank spaces
which drive some to drink, and some to nigger
labor, and , some to loans —aren’t equally
empty and evenly blank. They are only
blank far from the capital s —barring desert
regions, which can be blank anywhere. The
Northern Territory is the most shocking
example, simply because it has always been
furthest away from its seat of administration
and the worst specimen of absentee rule. It
used to be allegedly governed from Adelaide,
3415 miles from Darwin, the gate of the Ter-
ritory, by the’beaten track, and further from
other parts. It is now ruled from Melbourne
for a change, and Melbourne is 3010 miles
from Darwin by water. Canberra will be
very little nearer; in fact, measured in a
straight line, Canberra is further from the
nearest point of the Territory than any exist-
ing State capital except Hobart. Westralia’s
most ridiculously remote town is misruled
from a place 2177 miles away. Queensland
neglects Camooweal from the liberal range of
1593 miles, and even that is a few miles
further than Constantinople is from London.
Now, Government is the great landlord as
well as the railway owner, common carrier
and schoolmaster in this country; and- this ■
fantastic remoteness from the seat of manage-
ment is a feature of Australia and no other
country. The results would have been the
same no matter where the capitals were
placed. Given a railway to bring the trade
of a fairly large area to a suitable spot on
the coast, and with even a very bad Govern-
ment at that spot, Australia can do great
things at building cities out of nothing, no
where the nothin? is. In latitude 38
(Melbourne) or lattitude 27 (Brisbane) it
is all one. Provided he is near the seat
of his Government the adaptable Australian
will congregate- anywhere. But away from
there he refuses to live in any great numbers ;
and when one "realises how vast are the
powers of Government in Australia, one
cannot wonder at it.
Control of Our Finances.
Our Uncle of the United States has
appointed a committee to see what can be
done about adding to the contents of his
already bulging coffers the sum of 11 billion
dollars legally due .to him. When the great
fight was on to decide whether the whole
world would one day - be -Imperial. Hun or
be kept “safe for democracy,” -the United
States stood out to the last possible moment,
and traded at high prices with the comba-
tants, and made billions out of the world’s
protracted misery-—made them both in gold
and in I O U’s. It endured enough insult at
the hands of the Hun to prove that the war
was its own war, and it admitted the fact
at last by joining In. But to put it quite,
plainly, yet quite truthfully, so long., as there
seemed a reasonable certainty that the. Allies
could win Uncle’s war for him,-while Unele
stood aside and reaped the profits, Uncle was
an absorbed spectator. All this is back
history; but it has a bearing on current'
happenings. Australia is—at second -h'Sfld,
perhaps, but none the less certainly-one-ofi-
the countries from which Uncle-intends. to-
collect the debt incurred in these circum-
stances. Much of the 11 billions was loaned..
to Britain, and some was sub-loaned to us
by Britain on a promise of early payment.
Now U.S. having To find sortie
use for their 'bloated billions, fere offering
loans to Australia on their own terms, the
general understanding being that in the long
run the leans' will be taken out in Yankee
goods, to the "detriment of our own indus-
tries, and of our capacity to pay the Old
Man iri'-London, or to' help him with a little
trade at a lime when he wants it badly. Why
we should even partially'abandon our elderly
parent and incur fresh responsibilities with
Uncle it is hard to say. Australia unfor-
tunately pays a Trade Ambassador at
Uncle’s court, and he seems to have been
hypnotised or basilisked by the people whom
he doesn’t manage to sell our goods to, and
his desire that this country should accept
loans from them and allow' them to control
our finances is very marked. But the
position in Europe isn’t calculated to make
anybody ache for any more “control.” On
the contrary there is a. carking fear that
Uncle has acquired far too much “control”
already.
Three Feet Six.
It was. taken for granted in most quarters
that Victoria, Queensland, S.A. and West-
ralia would leap at the chance (if there is
a chance) to have their railways altered,
at the cost of Australia in general or of poster-
ity in general, to 4ft. 84in. gauge. The
assumption was based partly -on the fact
that a uniform gauge is admittedly a handy
tiling to have about the house, and partly
on the fact that the change would involve
the spending of much loan money in the
four States. To the great surprise' of. many
people two important States (Victoria and
S.A.) have leaped away from the scheme
instead of towards it, while the other two
lack enthusiasm. Their attitude is capable
of explanation. They don’t expect to get
a monopoly of the work, but they do antici-
pate getting all the dust and inconvenience;
and they have a very lively fear that the
scheme may break dow r n half-way, and
leave them in a worse mess than before. In
view of this attitude the Australian railway
position will have to be once more reviewed.
The most 1 outstanding fact is that this
country has now more miles of line in pro-
portion to the population that uses and
pays for it than any other country on
earth—nearly 10 times more than the United
Kingdom. More than half the mileage has
ceased to earn working expenses. Only a
few odd miles pay expenses and in-
terest. The w r ages paid are the highest
and the working hours about the shortest,
and some of the systems are heavily over-
manned with political parasites. Every-
thing is mortgaged for much more than it
is worth, for new loan money is still being
charged up against derelicts that have been
insolvent for 50 years. The loans are ter-
minable, and each renewal now' changes the
£3OOO-per-rnile line into a £5OOO-per-mile
liability if measured by the interest cost.
When the hulk of the system is torn up
and relaid—if it ever is—for tlie sake of
uniformity, the cost will take another leap
skyward. Yet the burden is already too
heavy for much of the rural population
to bear, with the result that the country is
actually losing population, except in a few
rare spots. The situation is one of great
difficulty; and in the end it may be found
necessary to give up pomp and throw’ over-
board many scruples, and unify on the cheap
and humble but serviceable 3ft. 6in. gauge
that South Africa nuts up with. It would
mean 7000 few'er miles to be reln ; d. which
makes it a possibility: and a possibility the
standard gauge doesn’t seem to be unless
this country lianas all its financiers and gets
a different kind.
■ 4. ■ ' ♦
A Myth and Two Statisticians.
These are days when Labor Premiers leave
their offices hurriedly by the back way to
dodge unemployed deputations and the like.
When the inevitable reporter looms up they
explain, with mingled pride and annoyance,
that the importunate seekers for toil are
largely British immigrants and others from
Tory States, who have sVarmed over the.
border to enjoy the superior advantages of
Labor administration. Theodore, of Queens-
land, recently improved on the familiar
narrative by declaring that there was no
-need -for iiis* State .to go in'Tor an immigra-
tion policy, since it wms getting all the.
strangers, it could handle from the neighbor-
ing provinces. Commenting, on these obser-.
vat’ons,. and elaborating the argument, a
Sydney Labor paper remarked:—
A requisition has been received by the Chief Immi-
gration Officer of the Commonwealth to recruit 5000
farm laborers this year. Simultaneously we read
that there are 40,000 Unemployed in N.S.W. alone,
ana goodness knows how many more in the other
States. There is no law to prevent the Victorian
and South Australian newcomers from crossing into
. N.S.W. and Queensland. Indeed, they have been -
doing this very thing, and are still doing it, and
will continue to do it, owing to Labor control making
local working conditions better than those obtain-
ing; in the other States. The Worker has pointed'
this out before, atid has good reason for asserting that
the unemployed problem in NVS.W. w'as being' made
more acute because of these influxes of immigrants.
from the neighboring Tory States. Now Premier
Theodore stated; thajL the same sort of misfortune
is happening to Queensland, and cites the .largely
increased numbers of known arrivals Over those of
departures. ’ -•- -v'- ;■
Certainly Theodore boasts that Queensland
is gaining more population by excess of arri-
vals over departures than"any other State.
But he is very careful not to. dive into
figures. And there is nothing to support
his statement un the recently-issued ‘‘-A.B.C.
of Queensland Statistics;” The latest year
covered by that official publication is 1920.
In that period, according ‘to Porter, the-
Acting-Registrar-General, 85.210 persons
arrived in Queensland from other Australian
States, and 85.706 departed. The N. S.
Wales figures are more recent, and even
more destructive of the theory that there
Ms a wild rush of people from relatively
iprosperoiis' YidtOria ‘ a'ficb'South Aus. to the
States where „Labor,Tules and taxes are sky-
-high and -the, unemployed’ crop is' abundant,
"lii the first half of 1920, .before the glad news
"got roqntftfiat fuT/abor Government was. in
office, '.N. "S. drew surplus of 4347
’froin' the other Australian States, 159,621
pei-sous" 'arriving' and 155.274" leaving. In
the’corresponding' periodrof? 1921)'AVhen the
benefits of Labor- rule were -in ’ "full blast.
- 144.690. ai-rived'-in-N. ’Se-Wales fromo other
divisions ofi.Australia and 150.762 departed.
That is to say, the State which is allegedly
drawing huge supplies of dissatisfied British
immigrants from Victoria and South Aus-
tralia lost 6072 people by''excess pf -inter-
St*te emigration over immigration:,;- And
whei-eas it, gained 551 immigrants from
MaorlTard in the' first six months of 1920 it
lost 1487 emigrants to that country in the
first six months of 1921. Yet if there is
anything in the Labor financial policy except
political corruption and blue ruin, the move-
ment of population ought to be the other
way. For, while the Dooley Government is
borrowing stupendously to .‘‘open uy» the
country” and heaping" mad imposts on
farmers, graziers and manufacturers to ‘‘pro-
vide work for the masses rightly struggling
to be free,” the Massey Government is reduc-
ing taxation and retrenching hard. But not
once or twice in the rough story of N. S.
Wales politics has a loan drunk coincided
with loss of population. Apparently when a
Government starts on the reckless course
along which the Dooley crowd has tra-
velled with such dizzy speed, a fairish number
of citizens, chiefly skilled workers indepen-
dejit of Government doles and dirt-j ibs,
decide to leave while the leaving is good,
reasoning that when the loan money gives
out there will be an almighty slump. Any-
how, before Dooley and Theodore repeat
their flattering tales about the roads, trains
and steamers entering their mortgaged
domains being crowded with fugitives from
other States, they ought to have a few words
with their own statisticians.
♦>
“Administrative Subdivisions.”
Some chuckle-headed son of wrath put this
in his summary of George Fuller’s
Nationalist election policy for N. S. Wales:
The limitation of tenure as a member of the Legis-
lative Council; retention of the proportional repre-
sentation system ; and the creation of new States.
It looked too 'sane to he true, and too cour-
ageous and too original. Still, it raised a
sort of hope, which petered out when the
details came along
Decentralisation by the creation of administrative
subdivisions within the State.,'
Everything will be managed from the Old
Congested Spot, as before, but by taking a
few little nominal jobs from this authority
and a few from that a semblance of employ-
ment will be found for still another stratum
of jobholders. So there will be four storeys
of administration—municipal, subdivisional,
State and Federal —instead of three.- Yet
the fact remains that, if experience goes for
anything, there is one infallible way of pro-
moting settlement, and getting population,
and filling the bare spaces that, politicians
weep and rave about. It is by making new
States—-not “administrative subdivisions”
or any such hash of long words, but real
States. The essentials are a railway lead-
ing to a point to bring business there, and
a real State Government in charge of the
point and the line to see that local interests
are the first consideration. Twofold Bay
is a better natural harbor and Eden is an
older towui than Melbourne, but Melbourne
broke away and set iip for itself, and became
one of the two great cities of this conti-
nent., Eden remained and is a perished
hamlet feebly whaling for a living. Port-
land is also older than Melbourne, and was
once more hopeful. It also failed to break
away, and it was last heard of as a dimin-
ished hamlet of some 2000 or 3000 ghosts.
Tiie difference between Grafton with 6000
inhabitants, or Lismore with 9000, and the
awkward river port of Brisbane with 210,000
is just the difference between being a capital
and being a humble spot that is robbed to
enrich a capital. The miser’s craving for
land leads the Dooleys and Fullers to
ignore the position. Wherefore certain tired
places may yet be a law unto themselves
and ignore Dooley and Fuller. In these
days, when such men are shedding tears of
joy because Ireland has secured' autonomy,
the half-hearted offer of “administrative sub-
divisions” to their own Home Rulers reads
like the small insult of small minds.
The Income-tax Muddle.
Australia levies seven income-taxes, and a
citizen or company carrying on business in
six States has to weigh-in annually with 11
separate statements of revenue and expen-
diture. Commonsense suggests that the im-
position of one tax, and its collection by one
Department, would save the public an enor-
mous amount of unnecessary trouble and
expense, but such a reform, useful as it
would be, and simply as it could be brought
about, is too abstruse for the present incap-
able and dog-in-the-manger push of politi-
cians that are trying to run a continent.
Sometimes the subject is mentioned at the
bi-monthly Premiers’ Conferences which
have evoived uselessly from a hopelessly-
complicated system of government, but some
bigoted provincialist is sure to object (and
the objection is always successful) that one
income-tax for the Commonwealth would be
a scandalous infringement of State Frights.
EVen the Westraliatt' Government, which, in
a moment of sanity, allowed the Common-
wealth to take over its Taxation Depart-
ment, is troubled with scruples about State
Frights. Instead Of bringing the provisions
of its Income-tax Act into line with those
of the Federal measure it insists on'keeping
them as unlike as possible." The result is
that the Single taxation-paper now issued in
the Western State is complicated to a degree,
and the impfoVemCMt on the old system,
rotten as it was; iST not nearly ds great as
lUifn&Kt "be? 'Compared.' with . thejdisorderly
multitude of 'Australian Imposts',"the British
income-tax is"ifinddel of clearness and coin-
monsense. The rates are high—higher, on
the whole, than in the Commonwealth —but
there are- generous exemptions and allow-
ances in the case of small incomes. Thus a
person earning only £l3O a year is exempt.
A man in receipt of £4OO gets an exemption
of £l2O. and an abatement of £25 for his
wife (or housekeeper) and each child und«r
16. Life assurance premiums are also de-
ducted. There is likewise a provision un-
known in Australia, for what is known as
“marginal relief.” Where an income exceeds
a certain limit by £2 or £3 ; and thereby
becomes liable to tax on a higher scale-, it
is permissible for the owner to pav that £2
or £3 as an additional tax and thus bring
his income down to the lower assessable
limit. In Australia if a taxpayer’s income
exceeds a set limit by a few shillings he
is remorselessly looted. The British wage-
earner, moreover, is assessed quarterly. and
has th'e- .option of paying )>$ weekly inta.l-
- in the form of .stamps. Were this
the-'fule in„tbe Commonwealth, instead of
the fu-eseot henie'htPd .method of doing busi-
ness, life-revenue v-qulcT benefit .enormouslv.
For tberCls no doubt that tons of thousands
of nomadic laborers liab’tually dodge the tax
that falls so heavily and inescapably on the
man-wlt-b -a fixed income. —— ~


ST 1
m
it
n
3 ?%e V e^ tre
c ,tysJ^?_^dCo|
°Ur
m
5^
■ rf
■A-yzxs
£fes~
m
<€6e
"d/dusiral/a"
Wfnter Garden
v f
r C4e
The Premier Hotel of Australia. SYDNEY.
New Tariff—Room Only Rates.
All meals served a la carte.
Suites and Rooms with private bath.
Automatic Telephones in every room.
Stenographer and Private Office for use of Guests.
SALON DE LUXE—The most up-to-date Hairdressing, Massage and
Manicuring Rooms in Australia.
QUICK SANDWICH LUNCHEON served in the Winter Garden only.
Prompt attention given to communications addressed The Manager.
A Future for Duntroon.
An Australian military institution which
calls for reorganisation in its own interests,
as well as in the interests of economy is
Duntroon. It gave wonderful results during
the war. But, then, some of the most brilr
liant of the. regular officers who served —
Bridges, Chauvel, White, (’oxen, Foote.
R t ' mey —bad never graduated at any rnili-
ta*.) college. MON ASH, who led the A.I.F.
in its most renowned operations, was a citi-
zen officer; and many consummate leaders
in the field— men of the stamp of Murray
and Jacka —were ex-privates. This is not
to depreciate the value of a military educa-
tion in the case of one who means to make
soldiering his profession, but merely to sug-
gest that the arts of war may be grafted
without much difficulty on to those of peace
when men of the right stamp offer. There
is less enthusiasm for tin* army than there
was, if only because of the anti-militarist
spirit which every great war provokes ; and
the tendency may be seen at Duntroon, which
will be attended during the current year by
not more than 45 lads. To deal with them
there is a staff of 12 officers, seven professors
and lecturers, and some TO attendants, in-
cluding 20 stablemen and a dozen cooks and
waiters. It may be taken for granted that
no Government would survive which abol-
ished Duntroon. On the other hand, any
Government would gain credit that made
the costly place earn its oats. Two methods
offer. At Kingston, the Canadian Military
College, education is civil as well as mili-
tary, and it may be paid for as at any
other school. At the end of every year those
boys who have shown most aptitude for a
military life are given commissions in the
active forces; the rest of their class adopt
civilian callings, the training they have had
being helpful to them in the Militia Reserve.
A better type of candidate would be got for
Duntroon by keeping the admission competi-
tive and the education free. But all would
not be wanted for the Permanent Forces
unless and until another war arrived. There-
fore :—•
(1) Let every student, having first passed the
Public Service examination or its equivalent, be
put through a four years’ course based not on
military but on Public Service requirements.
(2) Let each boy meanwhile be given sufficient
military training to fit him to undertake, as a
citizen officer, Staff jobs up to (say) adjutant in
the field.
On graduation the embryo Whites, Chau-,
vels and Monasiies would be selected to
fill the requirements of the Permanent
Forces and the remainder drafted into the
Public Service with the obligation on them
to give 10 or 12 years’ service in the Citizen
Forces in return for their free education.
Under this scheme the army would get no
duds or reluctant warriors who realised
when it was too late that they had chosen
the wrong profession; the Australian Public
Service might eventually become what the
Indian Civil Service was in its palmy pre-
war days; and Duntroon would be given an
opportunity to expand into a great national
institution.' In that case its usefulness would
not be limited permanently to the youth ot
the community, so that Federal members
might eventually be seen the
economics course with advantage to them-
selves and profit to their country.
Uncommercial Aviation.
Captain Geoffrey Hughes for the defence : -
In “Biplanes and Bureaucrats” (B. 12/l/’22) a
fairly savage attack is made on those in charge of
commercial flying in Australia. It is inaccurate to
state that “the authorities called for tenders for
the carriage of mails between Perth and Derbj,
a matter of 1600 miles.” Geraldton and Derby (about
1200 miles separate them) were to have been the
original terminal points; it was the tenderer himself
who added the 300-mile stretch from Perth to Gerald-
ton, entirely to suit his own convenience. It was
only at his special request, and on the clear under-
standing that no subsidy would be paid for this
25 per cent, increase in mileage, that the authorities
reluctantly consented to his taking on this extra
burden.
The organisation of the proposed route —about
which so much has been written —was entirely in
the hands of the Royal Australian Air Force, because
the route is said to be of great strategic value, and
the Air Force is wholly responsible for the choice
and preparation of the landing-grounds. The com-
plaints about lack of proper landing-grounds centre
about Geraldton and the area to the north towards
Hamelin. There is no doubt that the aerodrome at
Geraldton was wholly unsuitable and its surface was
dangerous to machines; but the greater part of the
whole route is admittedly level and safe country
for flying. The amazing fact is that the contractors
erected a hangar for their aeroplane on the con-
demned Geraldton aerodrome, and yet it would
seem that they were not aware of its condition till
they were there on the first ill-fated journey. It
was after leaving Geraldton that the fatal accident
occurred, and that was due not to lack of landing
grounds, as The Bulletin admits, but to an error
of judgment on the part of the pilot while circling
round at a dangerously low altitude.
The accident to Major Brearley on the shores of
Roebuck Bay is cited as the culminating proof of
official negligence; but the facts do not support
this. Major Brhahi.ev left Broome at 2 a.m., carry-
ing two passengers, apparently with the object of
putting up a startling one-day flight to Perth. He
had three and a half hours of darkness to fly in
before daybreak, and this in an aeroplane lacking
even the ordinary electric lights to illuminate the
instrument board. One hears that a makeshift light
was rigged from a pocket torch, which gave up the
ghost soon after the start, and left the pilot in
darkness and unable to watch his instruments. Well
out over the bay the oiling system went “phut”
without warning, though the unseen oil-gauge would
have given the alarm in time. The pilot took the
only chance available and landed in semi-darkn.ss on
the beach, below high-water mark, but the aeroplane
suffered damage from the rising waters and the
hasty work of salvage. The wide crossing of
Roebuck Bay is a deviation from the prescribed air-
route. This accident, therefore, seems to have been
the direct result of crossing the bay in darkness
without even tlve most elementary night-flying gear,
and only the very great skill of the pilot averted
more serious consequences.
Conceding freely that there was lack of proper
preparation in the Geraldton area, and even admit-
ting that the accidents were due to such lack of
preparation (which I have shown was not the case),
it was not only open to the contractors to discover
the real state of the route, but they owed a duty to
the public, whom they invited to travel by their
Mr. MeGirr has repented of his flirtation with Federal politics, and has successfully pleaded with the
A.L.P. in the Sydney electorate to be nominated for that Assembly district.
'AH, PITY, PITY. FOR THE SAKE OF THE CHEEILD.”
service, to satisfy themselves that the route was safe
before they attempted their first official journey.
Had the contractors informed themselves of its
defects, nothing in the contract could have forced
them to begin the service before proper accommoda-
tion was available. It is amazing that sound and
skilful aviators should set out on their very first
flight with passengers and mails over a route which
was an unknown quantity because they had never
inspected it.
When flying has to be adapted to carrying passen-
gers and freight, the one and only thing that counts
is “safety first.” Each party to the contract must
carry out its obligations with the utmost care. 'The
Government must provide safe and proper landing-
grounds ; the contractors must flv for safety. It
would have been a far better service to flying if
the contractors had gone on strike and refused to
begin before they knew the route was safe.
No doubt; still what right had the Govern-
ment to enter into a contract involving a
certain amount of risk in the most favorable
circumstances before it knew the route was
safe? As The Bulletin pointed out in the
article objected to (and rather magnificently
misinterpreted), the U.S. Government started
its aerial mail service over a short route
thoroughly well charted and equipped, having
been trnversed many thousands of times,
whereas the route chosen by the Australian
Government for its initial experiment was
six times longer than the airway from
Washington to New York, was equipped in
the most primitive fashion. covering, as it
did, vast tracts of unoccupied country, and
had never been flown ' over once. This
reversal of a salutary precedent is not justi-
fied by atiything Captain Hughes has
written.
The declaration of the imported Walsh
that the Seamen’s Union had never turned
down a tinted applicant for membership, and
would welcome 2i.)(Xj Chinese tars if they
wanted to come in, seems to have increased
his popularity with the wage-slaves who pay
his salary. At any rate, they have re-
elected him president by a massive majority.
Judging by Walsh’s vaunt and recent pro-
ceedings, the union rather prefers seafaring
men with a bit of color in them. It is refus-
ing to admit the British crews—unionists all
—who are manning the new Commonwealth
steamers. When the Moreton Bay arrived
the men who had brought her. out asked to
be enrolled as members of Walsh’s
"definitely revolutionary” organisation, liav-
ing been told in England that if they joined
the Australian, union they. could keep their
jobs. The reply was that they weren’t
wanted, that Walsh’s men had bespoken
their billets, and that if they behaved them-
selves and were properly submissive to the
illustrious Walsh, they would, as a great
favor, be shipped home as destitute seamen.
Some of the victims of this malignant boy-
cott are, it seems, Australians and one-time
members of the union who went to the war
as Diggers. But that only their
offence in the eyes of Bolsheviks like Walsh.
•
The North Westralia League, whose repre-
sentative is the mountainous Miles from
torrid Marble Bar —he weighs IS stone, and,
as Hughes says, could throw two average
southern politicians out of the window —is at
the Priminister’s ear again for a railway to
Darwin from Meekatharra or thereabouts.
The trouble is that most of the country such
a line would traverse is run by an improvi-
dent Perth Government, which ought to
build its own railways, but hasn’t two
pound-notes to rub together. Moreover, the
Commonwealth is committed to the bridging
of the gap. between Oodnadatta and the
Katherine (N.T.), and that must in honor
take precedence over all other railway pro-
posals involving national expenditure.
that line is finished, and the whole of North
Australia is in process of being annexed by
the Commonwealth preparatory to being
converted into three or more States, the North
Westralian claims will have to be considered.
Certainly that division of Mitchell’s State
has been criminally neglected by the Perth
politicians. Beyond a few jetties along the
coast and the Wyndham meatworks and the
Hedland railway—two typical political
enterprises, hopeless from the outset —they
have done nothing for it. With these
exceptions the Northerners have had to
provide their own utilities. Small as their
numbers are, they have succeeded pretty
well. Man for man they contribute far more
heavily to the Perth exchequer than the
southern people, whose activities have been
helped—or hindered —by 46 millions of loan
money. Theirs is the only part of Westralia
which is not heavily indebted and which is
demonstrably paying its way.
♦
If that respectable old chronic, N.S.W. Min-
ister Estell, sticks to his purpose and
retires from politics he will get out of a
difficult situation. The town of Newcastle
is doomed unless the Estells and the policy
they stand for get out of the road. It is
consistently refused a Harbor Board, lest,
in managing its own waterside affairs, it
should get a scrap of the trade that Sydney
wants. The policy has, however, been over-
done, so that even vessels after coal lie
(around till they become ancient history.
The wool and wheat trade were long since
spirited away. Strikes (rather fostered than
otherwise by the Dooley Cabinet) and other
things have pushed up prices till they are
a material factor in shutting coal-using
industries like the Wallaroo and Moonta
copper mines, and a falling market and the
loafing disease have almost suspended the
steel works which have been Newcastle’s
most visible means of support of late days.
The Bolshevik variety of Labor has a long
list of closures to its credit; but as it
hasn’t opened one new industry—not even
with loans—things are looking pretty bad
for the Labor man who had deposited himself
in a country Labor seat. The Barrier, for
instance, is to disappear from the Federal
electoral map; and Nepean, which had a
Labor member once, has finally fluttered out.
“Paudh” tells how Maoriland does it:—
Before a M.L. student can sit for a subject of his
’Varsity degree he must “keep terms,” and Victoria
(Wellington) College’s method of granting terms
approaches “Hanno’s” perfect exam. system (B.
22/12/’2l), particularly in the LL.B. law subjects.
Ten (or 20) minutes of every lecture hour is taken
up with a class test on the work of the previous
lecture; home exercises involving agonising researcli
are set about once a week; and two half-yearly-
partial exams, are held. A 50 per cent, average,
with a 90 per cent, attendance, gives “terms,” but
if you miss on the year’s work you may (with tears)
pull the game out of the fire by passing the October
“ofttside terms” exam., which is of a last-straw
character. • Terms secured, you may go ahead, and
eat up the November degree exam, in your sleep.
Very little calculation is required to anticipate
likely class test-questions; the difficulty occurs in
keeping, say, four subjects in the air at once, two
being three-lectures-a-week subjects, the others one-
lecture. You need a nice method to effectively
apportion vouv time and prevent the heavy subjects
swamping the light ones. As to home exercises, the
burden of these may be lightened by “syndicate”
work. A tired or tardy- student may 11 live wholly
on the efforts of one more energetic. Last year,
however, a careless fellow- handed i'n a typed carbon
copy of another’s work, and both copies unfortunately
came together for correction before the same pro-
fessorial assistant. The situation then was electric.
The Westralian trade mission to Java was
told that the Germans are landing steel sleep-
ers in those parts at a price so cheap that
the hardwood article isn’t wanted. There
used to be a notion that when things got
sorted out after the war karri sleepers treated
by the Powell process would have a mono-
poly of the East Indian market. But the
Powellisod karri sleeper is still on its trial.
On the Kalgoorlie-Port Augusta road, where
Tasmanian stringy bark and Victorian moun-
tain ash have been bad failures, it is standing
.splendidly, but there are indications of white
ants on the section from Pine Creek to the
Katherine (N.T.). And the Commonwealth
Railway Commissioner reports that some
Powellised karri sleepers buried in ant-beds
about one mile four chains from Darwin
in March, 1918, were found, a few months
ago, to have been “considerably eaten,” which
disposes of the theory that the Powell pro-
cess is death on white ants in all cases.
On the principle that the tropical termite
is more destructive than his southern rela-
tive it may be feasible to lay the Oodnadatta-
Alice Springs section of the North-South
railway with Powellised karri. But it can
now be taken as just about settled that Aus-
tralian steel sleepers will be required for
the tropical portion, if the iron and steel
industry isn’t snuffed out meantime.


*'lF YOU ARE
BUYING RUBBER.
KEEP THE
GOODRICH
TRADE MARK
IN TOUR EVE "
GOODRICH Means Economy.
If you want big mileage and consequent economy of running, become a GOODRICH user.
Read what Messrs. March & Davis, of Arden Street, Coogee, write:—
“Our six-cylinder Limousine Studebaker is shod with GOODRICH TYRES, and has covered
up to date 9000 miles, and should, by all appearances, run another 2000 miles.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) MARSH & DAVIS.”
GOODRICH TYRES.
DUVAL (Et CO., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Even a private member’s job close up to
the steals and the patronage is so valuable
in these big-salary days that 27 Labor men
leaped for dead-man Tudor’s shoes in Yarra
electorate. There is a legal limit, more or
less observed, to the amount a cand date
may spend on his Election, but on his Selec-
tion he can scatter money without stint,
and in a “safe” electorate it is the election
with the S that counts —the one without the
S is mere frill. And the expenses have to
be got out of the taxpayer somehow. It
recalls the Roman Governor who had to
make three fortunes out of his province-
one to pay the cost of getting it; one
to pay for his defence when he was pro-
secuted for extortion on his return; and
the third to live upon. And the most sinful
part of the whole business is that with
proportional or preferential voting pre-
selection is utterly unnecessary.
The imported advocate of slow-down
seems to be losing some of his fell influence.
Last week the Australian coalminers un-
compromisingly rejected a mad proposal that
thov should work only nine days a fort-
night. The vote against industrial suicide
was nearly 4 to 1.
McGirr, the jumping-jack of N. S. Wales
Labor politics, has been pinned down to a
definite course of action at last. Nominated
for the Sydney selection-ballot by the indus-
trialists who are running him for their own
purposes, he was rushed away to the country
so that he couldn’t spoil then - plans by
changing his mind. In the result, after the
usual . selection-ballot rumpus touching
“Tammany tricks” ard so forth, he was
declared to have headed the poll. But
somebedv had to be nushed out to make
room for the rich McGirr. and it was the
rich Minahan. M.L.A., who got the push.
And that wasn’t what the conspirators in-
tended.
The tall, dark and unsmiling Matt. Charl-
ton, who equals the late Frank Tudor in
attention to his job, has been appointed
Labor’s leader in the House of Heps. The
leadership of the whole party snuuid ulti-
mately be his, but apparently the election
has been deferred oufe of respect to Senator
“Jupp” Gardiner, who is understood to be
a candidate. But Jupp’s brethren, who are
all in the Reps., woji’t make the mistake of
appointing him. There will probably be a
ballot, but the Caucus will not forget that
he is nractically disqualified, being in the
Senate* Apart' from that, his enthusiasm
for the tattered principles of Freetrade ought
to make him a joke to a crowd with a Pro-
tectionist majority.
The Queensland Labor Government hav-
ing decided to “nationalise” the Brisbane
tramways, a director has remarked plea-
santly taat the company’s price is £2.000,000
and that from £500,000 to £700,000 more
will be wanted immediately for extensions.
Theodore and Fihelly are supposed to be
willing to give £1,500,000. Even at that
figure the deal would be a mad thing for
Queensland, considerir." (1) that the money
would have to be borrowed at an enor-
mously dear rate, (2) that the Government
already has more employees than it knows
what to do with, and (3) that in New-
castle (N.S.W.) and parts of Sydney, to
say nothing of Ix>ndon, the motor-’bus is
beating the trolley-car out of the field.
What is more, the once-profitable Perth
system, which is nearly as large as Bris-
bane’s. and which was bought for about
a fourth of what the Queensland conces-
sionaires are asking, has become chronically
Unpnvable under Government ownership, the
relatively low interest rate notwithstanding.
But it is no use reasoning on these lines
With Theodore and Fihelly. They have
learnt nothing from the failure of their
A TRUE LOVER STILL.
"Our most urgent task is the maintenance, as a sacred fire, of the people’s desire for revenge. In
order to prepare the coming generation for a war of deliverance, Germany ought to resume conscription.
—Count Westrop recently at Munich.
OLD WOMAN GERMANY: “Though oil men forsake thee, and though I still smart from,
the hidings thou hast administered unto me, yet will I cleave to thee.”
crazy adventures in State socialism, and
nothing short of being vioffintly separated
from office will dissuade them from com-
mitting further follies in the same field.
An old scandal from a new viewpoint: —
One point brought out by the Defence retrench-
ment is the absurdity of not passing the estimates
until half the financial year is expired and a large
portion of the vote has been expended, thus forcing
all the economies into the latter part of the year.
How can money be spent to the best advantage when
ic isn’t known how much there will be to spend ?
And why on earth can’t the estimates be dealt with
in June or thereabouts? There are items, such as
the sending of officers abroad for training (now
r.ot so essential, but much more expensive than
before the war), for which the arrangements have
to be made early in the financial year and no reduc-
tion is possible later. The foolishness of discharging
sergeant-instructors who had just had thousands
spent on their training would also have been avoided
had it been known earlier that there would be no
work for them.
The Prime Minister, who has a mania
for appointing everybody somethifig tit d
ridiculous salary, proposes to burdeh
Australia with four more Trade Com-
missioners—ostensibly to sell the goods
of people who could sell their own
goods better. The first Commissioner was
sent to beguile Uncle Sam in September,
1918, and the results are striking. In the
last year before the Commissioner, Aus-
tralia bought from the U.S. to the amount
of £15.193.316, and sold to the extent of
£10,650.034. In the two years after the
Commissioner got in his splendid work, Aus-
tralia bought from its American relative, on
an average, £25,849,055 worth per annum,
and its sales to him dropped to an average
of £10.069.681. Four salesmen with that
fatal gift for buying things we can’t afford
to pay for and losing sales would ruin a poor
nation like this. Incidentally, during the
same period the Yankee found out the way
to butt into Australian finance, and began
to put Australians in gaol for coming into
his territory.
From a Federal Gallery-man:—
The Hughes case regarding the seven Germans
whom Premier Lawson wants to engage has a couple
of overlooked points of interest. In the first place,
when permission was given to import the briquet-
ting machinery from Germany, on the assurance that
it could not be built in Australia or obtained in
any other English-speaking country, no suggestion
was made to Greene, the then Minister of Customs,
that German experts would be required to set it
up. Naturally the Hughes Government wants to
know why, if the Germans are necessary, they were
apparently not thought of when the machinery
was ordered. Surely, it is argued, the Vic. Govern-
ment must have possessed then the knowledge it
professes to have now. The other point is to the
effect that, whichever way the Federal Government
had acted in the dispute, it was bound to arouse
criticism. One of the Hughesiliers cynically con-
trasted to me the comparative gentility of the
present agitation with the patriotic uproar there
would have been if Hughes had allowed the Huns
to land in the beginning. There is no doubt about
the size of the disturbance in that event and that
fact alone entitles Hughes to more sympathy than
he is getting from the anguished Melbourne press.
The redistributors of Federal seats won’t
rob W. G. Gibson of Corangamite without
a shrill protest. He proposes to. save him-
self by an alternative scheme which he will
submit to the House when it meets. His
idea is that the present electorates of Bal-
larat and Bendigo should be wiped out, and
the two cities merged into a sausage to lie
across the chest of central Victoria. He
considers also that Geelonsr should be tacked
on to Williamstown and the western suburbs
of Melbourne, thus depi’iving Lister of a
number of votes and maybe threatening the
majority of Matthews, of Melbourne Ports.
The great merit of this suggestion is, of
course, its utter unselfishness; and if
brother Jowett has a similar plan for pre-
serving the Grampians, the next session of
the Reps, ought to be lively.
Jim Scullin will succeed to Tudor’s seat
in the House of Reps., having unexpectedly
downed Holloway, of the Trades Hall Coun-
cil, and 25 others in the Labor selection-
ballot. Scullin has waited a long time for
the luck to turn. In 1910 he ousted Grattan
Wilson for Corangamite, and before long
critics were saying that he was about the
most promising youngster in Parliament.
But J. C. Manifold blighted his young ambi-
tions at the next election. On Manifold’s
death in 1918 Scullin had another try, but
this time he was beaten by Gibson, of the
Cocky party. Compared with Corangamite
Yarra is the softest of soft snaps.
The Speck’s Leg. Council has rejected
most of the Lee-Lewis Government’s taxa-
tion proposals. The bill to increase the
super-tax on companies by 30 per cent,
failed to reach the committee stage, and
the Government’s one and only shop-window
measure —to increase the exemption on the
incomes of married taxpayers—has also gone
overboard. It is all understood to be an
intimation that no taxation measure will
become law until adequate steps are
taken, by retrenchment, to square the ledger.
There will be no fight: the Government will
meekly accept the ruling of the Leg. Council,
and the horrible thing about it, from the
democratic point of view, is that ,the old
House of Dodery is in the main right.
A new political industry with vast possi-
bilities is developing in Australia. Being
gorged with gold, and finding it bad for
trade, Uncle Sam is chasing the impover-
ished nations with loans in order to get rid
of his . unpurchaseable goods. One of the
countries pursued in that fashion is the
Commonwealth. And according to his plea-
sant custom in greaser republics—Austra-
lian finance must look very like greaser
finance at a distance —Samuel isn’t averse
from employing politicians as his agents. Thus
it comes about that small-fry legislators
who have never hitherto been credited with
the means of financing a banana-barrow have
been pelting various State Governments
with offers of millions. An impression exists
that the blackguard rush in N. S. Wales
for party nominations was inspired in some
cases by the more or less distant prospect
of making a fortune by negotiating a
Yankee loan.
In its flying leap for recess the N.S.W.
Government dropped its motherhood scheme,
dropped its Land Resumption. Bill—dropped
almost everything, in fact, save its salary
and its false teeth. But, by the Attorney-
General’s account, its new Fair Rents Bill,
if it had staved to pass the thing instead of
flying on 26 cold feet, would have been a
boshter. One clause allowed a tenant to live
rent-free if he coukl show that he was the
victim of adversity. Another said that the
landlord must renew the lease or pay the
tenant for the goodwill of the business. Re-
cently some old shacks in Elizabeth-street,
Svdn'ev. one of the best sites in the city,
were pulled down. In them dwelt a great
moneylender, and the goodwill of his per-
shentage business was worth more than the
value of the shacks. If it had been neces-
sary to buy his goodwill before making im-
provements, he would have had to remain
till the eyesore fell in a heap on his money-
lending head.
“D.E.” propounds a theory :
Maybe the squabble in the N. S. Wales Labor
Cabinet is one of the reactions of Dublin politics.
They are imitative, as well as disputatious, these-
political representatives of the race that was once
downtrodden, and a shindy at headquarters is veiy
apt to be repeated in other parts of the world,
where the brutal Saxon is down and being skinned
for his hide. And it is by no means necessary that
the ccisvs belli should be the same; if the circum-
stances are favorable any other ground of quarrel
will serve. Victorious at both ends of the earth over the
tyrant and oppressor, impersonated in Britain by
Lloyd George and in N. S. Wales by George Fuller,
the conquerors, for the moment, have no foreigner
left to fight. But they still burn to experience the
fierce joy of battle. Urged on by these emotions
De Valera aims a polthogue at the moderate
Griffith. Feeling the same craving for trouble
McGirr bogs into Dooley. Mike Collins rushes to
Griffith’s assistance; Loughlin trails his coat in
Dooley’s interest. Factions form; a regular hulla-
baloo rages; and in each case the moderates have
the better of it.
N.S.W Premier Dooley is letting _ his
gayness of manner become too mechanical.
Every day he furnishes the capitalistic press
with a statement in which he is “intensely
amused” (at the same hour every day) by
the latest futile tactics of his opponents. It
begins to look as if he keeps an engagement
book and makes entries like: “4 p.m. Be
convulsed with mirth at base insinuation (if
any) of Fuller,” and Treat
Carruthers with scornful laughter.”
PROSPERITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ £7,500,000,000 (or thereabouts) has been
invested in new businesses”— Politician’s joyous
proof that his State is prosperous.
Old Woopwoopson has left his farm
And wandered into town.
The business agent meant no harm,
But had to take him down,
For business reasons (he has got
A lot of rent to pay) ;
And old Woopwoopson now conducts
A sundae slush-house gay.
IVe sell each other ice creams;
We buy each other’s buns;
We manufacture betting-books,
And borrow from our duns .
With plate-glass fronts the shops where we
These things purvey show style;
We point them out to visitors
As proof of fortune’s smile.
Tom Green has closed his factoroe — ;
Machines were once his trade;
A picture showman now is tie —•
That way are fortunes made.
And Billy Jones, who owned a mine
And dug up lumps of coal,
Is dealing now in foreign wine,
A million is his goal.
We sell each other chocolates,
And buy each other’s shares;
We manufacture companies
In —anything that snares.
The large brass plates upon our doors
Where thrift-talk on us showers
Will show, for all the world to see,
Prosperity is ours.
The mill’s shut up, the farm’s unsown,
The mine is simply left;
We pawn the things we do not own —
Which once we thought was theft.
The old-time honesty is gone,
And work is out-of-date;
We keep the flash fraud moving on
While P.N.’s circulate.
We sell each other sundaes,
The “ponies” are our god;
We’d rather run a raffle
Than carry hoe or hod.
Our debt piles up in millions,
But unconcerned are we
While paper-money decks the scene
Of our prosperity.
N.S.W.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.


AS THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN.
The Washington correspondent of the London Daily Chronicle describes Senator Pearce as tall and upright, with silver-grey hair and a carefully-trimmed short beard.
Our artist tries to present the correspondent’s views of some of the other members of the Cabinet.
BSHHIS
(BWHS-U-y
The dapper little man |
of the Cabinet is Sir Gran-
ville Ryrie.
Take the formidable
Attorney - General, Mr.
Groom. His motto is: “In-
domitable, Invincible, Irre-
sistible 1” The Cabinet
trembles to his terrible tread
Senator Millen, die Minister for
Repatriation, is called the Cabinet’s
“Glass of Fashion.” He is declared
to have written a wonderful work
on Taste. It is his boast that he
knows to a nicety just' the amount
of hair-oil that distinguishes a
.bounder from a gentleman.
It is said that Mr.
Massy Greene, the Minis-
ter of Defence, has culti-
vated a large military
moustache to counteract
the effect of a small,
podgy figure which is
considered unsuitable for
; his present position.
Looking at the tall,
cadaverous Mr. Poyn-
ton, the present ruler
of the Post Office, one
! cannot help thinking
that Nature intended
him to be a sword-
I swallower.
Mr. Hughes is a genial,
robust character whose
shrinking modesty prevents
people estimating his real
worth.
Mr. Foster, Minis-
ter of Works and
Railways, without
his beard would be
indispensable on sub-
urban tennis lawns.
Mr. Bruce, the
Treasurer, is merely
a humble working-
man, proud of his
bowyangs, his toil-
worn hands, and his
deep hatred of the.
capitalist classes.


m
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
There is a Pioneer
Leather Belt for every
power-transmission Pur-
pose—a belt whose relia-
bility is backed by sixty-
three years of manufac-
turing experience. Pioneer
Leather Belting is made
and guaranteed by
J. C. Ludowici
& Son Ltd.,
Pioneer House,
117 York Street,
SYDNEY.
8
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED —is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings in Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breaking
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address: —
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office :
Life Department.
Ex- To Re- Re-
Income. Claims, penses. serves, serves.
1918 .. £16,313 £313 £6,038 £9,962 £9,962
1919 . . 60,656 5,696 29,008 25,352 35,314
1920 . . 94,897 13,031 41,552 40,314 75,628
1921 . . 148,201 16,867 51,303 80,031 155,059
Never before had % Life office been started
under such favorable conditions. The
machinery of the big Workmen’s Compensa-
tion branch had been got to run smoothly by
the time life-writing was decided on, so
there was a powerful organisation ready-
made. The Commissioner introduced several
innovations. For instance, a feature was
made of semi-industrial business; monthly
premiums on Ordinary policies were con-
ceded, 2s. Od. in the f on annual premiums
being charged for the concession. The de-
partment has grown very rapidly. The
assurance written in each of the past three
years has been as follows: 1019, 0804 poli-
cies assuring £1,124,002 ; 1920, 0100 policies
assuring £1,109,988; 1921, 7388 policies
assuring £1,601,648. When the actuary
investigated as at December 31, 1920, there
were 10,055 policies in force (apart from
annuities) assuring £2,826,109, and, of
course, there have since been further con-
siderable increases.
So much for the rapid growth of busi-
ness. The principal feature of operations
to date was the declaration of bonuses after
only 34 years’ policy-writing. Half-way
between the 1920 and 1921 balances the
office showed £112,257 of assurance funds.
Actuary Bromner, who conducted the inves-
tigation, found that, on the basis of valua-
tion adopted by the Commissioner, the net
liability was £101,910. This gave surplus
funds of £10,347, and £9819 was distributed,
providing reversionary bonuses of 30s. for
every £lOO of assurances under whole-life
partieipating-polieies, and 20s. p.c. on
endowments. The policy-valuations were
not, however, on a conservative basis:
at the beginning ex-Commissioner Good-
wyn laid down the policy that, since
the office “had the credit of the State
behind it,” there was “no necessity
to penalise the present generation by valuing
liabilities at an unduly low rate of interest.”
Whereas the big A.M.P. and others protect
themselves against contingencies by holding
large reserves resulting from valuing policy-
liabilities on the assumption that funds will
in future earn only 3 p.c., the Queensland
State Office sets down 4 p.c. as its prospec-
tive interest earning during the currency of
policies now in hand. Whether the Com-
missioner is justified in calculating on that
basis only the future can tell. Who can
guarantee that in years to come money will
not become so plentiful as to bring the
interest rate on first-class securities to below
4 p.c. again? There is certainly less justi-
fication for the Queensland State Office to
assume an interest return of 4 p.c. than
there would be in the case of some of the
big mutual offices. The A.M.P., for instance,
is earning more than 5J p.c. p.a. on average
funds; the Queensland State Office, when
the actuary conducted his investigation,
under 44.p.c.
The less conservative basis of valuation
has been only one factor in producing
bonuses so early. Another has been the low
expense rate: —
Expenses p.c. of Income.
1918 .. 37.0 p.c. | 1920 .. 43.8 p.c.
1919 . . 48.8 „ | 1921 . . 34.6 „
That is without doubt the most remarkable
record which any young Australian Life
office has ever presented. From the begin-
ning £320.000-odd of income has been won
at an all-in cost, according to the accounts,
of only 40.1 p.c. Assuming that old busi-
ness costs 7 p.c. of renewal premiums and
annuities 3 p.c., last year 7388 new policies
were written at a cost of 92 p.c. of the
first-year premiums therefrom. On the
same basis of calculation the big A.M.P.,
with an organisation perfected over scores
of years, paid away almost every penny of
the first-year premiums to get its new busi-
ness. The “Wild Cat” (P,. 12/1/’22 and
19/l/’22) showed how cost rates had soared
in both the Workmen’s Compensation and
Fire branches. In the Life department costs
have slackened. The apportioning of the
administration expenses, detailed in the
review of the Fire branch, must be con-
sidered in conjunction with any expense rate
claimed by the Life accounts.
A year ago The Bulletin drew atten-
tion to the fact that it was impossible to
tell what assets, if any, had been specifi-
cally allotted to the Life branch. All
reserves have hitherto gone, and still go,
into the general balance-sheet of the office,
and no departmental division of securities
is made there. It was thus impossible to
ascertain on what basis interest earnings
were credited to various departments.
For 1920 average funds of the Workmen’s
Compensation branch earned only 2 p.c.,
those of the Fire department 3.1 p.c., while
average Life funds were shown to have pro-
duced 5.3 n.c. The objectionable feature
of the lumping of assets was that there was
no guarantee that some future management
might not re-distribute assets, or alter the
method of interest-allotment to the various
branches. The protest has been heeded:
in his latest report the Commissioner states
that the investments of the Life funds are
now kept separately, and he gives a list of
the securities. Of the £155.058 of funds
no less than £140,901 was invested:
£114,362 was in Commonwealth and State
stock. £25.396 was out on mortgage and
£1143 was loaned on policies.
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
Works Written
Diyi- Charged Off
dends. to Re- Stocks. Re-
Profits. £ venue. etc. serves.
£ (13 p.c.) £ £ £
Dec., ;i3.. 111,473 55,719 29,664 8,940 626,618
June, ’14.. 94,798 55,719 34,088 5,607 626,002
Premiums on new shares, £47,210 .. 673,212
Plant written down, £63,336 .. 609,876
Dec., ’14.. 114,703 58,969 46,897 7,872 610,841
Plant written down, £8,812. . .. 602,029
June, ’15.. 104,344 68,969 39,799 4,862 602,743
Premiums on new shares, £44,585 .. 647,328
Dec., ’15.. 110,675 62,219 28,574 7,488 659,722
June, ’16.. 97,280 62,219 23,146 10,242 661,395
Dec., ’16.. 103,535 62,219 28,908 7,371 666,432
June, ’17.. 95,256 62,219 13,866 13,838 671,765
Dec., ’17.. 86,026 62,219 19,404 7,301 668,867
June, ’lB.. 98,169 62,219 21,287 9,268 674,262
Dec., ’lB.. 107,029 62,219 31,450 12,754 674,868
Premiums on new shares, £25,880 . . 700,748
June, ’19.. 88,659 65,000 14,099 8,871 701,437
Dec., ’19.. 49,143 65,000 18,883 3,870 662,827
June, ’20.. 63,760 65,000 22.084 798 638,705
Dec., ’20.. 39,363 65,000 Nil Nil 613,068
June, ’21.. 63,495 65.000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec., ’2l. . 109,160 65,000 21,276 Nil 634,447
Prices were lifted la'st year sufficiently to
give, for the latter half, the best profit which
has shown up for six years. In 1015,
according to the accounts, the Metropolitan
was getting 4s. 3.0 d. per 1000 ft. for gas
supplied to ordinary consumers; by 1920 the
average had moved to ss. 7.7 d.; and latest
revenue account shows a further increase
to Gs. 7.3 d. Gas sales for the past six
months gave £602,236, compared with
£332,337 for the December term of 1015,
yet, though residuals contributed £66,431
more, the co. could not make as much for
shareholders as it did in that 1915 period.
The way in which income and expenditure
have soared since 1918 is shown in this com-
parison (the figures are for periods of 12
months) :
Receipts.
1918. 1920. 1921.
Gas sales .. .. £772,551 £848.8-27 £1,117.864
Coke 105,929 123,469 159,454
Tar, etc 52,890 61,439 84,700
Sulphate ammonia .. 97,467 61,635 32,503
Expenditure.
Coal 353,959 460,072 563,376
Other manufacturing exes. 180,129 199,507 285,942
Distribution . . . . 96,858 119,727 145,191
Management . . . . 58,417 68,636 82,388
Rent and taxes . . 45,648 38,642 26,969
Meantime production has not increase to any
extent: —
1918. 1920. 1921.
Coal carbonised
(tons) .. .. 275,999 259,689 292,878
Gas sold (1000 ft.).. 3,435,689 3,111,752 3,451,448
So heavily had costs pressed on the co. that
during the two years to June, 1921, net
profits failed to provide the usual divs.,
though they were paid by tapping reserves
for £90,00(i. Nor were provisions made for
meter and stove renewals, and in two terms
apparently no allowance for depreciation was
made.
It now appears that the co. has succeeded
in adjusting selling prices to give a good
margin over and above the div. So. the old
practice of paying for works additions out
of revenue has been resumed once more:
during the past six months £32,000 of pro-
fits were transferred to reserves, and
£21.276 went in “expenditure for extension
and improvement of plant and contingencies”
and was struck off. In past years very
substantial amounts have been thus lost
to sight; but they are not necessarily all
profits which have gone from view. Portion
of the amounts so struck off—only those
inside can tell how much —have been for
depreciation, though in addition to these
appropriations large sums are regularly
extracted from revenue to meet current
repairs and maintenance and renewals of
works, plant, etc.
Twelve months ago the Metropolitan Gas
was working on a million each of share capi-
tal and of debentures, and was assisted in-
visible reserves of £013,000. Early last year,
to get additional funds, the directors offered
a further half-million of debentures, on,
terms which ended in a rumpus. Without
giving shareholders an opportunity to pro-
vide the necessary funds, they arranged for
the major portion of this 8 p.c. issue to be
underwritten for a 1 p.c. consideration. They
badly miscalculated the money market, for
when £75,000 to complete the float was
offered to the public, applications for
£313,100 wortn at prices ranging from par
to £lO3 10s. were put in. After paying costs
of the issue the co. netted £493,423. A half-
million of debentures demanding 8 p.c. p.a.
is a heavy load to put on tne gas user, and
the issue will not mature until 1936. How-
ever, there is still a lot of cheap money in
the business: £607.000 at 4 p.c., maturing
between 1938-42; £lOO,OOO at 44 p.c. which
will shortly have to be repaid; £50.000 at 54
p.c. on hand till 1931 ; and £243,000 at 6
p.c. redeemable between 1930-32.
* « * •
S. Bennett, Ltd., of the Evening News
and other newspapers in Sydney:—
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Oct., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1920.. £28,785 8 p.c. = £12,000 ]
Preliminary exes, written off 2,451 !- £12,718 £7,442
Staff Providert Fund .. 1,616 I
1921.. 19,317 8 p.c. = 12,000 1
Reserved for taxes .. 2,000 [ 4,817 12,259
Staff Fund .. .. .. 500 J
This very old newspaper property was passed
over to a public co. three years ago, but the
market has not seen much of the scrip. The
Evening News was established 55 years
back and has so far been close held by the
Bennett family. The passing-on of the busi-
ness to a public co. merely conformed
with the instructions in the will of its
long-sighted founder as to the future
direction of the enterprise. Apparently
the only unloading of shares to date
has been due to the cleaning-up of
estates of old beneficiaries. The basis on
which the present co. took over has not been
disclosed ; and the accounts are not informa-
tive. There are 150,000 fully-paid £1
shares, but a big parcel of them was issued
against goodwill. How much of the capital
is represented by this intangible asset is not
ascertainable; plant, machinery and freehold
property are parcelled up with “goodwill and
newspaper establishment” in ope entry for
£112,989. So the accumulated profits of
£12,259 are treated in the table as “nominal”
reserves. They comprise £BOOO in a plant
replacement reserve, £4OOO in general
reserves and £259 balance of P. and L. For
the past two years 8 p.c. divs. have been
paid with ease, though the margin of surplus
profit was much smaller last year than in
the previous one. The accounts show profits
to have fallen off from £28,785 to £22,414,
and of this latter amount State taxes
took £3097. The directors also set aside
£2OOO as nrovision for taxation, so even the
£19,31.7 net profit shown in the table is
contingent on whether the year’s income has
borne a full years taxation. The extent of
depreciation allowances is also not disclosed :
all the management says on that subject is
that “machinery and plant have been
maintained in first-class order, and all
expenditure therewith has been defrayed out
of current revenue.”
* * * *
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.:—
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves.
1907. .£117,257 10 p.c. = £55,000£116,480 £79,242
1908.. 39,842 10 „ „ 55,000 31,293 32,791
(All Shares.)
1909.. 178,331 10 p.c. - 96,250 24,949 89,923
1910.. 235,495 15 „ ~ 144,375 53,518 127,525
1911.. 207,959 15 „ ~144,375 48,940 142,169
1912.. 340,938 30 „ „ 288,750 03,870 130,487
1913.. 315,442 20 „ „ 192,500 66,995 186,434
1914.. 158,875 10 „ „ 96,250 16,147 232,912
1915.-. 282,551 20 „ „ 192,500 28,000 294,963
1916.. 376,404 30 ~ ~315,000 39,000 317,367
1917.. 413,080 25 „ ~262,500 134,264 333.683
1918.. 367,869 25 „ ~262,500 76,969 362,083
1919.. 319,232 15 „ ~157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 5.559 Nil 2.685 439,881
1921.. 32,926 Pref. 5 p.c.= 30,000 2,917 439,890
The prefs. got 5 p.c., but the combined
operations of the B. H. Central mine, the
Cockle Creek (N.S.W.) smelters and refinery
the acid and super works at the same place,
■and the zinc works at Seaton Carow (Eng.)
contributed nothing to the div. The year’s
net profit was £30,009, and was made up in
this way -
Gross proceeds from all products.. £956,283
Expenses . . . . .. . . 953,803
Working profit.. .. .. £2,480
Written off 2,917
Loss . . . . . . £437
Profit from metal trading . . £24,869
Interest and profit from investments 16,320
Law costs recovered . . . . 378
£41,567
Less Administration exes.,
taxes and royalty .. 11,121
£30,446
Net profit .. . . £30,009
Successful dealing in metals and the return
from investments made the prefs.’ little div.
possible. The superphosphate works alone
saved a heavy loss on working: 26,691 tons
super, were turned out compared with
17,898 tons in the previous year, and the
production of sulphuric acid was increased
to 21,737 tons from 13,222 tons for 1920.
Production at the Central mine was resumed
after the termination of the Barrier strike,
and 62,419 tons ore were hauled during the
seven months to June 30. Onerous working
conditions and sick markets naturally made
operations with these crudes unprofitable,
particularly as the working account had to
carry £2S,7OS of expenses incurred during
the portion of the year when the mine was
shut down. However, milling operations
were assisted by drawing on the 175,200
tons of old slimes of high value and using
as feed an average of about a ton from these
dumps with 5 tons crudes. Blending had
been proved a success prior to the strike,
and the timely discovery promises to assist
the Central to keep afloat until industrial
conditions improve or the market livens.
Summarised, the lead, zinc and de-leading
plants gave these concentrates:
r Containing
Silver, Lead, Zinc,
Tons. oz. tons. tons.
Lead .. 13,571 592,393 8,587 1,411
Zinc .. 21,538 298,390 1,451 10,202
Total .. 35,109 890,783 10,038 11,613
The nominal recovery was 91.7 p.c. of the
silver, 93.3 p.c. of the lead and 95.2 p.c. of
tlio zinc. General-manager C. F. Courtney
and his staff are still endeavoring to get out
more of the lead and silver from the zinc
concentrates. Experiments have given
satisfactory results, though the operation is
“extremely delicate,” the two metals being
in a very finely-divided state. During, the
current year it is hoped to learn definitely
the extent to which the new method of
treating the zinc concentrates can be applied,
and the cost of necessary plant. Generally,
though, the mining outlook is drab.
So, also, are prospects at the Cockle Creek
smelting works and refinery while metal
prices continue low and costs are high. The
position at the Seaton Carew zinc works
has meantime gone from bad to worse.
Owing to the adverse market, heavier costs
and strikes, only 3805 tons zinc concentrates
were treated, less than half the quantity
handled in the previous year. The renewed
competition from Fritz and the Belgian,
combined with British industrial troubles,
makes the future of the Sulphide Corp.’s
zinc distilling enterprise more doubtful than
ever, and its prospects were never very
bright.
The liquid surplus improved during the
year bv just about the amount of net
earnings:—
1914. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Liquid assets £439,591£1,282,207£1,160,125£1,138,093
Liabilities .. 89,843 473,539 554,743 502,702
Surplus assets£349,74B £808,668 £605,382 £635,391
The pref. div., however, takes £30,000, so
the position is much the same as it was 42
months ago. Paid capital is £1,050,000:
600,000 fully-paid £1 prefs. and 600,000 £1
ordinaries written down to 15s. The whole of
the pref. capital is covered by surplus liquid
assets, leaving the mine and mining-plant
and works at Cockle Creek and Seaton
Carew with a book value of £1,114,499 and
a few thousands of liquid assets to represent
ordinary capital of £450,000. So something
very serious would have to happen to the big
concern before capital became endangered.
The old Central mine still shows proved
ore reserves of nearly 14 tons.
* * * #
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Proflts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Dec.. 1913.. 2047 6 p.c.= 900 750 397 19,398
June, 1914.. 1187 6 „ „ 900 287 19.685
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,718
Dec., 1914.. 1592 6 p.c.= 900 300 392 23,110
June, 1915.. 901 6„ „ 900 61 23,171
Dee., 1915.. 1731 6 „ „ 900 831 24,002
June, 1916.. 944 6„ „ 900 150 23,896
Dec., 1010.. 1655 6 „ „ 900 9000 15,051
June, 1917.. 1181 6 ~ „ 900 5200 10,732
Dec., 1917.. 1787 6 „ „ 900 31 856 11,588
June, 1918. . 1053 6 „ „ 900 50 103 11.691
Dec., 1918.. 1732 6 „ „ 900 832 12,523
June, 1919.. 959 6„„ 900 59 12,582
Dec., 1919.. 1596 6 „ ~ 900 696 13,278
June, 1920.. 1001 6 „ „ 900 269 13,110
Dec., 1920.. 1578 6 „ „ 900 491 187 13,29?
June, 1921.. 957 6„ „ 900 57 13.354
Dec., 1921.. 1753 6 „ „ 900 161 692 14,046
Subscriptions from members of Sydney
Royal Exchange, advertising, rents and
interest together produced £609 more
this half than in the previous term, and,
exes, being got down a little, profits were
better than at any time for eight years. So
there is once more a good margin over and
above the 6 p.c. And though the return is
insignificant on the funds employed—there
are £14,000 of visible reserves assisting paid
capital of £30,000 —probably the dozen
knights of trade who figure on the Board
are not much concerned about trying to
squeeze better divs. The Exchange, as the
headquarters of commercial Sydney, no doubt
helps shareholders’ businesses, and the div. is
more or less incidental. But in view of
the fact that portion of the property is a
high-class pub and there is considerable let-
ting space for office premises, the return is


If vour house is wired for electricity, and you are
having trouble with your door-bell because’of ex-
hausted batteries, you are being annoyed needlessly.
The famous little Wayne Bell Ringing Transformer
will ring your door-bells with the same current that
lights your house, and will need no further attention
after once being installed. Come in and see it
demonstrated. Australian General Electric Company,
corner AVentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets.
Melbourne.—Advt. [4
* * * *
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. AVm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.—Advt. [2
* * * *
Nowadays engineers specify Pioneer Wood Piping
as a water-service conduit. This ever-increasing
demand is accounted for by the low cost of handling,
installation and maintenance. It has also been
proved that the carrying capacity of wood pipe is
from 15 to 20 per cent, greater for its diameter
than metal pipe, and this capacity remains unim-
paired by rust, corrosion or sediment even after many
years of use. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.*,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
Patents.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlercagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
OlHce ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
♦ • . •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
• » * .
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
“1921 Models’’—“National" suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Ouav
(East). —Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertlin"'*
Balances, Weights. Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B. Selbv &Co
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.—Advt
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.—Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.—Advt.
Important to Motor Truck Buyers
REDUCTION IN PRICES.
The dollar exchange being now more favorable we are able to make an
appreciable reduction in prices of new shipment just landed of the celebrated
Wichita Motor Truck Chassis, 1 to 6 ton.
otors
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
Australian Representatives Wichita Motor Company.
very mild. Cash and investments more than
cover all current liabilities. The security
for the £30,600 of capital and £12,000 of
debentures looks very good. At December
31 there were book debts of £3803, and the
property had a book value of £55,000, which
appears a low figure for the handsome and
uniquely-situated pile.
* * * *
At its last balance the National Bank of
Australasia was holding about £7 14s. of
the public’s money for every £ of its own
funds, and that was not much under the £S
which is generally regarded as a prudent
trading-limit for an Australian bank. Pro-
bably the National’s customers have not put
much more into its care since March 31 last;
but the taking over of the Bank of Queens-
land this week has given it another three
miliions or so, provided that all this bank’s
customers have agreed to transfer their
accounts. To finance the deal—£s2o,ooo was
the purchase price—and strengthen its posi-
tion, the National is _ now offering 100,000
£8 ordinaries to be paid to £5 at a premium
of £1 per share. This will provide £600.000
additional funds. The issue should appeal
to National holders: the div. rate is now 10
p.c., and in view of the large margin of
surplus profit and the provisions for con-
tingencies which the Board says it has made
in the past, shareholders may reasonably
expect a continuance of that rate unless
things go badly with the Commonwealth,
They are asked £l2O for every £lOO called
up on the new shares, so 1.0 p.c. divs. Will
give a return of 8£ p.c. p.a.
* ' . * .' * . . .* *
The National is also inviting Bank of
Queensland shareholders to subscribe to the
new issue: 45,000 shares are reserved for
them until February 28. They are offered
the shares at a premium of £2 each. This
means that old Queensland holders, who get
in cash approximately £ll5 10s. for every
£lOO of scrip in their old bank, are
invited to pay £l4O for every £lOO of
scrip in the National. On the money
they put in they will get 7 1-7 p.c. on the
basis of 10 p.c. div. distributions. But
there are other considerations: the National’s
shares have lately moved as high as £7
15s. in the market in anticipation of the
new share issue. The price will, no doubt,
decline when the rights to subscribe to the
new issue expire; but the lowest market
price for the bank’s shares since the div.
rate was elevated to 10 p.c. has been higher
than the price asked of Queensland Bank
shareholders. Also, assuming that old
Queensland holders take up their full quota,
and that the balance of the issue is contri-
buted by National shareholders, then the
National will have a paid capital of 21 mil-
lions and show reserves exceeding 11 million.
So every £lOO taken up by the Queensland
holder will carry an interest in the reserves
of approximately £6O if everything goes
right. Therefore, the £l4O will buy a £l6O
interest in the National, a reasonably good
prospect of a 7 1-7 p.c. p.a. return on the
money, and. in addition, the likelihood of
improving that return in future when new
share issues are made.
* * * *
Went to registration quietly h» Sydney the
other day, Holdings, Ltd., 111 100,000 shares
of £1 each. It is a unique float in which
most of Sydney’s big retailers figure—Hor-
derns, Farmers, Graces, Marcus Clark, Mur-
doch’s, R. H. Gordon and Co., and others are
represented by their _ managing-directors as
signatories. What induced the retailers to
come together as a family party in this way
has not been explained, and the immediate
objective of the concern has not been divulged,
The objects set out in the Memorandum of
Association, as is usual nowadays, give the
co. wide scope; but specific powers enumer-
ated in one clause may explain a lot:-
To acquire, establish and carry on the business
of book-sellers, book-binders, stationers, printers,
lithographers, stereotypers, electrotypers, engravers,
designers, draughtsmen, picture-dealers, proprietors
and publishers of newspapers, journals, magazines,
books and other literary works ahd undertakings
and other business that can be conveniently carried
on in conjunction with these businesses.
There are indications that the retailers have
got together primarily for co-operative pub-
licity purposes. Meantime rumors are in
circulation as to the alleged intentions of
Holdings, Ltd., to establish a newspaper on
its own account or to get a controlling in-
terest in one of the existing dailies. But
so far no definite move has been made: the
co. having only just emerged from registra-
t ,on has not yet had an opportunity to de-
velop and finalise whatever schemes have
been planned. * » .
The biff given to the Australian steel in-
dustrv by the staggering cheapness of the
imported article is going to hurt more than
the B H. Prop., which has now 4000 or more
of its men unemployed at Newcastle. If the
depression continues the coalowners will
have to put off some of their-toilers or find
a fresh customer for 'the steel-works’
sunply, whi°h amounts in normal times to
nearly 1,000.000 tons a year. At present
the co. is burning less than a third of that,
and is using the fuel with the utmost
economy, as the price has advanced since
1914 bv about 75 ner cent. Labor crit’cs
contend that this increase can’t be explained
by additions to wages and other working
expenses, and that, in fact, a good share of
the extra goes into the pockets of the coal-
owners. Whatever the truth of this allega-
tion, the B. H. Prop, can’t work profitably
on the present price of coal while tons of
scrap can be brqugnt in tree and converted
into steel at a price that would ru;n the
Australian concern. On the estimated ration
of four tons of coal to every ton of steel.
the Broken Hill people have to compete
against the foreign metal with their coal
cost alone handicapping them to the tune
of well over £1 for every ton of steel pro-
duced.
* * *
The Baillieus and their London pals,
Lionel Robinson, Clark and Co., evidently
took up most of the Electrolytic Zinc deben-
ture issue of £400,000. Whether they shared
the good stuff with anybody else has not
been told ; but there is little doubt that a
cutting-up has taken place among the crowd
who go over the top whenever Collins House
blows the whistie. No prospectus has
appeared yet, but the details must have been
fixed weeks ago. Even Electrolytic Zinc
eoqld not induce E. L. and C. Baillieu to
find cash unless terms were definite and a
bit was possible out of the deal. It has
been officially announced that £95 Was the
pnee of the issue, but whether that was
net is still an office secret. None of the
debentures trickled very far into the Ex-
change, but £96 is whispered as being the
lowest at which even chosen clients could
get in with the aid of the brokers working
within the Collins House aura. That would
give a commission of 1 p.c. Inspired reports
state that the interest is 8 p.c., the cur-
rency 20 years, with an option to convert
into 8 p.c.'cum. nrefs. to run till December,
1923. Subscribers have also the right to
retain the debentures and take up, prior to
the same date, an equal quantity of prefs.
Tney have a further option of calling upon
the co. to pay off the debentures at the rate
0 f 10 p.c. p.a. after 1925 ; and the co. itself may
repay at £llO five years from date of issue,
E. L. and C. Baillieu must have wrestled
with Electrolytic Zinc chairman W. L. Bail-
lieu as hard as did Jacob with Esau to
wring terms like these from the concern,
And George Swinburne, as a director, must
have dropped tears of blooci when assenting
to them. But what is their agony to that
0 f the pref. shareholders who have not had
a look-in at the new debentures? If they
had been able to slide out of their shares
and into the bonds, they would have had a
first lien on assets and options, which are
worth something. How the stock-exchanges
view the deal depends on how far brokers
were let in. Some growl, others smile,
There has been no word as to whether an
official quotation is to be given the stock,
London Stock Exchange used to hold that
if a financial house took a loan, or the bulk
0 f it, into its own hands, the Exchange
committee would not admit the scrip to
quotation until it was proved that the issue
had been advertised and offered to the public,
The reason is that the privilege of an offi-
cial quotation is for the benefit of the public,
and not for individuals or financial houses.
Melbourne brokers talk of a quotation, so
1 lon don practice may not be followed. Still,
British practice represents experience in
the best school.
* * • •
The British Broken Hill Co. has been
anathematised in channels connected with
Collins House for daring to resume work
on three shifts. The public has been led to
believe that the Broken Hill cos. were mak-
ing a united stand against the impossibility
of the Edmunds award, and that the British
in butting in had departed from some
arrangement. Obviously there was no such
arrangement, because the North, South, Zinc
Corporation, Central and Proprietary had
already put on upwards of 3000 men.
Q ra( j ua Hy fhe best of the available men were
t-. SO me time the ProD.
wm* ROBOioea. J Ol some ™ VT/ *3
did not quite tumble to the joke, but
when it saw daylight the number or men
on that mine quickly rose from slightly over
100 to well over_ 600. When the manager
M the British mine returned from London,
intent on testing the Edmunds award, he
in on ly just in time to be able to IH/TR
his property. It would have
P° lic >' ,f° continued to -it stij and
tb e others to extend t r ■
g**aflua.ll.v duiot y ® ? ' *» nmnt of
nt th position at Broken Hill has
mishandled bevond all description, and
- t ig hi?h tirm , that shareholders got busy
and asked some of their directors a few
questions. ...
_
From J. Malcolm Newman,
General-manager Atkinson’s description (B.
26/l/’22) of the Vegetable Creek lead (N.S.W.)
appears to me to give confirmation to my views on
alluvial tin deposition (B. 19/l/’22) which, by the
way, he interprets too narrowly. For the first 2h
miles the wash lies in porphyry, which is admittedly
the source of the tin. In other words, “the alluvial
overlies the source,” as mentioned in my original
Par. Then comes the contact of the porphyry and
slate, after which are some miles of slate and then
another contact with the porphyry. Does it not
seem likely that the contact zone connecting the
two slate ends of the lead may be handy enough to
be the source “adjoining” the lead throughout?
And, again, what about porphyry dykes intruding
the slates and supplying lodes long since denuded?
The fact, stated by Mr. Atkinson, that the grade of
wash has been about the same for a length of many
miles appears to me a fatal objection to the theory
that the tin has come from a distant source.
» * * *
Professor David says there are only three
places in Australian territory where there
is surface evidence of petroleum—New
Guinea, Kimberley (VV.A.) and the Koma-
Blackall district CQ.). The only evidence
in favor of oil being found in the Victorian
coal measures is that they are in places
approximately of the same age as the strata
at Roma, which yield the natural gas, though
an impervious belt several hundred miles
wide separates the two fields. In view of
the fact that in the Victorian coal measures
no oil seepages, gas-wells or deposits of
asphaltum nave hitherto been observed, the
chances of obtaining rock oil are, in Pro-
fessor David’s opinion, too remote to justify
the expenditure of capital. At the same
time, the Professor goes oh to say, “one
would by no means state that rock oil cannot
occur unywhei'e in Victoria.”
* * * *
The Kimberley district oil prospects ate
being vigorously boosted m the NV esc, and in-
terested persons are preparing to whoop
loudly about them in other States. Mean-
while cos. with underwritten scrip and little
paid-up capital are being formed in readiness
for the expected boom. In the event of a
flutter, the shares will be unloaded on the
credulous public. The Government should
take steps to smoke out these parasites who
may do incalculable damage to the chances
of establishing sound oil companies.
* * # *
The damper put on the Bremer Bay
alleged oilfield by the adverse reports of
Government geologists Blatchford and
Wilson did not kill the co. which operated
there. It has started boring in another
place, and a meeting of shareholders held in
Melbourne last week decided to engage an
“eminent Russian expert” now in Australia
to make a six weeks’ examination of the
property at a fee of £lOO a week. It was
also decided to raise further capital by the
issue of reserve shares which are to be
offered the public if shareholders do not
respond. Probably the original fiasco was
enough for many of them.
* * * *
The new find near Bullfinch (W.A.) pro-
mises well. It is in comparatively unpros-
pected country; the ore bodies are well
concealed by overburden. The Discovery
lease contains a body of iron-stained quartz
about 40in. wide, and samples have assayed
15dwt. per ton. The option game has begun.
Styles and party, of Southern Cross, kicked
off by paying £2OO deposit and offering £3SOO
more in six months, if the option is exercised,
for two leases three-quarters of a mile south
of the Discovery. The leases contain a 6in.
quartz vein showing 2oz. values, and the
vein appears to run for a considerable
distance. So far only pot-hole.s have been
sunk at the new find, but results are
encouraging.
* * * #
Edna May Battler (W.A.) shows up as
weak as ever. Six months’ work yielded
2u55 tons, which gave gold valued at £1421.
or a recovery of 10s. BJd. per ton. The
average assav value was 31s. 41d., and a
hunt for the difference resulted in 18s. lOd.
being found in the battery residues. Bv
cyaniding, Bs. lOd. was recovered. Costs
of mining and milling ran out at 19s. 4d.,
and cyaniding at 7s. per ton. So on the
cyaniding Is. lOd. per ton profit was made,
and on mining and milling a loss of 7s. Sd.
Total loss was £736, against which are
1115 tons slimes valued at £lOO7. As the
whole of the gold in this product will not be
recovered, it appears that Battlers’ battling
on the run-of-the-mine stone cannot give
much to shareholders even under the best
of conditions. It is now proposed to do
what should have been done directly the
lodes were fairly well opened up: have a
thorough samnling made by an outside expert.
♦ * * *
Riverina South (W.A.) battery yields
during the past two months have been better
than some people intimately associated with
the mine had expected. After a long period
of development work, principally driving at
the 300 ft. level, the dividend outlook is not
at all bright. Notwithstanding the optimism
of the Board, nothing short of a miracle will
make the mine a dividend-payer. Share-
holders have been generbus in providing
calls, and the Westralian Mines Department
has been very kind in the way of cash grants.
All the co. can now show is a long level at
300 ft., in which the lode is very narrow for
its gold content. Over a run of 10 years or
more Riverina South has never at any time
shown promise. It looked a failure in the
beginning, and prospects have never
improved. It is a pity, for the co.’s share-
holders have been a persevering crowd and
deserve better luck.
_ Westralia’s latest golden hope is Gnow’s
Nest, at Yalgoo. The show is owned by a
syndicate of prominent mining men and has
a nice shoot of ore. Opinions differ, though,
as to the likelihood of permanency.
\ * * *
Jim Mackay’s mountain show, the old
Loch Fyne, at Matlock (Vic.), has been en-
dowed with a new plant away from the snow
region, so it will be able to work the year
round. No— John Friel will hasten after
the run of the stone that went underfoot
at 100 ft. He will have to go out about 150 ft.
from the No. 2 plat to get to the spot
where it should be. His luck will be in if
he picks it up there, for all mining in the
mountain dyke-formations is more or less
blind-stabbing once the shoot itself is left.
Meantime he is to open out on a 30ft. belt
of gold-bearing diorite cut in the shaft at
below 100 ft. So he has a double-barrelled
chance in a mine that had a record for good
gold in the upper levels.
* * * *
Waratah (Tas.) Municipal Council, which
has an election pending, is perturbed by a
‘‘Wild Cat” par. (S. 29/12/’2l) concern-
ing the application for a perpetual injunc-
tion against the Mt. Bischoff Co. to restrain
it from carrying on roasting in proximity to
the township. The Council clerk says the
statement that “certain of the city fathers
went so far as to apply for an injunction”
is “calculated to affect the return of the sit-
ting councillors at the forthcoming elec-
tion.” The Bulletin did not infer that
the Council was responsible for the applica-
tion to the Court; it was aware that the
action was a private one by a resident, sup-
ported bv affidavits from others. The matter
goes before the Court again at an early
date, the adjournment having been decided
upon to give the co. an opportunity to con-
test the application.


PARLIAMENTARY DISCOURTESIES.
"Owing to the new rule directing Labor members not to extend the ordinary courtesies to members of other parties, no Labor M.P. was present at the Parliamentary dinner
given to farewell Mr. Barwell, Premier of South Australia.”
It is understood that the A.L.P. will appoint a couple of “bosses” to haunt the corridors of Parliament House and keep Labor M's.P. up to the mark.
Tb<2-y would r>o doubi" b<z. ci^uippa-d
with sigjos foyr giving* orda-wS
o»-Av>g5<2.-&,+o b«z. d(s+ributa-d a*od
SocWcd loudly wV>anAv«r -Vt»<£-
Nationali4 SpoK<t •
Any ma-mbar +f»<a.
cb«»sVT>b<z.t- fov 2s. driok would b<£
sb<z.pkc-i"d«4
Vs.cbp'V -frysvn tfuz.
of aw p>oo-*ib!«. sViout ,
Provision should b£ wadit ybv- 2sY«iX»trv» to
Cour+esy occasionally . Sa».y , «>{or'iv»g
d«.b»fc*.s an Pa.vlvarna-Yii - Ssktaria-S^
Ijr sit Avsy tino® vToaMob«.*"S vv a ♦*<?■
slow 1~0 ordetrS ov-
orkdcsrstArxi -—■
♦ 4f>a.iV' weaving f
ifoa. w/ould bet t>oor>c3 +© <z*ctl-«-4
—.— d a^hythlng^
- vniffT-it Wauppc** .
t,a2vsav\


Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. Cheeseman.
The Winning Double!
sssWHlTEssa
HORSE
ALE
AND
STOUT
First over the Bars !
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH and CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
Wm
mmimm
wmMm.
; stag
rs“t'
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH’
B. TOWN'S ft CO., Sydney, Agents. [i
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Ernest Shackleton was fated never to cross
the Antarctic continent. While the Quest
was heading towards “the great white silence”
which haunted him like a passion, he entered
into the greater silence from which there is
no returning. Angina pectoris caused the
mischief, and he hadn’t quite completed his
4Sth year. Born at Ivilkee, on the west coast
of Ireland (his father was an English doc-
tor), Shackleton was educated at Dulwich
college, and left it to go to sea. At 27 he joined
the National Antarctic Expedition as third
lieutenant, and that determined his destiny,
albeit he had an unsuccessful shot at politics
in 1906. The Australians who accompanied
him to the frozen South —Professor David,
Douglas Mawson, Frank Wild and Hurley,
the photographer—have all borne enthusiastic
testimony to his iron courage and fine quali-
ties of leadership.
Ex-Justice Hood, of Victoria, didn’t long
enjoy the retirement he had so abundantly
earned. Pneumonm attacked him last year,
and although he gallantly resumed his place
on the Bench—this at 75 —the end was
visible months ago. Hood was a native
of Victoria, and gave it 53 years of honor-
able service—22 as a barrister and 31 as
judge. An Old Boy of Scotch College—
he was dux at 17 —he used to be a fine oars-
man and cricketer.
Captain Alex. Simpson, who for close on
50 years sailed under the Aberdeen White
Star line’s flag, lately went aloft in London.
As a boy he served his time with the China
clipper Queen of Nations, and later had
charge of the famous Samuel Plimsoll. Once
this vessel was dismantled in a North
Atlantic gale soon after leaving England for
Australia with immigrants; but Simpson,
declining help from an American ship,
worked, his crew night and day, got his
vessel re-rigged and was driven hard to Mel-
bourne, where he arrived after an 82 days’
passage. In his time Simpson had com-
mand of five of the Aberdeen White Star
line passenger steamers, the last being the
unlucky Pericles. He made over 80 trips
to Australia.
Justice Isaacs, Senior Puisne Judge of
the High Court, back after a year’s wan-
ISAACS, J.,
comes back to the
High Court Bench.
dering, is ready to
resume work at
once. A Privy
Couneillorship came
to him just before
he started on his
return journey
from England ; and
when he went to
Buckingham Palace
to be sworn in,
George V. reminded
him that they had
met before —in Mel-
bourne in 1901.
Isaacs had then
just thrown up the
Vic. Attorney-
Generalship to be-
come member for
Indi in the Reps.
Walter Duffield, who died in England last
week at just on 70, was formerly a promi-
nent S. Australian miller and pastoralist,
the only son of a State Treasurer and
pioneer. He had lived in England latterly
because his two sons have settled there.
Geoffrey is a professor,; Kenneth, who has
a fine war record, is making a name as a
musical composer.
While Coroner Cole was committing him
for trial for causing the death of Alma
Tirtschke, Colin Ross was being ordered bv
the Melbourne City Court Bench to pay up
arrears of Federal Income-tax for five years
totalling £l2 2s. It looks as if the Commis-
sioner will have to wait a while.
Henry Newton, ex-Bish. of Carpentaria,
had a great send-off from his variegated flock
at Thursday Island the other day before
sailing back to New Guinea. Several of
those pressing in for a final handshake owed
their lives to him. When the ’flu struck
Australia’s back-door fortress three years
ago, the burly prelate accommodated a house-
ful of patients (for whom, by the way, he
personally cooked), nursed another crowd in
the parish hall and attended to the needs
of several families in their own homes.
Jack McGrath, the delegate from Maori-
land who told the Irish Congress that they
were idiots to think of boycotting John
Bull’s goods, and that Ireland should re-
member she was still in the spade-and-
potato stage, has an excellent legal practice
in Wellington. He is fluent and resource-
ful and a big gun at any R.C. function.
Originally in the civil service, he got out
early on advice of Dick Seddon. from whose
(electorate he came. McGrath did some fine
organising work during the 1918 ’flu epi-
demic.
Scott Murphy, the counsel briefed by the
Crown to present the case for the Mel-
bourne police at the inquest into the murder
of Alma Tirtschke, the 12-year-old school-
girl whose unclothed body was found in Gun
Alley, arranged his evidence with skill and
judgment. He worked up effectively from
Colonel ECCLES SNOWDEN, M.H.A., re-
cently elected Mayor of Hobart for the
third time.
the finding of the body, the nature of
the injuries and the movements of the victim
to the alleged damning admissions of Golin
Ross made to Olive Maddox and Ivy
Matthews, and to fellow remand-prisoner
Harding. The effect was dramatic. How
the case will look in the third week in Feb-
ruary after counsel for the defence has
riddled the witnesses remains to be seen.
Anyhow, Scott Murphy, who sucked in his
law at Bendigo and afterwards did his bit in
Egypt and Palestine, rose to the full height
of his opportunity and took a big stride
in a promising career. Taking strides, by
the way, comes easy to him. He used to be
a noted cross-country runner.
Mick Bruxner, who is to be the Cocky
party’s campaign leader in N. S. Wales,
hails from Warwick (Q.). His family was
planted there, and he grew up with the
town. Mick has a grazing propertv near
Tenterfield, which accounts for his N.S.W.
constituency. He went away from Queens-
land as a lieutenant in the sth Light Horse,
and in Sinai acquired a majority and the
p. 5.0., which was followed J>y another step
in rank after Palestine had been cleaned
up. Donald Cameron, who represents Bris-
bane in the Commonwealth Parliament, was
a fellow field-officer, and so was Boling-
broke, the militant leader of the West
Queensland Diggers. Evidently the Fifth
had a flair for politics.
Died recentlv up North, Andrew Ferguson,
builder and bowler and a Queensland citizen
since ’BB. He was a fine rifle shot, and cap-
tained the team which in 1914 won the
Kolapore and Mackinnon Cups.
A real veteran of the Murray has made
his last voyage at 92. William Barber was
an English sailor, and came to Australia
about 70 years ago in the 50-ton Lioness.
From 1855 onwards he was on the river,
either trading or as superintendent of dredg-
ing and pile-driving.
Dr. Harvey Sutton, Principal Medical
Officer of the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment. is an authority on the history and
physics of the boomerang, and is himself
an expert manipulator of the curved stick.
At the recent big Scout corroboree in
Sydney, he gave an exhibition of thro vying
that surprised many Australians as well as
the Gov.-General.
“J.G.”: Tom Hunt, owner and editor of
the Kilmore (Vic.) Free Press, should be
well up in the running as Australia’s oldest
working journalist. He must now be verg-
ing on 90. He started the Free Press 56
years ago, and has been running it ever
since. Meanwhile he found time for a few
Parliamentary llutters, put in various spells
as M.L.A. for Kilmore, Dalhousie and
Upper Goulburn, and was Minister of Lands
in Tom Bent’s last Ministry.
As a Minister in 10 Vic. Cabinets, Alec
Peacock has received 4000 deputations. The
worst thing he ever said to a roomful of
such callers was that they were a “pack of
damned liars,” but the persons thus stigma-
tised only laughed. They were Chinese,
who, through an interpreter, had claimed
that, as carpenters and cabinet-makers, they
were drawing the minimum wage and only
working the number of hours prescribed by
the Factories Act. They had also assured
the Minister, through the interpreter, that
they could not speak or understand Eng-
lish, and Alec decided to think aloud to test
them. It worked.
Alfred Wilkinson, just dead in Adelaide
at 60, was the son of R. G. Wilkinson, a
long-ago manager of the Bank of Adelaide,
and took the family bent, for finance into
commerce. When little more than a youth,
lie started a grocery import business, and
it worked up to the present big Grenfell-
street warehouse of Wilkinson & Co. Lat-
terly he was also a director of the S.A.
Tobacco Co., and chairman of Clarkson’s,
the co. which has grown out of the old-time
Vosz business. In private life he was a
genial soul, an inter-State batsman long
ago, and one of the founders in South Aus.
of lacrosse, which has since flourished there
so greatly.
Died at Strathfield (N.S.W.) on January
24, Mrs. William Francis Edmunds, in her
78th year. She was the widow of Tom
McGrath, champion sculler of the ’sixties.
On McGrath’s decease the widow married a
brother of Judge Edmunds.
It has taken 27 years to give effect to a
retrenchment scheme touching Victoria’s
Supreme Court Judges and decided upon by
Parliament when George Turner was
Premier. It was ordered that £5OO a year
less than the screws then ruling should be paid
to Judges appointed in the future, but no
effect could be given to the pious direction
till Cussen was chosen. Then came Irvine,
Mann, Schutt, McArthur and Macfarlan.
Irvine draws £BOOO and the other five
£2500 each.
South Aus. is in some doubt as to the
record of a very old criminal of whom it has
taken charge. It is confident that he is
John Dawson, who got four years for steal-
ing in Sydney on October 18, 1854, and 20
years for robbery with violence on Septem-
ber 8, 1860, and has had close on 100
convictions since. Certainly he has been in
and out. of prison constantly in S.A. since
1913. But he does not look quite as old as
he must be to have been in gaol 6§ years
ago. His latest conviction is a mere six
months for pocket-picking.
The first and only official town-planner
of South Aus., C. C. Reade, has decided to
stay in the Malay States, where he lately
went on a temporary mission. W. J. Earle,
who will take his place, is known in most
of the States. He was a surveyor in
Queensland and an architect in N. S. .vales
before going to the war. When he brought
back his M.C. he went to Tasmania, where
he has been planning homes for soldiers and
for the chocolate-factory workers.
The Bigjohn Forrest Memorial Fund has
C i oS ™ n J r f?, ndon with a total subscription
ot £bOO. Ihe committee has decided that
the memorial shall take the form of a throne
for , the prelate of the Order of St. Michael
and St. George in the Chapel of the Order
m St. Pauls. Ihe Cathedral architect is to
carry out the work. The present prelate of the
Order is H. H. Montgomery, who retired
from the lasmanian bishopric in 1901. But
what a memorial to a hard-bitten explorer 1
The oid boys of St. Peter’s School in
Adelaide, lunching Barwell on his departure
tor London, pointed out that he is the fifth
Premier the school has given to South Aus.
en ,V ’ D^ Butler and Holder were the
others. The first two were members of Bar-
well s profession, but lawyers are not nearly
so prominent in S.A. politics as in the days:
when those two had Kingston and Baker as
rivals. Justice Murray, also an old
baint. was in the chair at the lunch and
spoke highly 0 f Barwell on the professional
side as a persuasive and eloquent counsel.”
. Thus far the only chairman of the Muni-
dpal Tramways Trust in Adelaide and
suburbs has been A. B. Monerieff. For years
he was Railways Commissioner, too. It is
admitted now that the rival departments
should not have the same head, so Moncrieff
retires from the Tramways. All but two
members of the Trust are appointed by the
city and suburban municipalities: the Gov-
ernment nominates two, including the chair-
man. E. H. Bakewell is now to take the
chair. He is one of Adelaide’s best-known
business men, formerly manager of a depart-
ment in Elder Smith’s, but for the past 30
years manager of the Angas estate. Thrifty
S. Aus. fixes the pay at only £250 a year.
J- W. Manson, the unobtrusive architect
and yachtsman who designed some of Syd-
ney’s most impos-
ing piles, including
the lofty Union
House in George-
street North, Dal-
gety’s iu O’Connell-
street, and some
stately specimens
of suburban archi-
tecture at Potts
Point and Point
Piper, is dead at
59. He was a Scot
from Glasgow,
where he studied
under the famous
“Greek” Thompson,
who communicated
to the young man
some of his own
reverence for the
art of Hellas.
HUGH PAT ON.
Federal President
of the Ad. Men’s
Assoc. of
Australasia.
“T. 0.1.” : A portrait of Henry Goulburn,
Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1828, by
Pickersgill, It.A., has arrived in Sydney.
Goulburn (N.S.W.) is said to have been
named after him. But there was a Major
Goulburn who was an early Colonial Secre-
tary of N. S. Wales and returned to Eng-
land in February, 1826; and on December
24, 1924, Hume and Ilovell, exploring
towards Port Phillip, discovered a river
which they named “the Goulburn, after the
Colonial Secretary.” It is doubtful whether
the explorers even knew of the existence of
Chancellor of the Exchequer Goulburn.
“C 02”: The John Darling firm has
snapped up D. C. Winter-bottom, outside
superintendent of the Wheat Scheme in S.
Aus., and transported him to Melbourne.
An associate of the S. Aus. School of Mines,
he was first assayer to the English and Aus-
tralian Copper Co., and then manager of
its Newcastle works. He has held various
other jobs; but the weevil gave him his
great chance. He was one of the chemists in
the S.A. Department of Chemistry who
tackled that problem, and when it was
solved he went over to the Wheat Board
to run the de-weeviling plants in S. Aus.
and Victoria. Winter-bottom possesses the
three golden keys to success—ability, driving
force and tact.
At Clump Point (N.Q.). five miles from
Dunk Island, the home of “Beachcomber”
Banfield, there is a freshly-dug grave, and
upon the mound lies the web equipment of
a soldier. Before he enlisted in the Tropical
Forces in 1915, Sid Harris, of Townsville,
purchased land at the Point, and when he
returned from Kabaul last year he started
to clear, it. Last month he was missed, and
the Innisfail police found his charred body
on the frontage of his land, over which a
fire had swept. It is believed that lie lit
the dry grass, and flames and smoke over-
powered him. Harris was a contributor to
Australian and English periodicals, and had
started to plan a book on tropical agriculture.
Australians reading the list of the names
of Arthur Griffith’s Cabinet in the Dail
Eireann feel quite at home with the Ministry
—with its Griffith, Collins, Duggan, Cos-
grove, Higgins and Mulcahy, but more par-
ticularly with its Gavan Duffy, Minister for
Foreign Affairs. For many years Victoria
was never without a Gavan Duffy, and at
one period it had two. The stock sprang
from Charles Gavan Duffy whose trial
for treason was an exciting event of ’49.
He came to Victoria in 1856, after the fail-
ure of his hopes in Ireland, and local ad-
mirers of the Young Ireland movement
flocked about him. He was given a big
dinner, at -which he insisted he was still
“an Irish rebel to the backbone and spinal
marrow,” and was presented with a freehold
qualifying him to sit in the Assembly. He
remained in politics as plain M.P., as Min-
ister (supported by his son J. Gavan Duffy),
and as Premier and Speaker for some 30
years. He received a thousand-pound pen-
sion while still in the House, and for a
backbone-and-spinal-marrow rebel did pretty
well out of the Constitution, which he re-
warded with the worst and most disastrous
Land Act a State of many unhappy land
acts had known. . Justice Frank Gavan
Duffy, Judge of the Federal High Court, is
his second son.
TO THE DREAM-GOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Dream-God, send this dream to me
As in the night I lie alone:
Not dreams of stately halls and stairs,
Of love’s white arms around me thrown;
Hut this, that I must wish in vain—
Make me in dreams a child again!
Set me among the blowing spires
Of summer grass; with brown knees bare;
Sling round my neck a daisy-chain;
Sow stars among my tangled hair!
Give me child-eyes again to see
The world as then it looked to me!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


gSSSSBssS) S%W^<&wß&&§W
mMmWi
mi<&^
IOOPOOC
IM I ■ mm ■am ■ ■ Ml m— H ill! ||§H gs
m ;
H
HI
is
ft
D
99
• : *r
<4
moid
Warn or 1 "
- >*l ■: iv>.. , fLtv^ic
#Bhh
- rs& *H9
*
■I
B Mai
~,*»**"
: k.
m
u
m
\
.-? • :
I
■ •:; ■ : ; ,
m
'wj
U‘J
JP
s *•'
■ v ■
mm
A£>A
■
X 1
v
jpß||
:m
; • \ ,
PS ■■
ill
| ■■ w. D.» H-O-WIULS * J? ia
fsk* rW . w^^^^
mu
' : ::
w s
maezm
v m® m m * .« **** « J VVVV
:* .*. « * * .* .#.**•*** * ».« f * *
v/*,* „ j Hv- ■ 3s *■ -,^t
VBllii 1 t S S i
* as « « * * i|;B£BissB»,«ssaii*« m % m % & a a
ĥ
€6
9$
ħ
LONDON
MADE
THE PIPE. THAT
STANDS THE TEST
OF TIME
AND CONSTANT USE


A Very Serviceable
Italian Felt.
This smart hat marie in Italy expessly for
Peapes is of the quality that wears for a very
long time and lastingly retains its shape and
color.
It is smoothly finished and has a high shapely
crown, 2iin. turned edge brim, well rolled at
sides, and a 2in. band with bow at side.
In colors: Grey, Steel or Bronze.
Price 37/6.
Peapes Pay Postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
K
Ma
A MERRY THOUGHT.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
Sparkling Muscatel,
EXTRA DRY.
Asti-Spumante
and Vermouth.
Sold by all the Leading Hotels and
Civil Service Stores.
AGENTS :
F. LUBRANO & CO., LTD.,
48 Young Street, Sydney.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
New South Wales has the champion
absent-minded bishop. His performances
include vesting himself for service at a
country cathedral in a white petticoat
instead of a surplice, reading the baptismal
office instead of the marriage-service and
vibe versa, and enquiring as to the health of
a parishioner whom he had buried a day or
so previously. But the other day he beat
all his own records. The t.cket-examiner on
a train came along and waited impatiently
while the bish. searched frantically in
pockets and hat and portmanteau for a
HER QUALIFICATION.
BEAUTY: “She has no voice and she can't
act. I wouldn't call her a star.”
B EAST: “Ah, but you must admit she’s a
heavenly body.”
ticket that couldn’t be found. At last, realis-
ing that the quest was hopeless, the examiner
said, “Oh, it doesn’t matter, my lord, it
doesn’t matter —we know you, of course, and
know it’s all right.” “But it does matter,”
wailed the bishop, “it does matter. It is
most important—most important. I must
find out where I'm going!”
* * * •
From the morgue table:—
Sydney' John Harding, the self-confessed house-
breaker who related Ross’s alleged confession in the
remand yard of the Melbourne Gaol, startled every-
body by r his impassive description of a horrible
conversation between him and the man accused
of the murder of Alma Tirtschke. Harding delivered
his statement with a graphic emphasis and an under-
standing of the power of words unusual in a man
of his acknowledged past. A queer feature of his
testimony was his assertion that, if he received
portion of the reward, he would hand it over to the
Children’s Hospital. Ross’s counsel, the short and
rubicund Sonenberg, who was cross-examining at rhe
time, was almost too astounded for laughter. This
was one mild bit of comic relief. There w T as another
when “Ollie” Maddox, a lady of unsettled reputation,
declared that “everybody” knew' how she got her
living. A rather appealing damsel of 20, smartly
dressed from her hat down to her stockings and
shoes, she had no regard for respectable sensibilities
about her calling. Ivy Matthews, described as the
“manageress” of Ross’s now dismantled retreat, and
confessedly getting a fifth share of the profits, is,
like ‘Ollie” aforesaid, a lady with a mislaid
husband. She is another in whom Ross is declared
to have reposed his careless confidence; but though
she held the stage on the first day, she was reduced
to the dimensions of a super by the racy disclosures
of Harding. Of the other witnesses, none were
more impressive than Dr. Mollison and Government
Analyst Price. Mollison’s post-mortem report was
necessarily gruesome, but to a layman it was a
meticulous marvel. The well-fleshed Price, with
his fine head and white hair, who has ruined or
upheld many a prosecution by his astounding
researches, held the house with his opinion on
certain hairs found on blankets in the possession
of Ross. As for Ross himself, small, casual and
with a notably weak chin, he was flattered in all
aspects by his published photographs: Except for
one outburst at the facile revelations of Harding,
he took the rest of the evidence like afternoon-tea,
and, after the committal for trial, found a sweet in
his pocket and chewed heartily.
* * * »
“Bill Bowyang”: W. J. Cassidy, who
stepped oft' a boat at Townsville (N.Q.) the
other day, is on a strange mission. At 19,
when prospecting in New Guinea, he fell
into the hands of inland natives returning
from a raid on a coastal village. They made
Cassidy go with them, and later proceeded
to fatten him so that he would make choice
long pig. Then one of the village girls helped
him to escape and they fled to the coast,
where they were picked up by a passing
schoonex - , which landed them at Cooktown.
Here Cassidy left his dusky rescuer, and five
months later she died. lie drifted to
America, where he made money out of oil
in Texas. He is now returning to Cook-
town to place a monument over the grave
of the girl who saved his life 30 years ago.
“Isn’t it the least I can do?” asked Cassidy.
“ J.F.O’K.”: Talk about the milk o’
human kindness! Charlie James, a well-
known Queensland sprinter in his young
days, later a notable drover, and now piling
up a hefty bank-account dealing in stock
in the Nor’-West (W.A.), passed through
Geraldton the other day on his way down
from Carnarvon. He had come all that way
to steer a bush worker past the drinking-
houses, and get him aboard the trans. train
for an eastern city, where an aged mother
is waiting to see him. “Poor d*>vil!” said
Charlie, “he has left for the east three times
in the last five years, but has never got past
Gei’aldton. And the old lady was fretting
about it.” Considering his idled business
and the thousand miles he’ll travel. James’s
Good Samaritan jaunt will run him into
a pretty figure. But if there’s a recording
angel it will be entered up in the Big Book
in l’ed ink so that there shall be no over-
looking it at the last day.
* * * *
“The Moralist”: Mv nomination for the
record working-bee. Mrs. E. W. Poulton,
of Beulah (Vic.), found herself a widow
just when a husband was needed for the
stooking. Two hundred neighboring cockies
turned up on the selection one day with
290 hoi - ses. 34 harvesters and seven wag-
gons. Befoi’e dhrk they had cleaned up
300 acres of wheat, which y ; elded 1500 bags,
and carted 500 bags to the station.
* » * *
“Michael Mulligatawny”: “N.W.’s” hard-
case Dig. (B. 19/l/’22) had a full-brother in
the Royal Naval Division towards the end of
the Gallipoli campaign. He was an ex-rating
of the Fleet Reserve, and, just arriving on
dx’aft, was made batman to his companj 7 com-
mander, a cadaverous-looking individual,
known from Helles to Bulair as “Skintight,”
whose one great passion was rum. Though
never quite sober, Skintight seldom got quite
drunk, and when he engaged Hard-doer he laid
it down that both should never be intoxi-
cated at the same time. This seemed fair,
and Hard-doer agreed. Things went well
for about a month, when Hard-doer one day
surprised his boss by asking to be sent back
to his company. “Why?” gasped the satu-
rated Skintight. “Well, sir,” explained
"Hard-doei - , “the agreement was that we
shouldn’t both be drunk at once. I’ve bin
with you nearly five weeks now, and wot’s
puzzlin’ me is w’en the blanky ’ell my turn’s
cornin’.”
* * * *
“Billyfitz”: Dad landed at Woy Woy with
mum and the four nippers for the annual
fortnight. Next morning at daybreak he
went cheerily forth with brand-new fishing
gear and smelly prawns to collect the bi’eak-
fast. A few hours later the family assembled
in force on the wharf to welcome him back.
Dad pulled steadily towards them and when
within hailing distance roared: “Have you
got the pan ready?” The family chorused
back that the pan* was ready. yelled
dad, “put on some eggs.”
* * * *
“Nuki”: “De Oriel’s” par. (B. 32/l/’22)
recalls a soul-saving specialist who recently
broke loose in Maoriland, with disturbing re-
sults to nervous trippers. Half-way down a
Southland gorge, where a boulder overhangs
the road, and the coach-wheel seems to pass
one-twelfth of an inch from the edge of a
300 ft. cliff, the timorous traveller would see
on the boulder’s grey face the injunction
“Prepare to meet thy God!” Opposite one
of the wayside luncheon-houses the legend
“You may die to-night” always made the
diners look apprehensively at the sausages,
and when the coach was negotiating a deep
SO FAR.
“So you think you are very lucky with women ?”
“Every time. I'm over forty and, not married yet.”
ford, with the information that “Eternity is
at hand” staring from a board on the other
side, the chorus of petitions to the driver to
be careful was pathetic. After a trapper had
suffered from a breakdown the authorities
decided to chance the souls and remove the
notices.
* * * *
“Skipper”: “Centurion” (B. 19/l/’22)
reminds me. When the Australian Divi-
sions got to France, Sir Doug, tried a very
sorry bluff on them. Every .sane Aussie
knew he couldn’t be shot for desertion, or
anything else, unless Billy Hughes signed
his death-warrant; but Douglas handed out
an official record of the court-martial shoot-
ings since Mons. Quite a host of Tommies
figured in that unsavory document, which
was ordered to be read on three company
parades. The Diggers’ sense of humor saved
the situation; but I’ve never had a job which
left a nastier taste in the mouth.
« * * *
“D.Ii.C.”: I was escorting the Brigadier
around Lone Pine position about 2 a.m., and
the trenches were literally packed with
sleeping Diggers of the support. It was
black dark and, “no torches” being the order,
it was difficult to get along through the
recumbent forms. I picked the way, and
the' brig, followed, trying to place his boots
where I stepped. The inevitable happened,
and the Digger whose nose got trodden on
A GAME GIRLIE.
“What was all the commotion about last
night?”
“The landlady found a chicken running round
Bertie’s room.”
“ Gracious , who was she!”
turned the air salmon-pink with his remarks.
“Hush-ssh, my boy,” said the Brig, faceti-
ously—“ Ladies, ladies!” “Yes,” came the
retort, “I knew it was some (absolutely
unprintable) old woman!”
“Sixenate”: One small dog has landed a
whole tribe of people in a Sydney suburb
into trouble. For some reason or other he
developed an aversion for one particular cat
and chased it whenever it came into view.
The incensed cat-owner happened to catch
him one day in full chase, and kicked him
so hard that Towser went almost all the way
home by air. The incident was witnessed
by the dog-ownei’, and the acrimony that
ensued laid the foundation of an inter-family
feud that took all sorts of shapes—stone-
throwing, slander,- insulting language and
threats of violence. Then the thing spread,
and everybody in the street became a partisan.
At last a clash between some rival adherents
precipitated a general battle; and before the
police had enforced an armistice there were
a couple of bad casualties, a host of minor
injuries and several broken windows and
damaged housefronts. A magistrate groped
through the evidence to obtain an explana-
tion of the upheaval, and naturally asked
about the animals. “I drowned the dog a
good while ago, your Worship,” said the
pup-owner; “it was too big a nuisance.” The
cat-owner explained that a similar fate had
overwhelmed pussy. But, as with John
Brown, their souls had gone marching on.
* * ft *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Two Sydney
pubs of ancient lineage are now before the
public. The first of them, the Empire, Pitt and
Hunter streets, is on the site of pioneer par-
son Johnston’s early home. One of the first
bits of garden in Sydney was made on this
corner. In the middle of last century a
brick hotel was erected there and styled the
Currency Lass, and when it was demolished
the new house that took its place was
named the Empire. It is now to make way
for the Q. N. Bank. The other hotel is on
the market —the Barley Mow, on the nor’-
west corner of Park and Castlereagh streets.
When the old house there was demolished
the new one carried on the name. At this
intersection in the very early days stood the
gallows and whipping-post, both freely used.
# * * *
“Blanco” : For a nerve-racking experience
I back that of a gunner in the Ist Divvy
Artillery who wa.s within an ace of being
buried alive while fully conscious of what
was being done to him. He had been blown
up by the explosion of a big shell and landed
stunned in the branches of a tree. A second
shell burst below him and broke the bough on
which he was, and he fell to the roadside.
There he lay for some time, quite conscious
but completely paralysed, unable to move an
eyelid. After the attack a party from his
own battery spotted him. A hurried exam-
ination revealed no sign of life, and they
decided to bury him. A grave was dug
alongside the road, and his cobbers were
about to lift him in, when one happened to
remark on the warmth of his limbs. A more
careful examination satisfied them that he
was alive, and he was hurried to the nearest
C.C.S. During the scooping out of the grave
and the lifting of his body to the edge of it
the Digger was fully, conscious of all that
was going on, could hear every word uttered,
yet could not move a muscle to save himself.
He is still alive, but carries a few grey
patches in his thatch to remind him of the
pleasant little episode.
(Continued on page 18.)
FIXIN’ UP THE KITCHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 useter go to races, and scatter round me dough,
Backin’ certain winners. .. .but that seems long ago.
Now I leave off workin’ to go and yakker hard,
Fixin’ up the kitchen, pott’rin’ round the yard.
Doesn’t sound inviting? So I used to think '
When three things seemed pleasures—races, stoush
and drink.
Now I think ter scramble getting bets on hard....
Fixin’ up the kitchen, pott’rin’ round the yard.
When your outside fancy neatly does the trick—
Five quid to your dollar —does it make you sick ?
Now 1 draw my winnin’s and show ’em to my pard—
How I’ve fixed the kitchen, what’s happened to the
yard.
When you own a missus who has smiles in store
To pay for shelves fixed handy, a nettin’ to a door,
I reckon there’s some pleasure workin’ good an’ hard
Fixin’ up the kitchen, pott'rin’ round the yard.
K.B.W.
SPARE CORP.


<r*
«r
(p
m r
f
£
mm
m
/sa&n «', ra*
1 . Jmiw
UJ
£
:il
IS
CL-
■
-
HhH
o
(\r.
Uj
(ai
*• .
r
•p
PEHFOLDS
. V
•Ml


K372.—Elegant Diamond Brooch, set plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114.—Three-
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K444.—Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and ISct.
Gold, £3O.
o. 160.—A1l Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
. /t
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
Wristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets. Prices:
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Stewart Dawson & (qcw.)Ltd.
Sivo Sydney Ssfahlisments:
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 4-12 GEORGE SX^
K37s.—Fashionable Diamond Brooch, set
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 12S). —Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
No. 155.—Five-Stone Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
"J.”: At tbe last Duntroon Gunnery
School examination a candidate had had lii's
resignation accepted as from the end of the
month. Question 1 was:—■
An attack by hostile cruisers on the Port of Sydney
is imminent. You are in command of the Coast De-
fences. State what precautionary measures you
would hdopt.
The answer of the civilian in embryo was
brief :—.
Shift Sydney 50 miles inland and send to England
for some guns.
It didn’t earn him any marks, and yet a more
practical method of averting the threatened
holocaust could not have been offered by
a Napoleon.
“G.S.”: During the Gallipoli campaign,
when a general appeal was made for sheep-
skin vests, my sister sent a postal-note to
pay for one, and enclosed a letter to be
placed in the pocket, asking the recipient,
if he came across our only brother over there,
to give him our love. The peninsula was
evacuated before the shipment arrived, so it
was on to France. the winter of
10-17, during a distribution of vests, one
)Vas passed to mv brother. In a pocket of
it he found his sister’s note. We have it
as a souvenir, though the grass now grows
over our boy.
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos hangings and morbid
curiosity (B. lf)/l/’22). I was officially pre-
sent at the execution of two couples in Dar-
linghurst Gaol in the early ’seventies. In
those days tbe sheriff issued “orders” indis-
criminately, and on the occasion of the hang-
ing of the Parramatta River murderers
(Nichols and Lester) a crowd of some hun-
dreds scrambled at the gaol gates. They
were admitted in fives, as each had to sign
a book at the entrance, and then they raced
for the scene of slaughter on the Burton-street
side of the gaol. From the chatter you’d have
thought a pantomime was being staged. At
least 800 saw that particular show. At the
execution of Secure and McGrow the crowd
was equally large, and it was because of
the disorder on that occasion that the num-
ber of tickets for sightseers was afterwards
limited. Then it came down to press, gaol offi-
A STORY FROM GENESIS.
“Mummy, when you and daddy were engaged
did you engage him or did he engage
you?”
cials and magistrates. Some of the magistrates
never missed an execution ; one in particular,
Mr. Penny, was an authority on the art of
scragging. Of our public executions in the
old days the most notable was that of John
Ivnatchbull, member of a centuries-old
English family. He had a “house” of about
10,000 people for his “show” outside the gaol
wall at Darlinghurst in 1844. Many ladies
in their carriages graced the proceedings, as
the old reporter used to put it.
“The Hop” : It was a row at Montague, «.
Yarra wharf-laborers’ favorite section of Port
Melbourne, and I had been advised to hasten
to the spot to prevent bloodshed. I found
mail and wife hard at it, the former having
much the worse of the engagement. When
I arrived the lady was yelling at the top of
the scale: “You a man ! You call yourself a
man ! Look at me. Look at me now r .” (She
danced a fandango.) “And when my first
husband gave me a hiding I couldn’t crawl
for a week.” On another occasion, the time
being Sunday morning, I was called to
THE DOMESTIC PROBLEM.
“Whatever is the matter now?”
"Oh, I told Jane she would do hotter if she would take notice, and she said, 'Oh, very well,
I was going to leave on Saturday, anyway.' ”
prevent manslaughter in another house
in the 'same lively locality. In this
instance the w r ife, armed with a ■ sec-
tion of an iron bed, had outed her brother-in-
law and given her husband a shocking doing,
and now she w T as uttering scorching language,
and threatening further bloodshed in yells
that might have been heard in Geelong/ I
knew the man slightly. He had been married
only about a year. I drew him out of the
danger zone, and was bold enough to mention
that his marriage seemed rather a failure.
“S’elp me, yer right,” he admitted ; “but I
bad to marry her to make a decent woman
of her.”
* * * *
“Howitzer”: Dinny, the two-hip king of our
battalion, had the gambler’s eye for omens
and portents. The night before the Polygon
Wood stunt he collected 1000 francs with a
double-header and went on to a game of
hazard. After throwing
seven three times he stopped
—he took it as an omen and
told me he was sure to go
west in the coming stunt.
He asked an officer to mind
the 1000 francs for him,
and, if anything happened,
to send it home to his
people. The officer agreed,
but on going over the top
next evening he was him-
self blowD to pieces and Dinny’s 1000 went
with him. Dinny merely reckoned himself
“dead-lucky to get rid of the blanky stuff.”
• « * •
“0.K.”: A further indication that Mel-
bourne advances backwards is the amalgama-
tion of the old book businesses of Melville and
Mullen and George Robertson. The publish-
ing business of George Robertson was lost to
Melbourne some years ago, and now “Mul-
len’s,” having exhausted its lease of the
premises in Collins-street, has sunk its ancient
identity in the new firm of Robertson and
Mullens, of Elizabeth-street. They may talk
as they will about the advantage that the
library will derive from having larger
premises to expand in, but the fact remains
that there will be only one blade where two
used to grow. In matters of culchaw the
decline of Melbourne is beyond denial. t T p
to eight or nine years ago the city was said
to be pining for a concert-hall. Musical art
couldn’t possibly advance without it, the pub-
lic was told. The Taits built the Auditorium,
and the building had a great send-off. And
what is it now? A picture-show place! No
more talk about the impossibility of Mel-
bourne continuing to exist without a commo-
dious concert hall! The draughty, ugly
Town Hall has resumed its old importance
as the only available pitch for a fashionable
concert, while the Auditorium shelters extra-
special super-wonder films which have been
just “released” —at the command of Heaven,
to judge by the thunder accompanying them.
“Jim Garew”: Re deferred marriages (B.
12/1/22). In December, 1914, I was one
of the few r guests at an “affair” on the
Ilawkesbury (N.S.W.). On the morning
appointed for the wedding of a Digger his
grandparents, both nearing 70, informed the
family that they had forgotten to get legally
married years ago, and they had decided to
do it now'. The double ceremony w T as a
great success; but what tickled us w'as that
the. old couple insisted on going on a honey-
moon.
* * * #
“Mellish Reef”: Rossel Island, of the
Louisiade Group, at the eastern end of
Papua, where the Japanese cargo-steamer
Inaho Maru came to grief the other day, was
the scene of a notable wreck of many years
ago which was recalled in The Bulletin a
few weeks back —the one from w'hich about
60 Chinamen w’ere rescued by the natives,
kept in captivity and fattened up, to be
killed off tw'o by two and eaten by their
rescuers. Rossel rises nearly 3000 ft. in
parts, and is frequently mist-covered. At its
eastern end a large V-shaped reef runs out
nearly 10 miles. Yet a mile inside the apex
is a pretty little islet whose chart name is
Loa Boloba, or Adele. It is neatly planted
with cocoanuts, and with the sea breaking
on the reef on either side it makes an
effective picture.
* * # *
“Morob”: In the old German days in
New Guinea the natives had it drilled into
them that the white man—regardless of his
nationality—was a superior being who could
do no wrong, and all sorts of subterfuges
were adopted to buttress this idea. One of
the most characteristic was that in use in
the courts w'hen the defendant w'as a Euro-
pean and any of the witnesses were natives.
Contrary to popular belief, there w r as a rigor-
ously-enforced section in the German
Colonial Penal Code dealing with the ill-
treatment of natives, and whenever the
Administration caught a white man who
w'as in the habit of using excessively cruel
methods (it didn’t seem to worry much about
ordinarily cruel ones) retribution, sudden and
severe, w'as visited upon him. Having been
brought before the Court and the evidence of
the natives listened to, the accused wa<
solemnly acquitted and the colored witnesses
warned that they had better be more careful
in future. Then they w'ere sent away, and
as soon as they were off the premises the
matter was re-opened, the defendant con-
victed and heavily fined, and some-
times given a period within which to
remove himself from the Territory. Nowa-
days there are two gaols in most of the ex-
German territory towms. One is the Euro-
pean gaol and the other the native calaboose
and in most places they are side by side, so
that the nigs, look through the w'ire-netting
and see the white men held prisoners just
like themselves.
* * * *
“F.O’K.”: Since The Bulletin’s re-
minder of the 1906 outbreak of bubonic
plague here at Geraldton (W.A.) I have
rounded up a few facts. The trouble started
in a bakery in Marine-terrace, and the seven
patients (Allen, Bradley, Cream. Butcher.
Gray, Bennett and a servant girl) all died
within three to nine days. Old Gray, who
owmed the big Grantown house, hung out
the longest. The plague was put down to
wandering rats off some Oriental boats which
occasionally called here in those days. When
the first puzzling symptoms showed, the two
local medicos called in Dr. Blackburn, of
Albany, who had recently returned from
India, where he had been studying plague.
The isolation was carried out on what was
then the old cricket ground, now' the site
of _ Government w'orkmen’s homes, the
patients being housed in special tents made
by one Jack O’Brien, w'ho is still here.
“Sixenate”: Both of “Ron ll.’s” cases (It.
12/l/’22) pale beside one at Newtown
(Sydney) a few months ago. A recalcitrant
lover, moved to an eleventh hour repentance
by a telegram from the girl, hastily gathered
a parson to his aid, and the" wedding
ceremony was performed with a very anxious
nurse in the back-ground. The parson beat
the little Australian by a bare margin of
minutes. Incidentally, the pair are a very
happy and apparently well-matched couple.
“Tin Hat”: The other day a lad who
stole a postal note was sent to gaol for
three months. Then, following close upon
the fiendish murder of little Alma Tirtschke,
a man was caught accosting a little girl,
following her along the street and offering
her a handful of money. In defence he
pleaded booze, whereat a Melbourne Bench,
finding he had only one previous convic-
tion, said “Forty bob,” and the accused went
free. To call the Law an ass is to praise
it; but what are we to call those who admin-
ister it?
* * # *
“The Wallad”: That yarn of “Spare
Corp’s” (B. 15/12/’2l) about Snow'.v get-
ting £2O for a D.C.M. reads fair enough, but
the A.I.F. must have worked under different
regulations from the Imperial and M.L.
Armies, w'hich made the grant only to win-
ners of the Y.C., M.C. and D.C.M. who were
subsequently commissioned. I ought to
know, as I paid enough of them for the M.L.
Forces, and recovered the amounts from the
War Office, the bonus really being paid by
the Imperial Government.
AND SHE WAS GETTING ON SO
NICELY.
The Boy: “There is something so dove-like
about you.”
The Girl: “Oooh, it’s sweet of you to say
that!”
The Boy : “Yes- — you're pigeon-toed.”
“Coot”: A tombstone in Melbourne’s old
cemetery in Queen-street bears the following
inscription:—
WILLIAM HOFFMAN
1845
Bft. X Bft.
There were giants in those days.
A SONG OF HASTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Like* thistledown our life streams by,
And there is beauty, beauty,' beauty
To taste in earth and sea and sky ;
In work begun and finished duty.
Haste, oh haste!
No least hour waste!
For there are love and dreams and leisure,
The cold necessity of gold,
And flowers and food and sweet sounds’ pleasure;
And tales to hear and tales to unfold,
And marvels fashjpned of human hands
In painted scene and moulded limb;
And wandering in other lands;
And lore new-born and lore age-dim ;
And sleep ; and friends’ hearts to be learned;
And straining toward ambition’s crown.
Haste, oh haste!
No least hour waste!
For once the dead to such things yearned,
But life streamed by like thistledown 1
u.s.w.
NINA MURDOCH.


THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION
y
a
&
l
1
i
i
i
m
It
*
m.
1
&
1
i
i;
sl
m
i>"\
%
VkW
I
w
yf
r
it*-
fereitt’. Linseed 03 Meal is manufactured from the most carefully selected and scrupulously cleaned Ban-seed,
IdCuL it is subjected~to A. most rigid laboratory test. it, qudity and character are absolutely undorm.
X STAVES Z ZZ
economy d,a naturally rLult, by eliminating experiment. The superior palatabdity, digertibdity
ZfiZStS MeggTs Old PmceTLinLd Oil Med can be readily proven by a test with your own stock.
t i, »ld for the purpose of satisfying th. purchaser that it is profitable, and back of that is the pride and ambition
,f the manufacturer —to serve his customers with as fine a meal as can be manufac
fou may travel a, far and search as earnestly as you like, but you will not find a better, purer, a more uniformly
manufactured, all-round satisfactory Linseed Oil Meal than Meggitts.
iVe also sell balanced ration, for each class of stock. In our M.L.M. Stock Food, we save the purchaser the necessity
>f -Wing his own ration. We do it more effectively and more economically. Try it.
_ cor ner-stone of success. It stimulates the organs to function at their maximum, encourages the
product to bua^hi.“mine» on a quality basis, and cheer, the distributor when he see. hi. patron, commg back for more.
We cater to the discriminating buyer, who appreciate quality in foods.
Write to Department A for particular,, literature and prices.
UNSEEOOIIMm.
m
AVEEGITT u •
e
ttt-ati r'ff-Tk'T, ‘UR KING ST (W*te:Emamaita)
■JL JL L/» A AV m.i*»*«jMrm*taoaatit*ix***Mtc&mttligaßSßBBt6GS6
UNSEEOOIIMOI
Wl
meccittiz
PWTfiAMATTA *
Otieboyonihebag
guarantees quality ”
AGENTS-
,, _ . . r Ltd 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. William
-Messrs. Harrisons n £™ say m pj%‘ h . Messrs. R. B. Exton d Co., Ltd., Queen Street,
4 ivaM
Co., Ltd, Hobart and Launceston.
" c yAe boy on (fie baa
guarantees guano/


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-860-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Cases containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5 - GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case] £o° r b 'main
Liquid, 37/6 per drum ) ports?"" 1
Manufactured in Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne: Sydney: Brisbane:
497 CoHins 7 Hamilton 239 Elizabeth
Street. Street. Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States.
King George IV
i ul,v -Bv WHISKY
11
Th e TOP NOTCH"scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
THE DISARMAMENT MOVEMENT
SPREADS.
The League of Roosters meets in conference
to decide ways and means to curtail the
use of spurs (Mr. Gamecock, you will
observe, takes the chair—just in case
there should be any argument).
“Girofla”: “Lavinia”' (B. 5/l/’22) is up
against a stiff proposition in the treatment of eye's
affected by guttapercha sap. The stuff has a multi-
tude of constituents, the chief being a paraffin-like
body and a group of resinous substances. It also
contains a small percentage of tannin. All solvents
of the sap are too irritating to apply to the eye.
“Lavinia” will do well to first wash the affected
eye with milk, which will precipitate the tannin.
Later a very dilute solution of boric acid may be
applied. The treatment will at any rate get rid of
some of the irritation.
* * * *
“Howitzer”: I’ll say a word in favor of
“Veronal’s” (B. 12/l/’22) theory that trouble from
snake-bite recurs. A friend of mine in N. Queensland
was bitten on the big toe by a death-adder and
immediately severed the toe with an axe. Though he
was not affected much at the time, he has had an
annual sickness of a few days’ duration for the past
10 years, generally round about the anniversary of
the bite.
“Centurion”: “Veronal” talks of the “cold
flame” of a flash of lightning (B. 29/12/’2l). About
20 years ago I was riding with a column of mounted
troops in the Wakkerstroom district (S. Africa)
when lightning struck a man, four or five - yards
from me, who was carrying a fence post on his
shoulder for firewood. Man and horse went down
as if pole-axed and the post flew to splinters. Both
man and horse recovered. The impression left
of the flash after all these years is the searing heat
I felt on my face. It was like that felt when a
stoker suddenly throws a boiler door open, and
shuts it again. “Cold flame” it certainly wasn’t.
“H.V.E.”: Re “Tarago’s” diamond-headed
snake (B. 29/12/’2l). The only known species
which fairly well fits the description is the some-
what rare banded snake hoplocephalus stephensii
(Krefft). This wriggler, which is venomous, has a
broad and, roughly speaking, diamond-shaped head,
and grows to 2 ft. Gin. The general color is striking,
the body being broadly banded alternately with
black or very dark brown and golden yellow ; though
very often the distinctive coloring of snakes varies.
The species so far has not been recorded outside
N. S. Wales, but it may exist elsewhere. Krefft
labelled this snake “stephensii” in honor of his
friend the late Professor W. J. Stephens, whose
interest in Australian zoology never flagged. As
regards those 84- and 98-inch black snakes men-
tioned by “Anzac,” I have a reproduced photograph
of the late “Professor” Fox bagging an 11-footer —
132 inches. This is easily the record for the black
devil. Such extra-big snakes are probably of great
age.
» # * *
“Aragun”: This isn’t a bad pull. Re-
cently Harry McCooey and E. Schuhmacher, hauling
boilers to Ramornie works from the landing-stage,
took two nine-tonners up a steep shifting sand-hill
about 200yds. long with 32 bullocks. For the first
and steepest 25yds. McCooey’s polers and pin bul-
locks were unable to get their fore-feet to the
ground. Half-way up the axle of the truck ben»
and the trip was completed with the wheels practi-
cally locked.
“Maine” : The shed had cut out, and be-
fore we separated of course there had to be a bit
of a race meeting. We had finished tea and were
lounging outside the hut, when, just on dusk, a
stranger rode up on a tired-looking nag. After
having a feed he joined in the general conversation,
and offered to sell his horse for a
couple of quid. The price was
enough—there was nothing doing.
Next morning we were busy
rubbing them down, when an-
other horseman happened along.
The first stranger promptly
buttonholed him and repeated the
offer he had made to us the pre-
vious night, adding that he was
broke. The newcomer was “flush”
and a good sort. “Righto,” he
said, “I’ll take him and give him
a run.” We told him he was a
sport. He agreed with us, and
proved it by offering to take 20
to 1 about his chance. Of course
there was no lack of layers, as
we had some good horses in the
camp, and he soon stood to lose a
nice little wad. The race was a
sweepstake. Each owner put in
a couple of quid, and the winner
took the lot. As the time'
arranged drew near, the horses
were brought out and gently can-
tered up to the starting point.
The suspense was soon over—the
stranger’s new purchase won on
the bit. The horse’s previous
owner cursed his luck, and the
purchaser chucked him a fiver and
rode away with about a hundred
of our hard-earned quids in his
pockets. No. 1 departed shortly
after per boot, and with our
sympathy. It was not until the
joke had been repeated with suc-
cess at two more stations that we
woke up. The two men were brothers, and the
horse had been warned off metropolitan courses
for not having chosen its owners more carefully.
* * * »
“Sir Spen”: Tell “Gouger” (B. 5/l/’22)
that for a slush-lamp a piece of moleskin makes the
best wick. Where kerosene is available an improved
light may be had by filing off the cap-end of a .32
cartridge-shell and forcing it through a hole in the
cork of a pickle bottle. Roll the moleskin to fit the
shell closely, and allow it to protrude about Jin. at
the lighting end.
* * * »
“Moe”: I hate to damp the archaeological
ardor of “Bill Bowyang’’ by throwing cold water on
his discovery of a sword in a N. Queensland cane-
field (B. 5/l/’22), but from the description of the
weapon it is likely that it is a cane-knife of a brand
which had a brief vogue close on 30 years ago in
those parts. It was shaped like a sword, and was
much heavier than the ordinary cane-knife, so much
so that those who had to use it quickly became
exhausted, and it soon lost favor. As a weapon of offence,
though, it was without equal, and somewhere about
1889 a Solomon Islander who ran amok with one
succeeded in carving up about half-a-dozen bystand-
ers before he was pacified with a bullet through the
head. There must be hundreds of these implements
lying around in the canefields of the North, and
they could easily be mistaken for short swords of the
naval cutlass pattern.
“Imbaga”: “Morob” (B. 5/l/’22) not-
withstanding, the natives of the Daru district of
Papua were well acquainted with strong drink be-
fore Heaven sent them a shipwreck full of arrack
in 1873. That section of Papua has been a wet
area from time immemorial, the local inhabitants
MOMENTOUS CHANGES.
“Any big changes up your way lately?"
"Yalis; you know that old white ’orse that used ter run in the butcher's cart?"
“Yairs."
"Well, the greengrocer's got 'im now.”
brewirg. a drink called gamada, which will give as
much satisfaction as any' arrack that ever came out
of the Indies. The basis of the stuff is the kava
root, and after leaving Daru and the Gulf you have
to go as far as Fiji before you find this vegetable
getting in its fine work again. By the way, where did
the L.M.S. native teachers whom “Morob” says were
murdered by the drunken natives come from? Lawes
is credited with being the first L.M.S. man to found
a mission in Papua. That was at Port Moresby and
later than 1873.
“No. 529”: Just after the gold-diggings
days “Jock” Carmody entered the employ of Wil- *
liam Pearson at Kilmanv Park, Sale (Vic.), and
when the property was recently sold “Jock” was
still going strong. I met him to-day driving the
great-grandson of his old boss, and looking well set
for his century.
THE TIME AND PLACE.
"Hey, there, scout! Wot erhout yer one
good deed a day?"
“Wandi” :■ We have had a long list of
crack buckjump-riders, cattle-throwers, drovers,
shearers and others, but nobody has mentioned the
lassoers. It is generally thought that lassoing is
exclusively a “Wild West’’ cowboy stunt, but it is
Quite common away back, and has numerous experts
It was introduced at Innamincka (S.A.) many years
ago, and was soon adopted on many other big runs.
On Innamincka 6000 calves and mickies were lassoed
and branded in one season, the record on one camp
being 60 in an hour. In that part timber for fencing
and yard-building is not plentiful; and wind-driven
sand used to smother up the old-time yards. Cattle
wander over vast areas, and at mustering time mobs
are rounded up on open camps, where the cleanskins
are lassoed and hauled up to a tree where brand-fires
are burning. The operators use a specially-made
lasso-breastplate for holding and hauling, instead of
' the American style of horned saddle. The lasso is
also used in West Queensland, Durham Downs being
the fiist, I think, on that side of the border to adopt
it.. On this place one of the best hands was a one-
aimed abo., who held his bridle-reins with his teeth.
* * * *
lluffin-Gtiffin”: If “Gouger” wants a good
slush-lamp (B. 5/l/'22) let him take an empty 21b.
jam-tin, fill it to within about an inch of the top
with earth, fairly fine and well tamped down. Tear
about 4in. off the tail of his oldest cotton shirt and
wind it neatly and tightly round a straight stick
about the size of a penholder. Or, better, get a dead
honeysuckle (banksia) cone, strip the outside refuse
off, and use the velvety centre piece. Stick the wick
thus made into the earth in the jam-tin; fill the tin
with warm fat, without any salt in it, pouring the
fat over the wick. P.S. —Have the “lamp” standing
in a tin plate for extra cleanliness. Also drop a
little fat on the light when putting it out, to prevent
smell.
“FY7”: In spite of the truth of “Bad
Australian’s” remark that the flying fox is an over-
grown and particularly offensive bat (B. 5/l/’22),
Leichhardt was better off if he ate these than he
was if the eucalypt-flavored phalangers formed his
meat supply. When skinned the big bat, which lives
entirely on fresh fruit, provides a white and deli-
cious flesh, like very tender chicken. He has made
many a good meal for the prospectors and other
voerloopers of B. N. Guinea, where the natives used
ti esteem him highly.
* * * »
“Tamac”: In my garden at Moonee Ponds
(Vic.) I have a sunflower 10ft. 6in. high and 9in.
round the trunk. The blossom and leaves are not
abnormal. Any other Abo. got its equal ?
(Continued on page 22 .)
THE MAGPIE’S NEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You remember the gum-tree white and tall,
By the side of the homestead gate,
The tree we never coidd master at all,
Though we tried to, early and late;
For there at the top was a magpie’s nest,
With its eggs in the mating time,
A prize ungained at the wind-stirred crest
Of the tree we never could climb.
You 1 emember we tried it with ladder and rope
And a reckless daring of fate,
But ever went back with a baffled hope
From the tree at the homestead gate.
There was always something that made us stop
In that far-off boyish time;
But though we never could reach the top
There was laughter in trying to climb.
You remember the years that have gone since then
On the tides that will not wait, '
The years that have baffled again and again
Like the tree at the homestead gate;
For through them all we have aimed at the skies
And our hopes have faded with time,
Yet though we never have captured the prize
There was laughter in trying to climb.
Oh, the prize of a boy is the magpie’s nest
On the tree at the homestead gate,
And a man aspires to rise to the crest
At the top of the tree of fate 1
But the prizes they seek, let them strive as they can,
Are mostly denied them by time;
Yet who would forfeit as boy or man
The laughter that comes with a climb?
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMEHTY.


BLACK and WHITE
A lovely one!
?
ff
A
f
w
4L*S
&
J
m
mmm
o
H 'J-
m
St
****»•'+
T^C.
~£H&
V.
2Vt&»J
v.-rV^ii
r. tf/W.*.*- <*. v?o W
f •£?s£
JfwU.
s^B
HI
ff’.:.
h.s. *■■'■' -
h&*ry vt *Wssf j»H %
THE LARGEST STOCK OF OLD
MATURED MALT SCOTCH WHISKY
IS HELD BY JAMES BUCHANAN & CO.
LTD. AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY COM-
PANIES, WHICH ENABLES THEM TO
MAINTAIN THE HIGH-CLASS QUALITY
AND AGE OF “BLACK & WHITE”
WHISKY


If you are “nervy,” depressed or “off color” test the nourishing,
rejuvenating effects of CLEMENTS TONIC. For thirty years past
it has maintained its popularity as a household medicine for blood
and nerve disorders. Taken with water or soda-water it is most
palatable and invigorating. Try it! You’ll like it - - - - !
All Chemists sell it !
h
ĥ
Elements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W-
“Nitric”: Re “Lavinia’s” question (B.
5/l/’22) concerning a cure for eyes affected by the
tap of the native gutta-percha tree. I don’t want to
appear a hard-hearted swine, but I’ve had the trouble,
and now I deal with one eye as I deal with my teeth—
take it out and wash it at night.
* * * #
“Sassafras” : A streak of lightning put up
something of a record in S. Queensland recently. It
ripped a slab off a green ironbark-tree from bottom to
first limb, split a big dead bloodwood-tree fair in
halves, and chopped the head of a gum-tree off and
left the barrel standing. I am absolutely certain one
flash did the lot. The trees are in a dead-straight
line, and when stepped out are equi-distant. What I
want to know is: Why didn’t other timber directly
in the line of fire get hit, and how did the lightning
come to rip one, split another and lop off a third ?
“Yarrum”: One evening at Nimitybelle
(N.S.W.) I trapped a ’possum, and left him prisoner
until I’d finished some grubbing. After a bit 1
noticed five or six ’possums emerge from the scrub
and approach the trap—a biggish wire affair. As
soon as they got up to it the captive turned his
back upon them, and put his paws over his face.
Evidently they had come to “poke muck” at him
for being a mug, and he knew it. In any case he
had lost caste and couldn’t have got back to ’possum
society.
* * # *
“J.T.K.”: Recently a patrol party was sent
up the Sepik River (New Guinea Territory), and at one
village the members found a live 9ft. crocodile that
the nigs, had captured and trussed up. It was carried to
a clear patch and placed on the ground, partly resting
on the right side. In this position it could see the
party with the left eye only, and one man touched it
near that eye with a stick. Immediately a fairly-
thrck transparent skin came over the optic, and when
the same place was touched again a few seconds later
the outer eyelid or skin came over and completely
covered or closed the eye. Almost at once, from
underneath the head, in the neck, something of a
dark-brown color about one inch long, the thickness
of a pencil, shot out from a partition of the skin.
The Manus (Admiralty Islands) police boys were asked
“What name this fella?” and the reply was: “Eye
belong look ’im pish.” On one of us attempting to
touch this dark-brown, gristle-like arrangement, it
“ MOTHER, THIS GENTLEMAN DOES
SMELL OF TRIFLE!"
appeared to have the sense of sight, and flew back to
the cavity, and when the latter was closed one would
not notice that there was an opening in the skin at
that part. The whole thing was new to me, and I
want to know if anyone can vouch for the information
given by the Manus police boys.
“Tarago”: Strolling along the beach with
a gun, Peter saw and shot a goosey-looking bird
which fell into the water. Presently a stranger
approached with a spaniel at his heels. “Hi, mister,”
yelled my friend, “will that dog go in and get that
goose?” “Oh, yes, I think so. Did you shoot one?”
asked the other. Peter indicated the bird, and the
dog was sent in after it. “Must be a good gun,”
BUSHED.
THE MAN FROM MANDAMAR: “ Sorry to
trouble yer, mate, but I ain't used to yer
big city pubs, and I can't find me camp.
Could yer give a bloke a shake-down for
the night?"
said the stranger. “What make?” Pete handed
over the weapon for inspection. “Now, your name
and address, please,” said the other briskly. “I’m
Constable Blank, of Wombatville, and your goose is
a black swan, which is protected all the year round.
I’ll take the gun and the bird as evidence, and you’ll
hear (rom me in a few days.” Peter is a good deal
older and wiser now, but he has never heard from
Constable Blank. Not that I want to see him
summoned, but that flamin’ gun belonged to me.
“Toby C.”: The most putrid luck I ever
met belonged to a rabbiter in N.S.W. who had a
3000-acre well-cleared paddock to operate in. The
only stock in it (apart from rabbits) was his own
horse, a one-eyed, worn-out prad of many summers.
Yet doing his rounds one dark night he must needs
collide with the mustang, and withdrew from the
skirmish with a broken nose.
*** . *
“Te YVhare” : Governor Phillip in all pro-
bability was the first to introduce a live warrigal,
i i 11 i « .
then called ‘ ! dog of New
South Wales,” into Bri-
tain. About 1789’ he Sent
one over as a present to
his friend Mr. Nepean,
but the animal subse-
quently came into the
possession of the Mar-
chioness of Salisbury, who
kennelled it at Hatfield
House. Another live war-
rigal was afterwards sent
to England for a Mr. Las-
celles, but it was much
regretted that this “ele-
gant animal, owing to its
ferocity, could never be-
come familiar.” Lieut.
Watts, who first located
and figured the wobbegong
(carpet sh a r k), also
sketched an emu shot
near the settlement on
Sydney Cove. The skin
was preserved in spirits
and sent to Lord Sydney,
who presented it to Sir
Joseph Banks. This trophy
was subsequently set up
by a taxidermist and
labelled “New Holland
Cassowary”—a more legi-
timate title, as the name
“emu” belongs of right to
the Ceram cassowary, not to our heraldic fowl.
Where is that stuffed emu now?
* * * *
“Alex”: It is generally believed that “dog
won’t eat dog,” but I owned a cattle-bitch that killed
three Italian greyhounds and left nothing of them
except their teeth. She turned cannibal after her
first love affair. The villain in her case was a grey-
hound, and apparently she swore a vendetta against
the breed.
“Rifle Shot”: I know a man who can take
an ordinary playing-card, punch a hole in the centre,
place it on the muzzle of his rifle in front of the
foresight and plug the bull .as if there was no obstruc-
tion in his line of vision. Can any Abo. tell how
it’s done ? „
* * * *
“X.Y.”: Again the origin of “Don Dor-
rigo” crops up. In a
recent Bulletin - Mr.
Turner said the name
was originally that of
a Spanish member of
a N.S.W. North Coast
cedar party. It isn’t
likely. The early
cedar-getters avoided
such cedar scrubs as
those of the Dorrigo
and Comboyne, as it
was impossible to get
the timber out with-
out teams, and these
they did not possess.
They sought only that
cedar which could be
water-carried. During
the last 50 years, or
since teamsters have
been hauling cedar out
of the edges of these
plateaux, there has
been no local know-
ledge of such a Spani-
ard as Don Dorigo. On
the other hand there
is strong evidence in
favor of the name be-
ing of native origin.
There are many locali-
ties in the district
with names, purely
native, starting with
“Don”—like Dondiga-
long, not far from
Kempsey.
“Sir Spen”: The swallows mentioned by
“Te W.” (B. 5/l/’22) did not hold exclusive rights
to indoor building. At Greenhill, near Kempsey
(N.S.W.), a pair built their nest on a bottle behind
the bar of McPhillips’s hotel. And they raised
several families, too.
“Dossett”: Let me put “Hecagus” (B.
15/12/’2l) out of his misery in regard to scrub-itch.
If he will moisten a rag with kerosene and rub well
into the affected parts he will sleep like a baby. I
used to apply this before going into the scrub in the
morning and when I came out in the evening, and
the relief was rapid and certain. I got the oil from
an old Northern Bananalander. Incidentally, if
“Hecagus” should fall foul of the stinging-tree, liquid
ammonia dabbed on the part will give relief in
a few minutes; but above all things keep the
affected part from cold water.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In a recent gale at Goulburn
(N.S.W.) a bullock got tangled in the boughs
of a willow-tree bent nearly double
by the force of the wind. Almost
immediately the blow slackened, and
when the tree righted itself the bul-
lock was heaved into the air and
crushed to death between two branches,
one of which had to be sawn away
before the dead meat could be brought
to the ground. The incident recalls
a Nevertire (N.S.W.) hurricane dur-
ing which a tall, pliable tree wa3
bent as if it were a wisp of grass. .
Its upper branches came just within
reach of a man who, buffeted by the
storm, seized a handy branch to save
himself from being blown away.
Then on the pressure suddenly sub-
siding the tree righted itself, and the
half-dazed man, still clinging to the
branch, found himself elevated 30ft.
in the air. He was uninjured, however, and managed
to climb down.
* * * *
Wall- baloolah”: “E.M.F.” asked recently
how to dye wool. If a khaki-color will do, let him
try walnut-leaves, or if he can’t get them, gum-
leaves or rosemary will do. This was our recipe for
the wool we spun from the natural-colored greasy
fleeces. Fill a kerosene-bucket with the leaves, add
as much water as it will hold, and boil the skeins
of wool till of the color required. Use no soap.
For a sheepskin mat, if the boiling would damage the
skin, try simply dipping in a good strong bucket of
dye. By experimenting with gum-leaves, “E.M.F.”
can make the dye of different shades, according to the
age of the leaves.
“Exul”: A simple and cheap method of
eradicating Irish blight in potatoes has just been
worked out at an experimental farm in the Speck.
The seed potatoes are heated to 125° Fahr. (104° is
said to be probably high enough) for four hours before
sowing, and the plants are sprayed with the Bordeaux
mixture when 9in. high, and again when full-grown,
to destroy any wind-borne spores that alight upon them.
In spite of unfavorable soil, out of a yield of 45 bags
only 2f were unusable. The effects of the heating
were carried on to the second generation. With-
out any reheating potatoes; from this crop were, planted
in the same paddock with other seed of the same
variety that had not been previously treated, and iden-
tical cultural methods were applied to both patche-.
The yield from the offspring of the treated seed was
about 11 ton to the acre greater than from the un-
treated. It is thought that, if all spud-growers were
to use treated seed for a few seasons, they would not
only get bigger yields, but the disease would be com-
pletely wiped out.
* * * *
"Te Wliare”: Not many fishes make
active use of their natural weapons when handled.
The spiny and poisonous fortescue fish erects its
dorsel fin quickly at intervals, and most other fishes
with sharp spines—such as the black bream and
snapper—do the same; nevertheless, they don’t actu-
ally try to stab their captor. But the sting-rays,
or “stingarees,” will do so. The ugly flat
fish sinks its spine into the flesh by means of a
smart contraction and expansion of its muscles, and
inflicts a deep wound, causing intense pain and
swelling. As regards the fortescue, I have seen an
arm swelled to nearly twice its natural size after
a prick from the spines of this small, dark-brown
fish. It is a near relation of the handsome red
rock-cod, which also inflicts painful spine-pricks, but
isn’t poisonous. These and the bullrout (also ven-
omous) are well named “scorpenoid,” or scorpion-
like fishes.
“Camelero”: When does the corella stop
laying? My next-door neighbor has one that has
been in the family for 38 years, and she has laid
three eggs annually during that period. The local
parson recently lost a corella at the age of 35, and
he tells me she laid two eggs annually during the
first 25 years of her existence. Then she took a
long spell and did no more in that line until a
couple of days before her death.
* * * #
“J.E.G.” : What will cure the itch in a
mare’s tail, usually called “rat-tail”? A friend of
mine has an animal so afflicted, and as she has a
young foal, well-bred, he is afraid the disease will
be transmitted to the youngster. »
* * « *
“Officer” : The mopoke is the best mouser
1 know. One came nightly to my camp, and, using
the tent ridge-pole as a jumping-off ground, gobbled
up many mice until the claim petered out. He
swooped on his victims quite silently, but after
swallowing them made plenty of noise before return-
ing to his roost. Although an unsociable bird he
sometimes flew inside my tent and, blinded by the
light, allowed me to pick him up and toss him to
his perch.
* # * •
“Gecko”: Can any Abo. tell me if the
platypus ever frequents salt or brackish lakes,
lagoons, creeks or rivers? Also, what portion of
their anatomy is first exposed to view when they
rise to the surface of the water?
* * # •
“Gregor” : Some of those residents of New
Guinea who made collections of- butterflies are now
congratulating themselves that they did so, because a
representative of an American museum, who recently
paid a visit to N.Q. and Papua, has been buying some
of the specimens at good prices, one lot changing
hands at nearly £lOO. Apparently the Yank had
almost unlimited funds, for he bought many other
BLASE.
MATILDA'S HUSBAND: “Scenery, my boy!
You can't tell me anything about scenery.
Why, for three years I worked in a
brewery!"
things for his museum. In order to obtain a single
specimen of a small bush-rat that he wanted, and
whose natural habitat is Dutch New Guinea, he
equipped an expedition into the mountain country at
a cost of about £3OO. For years all parts of New
Guinea have been the hunting-grounds for agents of
American, European and English museums and private
collectors, and although there is but little danger of
any of the indigenous fauna, With the exception of
one or two species like the paradise-bird, becoming
extinct, still there should be some regulation of these
hunters.
* * * *
“Hayband”: It seems to me cattle will
eat anything. When we were camped near Nathalie
(Vic.) during a dry spell in 1907 cows ate my only
serge coat, a new towel and a 101 b. chunk of boiled
beef. Admittedly these were “starvers” (the beef-'
eater was built like a greyhound) ; but at St.
James (Vic.) in a good year I watched a fat cow
contentedly chewing the last of a freshly-killed
half-grown rabbit. And a Beech Forest (Vic.) dairy
herd went off its individual and aggregate head
through eating a barrel of ling.
LOOKING BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Though they jest, my city friends,
Though they laugh, I hear them not,
And the pines give place to scrub,
And the sea I see it not;
For my thoughts are far away,
And my memory backward wends
To a distant place and day,
And I stand with other friends,
Looking back, looking back,
To the camels on the track,
And the wide plain’s rim where the red sun descends.
Ah, those friends were men indeed,
And brave women, daring fate
For the sake of those they loved,
Toiling early, toiling late;
And because they fought and strove,
And because they labored so,
I recall them all with love,
As I dream of long ago—
Looking back, looking back,
To the camels on the track,
And the ifcide, low plains in the sunset’s glow.
N - s - w -
BRIGALOW.


■
h
knows a
ft
1
y
i
i
its Track
mk
mm
&
fg
■
. V
-
ISW
-
i
H
W®
ISC
U-
**
I
i
m
&
Qs?
/
x*#:
*2*
ttifi
:" >
/
Barnet Glass
/
/
A
■\m
Wm-
®o
£ Australian
w
m
:.'' ‘ ■- -
/
m
m
m
WiJ.
m
m
*&&
/
/
m
A
W:
mm
/
i&p/jf,
/
f
ci#
■77'r-
■m.
ws
w®
J&t
wm
m *
m
m
y
WWW
MELBOURNE
*
mm
M
.
/
m
m''
Va
/
mm
m
m
S\
/
m
/
/
/
A
Wm
m
mm
MW®M
*> S;
Hit
m
.
\
m.
m
wm,
r r
stir*-
m
mm
y6l
mmm
m
/
7 </'


THOMPSON
& CO
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd,
Telegrams and Cables:
THOMPSON'S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113,
Specialise in tHe Design and Manufadiure of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
under guaranteed efficiencies for
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
W aterworKs
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining'
Dredging', etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fenchureh Street.
pNoavnta
TROUGHING
PUMPS-MILLS
S f e .£°* e 1 groo ,y es at the end of each length
Ot Billabong” Troughing? They fit into
each other-—lock like a vise—lock out leaks.
Ihe troughing cannot pull apart. The frame
legs and cross bars are made of angle steel.
Put them in place, tighten up with a
spanner, and you have a rigid trough any
length.
WON’T LEAK—WON’T PULL APART—WILL STAND JOSTLING.
“Billabong” Patent Cattle Troughing
Made from 20-gauge Galvanised Steel, in Oft. lengths. Inter-
locking and leafproof. Trough measures 26 inches from
ground to top, 24 inches wide and 12 inches deep. Holds
about 9 gallons of water per foot.
SHEEP TROUGHING is similar to above, except that
are shortened, and fitted with ANGLE STEEL
IEET. Height 14 inches, width 20 inches, depth 10 inches.
Made from 22-gauge Steel. All troughing supplied with
one pair of ends and clearing-out plug.
Steel Pig Troughing,
scalding kills disease germs—
-14-gauge Steel—sides protected
with Angle Steel. Cross bars prevent wallowing.
Billabong” Mills and Pumps
complete a profitable, labor-saving farm or
service at a moderate price. Inquire now
and save twice.”
station water
—“Order early
John EKnks dSoNP^W
lil'fo? Bourkc liiSte
<rf
'A#
S'
s®
id
-s*£
W
loc/t
Joint;
I
Olli
Ya c
■ j
<\v v
«"</
3
*^l/
m
?*£
5XO^
SPS
«^r
jCT
«c
mnrm
rnnitm
TTTTTTTnTTTTTTTmin7I


Tke
Purest
Spirit
tSL
ħ
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schnaP^
STANDS ADON®-”
Pulverized Fuel
Saves Money—-Guts Labor.
0h
-
-
Fuller Engineering Co.’s
Pulverized Fuel-Burning Equipment
will enable you to smokelessly burn lignites, bituminous “duff” or
“chitter” at high efficiency, and with the greatest possible heat output.
Permitting high over-ratings with extreme flexibility of control.
WRITE US FOR COMPLETE DETAILS.
Elder, Smith & Go., Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.
prose works, he has written 1G plays, all of
whieh have been produced in Great Britain
and Ametied: lie writes plays to please
hiinself; lie has never written for the
tlifeatrd, nor asked a manager to produce a
thiflg of his. Yet he is eagerly sought after,
and eyery production has added a leaf to
hid laurels.
In “Fifty-One Tales” Dunsany tells how
Fame as she walked at evening in a city saw
the painted face of Notoriety daunting be-
neath a gas-lamp, and many kneeled unto
her ill the dirt Of the road. “Who are you
said Fame. “I am Fame,” said Notori-
ety, “Then Fame stole softly away
So that no one knew she had gone.
And Notoriety presently went forth and fill
the worshippers rose and followed after, and
she led them, as was most meet, to her native
Pit.” This is a theme upon which Dunsany
had written many delightful variations! In
one of his recent plays, “Fame and the
Poet,” he portrays a poet in the habit of
laying his verses on ab altar to Fame, ahd
one day he finds Fame herself there—a lovely
Woman holding a golden trumpet in her hand.
But she turns out to be a vulgar Cockney,
who in strident voice and without aspirates
proceeds to read his poems. The versifier
would have welcomed Fame, however com-
mon —the poet cannot.
Before the plays Dunsany had published
several books of fantastic tales —fairy-stories
for grown-up people. An artist in arabesques,
he creates new cosmogonies and invents
strange gods with sonorous names. His
tales begin where geography ends. He
drives his Pegasus through a fabulous Orient,
rich beyond the dreams of the Pharaohs, to
a land of haunted splendors, a city of won-
der—the Xanadu of dreams, somewhere in
the East of Antiquity. He writes for people
whose imagination has not atrophied, not for
the masses who sink with the millstone of
mediocrity round their necks in a sea of
material marvels—motor-cars, cinemas and
soft-soap advertisements. “I am not trying
to teach anybody anything,’’ he says in a let-
ter ; “I merely set out to make a work
of art out of a simple theme, and God knows
we want works of art in this age of corru-
gated-iron.” He may be proffering or offer-
ing his pearls to pigs; yet his prose medium
has the dignity and directness of simple and
impassioned English—a rubber-tyred vehicle
that glides along the polished pavement of
his narrative to the elusive rhythm of music.
From his first play, “The Glittering Gate,”
which was staged at the Abbey Theatre 12
years ago, to his latest play, “If,” produced
a few months ago in London, Dunsany has
been a pioneer of the Picturesque. He
brings an equal wealth of imagination to the
play and to the setting. In America the
greater number of his works have been ex-
quisitely produced by Stuart Walker at his
Portmanteau Theatre, somewhat along the
lines of Gordon Craig. He is the sworn
enemy of dulness and sordidness. He is in-
tolerant of the tawdry parade of passions
and verbal mucilage which make up the
modern melodrama. As he himself says:—
An age that paints its woodwork red to ape
mahogany, that makes respected fortunes by mixing
up sulphuric acid with glucose and calling the pro-
duct beer, the age of flannelette and the patent pill
- —such an age may well have such a drama as will
be pleasant and acceptable to the doers of these
things: for when insincerity has once raised up its
honored head in politics and in commerce, as it
has, and in daily life as well, it is quite certain
that its worshippers will demand a drama sufficiently
stale and smug to suit their lives.
So Dunsany scorns the dialectic battering-
ram and all the paraphernalia of propaganda,
and goes back to the ancient verities, the
eternal strivings and longings in the heart of
man and the overpowering fatalism of pagan
c-ods. In “The Glittering Gate” two dead-
beats force the golden gate of Heaven only
to find “stars, blooming great stars,” and
hear the violent, mocking laughter of the
gods. “The Lost Silk Hat” is a comedy in
the sparkling manner of Wilde, poking sly
fun at Yeats and at George Moore, who finds
himself in a domestic dilemma. In “The
Golden Doom” two children scribble on the
gates of a citadel, and the King has to sur-
render his crown in order to appease the gods.
And a pagan deity seeks retribution for his
stolen eye in “A Night at an Inn.” Dun-
sany never tires of his toys. He plays with
gods like a child with dolls. And always
he shows man thwarted by the gods which
symbolise fate. He is an artist in the one-
act drama, focussing his largest themes into
the smallest dramatic compass, and thus gain-
ing in intensity what he loses in range.
In an age world-weary with its problems
and convalescing from the fever of war, in a
theatre staled with its drain-pipe drama or
hectic with the cheap aphrodisiacs of revues,
Dunsany blows the silver trumpet of
Romance. His tales have the timbre of
Phrygian flutes. His prose poems rank with
the cameo creations of Baudelaire—sentences
woven on the loom of fantasy and em-
broidered with vocables of melodic rhythm.
He serves neither school nor cult. Tradition
never impedes the power of his invention, nor
does dreaming stultify his achievements ; fop
Dunsany is one of the Muse’s minions. He
works with his sixth sense. He dances before
the Ark of Abstraction : his imagination turn-
ing somersaults in Space or walking on the
waters of Time.
REG S. ELLERY.
Shakspeare?
Louis Esson on the poet’s identification:
The people who make such frantic and futile
efforts to prove that the works of Shakspeare were
written by Bacon or Lord Derby or Edmund de Vere
cannot replace the simple facts by wild conjectures.
If the Stratford man was an impostor, what explana-
tion can be given of the attitude of his friends,
both actors and playwrights? Surely Ben Jonson
knew the truth. But does any man in his senses
believe that the verses prefixed to the first folio,
“Soul of the age!
The applause, delight, the wonder of our stage!
My Shakspeare rise I”
were an elaborate hoax? And in “Discov-
eries” he writes “I loved the man and do
honor his memory on this side idolatry.”
This may be part of the joke; but it is strange that
when Jonson visited Drummond at Hawthornden,
near Edinburgh, he did not let out the dark secret.
These conversations, which were only recovered in
modern times, were private and informal, and Ben
was not a reticent man, especially in his cups. He
told Drummond many things about the great, for
“he never esteemed of a man for the name of a
Lord.” Yet we find in these jottings that “Shaks-
peer wanted arte”; “Shakspear, in a play, brought
in a number of men saying they had suffered ship-
wrack in Bohemia, wher ther is i% sea neer by some
100 miles.” There is no mystery there. Thomas
Iteywood, the actor and dramatist, accepts Shaks-
peare as one of the Bohemian company:—
“Mellifluous Shakspeare, whose enchanting quill
Commanded mirth and passion, was but Will.”
Not Lord Derby or Edmund de Vere. And in the
famous preface to “The White Divel,” published in
1612, John Webster gives Shakspeare a high place,
but not the first, among his contemporaries. He
refers to “the full and heightened style of Master
Chapman, the labored and understanding works of
Master Jonson, the no-less worthy composures of
the both worthily excellent Master Beaumont and
Mastor Fletcher; and lastly (without wrong last
to be named) the right happy and copious industry
of Master Shakspeare, Master Dekker and Master
Ileywood.” And in that brilliant university satire,
“The Returne from Pernassus,” Shakspeare is re-
garded lightly as a poet for gulls, and a merely
popular dramatist. Burbage and Kemp, the famous
actors, are brought on the stage. Kemp is made to
say “Few of the university pen plays well. Why,
here’s our fellow Shakspeare puts them all down.”
If the man from Stratford was an impostor, then
his fellow-actors and playwrights must have been
in the conspiracy. But what was the point of it
all? Were Webster and Heywood dolts? Was old
Ben a liar, and silent in his cups?
A Satchel of Books
Venetian Lovers, by Philip Gibbs (Hutchinson).
A number of stories bearing more or less on Europe’s
troubles following the war and having about the
same literary weight as popular magazine fiction.
Compensation, by Mrs. Henry Head (Allen and
Unwin). Mostly "a study of two. girls; and only
one of them is credible. The manner is, however,
much above the average, and there is more satire
and keen epigram than you will find in perhaps the
next 50 novels of the period.
British Water-color Painting of To-day. Special
winter number of The Studio, giving a couple of
dozen well-reproduced samples of the vvork of men
prominent in this medium. The selection has been
made to show varied methods and treatments, which
explains why some of the items set one’s teeth on
edge.
Chess Fundamentals, by J. R. Capablanca (G. Bell
and Sons). A book of sanely-expressed common-
sense by the Cuban who flashed meteorically into the
chess heavens as a young man and is now champion
of the world. Particularly valuable for its running
commentary upon positions that have occurred in
actual play.
The Hour i Before the Dawn, by John Knipe (John
Lane). A stirring border tale of the Stewart days.
Easy stuff, for probabilities don’t matter when you
are writing about those heroic times. The language
is supposed to fit the period; but it seems that,
though the Englishman’s English has undergone
great changes, the Frenchman’s English was much
the same then as it is now. Pretty cheap ; but you
won’t sleep over it.
Quin, by Alice Hegan Rice (Hodder and Stough-
ton). The “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch” lady
devotes herself this time to another of those won-
derful American lads who went to the war. He
was still only a sergeant when he came home, gassed,
but he proceeded to do things which make Foch
look like a mere leader of Boy Scouts. Really, in
the light of what they didn’t do in France, these
young Cassar Napoleons get a little wearisome. And
perhaps they are not half as grateful to the Alice
Hegan Rices as those good ladies think.
Mendoza and a Little Lady, by William Caine
(Putnam). A fascinating story about artists and
editors and collectors. Mendoza is a world-famous
caricaturist, of 40 or so; the little lady is a black-
and-white genius of 20 or so; and there is another
likable chap of 20 and a bit. It isn’t a three-
cornered fight; Mendoza is too much of a philo-
sopher. for that. Not a comforting story for gay
dogs of over 40 to read ; yet they may be the better
for it. But it is the atmosphere—the real atmo-
sphere in which real artists work—that will win
the book most of its friends. When they know it
there will be many thousands of them.
The Markenmore Mystery, by J. S. Fletcher (Jen-
kins). Fletcher, who is beginning to loom up as a
writer of detective fiction, builds a formidable
mystery around the death of the giddy Guy Marken-
more, a prodigal- soil with a lot of extraordinary
generosity about him. Guy is murdered on the night
he returns home after an absence of several years,
and Fletcher floods his book with suspects, ingeni-
ously devising reasons for their interest in the crime,
before unmasking the real assassin, who will never
be spotted by the astutest student of Sherlock Holmes.
But no reader who has warmed his imagination on
Conan Doyle and Gaboriau will be satisfied by the
detective Blick.
Latchkey Ladies, by M. Grant (Heinemann). In
the war days thousands of young women, coming sud-
denly into what they liked to call “economic inde-
pendence,” achieved latchkeys; and this is a story
of a few of them. They met all sorts of men. Anne
“strolled along....the crooked ways that lie behind
the Stores. They were full of Australian soldiers
making for a popular canteen, cheerful giants, always
polite to women” —and that, anyhow, is a true
London verdict. You would never have thought it
of Anne, but the latchkey led on to other things,
including a baby. However, the authoress arranged
matters better than they have a habit of arranging
themselves: she married Anne very happily to an-
other man. Those latchkeys were a trifle too sudden.
she only succeeds in convincing the reader that the
man is a bounder and the woman a bore. When
Miss Bjelke-Peterson writes about scenery with
which she is lamiliar and types which she has
studied at first hand, she is worth reading. But
she ought to forget that she has ever been to the
pictures.
“He was not ignorant that death lurked in those
sable folds. [That is Mr. Goss’s way of saying
“the darkness.”] When morning withdrew the cur-
tains of the night there would be revealed all the
instruments of butchery—the weapons of war. The
quiet hillsides would belch out flic and death. The
silent watcher knew all this, but he was not afraid.
No qualms for the morrow drove sleep from his eye-
lids, but thoughts which never left him.”
That is a fair sample of the style. Surely Mr.
Goss must have got very tired of walking on stilts
through these 200 pages.
The Long, Lone Trail, by A. G. Hales (Hodder
and Stoughton, via. Dyrnock’s). A racy yarn of the
immemorial East by an Australian who could write
interestingly about l elothcs-prop. Sometimes the
plot grows fantar+W - .metimes the style is flam-
boyant; but it is not in “Smiler’s” nature to be
dull. His characters talk and move like real men
and women, and he retains all his old talent for
weaving word-pictures of things he has seen in his
singularly full life.
Bushland Stories, by Amy Eleanor Mack (Angus
and Robertson). Another fine Australian-made book
for children. The author makes Nature articulate
and with a touch of faerie gives a series of simply-
told stories that must catch and hold the interest
of the youngster. The volume is fancifully illus-
trated hy Joyce Dennys, though in one or two of
the color-plates the reproduction has apparently not
done her justice. Australia is building up a not-
able list of artistic children’s books; the pity is
that the price cuts them off from so many kiddies
who would find delight in them.
Dusk, by Marie Bjelke-Peterson ('Hutchinson).
The trail of the moving-picture is over this Tas-
manian writer’s latest novel. Her hero—underground
boss of a Queenstown mine-—is handicapped with
the name and portrait of a smirking Yankee “film-
star.” He makes love in the explosive movie
fashion to a typical movie heroine. Both talk in
the weird jargon employed by the geniuses who
do the scenarios for Nazimova and Theda Bara, and
much as the novelist tries to make them interesting
Paul Mason, by N. Claridge Goss (McCubbin,
Melbourne). A crudely melodramatic story of the
north of South Australia, deriving what little value
it has entirely from its faithful local color —albeit
the color is mostly the drab of drought time. The
writer has only the worst tricks of the writer’s
trade, and would have been helped by a good sub-
editor. Nobody goes anywhere; he wends his way.
Nobody enters a room; he is ushered in. Some-
body is “muchly pleased”; somebody else “ground
his teeth as he considered the probability of Stan-
ford hanging his knowledge like a sword over
Diana’s head.” Jack Patterson is “a burly fellow
of about 26 or 27” on page 8 ; by page 24, which
deals with the same period, he is “a drinking, curs-
ing, swearing fellow about 30” ; and Ethel, his
sister, is Patterson when she isn’t _ Simpson. But
that may be the printer; he hasn’t done his work
well either. The melodrama is quite conventional
—super-hero, super-villain and all —of a pattern
more common 15 or 20 years ago than it is now.
And it isn’t unlikely that the yarn dates from that
period and has been kept in cold storage. At any
late, the hero goes to the Boer War to get his
hurts, before winning back the lady of his dreams;
and a man could hardly write so breathlessly about
the little South African business if he had waited
till after the Great War to do it:- —
The Inky Way
“E. Wilson Dobbs”: May I thank Mr. Dyson for
his fine article on ‘‘Lindsay Gordon at Ballarat” ?
But it was a little daughter, not a little son, Gordon
lost, at the goldfields town. Annie Lindsay Gordon
died at ten months old, in 1868, and was buried in
a cemetery near Lake Wendouree. Subsequently her
remains were reburied in her father’s grave in the
Brighton cemetery.
“S.T.S.” s The following is entered as the most
stupendous compliment Australia has received since
the war; also as the silliest thing that has ap-
peared in print during the same period. It is from
a new book on “The Indo-British Commonwealth,”
by Josiah Wedgwood, M.P., of England, and a
D. 5.0.: “Australian babies appear to be frightened
into being good by horrid tales of Japanese con-
quest. But anyone who has fought beside Australia
and seen Japan remains unimpressed by this bogey.
Five millions to 60 would make no difference. If
all the rest of the world were sunk beneath the waves
Japan would have more reason to be nervous than
Australia.”
“Y.Z.”: Who has control of the fund for the
benefit of incapacitated literary people which the
Vic. Government is supposed to -provide? The
rewards dealt out from this source should be spon-
taneous and should impose no discredit on the
recipient; consequently the control should be in
the hands of someone acquainted with literary and
journalistic conditions in the State. The only bene-
fits I have heard of as coming from the fund have
been extended after the deserving object was dead.
This should not be the ill-luck of well-known writers
—men like Eddie Finn, for instance, w'ho, after
serving the cause of letters in Melbourne for well
over 50 years as journalist, novelist, dramatist,
short-story teller and writer. of verse, more particu-
larly as a generous dramatic critic, finds himself
almost incapacitated in his old age. Finn is the
father of Melbourne journalists, but the paper with
which he was associated all his literary life having
passed into other hands, he finds himself at the end
of his efforts practically friendless. Why does not
the A.J.A. concern itself more with the distribution
of the State benefit fund? Here is a fitting job
for the new Australian Authors’ Association.
“Alan D. Mickle” (R.P. 5/l/’22) has
endeavored to drown Whitman in a flood of scorn.
I feel some defence is necessary: a defence not of
a school of writing, but of a man, a splendid trier
—and a failure. Here is one who takes into his
hand a new tool, a kind of rough prose-poetry. Like
most new tools, it is difficult to handle. But occa-
sionally the workman turns out a good job. And
what wonderful pieces of work! Remember the
description of the sea fight in the poem “Walt Whit-
man” and the death of the fireman. Recall “A
Word Out of the Sea,” “Strange Vigils I Kept,” “As
I Lay with My Head in Your Lap,” “In Clouds De-
scending,” “Out of the Rolling Ocean,” and others,
where the man mastered the instrument. “Oh, Captain,
My Captain,” is perhaps the worst poem Whitman
wrote. And the reason is that he tried to write here
in rhyme and rhythm. It is true that his fame rests
on a few poems and extracts, but why search for
his failures? In his second book, “Drum Taps,” he
has a better command of his tool, and from this
book come most of the poems I mentioned. But
there is also, as I say, a haunting sense of failure.
There is just So much missed. And Whitman can
have no apprentices, no disciples, no followers to
capture the idea that he strained at and missed.
The writers of “free verse” to-day have got very,
very far from the rough-hewn track that Whitman
carved from the solid mountain.
“Whitehall”: Siegfried Sassoon (R.P. 12/l/’22) per-
sonifies one common type of war-patriot and his
cousin, Sir Philip, stands for another equally
familiar. The poet was a Radical, and he had done
no soldiering, but he joined up as an infantry pri-
vate as soon as the doctors would pass him. It was
the middle of 1915 before he reached the front line,
as he is a poor physical specimen. The baronet is
one of the handiest athletes of his class and age (he
is now 34) in England, being a noted skater and ski-
runner and a first-class polo-player. He was a yeo-
manry subaltern before the war and a staunch
Unionist and Empire man. While his “disloyal”
relative was in the trenches, he was thinking deeply
about the Empire and England at Lympne, where
he owns a palace. Siegfried Sassoon won his com-
mission on the field and got his M.C. for a remark-
able act of gallantry. Sir Philip now decided to
make the great adventure. He became private
secretary to Haig. For a few months’ work in an
environment as safe and pleasant as one of his
London Clubs he collected a C.M.G. and various
French and Belgian decorations. Meanwhile the
wretched poet was developing doubts. His mental
pi'oeesses may be traced in the series of harrowing
poems which he ground out in a sweat and agony
of despair during the second half of 1916 and the
beginning of the following year. Summed up,
he developed pity for the miserable creatures on
the other side of No Man’s to find
them no more criminal than his own comrades.
The Censor banned several of his efforts: he was
pulled out of hi.s battalion and threatened with a
court-martial.; papers of the Winning Post and
Pink ’Un type condemed him as a disgrace to his
country; and he was shipped off to Palestine. Sir
Philip,' inflexibly loyal and patriotic as ever,
came home from the hardships of Haig’s head-
quarters, his part as a soldier well and truly played,
and accepted a job as secretary to Lloyd George.
In this capacity he went about glittering with orders
which to nine people out of ten suggested years of
sacrifice for King and Empire, while his miserable
cousin subsided into private life. And no doubt
when the annals of the great Hebrew family come
to be written a feature will be made of the heroism
of the baronet, and there will be a generous attempt
to gloss over the misdeeds of the scribbler who
failed.


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
l~i b ro I i l~&
Stvs
The cost of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets and roofed
with “Fibrolite” Slates is considerably
less than a similar building built of
weatherboard and roofed with iron or
tiles.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust or
corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes.
TKrite for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Bts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
h
The Flag
for
Woolgrowers,
and no strong puff is needed to attract
owners to it.
WINCHGOMBE, CARSON
LXI).
give such good service and so consistently
secure top results, that sheepmen find it
invariably pays to consign wool —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON,
Sydney or Brisbane.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
' &., ‘ V
/ ■ li .u
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
1 benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD
Culwulla Chambers,'
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
II
*
T(ie Best Cowes First in Clubland
and that* is
KING OF TABLE WATERS
Rich in Curatives ~Cool s,Refreshing
Contains - Lime, Coda. Lit hi a. <$ Magnesia.
Agents
Howlands Pty Ltd.
Melbourne . Ballarat. & Sydney.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
¥HE iPICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
Flawless Corsican Bruyere.
FLC
The Best Pipe that
France Produces.
&
w«
wil]
show
a
shape.
every
week.
Illustrated,
809D.5., 20/
F.L.C. is a perfect smoke
—cool, sweet, clean. That
Is because it is made by
French Diggers from the finest-
grade flawless Corsican Briar Root
the world can supply.
Every F.D.C. is sold with
A Twelve Months’
Guarantee
and any cracking or bunting within that
time will be replaced free.
Made in 98 smart shapes—that
shown is silver-m’t’d style 809D.5. at.
20/-
Ask your tobacconist for one or send a postcard
to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you
Where to get one.
[5
For the shop whose needs call for a machine to cut a variety of
•
spur and bevel gears, clutches,
sprockets, etc., we offer
BROWN & SHARPE
No. 13 & 13H Automatic
Gear-Cutting
Machines
These machines are a
favorite in the average
shop because of their
adaptability to such a
large range of work. They
will accommodate spur
and bevel gears up to
24in. in diameter, 6in.
face, which adequately
fills the ordinary de-
mands.
AUSTRALASIAN AGG NTS :
SGRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dept. “G.”
Business, Robbery, etc.
On Peb. 3 the new Commonwealth
steamer Moreton Bay will lift 20,000 cases
of apples from Hobart wharf for London.
This is the first nibble at a total of one mil-
lion cases which the Speck will this season
toss across the equator. The previous best
was 900,358 bushel-boxes sent to the United
Kingdom in 1914.
* * » *
“Tren”: Clumps of water hyacinth ate
now sold, freely, by Melbourne florists. It
is the industrial equivalent of retailing
typhoid germs. Lax methods have already
resulted in thousands of acres of otherwise
good land in North-East Vic. being ruined
by St. John’s wort, and this land-ciirs'6 is
not more vigorous than the ftqUatic one.
* * * «
“C. J.T.” : In the matter of wasted juice
the Bananaland State mills have no cause to
blush alone, though it’s the fashion to point
to them as horrible examples. Deliberate
wastage is often part of the market-rigging
game; as well throw juice away as dump the
sugar in foreign ports at bare cost price, as
was done in Natal and Vancouver. There
are tricks in all trades. As to accidents,
quite recently a worker had his arm torn off
at a northern mill, and the first-aid man
could get nothing but twine and boot-laces
to tie up the veins, there being no law to
compel mills to keep needed gear in stock.
“Ybned”: While on fast sailing-ships,
what about the old Torrens under Captain
Angel? I served some time in her, and can
vouch for 16 knots on many occasions. She
was originally meant for the tea fleet* but
being such a wonderfully dry ship and fast
sailer was made into a passenger ship trad-
ing between London and Adelaide. She
once ran from London to Adelaide in 61
days—was, as a matter of fact, off Kangaroo
Island in 58 days, but a slant sent her south.
The Araby Maid ran from Durban to Fre-
mantle in 21 days—steamboat time. We
met her once leaving Capetown, gave her
10 hours’ start for St. Helena,- picked her
up next day, passed within a few cables’
length of her and dropped her like a hot
potato. The Torrens was a composition-
built ship, and could sail with anything
under any conditions.
* * * #
“Avey Ell”: Along the Tweed, Brunswick
and Richmond Rivers (N.S.W.) —suoerb
country most of it —yellow men have a
firm grip on the vegetable trade, and are
fast making their presence felt in the
banana industry. Groups of up to 20 and
30 may be seen intensely cultivating one
area, and living under the one roof, the pro-
perties having in most cases been bought
outright. As usual, though the market price
to the grower for bananas has been dis-
hearteningly low for some time, the Chinks
appear to be highly successful in their oper-
ations. Numerous white planters, on the
other hand, have found it impossible to carry
on, and have already “taken the count,”
while others ar« simply hanging on in the
hope of improved price's. Chinese mer ' ants
control the industry in all Australian capi-
tals, and it seems more than a coincidence
that the prices offered by the wholesalers —-
to white, growers, at any rate—have slumped
only since the Fiji article was jumped on by
import duties; It certainly looks as if the
Chow middleman now thinks it worth while
to squeeze the white grow T er out. Inciden-
tally, for years r..i Australian retail shop-
keeper in one of the districts referred to has
consistently stocked certain brands of food
products. . Last week I noticed he had sub-
stituted various new brands. His explana-
tion speaks volumes. “My Chinese clients,”
he said, “prefer these articles, and my live-
lihood depends on doing the right thing by
my customers.”
THE FRESH HEART FUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Restriction of Borrowing.”— Labor plank.
“A villainous boycott of the Government by the
enemies of the workers had been the primary cause
of the Government’s financial troubles.... The Labor
Government had confounded its Tory critics by the
flotation of the loan in the U.S.A. That loan put
fresh heart into the Labor movement.” — Theodore
at South Brisbane.
It is the Hardy Borrower,
And he stoppeth tivo or three;
hen he hies him, away at the close of the day
To talk to the A.L.P.
Comrades, why am I here to-night?
Why do I thus address you?
This is no time to brag and skite—
I could tell a tale to distress you.
Let me be frank with you—for once:
Our position has been rotten!
Falling revenue, lack of “bunce,”
Half our pledges forgotten.
Eighty-two millions odd we owe;
To some it seems appalling;
Half the “workers” going slow—
Production steadily falling.
What does the railways’ deficit touch
Since we were first elected?
Seven millions? I thought as much.
Less even than I expected.
London has shut its loan-gates fast
Against your Heaven-born leaders;
It thought our pace was too swift to last—
That gang of financial bleeders!
Why, we had scarcely got into our stride,
Hardly got properly started!
But, Heaven be praised, the world is wide—
Comrades, don’t be downhearted I
Listen! Just as we feared a crash
(We’d reached the end of the section) —
Just as we thought we had “done our dash”
And had to face an election —
Somebody said “I always knew
What getting into a groove meant;
Try Uncle Sham with an lOU
It’ll hearten the Labor movement! ”
Comrades, no sooner said than done!
All our troubles were lifted;
As Uncle Sham has gold by the ton,
The centre of loanacy’s shifted.
Uncle lends money—at eight per Cent.—--
So we left John Bull in his toy-cot;
And we’ll borrow again to the top of our bent,
And end the villainous boycott!
QUEENSLAND.
MONTY PEET.


expressing personality in dress
A
m
Quality
ħ
Our fixed principle is this: to make each and every
Front Lacing
as good as true artistry, fine workmanship, and the highest grade oj
materials can make it, so that no purchaser may ever find a
Gossard that does not give the unequalled service she has a right
to expect. The high quality of every Gossard Corset is jealously
guarded by a House proud of its eighteen years of prestige.
You will find these original front lacing corsets at the best stores
the world over.
The least appearance of extravagance
or Want of moderation or restraint is
destructive to all beauty whatsoever, in
anything, colour, form, motion, langu-
age or thought; giving rise to that which
is in colour called glaring, in form inel-
egant, in motion, ungraceful, in thought
undisciplined, in all, unchastened.
John Ruskin
IT is generally conceded that in all women
there is an instinctive perception of beauty
and a longing for it.
Failure lies in lacking of the
intimate and essential relation true taste
bears to fashion; in the blind assumption
that beauty can be attained by imitation.
Costume is but a means of expressing per-
sonality, and the woman admired has learned
to ignore the glaring vagaries of swiftly
changing fashions and chooses those clothes
that in the simplicity of good taste best
become her.
Modifications of the figure require the" most
careful attention to the end of avoiding any-
thing that will accentuate undesirable lines*.
Perhaps the most understandable rule for be-
coming corsetry is this: do not try to. change
your type, play up to it. Don t imitate.
From the beginning, Gossard artistry has
fecognized as many types of feminine beauty
as there are types of women. So what-
ever your figure problems may be, there
are many artfully designed
models that will give you the
ideal proportions of your type
with that restful comfort that
makes grace of motion as
natural as breathing. Yes,
even if you .are of very full
proportions, the resilient,
scientifically placed boning
that gracefully slenderizes
you, will permit the com-
fortable freedom of unre-
strained movement.
Because of the naturalness of its healthful
support, your self-effacing Gossard is re-
lieved of all undue strain and so will wear
far beyond the life of. the average corset.
Its original grace and shapeliness will re-
main unchanged to the last day you put it
on. In the economy of their wearing
service alone, these original front lacing
corsets are worth their cost.
To those women who appreciate the im-
portance of following their own style and
finding the perfect expression of their
natural beauty, Gossard Corsets offer an
unfailing foundation for becoming dress.
THE H. W. GOSSARD CO .
Chicago Ne<w York London Toronto
Sydney
Buenos Aires
Ideal Figure
Tail Slender
Ideal Figure
Short Slender.
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
Ideal Average
Figure,
Ideal Figure
Large Above Waisti
Ideal Fii
Curved I
, ure Ideal Figure
lack. Short Waisted


OMACH
ÜBLES
11<
M'
AN irritable, fault-finding disposition is often due
to a disordered stomach. A man with good
• digestion is nearly always good tempered. A
great many people have been permanently relieved
of stomach troubles by Chamberlain’s Tablets
after years of suffering. Chamberlain’s Tablets
strengthen the stomach and enable it to perform its
functions naturally. They only cost eighteenpence per
box. The next time your stomach is disordered try
For the Stomach and liver
X 0 •
free:
A HORSE
(/.
N/
S
I
SK
If you own two horses and you were offered another one free with upkeep
provided—would you accept it?
Of course you would.
Then why not fit to your waggons
£3 K 1*"" Ball Bearing'
HUBS and AXLES ?
For the extra service they GIVE is equal to an additional horse without cost. They
reduce friction to such a negligible quantity that a mere push of the hand will start a
waggon moving. This minimising of friction means that a3oto 50 per cent, increased
load can be pulled without extra work on the horses; or that two horses can do the
work of three or four, so enabling you to cut down your stable and yet maintain your
usual transportation capacity, or increase your transportation possibilities by merely
retaining the same stable.
Undue wear and tear of your waggons will be avoided; they will need less attention, and
lubrication costs will be reduced by 8 0%, for SKP Hubs require lubricant only three
or four times a year. Then, too, your horses will be retained at a strong and healthy
condition, for straining will be entirely averted.
Write for our pamphlet, “Why do you ALWAYS drive with the break on?” which gives
full particulars.
GARDNER, WAERN
and Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City .Road; South Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at
Sydney:, 225, Clarence Street.
329 Adelaide Street,' Brisbane; Perth, Hobart.
C. Mulla” : If ever an announcement made
a wowser glad this advt. from the Warbego
Watchman should :
For Sale- —Billiard slates suitable for headstones.
“Alex.”: How is this for Christmas
scorching? An assistant in a I’itt-street
(Sydney) rag shop “crushed” 190 customers
through her docket-book in five hours’
serving on Christmas Eve. Her book was
worth £75.
“X2X” : Owing to the high cost of medi-
cine-bottles, it is now a rule of the hospi-
tals that out-patients must supply their
own, but fully 75 per cent, arrive without.
And this is where young Australia comes in.
Outside any hospital in Melbourne nowadays
there are always urchins lined up, each
with a collection of bottles which he is pre-
pared to dispose of at from a penny to
threepence apiece.
The late Mrs. Roberts'S collection of
Tasmanian birds and animals, with all the
caging, etc., has been captured by the Hobart
Council for nothing. The whole show is to
be shifted to the old quarry land opposite
Government House, and the Government will
give the Council £250 a. year to look after it.
The collection includes hundreds of native
fauna and will now give the Speck’s capital
what it has novel- had before—a public zoo.
“Jackeroo” : In spite of oUr climate Mrs,
McDonald, of Goondiwindi (Q.), is still going
strong at 104, and has been in the district
70 years. She came from Scotland with her
husband, who died in 1904. The old lady
says there were no trains in Scotland when
she left, and she was 90 before she saw one
at Goondiwindi. She attributes her long
life to hard work, good living and “minding
my own business.” But longevity has be-
come a habit in her clan. Her mother lived
to 101, and her grandmother even longer.
A discovery with an important bearing on
the scheme for floating a loan and settling
a million farmers in Sydney appeared in the
press of Jan. 10. It .transpires that 12,000
acres between Gordon, on the line eight
miles from Sydney, and the coast, are lan-
guishing and unsettled for want of a loan
railway. The blighted spot represents an
area about 41 miles each way, and if every
patch of that size must perish in obscurity
unless it has a line Australia has lost the use
of its legs.
“Josef” : I was a very small boy from Out-
back when I took my first sea trip. I soon
chummed up with the crew, and must have
just about pestered the devil out of them with
questions. The second day I woke up to the
sea-gulls and asked a deck-hand what they
were and why? “Good Lord,” says he,
“someone’s been and gone and let <—e cap-
tain’s pigeons out! Run along, laddie, and
tell him, quick.” He showed me the door,
and I charged right iu, woke the captain up
from his beauty-sleep—and got my very first
and never-to-be-forgotten lesson in profanity.
“Rae-akiaki”: Charles Nicholson, who
recently went west in M.L. after 94 years of
adventure, was the only man I’ve known to
put the bagpipes to a useful purpose. After
being captured when the Eureka Stock-
ade fell, he joined the Vic. police, and was
largely responsible for the capture of the
bushranger “Jewboy.” He was then ap-
pointed second-in-command of an expedition
that set out to find traces of Leichhardt, and
he used to tell that one day the party was
surprised by 200 abos. with hostile intent,
whereupon one Mclntosh yelled > “The pipes,
Charlie, the pipes—while we retreat."
Nicholson played the pipes—--and the niggers
were so mystified that they stood open-
mouthed while the party marched off.
“Rio” : 1 Can’t agree with Mary Gilmore
(B. 5/l/’22) that the waratah should be
Australia’s floral emblem in lieu of the
wattle. I thought so myself until I found
that the waratah was unknown away from
the coast and highlands of X. S. Wales. The
great majority of the people of Q., Vic.,
N.S.W., S.A. and W.A. have never seen one
I growing, and the Tas. waratah is, I’m told,
a different sp;ecies. On the other hand,
wattle, of many varieties, abounds in every
State, and nearly all the year there is some
kind in bloom. No doubt other countries
are growing the wattle, as they 7 are the
eucalypts, for ornament and utility, but that
is the same with most national emblems —the
rose, lily and maple, for instance.
“Azrim” : Recently some misanthrope
morosely rebuked me for saying pyorrhoea
was the latest craze in fashionable medicine,
and that all the woes of the flesh were being
attributed to it. A leading X-ray specialist
of Melbourne has let me hunt through his
records for the past four years. Here are
the figures:—
Jaws Per-
Year. X-rayed- Pyorrhosa. centage.
1918 . . . • 34 27 79.4
1919 . . . . 28 25 89.3
1920 .. .. 147 42 28.7
1921 . . . . 463 68 14.7
An increase of 1300 per cent, in the num-
ber of cases diagnosed as pyorrhoea (34 to
483), when the increase in those actually
suffering (27 to 68) from the disease is only
250 per cent., surely indicates clearly the
mania some specialists have for labelling
everything “pyorrhoea.”
“The Moralist”: With the final passing
of Cobb and Co. at the end of 1921 another
link with the old days has snapped. On
Jan 10 F. Palmer, mail contractor between
Charleville, Augathella and Tambo (Q-L
took over the remaining plant of Cobb and
Co.--all of it in W. Queensland. Before
founding the business that made a fortune
for his successors, and, incidentally, opened
up a lot of back country 7, Cobb had a rough
time. He tried his luck in S. Africa and
ran the mail from Port Elizabeth to Kim-
berley and Grahamstown; but he was up
against the Tyson of those partsv—James
S. Reid. Cobb’s attempt to run Reid off
the road proved futile, and he called in the
auctioneer. The sale took place on Boxing
Day, and Reid was there intending to buy
at any' price; but the auctioneer dropped a
bomb among the buyers by announcing
the terms of sale: “The. buyer to pay cash
on the fall of the hammer.” Being a holi-
day, with the banks closed, all were short
of cash. Reid made a tarpaulin muster, but
it didn’t go. far, and coaches, horses,- mules,
existing contracts, etc., worth, it was a legeo.
£7OOO, were knocked down to the auctioneer s
nephew for £7OO.


- r
s'.
Mi
mm*
in Ifc I
“>JS
ssg=
-- J -7
))
dIJJ.
IjEnOcIIJJ- SpU&jJODQ^
)Em i
sec
jisSi
=._ '/«
b
0
a si
\
■at
I >*
&
ssr3|iTW-
NS*
Holyrood Palace
Edinburgh,
DAWSONS
min
PETER
n
am
■4lSi
WHISKY P
SCOTCH
a brand of historic lineage .
you make its acquaintance, you
will fully endorse the enthusiasm of
“ P.D.” patrons for their favourite brand.
“ P. D.” Scotch has a world-wide welcome.
Everyone’s favourite Scotch
everywhere,
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
Distillers, GLASGOW,
_ SCOTLAND.
THERE ARE NO DULL MOMENTS
2<St
I
w
m
%
>,• .
! M
3
is
IN THE HOME
THAT HAS A
PLAYOTONE PLAYER PIANO
The best and latest music is always at your
command, and you can revel in the entrancing
music of the classics, or the bright, free and
easy, popular music of the day. Just what
you want you can play, and when you want .
it, without having the worry to learn it—the
music-roll does everything for you.
It will prove a constant source of pleasure
and entertainment. It is always ready, and
everyone can and will play it.
THE PLAYOTONE PLAYER PIANO
IS A REAL PLEASURE-BRINGER.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE,
PRICE LISTS AND FULL
PARTICULARS OF OUR
EASY PAYMENT SYSTEM,
in
a
338 George St.
cvnKICV
Branches at
BRISBANE
LISMORE
NEWCASTLE
ROCKHAMPTON’
TOOWOOMBA.


mem
a
V
©3>
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from M-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
■water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-lIOTS are extra pro-
tected: with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per iay, o:- from
Guineas per Week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: YSOOI, 3002. Apply Manager.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
FITTINGS
A BOON TO THE
COUNTRY LADY.
Such is the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle.
A pleasant, reliable and economical
means of travel, which is of
practical value in the country. The
various little journeysin the course
of a day are transformed from a
tedious duty to an enjoyable
excerise, on a convenient and ever-
ready B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
All B.S.A. parts are guaranteed
interchangeable. This means the
elimination of all unnecessary
waste of time should you lose or
damage any part of your bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE. _
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it,
■ami ttieNewsom Valve
m
m
s»
&
«’rK
mmi
®wis
</tO
IT JUST
CANT LEAK I
Ihe Colo Tube and
the Newsom Valve
form a strong combination. The valve
does not depend alone on air pressure
for its efficiency.
Exclusive devices effectively seal the
valve, and maintain a constant stan-
dard pressure.
Aslc your garagt
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD., Head Office : 5-7 Barrack St.. Sydney
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward, 5 Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Street*.
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Made in Eugland: Loaded in Australia. For
all gauges of shot-guns, and loaded with the
best Powders.
In case of difficulty refer your dealer toj —
KYNOCH LIMITED,
90 WILLIAM
STREET,
MELBOURNE.
h
277 CLARENCE
STREET,
SYDNEY.
Some comer of
Great Britain has
a warm place in
your heart.
ĥ
Do you ever
wonder what
is happening
there?
The
Over-Seas Daily Mail
Weekly Over-Seas Edition of The Daily Mail —Britain’s great National
Newspaper.
TELLS YOU IN FULL.
Post Free 10/- 52 weeks
SOME OF THE CONTENTS ARE:
Our London Letter —a wonderful pen-picture of life in the great Metropolis.
An account of all the week’s happenings in every part of Great Britain and Euiope
—political—social —sporting. _ .
A selection of the special articles which have appeared during the week in
Daily Mail.
A Serial Story. , .
A Fashions Feature for women readers with illustrated designs by Miss e *' ie
Ascough, the famous Daily Mail artist.
Complete results of all sporting events —Football, Cricket, Racing, Boxing, Lavn
Tennis, Golf, Athletic Meetings, etc.
In addition, the following Commercial Supplements are included free, week ?
week: Engineering, Textile, Motor and Cycling, Building and Furnishing, Bri 5
Agricultural Machinery and Farm Requisites. These Supplements supply "
constant stream of British commercial intelligence and are invaluable to Uver->
buyers.
Send Your Order To-day to Your Regular Newsagent
or to
GORDON & GOTCH (A/sia) LTD.,
Barrack and Clarence Streets, Sydney,
who will transmit your instructions by the first Mail Boat.
The Over-Seas Daily Mail will then be posted weekly direct to ur o a Al r p
from Carmelite House, London, E.C.4. No extra charge for changes m
A FULL Service of British News for 52 Weeks for 10/- post free.
“E. M. Harte”: “Te Wbare” (B.
15/12/’2l) says be believes none of the
Imlays of Bega (N.S.W.) left descendants.
In the late ’seventies I worked on Comongin
station, on the Bulloo, and the manager
during most of that time was Alec Imlay, a
son of one of the Bega Imlays—Dr. George, I
think. He had children: two boys of his
did good work at the war.
“N.”: As “M.” (B 12/l/’22) has de-
clared the exam-howler season open here’s}
my exhibit. A Melbourne schoolboy was!
asked to give a short account of .Toseph|
of scriptural fame. He picked out the tit-
bits and this was one:—
Joseph went down the street one day and saw a
lady standing by a well. He spoke to her and
.asked her home to tea. They went, and, being a
kind man, he married her.
“Wart”: Rhodes scholar T. E. Kay
(Tas.) had a probably unique experience. In
the first year, being bracketed with Len Mor-
rison, he retired in the latter’s favor, Morri-
son being too old to compete again. Next he
tied with J. Orr, who was selected on his
athletic performances. In the third year he
went in and won. All three youths were
educated at Launceston High School.
The pub at Renmark (S.A.), which is con-
ducted on the Gothenburg system, publishes
its balance-sheet for the half-year. It claims
to have broken all records with bar takings
of over £lOO a day, a total turnover of
£21,000, and a profit of £4600. The river
town is congratulating Rugless, the manager,
and patting itself on the back for drinking
itself into a prosperous condition; for all
profits are distributed each year among the
public and charitable local bodies, by a meet-
ing of their own representatives.
“Percy Pawnticket”: The “return to
Zion” is proving a fiasco. The movement
raised considerable enthusiasm the world
over, practically every Jewish community
forming its Zionist Association and subscrib-
ing liberally; but either those of the ancient
faith who have reached Palestine don’t want
to go on the land, or the officials of the move-
ment have failed very badly. Whatever the
cause, the land settlement has been prac-
tically nil. Nor is the outlook promising.
A wealthy S. African Hebrew journeyed to
Russia recently, and took charge of 250
orphan boys of his race; but, after making
careful inquiries, instead of transferring them
to Palestine he carried them off to S. Africa,
where he secured their adoption. And
a well-to-do Svdney man to whom Zionism
was something more than a vague enthusi-
asm has, after spending £l5OO in transport-
ing his family, returned to Australia, with
his faith in the Jewish state shattered.
“Moe”: “Malaita” is hardly correct when
he says the bosses of plantations in former
German New Guinea are not worrying about
the rhinoceros-beetle (B. 12/l/’22). Along
the coast are plantations standing as monu-
ments to the depredations of the rhino. In
one or two instances they represent an ap-
palling loss, and the sweeping away of the
fruits of from 10 to 20 years’ hard work.
In Fritz’s day a determined effort was made
to wipe out the beetle, and to this end half-
a-dozen scientists were imported from the
Cameroons and Germany, and attached to
the local Bureau of Agriculture. These in-
vestigators tried to find a spray that would
kill the parasite without damaging the
palms, and they were well on their way to
success when the war came and they fled.
Since then nothing has been done except
by the beetle, who every year renders a cer-
tain number of plantations valueless. The
authorities don’t seem to realise the seri-
ousness of the thing.
Breathless communication from “M.8.K.” :
“Woman's Letter’’ (B. 12/l/’22) says “Joseph
James Punch, who married Mary Kathleen Costigan,
of You'ng, is a nephew of Judge Edmunds.” J. J.
Punch is the son of the late Thomas Punch, who for
many years was . proprietor of the Albion Hotel,
Sydney. The late James Punch (uncle of J. J.
Punch) was business partner of the late Thomas
McGrath, and both died in the hotel, corner ot Pitt
and King streets. The wife of Judge Edmunds is
the daughter of the late Thomas McGrath. Thomas
McGrath and James Punch were both rowing cham-
pions. Amy, daughter of the late Thomas Punch
and sister of Joseph James Punch, is married to J.
T. Rush, grand-nephew of the late Thomas McGrath,
and that’s the only relationship (outside business)
of the Punches and the Edmunds. Another uncle of
J. J. Punch was the late Stephen Punch, who kept
the Swan with Two Necks; and S. Punch was partner
of the late J. Deeble in a hotel, corner Pitt and
King streets; and the late Edward Punch kept the
Tea Gardens Hotel, Waverley; and the late Patrick
Punch kept the Angel Hotel, Pitt-street; and the
late Frank and Stephen Punch kept The Bells Hotel
at Woolloomooloo wharf; and Mrs, Frank Punch’s
aunts were Mrs. Purcell, for many years proprietress
of the Custom House Hotel, Macquarie-place, and
Mrs. Madden, who kept a hotel in York-street, near
the old Queen’s Theatre.
THE SETTLEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our Bill and Jim had each a block,
And worked on Diggers’ loans;
For Jimmy suffered still from shock,
And Bill had aching bones.
They did much good a while ago,
And now they do no harm,
While each the other tries to show
The right way not to farm.
«
But Tommy came—-a bursting shell —
He shook the Diggers’ line,
And visions brought of Ilvins, an’ Hell,
An’ Turks, an’ Palestine.
For Tommy worked his block of land
On methods up to date,
With triple plough, and ffve in hand,
And furrows deep and straight.
I mentioned it to Jim one day
How Tommy pushed along,
And made his bit of farming pay—•
No crop of his went wrong—
And forged ahead, and paid his rent,
And showed them all the point
How they could make the settlement
A dinkum paying joint.
“Oh, yaas,” Jim drawled, “he’s diggin’ still,
The same as at the row.
Why can’t ’e be like me an’ Bill,
An’ use a single ‘plough ?
’Gainst blokes like him we’ve got no show —
O’ course we’re left behind:
The blankard’s doped—he doesn’t know
The blinkin’ Treaty’s signed.”
N.S.W.
D. ENNIS.


I
Mill
m p
wm
11
1
s
m
vrx.
SjflMaP
mMm
■
i
Wt
m
m
w
i.-i
mm
|M
m
m
Hi
V-sL^' l l
For Construction
and Destruction
THE instrument of destruction seldom
operates also in the field of construction.
The Comox blowpipe is one of the rare ex-
ceptions. But its power of destruction is
benevolent. It acts only for the benefit of the
race —not against it.
Note this power of helpful destruction! A nation
decides to scrap a huge ship. Formerly, the labor of
tearing down was almost as great as that of building
up. To-day, the towering mass of steel feels the lick
of scores of tiery tongues. The flames of the oxy-
acetylene blowpipes quickly cut the plates and
beams and columns at the will of the director in the
minimum of time, at the minimum of cost.
As the agent of construction or of repair, Comox plays its time-
saving, money-saving part. Nothing is too great or too small for
the healing action of its magic flame. Prom the union of giant
plates of battleship or huge building, down to the mending of the
insignificant fracture of a household utensil, its value is recog-
nised daily more and more.
Though Comox operates in ship-yard and factory, in mine and
workshop, its power is nevertheless at the ready call of every
household. When any metal part is broken it can be repaired—
really made new again—by your neighbouring Comox Welder.
In his hand, Comox, for a few pence, will save you a replacement
cost of shillings—often of pounds.
COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN AND
ACCESSORIES LIMITED
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Agents:
Melbourne— Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street.
Adelaide. —Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Grenfell Street.
Brisbane.— Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street.
Launceston.— Harrison Bros. & Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson Street.
Perth— Geo. WilJL# a Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
Suva, Ful—Brown a Joska.
COMOX
CX 191


A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine Diamord Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia
mond Cluster
Necklet, 15ct.
Gold, £35.
Smaller Dia*
monds, £25.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
P
A. lsct. Gold Links,
set fine double-cut Diamond,
£6/10/-. Smaller Dia-
monds, £5/10/-
A. Saunders' fine white double-cut Diamond Single Stone
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £35.
ħ
A. Saunders’
Fine Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ci. Gold,
£l2/10/-
m
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ping, 18ct.
Gold, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Trefoil Ring',
18ci. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring', 18ct.
Gold,- £25/-
Smaller Diamond,
£2O, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled lever
movement, £5O. Smaller Diamonds, £4O, £3O.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Octagon Wristlet Watch, full jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Larger Diamonds, £25, £3O-
-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
et Expanding Square Wristlet Watch, full jewelled
lever movement, £2O. Larger Diamonds, £25.
WRITE FOR OUR LATEST CATALOGUE.
A. Saunders’
Diamond and
Pearl Scari
Pin, 15ct. Gold,
£S.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring. 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-,
£lO.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED
POST FREE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
JEWELLER,
ZZ23>
A. Saunders’ fancy Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine Di‘""~”d Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Brooch, 18ct.
Gold, £7/10/-. Smaller Diamonds, £5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Bing,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
15ct. Gold Links,
set double-cut Dia-
mond, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Necklet,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Larger Dia-
monds, £2O.
A. Saunders’ Diamond Cluster three-bar Bracelet, 15ct-
Gold, £2O. Smaller Diamonds, £l5.
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY,
1
m
In building the Hupmohile, the builders have ever in mind the driver’s point of
view. Hupmobile owners are proud of the appearance, comfort, performance,
sturdiness and economy of operation of their cars.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types.—Five-seater touring car, two-seater
roadster.
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3 x /4in. bore x s%in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition.—High-tension magneto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch. —Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clinchers or 32in. x 4in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —-Wooden (Artillery type).
Color. —Blue or grey body.
1. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile


that
SELL
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
V
If you are fond of drawing you can 'J
easily be taught how to make money in
your own home. There is such a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr. J. C. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by his ea'y
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexes are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks himself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don’t
YOU Learn?
The Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and, address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Pays” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks will be very pleased
to write you his opinion of it —free.
But write for the book now, and judge
for yourself.
J. ('. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
Public Notice.
THE NEGOTIATION OF DIGGERS’
AND SAILORS’ GRATUITY BONDS
MADE EASY AT LOWE’S.
FOR quite a while Diners have found it
difficult to have their War Gratuity
Bonds negotiated on account of the necessary
formalities incurred, but Lowe’s have solved
this problem by assisting the Digget in every
possible manner.
All that is necessary for the man who
holds a bond of £3O or under to do is to call
in at Lowe’s George Street store (opposite
Queen Victoria Markets) and see the secre-
tary. He will do all t! e work in connection
with the transfer, and the only remaining
thing to be done is the selection of Men’s
and Boys’ clothing to the full value of the
bond, with interest added.
Diggers can buy first-class tailoring to
order, ready-made suits, hats, shirts, boots,
boys’ clothing—in fact, anything that
Lowe’s stock, at the same price as a cash
customer. It only takes a few days to do
the whole job, with no bother whatever to
the Digger. Thousands of pounds worth of
Bonds have already been accepted—and not
one bond-holder has been disappointed.—<
Advt.
MONARCH
CIGARS.
h
They Satisfy!
—and the blend
can’t be copied
All Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each.
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post paid to any address.
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Amusement*.
SY I) Nl5 Y S CIII E F TIIEAT It E S.
-T c. WILLIAMSON’, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY'S:
THE BOY.
CRITERION:
SINBAD xnm oAILOR.
ROYAL:
MERRIE ENGLAND.
PALACE:
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
u
N 111 N r I <; T L It 15 T H 15 A T U 15 N
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE. LYCEUM,
STRAND. GLOBE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Direction of Union Theatres Ltd.
|_f OH S
TII IS AT It 15b, .VIIS LUO U Its 15
Also S\ 11N15Y.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
FRANK MAYO in
THE BLAZING TRAIL.
CONWAY TEARLE in
LOVE’S MASQUERADE.
Prices us usual.
If anv illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., JIELBOUUMi
ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S THEATRE.
JOHN D. O'HARA in
THE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD., MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
BLUEBEARD.
PALACE THEATRE,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Prices. MatinGes Daily.
|y| A.IKS’t 1C THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
HER UNWILLING HUSBAND.
PRODUCED BY PATHE.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Ar
Guaranteed xKepr
in order for two yearsfree^
RAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNEY,
3,000 SATISFYING SHAVES
ĥ
BUY THiS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
- brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
ħ
$
h
ĥ
il El. DO Li KNIS.
. KITAN M A Til EAT HE,
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
motion plenums.
iVT
•:i.KA
THE AX HE,
JIISLBOUKNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s A' l ™ s -
- productions of CHAPLIN, VHAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOli 1 Dmid RH.7.NIUK. ___ __
qN TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring Tasmania.
I“HE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
I PRODUCTIONS.
Tasmanian Tour:
NATIONAL THEATRE, LAUNCESTON
Season finishing FRIDAY, FEBRUARY TO.
Australasian Representative: IIUOII D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
WEDDING
PRESENTS.
We shine in. We study
them. We cater speci-
ally for them. We sell
an enormous number
of them. Last year we
sold one-fifth more than
the previous year.
Heavy Sterling Silver
Trinket Box, 2 gin. in
diameter .... 40/-
Less 20% dis. 8/-
Sure proof that we do them well. We only
sell goods of high grade, but they must be
well bought, and of the latest daintiest type
to get into our stock. Then we sell them from
the makers’ WHOLESALE Catalogue at 20 pel’
cent, discount from the English prices.
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House.in Sydney,
P 1 casiT only?' 23 8 25 Hunter Street.
i
B
***-
rt
ST
GOLD
SEAL
is
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
. OR YOUR MONEY BACK A
REMOVE SEAL WITH
DAMP CLOTH
*** «*>. CDMfIUU**
Gold Seal
(oNGOLEUM
_/4rt-Ruc.s
A Spotless Bedroom
The basis of hygiene is a scrupu-
lously clean bedroom. This should
be kept spotless, at all costs.
But these costs are reduced to a
minimum by the thrifty Gongoleum
furnisher.
It’s a joy to know that everyone
admires your room and yet you ac-
hieved its charm while still keeping
well within the bounds of economy.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
Because Gold Seal Gongoleura
Art Squares are sanitary, water-
proof, and can be mopped clean in
a moment, they are unquestionably
the ideal floor covering for the
bedroom.
Their wonderful patterns and
handy sizes make them just as
suitable for every other room in
the house.
At all leading stores
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


FULL FASHIONED 8 MOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
0
O
A
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
llek Majesty’s “The Boy”
Royal “Merrie England”
Criterion “Sinbad the Sailor”
Palace “The Private Secretary”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures,
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
ME I. BOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “A Night Out”
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood”
King’s “The Laughter of Fools”,
Princess’s “Bluebeard”
Palace “The Babes in the Wood”
Hoyt’s Dk Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, Lance Lister,
ably assisted by several ladies and some
policemen, is still making trouble for las
stage mother’s second husband, who answers!
to the Same of Arthur Stigant. And when,
Stigant happens to be out of the picture aj
valuable exhibition of the art of powdering
noses is given by Ethel Morrison and
Gladys Morcrieff.
* * *
“The Private Secretary” continues to,
juggle with his Bath-bun at the Sydney.
Palace and keep the box-office smiling. Even,
the hailstorm of last week failed to smash'
the curate’s indomitable umbrella, the safety
of which provides an ever-present worry to
the little man in his marvellous succession,
of misadventures. Among his other claims
to a respectful greeting is that he provides
a decent part for that good Australian actor,
George Blunt.
“Merrie England,” with its pleasant music
and its provoking ana’clironisms, is finding
fit audience at Sydney Royal. And what
better audience could England want in these:
dull times?
** * *
The harrowing persecution of Sinbad the
Sailor—a nobby Sinbad in pale-blue tights—
by a singularly youthful Old Man of the Sea
is proceeding as usual at the Sydney Cri-
terion. But the ads. begin to hint darkly at
last nights.
$$ $ $
Clivalli brought his doggy “bits of fluff”
to Sydney Tivoli on Saturday; and there
surely wasn’t a flapper in attendance who
didn’t at once recognise what darling hand-
bag powder-puffs they would make. Cestina
the juggler is said to be from Italy, and there
is reason to believe it. Nobody but a son
of that spaghetti-consuming race could do
the mouth-contortion necessary for the box-
stacking act. Rene Esler was another new
performer on a bill that still stars Ella
Shields, who has such a way with her, and
Bert Gilbert, whose “Dark White Horse”
has .such a way with him.
** * *
Under the imitation-Russian binding of
Liza Par sin ova, Elsie Ferguson trails a
succession of startling and exotic draperies
at Sydney Lyceum. The name of the
thriller is “Footlights,” and it is concerned
somewhat with the stage. But the hectic
past in darkest Russia that her publicity-
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
George Blunt as Mr. Cattermole.
man has thrust upon her causes Elsie the
usual seven-reel disturbance, among the
trials being 40 complete changes of raiment.
At the Crystal Palace Blanche Sweet intro-
duces “Her Unwilling Husband” to the
young man from whom she had just disen-
gaged herself because of a blot on his past.
The so-called husband being only a tem-
porary fixture, Blanche allows herself to
be kidnapped on to the yacht of the best-
boy, who thereupon proves that the blot
isn’t indelible, and reunion and complete
happiness follow. At the Ilaymarket and
Strand Norma Talmadge, although the
daughter of a Chicago pork-packer, counts
love “The Wonderful Thing”: and “Getting
Mary Married” takes up most of the after-
noon and evening at the Ilaymarket, Hoyt’s
and the Piccadilly. This is a winner,
though Hoyt’s put their ultimate all on the
“Short Skirts” of Gladys Walton.
“A Night Out,” adapted by mummer
Grossmith from the French, is a whirl of
old familiar happenings with touches of ori-
ginality. The constructors (for Grossmith
needed a collaborator) had a big bag of
tricks to draw upon, and the result is satis-
factory, though the plot bears evidence of
having been made virtuous in spite of itself.
The elimination of native wickedness can
be felt as the situations fade and die: one
bedroom scene in particular, wherein four
pretty flappers appear, seems to cry aloud
for its expunged impropriety. In passing
it may be remarked that Matthieu (Kella-
way) and his four dainty daughters deserve
more scope than they get, whereas some of
the feeble dialogue and rush-about business
between Maud Fane and Frith might be cur-
tailed. Also Maud’s ditty of “Guards’
JAS. DODDS, musical director, Fullers'
“Babes in the Wood” panto, at Mel-
bourne Palace.
Brigade,” at the end of the hurly-burly, be-
longs to an order of items that never would
be missed.' Even the violently graceful pro-
ceedings of Jack Hooker and Rita Nugent
could be dispensed with, notwithstanding the
double encore that their so-called dance is
liable to produce. Human interest of a sort
is dotted all over the piece without being
heaped anywhere in profusion. Harry Wot-
ton, as a sculptor waiting for fame, is
bracketed with Cecil Bradley at the outset,
but they subsequently get lost in the con-
fusion. Paul Plunket, the gloomy iianc6 of
Maud Fane, mostly retires from view while
Frith takes Maud to the old stereotyped
restaurant, where the police make a raid.
Apparently he derives very little joy from
his mild peccadillo, but he is bound to go
gay owing to his wife (Millie Engler)
being one of those terrible matrons whose
husbands are goaded into insurrection. At
art studio, or restaurant, or over the garden
wall, Madge Elliott, as a maid servant, and
Cyril Ritchard, as her mild young man, are
important features of the busy scene. Taking
one hour with another, they are probably
the most industrious workers in the cause,
as well as the most improved members of
the co. Disguised as pierrots and assisted
by the Exquisite Eight, they supply a charm-
ing ballet episode, and all else they do is
very neatly done. But nothing that anybody
does can be said to make the show. The
success, which stops considerably short of
a triumph, is the product of many circum-
stances, ballet-mistress Minnie Hooper head-
ing the list. Many shows in which most of
the same people have been concerned were
not quite so entertaining as this, and one
remembers the general effect of music, song
and madness as containing much to be
thankful for. It is housed at the Melbourne
Royal.
si: * si: si:
“Babes in the Wood” at Melbourne
Palace continues to be presentable in its
pictorial and personal aspects, but its musi-
cal effects are still sadly damaged by the
shortage of orchestra. Half a dozen or so
instrumentalists are hardly worthy of their
hire. They furnish only the wraith of an
accompaniment to a strong-voiced songstress
like Mabelle Morgan, and the heaviest back-
ing they can give to the chorus seems rather
in the nature of an obligato.
** * *
1 Melbourne Princess’s the humiliation of
, Blu(d)eard” proceeds with unabated indus-
try- The furious personage with the cerulean
whiskers is for ever brandishing a blunt
scimitar, and threatening sudden death to
other principals, but they invariably reply
with “cheek'’ and put his futile rage to
confusion. Like Demon Discord he was
born to be thwarted. He is alleged to have
been a devil of a despot in the past, but as
far as Fullers’ panto, goes Bluebeard merely
serves as an excuse for processions and
ballets, and otherwise his name might as
well be Mud.
* * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the panto, pants
as before. The kiddies who play the name-
parts in.“ Babes in the Wood” are enjoying
their clever young selves all the time, and
Mel Ward continues to stagger around in the
hot and stuffy capacity of a scarecrow as
though he liked even that. Norah Delaney
still offers atonement, with her frequent
changes of beauteous clothes, for the girls
who wear little save an air of unconcern
where their legs are concerned; and Baron
Percy continues to be embarrassed by the
lavish attentions of a saucy young nipper
who mistakes him for a toreador and pro-
mises him a wild embrace when he has won
the bull-fight.
$ * *
At Melbourne King’s the personality of
John D. O’Hara continues to count for
virtue in a character which earns no intelli-
gent respect whatever. Old-man Greig
appears to be popular with payable audiences
on the strength of his silvery locks and his
pervading smile, but if the multitude gave a
little serious consideration to the whimper-
ing old hero they would probably forgive the
sins of the Greig familv on the ground that
father was alone to blame. Seeing, how-
ever, that nobody takes the comedy seriously,
it is an easy matter for the elderly nark to
get sympathy under false pretences..
* * s;c *
The-Tast week of the old bill at Melbourne
iivoli introduced Clifford Morgan into the
proceedings. The tunefulness of that
Ivipliug ballad-singer will be continued in the
new bill on Saturday, when Wilkie Bard
m. < U t, to resume his popularity. Meantime
Jhe h rolics have departed and Rickaby is
about to disappear.
❖ >]' *
, r “. IT P . Ma ry’s Attic,” at Melbourne
Majestic this week, is not a jaunty reference
to the lady s brain-box, but a literal allusion
to the little sky-high room where she con-
ceals the offspring of a romantic marriage.
Apparently the reason for Mary’s secrecy is
that she had taken a husband before she was
r}’ ft which age she could claim a fortune
it she were, found unwed. The end is
perfectly satisfactory, but the main interest
is the baby carefully guarded by a faithful
dog. the Australian, Sylvia Bremer, looks
refreshing in “Dawn,” but the plot is want-
ing in impressive effects and the female-
devotion motif is rather overdone. Hoyt’s
supporters- are feeling commiseration for
h rank Mayo in “The Blazing Trail.” Most
of the story happens among the feudists of
Old Kentucky, and, though preferring peace
to battle, I rank soon develops corns on his
trigger finger. Hoyt’s other topliner intro-
duces . Conway Ica rle and some well-worn
situations, but Conway’s pantomime is
W?**? watching, and his lady lead,
S lfl X? has « face to remember.
Jhe Old Curiosity Shop” has gone to the
Britannia, and “The Hell Diggers” are
raging at the Melba. . b e
* * if: *
Wilkie Bard has been getting tremendous
houses at Adelaide Royal. He is an artist
but some of his business is very deliberate'
especially a squabble scene which is not
worth quite all the time it takes. The Pedrini
lady sings well, and Crighton has one or
two new in club-juggling. At the
King s is a tenor, Notariello, whose voice
and youthfulness .are both remarkable; and
Lindsay Ivemble continues his brisk femi-
nine impersonation as- Mimi. At the Exhibi-
tion Gardens is Humphrey Bishop, con-
valescent after an illness; Joseph Brennan
is the leading humorist, and a new feature
a n.vpg song, somewhat on “Agatha
Green lines, cleverly written by Edith Aird,
an Adelaide journalist. In pictures, “Know
Thy Child at West’s is a good Australian
pioduction, but marred, like so many of ours
by an unpleasant subject. Wondergraph
too, is on dubious ground with Arnold Ben-
nett s Sacred and Profane Love.” A
l e £ is that of “My Lady Friends”
at the York, showing how a man can’t even
shower benefits on a “bunch of good-lookers”
without getting himself misunderstood.
$ * #' *
From a Brisbane enthusiast:—
Jeannette Sheldon’s gallery at Preston House is
showing Stanhope Hobday’s water colors. If this
artist had long hair and a foreign name, the public
might flock to see his pictures; but as he is a
Brisbane man, only the artistic few have been
attracted. For some years his painter-friends have
urged him to send his pictures south; but he has
not yet done so. From his father, the late J. M.
Hobday, the son learnt to paint skies. Oldsters
used to say that Hobday senior was the only
Queenslander who could do it; but the son can
do it better. In “Wind at Even’’ one can
hear the rustle of the gums. “While I Go on
Forever-' is a sunny bush sketch; and “Storm at
Even a fine composition in browns and redT
the best thing in the show. There is
of Penleigh Boyd in the gums but thn eth ,’." B
atmosphere of the Queensland bush j s over^Hob-
"THE BOY." AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Magistrate Meebles (Arthur Stigant) de-
scribes his fancy dress : “The top half
is Napoleon and the rest Josephine."
day’s work. He deserves to fare better than he
has done at the hands of his own people and Miss
Sheldon ought to be publicly thanked for introducing
him to those among whom he has grown up.
** * *
M.D.’s” reflections on hair .and kisses:—
.Thej weie very proper people in the reign of Queen
Victoria. The first act of Arnold Bennett and
K noblock’s “Milestones” gives us a good idea of
their fetish of propriety. What a stilted' affair
love-making was in those days! When the hero
was accepted, he “imprinted a chaste salute” on the
forehead of the heroine. The Victorians were respon-
sible for that phrase, “chaste salute.” Chaste
salute, foorsooth, with hypocrisy staring from every
letter! Some of the Victorian women must have
received rather bad shocks when they married if
chaste salutes were their most torrid experience in
the way of flirtation.
Tet one can scarcely be surprised if kissing was
not so wildly popular with the ringletted maidens
of the mid-century as it is with the girls of to-day.
I hose were the times when the young bloods wore
full beards. The Crimean War was responsible for
popularising those atrocities. • The conditions under
which the soWiers lived during that campaign made
shaving something not to be undertaken lightly; and
wonderful crops of whiskers were the result. The
maidens of the period, of course, admired these wiry
crops, just as. they were for the moment prepared
to admire anything else in the soldier; so that not
eyen if the boys came home looking like Abraham
would the nice girls be likely to object. It followed
from this that every man who had never sniffed
gunpowder, - and yet wanted the limelight of girls’
smiles, struggled to grow a beard. So the man who
was “bearded like the pard” had a halo of romance
thrown round him, and was fussed over by the pretty
little dears in crinolines till he thought himself the
deuce of a fine fellow. But he soon paid for it; for
the full beard produced the chaste salute. A bearded
kiss being reminiscent of barbed-wire, the mid-
V ietorian kisses .became but sketchy’ affairs when
compared with those of to-day.
W T omen tolerated these beards in their warriors and
pseudo-warriors, but the bristles that did hedge mas-
culine lips had but little real attraction for • them.
They tolerated them for a while, just as they tolerate
muddy’ boots. But in their insidious way they
soon got rid of the impediments. Not in one genera-
tion was it accomplished, however. The men of the
Crimean period were not going to part lightly with
their emblems of glory’. But the girls told their
brothers with brutal frankness, and other men with
charming flattery, how unbecoming beards were. Men
made concessions. They could not give in entirely
at once. That would be abdicating their position as
lords of creation. So they shaved their chins, and
lo! the “side-boards” of Du Maurier’s ’sixties and
’seventies! But the women were not yet satisfied,
and men yielded still further to feminine impor-
tunities. We find the young gentry of the ’eighties
shorn of the bullswool effects on their cheeks, but
adorned now with a long, drooping moustache a
“cavalry moustache,” it was called. It would never
have been tolerated had it not been the mark of the
army; and, as ever, men who wished to look martial
copied the badge.
The “toothbrush” is the last stand of the mous-
tache. But long before men had come to this, num-
bers had thrown in the towel, and presented bare
faces to the world. To-day’ is the day’ of the clean-
shaven man, and the chaste salute is as dead as
Queen Victoria. What has taken its place? Study
the “pictures”—American for choice —and you will
get enlightenment. For the rest you must turn to
the universal flapper.


m
■ ■
■
SBf
M
• ,
-
-T:,.
n
■ ( .
■
■ '''
. ** !
i®B«
||l|§|ll V -iMt > i : ,'• v'; 1
~A
, .'• ■ <;.
aai
w
»■!*
'
‘ . *
■•'.\v
.
|a&
ii
m
w*'
■ •
w~~
m
Ks
.
:4 ,
I®
In
-
«
■ ■:
W^Wm%s£
llifftl • .?.■!
:
. > J»xmrn
mn
m
■
HS
pr
”
■
©
J
0
■■- ■
,*• ;*•■••'-
€
- A"
*s§&»*■
■
a*
-
m
■■
#2*
v ■ "
m
“t:
'
mm
kWteM;
ft
■:•: i
Wm
iV:*
:m
i
i
IT is just as simple as that—ample Electric Power for household
JL and many other uses, and clean, steady, odorless light, (where-
ever you have placed a bulb) at the mere snapping of a switch.
A house equipped with Western Electric Power and Light is a model n
home in the fullest sense —a home of ease and comfort, of cheei fulness and
smooth convenience from end to end. Picture that house to yourself l
By day, the house-cleaning, the laundry-work—washing and i’ oning
done without back-breaking labor and without the stifling heat from open
fires or naked lights. Farmwork —churning, separating, and innumerable
power jobs—done practically without the raising of a human fingei.
By night, a house illuminated,by a soft, clear light; bright verandahs
turned into cool, healthy open-air rooms where it is pleasant to read or
play; well-lit gateways, paths, or outhouses, no longer traversed by
stumbling feet in the poor light of a flickering lamp or candle. Every place
flooded at will—at the snapping of a switch —with a bright illumination.
You will appreciate all this. But, how much more will your women-
folk!
The Western Electric engine is H.P., runs on kerosene, is air cooled, throttle
governed, and has pump fuel feed. It carries a pulley from which any farm machine
can be driven.
The Western Electric battery has a capacity of 288 Ampere hours (S.A.E. Rating),
nearly as large again as most other private lighting plant batteries. Further, the
Western Electric battery is automatically charged—it cannot be overloaded; it is
always protected from injury or rapid deterioration.
These Western Electric features are mechanical money-savers— they explain why
over 100,000 users find Western Electric Power and Light a profitable investment.
Write nearest address for 20-page book and all particulars, post free.
Western Electric Company
{Australia) Ltd.
SYDNEY• 10° Castlc , *ea o 'h Street. MELBOURNE: C. R. lOSTER, 262 Flinders
Lane BRISBANE: T. TONES, Elizabeth Street. ADELAIDE: NEWTON McLAKEN
TTH Ipi oh Street PERTH: Wm. ADAMS & Lo., LTD., oo King Street, HOBAKI.
ME I) lIURST ELECTRIC CO., Argyle Street. WELLINGTON, KZ.: A. D. RILEY &
CO., LTD., Lambton Quay, also at Christchurch, Auckland and Dunedin
m
i ttfrri
pUB
*


Virginia Cigarettes
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
Cool and—
fragrant, made
from perfectly
mellowed and
ripened leaf
from Virginia, “ Prince Charming
thoroughly deserves to be called tbe
Prince of cigarettes, Money cannot
buy anything better.
Jvlanufactured by GODFREY PHILLIPS , Ltd., London . England.
cx
ex x
'V'
y.
ms,
X
—7 y
v.
XT
1
Thoe't & thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
“Floater”: Allan Wilkie, who returns to
Melbourne this month, has again engaged
Fanny Wiseman, whose last job in the
metropolis was the Third Witch in Wilkie’s
production of “Macbeth.” Miss Wiseman
has a record almost as long as that of the
venerable Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis (Rose
Edouin/, who is still appearing in England.
Over 60 years ago she started as a fairy in
a panto at the Old Queen’s, Melbourne, and
at 14 did Lady Macbeth with Hoskins at
Bdllarat-, staying in that seething village for
something over a year. After-wards Cres-
wick, the two Dillons and others gave her
engagements; and in 1868 she went to India
with Mrs. Lewis and stayed nearly five
years. After spending some time in London,
where she was soon a Boucicault heroine in
one of his stock companies, she returned to
Australia to figure in many pieces, notably
the late John Sheridan’s “Fun on the
Bristol” and “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” People
now ancient retain lively memories of the
lady’s Topsy.
Naughton and Gold in “The Babes in the
Wood" at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne.
“The Englishman”: Wilkie Bard doesn’t
get the old effect. When he first came right
to the front in London —15 years ago was it?
or 20? —he scored mainly because he was
somehow different. We were used to the
aggressive comic-man. Chevalier wasn’t
aggressive, yet even he took care to have the
middle of the stage. But here the curtain
went up on a big scene, and there was an
old bundle in one corner —a charwoman or
night-watchman or what not —and then it
would begin to sing. It all fetched us im-
mensely. Of course he’s a lot older now,
and has got rather ponderous. Notice how T
he says every blessed thing twice over? “I’ve
had about enough of you, my lad. Yes, I’ve
had about enough of you. I shall have to
pass you one in a minute. I say I shall
have to pass you one.” And so on all
through : no idea that he’s doing it, probably.
And then he doesn’t seem to have abso-
lute winner of a song now, like “She Sells
Sea Shells” or “Sister Susie.” _ The main
trouble is that he’s put off coming here too
long, like most of them; and you’ve seen
all his business done by other people. There
ought to be some copyright law to protect
stage business for the man who starts it.
,T. and N. Tait have their say:—
Ir: “Poverty Point” (B. 19/l/’22) “Cremonensis”
airs his ign’oranee regarding Jascha Spivakovsky.
He declares that the Manchester Guardian didnt
use many superlatives over him. lie omits to
mention, however, that such more notable papers as
the London Daily Telegraph, the Westminster
Gazette, the Musical News, the Daily News and
others gave him the most eulogistic notices. AVhen he
drew crowded and delighted audiences at two series
of concerts in London. The value of the opinions
of “Cremonensis” may be gauged by the fact that
he refers to Spivakovsky as a violinist, whereas
he is a pianist. Nothing more need be said.
“Snell”: Have you ever considered the
malignity of tenors? The gifted French-
man who discovered the capacity for revenge
in a sheep curi-
ously enough over-
looked a kindred
quality in tenors.
The leading
soprano and the
leading tenor of
one grand Op. Co.
that visited Aus-
tralia were at dag-
gers drawn. In
fact, the lady’s
bitter reproaches
and studied insults
so galled the male
songbird that lie
often went on in
a rabid state of
mind, thirsting for
sweet —I might
almost say bloody
—revenge. Things
had been going
worse than usual
when the moment
came for him to
embrace Marguer-
ite. Taking a firm
grip of his victim,
under a pretence
of kissing her he
fastened his teeth
in the lobe of her
ear and bit. After
the scene a frantic
soprano pursued a
distracted man-
ager with loud
lamentations and a
lacerated ear,
while a little fat
tenor strutted up
“The Boy," at Sydney
Majesty’s.
Albany Pope (H. St.
Hilliard) thinking
of love.
and down brandishing his arms and crying
—“Revench ! Revench !”
“E.F.”: E. J. and D. Carroll, through
their agent, Frank Talbot, have got a lease
of Melbourne Athenamm Hall for 20 years,
contracting to spend £5OOO on a new stage,
additional seating accommodation and fur-
bishments in general. The Athenaeum Hall
of nowadays is a very considerable improve-
ment on its ancient self, and another £5OOO
ought to make it fit for any ordinary full-
sized theatrical entertainment. As a one-man
show-place it has always been the best Mel-
bourne could supply. Alexander Watson
has filled it dozens of times within the past
few years. It was a dingier building and
not so well ventilated when Mel. B. Spurr
boomed there as a monologuist, and earned
more money for his manager. Her-
bert Flemming, than even R. S. Smythe’s
lecturers had harvested under the same
roof. For the sort of entertainment
which the Carrolls are likely to offer it is
an excellent pitch. Incidentally, it was
the original home of successful pictures-oim-
vaudeville in Melbourne, when J. P. West
had the Brescians to assist his early cine-
matograph venture.
“Gibson Young”: “Cremonensis” _ (B.
19/'l/’22) refers to Spivakovsky as a violin-
ist. Jascha, the one we are to be interested
in, is a pianist; it is his brother Toscha,
aged 14, who is the fiddler —and a very pre-
cocious one, too, judging by his London
criticisms. They are sons of a Russian Jew
of Odessa.
“Fax”: As evidence of how Melba has
held her own in her own country, it is worth
remembering that when she gave a series of
concerts 14 years ago she was supported by
flautist Lemmone, Una Bourne (solo
pianist), Andrew Black and Louis Hatten-
bach (’cellist). Six years earlier, when she
came from Europe with her first flourish of
trumpets, under nominal engagement to
George Musgrove, she had a tenor, a Bari-
tone, a flautist, a pianist and a harpist with
her. And now —-well, Melba can fill her
own bill. Yet they say that no woman is
a prophetess in her own country.
“T.W.”: Christine Nilsson, who gave up
singing so long ago that the middle-aged
had no chance to hear her, left £120,000 in
England and no doubt a tidy wad elsewhere.
She earned her fees before the great for-
tunes, such as Caruso’s and Tamagno’s, were
about—even the moderately great can make
a good pile in these days of fees, royalties
and tinned-music contracts. Two that I
predict will cash-up well at the finish are
Ben Davies and Edward Lloyd; but, then,
in addition to being singers, they are fellow-
countrymen of Hughes.
“T.R.H.”: Re Villiers Arnold’s last words
on the stage: “Hangs this life ty a thread
—no more.” The last words of Henry Irving,
far more definitely predicted death. He was
playing Thomas h Becket, Archbishop of
Canterbury, and in course of the part said :
“Into Thy hands, O Lord,” then col-
lapsed on the stage. He never spoke again.
“Fax”: Local manufactures are making
headway on the Australian stage. For the
first time in the history of J.C.W. panto, the
wig 3 used in “The Babes in the Wood” are
local achievements. Time was when wigs
were no class unless imported, but in this
instance a Melbourne barber got the oraer,
and the result leaves nothing foreign to be
desired.
“Digger Strorat”: Is the rising generation
treated to a fair rendering of the “Private
Secretary” in the present revival? Anyone
who has read the script must sense the false
or insincere note the co. strikes throughout.
Whether this is a fault of the producer or
of individuals I can’t say, but I should think
the former. The keynote of the first act is
sentiment, yet it is never struck. It’s all
break-neck American-pace farce. The second
act should be clouded with mysterious sug-
gestion in a gentleman’s manor. No atmo-
sphere suggesting anything within miles of
this is obtained. Everything seems to have
been overlooked but farce-pace. Even the
third act has nothing in it. To the younger
generation who see this show I would say
“Don’t judge the play until you have read
it.”
“Nella”: While Ella Shields is being
“imitated” at the London ’alls (B. 26/l/’22),
it is unhappily left to a native mummer,
Frank Hawthorne, to earn his fish and chips
by imitating Wilkie Bard at suburban pic-
ture shows. By the way, Frank’s brother,
the late E. Carden Wilson, was one of the
best mimics we have seen here. Scenic-
artist Wilson was their father.
“Stargazer”: I have been to Melba’s five-
shilling popular concerts at Melbourne Town
Hall, and the item which pleased me most
was not the Diva's inevitable “Good Bye,”
nor her flash “Waters of Minnetonka” nor
ever her artistry in pulling the hind leg of her
simple audience with a snivelling version of
“Home, Sweet Home,” but a performance at
the piano backed by a well-drilled symphony
orchestra. The piece was a Hungarian
rhapsody, and the soloist grim, gifted, little
Una Bourne. There was no catchpenny
trickery about this performance; and if my
choice is pagan it was an audience of pagans,
for no other effort won such warm applause.
“Alwyn”: When Joe Coyne returns to
Sydney he may witness a performance of
“The Merry Widow,” as it is to be put in
rehearsal at Her Majesty’s to follow “The
Boy.” Coyne was the original Prince Danilo
at Daly’s, with Leslie Holland (the pros-
pective Danilo) as Nisch and George Graves
as Popoff. Holland is a good Danilo; but
it would be interesting to have a taste of
Coyne in a rSle that made Joseph a matinee
idol. Young Lance Lister is to play Nisch,
Arthur Stigant Popoff, Nell Payne Fifi and
Gladys Moncrieff Sonia.
“Vandorian” from London :
Tenor Philip Wilson, whose elegant appearance
and academic method of approaching old English
composers won the approval of Sydney highbrows,
is heard occasionally in London. Recently he sang
at the Wigmore Hall, a West End auditorium much
frequented by Mark Hambourg and similar neck-or-
nothing musicians. By which no disrespect is in-
tended to the pianist: his smashing style has toned
down, and he is, in consequence, a far more pleasing
performer. Gerald Cooper (Sydney) has given some
recitals, having tired of (if he ever cared for) the
Rich Young Man r6le. Beatrice Miranda has been
singing with the Carl Rosa Co. at Covent Garden.
And here Madame Lily Payling takes a box-seat. The
report that she is interested in a scheme to buy
the Opera House which takes its name from the rose-
and-cabbage market has not been contradicted. It
sound# rather like buying Madame Tussaud’s or
Tottenham Court Road. Madame Lily Payling is the
good-looking, forceful lady Sydney used to know as
Mrs. Haffenden Smith. Maoriland contralto Stella
Murray, who had the luck to catch Melba’s eye, has
been in the pink glow of the /Eolian Hall’s rose-
shaded lights; and Mignon Trevor, the Westralian
songbifd, has been wearing the nicest Paris plumage
at a cycle of parties in her honor.
“Eskarri Bey”: Dago films may be with-
out humor, but perhaps “Billyfitz (B.
19/l/’22) finds them too true to life.
“Gazer’s” aside (B. 12/l/’22) that
Italian productions make those of the U.s.
look cheap and vulgar just about hits the
mark. Having seen good Dago productions
in a land where censorship is not as strict
as in Aussie, I’m with “Gazer” ; and, curi-
ously enough, I also agree with “Billyfitz”
that the Yankee films will be more acceptable
to the Australian mind than Dago melo-
drama (as he calls it) —but only while that
mind remains at its present level.
“THE PRIVATE SECRETARY." AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
Charles Walenn as the Rev. Robert Spalding.
“Hamer”: Gorman, the Fullers’ domestic
curate, isn’t thu only parson who has faced
the footlights to gain money for religious
work. In a mission station in Borneo the
man in charge is Bernard Mercer, who, while
a curate in London many years ago, suddenly
deserted the church, married an actress and
went on the stage. But finding the life
uncongenial, and hearing the Vineyard call-
ing, he and his wife worked merely long
enough on the boards to save money for a
course in a missionary college—a study of
medicine is necessary—and then "ot the
appointment to their present mission.
Writing in the Daily Mail “Year Book”
W. G. Faulkner, a recognised authority on
the movies, says that the most popular
pitcher of the year was Chaplin’s “The
Kid” and one of the most striking Matheson
Lang’s “Carnival,” made partly in England
and partly in Italy. Among the notable events
of 1921 were the rapid advance of the Danes
and Swedes (Faulkner pronounces the
Swedish Victor Seastrom “the greatest film-
tragedian of to-day”), the decline of the
sex-picture in America and the sinister pro-
gress of Germany, which has 150 picture-
producing companies at work, and is flood-
ing the States with films far cheaper than
any the home-bred Guggensteimers and
Hamundbiefers can turn out. This country
wasn’t forgotten when the flowers were
handed round. M. P. Adams’s Wild North-
West money-spinner is favorably mentioned,
and “Australia,” Faulkner adds, “also intro-
duced to us in humorous verse films, not
only an Australian poet, but the most
lovable characters yet seen on the screen.”
“Gibson Young”: If the Spivalcovskys and
the Levitzkis and the Seidels were really so
much superior to our own artists, William
Murdoch and Percy Grainger, one might
forgive the preposterous attitude of the man-
agers and the public. But they are emphati-
cally not much more than half-baked pro-
digies. Billy Murdoch complained bitterly
to a friend of mine in London only a month
or so ago that the British-born artist found
it increasingly difficult to the
advantage that an artist has with a “ski”
an “off” or an “itch” as a tail to his name.
It was fashionable during the war to decry
all foreign artists, but bow the British and
Australian publics are inclining to an equal
lack of balance in accepting any foreigner
merely at his name-value or on the recom-
mendation of his publicity agent. I agree with
“Cremonensis” that while we are asked to
put up with youthful prodigies and debarred
from hearing the really great geniuses of
music, we might at least encourage our own
executants and not let them remain exiles
in London, Paris or New York. It is disap-
pointing to know that Murdoch may not
visit us in April as he intended.
“E.K.S.”: Part of Allan Wilkie’s publicity
is an illustrated pamphlet, and the copy
before me gives a picture of “Miss Hunter-
Watts as Portia in ‘Julius Caesar’.” It will
be interesting to see how T this concentration
of Shakspeare pans out.
THE HUMOR OF THE YEARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yon old girl, feigning to be older still,
Her figure bloated and expression grim,
Is one who erst was starred upon the bill,
The youthful heroine, divinely slim.
Toasted at suppers, glorified in verse,
She once was Juliet who now acta the Nurse.
No man more envied in past happy days
Than he who won her wondrous mimic love;
Who, in the limelight’s glare, returned her gaze,
And postured proudly as he kissed her glove ;
And when their lips in long endearment met
The gods cried “O-o-o-h”—methinks I hear them
yet.
Dear leading lady of the time long past,
No winsome girl to-night you represent;
The characters for which you now are cast
Have naught of beauty or sweet sentiment;
A subject you for low-comedian’s taunt —
An ugly, angry, withered maiden aunt.
Not the same “O-o-o-h” that signified of old
Keen admiration do you now excite,
AVhen from the hero with the heart of gold
You claim attentions as an auntie’s right;
He shrinks, and then, ’midst merry laughter shrill,
Accepts your kiss as one would take a pill.
Does age make sad the mummer, plump or lean,
Who nursing memories of her former self,
Must parody the charmer she has been,
And play the spinster laid upon the shelf;
Or does she smile at seasons as they go,
And feel the satire of the passing show?
victoria.
O.K.


Cement Industry in Australia Offers Great Chance to Investors
New Company Forming to Acquire deposits of Argillaceous Limestone near Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), can provide supplies of highest
quality cement at the lowest cost of production with exceptional facilities for marketing, to meet a large and increasing demand,
thereby creating a much-desired and highly profitable industry.
The Subscription List is now open and will close on February 22, 1922.
PROSPECTUS
The Australian (Yellow Rock) Portland
Cement Co. Limited
(To be incorporated under the Companies Act, N.S.W., 1899-1918.)r
CAPITAL £.300,000,
Divided into 800,000 Shares of £1 each. *
200,000 Shares are offered as Contributing Shares, payable 6/- per Share on application, and the balance
as required in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share per month. These shares shall carry a cumulative
preferential dividend of 7 per cent, per annum.
30,000 Shares fully paid up will be issued to the Vendors of the deposit of Artrillaceous Limestone and
the Title thereto, together with £5OOO cash and £6OOO out of future profits.
These Shares are Ordinary Shares, and shall be entitled to receive a 7 per cent, dividend (not cumulative)
after payment of the 7 per cent, cumulative preferential dividend mentioned above.
After payment of above-mentioned dividend, both classes of shares shall rank equally for any further
dividends deolared in any one year.
70,000 Shares will be held in reserve, and may be issued as Bonus Shares or for the purpose of under-
writing, or in acquisition of other properties, or in such manner as the Directors of the Company
may determine.
Directors ( Provisional ) :
EDWARD H. BUCHANAN, Esq., Master Builder, 12 Castlereagh Street.
LOUiS F. PAGES. Esq., Monumental Mason, Lidcombe.
JOHN CAMPLING, Esq.. Muster Builder, Burwood.
FREDERICK JOYNER, Esq., Investor, Oxford Street, Paddington.
Bankers:
COMMERCIAL BANKING CO. OK SYDNEY, LTD. (Exchange Branch).
Solicitor:
R. S. LAMBTON, 2 Bond Street, Sydney.
Secretary and Offices:
R. P. CHATFIELD. 186 George Street, Sydney.
THE OBJECTS:
This Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from the Vendors the right to work a
certain deposit of Argillaceous Limestone contained in an area of 80 acres, as surveyed, situated about
94 miles from the town of Muswellbrook, in the Parish of Balmoral, County of Durham, and within the
Shire of Muswellbrook.
To erect on the property suitable buildings and plant for the manufacture of Natural Cement and
Portland Cement.
To carry on the business of Cement Manufacturers or any branch of the industry, and to market the
products of such manufacture.
POINTS FOR THE INVESTOR.
(1) In view of the high cost of <etnent and the inadequate supplies available, and the large and increasing
demand for Cements for constructional work, this Company is assured of a continuous market for its
productions on most, favorable sale terms.
(2) The expression of opinion in the public Press that there is ample room for the establishment of many
more Cement Works in Australia to comply with the demand for Cement.
(3) The fact that the Government of New South Wales, through Mr. Estell (Minister for Works and
Railways), has stated: “It is likely that the Government will require supplies over and above the
quantity contracted for with the Commonwealth Portland Cement Co., and if we receive an offer at
the same price and of similar quality, it will be considered, more espe<ialiy if the firm is a local one.
(4) The opinion of those, competent to judge, that this Compnay can produce an article equal to the best
Cement on the market, at. a considerably lower cost, and therefore will be able to compete with
existing firms on a most favorable basis.
(5) Exceptional facilities for quarrying and conveyance to factory.
(6) A cheap and accessible coal supply.
(7) The whole of the plant and machinery will be of the most modern type, and can be made available
available without delay.
(8 The manufacturing cost will be lower than that of any existing plant. .
(9) The demand being certain, the Company is assured of highly satisfactory returns on the caiptal
(10) The cost of imported cement being almost double the present selling price of cement uanufactured in
Australia, taken into consideration with the large demand for cement throughout Austialasia, warrants
the assumption that the present situation offers a splendid and lucrative opportunity tor tne
establishment of another up-to-date cement undertaking in the Commonwealth.
PLANT ANT) MACHINERY.
The Works will be laid out on the most modern lilies, and equipped with the latest machinery and
labor 'efpital^r the Company’s plant per ton of output, including Vendors’ interest and expense
of flotation, will compare most favorably with that of cement works lately ejected in Australia and. other
countries. Too much consideration cannot be put on the importance of the latest modern machinery, te
advantages being reflected in both lower costs and higher quality of product. The promoters, on exp
advice from technical advisers, consider that £250,000 will be ample to erect a plant capable of an
output of 50,000 tons of Portland Cement per annum.
COST OF MANUFACTURE. , ,
The deposits of the natural raw material constitute a practically inexhaustible supply ol qualitatively
suitable material, requiring no admixture of other materials, as is at present the case with existing
concerns, together with the general conditions pertaining to the working oU these deposits, admits of a
very low manufacturing cost; but in view of the interests of shareholders it is obvious that no mures
can be given here; but the fart that the present manufacturing cost of existing concerns is from 50/-• to
55/- per ton. which returns a minimum profit of 35/- to 40/- per ton, is sufficient indication of what
may be expected from the operations of this Company.
MARKET. , ' .
The present Australian requirements are about' 500,000 tons per annum. The nominal capacity ol
the existing Portland Cement works in Australia is about 300,000 tons, but actually the output does no
Government has lately placed an order for £1,000,000 worth of cement with a local company, at the
exceed 250,000 tons, therefore the market is to all intents inexhaustible. The New feouth Wales
price of £5/8/- per ton, and requires a further supply at the same price. Imported cement cannot be
sold at less than £8 per ton, owing to the protective tariff, therefore supplies from foreign sources can
be ruled out of the question. It is at once evident that this Company has ample scope for the sale of its
products at a price that will show magnificent returns to the investor as soon as the works are in lull
° peratl ° n HISTORY OF THE DEPOSIT.
In the year 1886 Professor T. W. Edgworth David, whilst exploring the carboniferous and other
deposits in the vicinity of Muswellbrook was induced to visit a locality described as the Jea low Rock.
He did so, and was astonished at the size of the deposit and its proxim.ityto workable and work mg coal
seams, in the same district. He immediately recognised the class of deposit as a high-grade Argillaceous
rock, or limestone, and considered its suitability (so far back as 1886) for making cement, he samp e
the outcrop carefully, and noted its position and occurrence, which he ultimately mentioned m the
Annual Report of the N.S.W. Department of Mines in 1886 (page 146). The samples were analtysed
th-oneh the instrumentality of the Professor by the Department of Mines, N.S.W.. with the following
analysis (page 70), “The Limestone Deposits of New Sovth Wales (Mineral Resources No. 25), by J. E.
Carne, F.G.S., and L. J. Jones, A.S.T.C., wherein the following note also occurs: ‘ Professor David recoids
the occurrence of an Argillaceous Limestone in Portion 139, Parish of Balmoral, County Durham, about
9 miles from Muswellbrook. of the following composition:
ANALYSIS.
“Hygroscopic Moisture
“Combined Moisture
“Carbonate of Lime . ,
“Carbonate of Magnesia
“Alumina and Iron Oxide
“Silica
“Phosphoric Acid
1.10 per cent.
1.29 „
66.55 „
1.66 „
7.65 „
21.75 „ „ •
Strong trace.
100.00 per cent.
And further remarks: “While no practical tests have been made with this stone, its chemical composition
indicates its suitability for the manufacture of natural cement. This deposit has a thickness of from
30 to 40 feet, and can be traced in disconnected outcrops for a distance of nearly two miles The proximity
of workable coal seams (in the neighborhood of Muswellbrook) enhances the value of this deposit a a
for the manufacture of natural cement. , , „ j
Some years after, a practical mining man, while in the. same locality, was camped c*®* J°J“® Jv
upon which this deposit was located, and noticing the peculiarity of the rock, detached several piece
noted its occurrence and location. Strange to relate, the rock was referred to Professor David, and o
almost exactly the same results. Advice, etc., was 'then sought from the Professor, and replies ( ™ e A ,
letters) are now attached. By making very careful and close investigation, and collecting and reading data
on certain rocks, as now used bv cement manufacturers, it is an established fact that m no case doe
rock, so far discovered and treated for the manufacture of natural cement, come up to the high analj
of this particular deposit, nor do they contain the necessary ingredients m proportionate quantities to
come within “coo-ee” of this rock, in any part of the world. Its accessibility is also of importance, ana a-
a site for the cheap making and handling of the product it cannot be exeelled. There is abundance ot
t ’ ° C ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MINES.
Year 1886.
PAGE 146. YELLOW ROOK. . , , „ „ A
The level is about 1630 feet above sea. The rock lies in thin, even beds from 3to 6 inches in
thickness, the lines of separation between the beds being marked by soft partings of Argillaceous ume
frpm ito 1 inch thick. (Dip.n. 20deg. E. at 18 decO The total thickness seen by me was about 38 feet.
TTie rock is rather soft—of a bluey-grey color —composed of lime, sand and clay. The analogy between the
composition of this limestone and that of the hydraulic limestones in Europe at once suggests its suitability
for making Portland Cement. It may be interesting to quote here, for the sake of comparison, an analysis
of a hydraulic limestone belonging to the “Lias” formation from Holywell, in North Wales:
ANALYSIS.
Carbonate of Lime
Alumina and Silica
Water
Carbonate of Magnesia
Oxide of Iron
Alkalies
71.55
23.60
0.50
1.35
2.21
0.79
100.00
An important feature in connection with the Yellow Rock Limestone is the comparative absence of
crystalline structure in the lirtie. The ereat d’fficultv to contend with hitherto, as far as I can ascertain,
in procuring' raw materials for Portland Cemert making in this colonv. has been, to find the limestone in
which the lime was so far free from crystallisation as not to necessitate the double-kilning process.
Hygroscopic
Combined M
The Yellow Rock limestone, near Muswellbrook, is therefore specially adapted for making hydraulic
lime and Portland cement, and considering the large quantity of Portland Cement imported into this colony,
it would be a matter of great importance to test, as soon as possible, the cement-making properties of this
limestone.
CONTRACTS.
The only agreement affecting the Company is as follows: —
Agreement dated November 26, 1921, between the Natural Cement Syndicate and R. S. Lambton, Esq.,
as trustee for the proposed Australian (Yellow Rock) Portland Cement Co., Ltd., and this agreement may
be inspected at the Secretary’s office, 186 George Street, Sydney.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Application for shares should be made on the form accompanying this Prospectus. Where no allotment
is made the deposit will be returned in full, and where the number of shares allotted is less than the
number applied for, the balance of deposit will be applied towards allotment, and the surplus, if any,
refunded. Pending allotment, all moneys received on application will be placed to the credit of a trust
account.
CERTIFICATES OF ASSAY.
ANALYTICAL LABORATORY AND ASSAY OFFICE,
80 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Bth August, 1921.
CERTIFICATE OF ASSAY No. 39/5.
To R. P. Chatfleld, Esq.. Sydney.
Sample for Analysis.
1.05 per cent.
1.32 per cent.
67.63 per cent.
1.45 per cent.
6.52 per cent.
1.68 per cent.
21.20 per cent.
Trace.
ORR & WELCH.
VALE & CAMERON, Assayers and Analysts,
R. P. Chatfleld, Esq., Natural Cement Syndicate, 186 George Street. Sydney, October 6, 1921.
Dear Sir.— 11E SAMPLE OF NATURAL CEMENT. .
The following results were obtained on your sample of “Natural Cement” before and after ignition:
Before Ignition—Calcium Oxide .. .. . • • • • • 41.0 per cent.
Before Ignition—Calcium Carbonate .. . • • • • • 13.2 per cent.
After Ignition—Calcium Oxide .. .. . • • • • • 53.6 per cent.
According to the above figures, 84.83 pounds of calcium carbonate should yield 62.11 pounds of
calcium oxide, therefore it will be found necessary on a similar sample to the one sent to us to add 11.63
pounds to every 100 pounds of pure (100 per cent.) calcium carbonate to yield on ignition 62.11 per cent,
pounds of calcium oxide. Thanking you, „ , „.
We are, dear sir, yours faithfully, VALE & CAMERON.
ASSAY CERTIFICATE.
Natural Cement for Calcium Carbonate.
One hundred grammes of your original sample taken, to which was added 11.63 grammes of your purest
form of calcite and the whole thoroughly mixed and assaved for calcium carbonate found:
Calcium Carbonate, 83.4 per cent. VALE & CAMERON.
Analytical Laboratory and Assay Office,
80 Hunter Street, Sydney, 24th November. 1921.
ASSAY CERTIFICATE.
Analysis of material after being calcined:
23.40 per cent. .
2.40 per cent.
Moisture
Moisture
Carbonate of Lime
Carbonate of Magnesia
Alumina
Iron Oxide ..
Silica
Phosphoric Acid ..
(COPY.)
Silica
Iron Oxide
Alumina
Lime
Magnesia
9.51 per cent.
63.25 per cent.
.83 per cent.
ORR & WELCH.
EXTRACTS from the ADVISORY REPORT of MESSRS. LONGONI & METES,
Consulting Engineers, Melbourne.
Gentlemen, — - Melbourne, January 11, 1922.
The prospects are very favorable for establishing proof that the raw. materials contained in the
deposits under consideration exist in satisfactory quantity and quality. _ .
SAMPLES. —The samples which have been collected from the “Limestone Creek deposit, and have
been analysed, disclose a limestone containing from 75 per cent, to 82 per cent, of Calcium Carbonate
(dry sample). The Silica, Sexquioxides, and other component materials are present in such proportions
as to MAKE EASY THE PROPER ADJUSTMENT for a SUITABLE RAW MIXTURE, provided low-
grade blending material is available in satisfactory quantity and quailty.
The samples which have been procured by us and have been analysed are very satisfactory. These
analyses, contained in Appendix IV., make it evident that the samples Numbers 1., 11-, IV., V., VI.,
VIII.. IX., XII., XIII., and XIV., are all of sufficiently high CaCO3 content and of sufficient consistency
in their Silica and Sexquioxide ratios, as to permit easy adjustment with low-grade material or clay.
The presence, in the samples, or free Silica and such Calcium Silicate compounds as have proved
to exist by the deficiency in COj to account for the total amount of CaO and MgO, is oi minor
importance for the time being, and should not cause any difficulty if given proper consideration when
choosing the machinery installation. , .
If it be assumed that the various beds in the formation are undisturbed, continuous, say over
the area shown in contours on Appendix I. and similar in composition to the samples 1., 11., IV., V., VI.,
VIII., IX., X.. XII., and XIII., then the quantity of suitable material which would become available
would amount to at least some 3 to 4 m'llion tons', which is a quantity quite ample for placing the enter-
prise on a sound basis, provided those beds could be quarried ; but this would only be the case il the beds
at a higher level are also suitable. ~ ...
The fact that samples as previously numbered are of relatively unitosm nature and all containing
over 75 per cent. CaCO3 promises in itself well for the maintenance of the chemical composition in the
lateral extension of the beds, and it is, in our opinion, highly probable that this composition is
maintained in the bed running towards point “X” (Appendix I.). ,
The samples as previously numbered indicate a Limestone which should prove very suitable for
the manufacture of a first-class Portland Cement.
The available data regarding the formations overlaying and underlaying the beds Y-x and /.-/■
offer, as far as they go, very favorable prospects for locating in ample quantities similar kinds of
material to that shown in the abovementioned samples.
COAL SUPPLY. —The quality of the coal from the Muswellbrook Colliery Company, such as
disclosed by the analyses from the Mines Department and from samples obtained and tested by ourselves,
appears to be fully satisfactory'. , , ~ . . ..
WATER StJPPLY. —No definite statement can be made as to the probable cost of the water
supply scheme unt 1 decisions have been reached with regard to the process of manufacture and the
location of the works. » ,
It is estimated that the annual consumption of a 50,000-ton plant, wet process, would amount to
70,000,000 gallons. . .
PROFITS.—On the basis of the present selling prices of Portland Cement, the profits of a sound
cement undertaking will be considerable. But even allowing for a considerable future reduction in
selling prices, the net profit per ton of cement should never be less than 20s. to 30s. for years to
come This means a total minimum net profit per annum of £50,000 to £75,000 for a 50,000-ton
plant, an amount very ample to permit payment of a considerable return on the invested capital
after having made provision for sinking fund and reserves.
ANALYSES OF DRY SAMPLES.
(Sio 2 ) ..
(Fe 2 O ff ).
(A 1503) .
(CaO)
I.
16.68
1.98
5.24
42.22
11.
13.32
1.34
4.02
45.17
IV.
14.12
1.68
5.40
43.70
V.
14.13
1.71
6.36
42.70
VI. VIII.
10.85
1.77
4.57
46.20
14.13
1.84
5.45
43.50
(Ca00 5 )*(75.4) (80.6) (78.0) (76.3) (82.5) (77.7) (83.8)
(MgO)
(CO 2 )
(SOa)
CaO
1.15
32.68
0.03
0.79
36.26
0.05
1.30
33.90
0.06
1.18
33.80
0.11
1.11
35.60
0.07
1.08
33.90
0.08
1.78 2.42 2.06 1.92 2.69 2.03
{Calcite sample.
SiO*+R*O s
L_ 2.31 2.49 2.0 1.75 1.71 1.95
RG3OS
‘Calculated from CaO content. {Analysis of sample not complete.
GENERAL. —We are of the opinion that the Muswellbrook deposits will, on further opening up,
disclose a very ample and qualitatively favorable source of raw materials for the economical manufacture
of a high-class Portland Cement. This opinion is bsed on the strong evidence available that the
formation of bluish-black cement rock exists over a considerable area and depth. The samples procured
by us of this formation are very satisfactory for the purpose of manufacturing cement, and, provided
this quality is maintained in sufficient quantity and in a manner to permit of easy quarrying, this
deposit will represent an excellent basis for establishing the proposed undertaking. All other conditions
necessary to guarantee successful manufacture of cement by the proposed undertaking appear to be
satisfactory. Economical coal and water supplies can be depended upon, and the location of the
undertaking relative to material supply and market is good. As regards the market prospects, the
existing high selling price of cement is sufficient indication of the prospects awaiting a new Cement
undertaking in New South Wales, so favorably located as the one contemplated, near a main railway-
line and a large shipping port. Yours faithfully, LONGONI & METES, Engineers.
“Chancery House.” 440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. ... . . ,
(NOTE. —It must be quite evident to the ordinary individual that it has been impossible to insert
all the remarks and information supplied by this noted firm of Cement Engineers, but it has been the
endeavor of the Promoting Syndicate to give, as near as possible, a fair digest of the Report received.)
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
TO THE DIRECTORS,
The Australian (Yellow Rock) Portland Cement Co. Limited,
186 George Street, Sydney.
(To be Incorporated under the Companies’ Act, N.S.W., 1899-1918.)
I HEREBY APPLY FOR SHARES in the abovenamed Company upon
the terms of the Prospectus, and I enclose herewith the sum of £ •• •> being 6/-
per Share on application, and I hereby agree to accept the same or any smaller number of
Shares which may be allotted to me as provided by the said Prospectus, and to pay the remainder
of the amounts due on receiving notice of allotment. I agree to be bound by the Memorandum
and Articles of Association of the Company, and I authorise you to register me as the holder
of the said Shares.
NAME (in full)
ADDRESS #
OCCUPATION
USUAL SIGNATURE
DATED THIS ... DAY OF 1 922 *
(-Exchange must be added to Country and Interstate Cheques.)


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHIDP & CO., LTD., Perth anil Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROUNfi ?
LEWIS&WrIITTY MAKERS
LSTOMV
s Pa TENT
An All-Steel Stock Watering Trough.
Perfectly watertight joints are made
with our patent Coupling, securely
holding every section together as
rigidly as a bridge.
The Heavy Steel Angle Supports and
heavily galvanised Steel Sheets used in
the manufacture of the Alston Trough-
ing, together with our Patent Coupling
makes this Trough superior to all
others.
James Alston 8 Sons Pty. Ltd., Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne.
Send for Free Catalogue.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
SO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Vaccine was heavily backed for the Flying
on the second day of the A.J.O. Anniversary Meet-
ing-. The notion was that lie had been 'blocked
when making- his run in the Challenge Stakes in
which he sustained 7st. 101 b. Again he had every
possible chance —a good marble and a quick start,
which helped to land him second into the straight.
But he never improved on this, and over the last
furlong was buried for pace by three or four lighter-
weighted and less-advertised animals. The race was
taken by The Epicure, who unwound a brilliant
finishing effort. Later on the Sydney publican who
owns the meagre-looking winner went round, with
a handcart to collect. Tie hail brought off one of
the biggest kills seen at Rand wick in an ordinary
handicap for many days. Owing to the money piled
on Vaccine, Bandurria, Alfort, Coolstone and Willie
rioma, The Epicure drifted to 100’s to 5, and then
the commissioners got to work in thousands. The
horse had made a few unobtrusive appearances
lately, but must have shown something- tasty in
private. He is trained by William Booth at Rose-
hill.
To laj r odds on a Welkin filly over a mile
would ordinarily be pretty mad. But it was done
abundantly on Thursday at Randwick, the filly being
Isa and the race the new Adrian Knox Stakes, a
w.f.a. event for 3-year-old fillies, which has been
scheduled among- the .“classics”, as a compliment to
Australia’s sporting Chief Justice. Isa was suspected
ot having- kept all her two-year-old brilliancy and
it was thought that the journey from Melbourne
would not, have been made unless Scobie was certain
of,,her capacity to stay the eight furlongs. Against
au ordinary lot she would probably have won, but
the Buckwheat—Lager filly Vodka happens to be an
exceptionally solid young lady. Isa. had a saloon
passage to the turn, and, though she took it
awkwardly, was out alone at seven furlongs. A
hundred yards from the post Maher pushed Vodka
into an argument that was quicklv settled. Isa
was dying at every stride when she'hit the line a
length from Vodka. The winner started at s’s to 1,
this really false price being due to her collapse in
the Challenge Stakes. Yet three weeks earlier Vodka,
carrying 9st. 91b., had beaten a smart horse like
Solar Rays (and given him weight too) over seven
furlongs on the same course, and a day or two latei
had run second to Marcinelle over six furlongs and
had been unlucky not to win. She is trained
by Frank Marsden, the custodian of Furious. Brank
another Buckwheat, trained by F. Williams, was
a little stronger in the betting- than Vodka, but
gave no trouble. Corncrake, also of the Buckwheat
family, scrambled home third. Vodka ran the mile
on turf that gave no favor in “38*” —which on the
part of a 3-year-old filly carrying Bst. 51b. is slick
travelling. Vodka is as honest as the day and will
be heard from again. So too will Isa. She looked
rather above herself on Thursday.
“Baron” Brown’s colors on Prince Charles and
Hugh Denison’s on the Poseidon gelding Greg mingled
in an all-in finish for the Anniversary Handicap,
with the favorite Wildun struggling away asters.
The judge said it was a dead heat. The Prince,
a slab-sided, lathy-looking customer, addicted' to
sweating profusely before he starts, came from a
long way back and justified his reputation as a stayer.
He docs his staying, by the way, on a sprint pre-
paration, seldom being galloped bevonrl six or seven
furlongs. Kashmir and Bitalli followed the dead
heaters. They are green yet, but look like training
on into stayers.
* * * *
The sun that seldom or never shines on
infrequent racegoers at big meetings has been shed-
ding some beanis of luck on persistent punters at
the minor Melbourne gambles. Of the six Moonee
Valley events last Saturday four went to actual
first favorites and the other two winners were second
favorites. The turn-up that the books prayed for
was conspicuously missing, so for a wonder the
crowd looked happy going home. Everybody, in a
way of speaking, stayed to collect over Torbrooke
for the last race, Torbrooke being one of Cecil
Godby’s alleged good things which always seem
lucky to squeeze home by a head. Things took a
favorable turn for the Tye—Godby crowd on Satur-
day. Earlier in the day the squib Amorita landed
Tye’s colors by a head or so at the quite considerable
starting price of 3’s, Somebody spoke of the little
meeting as a plunger’s picnic, blit by the same token
it was the funeral of the small and mild minority
that goes looking for 10 to 1 chances.
* * » •
Quin Abbey, the sire of the gelding
Quiniro, who made the other hurdlers look very cheap
on the first day of the A.J.C.’s Anniversary Meeting,
but failed to see the distance out at the same bat
with more pudding on the second day, is a prolific
getter of moderates in Maoriland. At the recent
Rotorua Meeting he was responsible for four of the
winners on the one day. One of them, Snake, a
most consistent gelding over hurdles, added another to
his recent list of successes.
Old Sasanof, who is to become a priest’s
back, won 20 races out of 63 starts during his career,
including a Melbourne Cup. He, however, is a long
way behind the other gelding Gloaming, who is still
a tough proposition to aix-comcrs in M.L. The
Maorilander has won 34 races to date (he has been
only once unplaced), representing over £24,000 in
stake money. >
* * '* »
In the Sheffield Shield endurance-test
which was begun last .week at the Sydney
Cricket Ground, N.S.W., who were without Gregory,
Carter and Taylor, met a comparatively freidi
Victorian XI. of experienced men. Ryder, who
starred with both bat and ball, was unlucky to he
given out l.b.w. in his second knock, when five off
the hundred. O’Keefe hit up a remarkable double—
-87 and 79. His success is a stern reproach to
N.S.tv’.’s judgment, lie failed to get a place in file
Waverley XJ. when he inhabited the Ma State.
Sandford, who nearly made the overseas trip last
season, is a batsman as well worth watching as
Macartney, Andrews or' Bardsley. lie banged up
a delightful 48 in Vic.’s first innings, but unfor-
tunately, from the spectators’ point of view, missed
one the next' time before he had scored. Hartkopf
was fairly consistent and occasionally brilliant in
both innings. Love, of N.S.W., who has done well
throughout the season, put together a correct 69.
Collins was worth 42. Bowiing for Vic., Ryder
used his height, and made the ball bump with a
slight break, while Ellis helped to the extent of
ousting Bardsley, Andrews, Love and Punch.
McDonald was bowled a lot for small results in the
first innings, but in the second, on a wearing pitch
and in the face of a demoralised opposition, he
practically won the match and the Sheffield Shield
for his State. Eight for 84 were his figures—-six
clean bowled. He varied his pace a lot: the runs
were mostly made off his medium deliveries and
the wickets got by his expresses. O’Keefe’s work at
cover was a bright feature of a generally indifferent
exhibition of fielding.
* * * *
McDonald’s success in this year’s Sheffield
Shield matches has been more remarkable than that
of any other fast bowler for many years. In cold
figures:— v. N.S.W., 8 for 141 ; v.S. Aus., 6 for 130;
v. N.S.W., 11 for 184 ; total, 25 for 455; av. 18.2.
Taking two seasons in first-class matches, McDonald’s
harvest has been:—-
Wickets. Runs.
Australia, 1920-21 . . . . 39 1142
England, 1921.. .. .. 150 2409
South Africa, 1921 ... . . 13 445
Australia, 1921-22 .. . . 25 455
227 4451
That gives the wonderful average of 19.60. * There
isn’t need to wonder why the Nelson (Eng.) Cricket
Club made a substantial offer to the Victorian
trundler. McDonald, however, has turned it down
definitely.
* * # »
The feature of the Melbourne pennant
games on Saturday was the classic 130 made by
Moves, of Essendon. against Norths’ somewhat
enfeebled bowling. The innings was without fault
till Campbell took a catch in the outfield off
Gilchrist, and it was compiled at a dazzling pace.
Northcote could do nothing with the bowling of
King and Prout. The chief interest in this match
NUTTY FAIRHALL, the hard-hitting New-
castle lightweight who outed Havilah
Uren at the Stadium.
centred in the debut of young Woodfull, who opened
with characteristic vigor for Souths after ’Cote’s
innings had closed for 156. Hotchin and Cohen,
who began for Saints v. Richmond, gave a stimu-
lating display, the fonner’s 118 being very free.
Cohen had hard luck in being run out at 60. Brown
was the centurion for Collingvvood against Uni.
Mitchell, going on late, got 3 wickets for 8 for
the students. Warwick Armstrong took 3 of Carlton’s
wickets for 68. The scoring against the accurate
Melbourne trundling was deplorably slow, Sewart,
who top-scored, taking as long to make his 51 as
Moyes, above-mentioned, had occupied collecting 130.
Fitzroy was brilliant against Hawthorn East, the
team’s bright particular star being Dummet. Going
in sixth wicket down he made as lively a century as
anyone could wish to see. It included six sixes.
* * * *
Armstrong will captain Australia for the
last time "at the S.C. Ground in the match v. The
best (under Vernon Ransford), which begins on Friday.
The proceeds are to go to Frank Iredale. The only
prominent cricketers who have not been selected
are Carter, Mayne and Pellew. Love is to be
’keeper for The Rest.
E. A. McDONALD, whose howling icon the
Sheffield Shield for Victoria.
Three days were not sufficient to finish
the match between the Vic. and N.'S.W. second
elevens in Melbourne last 'week. Heavy scoring by
both sides (1145 runs for two-and-a-half innings)
made a draw inevitable. The most .remarkable
feature of the batting was the last-wicket stand for
171 by the Ma Staters. Asher (119) and Ives (72
n.o;). The pair showed great dash and pugnacity:
the Vic bowling had lost its small punch through the
overworking of Wallace (7 for 152). , Ma’s total of
516 (Phillips 86, Forssberg 74, and Cranny 58) was
a valiant response to Vic.’s 439, whereof Woodful
made 227 n. 0., and the consistent Davies 100. Vic.’s
second try had realised 6 for 190 when the game
was called off, Forssberg bowling with most success
and getting the best average for the match (4 for
75). Tolhurst, the alleged rising star of the M.C.C.,
whose inclusion in the Vies, was urged by a news-
paper expert, mildly gratified his barracker by knock-
ing up 9 and 29 in a rather streaky style.
* * * *
The very useful Government House XI in
Adelaide has had a match with the Police. Clem
Hill and Governor Weigall made only 4 between them ;
ltichardson, a veteran brother of Arthur of the S.A.
XI, played havoc with the tail, and only a spirited
49 by Legh Winser brought the total to 150. When
the Police batted, Richardson made 48 (retired),
and the score stood at 4 for 130; but the rest of
the Force was entirely unable to deal with the bowl-
ing of Thiele and Pridmore, and the last six wickets
added only 4.
#- # * *
Archie Bradley, the Gympie (Q.) butcher-
boy, accomplished a truly notable feat when he
gave Harry Stone a pound and a bad hiding in
Brisbane..,last week. The volatile Yid had no hope
after the first dozen rounds: he couldn’t even get
away from the enfeebled tropic-bred meat-deliverer,
who displayed the same debilitated persistence he
had exhibited in his win over Sid Godfrey. Bradley’s
next affair is expected to be at Sydney Stadium, and
it should attract a large crowd of ethnological
students' of the Barwell type and others.
*** * *
Nutty Fail-hall established himself as one
of N.S.W.’s front-rank lightweights at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night. In the presence of
one of the paltriest crowds that have been seen there
he knocked Havilah Uren out in 11 rounds. He is
no stranger to right-handed boxing, having previ-
ously outed.. Frank Brogan who, like Uren, affects
this stance. And yet in the early part of the contest
he was hard put to it to avoid Uren’s left, which is
a lethal affair if it lands. It was a give-and-take
battle, of a willing though not particularly scientific
order, till about the eighth round, when weariness
and despair began to imprint themselves on
Havilah’s brow. His gloom was chiefly occasioned
by a right cross to the jaw which the Northerner
was placing almost at will in the final stages.
Uren, game to the last, fought on, and it was not
till he had been dropped half a dozen times in
quick succession that he slept, and awoke to find
that Joe Vyaiiis had vauisucu, wiuie Natrium was
thanking him for a pleasant evening.
* * * »
Goozeman, the U.S. feather-weight, added
another k.o. to his record by placing a left on Bert
McCarthy’s chin at the Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night. The end came in the 18th round of a
vigorous and exciting scrap, and exemplified the old
ring truism that, other things being equal, a bruiser
with a punch will always beat a pug who doesn’t
carry the article. When Australia was great in
the boxing world its leading specialists knew how
to thump. But nowadays the tendency is to encour-
age the feather-pillow fighter, and when one of these
dancing youths meets a grim foreigner who has been
taught that he has got to knock his man out or
get knocked out himself it is always odds on the
foreigner.
* * # *
At Christchurch (M.L.) on Saturday,
the Springboks cleaned up four of the five scratch
events on the A.A. programme. Ayres-Oosterlaak
won The hundred in 10 l-ssec. from fellow-tourists
H. P. Kinsman and J. W. Bukes; Kinsman beat
Bukes and the M.L. record in the 220yds. in 22
ci 5o n C = ’ K. Johnston easily won the quarter in
51 2-ssec. G. H. laylor, who is yards ahead of the
best over the halt in Australia, took this event from
D. Leathern (S’Africa) in -2min. 2 l-ssec The
’Boks won the mile relay in Smin. 47see.— their
fourth win hereabouts in as many starts in this kind
ot race and all round look like being near their
top when they strike Australia again next month
**; * *
A. W. Winter (South Sydney) added
llin. to his own standing hop, step and jumn
amateur record at Coolamon (N.SAV.) last week
and the figures now stand at 31ft. A. B. Postle’s
32ft. loin, professional record is alone ahead of it
in Australia. Winter also did 49ft. (Sin. in the
running hop, step and jump—2 tin. below his Aus-
tralian record —and in three standing jumps cleared
34ft. 10in„ which is within 6in. of L. R. Glover's
amateur figures of 35ft. 4in., put up at Toowoomba
(Q.) in 1914.
* * * „
The big Wiiliamstown-Geelong race on
Saturday attracted the record fleet of 18 yachts in
A class and 25 in B class. Lord Forster sailed
Yeulba (SOmin.), but could only finish second (on
handicap) to the scratch craft Eun-na-mara, which
did the journey in shr. 30sec. The G.-G.’s flyer
was 36min. behind the champion at the Geelong
mark, and the third boat, Petrel (25min.) did the
32 nautical miles in shr. 31rnin. Ardale (15min )
took the B class event. Rawhiti 11. (6min.) whose
gear went wrong at an early stage, could do no
better than third, and the scratch vessel, Joker
was nowhere.
Sixteen vessels of the 21ft. restricted class
were sent off to a flying start lor the Sydney Ama-
teur Championship on Saturday, Dendy’s big Sea-
bird going to the front early and staying there
throughout. The order at the Village mask was
Saftbi’rd, Inez, Corella and Gumleaf, the only altera-
tion at the finish being that Gumleaf supplanted
Corella for third place. After handicaps (allotted
on sail area and overall measurements) had been
adjusted, Inez proved to have won by ljmlii. from
Gumleaf, with Corella -jrnin. away, third. : Doran
had previously won the Anniversary Day event for
the restricted-class yachts on Anniversary Day—
that being his fourth win with Inez in six starts.
J. M. Brunton’s Oenone took the All-Yachts’ Han-
dicap at this regatta off the 28min. mark, with the
ancient Magic (20min.) 54min. astern.
* * # »
.Nobody ever saw a queerer boat-race than
tile four-oar struggle at the Sydney Anniversary
Regatta. Though the weather was perfect most of
the time for sailing there was rather too much of
a sea on for the oarsmen, and the harder they drove
the more hopeless became the task of the eox. to
keep them afloat. The Mosman crew saw at once
that it wasn’t a day when the race would be to
the swift, so it just dawdled along, resting on its
oars when cox. gave the word that there was a
wave to be ridden. It was the only crew that
finished: one by one the other boats filled and
sank, And the Mosmans couldn’t have gone a dozen
yards farther; at the end their boat was quite
submerged.
* * » »
There was a fine muster of crews for the
Upper Yarra Regatta on Saturday. Ten entered for
the light-weight maiden fours, four heats and two
semi-finals, Corio ultimately winning from Ballarat
City by about a foot. Ten boats also appeared in
the race of the day—the maiden eights—and there
were a couple of close finishes in which Nagambie
prevailed. Probably Nagambie expended more steam
than they could afford, for they showed signs of
distress some way from home in the final with Albert
Park, but they struggled on and were beaten by only
a length. The only feature of the maiden fours
was the judge’s inability to separate Mercantile and
Banks in the third heat. The winners in the other
heats and the final were not greatly pushed. Sand-
hurst, who collected the trophy, had a length-and-a-
half lead from Shepparton, who easily beat Mercan-
tile for third place. The junior and senior pairs
went to Hawthorn and Wendouree, Ballarat City and
Albert Park the whippers-in.
On the Swan River, Perth, last Saturday
Chris Garland’s Sydney-designed, W.A.-built 18-footer
Melo Bilo won the Australian 18ft. championship
from Kismet (N.S.W.) and 11. C. Press (N.S.W.).
Garland cleared out on the work to windward and
was never afterwards headed. Kismet carried away
her topsail yard on the first free-sheet stretch .and
in consequence was unable to set her big spinnaker.
'Tile event carried the 200-guinea Mark Foy Challenge
Cup.qnd £5O prize money. The Cup was first sailed
for in 1912 at Perth, when Nimrod, now Maseotte
(N.S.W.), headed the Sandgroper IVestana by only
3ft. S-.
■** * *
At Brisbane last week Beaurepaire licked
Bananalander Sid Springfield and Keith Kirkland
(N.S.W.) by 40yds. in the 880yds. Australian cham-
pionship. His time, llmin. 33 l-ssec., was
12 l-ssec. worse than his best for the distance, and
21 3-5 outside Barney Ivieran’s Australian record put
up at Rusheutter’s Bay in 1905. Joe Sousaari won
the 440yds. Australian breast-stroke title by 50yd.
He covered the distance in 6min. 41 1-5 sec., or
15sec. better than his sensational effort in the Banana-
land 440 yd. State event last December, when he
clipped 10 l-ssec. off E. S. Collins’s recognised
Australian figures for the distance. Sousaari, who
couldn’t swim until three years ago,, is a fisherman
by occupation and lobbed into Australia from Finland
when twelve years of age.
Beaurepaire had an easy win in the inter-State
mile at Ipswich on Monday night, beating Spring-
field by 70yds. The time, 23min. 4S 2-3 sec., was
30sec. worse than Barney Kieran’s world’s record, put
up in Sydney in 1907.
* * *
P. Sydney Jones and T. V. Mealy took
the open foursomes handicap at Kensington (Sydney)
on Anniversary ' Day, with 80-4-80=160 —2=168.
Carnegie Clark and D. G. Soutar were next with
744-78=1524-10=162. Soutar gets very little prac-
tice now that he is on the unattached list.
*• ■ * * *
The first of a series of big exhibition
tennis matches was played on the Double Bav
(Sydney) courts last week when Jim Anderson ami
R. V. Thomas tackled O’Hara Wood (Vic.) and j •
Peach. After g’oing down in the first set (4- )
the Anderson-Thomas combine won the next, tnro
sets (6—3, 6—3. B—6). Anderson played in fus
best form, using his height and reach effectively to
smashing purposes.
BARONIAL BUNKUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Baron Hawke, addressing the annual meetm°-
ot the Yorkshire Cricket Club, said that the Aus-
tralian tour was only marred by Armstrong’s indis-
creet remarks. His assumption that betting occurred
in modem cricket in England was entirely without
foundation.
And who are you, my lord, to say
No- Englishmen do this or that?
What knowledge have you of the way
The seedy London democrat
Diverts himself in that grim land
Which stretches eastwards from the Strand?
What can you know of Durham bovs
Who booze o’nights in pit side pubs;
Of Bristol dockers and their joys;
Or of ’ the countryman who grubs
Upon his Scrap of oft-tilled soil
And thanks his Maker for such toil?
You know the class your forbears knew—
The class that gained and diced at White’s,
And fair estates and fortunes threw
Upon the tables ; their delights
Are still, unless your papers lie, ’
Pursued by those who sit on high.
Great Englishmen once staked their all
Upon the rising of a fly,
On man’s success or woman’s fall—
Yet now you have the nerve to cry
That those they bred would blush for shame
To bet about a cricket game!
K.&.W.
10-2-4.


E»t/U)
Horse
Scotch Whisky
IN a CLASS BY ITSELF
MS
m
7*
m
---v.:
R
5
£
*a4fc
H
\
m
£
CSC
S3T
-<
- -
0.1
±O3
n3S!H
THE WHITE HORSE IH M, CAMONGATE, EDIPIBURQH
ORIGINAL HOME OF WHITE HORSE WHISAY 17*2.
BY APPOINTMENT
Its Age and Quality are Still Maintained
5y MACME & C? DISTILLERS. LTP
GLASGOW & LONDON.
Jjioe's Clean Sweejb
the z-at hast of everything
Men’s Sac Suits
R.F. I.—Men’s Sac Suits, of Australian Tweed,
tailored ready-to-wear. Sac is a button-2
style, with jigger, shaped waist, three outer,
and 2 inner pockets. Trousers have side
and hip pockets and cuff bottoms.
Price was 75/- .. Clean Sweep, 70/-
Less 10 per cent 63/-
R.F. 2. —Men’s Sac Suits, of Australian Tweed,
in medium or dark-grey shades ; in similar
style as above. Price was 84/-
Clean Sweep, 75/- Less 10 per cent., 67/6
R.F. 3. —Men’s Sac Suits, of Australian Tweed,
in shades of medium or dark-grey and
brown ; same style as the above.
Price was 105/- .. Clean Sweep, 84/-
Less 10 per cent 75/7
Men’s Trousers
T.F. 4. —Men’s Trousers, smartly cut, finished
with cuff bottoms, side and hip pockets.
In the following materials :
Gratuity Bonds for Value £3O Negotiated.
LOWE’S PAY CARRIAGE.
Country residents are assured of receiving the
same shopping benefits and studious care as
city dwellers. A large stock reserve for
country clients ensures fulfilment of all orders.
Early orders mean a wider choice—post to-day.
,0/
J
'Q
(2* IN THE £)
OFF THE PRICES OFALL
TAILORING TOOHDEIV
at LOWE'S
vtm
THIS REDUCTION
ALSO APPLIES TO
LOWE'S FAMOUS
/ssuit
ħ
QA/.
h
F.F. 5. — Australian Fur
Felt Hat; beautifully pro-
portioned and made from
high-quality materials, cut
and turn-over edges. In
popular shapes and colors.
Exceptional value.
Price was . . 21/-
Clean Sweep .. 12/6
Less 10 p.c. . . 11/3
X.F. 6—Men’s All-Wool
Black Cashmere Half
Hose; guaranteed fast dye.
Price was .. 2/6
Clean Sweep . . 2/2
Less 10 p.c. . . 1/11 £
X.F. 7. —Men’s Black Cot-
ton Working Half Hose,
special value. Price was
1/9. Clean Sweep, lid.
Less 10 p.c. . . . -/9 a
The Leading Men’s & Boys’ Stores
Boys’ Cotswold Suits
H.F. 8. — Boys’ Tweed Cotswold Suits, of
Plain or Dark Grey, Fawn and Medium
Grey English Tweed.
6 to 10 yrs.
11 to 14 yrs.
15 to 17 yrs.
Golf Knees
Plain Knees
Golf Knees
Plain Knees
Golf Knees
H.F. 9.— Cotswold Suits, of
Dark Brown Wool Tweed.
7 to 10 yrs.
11 to 14 yrs.
15 to 17 yrs.
Golf Knees
Plain Knees
Golf Knees
Plain Knees
Golf Knees
H.F. 1.0. —Wash Cotswold Suits, of Medium
Grey Bengal Tweed. To fit boys:—
6to 14 yrs. Special Price 13/11
Men’s Shirts
S.F. 11.—Men’s Cambric Shirts, no collar;
finished with reinforced neck, and double
cuffs. Price was 9/6.
Clean Sweep, 6/6 Less 10 per cent., 5/10
S.F. 12. —Men’s Mercerised Tennis Shirts,
strongly made, and finished with collar and
breast pocket. Price was 9/11.
Clean Sweep, 7/6 Less 10 per cent., 6/9
Lowe’s Seven Stores Stock Everything for
Men’s and Boys’ Wear.


FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
Shirts and pyjamas
Made-to-measure .
ft jff ADE-TO-MEASURE Shirts and Pyjamas
■* add the final touch of discrimination in
: —— attire. The patterns and colours reflect
your personal taste. Precise fitting, that still
allows perfect freedom of movement, gives to
the wearer untold satisfaction and comfort.
Zephyr Shirts, or Pyjamas, in block, narrow or
fancy stripes of pink, mauve, blue, or black.
Prices Shiits, 23/6; Pyjamas, 37/6
Taffeta Shirts, or Pyjamas, in block or narrow
stripes of pink, mauve, blue, or bla k. Good values.
Prices Shirts, 35/-; Pyjamas, 57/6
Patterns and Self-measurement Forms
Supplied on Application.
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
The Store for Men.
Box 497 G P.O.
OODt
w*-X*
iimiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiniYii
ABBOTS
LAGER
Oheßoer
Without a Rival
BREWED FROM PURE MALT&HOPS ONLY
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?]
MISSES MONKE DOYLE
Phones, Control 1533, 11609
The requiem at St. Patrick’s for the late
Pope was most impressive. There was a
vast congregation, in which all grades were
represented. Governors were there, officials
of other churches, naval and military men
and Consuls of countries overseas. There
was no general clio.r or organ music—just
the tremendous effect of men's voices in a
chant. A muffled bell tolled solemnly;
the nuns moveu in like shauuws, anu mie
shadows climbed up the sp.ral stairway to
the choir-loft. Then, still to the tolling of
the bell, the archbishop came softly up the
centre of the cathedral, preceded by the
bearers of the tall gold cross. His long car-
dinal robes stretched out behind him, and
his shoulders were wrapped in ermine clasped
with a gold chain and a glowing ruby. Pre-
lates in magnificent vestments followed ; then
came an endless process.on of white-frock ed
priests, who seemed to break like waves
of foaming surf as they gathered round tiie
altar. The priests’ chant was like the boom
of the ocean—a tremendous simplicity of
natural music. Archbisbop Mannix, from
the throne, sang the mass in a strikingly
melodious voice. The sanctuary and altar
were draped with purple velvet and black,
and the candles gleamed out from the dusk.
The packed cathedral was hushed of all
sound except the music of the chant, and
the severe simplicity of it carried the prayers
for the man who had such a vast respon-
sibility of life to lay before his God.
The Government cottage at Macedon, the
place, now much improved, that the State
bought from David Syme, is a white elephant
so far as the Stradbrokes are concerned this
summer. The Earl and family are having a
“topping time” down at Phillip Island; and
it is remarkable how many Naice people
have simultaneously discovered what a plea-
sant place Cowes and its neighborhood is.
It is not known exactly how many times
Iveppel Palmer has said he is “awfully sorry”
that the tennis ball he struck so hard hit the
Earl in the eye, but his Ex. has asked him
just as often not to mention it, as it was
all in the game. At any rate, the injury is
not as serious as it was feared it might be.
It is said that James Barrett, while treat-
ing the injury, never once mentioned Im-
perial Federation, the Boyal Colonial In-
stitute or the Verbrugghen Orchestra—
which indicates that the doctoring part of
him can get the better of the lecturing part
of him when it likes.
The mystery whether Mannix is really a
cardinal, as asserted by many Melbourne
B.C.’s, ought to be cleared up soon now that
Benedict has passed. The papal custom of
creating cardinals in petto , or in pectore —-
otherwise “m the Pope’s breast” —and not
proclaiming them for years afterwards, must
be galling to ambitious churchmen. Dr.
Mannix or Dr. Kelly, or even little unpre-
tentious Father O’Hegarty who runs the
small tin church round the corner, may be
Princes of the Church in disguise at this
very moment —and. personally, this chatterer
would like to see Father O’Hegarty made
Pope.
The 16th Melba pop. was a regular Way-
back outing. Most self-respecting towns sent
at least one representative. John Lemmone
made a special study of postmarks, and
learned more about Victorian geography than
he knew before. At the conclusion of the
last encore, “Good-Bye,” Melba rolled up her
sleeves and began to throw flowers into the
seething audience. There was some excel-
lent high-marking on the right w ; ng, and in
one of the scrums a harmless-looking female
was tossed out of her chair into the main
aisle. The sport was good.
Melba’s last popular evening was a fury of
enthusiasm. The Dame said she could go
on singing to the people “for ever,” they
had been that sympathetic, you know. She
was in a dress of so pale a green that it
was like a tint reflected on water, and it
had showers of tulle at the sides that kept
getting in the way of her hand-gestures.
About her hair was a wonderful band of
diamonds. After the concert Melba save a
supper party in the Town Hall —a delicious
spread, sent down, waiters and all. from the
Occidental. There were 130 guests, includ-
ing orchestra and accompanist, and the affair
was a cheerful finale and farewell-for-a-time.
Duriner the proceedings Alberto Zelman was
toasted and bade adieu.
She warbled a pretty fair soprano in a
church choir, and after her five bobs’ worth
at the Town Hall she was asked: “What do
you think of Melba?” Her reply came pat
with delightful hauteur: “We sopranos never
criticise each other.” She meant it, too.
The relief fund for Stricken Europe has
Lady Forster ior president, Henry Bniddon
as chairman, and Denison Miller and Scott
(of the Commonwealth Bank) as treasurers ;
and other importants have volunteered their
time and thought. Tne Victorian section,
with the Countess as president, has started
off at a gallop. On Major Macgregor Knox
and L. V. Biggs, the organisers, getting to
work on the publ.city business, the former
was told off to handle the press-women. He
invited them all to tea at the Oriental, and
fired off a speech at them. He was able to
put body into it as he has just returned from
the centre of the trouble. The two secre-
taries, Miss Heagney and Miss Masson,
came along to pour tea, and the business-
like Biggs also turned up and nursed his
cup precariously on his knee while he
unfolded printed information. “That s the
general idea, y’know,” he announced
solemnly; “and now if any lady has adv.ee
to offer on the matter of procedure, we
should be glad to hear her.” Poor man—
the chatter that showered upon his head
drowned the music of the jazz band in the
outer lounge. It was an undoubted success,
that tea-party.
The Ascanius, which left Melbourne for
England on Saturday, took away the 87-
year-old Earl of Duc.e, who came into the
title a few-months back. For 66 years he
had been an Australian citizen, first landing
in Melbourne and then going on to a N. S.
Wales station to learn the art of growing
sheep. Later he i-eturned to the Vic. capital
and took -a ship for Queensland, where, he
cultivated the noble jumbuck, dashed fuf-
tively into politics, and prospered. As he
hadn’t seen Melbourne since 1858 he noticed
several changes in the village; and he also
thought Sydney had developed somewhat
since he Was there something over half a
century ago.
The G.-G. went over to Sydney last week
for the Anniversary regatta there, and then
rushed back to be in time for the yachting
here. On the 21st he had won a race with the
Yeulba over the Williamstown to Sandring-
ham course, but was beaten in the Willinms-
town-Geelong event a week later. 11 is Ex.
has made a hit with the yachtsmen. lie
mooches round the piers in well-seasoned
togs with an old soft hat pulled down about
his ears. In oue trial race lie got a vollev
of real sait-water language from the deck
of a yacht that he blocked. “Don’t vou
know that’s the Goverhor-Geheral you’re
talking to?” remonstrated a pal. “Well,
Governor or not, why can’t he look where
he’s going?” was the on’v incUnn* wni»' of
apology. Then, as an afterthought: “Why
can’t he wear a crown or something so’s a
bloke would know him?”
If their exes, are over the odds, as their
Exes, in other States complain, not a mur-
mur has been heard from the Stradbrokes;
and it is believed that, unless something un-
foreseen occurs, they will stay for the other
four years of their term.
Singer Anne Williams, chief study teacher
at the Melba Con., who. is depicted here by
Broothorn, is giving
a farewell recital at
Melbourne Town
Hall on March 7
before going t o
Blighty to reinforce
her musieal know-
ledge. The clever
Ballarat girl started
off by wihning piano
laurels at the South-
fetneet competitions,
then captured a
singing exhibition
for the ’Varsity
Con., and left her
home-town to study
under Mrs. Jansen.
She was soprano
soloist at Collins-
street Scots
Church, when Me>ba, charmed by her voice;
took her under her wing to train her gener-
ally as teacher of the Melba method at the
Albert-street Con. Afterwards Miss Anne
joined the Melba. Opera Co. to support the
diva in such redes as Emilia (“Otello”),
Amina (“Traviata”). Giovanni (“Bigo-
letto”) and so on, besides anpearine in “Car-
men,” “Aidia” and “Madame Butterfly.”
That her fingers maintained their skill was
evidenced by her appointment some years
back as p : anist and soloist to Mrs. Franklin
Petersen’s late lamented women’s orchestra.
Among her star punils have been Strella
Wilson. Gertrude Johnson, Gladys Mon-
erieff, Zoe Wenke, D'rothv Murdoch and
Jessie McMichael. The last-named, who
stepped s nto M ; ss Williams’s vacant choir-
stall at Scots’ Church, will go on as und Qr-
studv at the Con. during her mentor’s
absence.
Maisie, the bright young daughter of
dramatist Jo Smith, has undertaken to
Marry one of the cricketing Pellews, of S.A.
She played heroine in a drama with winch
her patriotic dad earned £1660 for Bed Cross
funds during the war. The fiance
lawyer when he hasn’t got the pads on, a
will practise in S. Australia after his m i
riage.
Athol Levey is leaving this month far
Singapore for her weddinsr. The bridegroom-
elect is planter Benton, who grows rubber at
Selangor, in the Malay Peninsula. Mr. and
Mrs. J. A. Levey and sister Mrs. Guy Miller
have been giving farewell parties at the South
Yarra home prior to the packing.
Francis Syme, one of the eldest of David s
sons, recently, at Christ Church, Geelong,
heard the murmured “I will” of Dorothy
Annette, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Arche-
laus Howson-Prisk, of Yallambee, East Mel-
bourne.
Jean Ilelpman, who used to be a Warr-
nambool girl, is married again. Nineteen
years ago she tied up in the Fog with I):.
Deuchar, of Queensland, after a board-ship
courting, and now she signals from the Cold
Country that she has taken a fresh chance
in the lottery with her cotisin, Colonel
Bud, yard Helpman, who handed her over to
her bridegroom at her first marriage. Which
proved a failure. There is ohe Deuchar off-
spring, who spent some childhood years in
this State.
Monteath is responsible for this, photo Of
Mrs. John Amadio. the Sparkling iittle wife
0 f the Australian
flautist w.h o has
hfen touting with
Tetrazzini and other
Stars in England.
Mrs. Amadio also
flutes sweetly, and
recalls the bouquets
handed to her and
her husband by
pianist Harold
Bauer when they
played before him.
She has several
promising flautists
among her pupils,
but more of them
are worrying the
piano, to which she
served seven years’
apprenticeship at the
Con. under the care of Professor Laver. The
piano is the little lady's chief medium of
musical expression, and her ability oh the
instrUtnent is best illustrated by the fact
that her admittedly fastidious John has
always been keen on her accompaniments.
But plenty of good church people most
admire the versatile Australian on the
organ.
W. F. Gates, assistant chief inspector of
the Education Department, is retiring on
pension at 64, after 49 years’ service —from
pup.l teacher to third man from the top.
When he first landed in the central office-he
was one of the shyest, and it seemed a toss-
up whether he would not go back to field-
work ; but Tate had sized him up and in-
sisted upon breaking him in, His fellow-
inspectors a or two ago had a night out
with him and loaded him up with souvenirs.
Pie is going to splash up a couple of years’
pension on a trip to Europe with his wife.
When Viscount Bryce, just dead, visited
Australia he got off one of the bright speeches
of his tour at the State Parliament House
at a welcome in his honor. What made
political life so fascinating, he said, were
those little incidents which inside were called
negotiations and outside were spoken of as
intrigues. The facility that one acquired,
too, for glossing over one’s own defects and
for sizing up accurately (and never magni-
fying) the shortcomings of political opponents
was also remarkable. Bryce had studied
politicians in two continents, and was taking
stock of them in a third, and knew a thing
or two, as his smiling hosts readily conceded.
The only time Australian politicians felt
awkward with him was when he started ask-
ing questions on . matters with which they
might reasonably be expected to be well-
informed. Hd soon had mofit of them
cornered and cursing themselves for not hav-
ihjg stored uj) more real knowledge and con-
cerned themselves less with political tricks.
It is said that the worst thing that has
befallen Alec Peacock for a long while took
piace when he lately visited Pentridge with
his Cabinet colleague McPherson to inspect
the big out-of-date prison and see what re-
forms were needed. He had to do without
his pipe for three hours.
Ballarat lost Dr. Beg Clarke with tragic
suddenness the other day. He collapsed and
died after a doubles game at the tennis club.
Chest trouble and heart affection due to an
overdose of Hun gas was at the bottom of
it. His widow, _ a daughter of Mr. J. F.
Cussen and a niece of the Judge, is left
with three young children.
Captain Jim Avern, the good-looking
seafarer who skippered the maiden voyage
of the Moreton Bay, the first of the Com-
monwealth’s big steamers, is marine superin-
tendent of the line when ashore. Practical
manager Larkin decided that Avern, if he
was to go on superintending, ought to know
every kick and kink in the new ships. A
more or less recent exploit of Avern’s was
to slip over to Deatfville, the fashionable
French watering-place, for a holiday, and
get back to London the richer by some thou-
sands gathered from the tables.
Amy and Eileen Castles are off concerting
to the Speck, and will follow on with West-
ralia. The spectacle of two sopranos as the
only singers on one programme is unusual;
but Amy is dramatic and sister Eileen is
lyric, ana in the.r case sisterly devotion has
never been fractured even by the memory
that they’ve both sung in opera.
Charlie Lyon, a youngster of 103, dropped
into the Homoeopathic Hospital the otner
day as an out-patient and was hailed almost
as a benefactor. The institution has a special
appeal on • tor a trifle of £25,000, and the
centenarian was better than the searchlight
of a warship to direct attention to the St.
Kilda-road building and its needs.
Cariyoh’s had a Poster Carnival the other
night-—a gay, irresponsible affair. Half the
crowd could not be bothered with poster
dress, but their jazz clothes were fanciful
enough, Mi's. Wirth’s pale pink stockings
above piiik and silver brocaded slippers were
a triumph in themselves, especially as they
caine from beneath a vivid blue lace gown.
Mrs. Miller was there with her brace df
daughters and sons-in-law. Hugh D;
Mclntosh brought his wife and a frocky
crowd. Mrs. Bruce carried off the poster
prize.
St. Kiljoy, in Municipal Council
assembled, decided to bar open sea-bathing
on Sunday afternoons. The Sunday before
last the restrictions began to operate, and
Fate willed it to be a day when the mercury
climbed up to the hundred mark. A crowd
of a hundred or more bathers assembled,
defied the will of the municipal gods and
took to the water. Frantic telephone calls
brought a squad of police to the foreshore,
where they tool? the names of a number of
sinners. The latter are waiting for a test-
case to come off; but it is not likely, as the
South Melbourne Council, more proletarian
in composition than that of snobbish St.
Kilda. has just rescinded a motion forbid-
ding Sunday washing along the beach.
Leyland Hodgson, the unexpected juvenile
lead ht the TiVoli, is explained by the fact
that he runs his own revue co. iff Asia, and
drifted to Aussie to try to snap up Wilkie
Bard for a short season with the Leyland
Hodgson co. The travelled showman would
plump heavily for a White Australia if he
had the chance. You see, he knows his
nigger.
The Reggie Clarke widow who, with a
Herbert Power girl and the three Clarke
youngsters, has been playing around Europe
for the past two years, landed back by the
Malwa. The widow has decided to send
son-and-heir Clive to Geelong Grammar.
A coo-ee from Adelaide-
South Alls, has been farfewelllng Premier Barwell
With sundry banquets, including one by Mayoi
Cohen and another by the Liberal party, <it which
Lancelot Stirling took the chair and Richard Butler
proposed the main toast. The latter feast was
expected to be a general Parliamentary gathering,
and many Labor men who have a genuine friendship
for Barwell regretted the new party injunction
against fraternising with political opponents. Among
other things the Premier says he is going to talk to
Downing-street about sending us a new Excellency, be-
ing himself quite opposed to the production of oitr
own Rubber Stamp.
The dinner given by Mayor Cohen at the Town
Hall was a great success. It was to farewell Sirs.
Barwell as well as her husband; and the hall pre-
sented an aspect of delightful domestic felicity, every
husband sitting next his wife. The departing guests
were “toasted” by the Mayor, who was aided and
abetted by J. Gunn, of the Opposition.
Hospitable Mayor Cohen has now another banquet
on his mind. He intends to visit Melbourne shortly
and upon his return will start preparations for a
farewell eating to his Ex., who is to leave in April.
J. D. Connor, B.Se., Government metallurgist in
bur Mines bepartment, goes Over to run the
Wonthaggi (Vic.) School Of Minds. HO htts been
on the. S.A. Committee of the Australian Chemical
Institute from its start, and was last ydar its
treasurer. A keen golfer and a shining light at St.
Peter’s Cathedral, his going leaves a jagged hold
in the pellucid atmosphere of Adelaide.
Anyone making a trip to England is prepared
to be the carrier of gifts from friends to people
in the Cold Country; but good-nature gets strained
sometimes. As a well-known Adelaide wtomaii
boarded the train en route for the Outer Harbor
the other day she was presented with a bowl full
of water and live goldfish which someone asked
her to deliver to a little nephew in England. Pre-
mier Barwell, by the way, is taking bigger live stock
—an Australian charger to be presented to George ' ■
by the people of South Aus.
Major J. R. Boose, travelling commissioner for
the Royal Colonial Institute, during his 10 days
stay here has been a guest at all the “farewell
Barwell” festivities, and' at time of writing he was
preparing an address on “Imperial Unity” to fur
off at a Commonwealth Club luncheon.


E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
Impossible!
to Fully
Realise
the Great
of
PEDAL TOUCH
as applied to the Player Piano
until you have Actually Played
the
GULBRANSEN
Zsuc%%cncerlc
Yourself.
When you hear this wonderful player piano
you will recognise a very great improvement
to other players; but—when you have actually
played it yourself, you will be astounded at
the ease with which you obtain hitherto un-
heard of results.
For durability of piano construction and tonal
perfection— coupled with amazing Simplicity
of player control—the Gulbransen has never
had an equal.
The wonderful easy
pedal touch of the Gul-
bransen Player Piano
made possible this
childhood incident.
a
If through sentiment you would not care to part with your
own piano, we will convert it into an 88-note Duo Concerto
Player-Piano containing all the latest improvements.
Being nationally priced the Gulbransen means a tremendous
saving. Send for Catalogue B and Price List (Posted Free).
Cash or Terms.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
(TWO DOORS FROM BATHURST STREET). TEE: CITY 10751 & 1075 S
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
MAPLES, Chapel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart—Launceston.
Hillier's
Chocolates
Made entirely in Australia.
Packed always in red boxes.
6*
Just
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
r\
L'
\
. . •
0
$8
Post free to any address
in Australia.
162 and 164 Pitt
Street, and corner
King and George
Streets, Sydney.
1
9i «0
*
*
\
m
i
c?Ocs
o
$
?0n
a
m
2»
Q
m
mm
a
c?
2
T
■'V
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 133


Charles
tIEIDSICO
lt
WE PLUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agreitts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
MONKEY BRAND
WON’T WASH CLOTHES
feC
m
1
*1
-JSO*.
—but keeps.,
everything
and
everyt
bright.
LTD. ~?£
CENTRALLY S I T UATE D
Castiereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
de-luxe .
Appointments and Attention.
cuisinJ: a U lpecMx U feature.
Inclusive.
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
A WOMAN'S
ITEMS
Hleprof
Hostery
The second day of the Anniversary meet-
ing saw more of Society at Randwick, Bong
Bong having sunk into its native somno-
lence. The vice-regals—he as much at home
wafting an invocation to the god of Chance
as he is in the up-country kirk reading the
lessons—were gathered in the pen, her
Ex.’s mole silkiness cheered somewhat
by the galah-colored ruffle about her
throat. Stone-greys and mole were the
toning of the Government; House party;
May Milne, who teaches the children the
newest swoops and swirls of the jazz, was
one of the mole-clad in the group, and Mrs.
Egerton and Lady Digby wore the same
ysubdued color. Mrs. Walter Watt was black
and white stripes; and Mrs. Clayton pro-
duced still another of her apparently endless
capes—this time it was biscuit shade and
covered a dark-blue dress. The good-looking
Mrs. Pitt-Rivers showed Bulgarian embroid-
eries on her black frock, and finished off the
Balkan situation with a black-lace hat; Mrs.
Willie Collins, apparently under-studying
Odiva at the Opera House, brought her seal-
skin with her; dainty little Mrs. McElvey
was a good runner-up for the beauty stakes
in lavender muslin and lace; and Mrs. Sep
Levy wore the newest thing in black-and-
white Morocain capes.
The Anniversary Day regatta drew sea-
dog Lord Forster to Sydney to try his luck
with his yacht Corella, and experts say
the spick and span lady would have won
her race if the committee hadn’t been late
in starting, so that the G.-G.’s craft was be-
calmed in the sudden drop of the wind that
had whistled and thrummed all through the
earlier part of the day. Anniversary Day
dawmed the finest public holiday of the sea-
son, and, like eels, Sydney made for the
water. Never has the harbor carried more
craft. From Leichhardt, the Glebe, Bal-
main and the ’Loo, not to mention the aristo-
cratic water-front opposite and the merely
bourgeois bays in between, the boats set out
gallantly across the wind-fluttered waters
of Port Jackson; and the patient ferries
(harder at work than ever) were hard put
to it watching out for the dashing sailer
and the muttering piratical-looking craft
holidaying in reckless fashion across their
tracks.
On Anniversary night gay lanterns Mowed
in hundreds against the ceiling of tne big
YYtentworth ballroom; the decorative scheme
was green and gold and red, roses and noses
of the same hue (it was the end of a per-
fect day) helping the color harmony. Among
the comfortably-large gathering Mrs. Walter
Watt, who came with her young man, Clive
Smith, wore a sumptuous grey-and-silver
outvig, Eugenie Moreau had fuchsia color-
ings of purple and cerise in her frocking;
artist George Lambert suggested just the
correct dash of the joy of life by the angle
at which he pointed his fair beard ; pretty
Rita Buekland had powder-blue taffeta, while
friend Kathleen Coogan glowed like an
amethyst; Phyllis Kiss looked as honeyed
as her name in ivory lace; and tall Mrs.
A. E. Hughes hostessed one of the largest
parties.
Sydney’s newest Mayoress was officially
at-home last Wefek, and in case Wednesday
was your wash-day or the chauffeur’s after-
noon off the reception was repeated on
Thursday, thus allowing both high and low
life a chance to come within the intimate
circle of the socially whitewashed municipal
halls. The two-day festival being a free-to-
all, literally hundreds of Avomen thronged
up and down the wide carpeted steps to the
drawingrooms; except for somewhat slight
changes in their dress, they might have been
the angels in the old Bihle-history picture
sweeping up and down Jacob’s ladder—-the
very rustle of the taffetas and foulards was
a triumphant hosamia. The McElhone lady
shook over 500 hands the first day, and just
as many on' the second, opening business in
autumn tints, p£ aprjyot crSpe dp chine and
a small, beautifully soft brown lace hat
amidst a botanical -garden off salvias, "roses,-
irises and palms, and changing overnight into
blue tones -'that' suggested sky-after-raih.
Black and white-seemed the-nooular "dress-,
ing, tall Mrs. Franki being one of the most
outstanding of thesq magpies.
A thrill went through the assembly when
the 'distinguished-looking Dr. Marano stepped
briskly into the room, followed, by two erect,
slim young Italian officers from the Libia.
But alas, after ceremoniously bowing to the
hostess, the three wheeled about and quick-
ffiarChed ouf again, and left one wondering
if the very clever dodge of collecting shillings.
for Princess Mary’s wedding-present at the
foot of the. stairs was tried on them as on
all others ascending i\nd descending. One
bewildere'd woman disembowelled her shilling
under the belief, as she presently confessed,
that she was naying in advance for her
afternoon-tea.
On the second day the Philistine was
entertained by a mountain of cards on the
stands outside, and the constantly murmured
“If you wish your name in the papers, kindly
leave your card here.”
The “Speejacks” Gowens were fed by the
Millions Club in the Palm Court of the
YVentworth one mid-day last week; and'Mrs.
Gowen, who rejoices in the soft-sounding
Christian name of Jean, showed no sign in
her white throat and soft complexion of the
weather-beaten man at the wheel, though
husband declares she has to take her trick
on that little yacht which plans to go all
around the world before she finally comes
to anchor in her home port. The guest, who
was buttressed by Arthur Rickard, Albert
Gould and William Brooks, completely
Caught his audience when he showed he
wasn’t afraid to tell a joke against his
beloved Stars and Stripes—as, for instance,
that the Yankee soldier in the Great • War
was called a doughboy because, though
kneaded in 1914, he didn’t rise till 1917.
The Speejacks’s commandant is a cement
man, and—well, of course, he told the
Millions that the best way,, tp make roads
is to use '’oncrete, But his memory will
live by the tale of the wedding that the
Speejacks staged at Tahiti. When the yacht
steamed into that tropic isle, a man sat on
the pier waiting anxiously to get aboard.
"Say,” he said to Mr. Gowen, “you’re an
American, and so am I, and I’m dreadfully
unhappy and I want you to help me.” He
ached to get married, and according to the
law of the island he couldn’t do it till he’d
been there six months. Would the Speejacks
take him and the wedding-party three miles
out to sea, and would its captain read the
marriage service over him and his bride’ If
they wouldn’t and didn’t he felt he couldn’t
care to live. Gowen hated to think of a
possible damp corpse where there might be a
happy bridegroom, so next morning the Spee-
jacks started gaily off to sea with a wedding
party. . After about a mile the bride and
the bridegroom were thinking more about
their internal arrangements than about love;
and soon Mrs. Gowen was applying smelling-
salts and encouragement to the lady, while
the men supported the ’groom. At last they
hove to, and the captain started on the
wedding ceremony; but never having offici-
ated before, and being, as it were, stage-
struck, he went right ahead, mixing the
notes and the directions with the prescrip-
tion proper, and everybodv had to coo-ee
to him to pause in his Ross-Smith flight till
the ring could be found and adjusted. It
was the gentlemen giving the bride away
who finaHy produced the ring. He was the
ladys former husband, and he did the deed
with an alacrity that has never been equalled.
It is being whispered that Mrs. R R S
Mackijinon is beginning to feel the strain
of long war service
and is thinking of
resigning her posi-
tion on the Red
Oro s s Executive.
Wherever the Aus-
tralian Red Cross
has been heard of
Mr s. Mackinnon’s
name is known.
From the first year
of the Great Trouble
she has given her-
self splendidly in
the service of the
Cross of Mercy, and
has shown initiative
and imagination in
launching enter-
prises that have in
a great measure
made, the organisation the powerful body it
now is. In private life (one never seems-
to think of her without that commandant’s
stripe) she is the wife of Dr. Mackinnon,
of North Svdney. Judith Fletcher made
this picture of her.
His Ex. takes a boyish delight in cricket,’
and is just now chuckling because his team
won its last two matches. Private Sec.
Major Egerton captains the vice-regals, and
says that A. C. K- Yates,'one of the Eleven,
is a remarkable fieldsman. The Major, whp
is a member of the oldest cricket
club in the world, the I. Zingari, has taken
rout firmly in Australia; and when he is
no longer required at Government House he
may turn farmer, beginning with a course
probably at- the Wagga Experimental Farm.
Mrs. Egerton iK ouite content to be a cocky’s
wife. And tkerg’s a-son, Jo, aged six, who
will come in handy to round up the cow.
, Mrs. Harry Vale] in-.navy blue taffetas and
a heavy Spanish lace veil draDed about her
hat, congratulated Mayoress McElhone on
her succession an'cL-herself on her birthday
hr a monster tea-drinking at the Australia
.the other afternoon.' A second guest of honor
was Mrs. White, who has just got back to
Australia from England and America: still
another just-returned was Mrs. Franki. Other
wearers of distinguished millinery were Mrs.
Littlejohn and Mrs. Camphin.
Waltz-queen Maud Fitz-Stubbs farewelled
hpr Sydney in a dish of music in Paling’s
concert hall last week prior to dashing back
to Hong-Kong, the twins and her dancing
classes. Maud, who came for six weeks,
has stayed six months, and during that time
has composed “The State March,” dedicated to
Verbrugghen, and still another waltz, “The
Pearl of the Pacific.” Dozens of women who
had danced often 7 and long to De Groen’s
playing of .“The Heather” and “The
Orlando” foregathered in the somewhat dingy
room with reminiscence in their eyes, and,
of course, the air was soon clamorous with
cries for the old favorites. Maud hostessed
iu Morocain frocking of the brown of an
autumn leaf. Son Val Woods’s rich baritone
weighed into the otherwise female pro-
gramme, which included Eileen Boyd’s
luscious contralto in Geraldine Farrar’s'
favorite song. Carrie Lanceley in a henna
befeathered hat flashed her soprano, and
Vinin de Loitte (Howard Vernon’s young
widow) sang snatches from “The Mikado”
and “The Belle.”
This is Judith Fletcher’s photograph of
Roland Wakelin, whose farewell show
is now gracing
Anthony Hordern’s
art gallery. lie has
great theories of
art. as all young-
men should have,
and he expresses
them by illuminat-
ing brus h-w or k
rather than with the
tongue. He comes
from Maoriland, and
Sydney hasn’t yet
thawed the frozen
Scotch reserve of his
speech. He gave
his first Sydney
show in company
with Roy de Mestre
when they were
trying to bring
home Roy’s ideas of color-tone to the aver-
age fellow. Air. Wakelin doesn’t paint noc-
turnes in D minor now; he shows with
the Society of Artists, and sells landscapes
that don’t shriek aloud if the Melba in
the flat below sings off the note. Datillo
Rubbo directed the young man’s early steps.
, Hailstones as large as eggs crackled and
banged advance applause to the entertain-
ment given last week by the nurses of St.
Vincent’s in aid of their own home at the
big Darlinghurst institution. This at-home
lias become an annual affair, and for weeks
beforehand earnest little pros, and sisters
spend all their off-time practising ballet
steps and choruses from the latest musical
comedy. The stage at the end of the Quad-
rangle defied last week’s biggest storm, and,
prompt, to the minute, in spite of a drenched
auditorium, the curtain went up upon a
fascinating group of houris from Cairo. The
disarmament had come in handy for the
siext cluster of girl, which had apparently
bought up all the left-over tricolors to wind
into its drapery for the “Cherie” number.
But the original performers were quite over-
shadowed by the Venus de Milo contours of
of five young sawboneses who followed after
to show how the thing really should be done.
Altogether the party was a great success,
and must have brought a mountain of half-
guineas to the cause.
Sister G. McFarlane, of the Sydney
Hospital, is allying herself for life to the
service of healing, Bridegroom-to-be is Dr.
Keith Muston, of South Grafton.
Three engagements are the season’s crop
at one week-end cottage at Newport; and
something had to be done to celebrate it.
That was the reason for Mrs. Bain Scott
Fell’s party one day last week. Sister Nellie
McDonald has engaged herself to Frank
Wunderlich; Dot Maclean to Jack Jefferson,
of Bellevue Hill, whose dad is in timber ;
Jean Reid to Donald Fraser. All the young-
sters met at the McDonald summer place,
and those insidious ..Newport moons did the
rest. There was music and jazz, and con-
tralto Greta Lind sprayed the intervals
with jets of song. Pretty little Isabel Fraser,
who is another Newport week-ender, has so
-far dodged diamond entanglements, but
carried home from the party a heavily-
glided competition prize.
Eileen O’Sullivan, bnce of Townsville, now
of Ashfield, whispered the time-honored
acceptances before a cluster of relatives at
St. Vincent’s, Ashfield’, thereby becoming
Mrs. Harding . Hill, of Brisbane.
The eeqn6mica 1: housewife‘ never: wastes ,
eyeiv-a hail-storm. ,This isn’t the
introduction to-'a eookery ft'em T buff a tip for
the ice-chest. Last week,..when the biggest
hail-stones within memory hit the suburban
garden, they lodged in tree-fern and
shrub and froze into solid blocks of from Gib.
upwards. The ingenious housekeeper there-
upon sensed the iceberg, wrapped the morn.r
ing’s 'newspaper arofind it atfd dumped it in.
the chest,_':One -ice man on- his rounds the
day after the storm delivered only 10 Blocks
in a neighborhood that usually consumes 30.
Miss Henderson has returned from her
visit to England, to resume her work as
travelling secretary of the Australian Board
of Missions. She is the guest of Dame
Margaret.
During the Alec Hays’ absence abroad
nephew feeppie Allison has taken over the
Coolangatta estate. His Ex.. Dame Mar-
garet, Diana and Daphne were the Allisons’
guests at Coolangatta last week, and after
his Ex. unveils the Soldiers’ Memorial at
Berry this week, the vice-regal party will
again boil the billy at the South Coast show-
farm.
George Lambert is making a picture of the
Tirranna picnic meeting. The aspect he has
chosen takes in the paddock, with its queer
little judge’s box, and shows the distant hills
with the wallows fringing the river at the far
side of the course. In memory of a happy
day, and as a tribute to the Goulburn Club,
which treated him with great hospitality, he
has done a remarkable portrait of Wally
Gunn to be hung on the walls in perpetuity.'
John Manson—known to a large circle of
friends as “Haggis”—died at his home over-
looking Rose Bay last week. He arrived in
Australia to practise as an architect some
30 years ago, and went in for yachting as
one of the crew of Alfred Milson’s Era.
Succeeding in his profession, he eventually
bought a yacht of his own, wars one of the
first to own a motor-car in Sydney, and later
became a keen power-boat pilot. lie was a
bachelor and had no relations in Sydney.
Charles Young, who had shared a home with
him for years, was one of the chief mourners
at his funeral, which was attended by nearly
all the older Union Club-men now in Sydney.
In addition to being a prominent member
of the Bligh-stroet institution, he belonged
to the Warrigal.
In Hay the General Hospital doesn’t take
maternity cases, and the nearest that does is
100 miles away. The Red Cross, whose
activities are now very elastic] has come to
the rescue, and established a little lying-in
home in the Riverina town. Nurse Amy
Varcoe, who saw service abroad, and her
sister, also an ex-military nurse, are in
charge.
The Crown Law 7 offices in Macquarie-
street are to be the Prince of Wales’s Home
for the nurses of Sydney Hospital after
a trifle like £20.000 has been spent on altera-
tions. The public w 7 ill subscribe the trifle.
Dame Margaret extends her patronage to the
appeal, the Mayor’s lady will be president
of the committee, and Arthur Rickard and
Judge Hamilton will divide the care of the
cash between them. This sum is not, of
course, any relation to the £lOO,OOO to be
raised for the institution proper in the space
of five years. Truly the way of the citizen
is hard.
Staying in North Sydney with her
daughter, who runs a private hospital, Mrs.
Mahony, of Sudest, New Guinea —the best-
known woman in all the places of call on the
158-mile run among lagoons and reefs be-
tween her own trading station at Sudest
and the port. Thirty-three years ago she
w 7 ent to New 7 Guinea with her hflsband,
drawn by a gold rush. Ilotel-keeping, trad-
ing and coeoanut-growing (she owns an
island of cocoa nut palms) have kept her busy
during the years, and for the past 18 of them
she has been her own business manager,
dealing in copra and shell with the natives,
and running the goods by her small flefet of
sailers and one motor launch to the main-
land. Novelist Beatrice Grimshaw has made
the lady the sweeping-robed heroine of one
of her South Pacific romances.
A Brisbane postscript:—
The latest engagement concerns Colleen Taylor,
eldest daughter of the late H. J. Taylor, of Rock-
wood station, and Eric Lascelles, a birdman during
the war, and the only 7 son of E. G. Lascelles, of
Goorganga, in the North.
Mr. and Mrs. Dugald Cameron, of Camlet, Bollon,
had a family reunion the other day to celebrate
their diamond wedding. When first they went to
Camlet station, 40 years ago, they rode through
600 miles of bush to reach the place. Mrs. Ross
Munro is a daughter, and she was at the festivity.
Ten children, 28 grandchildren and four great-
grandchildren are carrying on the name.
Mollie Lee, second daughter of IL W. Lee, who
distinguished himself on Gallipoli, was married last
week to Owen Tanner, son of the. Toowong Tanners.
Ivy Lee bridesmaided, and Vernon AVyllie helped.
The good souls who have been working for St.
Martin's Hospital have been talcing a rest. They
have begun again now, but in new rooms. The caffi
is to be in the Old Stock Exchange building in
future,
H. E. Gorser, youngest son of the M.H.R., was
married, in Maryborough a few 7 days ago to Kitty,
secondrd'aughter of tbs'Lawdesses,. of YVindera. The
bridegroom wore two pips in.the A.1.F., and put
them on again for the wedding. Nelli'd'Lawless was
bridesmaid. " ----
His Ex., who has been in Brisbane for a week,
has returned to Toowoomba, and unveilecj the
memorial, to., fallen soldiery there-. This memorial was
erected by the mothers of the boys who were killed,
and is about the only one in Queensland that has
any artistic feeling. It has- a - base ,of polished
trachyte, foytr-sidej), .and bearing bronze tablets on
'which are "the Tthmes, and- is .tdppdd by a marble
column, on which is a sphere with a laurel wreath.


ĥ
HOT WATER JUGS
Cf Highest-grade English Silverplate*
Silver-plated
Hot-water Jim,
with ebonised
handle, capacity
li pints.
£6 10 0
All these Jugs
are substantially
made from the
li i g h e s t-grade
English Silver-
plate, and are
guaranteed t o
give excellent
service.
Mail Orders
receive prompt
and careful
attention, and
Selections are
-
sent on approval,
if desired.
Silver-plated Hot-water
Jug, with ebonised
handle, capacity 1 pint.
£5 15 0
Silver-plated Hot-water
Jug, with wicker
handle, capacity 1 pint.
£5 0 0
Five per cent,
discount for cash.
Illustrated
Catalogues posted
free on application.
Silver-plated Hot-water
Jug, capacity 1 pint.
£4 4 0
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JI6-IJB Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
Melbourne.
To Country Amateur
Photographers.
Because you do not reside in the city is not a reason for failing to take
advantage of our
Developing & Printing Department
To enable us to meet the demands made upon our
Same-Day Service
we have just fitted up the whole of another floor with additional plant and
machinery at a cost of thousands of pounds.
Films sent us by post will receive prompt attention, or they may be left
at one of the hundreds of dealers throughout N.S.W., who send their
developing and printing to us. If left with your local dealer, be sure the
finished work bears our stamp
ÜBYU BY #)
SPEED
A"
WHICH CARRIES OUR
GUARANTEE of
—QUALITY -PERMANENCE.
SEND FOR OUR PRICE FOLDER—IT IS FREE.
G?
The House for
Good Cameras.
- . £>■ OiV‘*v«iJ '*rV
rand**
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
ES I—Best Sheffield Steel
Penknife, 2 blades, xylonite
handle. Usual Price, 5/-. Less
2/- in the £ Discount, 4/6.
Ppst free N.S.W.
ES 4—Sheffield Steel Penknife,
cocoa handle, 2 blades. Usual Price,
7/6. Less 2/- in the £ Dis-
count, 6/9. Post free N.&.W.
ES. 7—Haddon Razors, black xylonite
handle, fin. blade. Usually 8/6. Less
Discount, 7/8; fin. blade, usually
9/6. Less Discount, 8/7.
White xylonite handle, fin. blade, usually
9/6, Now 8/7; Sin. blade, usually,
10/6, N.OW-9/6. Post free N.S.W-.
ES £~; “Durhain” Duplex High-
grade Safety Razor. Blades, being
hollow-ground,, cm..he used, .with or...without..the
sa ety guard, and can be stropped on any
• OTchnajx. a.tr,o.py Complete, with 6 blades and
stropping device. " "
Discount, 11/3.
L.vualij u/. ; Less 2/- in £ Discount, 18/11.
Post free in N.S.W.
FOR ONE. WEEK.
LASSETTER’S
Pay the Postage in N.S.W. ONLY.
ES 2 Best Quality Cattle Knife, stag handle, one skin-
ning blade, one cutting blade, 1- sheep foot blade. Usual
Price, n/6. Less 2/- in the £ Discount, 10/4.
Post free N.S.W.
Strops, in great
variety.
Usual Prices.
5/6 6/6 8/6 11/6 21/.
Less 2/- in the £.
4/11 5/10 7/tS 10/4 18/11
Post free in N, S. Wales only.
Zti
ES B—Rabbiters’ Skinning Knife.
As illustrated. Usually, 5/6 ; Less 2/- in the £ Dis-
count, 4/11.
With Shackle. Usually, 6/6; Less 2/- in the £ Dis-
count, 5/10.
With Chain and Shackle. Usually 7/6,. Now 6/9..
All post free in N.S.W. ~
ESlo—Sheffield Steel Pen-
buff handle, 2 blades.
Usually 7/-; Less 2/«- 111 £
Discount, 6/4. Post free N.S.IV.
ES 11—~S¥effiel(I SteeT Penknife,
stag handle, ,3. . and nail file.
Usually 10/6 ; Xess 2/- in the £
Discount, 9/6. Post free N-.S.W.
W*„VV
n>.A
George Street, Sydney.
ES 3 —“Dubledge”
Stropping Machine,
for Gillette Safety Razor
Blades. Usual Price, 18/6.
Less 2/- in the £
Discount, 16/S. Post
free N.S.W.
tS7i/c/e cfirdi
T+% C
EVERMORE
ES 6—The “Evermore”. Slyde*
... Stroke Stropping Machine. Will
sharpen ordinary razors and any make of.
safety razor blades. llsual, .Price, 18/6..
Eess 2/- in the £ Discount,' 16/8.
Post free in N.S.W.
'ld#
ft M
' : 7
■■n
r\
r\
<=P
1
h.O
\?
w
ter® 1
ES 12—“ Hygienic 1 ’ Steel Table’
Cutlery. Guaranteed will not rust
nor stain. Oval ivory white balanced
handles, with plain _solid bolsters.
Usually Less-2/-4n_£.
ri "O'" «r’:' half-doz. , half-doz. 'C f
Table Knives .... 45/- 4.0/6
Dessert Knives .. 40/- 86/-
Meat Carvers (pair) 35/- 31/6


Learn to Draw
1
4 S
i
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Send for
Mr. Harry
J. Weston’s
instructive
and interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen.’'
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by the Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work are given.
The Weston method
is simplicity itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by a
series of easy, pro-
gressive lessons
gives you a
thorough grounding
in the basic prin-
ciples of art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
many successful
Weston pupils have
done? You have
the benefit of
Mr. Weston’s
personal advice
on every lesson.
Send three stamps to-day for booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of I)rawing,
106 Union House, George Street, BYDNEY.
S/True Ease i^Writing
BRUCE”
STEEL
PENS
SHELL
and recommended by
JBRUCE.'Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal.
Schools of Sydney, N.S.W. & rn an u/he Lured
by the celebrated Penmakers. .
Joseph Gillott & Sons. Birmingham.
f Sold by ali Stationers
Mol esaleAlex . Cowan & Sons. L t p
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
lAUNDRENA
The Dainty Womans favourite Staicli
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and liberie.
<- SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C?L T ? SYDNEY.
Advice Worth
Following!
The Ex-Chief
Govt. Analyst of
N. S Wales
reports
“I have analysed
Wolfe?# Schnapps and
find it to be a Remark -■
ably s\%re Spirit, flav-'
the natural
aromatic oil extracted
from the Juniper Berry,
which by a process of
careful blending, im-
parts to the Schnapps
the particular character*
istic feature it has pos-
sessed for nearly a
cent i. past—namely,
that of a Diuretic or
1 'dy favourable for
s iiilating the action of
tl<e kidneys.
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Is Refreshing
as well as
Beneficial
Large and Small
_ Bottles
Missing: Friends.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
THOMAS WALTER SAMPSON,
please communicate with F-. SAMPSON,
Wallaroo Mines, South Australia.
WOULD YOU TURN AND RUN?
Would you turn tail and “go for
your life” if a bully or a blusterer
threatened to give you a “hiding”?
If you couldn’t box you probably
would, for no man likes to get “the
father of a hiding.” But if you
LEARN BOXING
BY POST
you have the assurance of power that will make you
laugh at threats and sneers and hold your own in
any mix-up. r
lteg. L. (“Snowy") Baker, the noted champion,
teaches you every hit, guard and counter of the
game in a series of interesting lessons, based on the
knowledge of the methods of the world’s champions,
and each one is clearly illustrated by photographs
and diagrams. It is the simplest and most effective
set of boxing lessons you can have.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and send it with three stamps to cover postage
for a copy of “Snowy” Baker's booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about the
course, gives examples of the lessons, and contains
many valuable hints and facts about the art of self-
defence.
:
T
I
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,"
AND BROTHERS,
36 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
ħ
It’s the Shoes they’ll look at
provided you use
Rostock’s Shoe Dressings.
PASTES (in tins).- —Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Nigger Brown, Ox Blood.
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING.-—For Canvas Shoes.
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING.—For Suede Shoes.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
h
Lights in half a min-
ute. • Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, AS/-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
£2700 for lI-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers' Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £II OO
£sooSecond Prize valued £5OO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 2fith. Winning
numbers published on 31st May. 19r2-
II- Only TICKETS II- Only
By Post 1/2 —Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may possibly win £2700.
Tickets obtainable from N S W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State ana Samuel T. Green, Ho.'v secretary.
Council C"ambers, Blackhkath, N.S.W
T
THE FAMOUS
COD LIVEIL
OIL
EMULSION
and WasHng
Disorders
OBTAINABLE
wmm ■
• tt *«<»♦' * I M 1 ‘
,i utt* »* • » »•##*» *
' v . VV' - - A'ivVV iVV 1 * .
'F <uv •, < *
‘ . 'VV> ,
t .
mza*.
Saii
1
■
mk
Z 4
'isSf.
;Jps
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to in. in
|4tn. plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD
•f
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs} ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except o'] a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
T.R.: We can’t return unused paragraphs.
. ...A.G.Y.: One verse at any rate shall have im-
mortality :—•
I’ve heard you shout
And openly flout
Both profiteer and disloyalist;
I’ve read of how with doubled fist
You tried an egg-thrower’s nose to twist
In far-off Warwick Town.
.. . .Celery-top: It probably means something; but
why should a poem be also a puzzle 1... . Fitzroy:
You are wrong. Best was one of the six Vic. Sena-
tors elected in 1901. He came fourth with 63,075
votes, Simon Fraser heading the p 011... .E.H.S.:
Doesn’t get near the goal. .. .Rebus':- 1 “Reward” ends
foolishly... .Kelvin G.: The idea wants fattening....
A. : Doesn’t bite us, .. .8.D.V.: Verse needs to
have something more in it than the mere statements
that “day is past” and “day is bom”... .W. McV.:
They are far off... . U.A.S.: Haven’t an idea what it
means... .G.H. (Larrieroo) : Nothing there... .A.C.:
(Albert Park): Commonplace and uneven... .Wilson
II.: So rough that we wore out a perfectly good pair
of ears reading it....A.M. (Hamilton): No use....
J. : Hopeless... .J.W.S.: Horrible... .Oliver
B. : Very seasonable item: —•
It was looking very dirty all day,
As one cocked ’is eye around;
The air, as heavy as (lay,
The little birds stretched out on the ground.
There wpuld be a flash and a rumble,
No matter which way you look ;
It was well in for a rough and tumble,
It was looking darned crook.
Closer, and still closer it came;
Still the air as thick as mud;
Anyone could see it was game ;
Even the cows stopped chewing their cud.
A spot or two, a terrific clap ;
Followed by streaks of lightning;
Many caught without a wrap,
No need for more warning.
.... Albert D.: The thin violet scrawl appears, as far
as it can be read, to be gently idiotic... .Becky:
“After” can’t be made to sing w’thout coaxing, and
an occasional wringings of its neck. .. .F.H.8.: A per-
son who finds his humor in castor-oil ought to keep
it to himself... .Slim Tim: Doesn’t entice u 5....
R.G.S.: No use... .Nellie M.: Really, Ellen, that sort
of stuff is neither verse nor prose... .N.C. (Padding-
ton) : “Mrs. Sparrow” can’t make a nest here until
she can chirrup better. .. .Rosa A.: “The Urchin” is
a bit crude... .H.M. (Bendigo): Nothing in the mass
of words. .. .Klaney: Regret that the young lady who
“piped a simple ode” on a bush track won’t help us
to earn our Sixpence this week... .D.E.W.: Too
slight. . . .Lindsay R.: No hope for chopped prose
hanging on the slenderest idea... .R.M.P.: Try a yarn
like that on your friends’ first and see how mhch
mirth it pans out Barwon: “Walget” not up....
H.D.D.: It labors along like a woOl-waggon... .Chan:
They don’t get near. If you try again avoid a lan-
guage you don’t know. “T-hou joineth” is absurd. .. .
M.W. (Randwick) : The verse is pretty bad; the ideas
are worse. .. .Wattle Bark: You don’t seem to like
them pretty well:—
The Demons who bundle the Kingston bark
Are the vilest of God’s creation,
Be they black or brindle or white or tan,
For them there is no salvation;
May they boil in oil or burn in Hell,
Die of starvation and thirst as well;
May their boots be filled with molten lead,
Whilst a fire of bark is around their head;
Be eaten by sharks or devoured by rats,
Make a ghoulish meal for the native-eats —
Till with fear of Hell in their frightened eyes
They make their bundles half the sile.
... .T.W.G.D.: Story very slight, and not much in
our line, anyway... .Coreen N.: Terribly heavy
attempt at fooling, .. .Warradulla: The White Aus-
tralia yarn wanted better telling and a brighter end-
ing.... R.C.: “The Girl in the Moon” is one of the
world’s most ancient ideas. She must have smoother
verse at this time of day... .Heremai: Pretty dreadful,
even for a first attempt... .A.J. (Geelong),: The thin
little quip is weakened by the bad verse. . . .Binhie:
There is no plagiarism. Such questionings are as old
as literature A.R.P.: Doesn’t strike us hard enough
to give you a win.... Mary A.: Only enough mirth
to help a. very thin curate through breakfast. . . .A.S.
(Hurstville) : A sonnet must carry a lot better work
than that. .. .A.FJI.: Don’t copy English color from
other people's work. May is not spring; it is
merely an easy rhyme.... The Punter: Crude in
thought and rugged in manner... .L. 0.5.: Doesn’t;
make a saleable yarn... .H.L.L.: Wooden verse that ,
gets nowhere... .Ronnage: It’s a shame. Come in
here: —
There’s races here three days this Week,
It makes our town real popular,
The visitors for board must seek,
Hotels and like so full they are.
In private homes they’re “putting up.”
A brainwave now the wife has got;
Our own bedroom she’s filling up,
Likewise the spare and baby’s cot.
Down with the fowls I have a bunk
But I’ve nothing to grumble at,
For should I come home late and drunk,
I only may disturb the cat.
. ...F.E.: Similar yarn already printed... .Billstal:
Takes too long to get to the point. .. .Stirling: May
use one... .B.P. Too late n0w....W.L.: Nothing
new there. . . .F.S.: Length outruns interest. .. .E.M.:
Too much of a jumble. . . .Lizkitoota: Paragraphed
already 48.5.: Subject closed down; try some-
thing else Tuan Hill: Not much interest outside
your village... .Boolierahna: But an emu can swim
just as an every-day hen can, if put to it Possum:'
Not up. . . .Spadger: It is ingenious rhyming; but
that’s not quite enough to carry it through....
X.: It has been discussed 20 times, and there has
always seemed good technical and other reasons
for sticking to the old practice.... Salient: Your
ex-bottle-oh wouldn’t talk like that... .C.G.: A
man who fires in-stuff without going to the trouble
of revising it is asking for the cold eye.... Becky:
We don’t want to paint the story pages all drab
K. : The meaning, is too hazy... .R.W.D.: Very
tired of 'verses whose meaning is so well hidden
that we have to call in a man with a divining rod
to find it. And then pretty often if there are two
men with two divining rods they find two different
things—or say they do....Haka: Not strong enough
to go the distance.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R. McL.: Better take some lessons J.H.: not
up.... H.M. The worst duds of the week.... ILF.:
You’ve a long road to travel vet....T.P.: Poor kid
seems to have had an overdose.... II.B.: Not enough
in it.... J.W.D.: Painfully weak. .. .M.O’K.: Going
back.., .0.K.F.: One may do as a suggestion,
C. McL.: A bad miss.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric Lifts and -Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First.-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIKNT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City. 4246. 2, 4, 6 Spring Street,
48i o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 8, 1922,
VENTURA.
10,090 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
■THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE tin BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasr.enger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSES STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Banking:. Public Companies, &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000-.; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PHiLP, Iv.C.M.G.;
H A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. . . . . 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. £2,000„000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ~ .. £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman;
George J.Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yarivood, F.G.P.A. ;
George F. Todman; Hon. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
• General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1.886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts Ell other usual Banking business.
Shipping;, eta.
Can&dian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers, booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
NIAGARA, 16th FEBRUARY, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 16th MARCH.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Franci!sco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of tlie United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS :
MARAMA, 7th* MARCH, from Welling toil.
TAHITI, 6th APRIL, from Sydney.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
• UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
ĥ
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3h TO 4\ WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with 'Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
Only One Class Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC , 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
reserve Fund
reserve Liability
Established 1817.
* Directors:
- £5,000,000
- 3,500,000
- 5,000,000
£13,500,000
The lion. Sir Charles «E. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Kober't L. I'rtithfnll. Esq., M.D.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A.-G. Milson, Esq.
The Ilors. James T. Walker.
Franc: B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland. Esq.
General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadnecdle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTTSECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
ot 3ustralia
HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaut (Newßritain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3019 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain. Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £I,COO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G..
Deputy Governor. Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers ‘
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ħ
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Galle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gemsio, Barcelona, Spain.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart
ParkerLlM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa . Particulars to be obtained on appli*
cation. „ _ .
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars applv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YIJSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
IUOIILUIV dilililiga a iitri * •
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
monev, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YU SEN KAISHA
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
managing agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, I.td.
Blackheftth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOE
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P- & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. C&nadian-Australasian Royal Mail, Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of‘ New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.'
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
dnberg. Bowen and Cook town-
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
Tlie jiargest and iMost Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire,
distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1,336,402
Yielding Reversionary . Additions to
Policies of about .. .• •• £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds ... ..£44,000,000
Annual Income .. .. •• •• £6,375,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
ti. W. APPERLY. F.S.S.. General Manager.
In these days we all have
to Keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Offfoe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
h


IK
>*e
S*T—
„_ **« mai
c**
- C
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Foocf-Prink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion cf hot or cold water only-
Send id. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C? A
Slough. Bucks. Eng y^rj^
V ttuiitYituYi/
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Ltumsil Austualasian,
tid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit tlie
Burrisu Austiiai asian Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High llolborn. London. \V.(J..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Biliousness
Use a simple and effi-
cient corrective that
is mildly aperient and
safe in its action
The ideal medicine is
Kruses
fluid
.7.'- ■ _
But be sure and set t*»<s
genuine, which is nrt do
by Felton, Grimwade <3fc
Co. Pty.Ltd., Melbourne
I
If any illustration appearing
Bulletin takes your fancy, wri
Manager, who will quote you price
in The
te to the
for it.
What It feels LikeToW?ar
AERTEX Cellular Clothing
*T'HIS is an illustration which gives an
idea of the healthy comfort and cool-
ness you enjoy when you wear Aertex
Cellular—far and away the coolest under-
wear in the world.
Aertex allows you to maintain your vigour
and vim, keeps your skin cool, clothes
you with air, and lets perspiration evap-
orate unnoticed instead of clinging to you
like steam. No matter how hot the sun —
even when the air is fairly quivering with
heat—your skin pores can breathe freely
when you are clad in Aertex Underwear.
Doctors recognise Aertex as the health-
iest coolest, and most hygienic of all
materials. Every inch of fabric contains
hundreds of little air-cells that prevent
the heat from getting through to the skin
AERTEX
CELLULAR
UNDERCLOTHING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
When you buy Aertex Underwear you will find how .
economical and durable it is, and how it fits as though
made specially for you by a tailor.
To be obtained from
all leading Outfit-
ters.
Mcerloo
CLOTn
AERTEX
LOnooh
uy
Garment
If any difficulty In
procuring, please
wri te—Cellu lar
Clothing Co.. Ltd.,
313, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.1j. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. _ /■» o />-
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £,O/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
SUNOL ™ Tobacco
The World’s Best.
m
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, too action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib. weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices Here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
89. “Itliaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Bijieoil Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top i‘Ver,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high
grip, chambered for 2-Jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b.
Tested for Nitro Powders .. Freight paid.
file-cut rib, pistol
£l6/16/-
ip
-..
0. S'! 3®
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel 'barrels,; take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight ' _ ’ .
about 71h. .... Freight paid, 3Li5/*5/"
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun . ... ..... g ar/i /_
Freight paid, «5L#l5/0/“
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS ... 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
h
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gull. 12-gauge. top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. 4E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, x» |AIt A
beautifully engraved, weight about 751 b Freight paid, *7 'I
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC-
-CLEANSING-
-HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 1/9 tube (postage 3d. extra).
tevcn s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-fcauge
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. BB ~EjcCtOf, 65/- Freight paid,
0C
L
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE^


Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
are Bound to Help You.
Mr.
JACK
SINCLAIR
(from a
photo )
m
Wv.
i
m
m
I
i i>
“I have much pleasure in send-
ing you a testimonial for the
benefit of others who may suffer as
I did with Stone in the Bladder
and Kidney Trouble. I was ad-
vised to use Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills, which I did with great suc-
cess, and have the stone passed.
It gave me a shock at the time, but
great relief, and I am only too
pleased to show that stone to any-
one or tell of the good I derived
from the use of Gin Pills. I had
to give up my trade as a baker,
through my suffering, and take on
cooking, which was lighter work.
1 wish you to use this testimonial
to your best advantage, also I wish
to state that I took Gin Pills
strictly by direction; I drank
plenty of water, knocked off tea
and coffee, and ate very little meat.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are really
a valuable medicine, I cannot
speak too highly of them.
“Wishing you every succe; s,
“Yours very truly,
“(Sgd.) JACK SINCLAIR,
“Baker, Balranald, N.S.W.”
Men! Look Well and Feel Well
Don't suffer the agonies of Backache, Lumbago, Bun-down feeling, or Kidney
Troubles of any kind; but remember that Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Dills were specialist
designed to banish all these ailments. No matter how long you have suffered, how
old you are, or what you have used before, you should try Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills;
they are sure to help you, as it is practically impossible to take them into thei
human system without benefiting. They help you from the very first dose, banish
Backache and make your Kidneys strong and healthy once again.
WJ
ĥ
BACKACHE.KIDNEY. BLADDER.
AND URINARY TROUBLES.
ħ
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHKISTOPHEB
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Kazor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
World-Wide reputation.
£G\STE^
CJ
E
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives. Norman Baker & Longhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
“Perfected,”
says Mr. Edison
The NEW EDISON is no anony-
mous instrument, for the name of
Thomas A. Edison stands behind
it. The great inventor says:—
“This phonograph is perfected—complete
with every overtone, with every mechanical
sound eliminated. If the voice of the instru-
ment cannot be distinguished from the voice
of the singer when they stand side by side,
there is nothing left to work for.
An instrument like this is worthy of your _ home a
machine endorsed and accepted by many musicians, to
whom mere talking-machines were anathema.
If perfection in musical re-creation appeals to you, you
should have our descriptive literature —post free on request
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney
The NEW EDISON
A Song of Nights.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
summer evening rudely fell,
A red sun crying “All is well”
To nfty breezes worn and spent
That limped across a continent,
And lurching past the leaf and weed
Bore far the soaring thistle seed
On easy and adventurous flight
Up the brown avenues of night.
A moon bewitched had sailed on high
To thinly light the smoky sky. *
Her crescent boat upon the flood
Of darkness was as red as blood,
Where, haloed in a fiery glow,
She gossiped to the trees of woe.
In at my open window flew
The ghosts of nights that once 1 knew,
Cold goblin wraiths of ancient looks
Escaped from brown forgotten books
With pallid cheek and rigid stare
And cold blood matted in their hair.
I saw the night Macbeth had slain
Stalk in wnn eyes ot haggard pain,
The night of Richard’s last distress
Wild with a nightmare loneliness,
The night that heard the awful cry
Of Illion’s woman-agony,
And that black night so slow to pass
When, wearied, round Leonidas,
Staggering and proud and drunk with death,
Tali Spartans drew a dreadful breath
And watched the fatal eastern sky
For light to lift their shields and die.
I saw the nights that came and went
O’er ragged hosts with battle spent,
The slaughtered chief, the broken city
That left the ages choked with pity,
While war across the maddened years
Washed out with blood the trace of tears.
I saw the night, moon-white and still,
The hoary olives on the hill,
The city wall, the guarded tower,
Where, helmeted with brazen power,
Great Rome stood watch and watch to keep
The city, restless in its sleep.
Sleep ill, sleep well, it came to me
On the long sigh, “Gethsemane”-
A garden by a kiss betrayed
In the sweet dusk its leaves had made.
I saw the night when stark and still
A king lay dead on Senlac hill,
The beaconed night when fear walked free
To tell of Spain upon the sea,
The night when shrieking winds and loud
Tore London’s grey, hag-ridden cloud
And broken tile and tortured vane
Looked on a morning wild with pain,
While, in a street below, one cried
That in the tempest Cromwell died.
I saw the night when ouiet came
After long noise and battle-flame,
And, awed with victory, strong men knew
The dread and hope called Waterloo.
I saw the night when sudden hate
Burst headlong through the Belgian gate,
And, with a catching of the breath,
The startled lands looked stark on death.
All these in long procession came,
And bat-winged nights that bore no name,
Nights cowled with plague or naked-cold
With the sea’s sorrows manifold.
But as my blood grew thick with doom
A music trembled in my room ;
The air was like the breath of Spring
In happy ways of leaf and wing;
And through it, ere my heart could beat,
Stept a blue night on silver feet.
“What happy bride is this,” I said,
“That walks behind the nights long dead,
The nights that all my brown books show,
The nights of weariness and woe,
The nights of blood, the nights of tears,
The nights of all the withered years?”
A little wind with whispers shrill
Came stealing softly up the hill.
It stirred the fern, it brushed the tree
And then it wisely answered me :
“It is the night of wait-and-see.”
And I am waiting quietly,
While the low wind sings in the tree.
Whatever days or change may bring,
Whatever dirge the darkness s ; ng,
Whatever chance, whatever fall,
The night that comes is worth it all!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
As Rome Does.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE river ran generally north-east and
south-west, butting up against hard
bars that spread its silt and gravel in
long, wide flats, now scarred with the grass-
grown dumps of the alluvial miners of half-
a-century ago. To the east a great moun-
tain, almost a range, of hematite; to the west
slate country spotted and barred by out-
crops of quartz, white and hungry as a
hound’s tooth. The gold of the flats had
come from far north of the iron mountain
and of the quartz and slate country—the de-
nudation of high-level country, spewed and
hurried through a five-mile gorge, and at last
halted in the flats by the slower river flow.
To these flats, which had exhausted all the
gold payable for extraction by man-power,
and deserted for 30 years, came a sharp-
nosed ferret of a man who had secured
dredging leases of the river areas, and a
long, thin, pessimistic engineer who believed
in no metal values not reachable by cold-
blooded sampling. The cold-blooded samp-
ling complete, and apparently satisfactorv,
the pessimistic engineer became absolutely
gloomy, and cut the values of the samples in
halves.
Their procedure was to break down cubic-
yard samples for every eight feet of the many
shafts left in the flats and stream the wash
through a “long tom.” Most of these shafts
were circular, being the work of Chinese;
and the sampling seemed the fairest indica-
tion of the bulk value of the flats. Yet was
the long, thin engineer without cheer. They
found their mining and sampling labor in the
sons of the old miners—men who had stuck
to Lizard Valley because they had married
while yet their fathers were alive, and, hav-
ing acquired children, had now no chance of
leaving.
The engineer ate pork, the only meat-food
in the valley during his seven weeks of
sampling and preparation of plans ; and the
pork deepened his pessimism to despair. In
such mental condition he sent to Melbourne
for the ferret’s principal; and he arrived
uproarious with life that no duffer field could
dim and no continuous pork diet quell.
He looked at the sampling plan, whooped
over the pessimist’s showing of sevenpence to
the yard, and said he knew that meant one
and tuppence. He refused to recognise the
possibilities of bad bottom and heavy boulders
and sunken timber; he figured on having five
dredges working on the 1500 abrek of flats,
and a working capital of a quarter of a mil-
lion. For this, he said, he would have to
go to London, where he would get the money
in half a tick.
The dirty-nosed climate could not depress
him. Flopping arouna in mud-puddles all
day left him enthusiastic for the evenings,
when all their day clothes steamed before the
big log fire of the despairing little public-
house, and he figured on the profits of 1500
acres which must clean up ±2OOO an acre
net. Bo the laiv talked until the
icy winds blowing around the crazy, creak-
ing pub seemed almost warm ; and the ferret
man s eyes sparkled in the half-gloom, and
his thin mouth leaked as he thought of a
clean-up of three millions; and the pessi-
mistic engineer brightened so that his despair-
ing condemnation softened to mere depreca-
tory “buts,” and ‘■notwithstanding thats,”
and such guarded statements as this truth,
that “in every cupboard there is a skeleton,
and in every mine a pain.”
The sampling completed, the plans ready to
be drawn to scale, and departure from Lizard
Valley scheduled for the day thereafter, Good-
man, the large optimist, roamed the flats
nearest the gorge, and then decided that, as
London is a whale for acreage, whether it be
good or bad, the Lizard Valley Syndicate
must have at least 2500 acres, thus increas-
ing its area by a thousand.
The pessimistic engineer sadly agreed that
the increase of acreage would do no harm,
even if it did no good. The gorge and the
buck quartz and slate area to the west warned
them off on sight; but Goodman dragged the
ferret and the engineer to the foot of the iron
range to the east. There, having viewed the
metallic Pisgah from the alluvial Canaan,
he directed the ferret and two of the valley
natives to peg out the whole range and apply
for it as iron-mining leases. Also, with the
pessimist, he knapped the great boulders of
hematite fallen from the mountain to the
foothills, and sent the dray back to bring in
4cwt. of hematite samples.
So at long last Goodman departed for Mel-
bourne, leaving the engineer to make a rough
estimate of iron quantities and quality; and
in a month or two sailed for London an ideal
combination—pessimist and optimist, despair
and hope, enthusiasm and discounted facts,
motivepporerw r er and the brake thereon. It
was just as well for the safety of the liner
that bore them up to Naples that Goodman
had with him Nelson, whom he affectionately
nicknamed The Nark; for in the Red Sea
Goodman’s undiscounted enthusiasm might
have assisted the climate to destroy the co-
herence of the ship and send her, atomised, to
tlie bottom.
They entrained at Naples, and Goodman’s
enthusiastic belief in all things made
the run to Calais almost a triumphal march ;
but only almost, although the Nark became
nearly cheerful in the change of scene. In
point of fact, he said “but” and “for all that”
only 10 times between Rome and Pisa. Lon-
don in November assisted him to return to
his native melancholy and' dampened Good-
man’s enthusiasm a little. But he plunged
into the city as a good swimmer goes off the
•springboard, and set about the siege of the
moneyed class in favor of the Lizard Creek
Syndicate without the loss of a day.
They met the commission-note shark in
his hundreds —gentlemen with fraved cuffs
who lived in smelly little eighteenth-century
offices overlooking mouldering city church-
yards and approached by breakneck stairs,
and who alleged themselves to be in the con-
fidence of the Rothschilds, and departed curs-
ing when they were told 'to produce their
principals, as Goodman and Nelson and the
Lizard Creek Syndicate had, for a motto, “No
cure, no pay.” There were other noble Eng-
lish gentlemen who represented themselves as
full brothers-in-law to Coutts’ and Smith’s
banks, and yet others who spoke contemptu-
ously of Lloyds and the Gred't Lyonnaia
being closely related to all the Governors of
the Bank of England. These attempted to
eat the Lizard Creek Syndicate out of house
and home, and were sold cheap with a whisky-
punch at Birch’s and a little chop and trim-
mings at the Ship and Turtle.
But finally even the pessimist’s demands of
high respectability and lofty financial stand-
ing were supplied; Goodman and Nelson
found a beautifully upholstered Jewish gentle-
man w T ho mentioned his principals and an
earlv date for meeting them.
“And then, my deah thirth,” he said, with
a queer twisting of his nose to starboard,
“you’ll thee. You arthk me, gentlemen, for
a quarter of a million, and I thay yeth.”
Goodman and Nelson took him to lunch at
the Carlton, and talked finance all afternoon:
and they wined him, and dined him, and
theatred him : and when Nelson had departed,
rather unsteadily and cheerfully for such a
pessimist, the guest borrowed £5O from the
optimist on the plea of a midnight bi-idge
party where play was just modestly expen-
sive." The optimist took him down to the
taxi and pressed his hand affectionately as
he departed.
“Good-bye, my death ole chap,” said the
.Tewmh gentleman. “I’ll thee ”ou to-morrow
and fix up a quarter of a million —and give
you thith 50 quid.”
And this he said signifying they should see
his face no more.
That was the beginning of the big disillu-
sionment of London —the Place bf the
(Continued on next page.)


THE DEADLYPEtm OF
»»///«
"W/aaa*
'/A
1
Wm
n
r M
ZAM-BUK Ik Best Healer for WOUNDS 8 SORES.
YOU CAN’T AFFORD TO neglect even the slightest skin
trouble. Such painful and disfiguring complaints as Eczema,
Barcoo, Ulcers, Ringworm, Poisoned and Festering
Sores usually start with a Pimple, a Rash or a simple
Cut or Burn.
The only safe plan is to keep Zam-Buk always
handy and use it at once whenever you have any trouble
with your skin. This herbal balm, which is the product of years
of scientific research, has no equal as an antiseptic healer and
cure for obstinate skin diseases. In Zam-Buk is the modern
successor of those wonderful healing balms used by the ancient Roman Gladiators.
Zam-Buk is so refined that it is at once absorbed by the pores of the skin. Impurities,
poison and disease are drawn out of the tissues, and new healthy skin is grown. So
powerful is Zam-Buk that the worst skin affection yields to its marvellous healing influence.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is specially prepared to meet the needs of those people with
a diseased, tender or irritable skin. It is invaluable when used with Zam-Buk balm for
the cure of skin troubles.
All
C'hebiists
Stores,
1/6 and
3/6.
am
u
Insist upon
Zam-Buk.
there's
nothing
“just as
good.”
/
\
’i
/
TEST ZAM-BUK FREE.
A free sample of Zam-
Buk will be sent to all
readers on receipt of name and address, this coupon and
stamp for return postage, by the Proprietors, C. E. Ful-
ford (Aust). Ltd., Sydney. Bulletin 2/2/’22.
Damned-by-waiting and the Home of the
Hope Deferred.
Then Goodman had another brilliant idea :
his enthusiasm, beaten down by all these
knock-out blows, gasped its 10 seconds on
the floor, and arose as fresh and uuwinded
as if the fight were in the first round.
“Here you are, old man,” he said to kel-
son —"I've got letters to some mining people
in Glasgow. The. Scotchman is a better-class
chap than all these German Jews that call
themselves London. England's the home of
the Lost Ten Tribes —let s make a break for
Clydeside. Those Scotch must be good
people, to judge by their whisky, and the
Erench strain in ’em gives ’em ginger and
directness. It’ll be all off or all on with
them.” , . .
“My dear chap,” said the pessimist,
“bn”-
“Now, if vou say ‘but’ once I’ll invest you
with the Knight Grand Cross of the Order
of the Nark, with remainder to your heirs
for ever.”
"Well, I’ll go; but”
“Not a but! You take the high notes
and I’ll take the gold, and I’ll go through
Scotland before you.”
“Notwithstanding” -
“Notwithstanding height _ nor depth Hoi-
principalities' nor Kings, it’s me for Scots
wha hae wi’ Wallace fled. Cab to Euston
and the Caledonian Railway. Loud cheers.”
They crossed the Clyde Bridge and
steamed into the Caledonian Central in the
early afternoon of a late January day, and
an atmosphere like unto moist grey-black
crepe de Chine. There were heavy air and
heavy food and thick, dull carpets in the
Central Railway Hotel ; and outside Argyle-
stieet and Buchanan-street. and Botlnvell-
street offered variants of the same heaviness
and drizzle. The optimist was not dis-
mayed ; he found that the wind was not as
keen as at Lizard Valley last August, and
he discovered probable financial magnates in
every man who did not ask them to buy
matches or shoe-strings. Certainly his
optimism was slightly shaken by the annoy-
ance of a Scottish gentleman who, anticipat-
ing the Bobby Burns celebration by a week,
played the accursed bagpipes which earned
the curse of Shakspeare and discoursed his
awful noises to the drizzling night; but he
even forgave the piper when the more irrit-
able pessimist poured from his bedroom-
window. the contents of a water-jug in the
16th-century fashion of cleaning house.
Next day they began the siege of Drizzle-
ville, presented letters to certain Clydesdale
ironfounders, who were enthusiastic over
Lizard Valley Alluviala because they wanted
the orders to build the dredges; and to cer-
tain financiers, who were dubious of Lizard
Valley and almost sceptical of the existence
of gold as a metal, because they were being
asked to find the money to build the dredges
aforesaid. But at last the business was in
train; after many dinners and an enormous
consumption of drams and wee haufs by
the natives, the optimist being on the water-
waggon for the time (being, by reason of the
climate and the decision not to waste an
unnecessary moment, and the pessimist
being a teetotaller on principle, said prin-
ciple being unstated.
They found solicitors who piled up costs
by meticulous and long-winded preparation
of the prospectus, alleging that they did
this to keep promoters out of gaol, 'when,
indeed, their class had first enacted the
machinery to bring the promoter to his real
home at last, m order that some other
"writers to the signet” should make profits
by circumventing his co-thieves. They
found directors of marvellous financial sta-
bility and probity, and of even more mar-
vellous tenacity in holding on to money ;
they were graciously permitted to add to
that prospectus the name of a bank which
was quite willing to take in application and
allotment moneys, without interest, and
quite unwilling to let out a penny.
‘‘My grief!” said the optimist. “The
Race of Narks is world wide. Whenever
these fellows pay a bob in the winner doesn’t
shout—he sentences that shilling to impri-
sonment for life.”
Furthermore, they appointed an enthusi-
astic auditor to the prospectus, but his en-
thusism took no other shape than an appa-
rent desire to have his fees paid in advance;
and they also appointed a secretary, with
office, telephone and typist en suite. He
was a slight, dreamy, poetic-faceo young
man, with the tender, reproachful brown
eyes of a gazelle; poetic enough to love wee
liaufs, hut otherwise most un-Scotch. When
under the influence of these wes haufs,
supped among the great casks of Rogano’s,
he waxed more enthusiastic than Goodman
for the future of the Lizard Valley Allu-
via Is.
"Mil frens,” said he, with his beautiful
gazelle-like eyes swimming in their own
emotion. “ ’tis a gran’ company, yon Leezard
Valley. ’Tis gran’ gowd. An’ a’ that re-
mains for’s, mu gude frens, is ta pit our
shouthers to the wee wheel, an’ bring the
concerru tae a triumfau’ conclewshun. I’ll
hae anither wee hauf.”
Two weeks later they put their fortune
to the touch, advertising the prospectus at
the ruinous rate of £2 12s. tid. per inch per
insertion in daily papers that seemed to
have multiplied themselves over night on
the mere rumor of a prospectus.
“Alt these rags dream of two boobs with
an alluvial prospectus,” said Goodman. “And
they’re here, with ‘Stand and deliver’ before
the boobs can brush their teeth in the morn-
ing.”
The subscription was but 10 per cent.:
the issue was a failure. The optimist and
the pessimist paid up; the solicitors went
back to their webs; all the people on the
front page of the prospectus lost all interest
in the Lizard Valley Alluvials. Only the
gazelle-eyed secretary was loyal to the end.
.He drank three wee haufs, and advised
Goodman and Nelson to pit their shouthers
to the wheel, disregarding the fact that the
wheel was non-existent and the shoulders
not worth mentioning, and then he had an-
other wee haul’, and vanished in the drizzle,
and the optimist and the pessimist crossed
the Clyde again, and went south to London.
There they tried again.
“You can’t get me licked,” said Goodman.
"I won’t die of thirst in this damned brick-
aud-mortar desert. There’s always a water-
hole over the next rise.”
The pessimist was a sticker, too —pride
gave him the result that came of the opti-
mist’s hope. So they besieged the German
Jews again, and assaulted the redoubts or
those oid, conservative, English financial
houses which usually insist on Oxford gradu-
ates as junior clerks and are oeiieved by
some people to have a reduced duke as a
janitor. They had disappointments amanj,
for they had not exhausted the commission-
note sharks, who proved to be as the sands
of the sea for multitude. Once they got to
grips with a highly-respectable firm in Old
jtfroatl-street, but tins firm on closer acquaint-
ance was found to be possessed of the idea
that all the profit of the float should belong
to the firm, leaving Goodman and Nelson the
glory of having helped Australia to great-
ness by introducing a little capital to dig
up a lot of capital and carry it away. lhe
optimist said some very amusing and insult-
ing things to the hijfhly-respectable hrm,
clutched nis umbrella ui the death grip of
both hands, and led the pessimist into t amo-
mile-street. , . ,
“Three million fluids’ worth of gold going
begging!” said Goodman. “These coves are
only sprags on the wheel, and you ve got to
give tnem a coach before they 11 take tin
brake oft ! .” . . ,
“Worst of It is, said Nelson, were near
the end of our money. We’ll have to do
something quickly.” '
“We’ll do it, old man, replied Goodman,
all his optimism returned with 50 yards of
walking. “I’ve got one last letter of intro-
duction. Let’s present it.”
They found the introduction a fairly pre-
tentious oil ice by Warnford Court-—a Jew-
ish gentleman with a kindly, greedy eye, a
large, red mouth, oakum whiskers and a
satyr’s curly nose. His name sounded, like
the' name of a Hungarian stew; Goodman
said that because he couldn’t remember
“Goulash.” at the moment.
They went at him, open-mouthed, witn
samples, and plans, and stories of three
millions of profit in the old alluvial flats ot
Lizard Valley; but he stopped them with
open hands, the palms held towards them,
Ul “My dear sir,” said Mr. Goulash, “it
doesn’t matter von pretzel vot your gora-
pany is aboudt. A badt industrial vot looks
safe is better than a goodt mine Vot ts safe.
Nefer mindt vot your gompany is aboudt.
Vedder it is a mine, of a new vay of fas-
dening gorsets, <v* blackedts, or a hairpih
vot von’dt gedt losdt, or a mine. I don d
vant to know. Vot gander brosbegdus say i
“But the question surely is,” expostulated
the engineer, “will the thing pay?”
“No, no, no, my friend. Der quesdion is
vill it floadt? Now, your property vill not
flondt. It is goldt. Badt.”
“Bad! Why?’* ..
“Goldt is not vashioUable. Osdralian
goldt is not vantedt. Oh, no, ho! Vot does
it madder, your tree millions of Osdralian
goldt? Nodting! If it Vos industrials,
U\‘*]i vorks rnelvavs in Bolifia or Beru—
if it vas rubber! Ah, a pidty! Vy vas it
nodt rubber? Veil, veil, a pidty. Now meat
-—beefs —coldt storages—ach, fine! If it vas
iroii mines, or goal. Ach, pidty. But goldt—
no, no! Cojne ven you liat somedings der
marget vants. Goot-pye! Goot-pve!”
"The damned shopkeeper,” said the opti-
mist, enraged at last, as they walked along
Throgmorton-sti'eet. "There’s nothing big
about these people. No imagination. Thej
chuck gold away, and buy camel-dung at ;i
premium so Ion"' as they can sell the same
camel-dung to the public at a profit. Come
in and have a drink.”
In Winchester House bar Goodman took
up, aimlessly enough, a Daily Telegraph.
and the paper opened at a full-page prospec-
tus of a Swedish iron-mine. The prospectus
showed it to be a very low-grade iron-mine,
workable onl> by Edison’s magnetic extrac-
tion process .to produce a smelting charge.
And the capital of that company was colossal.
It explained that the high-grade iron-mines
of the world are growing few ; that the de-
mand for steel made the costly extraction
from low-grade ores necessary; and it was
headed by the statement that the prospectus
was published for public information only, all
the shares being allotted.
“My grief, look here. Nelson—that Hun-
garian goat asked ns to bring him iron!
There’s the proof of it. ■ Here’s a low-grade,
bread-and-butter iron show floating for a four-
roomed cottage full of money. You sampled
that iron thing L threw in as a make-weight
for area. What quantityV”
••I’ll swear to four million tons, and then
a bit. And my samples were 00 per cent,
protoxide. Silica low. phosphorus negligible.”
“Come along, get the iron plans and the
iron report ready. To-morrow we’re on to
that Goulash Hebrew like a ton of bricks.”
.. .. * * *
“My dear friendts,” said Goulash, “ve are
agreedt. Zwelf munce obtions, at ein undert
an’ fifdy sdssandt. Fifdeen sossandt on sign-
iugk ngreemendts, andt ve trow der gold leaser
in vis der iron-mines.”
“It’s a deal,” said Goodman for them both.
“And just for s’entimerit's sake we hope you’ll
put dredges on the valley flats, even before
you go in for steel furnaces on the moun-
tain.” _ ' ...
“I can say nodting. Goldt is unfashion-
able.’’ , ,
“But it mightn’t be when you complete
the option and take over the property.”
Mr. Goulash was almost shocked. “My
dear sir, ve may nefer take ofer der proberty.
Iron is fashionable now. It may nodt be ven
der obtion is expir-ed.”
“But then your company i
“It vill haf served idts turn. Ach, my flear
sir, ven in Borne do as Borne does.
*** ' *
The option was not exercised, but with
the money received as deposit, and the sale
of interests in Australia, Goodman and Nel-
son established a dredge at Lifcard Valley,
and promptly discovered boulders enough,
find a bottom sufficiently, difficult, to make
that dredge worth scrap-iron value.
So the inevitable rule of demand and sup-
ply had yet another triumph; and the pro-
verb of doing as the Bomans do won out yet
again.
RANDOLPH BEDFOED.


ms
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIMCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Offioe—9o Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
y
:
*
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from C to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Ironclad
Oil-Break Switches.
These Oil-Break Switches are designed to stand up to
the severest working conditions met with in industrial
service, and their reliability has been proved in
numerous installations throughout Australia and in
other countries. They fully comply with the latest
factory regulations, and can be easily and safely handled
by unskilled attendants. The Switches are of the loose-
handle pattern, with drum-type contacts, and can be
supplied in either watertight, flame-proof, or explosion-
proof casing for wall or floor fixing, and with or without
draw-out isolating features. They ean be supplied
singly,- as illustrated, or any number can be combined to
form a complete switchboard, with busbar chamber,
instruments, inter-connections, etc.; or they may be
combined with drum-type starters to form self-
contained motor-control units.
Manufacturers:
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS
CO. LTD., London.
Further inquiries from:
HOMEWOOD
& O’NEILLS
Head Office and Warehouse —172-
176 William Street, 'Melbourne.
Workshop No. I—Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2—Ferrars Street,
South Melbourne.
Sydney Office—37s George Street,
Sydney.
.BRITISH
4797-
-r-.-
Quality counts
in the long run
h
THERE are days when your shooting is
not what it should be —you return
home disappointed with general results —
you were not as keen as usual —you had
many chances, but something was wrong.
It makes a big difference what cartridges
you use. A good-looking cartridge is not
always what it appears to be. Are you
sure you are getting your money’s worth
in shooting value ?
Even if you are obliged to pay a little more,
why not have the best that can be bought and then see if
you don’t enjoy your day’s shooting to the utmost.
Remington, cartridges give entire satisfaction
and YOU can prove it.
D-l
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Represents! h« P. 0. Box 686,
vicrokiA
9
STAND
UNRIVALLED.
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
PERFORATED ZINC.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic
English Bradbury Jack,
An Extremely Popular Jack.
Don’t let the Thought
of Tyre Trouble
Disturb Your
Mental Equilibrium.
Should the puncture fiend be with you when next you tour it will
be bad luck indeed, but if it be so, keep at arm’s length profuse
mental anguish and unnecessary physical discomfort by equipping
The two most important
articles in circumstances of
Tyre distress are
The Lifting Jack
and
The Tyre Pump,
and they should be the most
mechanically perfect; yet
how often do we find when
opening the tool-box up, a
slow, heavy, and unstable
Jack in juxtaposition to a
tyre pump short-winded and
asthmatical.
English Tyre Pump,
with Gauge.
Swans’
Lifting Jacks
and
Tyre Pumps
Are the Goods,
the former being light yet
strong, quick in action and
rapid in release; the latter
being sturdy and giving a
full measure of air with
each stroke.
HERE IS A LIST:—
LIFTING JACKS.
“BRADBURY.”
“KIMBALL” JACK, Special for Hudson, 57/6.
“THE MIDUS,” a light but strong English Jack,
16/6 each.
TYRE PUMPS.
ENGLISH MADE.
Mysto, 18/6 each.
Hattersley, 27/6 each.
Hill’s, with Gauge, 30/-
Stirrup Grip Pattern, 17/6.
TURNER’S QUADRUPLE ACTION.
Single Barrel, with indestructible gauge.
The leading Tyre Pump of England.
85/- each.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt St., Sydney,
The House for Motor Engineers* Supplies.
Weed Chain Jack.


NO CAR COMPLETE WITHOUT THEM.
-ns
EACH ONE AN ECONOMY—NOT A LUXURY
CONSIDER THE DISADVANTAGES
Of
L Without
t Motor Necessities!
A little thought will show you how vitally a i&teWufit?
Equipment affects the “service value” of your car. If it is
not Stewart-equipped you are losing a whole lot of valuable
service that your car would otherwise be capable of giving.
Each KDi&WQ/W Product is an Absolute Essential for the
Safety, Certainty and Enjoyment of Motoring 1
Four million motorists agree that the Stewart Speedometer
is the most essential feature of their car. It gives an accurate
check on petrol consumption day in and day out. It shows
the exact service each tyre has given, and keeps a check on
the service of the car itself.
To avoid accidents and get the right-of-way every time
instal a Stewart Warning Signal. It can be heard a
mile up the road. A Warning Signal worthy of the name.
For safe night-driving you need a Stewart Searchlight.
Points out all danger spots along the r6ad. A handy
instrument for finding house-numbers in town.
The Stewart Autoguard prevents broken headlights, fenders,
radiators, etc. It’s more than a bumper—a real safeguard.
Feed troubles vanish when you instal the Stewart Patented
Vacuum System. It delivers the fuel to the carburettor
in all grades with unfailing regularity. The most perfect
feed system ever invented.
. ■
' •*?
AFTER PROVING THE VALUE OF STEWART PRODUCTS HUNDREDS OF
MOTOR-CAR MANUFACTURERS HAVE PERMANENTLY ADOPTED STEWART
VACUUM SYSTEMS, SPEEDOMETERS, WARNING SIGNALS AND OTHER STEWART
NECESSITIES AS “PART AND PARCEL” OF THEIR CARS.
OBTAINABLE FROM wholesale and retail accessory dealers throughout Australia, including
the following Interstate Service Stations:—
BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt Street, Sydney.
BERRY & ROCHE PTY. LTD., Swanston Street, Melbourne.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN. Hay Street, Perth.
CORNELL LTD., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
MARTIN WILSON BROS., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
