

,
-
> ' V
!*£#
•4.' ’-
•■» J
\,S
.
t '
-> *<£■
' ■- ■■ i
'
m
m
M&
S ;
.
.•- : r >
• s
L - '■ Sj.
s' ' 1:
■
l:W'
; . * ‘ -• V .
. • - .
.
:.y
■.o v ■ v.»y : -4' V -•
■ '
m
0 0
a i
mm
6
7
5
4
w
m
- . (.
v ■■
Vi .
'
GIANTS
of
THE MOTOR-CAR INDUSTRY.
The car-buyer of to-day is equipment*
' wise.
That is why manufacturers of motor-
cars are giving great thought to the
selection of their equipment, and why
practically 90 per cent, of them have
selected Stewart equipment.
When a manufacturer uses Stewart
Products his equipment is a selling point
—not a ground for apology. Stewart
Speedometers and Vacuum Tanks have
been selling points for motor-cars for
years. They represent the peak of per-
fection in automotive equipment.
Furthermore, with Stewart equip-
ment you get Stewart Service. There are
86 authorised Stewart Service Stations
in principal cities all over the world,
including one in each capital city of Aus-
tralia. Each station is manned by skilled
mechanics, who thoroughly understand
Stewart Products.
Car manufacturers are proud to
advertise their cars as Stewart-equipped.
It means a great deal to an equipment-wise
motoring public.
□
Q
PRODUCTS
Used on Seven Million Cars .
Obtainable from leading wholesale and retail accessory dealers throughout Australia, including the following Interstate Service
Stations-Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, SYDNEY; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd., Swauston Street, MELBOURNE; Martin
WHson Bros., Ltd., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE; Arthur Christian, Hay Street, PERTH; Cornell, Ltd., Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2213.
Thursday, July 13, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a JNevvspapei


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
42S George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
, new revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney*
IsSM
Save Power in Transmission
by using' Mangrovite Leather Belting*
When the best possible belting- is installed in a
factory, power is economised, production costs
brought down to a minimum, and annoying belting
troubles eliminated.
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
will produce this money-saying result, because
wherever installed it has created' new records of
production and constantly given efficient service
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co.. Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Perth
TASMANIA : Henry Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
OURNVDXE Cocoa
CHOCOLATE—“The Standard of Quality.”
HAVE YOU TRIED ONE?
Marcee Pipes are made
from Century-old Briar.
Should your choice he the upper pipe illus-
trated, you will find it full of satisfaction.
This Marcee is one of the famous GBD
family; beautifully marked and fitted with
silver mount and superior vulcanite mouth-
piece.
10/- each.
The lower pipe here shown is the famous
Marcee-de-Luxe. Made of century-old briar,
specially hardened and seasoned to emphasise
the beauty and blackness of the matured
briar.
15/- each.
All Tobacconists and Stores.
If you have any difficulty in obtain-
ing these pipes send remittance to
Box 502 G.P.0., Sydney, and your
order will receive prompt attention.
M
R
C
m
h.
mam
advt
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers
and Jewellers —
from 10/6 to 35/-
{OttbOaU fRoMt
V.IEVEB C/ FILLS a
PEN
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beine- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states:—-“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bae-
terieidally as is creosote.”
16 a Tin,
09
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D, The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption.
The Red Page
A British Labor-leader’s Faith.
“What We Want and AVhere AA'e Are/’
by W. A. Appleton.
(IIodder & Stoughton.)
The author of this book, who is secretary
ot the General Federation of English Trades
Vi? 10118 ’ takes as his sub-title “Facts, Not
1 erases,” and it is justified by his
plain statement of the difficulties of post-
war economics, and his outspoken contempt
for the catch phrases with which the
press and politicians fool some of the people
all the time.
In Paris he looked up at the statue of
Panton, and was struck by the inscription
on its pedestal—-Panton’s own words :—
After bread, education is the first thing needful
for the people.
Mr. Appleton realises that the second great
war is now being waged. Civilisation, hav-
ing fought German militarism for liberty,
now finds itself again in the trendies, figh't-
•mg starvation for life. From tiiat fact
there is no escape, so Bread must be the
first plank of Labor’s platform—of every
political platform. Starvation can only be
defeated by hard work—by drastic Govern-
ment economy—by courageous endurance of
hardship—by steadfast faith in ultimate
victory.
lie appeals always to reason, never to
prejudice. \\ hen he says, “The formula, ‘To
everyone according to his needs’ is an impos-
sibility apart from its corollary ’From every
one according to liis capacities,’ ” we know
it is the truth, hateful alike to the profiteer
Avho swindles the public, and the “go-
slow” workman who swindles liis mates.
{Speaking of the “go-slow” policy—called “ca’
canny” m England—he says there can be
no greater delusion. “The inefficient can
never be equally rewarded without the effici-
ent suffering.’’ “There can be no definite
advancement in material well-being unless
the value of ail work performed' is ascer-
tained, and all workers paid according to the
value of the product ot their labors. ' “The
standard of living depends oil the standard of
production.” If this book truly expresses
the intelligence of the Federated Unions of
England, then assuredly England is on the
eve of her second, and even greater, victory.
Work honestly, think honest hii —only fools
urc satisfied, with their knoielcilffc — Strength
of mind is (/renter than strength of body—
brute force may scramble to power; only
brains can retain power. After bread, edu-
cation—yelling "bloated Capitalist ” and
"lied Rugger” at one another does not 1 lower
the price of bread; let us shut off the hot
air and- get to work. That expresses the
spirit of this book; and that is the spirit we
all need.
Many will hesitate to accept his dictum
that the Government should hold itself aloof
from industrial disputes. True, he bases
his conclusion on facts that prove the incom-
petence of Parliament even in fulfilling its
traditional functions: the English Land Tax
(1909) was emasculated after an inquiry
that showed it had produced £4,100,000 at a
cost of £4,600,000! He strengthens liis con-
tention with instances of “Squandermania,”
and the feeble attitude of law-makers towards
law-breakers seeking to wreck Society. We
know all that. But he goes on to say: “Let
Capital and Labor settle their differences
between themselves, and let the State content
itself by keeping the ring, interfering legis-
latively only when life, health and material
are in danger.” In his next breath lie says:
“The strikes of to-day are not against Capi-
tal, they are against Society—Society as
represented by the hundreds of thousands of
girls and women who tramp to work through
the snow and slush because a few motor-
men misunderstand, or desire to repudiate,
a contract, or a few railway men are dis-
giuntled.” Mr. Appleton contradicts him-
self. He argues that Government should never
interfere between employer and employee
except to protect “life, health and material.”
Then he truly adds that all strikes now are
a Safest Society, that is, the women and
children who are ahVnys more or less suf-
ferers in “life, health and material.” So
the Government should always intervene.
But how ? Armed force is out of the ques-
tion: only the force of the law remains. And
when 10,000 miners refuse to abide by a
legal award based on evidence, of what use
is a broken awardV It is still of great use:
it concentrates public opinion against the
law-breakers: it is the death-warrant of the
strike. The law in itself is not sacrosanct,
but the women and children whom the law
protects are sacrosanct, and when a union,
smarting under a sense of injustice, vio-
lates the law and attacks Society through
its women and children, its defeat is
assured. Why? Because the women and
children the law-breakers attack are their
own women and children —because the miner
and his family are a living part of the
social body, because, in “white-anting”
Society, he is “white-anting” his own home.
He gives the mine-owner a black eye and
gets a knoclfout punch in the stomach —
what’s the use of that?
It is said that compulsory arbitration is
dehumanising, but the same may be said
of the criminal and divorce courts. Of
course voluntary conciliation is the ideal
towards which we should all strive, and it
cannot be far off if the workers have the
wisdom of this Labor-leader, and the em-
ployers can find a leader like him.
Gilbert Murray
Many Australians know that Gilbert
Murray was born here, and that he is a
Professor of Greek —or something like that
—at Oxford: but to most of us he is but
a name in the record-book. lie deserves'
to be much more, for had Gilbert Murray
not won fame as a scholar he must still
have been one of the most distinguished
men of his generation.
T came to Oxford as a freshman just after
Murray arrived there from Glasgow. The first
lecture prescribed by my tutor was on the
Odyssey. The lecturer—his name is imma-
terial —was a dyspeptic-looking- individual of
the intensely superior type, and the room
he occupied was half-empty. First, we
were recommended to read a translation of
the Odyssey by (I think) Leaf. Butcher
and Andrew Lang, for the lecturer would
have no time to translate even the most
Btirnng .passages. The reason was quickly
forthcoming. He took us from line to line
of the immortal verse, asking us to notice
the force of this particle, the fault in
scansion which proves the existence of the
lost digamma. or, and in this he became
palely enthusiastic, to address our best en-
deavors to the problem of the steps at the
trout door of the Homeric house—Did they
g° UP or down? I never found the answer
followed a lecture on the Hippolytus. by
Gilbert Murray. When I got to the hall I
found nearly 200 men already there. In a
moment or two Murray came in. On three
occasions in my life I remember feeling over-
whelmed by the dynamic force of a man—
when 1 first saw Lloyd George, the late Gen-
eral Booth and Gilbert Murray.
Murray stood for a moment —a tall, fair
man with a large, beautifully-modelled head
, , on b r °h.d shoulders only slightly bowed.
\\ itliout preamble he sketched for us,
simply and feelingly, the Hippolytus myth.
1-hen he began to translate. The sentences
poured out—rounded, resonant, beautiful.
Only occasionally he paused to justify a
reading or half-apologetically to underline a
particularly felicitous rendition. And so
through the first act of the play. But*l
suspect he had almost forgotten us by the
time the end was reached, for with the com-
mencement of the choric ode Murray was
suiging the lyric to a tune of liis own con-
triving.
It did not seem strange to us. In a
lesser man it might have occasioned a half-
tolerant derision. But Murray had captured
us. he had banished our youthful self-con-
sciousness, broken down that affectation of
man-of-the-world boredom which is the hall-
mprk of all good little Oxonians. Had he
wished we would have sung, too, or, per-
haps, danced to the stately measures of
the rhythm. Whimsically he broke the ten-
sion and the lecture proceeded, but I for
one knew that morning that if through
scholarship Gilbert Murray became famous
then it would he but an accident of his edu-
cation. for by his essential power, his high
gift of enthusiasm, he was marked out as
a leader of men.
ROGER BOLLITON.
Theleme and the U.S.A.
i
publisher was fined 1000 dollars for selling unexpur-
gated editions of Boccaccio and liabelais.”
All you who have been gay and laughed
awhile
the swnx sunlight, or beneath the moon
(The shadows amorous or her silver smile),
Caist scorn and anger on this crabb&d judge,
Hater of Beauty, who in death shall trudge
J-he bitter ways of darkness... .very soon,
\V- t n ,Sc ,*‘ s thst Beauty, like a flame,
\\ alks through the noonday, on the winds
of laughter,
)^ en a scar the cruelty and shame
Ut cold men thus can brand her. Thov would
hind
The slow, sweet music of a lover’s mind,
And tear down Passion’s house from floor
to rafter.
Once the man-savage, snarling, with red eyes,
nr « ~n°n i' sash the body of his foe,
\\ olf killing w01f... .Now hate, in virtue’s
_.guise,
Can wound fair life, and win the loudest
praise
-Through all his dark and beauty-hating days,
And honored to the grave that claims him
go,
Who would have bidden life the cerecloths
wear....
Tbt in that earliest, deep-hidden morn
W heti fust man looked on woman and found
her fair,
Then in his.,young desire, beauty began
lo wake within the gladdened eyes of man,
And life, the search for loveliness, was
born.
And so came Cypris to Anehises there,
And so, whenever to life the spirit wakes,
.Desire is tangled in a woman’s hair....
All laughing tales, intrigue and counter-plot,
-Lhat light dull days with dreaming, are thev
not
Music that life a dance of gay feet makes?
Those Florence gardens, latticed balconies,
Are part of life’s adventure, more divine
mi n kale of sackcloth miseries
lhat sap the blood of strength; while the
mad, gay,
Full-throated laughter of our Rabelais
Cries in the sunlight and in deep-swilled
wine.
The satyrs shout along the sun-kissed hill.
There is no spot whose violet-scented grass
Has not held lovers. The deep woods are
still
Thronged with the naked dryads. Through
earth’s ways,
The blind beast that in moral hatred slays
All missing, to the unlit grave shall pass’
Whoever hates the naked kiss of love
Is but the savage snarling at the god.
Dear friends of kisses, leaning from abdve,
I I gh ni the stars, laugh once along the night
The immortal laughter of the god’s delight,
lhat shall avenge you; that shall be your
rod.
N.S.W.
JACK LINDSAY.
Fixed Forma
They get us all, sooner or later, at some
stage of our careers, the fixed .forms. Dur-
ing one period of my earlier Bulletin
adventures they got me prettv badly, and
for years I kept on trickling ballades and
rondeaux I even won a Bulletin verse-
competition (primitive times!) with a trio-
let. The thing ended when I found that it
.Avas likely to become a vice in me. for the
consciously vicious was ever as raw vin-
egar to the tender places of my soul.
But to day I have come to the conclusion
that a .training in the delicate Fi-arch fixed
forms of verse would be an excellent thing
for th» shoal of young rhymesters coming
on. They make excellent discipline for the
recruit, and discipline is what our recruits
(Continued on page 25.)


me
Good China
at Anthony
Costs Less
Horderns’
§
i
_s
Civ
sar
V.:,
F*
■u
These Tea Sets
are Typical.
Wide variety and low prices make selections easy and
satisfaction certain at Anthony Horderns’. The finest
china composes them—the daintiest patterns adorn them.
Crockery is one thing that is always needed in every
home—and whether as a Gift to yourself or your friends,
a Tea Set forms an appropriate present.
M
U 5794
U 5 794— ENGLISH PARAGON
CHINA TEA SERVICE, of 21
pieces. The cups and saucers are
the popular Swansea shape;
plates are 6in. in diameter, and
the cream jug is squat shape.
The whole service is tastefully
decorated with a dainty rose
border in Black and Helio. All
handles are in solid color.
PRICE .
70/-
U427I—GRAFTON CHINA
TEA SERVICE, of 21 pieces.
Cups are canned shape, plates
6in. in diameter; tall cream jug,
and the edges are flanged, and
have an Emerald-green line.
Handles are in solid green.
PRICE
50/-
i/A27l
SHOPPING BY MAIL
is rendered easy and satis*
factory by the efficiency
of Anthony Horderns’
Mail Order Service.
Our reputation stands be-
hind the goods we sell,
and we guarantee satis-
faction with every order
entrusted to us.
£/ 7920
U792O—PRETTY CHINA TEA
SERVICE, of 21 peces. Tall
Mnton shape cups, 6in. plates,
squat cream jug. Designed with
a dainty floral border with a gilt
edge.
PRICE .
24/-
U 5 5 08— ENGLISH PARAGON
CHINA TEA SERVICE, of 21
pieces. The cups and saucers are
in the Swansea shape, and the
plates six inches in diameter. The
breadt-and-butter plate is square,
and fhe cream jug tall. Design
is in. Black with Gilt edges.
PRfcE
48/6
Anthony Horderns’ have
the largest stock of China
and Glassware in Aus-
tralia. Whatever your
requirements, we are con-
fident of our ability to
please you.
We welcome a visit of
inspection to our exten-
sive Showroom.
4/6171
U6l 71— ENGLISH STANDARD
CHINA TEA SERVICE, of 21
pieces. Cups are flanged shape,
round bread-and-butter plate,
and the others 6in. in diameter.
The cream jug is exceptionally
tall. The design is of many thin
black stripes over pretty groups
of flowers.
PRICE
57/6
UBlBl DAINTY CHINA TEA
SERVICE, of 2 1 pieces. The cups
and saucers are of tall Minton
design. The plates are 6in. in
diameter. The floral design is in
series of festoons with gilt
lines.
PRICE
27/6
m
1/ Qi&\
o
ANTHONY
& Sons Limi+ed.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY
Telephone: City 9440.


!pP||Jk
J
'Sr
«”s.
J
u
Tell the story
with
KODAK Pictures
You should keep a Kodak Album of happy little snapshots with a personal interest that is
all their own.
Some of them you can easily take yourself with a Kodak or Brownie; many others you
can collect from camera-owning friends. In a little while you will have a volume of unique
charm—a Kodak story of the happiest times in your life.
If you have not a Brownie or a Kodak already, you should call and see them. There is one
at just the price you are prepared to pay.
Ask to see the Vest-Pocket Autographic Kodak, Perfectly efficient, yet so small you do not have to carry it—you just
wear it like a watch. For pictures If x 2\ inches. Price 47/6.
Box Brownies range in price from 12/6; Folding Brownies from 52/6.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-52 Queen Street,
The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak
corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Brisbane;
; Flinders
Corner,”
5,^2^
rffeila
BSJ
'•: ■' :
AMELITA GALLI-CUECI.
His Master’s Voice” Instruments and Records
open a Wonderland to you.
Think of the marvel of it! To sit in the perfect comfort
of your own home and hear the world’s greatest artists
just as well as if they were really with you in person.
“His Master’s Voice” Instruments and Records form the
one combination that can give you the perfect repro-
duction. That is why the celebrities in every instance
choose to sing exclusively for “His Master’s Voice.”
Ask your dealer to play “His Master’s Voice” Records
for you. Note how silently and smoothly they glide under
the needle.
You will particularly enjoy the
exquisite records listed here.
054117 —Bella figlia dell’ amore—“Rigo-
letto” quartet.
CARUSO, SCOTTI, ABOTT,
HOMER and Chorus.
2-054010—5010, profugo, “Marta” duet.
CARUSO and JOURNET
2-0520.35—G00d-bye (Tosti), in Italian.
CARUSO
2-032010 —Elegie Melodie (Massenet).
CARUSO and ELMAN
2-053128 —II dolce suono (Mad scene), Act
111. “Lucia di Lammermoor.”
GALLI-CURCI
3-07923 —Nocturne in E flat, Op. 9 No. 2.
HEIFETZ
£
His Master's Voice"
03338—Ave Maria (Gounod).
MELBA and KUBELIK
21-052184—Largo al factotum, “Barbiere di
Seviglia.” TITTA RUEFO
2-053058—L0 son Titania (Polonaise),
“Mignon.” TETRAZZINI
03565—Fiddle and I.
GLUCK and ZIMBALIST
045560—Hark! Hark! the Lark. Serenade.
PADEREWSKI
054129—0 soave fanciulla, “Boherne. - ’
MELBA and CARUSO
05669—Valse in E flat Major—Op. 18
(Chopin). RACHMANINOFF
Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists and name of nearest dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I] is Master's Voice”
Read. Trade-mark.
“ Gramophone”
Kegd. Trade-mark.
smi'illl!!
IPIpP
1
a\\\
mm
«va\«
mm
m
m\
mmt


PINKETTES
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition and
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
drastic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Btreet, Sydney.
Sole Australian Asrents.
advt
xJUe largest selling
quality pencil in
ike -world,
VENUS
VPENQLS
advt
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
EVERYBODY DOTES
Unclelobv’s
yOATS^/
A delightful breakfast food
0
a
5-
/ Vi
•V ,
,n
Let tha t
GREY HAIR
greet once
again the
shade of
YOUTH.
A b s o 1 utely
harmless, per-
manent, and
waterproof.
Get a packet
from your
chemist t o-
day.
You will soon be convinced of its
superiority.
5
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
Train the Children
in Dental Drill.
It’s a wise plan to instill in the
children’s minds in their early
years the importance of system-
atic care of the teeth. The use
of Eudenta Tooth Paste removes
all the particles of food em-
bedded between the teeth, which
cause decay if allowed to remain.
YOUR CHEMIST SELLS
IT AT 1/- A TUBE.
tUDENTA
Tooth paste 1
I
DO YOU WEIGH WHAT
, YOU SHOULD ? ,
As a general rule your weight is a reliable index
to the state of your health.
Sick people invariably lose weight, but none so quickiy as
those with a heavy, racking cold or other form of chest complaint.
Natural resistance and vitality, of course, decreases also, and
If not cheoked may lead to serious consequences.
When such conditions arise, remember that you can Speedily
regain top-notch condition by taking
i!ripinm«W[i
,3
‘iill %
This highly efficacious remedy will make you
LOOK BETTER, FEEL BETTER,
WORK BETTER, SLEEP BETTER .
Nothing energises the system and promotes
vigor and alertness like HYPOL, which is
a fooda tonic , a revitatiser all in one.
Recommended
by Doctors.
Used in the
Leading Hospitals.
Commence taking HYPOL to-day, and the
joys of a healthy life ate youts .
Made by FELTON, GRIMWADE & CO. Pty. Lid.,,
EVERYWHERE. MELBOURNE.
THE
oNAL
S/, *<r
jJSS*. * - *
*>™i
n@»
Jt
- &
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With v liich is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFlCE—Collins Street, Melbourne. Established 1858.
Authorised Capital .. £5,000,000
Capital paid up .. £3,001,125
Reserve Fund Account 1,593,161
Reserve Inability to
Shareholders .. 1,349,743
Total .. £5,501,032
Directors;— Slß JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENC'HARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman,
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H, WREFORD.
Deputy Chief Manager-. JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 135 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 23 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. Sir Robert Philp, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.O.
State Manager: E. 11. Matthew*.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 42 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 29 branches.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E. 0.2.
Agents throughout the World.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dead Rake.
Oh ! horrible is Death when Life has lent
Such piteous degradation to this clay,
Brutish with many a passionate night
and day
Of all the years the gods in mercy sent
YY’ith godlike patience; resting them con-
tent.
That, as the flame burned low, in some
strange way,
A gentle thought might at the last repay
The purpose of their wild experiment.
Celestial shame forbade him to remain
A-slouch within the tranqifil realms of
home,
And Holy Fear impelled the mercy-
thrust ;
For while we heap this face with fragrant
loam,
The shuddering gods can claim their soul
again
Ere grosser deeds evoke supreme disgust.
VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Dimple.
Just where her cheek croons to her chin
In one smooth, coy, delicious slither,
►Set there between cheek, chin and nose,
Demure aud sly as secret sin,
Hither and thither
A little dimple comes and goes.
It’s like a thought that runs away
From posed discretion, indiscreetly,
It’s like a sunbeam on a wall;
It’s wanton, impish, tender, gay,
It loiters sweetly,
And then—it isn’t there at all!
So, when that dimple I would kiss,
’Twill dodge me, trick me, fade, diminish,
’Twill flit and skip, east, west, north,
south,
Till, bothered, checked and teased li&e this,
I, at the finish,
Give up aud kiss her on the mouth.
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.
The Gathering.
YVliere to-night are they, the lost men,
They who passed, no more returning
From the silent, lonesome places
Lit by burning stars, and burning
Moons that had no pity for themV
Gone are they, and to their people,
To their loved ones, to their home-tires,
Fate shall never more restore them.
Since to-night the winds are calling
Dead men from that far-off region
” here Death rules, a sable monarch,
Met, I think, are they, that legion,
Bearded, broken, lost and perished,
Scorched and. shrivelled by the desert,
Eyes still gazing down the distance
On tbeir dreams, their goals, long cherished !
Mirage-lights no more deceive them,
No more, w r ide of wing and regal,
In the brassy skies above them
Swoops and soars the mighty eagle;
No more, rainless, muttering thunder.
Ragged, raging clouds roll over,
No more lightning with its red sword
Cleaves the dry, hot gloom asunder.
Round their campfire in the darkness,
YV ith the winds abput them swelling,
And weird noises in the midnight,
They are sitting, they are telling,
VY hile the grass-blades nigh them shiver,
Of the roads that th£y have travelled,
West and west unto the sunset,
North and north by plain and river.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.
Rose Leaves,
He gave you ail your heart could crave, save
Love;
A mansion, antique marbles, paintings rare,
Broad, stately avenues that lured your feet
To a fair rosary, or, distant, where
A fountain sparkled in a green retreat.
He bi-ought you flowers in rich, exotic
sheaves.
1 brought delicious roses, waxen-white,
►Steeped in the dew of morning, lily-pearled
And saw your look of undisguised delight!-
With eyes I thought the loveliest in the
world.
y°' ir beaut y fine shimmering silk.
1 wined lustrous pearls about vour slender
throat:
Witl > comb he lit your midnight
Tn satin’shod your feet that used to float
In airy rhythms, light, dimpled, pink and
bare.
W Wn tbe . lon s summer days wove opal spells
YY e cantered miles to reach t&e old lagoon
Our rendezvous.... and ’neath a moss-
grown tree,
Stole ’broidered hours from out the web of
Noon,
Oi plucked the gracile wood anemone.
A few crushed rose-leaves bring these mem-
ories.
Y °ur eyes once more are looking into mine
through^ latticed fingers, white, as butter-
And I, who to the lees have drawn T if»’«
wine,
Sit wittpaloThongbt. my heart too proud
RRT7ITE T PI. AND.
E. GOUNGEAU.


t * BURROUGHS *
DDINC * MACHINE ► COM PAN
saujas
f^Binejncs
CL ..JP
ft
SJScr
!SBi
■Ha
*9]
What “Burroughs” Means
to Business
From the original “Adding Machine 9 9 has
developed a diversified line of figuring machines
for service to manufacturing banking whole-
saling and retailing.
Twenty years ago the Burroughs Adding Ma-
chine seemed marvelous in its capacity to list
items rapidly and compute the total with auto-
matic and unfailing accuracy.
But the banker said: “I must have a daily bal-
ance,” —and Burroughs gave him automatic sub-
traction.
Then the banker and the business man asked:
“Why not post directly to the ledger?”—-and Bur-
roughs developed a carriage into which the ledger
leaf or card could be inserted, automatically mov-
ing from column to column.
The wholesaler and the accountant needed
rapid calculating to get at a price, or a cost —and
the Burroughs Calculator took its place in
business.
Many business men said: “How can we save
time in distributing sales or costs?” —and Bur-
roughs answered with the “Duplex,” a double
adding machine, which delivers individual totals
and accumulates a grand total simultaneously,
or adds two sets of items at one time and auto-
matically combines the totals.
Whatever the figure needs of your business,
Burroughs has already given thought to them,
and to the easiest, shortest, most economical way
to satisfy them.
That is our conception of what “Burroughs”
means to business—the best way available today
and a still better way tomorrow.
Behind these machines stands a Company
capitalized at £6,000,000 with factories in Not-
tingham, England; Windsor, Canada, and Detroit,
Michigan, U. S. A.—and sales and service stations
throughout the world.
In Australia, these machines are sold by repre-
sentatives with years,of experience in selling this
product—a house whose interest in a sale does not
end with the delivery of the machine, but insists
that the investor in Burroughs equipment shall
continuously receive the maximum return for
his investment.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk
Chalks House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines
advt
44 25


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vcl. 43.—N0. 2213.
TMinisl)AY, JULY 13, 1922.
Price 6n.
ALL IN IT.
LOYALIST: “Feed him up, Father! The more we give him of this the bigger he’ll grow.”
DISLOYALIST: “And we wid him, bedad,”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the Whito Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co.. 214 George Street. Svdnev. X.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal application for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission o 1 MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received me those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgute Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E-C.'i;
E.-T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1,6 Fleet_ Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian," 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., l-'/l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
. U.S.A. — Chicago: .1. Poland Hay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co,, Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, Now York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn ,(• Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Tedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — lT’. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. 11. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
id. ffor single copies). All British Possessions: 1/oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., Id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: ! t oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, JULY 13, 1922.
CONSTRUCTIVE PACIFISM.
A FEATURE of the Australian Labor Con-
gress in Melbourne was the carrying of a
resolution hostile to warfare. “Whereas, ’
a Queensland delegate moved, “we believe
another war to be in the nature of things
capitalistic.. . .and whereas, as international
working-class action is essential to the pre-
servation of permanent peace... .this Con-
gress urgently calls upon workers at once
to organise and prevent war by linking up
with each other in order to oppose the
designs, methods a.nd machinations of capi-
talistic Governments” —and much more to
the same effect. The anti-capitalistic bosses,
like the anti-Ilomanist ones, have talked so
much balderdash for so many years on the
subject of their pet abomination that they
seem to have lost the capacity for clear
thinking in regard to it. For local Social-
ists to argue that Capitalism alone is respon-
sible for wars is as absurd as it is for local
capitalists to argue that the Vatican, the
most conservative institution on earth, is
pro-Communist or anti-Monarchist. When it
has been said that certain men with money
are in favor of every war (the Rand Jews
at the end of last century, certain inter-
national financiers in 1914, and, of course,
many naval and military officers of high
rank always), and that they do their best
periodically to create a war-spirit by propa-
ganda—then practically the whole case
against Capitalism as a militarist force has
been stated. All the anti-capitalistic ora-
tory in the world cannot obscure the fact
that every big war of modern times has been
made by the working-classes; and it is .not
only absurd, but an injustice to the duller
workers, for their leaders to try to blind
them to this basic truth. The world-war,
for example, while it may have been desired
and worked for by some of the millionaires
behind such establishments as. Krt bps. and
by 3. clique of ambitious admirals and gen-
erals on the active list, w 7 as only made pos-
sible by the fact that the masses of Germany
saw financial salvation for themselves in it.
They were tired of sending their surplus
youths abroad to be waiters; their surplus
girls to be prostitutes. In such circum-
stances —in a country, that is, with a big
birth-rate, a chronic shortage of food and
raw products necessary for the national in-
dustries, and few colonies—it only needs
a spark to start the blaze. But nations are
not exorcised of the spirit of predatoriness
by the acquisition of wealth. Like trusts
—and nations are merely trusts on the grand
scale —they usually continue to struggle for
more wealth, with the hearty approval of
about 95 per cent, of the shareholders, till
they are tackled and ruined by some rival
concern. Accordingly, in a rich nation, as
in a poor one, it only requires a little provo-
cative propaganda to transform lifelong
pacifists into shouting Jingoes. The prin-
ciple was to be seen in operation here, as
in every other belligerent country, a few
years ago.
* * * #
Within a few days by steamer, and a few
hours by flying-machine, of Australia there
are Asiatic countries which fulfil all the con-
ditions necessary to make nations warlike.
The population of Japan, for example, is
many times too great for its productive
capacity. The archipelago ceased to be self-
supporting, as regards food, over half-a-
century ago. Without manufactures the
Japanese would starve; and their industries
only live by the grace of foreign coal and
iron. It will take many generations for the
Japanese worker to achieve even a 48-hour
week and a basic-wage equivalent to £3 18s.
And, in the meantime, what is the Austra-
lian Labor Congress going to do about it?
Here is the kind of argument a delegate to
the proposed Pan-Pacific Congress of Work-
ing-class Organisations would have to put to
the Japanese toilers :
Your country is much too small for you: ours is
much too big for us. You eat cheap rice: we eat
expensive meat.. We work —counting holidays, half-
holidays and strikes —an average of perhaps four hours
per day per man: your adults, men and women, do
about three times as much. If you worked as hard
in our country as you do in your own, your poverty
problem would be quickly solved. If we worked
as hard here as you would, if we allowted you to
settle amongst us, the Commonwealth would blossom
like a rich man’s garden in Spring. However, we
neither intend to exploit our country to its full
capacity or to let others do it—and least of all
persons of your color. What we ask you therefore
to do, in the name of democracy and the beneficent
movement of class-conscious Internationalism, is to
go back to Japan and “urgently call upon (he
workers to organise and prevent war (with us) by
linking up with each other to oppose the designs of
(your) capitalistic Governments.”
It is unlikely that the toilers of Japan would
be stirred to enthusiasm by a proposition
of that sort: in fact, they would probably
regard it as the last word in selfish effrontery
—which, of course, it is.
There is a more or less practicable inter-
national arrangement that should, at least
lessen the likelihood of wars, aud The
Bulletin hereby offers it to Labor for
what it is worth. The working classes,
without whose full approval no modern war
can be even begun, much less fought to a
finish, are roused to the desired pitch of
patriotic ire by certain experts in the art of
herd psychology. Under suitable treatment
about 80 per cent, of the proletariat every-
where can be stimulated into taking any
course, however foreign to their previously
expressed convictions, and however disas-
trous to their own immediate interests. One
more proof of this well-established rule of
statecraft was given only last March in N.
S. Wales, when many thousands of Protes-
tant workers were persuaded to vote for a
low-wage Ministry on the idiotic ground that
the success of Fuller would in some way
damage the R.C. Church. The state of mind
in Ulster which promises to make Irish Union
for ever hopeless and which has led to the shed-
ding of oceans of blood, is a purely modern
creation—a political creation. It was brought
to a head 10 or 12 years ago by the skilful
propaganda of a handful of adventurers,
headed by Sir Edward Carson. If Carson
had fallen at an early stage in his career as
agent provocateur, it is safe to say that
Northerners and Southerners, Presbyterians
and Catholics, would be almost as united
in Ireland to-day as they were before the
Act of Union when Papist and Protestant
were impartially crowned as rebels with
Lake’s pitch-caps. If De Valera had gone
to his eternal reward in 1916, or at almost
any period up to the signing of the London
Treaty, there might have been no “Dublin
war,” and many inoffensive men, women and
children who are now dead would conse-
quently be alive. Although nations never
keep treaties for longer than self-interest de-
mands, they adhere to other international
arrangements with a good deal of fidelity.
The smooth working of the extradition laws
is a case in point. And almost every civil-
ised country provides for the outlawing of
criminals where the offence is sufficiently out-
rageous. It would make wonderfulfy for
peace, and violate no ethical or legal prin-
ciple of modern civilisation, if all the nations
agreed to outlaw their Carsons and De
Valeras on sight. With the professional
hatemongers out of the way or silenced
owing to fear of the consequences, it should
be possible for each country to approach its
defence problem in a more rational spirit.
Any nation that went to war would know at
least why it was doing so. If the object
was predatory—the seizing of some other
nation’s colonies, or rubber plantations, or
coal- or gold-mines—the common people
would not be inflamed with lies about the
infamous conduct of the intended victims;
while if a country was faced with the job
of defending its possessions it would under-
stand, from the start, that that was the
issue, and not be humbugged into the belief
that it was undertaking a sacred crusade
for the purpose of punishing the wicked.
It is possible in the one case that the rank
and file of the nation would be reluctant to
set out on what would be no more than
a campaign of unadorned burglary; and in
the other that the monopolistic country would
be disposed to make concessions to its des-
perately necessitous neighbors, if only in
the reluctant spirit in which a trust .or a
Government offer) grants an increase in
wages to its employees when threatened with
a. strike. This scheme is not advanced as
an infallible preventive of war. It is impos-
sible to study history and human nature
and emerge with the belief that war will
even be wholly prevented. But if it only
obviates a war here and there, at the cost
of the lives of a few lime-lighting strife-
makers, it will have justified itself, and done
more than can ever be achieved by the latest
pacifist gesture of the Labor Congress.
THE CAPITALIST WHOM LABOR
PROTECTS.
Come war or strike, drought or commercial
crisis, there is one Queensland industry that
never slumps. Though copper-mines close
down, and graziers are reduced to shooting
their young stock, the lords of proprietary
racing continue to wring their bread from
the sweat of the workers’ faces. They are
independent of the vagaries of Nature, and
of the ups and downs of the labor market.
Not even the fact that a large percentage of
the industrial population is in receipt of
Government doles appreciably reduces the
obesitv of their dividends. For the horse-
maniac will gamble, even if he has to “scale”
the grocer or rob his employer or his children
to do it; and the paper money that rustles
into the bookmaker’s bag is often stained
with the salt of women’s tears. In Brisbane,
a city with 210,000 inhabitants, there are
rarely fewer than four race-meetings a week.
Sometimes there are six. And that isn’t
counting the pony-flogging that goes on at
Strathpine (14 miles away), or Ipswich (24
miles), or the sacrifices to the horse-god
offered up at Toowoomba (101 miles), in
this connection virtually a suburb of Bris-
bane.
• • * ft
As a rule, the Labor Ministers who have
ruled Queensland since June, 1915, shut their
eyes to the State’s permanent orgy of horse-
gambling, and the crime, idleness, unrest
and misery occasioned by it. Although the
pony plutocracy is wholly responsible for the
riotous excess of racing, they exempt it from
their well-advertised loathing for the capi-
talistic oppressor. A Delprat they regard
with hatred; a Wren with fawning admira-
tion. At long intervals, however, they be-
come publicly conscious of the curse which,
through their instrumentality, has been laid
on the weaker members of the class to which
they belong, or from which they have sprung,
and boisterously undertake to remove it
While these fits are on —they occur immedi-
ately before a general election or after a
Parliamentary session—none so fervent as
the Theodore Administration in its protes-
tations of horror and promises of reform.
But it soon goes to sleep again. In Aug-
ust, 1920, McCormack, the Home Secretary,
informed a deputation that had been intro-
duced and supported by other members of
his party that the Government intended
doing away with proprietary racing. It had
been torn, he said, between abolition and
letting the local authorities run meetings,
but had decided for abolition. Two months
later occurred the famous spook election
(Gerrymander was the leading spookL at
which a party 20,000 votes to the bad gained
a majority of four seats. Nothing has since
been heard of abolition, although nearly
two years have gone by. Presumably, the
threat to the proprietary interest served the
purpose of those who issued it, although (the
disclosure of contributions to party funds
not being compulsory) a doubt remains as to
what the purpose was. In December last
there was an attempt to prolong the r daily
debauch of Maiden Flutters and Pony Welters
bv introducing night racing at Coorparoo
and other suburbs. Egged on by genuine
reformers and by rival proprietaries fighting
for their own hand, the Government
squelched the proposal with expedition and
moral exaltation. Said McCormack on this
interesting occasion:—
I believe we should not only prevent night racing
but that day racing should also be curtailed. There
is too much racing in the metropolitan area.
Said Mullan, the Attorney-General:—
Too much racing is injurious to public morals. It
produces too many human parasites.
Mullan also remarked that “a bill dealing
with racing generally was under (my) con-
sideration last session, but, owing to the
amount of other legislation which took up the
business of the session, it w 7 as unfortunately
crowded out.” This was taken to mean
that the held-over piece of legislation would
be dealt w 7 ith when Parliament resumed busi-
ness. The impression was supported by
the publication of extracts from the measure,
which has been promised for four years.
But the Assembly, which worked four months
last year, has taken up the burden of law-
making again after its prolonged rest. And
in the Ministerial programme for a session
that promises to beat even the Queensland
record for brevity, there is no mention of
Mullan’s bill.
* * * *
A “surprising omission” the thing was
called in a Sydney daily, but no surprise was
felt in the State where it occurred. The
average Queenslander has grown so accus-
tomed to the backing and filling of the crowd
in office on most of the subjects it touches,
and the gambling profession in particular,
that the only emotion inspired by a fresh
manifestation is a cynical mirth. His ex-
planation of the attitude that puzzles
southern commentators is simple but suffi-
cient. It is expressed in a monosyllable,
the sinister name Wren. Wren is the
main prop and support of proprietary
racing in Brisbane, as he is in Perth and
(as regards the ponies) in Melbourne. He
is also a good Labor man—wasn’t he invited
to contest the Yarra selection-ballot after
Frank Tudor’s death? —and presumably
backs his opinions with his money. There
are employees and agents of Wren in more
than one Parliament. When Father Jerger
was deported to Germany the gentleman
from Collingwood rushed over to Fremantle,
accompanied by a troop of obsequious Labor
politicians, and endeavored to thwart that
perfectly legal proceeding by unlawful means.
A man so influential, and capable of render-
ing such services to Labor, or to individual
Laborites, is not to be condemned without a
trial, as Higgs was condemned, or merci-
lessly victimised, as happened to the obscure
and friendless Scott Campbell. His posi-
tion is as privileged as that of the other rich
capitalists Minahan and MuGiRR, who,
because they are rich capitalists, may break
the rules with impunity. It js allowable, and
sometimes advisable, to remind W ren point-
edly of his obligations to “the movement.”
But unless he changes his politics the Labor
heads will avert their faces from the tragic
waste, idleness and wretchedness, to say
nothing of the plague of theft and embezzle-
ment caused by the riot of racing. Until a
change of Government occurs in Queensland
the curse laid on that country 7 by a gang of
political impostors, who allege that the up-
lifting of the masses is the cause nearest their
hearts, will remain.
* * # •
All the same, there is nothing to prevent
the Governments of N. S. Wales, Victoria
and Westralia (South Australia and Tas-
mania, fortunately, require no special mea-
sures ) from tackling the over-racing iniquity.
Those Governments have no particular rea-
son for currying favor with, or expecting
favors from, the proprietary racing crowd.
They know, or ought to know, that an in-
creasingly large part of the earnings of their
communities is absorbed by the army of
parasites and loafers who “live on the
game.” Betting on racehorses has become a
craze menacing to the nation. There may be
no harm in it if the bettor can afford to lose
the money he risks, but the plethora of rac-
inp7 and the multiplicity of odds-laying
agencies have called into existence a class
of gamblers who can’t afford to lose, and
whose existence as gamblers is a squalid
tragedy. In Sydney last week a grocer was
fi: ed £lOO for wagering with a little girl. It
was shown that the unspeakable ruffian had
made a “book” for his customers, and that
many of his “clients” were women and chil-
dren ; as a matter of fact, hundreds of the
snide bookmakers who prey on Sydney and
its suburbs find most of their victims among
the women and kids. It is the Government’s
business to save these unfortunate people—
and there are thousands of men in a similar
plight—from the folly that is ruining them.
Nothing would help them more than a sta-
tutory reduction of racing dates, for the
more racing there is the more the betting
fever rages, and vice versa. A general
reduction of racing dates—say to two a week
in Sydney and Melbourne, and one a week
in Perth and Brisbane—is the most useful
reform that could be adopted in this betting-
inad country at the present time. And it.
would necessitate no costly referendum _or
elaborate legislative machinery. If the spirit.
were willing it could be brought about in a
few days.
COUE-ISM IN MANY LANDS.
The Town Hall in Wellington (M.L.) is
packed with people come to see the York-
shire prophet, WIGGLESWORTH, perform his
miracles. lie fronts his audience with an
expression of power, like a musician taking
up an instrument whose harmonies he is
accustomed to invoke. I am sitting above
the stage, under the great organ, and I see
that he has no nape to his neck. His broad
shoulders have a forward bend like a pur-
suing satyr’s, and with horns and a pair of
furry ears he would be the great god Pax
himself. His protuberant lips have a satyric
smile on them. Unconsciously he despises
this crowd which responds so readily to his
ungrammatical and unaspirated banalities.
While his disciples sing loud hymns of
praise he anoints and blesses the handker-
chiefs of the sick and dying who have been
unable to leave their beds to come to the
meeting. Then he begins to speak. He talks
for a long time in a big voice which some-
times rises to an enormous shout. Pre-
sently little symptoms of emotional reaction
begin to show amongst his audience. The
leaven is working. A disciple murmurs a
sacred formula. Another responds }Jn a
louder voice. Somewhere —it is impossible
to locate the sound—somebody groans in
agony.
Rapid shouts break out from the
body of the hall. The healer drops his
voice to a low note, and the undercurrent of
anguished groaning grows louder and louder.
Here and there bodies begin to rock to and
fro, and straining faces and imploring hands
are lifted upwards. In the front row a
mother with a crippled daughter on her
lap is praying with famished eagerness. A
blind old man stares with sightless eyes at
some vision in the roof, and a girl alongside
him drops on her knees. From the depths
of an invalid’s chair the great moon-face
of a half-witted boy gleams expressionless
and immobile on all this holy riot.
Now the whole congregation is on its
feet, all praying at once. A young man
near me is making a panic-stricken confes-
sion of incredible sins. A Salvation Army
officer, with practised fluency, is shouting
an attribute of the Deity uninterruptedly and
at the top of his voice. Several people are
groaning now 7, and a great wave of praise
and anguish, rising from the body of the
hall, breaks over the heads of the healer
and his disciples, and spends itself against
the silent organ. I gain strength from the
proximity of these unimpressionable reeds
and keep my conscious mind swimming
above the breakers.
Suddenly, as if a door had been closed,
the praying stopSj and the healer’s voice is
heard talking again, quietly, as if exhausted
by a great effort, telling the sick, the halt
and the blind to come up and be healed.
In the shuffling and whispering hush that
follows while that tragic queue is forming,
my mind strolls back, not unrelievedly, along
the avenues of memory and renews acquaint-
ance with other witch-doctors. There was
Prakreli Saleh, who practised as a pri-
vate detective in Java, and when thefts
occurred would locate the culprit by making
all the house servants swallow enchanted
eggs laid on a Thursday by a black hen.
The servants were told that if the offender
gulped his egg he would die in frightful
agony, and the method never failed. Outside
Singapore there was a waringin-tree, hung
about with the ragged shirts of rickshaw-
runncrs and the chawats of Tamil coolies,
which w’as a great healer. But in Asia any-
body can be a healer. One can be one’s
own healer, and by repeating the necessary
formulae achieve one’s heart’s desire. I
remember a Tutong woman w 7 ho danced for
four days and nights to the music of a
gnmelang in a Kadayan house, near Durian
Tinggi, so that a planter a hundred miles
away on the mainland, who had brought back
from home-leave a wh'te wdfe, might be
charmed back to her side. The charm suc-
ceeded. for the white woman was sent home
with fever, and the native woman returned


to reign over her white lord and the planta-
tion again.
Wigglesworth is performing miracles. He
has just cured a deal woman, and her son
is danaing excitedly round her testing her
restored xacuity with a wrist watch and by
going surreptitiously behind her to whisper
in her ear.
I remembered Abdul Kadir and the
miracle he performed one night on a tiny
island off the coast of Borneo.
For its beauty that night would have been
memorable, even if the planter’s native wife
had not had the baby. Long after midnight
the planter and I had continued to sit on his
verandah, haif-hypnotised by the moon, star-
ing through the cocoanuts at the dim bay
and the red lights of the coolie-lines and the
dark shape of an anchored prahu. from which
came laughter and softly-booming notes of
music, When the baby started to arrive we
were all alone in the house. I went down
to the village and got a prahu away to fetch
the English doctor from Labuan, 10 miles
away, In the village I found a Brunei
woman who had had 13 babies of her own.
She should know all about it. She knew,
we discovered, nothing beyond the words of
an incantation she had heard recited many
times on these occasions. She sat at the
head of the patient and sang them through
in shrill tones.
The planter came out to me and asked me
what I knew about it. I knew nothing. It
seemed a culpable ignorance in the presence
of that extraordinary pain. Both of us
glanced at the planter’s bookshelf, which was
full of Goethe and Shakspeare, but contained
nothing of any use to two white men con-
fronted unexpectedly with the primary pro-
blem of human existence.
I sat on the verandah, staring in the direc-
tion whence the prahu had gone. The planter
moved about the bedroom murmuring sooth-
ing words in the plaintive native tongue.
Occasionally, when the girl’s agony would
rise to a temporary climax, his nerve would
fail him and he would rush out to ask me dis-
tracted questions.
Then there came deliverance in the shape
of Abdul Kadir. He came panting up to the
house, a fat, old man, wearing a white stole
with a white thread across his bosom, very
confident, an angel of succor. He was let
into the bedroom, and the planter, who an
hour before had said that if he came near
the place he would be violently ejected, fol-
lowed him eagerly. Presently a singsong
voice arose, droned interminably and stopped.
The planter came rushing out to me, chok-
ing. “D’you know what his treatment is?”
he shouted. “Do you know what he does? He
sits at her head and sings a song and then
draws from her head a long hair and blows
through it. He says if I don’t change my
trousers for a sarong there will be a tragedy,
because the baby being half-native would be
frightened at the presence of European
clothes. He wants a black fowl killed and
its blood smeared over her body. He’s pulled
out every drawer of all the cupboards and
opened the lids of every box and case and
emptied {hem. He’s spread her clothes all
over the room till it looks like a bargain
sale.”
Nevertheless the screaming had stopped.
The room was now full of people, and a
chorus of shrill tones mingled with the chant-
ing of the witch-doctor. Presently the scent
of incense drifted 'through the door, and the
singing became louder. The soft beat of a
gaadrong kept time to the singing. Sud-
denly all the noise ceased, and our ears ached
in the hush, until, on the dead silence of the
nieht before the dawn, ai’ose a lusty squeal-
ing.
An hour later the English doctor arrived,
and Abdul Kadir handed the case over to
him. “Tabek, tuan,” said the magician, be-
nignly to me, as he went down the steps,
“Your white doctor has had his journey for
nothing.”
Wigglesworth is treating a young woman
-with a paralvsed arm which hangs useless at
her side. “Have you faith?” he asks her.
She assures him in a timid voice that she
has. “Then lift your arm above your head,”
he shouts. Her hand goes straight up above
hqr head as if moved by invisible wires. She
stares at it in frank amazement. “Glory to
Don! Olorv to God!” The disciples of
Wigglesworth go stark mad, and the healer
turns confidently to the next c^se.
M. G. SKIPPER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dispensing with the Laborer.
When a casual lot of Australians are
brought together in some such place as a
returned soldiers’ shelter where records can
be taken, they present a motley sermon on
the one invariable text —lack of skilled
knowledge. The proportion of tradeless
men—the mere laborer or burden-bearing
animal type —is always appalling, and even
the men who claim to possess trades often
can’t produce them when wanted. In addi-
tion, a fair number are only genuine to the
extent that they are smattered with a skilled
occupation, the smattering having been
rather picked up than learnt. Education of
any sort, either in astronomy or theology
or the making of first-class boots, is
a refining influence, and the lack of
it is naturally a brutalising one, so
the tradeless class is likewise, to a great
extent, the criminal class, and is on the
average 25 degrees nearer to the four-footed
creation than any other. It is called “labor-
ing,” either because it labors or because it
doesn’t, or, at least, tries not to. The casual
or odd-job community is a carefully manu-
factured thing in Australia—the first crop
produced by systematic restriction of appren-
ticeship, with other crops to follow, unless
the disastrous policy is flatly reversed. A
striking example of the method could be
found in a city newspaper office with 12
expert type-setters and an allowance of one
apprentice. On a five-years-apprenticeship
basis that provided for the complete replace-
ment of the staff in 60 years—and the aver-
age compositor rarely lasts as long as that
■ —but it made no provision to supply any-
body who took it into his head to found a
reptile contemporary for the benefit of the
increasing population. The inference was
that the reptile contemnorarv would look for
imported men, otherwise “Pommies.” An-
other inference was that one comp.’s son was
provided with a solid future, while the
remaining 11 (or, possibly, eight, as the
law was never equally rigid in all occupa-
tions,) wexe ciexix-xig, canning loads
learning to live by the coarse and common
and largely useless jobs that the State pro-
vides out of loan funds, rushing the medi-
cal or legal trades (these are open unions),
or serving informal indentures to the pony
game. A very lofty union official, being once
asked for an explanation, tendered two of
them. One was that this kind of restriction
was a fixed policy, and the other that at all
events a slightly larger margin of liberty
was granted to the country press. In other
words the aspiring youth had at least some
chance to graduate in the school of the
Funkville Banner, where the scanty and
outworn type is set by hand, upside-down
or any other old way. The cause of this
preference for the Punkvilee variety of
the art the very high official was quite
unable to explain. The original idea was,
of course, that the cultivation of a hopeless
scarcity of skilled workers was the way to
keep up the pay of a small aristocratic min-
ority (the pay of the uncultured and debased
majority being kept up out of loans). When
wages began to be fixed by law, and it almost
ceased to matter whether there was a famine
or a temporary superfluity of toilers in one
particular line, the men who ran the show —
stodgy, conservative folks who learn nothing
and have little to forget—still went On cul-
tivating an ignorant class from force of old
habit. That class costs something extra in
police, gaols and damage to property. It
costs a fearsome amount in payment for
imported goods, which it should Know, but
doesn’t know, how* to make. It costs another
fearsome amount in loans to supply it with
employment that is down to its capacity,
and in taxes to pay for the annual lofcs on
these loan products afterwards. In addition,
the policy helps to furnish a worse and
worse brand of politics, for every man has a
vote and Australia is systematically debas-
ing its rulers. It is alleged, with great fre-
quency and complacency, that the Austra-
lian, when he has a trade, is the best trades-
man on earth. That may be so, or again it
may be only a branch from the stupendous
tree in our national Forest of Guff. Still,
if every Australian youth was required by
law to acquire a genuine trade or profession*
there would be a wealth of information avail-
able on the subject, and all doubt would be
cleared up. Then there would be no official
or recognised laboring class at all, but the
failures among the trades and professions
would probably fill the gap. There are always
failures, also occasional unemployed.
Whether the person, rich or poor, who has
acquired no definite means of honest liveli-
hood should have a vote or should be barred
for lack of education is another matter. The
question is bound to come up some day.
W.A. and Immigration.
Westralia has apparently struck the Com-
monwealth for a contribution oi £2,UOO,tKH)
towards its exclusive immigration scheme —
a feat which implies that the capacity to get
something for notaing, or, anyhow, very
little, did not die in those parts with
Forrest. Westralia is, in a sense, the worst
sample of the One Big Qity habit that the
Commonwealth possesses, and, owing to its
record inability to plant population any-
where save in and around Berth, it is the
poorest-looking customer to back in a land-
settlement scheme. Out of every 10,000 in-
habitants the census-snatcher iound 4104 in
the moderately gay metropolis. Victoria and
South Australia show even worse results,
but they only stripped of population
37,884 and 380,070 square miles re-
spectively to produce their bloated cities,
while Westralia has 975,920 square miles
running to seed and waste, so that Perth
may be dropsical. In other words, it has
half-a-million more square miles of proved
incapacity than its two neighbors put to-
gether. It seems to utterly lack the knack of
retaining people, whether they are born in
the country, or go there in the ordinary
casual way, or are dragged there by costly
suosidised immigration devices. Comparing
the estimates of mean population just before
tb<* war with the actuality of the census,
New South Wales added 219,706 to its popu-
lation : Victoria, 96,213; Queensland,
75,203; South Australia (which has so far
been cheated out of the transcontinental
railway it paid for with such a lavish land-
grant), 17,366; Tasmania (a mere 26,215
square miles), 15.129; while Westralia
(975,920 square miles, ranking second only
to New South Wales for mineral output,
with the greatest emptiness to offer to the
immigrant, and yet, with a bigger popula-
tion than Tasmania to build on) gained only
10,310. And the increase appears to have
been all, and even more than all, in the
metropolitan area, which beats the worst
efforts of the vast State’s worst neighbors.
Whether the soil is worse than it looks, or
whether the Government is even worse than
it looks, is mere guesswork, but this matter,
and possibly some other matters, should be
inquired into before the Commonwealth
(Hughes is the name of the Commonwealth)
spends £2.600.000 on a job which may not
be land settlement at all, but a particularly
virulent type of Big City settlement The
State that is about to be spoonfed is not
deserving; and what is more, it is not likely,
on past form, to give a satisfactory return
for the financial victuals pushed into it. It
has built up the record peace debt of the
Commonwealth and the world, and its settle-
ment record is poor enough. On the other
hand. Victoria, with the smallest liability
per head hereabouts, attracts more new
inhabitants for its s'ze than any of its neigh-
bors. Perhaps the fact that a family of five,
the instant it lands at Fremantle, becomes
in debt to the extent of £621 7s. 6d. is less
of an attraction than might be supposed.
Privileged Crime.
At Paddington (Sydney) Police Court, last
week, Joh|« Harney, a Randwick trainer,
was convicted of having battered his pony
into unconsciousness with an iron bar.
Sergeant Clarke, of the Waverley police,
saw the pony five hom-s after its abominable
owner had done with it: “You emild «tb>k
your finger in the cavity in its head,” he
told the Bench, “and the blood was st.il
running from it.” Harney might have been
given six months’ hard labor under the
Act: the magistrate handed him three
—and suspended the sentence under
the First Offenders Act! There is
a sameness about all these cases which
is beginning to pail upon the pubLc.
The culprit is always a well-to-do man.
Members of the unemployed, tor exampie,
neither own nur tram horses. The magis-
trates always take the view that ammal-
nghts are of less importance than property-
rights; or, to put it more exactly, tnat tne
cit-zen derives trom his property in an
animal an authority to ill-treat it which
transcends every other law, human or
divine. Under Roman Law, on which our
legal system is based, this principle actually
existed in respect of slaves; and YVilber-
fokce and his friends tailed to con-
vince 18th-century England that there
was anything wrong with the Middle Pass-
age. Although English Law to-day expressly
directs magistrates to treat those who tor-
ture their four-legged slaves as serious
offenders the conscience of the community
in this part of the \vorld is continually being
affronted by the spectacle of men like
Hakney being let off with a caution, while
those who defy the laws of property get
severe sentences. A stonebroke embezzler,
who has taken several amounts, always goes
to gaol for what he is—a plural thief; a pros-
perous Kandwick trainer, who repeatedly
slams a horse on the head with a piece of
iron, is accepted by the Courts as one who
has committed a sole offence. And, finally,
the mis-used animal is always left in the
possession of the man who has proved him-
self unfit to own any animal —-unless the
victim is fortunate enough to die, as a result
of its ill-treatment. People have to be
licensed to own motor-cars, motor-lorries,
dairies and many other varieties of real or
personal property which are liable to be
exploited to the detriment of the community.
A man who batters a defenceless pony about
the head till it falls unconscious is qualify-
ing thereby' to become something much more
perilous to his fellowman than a road-rog, or
even than a purveyor of watered' milk. Magis-
trates, apparently, will not, or cannot, bring
themselves to comply with the will of Parlia-
ment, as regards adequately punishing those
who hideously maim or kill horses, dogs, etc.;
but they might, if given the power, debar a
proved Sadist from ever owning or attend-
ing to an animal again. It is possible, of
course, that they would also find this penalty
too Draconian; and more especially in cases
where the accused was prosperous and “re-
spectable.” However, Parliament could do
worse than offer them the refusal of the
task, as it were. The periodical spectacle of
the pony with its brains protruding, or the
horse with its bowels hanging out, is becom-
ing an eyesore upon the face of the landscape
which will simply have to be coped with by
someone before long.
A Defence of Lynch-law.
“Tauwakra” r A. Compton Ford (B.
l/t>/’22), like most other British critics of
the U.S.A., either cannot understand, or is
unable to appreciate, the attitude of the
white American in regard to the color ques-
tion in general, and Lynch-law in particular.
By “white American” I mean the average
citizen of Anglo-Baxon stock, born south of
the Mason and Dixon line, and living in a
white man’s country, where the bulk of the
working population is overwhelmingly
colored. The impulse which drives such a
a man to join with his fellows in wreaking
summary vengeance on a negro who has vio-
lated the white man’s code, and befouled the
sanctity of his home, is something very dif-
ferent from a “primitive thirst for blood.” It
is, on the contrary, the generations-old in-
stinct, inherent in every Northern European,
to protect his women-folk from contamina-
tion at the hands of the black man —an
instinctive revolt against crimes against
Nature, the unreasoning prompting of Nature
herself. “Why not allow the law to take
its course?” object my critics. The answer
is obvious. No white community can afford
to submit its womenfolk to. the unspeakable
indignity of telling the story of their shame
in open court—if the offender is a negro.
Once deprive the white minority of its right
to punish the lust-maddened nigger, without
recourse to the law, and the prestige of the
white man—painfully built up, and jealously
guarded by the generation which followed the
civil war—is gone for ever. Furthermore,
Uncle Sam’s legal machinery is notoriously
slow and uncertain, but Lynch is swift and
sure, and there is no court of appeal to
upset his decisions. The highly-colored press
accounts of the results of Lynch-law, quoted
by your contributor, and emanating from New
York —a biased and quite unreliable source
—should not be unreservedly accepted. The
New Yorker has no “color sense” whatever.
Successive waves of Southern- European
immigrants have bred it out of him, and the
Yankee press, nurtured on the. Harriet
Beecher Stowe tradition, gives him the
stuff he likes best to read. I am aware that
my views—l write from Papua—will evoke
a storm of protest from the one-eyed theorists
to whom the White Australia policy is a
mere political catch-phrase. Nevertheless,
the problem with which .the people of South-
ern U.S.A. are wrestling to-day may be Aus-
tralia’s problem to-morrow. And if we are
to survive as an all-white nation we may well
take a lesson from those of our American
neighbors who place the white woman on a
pedestal—and keep her there.
The War of the Future.
The tired world disarms with a doubtful
expression in its eye, and trudges rather
lugubriously towards the goal of permanent
peace and happiness. It is worried about
hidden dangers. Recently a well-meaning
Labor Conference at Glasgow passed a re-
solution that in future “the Socialist parties
of all nations should agree to oppose any
war, whatever its ostensible object.” However,
what a great many people think they see ahead
is a war which doesn’t trouble about any
ostensible object, any more than the larrikin
who comes suddenly round the corner and
stoushes at random. He doubtless has an
object, but it isn’t ostensible, so it is open
neither to argument nor arbitration. The
fear that the peace may .be,hollow, and that
some of the nations may have sold their old
weapons onlv to buy new and better and
more portable ones with., the money—wea-
pons far more easy of concealment than
their predecessors—is based partly on
human nature and partly on human circum-
stances. The world, wh'ch is quite a large
place, has never been properly searched for
hiddep arms, and if it could be the search
would have to be done over again once a
week. Even that might not be enough, for
the daily and earnest overhaul of a mere
speck like Dublin always reveals some new
thing. There is no one to attempt the work
in any case, that unarmed debating society,
the League of Nations, having no qualifica-
t-ons save its admirable intentions. In
this unsearched and largely unsearchable
globe there are areas about which we have
the merest superficial information. We
know, for instance, that the Japanese are
still in Korea and Manchuria, but we know
very little of what they are doing there. In
fact, all we can be absolutely certain of
in connection with the place is that we
wouldn't know the little we do know if the
Japanese urgently wanted to prevent us. It
isn’t seriously supposed they will leave. Once
a sturdy, pushing and ambitious race has
got on the move it seldom takes a voluntary
back-track to its homeland, the same being
a mountainous archipelago encumbered with
some 500 humans to the square mile already.
Being in this position it isn’t likely that
all the theory in the world will make Japan
disarm below the point at which it can hold
what it has got, which is also the point at
which it can take a good deal more. Russia
is the same kind of mystery, or a bigger one.
As some sort of military authority lately
put it: —
It is quite clear that, in consequence of the Russo-
German agreement, Germany will be able to manu-
facture war-aeroplanes in Russia unknown to the
Allies and free of any supervision by the officers of
the Allied Disarmament Commission.
It may be put that the great reduction in the
cost of visible armaments like armies 1 though
between 1806 and 1818 Drussia concealed an
army which was almost an armed nation
from the imperative eye of Napoleon 1., so
even they may have a low visibility) and
navies, leaves money available for weapons
that are more capable of Concealment; re-
quire far less man-power, so that there are
fewer possible traitors in the secret; and
are likewise more deadly. Apart from an
All-Seeing Eye to watch the big lone places
of the earth for air-machine factories and
gasworks, the great hope of the disarma-
ment programme appears to lie in man’s
change of heart, about which there are lin-
gering doubts. If he has got a new heart
the old one is presumably lying around
somewhere, and the finding of it hasn’t been
reported. In fact, the next war is expected
by some to be the war wholly in the air be-
cause of the lack of any other sort. That
is the messy kind of strife in which cap-
tured cities are destroyed from above for
want of spare men on the flying fleet to
garrison them. Other places are destroyed
because the weapons of the new compressed
or bottled or portable strife, being much
smaller than the clumsy old battleships,
much smaller structures will be wiped out
on suspicion by men who regard it as unsafe
to come down and verify their suspicions.
The rest of the destruction will be done
because of the lack of the facilities which
land-surface war affords for carrying away
plunder, including girls. The ex-Ivaiser re-
cently told an interviewer that Germany
would recover all, and more than all, it had
lost, including its Hohenzollerns. People
of his sort, apparently, take small account
of the possible opposition of “the Sociabst
parties of all nations” to their schemes. The
ideal of the future is a form of scientific
campaigning that is not dependent on the
old, bloated masses of humanity—a cultured
aristocracy of officers conquering the world
from the skies while uncultured Socialists
and privates object bitterly to the whole
business in cellars, drains and so forth on
(or in) the earth.
Travellers’ Tales.
“J.E.” discusses a political habit:—
There is no more pathetic spectacle than the
shabby elderly failure, of no profession in particular,
unless it be the shabby, elderly, red-nosed impostor
of no profession in particular. I sometimes think
of the former in connection with Bishop Lead-
beater —or rather half-bishop, for another man also
bishes for the 200 “Liberal Catholics” of Sydney.
Perhaps it is owing to bad times in the bishop
industry that the half-Pope of the L.C. denomina-
tion was impelled lately to mention that he habitu-
ally visits Mars in his astral shape, leaving his
ordinary meat-envelope behind him on earth. He
doesn’t take a witness with him on such occasions,
which was the mistake Mahomet made when he
went to Heaven and had 72,000 lengthy interviews
with God inside five minutes. The Sydney bishop’s
account of Mars is as vague as the usual prophet’s
description of Paradise. Everybody is happy and
pretty and polite and not overcrowded or over-
worked. They dress in brilliant nightgowns (angels
in pictures also wear nightgowns to save the artist
responsibility about fashions). They have no dis-
eases or religions, are lazy, rich and waited upon
by monkeys, and they speak a universal language.
Any agent trying to sell a new suburban estate
would describe it like that if he thought his audi-
ence would stand it. So probably would a more or
less educated coper who wanted to sell an inferior
horse.
My own view is that the bishop's narrative might
have been improved upon. I go to Mars myself
almost every week-end, leaving my human body with
the Fresh Food and Ice Co. to prevent it going bad.
My solicitor has the unpaid bill for the storage of
me. And I take a witness with me, which is where
I score off others in the same line of adventure. His
name is Smith, and he is at present in an inebriate
asylum, but I can produce him when he comes out, if
he does. Mars is solely inhabited by snakes. There
are flying snakes, which are the royal family; two-
headed poisonous snakes, which are the peerage; and
long, plain snakes, which are the minor aristocracy.
The short snakes (or worms) have to do all the
work, and are also used for bait, wherefore their
tempers are short also. In fact) they are so snappy
that they sometimes break in two with rage. There
was once a long civil war between the hot snakes
and the cold snakes, but the former- were defeated,
and the survivors were compelled to cool down.
Mars contains neither flowers, monkeys nor religions,
but there is a tree-climbing and very melodious
cauliflower with a tail, which represents both species.
There is likewise a subterranean eagle, which is low-
spirited and addicted to drink.
Traveller’s Tales are, in the main, a poor lot.
A typical one, with the merit of brevity, occurs in
Besant’s novel, “The Captain’s Room.” Barnabas,
the clumsy villain, hadn’t been to Mars, but he had
allegedly searched the earth, with great devotion
and regardless of cost, for the heroine’s lost sweet-
heart. His story may be condensed thus from
memory: “I landed in New Guinea, and the niggers
on the shore told me at once that the captain was
a prisoner in the interior. So I set off under the
guidance of a boy who knew the country, having
been born and brought up there.” (A Voice: “Where


T h s Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Limited
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Woo! Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
were the other niggers brought up?”) “First day
1 marched over a burning desert. Second day I
crossed a mountain range 25,000 ft. high. Grazing
on the .sides of it I observed bears, wolves and pem-
niican. From the top I could distinctly make out
Hongkong in the distance Through a good glass. I
soon reached the capital, which 1 found to l>e a
beautiful city infested by lions. The king is a
handsome young man, who wears his gold crown
day and night. When 1 asked about the captain
everybody burst into tears. He had been eaten by
a lion the week before, in consequence of which the
princess, to whom lie was engaged, had become in-
sane.” Barnabas tendered liis knotty hand as a sub-
stitute lover, but was rejected.
The tale on which David founded his reputation
was plain and uncorroborated. A lion and a bear,
two animals that would naturally work together,
conspired to steal a lamb. A possible theory is that
it was a nervous lion, and suspecting the lamb of
ill-temper it asked the bear to assist, and promised
him the tail. Reluctantly, and against its better
judgment, the bear consented. They were making-
blow time away with the prize when David overtook
them on foot and spanked them both to death, one
waiting while the other was spanked. Afterwards
the future king-shot a giant at long range, the giant
being too big to be missed and having no gun. And
so David's reputation was established.
Jonah’s anecdote, literally one of travel, lacked
finish. Whether his whale was furnished or un-
furnished isn’t even mentioned. The creature was
“prepared,” and there was little to complain of if
the preparations included electric lighting, a brass
bedstead, wardrobe, hat-rack, a stand for the pro-
phetic umbrella, a bath (h. and c.) and the neces-
sary cooking utensils. But if Jonah slept on the
floor of the whale for three nights he must have
had a damp, slippery time, especially if it was the
sort of whale that rolls heavily and threatens to
capsize at any moment. Another requirement fot-
anyone spending any length of time in the interior
of one of these interesting mammals is an efficient
gas-mask, as all will admit who have smelt whales.
One way and another the subject of Travellers’
Tales is unpleasantly suggestive of an M.P. on tour
through a doubtful constituency, and Bishop Lead-
beater, with his second-class return-ticket for Mars,
has made it no more savory.
♦- —
The Revolt Against the City.
Ignored though it is by some of the city
dailies, and sneered at by others, the New
States movement is growing. This was
made plain at Albury (N.S.W.) last week,
when delegates from nearly all the neglected
districts that are crying out for local self-
government—being weary of their present
lords of misrule, the Big City politicians, who
know little about them and care less—met
in conference to report progress and prepare
a plan of campaign. The only dissatisfied
provinces not directly represented were
North Queensland and North Westralia.
From the latter came a telegram pledging the
support of the Gascoyne and the Kimberleys,
and Higgs, M.P., wandered along in an un-
official capacity to speak for Carpentaria.
Other politicians who attended, besides those
who were New-Staters from the start, were
Senator Duncan (N.S.W.), Alex. Hay,
M. for New England, and R. T. Ball,
N. Minister for Agriculture. Bali, is
M.L.A. for Murray, and his adhesion to the
movement indicates the increasing weight of
public opinion that is shoving it along in the
JEtiverina. That region used to be much less
ardent in the cause than the N.S.W. North-
ern Rivers. Another encouraging symptom
was the abandonment of the cautious tactics
which have been pursued too long, for some-
thin? like militancy. Under Section 123 of
the Commonwealth Constitution Act the con-
sent of a State Parliament is necessary, as
well as the approval of a majority of the
electors, before a dissatisfied section may set
uo in business for itself. It was decided at
Albury to test the feeling of the State
Legislatures, particularly that of N. S.
Wales, as soon as the matter can be arranged.
If the Big-City politicians refuse to sur-
render the powers they atrociously misuse,
as in all probability they will, it is proposed
to strive for a constitutional amendment that
will permit the National Parliament to call
new States into existence, in accordance with
the desires of the electors as expressed by
referendum. For that and other revisory
purposes a popular convention is suggested.
The conference also declared for the Federal
system of government, and decided in favor
of the principle that each new State should
formulate its own constitution. Thereupon
the delegates separated, convinced that they
bad got their agitation in good going order.
It certainly looks the healthiest political
movement on the Australian horizon.
The Ethics of Stock-watering.
A financier discourses :
Of late years the intellectuals of the Labor move-
ment have combined to regard the issue of bonus
shares as a typical capitalistic crime. The grava-
men of the charge may be stated thus: If a company
paying- 10 p.c. dividend on its capital of, say,
£50,000 issues bonus shares whereby the capital is
increased to £IOO,OOO, then if the 10 p.c. dividend
is to he maintained the unfortunate wage-plugs have
to plug twice as hard as they did before. But take
a typical case—that of a well-managed business
paying a fair dividend, but also, year by year, stead-
ily creating a reserve fund. If that reserve fund is
one day distributed among shareholders, then the
operation seems merely a transfer from collective
to individual ownership. The reserve fund had not
been placed in a hole in the ground. The money
had been working—side by side with the share
capital of the company—in the production of profits.
Consequently, it does not in the least matter whether
it is called reserve fund or capital—that is a mere
question of labelling; the essential point is that
it is as productive under one name as it is under
the other. In such a case, therefore, the aforesaid
wage-plug can go on plugging at the same old gait
without hindering the company from paying the
same dividend on the increased capital if the direc-
tors think it wise to do so. The Laborite may
retort that profits of dimensions sjuificient to carry
out the plan outlined must have been filched from
the workers, and are, therefore, illegitimate. But
that objection can be answered by frankly stating
the proposition that, provided the usual wages of
the industry have been paid, provided the under-
taking has been conducted on competitive lines, then
the profits, however large, must be the result of
efficient and economical management, and are, there-
fore, justified.
But all stock-waterings are not so clear-cut as
the one described, and it is from a consideration of
these that Labor propagandists derive valuable
munitions wherewith to bombard the capitalistic
system. It is distinctly a pity—speaking now in
the interests of industrial peace—that public account-
ants have developed the habit of framing the balance-
sheets of public companies with a view to conceal-
ing, rather than to giving, information. Marr, who
called a commodity congealed labor, might well
THE POLITICAL CANDLESTICK.
have called a modern balance-sheet congealed cunning.
This digression leads to an important truth. Every
cunniugly-uninformative balance-sheet sets a problem
to the inquiring- intelligence, and the very lack
of information wherewith to solve the problem
permits a possibly hostile inquirer to interpret the
few known facts in accordance with the bias of his
own mind. A comparison of the balance-sheets of
some Australian companies which have either re-
constructed or issued bonus shares during the past
few years develops the suspicion that the accounts
have been squared, either by the writing-up of assets
or by the introduction of that shadowy impostor—
goodwill. In the case of the former of these
methods, there is a superficial justification, since,
presumably, the assets were valued on the basis
of the cost of replacement. But this is an arti-
ficial standard caused by the inflation of the cur-
rency—an inflation bound to be followed by a
deflation, which process cannot but result in con-
siderable trouble to directors who have indulged in
so short-sighted a financial policy. Labor may well
be suspicious of this financial juggling, for from
such a source will certainly come desperate demands
for reduction of wages, demands intensified by the
pressure of disappointed purchasers of the watered—
or, to use a better word, adulterated—stock. Nor
is it a justification of this policy to plead that the
dividends declared on the new capital are consider-
ably lower than those paid on the old. This must
inevitably be so, since the actual working capital
of the business has not been sensibly increased.
But the plea misses the essence of the matter.
The real effect of such a financial policy is this.
By increasing its capital a company has issued a
paper currency backed by inflated assets. To
remain solvent, then, the company must create assets
more quickly than the value of the assets included
in the balance-sheet is deflated. This is a task
which calls for the nicest judgment when it has
to be carried out on a falling market. Moreover,
it is not unlikely to harden the attitude of employers
to Labor at a time when the problem of industrial
peace calls for the most sympathetic handling. If
the capitalistic system is to-day on trial, then its
case is undoubtedly prejudiced as the result of the
blind scrabbling- after immediate gain of some of
its staunchest defenders.
Melbourne’s monopolistic Gas. Co. mut-
tered in its sleep when a Government and a
municipal auditor reported that the company
(1), was charging the public 6s. fid. per 100!)
cubic feet while supplying gas for public
lighting at 2s. per IQOO cubic feet and mak-
ing a profit out of it; (2) was holding
£76,444 of public money in the shape of de-
posits ; (3) had charged fees for testing
113 of its own meters, and found that 41
were improperly registering; (4) was pay-
ing dividends rising steadily from S per-
cent. in 1900 to 10! in 1912 and 13 since
193.4: and (5) has regularly. added to its
reserve funds a sum equal to nearly 50 per
cent, of the amount paid in dividends. Of
course, nothing is likely to come of the re-
port. for the co. has still powerful friends
at court. But with electric light and power
getting cheaper the night, is coming wherein
no gas monopolists shall work points on a
helpless public. And it will be a very murky
night, too.
“Jimmy Trousers” on the meat trade: —
The assumption of M. 11. Ellis (B. 15,/6/’22) that
for Australia to ask Britain for consideration in the
meat trade is detrimental to Its self-respect, and
savors of charity, is faulty, not to say ridiculous.
The Commonwealth placed the whole of its meat at
Britain’s disposal during the war, as was right, and
the fact that the British Argentine Meat Co. made a
profit last year of £339,000, while the Australian
industry was in a state of collapse, is a severe
reflection on British gratitude, to say the least of
it. If the Imperial Government gave a substantial
preference to Australian meat it is no more than we
have a right to expect; as a matter of ' policy Britain
should bar all other sources of supply until Australia’s
resources were strained to the utmost, since it is
much better to encourage a nation that will supply
man- as well as beef-power in time of trouble, than
one which is just as likely to be ranged on the side
of the enemy.
Ellis speaks of the parlous condition of Australian
meatworks “till the Yankees arrived a few years
ago.” It is odd that before the arrival of the Yankees
our meat sold in large quantities in the British
markets, and was held iii high esteem. It is only
lately that this propaganda about the poor quality
of our stuff has been in circulation, and it looks
as though the Yankees are responsible. It is a well-
known trust plan this, of decrying the merits of
an opponent's goods. Nor are the U.S. trust-bosses
above shipping poor-quality goods from their Austra-
lian factories to damn the export market for this
country.
This policy is apparently being- pursued in other
goods as well as meat, as is to be expected,
seeing that the ultimate objective of the Meat Trust
is to control every class of foodstuff throughout the
world. During the war many Diggers wrote to the
Australian papers on the subject of the superiority of
Australian jam over other issues. Yet no sooner
is the w r ar over than Australian jam is slandered in
every journal in Australia —and not all the evidence
in the world will convince me that this wholesale
condemnation is justified. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment can deal with the subject in just two ways:
(1) Press hard for all the preference it is possible
try get from a nation of whom we ate such good cus-
tomers for manufactured goods, and (2) provide a
heavy term of imprisonment for the inspector who
passes, and the manager of the company who Ships,
faulty goods. Tills will deal with specific cases.
Slanderous generalities are not worth special atten-
tion, since they can fairly easily be chased to
details; and, where the details suggest that slander
has been at work, or where there is a marked
reluctance to supply details, they can be wiped off
the slate.
. . ♦ —— -
'"Wkalsman” : Platform humor.is becoming
a lost art.. Writer looked in at a good many
election meetings during the N.S.W. and
Tas. scrambles, . and was appalled at the
seriousness with which candidates took them-
selves and their cut-ahd-dried policies. Their
alleged speeches consisted mostly of statistics
and party platitudes; not one man in a
dozen attempted to relieve the deadly gloom
by a shaft of satire or a touch of wit. In
both States meetings were small and uneri-
thusiastic, and the proceedings on election-
day (a light poll was recorded in each case)
about as cheerless as a workhouse funeral on
a wet Sunday. The 77 candidates in
Tasmania made, among them, something
over 2000 election speeches, and only three
of the 2000 contained a sentence that was
not more provocative of grief than a grin.
The three exceptions were:—
(1) A suggestion that the Lee Government so fully
realised the value of promises that they carefully
saved ’em all up for use at each succeeding election.
(2) The advertised announcement of a woman can-
delate that circumstances beyond her control would
prevent her making any further platform, appear-
ances during- the campaign, and that her motto was
“Death Before Dishonor.”
(3) The post-election remark of a hopelessly-
defeated candidate that he hardly knew whether he
ought to thank the electors for his position on the
poll or the electors ought to thank him for his dona-
tion of a £l5 “sinker” to the consolidated revenue.
There ought to be a consolation-prize-—say
the non-forfeiture of his deposit—for the un-
successful candidate who can prove that, in
the course of his election campaign, he voiced
one bright idea, coined one original phrase,
or made one unusual remark within the hear-
ing of 10 electors.
—♦
“Solomon Malaprop” writes: -
I read with profound interest the article entitled
“Where Silence is a Crime” in The Bulletin of
29/6/'22. In this land of ours there is very little
silence—largely by reason of the bad quality of pre-
selected politicians, and the Parliamentary “privilege”
which allows them to flshfag and billingsgate each other
in .a way which ought to set the civil and criminal
law in operation. In fact the silence about syphilis
is the only silence of any size that we possess. Over 12
months ago the fateful day arrived when syphilisi wa,s to
become a.notifiable disease in N.S.W. ■, as in Queens-
land, Victoria, Westralia and Tasmania. The men
who passed the law didn’t, bring it into force right
off, either because they hated to be hurried, or
because they didn’t consider it fair to a complaint
so olcl as almost to be a vested interest to take it
by surprise. But the day came, and the Minister in
charge was McGirk. He was silent for the first
time in his life; also he was lazy as usual, and
was a law unto himself as usual, and the notifica-
tion business never started. When a man collects a
big salary for administering a . statute and doesn't
administer it he should be made to refund arrears,
or else be proceeded against for getting the syphilitic
portion of his wage by false pretences. Apropos
nothing in particular, I wonder if the Church, which
is also miserably reticent over this matter, could be
aroused from its somnolence by a stern presentation
of- the case of Lazarc-s, likewise Dives. Dives was
rich, like David and Job, whose wealth was a sign
of Divine favor. Of course he wasn’t rich on the
gigantic scale of David, a mighty plunderer who did
the Genghiz Khan act over many kingdoms; in little
agricultural Israel riches took a very mild form.
It isn’t alleged that Dives got his bit of money
badly or used it badly, though it is mentioned that
he was particular about his clothes and had a healthy
appetite. The most concrete act on his record seems to
be that he tolerated Lazarus, the original venereal
patient, about his premises, and that the latter was.
in a way, his pensioner. The chronicler doesn’t
take the trouble to state that Lazarus had one par-
ticular good quality, apart from his disease, or that
ho lost his money by an\ r save the most vicious
courses. Like McGirr (who is also rich), Dives
kept completely silent about the obscene presence of
Lazarus in the community ; and, like Dives, McGirr
and other politicians of his sort will doubtless, in
the next world —But why pursue the analogy further?


Mi?
it
'll!
m
£s. ;
a
There is great Winter comfort
in a
Peapes' “Warrigal” Rug.
The soft pure Australian wool of which these fine Rugs
are woven ensures great warmth without excessive weight.
They are most useful for train or motor travelling, for
the sick-room, the lounge or as am extra bedspread.
The designs are very attractive, in. an assortment of
Fawns, Browns and Greys. Size OOin. x 84in.
All priced at 27/6
Heavier qualities at 35/-, 55/-, 67/6.
Peapes Pay Postage.
PE A PES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTEUS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M-Jmi
IS
*
m
Standard Torpedo Body,
£595 complete.
De Luxe Torpedo Body,
£620 complete.
An Exceptionally Interesting Car
Bristling with Novel Features.
WIIAT THE ENGLISH “MOTOR” SAID:
“Few Continental cars have attracted so
much attention as the Model 501 10-15 h.p.
FIAT, which was introduced two years ago.
“The demand for it has been phenomenal,
which is not surprising, for the whole car
bristles with interesting points, features that
appeal alike to the owner-driver and to the
expert who revels in getting the best possible
out of a car.”
We are pleased to announce that we can give immediate delivery of both the
Standard and De Luxe types in beautiful colorings, which appeal to the most
discriminating.
GARRATTS LIMITED.
173-75 Elizabeths Street, Sydney.
’Phones: City 682-8-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Suggested political epitaph for Prime Min-
ister Hughes when, in the fulness of time, he
is ready for one: “Not exactly strong, but
dam’ sticky.”
The book of accusations which Catts,
M. threw at the Labor bosses (of
N. principally) included lying, persona-
tion, forgery of ballot-papers, falsification of
ballots, misappropriation of funds, the giving
and taking of bribes, general corruption and
sundries, yet his auditors appeared more in-
terested than astonished. The public wasn’t
astonished either. Considering what leading
Laborites of the new (or Newgate Calendar)
school have said about each other, and what
some of their own returning-officers have
said about all and sundry after a selection
ballot, astonishment is an emotion that is
as worn-out as last century’s cabhorse.
There are pre-selections, and pre-pre-selec-
tions, and there may be post-selections in
the paulo-post-future, and the more selected
a candidate is the less select he seems to
be. It is interesting to consider that, had
the Storey-Dooley crowd begun with a solid
majority, as the Ryan combine did at Bris-
bane in 1915, and had there been even two
bright intellects in the lot, it might have so
entrenched itself behind a barbed-wire en-
tanglement of ghost-electors, gerrymandered
electorates and fraudulent elections that it
would sail gaily into its eighth year of office
as Ryan’s has done, with the same chance
of eight more years ahead —it might do so
though it was notoriously all that Catts
alleged, and worse, if there is any worse. A
good deal mnv be said for an Unner House
elected bv adult suffrage with the State as
one constituency. That constituency would
be partly ghost-proof, and it couldn’t be
gerrymandered.
“Bildad” : The much-argued “Ne Temere”
decree, or at least one of its aspects, is, I
believe, officially expounded in these words:
Two Catholics, who presume to go through a
form of marriage before a non-Catholic minister, or
before the Civil Registrar, do not contract a valid
marriage: that is to say, they are not married at all.
Some Catholic countries retort by ruling
that two, or any larger or smaller number,
of Catholics who don't go through a form of
marriage before the Civil Registrar are not
married at all, even if tied up by the whole
hierarchy. Among them are France, Italy,
Portugal, Argentina, Mexico, Paraguay,
Ecuador and Bolivia. About other Catholic
countries I have no information handy, but
in these eight the decree doesn’t run- —in fact,
it appears to have fallen rather flat, except
in Australia and Maoriland. Bolivia oassed
its civil marriage law as late as 1912 ex-
pressly to give its own interfering church a
bump. The church doesn’t l ; ke it, but the
church lumps it because the State means to
be supreme, and is.
A certain lack of humor appeared in the
Prime Minister’s demand that, before his
department starts to reload the Largs Bay,
wmch the job-control compelled it to unload
and lay up, the un.on w.il give a “guaran-
tee” that it won’t straightway do another
hold-up, and still another after that. Why
not use one of the old “guarantees” instead
of worrying about a new one? Hughes must
have about a dozen in his desk—though, un-
fortunately for the cause of industrial peace,
there is no cash deposit with any of them.
A while ago it looked as if the New-Staters
had made a convert of Melbourne Age.
But the rancid provincialism of the organ
which insists that Mrs. Tooiak’s tea snail
be sweetened with cheap sugar, even if the
one great North Australian industry is
ruined thereby, got the better of it. When
the movement was set go.ng the Age sneered
at it, explaining that what the country really
needed was a system of provincial coun-
cils. That proposal being a dud, the paper
handsomely admitted that it would be a
fine thing if N. S. Wales, Queensland and
Westralia were carved into nine or ten
States, and its pup, the Leader, was even
more enthusiastic; in fact, both conveyed
the impression that they were in the agita-
tion up to the.r necks. But it was made clear
at the Albury Conference that the' New-
Staters aren’t in business merely to let V c-
toria march over the ruins of N. S. Wales
and Queensland to the political hegemony
of the Commonwealth. Wherefore, the Age
morosely castigates them for their “whole-
sale and thoughtless decisions,” and Earle
Page, M.P., is sourly informed that he ex-
hibited “little serious thought and less know-
ledge.” It must be a distressing affliction
to imagine that the sun rises in Spring-street
and sots behind the Spencer-street station.
“Gallery”: Matthew Charlton is a sadden-
ing figure these days. It is pathetic to see
a leader, well-meaning and intelligent, the
mere puppet of notoriety-seeking cubs like
Nicholls and Lazzarini. Futile were the two
no-confidence motions he tabled within a
week, yielding to caucus pressure. Charl-
ton is so obedient to the impulses behind him
that he dutifully joins the chorus of indig-
nation against Catts’s charges, though speci-
THE TRADE HANDICAP.
fic accusations, duly dated and detailed, are
not to be disposed of by sham bellows of
protest or (as in Lambert’s case) shoddy
attacks on Catt’s private character. Pro-
bably if Charlton had had his way he would
have remained silent. But he has appa-
rently convinced himself that it is the busi-
ness of a Labor leader to be led. Anyhow,
he roared lustily with the rest to sustain
the illusion of the party’s innocence. Mat-
thew’s troubles are only beginning. He may
yet be called upon for more dubious sacri-
fices in the interest of party solidarity.
There is no one so savagely militarist as
the politician who trades on his anti-mili-
tarism. Objecting to the Theodore retrench-
ment policy, which, he maintains, has de-
prived him of some of his best men. A. 3.
Gumming, the Queensland Government
Printer, spoke out in criticism of it at
what he thought was a private function.
A reporter was present, and rushed some of
Cumming’s remarks into print. Scores of
public servants who still hold their jobs have
said far harsher things about the Admin's-
tratiou. Some of those in the Railway De-
partment have piled injury on insult, and
not even a repr mand came their way. But
those gentry belong to “the mob.” Cum-
mins’ doesn t. Refusing a demand for “a
humble apology,” he was sacked within 24
hours. A cheque for four weeks’ salary
ace-mpan.ed the push, as a memento of his
14 years’ serv.ee. although every type-
snatcher is entitled, on leaving, to a week’s
wages for every year he has worked. It is
coarse victimisation of the forc bly-feeble
sort. Prussiamsm without the pickelhaube.
The Largs Bay trouble ceased to exercise
most people when the boatswain, who was
the bone of contention, obligingly eliminated
himself. It is qu-te possible that Walsh
and co. obliged him to be obliging— i.e., that
he was sacrificed to avoid any definite offi-
cial surrender of the claim to job-control.
In that case it is apparent that only a tem-
porary truce has been patched up, and that
the trouble may recur at any moment.
There can be no guarantee that the Com-
monwealth Government’s steamers will run
to schedule till the preposterous job-control
claim is utterly abandoned. There can be
no assurance of peace till Walsh is licked
over it; for the present he has merely been
permitted to sidetrack it. A stronger man
than Hughes wouldn’t be content to have it
sidetracked until it suits the union to bring
it up again.
It is a puzzle to find the Laborism in the
Queensland Labor Government’s sessional
programme. From first to last, one or two
city measures excepted, it is a bid for the
soil-tickler’s vote. That important person
is to be organised, co-operated, closer-settled,
reafforested, agriculturally-educated and
water-conserved. There are to be more
advances to settlei's, more land for cotton-
growers, commission-agents are to be regis-
tered, the Land Act amended, and “the dam
on the Dawson River will be bigger (the
deficit could hardly be) than Burrinjuek.”
There is nothing in this to dispel the notion
that Theodore is preparing a safe line of
retreat to the Country party in case his
position is made untenable by the Reds.
Father Clarke, of Auburn (N.S.W.),
takes a point:—
In your remarks on the “Ne Temere” decree (B.
6/7/’22) you imply that it is only aimed at
“mixed marriages.” This is not so. The “No
Temere” decree (enforcing a previous decree of the
Council of Trent) invalidates all marriages in which
one or both of the parties are, or have been. Catho-
lics. which (except in very special circumstances)
are not contracted in the presence of the parish
priest and two witnesses. If two Catholics married
without observing this rule their marriage would
be just as invalid as a mixed marriage similarly
contracted would be. The Catholic Church permits
mixed marriages under certain conditions for grave
reasons, though she does not approve of them.
Marriages imalidated by the “Ne Temere” decree
are invalidated, not because they are mixed mar-
riages, but because they were not contracted before
the parish priest and two witnesses. In ecclesiasti-
cal language, they incur the diriment impediment of
clandestinity.
As dull as a seed catalogue was the speech
which Stradbroke, as mouthpiece for Lawson
and co., got off at the opening of the Vic.
Parliament. Certainly the programme was
practical, workaday stuff, but that was no
reason for discounting it with dulness.
Phrase-coining or ep'gram is out of Law-
son’s line. He rarely reads books when tra-
velling on the railways, and his staff is
more clerky than literary.
Whatever the Vic. Parliament can do in
one session to promote development and de-
centralisation will be done flu's year if Pre-
mier Lawson is in earnest. The skv is cloud-
less. Nothing menacing to the Government
has resulted from the conferences between
the country Liberals and the Cocky party.
Each faction is to preserve its identity, but
when matters arise on which they can act
together they will appoint sub-committees
and so on. Having less than a third of the
House Labor can only carp and growl. When
McPherson leaves the Treasury there will be
a re-shuffle of portfolios. Probably Angus,
who is now an honorary, will be promoted
to the Cabinet.
As The Bulletin goes to press the Irish
row appears to be dying down, with Collins
op top, the inhabitants relieved, and De
Valera thinking of coming in from the hills,
or wherever he is, and taking his seat in the
Free State Parliament. It would be quite
in keeping with this most civil of all wars
if he were allowed to do so —and thereby
given an opportunity to start a fresh up-
heaval. lu Servia, Bulgaria or any of the
other States where revolution is the chief
national pastime, De Valera would be shot
on sight: in Ireland the upholders of the
assailed Constitution are prepared, appa-
rently, to shake hands with him and stand
him a drink. Another unusual feature of
the Irish trouble is that the politicians re-
spons.ble for it are .not only the generals,
but the front-line fighters. This is an inno-
vation that, in almost any country but Ire-
land, would have a material effect in the
direction of permanent peace. Rarely does
the world hear, nowadays, of a Haig or a
llindenburg, much less a Lloyd George or a
Bethmann-llollweg, baring his bosom to the
bullets of the enemy like the late Cathal
Brugha. If the practice can only be estab-
lished ns a precedent the bloodshed in Dub-
lin and environs, of the last few weeks,
should not have occurred in vain.
There is .nothing so absurd as the present
Queensland Government in one of its spasms
of virtue. The other day it dropped down
heavily on a Chinaman for selling a pak-a-pu
ticket. Somebody' pleaded on John’s behalf
that he had been corrupted by the bad
example set by the Government, which en-
courages the Golden Casket and Liberty Fair
gambles, but the magistrate couldn’t (or
wouldn’t) see it. Again, the Government
haled a number of electors before the Court
and fined them for not voting at the Padding-
ton by-election. But thousands of electors
avoided the polling-booths at the general elec-
tion a.nd not one of them was punished.
Perhaps the Ministry is grateful to them for
not voting, since that minority of 20,009
might have been a minority of 50,000.
“Xox”: Givens, President of the Senate,
is reported to be hankering for a further
term. He controls the domestic affairs of
both Houses, and even the Speaker, though
nominally his equal, is said to bow humbly
to his haughty decisions. But the autocrat
from Queensland has aroused the open hos-
tility of a good section of the Senate, and
is only coldly tolerated by the rest of it.
Hence there is a movement to get rid of
him and hand the chair to Senator Millen.
But Millen isn’t a candidate yet, because he
is strongly in the running for "the U.S. High-
Commissionership. Whether he will get it,
however, is doubtful. Carrying a salary of
£5OOO or £6OOO and offering prospects of
ambassadorial swank at Washington, it
might strike Hughes as a valuable refuge
for himself if things became too warm in
Melbourne.
Theodore, of Queensland, recently admitted
that his Government cattle-stations were
losing barrels of money, but no details were
forthcoming. Boyd, a Vic. pastoralist with
Bananaland interests, thus remedies the
omission:—•
Thinking the squatters were making too much
money the Labor Government bought 11 stations.
Up to June, 1920, these turned in profits amounting
to £112,876. but next year they lost it all and
£58,271 as we 11... .There are 866 hands employed
on and around the stations. Last year 1246 cattle
were killed for rations—that is each person consumed
three-and-a-half bullocks per annum, or two-and-a-
quarter. pounds of beef a meal for three meals a
clay... .Besides these 1246 beasts consumed on the
premises 1041 head were sold, mostly to the State
butcheries.
It’s a great thing to be able to consume
6Jib. of dead cow per day and keep it up
all the year round. Especially when the
public—or Posterity—pays.
“0.K.”: The approximate expenditure
from Federal revenue during 1921-22 was
nearly half-a-million in excess of the pre-
vious financial year’s extravagance. In the
result there was a deficit of £205,180. Which
recalls Joe Cook’s scandalous proposal a
year ago to abolish a large part of the enter-
tainments tax. That democratic impost con-
tributed nearly £650,000 to the revenue.
The picture-show share, which the Hughes
Government, under picture-combine press-
wanted to do away with, was worth
£297,985. Apropos, the U.S. picture people
are crying out for a 60 per cent, ad valorem
duty on foreign films, Australian among
others. What’s wrong with a corresponding
impost in this country, which foolishly im-
ported 15J million feet of U.S. cinemato-
graph film last year and collected a mere
£70,000 on it? What’s good enough for
Samuel in this connection should be good
enough for Billjim.
WHAT HE MISSED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The maiden speech of Morrow, M.L.A. for Parra-
matta, his brogue, his rolling r’s, his waving arms
....made everybody in tho House smile, excepting
Mr. Jabez Wright, who was asleep.” —Sydney daily.
The tripping tones of rhetoric and blarney
Pell on the House and all assembled there,
The rich, seductive accents of Killarney,
Or Kerry, or, for all I know, Kildare —
A burry brogue that raised a mirthful barney
Quite beyond quelling from Dan Levy’s chair;
And ne’er a man his gravity could keep,
Excepting Jabez Wright, who was asleep,
Those rolling r’s might have been landed newly
From Enniscorthy or from Killuloe;
Those waving arms suggested Ballyhooley,
The air grew redolent of Crom-a-boo.
Even dour Celts like Minalian and Dooley
Relaxed their features in a grin or two.
Some rippled merriment, some fairly roared
Appreciation—Jabez merely snored.
His “Arrah now I’’ and “What would ye be after?'’
His “Tare an’ ages,” and “At all, at all,”
Occasioned simmers of delighted laughter,
That seemed to move the pictures on the wall.
One saw Boyle Roche’s bird upon a rafter,
Hibernian bulls were stalking through the hall.
Never a maiden speech made such a hit —-
Save upon Jabez Wright, who slept through it.
Away they went with Parramatta Morra,
To verdant vales and wakes and fierce potheen.
An Erin gone or coming, was it? Sorra
Wan of me knows! Yet all absorbed a scene
Of new-cut peat, shillelaghs too, begorra !
And whimsical gossoon and trim colleen.
At Ilandv-Andyland all had a peep,
Excepting Jabez, who was fast asleep.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


PW“ did y<z.s* kill kim foi > D
" tyj<zll Vl&d YiO 6 s£>
f&S-* £>v\d 1 dord"
w&vd“ to dicz
old -w\2>sd
& p \ K.e THtAVEC.
Cousßloot^
Yrv<i<c\=i jp
WUy it \<L gan?'
AchoV- C&vst tbp &[<£. bill 2>wy
ofWv , so to cl g>y Itva
Q<2ttm<a Vi-vey on 3oyt\<z
CAH3<z.ns
Cia.Y-tfofeV' Cxs-i5 s<z.-v\hzv\c<2)
Kis womi t\g l?2>fcft .
of covv<z<s |?oMc3<2n.C(2 fvo-m. y"1
2*d-TYvitfincp
<zct<z.d &utbv Now do yojjl \cw<2-
>ne Mi4<3**d s Look-'
Y° ? - S,v ' T2ifk<ZV*'.
wW <S><2<2k: -met Qvcetc
vVke>ts t\2>pp<z n <zc{ to you ?
I W2>wfeci io-n'Na.kc 5/0 ZA look Up to-ttvcZ
't +L^* 1° 5^ 2> rv\2>r\ —a.n<r\.
J (i HsW<2 tY-/ir\Q
io 'make "hie wife lookup t'o'tym. "
(Vf<2&hi\C2>l M2>*\2-g<Z« iTaJ 2>ny 'fccJN'Wg £xp<ZV*\<2V\C<zf
No-, &ib lv<Z poisoV\ecJ tvvro
T. H ’. yoti\ i? owrv "
2>l -wic
THcZ. doo'C o<xe^<z
THE LURE OF BLOOD.
“Mademoiselle Bessarabo, who was charged with complicity in the murder for which her mother was sentenced to 20 years, is receiving fresh offers of
marriage daily. One, last week, was from a wealthy Roumanian, who offered her an immense fortune. An American cinema producer, desirous of recon-
structing the trunk murder as a film, offered a regal salary if mademoiselle would go to America to play the original part in the tragedy.”— Cable.


B
o
o
PORTABLE-RADIANT
_ FIRES
The COSMOS Electric Fires are Sound
in Construction and Economically
Efficient in Operation—TßY ONE!
tetters
tUCTRJ
CO, UP
21 ElizabeUi*sl. Melb; 215 Clarencesl. Sydney
And at Macquarie Street. Hobart. Tatmama
S79S>
X
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you, and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he may maladminister the Funds?
Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
of 33-30 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETIIiJRIDGE.
Write or call for Booklet.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends, signors, serves, serves.
1911. .£9,221 6 p.c. = £946 £8,244 £3l £3l
1912.. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 6 ~ „ 1222 14,948 1,548 1,643
1914.. 15,522 6 ~ „ 1446 14,056 20 1,663
1915.. 18,993 6 „ „ 1605 16,681 707 2,370
1916.. 19,557 6 „ „ 1892 18,325 1,710
1917.. 20,199 6 „ „ 2170 18,118 • 1,621
1918.. 25,993 7 „ „ 2839 22,768 386 2,007
1919.. 25,233 7 „ „ 4320 21,279 1,641
1920.. 36,019 7 „ „ 5361 30,460 198 1,8'39
Reserves disappear, £1550 . . .. 289
1921.. 31,340 7 p.c. = 6087 25,340 202
1922.. 7,926 7 „ „ 6938 Nil 993 1,195
This big N.'S. Wales co-op. farmers’ co. has
been experiencing very rough weather, and
for the first time in its career there is no
rebate of commission charges to consignors.
During the years of boom prices for produce
the.C.F.S.’s commission earnings expanded
rapidly, so the heavy increase of working
expenses did not bother it. But when mar-
kets crashed and reduced prices resulted in
curtailed commission earnings, the co. could
not get its working exes. down. This gives
the value of turnover for a number of years
and the promotion of expenses:—
Total Expenses per £lOO
Turnover. Expenses, ol'Produce Sold.
1915.. £1,817,588 £47,214 £2 12
1918.. 2,638,827 74,721 2 16 8
1919.. 2,777,305 90,489 3 5 2
1920.. 3,540,078 111,459 3 211
1921.. 4,790,895 135,729 216 8
1922.. 3,942,190 147,534 3 14 10
The lower values are not fully reflected in
the decline of sales: quantities of produce
handled have increased rapidly over the
period covered by the table. Here are some
comparisons with two years ago: butter,
1920 10,727 tons, 1922 13,918 tons; cheese,
1920 125,847, 1922 142,293; bacon, 1920
40,928 sides, 1922 59,745 sides. There has
been similar expansion in other lines. But,
though turnover last year fell off nearly
£850,000 compared with the previous 12
months, exes, were £ll,BOO more, and the
serious effect those movements have had on
profit-earning is shown in this comparison:
Total
Total Salaries Other Expenses p.c.
Earnings, and Wages. Expenses, of Earnings.
1915. . £66,556 £19,178 £28,036 70.9
1918.. 101,028 28,869 45,852 74.0
1919.. 115,722 34,057 56,432 78.2
1920.. 147,478 40,047 71,412 75.6
1921.. 167,069 52,592 83,137 81.2
1922.. 155,460 60,241 87,293 94.9
Whereas formerly an average of about one-
l'ourth of commission charges and other
income was available for bonuses, last year
the 3% p.c. butter commission charge and
the 5 p.c. on cheese and bacon were just
enough to cover working exes, and a 7 p.c.
cliv. on capital.
The poor results may not have been due
wholly to heavy working expenses; there
may have been a few losses resulting from
the slumped conditions. At one stage during
the year, when this and other cos. had
advanced to factories considerably more than
the product was fetching in the London
market, some butter accounts could not have
looked very healthy. However, the market
revived suddenly, and overdrawn accounts
have no doubt long since been satisfactorily
readjusted. The big problem for the
management of the O.F.S. is to reduce
handling and selling costs in line with the
lowered market values of produce. Pro-
bably expenses are now not taking so much
as the 95 p.c. of gross earnings which they
took last year; but considerable difficulty
is certain to be experienced in getting the
expense ratio down to the 75 p.c necessary
to give the substantial rebates to which
C.F.S, constituents have long been accus-
tomed.
The Society’s affairs are generally in much
the same condition as formerly, though some
new capital has been coaxed in to help the
business. Insufficient capital is usually the
worst trouble of these co-op. dairy produce
cos.: capital is difficult to raise, and gener-
ally almost every penny of profit is distri-
buted. Though now in its 23rd year fhe
C.F.S. has less than £l2OO of visible reserves.
But there are now 117,680 shares subscribed,
compared "with 96,521 two years ago, and
paid capital has moved from £82,429 to
£99,044. This capital looks very small in
relation to turnover, but since business is
undertaken mostly on a quick-settlement
basis, large funds are not required. These
figures explain
Due to Sundry March
Consignors, etc. Debtors. Turnover.
1920 .. £156,687 £221,135 £377,673
1921 .. 192,156 260,596 467,681
1922 . . 154,440 184,998 401,222
At March 31 the amount due to producers was
Less than one-third of the month’s turnover;
meantime an amount less than one-half of
the four weeks’ sales was owing to the
Society.
Sun Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney) :
Towards
Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1914. . £10,066 91 p.c. = £B,OOO ( __ cr.iao
Written off, £6OOO )
Premiums on new shares, £6,237 11,379
1915.. 12,836 8 p.c. = 8,624 ( 7 ,
Written off, £8237 j
1916.. 12,760 8 p.c. = 10,080 2,680 10,034
1917.. 13,969 7 „ „ 13,860 99 10,133
1918.. 15,116 7 „ „ 14,745 • 376 10,504
1919.. 24,526 124,, ~ 23,750 776 .11,280
Co. reconstructed. Assets written up and goodwill
assessed at £246,633. Three £1 shares paid to
17s. 6d. each issued for every £1 share previously
held. Goodwill is not treated as an asset hereunder.
Deficit.
246,633
Add new co.’s preliminary exes., £3,048 248.681
1921.. 56,910 10 p.c.= 60,576 6,334 242,347
Goodwill transferred to Mel-
bourne co. .. .. £25,000 217,347
1922.. 103,100 12 p.c. = 77,922 25,178 192,169
This very successful newspaper co. last year
made £7OOO more profit than it disclosed
during its first eight years as a dividend-
payer (1912-19). So though there was a
liberal watering only two years ago—bonus
shares were issued against written-up assets
and nearly a quarter-million of goodwill
the directors paid 3.2 p.c. on the enlarged
capital, very handsome divs. on employees’
shares, and then had a surplus of £25,178
for reserves. The Board earmarked £22,000
of that surplus for a contingency reserve,
probably with an eye on possibilities in Mel-
bourne, where the co. is about to publish
two dailies—first a morning picture-news-
sheet and later an evening paper. Sun
Newspapers is in an excellent position to
finance the new enterprises: at the balance
there wore 607,500 £1 shares paid to 18s.
and 121,500 more had been taken up, and
on which only 6s. had been called.
Apart from the Melbourne extensions, big-
changes have taken jdaee in the business
since the latest balancing-date. Last year’s
profits were made from a three-ha’penny
paper, but while recording the substantial
reduction in the cost of newsprint the direc-
tors in their report claimed that as the cost
of supplies was still double what it was
prior to the war the return to the penny
daily was “impracticable at present if share-
holders are to receive a reasonable return.”
Since then a reptile contemporary decided
on a reduction to a penny, and from the
beginning of this month all metropolitan
dailies followed suit The Sun confesses
that with present costs it is losing a farth-
ing per copy on circulation. So unless costs
can be further carved, profits for the cur-
rent year are not likely to be on the scale
of those for the period ended March last,
particularly as the preliminary exes, in
Melbourne will be large. Of course, the co.
has had three months trading at three-
ha’pence a time to help results. Coinei-
dently, competition has become keener: new
interests are stirring the half-century-old
Evening News.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
gives additional evidence of the co.’s remark-
able record for the past half-dozen years, the
figures for 1919 being included to shew how
reconstruction affected the accounts :
1916. 1919. 1921. 1922.
Paid capital. . £122,050 £196,910 £651,165 £594,742
Liabilities .. 27,490 37,197 150,927 69,641
Premises .. 62,870 61,370 125,910 130,482
Plant, etc. . . 61,552 79,784 129,860 139,717
Stocks .. 39,252 86,703 131,603 80,093
Book debts .. 14,110 34,347 84,206 80,837
Cash, etc. .. 5,962 18,968 18,957 32,793
Melbourne co.. —•— —• 61,496
Goodwill . . 245,633 217,633
It is only 12 years since the Sun co. paid
£28,000 for the faded Australian Star.
A few years ago the Northern Times, of
Newcastle, was acquired cheaply. The same
people who made so great a success of these
papers are directing enterprises in the south-
ern capital, where there should certainly be
good opportunities for a second evening
paper.
* * * #
The Argus Permanent Building and
Investment Society (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1912.. £1670 7 p.c. = £1542 £l2B £3846
1913.. 2096 7 ~ „ 1549 647 4393
1914.. 2460 7 ~ „ 1568 892 5285
1915.. 2640 7 „ „ 1624 1016 6301
1916.. 2085 7 „ „ 1616 439 6740
1917.. 1706 7 „ „ 1646 60 6800
1918.. 1934 7 „ „ 1646 288 7088
1919.. 2070 7 „ „ 1646 424 7512
1920.. 2139 7 „ „ 1646 493 8005
Written off, £3OO .. 7705
1921.. 2973 9 p.c. = 2161 812 8517
1922.. 2728 9 „ „ 2208 520 9037
The divs. which the Argus pays are much
healthier than those of most building socie-
ties. This one survived the troubles of 30
years ago without jettisoning any capital,
and made good all its losses out of profits.
That meant a low dividend rate for many
years, but a dozen years ago a run of 7 p.c.
began, and for the past tw T o years 9 p.c.
p.a. has been paid. During the years
of small returns to shareholders sub-
stantial reserves were built up, and after
paying 9 p.c. for the past year there was a
lay-by equal to a further 2 p.c. on capital.
The £25,000 of paid capital is now sup-
ported by £9OOO of reserves, £lOOO of which
is in a contingency fund to protect property
and security values. The Argus is, there-
fore, in a good position as a dividend payer:
shareholders’ funds have to earn only 7J
p.c. to give a 10 p.c. return on capital.
Last year new advances totalling £25,903
Were granted, £15,909 of which was provided
by repayments. The loan business is now
larger than in pre-war years, when the
figures were steady at around £56,000. Other
features of the year were the increase of
deposits from £13,404 to £19,067, and the
r<mimtion of bank overdraft from £5332 to
£2467. Balance-sheet comparisons over
two four-year periods are given hereunder:
1914. 1918. 1921. 1922.
Capital .. .. £22,462 £23,510 £24,010 £25,000
Deposits and other
liabilities .. 30,715 11,646 22,404 25,134
Advances .. , 56,065 42,795 51,997 60,573
Other assets .. 4,033 1,096 5,095 807
Assets consist almost wholly of advances,
but as there has been a rush of applicants
for loans the building societies have in
recent years been in a position to select
business carefully, so the advances on the
books nowadays should he a healthy lot.
The security for Argus depositors and other
creditors is very good: at April 30 there
were assets with a book value of £61,380 to
back £25,134 of liabilities, or £2 Bs. lOd. to
support every £l. of borrowed money which
the management employed.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co. (Sydney), which
began in 1910 witli £17,965 of its capital
represented by goodwill:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1914.. £666 Nil £lB7 £9,497
Mar., 191 a.. 19a Nil 187 9,489
Sept., 1915.. 189 Nil 187 9,487
Mar., 1916.. 838 Nil 1244 9,893
Sale of Manly leasehold, £566.. 9,327
Sept., 1916.. 105 Nil 1008 10,230
Mar., 1917.. 1083 - Nil 930 10,077
Sept., 1917.. 1646 858 9,289
Written off capital, £10,500. Reserves.
Goodwill, £9384, disappears .. 95
Mar., 1918.. 3156 10 p.c. = £1225 1292 734
Sept., 1918.. 3552 10 „ „ 1225 1307 1,754
Mar., 1919.. 3390 10 „ „ 1225 1209 2,710
Sept., 1919.. 2303 10 „ „ 1225 3,788
Loss.
Mar., 1920.. 3199 Nil- 480 109
Profit.
Sept., 1920.. 3222 Nil 3,331
Loss. Deficit.
Mar., 1921.. 9298 Nil 5,967
Profit.
Sept. 1921.. 3974 Nil 1,993
Loss.
Mar., 1922.. 7203 Nil 884 10,080
This little co. has gone deeper into the mire:
no less than £10,711 of its written-down
capital of £24,500 —£10,500 was swept away
in a clean-up five years ago—is now repre-
sented by accumulated losses. The A.B.C.
has been a storm centre for a couple of
years, and enough cooks have come and gone
in the Board room to make even a more
robust co.’s cake dough. Not a single mem-
ber of the Board of two years ago now
directs the co.’s affairs. After the loss
shown in March, 1920, Ernest Hillier took
control and talked of many weaknesses which
had been discovered in the manufacturing-
end of the business; next half a net profit
counterbalancing the previous term’s loss
was claimed. In the following six months
the co. bumped badly; but for the September,
1921, period a fair profit was shown. A
committee of dissatisfied shareholders hav-
ing failed to get “information to their satis-
faction” from the directors, there was a
rumpus, and three of the five members of
the Board resigned. The co.’s general man-
ager has also gone. Latest accounts show
a trading profit for the past six months of
£1532, but the new Board says that egg-
pulp stocks of six months ago were included
at £2767 more than their market value (pro-
fits claimed by the accounts for that term
were consequently overstated to that extent),
and announce that £5969 has since been lost
on the sale of those stocks. These losses
represent more than one-third of paid capi-
tal. Plant was recently independently
valued at £BB4 less than book values.
=■ At March 31 the co. was in desperate
financial straits. Paid capital is £24,500,
but apart from the £4OOO mortgage on the
factory there were creditors for no less than
£33,380, and the liquid position had crashed
in this way :
Mar., Mar., Sept., Mar.,
noiG 1091 IQOI 1Q99
Liquid assets .. £11,159 £24,356 £20,847
Liabilities .. 12j330 44,038 36,640 37,380
Excess liabilities.. £1,171 £19,682 £15,793 £22,555
To prevent a total wreck the directors have
had no option but to attempt to raise addi-
tional capital: they are, therefore, offering
10.000 £1 cum. prefs. which are to carry a
stiff 10 p.c. p.a. Even if fully subscribed
this new issue would only partially ease the
strain, and the management may have to
increase the factory mortgage (there is now
£4OOO raised on property with a book value
of £17,310) to help trading.
Unless a further cleaning-up of capital is
undertaken the prospects of divs. on ordi-
naries are poor for some years. Assuming the
co. earns £3OOO net per half-year, after paying-
interest on £lO,OOO of pref. capital the I*.
and L. debit cannot be wiped clear for at
least two years, and even then profits may
be required to satisfy creditors. Anyway, to
begin with, shareholders’ only hope of sal-
vaging the business is to find the new capital
sought by the directors. For the rest this
is a business in which everything depends
on efficient management, and the new team
have not yet had the opportunity to show
whether they can “carry on at a very attrac-
tive profit” which they talk of in their re-
port. At March 31 the 35,000 shares of
14s. each —6s. was clipped when the co.
made an effort to recover from its early
troubles —were represented by net tangible
assets of £14,420, or about Bs. per share,
so almost another 6s. per share has gone.
Whether the assets would fetch their full
book value in the event of winding-up can-
not, of course, be judged from the published
accounts.
* * * *
Australian Linoleum Co., Ltd. —This
co. is being floated in Sydney to manufacture
linoleum, upwards of a half-million’s worth
of which is regularly imported by the Com-
monwealth each year. The promoters are
offering 80,000 £1 shares, but estimate that
£60,000 will cover the cost of buildings,
plant, equipment, preliminary exes, and pro-
vide ample working capital. To begin with
they propose to install one unit with a
capacity of 12,500yd5. per week. W. J.
Dawson, who has had 23 years’ experience in
an English lino, factory, anticipates market-
ing this product at an average of 4s. per yd.
(£2500). Working expenses, including corks,
oils and canvas —most of which will he
imported, at least in the raw state—are
calculated at £1505, leaving a net profit, sub-
ject to taxation, of almost a thousand per
week, or nearly £50,000 per annum. If the
promoters’ anticipations prove correct the
co. would show earnings of 68 p.c. on capi-
tal required for a one-unit enterprise and
vendors’ shares. That looks too good to be
true. Nevertheless, on Mr. Dawson’s show-
ing there should be good profits in the indus-
try, provided the co. experiences no troubles
with its raw materials and the management
is efficient. The promoters’ optimistic, esti-
mates —Mr. Dawson, on whose reports the
float depends, is himself one of the promoters
—would have been given greater value if
accompanied by an independent report. One
unsatisfactory feature of the prospectus is
that while £60,000 is regarded as ample to
finance one unit—though the public is in-
vited to subscribe 80,000 shares —the pro-
moters are to take 12,500 fully-paids, or
more than a one-fifth interest, to reimburse
them for the unspecified cost of (1) securing
Mr. Dawson’s services; (2) preliminary ex-
penses; and (3) purchasing from Mr. Daw-
son the Australasian rights of 70 formuhe
for lino manufacture. The prospectus fails
to state whether this consideration purchases
exclusive rights of secret trade-processes.
Austral Hat Mills, of Vic., which has
been mostly Abraham Kozminsky, whose
business it took over 17 years ago, has
decided, at an informal meeting of share-
holders, to go out of business. The co. has
evidently been mostly a one-man show, and
now that Mr. Kozminsky’s health is failing-
shareholders are unable to find “anyone able
to devote such close attention to the busi-
ness affairs of the concern as he has done.”
It is proposed to distribute liquid assets and,
if possible, sell the business as a going con-
cern, or, failing that, dispose of property,
stocks and plant as opportunity offers. It
is an inglorious end to a very successful
business: paid capital is £30,0p0 in shares of
£l, and during the past dozen years divs.
have averaged more than p.c. p.a., and,
meantime, £lO,OOO of reserves have accumu-
lated. The Commonwealth cannot afford to
see individual manufacturing industries fade
out in this way, and it is to be hoped that
some enterprising crowd will keep the
Austral Hat Mills going. Including stocks,
the present co. has about 255. per share
represented by net liquid assets.
# * * *
The huge dumps of residues or tailings
discarded by the Broken Hill cos. offer a
chance for somebody with some spare cash,
and lots of time to wait for a return, to step
in and purchase with the idea that in some
future generation the metal contents may
be recovered at a profit. Metallurgy has
reached high standards at Broken Hill, and
the tailing that is dumped nowadays is con-
sidered to be the lowest grade that can be
looked for in view of metal prices and exist-
ing realisation costs. Nevertheless, it is
probable that on the surface to-day there
are 15.000.000 tons “residues” containing
about 350.000 tons lead, 450,000 tons zinc,
and 30,000,0000 z. silver. At present-day
prices for the metals the total value is in
the neighborhood of £25,000,000. It is prob-


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing ud to 10in. diameter.
Inquiries solicited
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANA BA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain ... 3/-
New Zealand.. 41 d.
/ fid. (minimum
115/-, 20 words)
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
j 7d. (minimum
"tll/8,20 words)
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/S 1/2 to 2/4
, Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Catiie forms, deferred and
Week-end Betruiaiions tnav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
231 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen's House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central :or4
J. Mil Wv Kli. .Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fitting's which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * ■*
Pioneer Wood Pipe has far out-distanced ordinary
steel or iron pipe as a water conduit, both in efficiency
and cleanliness, and moreover it is the most modern
equipment for power or water supplies. Progressive
householders who would like to know more about
its advantages should write for our interesting book-
let on this important subject. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.
—Advt.
•*■ * •
Inventors.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & llassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * „
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Com ison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide. — Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors tor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol
etc., plants ; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing, plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc'
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co. ’Ltd '
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engin
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43-
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stoc
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular 'Qui
(East). —Advt.
r
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
:
Svrlft & Cnmimny I.t<i.. Au«rrala*iaii Airents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sjonev
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
1
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of "VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
Hamilton street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
339 Elizabeth Street.
able that in the course of a few decaaes,
owing to scarcity of metals, some enterpris-
ing body will buy a coal-mine at Lithgow,
generate electricity and send the power
necessary for treatment across to Broken
Hill. Alternatively, the Burrinjuck dam
might generate sufficient power to supply
needs.
* * * *
Adelong Estates, working only one dredge,
has the luck to have ground double the value
of that previously handled. 8o it shows a
profit for the past six months’ campaign of
£4137. A sixpenny div. is ladled out, and
the Board could have been more generous if
cash had not been spent in recovering the
other dredge from the mud into which it
tipped a year ago. With a surplus of
£11.472 of liquid assets, the co. is very com-
fortable. Manager George says that the poor
patch he is now pushing through is pretty
well cleaned up, leaving good ground ahead
for the current half-year.
The report of the Scottish Australian
Mining Co.’s recent meeting in London shows
that the chairman’s complaints regarding the
heavy costs of production at the Lambton
and Burwood collieries (N.S.W.) were
directed at the effect of the high prices on
the current year’s trading rather than their
influence on last year’s profits. Thanks to
the Hughes control of the industry, the co.
paid 10 p.c. for 1920 and 124 p.c. last year;
but for the previous nine years divs. had
averaged only 3 p.c. p.a. The Buli,etin has
remarked many times during the past couple
of years that colliery-owners have been pros-
pering in a fool’s paradise. As a result of
the high prices still ruling, the coal trade has
lost, temporary, at least, many of its mar-
kets : large stacks of small coal are accumu-
lating at Newcastle, and northern collieries
not connected with the shipping cos. are
generally experiencing a cold time.
* * * #
From an old Lucknow miner:—
The hunt after pay bodies of ore in virgin ground
to the south-east of the old Lucknow (N.S.W.) gold-
field recalls that in the years when English cos. were
busy (1890-1900) geologists tried hard to elucidate
the problems of the field. But they failed to Hear
up many of them. 1 studied the geology, and had
opportunities of putting theories to the test, out
found much to be desired in the way of complete
application.
The “joint” or “cross-vein” theory by Pittman,
summed up, amounted to a contact between serpen-
tine and diorite, and a make of rich ore wherever a
cross-vein from the diorite side met the joint. This
was all right in theory, but in actual working condi-
tions details were largely ignored. The Pittman
theory failed to explain the irregular behavior of the
joint and cross-veins. For instance, the joint did
not always dip towards the serpentine hanging-wall,
but at times dipped back into the footwall diorite
country. The hanging-wall and footwall country
thus became reversed, and rendered difficult the fol-
lowing of the actual “joint.”
1 think a lot was taken for granted in assuming
that individually njfmed cross-veins were actually con-
tinuous in depth throughout. I contend that the
cross-veins occurred more in the nature of a series
of isolated veins resembling the quarters of an orange,
with the thick side up against the joint. That
would mean that at either the top or bottom of a
cross-vein there would be no contact with the joint,
and, consequently, no ore body. My experience
appeared to bear this out again and again, and
accounted for the absence of an ore body at calculated
positions in different levels.
Harper’s 1920 deductions as to the south-easterly
extension of the joint appear to have been justified,
but I think that, though present proving looks promis-
ing, considerable prospecting and dead-work may be
necessary before the cos. now operating can reason-
ably expect to encounter payable ore-bodies.
Ingliston, in Alec Peacock’s Melbourne
office, lies next door to the Commodore, at
Meekatharra (W.A.). When it ran into good
stone on opening up No. 4 level it made a
rush for the Commodore. As no one else
wanted that duffer, the claim stands in the
co.’s books at £l7 10s. The Adelaide crowd,
who poured good gold down its shaft, always
shrugged when anyone talked of Ingliston
getting even that money back out of the old
mine. Anyway, the Ingliston co. has enough
to do to look after the Ingliston mine. The
shoot of gold didn’t expand from No. 3 to
No. 4 level, as it did from No. 2 to No. 3.
Although manager Butler softens the posi-
tion by saying that “the lode has not opened
out quite as satisfactorily as was expected,”
his call for rock-drills to put in both the
Ingliston and Commodore tells why no state-
ment of ore reserves is given. Calling power
being exhausted, the vendors are propping
finance. That looks like borrowing from
Peter to pay Paul. Some rising off No. 4
led Butler to believe that thp lode bad split
overhead, so he pushed out east with a cross-
cut, but only to get a thin vein of quartz.
* * * #
Are important developments essential to
a revival of activity in gold-mining? Appa-
rently not. Sinking 14ft. in virgin ground
adjoining Great Fingall having yielded 250 z.
from six tons was responsible for the flota-
tion of a co. of 75,000 shares of 10s. in
Melbourne recently. First 6ft. of sink-
ing yielded nothing of consequence: the
next Bft. gave 4oz. dirt all the way. North
Fingall co. now owns the hole and 13 acres
ground. The find may develop into a good
mine or may have peen s.mply a rich pare: .
The most important factor in st mulating
mining activity, it seems, is for the right
crowd to become interested.
* * * *
North Fingall, recently floated in Mel-
bourne, secured more moderate terms than
specified in the opLon agreement. While
gold values hold, prospectors generally are
adamant when requested to reduce option
terms; so doubt has arisen whether th.ngs
are now looking so well in the 13ft. prospect-
ing shaft. Of course the line of lode is
long, and a possible set-back at one p >i.ut
may soon be followed by reassuring develop-
ments at others.
* * # *
Associated Northern (W.A.) has taken a
six months’ opt on. with a purchase con-
sideration of £20,000, over a lease at Ora
Banda. The co. has embarked on a number
of options in Westralia, but not much luck
has attended its enterprise. It has given
the State a fairer deal than many others
which have spent Australian-made profits on
prospecting in Central and South America
and Nigeria.
After having extended the 100 ft. level
325 ft. on ore 4ft. wide and averaging 15dwt.,
Golden Hope has ceased work there and in-
tends deepening its main shaft to 200 ft. At
that depth the most promising Hampton
Plains shows met their Waterloo, so the re-
sults of sinking will be awaited with great
interest.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly directors, after practi-
cally deciding to wind up the co., became
confused at offers received to take the mine
on tribute. Finally they decided to close the
mine for six months and confine operations
to treating 4000 tons accumulated sands.
If the co. itself cannot mine the ore on its
lease it might do worse than sit down and
accept royalty from tributors who are
anxious not only to extract the ore, but also
sink developmental winzes.
• « • •
Riverina South (W.A.) leases and plant
go under the hammer, by order of the mort-
gagees, at Perth on tbe 24th of this month.
* * * *
Victorian Mines Department report for
year 1921 is the weakest that bas ever been
issued. The gold yield for the year was
104,5120 z., valued at £443,938, making the
aggregate yield for the State 70,880,1590 z.,
valued at £300.994,718. The yields for the
year from the various districts were:—
Ararat and Stawell, alluvial 47220 z. gross, quartz
IGB ; Ballarat, 155.7 and 6080 respectively; Beech-
worth, 11,149 and 19,381; Bendigo, 988 and 61,105 ;
Castlemaine, 2820 and 2998; Gippsland, 2285 and
548; Maryborough, 748 and 380. Total alluvial,
2426; quartz, 90,610. Twenty cyanide plants were
at work during the year, the quantity treated being
39,937 tons for a yield of 53260 z. The dividends
paid during the year were.: Cameron’s Woolshed
Bucket Dredge, £2375 ; Minerva Gold Dredging,
£250; Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, £2000; A 1
Gold Mines, £3750; Ajax, £2038; Ajax North,
£875; Oswald’s Gold Mines, £2500; Hinnomunjie
Dredge, £892 ; and Bendigo Amalgamated Goldfields,
£6750 ; a total of £21,430.
How is the mighty fallen! Ballarat dis-
trict, 76370 z. fur a year and no dividend !
Time was when the return for a w r eek would
have been considered low at twice 76370 z.!
* * * *
Blue Consolidated, Bendigo, return for last
week was 5540 z. from 605 tons. For the fort-
night the return was 13920 z. from 1399 tons.
This shows a very consistent average, but it
is not assumed that it will be maintained
indefinitely. When regular stoping on the
big formation is practicable there are bound
to be fluctuations in returns, but the manage-
ment is confident that the average will not
get below the 12dwt. mark. The main level
south is still in high values, but the spurry
formation is carrying more mullock, which
may be merely a local intrusion. Month’s
working costs amounted to £lBOO, and value
of returns was about £5500, plus the bonus
on gold. There is also the gold on the plates,
which averages about 15 p.c. of the rough
clean-up ; thus, on last week’s return, plates
should give additional 80oz. A d.v. of Is. per
share was paid last Friday, and another of
Is. will be declared to-morrow, wit it probably
a larger one for the following fortnight. The
co.’s balance-sheet has to be made up to 31st
inst., and on any cash balance which it may
show it will have to pay 2s. 6d. in the £ in
taxation. This tax is a serious handicap on
Victorian mining enterprise, as it does not
encourage cos, to establish good reserves when
prospering to make provision for the time of
adversity.
* * * *
South New Moon, Bendigo, has been one of
the famous mines of the field. For nearly
30 years it has been a dividend-payer, its
total distributions amounting to £524,000 on
a called-up capital of £28.000. It reappears
on the call-list as the result of the infusion
of new blood into the directorate. For a long
time past the co. has been struggling to make
ends meet by working out tag-ends of old
stopes. Development work has been neglected
despite the fact that it is well known that
there are objectives, prospects of which jus-
tify development. The brothers Lansell have
become members of the Board, and their first
act w r as to insist on a call being made to
permit of a vigorous prospecting campaign
being undertaken.
Bendigo Amalgamated is just about pay-
ing its way at present, but tne current idea
locally is that the balance-sheet for the
year just ended will show a heavy loss. A
more uopeful feeling now prevails, as pros-
pects are much brighter at the Carlisle,
Unity and Hercules mines. The co. is in-
other mining shows with a view
to the utilisation of its big reserve, but so
far nothing particularly attractive has pre-
sented itself.
* * * *
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, at Ilarriet-
ville ( Y'ic.), runs up distress signals. The
rich Landtax stone at No. 3 wars all too short,
and, meanwhile, nothing specially sweet
showed up on the Shamrock lme. So the
term’s gold yield fell from £7828 to £5500.
This, with the cost of heavy development
work in the search for a fresh lense in the
Landtax reef, and development on the Sham-
rock line, so emptied the till that F. T.
Whympney throws the whole go into the
melLng-pot. Thence it will emerge as a
new -concern of 40,000 shares of 10s. each,
issued share for share, but paid to 55., to
present holders. This gives a calling power
of £lO,OOO towards the job of following the
Shamrock stone underfoot. There is a lot of
talk in the Board-room as to how the Sham-
rock will open up underfoot, but as C. F.
Proctor has rooted £40.000 out of the Land-
tax shoot he plumps for it as the specially
sweet thing in the mine.
* * * *
“W.”: Sticht’s mantle has fallen upon
engineer Murray at a time wffien everything
is well placed at Lyell. One furnace alone
is in blast, but with the higher grade of
charge used profits show Mt. Lyell is a bit
more to the front as a sulphur provider, not
only for> the co.’s own needs, but to fill the
wants of other superphosphate makers. North
Lyell, therefore, is left to keep the converter
ablaze by supplying it W’ith up to 8 p.c.
bornite, specially choice stuff coming from
some of the northern stopes at 850 ft. Right
down to the big 41 stope at 1100 ft. work
goes on clock-like. The grading is carried
out so neatly that Stieht, when alive, used
to v order first how Batchelor, and after-
wards Murray, did the trick. Now Murray
lives to reap the reward.
* * # #
The supposed oil seep at Beaudesert (Q.)
has proved to be a false alarm after an
official investigation lasting some weeks. Last
week the bore was finally pumped out by the
Mines Department officials, and the apparatus
installed failed to collect any gas, although
the previous week it had been reported to be
present. As there was a good lapse of time
between the last tw f o pumpings, during which
oil might have collected, if there had been
a natural seep, and nothing was found other
than a trace of kerosene, the official investi-
gators have turned it down. How the kero-
sene got there is still unknown.
* * # *
Billy Hughes G. M. Go., which has been
prospecting and developing a group of show's
on tne Normanby field (Q.), is out w’ith its
first accounts. To the middle of May £2351
had been spent o.n the various shows, but
attention is at present concentrated on the
Frederick, w r here a sft. reef going 18dwt. is
being opened up. A new make of ore 6in.
wide, and going 2foz., is coming in on the
footwall in the level at 50ft. The shaft is
now r being pushed down another 50ft. in a
formation carrying an 18in. reef worth
almost lfoz., with values increasing with
depth.. If size and values are maintained
manager Walter Colley will have a good
block of ore for the 10-battery in course of
erection. Queensland Mines Department has
loaned the co. £BOO, repayable in five instal-
ments of £l6O every six months, to finance
battery-erection.
* * # #
Sardine North, Kangaroo Hills (Q.),
which, has been prospecting the extension of
the rich Sardine lode for the past 12 months,
is beginning to look better. A crushing from
the shoot at the 60ft. level went 18 p.c., and
the w.nze at a depth of 98ft. has cut Ift. of
very rich tin ore, an assay going 26 p.c. The
last crushing of 34 tons gave tons concen-
trates, which, though not very good as the
field goes, will help the co. to stay until
something solid is struck. The Sardine has
done so well that it will be rather extraordi-
nary if this co., which has the same lode next
door, does not get something out of it.
T>>e Shrimp tin-mine, at Kangaroo Hills
(N.Q.), is well on with its open-cut, and has
its own battery running and crushing ore
from this source part of the time. The con-
centrating plant has been made shipshape
and everything went smoothly on the trial
run. The run of ore from the open-cut is on
the low side, and the management reckons
on having to work two shifts a day regularly
to give satisfactory results. Although it
bulks low-grade, the Shrimp has some rich
shoots, and it can be taken for granted that
these will be fully utilised till the mine gets
on a firmer footing, especially as the field
reckons it is now down to bedrock as regards
market prices for tin concentrates. The
tunnel is being carried on and has recently
opened up a couple of kaolin leaders carry-
ing gcod tin values.
New Minnie Moxliam, near Mareeba
(N.Q.), has its lOhd. battery going, and
the initial run, which was celebrated with
all the pomp of an official opening, was
worth 4Soz. from 15 tons of stone, but a
lot of the values are in the concentrates.
This was just a small crush to show off the
plant to the residents, for the concentrating
plant has not yet been oiled up. Larger
erushings will be the order in future, as
there is a good face of ore opened up and
values are also good. The ore is coming
from the 130 ft. level, but the lode has been
proved to a depth of 230 ft., and umvatering
will provide further grist for the mill. The
mine has not had a chance before, as anti-
mony has been the bugbear to efficient re-
covery by cyaniding. A concrete dam wall
has been built, so the future water supply
is assured.
* * * *
Mt. Clear View gold lode, near the Cape
River diggings (N.Q.), has been tried out
to a depth of 80ft., the last 10ft. being on
stone averaging 2|ft., which prospects up
to a couple of ounces. It is considered good
enough now to float a small co. to work
it and get a battery on the site.
* * # #
There is no improvement in the sapphire
business at Anakie (Q.), and the miners
have been dissatisfied with the advances
made under the Government scheme for dis-
posal of the stones. Chief Geologist Ddnstan
has been on the field pouring oil on troubled
waters and evolving a scheme that will
encourage the diggers to keep off the free-
ration roster.
* * * *
Round Hill (Tas.) is about to commence
cross-cutting the rich lode at the bottom level.
The work of erecting the overhead gear and
installing the engine underground has taken
a little longer than was expected. The shaft
can now be taken down another 250 ft. without
any alterations. It is proposed to work two
shifts underground, so a large output can
be expected."
* * * *
The Mount Victoria goldfield at Atherton
(Tas.) is at last to have its chance. A S.
Aus. syndicate proposes to raise £60,000
cash to develop the reefs on the mountain.
John Mitchell, who has interested himself in
the revival of the field, has passed over his
holding, the Ringarooma mine, to the S.
Aus. people, retaining a considerable interest
in paid-tins. The Ringarooma, until closed
bv disaster in 1900, was the Speck’s third
gold producer. The new' syndicate has
absorbed several outside show’s of lesser
importance, and intends working the Ringa-
rooma property as advised b.v the late W. H.
Tvelvetrees. The Geological Survey intends
examining the district early in August.
* * * •»
The syndicate which took up two 80-acre
sections at Rocky Point, on the Speck West
Coast, to test a copper-bearing lode traver-
sing them, has been encouraged to add 320
acres to its holding. The lode has been
exposed on the surface for a length of 107 ft.
and averages 6ft. wide. Assays made by the
Mines Department have given from 6.8 to
27.5 p.c. copper, and up to 3dwt. 7gr. gold.
(Continued on page 26).


UNAUTHORISED GENEROSITY.
“Bro. Robinson, the N.S.W. Government’s newly-appointed M.L.C., declared that' he had purchased some of the books which were used in Catholic schools, and he had
found one with a picture in it showing Australia being offered t o the Virgin Mary at the hands of St. Patrick and St. Bridget.”
“The Bulletin” has had a mental picture that somewhat resembles the one described by Mr. Robinson.


CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE *
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
EXTRA
QUALITY.
Nourishing and Appetising
“BULL”
STOUT
Equal to the Best Imported.
Brewed and Bottled by
TOOTH and CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
EXTRA
QUALITY.
tDeaffi
advt
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Meais “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Hears’ Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
Others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT ATD TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings.
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Mrs. Sarah Jones, relict of George Jones,
who recently passed out at Tamworth in her
90th year, was one of the first white women
to reach the district, and had resided there
72 years.
“Coot”: “J.F.H.” (B. 22/6/’22) inquires
for an Australian editor still in harness at
So. William Hunt, ex-M.L.A., of Kilmore
(Vic.), I think, fills the bill. For over 60
years he has owned and edited the local
Advertiser, and is still very much alive.
St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Kirk, Parra-
matta. which it is proposed to shift so that
the site may be given over to commerce,
dates back to 1539. and was practically com-
pleted in 1841. The architect, if not the
actual builder, was David Lennox, the
pioneer stone-bridge builder of Australia,
who died at 85 in Parramatta in 1873, and
lies in a vault in St. John’s Cemetery.
It is about 33 years since John Quick, the
new septuagenarian Arbitration Court
Judge, sat in the Vic. Legislative Assembly
for Bendigo, and there is no member in
either State Plouse who was a contemporary
of his. He lost the seat at the polls of
L. J. BOLGER,
Deputy-Director
of 'Navigation
of Victoria.
1889 which
brought in Alec
Peacock, now
the oldest hand
in the Vic. Par-
liament. Quick’s
election to the
Federal Con-
vention was a
reward for his
brain-wave in
suggesting the
need for such a
body. Since he
retired, invol-
untarily, from
the Reps, nine
years ago. no
limelight has
strayed his
way, and his
selection for the
much - hawked
£2OlO a year
,i o b was a
Hugbesian sur-
prise for almost
every b od y
—more aston-
ish i n g even
than the Sheaf
appointment.
Joseph Bell Pearson, who died recently at
Portland after 79 years in Victoria, was a
noted cross-country rider and shot in his day.
He was a great friend of Adam Lindsay
Gordon and “Bob” Learmonth ; and on Ingle-
side he defeated Gordon in a famous race
at Ballarat.
Ilayley Lever, the S. Aus. painter, now
settled in the U.S.A., Avrites to a friend in
Adelaide:—
I have been appointed leading instructor of the
summer school of the Art Students’ League, N.Y.
It has a fine big studio in the Catskill
Mountains, and there will be outdoor painting from
the nude model, and landscape... .1 do wish Aus-
tralian people would take a vital interest in art.
They will never succeed in a great way till they do.
'this one school has over 2000, students passing
through during winter and summer.
. : I' ool ' J- JL). Fitzgerald’s death (B.
('> 7/’122) recalls an incident in his first elec-
tion campaign (West Sydney). Lord Jer-
sey was Governor of N. S. Wales at
the time, and it was a common thing
for anyone with a rufous tinge in
his hair to be nicknamed “Jersey.” One
night while Fitzgerald was speaking a young,
red-headed _ reporter, sitting on a near-by
gatepost, didn’t appear to be very busy, and
an ardent Labor barracker, thinking he was
missing a fine phrase in J.D.'s speech, called
out, "Put that down, Jersey.” J.D. took
the remark to himself, and rejoined hotly:
“My friend insults me when he likens me
to such a person.” He lived to modify his
prejudice against the rich, and much of his
breadth of outlook and wide knowledge of
men and affairs was acquired after those'
exciting days.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Northcliffe certainly
does things on a grand scale. The editor
of his London Evening News, Walter J.
Evans, is retiring after 28 years’ continuous
service under the Harmsworth banner; and
at a farewell luncheon Northcliffe handed him
a personal gift of £lO,OOO, and announced
that he had been awarded by the Board of
Directors a pension of £2500 a year for the
next 10 years, and £lOOO a year for life.
Northcliffe described his headquarters, Car-
melite House, as “a place where any man
who enters can rise to the highest position, a
republic of which anyone may become presi-
dent, and to which there is no entry by
family connections, shareholders’ influence or
any other kind of influence.”
Lady F orbe s-
Robertson (Get-
trude Elliott), who
is to tour Aus-
tralia next year,
was out here with
her sister, Maxine
Elliott, in 189(5.
She appeared in
"An American
Citizen” and other
shows produced
by Nat Goodwin.
That deceased
mumm e r, wh o
managed to fasci-
nate the tall and
beauteous Maxine
into matrimony,
was not highly re-
garded by his
sister-in-law, who
strongly revealed
the family’s Puri-
tan ancestry. In a
book of theatrical
reminiscences pub-
lished after Good-
win’s death there
is a report of an
alleged disturbance
between the two,
during which she is
said to have re-
marked bitterly
that he “couldn’t
take a joke.” The
response to this is
supposed to have
been actuated by a
previous breeze
with his wife. Any-
ho w. he said:
“Can't take a joke,
can’t I? Why,
woman, I took one for better or worse.”
According to the biographer, “neither Ger-
trude nor Maxine forgave him for this.”
One of the contestants of the Cook pre-
selection ballot is “Ted” Riley, a Digger,
son of E. Riley, M.11.R. for South Sydney.
He was secretary of the old N.S.W. branch
of the Federated Clerks’ Union of Australia,
since swallowed by the Australian Clerical
Assoc. Another active A.C.A. member who
also wants the honor of scalping J. H. Catts
is Dan O’Sullivan.
Of the last (1900) N. S. Wales Ministry
under independent State government but
two, W. H. Wood and ,T. L. Fegan. are alive
—Dyne, See, Wise, O’Sullivan, Crick, Has-
sall and Perry have gone west. Wood, by
the way, x-eturned a little while ago after a
long spell on the other side of the world, and
it is quite possible that he will break into
politics again.
Dave Maling, who must be close up to
three-score and ten, has relinquished the job
of senior leader-writer for the Argus, but
will, for a while at all events, continue his
weekly Parliamentary (“Itburiel”) sketch.
Thirty-five years ago he joined the reporting-
staff from the Kyneton Guardian, imbibed
Argus views eagerly, and—like so many
other youngsters with that tipple—grew to
regard them as God-given. He has a light
touch in his sketch-writing, but as leader-
writer he was a high priest of Toryism.
Willie Brennan succeeds Maling, with Brient
as second man, and E. G. Bonney transfers
from deputy-chief of staff to coadjute with
the pair.
“Footslogger”: “L.D.S.” (B. IS/o/’22)
says there were 21 Maoriland Crosses
issued. My list shows only 13. The win-
ners and the years the decoration was awarded
are as follow: 1869, Thomas Adamson, Ben-
jamin Biddle, Solomon Black, George Hill,
William Lingard, F. J. Mace, Christopher
Maling, George Preece, J. M. Roberts,
Richard Sheppard ; 1870, Gilbert Mail-; 1910,
W. H. Northcroft; and. 1898, 11. C. W.
Wrigg. Northcroft got his in 1910 for ser-
vices rendei’ed in 1566, and Wrigg his in IS9B
for services in 1567.
“O’South” (London) : At least two Aus-
tralians —Will DVs on and Harrison Owen —
have a hand in the making of the new John
Bull, the paper which the Jingo Bottom-
ley edited so noisily during the war. Dy-
son contributes a weekly cartoon; Owen
supplies clever pars. The new manage-
ment is cleansing the sheet of the Bottomley
taint, and publishing stuff from star writers
—among them is Arnold Bennett, who is
alleged to be getting Is. 6d. a word for a
weekly article.
The amalgamation of Shields and Heritage
with Martin and Hobkirk (both of Laun-
ceston) combines one of the youngest and
smartest with one of the oldest of the
Speck’s legal firms. The Martin and Hob-
kirk firm goes back to 1837, when W. D.
Grubb began to chase costs. His son, F. W.
Grubb, joined in 30 years later. In 1883
Martin and Hobkirk came into the business,
and _ have carried on ever since as old-
fashioned family legal advisers. Tas.
Shields is Hon., Minister in the Lee Govern-
ment, and is tipped for the first vacant
Judgeship. J. E. Heritage is a son of
Senior-inspector Heritage, just retired from
the Education Department.
THE FORGOTTEN MONARCH.
BOGGUMBIL BILLY : “What for that phella flag longa pole ?”
SCHOOLTEACHER: “ That's in honor of the Empire and our King.”
B.B.: “By eripes, you gibit me one phella flag, put longa my plurry
old gunyah. Long time note eberybody forget I bin
plurry king at all about here.”
“Pip Tok”: From his list of A.I.F. men
entitled to wear the Polar white ribbon
“Tiberias” (JB. 22/6/’22) also omitted the
name of Wally Hannam, son and heir of the
bath-heater Hannaxns, of Manly. He had a
turn at gold-mining- in W.A., and accom-
panied the Mawson expedition to the Ant-
arctic as wireless expert. He saw service
in Flanders with an Engineer unit.
“Jackar”: Tommy Francis, a typical
Cousin Jack of the old Cornish Point (Vic.)
diggings, had one proud accomplishment—he
played the big bass-horn. He was the hero
of the camp -when he sallied forth with the
massive instrument coiled around him, and
at chapel, when he thundered forth the “Old
Hundredth” until the rafters rattled. His
instx-ument was his obsession, and on
his death-bed he gave definite instructions
that it was to be put on a solid base at the
head of his grave, saying he wanted to be
in readiness for Gabriel to give the signal
for the sounding of the last trump, when he
would arise, blow his horn, awaken the occu-
pants of the cemetery, and “march them off
to everlasting glory.” Maybe some remnant
of the bass-horn can still be seen in the old
cemetery—now miles away from human
habitation. I saw it there about 30 years
ago. It was much oxidised, but the inscrip-
tion was still legible: “Here lies Tommy
Francis, waiting for Gabriel and glory.”
“The Deacon’ 1 : Mary Dowling, who died
at Penrith (N.S.W.) the other day, was
the oldest inhabitant of the Nepean River
district and a descendant of the James Clar-
ence Mangon who escaped oblivion bv his
beautiful “Dark Rosaleen.” Her husband.
Thomas Dowling',
patriot and scholar,
carried a pike in
Smith O’Brien’s ill-
fated ’4B rebellion,
but dodged the con-
sequences and
finally settled on
the old Windmill
Hill estate on the
Nepean. His
library and MSS.,
which were jeal-
ously guarded by
his widow, have
now been made
available to his
daughter Adeline—
Mrs. Hittmann, of
Adelaide—and pre-
sently the MSS.
will see the light in
book form.
Profextor CHRIS
BRENNAN, of
Sydney — Poet,
Scholar, Bohemian
and, above all,
Table-talker.
Gone west, just over 40, F. M. Littler,
Onus,” of many “Aboriginality” pars., ana
author of a fine “Handbook of Tasmanian
Birds.” He was a member of the Austral-
asian Ornithologists’ Union, F.E.S., and a
regular contributor to The Emu; and he
earned a regular crust by pushing a pen in
the Bischoff Co.’s office. Littler used to
trace his descent to a De Littlor who landed
in England with Bill the Conqueror.
“T.W.”: Australia’s military representa-
tive in England since the High Commis-
sionership began, Col. Percy Buckley, had
to lay aside his brass hat under Hughes’s
economy scheme. Buckley’s job was of the
kind that meant much personal money-spend-
ing, but he relied on his own bulky purse,
and never drew more than £5OO a year
salary. When the war arrived he simply
poured out his wealth for the comfort of
Diggerdom, and thousands of A.I.F. con-
valescents had the run of his beautiful
country home. Had he been an advertiser
Buckley would probably have had a handle
attached to his name; but all he got as a
memento was a captured Hun gun, which
Birdwood insisted on emplacing in his man-
sion grounds.
It was the late J. D. Fitzgerald who in-
troduced legislation under which wills may
be reviewed by a N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judge and the disposition of the property
of the testator altered. The Act was made
retrospective to cover the wills of John
Norton and a Sydney bookmaker. In both
cases, the disposition of the dead men’s
estates was altered to the advantage of the
widows and other relatives.
Colonel “Dicky” Dowse, D.A.A.G. for N.
S. Wales, who is among the recently-retired
permanent officers, began his soldiering with
the Q. Volunteer Rifles, when he was a clerk
in the old A. J. S. Bank, and his first
“active service” was with this regiment dur-
ing the ’9l shearers’ strike. He served in
S’Africa with the Ist Q.M.1., of which Harry
Chauvel was adjutant, and was later camp
adjutant at Maitland, outside Capetown,
when Granville Ryrie, then a captain, was
commandant. Becoming a “permanent”
after that, Dowse was working in Melbourne
when war broke out, and he did not get
across until 1917, wffien he was put on
staff _ work in France, and kept at it till the
Armistice. He is an Englishman by birth.
Inspector Whittle, the new chief of the
S. Aus. sleuth department, is not yet 53. He
was a Gunner in his early days, and didn’t
turn policeman till he was 30. Secret-service
during the war was his strong' point, as he
has a wide knowledge of aliens and inter-
state migrants. J. E. Noblet, who takes
charge at Port Adelaide, is a comparative
youngster of 46, who had some honors passed
to him in the Boer War, before his detective
days.
Marcus Marks, Govt. Printer of Maoriland,
goes out on superannuation after four decades
in the service. He started as an apprentice
to type-setting, then joined the reading staff,
was later appointed Hansaed supervisor,
and ultimately became head serang of the
State printery. Previous holders of the job
were George Didsbury, Sam Costall and John
Mackay, and it now goes to W. A. Skinner,
who has lived most of his life in the atmo-
sphere of printer’s ink and roller composi-
tion.
Another man who claimed to have taken
part in the Eureka Stockade fight on Decem-
ber 3, 1854 —William Tucker —has just died
at Woodstock (N.S.W.), aged 91.
SYDNEY HOSPITAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I would speak of that I have 6een to-day—
On two leathern tables, at length, there lay
Two men, and a bare hand’s-breadth away
JJid each from the other lie.
The one shall live and the other die.
The one was a careless drunken fool
Whose mouthed word and whose clumsy cry
Filled all the air of that chamber cool,
And scarce did his muttered curses die
Around the walls and the ceiling high
Ere his maudlin mirth rang harsh and loud—
But not for this man is the sombre shroud,
Nor for him waits the narrow cell
And tolls the heavy and laden bell.
Senseless and sodden, but let him lie
Till his strength return as the hours pass by.
The other lay with a patient eye,
Little he spoke but would deeply sigh
For breath that he lacked—that no gold might buy,
No power on earth might give.
His spine is crushed, and he may not live.
And never, never shall this man move
Though he pray of Heaven and by that love
They say God bears for man—
(They have said such things since the world began).
Grey-eyed and silent, but let him lie
Till the tide shall ebb, for this man must die.
The cold walls whispered me “Why, oh why?’’
N.S.W.
K. F. S.


■V.V. ■ ,v.v.
■ ■' a. :
* '
>**# r
■
s' W ' I.
r v
a
s
&*£
vi;;/ %
o
J\|; go
mmw
ii
i
H
s
■■■
■
m
LSfSliSB
m a *1
$$
H*
dp*
R 1
| #*' V
V A.-r*'
SS:i?s
. *%?% .
1 1M,
IIS
O',
IffilK M
£ i =
•v
sum
»
sar
■:.
fe&VwBs
illlii
'. ft
_:./ :*IV3
;s rOi ; ■
1 *
ana
P9-
o
r.
TOBACCO
ft
|
• /■,: f MM
T.CWIIX1AMS CO
VICTORY
If MMM
O0
f
TOBAGCO
L MANUPfACTURsagy
\B< <fe«Y»C» sypnIV/
Ihh
If
m v m.
ITU
•W< W.d
MANUtACTUMS *V
THE BR nriSH AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO O? P«OPY UUWTSP
syois'gy Au^TtiAUA
IlYlla-v: successor Ye*
vmoiN^^y^,
0.
"9
' s *?-!/ Jj
f:.®’ , ■%
P «Nsi
iA'V :::
■ Ci
‘ ' ; “ '
: "" : : |||
Mwm
. m
IN AlRTIGHT TINS OR PACKETS.
m
mm,
m 3 vf 1j/&
, ■
M YY
Olr
iSP’w
O'
':' ‘V
, . , ... • - .-;'
CIVIC
THE
STANDARD
CW
•V ?


■/* 'uiUli * r > ■;;!£rmLmuiuiLuiU'L!
</
*£i
s
Schweppes
L ~~-"'.r.-'nr.rncLxr- •• -
Schweppes’Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of,
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Eoveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date Nq. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars,
A Signal
Siiettss
152
King George ! V
WIKIHW
IheTOP-MOTCe’ScoteK
SOCIETY
“Jay”: “Grousing Mick,” of the Light
Horse, was aptly named. He’d growl at
anything or anybody. He’d grumble if the
sun shone, and “rouse” just as b.tterly when
it was clouded. He’d rumble complaints
when it was pitch dark and pass savage
comments on the moon’s absence, and
promptly curse the moon when it rose and
say it was only shining to “make a bleecLn’
target of a man.” Even when we got back
home he was still grizzling. We spent our
first night ashore at the Soldiers’ Rest Home,
in Melbourne. Mick went up town and re-
turned in the early hours well stung. Start-
ing to crash his way upstairs to a dormitory
full of sleeping Diggers he was _ sharply
ordered by a non-com. to remove his boots.
For a moment Mick was speechless, then all
the concentrated bitterness engendered by
three years’ campaigning broke out in a
dozen words. “Blarst and me,” he
howled. “Wot is this joint, anyway? A
’oly temple, or wot?”
* » * *
“Sucre” : Father O’Toole had preached a
very forceful and eloquent sermon on mar-
ried life and its beauties. “ ’Tis a foine
sarmon his riverence do be after prach.ng,
Mrs. McGinnes,” said Mrs. Moriarity. “It
wuz. irdade.” was the quick retort, “but.
begorrah. Oi wisht Oi knew as little about
married loife as his riverence, enyway.”
• * * *
“Pro”: Since “Staff Officer” (B. 8/G/’22)
drags in Napoleon,
and “Fl'cker” (li.
29/6/’22) quotes his
apologist Abbott
on the subject
of unconventional
methods of killing
in warfare, it is as
well to state the
position correctly.
On the massacre
of Jaffa, Abbott
says: “The melan-
choly troop (2000
prisoners) in
silence and despair
were led, firmly
fettered. to the
sandhills, where
they were mown
down by succes-
sive discharges of
musketry. T h e
pyramid of their
bones still remains,
a frightful mem-
orial, etc.” As for
Napoleon poison l 'rg
his own wounded
at the same place,
this is what
Abbott has to say:
“He at last sug-
gested to the phy-
sician the expedi-
ency of administer-
ing’ to them an
op’um pill which
would expedite by
a few hours their
death, and thus
save them from
the hands eff a
cruel foe. The
pbys’cian cave the
highly-admired re-
rdy: ‘My profession
is to cure, pot to
k 5 11.’ ” The his-
torian then records
that Nap. left a
rearguard of 590
men to wateh ti’l
the last of the
wounded had ex-
pired.
"Toxy Boy”: Many of the Diggers were
never much good at discriminating between
nationalities. One of the old brigade,
rather sozzled, was in Bourke-street,
near Menzies’, the other day when
Sastri stepped from a motor-car. The Aus-
sie, with fond memories of Cairo flashing
upon h s mind, at once straightened up,
pLced his list solemnly to his head in Gyppo
salutation, ard said : “Saeda.” As an after-
thought he added : “Gib it buksheo.” Sastri
seemed nuzzled but he got over the difficulty
by warmly shaking Billjim’s hand.
* * * *
“Dido”: The assertion is that though
almost any wife can impose another
man’s ch.ld upon
her husband, no
husband can fool
his wife with an-
other woman’s in-
fant. I have just
had satisfactory
proof to the con-
trary. The mother
appertaining, who
is Smith for the
purposes of this
otherwise veracious
narrative, had a
dead child under
chloroform in a
private hosp'tal. In
another room a
mother died giving
birth to a healthy
male. The doctor,
fearing for his
patient when the
effects of the anaes-
thetic passed (she
was of a highly
neurotic tempera-
ment). held a brief
consultation with
those concerned,
and it was agreed
to give the child of
the dead mother to
the mother of the
dead child and
allow her to keep
it t'll she might be
physically fit to
know the truth. In
fact, Mrs. Smith,
never knew the
truth. She reared
the boy, never
dreaming for a
moment he was not
her own, circum-
stances having ren-
dered the divulging
of the truth un-
necessary and un-
wis e. The b o y
himself was not
told till after his
putative mother’s
death that his sup-
posed father and
mother were really
unrelated to him
and unbound by
any ties but the
affection that is
bred of propin-
quity.
“Sol. M.” considers the press in its rela-
tion to gore:—
Last week, in Sydney, a suburban bank-manager
was murdered in a train. The Telegraph put some
of its master-intellects on to the job, and they
evolved a 15-line scare-heading with this in the
middle: —
One feature of the tragedy is that the unknown
man. who. by his own act, is a murderer and a
fugitive from justice, went empty-handed, for,
though he entered the bank with the stolen keys,
he was unable to open the strong room.
It is enlightening to the community to be told
that the criminal is a murderer by his own act
instead of by another man’s. When a hulking ruffian
commits the crime, and a blameless young per-on
is the murderer, and has to flee for his natural life,
it is no equal division of responsibility. Every
assassin should assassinate his own corpse, just
as every suicide should be his own corpse, or both
of them if he has led a double life. Cases where
the deceased has been his wife’s dead body, and she
lay weltering in his gore while he went off scot free,
inay be rare, but they should be guarded against
none the less. The further statement that the un-
known miscreant is “a fugitive from justice” by
his own act implies that he is bolting on his own
feet from the scene of his own crime, and not
fleeing by deputy on wooden legs. Of course, he
may not be a fugitive at all, scooting along the
highway in the approved style with his hair stream-
ing behind him and his eyes bulging in front. He
may have gone back quietly to his job in the city
and be at it now. But that is another matter. On
Monday the mystery was probed some more:—
The foremost feeling... .will be regret for the
murder of an unoffending official merely because it
was part of a plot against the funds of the bank
he managed. On the facts disclosed this crime shows
deliberation and darirg, and a cold-blooded disre-
gard for human life almost without precedent in
our criminal records... .While criminals are in our
midst capable of carrying out such a crime such
crimes are likely to occur.
Three inferences stand out here: (1) That if the
murder hadn’t been part of a plot against the
bank, but had been part of something else, or just
the whole of itself, nobody would have minded much.
C 2) That ordinary murderers are rather careful 119*
to take human life, but this one, for some sinister
reason, wasn’t. (3) That offences of the sort are
generally committed by persons capable of them,
and when no such individuals are around they be-
come less frequent. It is deep intellectual plumbing
of this description, no doubt, that inspired North
cliffe in his recent gallop through Australia to
describe our daily press as “second to none and
equalled by few.”
Bro. Robinson, of the L.0.L., whom the
Fuller Government appointed to the X. S.
IN ales Council the other day, remarked
NO GOOD OVERDOING IT.
“Oh, I didn't enter for the Beauty Competition. Father is so
fussy, he wouldn't let 'em print my picture even if I won.”
“P’raps 'e’s right. What with his picture runnin’ in the Shikker-
cure ad. the family is gettin ’ about all the publicity it can
stand.”
on his first uprising there: “Dr. Nash
has stated that 60,000 Roman Catholics
enlisted in the forces —their full quota
on a population basis—and I say all
glory to them. But I believe they
w-ent, not because of the heads of their
church, but in spite of them.” If the R.C.
Church in Australia is so tragically devoid
of influence that, after four years’ propa-
ganda, it was not able to divert even a frac-
tion of one per cent, of the faithful from
their national duty, then the sooner the
L.O.L. ceases from worrying about the
Menace of Rome the better for the cause
of commonsense. If, on the other hand, the
heads of the church strove, as alleged, to
prevent R.C.’s enlisting, and in many cases
succeeded, the position obviously is that the
R.C.’s in Australia are veritable marvels of
patriotism. While the heads of the other
churches were imploring their able-bodied
members to enlist, the R.C.’s, though ordered
to shirk by their priests, put up an enlist-
ment record equal to that of the best of the
Protestant denominations (the Anglicans),
and a casualty-record better than that of any
denomination. The cold, unsectarian truth
is, of course, that any given crowd of young
Australians —whether C. of E., R.C.,
Methodist or Jew —Is much, the same as
another when the war-drums sound, as at
other times; and that the churches —as
represented by a rather quarrelsome and
futile collection of men in black clothes and
flat hats —do not affect the incidence of
patriotism, either in the capacity of “Loyal-
ists” or “Disloyalists,” to any extent worth
mentioning. But that, of course, is the last
th'nsr that oeople like Bro. Stiggins or bis
coadjutor, Father O’Hooligan, care to admit.
('Continued on page 18.)
WASHINGTON’S PUNCH-BOWL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Without the bowling green, the trees he planted ;
His vineyard, nigh to Martha’s garden-close;
And, by the memories of the good man haunted,
Box hedge, and stock, and rose.
Within the old white oaken house he treasured,
Relics of stately guests and wine and laughter,
Music of stately tunes, graceful and measured,
Haunts each high oaken rafter.
His wine-chest placed as when his open-handed
Welcome as host was a wide household word ;
And music with the wine-cup he commanded
With flute and harpsichord.
Rustling of silk and satin —gleam of sword —
Where the tall candle lights disperse the gloom;
And wine, long in the cool flagged cellar stored, •
Flows in the banquet room.
Brilliant to brilliant tall candles fling
In their high chandeliers of lustre set;
The chivalry of France that scorned a king—
Rochambeau! Lafayette.
And when the ladies rose the patriots stayed
At wine that swiftly thawed the coldest soul;
And Washington, to crown the feasting, made
The brewing in this bowl.
Its white and patterned red the brewage hid;
Sufficient brandy. and of sugar much,
Hot water, lemons, as the General bid ;
Of lemon-rind, a touch.
The wisdom and the laughter have their time,
The quip, the joke, the graceful compliment;
But not forgotten, in the careless rhyme,
The prose of high intent.
All the great thinkers this great nation made,
Taking distraction when the good men met—
High honor and high aim, strong soul, clean blade
Of George and Lafayette.
Here in the Great Drought of the Mind and Cup
I wish that George had not untimely died;
That he and Lafayette could now rise up
And sit here side by side.
THE SOCIAL SCALE.
“You’ll have to call on them now they have a motor-car.”
“My dear! Not I! Why, he drives it himself!”
They would by many be misunderstood—
Poor souls that think it base and lewd design
That any battle for a nation should
Be won at Brandywine.
Far better that America should lose
At such a wicked name, though all the pale
Poor prohibitioners would not refuse
To win at Gingerale.
And yet the great deeds of the world were done
By humans with a spark of the divine;
Brave men who worked and revelled in the sun,
And lived by steel and wine.
Here, in the Drought, the bowl of white and red
Makes me wish ardently to see it filled
As once —ere liberty and reason fled
At.d the good rum was spilled.
For, maybe, George, seeing a thirsty stranger
Removed from his own dear, moist laud so far,
Would show him to the crib and to the manger;
Nor lead him to the bar.
But dip the ladle in the white-red bowl
Under the hospitable hands of George;
And, while the nectar sought the stranger’s soul.
He’d tell of Valley Forge,
And Brandywine and wars for liberty
That now with foolish statutes folks betray—
I wish, for both our sakes, that I could see
George use this bowl to-day.
MOUNT VERNON, VIRGINIA.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


BEEF. PORT WINE. COCA &
KOLA.
c /Tie
Greatest/jealth-cpvtnj
t/oszte in the Vterlct ,—-
£
m
d
9
K
W
''imzz.
yy-
£./
Wi
/'K
m
r
>
a
v
1>
H
V/
1
w
w
yz
Nt
r
MM
?/^
%
“T'S
7
7/j
1
3
w.
\
Mm
uWi
wrmi
Vsi
mSl&i
wmt
m.
m
$m
m
fffl
Yvmvm
K.C
>.sjb
■■■•■ -'t
vi «[•-*<
»!f
I’M
am
?$«
ffSf>S2
is?
I
iS
M
m
M'Sm
i
&
S*
_ *••'?-«?
>V*£
g|ft|£gp.’
**?%•s’ •'; ■'' • y,
SEDNA makes tOashing day an economical pleasure
Agents:—B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
5K
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
“For Ever Best.”
STAg
LAgER
TOOHEY'S.
A Sydney newspaper recently published a
picture of the old Black Horse Hotel, ’‘where
Sir Henry Parkes spent his honeymoon.”
Which was ambiguous, for it was not speci-
fied which of the deceased statesman’s honey-
moons was spent there. It couldn’t have
been the first, as that occurred in England;
nor the third, for that was brought off at
Kenilworth, Annandale; there are even more
cogent reasons why it couldn’t have been the
second. And Parkes was married only three
times. The chances are that it was another
Sir Henry—Stephen—who spent his first
honeymoon at the Black Horse, after he had
married, on Sept. 30. 1854, Caroline Sibella,
daughter of Henry Tudor Shadforth, Usher
of the Black Rod in N. S. Wales Legislative
Council.
“Morehead” on a defeated humorist:—
Last week’s cable about the U.S. Judge who
declared the possession of a copy of Rabelais to be
an offence, reminds me of Blitherson. He revelled
in the work of the immortal Francois, and his
almost uncanny intimacy with Gargantua,
Pantagruel and the rest of them made him
a vast fund of information to his unit and a
valued raconteur. He was still Rabelaising hard
when the C.O. went down to dysentery, and Blitherson
immediately drew up a list .of Rabelaisian remedies,
’■unning into three pages of Y.M.C.A. writing paper,
THE QUEST OF THE BETTER HALF.
THE YOUTH: “Marriage makes two one.”
THE CYNIC: “Yes, and acts as starter in the life-long struggle to discover which is
the one.”
and handed the effort round to increase the unit’s
stock of harmless or pestiferous mirth. By one of
those mysterious bludgeonings of Fate that often
afflict the waggish, the prescription fell into the
august sufferer’s hands. Blitherson was presently
paraded in the C.O.’s tent, and it was the latter’s bat-
man who supplied the subsequent details. “Corporal,”
said the Old Man, “you and I graduated at the same
University. It would be uncharitable on my part
not to recognise your talents. I have therefore
arranged for you to be transferred to your right
sphere. Whilst you remain with the Umnty Umpth
'O’ l "’iH be detailed permanently for sanitary
fatigue.”
* * * »
‘‘Skipper”: “Chhattis Pultun” may be
correct about tbe influence of India on Bri-
tish Army slang (B. 22/6/’22), but the
logger picked up “baksheesh,” which he
reduced to “buekshee,” from the hordes of
beggars who pestered him in Cairo and
Alexandria. He used it to mean “something
for nothing”—the “buekshee sergeant” men-
tioned by “C. Pultan,” and the familiar cry
of the mess orderly, _ “ ’Ere y’are for yer
buekshee stoo/’ that is the stew remaining
in the dixie when all the platoon had been
served. “Imshi” —go, “aywa”—yes, “bint”
and yasmak,” signifying a lady, and
saeeda wallah” all became good Australian
within the shadow of the Great Wazzir.
“O.B.” (Brussels) : Passing through
Cologne the other day a German, reverently,
almost tearfully, handed me a circular which
may interest the friends and relatives of
dead Australians. It runs :
Sacred Earth of the Battlefields—Earth reddened
by your Heroes’ Blood. If you be truly patriotic
and pius you should without delay get a handful of
sacred earth of the battlefields of France and Bel-
gium. Enclose cheque, bank-note or p.o. for 1 dollar
or 5/-, 2 dollars or 10/-, 3 dollars or 15/-, the price
depending on luxury of the adornment of shrine to
suit relic. It will adorn your drawing-room, as it
looks decorative; nothing dismal about it.
Are you pius?—Yes.
Are you patriotic?—Yes.
Do you like to adorn your home?—Yes.
Do you like souvenirs—relics ? —Yes.
Would you like to interest your friends?—Yes.
Then please to buy at our extremely moderate
prices.
The Hun told me that his firm had some
thousands of tons of guaranteed Somme and
Salient soil carted away from regions where
the fighting had been hottest; and that the
principals expected to do good business
throughout the British Empire and in the
U.S., as the world got back to normal. It
occurred to me, while listening to him, that
relatives of the fallen will be more disposed
to assassinate the canvassers than buy their
wares. But there—l may be prejudiced.
“Bozzer B.”: Queensland can get all the
Italian immigrants it wants by judiciously
advertising the flourishing condition of its
prickly-pear plantations. In my garden
down south I have fostered the growth of the
eatable variety which does so well on the
Mediterranean and Adriatic shores. It is
the only tree of the l?ind for miles around.
A month ago one of the local Dagoes dis-
covered it, and appealed fol- some of the
beloved fruit. Since then every Italian in
the town has been here, and sometimes I find
half-a-dozen of them gazing longingly over
the fence. I get all my crayfish, barracoota
and oysters now on the barter system.
“Ex-Tommy” speaks words of bitterness:
< Three years ago I returned to Australia, broken
in health as a result of war service. An Imperial
disability pension was awarded me; the King’s certifi-
cate followed; medals (which have not yet
arrived) were promised; and my discharge was
deposited in the family archives. Six months
later one of my lungs broke loose in the
street. I crawled home, was laid up for over
a month; and spent some £2O in doctor’s and
nurse’s fees out of capital. Since then, further
attacks have served to nominate me for the Bank-
ruptcy Stakes, and bring a doctor’s assurance that
I must for ever chase hard work from my scheme
of life. At this stage my pension ran out; and it
has not been renewed. The local pensions office
denied all liability, and advised me to communicate
uith London. I did so, and have encountered a
wall of impenetrable silence. I say nothing against
the British practice of letting those who have served
in the Imperial forces starve when the fighting is
ILLEGAL ILLEGALITY.
“No funny business now; hands up!”
“You can't do this, you know. I doubt if you have a license to carry firearms.”
over; It is the immemorial British way, as witness
the testimony even of such a violent Jingo as Kip-
ling. Whether the policy is a sound one in respect
of a world-war remains to be seen when the inevitable
next war comes; and the innumerable old soldiers
of the U.K. start warning their relatives of fighting
age against being anything but shirkers or malin-
gerers, since the other sort will certainly be cast
aside the moment the danger is past. But what I
do say is that Australia would do well to be more
sympathetic to men in my position, who, thougih
Australians, went off in the very early days of the
great trouble, under the delusion that the Empire
needed help at once, and in Flanders, if it was to
survive. In official circles there is an undisguised
feeling of antipathy against any man who did not
serve in the A.I.E’. It is a state of things to be
regretted, even when men are healthy. But, when
the intolerable situation arrives, wherein an incapaci-
tated stranger in his own country, seeking a little of
the moral assistance to which he is by the tenets cf
patriotism (not Hughesism) entitled, is refused,
well —words fail me.
“C.S.” : My friend Chiller the Choker has
retired from the profession and taken to
graft. When last we met he explained that
the reason was the high cost of thieving.
“A crook’s got to keep up appearances so
much these days,” he grumbled. “His clob-
ber’s got to be up to dick; and even a faded
tie makes marks shy and Johns suspicious.
You can’t use the trams —got to flash all
over the place in motor-cars. Even the
lawyers reckon a few quid more or less ain’t
nothing to a cove wot’s in the game, and they
don’t hesitate to tell him so. It’s a merry
life ; but you take it from me there’s nothing-
over expenses in it.” He spat disgustedly.
“Why. a man can make a damn sight more
being honest!”
“908”: Talking of S.I.W. fakirs, I saw
a Tommy acquire a Blighty in a manner
that effectually obviated clothes- or body-
burns. Placing his water-bottle, filled, of
course, with water, against the calf of his
leg, he shot through that. The result was
a clean, beautiful wound that would not
arouse the suspicions of the most astute
M.O. His action, by the way, aroused no
indignation amongst his comrades. It was
in front of Ypres late in ’l7, and by that
time it seemed to be accepted in the humbler
ranks that as Jong as a man could manage
to get evacuated to hospital the means by
which he accomplished the desired end was
his own affair.
D.F. ; it wasn’t only the gold-diggings
of the roaring ’fifties that drew to Australia
men from every continent. The transporta-
tion system resulted in the arrival of a
fairly mixed crowd. While., the great mass
of the 150,000 convicts landed in Eastern
Australia between 178 S and 1850 came from
Britain, nearly every quarter of the globe
was represented. Ex-pirates from the
lonian Islands were assigned to John Mac-
arthur at Camden, and Portuguese were
amongst the early associates in Hobart Town
of J. P. Fawkner, one of the founders of
Melbourne. Offenders from India were sent
to N.S.W. as early as the days of Governor
King, while North America was represented
by the “rebels” of Upper Canada, a.nd in
IS4I a batch of military offenders from
South Africa was shot into Van Diemen’s
Land.
“Private X.”: I have come to the conclu-
sion that the derivation of almost every so-
called “war-word” is arguable. Though
“cushy” is claimed as Anglo-Indian, I have
heard it confidently asserted that it came
from the French verb coucher, to lie down.
(A “cushy” job was one on which one could
lie down.) During the same controversy, an
amateur etymologist gave his version of
“swinging the lead,” to which Padre Green
(R.P. 12/6/’22) assigns a nautical origin.
In English military hospitals convalescent
patients were required to perform duties
about their wards, and were graded by the
doctor according to the light (or heavy)
duty they were fit for. About the heaviest
of the heavy duty was polishing the floor.
The polishing was done with a contraption
consisting of a heavy block of lead, covered
with carpet, and attached to a handle. Need-
less to say the job wasn’t sought after, and
a man willing to swing the lead without
grumbling was assured of a prolonged con-
valescence. Which explanation is about as
ingenious as that which credited “Digger” as
being de la guerre shortened.
* * * *
“Tiberias”: Sixty-five Australians in the
A.I.F. gained the V.C. during the Big Stoush.
There were 14 laborers, G farmers, 2 bank
clerks and one bank teller, 3 surveyors, 2
clerks, 2 graziers, 2 students and 2 carpen-
ters. The others were respectively station-
hand, teamster, groom, grocer, hotel-keeper,
solicitor, ironmonger, prospector, orcliardist,
builder, wire-worker, fireman, driver, cooper’s
machinist, warehouseman, bushman, butcher,
bricklayer, miner, chemist, boilermaker, con-
tractor, blacksmith, engine-driver, insurance
agent, trapper, mechanical engineer, commer-
cial traveller, soldier, vigneron and under-
taker.
ENTER THE GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I am weariest of the fuss
Of living and the care of it,
When most the hustlers unctuous
Appal me with their little wit,
I hear your sprightly heels tap-tap,
As you come dancing up the stair,
And (magic cure ’gainst all mishap !)
I catch the fragrance of your hair.
There is no trouble and no woe,
The lilt of life laughs out the gloom,
As you (Sweetheart, I love you so!)
Come smiling' back into the room.
The golden hair that crowns you seems
To fold us in a mystic glow,
And I m the emperor of my dreams
However fortune ebb and flow.
There! sit you snug upon my knee
And prattle on of that and this.
Not care ? My dear, you’re you! To me
The one great good. To clasp and kiss
You thus is more to me than wealth,
Would put a. sultan’s hoard to shame.
And yet you have to come by stealth,
Because of Mr. Whatshisname!
That Mr. Grundy ! Lordy, lord,
I’d love to kick him where he swells'
Most pawkily for his reward!
He, grudging others’ kisses, tells.
He is the ghoul that spoils the day,
And makes the violets die too soon.
He’s lurking somewhere, I dare say,
To spy on us this afternoon.
One can't have everything, can one?
But still the gods are good to me.
You are my stars and moon and sun,
My stimulus and my sanctuary.
However bald the little wit
Of peering Grundies envious,
You bless my life and sweeten it
When I am weariest of their fuss!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


The Spirit of
TASTE
Taste is the very essence
of beauty. The ability to
discriminate in harmony
of colour, in qualities of
character or in the meaning
of books is the key to the
best in life. And when it
comes to whisky that same
sense of selection insists on
Betoat’s


Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Hilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
sai| so!
Why don't
you wear a
ide
SHIRT?
M AKEffS
ALEXANDER STEWART \
AND SONS LTD
3VE fl
&
& Maw
BRISBANE
AND
SYDNEY
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Larrapinta”: As a monument of patience
and skill I’ll back this. In the Macdonnell Ranges
(Centralia) I met one Peter Patterson, who had a
single-barrelled muzzle-loading- shotgun which had
beaten 60-guinea English guns at pigeon-matches,
and which was his own work from start to finish.
The barrel was built of horseshoe nails, welded
into _ a long strip, and then re-welded into a
twist' barrel around a steel rod. The lock was
forged from an old file, the spring from a saw, and
the stock was cut from a piece of English oak. The
whole job took the spare time of two years. I’ve
seen some remarkable things done by boundary-
riders and other out-haclcers whose spare time hung
heavily, but this heats the lot.
“Herget” : I first saw him sitting discon-
solately alongside the track miles and miles from
the nearest town. I remarked that it was a tine
day, and asked how he was getting on and if he
had plenty of food. The answer I got was “What
the hell’s that to do with you?” I left him at that.
Returning several days later 1 struck him again,
this time • wearily plodding along in the direction 1
was going. I felt so darned sorry for him that I
slowed up and asked if he would like a lift. “No,”
he said as he kept on plodding, “you’ve got too
. much yap.”
* '* •* *
“Jim Carew”: Here’s an extract from a
letter I received from a mate in England last mail:
I took the youngsters to the Zoo yesterday, but
tlie sight of the kangaroos robbed the day of all its
enjoyment as far as I was concerned. There were
five ’rocs in a ridiculously small yard, and they did
look a woe-begone mob. They all seemed stiff and
cramped, and when I made them hop they did so as
if they were performing a half-taught trick and not
as if it was their natural inode of progression. All
of them had hard calloused lumps on their legs, and
I honestly think they were corns. Two of them were
limping badly, and the front paw of another was
swollen as it' by gout. I would give something to
ship them home again and turn them loose near
Nyngan. The kids were delighted at seeing their old
friends. These ’roos are the only thing Australian
they have seen in six months excepting Joe Cook,
and lie’s not as Australian as he might be.
» * * *
“Rex” : A new record was put up by :i
duck in the Kangaroo Valley (N.S.W.) recently. She
laid 14 eggs in seven days. It was a great effort, but
it proved too much for her, and on the eighth day
the undertaker called.
* * * *
“Colub” : One of the questions as to snake-
venom still unsettled is whether the poison-gland is
periodically emptied—apart from when the reptile
bites—by the snake itself, and then filled up by a
fresh secretion. From what is known of the func-
tions of glands it does not seem likely that a snake
would carry the same venom for, say, three years if
it never had occasion to bite; and we have nothing
to support the belief that it is ever absorbed into
the system. Recently a Japanese investigator work-
ing in America noticed that the venom of a rattle-
snake (Crotalus horridus) in captivity varied in
physical characteristics
with the length of
time in which its
glands were unemptied.
One of these character-
istics was the differ-
ence in the chlorophyll
content. When the rep-
tile was “milked” in
the usual way after an
interval of 10 days or
so, the fluid contained
a large amount of this
substance, which im-
parted a strong green
color to it. But when
the milking took place
a month later hardly
any chlorophyll was to
be found, and the
venom was of a yellow
color in consequence.
This may have been
due to the chlorophyll
having been absorbed
or decomposed into
compounds in the
meantime. As a result
of taking samples of
the poison at various
intervals the conclu-
sion was arrived at
that the snake was in
the habit of periodi-
cally ejecting the con-
tents of its glands and
then allowing them to
All again. For in-
stance, it was “milked”
on the first of the
month, when the secre-
tion was of a deep
green tint, then again
on the first of the fol-
lowing mouths when
the venom was found
to be yellow in color.
It was next allowed to go for three weeks
or so without being made to discharge the contents,
and then “milked” again, when it was found that
the secretion was green. The experimenters have
suggested that the reason for the last color was that
a short time previously the snake itself had emptied
its glands, so the secretion was not old enough to
have been deprived of its chlorophyll.
* * * *
“Six and Eight”: The animal “R.T.W.”
(B. 22/6/’22) saw jump a sft. paling fence was
probably a Tasmanian variety of the hare- wallaby.
The common hare-wallaby (Largorchestes leporoides )
of western N.S.AY. was so named because of its
similarity to the hare in form, size and habits.
Gould says its leaping powers are extraordinary, and
tells that one, chased by dogs, came straight towards
him. He stood perfectly still, and the animal got
within 20ft. before it saw him; then, instead if
turning, it astonished him by bounding clear over
his head. That leap, unless Gould was a pigmy,
was better than the one put up by “R.T.W.’s”
“harelaby.”
A SPIRITUAL STRIKE.
PARSON: “You've got, to go out to the Aboriginal Farm
a { Dunoon. Government’s going to keep you now.
We can’t give yon any more food at the parsonage.”
GUNDURIMBA JIMMY: “What, you not givit no more
’ bacca ?”
PARSON : “No.”
G.J.: “No more pflour?”
PARSON : “No.”
G.J.: “No more tea and tchugar?”
PARSON : “No.”
G.J.: “Orright, by cripes; no more plurry arry-looyah.”
“Vulture”: “Silas” says (B. 15/6/’22)
that “many a miner has gone right through his
career without seeing a round hole, or, at any rate,
an oval shaft, ’ as written of by Albert Dorrington in
the Daily Mail (Loud.). Nevertheless, Dorrington’s
description is not without its measure of correctness.
In the goldful days, the John Chinaman who had a
soul above tailings and sank a claim whenever
the Chow-chasing white digger allowed him to,
invariably dug a round hole. Whaffor? It is safe
betting that the ever-shrewd Chinkee had a deep
reason.
* * * *
“Cambromie”: “Wart” (B. l/6/’22) tells
me I’m wrong, and that stock won’t
eat the foliage of the she-oak
“when there is anything else
handy.” That all depends on the
“anything else.” If cattle were
up to their knees in English
grass and clover they might re-
frain from cropping the she-oak,
though even then I doubt it: but
to say that hungry stock ■won’t eat
it is sheer nonsense. Years ago
in Southern Tas. working bullocks
were fed on it when feed was
scarce. Trees were felled, and
the sound of the axe was the
only intimation needed to tell
them that supper was ready.
Sheep are just as partial to it as
cattle. I was driving a mob of
hungry sheep once to a distant
part of the run (they had been
yarded all night and part of the
previous day) and, although they
were pretty lively and scattered
about after grass, I had no trouble
with them until I came to a large
she-oak uprooted by the wind.
Then the circus began. About
50 of them rushed the oak, and
stuck to it like an impecunious
politician .to his seat, and the
united efforts of myself and a
lively dog failed to shift ’em
until the rest of the mob had
strung out along the narrow bush
track for a mile or two, then
scattered all over the run. T
reached my destination about 50
short. Sheep won’t eat she-oak! Try .droving a
hungry mob past one!
* * # *
“Carr Toore”: A Cousin Jack, who has
just bought a farm near me, borrowed my mare
the other day to take a cart to the wheelwright.
The old prad trips a bit, so I told him to make her
hold her head up going down hill. He had nine
miles to go and did it in about three hours. On his
return I asked him if he had any trouble with the
mare. “Oh, no,” he replied cheerfully. “I walked
beside her going downhill and held her head up as
high as I could.” As he is about 6ft., poor old
Bonny must have done some high-stepping.
* * v-
“Winkle”: The existence of the sliort-
tailed petrel or mutton-bird (B.
15/6/’22) is threatened not only by
tlie gastronomic Ilackenschmidts,
who wrestle with its oily flesh,
but also by the housewives and
pastry-cooks. Tts eggs, excellent
for cooking purposes, can be
bought for a shilling a dozen,
and as they will keep perfectly
in water-glass they arc used all
the year round. Mutton-bir.l-
egg collecting is quite a lucra-
tive trade. The birds dig
burrows about 2ft. deep to
nest in, and the’ eggler on his
daily round thrusts a hooked
implement, made of wire, into
each burrow under the nesting
bird, and, with a dexterous twist,
withdraws the eggs. Should an
egg not be deposited on time the
bird is given a lesson on punctu-
ality by being pulled from the
burrow, placed under the collec-
tor’s arm and submitted to a little
judicious pressure, which has the
desii'ed effect.
“P.A.Q.”: For the Queer
Nesting Stakes I enter a couple
of sparrows from the dry town of
Ashburton (M.L.). They selec-
ted the ventilator of the guard's
van on the train which runs
daily between Springburn and
Ashburton (30 miles), and there
built their nest, laid the eggs
and successfully hatched a family.
The train leaves Springburn
every morning, stays all day at
Ashburton and returns in the
evening. This arrangement allows
the couple to spend the day in the
Ashburton Domain opposite the
railway yards and there gather
lood for the youngsters. Appa-
rently the right sort of baby tucker
was not obtainable in Spring-
burn, so mother hit on this way
of supplying it. I don’t know
what she says to father if he
misses the train home at night;
but, anyhow, he could hop ail
the v r ay and beat it home.
“Murkalx” : Mention of bullock weight-
guessing competitions (B. 29/6/’22) reminds me that
at the Numurkah (Vic.) annual show this prize was
won not by cockies but by a dressmaker, a bank-
clerk, a carpenter, a travelling photographer, and
a barmaid, in five successive years.
* * * *
“Bill R.” : “The Rumpus’s” stingaree (B.
15/6/’22) is evidently a different horror to those that
inhabit the South Coast of N.S.W. There they arc
not slimy, but have a roughish hide like fine sand-
paper that may easily be held when gripped. Also,
unlike those of “T.R.’s” acquaintance, they have
spikes, barbed their full length. When using the
MIXING ’EM.
MISSUS LION : “I knew you’d have indigestion—a Theo-
sophist for lunch and a Methodist missionary for
supper. No wonder!”
prodders, though, they do not, as he suggests, anchor
themselves to their victims. Instead they draw cut
a shuddery mass of torn flesh that leaves behind a
gaping hole. I know a little about it, because a
prod from one once put me on crutches for eight
weeks. If “The Rumpus’’ doubts my 171-ineh
stingaree spike, next time he is in Sydney I’ll give
hipi the address at which he can see it, with many
other marine curios.
(Continued on page 22.)
PORCUPINE RE-WRITES A YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, he was such a Johnnie guy—the sort of Johnnie
who
Is matter for the comics, was our latest jackeroo.
A feminine-oomplexioned and a blue-eyed sort o’ cove
Who said: “Oh, dwash it, weally,” and “I say, old
chap, bai Jove!”
Yes, a thorough little Gussie,
(Most affected —haw —and fussy
Was the English chap who came one day to “jack”
at Goobra Grove.
He talked, too, of the hunting-fields in England far
away;
Of how he used to always win the glories of the day;
Of how no fences rose too high, nor ditches gaped
too wide —
The higher and the wider they the faster did he ride!
To neither risk nor danger
AVas this jackeroo a stranger
Ere he came to ride amongst us from across the
Other Side,
We station-hands at Goobra Grove we listened to
them all—
The stories of the rides in which he never had a fall,
Save now and then when horseflesh fell and robbed
him of his seat—
But even then, he pointed out, he landed on his feet!
Yes, landed most discreetly
When he had to, and most neatly—
Surely quite unprecedented was that jaekeroo’s
conceit!
One day we yarded Porcupine, the outlaw of the mob,
Whom none of us could ever tame (few hankered for
the job!).
We caught and saddled him at last, and then (our
master-stroke),
After guaranteeing that he was an inoffensive moke,
Helped Johnnie up astride him
With the farewell: “We can't ride him!”
And then skedaddled back behind to view the buck-
ing joke.
A P PROPRIA TE.
“There are a few pounds due to the hangman; where shall I
debit it?”
“Shore it in the suspense account.”
Old Porcupine he gave a lurch, a prop and then a
grunt—
And then he bent his neck until his wither was in
front!
“And Johnnie stuck to him like glue?” you ask me —
yes. of course,
Y c station-hands have read that yarn since ever
horse was horse....
No. let me tell you plainly
Lest you venture too insanely:
He was tossed, and he is rubbing yet—well, where
ho felt the force !
N.S.W.
R. J. CASSIDY.


BEST NOVELS by
Australian Authors.
1/- each (posted 1/2).
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Nearly Four Million Copies Sold.
HAVE YOU READ?
“The Boss of Killara,”
By VANCE PALMER.
“A Colt from the Country,”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“The Squatter’s Daughter,”
Adapted from the famous play, by
HILDA BRIDGES.
“The Pearls of Cheong Tah,”
By S. W. POWELL.
“Rogues and Ruses,”
By CON DREW.
“The Oil-seekers,”
By jack McLaren.
“Equality Road,”
By VERA BAKER.
Beatrice Grimshaw’s South Sea Novels.
Edward Dyson’s Humorous Books.
120 Novels to select from. Write for Complete Descriptive
Catalogue (free).
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
Commonwealth.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
- -— A i - /
-- I—
/ /
Rfl
It’s pure, therefore safe
“Light of the Age,” the Texas Company’s high-test kerosene,
gives a clear, steady light, right down to the last spoonful in the
lamp.
It’s safe kerosene—because supreme in its purity, supreme in
quality—so pure it s almost odorless.
Enjoy your evening hours with no thought of care, no thou o ht
of a morning’s disagreeable task cleaning the chimneys. The neec
for all that has passed.
Just pour in clean “Light of the Age” kerosene—no odor,
no fuss. And the chimneys are free from the smudge of soot.
“Light of the Age” burns with a restful brilliance free from
smoke or flicker—clean oil, packed in a clean way. Ask for it
by name.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
CO
TE
o
A
*5 v^;v
m
X 3
r: dl/
rv
% 1
ffl
2ST
There are mo dull moments
in a home that has one of
Paling’s Player Pianos
installed in it.
DANCING AT HOME
WITH ONE OF
PALING’S PLAYER PIANOS
AS YOUR PIANIST.
When you have arranged to invite a few friends to
spend an evening with you, the possession of a Player
Piano gives you, as hostess, a feeling of perfect con-
fidence. These delightful instruments will provide the
most enchanting music—the dreamy waltz, the pulse-
quickening jazz, or a lively fox-trot—the rhythm and
time being absolutely perfect.
Write for our Illustrated Catalogue, Price List and
Full Particulars of our Easy Time-payment System.
Your old Piano taken in exchange if you wish.
I?
in
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY.—


Every roll of genuine MALTHOID carries this label.
f
:
S 3
&
WT3
TRADE
MALTtKND
MARK
&
&
&
a
ss
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Sydney.
<-097.
Horctf looKing at You"
*<•
tx>o*2
ABBOTS
LAGER
The Book
without a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
ft
WA
7
% /
%*> 7'm^
i
••Ss
i/
“Monaro”: Mention of mixed marriages
in recent Bulletins rertiinds ’me of one in N.Q. in
the days of the Palmer gold-rush. The bride, a
light-skinned, good-looking lubra, was dressed in
moleskin pants and shirt, and her infant son, by a
near relation, sat on a miner’s knee sucking the
miner’s pipe. The groom was a half-caste Chow-abo.
mixture, who had arrived from the Gulf the day
before. I’m not sure whether the knot-tier was a
priest or a parson ; anyway I saw all hands, includ-
ing the bride and the man of religion, affably
drunk that night. Later the affability wore off and
about 2 a.m. a shindy in eight languages tore the
atmosphere. Next morning miners from two miles
away came in to make inquiries. It seems worth
mentioning that the groom gave the name of George
Stewart Mackenzie.
“Mabie” : Re never-failing waterholes and
creeks (B. 8/6/’22). Out west, between Tarrawingee
and Fowler’s Gap (N.S.W.), there used to be, and
perhaps is yet, a small hole, no more than 4ft. in
diameter and 2ft. deep, which, to my certain know-
ledge, supplied three teams of bullocks and about
30 camels almost daily with water for three weeks
when no other water was available —the teamsters
camped there on that account. The hole, locally
known as a “soakage,” never ran over, nor was the
water level lowered to any appreciable extent by the
animals indicated. It was the only one of its kind
within many miles, and was considered the best
water-supply on the long trek between Broken Hill
and Tibooburra.
WOT ’ ALF.
THE BARMAID : “Your mate Bill was in a while ago half-drunk.”
THE SAILORS' CHORUS: “Only half-drunk! Then it wasn’t Bill.
He came ashore yesterday.”
“Natare” : I saw a cross between a fox and
sheep-dog- recently. The mother was an old fox
which had been kept in captivity since puppyhood,
and the father a pure-bred black sheep-dog-. The
hybrid has the fur, bushy tail and bark of the fox,
but is much bigger in build, his strength being-
abnormal. He has savaged his owner many times,
and but for his use in decoy work would have
stopped a bullet long ago. Wheft used in hunting
he is made to bark, and this seldom fails to attract
foxes within range of the gun. Has anyone heard
of a similar brute?
PUTTING IX COURTEOUSLY.
BILLY: “Mother, Polly called me a pig.”
POLLY: “I never.”
MOTHER: “What did you say to him?”
POĹY: “I only told him not to shove his forepaws in the trough.”
“Bogan Bill” : Old Bullswool, on his first
visit to Sydney, put up at one of the big hotels, and
when dressing next morning he dropped his collar-
stud which rolled under the chest of drawers. The
furniture was big and Dad was fat and short-armed,
and lie couldn’t reach the stud. Still he was game
and kept on trying, but the longer he tried the
louder he cursed. At last there came a knock at the
door, and a bell-boy told him the lady in the next
room objected to his language. This put the lid on.
“Get to blankety blank out of here,” roared Dad,
“and tell that woman that if she was a lady she
wouldn’t blank\ r well know it was langwidge!”
* * * *
“Winchester”: I have been kangaroo-
shooting for some time and have noticed that reds
and greys never associate. Is it a ease of drawing
the color-line?
* * * *
“Billy T.” : Coming down the track wind-
ing' along by the railway line, we complained bit-
terly of the heat and the scarcity of beer and other
accommodation for man and beast, when Tim ex-
claimed aloud with
starting eyes and point-
ing finger, “Good God,
what is that?” That,
as we saw it at the
distance, was a man
lying prone across the
line on the side of the
hill just where the
cutting ended, and be-
yond, to the right,
where the line curved,
a line of smoke lay
against the blue
sky. “It’s the down
train!” said Tim, and
started to run. We
dropped all traps and
ware, and followed in
a hopeless sprint. We
had not a ghost of a
chance of reaching the
sleeping man before
the train got him. We
had not covered 50
yards when a large,
powerful cattle-dog
came cantering out of
the cutting and
attacked the sleeper.
We saw the dog appa-
rently worrying the
prostrate figure, tug-
ging and tearing. The
man sat up, cursing;
the dog still fought
with him, and the
weary one presently
staggered to his feet and off the line as the train
roared by. The g'entle inebriate however, paid no
attention to the train —he was too busy hurling
ballast and blasphemy after the disgusting- tyke that
had torn his trousers.
“Andy”: While on the spaying of cows
(B. l/6/’22) let me mention a first-class spayer and
a well-known roughrider in his day—Oliver Stanley.
I have been under him for six years, and have seen
him spay big mobs of mixed lots from weaners to
old cows, dry and otherwise. I have known cows
to calve a few days after being spayed by him, and
both cows and calves to live and thrive. A good
feature of his work is the absence of blood from
opening up. He uses the flank method and disin-
lects his hands and instruments after each beast. I
have seen him turn cows out in two minutes ; but,
taking the average, he does them in three. His
losses are under two per cent.
Imbaga”: “Morob’s” North Queensland
clogs (B. l/6/’22), who lure crocodile's
to one spot by barking on the bank and
then hastily swim over the creek at
another place, might learn something
from a Papuan hound 1 once met. I had
wandered from Tamata station to the
Mamba while shooting, and decided to
visit a village on the other shore. For
half-an-hour I yelled for one of the
numerous canoes which were tied to the
bank, but an old crone, who was the only
villager at home, paid no attention,
though she knew me wel 1 enough. At
last a small, supercilious hound came
down the path on my side and, casting-
a bored glance across the crocodile-
infested river, lifted up his voice in a
screech that nearly split my ear-drums.
The old girl dropped the taro she was
peeling and fell over herself to man a
canoe. The hound went over alone—l
was bashful about travelling with such a
potentate.
“Jackeroo”: “Girofla” (B. 15/6/’22)
thinks the disease incommoding those horses at Chil
lagoe (Q.) resembles an acute bronchitis, as quarts
of clear, viscid liquid are coughed up. This comes
from the stomach, not from the lungs. A vet. tells
me the trouble is no doubt acute dyspepsia, due to
something that has been eaten causing a disorder
of the organs. “Girofla” is hereby ordered to give
the neddies a good clearing out with linseed oil,
and follow it up with a half-ounce of carbonate soda
tAvice a day.
Y\ essel” There, is at least one place in
Australia where the heliograph is regularly in use.
J. H. Kessell, brother of the N.S.W. Actingi-Under
Secretary for Justice, has a station out from Glad-
stone (Q.) and 18 miles from a lighthouse which is
connected by telephone Avith Gladstone. The -home-’
stead is on a hill, and Avhen they Avant to speak to
the outside world they get in touch Avith the light-
house by heliograph. In this country of sunshine
it’s a Avonder the instrument is not more generally
used.
• * * »
“Ned Kelly” : I remember a Binghi badly
upsetting the solemnity of a western (N.S.W.) wed-
ding. The daughter of a Avell-known squatter was
being married, and Binghi had strolled into the
church to see the ceremony. W hen he caught sight
of the bride, Avho Avas in all the regulation regalia,
lie Avas struck dumb for some minutes. The veil
particularly seemed to hypnotise him. At last he
found his voice, and in a lull of the proceedings he
burst out: “By cripes, no plurry flies longa that
pfeller Mary!” it took three of us nearly five
minutes to convince him that the rest of the cere-
mony could very well get along without him.
“Merab” : “Hecagus’s” yarn (B. 22/6/’22)
about the “beer-hum” who for six pints of beer swal-
lowed six young mice comes an easy first; but how’s
this for a good second? In a South Coast (N.S.W.)
town some years ago a chewer on the promise of a
pint of beer swallowed a mixture of tar and kero-
sene. But when he had got the concoction down he
didn’t feel inclined for the beer. It cured his “hum-
ming,” too.
* * » »
"Jim Carew” : The Binghis of Nor ’-West
Australia have a method of killing an enemy which
is very like the “boning” of their southern relatives.
U hen the undesirable is asleep llinghi sneaks up
and places a stone weighing about a quarter-of-a-
pound on the sleeper’s stomach. These stones are
usually flat and somewhat grotesquely marked, and
most tribes in that region keep a couple of them
handy. YY hen the sleeper awakes and finds the death
stone either on top of him or near him, he knows
his time has come—and no medicine or bluffing
from a white man will change his opinion. He will
mope round the camp for a few days, eating nothing,
and then slink off into the bush to die in peace.
* * * #
“Silas” : Cope had a fine strawberry-farm
in the hills in the wilds beyond Morwell, and one
day he sighted a man of the sundowning type
seated in a bed, over-indulging in ripe berries. Cope
called his faithful bloodhound and advanced cau-
tiously upon the marauder, who remained unaware of
fne meditated attack till the enemy was upon him.
I hen he looked up, took in Cope's enormous propor-
tions and the destructive qualities of the dog at his
heel, and still munching, observed casually: “Have
some cranberries, mister.”
* ' * * *
“Bogan Bill” : A few weeks ago I passed
the night at a station near Nyngan (N.S.W.). It
w-as bright moonlight, and during the night we
counted 23 bumps on the roof. In the morning
we counted 23 dead wild ducks.. They had mistaken the
galvanised-iron roof for water and dived on to it.
I had seen ducks killed like this before, but had
never known more than two to make the same
mistake in one night.
* * * *
Sucre’ : Two of my pigeons flew into
some scrub the other morning, and shortly after-
wards I heard the report of a gun. The pair did not
come home that night, but next day the cock re-
turned alone. Alighting on the ground he picked up
a grain of corn and flew off towards the scrub. Tie
repeated the performance - three times; then I fol-
lowed the direction he took. In a clump of Christ-
mas bush I found his better-half lying with a shat-
tered right wing. lias any Abo. a better instance of
husbandly devotion ?
* * * *
“Glasson”: “Talmat’s” Clydesdale mare
who mated with a Shetland pqny stallion (R.
8/6/’22) reminds me of Podgy. She was a fat
Shetland, and had three foals by the Clydesdale
THE MISTAKE.
JONES (who has been imbibing) : “Struth,
are yon crook, too!”
stallion Blair Athol. They all came as a mid-
cross between the dam and sire, and were all mares.
Then these Clydesdale-Shetlands had foals to Clari-
onet, an English hackney cob who was three times
champion of England. The resultant horses were
very active heayy 14.1 ponies. Billy Avon many
prizes in the show-ring in pony-over-hurdles events.
This curious family can all be. seen to-day on a
station near Casterton (Vic.).
“ Jackeroo”: For years they have been
telling us that wool cannot be grown on the coast.
Well, the Q. Department of Agriculture recently re-
ceived at Brisbane eight bales of excellent merino
wool from H. B. White, of Percy Island, about 60
miles off Mackay. The Department grades and sells
the cocky farmers’ wool, and the seasider’s sample
was the best received for some time.
* * * *
“Merah”: The eels that stole “Sucre’s”
tAvo “\A'histlers’’ (B. 22/6/’22) reminds me that in
the Narrandera (N.S.W.) district some years ago
a family of domestic ducks were in the habit of
Swimming in a small lagoon, and one by one they
disappeared until only three were left. The mystery
was solved when the lagoon was drained —half-a-
dozen giant cod-fish were discovered floundering in
the mud.
THE WEST WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bushmen ponder and wag their heads
Or gaze, at the sky in doubt,
For well they know when the west winds blow
They usher another drought.
As the old sundowner seeks a camp
His shirt fills like a sail;
His footsteps drag as he humps the swag
In the teeth of the howling gale.
The roly-poly bounds along
And grows like an avalanche,
But a fence at last secures it fast
Or it’s held by a fallen branch.
It gathers the fallen leaves and grass,
And a sandhill rises there;
For fine sand creeps as the west wind sweeps
Till the land is brown and bare.
The sheep-dogs cower and creep inside;
The mongrels slip their chains;
They hear the tread of the restless dead
On the wind that sweeps the plains.
They whine and whimper and droop their tails
Or they crouch dejectedly;
They fear the things the death-wind brings
That they feel but cannot see.
The cattle are restless on the camp,
But the old bull stands on guard,
And deep and low his warnings go
To his offspring in the yard.
The lonely woman pegs tight the door
As her children toss in bed;
There’s a moaning sound in the trees around,
And a sighing overhead.
The old stock-horses, shiver and snort,
And they toss their forelocks high,
For dead men ride on the wind astride,
And shriek as they’re passing by.
There are muffied hoofs on the iron roofs
And the rustic of ghostly feet
Are passing by when the death-winds fly
Like an army in retreat.
N.s.tv.
JIM GRAHAME.


:
:%
\ Ilf lillll 111 '•
'- "
wBBmEBHmb*. ill
If, , ■ '.* : ?<VI -«
I '■ ' J x -■ > i X^ f 's&>' *'\i
y-/:. ...
«? ' !
nm
m
■■ ■■■■; :>-;?'m
: y%
f Hag
s<‘ tv; ..""v*' " .
r > * '• M,
.
k *-***';. m */•' §■•*.' jH
MKw?5 * -«* *Vi 1
Jit . 'Jt a %v%
r "
%
.
*p!\;Lß(}/*-. p S
v* 1 ***. .fMiO Hy
V*
' *»
'
ft*
.
ME
%*■
S
MtAi .i
s'\\
; I ■;
MBpSl «
feifiii
ll ill
s*
i
j y
✓ i
§
■fll
'
m i
■SS,,:
f'i
ii
fig iiffi k
Us!
sli
m
if ill*
b.n
pi 5 /
~•.■■• -v
a
■
» ■ :
Ms
mm.
■
Whether your car be a luxurious
limousine, a big 5-seater-tourer,
or a light runabout, the question
of tyre equipment is all important
Half the efficiency of your car
depends on the tyres fitted,
whilst economy in upkeep is
largely a matter of tyres. For
all classes of cars and for all
kinds of motoring “Railroad”
D
□
are the best wearing and most
dependable. They set a standard
for quality and workmanship un-
surpassed by any tyre on the road.
Ensure freedom from trouble—
and long service—by always using
“Railroads.” —It pays !
All Garages can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER Co. of Ausf. Ltd.
in ctitk AND N.Z.
advt


y m
1
m
unlcwvivud ad
fluM an K &ujle /
Vh
s/.
!\
the
s
4 /
x(v,
V/}
£s
m
m.
h
■ //t
m
M
r-vs^
m
m%
Ti
V .•-'
■4*'
?*:.
&
i
m
,
£/• Jupev fe, •vi
vice
SHELL MDTDR OIL
SHELL MDTDR SPIRIT
The British Imperial Oil C? Ltd
ALL STATES AND KIEW ZEALAND
C .13
ft
m
advt
□
BJ
fP
m
n
E
MO
The fine reliability of Dodge Brothers Motor Car grows
upon the owner as the service of his car lengthens, day
after day, month after month, year after year.
He comes to regard it as a loyal friend because it is so
faithful to every call he makes upon its rugged strength
and power.
It gives consistently good service, because it is deliberately
and carefully built by Dodge Brothers for such service.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tire mileage is unusually high
%
-fir
m
—’ j'
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
That Elusive Something
By “PHLOX.”
YOUR husband is flirting with a pretty
dark woman.”
“The wretch!”
“He’s asking her to take afternoon tea
with him,” went on the fortune-teller,
nothing abashed by her client’s interjection.
“Where are they going for tea?”
“I can’t tell you that, but at present
they’re dancing.”
“Is my husband dancing?”
“He is.”
“Oh, dear, what would you advise me to
do ?”
"I did not undertake to advise you,
madam, but to tell your fortune. Half-a-
crown, please!”
Mrs. Marsden left the fortune-teller with
rage in her heart and revenge in her soul.
Who was this woman, she asked herself, who
was usurping her husband’s affections? That
explained las attitude towards her lately.
He had begun to criticise her, and pass un-
complimentary remarks about her tigure and
her complexion.
Indeed, he had hinted that she was passe.
Why, there was her husband and the
woman walking towards her. John has
recognised me, she thought; now 1 wonder
what he’ll have to say for himself. That
fortune-teller is certainly a clever woman.
“How fortunate we met you, Mary. This
is Miss Heath —our supervisor of agencies,
who has done such good business for our
publications. We were just going to have
a cup of tea while we talk over business
matters, and it will be nice for you to come,
too.”
Mrs. Marsden gave Miss Heath a formal
bow, and a cold, “How do you do?” When
her husband said they would go to the Went-
worth for tea, she was more than ever con-
vinced that the fortune-teller was a witch.
The trio sat down at a table, and before long
Mrs. Marsden, succumbing to the charm of
Miss Heath, almost forgot her annoyance
and jealousy. Her husband merely talked
business with Miss Heath, who from time
to time politely referred to Mrs. Marsden
for approval of plans she promulgated. And
when Mr. Marsden said that he would be
working back at the oflice that night, and
suggested that Miss Heath spend the even-
ing with Mrs. Marsden and regale her with
the latest Paris fashions, she was quite
agreeable.
Miss Heath, the daughter of an Anglican
clergyman, was born and bred in Paris, and
having just come from the gay city, was able
to give Mrs. Marsden interesting fashion
notes.
Before long, however, the eternal feminine
asserted itself, and Mrs. Marsden wondered
why Miss Heath, with her charm and.beauty,
haa never married. She told Mrs. Marsden
that the only man she ever loved was killed
on active service.
Prom this they talked of rejuvenescence,
the subject ever uppermost in the mind of
the woman who has passed her first youth.
“If only I could reduce myself,” sighed
Mrs. Marsden.
“You can, easily.”
“Oh, of course, the French know the secret
of remaining beautiful, practically for ever.”
“What I take to keep my figure slim is no
secret, Mrs. Marsden.”
“My dear, I shouldn’t have thought you
needed to take anything ”
“Indeed, I do; or I would soon fall into
flesh. Directly I find myself putting on
weight, I just get a package of clynol berries,
and take one after each meal.”
“Do they affect the heart?”
“Oh, dear, no; the most delicate person
can take them with safety.”
“I shall certainly take them, and I won-
der, Miss Heath, if you know of a good face
cream that doesn’t grow hairs.”
“Indeed, I do; and I’m most grateful to
the manufacturers for what it has done for
me. I never use anything but mercolized
wax. It is similar to the preparation used
by the famous French beauty Ninon
D’Enelos, who at sixty had the complexion
of a child.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Miss-
Heath ; I shall certainly add mercolized wax
to the list of things I want from the chemist.
Do you know I’m rather distressed about
my hair; it’s greying fast, and my husband
suggests that I dye it, but I hate the very
thought of dye.”
“I can assure you, Mrs. Marsden, there's
no necessity to use dye. When I lost my
fiance my hair began greying fast, but I used
Tammalite, and now you won’t find a grey
hair in ray head —it simply worked wonders.
It’s quite simple to use. You just get two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite, and mix
it with three ounces of may rum. Apply to
the scalp at uight with a small spouge until
the hair has gone back to its original color.”
“Thank you very much for the informa-
tion. May I ask what soap vou use, Miss
Heath?”
“Certainly, I never use anything but
Pilenta.”
“It’s awfully good of you, to be at such
pains to tell me about these delightful pre-
parations.”
“Not at all; I think it’s a woman’s duty
to contribute to the beauty of the world,
and if you will notice, a woman who takes
pains with herself has that elusive some-
thing that is so fascinating. But it’s time
I was going.”
“I will send you home in the car. You
have given me fresh courage in life. I’m
now bent on cultivating that elusive some-
thing.”
Barri Agar—ldeal Face Powder—all
Chemists. — Advt.


Purest
' %
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schna^
"IT STANDS ADOtf®”
0
I
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off"
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
w. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
COUCHS
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
iD
..■unniiirm M
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
tn
0
need. Australian verse is becoming alto-
o-ether too rough and sloppy.
” There is much to be said tor the fixed
forms In the average they are interesting,
■ind in the exceptional they are art. It is
essential that the rules shall be most strictly
adhered to. The man who, after due thought,
\ v i)i take liberties with a ballade or a ron-
deau is onlv ripening for the time when he
will be ready to murder his grandmother in
some hideously cruel way. .
(The sonnet stands m a rather different
place The original Italian form is the ideal
as to mode; but since Shakspeare modified
the strict form to his high purpose there
seems to be no reason why a modern son-
neteer should not vary it to suit his whim.
Personally, I find a mechanically correct
sonnet cold, save only when genius inspires
it. I see no reason at all why one should
object to a weak syllable or a rushing line
of passionate emotion. David McKee
Wright does see a reason, and if you add
a suggested hint of a half-foot to your line
lie will bury vou 40 fathoms deep under bis
critical obloquy. To his thinking it is a
thing as impious as if one should stick a
burr into the probably uncombed beard ot
the prophet Isaiah.)
However— — . , „ .
There is a dignity in the true ballade
that is as line and imposing as the dignity
of the sonnet; and while any tinkling
rhymester can write a sonnet of sorts, it
lakes a certain skill to write a ballade that
would pass muster at a tinkers’ revel.
Several English poets have written good
ballades. (It is easier in English than in
French, because in English there is no
strictly laid down insistence on recurring
masculine and feminine rhymes.) One or
two of Austin Dobson’s are admirable.
There is the one with, as first stanza,
To one in Eastern clime, —’tis said, —
There came a man at eve with “Lo!
Friend, ere the day be dimmed and dead,
Hast thou a mind to feast, and know
Fair cates, and sweet wine’s overflow?"
To whom that other fain replied—
“ Load on. Not backward l nor slow; —
Where is thy feast, O Barmecide?”
Still, despite the easier path laid out for
us. ,nu English ballade-maker is the peer of
the French. Joseph Boulmier, a modern
master of all these delicious forms, has
many admirable examples. One of them, an
amazingly perfect pastiche of the Old French
color and spirit, sings itself unforgettably: —
l'ovr tout guerdon de ma dure rdistance
Itien n'eus de vou 8, cueur faulx et losengier,
Fors mautalent, plours et desesperance.
oue n’ay-ie seen d’aduance tel dangier!
No mo feusse oncq mis en tel destourbier.
Las! regretter ne me console mye;
Lc mieuix encore est de vous oublier,
Puisqu’auecq vous ay Fortune ennemie. . . .
And there is the triolet. Here the rules
are immutable. Your triolet must be of an
unaffected and meticulous simplicity, it must
have a shining, gentle grace of humor, and
in the recurring lines there must be no hint
uf repetition. I make no apology for citing
Boulmier again, for even in this old style
of the Fifteenth Century his French is so
easy that a schoolgirl can read it. Here,
then, you have a true triolet, dainty, tender,
exquisite in tone and color: —
Emmy la pice, emmy le boys,
Seulet, dolent, ie me pouvmeine,
Regretteulx des lours • d’autresfoys,
Emmy la prSe, emmy le boys.
Et ie me dis souuentesfoys:
Chiev passe, nul nc te remeine!
Emmy la pree, emmy le boys,
Seulet, dolent, ie me pourmeine.
There is no triolet in English or American
to equal that, nothing to approach it in its
tenderness of touch, its sighed ecstasy of fond
regret.
As to the villanelle —you know it. l ucre
is in the world one villanelle entirely perfect,
the famous one of Jean Passerat. I doubt
whether human genius at its highest can ever
produce tw r o so impeccable and lovely. Its
appeal is universal, for we have each of us
lost bis tourterelle.
I’m not going to labor my point. It is,
briefly, that every writer of light verse should
familiarise himself first with the French
language, second with these fixed forms. The
lame man —and every beginner is lame —
must walk on crutches before he can hope to
walk or run without them. As you learn
to walk in the whimsical ways of rhyme
there are no finer crutches than ballade and
rondeau, Ini and rondclet, rondel and vil-
la nolle.
FRANK MORTON.
The Hero in Fiction
Every year or so a man-critic arises, says
what he has to say on the subject of heroines
in fiction, and goes to sleep again until next
time. He tabulates these heroines into the
women he admires, those he would like to
marry and those he would wish to have for
friends. One bolder than the rest would
marry Beatrix Esmond —if she would have
him! But in all this talk of heroines there
is never'a word said of the heroes. Perhaps
the man-critics do not like to commit them-
selves on the subject, perhaps they are not
interested enough, or perhaps there are too
few to choose from ; for a hero must be
young, and he must marry the heroine, or
only just lose her. This precludes most
of the finest men of fiction —Colonel New-
come and Jean Valjean, Sidney Carton and
Tennessee’s Pardner, whom Henry Lawson
admires so much. One would think that
if a man-novelist can create a woman whom
both men and women are ready to love
a woman could draw a man at least worthy
to be considered a hero by women. But
how few are there Avho can even interest us!
George Eliot could make wild-hearted
Maggie Tulliver live, and softened Dorothea
Brooke, but Adam Bede ceased to have any
pretensions to the heroic when he married
Dinah. Jane Austen’s Knightly and Darcy
are good sort of men —just men, though;
and it remains for Charlotte Bronte to pre-
sent the only man who, in feminine fiction,
has made us thrill; yet when we pass the
first stages of adolescence we are ashamed
to thrill at the name of Rochester. May
Sinclair sees her women-characters clearly
enough, but she puts on her _ rose-tinted
glasses when she draws men. So it is not
women authors we must go to for our
heroes, and very few men are capable of
providing them. I can remember only three
who are all they should be, with the reser-
vations that keep them human and lovable.
There is Henry Esmond, the beau-ideal of
men, who, even so, was more interesting
when he flitted darkly from room to room
at Castlewood, a pale and lonely boy, than
when he went to the wars with Malbrouck;
decidedly more interesting when refused and
flouted by Beatrix than when lie married
her mother. There is John Ridd, twice
wonderful in remaining always a man.
though he tells his own story. “Lorna Doone”
is remarkable if only inasmuch as it pos-
sesses both a real hero and a real heroine.
“The Cloister and the Hearth” almost does
so, but Gerard is not quite a hero, though
his qualities are heroic. My third choice
is the Virginian, in the novel of that name
bv Owen Winter —the only hero in the world
who has no name.
ISAREI T. HASSALL.
Frank Wedekind
It is no uncommon thing in literature to
gain a lasting reputation on a single per-
formance. A few years ago, in his dynamic
prime, the most blindly anathematised and
brilliantly self-advertised dramatist in Europe
was the late Frank Wedekind. Now he is
remembered chiefly as the author of one play
and a dozen dramatic curiosities.
After the death of his father, who served
as a physician to a Turkish sultan, Wede-
kind hoed the hard row as a self-supporting
student in the chief Continental cities, linally
coming to rest on the staff of Siaiclicissx-
MUS. Drifting into drama he quickly
focussed public attention by insulting his
audience: the more he insulted them the more
they flocked to his plays. Arrested for Idse-
majestc, prosecuted, and pilloried by the tier-
man press, this rhinoceros-skinned dramatist
made hay out of scandal and increased his
vogue by marrying a popular Berlin actress
and appearing with her in his plays. In
the course of his chequered life he acted as
press-agent, advertising manager and circus
producer; and just before his death he was
much in the public eye as actor-manager and
leading light in the famous Munich cabaret
known as "The Eleven Executioners.”
A shadow from the sign-post of Ibsen fell
across Wedekind’s early path ; and with the
cloak and staff of Strindberg he commenced
to trade his philosophy across the footlights.
He was early afield with Freud, and took his
torch down the dark lanes of repression. He
became the enfant terrible of German modern-
ism : an artist in the abhorrent; a dabbler
in indecencies. His plays are a mingling of
lyrical idealism and satiric ferocity, dis-
torted realism and bizarre paradox. Not
only did he call a spade a shovel; he pro-
duced the earth-stained instrument and used
it as a dialectic battering-ram on every occa-
sion. He hated the word “hush,” and so
fiercely did he grind the axe of moral en-
deavor that the screams of Strindberg and
the bassoon-blowing of Bernard Shaw were
soon silenced in the uproar. No dramatist
has gone further in revolt. No writer has
ever been so abandoned in his pre-occupation
with the physical. “Life is" a toboggan-
slide,” he said, and used the most disgraceful
situations to reveal more strikingly the eter-
nal laws. Yet, for all his implied scound-
relism and boasted immorality, every play
travels the track of an ethical theory. He
used his knowledge of the world’s affairs like
a police-court reporter to dramatise the
problems of education, social corruption,
woman’s emancipation and eugenics. Thus
his plays are artistic anomalies, like ora-
torios in a zoo or bull-fights in a convent;
and, viewing life largely from the
ehean standpoint, he himself became the
superman on the stage and Zarathrustra in
the cabaret. .
In his most widely-known play, Spring s
Awakening” (called a tragedy of childhood),
Wedekind has endeavored to interpret the
sexual difficulties of adolescence, as Strind-
berg did in his story “Azra.” The awaken,
ing of the love-impulse in the twilight of
ignorance and half-knowledge, which is sup-
posed to shroud the growing ideas of school -
children, is shown with no little fidelity; and
the play has become part of the stock theatri-
cal repertoire in Germany. Illegitimacy and
suicide are woven into the loose texture of
the play; and though 19 .scenes follow each
other regardless of plausibility, and a dead
man holding his head under one arm has a
gruesome homily in a graveyard, the. thin
blade of satire pokes through the laminated
ribs of tragedy. The theme is as sombre as
a death-sentence; but the very earnestness
and simplicity of its appeal have gained -for
its author universal recognition.
Of his remaining plays, few have been
translated into English, and fewer still have
met with any acceptance other than local.
They are not played outside Germany,
though as curiosities they may be of interest
to psychologists and dramatists for some
time to come. The most notorious are “The
Earth Spirit” and “Pandora’s Box,” grouped
together as “Lulu” to represent the quint-
essence of woman, the adorable angel of
destruction. The theme is an old one: the
world, the flesh and the Devil—a harlots
progress” invested with the gleam of modern-
ity. Lulu is the most lecherous creature m
literature. An earth-born flower-girl as
elemental as Eve, she rises in the promise
of beauty to the highest level of society; an
adventuress then, phosphorescent with physi-
cal charm, cultivating her sensuality in tri-
umph over men, this Lamia falls by slow
degrees to the vilest abominations conceiv-
able, being finally murdered with a broken,
whisky bottle by Jack the Ripper in a
bawdv-house. No more extraordinary play
has ever been printed. Though some of the
modern Russians have invented scenes
equally gruesome, and Gorki collected the
scum of the earth in his “Night Shelter,” all
these lack that element of brutal degradation
of which Wedekind alone seems to be master.
The last scene of “Lulu” is a page torn
from the book of Hell. But it is not art;
it is only the end-product of erotomania
exposing its own delirium.
Mention mav be made here of that weird
trilogy which includes “Up to Everything,”
a hybrid tragedy and burlesque, “The Dance
of Death” and “Music,” dramatic fantasies
on a sex-motif, “The Tenor Singer, „ an
aphrodisiac comedy, and Hulalla, a
eugenic nightmare. Wedekind’s dramatis
personae consist largely of blackmailers, per-
verts and pimps; an aura of neurosis hang-
ing over them all. And as each one parades
his pain before us we seem to hear the hys-
terics of some circus-boss stirring the brute
instincts of his herd to frenzy.
Judged by his plays, Wedekind seems
more sensual than Solomon, a veritable Tor-
quemada in viciousness; and he must re-
main a puzzle to the psychiatrist who tries
to balance his tempestuous neurosis with
the happiness he enjoyed with his wife and
child. While to the prudish his preoccupa-
tion with oblique moral issues must always
be regarded as stirring up the puddles of
pornography, to the unprejudiced he is one
of a zealous band of latter-day pagans shy-
ing their satire at the rickety ninepins of
civilisation. From time immemorial great
creative minds —Aristophanes, Rabelais,
Swift—have amused themselves with con-
temporary delusions and ideals. But Wede-
kind is liot of their company. In compari-
son this iconoclast is only a suburban star,
a clown at the carnival of Realism, who once
put aside the motley to write a play _of
world-wide appeal arid ended up by beating
a broken drum in a murky cul-de-sac where
the mists of morning never penetrate.
REG S. ELLERY.
A Satchel of Books
Double-crossed, by S. Douglas Newton (Appleton).
A mystery-yarn of a beauteous British millionairess
who is lured to Canada by an incredible Teuton,
wanted in the U.S.A. for murder, the matrimonial
objective being a pro-beer remittance-man in
Germany’s clutches. Plenty of gore is supplied,
without extra charge, for those who like that condi-
ment in their fiction. But it is crude stuff.
Certain Persons, by St. John Lucas (Blackwood).
Excellent short stories and sketches, some with
Italy as a setting, others with the war. Humorous
for the most part, but one of the war yarns, “My
Son, My Son,” rivals the grim realism of “Way of
Revelation” and “Under Fire.” The author exhibits
a deep knowledge of and sympathy with human
nature, and his full and fluent English is a model
to the bad writers with whom the age abounds.
A Letter Pooh (G. Bell and Sons). A fascinating-
little volume turned out by George Saintsbury, in
which he deals with the history and art of letter-
writing from the days of the early Greek epistlers
onward, giving as he goes acute estimates of the
writers he regards as typical. This he follows with
a selection of actual letters, Greek, Latin, of the
“Dark” Ages, Early Mediseval, and lialf-a-hundred
English missives with a range from the Pastons to
Stevenson. Apart from the literary appeal of the
introductory paper and the letters themselves, the
personal atmosphere of the latter charges them with
a compelling* human interest; thus the little book
becomes a double delight.
Pogues and Puses, by Cop Drew (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.), is a capital collection of short
stories in whimsical vein about bookies and sports
and punters and spielers and other legitimate pro-
perties of the humorist. Some of the sketches,
notably' the opening one yclept “A Gamble in Hats, ’
are distinctly clever as well as racily mirthful. And
there is nothing better in the book than the hurried
asides and sotto voce remarks, shrewd or anguished
"as the case may be, of Brusher, the bookmaker, to
his clerk and of the clerk to Brusher. Con Drew
hasn’t exactly struck a new patch in “Rogues and
Ruses,” but be has opened up a fine vein of riotous
drollery.
Adrienne Toner, by Anne Douglas Sidgwick (Arn-
old, via Australasian Publishing C'o.). A clever
but ill-balanced novel. For 200 pages or so it v
delightful—a kindly and penetrating study of attrac-
tive characters who behave naturally and talk
extremely well—but just when the reader has grown
absorbinglv interested theTe is a swift descent to
melodrama', and the tale maunders on to a maudlin
finish. In the search for literary winners it is a
familiar experience. So many modern novelists aie
deficient in staying-power and fall at the last fence.
Still one is indebted to the author for numerous
shrewd and witty observations, e.g.
“The butler had a face like a rancid ham, and a
surreptitious manner.” ~ ,
“She had a funny, chalky smell like Fuller s
El “Ile had felt her at moments to be almost too
resourceful, her air of graceful skill m keeping the
ball rolling seeming too much to emphasise its
tendency to drop.” , , .
“He was feeling quite benevolently towards hei ,
quite like the British Empire might feel towards
a subject race.”
The Mother of All Living, by Robert Keable (Con-
stable). A new novel by tlie author ot the much-
discussed “Simon Called Peter.” Its setting is m
South Africa, and the central idea w the ettoit
of a girl to save her married friend, who has fallen
in love with a ter Hum quid, by vamping him herself.
All the feminine characters are wearisomely ovei-
sexed A curious convention of the novelist this that
the women of Africa aie so volcanically female—comi-
cally curious to the man who. happens to have lived
among them. But library girls are going to rush
Keable’s book in battalions.
“Quickly she pushed the bedclothes a little farther
off her and pulled a shade looser the ribbon at her
breast. Barefoot, in his pyjamas, he came through
the open door, smiling. Her heart leapt: surely at
lissome of the library attendants aren't killed in
the scrimmage it’s not going to be Keable s fault.
— < —
“Telisford” : Will Vernon (R.P. 29/6/’22)
pleads for “the inclusion in our respectable
Australian vocabulary of one war-word
•guts.’ ” It’s a good tilling word, undoubt-
edly, but it was current in Australia many
years before the war. As long ago as l.)()9
the late “Bluebush” Bourke, the raciest and
most tuneful versemaker that the W.A. gold-
fields ever knew, and himself an old bulle-
tin contributor, sent "I Haven’t the Huts
to Go” to a Kalgoorlie weekly, where it
immediately appeared. I quote one stanza
from memory :
I want to be out where the battlers are,
Away from the tyrant pen,
Where the bellbird calls from the morning star
To waken the Mulga men.
1 want to stand by the crazy brace
Or hammer away below,
Where Luck stands by with a smiling race
As long as the leader pans a trace —
But I haven’t the guts to go.
When “Bluebush’s” verses appeared in book
form in 1915, “guts” was bowdlerised to
“heart,” possibly lest the word might grate
on cultured reviewers. Will \ernon says
that “pluck” ( used for gameness in the same
sense as “guts” is now employed) .was a
coinage of the Crimean War. I believe it
is much older than that. Was It. L. Steven-
son guilty of a gross anachronism in “Trea-
sure Island,” and was Old Pew speaking a
century before his time, when he accused his
mates’of not having the “pluck of a weevil
in a biscuit”?


At the Yards!
If you want top rates for your Fat Cattle, Sheep
and Lambs, consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Honiebush Market, Sydney; or Euoggera
Market, Brisbane.
LONE
High-Speed
Chain Hoists.
Highest Awards
Panama-Pacific
International
Exposition—l9ls.
STRONG POINTS.
Speed.
Absence of Vibration.
Accurately cut and
Strong Gears.
Durability.
Safety.
Strength.
.w
m
■‘CYCJjONE” and all other Chisholm*
Moore Hoisting: Blocks stocked by us
are Tested to 33601 b. to the ton—so%
overload.
The peculiar gyrating movement in the
“Cyclone” Chain Hoist, and the perfect bal-
ance of all its parts, make possible a very
high speed with practically no vibration.
Write for Free Illustrated descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
CorJ York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456 (6 lines).
581-83 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
30 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
ifl
m i
«=■ W
y.A
Ml
11 Ji' ri
i -
0 J9»i
v a
SuV •
" *\
V
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zeriobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes triler to nature than
NOBIA.
advt
Zenobia Lily of the Yalley—is as charm-
flowers ' 6 tenclGl ' a PP eal of the living
Aenobia -Sweet Pea Blos-
som—a triumph of
cficy and fidelity to nature,
the original perfume of
the name.
eno b i a Night-scented
Stock— as sweet as the
-arden 16 0f ‘ UI Old-world
garden- a great favorite.
Manufactured only by
/li.vojiu Limited,
Loughborough ’
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for New Eea-
tand .(Wholesale only) •
NkwSon & Co., Ltd.,
1162 > Wellington,
uoie Agent for Australia
' . (Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydnev:
(
I
&
{l
O<?J
O 20;
FULLER-LEHIGH
PULVERIZED FUEL-FIRING SYSTEMS
are Far Beyond Experimental Stages.
COMMERCIAL-SIZED UNITS NOW BEING INSTALLED IN
AUSTRALIA FOR:—
Australian Portland Cement Co., Geelong.
Electricity Commissioners, Newport, Victoria.
Wallaroo & Moonta Mining & Smelting Co., South Australia.
National Portland Cement, Limited, Tasmania.
Victorian Railways.
W e can show you a Plant in operation.
Send for particulars to
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
AUSTRALASIAN ENGINEERS FULLER LEHIGH CO.,
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY - . [1
PHILIPS
m.
*
m
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors—
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
liisfo
ass
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery,
Guaranteed'
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and St-'- less Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Long-hurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
\\\
m
(
\
am
or
t
~WI
iilt
1
Plf&E
COArJOEATSEn
/lakes Lovely # Cakes <
and Babies I'll rive om 1+ ,
" Mmm ——— —— SSgKMPiWI ——— -- J
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
mmi m
mAIEm—J
'■
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
or
Electrical
Devices.
Sole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON (H ROBERTSON,
l5-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Twenty years ago Westralian gold looked
as though it had come to stay for a century,
i 1 i , a . e1 ’ ? through old camps, little
doubt is left that gold-mining in YVestralia
is last becoming a matter of history The
towns of Westonia, Southern Cross,’ Cool-
gardie, Kalgoorlie and Kanowna are in pro-
cess of transportation to the farming areas
and to the coast. Meekatharra and Mount
Magnet district show some promise, but not
much. Broad Arrow, Ivookynie, Menzies and
lNiagara appear as though thev had suffered
a great war. A footpath constructed on
m the bush marks the site of
i adding ton, a scene of much activity in the
nineties. Ihe sign-post of Morgans is more
of a *lO,OOO hotel.
.1. Y. fe , of the fields has been so short that
it indicates either that most of Westralia’s
gold was easy to find, or that the ground has
been only run over” and much yet remains
to reward prospectors.
. A . t th ,° yearly meeting of Boulder (W.A.)
i a ooi We ? k a director recalled the
taci that m 1804, when the co. was floated, the
wooing capital asked for was only £BO,OOO,
yet the underwriters had to take iip 00 p.c
of the issue. The fact is that at the time
the massive auriferous schist formation had
not been discovered; Boulder, Ivanhoe and
Montana were then pottering about on a
small and poor quartz lode. Since then
Loulder has paid £6,000,000 in dividends
which tops the W.A* list, followed by Per-
nnn w l over TT *5,000,000 ; Ivanhoe,
id A. .0,000 i Golden Horseshoe, £3,517 500-
.*1.680,000-;■ Associated Northern’
£743 <5O r Associated, £717,493. With figures
tor Bake View and some other mines ill this
group Oie tota l divs. would amount to close
on £-->,000,000, which, for the area worked
must constitute a world’s record. In other
parts of W.A., Great Fingall paid £1.750,000,
and bons of Gwalia £1,110.000.
*■ *■ - ■* *
Some Australian dividend records, apart
from Westralia, are:—
N. S. Wales: B. H. Prop., £12,500,000 ; Sulphide
Corporation, £2,739,375; B. H. South, £2,535,000;
B. 11. North, £1,972,940; Block 10, £1,432 000-
Zl " c Corporation, £1,345,000; Block 14, £611,000’
Tasmania: Mount LyeJl, £3,830,000; Mount
Bischoff, £2,539,500; Briseis Tin, £504 000-
Pioneer Tin, £481,896.
Queensland: Mount Morgan, £9,379,167; Hamp-
den, £437,600 ; Mount Elliott, £424,000; Charters
Towers and Gyrnpie would show several six-figure
records.
South Australia: Wallaroo and Moonta, £717,493
—figures for pre-amalgamation period would largely
increase this amount.
Victoria: Long. Tunnel, Walhalla, £1,283,400;
Garden Gully, Bendigo, £1,050,848. Figures for
the old Madame Berry alluvial mines at Creswick
near Ballarat, would well exceed the seven-figure
mark, •
* * * *
“G.D.M.”; Twenty-six mines in Victoria
have yielded a million pounds’ worth of gold
each. Fifteen of them were in Bendigo
which has in 70 years produced 624 tons of
gold, worth 80 millions. The other rich
goldhelds . were Maldou, with four great
mines, Walhalla, Ballarat and Climes, with
tvvo each and Stawell, Tarnagulla, St.
Ai nano, Cmltern and Creswick, with one pro-
ducer of over, a million sterling. The richest
we ™ : Tunnel and Extended,
£4.441,000; Black Horse and Ever ton
j? and * Consols amf Loch’,
£2.566,752 ; Garden Gully Uirted. £2.881 000 •
Great Extended Hustler's, £2,193.000- T b'
U atson’s Kentish. £2.8(10,060; Oriental and
Cu-oss, £2170/100; Chines Quartz.
±1,945.000; Koclrs Pioneer. £1.978 000-
Madame Berry, £1,589,000.
* * * *
“A.P.D.” on the Kimberley oil finds
Westralian State-geologist Blatchford did not “dis-
cover” bitumen and mineral-oil on the Okes-Durack
property (B. 22/6/’22). For years past local resi-
dents have known of the existence of a pitch-like
body at what is now the Okes find at the Ord-Negri
Junction, and at. Texas station, further up the Orel
River. Okes interested M. P. Durack in the material,
and suggested it might be a petroleum product.’
Samples were accordingly sent to the State Mines
Department at Perth, and the -mineral classified a?
a true glance pitch or hardened inspissated mineral
oil.
Recognising the importance of. the confirmation (di-
otherwise) of this occurrence, Arthur Pearson, who
had secured the O’Donnell oil property, immediately
north of the Okes-Durack area, promoted the first
Kimberley oil-prospecting co., Australian Petroleum
Development. This eo. despatched J. L. Strevers
to the Kiniberleys with a twofold object: (1) to
report on the geology and oil possibilities 'of the
North-Eastern Kimberleys; and (2) to examine the
alleged indications at the Okes find. S'trevens in-
vestigated and tested on the spot rocks, bitumen,
waters and sands, and arrived at the following con-
clusions :
(a) The limestone series in the district are petro-
liierous ;
bitumen -is - a true inspissated product of
asphaltic oil existing below calcareous cover-rocks
and impregnating- this and the overlying basalt in
the form of veins and blebs ; ,
(c) Fresh asphaltic oil 'is associated with the
bitumen in places; and
(d) Free oil and salt springs occur in the Negri
and Ord rivers. b
Calcicte crystals in the basalt vesicles were also found
in conjunction with bitumen, .an occurrence similar
to that of ozokerite, the residuum of paraffin base-
oils, in calcite in the Salt Creek region of Wyoming
(U.S.A.). J B
Subsequently Blatchford examined and reported
officially on the area and the indications, and more
recently Mahoney and Kessal. All are»unanimously
of the opinion that oil exists in the underlying
strata of the Negri series, and has migrated into
the basalt and cover rocks, where it has become
inspissated into the form of bitumen, as met with
at Okes find.
Strevens argued at length with the Royal Dutch
management in London and its technical staff at
the Hague on the oil possibilities of the Kimber-
leys, but was unable to alter their firm opinion
that the oil and bitumen in the Negri series had
resulted from the action of extensive igneous intru-
sions on carbonaceous matter buried in the palaeozoic
sediments. But the further the matter is investi-
gated the more untenable becomes that view.
* * * »
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) last year made
a profit of £44.841, but the gold premium
contributed £60.395 to the revenue of the
ronao'a A 2s - 6d,*div. absorbed £37,500, and
£29,424 goes forward to the next accounts.


mM
Jy
m
hj
mm
w
■■ ••••■•
n.
■
■
i
■
Choose your Player-Piano
in Home-lihe Comfort
C
jr UNDAMENTALLY the technical ability
/ of all the world’s greatest pianists is the same. It
is true that some possess more dynamic ability than
others, but that is not sufficient to account for the
vast difference in their playing.
It is. only by an illimitable sympathy—an inherent
emotional quality—that a pianist can really become
a great pianist. Technicians are little more than
acrobats.
The Beale Piano has that facile precision so neces-
sary for adequate performance, but, in addition,
possesses true interpretive methods of control that af-
ford an infinitecapacityforintellectual interpretation.
And at all times the instrument may —in less than
6 seconds —be converted for use by those with a
manual training.
Demonstrations daily in our private audition rooms.
Hear one in home-like comfort.
BEALE
WAND Hi
COMPANY
TTD
MmJ © •
advt
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCH ES —N. S. IV.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tas.: Williams Bros., Hobart: Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans
Ltd., Adeliade. IV. A.: J. A. Thomson Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LTD.
90-92 Queen St. (opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.


Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
l<r°m 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 Red and Breakfast.
Under tLie management of P. Hennessy.
o
SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
advt
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
‘ '•**: - tSftO
spßEtvfie For
eczema
lint itching spot of Eczema
can be at once relieved by
using
LIQMOLLIENE
the sure and permanent cure
for all skin diseases.
W. MALYON & SON, LTD.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
advt
advt
CUT OUT THIS AP?
eSEND WITH Ife
FOR SPECIAL SAMPLE
rt A Few Stitches
end They're on”
ftrkn T&imrrv ! i
>5
m
MARKING
INK
d 6
e?
Here’s
The Right Way to
Mark Your Linen
No mess or trou' !c as with Marking
Ink. You save time and money by
using
EEIB
wm
NAMES
which are always on hand for immed-
iate attachment to any article or
garment
advt
Actual .Size Style No. 6.
Prtccs:l2dz, 7/6. 6dz,5 6. 3dz,3/6
Sold by All Best Drapers.
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melbourne.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
Cl
an
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
When motoring,
travelling, picnick
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks-kecp
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the siek
or old folks.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from 3 2-pint; up
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS nre extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last alifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
!5S West Second Street, CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
,
A Mighty Good
“Night Cap”
is Wolfe’s Schnapps with
Hot Water, Lemon and
Sugar. You just can’t help
liking it for this mixture
makes the most Comfort-
ing and Enticing Winter
night Beverage ever pro-
pounded by the Bene-
ficence of Nature and
the Art of Man.
(Vi-
/
*'aT!
zjmm
V.v-J
»»>v!
KSffl
&M 3
£>*
• *^j-•'* v **•*-* i'*
rV«>£;'3u’V i >3
•*>»
4
1 ■•
tlipgp
liiiii
sssg&aa
mz&m
\ Si4rtV'
,«.V-J
>!;•••»*<' . • /JU.v. r;\ >--*
£\r<r>*<v»>.v
wB&£S
nffi
£*s*s!
■i
?Ss§i| =
;S*?:s ==
I
-3M
=Mi>.
*Mr
♦*2
Ifl
/ / ~ -
tUJ >
<®v
Aromatic Schiedam
SCHNAPPS
The ALDERDICE
BRASSFOUNDRY
WARRNAMBOOL.
We make goods up to a standard—not down to a price. We
cost all our work, and when we cannot get a profit on any line at
current prices we stop making that line.
We use virgin metals, and exercise close metallurgical control over
all operations.
We do good work, and charge cost plus a profit
—and we are entitled to that.
Speaker Evans, of the Speck Assembly
U master-mariner, by the way ), is now the
only member who was in the House in pre-
I ederation days. Stafford Bird was in the
Assembly then, but he has been for years
m the Leg. Council. As Premier Lee is
now the only knight in Parliament, nobody
(least of all the recipients) would die of
astonishment if the next honors list dropped
something on top of these two veterans.
Mrs. Margot Asquith has confided to a
lankee interviewer (or so the latter says)
that she is not lecturing for the love of it,
but because the family is broke:—
AVhen we left Downing-street, after 10 years, not
a penny had been saved. Friends took in the children
while we went about looking for a tiny house suit-
able to our want of income. Herbert had been a
great lawyer ; but could he at his time of life begin
again as a lawyer? I write every morning from 5
till 11 ....Of course I am writing a book about
America.
It doesn t exactly harmonise with the fact
that the Asquiths have both town and coun-
try places (the former in Bedford-square,
where the houses are by no means small),
but as sob-stufl for Yankee consumption it
is uo doubt sufficiently effective.
: it was in a Swanston-street,
Melbourne, bar, and three young fellows
were making sport of a beat they had inveig-
led tke promise of gratuitous beer.
Ihe beat was a good Yarrabanker of a tvpe
that has grown rare of late years. He was
getting long beers at regular intervals,
meanwhile his patrons addressed him as
“Bland Holt,” and insisted on bits of reci-
tation and other samples of dramatic art,
which the derelict provided with no show of
reluctance. He recited tags of verse and
acted scraps of Shakspeare, with perfectly
ridiculous gravity and the youths roared at
the success of their prime jest applauding
‘‘Bland Ilolt” vigorously and ordering more
beer for the great “Bland Holt.” The beat
took his beer and the appreciation of his
patrons in perfect seeming faith, but pre-
sently he turned to me, with a nod of his
head towards those who paid, “Fools,” lie
whispered. “Young fools.” “How is thatV”
I asked. He placed a hand beside his mouth
leaned nearer, and whispered in confidence :
“Don’t mention it, but as a matter of fact
/ am not Bland Holt!"
Geraldton, Kalgoorlic and Albury (W.A.)
each sent a delegate to the New State pow-
wow at Albury. All three centres periodi-
cally hold meetings to curse the centralising
tendencies of Perth, and at one time or an-
other separation movements have come into
being in all of them. The most notable
agitation of this kind was the “Separation
for Federation” clamor of Kalgoorlie and
parts adjacent in 1899-1900, which was
the main factor in compelling Bigjohn For-
rest and the Groper parochialists of those
days to send the Federation Bill to the
people. The goldfields were so determined
on showing that they meant to pull out of
W.A. if they weren’t allowed to enter the
Federation that they drew up boundaries
for the new State, and decided what to call
it. The name chosen was “Auralia.” Just
then one of the leading Separatists of Kal-
goorlie became the father of a bouncing
daughter, and in a transport of pati-iotic
enthusiasm he conferred the name Auralia
on his baby girl. Forrest knuckled down
soon after that, so that there was no need
for Auralia to come into existence on the
map, but the girl—she must be a woman
now—presumably remains with the perti-
nent reminder of those stormy ante-Federa-
tion days in her front name.
"Billy T.” : He waylaid me in front of the
Royal Theatre, Melbourne, and he looked
very like an old actor. There were even the
remains of an astrakhan collar on his long
coat, but time and its vicissitudes had re-
moved most of the wool. His boots were old
and broken, his large rimmed hat showed a
silhouette of the Andes mountains done in
a seepage of grease above the band, and his
trousers had oblong patches of a foreign
material let in at the knees by an inexpert
hand. He was picking his teeth with a
match. “I come to see it every day,” he
said, indicating the theatre. “The scene of
my early triumphs.” “Oh,” said I. “aa actor?”
“An actor once, sir, and, if I may be permitted
to say so, not of the worst, not of the worst.
I love the old house. 1 acted here 30-odd
years ago, I have heard the pit’s thunder,
sir, and enjoyed the acclamation of the gods.
And now sir, look at me boots. I have par-
ticipated in the favors bestowed upon great
success, sir, and now I lack the ‘Open Se-
same’ to a counter lunch.” I produced the
necessary sprat, and said: “What did you
act?” He took the coin as a matter of
course, and answered: “Well, for one thing,
1 had the privilege of supporting the great
George Rignold. I played a dead soldier
to his Henry V.” Then he bee-lined to the
corner pub, and 1 passed, meditating on the
vanity of human wishes.
Though Vic. Treasurer McPherson didn’t
get all the revenue he hoped for in the late
financial year, he is confident of producing
the estimated surplus of £22,000, if not
more. However, it may fall to some other
politician to explain how the credit balance,
whatever it may be, was brought about, as Mc-
Pherson has declared that he will resign the
State Treasurership as soon as the Deakin
constituency, for which he will be a candi-
date, is created. And that will be within
30 days of "June 28, if the redistribution-
of-seats scheme goes through.
t S. Aus. loses a useful citizen in A. E. M
Norton, just gone out to pneumonia at 53.
In his young days he worked for the D.
and J. Fowler co,, and when the unplea-
santness with Kruger developed he went
across and bagged a D.S.O. for helping to
save the guns at Bethlehem. In 1906 he
was sent to England as Trade Commissioner
for S. Aus., and he also explored the mar-
kets of Asia in Australian interests. In 14
he joined an English produce firm as manag-
ing- director, and during the war his know-
ledge of the provision markets made him
useful to the army in France.
“Wessel”: W. S. Campbell, formerly Sec.
for Agriculture in N. S. Wales, has a kind
of hereditary interest in cotton in the Terri-
tory. About 1850 bis father was wrecked
on the Torres Strait reefs, and he and his
companions made for Port Essington. but
found that the settlement had been aban-
doned. The elder Campbell notes in his
diary that cotton was then growing in the
deserted gardens. In 1911—61 years later
—IV. S. Campbell himself went to Port
Essington. and found cotton still growing
wild there.


«£
m
'S
s
TSi 1' -FSJ-
,‘-S
>s
i-
U.'
. S-; til :
- r-' s- ■
m:- r :
h
iniiuni
y
Ar,
4
■r.
tii
Ifi
k
y-(f,
iVwwWJiV
£
Uk
ft!
r«
w
IM
tiT**!
N
as
5|
m
i
%
! I
iEmTll
I
Tub
w
w
s*Jc
TPI
? V 1
2/
-» ’=r'»
The Magic Wand of
the Metal Industries!
It Is not long since scrap heaps were an accepted part of
production wherever machinery was used, but to-day very
few worn or broken machinery parts or workshop tools
are discarded, Comox (Oxy-Acetylene) Welders, dotted
throughout Australia, make these broken articles strong as
new for a trifling sum.
Innumerable metal articles, now in common use, were
unheard of a few years ago, because no process existed to
make them available at a reasonable price. Many opera-
tions in metal manufacturing industries that hitherto were
impossible have now been reduced to simplicity by the
powerful Oxy-Acetylene flame.
If you are an engineer or manufacturer of metal goods,
Comox (Oxy-Acetylene) Welding will enable you to pro-
duce a better article in a fraction of the time at a frac-
tion of the price. If you are a repair man, a Comox Weld-
ing Plant enables you to do more business. If you are
merely a man in trouble due to the breakage of some
machinery part or metal household article, Comox Welding
will help you, as it helps others.
Ask us for (a) name of nearest Comox Welder, (b) par-
ticulars of Comox Welding Plants.
Commonwealth Oxygen & Accessories Ltd.
FOY STREET, BALMAIN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AGENTS f
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street. ADELAIDE —Geo
Wills & Co., Ltd., Grenfell Street. BRISBANE.—Evans, Deakin and
Co., 121 Eagle Street. LAUNCESTON.-Harrison Bros. & Co.? Ltd 20
Patterson Street. PERTH.—Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street. SUVA
FIJI. —Brown &Joske.
COMOX


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEAOH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
i Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4Yz Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
■Tel's. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
THE
“Sombrero”
WIDE LEAF
FELT
?A
A Stetson for the Great
Out-of-Doors
The “Sombrero” Stetson affords splendid
protection to the wearer with its large
3| inch leaf, whice can be
worn either up or down. The
crown can be shaped accord-
ing to desire —the Grey shade with Black
band, and the Fawn with self or Black
band make for even greater serviceability
WRITE TO DESK S.B
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
Townsville, BRISBANE, Toowoomba
60/-
The Lowest-Priced
High-Grade Machine
MOTOR
BICYCLES
B.S.A
For hard, reliable ser-
vice through all seasons
a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle
is the ideal mount. Not
too heavy to prevent
that economy for which
B. S. A. machines are
famous, and yet scientifically and
sturdily built enabling them to
withstand the rough usage occa-
sioned by continual riding over
bad roads.
Comfort is built
into a B. S. A.
Motor Bicycle
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
m h
«t 'V;'
ll
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney
v> t
MAINTAINS YOUTH OP THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, v inch
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 9/3
Prepared by
Etablissementa
Chatelain,
Paris.
URODONAL
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
[2
L*
As Simple as Posting; a Letter.
c
H i
Sag
When you want to write, the Onoto is always ready.
When you have finished, a twist with finger and
thumb turns the Onoto into a sealed tube, which
cannot leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of ink, the
Onoto fills itself in a flash from any ink supply, and
cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.,
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all Pens.
/
AX'S
1
a
Lubricating
Australia’s Industries
The development and improvement in imple-
ments and machinery during the past ten
years have aided the farmer immeasurably in secur-
ing bigger yields from each acre of ground.
Farm implements and machinery mean farm prosperity.
The most important single factor in keeping such equipment
•t its highest efficiency is scientific lubrication.
During the past 25 years the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Limited has
worked hand in hand with the inventor, the manufacturer, and the farmer in
; raising the the standard of lubrication, so that the mechanical operations on the
: farm could be accomplished smoothly, efficiently, and with a minimum of repairs
and depreciation.
Inventors and manufacturers generously acknowledge the help given by
this Company in solving their lubricating problems.
Farmers accept the name of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. on a
package as an assurance of correct lubrication.
The work must <o on.
Ask your storekeeper
for free booklet,
** Petroleum on
the Farm."
advt
Vacuum Oil Go,
Pty. Ltd.
MSA
Lubricating Oils
A grade for each type of service
C VACUUM OIL COMPANY P« Lf» 1
H. A. Pitt, ivho used to manage the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board, is back at his old
post as accountant to the Vic. Treasury, and
lias been given the rating of Class IA, which
carries a salary of from £BOO to £lOOO a
year. He is getting in form for the Under-
Treasurership, which is pretty sure to come
his way. Minogue (now on sick leave) pulls
out at the end of the year.
A lien the Rev. North-Ash ministered at
bt. Augustine’s, Neutral Bay, Sydney, Gas-
ton Mervale—now playing in “The Great
Lover —was often a member of the congre-
gation. Once, following a pulpit allusion to
impromptu speaking, Mervale dared the
cleric to preach a sermon extempore from a
text.to be handed in during the service. The
challenge was accepted, and this is what
Mervale unloaded :
When thou sittest to eat with a ruler consider
diligently what is before thee. And put a knife to
thy throat if thou be a man given to appetite.
—Proverbs xxiii, 1-2.
North-Ash was equal to the occasion. He
preached an eloquent sermon on self-indul-
gence. Chatting with Mervale afterwards
the reverend gentleman, who has a pretty
wit (and still retains it at 74) confessed
that the text had staggered him for the
moment. “Although eating peas with a
knife is common enough,” he said, “I had
never heard of anyone eating with a ruler!”
“Copabella”: I am the repository of a
dreadful secret in connection with a recent
“musical and elocutionary” competition in a
Vic. provincial town. A church choir con-
test was the star event, and the rivalry was
pagan in its intensity. The judge was given
the sequence in which the choirs would take the
platform, but he was not informed when,
through unforeseen absences, the sequence
was changed, with the result that when he
gave the award to 5, 1 and 3 in liis sequence
he really rewarded 1, 4 and 5 according to
the amended numbering. The elect gasped
at the judgment, but the placed choirs’ re-
spective claques were numerous enough to
make it seem popular. It was not until No.
s’s conductor asked to be allowed to have
the judge’s, notes upon his performance that
the music began really to play. Perspiring
“heads” retired with No. 5 into a little back
room from which, for an hour or more, the
whole chromatic scale swelled bravura and
coloratura —very highly coloratura. Then
judge and executive emerged bearing some-
thing in a sack which they threw down a
sewer. Every day the ghost of No. 5 is
expected to appear in a newspaper office and
tell the horrid tale.
A tale of two men and a digger’s shovel,
as told by J. W. Roberts: —
Take an ordinary short-handled shovel, such as
is used by diggers in shallow alluvial. What sort
of a stretch of imagination would it be to associate
any suggestion of the remarkable or romantic with
such an implement of dirty drudgery? bet the
sequel answer! The sluicing nozzle of the Carr’s
Creek Tin Company, near Emmaville (N.S.W.),
recently dislodged such a shovel at a depth of about
9ft. The “remarkable” feature of it was that,
although it must have been buried for at least 45
years, it was in perfect preservation—neither a sign
of rust of steel nor decay of wood. The “romantic”
feature of it was that it bore the brand “Hall Bros.”
in letters as cl.ear-cut and distinct as though the
fire-brand had been applied weeks previously instead
of years. “Hall Bros”’ were Wesley Hall and Walter
Hall, who figured on the Grampain Hills as tin gods,
and departed thence to become Mount Morgan geld
magnates. One can hardly picture the debonair
Halter plying a common shovel—being a “boodler,”
as a shoveller is called in many mining camps; but
Wesley was a hard grafter, who toiled early and
late at the horse-puddler on Clarke’s Gully, and it
is not unlikely that he wielded this particular
shovel. The transformation from “muck-shifter” to
millionaire shows the fortunes and romance of the
game. The Hall mark figures prominently in old
parish maps of this tin country, some of the
original mineral c.p.’s being in the name of Eliza
Hall, the deceased lady whose name is identified
with so many beneficent bequests.
Inspector Robertson, who recently retired
from the N.S.W. police force, is the man
who had most to do with wiping out the old-
time Sydney “pushes.” He started looking
after law and order in Glasgow, where he
had a special job in -the toughest quarter, so
tough, in fact, that a beat of 140 yards was
considered enough for one man to look after.
Ihis experience suggested him as the right
man for “push” work when lie came to Aus-
tralia. He has gone to have a look at his old
Scottish home ; but will return to Australia
and his family as soon as the place has been
inspected.
“Lip”: Just dead at Kempsey (N.S.W.),
A - H- Kemp, 97. Until he Avas well
over 80 he took part in local affairs, and,
mounted on a sturdy pony, was a familiar
figure in the town. A couple of years ago
the old chap corrected me in some minute
details of English towns he’d seen 70 years
before I saw them. He attributed his
longevity to having eaten meat three times
a day for as long as he could remember.
INot that I attach much importance to this
theory. A day or two previously a nona-
genarian who is still on deck ascribed his
astonishing health to the fact that he had
never had to stint himself of beer or shag
tobacco.
: Lavid Knox, who, as a John
fetornnsk-looking young man, presided over
the spirituai destinies of a small Mill Hill-
road (Waverley) C. of E. tabernacle, has
noAy taken over the Wollongong (N.S.W.)
Episcopal edifice. Knox went from Sydney
to Adelaide, and, when the war started
applied immediately for a job as chaplain!
However, he was turned down. He eventu-
ally got away with the Y.M.C.A., and was
secretary for the Australian Y. Emma in
London.
“Zanthus”: For the first time on record
Australia s world-famed harumphrodite, as
Iviphng would say, the platypus, is to
have a oook to itself. Harry Burrell
who has been studying the creature
t^Zea^' s ’ and Pl ’o f essor Lancelot Harrison,
ot the Sydney ’Varsity, are the joint authors
and some of Burrell’s remarkable photos
will embellish the volume.
George Mac Lean, at 33, succeeds Frank
puort as sec. to. the Vic. Premier, and gets a
lift from the third- to the second-class in the
clerical division. Industrious, rather than
brilliant, he served Lawson well as private
sec., and, remaining steadily at his post, his
promotion in recent years has been rapid. He
used to look well in the uniform of a lieu-
tenant of a Scottish battalion in the days
before lie became immersed in the higher
departmentalism.


THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLE MAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLI AMSTOWN.
We Specialise in the Desig'n and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
* rf
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
under guaranteed efficiencies for
W aterworKs
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining'
Dredging', etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hiuks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fenchurch Street.
Whoever buys a Hupmobile on the
streng'th of what he has heard about
the car is never disappointed in the
way it lives up to its g'ood reputation.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains—door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street.
Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Octagon Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, £l2/10/-
15ct, Gold, £l5.
A, Saunders’ Gent.’s Oct. Gold Hunting Key-
less Waltham Lever, £l5. Higher Grades,
£2O, £3O, £4O, £5O. Gold-filled Elgin
movement, 10-year Case, £4/10/-
20-year, £6/5/-. 25-year, £7/10/-
HIGH-GRADE WATCHES.
A. Saunders’
9ct. Solid Gold
Curb Albert,
£5/10/-
Heavier, £O,
£6/10/- to
£l2/10/-
Lighter, £5,
£4/10/-,
£4, £3/10/-
A. Saunders' Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £lO
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10, £B/10/-
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s High-grade, Open-
face, Keyless Non-magrietic Lever Watch,
30/-. Higher grade, 40/-, 50/-,
A. Saunders’
»ct. Solid Gold
Albert, £5.
Lighter,
£4/10/-,
£4,
£3/10/-
Heavier,
£5/10/-,
£6/10/-
15ct. Gold,
£7/10/-,
£B/10/-,
£lO.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Square Watch Wristlet, full-jewelled lever move-
ment, £lO. Extra jewelled, £l2/10/-
if fj
m
.
mm
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Silver Hunting Keyless
3-Plate Lever, £4/10/-, £5, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-. Kiokel Cases, £2/10/*.
Extra jewelled, £3, £3/10/*
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet Strap Watch, 40/-,
50/.; Solid Silver, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £5.
Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin movement, £5,
Oct. Gold, £7/10/-
Send for
Our
Free
Watch
Booklet.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wristlet Watch,
Silk Bracelet, Solid Gold Patent Catch and Mounts,
full-jewelled Lever Watch, £B/10/-
With Gold Patent Expanding- Bracelet, £l2/10/-
We Pay
Postage
on
all
Orders.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Lady's Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold
Kxpanding Side Bra< elet and Leather Strap, £5.
/
%
/
A
- •
; V'
<?nr
brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, &c., with an application of Johnson's Prepared
Wax— the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson's Prepared Wax-
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson's Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, &c. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson's Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson's Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Asmiieim'in
SY DNK VS Ctll E I TIIKA T K E S
J. C. WILLIAMSoN, LID., present
UK It MAJKSTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
CRI I KltlON :
THE GREAT LOVER.
ItOYAL:
THE BAT.
PALACE:
PARLOR, BEDROOM AND BATH.
TJIE ALLAN WILKIE SHA li S PEA It EA N
riiiim r rioNs
QUEENSLAND TOUR.
JULY—AUGUST.
Australasian. Representative: HUGH D. W ILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
r\\ TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW TOURING NORTHERN RIVERS.
JC. WILHA.MbON, Lilt., MELHOLUNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
THEATRE ROYAL.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
K
IN (VS THEATRE, Al E L li O V It N E
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, AI K 1,150 VRN E
Also SYDNEY.
Dl3 LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
FRANK MAYO in
DR. JIM.
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
RECKLESS YOUTH.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
ALA C E TIIEAT Ii E, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LID.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“She has no equal.”
SUPPORTED BY lIER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGHTON.
MatineCs Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Positions Vacant.
LATE SPLITTERS, must be experts;
IO no others need apply. Permanent work
oiiering. MUDGEE SLATE CO., LTD.,
h 2 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mi'.sirg Friends.
I7YRAYNE, GEORGE E. C., will hear of
J? something to his advantage by communi-
cating with HERRING & HERRING,
Solicitors, Maryborough, Victoria.
HAYMAN, GEORGE and JESSE, sons
of the late GEORGE HAYMAN, ot
j/iaxtol, Kent, England, who emigrated to
Australia over 40 years ago, will they or
their descendants please write to SiDN E Y
HAYMAN, 16 Parkhurst Road, Bexhill-on-
Sea, Sussex, England.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Kaioomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Shswground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N. -,W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind.”
FIRST PRIZE OPEM ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States.
September 16th, 1922.
1■ - Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more, Post Free.
In this Art Union, 5 Tickets for your 5/I
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at ,£4OOO.
NOT Gamb ing bu a Co-operatheef art
Ticke a can be •'btained from ary Hairdresser
and Tobaceoni-t in ew outh Wales, and .11
branches of the N .W. Boosstail Co. Ltd., or
.direct from —
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec,
Cf> dzow. Warr*-ga-street. Ketoomba.
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial Art Union
Drawing.
30th JUNE, 1925.
WINNING NUMBERS.
lst.-
2nd.-
3rd.-
Prize.
25 at £lO-
- at
Imm W, W —
-1
's/S/
m m
Vsss
"m
g
S
« R
m
k;
hf I
m
ask *
lev
* Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but—
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain Whin Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
2.1/-', Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, fin. or jin., set ready for use and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Plur.i Razor Strops, 30/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere. V
Country visitors: Call on. us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon in
Sydney.
'WWft
ill I*9 a* £S
; v 4
a?
Vs/S/A's/S////////S///ss////s/St
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
HAIL THE WOMAN.
AN ASSOCIATED PRODUCERS’ PRODUCTION.
MatinSes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
n KIT A A A IA Til EAT K IS, 11KEIIO t ItN It.
the latest and best in
MOTION PICT HUES.
Continuous Sessions.
IV! ,:I ,JA
TU SATUE,
.melhoijkmv
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
tite productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
UOItl.I) and SEI.ZNICE,
Mexican&da Petroleum Ltd.
Capitalised at $1,000,000. Par value of shares $l.OO each.
Head Office, Vancouver, B.C.
Australian Office (Share and Transfer Register) :
Messrs. KERR & ROACH, Incorporated Accountants,
Twyford House, 1 7 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A purely British enterprise, developing 28,000 acres of the
best Oil land on the shores of the Pacific; 200,000 shares offered
in this country, affording the Australian public the opportunity of
participating in one of the best propositions—an Empire one —
of the day.
200,000 shares at 4/~ (fully paid, no further liability).
Immediate delivery of scrip from Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney.
Full particulars and Forms of Application from Messrs. Kerr
and Roach, and approved Brokers.
SDNmiHS
OMJ.
JO-J.
.o z>.
%
HO
%
9S.
»»
'll)
■?~v
9-V
advt
BIG
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
Turf Virginia Cigarettes are made
from the finest tobacco out of Virginia.
They smoke perfectly and there is no
other cigarette on the market that has
the same aroma and softness as the
big “Turf” Cigarette.
20 for Two Shillings; they are
irresistible to the man of taste.
Obtain your supply to-day, from any
tobacconist throughout Australia.
Made by ALEX. BOGU3L.WSXY LTD.,
S 3, Piccadilly, London, England.
Cheap Fencing Wires
Pastoralists —Have You Yet Thought of Fencing?
We Offer ex Stock and for Early Delivery SUBJECT Sales.
BLACK 8-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £26/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £27/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED 8-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £2B/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £29/10/- per ton.
12-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £3l/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED BARBED, 12-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, Sin. space;
lewt. Coils, £34/15/- per ton.
BARBED. 14-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, Sin. space;
lewt. Coils, £37/10/- per ton.
BABBIT-TRAPS: Lane’s Patent, 28/6 dozen: Griffiths’s 3 Star Specials, 28/6
dozen; Griffiths’s IXL’s, 26/6 dozen.
WIRE-NETTING, GALVANISED IKON, STRYCHNINE,
WOOLPACKS and CORNSACKS.
Prices: Net Delivered to Rails or f.ob. Sydney. TERMS : NET PROMPT CASH.
CHARLES E. CAMERON, Sydney.
Agents: VICTORIA: FRANK HOOPER & CO., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: AGENCIES, LTD., Brisbane.


ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
If You Don’t Know
about the
m
Murhami-Muplex!
Safe Razor
find out about it to-day.
There’s something you’re
missing if you haven’t tried
one.
r"
\\
>3
r»»
advt
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-dav—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor —feel it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation 1
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUNt
i *
U
J-4M-
Enjoy an outdoor vacation
o tb( r.M nd of your dreams,
bee Kilauea, world’s larg-
est living volcano. Swim
al ? d Sl ' r * m summer seas,
u here there are
No Sharks,
and fish, walk, or motor to your
heart’s content. Good hotels of all
classes. Ask nearest travel, ticket,
steamship or Tourist agency for book-
let and information, or write direct to
DEPARTMENT B.
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.'
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
UKB Majesty’s ‘‘A Night Out”
Criterion .... “The Great Lover”
ItOYAL .. The Uat ..
Palace “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath”
liort s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl”
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Palace “Spangles”
Kings “My Lady’s Dress”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
HoVT s Moving Pictures
A grand piano built for two is a novelty
in Melbourne, and with Guy Maier and Lee
Pattison demonstrating its possibilities, the
effect of the instrument is almost overwhelm-
ing. Anyhow, they scored something like a
sensation among the few enthusiasts who
came to hear them at the Town liall last
Lriday night. Both are artists with a fine
technical equipment, who are apparently
well balanced in personality. Pattison is
reserved and thoughtful, Maier vivid and ges-
turing; but, with all his dexterous fingering,
and downright, ding-dong methods in viva-
cious passages, he maintains an even flow of
soul. The pair began proceedings in Harold
Bauer s arrangement of Bach’s Fantasia
and 11 ugue in A Minor, and gave the audi-
ence a taste of the ensemble plaving that
afterwards made a poem of a Rachmaninoff
waltz, they were more subdued in Brahms
Variations on a Theme by Haydn, and they
pic t u red the emotional mysticism
of Moy Mell, ’ an Irish dream of Heaven
from the pen of Arnold Bax. After a lovely
cradle song, Aubert’s “Berceuse, 99 they
dashed into Duvernoy’s “Feu Roulant,” and
the still more incendiary “Orgy” of Iljinsky
which seemed to be a mixture of cayenne
and lurkish. delight. Of the other items the
most arresting was Pattison’s remarkable
adaptation of the Coronation Scene from
Moussorgsky’s “Boris Godounoff.” Capitally
played, it enabled the congregation to catch
something of its orchestral significance and
co aV two Pianists were heard again
on Monday night, but the advt. doesn’t men-
tion any further apnearances. Their limit-
ing their season to two concerts suggests
that they have been driven away by neglect.
Melbourne, which used to be “musically
starved,” is now evidently engaged on a har-
monious hunger strike.
❖* * $
“Fbe Chocolate Soldier,” with its winsome,
well-built music, sly humor and picturesque
human interest, is something of a theatrical
event in any respectable revival. The pre-
sent performance at Melbourne Royal is
worth anybody’s money, despite the falling
off in chorus and orchestra since Clarke,
Meynell and Gunn introduced the opera to
Australia at the same house, and keen com-
petition ensured costly staging. We miss the
mightiness of melody that formerly marked
the finale of the second act, but we get a more
enlightened interpretation of the clever text.
“THE GREAT LOVER,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Doris Kendal as Ethel Warren and Louis
Bennison as Jean Paurel.
Workman has too many years and too much
figure to permit of his Bumerli looking the
character, but the type is right, his concep-
tion of the part true to the story, and his sing-
ing was surprisingly efficient last Saturday.
Patti Russell, on the other hand, is not of
the Nadina type (she might pass in appear-
ance for a twin soubrette to Mascha), nor
has she outgrown her amateurish jerkiness
of gesture and angularity of style. She wants
grace, alertness to the requirements of the
situation, repose and a natural air of putting
on airs; nevertheless her sweet warble is a
strong recommendation, and her over-empha-
sising of her lines is better than the under-
doing they suffered from in years of yore.
Ralston and Victor Prince are capital as
I opoff and Massakroff. Ethel Morrison is
a handsome Mrs. P., and Byrl Walkely a
bright catty Mascha, her scene with Alexius
being specially good. Charles Mettam is in
the way of being a rather striking Alexius.
The personal vanity of the Bulgarian “hero”
is overacted, and therefore the actor never
fully suggests ease and confidence in his
character, but he presents the type, and his
vibrant tenor tones suit it. On Saturday
this week the co. tackles “Dorothy.”
%
T , irony of fate, it may be, associates
Einelie Polini with “My Lady’s Dress” at
Melbourne King’s. The knack of up-to-
date dressing is the one theatrical art in
which Miss Polini doesn’t shine. Nor does
i 1 rank llarvey take kindly to any costume
which is not of to-day. He is funny in
the ancient Dutch scene because he looks
what flappers call “a sketch,” and their
fathers term an absurdity, but he is hardly
human. You laugh, but you don’t believe,
even as you disbelieve in the possibility of
Miss Polini, in the Siberian stockade, being
devoured by a guilty passion for the ghastly,
grim deceiver whom John Fernside presents
to orthodox opprobrium. These are, how-
ever, mere flies in
the ointment of
prosperity with
the King’s show.
“My Lady’s Dress”
is good-class melo-
drama, served in
several courses
with various
sauces, and the
millinery display
in the last act is
alone sufficient to
get it talked about.
:i= * sk
A t Melbourne
Majesty’s nothing
happens to break.
the monotony of
*A Little Dutch
Girl’s” unimport-
ance. If all the
cast fell sick and
left their parts
clear for a new
interpretation o f
their jobs, and the
orchestra were
more mindful of
the fact that Her
Majesty’s is so
shaped that no
orchestra should
ever be loud except
in ragged Italian
opera, where
voices fre-
quently require
T. Skewes as he
appeared in Louis
Esson’s comedy ,
“The Battler .”
drowning, like young kittens —if these things
came to pass “A Little Dutch Girl” would
be more noticeable. As it is, the run of
the opera will continue to slow down for one
more week, after which comes “The Naughty
Princess.”
** * *
At Melbourne Palace, unless something
haupened to prevent, there was a sound of
souvenir by night last Tuesday, and bright the
lamps shone o’er fair dinkum and Ada Reeve.
It was the 100th night of “Spangles,” and
every member of the beaming audience
got a photograph of Ada, seated at her
theatre dressing-table and wearing a most
engaging smile. An of which
photo is to stand in the Palace vestibule until
the end of time, in remembrance of the fact
that “Spangles” has set the cachet of bon
ton upon the house where Ada Reeve is now
singing “The Long, Long Trail.”
*♦ * #
The unexampled comedy of Wee Georgie
Wood, in playlets written for him, is still
the main attraction at Melbourne Tivoli,
whilst the rest of the bill goes points be-
yond the average. Rosie Parkes and Edwards
give a matrimonial farce with the pep of
uersonality in it; Leo Stirling is an effec-
tive wandering minstrel with a Phil Smith
expression; Elliott and Godley are a fine
baritone voice contrasted with a tall blonde
lady accompanist who has all the tricks
of a Maud Fane at the piano: and if
Ford, of the Rubber Face, lacks freshness,
the frivols of the Girton College Girls have
at least a touch of novelty. Wee Wood,
as aforesaid, is the one particular good turn
that always deserves another visit. He
changed his clothes last Saturday, and be-
came a convincing picture of a Boy Scout,
aged 12, or thereabouts. His mother, who
was widowed in two previous Woodities, is
now married to a terrible plumber, of whom
Georgie remarks that when once a plumber’s
in the house you never get him out. There
are unforgettable moments in the perform.-
ance of this childlike finished artist. He
creates new effects in family discussion on
the stage. The stuff is good material, and
exceptional natural conditions make him
exceptionally realistic in handling it.
The Victorian Opera Company, which
makes commendable endeavors to learn its
business under E. H. Hanstein’s direction,
will put in six nights of “Bohemian Girl”
at Melbourne Playhouse, beginning Satur-
day.
Melbourne Majestic’s main item this week
is an elaborate production of “Kismet,” in
which Otis Skinner is the ragged Hajj whom
r ate provides with a perfect day. The
scenes are expensively dressed and un-
dressed, and Skinner is a remarkable repeti-
tion of Oscar Asche in his flaming Oriental
ferocity. A comedy, with the O. Henry
title of “Bolling Stones,” is an hors-d’ceuvre
to the principal dish. At Hoyt’s the fret-
ful wife of “Dr. Jim” (Frank Mayo) just
slips through the fingers of a potential
seducer with an uncultivated caveman
manner. Also, Elaine Hammerstein, in
“Reckless Youth,” partly follows the trai*
ot many previous spinsters who have left
home comforts for a misspent life. The
favorite, Blanche Sweet, is another of Hoyt’s
visions in a Western rough-and-tumble,
“That Girl Montana.” The Britannia’s
money-spinner is Pauline Starke, who fur-
nishes all the bliss and bother in “Flower
of the North.” The sweet stuff at the
Melba wears the name of Betty Compson,
who shows up finely in “The Law and the
VV oman.”
Frank Gorman, in great demand in Adel-
aide, is leaving the spoken drama of the
Prince of Wales’s for a single-handed “song
scena” at the King’s, where also Burton and
Dwyer have just come in as extra comedians.
The Irish players are just starting at the
Royal, which lias been filling in time with
the “Broken Blossoms” film, concerning a
Chink and a child. Other attractive pictures
are “Schooldays” at West’s, though young
Wesley Barry and his co. rely too much on
the sob stuff; and a. Wondergrapb offering,
“Three Live Ghosts,” which has the unusual
advantage of a London setting, with well-known
scenes. Harold Lloyd is very funny, too, at
this house. At the York, Constance Tal-
madge gives a long look into the more frivol-
ous side of New York’s entertainments. Hoot
Gibson does some of the most realistic all-in
fighting on record in “Heading West,” at
both Wondergraph and Pav.
* * * *
“Parlor, Bedroom and Bath,” which
opened at Sydney Palace on Saturday, has
a win kingly suggestive title. But such joy-
ous improprieties as it contains are almost
entirely confined to the parlor; the more
intimate apartments are negligible. The
principal character, Reginald Irving, is de-
signed apparently something on the speci-
fications of the curate in the “Private Secre-
tary,” except that he isn’t a curate. But one
is invited to believe that his hold upon his
fashionable wife’s affections rests upon the
illusion that he is a confirmed lady-killer
and a gay dog generally. When the rsle of
a rollicking Lothario ceases to be sustain-
able by his writing amorous notes to him-
self in feigned caligraphy and scented enve-
lopes, a bachelor friend insists on lending his
own hotel suite as a handy place where
Reginald may be caught by his agreeably-
thrilled wife in an affaire with a real live
woman. Events move so rapidly after this
that the sheep-like youth is successively re-
vealed embracing, or being embraced by,
three different charmers. In fact, they move
so rapidly and hilariously that the complica-
tions are barely straightened out at curtain-
fall.
* * * *
Phillips Tead, as Reginald Irving, pre-
sents the wowser-gallant with success. His
Boston burr is less noticeable than in “The
First Year,” or else it fits the part better.
Marjorie Bennett as Nita Leslie, who insists
on eloping with Reginald and thereby anti-
cipating the partner in indiscretion provided
for him, performs the glad unconventionali-
ties expected of her, including being unbut-
toned at the back and other accessories of
elopements, -with every credit. Editb Dray-
son, as Angelica Irving, is pretty and pleas-
ing. Diana Wilson, as Polly Hathaway, in
her so-called “vampire stunt,” with her
sabre-cuts of ’Murkan speech and her racy
byplay, scored a notable success, perhaps
indeed the most notable of any. The minor
parts were capably filled.
'i' V V
. “The Bat” whirs its weird wings and emits
its flittermouse shrieks and hangs upside
down bv its claws at Sydney Royal. No-
body who likes feeling his or her flesh creep
should miss “The Bat.”
** * *
“A Night Out.” with Maud Fane, Alfred
Frith et cie, still makes its hilarious appeal
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The piece has
proved itself a stayer as well as a sparkler.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion Louis Bennison, the
(more or less) “Great Lover” continues to
say “Avanti!” with the short “a” when
someone knocks at his dressing-room door,
and to ask the sportive lady who rings him up
to make a date whether she gaht “a great
sliahk.” Bennison is a good actor, but his
lapses into Yankee speech are- more curious
than convincing. Beverly Sitgreaves, an
interesting newcomer, has succeeded Ethel
Morrison as the stormful Sabattini. Miss
Sitgreaves created the part in America.
Sydney Lyceum is a halting post for Bill
Hart in Travellin’ On,” during the cur-
rency of which the desperate fellow relieves
himself of umpteen pounds of gun-lead. In
diagram for jossers, showing how Apache
Kellaway throws Miss Came around at
Sydney Tivoli. Male jossers should
practise this on their partners to the
tune of “Mon Homme."
the support 61m, “Ducks and Drakes.” Bebe
amels uses the 'phone in lieu of a. news-
paper agony column witli “view to mat,”
. J Jiialto has Madge Kennedy in "The
T'' 1 ' Vltl thp J » zz Heart”; and Charles
Ra.v evokes the loud guffaw at the same
abode in Gas. Oil and Water.” The Strand
stable quarters the week’s winner in box-
office receipts—Mary Pickford in “Through
the Back Door.” At the Haymarket Jane
jj°vak’ ®s. The Other Woman,” divides pub-
lic enthusiasm with the Sistine Choir solo-
lsts. Hoyt’s relies on Frank Mayo in
( Across the Deadline,” and Pearl White i,n
Without Fear —sensationalists both.
** * *
. of grimaces, an adaptable
tongue that twines around almost any out-
landish lingo, and a peerless Cockney twang
are some _of the assets of George" Carnev’
now starring at Sydney Tivoli. “The Scotch
ilindu is a classic in its way, and his
Colonel Coldfeet” is a distinct scream. Mal-
colm Scott still purveys history-book humor,
brevity and antiquity comprise the soul of
Scott s wit—and though -not all of his dis-
course is suitable for curates, the crowd likes
it well. Entertaining newcomers are the
Melody Three, and the pianist, Hilda
Koberts, is especially good.
** * *
Ai 0 « n i Moo i' e ’ s exhibition at Sydney New
Art Salon does not anywhere rise much
above attractive magazine-cover level. He
is a realist, but with decided leanings
towards decoration and color for the sake of
color. Ihese failings, coupled with an undulv
limited range of palette from light to dark,
rob his work of vitality. Nevertheless
theie is sufficient in some of the pictures
notably San Jose de_ Guatemala,” “Aca-
pulca, Mexico, and “View from Narrabeen”
to hint of big possibilities should he develop
his evident tendency to make light his siib-
]t„, Much the same criticism applies to
Herbert Gallop s painting at Gayfield Shaw’s
/„f, e c ry \ , also a realist with similar
faults, but m addition indulges in obvious
picture-making; with the exception of “The
J ountain the small study for it, and “The
-inff Hyde, and one or two others which
mark his highest level, bis pictures hare little
real illusion of space.
Cockaigne : In its search for a conduc-
ts to fill Verbrugghen’s place for a season
the Ma State’s London office approached
Dan Godfrey, of the Winter Garden, Bourne-
mouth. Matters went so far that Godfrer
negotiated with the Bournemouth Corpora-
V £ w l ‘ n ave ° f absence in the event of the
ThenrtJ agreeing to his terms.
£?*? tbe London office dropped the subject,
much to Daniel’s annoyance. He is a big
man in the British musical world, and when
he reads in the newspapers that the job was
tentatively offered to men of inferior stand-
ing, his own name not being mentioned, he
feels that lie has been humbugged. I happen
to know that the salary he suggested was
reasonable compared with wliat*he earns on
this side. Dan is a son of that Dan God-
tiey who was the crack military-band con-
ductor of his day It is on the cards that
he will get a handle to his name, like Wood
and Ronald.


Western Electric
Jnter-ph on es
a type for every service
m
■$ro&£ '
; «-* e r O rt
i^MAHACe^
ACCOUNTANT
SamSS5«
facto a
£jbfCtrt££*
SHO W&OOM6
M
■
m
i m
LET us assume that you fuliy realise the value
of a departmental telephone system in your
business—the time it saves—the running about it
prevents —the quiet efficiency it brings to the
business. The next step is up to you!
The advantages of installing a Western Electric Interphone
Equipment are so great that your investigation will dem-
onstrate that the Western Electric Interphone is the only
one to instal. The Western Electric Interphone is universally
accepted as the world’s standard. Yet it costs no more
than others.
A Rolls-Royce or Ford are both motor cars, but there is a tremendous
difference in their price. A Western Electric Interphone and other office
telephone systems both propose to give you internal telephone service, but while
“Western Electric” is superior in construction and reliability, yet, on whatever
basis you are offered other systems, a Western Electric Interphone offers
better value in first cost, and immeasurably better “long-distance value.” We
will gladly prove this to you at any time.
There is a Western Electric Interphone
for every requirement—table and wall sets
in all sizes for office, hotel and flat use.
Farmers and Graziers in all parts of the
country have long recognised the value of
a Western Electric Magneto Telephone Sys-
tem for keeping them in constant touch
with the various activities on scattered
parts of their property.
In the Mining Industry, Western Electric
Iron-clad Telephone Systems are world-
famous because of their resistance to
fumes, water and dust, and because they
link all the workings together and protect
the men.
IMPORTANT
Do not instal any other telephone
system before investigating “Western
Electric Quality, and the better value
which a Western Electric system
offers over all others. Complete in-
formation will be submitted upon
receipt of particulars of your require-
ment. Western Electric Telephone
systems can be obtained from any
electrical contractor or supplier, or
from nearest address shown below.
Western Electric Company
(AusrraUa)Lrd.
SYDNEY: 192 CASTLEREAGH STREET.
MELBOURNE: C. R. FOSTER, 262 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: T. TONES, Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD.,
132 Currie Street.
PERTH: UNBEHAUN & JOHNSTONE, LTD., 37
King Street.
HOBART: MEDHURST ELECTRIC CO., Argyle
Street#
WELLINGTON: A. D. RILEY & CO., Lambton
Quay. Also at Christchurch, Auckland and
Dunedin, N.Z.
redestal or Desk Interphone.
W.E 667
FOR USE
UNDER GROUND^
fi
!!*!B«®3!SSsaSs
Western Electric
MINE
TELEPHONE
Hi
■ ■
ass?
Long-distance Magneto Tele-
phone, Wall Type.
11l
Table Type Magneto Telephone.


m
V/ 4
1
1
m
Zl
■LW
%
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR. INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT de PIETE
D.£> §. COY. LTD.,
74 St. Sydney- "74
Phono City 9325.
5300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
RE\IK\V” says: “The
Company is very well
managed. ami the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete T). and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King; St., Newcastle, N.S.W,
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne!
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Namoi”: Galsworthy’s latest, “Win-
dows,” is the story of a window-cleaner’s
daughter, who gets into “trouble,” into gaol,
and, worst fate of all, into the service of a
family of cheap philanthropists. She is
kissed by the son, dismissed by the mother,
and _ generally bullied for knowing the so.rt
of life she wants to lead and going ahead
with it. Galsworthy’s plea for his girl of
the pavement is “Let's be lenient with her;
she loves flowers.”
“Private Boxer”: Dipping into Bernard
Shaw s Saturday Review criticisms—
although nearly 30 years old they’re always
tresh—l came across a crisp comment on a
performance of “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” by the Augustin Daly co. Hermia
has a line: "Oh, hell! to choose love by
another’s eye.” According to Shaw, “Mr.
Daly, shocked as an American and an Irish-
man by a young lady using such an expres-
sion as ‘Oh, hell!’ cuts it out.” I wish the
Americans would cut it out nowadays. When-
ever I go to see a Yankee play they all say
“Oh, hell!” when they’re not saying “My
Gawd!”
' ® nuntl Temple’s appearance at
Melbourne Royal as a fairv in “lolanthe”
occurred on May 9, 18S5 ( B. 22/6/’22). No
Gilbert and Sullivan opera was ever pro-
duced at the Opera House by Will him son,
The rubber-faced
Tivoli artist Ed E.
Ford waiting for the
dentist.
Garner and Mus-
grove. The old
firm leased the
Royal for some
years, and it was
there that “The
Mikado” had its
first Australian
season of 12 weeks
or so. That was
in 1886. “The
Sorcerer” was like-
wise produced
there, with Frank
Thornton in Gros-
smith’s part.
“Princess Toto”
was an Opera
House show (in
1886), and Robert
Brough and Emma
Temple were in it,
but the Gilbertian
colleague in that
case was Frederick
Clay. That must
have been the sea-
son of which “Star-
gazer” is thinking
when he vaguely recollects Brough dancing
nimbly at the Opera House, not as the Lord
Chancellor in “lolanthe,” but as Zapetar,
chancellor to King Portico, in “Princess
Toto.”
“Bi”: Albert Norman, handsome stage-
villain* of other years, has taken “the quiet
curtain of the grass.” He had been living in
retirement at South Melbourne broken in
health, but cared for by a devoted wife. His
only public appearances in recent times were
at daughter Marjorie’s entertainment (Mar-
jorie is a prosperous local teacher), but in
front of the footlights only.
“Marg.”: It is a thought difficult to bo in
two places at once, but the Sistine Choir
has accomplished the feat. While Relia’s
choristers were singing in Sydney Casimiri’s
lot. “from the Sistine Chapel and the Roman
Basilica,” were warbling at Newcastle
(Eng.) under the management of Daniel
Mayer. And presumably the Casimiris were
the more numerous bunch, for prices ran to
£1 Is., 155., 125., Bs. 6d. and ss:, including
tax. But, perhaps, the part is worth having
if you can’t get the whole.
“Mid-Channel”: Iris (B. 8/6/’22) was
produced at Sydney Royal, somewhere about
.1903, by the late Bob Brough. Robert put
it on gorgeously as a birthday tribute to his
wife (Mrs. B. took the name part and Emma
Temple, Leslie Victor and W. T. Lovell were
also in the cast), but it didn’t succeed. In
those days Sydney was more interested in
thud-and-blunder. Australians are to have
a chance of comparing Asche’s impersonation
of the chief male character with Brough’s.
My moripy is on Brough, except in the furni-
ture-smashing scene. Asche, as I recall him,
would be a far abler hand at smashing
things. Brough merely “picked them up and
let them fall, like a perfect gentleman.”
The sage remarks of an old Australian
showman:—
> Florence Favvaz (now Austral), the Melbourne
\ arsity Con. girl, has made a hit in Wagner with the
National Opera Co. It is the'voice that counts in
the Wagner stuff, and Florence has a fine one. On
the other hand, she has yet to acquire the rudiments
of stagecraft. With five Aussie artists at Covent
Garden and other singers and instrumentalists bob-
bing up all over the place, the Australian musical
colony is doing as well as can be expected, but not
all of those who belong to it are on pay dirt. Some
who are getting first-rate press notices have only a
distant prospect of making a fortune. The National
Opera Co. is run on co-operative lines, like many a
show that has gone out on the road in Australia.
Those interested take shares in the concern. If it
fails to draw, the ghost doesn’t walk. In the
concert business, if one wishes to appear at
the Wigmore, the Queen’s, or even the Royal
HARRY JACOBS, musical director of
“Spangles,” at Melbourne Palace.
Albert, money does the talking. It costs at least
£5O to warble in a West End hall, and that without
any boost or publicity to speak of. Afterwards the
agent who handles your £5O will try to book you
for concerts from Land’s End to John o’ Groats, but
while waiting you will need cash as well as hope.
In some special cases young artists from Australia
have known influential people who legged ’em up,
but the musical aspirant’s principal asset in London
is £ s. d. Where an inferior artist with money may
get a shop, a more talented but less silverkh person
may struggle on the outskirts for years. No better
advice was ever given to the geniuses of Rutherglen
(Vic.), Katanning (W.A.) and Five Dock (N.S.W.)
than that handed out by Australia’s own Ada
Crossley. “Never come to London,” said Ada, “unless
you can stand a financial siege for at least two years.”
“Snell”: Titherton’s Society and Dramatic
Entertainers, travelling Vic. some years ago,
consisted largely of Tithertons and Cecal
Ward, long with Brough and Boucicault.
It was AVard used to tell the tale. There
were Mr, and Mrs. Tithertou, the two Tith-
erton girls, two Titherton sons, and Little
Baby Titherton, who gave distressing imita-
tions of the other Tithertons. At Clunes,
then a fairly lively auriferous centre, Jimmie
Titherton decided to give them “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin, Limited,” as he called it, the drama
being compressed to fit the limitations of his
company. Rehearsals were begun, and at
the first Titherton showed great distress,
and some little anger. Mrs. Titherton was
“that-way,” as usual, but with alteration's
artful aid she was to play the runaway
slave girl who crosses the river on the
broken ice. “But we want a baby in arms for
that scene,” cried the management. “Where
the devil are we to get a baby in arms?”
Mrs. T., who had supplied the company up
to now. turn'd to her husband with a touch
of pathos. “For Heaven’s sake, don’t rush
me, Jimmy,” she said.
“Lip”: I haven’t seen “The Recoil” (B.
15/6/’22) : but from “O.K.’s” description of
it, it is identical with “Sabotage,” a one-
act play, which appeared in the Smart Pjct
of November, 1913. The magazine credits
the authorship to Ch. Hellem, W. Valcros
ana iol a Estoc, and says it was “one of
tremendous and startling successes
“ e Grand Guignol.” If McKenzie’s play
ib the same it must have got to Paris within
a couple of years of his writing it.
Idl.l’, ; The opera in which Robert
on°Julv Is en i e sV at Syd ? ey was
on July 18, 1885—was Lecocq s “La Petite
Mademoiselle. He appeared as Taboureau,
If® I , nnk^ I per - 0n the same night
nl all l Ugh (Flounce Trevellyan) made
her debut as Edith Maitland to Frank
1 horn tons I rivate Secretary” at the now
detunct Gaiety. Brough’s performance d d
f.mn l m a r l- S J h ?, oritics, one of whom
lamented his failure to make so big a hit
as we had expected,” but when, on August
J., iolanthe was produced he established
an enduring reputation on the Australian
boards. Mrs. B. came from the Gaiety to
play the Fairy Queen.
“Whitebait”: “Fax” (B. 6/7/’22l is in-
correct in stating that d’Alvarez wrote to
Melbourne Hekald to “protest against un-
worsn.pail criticism.” The lady mentioned
ner grievances in an unsought interview with
a representative of that paper, and her refer-
ences to her “God-given voice” came from a
soul that was truly distressed by the lack
of critical comprehension in these parts.
Another point in “Fax’s” par. also calls for
comment. The lady didn’t sing an “un-
lo\ ely Irish curse song.” “Unlovely” it may
have been to “Fax’s” ear, but there is no
political purport in the words. They are of
Scotch origin. The boy addressed by the
damsel m the song is not Denis or Michael,
but Jamie, which should have been sufficient
to inform the Argus writer, who tried to
make political capital out of the ditty, that
ne was plainly on the wrong track.
“Nella”: Four of the mummers who ap-
peared in the original Australian produc-
tion of ‘feign of the Cross,” five and twenty
years ago are now associated in “The Great
F o 7,er” at Sydney Criterion. They are
Aell ie Mortyne, Gaston Mervale, j. B.
Atlioiwood and manager Dick Stewart.
Richard looks after the front of the house
now, and leaves the greasepaint to his
clever daughter Mione.
“Machete”: London’s latest Grand Guignol
shocker is a cheerful thing called “The Nut-
cracker Suite.” . The wise-at-last husband
ai ranges that his wife and the other party
shall take a specially-arranged flat. Just
as the lovers find that the doors are locked
the ceiling begins to lower itself on the fes-
tive proceedings. One by one the articles of
furniture crackle up and are crushed, while
the pair struggle frantically to hold up the
descending ceiling. With a filial squeal, and
a squelch like a thousand silkworms being
trodden on, the curtain falls.
“Sarc” (B. 25/5/’22) refers to
the Thank God expression so often dis-
cernible on the faces *of the audience after
an eminent pianist has “served up some
heavy German stuff.” I know that look: I
have seen it at Covent Garden on the faces
of the newly-rich whose native heath is
1 etticoat-lane. On a Melba or Tetrazzini
night taey go to the opera in platoons for the
same reason that they attend church. They
would enjoy the evening a thousand times
better at the Paragon music-hall, with fish
and chips and a quart of sixpenny ale to
follow.
“Micawber”: The present generation did
not know the late Bert Clark as an excep-
tionally brilliant pianist; but he was. Clark
once, told me that he was accompanist to
Nellie Melba before he took on stage work.
I thought he was joking, but since his death
the fact has been substantiated. He was
selected by the diva herself to play her
accompaniments during an English tour
about a quarter of a century back.
1 boro Id Waters: While Verbrngghen
commands everyone’s respect as the real
thing in orchestral conductors, Sydney s
attitude regarding him as the only possible
potentate is ridiculous. Why have a per-
manent orchestral monarch, anyway? It
would be a d.stmct advantage to musical
culture in Australia if the job went in rota-
tion to some of the world's best stick-
handlers, a fresh one being engaged each
year for the mx-months’ concert period. A
few inquiries in Europe and Amer.ca would
show that almost any of the leading men
would be willing to take turns at coming
here, just as they do in directing the musi-
cal energies of organisations Lke the London
Philharmonic. There should be little diffi-
culty in inducing Albert Coates, who has no
peipianent orchestra, to make the journey
and give .us seme of his Strav nsky
and Seriabine stuff; and Eugene Goossens
or Hamilton Harty might come the follow-
msr year to let us into the secrets of Bax
and Von Holst. Coates has a far wider
reputation than Verbrugghen ever possessed
before he left Glaseow for Sydney, and the
other two are at least of equal fame with the
Belgmn. A succession of visiting conductors
would put more vitality into Australian
orchestral work in five y-ears than even the
best of permanent men could do in 20. And
on the whole they would come cheaper than
Verbrugghen.
. “M.P.A.”: Theatrical, vaudeville and
picture managers are having a bad time in
London. There is hardly a payable proposi-
tion before the public. When business falls
at the Coliseum and the Victoria Palace,
both good variety houses, as a rule, it is an
ominous sign. However, “Tons of Money,”
a brisk farce with quite half-a-dozen authors
and “by-arrangement-with” people, is pulling
an impressive private-car queue to the
Shaftesbury. It was hawked around every
office in London and passed out as a dud.
Robert Courtneidge secured the rights for
South Africa and Australia, and Hugh
Ward has arranged with Courtneidge to pre-
sent the play in the Commonwealth before
long.
“Stargazer”: Wee Georgie Wood at Melb.
Tivoli is a treasure. His whimsicality is
boyish, he seems to be genuinely a boy, and
the occasional unchildish gushes of sentimen-
tality, a little overwrought, are tempered to
“The Great Lover," at
Sydney Criterion.
John Bedouin as
Potter, and Roger
Barry as Farnald.
the sardonic critic
with a comic twist
of the tale, like
the quaint kink in
the appendage of a
piglet. Why then
allow occasional
lapses from char-
ade ter, a s when
Wee Georgie is per-
mitted by his
parent or guardian
to step out of the
atmosphere an d
address the audi-
ence in set speech,
reproaching
it for some
irrelevance, m u c h
after the manner
of a very old, very
staid and verbally
immaculate actor of
60? I delighted in
George as a genu-
ine boy till he had
made a couple of
those intensely
grammatical anil
most formal grown-
up orations, and
then I found myself
haunted by a sus-
picion that he
might be a lad of
other days meticu-
lously disguised. If
Georgie must make
speeches, let them
not be prim as copybook maxims, but framed
to keep up the kid.
“Blackfriars”: I am sorry to disappoint
“0.K.” (B. 29/6/’22), but there are no girls
coming along in the variety world “who can
mix their entertainment and hold their audi-
ence” like Ada Reeve and Marie Lloyd.
Leastways, I failed to find any in recent com-
prehensive glances round the English ’alls.
The best now go into revue, as Ada herself
has done, and there they do not acquire the
broad-gauge art which is essential to real
top-notchers _ who want to hold the stage,
solely by their own exertions, for 20 minutes
to half-an-hour. It’s a long ladder to the top
of the bill on the halls, and it entails pack-
ing up and a railway journey each week-end.
The successful revue means a stationary job
in the Smoke for hundreds of nights, and
that’s the easiest way to fame.
“M 4”: Harry Musgrove, of Sydney Tivoli,
really seems to be trying to encourage Aus-
tralian talent. Ilis Tivoli Frolics show at
the Cremorne Theatre, Brisbane, is serving
up as its star item a playlet in two scenes,
written by Norman Campbell. It is labelled
“Out of the Purple East,” and Tal Ordell,
Leyland Hodgson and Reg Long play prin-
cipal parts, while a statue in various classic
poses is done by Marie St. Georg? with tell-
ing effect. _ Ernest St. George, who, like
Campbell, is an Australian, is responsible
for some remarkable electrical inventions,
which add to the mysterious atmosphere of
a smart act. For instance, an elaborate
change of scene from an Indian temple to
an artist’s atelier in Paris is done without
lowering the curtain. It takes exactly two
seconds.
“Second Murderer”: Knighthood is in
flower in the London theatres. Popular
actor-managers are mostly “Sirs” nowa-
nights, and “Sir” Oscar Asche will probably
be the next. In Australia the only theatre
knights so far are George Tallis and Ben
duller, neither of them mummers, but both
of small theatrical b°ginnings. If the
alleged honor is to be handed Out for stage
artistry plus commercial abilitv, what’s
wrong with giving Allan Wilkie'the acco-
lade? He has all the essentials. A few
years ago all the shrewdies in the theatrical
know smiled pityingly when Wilkie, an un-
known man with neither capital nor pull,
proposed to play Shaksneare here and keep
on pjay ng it. But Wilkie may now laugh
at his critics. He has established a perma-
nent Shakspearean company in Australasia,
he keeps going exclusively on the bard a”
the year round, he has given the local stage
a very real up'ift, avd h* makes it all pay
handsomely. Rise, Sir Allan !
THE LION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 stood beside the lion’s cage,
Tnere in the main moth circus,
Where smells as of a long gone age
Assail us oft and irk us.
The lion old, half hid in straw,
An eye blinked, dull and bleary.
He moved as by mechanic law,
He looked extremely weary.
I said to him: “Ah, Leo, drear
A poor, trapped iion’s lot is.”
He yawned a yawn from ear to ear,
And showed his epiglottis.
“They’ve taken you from tropic sands,
And in this cage have placed you.
Vou happier were in Nubian lands
Where fierce, black hunters chased v—»
“You roamed the Afrie forest brave,
And roaring your success was.
tour mate lay by you in your cave.
Most soothing her caress was.
“Your heart is broken. Here you’ll rot
A hopeless feline slacker.”
The lion said: “Boss, have you got
A chew of plug terbacker?”
VICTORIA.
STAUGAZER.


OX\
Lowes
Clean
W//A
\-
~r
i! \
S r 31C33
U« Ccorec Strce
idtA, rner of Bond. y*
w
Haymarkct
' ~~ld> ft*
!| l tfi
cent:.-^l
10 fast offereryt/iinQ
mi,
TrD
IJITFfSf
ji;-;—-
fTF
Uistffi
liveiTiMil i' j
Gcoroc Street
V.Mariwts
UCOJPJJ
'OHfc(F
fari
Newcastle
TIMS'
Men’s Sac Suits
of the following materials:
Usually Now
£5/51 - Donegil Tweed - 56/9
£5/5/- English Tweed - 56/9
84/- Australian Tweed - 57/6
£5/5/- Fox's Cheviot Serge 75/8
£5/15/- Fine Twill Serge - 75/8
£B/8/- English Worsted . 85/8
Men’s Overcoats
Smart Shades; Raglan Style
Usually Now
75/- Striped Tweed Overcoats 31 /6
95/. Brown Tweed Overcoats 56/9
£5/10/- Check Tweed Overcoat 63/-
63/- Fawn Gabardine - 45/-
65/- Sage Gabardine • 49/6
Men’s Trousers
of the following materials:
Men’s Golf Shirts
Usually Now
5/22 English Cambric - 5/4
6/11 English Cambric - 6/3
12/6 Striped Mat - - 6/9
14/6 Cotton Taffeta - • 6/9
Men’s Pyjamas
Usually Now
9/11 English F’leite Pyjamas 8/ll
12/6 “Spero” FTette Pyjamas 11/3
15/6 Ceylonette Pyjamas 13/11/ 2
NOTE — Men's Warm
Undet wear and Coat
Sweaters also drasti-
cally reduced .
Youth’s Sac Suita
Smart and well made
Usually Now
105/ - Grey Wool Tweed 56f 8
84/- Grey Sc Br’n Wool Tweed 50/3
105/- Fox’s Cheviot Serge 71/7
Youth’s Trousers
Cut on latest lines
Usually Now
10/6 Grey Worsted-finish Tweed 6/9
12/6 Grey Worsted-finish Tw’d 8/7
18/II Dark Grey Wool Tweed 14/4
Boys’ Suits
Usually Now
47/6 Cots Wold Suits (6-10 years) 24/9
45/- Cotswold Suits (6-10 yrs.) 27/-
52/6 Cotswold Suits (IM4 yrs.) 31 /6
27/6 Ranger Suits.wool tw’d 17/11
30/- Ranger Suits, wool tw’d 22/11
Boys* Knickers
Usually Now
5/6 Worsted-finish Knickers 3/6
6/6 Worsted-finish Knickers 4/1
11/6 Worsted-finish Knickers 6/9
10/6 Navy Chev. Serge (2-7 yrs.) 7/S
Men’s Hats
Usually Now
8/11 Aust. Felt Hat (prpular shades) 6/3
21/- Aust. Fur Felt Hat tali shades) 10/5
22/6 Aust. Fur Felt Hat (aii shades) 11/3
18/9 Lowe’s Famous‘Noxall’Hat 16/9
35/- American Fur Felt Hat 17/10
Men’s Socks
Usually Now
2/6 All-wool Cashmere, Black l/11l
1/11 Wool and Cot’n Rib. Socks 1/4
3/11 English All-wool Socks 2/10
4/6 “Indiana” All-wool Socks 3/2
V
o
Drastic Reductions
in Men’s Tailoring
Goods are new not held-over balances.
Money refunded without quibble if suit
does not please in every respect.
£6/6/-ENGLISH TWEED 75/6
One of the most remarkable values Lowe’s
have ever offered. It is high-grade English
Tweed in smart shades of grey and brown.
Tailored in any style. _ Usually ±6/6/-
Clean Sweep Price - 7@/6
Vicars’ Famous Tweed 90 -
This is now recognised as one of the world’s
best suitings. In a comprehensive range of
new patterns. Tailored in any style.
Usual Price for suit-to-order ... A5/0/0
Clean Sweep Price - 90/-
£B/8/- British Serge for £5/13/6
This is a medium-weight, pure-wool, Indigo-
dye Serge, and at the price quoted consti-
tutes one of the most remarkable offers ever
made Usual Price for suit-to-order ±B/8/-
Clean Sweep Price £5/13/6
<
.. ry
o'o s A -
"'<?%>
N?>
advt
1
The Leading Men’s and
Boys’ Stores
v O- c-o #
SV
% o'-^
„<r cr^ l^ 0
CV* *£*
<y v
2>,0
■•-'■" •
V Q „
-& Q/ <£>•
<&
A C
.<&•


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: HERNS, PIIIEP & CO., LTD., Perth GeraJdton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Diggers’ Can Realise on Their
Gratuity Bonds at Lowe’s.
Thousands have done so during
the last 12 months.
To many Diggers a Gratuity Bond has been more
m the nature of an Endowment PoKcy—tbeir record
at the I ro J lt: instituting the premiums.
Being- the possessor of a Bond under such circum-
stances is not of much avail to those in need
of immediate cash. However, Lowe’s offer a solu-
tion f by which Diggers can realise, in the shape of
Men s and Boys Wear, on Bonds up to £-30.
AIT the holder of a Bond of £3O a,nd under has
I°. of is to see the Secretary at Lowe’s George
Street Store (opposite Queen Victoria Markets),
vuTu 1 i unde !' ta - ke all Ihe work in connection
with the transfer, and selection can then be made
of Men s and Boys’ Wear to the full value of the
Bond with interest added.
. tins means Diggers can obtain first-class tailor-
ing to-order, ready-made suits, hats, shirts, boots,
boys clothing-in fact, anything that Lowe’s stock—
at the same price as an ordinary customer. It only
takes a few days to do the whole job, without the
slightest trouble. Over £20,000 worth of Bonds
have been accepted during the last 12 months, and
not one Bond holder has been disappointed.—Anvr.
FOX RIFLES.
WfNGHESTER REPEATING RIFLE, 25/20,
S . B 1^ nd 44 Under lever action. Full
and half magazine. CARBINES and RIFLES,
MARLIN, 38 and 44 Cal. REPEATERS. Under
' e l c^„ a cUon Full and half magazine.
£o/10/- and £(}.
RIFLE&. The cheapest and best
lifle obtainable. £6/10/-
®?OWNING F.N. AUTOMATIC .22 Cal
ridges E * fp r / S 8 ordinary .22 Long Rifle Cart-
WINCHESTER AUTOMATIC, .22 Cal. A neat
and accurate rifle. £9/15/.
REPAIRS TO RIFLES AND GUNS DONE
ON THE PREMISES.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Most punters who hosannahed when
Mountain God made his timely effort in the final
stage of the National Steeple had backed the top-
weight at less than 6 to 1, which was his starting
price, or had got him in winning doubles. A good
chorus of cheers came from those who had not
backed him at all, for it soothed their disappoint-
merit to see the handsome bumper of 121 stone
completing the un-
precedented triolc
which Fiseom had be-
gun in the Hurdle.
Weather conditions had
.seemed all against the
God. Last year the
going was light, and
the pace the fastest on
record. This time they
took nearly half-a-
minute longer over the
journey, and the
matter - of - course
jumping of the 10-
year-old stager
counted for much in
the question of
stamina. Mountain
God outstayed, rather
than outpaced, Berri-
be e, Monrose and
light-weighted Resem-
bler, another light-
weight in Agar hav-
ing run off at the last
fence, just when he
was looking dangerous.
NORMAN
GODBY, trainer,
owner and heavy
bettor.
Daop e S»r=% King i lliB ' h and Be rribee were alternate
pacemakers for a long time. King High fell and
made himself an obstacle for Haoma to stumble
smbseau«itlv°Ni ly ir tden ? l ' d , , had lost bis rider, and
) lviek-a-Jaek tell, but the total propor-
tion of calamities was below the average owing to
retreT Parativ ? f owness the race, lerribeef the
reached thffrV 0 il dasher > was all out before they
hat rL* *, dl » ance post ’ 80 dead tired, in fact,
hora/ fetH nl M °a nroSe a,ld Woolo ° beat h™, the grey
w badly fn f , mone '; w °oloo, who ran almost
olTw, ?,°, 1 , ran f , or some of the time, was
beln nnlf ? fl f w rth f the fillish - which would have
The son y of Pendii lf Agar had take » the last fence.
Inf.m L f n P d l Wa ? never a streak of lightning,
a better shot® clrcumstances he °"g h t to have made
blifndfr teftTf v,seemingly, was unlucky in the
week earl Jet* P n 4 o**? ° J Ut °. f the Nati onal Hurdle a
12k miliiw on , Saturday he won the Doutta Galla
career asl J he ? cond time in his honorable
Rnisei \ • ' dle 5 1 of sonle flat-racing importance.
to htl’t Iff* the llst - 91b- markt was S
little foim ght Ph,l ? le on almost even terms, but the
he had' stXd ne lf lo 2 ked to have a hope. Probably
was not atlolial race. Anyhow, he
of Brightp w ° l e handi oapped within two pounds
five week, - Wh r° ha , d beeu bc «*r than Piscom
■it tf eeks f. arber - In the minor races over sticks
AmatoniT® wL n ° thingr J howed much promise save
’ h f won the Maiden Hurdle. And
Melbourne ’r, plac - ed , hors ? in botb a Sydney and a
late in life ° P ’ ™ learnin(? h,s new business a bit
e«df e! \ th f ycar ’ s experience T. Mcßook will
& the arva ,f on prices about the two Nationals
when the weights come out. Backers left the
double-event men without a hope during the late
with evettn,' f . Flß com and Roiscl had been taken
original ntekt g W i th f, Steo Pleekaso. They were the
first to lntC anf t hey remained favorites from
the “dofhie” "' ee - k f earller hackers who rushed
ne double men with inquiries for last vear’s
but o®n S th°e U 1 ¥ d , looked rather crudely sangufno!
n tbe day of the race they stood on about the
s°ftest velvet in National records. Dangerous new
stuti had tailed to eventuate. Luck had played into
the hands of those who pin their present fancies to
pie\ lous winners, instead of choosing new idols.
According to the law of averages it was impossible
lor t iscorn and Mountain God to repeat themselves,
but after the first half of the historic double had
been repeated and Mountain God was still the first
firm favorite for the Steeple that he had ever been,
there was no bookmaker so legal-minded that he
would bet on the law of averages any more. The
fear of Mountain God was in every Ikey’s heart.
Also the fear of Berribee, Monrose and other gees who
know their Flemington course'prettv well. Nobody
seemed to rememher that twice in the last five
years the National Hurdle winner had been a 50 to 1
outsider. The Steeple is another story, of • course.
Despised outsiders rarely run away from the rest of
the held where big jumps give them pause. They
try to do it in some cases, and then they experience
what is euphoniously termed a mishap.
“Fax” : What a farce are these steeple-
chasers’ flat races! Not such a farce, perhaps, as a
“jumpers’ ” flat, for which a horse that has been
once over hurdles may be nominated, but ridiculous
all the same. Some recognised veterans over the
big jumps seem to be handicapped on their jumping
prowess, while speedier ones of no jumping renown
are let in lightly. In the S.F.R. at Flemington
Mountain God carried list. 111 b. and was unbacked :
illso Monrose had over lOst. up. The favorites. The
Gaiter and Arcady, carrying lighter weights, did not
run in the National. Inferior jumpers, and not
young ’uns at that, they finished first and second in
the Steeplers’ flat.
***■*
From the secretary of the Adelaide Trot-
ting Club:—
, J': 1 b , 0114 electric-light trotting in Adelaide
<£• 6/v/22) hardly states the position correctly.
Uie club had decided to go into recess during- the
winter and re-open on August 20. To meet the
wishes of the Owners and Trainers’ Association it
agreed to race on Saturday and holiday nights
throughout the wet season, weather permitting.
Unfortunately we have had to postpone one pro-
gramme for the third time, but we have every inten-
tion of continuing if the elements agree. It is true
that we are endeavoring to get permission to use the
totalisator, but, whether it is granted or not, we will
continue the spoit as at present, relying upon the
gate returns.
* * * *
Polo lias been successfully revived in Syd-
ney by a competition for the 'Dudley Gup. That
article of furniture has been held since 1913 by
Narromme, which didn't supply a team this year.
But there were players representative of Sydnev
Cooma, Goulburn, Harden, Canberra, Muswellbrook
Narrandera, Wellington, Warrumbungle and Goondi-
wmai (Q.) and after many spirited chukkas Cooma,
captained by N. E. Allan, added the Dudley to their
possessions by beating Harden 5 goals to 1. They
already hold the Middleton and the Southern District
Gups as a result of successes in country tournaments.
Ihe J. J. Garvan Cup, for teams defeated in the
Dudley, was carried off by Muswellbrook, who downed
Y\ ellington by / goa’s to 2. About 7000 people saw
the finals, and the show of motor-cars was something
to be remembered.
* * # #
A ' t .u Wi S?¥‘ e< ? 0u on Monday Gerald Patter-
SOll, the Victorian Six-footer, regained the tennis
championship, of which Tilden deprived him in 1920.
Most Australians expected Anderson to account for
Gerald, but rising to the occasion after winning
tho first set, 6-1, and losing the next two, 3-tf,
7-9, the Melbourne man outplayed the Cornstalk and
placed the fourth and fifth sets to his credit, 6-1,
6-3; In the final he had to meet the Australian-
trained Hycett, whom he vanquished without losing
a set—6-3 6-4, 6-2. In the ladies’ event Susanne
Genglen got home on the U.S. critics who had pro-
nounced her inferior to Molla Mallory by winning
two straight sets from that stolid young woman-!
6-2, 6-0. Fifteen thousand enthusiasts witnessed the
massacre of Molla.
* * * *
~ •; Two performances stand out in
" lmbledon Singles Championship—-O’Hara
Wood s great play against Anderson and King-scote’s
fine showing in his match with Patterson. I may
humbly claim to be one of the few with a strong
belief in Wood’s ability as a singles player, and in
a previous paragraph I held that all he needed to
improve his game was hard and consistent practice,
ihe result of his numerous dress rehearsals in Eng-
iui , ls llo , w ,? een i n a defeat so close to victory
that he actually equalled Anderson in the aggregate
of games. On Anderson’s own admission none of
his previous opponents had given him such an excit-
ing tussle. In fact, with a lead of 6-2 in the fifth
®®t> J l ®. bad to play his hardest to win. If
Wood had shown such form against Patterson, the
big fellow would have surely gone down. Patterson
deserves praise for beating Kingscote, but, considering
the disparity in age and physique, the Australian
should have won by a more comfortable margin than
only two gamesa five-set spin. The cables men-
tion that the little Englishman was wonderful in the
ground-play, whereas Patterson was superior in
servme and overhead. But undoubtedly Kingscote
did well, and to score repeatedly off the other’s head-
long service, as he did in the second and third
sessions of the argument, was a fine achievement.
Kingscote and Lycett should carry Britain up to
the final round of the Davis Cup. The Englishmen
have to play the winners of the Spain-India tie,
and as the Australians appear likely to beat Czecho-
slovakia and France, it is 100-to-l on the Cold
Country fighting the Commonwealth for the right to
challenge America.
* » * *
“Linesman” : Granting the worth of their
great performances at Wimbledon one doesn’t feel
confident about the Australians bringing the Davis
Cup back from America. Patterson seems to have
improved somewhat, but his consistent “double-
faulting man effort to score outright with service
aces gives away a lot of points which he cannot
afford against such artists as the Americans Johnston
and Tilden. The trouble with Patterson is that he
nasn t cultivated a reasonably safe second service.
He frequently tries to make the second more powerful
than the first, with results that provide miserable
reading in the cables. To me this'seems a useless
waste of energy, for, whatever the velocity of the
balls that get over, the Yankees have proved that
they can punish a large proportion with disorganis-
ing returns on the backhand, where the burly Aus-
tralian is, for all big tournament purposes, as
innocent as a babe unborn. There is no need to
C +w lSm 0f a ' veak ? ess that has become so
notorious that every man he meets endeavors to
exploit it; but when Washer, the Belgian, openly
a * a champion possessing such a hole in his
mmt . ’itif 18 . u ! ae to regard the New York engage-
'nrterion lnls^. vln S- Frankly, I don’t believe that
a «™ can win against either Johnston or Tilden.
, ; ,r i - p,,sh fther hard, if he has one of his “davs” :
court oh”'' a Ca , n - be kidded into smashing at half-
treatment S +] n< " . balls that demand rougher
Sp these ave invariable features of his
wUu„* " anie suggests that he will never get home
the man T f C 'T!" , in his me thods. Anderson is
V he blg thin S s for Australia,
but then ti J, lot 80 b l st and high as Patterson is.
return frnm . . p aces Jt hotter, and bo can take the
imrneiU )n° PPOnCI,t T th - imperturbability—an
uumense asset in a nerve-tearing pastime Ae-nin
effortless e?o “ al most unfailing ace in a seemhigly
owing to lL C ° U t dn y e off cither liand, which,
tm-v-^t.! 0 t .great speed and peculiarly flat traiec-
Furthermore f r ? aclied the most active server,
match wrth hint has walloped Tilden in his only
vdctoiw in Jhi V r! ld memo ry of that sensational
should ’add , h w'l he [ l th sat was carried to 19—17,
they Lm iri° f to his ? uiet confidence when next
and S;/ ’ti a !‘i' n,f e. wi ll start against Tilden
i" \, he stimulating knowledge that
'fJlt A unl «'atable, whereas Patterson, who has
them with almost unbroken non-success—he
ston in win 3 ' SGt exhibition match against John-
fr?£ in Melbourne—-has no personal experience to
stiffen Ins spirit when he enters the frav
* * * *' »
~i JV 1 ' 1 ' fficod the South Oss ’bailers across
the SinV 11 ' reached Melbourne in time to drench
ss,,££..°SSS d the players occupied it; so
exhihrt 'L J 6th inter-State contest was mostly an
_,’ ibit '? n , r ; f niud-larking. The visitors played hard
too haid. Had they “followed’’ less doggedly
and kept their places better they would have scored
woT P Th« tS iri’ Vet 14 is doub « u l if they SSdjESS
wo -; Bcor ? ,e l the gloves the Oroweaters
hall ti 6 T e r,. ln ‘'‘"idling and quicker to the
they i ’ though their system was far from perfect,
That phlpiw least s . or ?® lde!l of acting in concert.
J bat ’j; ‘‘ efi /’ accounted for their 9 goals 10 behinds,
EiS 8 ? 1 n 5 goals 12 behinds. Victoria
lead at half-time, and had no induce-
the atte ~lanri e i aitter ' vards - Tll e sad weather kept
me attendance down to under 20.000
* * •**’.*
There was a crowd of 10,000 at
LrskineviUe (Sydney) on Saturday when a
'm- league team (the third put into the
ride ni a ? • day) A b r ad ?y bcat the bes t Ma State
side playing Australian rules. Never at anv
™ e ,. dld the Southerners look like losing. 'ln
the nist quarter they scored 28 to 3; at half-time
the board showed 19 to 17; at “lemons” it was 94
to 29, and, slowing down in the last quarter the
won by 114 (17 goals, 12 behinds) to 69
15 • behinds). Victoria’s best work fvas
seven aIF an ? 1,1 ?°al-kicking. Morris booted
of their goals and MeLatchie six. The Ma
Staters played pluekily and their passing was capital
of plajf al ' e not yet Up t 0 the Victorian standard
* * * *
North Sydney added another win to their
Svdne b v y u Val i lopi T n@r Newtovvn in the second round of
nrilt ‘ }\ US I‘ y - L “* ue premiership. North scored 20
points (4 tries 4 goals) to 7 (1 try 2 goals’)
carrying too many guns for Newtown in the loose
Ba’lmYfn 7n b f'i C s ntrary t 0 expectations Glebe beat
Balmain in a hard game, registering 22 points (4
tries C goals) to 12 (2 tries 3 .goals), “Tony”
a R wbH? tbo ke v all Gl ? b n> goals ‘ South Sydney had
? w ! a R t the expense of Western Suburbs, whom they
headed by 12 points (2 tries 3 goals) to 7 (1 try
- goals). South notched 10 of their points in the
wpv by® , minutes, _ but faded away after that and
n Ll frt , Easte ™ Suburbs were hard
pushed to beat St. George by 12 points (2 tries
” Souls) to 7 (1 try 2 goals). East gave their
worst exhibition to date. North Sydney have now
a ---points lead of Glebe, who are one point ahead of
Balmain and two points of Eastern Suburbs. The
rest haven’t a dog’s chance.
* * * *
some respects the final test between the
N. and Maori Rugby Unionists, at Sydney, was
the most remarkable game seen for years. Showing
excellent combination N.S.W. were 22 points to 6 at
in di V and i l° o l £e d as if the distinctly rattled
Ail Blacks were sent for. In their dressing-room
<<r> y f. 00 council of their manager and captain.
Bog in, said those worthies, in effect, and when
the game began again in they bogged. They tore
through the scrums and roughed the defence to shreds
piling up 17 points while N.S.W. failed to cross’
Towards the close many thought R. L. Raymond had
got over for N.S.W., but umpire Irving, after con-
sulting with the line official, decided against the
Blues. The pick of the 34 players (four were re-
placed) vvas the Maori three-quarter, W. Barclay
who, finding Sjmte’s barrier weak, got four tries’
on his own account. A real topnotcher, this. Little
Pl£ L na (bve-eighth) played splendidly till he was hurt
and the forwards, Bannister and Tresize, were effect-
lve. wing-forward R. Bell was always in the picture
but he was often so palpably off-side that the crowd
howled to the umpire to penalise him. Full-back
O. Nothling (he dropped a fine field goal), R L
Raymond (wing three-quarter) and G. R. McKay
? nd o Jr 101 x (forwards) were conspicuous workers
for N.S.W., but the team generally were weak in
defence against the galloping Maori pack. This
was shown by the visitors running up six tries and
one penalty goal to N.S.W.’s four tries and four
goals.
Machete”: “Old Rep.’s” contention that
the sixth . ’ League, side could beat the best Union
team (B. 6/7/22) is flapdoodle, as also is his theory
that League players are generally miles ahead of the
Union exponents. The writer, himself an inter-State
lep in the palmy days of the Union game, would like
to know how it is that the best plavers the League
has had, or boasts at present, have'been purchased
or otherwise conveyed from the Union game. In
the North of England, where no schools play the
League game, the teams ar e entirely composed of
bought-over linon men, many of them, like Gwynn
Thomas, members of Welsh Union clubs. Duncan
Thompson, the most brilliant man playing League
in Sydney, was a Union star before he' took to the
other code, and he is only one of many, from Harold
Horder down.
“T.R.H.”: Tj)e purchase and sale of fool-
> is an old British industry fR 22/6/ , ‘ 7 ‘*')
I was born in Bury (Lancashire), which tilrice won
? x (Soccer) Cup. In my time every member
of the team was an importation from the other side
«» e , Tweed, and none ever went back except to
fetch Ins relatives. Men who had played for Burv
one year would strip next season for Bolton Wan-
derers or Preston North End. A Bury lad who had
m to work in Bolton, six miles away, recognised
m the Wanderers* team many old Bury pros. When
it e Rnv n v i ' fl th aI T^ Ury /’- B , olton an derers—came off
at Bury, the lad returned to his native town and
went >to see the match with his father. owd
f he sai . d t 0 his Progenitor, “Aw dunnot knaw
what team Aw niun shout fer. Aw think Aw’st
shout for BowtonI” “Tlia’ll do nowt o’ f soort “
‘ur? lle +h th j P ar ,l nt > .Pointing significantly to his clog.
t tha down t shout for Burry Aw’ll kick thv
dotted yead off.’’ The only people who make much
money °ut of professional football are the officials
Jokn Duck "' orth - chairman of the Bury Club, was
a fishmonger in a small way of business. He died
worth £;>7,000, the hulk of which was certainly not
made by selling red herrings.
Australian lightweight-champion SID GOD-
PREY knocks the nonsense out of the
head of yet another importation.
tlefeated Australia in the third
Soccu test at Auckland on Saturday, scoring .3 goals
t 0 ■' £ne visitors were on the defensive in the
opening- half, when M.L. put on 2-0 ; but the game
sparkled after the spell, each side adding a goal!
drawn'™" tW ° ° f the three S ames - The other was
t Adelaide, which has the rare advantage
of being- able to conduct a cross-country race in the
heart of the city, ran off its five-miles championship
on a course which starts between the river and the
o V +n j go , es . U| ? n t 0 4be Zoo > comes hack past the
r™?"’ tackles the gruelling shoulder of Monte-
oie Hill, drops down to the North railway line, and
returns to the Oval to finish in front of the pavilion.
v. e '; lce , 1! ? generally timed to end during the inter-
of a bl £ football match. Graham, holder of the
title, was unable to defend it, owing to a recent
operation. Rumsby came in alone, covering the
heavy-going in 29min. 17 2-ssec; Foote and Paul
making a desperate finish some 50 seconds later. All
three belong to the Adelaide Harriers.
Ivo Whitton carved a fresh niche in golf
records by winning the Queensland championship
with, a card of 291-—l3 strokes better than the
previous best. Whitton's four rounds were done in
i u > 'J7 and «0, the course record being 69. C
Brown (Ipswich) was next with 296, and o»ive
Boyce third with 299.
Tommy Benstead (N.S.W.) was the chief
whizzer at the Victoria Park (Sydney) motor-cvcie
,-?, n Satnrdnjr. H e set out to ride a challenge
match With Dave B'rewster (Vio.), but David's machine
tr T oub i e ’2 the second lap, and Benstead won
easily. In the five-mile five-furlong scratch, Tommy
did some fine ruling to win in smin. 22sec. One lab
he traversed at a speed of 65 m.p.h.
The dour Godfrey and a Yank named Cello
—unknown in these parts but doubtless lightweight
champion of Murfeesborough, Arkansas, or some such
place—supplied the latest Sydney Stadium scrap.
Oello was a quivering musical instrument when he
mo\ eo out of his corner, but, overcoming’ his ner-
-116 e i ave " early :,s Sood as lie got until
the fifth round. Then, snatching his wind with a
rude right, Godfrey charged the gasping stranger
and played the Slumber Song with both- fists on
his delicate-looking jaw. It cost the multitude
21s. Bd. 10,3. 10d., ss. sd. and 3s. 3d. to witness
this brief exhibition. The money was worth it.
A turn of which the Melbourne public
never tires is Spargo v. Jamito. Revived at the
Stadium on Saturday night, it attracted a full
+i° U f e ’ there was a general consensus of opinion
that Stiffy and Mo never did anything better. Earlv
in the proceedings Spargo momentarily forgot hini-
selt and nearly outed his partner with a right on
the chm. After this unfortunate accident the exhibi-
tion proceeded on orthodox lines to the familiar
finish— the winner, genelmen.”
Arthur Baynes’s plucky and sporting
a ™mpt to win the Diamond Sculls for Australia was
spoilt by Walter Hoover, the U.S. amateur champion,
who must be quite first-class. In his first heat the
Queensiander beat the Master of Gray, an old Etonian
ciack, and in the second he outed the strongly-
fanciecl Earl, thrice winner of the University Sculls
at Oxfoid. Then Baynes met Hoover and went under
by three lengths in the fastest heat of the series—
«min. 2osec. Hoover beat Beresford in the final,
which occupied 9min. 32$ec.
• * * *
~ /• D - Shearim, for years a crack long-
distance rifleman won the "champion of champions"
y.H e ™ ar |dwick (Sydney) on Saturday. The con-
ditions provuded for 15 shots at 500yds.'and 900vds„
a ™ Sb , ea Ji™ beat 47 °thers with a total of ‘ 142"
G 2 and 70). A. Mason (67 and 74—141) and H. ,1.
Chi vers (/I and 70—141) made a great fight with
the wnmer Mason registering 14 bulls and an inner
(74) at 900yds.
THE WINNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The good old pug had seen hi.s day.
A howling Prussian shell
Had carried both his legs away.
Din wasn’t doing well,
in fact, they passed the news' along
that Din was gone all to the wrong,
And wouldn’t answer to the gong.
The padre sat by Dinnie’s side,
And of complete salvation
He talked to Dinnie, who replied
With gentle resignation.
He knew well that the die was cast,
And that his punch for aye had passed.
He had to take the count at last.
“Have faith,” appealed the padre, ‘‘do.
My brother, do not grieve.
The wondrous prize will come to you,
If you will but believe.
Poor was your lot, hard is your fate.
Believe! Already angels wait
To welcome you to Heaven’s gate.”
Poor Dinnie, smiling pensively,
Turned where the padre knelt.
“Now, don’t you worry, boss,” said he.
“They hit me ’neath the belt.
1 ain’t for slingin’ in the tow’l,
And for the gate I needn’t howl.
Cos why? I’m winnin’ on a foul!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


I
1 can’t strop a razor
2
I
AN INVITATION
LET Ob DEMONSTRATE
TO YOU HOW THE
VALET
AUTO STROP RAZOR
SHARPENS ITS OWN
BLADES
■ i-i crrirrrircT' l
I wonder
3
AN INVITATI ON
LET US DE
STRATE
\ TME
TO YOU
VA
AUTO ST
SHARP
Y=*\
if-
TION
STRATE
the
ZOR
JWN
S±-
ri>
here
“VALET”
JVuAK>^S4> LK>p
Safety Razor
Because it strops itself it saves expense for new
blades. Because its blades are always super-sbarp
they give always a velvety shave. And because
it is both stropped and cleaned without removing
the blade or unscrewing a single part, it represents
the simplest and quickest method of shaving ever
invented. Quite different from every other kind
of safety razor.
Of all High Class Dealers.
THE STANDARD SET (No. 1) consistsof heavily silver-plated, self-stroppin*
"Valet” Auto Strop razor. 12 finest "Valet" blades and genuine O'jT/Q
“Valet” strop, complete in durable case lined velvet and satin ““ * / v
Managing Agents for Australasia :
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
j /AOUVj I
o
iwonder
5
A m
h)
The Valet -
Strops itself I
50 shaves lbladell
Sounds too good to be true
British Made.
BE PREPARED TO MEET THE BULLY!
You should learn “how” to box
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector. No
man knows the day or the hour when
he will be called upon to avenge some
insult, or the time when he will have
to defend himself against some bully
or ruffian.
WE TEACH BOXINC BY MAIL
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The boxing instructions are very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under our coach-
ing. The lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and
are cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to us, and we will send you by
return mail the interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all abo.u the
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps tor
postage.
5 ‘i
3s§S
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
«aTO»aQQOOOOW»iTOKv::::vi
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND If BOTHERS,
137 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
advt
•22 RIM FIRE.
KYNOCrt
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
“BURBERRY”
The Coat to Get Now —
for Comfort and Protection in all weathers
—is the 1922 “Burberry.”
Of all sufficient warmth —never a bur-
den to wear nor to carry—RUBBER-
LESS, yet completely WEATHER-
PROOF, faultless in workmanship, dis-
tinctive in style, and a recognised
LEADER OF FASHION throughout the
civilised world —the “Burberry” is the
all-satisfying coat for the discriminating
dresser.
The Latest Models in
both Men’s and Women’s
“Burberrys”
are now available (at lower prices than
have been possible for years) at Lincoln,
Stuart’s, the properly appointed and
AUTHORISED “BURBERRY”
AGENTS for MELBOURNE.
—AN OVERCOAT-
SPECIAL !
In our big Overcoat Range we are
offering a Special Line in Men’s
AIR LIGHT and Winter Gabar-
dine Raglans, smart, nicety lined,
highly tailored.
VERY SPECIAL
VALUE AT ...
CALL OR WRITE.
We Pay Freight and
GUARANTEE SATISFACTION.
'Jm-
m
II
i
r
•»—:>' v
Lincoln, Stuart Co
Pty». Ltd.,
244-54 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


wSStS
Saves 2/- in every £.
Coat Sweaters
reductions & Bonus
make double savings.
Fine quality ail-wool Coat Sweaters of
Scotch manufa&ure; "V ” opening,
buttons down front; grey, navy, lovat.
Sizes, inches, 26-38 40 42 45 48
Usual Prices, 70/- 75/- 80/- 85/ 90/-
Sale Prices, 65/- 70/- 75/- 80/- 85/-
Less the ten per cent. Cash Bonus.
Farmer’s :i Sydney
" The Store for ghlen.”
Carriage Paid. Bo* 497, G.P.O.
advt
Sale ends July 15th. Mail
orders post-dated July 17th
executed ac Sale Prices.
Australia is
Jewel Rich.
Black Opal and
Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£lB/18/-
Black Opal and
Diamond Ring,
£l4/10/-
Black Opal and
Diamond Ring,
£lO/10/-
Australia is the richest country in the world in the variety of her jewel production.
Diamonds, Opals, Sapphires, Emeralds, Rubies, Zircons, Pearls, and other Gems are all found.
We get all of them in quantities from the mines and fisheries —have done for 30 years.
We cut many in Sydney.
We export quantities to many countries.
We select many of the finest for our retail trade.
We mount them as jewellery. We thus save all intermediate profits, and show Australia’s
best at lowest possible prices.
Tourists and visitors are cordially invited to see our fine collection and realise no obligation
to buy. ' .*
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Pirn'll Figures.
Cf?Sh only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 8i 25 Hunter Street.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
Ihe final clay of the Grand National meet-
ing provided plenty of excitement at Flem-
mgton. Eileen Hughes Feehan, whose bride-
groom owns Mountain God, nearly went crazy,
fehe was honeymooning in England when the
horse won last years race, and she had
a ,ket with her husband just before the race
ot ±lOO to a knitted tie. Very few women
dared the bird-cage, with its wet grass and
mud. _ Lady Stradbroke, in neat, dark
tailorings, was among them, as was Mrs.
Lee Steere, in a trim, short mack, solid boots
and a small felt hat. Mrs. Thiel, who was
with her aon-in-law, Gordon Chirnside,
sported a perfect winter outfit —terra-cotta
cloth of a comfortable thickness buttoned up
to her chin with beaver fur ana a tricky
felt hat. cn suite. Mrs. Oscar Lempriere
wore a big seal coat over a short dark frock.
Miss Byron Moore was out and about in
business-like cravenette of trim fawn. Inci-
dentally, she is packing up for still another
tour of the South Sea Islands. Lady Grey-
Egerton livened up the scene with brilliant-
red stitchery on her navy blue suit. The
Governor-General went out with Captain
Traill and had a man’s luncheon-party in his
special room. The Earl Governor and Lady
Stradbroke also gave a party. The Alister
Clarkes, Major and Mrs. Fairbairn, the Elli-
sons, Captain and Mrs. Stan Miller and the
Creswicks were guests, also Lord Lough-
borough, and a brother-in-law Chisholm. Mrs.
Merson Cooper entrenched herself behind
furs to see Gay Serena der win, and
Mrs. Percy Chirns'de just showed a perfect
nose between the fur of her toque and coat.
Mrs. John Moffat wore cloud-grey in thick
cloth with lots of fur flattened on its surface.
Mrs. Russell Gabb bemoaned the fate of the
Adelaide Haoma in the big race, but wore
some becoming mole-colored clothes that
should have compensated. Mrs. Barry
Thompson tried to cheer things up with a
liuee plaid of green and blue.
One of the attendants at Melbourne
Cricket Ground played right into the hands
of the Tivoli management on Saturday after-
noon. Mr. Crauford had brought Wee
Georgie Wood round for a peep at the foot-
ball during matinde hours. George’s “turn”
the Tivoli wouldn’t have allowed him
much time for the football, even if he had
been left alone, but as soon as he was seated
in the balcony of the Members’ Stand a
janitor told him he couldn’t stay there, as
boys were not allowed in that part. What
little discussion there was ended in Wee
Georgie and his escort retiring in a hurry.
They motored back to the theatre, and while
Georgie was preparing for his boy-scout
stunt the other must have ’phoned tlie even-
ing paper. So was the incident turned to
the sweet uses of advertisement. Still, as
a general thing, Georgie objects to making
capital of his small boyishness off the boards.
Peter Pan saw no joke in being mistaken for
an infant out of place.
An overcoated and fur-wrapped crowd
sampled the music of Guy Maier and Lee
Pattison at the Town Hall on Friday.
D’Alvarez, heavily lip-salved and sealskin-
coated, was an interested listener, with Man-
nucci and Wagner as attendant aides. She
wore a silver cap over her midnight tresses,
and attracted even more attention than the
Freddy Shipmans, who are managing the
pianists. Lee Pattison looks a scholarly
young blonde of the spiritual type, whereas
Guy Maier is a dark, round-faced character
golliwogged by large horn-rimmed spectacles,
but with a smile of seraphic happiness that
has never been approached' in this part of
the world. The two were made to blush by
embarrassing gifts of vegetation. Among
the presents were two huge necklaces, pre-
sumably of laurel, and a miniature grand-
piano built of daffodils and violets.
Minna Fischer, mentioned in last week’s
Bulletin as a member of the Melbourne cast
of “Falka” with the Broughs, is in these days
one of London’s busiest singing teachers,
and also the wife of composer George Clut-
sam. As a coach in lieder she is among
the best, and Ada Crossley, Esta D’Argo
and most other Australians who ventured
into that difficult bypath of their art have
taken instruction from her. Nowadays,
Clutsam can rarely be induced to display
his fine accompanistic gifts in public, but
he is always willing to lay aside his com-
positions in the middle and help put the
finishing touches o,n such of Minna’s pupils
as are worth while, Elsa Stralia is Minna
Fischer Clutsam’s niece. Incidentally,
Alan Bindley, also of that “Faika” cast,
was the man who really found the Castles’
voices, and trained the first two of them.
Another girl baby has come along to little
lJoily Castles Finn, of the singing claar, and
her med.co husband. In her tmrci year,
Dolly’s first-born, “Paddy the very best
thing,” is a prodigy of mimicry, who can
ho.d the floor with any of the family as an
entertainer. In these crowded days the
former Williamsonian contents herself artis-
tically with an occasional song in the sacred
name of Charity.
The newly-formed Oriana Madrigal
Society, under the conduetorship of VV.
Fraser, lately of the Malvern Choral Union,
and still conductor of the Bendigo and
Castlemaine Choristers, starts its career at
the Assembly Hall next Tuesday. Una
Bourne will contribute piano solos, and
Phyllis Hannaford the solo vocal items.
Arthur, Sayer is the flautist.
Alas! There was nothing Bohemian or
dashing about the Vic. Gallery students’
annual jazz at St. Kilda Civic Hall on
h r.day night. It was as cheerily common-
place as any other suburban hop, barring a
really fine spectacular dance at the end of
the hall by a group of nymphs. These were
afterwards chased up-stage by a crowd of
variegated witches and hobgoblins, and the
lot blended in a whirling ballet round a
witches’ cauldron. From a fancy-dress view-
point the show called for admiration, but the
masks, half-hitch stage pretences which re-
vealed more than they concealed, added no-
thing to the gaiety of the affair. Still, as
the jazzers foxtrotted politely with their
own friends only, it didn’t matter much.
Director Bernard Hall and drawing-masters
Colqulioun and Mclnnes beamed on the spec-
tacle from the crowded gallery. At 11 the
supper-room doors flew wide with much cere-
mony, and the dry-throated company sat
down at long,tables to a sparse feed of dis-
mally inexpensive and conventional refresh-
ment. Ted Dyson looked a handsome dog of
a rajah rvith most of his head concealed
under a picturesque turban, and Mrs. Teddy
dimpled in powder and. patches ; while her
pretty sister, Mrs. Russel Jackson, smiled
demurely in the black and white trappings
of a Sister of Mercy. Nan McClelland
trailed mediaeval draperies. A group of
attractive girl students aired flowing locks
over their nymphs’ chiffonery, and the rain-
bow suitings of a dye set struck an artistic
note. Howard Charlwood had successfully
disguised himself as a Zulu chief, and, as
a whole, the male habiliments showed more
originality than the feminine section.
D’Alvarez is not the first professional visi-
tor to shiver in Melbourne. Two years ago
George Tully, the Man from Toronto, who
arrived with his wife at the beginning of
June, considered himself the victim of gross
deception. So much had been told him
about the glorious Australian climate, and so
little about the various natures of it. “Do
you ever get it any colder than thisV” was
his first question to the first man he was
introduced to, and he was astonished to hear
that the temperature would surely drop.
The pair had not brought winter garments
with them. Mrs. Tully ought to have known,
for she (Blanche Massey) had been here—
whisper it not —25 years earlier, as one of
the beauteous Gaiety Girls. In fact she
took the name part in “A Gaiety Girl,” the
first musical comedy Australia ever met,' with
the handsomest crowd of women in smart
frocks the country had ever seen. But that
co. in the long ago had escaped from Mel-
bourne before the winter set in, it seemed,
and didn’t return for a farewell season until
the weather was turned resectable again.
“Besides,” said Mrs. Tully, “I didn’t shiver
so easily at that time.”
Bendigonian Alice Crawford, since her
marriage to Valentine Williams, has retired
from the flare of the footlights. The square-
jawed Valentine is a Northcliffe man, and
at present one of the foreign correspondents
of the London Daily Mail, and when he
is at home lives with his Alice in St.
James’s.
Town-clerk Fred Chamberlain, of St.
Kilda, sprang a fresh decorative surprise
at Mayor Cummings’s ball-party. Mam-
moth paper butterflies chased each other
round the balcony draperies and among the
roses dangling from the ceiling centre-piece;
and before the first chassee in the Mayoral
Lancers the ceiling was suddenly starred with
glittering red electric lights, and the lan-
terns blazed out illuminatively. Of a truth
the St. Kilda Civic Chamberlain is a show-
man, indeed. The Gaud Mayoral Swansons
were there, the lady upholstered in grey and
silver lace. Mrs. Cummings fluttered ele-
gantly in black tulle flouncings weighted
with jet, and waved a posy of beribboned
pink carnations topped with an expensive-
looking orchid. It was a frocky, cheerful
frivol. One black-clad damsel seemed to
have come along without her dress bodice,
and one or two young things had apparently
lost the bottom flounces of their skirts. At
10.30 speeches, commendably few and brief,
were said over a feast of ovsters and cold
turkey, washed down with fizz.
Father Hearn, S.J., of Hawthorn, lias
been telling the girls that, instead of spend-
ing so much on personal adornment, they
should dress “just decently,” and save the
rest to help to build a family nest when the
right man comes along, remaps me -Luggers
his riv’nnee chaplained at the Front told
him a few things. At any rate he let fly
at the she salary-earners who live in their
parents homes and spend most of their
incomes on line clothes. So far from attract-
Ll ?r’ tW‘ s expensive garb, he declared, scared
eligible bidders for the wearers’ charms,
because they knew they never could find the
coin to maintain such a standard.
Cecil Cooke, who formerly managed
Afurndal for his brother Samuel, ex-member
f .. the Keps. and of the Vic. Upper House,
died the other day at 72. Latterly he
lived on his own estate, Absliot, in Korum-
burra district. He was a son-in-law of
the late William Lempriere, iof Green-
meadows, Balaclava, and is survived by a
widow, a son (Captain William) and two
married daughters.
This is a picture of George and Jane
Hyson, the parents of Will and Edward
Hyson and a numerous brood beside, includ-
ing grand- and great-grandchildren. George
Hyson is now 85, and his wife is S 3. On
the sth of the month a number of friends
assisted them in celebrating the 60th anni-
versary of their wedd.ng-day. The weight
of a golden wedding sits lightly on both pairs
of shoulders. George Dyson came to Aus-
tralia over 70 years ago, and Edward, the
eldest living of the descendants, found the old
man s multifarious experiences of the
Goa ring ’Fifties of enormous value. They
have gone into pretty well all E.D. has writ-
ten of the rushes. Jane Dyson sailed to
this country in the year 3857 with her
father, one of the Alayalls, still a well-known
family of cotton-spinners in Lancashire. It
was Ambrose Alayall’s intention to establish
cotton-growing and -spinning in Australia.
He found he was only about 1(10 years in
advance of his day and generation, and died,
leaving his family to the mercy of a rather
rude world. The Dysons were ivory-
carvers in London.
Shops are beginning to multiply in the
portion of Golli.ns-street East above Russell-
street that used to be sacred to doctors and
other professionals. One is now being fitted
up next to the Alexandra Club—the shrine
of the Primrose Dames. It looks as if it
will deal in something in the exquisite line;
but then there is always the danger of a
change and of the place degenerating into a
ginger-beer bar. If this sort of thing goes
on the Melbourne Club may find itself wedged
in between a pawn-house and a garage.
To-morrow (Friday) the Alliance Fran-
chise celebrates the French National Day
with a jaza-de-joie at St. Ivilda Town Hall.
Not a fearfully crowded ball, but one for
which the supply of tickets is so limited that
a belated applicant who ca,n get served with
a couple at the Alliance, of at “Millefleur’s,”
may cons'der himself lucky.
Lady Grey-Egerton went a-jazzing at the
Jennm Brenan class one day last week. The
young things, who were in the throes of the
latest “toddle,” were rather put out of step
by the splendor of her Paris gown; but
they cabin'd ■ down when they found that
milady was not up to their Alelbourne stan-
dard as far as ;iazz : ng went, even if she had
seen the latest abroad.
John Lemmone and Mrs. John are staying
at the liitz, near the Fitzroy Gardens, until
Melba sets sail for London in September.
Before then there will be a farewell concert
in the Town Hall, and possibly some scenes
from grand opera.
Capt. Pitt Rivers is that rarity, an intel-
lectual :■ A.D.C. It is in a sense hereditary.
He is a representative of the Rivers
barony which died out in 1880, and
the grandson of a fine scholar and anthro-
pologist. For his own part he is a Fellow-
Commoner of Worcester College, Oxford, and
carries about an impressive store of learning
on philosophy, metaphysics and social
economy. Lie studied Nietzsche with Oscar
Levy who first turned the German’s books
into English, and d'd good work in helping to
educate his startled countrymen on the econo-
mic basis of Bolshevism. A few nights back
in Alelbourne he discoursed learnedly on
Primitive Communism, and his fashionable
audience listened as if he were detailing a
scandal in high life.
Alelba gave the Con. girls a thorough les-
son one afternoon last week, and has
promised them a few other half-hours before
she goes away. Lady Stradbroke came in
to see how it is done, and Melba gave her
plenty of entertainment. When the ener-
getic Dame does a thing, she does it. The
pupils got a fine shaking-up, and they
revelled in it—the good old days seemed to
have returned. There was the time when
Dame Nellie motored down from Coombe
regularly for several days in each week
and arrived at the Con. at 9 in the morn-
ing. Last week’s lesson was mostly about
singing French. In her youth Melba studied
the Gallic tongue at high pressure, and when
in England used to have French servants
about her, so that she had the language
from all angles. The same with her Italian
and German, and as a result our singing
lady is a notable linguist.
Louise Metters flitted over to Sydney for
a holiday, but found work waiting for her,
with the result that she at once began giv-
ing special lessons in voice-production.
Among her pupils were some of the Benni-
son company. She returns to her real
work in Melbourne at the end of the month.
Defeated on its second l-ound with Father
Barry over the St. Pat’s procession by-law,
the City Council now proposes to re-establish
its reputation for horse-sense by taking the
squabble, regardless of expense,, to the Privy
Council —the ratepayers providing the funds.
Barry is willin’, after the decision of refer-
ees Irvine, C.J., and Macfarlan, J., and in
his case, also, the mere sordid question of
cost doesn’t arise. In the R.C. Church the
parishioners regard it as a privilege to be
allowed to pay for these little clerical flut-
ters.
S. D. Porteous, who used to be in charge of
sub-normal school kiddies down Fitzroy.way,
and is now a professor of Clinical Psychology
in the ’Varsity of Hawaii, is over on a visit.
Uncle Sam has treated him very well since
he lured him away from Australia. Bing-
wood, which was the home of Porteous in the
days of his youth, has been welcoming him.
Art lovers will derive a lot of pleasure
from 11. W. Sturgess’s exhibition of water-
colors at Melbourne Athenaeum'. Eighty-
two subjects are listed in the catalogue, and
the majority of them are charming impres-
sions of land and sea. Probably he is most
successful in his delicate sea-pieces, wherein
big ships idle in masses of shadow snakily
reflecting the masts and spars. These pic-
tures show poetic refinement, and the color
is handled Avith remarkable skill. Perhaps
the artist is a bit vehement in the depiction
of sunlit water, but this shortcoming is only
noticed in “Pellucid Sea” and “The Haven,”
two lonely examples of his potboiler manner.
His landscapes are dreams of peace recording
the tints of dawn and twilight and the brist-
ling lights of summer days. There is a sug-
gestion of virtuosity in the simplicity with
which he realises atmospheric effects without
any apparent trickery in the use of washes.
At any rate, he is unusually dexterous with
his medium, and, given the will and the time
for further study, he should reach a front
position among Australian water-colorists.
Melba has been causing a frocky sensation
about town these frosty days. She wears
Russian boots' —the long, crinkly kind like
riding-boots—made of soft grey suede with a
light fur lining, but there are real rainy-day
soles to the delicate footgear.
Doris Shirley Cooke has written the words
and composed the music of a classic called
“Cheero, Baby Darling.” It is the jazz
toon that is the commercial proposition
nowadays.
Esther and Betty Paterson realised a
good bag of cash from their exhibition at
the Queen’s Hall, Melbourne. Priminister
Hughes, who opened the show, was one of
the first to pounce on a picture, and many
others shed guineas in the cause of the sis-
ters’ art. Esther Paterson mostly confined
herself to the production of beguiling por-
traits, among Avhich xvas a view of Mrs.
Percy Deane, who had apparently been
caught after her igisband had refused a
peerage. There was another also of a
luscious Spanish girl named “Inez,” Avhom
any connoisseur of loveliness would be de-
lighted to take to the movies. Betty Pater-
son’s impressions of infantile precocity
increased their appeal by their up-to-the-
minute raiment and their fetching imperti-
nence. “The Vamp,” aged about four, and
expressing a weariness of conquest as she
puffed her fag, was a perfect example of
Betty’s satire.
Twenty-one-year-old Wilma Berkeley, pic-
tured on this page some months ago as a
songstress of the futpre, has been selected
by Melba to study under Miss Nellie Rowe,
who has offered to educate an Australian
girl in London. The Diva describes the
Berkeley voice as one of the most beautiful
she ever heard. Clara Butt, when she was
here, also enthused over it; and assured
Wilma’s friends that, given the she
Avould have the world at her feet. t
The Astronomical Society of Victoria has
just been formed. Local astronomers feel
they should buck up before the invasion of
overseas star-hunters who are coming for
the solar eclipse in September. A provi-
sional committee has been appointed, and
John D. Mieliie, who lives in Langridge-
street, Alphington, is acting as secretary.


••V
H
i
v* -
13
*0
Out o’ doors
and in-your skin needs JPci/in oJive
advt
UT-OF-DOORS
—because you
should not
leave your
skin defence-
less before the
onslaught of
a biting wind, nor unprepared
for the chill of raw winter
weather.
Indoors—to protect your skin
against the ill effects of sudden
atmospheric change experien-
ced when you step from street
to fireside.
Cold acts as an astringent,
tightening the skin; warmth
re axes it. A skin uncared for
and subjected to such changes
is a skin made ready for the
insidious tracery of those
wrinkles which no woman loves.
Palmolive a sure defence
When your skin is working
properly, it is not so subject to
the dry, rough condition known
to doctors as ‘‘winter-skin.”
Palmolive does for your body
what it does for your face—
softens the skin, soothes it and
keeps it smooth and comfort-
able.
Palmolive defends and pro-
tects your skin from ill because
it contains the bland and bene-
ficial oils of the palm and the
olive, cosmetics favoured by
Cleopatra, Ancient Egypt’s
queen, world famous for her
beauty. These natural clean-
sers, lotion-like in their effect
but penetrative in their quality,
reach the minutest pores and
free them from all impurities
which clog and impede the
natural action of the skin.
How to use Palmolive
Use it at bedtime. Lave the
face gently with the soft,
creamy lather of Palmolive
and pleasantly warm water,
then rinse away every trace of
soap with clear water first
warm, finally cold.
Use it in the morning. Use it
as at night but add a touch of
Palmolive Cold Cream before
powdering. Your skin, soothed
and rested through the night,
stimulated in the morning, is
now perfectly prepared for any
weather and occasion.
As greatly as you appreciate
the unusual, lasting benefits
resulting from the use of
Palmolive Soap, so you will
appreciate the worth of Palm-
olive Cold Cream; Palmolive
Vanishing Cream; “Violet of
the Nile” and “Egyptian Rose’'
Talcums; “Palmole” Face
Powder; Palmolive Face Pow-
der ; Palmolive Rouge; Palm-
olive Shampoo.
A luxury of Ancient
Egypt
A blend of palm and olive oils
was a toilet luxury of Ancient
Egypt the perquisite of the
rich and favoured few. To-
day all may enjoy the use of
these valuable oils now per -
fected and contained in a
fragrant cake of Palmolive
Soap.
MMauroE
mm
Sells everywhere at 1/3 per cake
X
*
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will be sent post free, on request, by the
Palmolive Company ( Australasia ) Ltd., Broughton House, Clarence St., Sudney.


Under
Royal
Warrant
advt
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesHeidsieck
lif
CHAMPACNC.
Gtaiifsllcidsfctfc-
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Financially, socially and artistically the
Theatre Royal matinee for the Children’s
Hospital on Friday was a tremendous suc-
cess. But the intensely genteel audience
was cold: its component parts were so occu-
pied, for the most part, in being either per-
fect gents, or perfect ladies, as the case
might be, that the applause was strictly
limited. George Lambert, the chief organ-
iser of the affair, put up a remarkable feat.
He designed every single dress and the whole
of the coloring and toning was his work.
Also, the scenery was all his, and he set the
stage with the nelp of a few stage-carpen-
ters.
Federal and State vice-regality shared a
box. Lady Forster kept the Pitt Rivers
infant on her lap, and Dame Margaret David-
son gave a similar perch to her daughter
Daphne, while Diana sat demurely under
Miss Henderson’s wing, and Captain Pitt
Rivers held his heir on his knees. In the
opposite box that most popular of medicoes,
“Bill” McKay, accommodated Mrs. Tom
Dixson, two pretty school girls and Mrs. T.
H. Kelly, whose radiating smile was a great
advt. for Coufe-ism. “A Penny Bunch,” Neil
Lyons and Vera Beringer’s sketch of
Cockney life, gave Mrs. Pitt Rivers an
opportunity to prove that she can act. She
also, demonstrated that she possesses a sound
business head. She auctioned her basket of
violets immediately the curtain fell. “ ’Ow
much fer me vi’lets, lidies an’ gentle-
min?” she inquired. “Mike a bid fer
the Children’s ’Orspital!” and some-
one, bemused by her artistry in “A
Penny Bunch,” responded with an offer of
£G. Mrs. Ernest Watt was the other flower-
seller. Her charitable designs were some-
what frustrated, however, by nervousness.
The organisers kept their best for the end.
Liza Lehman’s musical setting of the Rubai-
yat was surely never more beautifully sung,
more satisfyingly conducted or more gor-
geously set. Andrew McCunn was at the
head of the orchestra; and Mrs. Pitt Rivers
was the Muse, and Geoffrey Stephen Omai\
All Sydney’s social swim that wasn’t in the
circle and the stalls was on the stage in rai-
ment that must have cost a power of monev.
Mrs. Venour Nathan came all the way from
Bowral to dance to “Look to the rose that
blows about us.” Gladys Cole, Clarice Coles,
Ernest Archer and A. E. Y. Benham were
the songsters. There was an extraordinary
distribution of flowers at the fall of the cur-
tain. But why on earth did the committee
forget to order a bouquet for Clarice Coles?
Incidentally, Clarice was not the only one
overlooked. The printer omitted the names
of both house-manager Bowden and John
Brownlow when the “Return Thanks” favors
were being distributed. Of course, John
Brownlow does such a lot of work gratis
that some people think he really enjoys toil-
ing overtime for nothing but the cause. The
honorary organisers of the shivoo were Mes-
dames Alex. Gordon, Anthony Hord°rn,
Ernest Watt and Colin Stephen. The first
three left Mrs. Stephen to help with the
front of the house, and she did it in a manner
that took some of the members of the theatre
staff a trifle aback, as the saying goes. They
had been used to more free-and-easy methods.
The polo dances of the week were the
Arthur Allens’, at Merioola, and that given
by the Tony Horderns. More especially the
latter, Himself being a terribly enthusiastic,
if not particularly adept, wielder of the im-
plement which can be an engine- of sport or
disaster, according to the person behind it.
Much the same people went to the two
parties, except that the Horderns not only
asked all the members of every polo team,
but intimated that they could bring along
their dancing partners as well. The mauve
and yellow colors of the Sydney team were
in evidence everywhere—so many mute re-
bukes to the jazzing boys from the Back-
blocks who had hit up cricket scores in the
way of goals against the side on which their
host operated. The hero of both the Meri-
oola and the Retford Hall function was Ken
Austin, who had brought his organising abili-
ties to bear on the tournament to such pur-
pose that it outdistanced any that has
occurred in previous years. The members of
the Sydney team subscribed to a silver
cigarette-box for him as some small token of
esteem.
St. Stephen’s Kirk will witness the wed-
ding on the 22nd of this month, of
Dorothy Ferguson, only daughter of the
Supreme Court Judge. The lucky young
man is Lieut. Powell, R.N., a son of Admiral
Sir Francis and Lady Powell, of the Isle of
Wight. Doretta Russell and Trixie Marshall
wid support the bride, and Lieut. Moore,
R.N., the bridegroom. The reception is to
be at the Queen’s Club, and the young people
will leave by the Orvieto on July 25 for a
six months’ honeymoon in Europe, after
which they are to come back and settle in
Sydney.
The Belbridges and their three good-looking
girls have shifted from Glen lnnes to a
Darling Point flat. Mrs. Belbridge is first
cousin to the handsome legal sisters, Mrs.
Tom Rolin and Mrs. George Rich. She was
a grand-daughter of Henry Radford, Clerk
of Parliaments in Brisbane, and conse-
quently great-grand-daughter of old Dr. Rad-
ford, of Hunter River fame. A son of the
family, David Belbridge, is on the stage in
America,
The glorious Fourth was greeted and sped
on its way by the American colony in fine
style; starting with a claret-cup libation at
the Consulate and ending with a jazz dinner
at the Australia —officially dry, but irrigated
by enthusiastic Private Enterprise. The 70-
year-young Frank Coffee was. the toast-
master ; and “The King,” “The President”
and “The Day We Celebrate” were attended
to with enthusiasm.
The same day brought a heavy mail from
Consul Norton, mostly written on his Corona
strapped to a trunk that was strapped to the
settee, for the voyage from Sydney was the
worst the captain of the Ventura liad known
for years. The Nortons were the guests of
Captain Pollock, the naval governor of Pago,
who visited Sydney on the American man-
o’-war Brooklyn, which took part in the
Federation festivities years ’nd years ago.
Dame Margaret Davidson, a modern Hebe
in a navy braided suit, a shoulder-wrap of
pointed fox furs, and an emerald-green hat
set about with black ostrich feathers, smil-
ingly held the silver goblet while the poloists
took a draught of champagne on Saturday.
Every one of them got a swig, so there was
some consolation for the Harden players,
even if Cooma did carry off the Dudley Cup.
A few of the feminine onlookers could have
done with a drop of something to warm them,
judging by the pinched, blue look about then-
noses, but the male element was, as usual,
well catered for, and the bar, under carivas,
always had its full quota. One elegahtly-
gowned slender vision had to keep a firm
hand on the arm of her escort. He really
did want to see a chap most urgently, a chap
who had “jush gone bally tent —shawim,
m’dear.” The lady was most candid. ‘‘You
are not to have another one, I want to enjoy
myself this evenire, and I’m not going to
allow you to spoil everything by getting
beastly!” “Well,” he gurgled resignedly,
“tell me, which ish who?” Not receiving a
satisfactory reply, he asked if he might not
be allowed to go into the tent just to inquire
“Which is who?” The lady showed him
“who was which” of their party by leading
him towards the exit.
Lady Digby and Mrs. Pitt Rivers sat close
to Dame Margaret, both well furred. Miss
Henderson, too, kept the frost out with black
fdx skins. Mrs. Tony Hordern took a tiny
daughter home early, and, incidentally, re-
moved the highest spot of color from the
scene—a velour hat that would have made
the brightest petunia look anaemic, and which
glowed over a greatcoat of luxurious sable,
Mrs. Acton slung around her shoulders the
best tiger-skin she has yet exhibited from
among the spoils of her life in the Straits
Settlements. The Tom Watsons—he was
a mighty player a decade or so ago-—were
so interested in the work of the clever ponies
that they didn’t see a soul they knew. Mrs.
Watson’s tall, slender sister, Cecile Huntley,
was with them. Mrs. George Lane Mullins
and her eldest fair niece, Maimie Collins,
spared a few moments to ask Mrs. Camp-
bell Galbraith about her doings in America.
Mrs. Roy Buckland had deserted the precious
twins, for a few hours, to keep her mother
company. Country folk were easily the
majority of the crowd —among them the Ted
Rodys and the Malcolm Bodys. of Bundamar,
the _ Tom Windeyers from Trangie, Mrs.
White and Mrs. Pearce (formerly the Sly
girls), the Bartons, A’Becketts and Smiths,
f'-om Wellington, and the Jim O’Hares, with
Edward O’Hare, who motored from their
Monaro station and brought Mrs. Brady
Sampson, who. with her mother, Mrs. Clune,
has been their guest for some time.
“It’s a movie!” said the messenger-boy in
Macquarie-street the other morning, when he
saw the spectacular Mounted Police, who
appeared to be guarding with bull-
dog grimness a red carpet that streamed
down from Parliament House steps to the
kerb. Then, to the booming of guns, a
benevolent-looking gentleman in cocked hat,
spectacles and gold braid, and supported by
effulgent slabs of the Army and the Navy,
strode up the carpet. The messenger-bov
saw more of the pageant of tlm oDenim* of
Parliament than the holders of the official
blue tickets which had been so freely d\s-
tributed that a glimpse of the other cat’s
fur was about all it meant for most of the
crowd that didn’t " A t even standing room.
Mrs. Fred Flowers, in a bower of Iceland
poppies and sweet-peas, dispensed tea from
a hidden but boiling spring; and Dame Mar-
garet, Miss Henderson, the Fuller lady and
Sirs. Dooley drank a loving-cup of the fused
leaf while their lords were splitting straws.
The latest American pilgrimage of the
McEvoy sisters, Gertie and Hilda, is nearly
over, and they are setting out for home on
the Sonoma. The pair have paid three
visits to U.S.A., travelling each way on the
same steamer. While in New York, recently,
they saw Kate Rooney (Mrs. W. Kirkham),
who still pines to bring her youngsters Billie
and Patsy, to her native Sydney.
A note from oversea: —
Mrs. Bertie Lord, who came to England in T 4,
has been living in Austria for the past year—
at Innsbruck, in the Tyrol. About four years ago
she was operated on for an old throat trouble, and
she is only just able to call herself really cured.
Several other well-known Sydneyites are there, by
the way. Amongst them are the Fred Lassetters (she
was Elsie Antill, the General’s sister) ; Arthur pas-
setter (General Fred’s younger brother) and his
wife, and their adopted son, who was a much-
admired small boy at the Pacific Hotel, Manly, in
the 'summer before the Great War. Mrs. Pritchard
—who was a Kater—is another Innsbriickite, and
Major Clarke, who was in Sydney with the Dudleys
for a while, also puts in much of his time ther§.
The first one-man-show of Queensland
artist Jolip Moore was launched last week
at Basil Burkett’s New Art Salqn, Vickery’s
Chambers. The young ex-Digger’s work
commands attention by its versatility, as
well as its even quality. In the oil section
the most arresting canvas is “A Sketch in
France,” and the most appealing “The Ceme-
tery on the Hill.” There are some fine pen-
cil drawings and the chalks include grimly
suggestive nocturnes of the firing-line in
France. The water-colors mark the artist’s
travels, ranging over North and South
America, England, France, Mexico and
home. And the prices of all the pictures
in the interesting little show 7 have been fixed
With agreeable modesty.
The Sonoma brought Louis Bennison a
statue of Perseus for his Sydney production
of “Benvenuto Cellini.” But it is not cer-
tain that Sydney will be introduced to
“Benvenuto,” which is from Bennison’s own
pen. Harborside playgoers haven’t discovered
that Louis is a Broadway favorite. Mel-
bourne took to “Johnny, Get Your Gun,” but
in Sydney it was a frost. And “The Great
Lover” hasn’t captured as many hearts as
he bargained for.
This is the wife of George Fuller, Pre-
mier of N. S. Wales. Slfe married him when
he was a rising
young M.L.A. nearly
30 years ago, and!
has been a quiet,
though extremely
effective, electioneer-
ing agent for him
ever since. She was
one of the Kings, of
Kiama (he was re-
presenting Kia m a
when she met and
married him), and
it saj 7 s a lot for the
pair of them that he
has never had to
look away from his
native South Coast
for a place to repre-
sent from that day
to this. She pre-
sides over a beautiful home at Point Piper,
and divides her interests between that,
charitable activities and her husband’s
career.
The brooding greyness of one morning last
week was broken by the tolling of the bells
of St. Mary’s for the last earthly ceremonial
of J. D. Fitzgerald. The big cathedral was
thronged with the dead man’s friends, the
large unnamed in the reported list—men
and women from every waik in life that go
to the making of a big city, from the hope-
lessly poor to the moneyed pillars of Society.
Representatives of the State’s public and
Parlismientarv institutions were legion. Old
friends and fellow-politicians were visibly
overcome as the Mass for the dead moved
as swiftly, as inexorably as Life to its
appointed end. Being a simple Requiem,
there was not even the distraction of the
solemn splendor of the “Dies Irae” or the
“De Profundis”—nothing but the murmur
of the black-robed priests and the heaped-
up glory of flowers. Among these were two
beautiful wreaths bearing the names of the
absent Mrs. Fitzgerald and the dead man’s
only child Ara. Probably his old friend W.
A. Holman was responsible for this graceful
thought.
Poor Fitzgerald put up a remarkable per-
formance for a dying man. While under
sentence he wrote two novels. One, “Ring
Valley,” was accepted by Hodder and Stoivrh-
ton, the news of the acceptance being cabled
to him about three weeks ago. The second
had its last word written on the Prince of
Wales’ birthday. It is a circus sfory. en-
titled “The Freighted Caravan”—J.D.’s affec-
tionate title for the trnveiling circus which
first made the name of Fitzgerald famous in
Australia. Both stories are redolent of love
of his homeland. A politician, who, despite
the inevitable disillusions of a public career,
was an idealist and ag optimist till the end.
he was surely of the same stuff that went to
the making of the Anzac.
Arnold Trowell, of M.L., has been per-
manently added to the best of London’s
instrumental quartets, the Chamber Music
Players, of which Melbourne’s Willie Mur-
doch has been an ornament since its incep-
tion. The sandy-haired musician, who has
had a long uphill battle for complete recog-
nition, takes the place of Felix Salmorid,
easily the best English ’cellist, and one of his
other pals in the combination is Albert Sam-
mons, the nearest approach to a great vio-
linist that England has turned out for years.
London’s Daily Express, chronicikig
Trowell’s first appearance with them, said
that the combined effort was “the work of
great craftsmen and great artists.”
This is a Leighton picture of Joseph
Massey, who for 22 years has been organist
at St. Andrew’s
Cathedral. In Syfl-
uey’s earlier years
his name was one of
the headliners of the
concert-world, and in
days before the pre-
sent Town Hall in-
strument was built,
lovers of organic
peals and thunder-
ings used to flock to
hear him at the old
Palace Gardens
building in the
Domain—the historic
barn that was later
wiped out by fire.
The veteran has con-
tributed many com-
positions to the
organ literature of his times.
The Artis.ts’ Masquerade Ball in the Town
Hall on August 21, in aid of disabled sol-
dier potters, should be a gay affair. All
manner of extraordinary costumes are being
prepared, and the mask and domino will lend
an unconventionality which may go far to-
wards breaking up many happy homes. Let’s
hope for the worst!
Clewin Harcourt, whose art show opened
at Anthony Horderns’ Gallery on Monday, is
the son of Durrant Harcourt, a former Mel-
bourne pressman. At 16 he was a pupil of
Fred McCubbin, and after 10 years in Cool-
gardie, managed to save enough to take him
to the Academy of Fine Arts at Antwerp,
where he wiped the eye of an art-school as
cosmopolitan as the earth by winning the
painting medal of the year. His “June’’ was
hung in the Royal Academy of 1910, and is
now in the famous collection of Dr. Mari-
nette, of Paris. Another well-known canvas
of his is the much-reproduced “One Summer
Afternoon.” The present show includes
some striking figure-work as well as English
and Australian landscape.
The Bankers’ Ball, in aid of the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, has booked the Town
Hall for July 19.
An Australian singer who has been
neglected by the cablers, although a member
of the British National Opera, is Eda
Bennie, who has done a deal or work of the
kind since she went to Europe a decade or
more ago. She and Beatrice Miranda, lyric
prima donna of the show, have probably for-
gotten that the cables exist, or else in their
debuting days they had too many rebuffs
when they sought to make their doings
known at this end. Edna Thornton and
Robert Parker, two artists gratefully remem-
bered for outstanding operatic performances
in Australia, are chief contralto and leading
baritone of the National organisation, which
might do worse than make a tour of these
parts.
Audrey Worth, a bright Melbourne girl
originally trained by Jennie Brenan, and one
of the principals of that energetic lady’s
notable Juvenile Opera Co. of some years
ago, married Fred Z. Eager, a popular mem-
ber of the American colony in Sydney the other
day. Fred Z. hails from Toledo, Ohio, and
boasts that he was taugpt in Sunday-school
by a sister of “Hop.” When the pair return
from a tour of the East they will not have
to go house or flat hunting, for he has had a
home of his own at Bellevue Hill for several
years.
Ivambala Girls always make their annual
reunion the means of keeping financial their
cot fund at the Royal Alexandra Hospital
for Children. The event, which was at Pad-
dington Town Hall on Friday evening, was
very opportunely timed, as scores of old girls
were in town for the sheep sales and polo
carnival. Miss Roseby. the present principal,
a benediction with her presence, and
Miss Gurney and Mdlle. Soubeiran, who
started their epic friendship as principals of
the school when its location was in Victoria-
roe d. Bellevue Hill, were the lionesses of the
party.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron dance
will be held on July 21—20 days later than
was made to appear hereabouts last week.


W/7
HUU
It
*l*s
SH
U 5
JSMa
4J3j
• •
A
m
Red Spot Sale
Final Week!
Some of the Clearing
Bargains in Men’s Wear
NOW
105/- Tweed Golfer’s Suits 58/10
90/- Ready-to-wear Sac Suits 69/1
21/- Black Velour Hats 12/2
14/6 Twill Flannelette Pyjamas 11/3
8 6 Cambric Golf Shirts 5/4
30/- Travelling Rugs 24/9
Cut Prices to you if you write at once! If you reside
at a good distance due time allowance will be made for
your reply. Sale ends July 15.
Send your orders to DESK TL •
POSTAGE PAID OX ALL SALE GOODS.
M
URDOCH’
In Parß St. Ltd., Sydney,
S
The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.’
advt
advt
The Universal Pencil
IT H ETHER in the pocket of pro-
* » fessional, business, or club man,
or tucked away in a handbag, Ever-
sharp is the best sort of pencil be-
cause it is always sharp—yet never
needs sharpening. More than that,
Eversharp lends the distinction of a
pleasing piece of jewellery.
Eversharp may be bought in gold,
gold-filled, silver or silver-plated
styles. Some are equipped with
pocket clips—some with chain rings.
Each Eversharp is equipped with
an eraser protected by the cap.
For,Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure il's an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOARE. Ltd..
Remington House, Liverpool St„ Sydney
iJrM: ii
m
§
WE
L.
HER
rag#
, • vc-.<-
V.
i: for
CONSISTENCY
Q.UALITY
OP
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL forCHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
r /' »•*, V. '
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against AH Australian Competition.
o 1 'ver
Tea SetT
Wedding Gifts a Specialty.
Gold and Silver Ware.
Tortoiseshell ivory and Silver
Toilet Articles.
Fitted or Unfitted Suit Cases.
High-grade Leather Goods,
jazz Fans. Vanity Cases.
JEWELLERY
Diamond and Gem Rings.
Fine Pearl Ropes and Necklets.
Gem Brooches and Pendants.
Expanding Bracelet Watches.
French Gold Chain Bags.
Prismatic Field Glasses.
Clocks of Every Description.
Wm. Drummond & Co.,
Jewellers, Silversmiths, Goldsmiths,
344-46 Collins St., Melbourne.


0
u
Teach Children To Use
Cuticura Soap
Because it is best for their tender
skins. Help it now and then with
touches of Cuticura Ointment applied
to first signs of redness or rough-
ness. Cuticura Talcum is also excel-
lent for children.
Soapls.,Ointment ls.and 2s. Sold through*
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress “R.. Towns& Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
SHIP* Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing-
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
T 0 N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
t v \
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
144 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
Stop that
husky cough!
The man with a husky cough is a
nuisance to himself and his neigh-
bours. In nine cases out of ten it can
be cured by a few Evans Pastilles.
These kill the germs that lurk in the
husky throat, and are the best remedy
known to medical science. Sore
throats and colds quickly yield to
treatment,
EVANS’
fiasti/fes
Be wise in time and buy a box to-day.
Of all Chemist*.
advt
Made bv Evans Sons Lesciier
& Webb Ltd., London.
<i>A
I, MT
NW"
ifrwv^''
mUIfTr7L
ittittßlW"
Jiws
mill)
m
?%■
S=-SgS
THE GENUINE
BALLARAT
COLLAR.
BUILT FOR
ENDURANCE.
This is a Lined-top, Double-strap Collar, Hand-stuffed with Rye
Straw. See how the rim is laced to the body side, away from
the hames, and greatly increasing the strength.
ONCE YOU BUY A BALLARAT YOU WILL
BUY NO OTHER STYLE FOR HEAVY WORK
Price 57/6 up to 20in. Over 20in., 1/6 per inch extra.
Black Collars, 1/- extra.
Kangaroo Hames, unbreakable, 22/6. Hame Straps, 2/- each.
Freight paid on Onlers over £3 for Cash. Write for our Illustrated Saddlery & Harness Catalogue.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.,
S addler s,
395 George Street, Sydney
o s 'j> c k
§
S
5 < ft
“EGO
AND
6est£
>s/V UJ>^Xrv
'>sjy«£TN Pf^^
@>*Z7l
Footwear is Expensive.
Make jour shoes wear longer by using this
high-grade preservative dressing.
BosToCk'S
SHOE POLISH.
I’uts life in the leather—and a sheen on your
shoes.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers,
SYDNEY < opp -
oiviin Station))
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE. '
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/- New
Book of Puzzles. 1 /.. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1 Magic Made Easy, 1/.. Tricks with
Coins, 1
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1/..
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
** C* '
BOOK OF SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights 1/6
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARC E S, in one
book 2/.
Contents—lci on Parle
Francais, April Fools,
Who is Who? Who’s
to Win Him ? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
CATALOGUES FREE.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage.... 1/6
A
<1
Wi
m
Wm
W, S' <6-^;
Mm V
-' n %a
*KB
HILLIEPS
CHOCOLATES
—■inciudedUi Cluitia&an^eautUi
“The Famous Red Box”
Mailed to you the day they are made to any address in Australia-Post free.
*♦*<.« 6i«u>.oa
S«XuUo
; MM -•
MiiWiiriiiil
PRICES.
3/- 5/6 7/6
J2/6 15/. 20/.
and 30/-.
\ CimitHUfiM.
162-166 PITT Street
& Cr George £ King Sts **
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A’o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken o) communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Impecunious Blokess: You will never
attain to solvency by writing poems, though the
possessor of an original touch. The attempt to
thyme varied, ’ “aired” and “repaired,” for in-
stance, is probably unique in the history of the
language. .. .J. 8.: Snake yarn old; may use the
other E.E.0.: Have another shot C.W.: Can-
not undertake to return unaccepted pars; but try
some more... .F.S.: Dealt with by the Abo. council
a little while ag0.... Homer: Too ambiguous; tell
us what the bird really did Bert S.: Like your
matter, but you don’t put it concisely enough. .. .
A.F.S.: Too adjectival M.C. (or one of them):
The not quite up” was doubtless meant for some-
one else entrenched behind the same two letters
Rebus: Atrocious verse, and what are “the whiles of
Cupid,” anyway ? Clan Sutherland: The 42nd
Highlanders it is. Thanks for correction... .E.M.H.:
Read it to the curate. .. . G.8.L.: Don’t see how you
can . arrive at more “Eternity” than you’ve got now.
... .Wywurrie: As thin as blown sawdust... .Wilfrid
L.. N 0... .Ivoko: Dreadful... .Corkscrew: Not up... .
S.G.M.: Poor parody of a poor thing J.J.F.: Dull
as w00d.... Just G.: Vaudeville sentimentality....
Glasson: More brightly told in any encyclopaedia...
W.F.8.: Album verse W. J.T.: Thin and futile...
J.K. (Brisbane) : Read some good verse and And out
what you’re trying to write...G.P. (Miller’s Point):
Dull narration about too many things... .E.J.S.:
Only worth a par. .. .R.D.C.: Clever in manner, but
says nothing Lip: No R.B. (Concord): No
use.... Jean D.: Sloppy and commonplace.... Sacro
Fidelis: Without interest Babette: “The Hermit
Artist” can’t find his 'soul here Una S.: There’s
a hint in it, but only a hint C.W.P.: They are
still far off A.G.M.: No use writing for a junior
Sunday-school class C.F.C.: Won’t do Tim:
The only line that might carry it is too lurid for
print... .A.M. (Waverley) : Not enough in it. .. .
A.H.G.: Doesn’t get near C.M.M.: “North Coast”
too rugged.... Moroney: Nothing in it. .. . G.W.W.:
Nice verse that gets nowhere G.E.C.: See
Moroney.... Allan A.: “Call of the North” might
be a call to anywhere else. And, anyhow, it’s an
extremely feeble ca 11... .R.K.W.: Too imitative; be
yourself. . . .R.T.K.: Thin stuff Kat: Your tribute
to “Purest” seems to show a forgiving nature, or
something:—
Purest Dear, I writing am to say that on to-morrow.
I’m leaving here alone with mv sorrow
For parts unknown with a heart like stone
To bear my troubles all alone.
Be I in the highest position in the land,
And you, Purest, as sunk to the level of the gutter.
I’ll reach for you, with my heart and pravers I utter.
And for the sake of the days that might have been
I’ll give my hand.
Those sweet memories I know shall cling-
To me. My thoughts of you loved one will bring
Many the pang to my heart and a tear.
Tears that can only make me shudder for many the
year.
But Purest, I have forgiven though vou left me to
fret.
. ...A.C.M.: “Absent” is not good enough for a
sonnet, and the form of the octave is'poor.,..
A.P.R.: “Stone Herige” is of no value. .. .Kevin II.:
Very lumpy lines P.8.P.: Same old “Debt of
Honor”; same old plea J.W. (Adelaide): Those
moral tales are no use M.S. (South Melb.):
Stockings” misses. .. .L.M.8.: Good enough of then-
kind ; but not our kind A.D.M.: “Anti-Christ”
article annoyed the office eremite. .. .S.E.P.D.: Too
ordinary... .G.W.W,: “The Pioneers” are just the
same old lot with the same old tags to them....
F.D.F.: Don't cry about it S.W.P.: The leper
story is too heavy and colorless... .W.E.L.: Cheer-
less verse. .. .D.F. (Devonport) : Dreary and wooden
poetry A.H.Y.: A variation of a very ancient
yarn Francis T.: Sheer rubbish C.E.P.: No-
thing in it Witch: Misses M.G.W.: The yarn
about the lady, lost a few inches from her home, who
was rescued by two lunatics and an inebriated manias,
who fired a cannon from the wash-house steps, is
too commonplace for the ordinary reader. Try and
get hold of something more unusual, as a p10t... .
Robin xYdair: “Georgie’s” imbecility renders him
uninteresting. . . .J.H.: Sorry; too many difficulties
in “81ind”.... A.G.J.: None of them up....Q.P.:
The verse fails. .. .G.8.L.: Useless to send American
rejects.... Sakalo: “Plain Facts” makes rather a thin
yarn A.M.H.: “Intervener” goes back Wool-
wonga: Interesting fact noted that the rose “grows
in countries.” We always thought it an ocean
vegetable... .Eden: “Jordan experimented with the
ink.” It may explain the awful appearance of the
copy about him Marjorie C.: Not our style....
Jack A. W.: “Doubtful Entertainments” has a thrill:
Hilarious (?) scenes are witnessed
In our well-lit streets o’ night,
When citizens of standing who stoop to getting tight,
To bolster up their balance
Catch at maiden aunties’ wrappers!
Who lecture and look and think they’re mistook
For flighty flappers.
A “pantomime” is provided
(Free to the lookers-on),
By some serpent-seeing subject and a duty-doing John,
Who fight a dinkum battle—
The usual end of the tale
fis the sozzled celebrator, resembling a mashed pertater,
Goes to gaol.
....Egroeg Noswad: No good, Egroeg. ... A.F.C.:
Only worth a paragraph Old Timer: No use...,
P.8.P.: Doesn’t get there..; .A.W. (Johnsonville) :
Moves very heavily C..J.5.: No use dishing
up stuff in that fashion... .Athos: Verse not
up.... Frank K.: Falls down... .Lancejack: Poor
yarn doesn’t move us Kathleen S.: Tiresome
Joseph II.: Heavy as lead Hugh G.: Same old
yarn with the usual exaggerations F.G. (Neutral
Bay): The impulsive young lover can’t roost here.
H.J.G.: Done too often before... .A.W.V.K.: Doesn’t
make a yarn... .M.P.S.: They must be better than
that.... King K.: All too crude. .. .F.C.C.: A lame
narration of a dull event... .E.A.W.: No yarn there.
•■. .N.T. (Hobart) : A badly-written yarn... .E.A.P.:
No use. .. .H.W.8.: Tedious and unconvincing....
Stanley 0.: Far too rugged Koo Yana: Machine-
made... .Mildred L.: Commonplace... .No Name:
“War at Home” ends magnificently in a welter of
bad rhymes.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Pickles: You ought to make a fortune with that
patent shadowless spotlight... .B.McQ.: They fall
down badly in drawing J.C.: If original shows
considerable promise R.L.D.: All miss W.8.H.:
Old. .. .D.E.8.: He has a very long way to go yet.
....Keystone: Hopelessly childish so far.... Mun
Murrow: Not up to publication mark.... F.P.: Some
merit if not a copy.. . .A.C.: Weak drawing. .. .G.H.:
Too stiff; loosen up a bit. .. . P.H.McK.: Pretty bad.
... .P.R.C.: Not original... .T.G.: Ditto. . . .H.W.A.;
Painful attempt at figure-drawing,.. .T.G.: Nothing
in it.... A.W.K.: The most amazing lady’s hand to
date... .Spott: Drawing- faulty and method far too
scratchy. . . .F.W. : Misses.


gblDnmc.
ORIEKT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular Riving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
liy nay of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. AUGUST 10.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO„
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies, Xc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Art 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. . . . . .. 325,000 0 0
interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. \V.
Cray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Brunches—J.oiidon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. . . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . . . £1,480,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 .. £12,813,129
Directors : Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R,
Lysaoht, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A. ; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir.
New Sontli Wales.
BRISBANE (204 Queen Street).
Cine) Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager: It. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . , . . . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea*
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
raid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. • • 650,000
£1,275,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,900,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. • • .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 20th JULY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAUNGAXUI, 7th SEPTEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
■'■Siw.Siii'
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3 h TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —-
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
raid-np Capital
lieserve Fund
reserve Liability
Directors:
- £5,000,000
- 3,600,000
5,000,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
M.L.C.
11.C.M.G.,
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkinev, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Mananer: Oscar Lines.
Heart Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund . . £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
advt
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Jloii. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Depot}' Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr's Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE
lIIIITCn insurance
11111 I Cy COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes o£
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture.&c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA”GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians, in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Missing Friends.
IF JAMES FOX, who emigrated to Aus-
tralia about 20 years ago, Grandson of
Hubert Fox, late of Lisanoran County, Ros-
common, Ireland, will communicate with the
undersigned he will hear of something to his
advantage. JOHN A. PETTIT, Solicitor,
Carrick-on-Shannon, Co. Leitrim
Or PERKINS, STEVENSON & CO.,
Solicitors, 122 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
LEONARD HART, who worked for
Mr. W. D. Young, Murwillumbah, N.S.W., in
1913, and w.lxose last-known address was c/o
G. W. S. Campbell, Taiga, near Gundare, N.
Queensland, is asked to communicate with
his father—J. HART, West Bergholt, Essex
England.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Uunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Steamer.
KATOOMBA.
(Calls Albany
with
passengers)
CANBERRA.
(Melb. only)
DTMBOOLA.
COOMA
(Melb. only)
KAROOLA. . .
Sails from
Sydney.
Sat.,
July 15
-ails from
'lelbourne.
Sydney Agents.
Wed., Mcllwraith,
Julv 19 McEacharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
Tues.,
July 18
Fri.,
July 21
Tues.,
July 25
Sat.,
j July 29
Tues.,
July 25
| Wed.,
Aug. 2
Howard Smith,
Ltd. & Reduced,
350 George St.
Melbourne S.S.
Co., Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith
Ltd. & Reduced,
350 George St.
Mr Ilwraith,
McEacharn’s Line
61 Pitt Street.
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for out ports).
’Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
t Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parkei L!m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney ami Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appii-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars npplv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern- convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 2-1
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdou&ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
SS. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m.; pasoenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences lor the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
monev, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISITA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IllOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton S Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealtli Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Iluddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


”^3
■
Si
m
m
m
5#
7
m
f
V
Don’t Use Small Castings
but use our
DIE PRESSINGS
For the Automobile, Electrical and General Industries, etc.
Non-Porous, Smooth, Uniform, Free from all Blow Holes, etc.
Produced up to 2 Jib. in weight. Straight from exact steel dies
using only Close-grained Metal.
Much Time is Saved in Production, also Labor and Tools
for Machining.
For Mass Production our Solid Brass Pressings offer great
opportunities to subsidiary trades. Quotations and advice
sent promptly on request.
Manufacturers:—
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, New South Wales.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.,
(SYDNEY) LTD.,
Sydney, Brisbane, Newcastle.
Wellington, N.Z.:—
Jones & Co., Ltd.,
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart.
Perth: George Kent, Ltd.
fESSOPS
« # STEELS
FORGINGS
Making big steel forgings is a real craftsman’s job. It
calls for exceptional skill, long experience, up-to-date
plant and good steel. The skilful application of these ,
different factors guarantees the production of real
quality forgings—forgings that make tough, wear-
resisting components easily able to stand up to
the severest duty for years.
jessop’s specialise in this type of craftsman-
ship—have specialised in it for years.
Better forgings are the natural result.
Better forgings made from a better
steel—a perfectly-graded steel—-
Jessop’s Steel. Let jessop’s
serve you.
Made in
Sheffield,
the home
of the
Steel
Industry.
11l
m
i-
= V "
m
A two - throw
crankshaft for a
gas-engine forged
from Jessop’s Steel. A
fine example of crafts-
manship guaranteed to ren-
der efficient service.
MAULER § QUEREAU,
Atlas Buildings, 406 Collins St.,!Melhourne,
} Agents for
WM. JESSOP 8 SONS, LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
advt
advt
We carry the finest range in Australia
Kindiy send your Gun License
when ordering.
advt
“‘4 marvel at the price:’
-Steven's Little Scout Single-
snot ltifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
uirrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2*lb
(Postaa-e—N.S.W., 1/3; other’States, 2/2.)
26
advt
“Simple and extra strong in construction:’
RIO. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges. 21 in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37jtin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b m .
Freight Paid.
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
advt
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rif* ■'s. designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim tire.
II can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simpiv
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the -safety-bolt. type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round. ISin. long, bored
anu rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Ift eight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight 25/-
(Fostnge—N.S.W., 1/C; other Stales, 2/S.)
S 3
IH
Remarkably accurate and hard hitting
Plenty of range and poioer.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Tower calibre, (3
omL”°* n ' romid tapereef barrel, take down, weight CJll)., muzzle velocity,
—SOOft. seconds, may be.used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patclied bullets (70
giains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds: freight o■«
Paid XIZ
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
151 3. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model. 10-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles ‘U
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about s}lb. ... £A
!• reign t pa in, w
advt
“A cheap and reliable weapon
IJ2. Stevens’ Marksman Kifle, 22 calibre, U.F.,
round barrel. 20in„ chambered for long rille cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, S/2.)
45/“
advt
m
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
G3B. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sjlb
Freight paid,
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING- -HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhoea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 2/- large tube (post free).
advt
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 18JI2
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Hound Barrel .
With Octagon Barrel
Freight paid,
Freight paid,
£.B/10/-
810. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 18s>2 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid,
*7/1 5/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and
RIFLES.
7xlic£ Simmnns M.
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Girls! Plaza Soap is
Simply Delightful for
the Toilet.
Its Fragrance Captivates.
Numbers of toilet soaps will give you a measure of satisfaction,
but if you want the highest degree of satisfaction, try Plaza—a
pure white, exquisitely perfumed soap which is simply delightful
for the toilet, and one which improves the skin vastly in the course
of a few days.
Its delightful fragrance lingers and fascinates by its elusive
character, for not one flower but a bouquet of flowers has been
selected to yield their odor to this delightful soap.
u
)"'SS
m
n
*
W 4
~~SSSI""""II////"
niirTU®?^
immmiiuiiii
as
V'-.'k
A V.
l
m -.
r \
>M\V
' v\j
m
VS
1
w?e
XII
AXUs
tf'T
(W(
i
i
■itr/
r
-*F
V.
4V
r -.'-w)' > c
3Q!fr'^ r '
lllit
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girl 9 are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it s such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
/ ./ ,
4.J. 140
Moon-Music.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE moon-smiths are beating the silver
I of dreams
Into anklets and bells
With a musical chiming
And delicate rhyming
Like the falling at midnight of little dark
streams
Upon mosses and shells
Where the sea comes up sighing
To meet the brown land,
In some lone island lying
’Mid coral and sand,
Where the simple grey breezes
Have fallen asleep;
And a yellow star teases
The palms on the steep,
Dancing out, dancing in....
Oh, girl grown so sweet,
With the moon on your feet,
How the world-silver thin
Goes tink-a-link-tink
To the hammers that beat
On the night’s shining brink,
Making rings for the ankles and bells for
the fingers,
Till my pen cannot drink
And niv heart cannot think,
Save of music that lingers
Tn silver and blue
And tangles and tingles
A madness that nrngles
Moon-magic and you!
N.S. W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Ultimate Factor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
«TT’S that easy a baby could pull it off,”
I pronounced Greig solemnly. He tilted
his cigar at a fresh angle, lifting a thin
finger to emphasise his remarks. “I can
assure you boys that I’ve gone into this
thing from every conceivable angle, and
there’s no chance that I haven’t reckoned
with. I’ve curry-combed the damn thing till
I know every flea on its hide. I can call ’em
by name, and they’ll answer me. Now I
put it to you, what’s going to stop us from
working a stunt that’ll set us all up for
life?”
Pratt looked at Ponsonby, who looked at
Gunderson, who looked at Greig, who, red-
faced with his own oratory, blinked back at
Pratt; thus completing, as it were, a circuit
of telepathic inquiry.
“Nothing,” said Pratt px-esently, in a
voice rendered thick by avaricious emotion.
“Zo far as I goncerned am,” said Gunder-
son, speaking from the region of his generous
stomach, “it looks goot—tamn goot.”
“It’s the chance of a lifetime,” snapped
Greig. "No —I’m wrong there. Its the
chance of an existence. Three of us here
have been jobbing for a matter of two years,
and what have we got to show for it? Ex-
cept Gunderson, who’s got a double-chin,
we’re no nearer opulence than we were when
we started. It’s been bread-and-butter work
from the very jump-off. We’ve never had a
real chance at anything big before, and by
the living jingo we ain’t going to miss this.”
“Zo!” remarked Gunderson heavily.
“Ponsonby having a seat on the Exchange
—though how the devil he managed it I don't
know’—is about the luckiest thing imagin-
able,” continued Greig. “No outsider comes
into the deal; and when you consider that
there’s going to be a father of a row after-
wards, it’s a point worth remembering. As
it is, it means that outside the four of us
—I don’t count Frogmore, of course —there’s
not a soul know’s enough to get on our
wheel. Ponsonby will handle this as a mat-
ter of ordinary business.”
Ponsonby adjusted his pince-nez. “Who
ia Frogmore?”
“Didn’t I” began Greig; but suddenly
relaxed his frown. “No —I remember now
that you w’eren’t here when I began talking.
I’d better go back and explain things from
the beginning. It’s as well to get the hang
of it properly.” He broke off once more.
“In the name of Heaven, w r hat are you
doing?”
“It’s all right,” said Ponsonby. He had
taken a small bottle from his waistcoat nocket
and shaken into the palm of his hand a
small grey pellet. “I just remembered it
w r as time for my heart tabloid.” He placed
the dose on his tongue and made motions of
swallowing. “Um-glumph—oo-ooolp—uckl
Excuse me, but I never could manage a pill
decently. It runs in the family, I believe.”
“If you’ve quite finished, I’ll get on,” said
Greig, without amusement. “Well, then —
the w’hole thing arose out of something I
overheard yesterday; just a word or two, you
understand, but quite sufficient for me.
When the other man had gone I took Frog-
more into a corner and tried to pump him.
He wouldn’t come at it. So then I began
to put the acid on. I said to him: ‘l’ve got
to . come in on this somehow’. You’re not
going to hog everything for yourself. Don’t
think it. If you don’t open up I’ll not
only queer this pitch for you, but I’ll tell
them why you left Auckland in 1906.’ ”
“Why did he?” interrupted Pratt, in the
manner of one about to make an important
entrv in his diary.
“I’m sure I haven’t the faintest idea,” said
Greig, with a sudden grin. “All I know is
that he cleared out from there and has never
gone back. I simply argued that a man
doesn’t close up a perfectly good business
and kick off to another part of the world, all
in a day and a night, without there being
a bit of a lee wind somewhere. Anyhow’,
my bluff went. He told me what he knew’
himself, and he’s sro'ng to keep me posted for
long enough. He’ll do it. He knows he’s
got to. What I like about Frogmore is
the way he squeals w’hen you turn the
screw.”
“I’ve noticed it,” said Pratt smuely.
“I thought someone had been taking the
cream off him,” said Greig, in an injured
voice. He threw his cigar, whffih was cokl.
petulantly on the floor. “What was it?
Shares in a glue-mine?”
Pratt shook his head. “Not this time.
I found out w’here his wife is. You know
she’s been hunting for him for months past.”
“Zo!” exclaimed Gunderson, a gleam of
approval lighting his dull eyes.
"Oh, never mind that,” said Ponsonby
testily. ‘'Get on with the yarn, Greig. If
I’m to do anything in this I’ve got to be
fully posted.”
“Sure,” agreed Greig-. “Well, here’s t-e
bones of it. You’ve heard of the Samakri
Coeoanut Plantation ?”
Ponsonby looked up with sudden interest.
“Who hasn’t? Why, my dear man, .1 sold
a parcel of Samakri only yesterday. I fancy
they’re moving a little.”
“Wait till they get to their top gear,”
said Greig. He nodded wisely. “The man
that cleared those out was a fool. What
was the quote?”
“A fraction over a dollar,” said Ponsonby.
“I see. Well, now Lscen to me. You re
commissioned by the gentlemen you see be-
fore you to buy SamaKii lor all you re worth
as soon as tne maraet opens on Monday.
You tuae no notice oi anything or anybody,
but simply go baid-headed for Samakri. We ll
keep in ctose touch with you from here, and
you’ll be told when to unload. Get me?”
"I’m still waiting for particulars,” Pon-
sonby reminded him.
“I'm giving them to you,” said Greig. He
moistened his lips. “You know that for
some time this stock has hung fire. Capital
was wanted for development, and there’s
been a lot of negotiation between the Sam-
akri crowd and a group of overseas investors.
They reckon if they get the money they’ll
whoop the property up into the finest and
best-paying proposition of its kind this side
of Sheol. Well, down at the company’s Mel-
bourne office are a cablegram and a tele-
gram. The cablegram says that the cash is
available in any God’s quantity, provided
that certain conditions, already discussed,
are complied with. One is that a guarantee
is to be given that the existing plantation
is absolutely healthy. That information
goes out to the public to-morrow morning. I
leave you to imagine how Samakri stock
will boom.”
“And the telegram?” asked Ponsonby as
Gre.g paused to recover his wind.
“The telegram! It’s from the manager
at Samakri. It says that they’ve discovered
that the place is full of the palm-beetle.
You know what that means. It means the
wlm’e damn show is ruined. Once the palm-
beetle gets a hold, it’s good-night—-abso-
lutely.”
“Hut I don’t see” began Ponsonby
staring.
Greig lowered his voice. “You will in a
minute. This pal of Frogmore’s is in the
office. He’s going to hold up that tele-
gram for 24 hours. And Frogmore is going
to buy early and sell like Hell when the
going is ripe. Nozo do you get me?”
“I say!” said Ponsonby.
In his sudden excitement his glasses fell
off and splintered on the flooi\ He broke
into shrill imprecation.
Pratt clapped him boisterously on the
back
“Never mind, old boss. In a week’s time
you’ll be able to buy yourself a gross of
’em, if you’ve a mind to. Don’t let a little
think like that worry you. What you’ve
got to remember now is that you're to be
on the job with the milkman to-morrow
morning and stay on till the whistle blows.
And don’t forget you’ll be buying against
Frogmore. Confound it, between the two
of you you’ll push the sky out of place.”
“Oh, I guess we can come to some arrange-
ment,” smiled Ponsonby.
“You bet. And I tell you what,” said
Greig, in a burst of generous feeling, which
he instantly regretted, “I tell you what, my
boy—when you get around here afterwards I
shouldn’t be surprised if there’s a bottle or
two of fizz waiting. Eh, Gunny?”
“Zo !” said Gunderson.
Ponsonby peered at him shortsightedly.
“What a devil of a lot you don’t say. But
look here, Greig, what's gping to happen to
this friend of Frogmore’s? They’ll jug him
for it, -won’t they?”
“So long as they don’t jug us,” said Pratt,
with a whinny of laughter.
“No, they can’t touch him,” said Greig.
“How can they. They can get nothing on
him but a charge of damned carelessness.
He'll lose his iob, but a fat lot that’ll trouble
him. He ought to be set for life after this.
All he needs to say is that he mislaid the
thing. It’s in a code which he ain’t sun-
posed to know. And the envelope isn’t even
torn to show that he ever read the thing. As
a matter of fact, he steamed it open and
closed it again afterwards. Some schemer!”
“He thinks of everything,” said Pratt
admiringly.
“Now we’ll round off the corners,” said
Greig. He lit a fresh cigar and his brow
settled into thoughtful furrows. “And I
think you’ll find I haven’t overlooked a single
point. I’ye made provision for every chance.
I’ve”
“Eggsguse me,” came Gunderson’s voice in
a rumbling monotone. He had the reluctant
appearance of a man aroused against his
will from enjoyable coma. “I haf been gon-
sidering, undt id comes to :ny mind where
is der gash for all dis? We haf nod der
brice of one verdomed drink between us,
aindt id?”
“We don’t need ready money, you idiot,”
snarled Pratt impatiently. “We buy low
and close out on a high market. Lord, you
ought to know how it’s done.”
“Zo!” said Gunderson.
He folded his hands over his stomach and
closed his eyes.
“Struth!” saul Pratt disgustedly.
“Don’t mind him. He’s the sleeping part-
ner’,” said Greig, with a tolerant grin. "Now
listen to me, you chaps”
* * * *
They met again early on Monday morn-
ing. Ponsonby departed almost immediately,
leaving the others to enter Greig’s office,
where Gunderson sottled hi® bulk in the o->lv
available chair. If anything, he appeared
even more stol : d and taciturn than formerly.
Pratt, his hat on his head, sat on the edge
of the table, drumming ceaselessly thereon
with long, lean Anvers. Greig paced up and
down the room. There was very little talk-
ing. The solemnity of the occasion made
itself felt.
At 11 o’clock the telephone bell rang.
Greig put out a trembling hand for the
receiver.
“Well?” he barked expectantly.
Satisfaction showed on his face as he list-
ened.
(Continued on next page.)


Stop That Na
Evzry Picture
i tells a Story"
r--
PS
Is a dull, nagging backache making you miserable? Do
sharp, knife-like pains go through you at every sudden
move? Do you feel weak, tired, all worn-out —as if
you just can’t keep going? It’s time, then, you found
out the cause of the trouble and made some effort to
correct it. Quite likely it’s your kidneys. A cold,
strain or overwork has probably weakened the kidneys,
and that is why you suffer that dull, depressing back-
ache and those sudden, stabbing pains. You may have
daily headaches, too, with spells of dizziness and some
annoying kidney irregularity. Don’t wait until serious
or chronic kidney disease sets in. Get back your health
while you can. Use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Doan’s have helped scores of Sydney folks. They
should help you. Ask your neighbor.
INTERESTING SYDNEY EVIDENCE.
A WOMAN’S CASE.
Mrs. E. Mayhew, 48 Alexander Street, Alexandria, Sydney, says:— “l suffered
from backache and rheumatic pains all over my body, and was sometimes so bad
that I was almost crippled. I could not stoop without enduring torture; in fact,
every movement meant increased suffering, and I often used to feel quite knocked
up. To make matters worse, ray rest at night was disturbed and I was also
subject to dizzy attacks. One day a friend heard Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
very well spoken of, so she advised me to try them. I bought a bottle without
delay, and after taking them for a few days my health began to improve, so I
persevered, and by the time I had used three bottles I was cured. The backache
and rheumatism have gone completely, and I feel splendid in every way.”
Four years later Mrs. Mayhew says:—“Since giving my testimony for Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills I have had a slight return of kidney trouble, but I again
used this fine remedy and it soon fixed me up. I stronglv recommend Doan’s Pills
to all who suffer with their kidneys.”
A MAN’S CASE,
Mr. .Tas. Wilson, IT Little Buckingham Street, Sydney, says;—“For a long
time I suffered torture from backache and kidney trouble. The pains in my back
were very severe, and I have been so bad that I could not attend to my work, as
every movement caused positive torture. The kidney secretions were affected,
being thick and cloudy and containing a red sediment. I was also subject to
dizzy feelings and could not sleep properly at night. Nothing I took gave me
any permanent relief, but one day, when I was feeling very bad, I heard good
reports of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, so I sent for some, and after taking
seven bottles I was cured. This remedy not only banished the backache, but
strengthened, and toned up my kidneys and improved my general health.”
Mr. Wilson confirms .the above eight years later, and says:—“l am still a
great believer in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and always have a bottle in the
house. By taking them every now and again my kidneys keep in a healthy state,
and I am never troubled with backache.”
advt
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
advt
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
"Good. Oh, damn good. That’s line. At
sixes, you say....and now thev’re calling
eighteen and a half. What’s that? No
you must use your own judgment. I can’t
....Oh, very well. King again in an hour.”
He turned with shining eyes. "Old Pon-
sonby’s that worked up he can hardly speak.
Hoys, Samakri’s beginning to move. In half
:tu hour she’ll be soaring. He’s stopped
buying, anyhow.”
"llow much....” began Pratt, clearing
his throat nervously. "1 mean.... how
many....”
"\\e owe some bird 500 quid, if that’s what
you want to know,” said Greig. He seized
a pen and began to figure feverishly on his
blotting pad. "Now shut up, will you. I
want to think.”
The long silence was broken by a spatter
of sound from the telephone. This time
Greig sprang for it.
"That you, Ponsonby? What! What’s
that? A hundred and ten and a half,
aud they’re crying for ’em! No, they
ain't going mad.... they’ve gone mad.
Hold ou a bit more. Not on your
sweet life. Unload, man—unload. Do you
hear me? Sell every damn share we’ve got.
Speak up, I can’t hear you. Yes, that’s
right. Go on and 5e11... .sell. And ring
up. .. .Confound it. he’s gone.” Greig wiped
the perspiration from his forehead and
looked at Pratt. "How much is seventeen
hundred times a hundred and ten bob?” be
asked in a weak voice.
“Somewhere about £9000,” announced
Pratt, with a kind of hysterical titter.
"I toll you what it is,” said Greig, after
a second of incredulous silence. "We’ll turn
over presently and wake up. It’s....it’s
unbelievable; £9OOO to nothing. Great
Mike!”
Pratt’s lingers made a noise like a kettle-
drum. Greig alternately laughed and swore.
Gunderson remained immovable in his chair,
his only sign of emotion being a slight puff-
ing of his cheeks in response to his quickened
breathing.
“I can't stand this,” said Greig suddenly.
He looked at his watch. "Isn’t it time we
heard from Ponsonby. He’s had half an
hour to unload seventeen hundred shares.
Don’t: tell me. He could sell ’em in one
parcel. Of course he could. Why don’t
he tell us ? Why don’t he ring up. or come
up? What’s the matter with him?”
“Why not try through yourself?” sug-
gested Pratt.
Greig was already at the telephone.
"It’s no use,” he turned, after five minutes
of fruitless endeavor. "The damn line’s
blocked, or something. Must be. I can’t
even get Central to answer me now. Lucky
it: didn’t happen sooner.” He slammed down
the receiver and turned to Pratt. “You’d
better go down. Get the tram at the corner
a,nd go and see what’s doing. This is getting
on my nerves.”
As Pratt disappeared lie resumed his rest-
less pacing of the room. Presently he paused
and looked at Gunderson.
“Gundy, old soul, did you ever hear of
such luck? Nine thousand quid. Think of
it. Mind, Fin not boasting, but I reckon
it’s a deal that does me credit. Leave
nothing to chance—that's my motto. That’s
the way to get on in life. You take it from
me. Why the devil don’t Pratt come back?
I wish I’d gone myself, now. But, Lord,
"hat a row there’s going to be later on.”
“Zo!” said Gunderson.
"As a favor.” said Greig irritably, “try
and find something else to say but always
that infernal ‘zo’ of yours. It’s getting to
be a habit. And on an occasion like this. . .
As a favor now....just once”
Gunderson’s mouth opened, but closed
again suddenly as the door opened to admit
Pratt. The newcomer looked at them
silently.
“Well ?” asked Greig sharply.
Pratt seemed to find a difficulty in speak-
ing.
"You mean hell, don’t you? Ponsonby’s
dead. He died of heart failure, brought on
by over-excitement.”
"Brought on by excitement." repeated
Greig mechanically. He took bis hat from
the table and replaced it again carefully.
"Would you be so kind as to inform me”
“He died before he sold a single Sainakri
share, continued Pratt, in a strangled voice.
"They are worth at the present moment
exactly -Id. each. It appears they have the
beetle very badly at. Sainakri.”
"Der teufel!” exclaimed Gunderson.
Greig looked at him dully.
"Thank you, Gunderson,” he said. “As a
fav0r....1 quite understand. Thank you.”
BERNARD CRONIN.
The Dragon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
U A then,” said the man with the
strange, melancholy eyes. “I came
upon the dragon—lying there
asleep among the rocks with its nose half-
buried in the sand.”
The rest of the men in the bar began to
edge- away. They had heard Scotty tell the
story before, for most of them had beer,
three or four days at the shanty waiting for
the camel-teams that were bringing supplies
Besides, they had arrived at the stage when
they were beginning to see strange reptiles
of their owd.
Not so Ferguson, lie had reached the
shanty that afternoon with a pack-
horse. and to him the man with the melan-
choly eyes seemed the sanest and soberest
of the crowd. Intelligent, too. That after-
noon he had bad a long discussion with him
about the formation of opal-veins, and Scotty
had agreed with his own theories about the
situation of the old volcanic craters. He
was easy to talk to, and did not answer in
monosyllables like some, of the bleary-eyed
opal-gougers who spoke as if the hot winds
had dried up the fountains of their speech.
“The dragon’s, a fabulous animal, of
course,” he began vaguely. “There’s no his-
torical record of it. not even a biological one.
Some of the prehistoric amphibians must
have been a good deal like it, though. There’s
no reason why the racial memory shouldn't
have handed the image of one of these down,
slightly distorted. All the primitive peoples
seem to have had their leviathans.”
“Just so,” assented the man with the mel-
ancholy eyes.
He was silent for a while, looking out of
the shant.v-window as if trying to catch the
gleam ot the Afghan’s camp-fires on the
empty stretch of dark desert. Then he
peated with the suggestion of a chant in
hls voice:
“It eyas lying there asleep among the
rocks with its nose half-buried in the sand.”
Ferguson lit his pipe and looked at him
sympathetically.
“How long were you without water?” he
asked. “You must have done a bad perish
before they found you?”
“I was all right then,” replied his com-
panion. “I’d hardly even realised that I’d
lost my bearings. My horse was fit enough,
too, and I d just camped the night before on
a rock-hole trait had been used by the blacks,
There wasn t much water in it. but it gave
us both a drink. That was right on the
edge of the mulga, and after we left it there
was nothing but sandhills aud shingle. Not
enough wood for a man to boil his quart!
You could look all round the skyline and not
see a thing except perhaps a crow or a
hawk. It was just then”
“Bad country!” interrupted Ferguson,
"I m going that way to-morrow.”
“It was just then,” insisted his com-
panion, “that I came upon the dragon. A
little after noon, it must have been. I’d
been riding on, with the brassy sun beating
down upon my neck and the heat-waves
rising from the sand like thin smoke when I
saw an outeron of small rocks. Something
like a dead tree, half-buried in the sand
was lying near them. It looked a good place
to camp for a while and rig up a ground-
sheet to make a bit of shade. I’d a sort
of idea, too. that there might be water near
those brown rocks.”
“In the mirages I’ve seen,” said Ferguson.
“there have always been rocks. Some so
clear you could almost see the crabs crawl-
ing over them ”
• ‘ a ; a mi * a f f e ’ , sald l i s , com .
V i? a . W T Sn a tra^ e of water.
As f°i the d ad tiee, I soon made out what
that was. It was dark and sealy-loolung.
and a faint, musty smell came from it. The
horse shivered all over and wouldn’t go near,
but T could see it: plain enough and knew
it was alive, even before it moved its tail.
TfraT WaS i kat '°P® n ’ and awhitisli,
wrinkled lid covered the other, as if it was
su !U'r 10111 S0I) , 1P 801 * of blight.
Old age, probably, put m herguson.
"Perhaps. Lord knows how long it had
been lying there. Its dirty, bat-like wings
were folded up in a crumpled way at its
sides, and there were little streams of fine
sand in the grooves. They were' the only
thing's about it that: didn’t seem made of
metal. Its scales had a metallic look, but
there was no sheen about them : they looked
dull and rusted, like old iron that’s been
lying out in the snn and rain. And when it
moved its tail slightly in its sleep—you know
that scaly sort of sound a snake makes
when it’s crawling over dry leaves?”
“I do,” said Ferguson. “A couple of
nights ago, when I was camped on a camel-
soak back there”-
“Well, it was like that,” resumed his com
panion, "a slow, prolonged rustle like a wet
rope being dragged across a sandy floor.
When 1 come to look back now it seems
queer that I wasn’t afraid of it. There
were its metal claws, shaped like an enor-
mous bird’s, and its ugly head half-covered
in the sand ; then there was the stale smell
that seemed to hover about it, the smell of
tombs. But I wasn’t afraid—only curious.
Somehow, it looked natural enough, and not
so very terrible. It even looked a little
shabby and mean, for all its bulk. Perhaps,
though, if I'd seen it flying into the air.
with its great bat like wings darkening the
sun”
He stopped uncertainly as one of the
opal-gougers came over and urged them inco-
herently to have a drink. Swaying a little
he put his hand paternally mi Scotty's
shoulder.
"Forget that fowl, Scotty,” he maundered.
“You take m.v tip—forget it. I could tell
you things I’ve seen—lots of things—but I’ve
forgotten ’emForgot any (lord’s quan-
tity of things.”
When he had gone Scotty turned to Fer-
guson with a rather shamefaced look.
“You may hardly believe it.” he said, "but
I didn’t toil anyone about that dragon till
nearly a fortnight after I got here. Not
till a couple of days ago, really. I’m that
sort of man. . . .And most people don’t know
the world they live in .and don’t want to.”
He produced a leather wallet from his
pocket, and in the corner of the bar they
talked opals till midnight. But Ferguson’s
mind was on the dragon. The quiet convic-
tion of Scotty impressed him, aud after the
last, week’s ride over the dried-up bed of
a forgotten sea he was ready to imagine
anything.
When he got to his room behind the bar
his attention was caught by a magazine
supplement nailed to the slab wall at the
foot of the lied. Half-undressed he stood
looking at it by the light of the guttering
candle, and the smell of the desert, coming
in through the open window, gave it a cer-
tain atmosphere and reality. There was the
monster again, lying asleep among the rocks
with its snout half-buried in the sand!
“Don’t get looking at that,” said tilt l
shanty-keeper, coming in with a spare candle.
“Why?” asked Ferguson, turning.
“Well, you never know,” chuckled the
shanty-keeper. “There’s Scotty—it’s nearly
settled him. Just when things were going
well, too. He was all out to it when they
brought him in—three days without a drink,
and the shirt and pants nearly tore off him.
I put him in the room here and looked after
him till he came round, and he'd be all right
now if it hadn’t been for that there picture.
He’d lie in the bed there staring at it with
Ms eyes sticking out like a prawn’s. Too
much imagination!* A man don’t want it in
these parts.”
And taking the tacks out of the wall witli
his thumb-nail he rolled the picture up be-
tween his thick fingers.
VANCE PALMER.


s»
m
m
r.~ ■
I
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane,
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office —99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
advt
MOTOR CARS
Li&ht wpi&ht, perfect balance and
its engine’s patented Internal Hot
Spot, account for the truly won-
derful petrol economy of the
Light-Six.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studebakev Year
P"
'\o
&
LIGHT-SIX 5-S«ater
Cord Tyres
£525.
Refrigerating & Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the time*
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniv to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Ail
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Me!
Perth; and
Journe, Brisbane,
Auckland, IM.Z.
m
advt
“Wetproof” and Dependability
“WETPROOF” is acr .ed
word; it is a REM IN GT ON
word and stands for the special
patented process with which all
Remington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
tridge cases have long been made
of so-called waterproofed parer but
this exclusive “WETPROOF” pro-
cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
gun cartridges.
The wetproof compound of special oils
is applied, not only to the body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
loading, effectively sealing it against
moisture and giving to the contents that
protection which insures uniformity of
ignition, pattern, speed and penetration.
Sportsmen need not fear the effect of rain
or damp weather on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
brands treated with this special, patented
“WETPROOF” Process.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian
Representative, Box 686,
G.P.0., Melbourne
£-15
arrow
'fc,
I*s
»»MI
*
•••iitmiiitlllll
- HMIIIIIIII
'•mHIIIIIIPrini
i||
HIP
V
iiirnillK
in
iiinfKiriiii if i
««ttkiravs
ffllltNlfjrf'" 1 •f m „
- I..IIHIIUI&I1I
'jj^llliisl 1 "f , |
Illltll ■S lli!!l,i
-
■iMrU-l
Jllllllifu*
IlllllllillllUli
tiiiiiin'HliYl
1111 II |
„„ |
HKIIIIIIIIIIII
—illllllllj
MAINTAINED
ACCURACY.
When it comes to hair-splitting in production
the engineer must be sure of his tools. An
ordinary cutter, although accurately produced
itself, wears quickly, and soon loses its accuracy
with its edge. It is no longer useful.
CAPITAL
VRAOE
MARK.
Capital” Brand Involute Cutters,
Milling Cutters and End Mills
advt
satisfy the most exacting demands for lengthy
duty on positively accurate work. They are
produced from highest-grade All-British Steel
on modern machines working to a fraction of a
hair-breadth. They work better and last longer.
We guarantee them. Send your inquiries and
ask for “Balfour’s Hints on Steel,” post free.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., litd.,
Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 312-48 Swanston
Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46
Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie. Paul & Gray, Utd.,
Scott Street,. Newcastle; H. 1. Milligan, 32a
Argyle Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-
36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Charles Atkins &
Co., Utd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
succeed—
I
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-Drink which maintains
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK - .') daily. It*
combines ihe valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORUCK'S MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS. ENG.
gg*.DT«VtjiB
2S;
In 3 sizes ; of
Chemists a
Stores.
all
n d
R. G. WATKINS <a CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


o
,- 4>
mt
s-tm
ms
%
>1
■';
%*WS«V
3^
V
\
;»«y
«*T
>t»
'jour Advaniaoe'
rnhen its
M® IO
WH ] S
