

n
i ■> t •>
.1 1 ■ n o
JL
T
/
/
4
:
■
/
rTrfeC
/
&
\\
■
■
ri
Take
a
day
off!
KEEPING everlastingly at it
b brings success, we are
told. Maybe it does,
also it brings nervous prostration
—says Dr. Frank Crane.
The business-man’s energy will go
further, and he will do better work
if, once in a while, he takes a day
off and plays golf.
Then there’s mother; nobody
needs a day off so much as her,
whose cares are so constant and
trying. Let her take a day off
occasionally.
Particularly if you feel dumpy
and your nerves are frazzled,
when you are unable to concen-
trate your mind, when everything
you do is wrong, and you find
yourself slipping into that mood
of irritation and inefficiency that
sometimes comes upon us. That
is the time to take a Day Off.
Dr. Frank Crane’s advice is sound, but we cannot all relinquish business
and home duties just when we feel inclined. The next best thing to do,
then, is to take a dependable restorative such as CLEMENTS TONIC.
There is no alcohol or opiates in CLEMENTS TONIC. Its nourishing
medicinal ingredients impart relief from languidness, anaemia, weak nerves,
impaired vitality and similar ailments. Try it; with water or soda-water
CLEMENTS TONIC is pleasantly invigorating. “It puts the ‘Vital* into
Vitality.”
dements Tonic is on sale at all chemists and storekeepers
throughout Australasia, Papua, Fiji, and New Zealand.
dements Tonic, Ltd., RoaeUte, H.S.W.
. JMfflp?lwi
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2205.
Thursday/ May 18, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Anstralia, for Transmission by Post aa a Newspaper.


Now' 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
PYMOOK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 George Street. City.
“My
Commonplace
Book ”
By J. T. Hackett
THIS charming collection of quot-
ations, grave and gay, with the
author’s interesting and amus-
ing . comments, has been received
with extraordinary enthusiasmby the
British press in over 100 reviews
and notices. Some Extracts are:
“Contemporary Review.”—"This
delightful volume."
“Scotsman.” —“Wide reading and
fine taste.”'
“Daily Telegraph.”—“ We can
scarcely imagine a better bedside book.”
“Saturday Review.”—“ An ideal
companion in a hammock or on apunt.”
“ New Witness.” —“ As fine a col-
lection of literary nuggets as it has been
our privilege to meet between the covers
of one book.”
“Literary Guide.”—"A wonderful
and delightful collection.”
“Teachers’ World.”—“ I did not
know how jolly a commonplace book
could be.”
“To-day/'—“ Has no equal of its
kind.”
(T. Fisher Unwin Ltd.)
3rd Edition, 15/- (Postage 7d.)
At All Booksellers
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
ď
MANGROVITE Leather Belting
Eid your factory of annoying belting troubles by
installing Mangrovite leather or Raw-llide Belting.
It is celebrated for its powerful, bull-dog grip on
the pulleys, and gives your machinery the benefit of
every ounce of generated power, and cuts down your
production costs. Instal Mangrovite now.
MANGROVITE, BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEW CASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid A Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
BOURNVILLE cocoa
S ATI SPIES
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE-—“THe Standard of Quality."
Pipes worth Choosing
Guaranteed Century=old Briar.
• !
MARCEE-DE-LUXE. MARCEE
This pipe (shown on the left)
is made from French Briar-root
-—guaranteed over 100 years
old.
Subjected to special hardening
and seasoning processes—it
ensures a cool, sweet
at all times. . . .
f
is the pipe illustrated on the
right. One of the famous GBD
family —made from genuine
French Briar beautifully
marked and fitted with silver
mount and
....
superior
vulcanite mouthpiece. .
10/-
Sydney, and your order wi
Box 502 G.P.0.,
ive prompt attention.
M
C
a
7
100% Efficiency ldeal Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club,' school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an “IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN BE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize-efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users:—
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTH. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHILIP RUSSELL, Esq., Beaufort.
T. W. GUNNERSON, Esq., Bahvyn.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, Melbourne.
NORTHCOTE CITY COUNCIL, Melbourne. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
The “IDEAL is specially made for private lawns. Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
w
SOI9 Australasian
Agents;
C- J. WHITE & SONS,
172 Little Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Heins- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lance® (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bae-
tericidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin,
® \
A. The Larynx
Organ of Voice
B. The Trachea <
Windpipe.
Q. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption.
' '“U:-- - ; ■ • ■■■ ■■' r I 8
The Ped Page
Hilaire Belloc
L’assiug reference to Hilaire Belloc in a
recent Bed Page article (9/3/’22) seems to
justify a word about his outstanding qual-
ity. Mr. G. C. Dixon, in tilting at 11. G.
Wells, takes, or attempts to takte, Belloc
in his stride —not an easy feat, considering
the stature of the man. He is spoken of
as -“an effective controversialist, but none
too profound a historian, if one can judge
by the episode that followed the publication
of his ‘Warfare in England.’ ” But, really,
you can’t judge Belloc by an episode, parti-
cularly such a orie as that referred to—a
disagreement between him and a Times re-
viewer as to whether Matthew Paris was
an authority on the Battle of Evesham in
A.u. 1265. Matthew Paris may have been
dead, as the Times man avers, before Eve-
sham was .fought; but it is hard to say who
was dead Or alive six and a half centuries
ago ; and, personally, I would take the word
of the knoiyn man before the anonymous
critic every time.
Belloc has been writing history most of
his adult life. He was born in England
51 years ago. The two racial strains, French
and English, go a long way to explain
him. lie finished his youthful educa-
tion at Balliol College, Oxford, where
he won the Braekenbury History Scholar-
ship, and eventually took first-class
honors in the same subject. Intended for
the law, he thought for a time of the church,
but decided to go the way the world knows.
He has made many periods of history his
own, and has written over a score of books,
all based on original research among unpub-
lished materials. If he is not a “profound
historian” who is?
The period in which he is most at home
is probably that of the French Revolution ;
Iris; lives of Dantou. Robespierre and Marie
Antoinette cause these people to move in
froht of you in their habit as they lived.
Blit Belloc has covered a lot of other
ground. Since the end of 1914 he has
specialised in the European War; prior to
that he had delved deeply into English and
French medievalism. His book on the
Bayeux tapestry, from the pictures on which
we get a lot of our information about the
Battle of Hastings, is the last word on that
fading record. He has written monographs
on such dissimilar characters as La Fayeble
and Diana of Poitiers; has enriched the
literature of travel by books on “The Pyr-
enees” and “The Road to Rome” ; and has
contributed dozens of essays to the reviews
and magazines. Latterly he may have lost
something of his earlier dash and “flair” ;
the critics find him still informative, but
more pompous than he used to be. A re-
cent caricature by Max Boerbohm shows a
stout, dress-suited Belloc received in audi-
ence by a tiara-crowned Pope, the Pope
looking iu astonishment at the impres-
sive visitor. For Belloc is that rare bird
in these days—a secular historian who takes
himself seriously as a defender of the Faith.
Now and again in his books you find sucli
phrases as “God willed” this and “God
willed” that—.phrases that stand out starkly
from the general character of the book
itself.
The charm of Belloc, as I suggest, lies
partly in his style, which is graceful and
eloquent, but more in his power of color-
ing. events of history with the hues of a
rich imagination; in other words, of mak-
ing the dry bones live. Mere learning is a
useful enough quality, and in an historian
indispensable, but wherever you go you can
buy it by the ton. There is much more than
this in Belloc. There is the creative quality
in all his books, blit more of it in some
than in others. If he had never written
anything but the lives of those three great
victims of the French Revolution the read-
ing world would still be greatly in his debt.
Belloc’s Robespierre is a curiously arrest-
ing figure, the bare recital of whose career
easily surpasses anything in fiction —always
excepting the merely freakish fiction of a
Rabelais or a Jules Verne. This man, who
disliked bloodshed and whose name became
a symbol for blood throughout Europe, is
understandable enough in Belloc’s pages. He
was caught by the currents that swept
everything before them from August, 1792,
to July, 1794; he was not strong enough to
rule the storm, nor humane enough to risk
his life by joining the party of clemency and
reaction. You watch him with a sort of
fascinated curiosity, seeing now what he
could not see. and judging now as he was
unable to judge. The thrilling story of
Thermidor, when the crash came and the
shcdder of blood went to join his victims,
leaves you with a sense of poetic justice,
even while a streak of something like sym-
pathy mixes with the volume of dislike and
disgust for the chief character in the drama.
The real Belloc shines out brightly, if fit-
fully. through this tragic aud moving story.
I<t shines out again in his study of Marie
Antoinette, the wojnau and the queen. He
makes It quite dear that, born as she was.
and circumstanced as she was, she could
not have acted otherwise than as she did.
She was the foreordained victim of the Re-
volution, the saddest,, the proudest, the most
pitiable and the v most splendid of them all.
The Life of Danton reveals a slightly dif-
ferent Belloc. It was written when he was
a young; man—just 29—and nof altogether
free from self-eons<Sousness. He rises here
and there into purme passages, the sort of
thing that Macaulay revelled in all his Bfe.
Here is one from the chapter headed “Fall
of the Monarchy”; it follows the description
of the death of Louis XVI.: —
So perished the French monarchy. Its dim origins
stretched "out and lost themselves in Rome; it had
already learnt to speak, and recognised its own
nature when the vaults of the Thermae echoed heav-
ily to the slow footsteps of the Merovingian kings,
book up that vast valley of dead men crowned. ...
You may see them in the grey end of darkness, like
a pageant all standing still. You look again, but
with the growing light and the wind that rise 3
before morning they have disappeared.
More impressive still, perhaps, and more
appealing to the imagination is the Belloc
picture of ghosts trailing after the greatest
ghost of them all: —
There is a legend among the peasants in Russia
of a certain sombre-mounted figure, unreal, only an
outline and a cloud, that passed aw'ay to Asia, to
the east and to the north. They say it was
Napoleon.... After him there trailed for days the
shadows of the soldiery, vague mists bearing faintly
the forms and companies of men. But there was
no voice and no order. The terrible tramp of the
Guard, and the sound that Heine loved, the dance
of the French drums, was extinguished; there was
no echo of their songs, for the army was of ghosts,
and was defeated. They passed in the silence which
we can never pierce, and somewhere remote from
men they sleep in bivouac round the most splendid
of human swords.
That passage falls naturally into music;
but rarer than the music of words is the
power to conjure up this twilight of the
gods—a dim and haunting place, of Belloc’s
own creation, where the shadows of the
deathless army are for ever bivouacked be-
side the leader for whom they died.
ALFRED BUCHANAN.
The Poet’s Peril
That Red Page article on “Nonsense
Verse” recalls that po'ets, as a class, have
always suffered from the affliction known
as “unconscious humor.” No doubt that
impenetrable sense of dignity which they
share with other respectable creatures, such
as mayors and owls, has much to do with
the spread of the complaint. Under the cir-
cumstances, it seems to me high time that
we had one or two medical exhibitions of
the ravages of this disease. Let me begin
with the following symposium:—
And to the left, three yards beyond,
You see a little muddy pond,
I’ve measured it from side to side—
’Tis, three feet long and two feet wide.
V — Wordsworth .
Wordsworth, by the way, teems with unin-
tended mirth. Who can forget his monu-
mental ode to the “agricultural implement”
of a friend, beginning :—•
Spade! with which Wilkinson hath tilled the soil!
Or his peevish outburst:—
I hate that Andrew Jones, he’ll breed
His children up to waste and pillage !
(Andrew had beat a cripple to two half-
pennies thrown in the dust, with the devil-
ish remark, “Findin’s beepin’s, up to half-a-
erown,” or words to that effect.) Coleridge,
who attacked the first-quoted stanza of
Wordsworth, has a glorious image in
“Kublai Khan” :—■
As if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing.
The wordy Mid-Victorians need quoting at
length, the trouble with Tennyson, for in-
stance, being mostly bathos—as witness his
execrable “Ode on the Jubilee of Queen Vic-
toria.” But we find the disease in its worst
stages in modern America. Take Edgar
Lee Masters. He asks ;
Why did Albert Schirding kill himself
Trying to be County Superintendent of schools?
Nobody seems able to answer this, but the
poet acutely .adds ;
I should not have walked in the rain,
And jumped into bed with my clothes all wet,
Refusing medical aid !
-—Albert having apparently suddenly re-
tired, boots and all, for some inscrutable
reason connected with the superintendent-
ship. Vachell Lindsay is too far gone to
quote; but tak.e the suffering Carl Sand-
berg (the Yank’s idol) :—-
I listened
And the high cr„v rang,
The high'cry of Man, the Man Hunter:
We’ll get you yet, you sbxyzcli!
In the morning the sun saw
Two butts of something, a smoking rump
And a warning in charred wood:
Well, we got him
The sbxyzch!
After this “Bellerive’s” seem to lose
their quality of horror, and “Iqlaire” (doyen
of Bulletin murder-bards) becomes-no more
than a healthy butcher
The maniac rushed home, as loudly he swore,
And battered with axe at the tightly-locked door.
“Gdre, Gore, Gore, Gore!” he cried “I must have
Gore!!”.
In a moment his poor wife lay dead on the floor.
A kindly neighbor happened to observe the ghastly
deed.
“Help” he remarked “this woman seems in sore
need.”
A French miner who had taken to Eng-
lish verse in his old age once brought me
the following piece :
WHY MOON HAS PHASES.
Why Moon has phases and looks like a Boat?
Too drunk to stand, she lies in the moat!
You ask the reason ? ’Tis her red complexion,
The absence of a crew, and her position.
But I have quoted enough, perhaps, to de-
monstrate that there is urgent need for the
(Continued on page 25.)


JL.
V
TUmosiin Com/ori „
and/uxUry Combined diih &cononr^~
IN FUR GOATS
- ANTHONY HORDERNS
These Distinctive Coats will appeal
to you by reason of their attractive-
ness, their usefulness, their obvious
economy. The prices are most
reasonable —the quality is excellent.
Such coats are desirable possessions,
and one must find a place in every
complete Winter Outfit.
Jf'
c?
lAu
O v
a
m.
O
o
o
7$
1X1606
'r'v^**U
\
V
L
□
1 X 2614
J XI
7;
* ■
?wv
y </
i
1
I /CSv
Mtrr?
w
1X73
JX 2256
IX26o6.—Coney Seal Coat,
in wrap shape, lined with saxe
blue brocade and fastening
with fancy buttons.
price 39 gns.
I X I 00/ V
1X2614. A Most
Luxurious Marmot
Coat, lined richest satin
to tone, and fastening
with fancy buttons.
Price .... 50
IXl.—Black-dyed Coney
Coat, with a big collars
square shaped at back.
Lined apple-green siik.
Prke 15 gns.
1X2256.—M0ck Ermine Stole,
straight shape, lined ffcincy silk with
a softly shaded pattern of blue on
white ground, and edg<ed with tails.
Ptice ••• *•••'• 9i tms.
IXIOO/36. —Koljrfsy-dyed Coney
Coat, lined fadicy-patterned satin
blending rich and harmonious colors.
Price .............. 17 gns.
IX73.—An Electric Seal Coat, with
a big collar and cutis of natural
Raccoon. Lined satin brocade, with
pockets inside. Price . . 52 gnS.
1X1404. —A Mock Ermine Stole of
circular shape, buttoning at the
throat with braid buttons and loop.
Lined ivory satin and trimmed with
tails. Price . 49/11
Carriage Paid on lb sir Coats in N.S.W., and
to the Nearest Pori on Interstate Orders.
IX I
& Sons Limited..
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


KODAK
records are complete
Every interesting, important or memorable event
demands a complete record —the kind that a
Kodak makes. A Kodak record is a picture
record and a written record in one —the latter
provided by the Autographic device —the most
notable advance in photography for twenty years.
A Kodak is a necessity for the professional and
business man, the traveller, the tourist and the
man on the land—in fact for everyone who wishes
to preserve the pleasant memories of incident
and achievement.
See these popular models
The Vest Pocket Autographic Kodak
is the camera you don’t have to cany
—you just wear it like a watch ; it
lias all the accuracy of its larger
brothers, but avoids the bulk —makes
you prepared for the unexpected pic-
ture. For good photographs 21 x ljj
inches. Price, 47/G.
The Xo. 1 Autographic Kodak Jun : or
is au instrument of high efficiency,
fitted with every appointment you need
for good picture-making, and of great
compactness. It is thin—shaped to tit
the pocket—and convenient to carry.
Takes good photographs 2\ x
inches. Price, 87/-
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valiev ; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street.
Toowoomba ; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton ; Optica] and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington NZ,
\*
V'
/
/
S
The new complete Kodak Catalogue is
sent post free to any address (except Kew
Zealand ) for 6d. to cover postage.
“ His Master's Voice ”
calls you to the dance
—calls you irresistibly, fills you with the joy of life,
leaves all worries absolutely forgotten, carries you away.
To the clear, resonant strains of “His Master’s Voice’’
Dance Records you dance as you have never danced
before.
The wonderful syncopation, the pulsating rhythm, the
perfect time and luring melodies of the world’s greatest
dance bands and orchestras are all there true to life.
On “His Master’s Voice’’ Records you can have all the
season’s most popular successes played by master
musicians who are far-famed as world melody-makers.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
“His Master’s Voice”
Head. Trade-mark.
103 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’‘firdmnplwne”
Hegd. Ihide-mark.
NlHiB
*?*
.! r >! .p-f - 5
J -!| _. % iisM
S-rTc; WeeK-
M
P
!/V
V*
fib 1 *
N
a
W
\
Write for corn
plete record
lists, instrument
catalogue and
name of nearest
dealer.


PIWRETTES
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No need ar y longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Or. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALL THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Full directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a JiKEE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House. Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
in
p
■
:
■
" '■ ' • ' • - '
mi & m
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
Made in various
sizes arid styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f ood or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected: with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easilycleancd;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
:e9 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEUKY, 91 Catle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St, Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
%
As an aid to beauty nothing
surpasses lovely
• Walnut Hair
A worthy setting to the most
beautiful face.
Make the most of your hair.
Use
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
and you will be delighted with
the improvement in your
appearance. Harmless, per-
manent, waterproof. All
chemists.
/
A Locally-made
Dentifrice.
War conditions proved to the world that
the Australian-made product is equal in
quality to the imported article. Eudenta is
a case in point. Here is a tooth paste of
sterling value, yet priced at an extremely
low level.
1/-
a tube.
All
Chemists.
It’s as Easy as
Washing Your Face !
Safe Razor
A few strokes of the long
sharp blade, and your face
is smooth and clean.
And There’s No Discomfort
Afterwards.
:I \ '
d
BSP
*croiAi&%?
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to vour dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand —see how it baknees —then tike it
home and shave with it. It's a revelation!
Flawless Corsican Bruyere.
ďf
The Best Pipe that France Produces.
30/ /
'9ssA»fc,\
'■-.ivy//.
■V
■
w
*
W. W
will V
show '
shape.
every
week.
Illustrated,
809D.5., 20/-
F.L.C. Is a perfect smoke
—cool, sweet, clean. That
is because it is made by
French Diggers from the flnest-
grade flawless Corsican Briar Root
the world can supply.
Every F.E.C. is sold with
A Twelve Months’
Guarantee
and any cracking or burning within that
time will be replaced free.
Hade in 98 smart shapes—that
shown is silver-m’t’d style 809D.5. at.
201
Ask your tobacconist for one or send a postcard
to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell
where to get one.
:ard 1
you I
jsj
THE
'1 , jui,y
V"3?^
-£■ T
- ief i
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Wif/i w hich is amalgamated, the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE —Collins Street, Melbourne.
Established 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,320,000
£3,320,000
828.000
£4,148,000
Directors ; —SIK JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEE, >
VICTORIA —Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 137 branches.
N. S. WALES— Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 22 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt.. Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq. ; Hon. Sir Robert Philp, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 43 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 30 branches.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Past.
lam remembering, this wintry day,
An old, high room, deep-alcoved, warm
with books,
Dusty, perhaps, in corners, yet with looks
Of you cast everywhere and every way;
And how I’d wander in, but half-astray,
Dreamily knowing how the hour would
pass—
You in your chair, I there —the window
glass
Spattered with rain, coals in the chimney
grey,
And life strange, prescient, athrob through
all—
Even our words alive with hope and fear —
Perceiving; knowing souls.
... .The long days go.
My heart, I know, will never tremble so
Again; nor light be drawn so from the
drear
Dark day. Nor can I answer when you call.
VICTORIA.
C. H. S.
When Love Was Blind.
“I wish 1 hud a sweetheart dear, with blue
and shining eyes.
How very tenderly I’d love, how gallantly
I’d woo!”
The boy looked out where Kitty dwelt upon
the dappled rise,
And Kitty’s shining eyes were very blue.
‘T wish I had a little girl with hair like
river gold,
And lily hands, and small, fine ears, and
dainty little feet.”
The smiling girl upon the rise had hands so
cool to hold,
Her hair it was the color of new wheat.
“I wish,” he sighed, “I had a dear, and she
was neat and trim.
With slender waist and gentle brow, and
breasts of ivory fine.”
The little girl across the rise had kindly
smiles for him,
White tulips were her virgin breasts divine.
“I love my sweet with milk-white teeth and
rose-red, dewy lip,
And wearing loosely in her hair the wall-
flowers’ tawny spray.”
The maiden’s mouth was like a .rose where
wee white creatures dip
For sweetness, all the swooaing Summer
day,
And in her hair she wore a flower, her
tongue was like a bird,
A tiny bell of golden tone where fountains
spray the mould,
Full often at her father’s hfome that graci-
ous note he heard.
He wished his love a tuneful voice of gold.
Then he went south, and she went north. In
many years they met.
And she was ten years married. To
another he was tied, y
His wife was large, with velvet eyes and
hair of polished jet.
He saw the other’s golden hair and sighed.
He listened to her gentle voice, he saw her
eyes were blue.
He marked her lip, Tier small, white
teeth, the scented flower she wore.
“Life,” whispered he, “is mocking me so late
in sending you.
Ah, God, if we had oijly met before!”
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
Flowers.
At even when the is dewy-dark
Over my garden, a£ pink twilight shakes
Bells of pure peace t through sleeping leaf
and hark,
A dream of other blossoms softly wakes.
Ah, God! the flowers that I have seen go by
In clouds of globing color, red and gold—
Bright marigolds and daisies morning-shy,
Verbena, stock and hollyhocks night-old!
Blue flowers! The Brisbane River choked
Vat morn,
Thiick with Wild whose sapphire
hands
Heldj in a flowery bondage, swampy-horn.
Streamer and ship that dared the blossomy
bands!
Roses at Ayr, more pink than flowers of
cane,
Fluflil.v rosy as a baby’s hair,
Redder than Delta twilights before rain,
Softer than cosmos skies that gather there.
Black blossoms against red ! The desert pea,
Running in western gardens, lying still,
Red upon brown—a scarlet Are for me
On a bank desk in dusty Charleville!
Flame-flowers! Great Indian cottons in the
dusk
Showering their blood bgside a Macnade
home,
Hiding the eastern liouris of pure musk
Within their hot, incarnadine bright foam.
Banksia! Golden, brown and ruby-red.
Lining the Gladstone crjbeks in bonfire-
hues.
Staining the lilied waters w£th its dead.
As sunset stains the skies* quick evening
wooes.
Wild bottle-brush ! I gathered it last year.
Bronze-red as temole censefls at my door..
Where banners of bright canngs vellow-dear
Shake their triumphant gold on Twi-
light’s floor.
And, walking here at eve through dahlia-
rows.
Bv bowers of budding roses pink and red,
Memory her mantle of white magic throws
And ohl flowers bloom for me in each
new bed.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


What a Burroughs Does
Adding long columns of figures—so tedious and unending a mental task —can
be accomplished on a Burroughs Adding Machine by simply depressing the
proper keys and pulling the handle. The machine
lists the amounts and automatically prints the
correct result
U 3, 4
44. a 0
1 3. 4
21. 3. 6
2 4.14 0
2. 2. 0 Addition
io.ia o
16.10
113 6
119, 6. 6<>
23. 18. 7ft
11 // Multiplication
26 3. 4 si) n;
119, 16.10
9 4 a 7//
Subtraction
2 5.14 3 #
30 4 15. 3// _. . .
9 Division
3 3.17, 3 9
Multiplication, subtrac-
tion and division can
all be performed by the
Burroughs as readily as
addition.
If required, sub-totals
can be taken at any
time and retained by the
machine to be included
in a grand total.
All the operations of the
Burroughs are mechani-
cal and therefore instan-
taneous and accurate.
Figures are printed on
a strip or wide sheet of
paper in neat, legible
type, all naughts and
punctuation printing
automatically.
The Burroughs method of figuring means vastly
increased speed, accuracy, neatness. These in turn
mean time saved, money saved, accounts always
balanced, statements always prompt.
«2»
SO
They mean a hundred other things that
directly or indirectly increase profits and
eliminate loss. But most of all, they mean
that the business with a Bur-
roughs is the business where
the figure facts essential to
success are constantly available.
Burroughs Machines are made by a
Company with a capital of £6,000,000,
with factories at Nottingham, England;
Windsor, Canada; and Detroit, U. S. A.,
and sales and service offices in the
principal cities of the world.
Sole Importers
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney. Wellington Building, Perth.
London House, Melbourne. Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Strand Block, Brisbane. Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide. New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
431.”
Adding—BookkeepingCalculating 4m |jl Machines


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2205.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1922.
Price 6b.
THE NEW LOVE.
“At the Protestant Federation Convention Senator Duncan said that the Protestant Federation had to be thanked for the stand it took in the last election. At
present there appeared to be a campaign on foot to malign and traduce Mr. Hughes. It would seem that an order had been issued by someone that Mr. Hughes had to
go. But Mr. Hughes was their ardent friend, and they must stand to him. (Cheers.)”


The Bulletin.
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William of
JlusgTave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at tlie Office cf the
Co., 214 Gcorse Street, Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbouhne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to anv address in Austualasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6' months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address OVERSEAS: 12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, ss. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Uusiness Communications to be addressed to the
M anayer.
Special Notiee.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
Or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable US. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i .e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
alter the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Cordon
and Gotch, Ludgdte Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, Fleet Street,
Loudon, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” ol High
llolborn, London, 1 V.C.1.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Eorsyth and Co., hi l Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
IJ s 4 — Chicago: J. Poland hay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New Yf>rk: Brentano s. sth Avenue
and 25th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington. . , _ .
Eoyft.— Jacques. Horn A Co., The Colonial Boole
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., I edder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Meichants,
Singapore. ,
Ceylon. —lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . , „ , ~ .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
jr,.,,.— A. Barker, Sura: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon A Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: 40z.,
Hd.; for every additional 2 0z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: 4oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere : 2oz. or part thereof, id.
iHeZz/n.
THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1922.
THE STANDING ARMIES OF
AUSTRALIA.
When the English people declared against
the principle of standing armies (a decision
that finds expression to this day in the Army
Act, under which the forces of the Crown
die annually and may only be revived by a
Parliamentary vote) they desired to do more
than register their objection to being blud-
geoned into righteousness by Puritan sol-
diers. They were tired of the spectacle of
lit men eating their heads off in uniformed
idleness; and in particular they were sick
of being taxed to pay for such a profitless
show. The marvellous leap forward in
wealth made by the United Kingdom after
the industrial revolution did not derive en-
tirely from cheap coal and iron, much less
from Freetrade. The fact that, on the other
side of the Channel, all the Powers were sup-
porting large armies, had a deal to do with
Britain’s phenomenal industrial start. It
meant that thousands of the Cratinent’s most
vigorous young men were withdrawn from
production and relegated to the foolery of
guard-rooms, orderly-rooms and parade-
grounds, while their contemporaries in Britain
were hard at it in mine and field and work-
shop. Yet a standing army has always been
a necessitv, on purely business lines, for any
modern nation that aspires to greatness;
unless, like Britain, it is in a position to get
the same results without a similar sacrifice
in man-power’-—namely, by means of a navy.
The day of the self-supporting State has for
ever gone. In order to be safe, whether m
w'dr or peace, the Power of to-day must have
colonies or their equivalents. France eon-
solidateil itself in Morocco, because of its for-
midable army; Italy annexed Tripoli; Japan
Korea; Austria Bosnia and Herzegovina;
and Russia dominated Persia, all within a
few years of the Great War, because they
had armies. The Kaiser’s army was essen-
tially a colony-winning instrument, and only
the revelations of time will show how near
he went to gaining control of the world by
means of it. It is not remarkable that
nations with land frontiers should endure the
insane costliness of their armies; the arro-
gance of officers, great and small; and the
knowledge that thousands, under the vitiating
influence of army life, are being turned into
loafers. When a great army does pay a divi-
dend the return is so colossal that it atones
for all the financial waste and human de-
generation of the peace years.
Australia has a standing army: in fact,
it has seven—one for eacn Stare and an-
other under the direction of the Federal Gov-
ernment. In a conscriptionist army raised
for fighting purposes, the adult males are
only withdrawn from production, under
peace conditions, for three years. The huge
force which we support—it was estimated
recently at 10 per cent, of the total popula-
tion—is to a large extent debarred from
anything like productive toil during the
wnoie of its working lifetime. In other re-
spects these permanent armies of ours, whose
personnel are called public servants instead
of soldiers, bear a close resemblance to the
armies of a war-lord. They have a tendency
to grow and grow, irrespective of the imme-
diate needs of the nation, and regardless of
the cost to the taxpayers. This is inevit-
able : the bigger the department the greater
the dignity of the man at the head of it.
What field-officer would be content with a
battalion when he could turn his command
into a brigade or a division? There is a
Prussianism of officialdom as offensive as any-
thing that is achieved in combatant forma-
tions. The man who wields a pen for the
State can be as truculent as he who wields
a sword; and an inspection by a Water and
Sewerage Board or War Service Homes offi-
cial is liable to be as humiliating to a house-
holder as one by an armed posse in a war
zone. It is all a question of the tempera-
ment or manners of the person in charge of
the inquisition. No cne w T ho served in the
late tragedy can fail to be struck by
the resemblance of most of the great depart-
ments, Federal and State, to a home-service
camp. There is the same tragic atmosphere
of boredom and futility; the same desperate
efforts are made by the more conscientious
to appear to be doing enough to earn the
emoluments of their rank even though they
know it deceives no one ; and there is the same
insincere energy' applied to the perform-
ance of the superfluous when one of the
brass-hats of the service is reported to be
about. The presence of these ever-swelling
legions of drones might be endurable if their
members were satisfied merely to cost the
genuine workers a great deal of money and
let it go at that. But many of the C.O.’s
and their adjutants and A.D.C.’s are deter-
mined to justify themselves and their salaries
by more or less drastic action; and another
section takes a militaristic pleasure in such
work. The innumerable checks on the liberty
of the subject,, achieved during the war and
since the peace, are not due entirely to the
two agencies which a-re usually blamed for
them— W. M. Hughes and the War Precau-
tions Act. Thousands of bureaucrats, great
and small, have done their share, and are
doing it to an increasing extent, so that, at
the present rate of progress, there seems
every likelihood that Australia, as a direct
result of being on the winning side in the
war, will find itself in the official-bossed posi-
tion from which Germany escaped through
being defeated. And all to no useful pur-
pose whatever. A bloated civil service costs
money, but it never makes any.
* * * *
The Minister for Works in the N. S.
Wales Ministry that has just gained office is
T. Henley, an anti-Socialist of the old, in
fact the Stone Age, school. He expressed
a view, recently, that was popular amongst
the worst sort of employers a century ago,
in the land from which he fled as a boy—-
namely, that those who do not work should
be allowed to starve. Pure individualism is
his economic creed —and death by famine
take the unsuccessful. The State must
neither assist the fallen nor enter into com-
petition with those who have kept their
ends up in the jungle struggle which is his
notion of the right life for a Christian com-
munity. But on taking over from his pre-
decessor he announced that he had assumed
control of an army of 60,000 State servants,
representing an annual pay-roll of close on
£15,000,000. The latest available Year Book
gives 14,954 as the total; from which (mak-
ing all allowances for the politician’s desire
to magnify the importance of his job, and
for the host of “temporaries,” and so forth,
that have accrued since the official estimate
was made), it may be seen how the service
is swelling. If the Works Minister really
believed in the principles he has so often
enunciated he would insist as strenuously on
the de-socialisation of the State railways
as he has on the sale to Private Enterprise
of the State butchery. The chief difference
between the two concerns, all said and done,
is that most of the railway lines are losing
an immense sum annually and can never do
otherwise, while the butchery was only a
minor failure in its worst moments and
always had the chance of developing into a
big success. There are other concerns —
notably the State brickworks —'which are
triumphs from the point of view of those tax-
payers who do not belong to the Brick Trust.
However, according to the political creed of
Henley —which is that combines should be
allowed to prey on the people, unchecked by
Government, equally with capitalists—the
successful brickworks are even more deserv-
ing of abandonment than the unremunerative
butchery. And there are other manifesta-
tions of Socialism which are neither abject
failures nor brilliant successes; as, for
example, the Sydney Water and Sewerage
Board, to which the new Works Minister
devoted a large part of his energies for over
a quarter of a century. It pays its way by
shirking its job; there has been no dry
summer within the memory of the oldest
suburbanite but the W. and S. Board has
celebrated it by cutting down its patrons
water-supply. So that, taking it by and
large, there is the widest possible range of
State Enterprise and State servant for
N.S.W.’s private-enterprise Works Minister
to try his eliminative hand on. No one
expects him to live up to a fraction of the
anti-Socialistic protestations he made so
freely while out of office. He can only put
them into practice by abolishing his billet,
and that is a sacrifice to principle that the
modern N.S.W. Minister is not wont to so
much as consider. But what he can do is
to cut the civilian army which he commands
down to something like its pre-war dimen-
sions, at the same time giving the resldde to
understand that work rather than lead-
swinging, punctuated by offidiousness, is the
requirement. If he accomplishes this change
to any marked extent it should be the pre-
cursor of similar movements in the other
States, and even in the domain which is
bossed by the Commonwealth’s arch-official,
W. M. Hughes. Australians never did take
kindly to bureaucratic control, and it has
reached such a stage latterly that, unless
there is a diminution of the unprofitable and
exasperating business, something is going to
break.
THE CONFUSED BUSINESS OF
COMMONWEALTH POLITICS.
The Watt mystery is in process of elucida-
tion at last. At Toorak (Vic.) last week,
before an admiring bevy of National
Women’s Leaguers, the member for Bala-
clava (Vic.) spoke out more boldly than he
has done since (for reasons which seemed
unsatisfactory at the time, but which have
not hitherto been amplified) he parted com-
pany with Hughes. Something still remains
to be said about the course of action he
intends to follow, but his general attitude is
clear enough. He is what is known in Aus-
tralia as a Liberal—‘-he rejects the term
Nationalist —and he is strongly critical of
the Coalition. That one-sided arrangement
may survive, although he has his doubts, but
only if “the Ministry stands for the things
Liberals believe in'’ and abstains from doing
violence to their convictions. In the past it
has been unfaithful to this part of the con-
tract. “Liberals believe that it is the'duty
of the Government to govern and not to
trade.” The Government, however, has
traded recklessly, and therefore governed
badly. Hughes said at Sydney that he had
never been a supporter of the capitalistic
system, and did not believe in it. The
Liberals won’t swallow that policy, which
is merely moonshine ; “I cannot accept, m
substitution for the present organisation of
society, socialism, communism or anarchy.”
For the rest, the Government has needlessly
quarrelled with all the State Administra-
tions, has fallen down on immigration and
made a jest of land settlement, has over-
taxed the people, been wickedly extravagant
and, on great national questions, is .suffering
from general paralysis. All of which is
true.
* * * *
Watt’s opinion of the Coalition is shared
by Conservatives, such as himself, in all parts
or the Commonwealth, especially Victoria and
South Australia. It is held most strongly
by those who were against the Lab.-Lib. alli-
ance from the moment it was suggested,
and who have made no secret of their an-
tagonism to the mostly dull dogs who fol-
lowed Hughes out of the Labor Caucus in
1916. To this section, and to many whose
political sentiments are vastly different, it
has always been a mystery why the anti-
Labor leaders surrendered as they did. Had
they remained aloof and preserved the integ-
rity of their party, the destinies of the
Commonwealth were in their hands. They
could have ruled it for six years at least;
perhaps for 10. And Australia would have
been far better governed by them than it has
been by Hughes and his dreary Pearces
and Boyntons and Jensens. It would
have been spared an arrogant and incom-
petent dictatorship, at any rate. The multi-
plication of public servants by the creation
of a horde of useless controllers, commis-
sioners, conciliators and what not —all pro-
ducts of the rotten system of personal gov-
ernment—would also have been avoided. A
Liberal Government would not have wasted
millions on ships or in blind purchases of
foreign sugar ; and it would not have set up a
system of “controlling” coal, which has well-
nigh destroyed the export trade in that com-
modity, and is crushing the life out of many
industries. Neither would a Liberal Gov-
ernment have taxed the public up to the
eves to support a bloated and ineffi-
cient establishment, the cost of which
has leaped from £10,978,423 in 1917-
18 to £16,425,859 in 1921-22. But in
an evil hour for their party and the
country the anti-Labor chiefs listened to the
blandishments of Hughes. For the con-
sideration of a few portfolios, and without
the sanction of their rank and file, they
handed over their party, its organisation
and really brilliant prospects to a forlorn
remnant of their opponents —a remnant
without an organisation or the means of
getting one, and too weak to win a single
seat without Conservative support. In the
history of Australian politics there has
never been a surrender more unbusinesslike
nor more disastrous.
• • * •
Watt played a prominent part in this
betrayal, and his regrets are belated. He
is ambitious of restoring the old party under
the old name —and under his leadership—in
time to cut a figure during the coming ses-
sion or at the general election, but the task
is probably beyond him now. Weary as
many Victorian Liberals are of Hughes,
they are indisposed to turn him down with
a general election in sight. In any case they
recognise that the man who made his run
too late has no following outside Victoria,
although he has hopes of support from South
Australia. The Liberals of that State are
in full revolt against Hughesism. Mindful
of the State election, which they won decis-
ively under their own flag, they are running
a Liberal ticket for seats long monopolised
by dismal followers of the Primimster, and
with every prospect of success. They have
been warned that if they persist in their
recalcitrancy “the whole weight and influ-
ence of the National - Federation will be
thrown into the scale -against them, but
knowing (1) that the “weight and influence”
of the S.A. National Federation amounts to
nothing, and (2) that Story, Poynton,
Blundell and co. owe their political exist-
ence to Liberal votes, they are treating the
threat with derision. In Westralia, likewise,
there is definite hostility to the proposal that
the three retiring Senators, Buzacott, Hen-
derson and De Lakgie, should be billeted on
the taxpayers for another six years (12 in
all) because they said “We’re with you,
Billy,” in 1916. Australian politics are in
so confused a condition that there is a possi-
bility of the people deciding, when the issue
is put to them, they haven’t done enough for
Hughes. But they have indisputably done
enough, and more than enough, for the tedi-
ous old hacks whose sole claim to considera-
tion is that they are followers of Hughes.
HUMAN BEINGS AND APE
GOVERNMENT.
It is said that civilised white people who
endeavor to run a domicile on the edge of
country where our poor relation exists
numerously in the wild state are liable
to return home after a brief absence to find
that the hairy creatures have broken in,
and been housekeeping during the family’s
absence. The general result is that the
library is in tatters, and the crockery
a mass of debris, and that the in-
terior of the piano gives evidence of
having been used for offensive and defensive
purposes. Of constructive work there is
always a notable lack. Revenue shows signs
of decay, and the inroads on accumulated
capital are large; also, the deficit is visible
to the naked eye. Something of this sort
describes the situation which the incoming
N. S. Wales Ministry found when it took
over the debris of its predecessors. The
most remarkable single item was the finding
of a record shortage of £5,500,000-odd. The
Dooleyites inherited a deficit. But by add-
ing to taxation at the rate of £2.444,000 in
one year, and borrowing at high interest to
the extent of £14,700,000, and by other
means, they added vastly to the load left
by the Nationalists. The chief visible re-
sults were that the percentage of unem-
ployed. as shown in the Federal quarterly
statistics,'more than doubled, rising from 55
per 1000 (inherited from Dooley’s prede-
cessors) to 135 per 3000; that the number
of strikes nearly doubled, toil being regarded
as degrading and superfluous; that many
industries collapsed; and that, despite it
all, neither Motherhood Endowment nor the
promised breaking-up of big estates nor any
other of the alleged public benefits on the
programme even began to eventuate.
* * * *
There is a great cleaning-up to be done
now that the wreckers have been pushed
out, leaving chaos in their wake. A _ live
reform Government might sell its duplicate
State Savings Bank to the Commonwealth
on the best available terms. It would thus
be in a position to forego the proposed new
palace in Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and be
able to put much brick and mortar on the
market. It could cut out other duplica-
tions, from the electoral rolls to the official
Stargazer’s office. The closure should be
considered, if only for a time, of a number
of railways—hard-pensioned lines that pay
no interest and very little working expenses,
which scare away rather than attract popu-
lation, and which have no visible future save
to carry wheat at half-cost. Any ports, like
Newcastle and Grafton, which show a will-
ingness to manage their orvn affairs, might
fitly be trusted with Harbor Boards, and
left to plough their own furrow. A place
like the Yanco irrigation settlement, which,
over a recent period, was alleged to be losing
£lOOO per day, and which dropped £170,000
in the last financial year, ought to be put on
the market unless within six months it can
be proved to have reasonable prospects
of becoming a payable proposition. And
it would not be amiss to ask South Aus-
tralia if its land hunger would induce it to
accept as a present the county of Yanco-
win.na, with Broken Hill and the decaying
mines and the miner’s disease and the
strikes and the Bolsheviks and the relief
problem and all the rest. The place might
be an asset when managed from a city 330
miles distant by rail, but it will be some
730 miles from Sydney, even if its money-
losing railway is finished, and on the figures
the money-dropping railway isn’t worth fin-
ishing. And as for the amount that might
be saved by a general overhaul of the de-
partments, the possibilities, after all these
years of busy Tammanyism, are illimitable.
But there are certain matters which speci-
ally suggest themselves, the reason being
that in modern N. S. Wales one Government
tends, with the lapse of time, to become
exactly like the Administration that has
been chased out. The whole State debt
should carry a £1 per cent, (or, at least.
15s. per cent.) sinking fund, that part which
applies to the British debt to be invested
with British Government trustees out of
the Treasurer’s reach, and the rest to be
put as far out of his reach as possible. The
fund should be a fixed charge on the revenue.
New loans ought to be rigidly restricted by
law. so that it would be necessary to fight a
Repeal Act through both Houses before a
fresh jag could be started. The estimates
should be submitted by Ist September each
year, and the discussion opened immediately
—as against the existing practice of pre-
senting them with a jeer as an accomplished
fact after the money has been spent, un-
less these steps, or others equally drastic,
are taken the expulsion of Dooley and his
replacement by Fuller will represent a dif-
ference without a distinction. The new
Parliament has given early proof that it
does not differ in ruffianism from the old:
and there is no reason to suspect it or a
greater supply of inherent honesty. It has
been truly said that almost every A. S.
Wales M.L.A. is a jungle ape at heart—in
his noisiness, in his obscenity, and. above
all, in his predatoriness. From which it
follows that unless the Ma State taxpayer
can in some way coerce or leg-rope his sti-
pendiary apes into limiting their powers to
depreciate the value of his house he will
shortly find himself dwelling in a ehat.er-
ing and incoherent state of ruin.


A ROW OVER A ROAN.
The Shanghai correspondent of the United Press
rWlares that Dr Sun Yat-Skn’s refusal to recognise
or with General Wu Pei-FU threatens
another civil war. Wu Pbi-Fu has directed part ot
his arrnv to suppress the Honan insurrection
A from Peking states that the President
issued an edict dismissing* the defeated CH-ANh
Tso-LiMvom his position as Governor of Manchuria
and abolishing all his titles, also providing that
the three Manchurian provinces Tso-Lin controlled
un to the present, which had been enjoying special
privileges, shall be reduced to an equahty with
other Chinese provinces. —Cable (11/ol te).
China is in an uproar—more of an uproar
than usual—and to try to follow all the
ramifications of the dark and bloody game
which is being played at the expense of the
protesting inhabitants would be futile. It
is possible, however, to state the main
factors of the situation so that a
Caucasian can understand them. The pre-
sent armies marching from the South, the
Middle and the North roughly represent the
three great parties controlling the country.
In the middle stands Wu Pei-fu, the most
able general and owner of the most efficient
army, until recently the idol of the people,
the hope of democracy and the white-headed
boy of the foreign interests in Peking.
Owing to his failure in the hour of victory
last year to execute the liberal measures of
provincial autonomy which he had nromised,
he has fallen somewhat from that high
estate, but he is still regarded as the most
sincere of the many champions of law and
order with whom China is afflicted. “Every-
thing fears the earnest man,” and the move-
ment from North and South which now
threatens Wu Pei-fu may be regarded as
tfce supreme effort of the old regime to
scatter and stamp out the dying embers of
republicanism.
Between Chang Tso-lin in the North
and Sun Yat-sen -in the South, there is
an “unholy alliance,” as the native press
has styled it. Chang Tso-lin is an ex-
chieftain of Manchurian brigands, the
liuughtse. Anything less like a brigand
could scarcely be imagined than this quiet,
slim, fat-faced man With the manner
and speech of a Confucian philosopher, but
the history of his rise from the leadership
of a robber band to the overlordship of Man-
churia is one of the romances of the revolu-
tion. For some years he has been consoli-
dating his power in Manchuria, and, with
Japanese aid, spreading his influence towards
the capital. His aim is to unite China under
a strong central authority. But he remains
on the outskirts of China. His problem is
to get down to the centres of population, to
get a footing on the Yang-tse, wipe out vVu
and strike a blow at the upstarts m Canton,
the renegade fools who preach the Rights of
Man to China’s prostrate millions.
Sun Yat-sen is the leader of the
old Kuomingtang party, the members of
the first Parliament whom Yuan Shi-
kai chased out of Peking. Sun is
the fine flower of Westernised Chi-
nese. A sincere democrat, he lias freen com-
pelled to ally himself in Canton with all
the shady adventurers and military swash-
bucklers who could not find a living else-
where. There is this much to say for him,
that the administration of Canton is alleged
to be the best in China. Avid for power,
however, Sun has carried the banner of
revolution beyond his own borders, and be-
come involved in military intrigues in the
surrounding provinces. Like Chang Tso-
lin, his motive is the unification of China.
Like Chang, he believes in propagating his
doctrine by force. Chang’s motive is to
restore the autocratic sway of Peking. Pro-
bably, like Yuan Siii-kai, the majestic
dream of establishing a new dynasty obsesses
his fancy. Sun aspires to bestow upon a
united country the blessings of Parliamen-
tary government. By means of a small
force of aircraft he has dealt summarily
with the moribund navy, which, ever since
the revolution, has led a hand-to-mouth
existence, and has spent most of the time
drifting about the ports looking for someone
to pay its rice-money. His present objec-
tive is the same as Chang’s —the Yang-tse.
What will happen after that will depend on
circumstances. When a cat sleeps with a
rat death is well in sight.
There is a fatal omission in the schemes
of both these leaders. Chang takes no
account of the growing body of enlightened
opinion in China, the merchants who want
modern conditions for their industries, the
Western-educated class who demand a
greater share in the government, the great
newspaper-reading public who, through the
medium of the ancient Chinese ideographs,
have learnt a little of the new doctrines of
democracy and self-determination. Sun
leaves out of his reckoning the vast mass
of the common people, who know nothing
and care nothing about Parliaments and
constitutions, but who want only peace, and
to be left alone to work, sleep and fill their
own and their children’s bellies. A country
which uses aeroplanes to destroy warships,
and where the postman and the telegraph
messenger are becoming everyday things, is
not likely to accept Chang as god-emperor.
A people who think it right that when a son
kills his father the son and uncle should
be beheaded, the son’s schoolmaster exiled
for 2000 miles, the neighbors occupying three
houses on either side of the murdered man’s
dwelling compelled to leave and not take
up their residence within 1000 miles, are
not likely to accept proportional representa-
tion as a substitute for filial obedience in
their social creed.
Wu has proved himself to be a great
fighter with a Napoleonic habit of fierce and
unexpected action. If he strikes at one of
his enemies before the other can make a
junction, his success is assured. His luke-
warm allies will hasten to come in on his
side, Peking will open its hoary gates to
him, Szechuan and Hupeh will settle with
Sun, and there will be a possibility of some
form of unity being; established in the Middle
and the Isforth. If. however, through trying
to fight on several fronts Wu is defeated
and his influence is eliminated, a greater
chaos than has yet been achieved will
almost certainlv eventuate. Sun and his
ally Chang will now be face to face. The
next step in the policy of each lies over his
rival’s body, and as soon as one or other
makes the stride fighting will break out all
over China.
In the meantime the crux of the position
is finance. Even a tuchun cannot throw
eight-inch shells about the landscape with-
out credit. And recently, to the. consterna-
tion of the mandarins, the credit suddenly
dried up. The Consortium, composed of the
banking groups of the four Great Powers,
commenced its operations by announcing
that no loans for other than constructive
purposes would be made to China, that the
security for such loans as were made must
be good, and that no support would be given
to unauthorised loans made by irresponsible
persons. At first the mandarins did not take
the threat seriously. They thought that
this announcement was mere face-saving on
the part of the Western Powers, and that
Britain, Japan and America would leave the
back door open for business as of yore. But
the Consortium stuck to its guns. It sat
down and did nothing. At last the golden
stream had ceased to flow, and all the shady
businesses that had fed upon it, the officials
who had misappropriated it, the tuehuns who
had used it up in smoke, began to languish.
An attempt was made to challenge the Con-
sortium’s authority by raising money on
the country’s internal resources, but it failed.
Then, to the amazement of everybody, the
Consortium announced that it was prepared
to fund the floating debt up to a total of
400,000,000 dollars, this to include all the
dubious advances to political adventurers by
the financial groups of various nations which
have been so severely criticised. It meant
that now all the vendors of Jew’s-harps and
aeroplanes, in obtaining their pound of flesh,
would have the backing of the armies and
navies of the Great Powers, and that a new
horde of officials would have fresh piles of
gold to squander. It looked like compound-
ing a felony, like fastening securely upon
the necks of the unfortunate people the lia-
bilities every local bandit had incurred in
establishing his tyranny over them. This is
the immediate prize the three parties are
contending for in the present conflict. Pos-
session of the mouldy battlements of Peking,
for some occult reason, carries with it diplo-
matic recognition, and diplomatic recogni-
tion opens the door of the treasure-house of
foreign credit. If any one of the three con-
testants could capture the Tartar City and
make out some sort of a claim to represent a
United China, he might earn the Consor-
tium’s benediction. Otherwise the Consor-
tium will be compelled to do business with
whatever authority in the provinces seems
to have local control. Either way the
Chinese people seem doomed to that economic
subjection to the West from which the
Western peoples have so much to fear.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unfashionable Fighting-man.
Fashions are mad things, whether they
take the form of women’s clothes or defence
policies. When the Great Insanity ended,
with Germany well beaten and the Entente
more cordial than ever, it seemed as though
the world was safe from another big war,
for, say, half-a-century. But the Bigger was
still a public idol. So the Hughes Govern-
ment took steps to form the A.I.F. into a
Reserve Army; it announced that the pre-
war scheme of citizen training would be
revived; and it promised that the R.A.N.
would be “kept up to strength.” Later,
bickerings began between Britain and
France; and America got a new Adminis-
tration with a direct mandate to have
nothing to do with the affairs of
Europe. The Australian Government’s
response was to disband the Reserve,
turn a blind eye on the R.A.N., which was
by this time becoming noticeably out-of-
date, and institute a new citizen service
policy. Under the old Act —the Act which
provided the A.I.F. with such a priceless
nucleus in both officers and other ranks —
the trainee had to learn the business of
warfare between the ages of 18 and 25:
under the new he finishes off at 22—a
year after attaining the voting age. The
Washington Conference now met, and the
spectacle of ex-Diggers begging in the streets
and sleeping in the parks became frequent.
W. M. Hughes had just previously
been presented with £25,000 by a
number of employers—eminent in patri-
otism, but extremely shy of giving an ex-
soldier a job where a fit shirker promised to
do it to greater profit—and it is believed
that about this time the Prime Minister
made vows (1) never to be seen again in
public wearing the hats of fighting-men, and
(2) to burn those soldiers’ and sailors’ head-
coverings which he had preserved hitherto as
patriotic souvenirs. The Washington Con-
ference liroke up in a thinly-disguised atmo-
sphere of failure. Inside the last three weeks
the following cable-messages have come
through-
“ln all his recent conversations, particularly those
with M. Bart hoc,” , says the Genoa correspondent of
the Journal dps Debats, “Mr. Lloyd George has
announced that the end of the Franco-British
Entente is imminent.”
Lord Lee, Fifst Lord of the Admiralty, lecturing
on the Washington Conference, said that at the last
Imperial Conference the Dominions had agreed to
the maintenance of the Navy as a common concern
of the Empire. Therefore, the burden should have
been shared in proportions which could be settled
after the Washington Conference. So far the
Dominions had not assisted Britain to bear this
crushing burden, and the result was that the British
taxpayer alone was footing the bill for the main-
tenance of a Navy for the defence of the com-
merce, trade and liberties of the Empire, including
the Dominions. Britain was staggering along hoping
that the Dominions would open their hearts and
pockets before it was too late.
J. H. Thomas, M.P., speaking to a mixed gather-
ing of employers and Labor men, said that the
possibilities of a great war were not more menacing
in August, 1914, than they were now.
And Australia bas let its navy sink to the
level of a joke; most of the permanent sol-
diers are to be dispensed with ; the trainee
divisions which were instituted last year
are to be skeleton formations 75 per cent,
below strength ; and though there is vague
talk of munition-making, there is dead
silence on the subject of naval bases con-
taining docks capable of taking modern
battleships. In short. Australia does not
propose either to attempt seriously to defend
itself, or to take steps to enable Britain to
do it. War is as imminent as ever ; but the
fighting man has gone out of fashion. And
probably, in days to come, the inevitable cleric,
standing amid an alien horde on the site of
what was" once Melbourne or Sydney, will
ascribe the downfall of Australia to the
prevalence of divorce and jazzing.
Fish and Sherry—Also Rum.
It was cabled recently that Iceland had gone
back an prohibition, to the extent of admit-
ting wines containing up to 21 per cent, of
alcohol. The fell news reached Abthub
Toombes, Superintendent of the Queensland
Prohibition League, and inspired him thus:
In 1908 a plebiscite gave a large majority tor pro-
hibition. The following year legislation was passed,
bringing in prohibition in 1912. There is no doubt
of its success. .. .During the first three years savings
bank deposits increased from 9,472,000 to 24,702,000
kroner. But last year a commercial treaty between
Spain and Iceland expired. Spain then announced
that Iceland must change her prohibition law, or a
tariff barrier would be raised against ber exports to
Spain. Three-fourths of Iceland’s exports are fish,
of which nearly half has gone to Spain. The threat,
therefore, was serious, and temperance leaders
appealed to the world. The amendment permitting
wines containing up to 21 per cent, of alcohol to be
imported seems like a victory for Spain. But the
victory may be dearly bought, for the people of
Iceland can still boycott Spanish wines, and other
international complications may arise, for a resolu-
tion is now before the U.S. Congress threatening
reprisals against Spain if she persists in her hostility
to Iceland’s prohibition law. The whole incident is
just another evidence of the power of the liquor
traffic.
This yarn ought to be a success at temper-
ance meetings, which are not notable for a
high average level of mentality. There is
an abiding interest in the spectacle of a strong
soul in agony, and the picture which Mr.
Toombes conjures up of poor old Hans of
Iceland, yielding in the interest of his shark
and kipper business to the ultimatum of the
Spanish liquor interests, but refusing, Spar-
tan-like, to dip his .nose in their ruinous
decoctions, is calculated to wring tears from
most right-thinking old ladies. However,
there are weak points in the narrative. The
population of Iceland is but 93,000, and
48,000 belong to the sex which paints other
parts of its countenance than the nose. If
the entire 93,000 drank Spanish wine it
wouldn’t seriously affect the sherry and
malaga output. But a nominal roll of Ice-
landers with a weakness for the grape would
assuredly exclude all the children, nearly all
the women, and a proportion of the men.
Any boycott instituted by the few thousands
that survived this process of elimination
would therefore be a jest. And, considering
the dimensions of Spain’s wine industry (it
has 3,300,000 acres under vines and in a nor-
mal year produces 700,000,000 gallons of fer-
mented juice), it is difficult to imagine the
Government starting a diplomatic wrangle
over a question of selling a few hogsheads
a month to a handful of cowfeeders. and
fishermen near the Arctic Circle. Spain is
not Iceland's best customer, anyhow. Even
in 1918, when the bleak island’s trade with
most other countries was restricted or cut
off altogether, it bought little more than a
sixth of the total Icelandic exports, Britain
purchasing nearly three times as much. As
for the allegation that savings-bank deposits
increased from 9,472,000 kroner to 24,702,000
kroner (18 kroner go to the pound sterling)
the Statesman’s Yeab Book says that at
the end of 1916 (the fourth year of drouth)
the deposits in the 44 savings-banks
amounted to a mere 3,499,000 kroner. The
same authority notes that 14.1 per cent, of
the births in 1918 and 14.3 per cent, in 1917
were illegitimate, from which it may be
deduced that the experiment has been
attended by no reversal of form as regards
the traditional lax morality of the natives.
The probabilities are that Spain has had no
more to do with the decision of. the Ice-
landic Althing to admit wines than Australia
or Maordand. It is hardly to be doubted
that the new ordinance represents a compro-
mise between the drys and the wets, the
former realising that compulsory abstinence
could no longer be preserved in its entirety,
the latter hoping to recover by instalments
the right to slake their throats with their
ancient tipple. Which is rum.
What Is Watt?
■’Gallebyman’s” character-study:—
The above question obtrudes itself, just now, be-
cause the country, wearied of Hughes’s czar-like ges-
tures, is said to be yearning for a new Prime Minister.
Undoubtedly Watt is the most formidable candidate
offering, and if it were merely a matter of mentality,
his fitness for the job would be widely acclaimed.
But WAtt, like Hughes, lacks something to touch
the heart; and he rings no truer than the man he
would oust. Vocally he is an artist, and his
cadenced sentences, warmed by a suggestion of
Messianic infallibility, would stifle doubts in many
a critic. Physiognomically he is equally arresting.
The deep, apparently indomitable eyes, the jaw that
looks like a throw-back to the possessor of the Pitts-
down skull, the whole gait and bearing of the man
are accepted as evidence of force and power. Yet
one remains sceptical. A feeling is induced that
his temperament is out of keeping with his pug-,
nacious exterior; that no heroic soul lurks behind the
dark face that ever looks like an imminent melo-
drama.
And the briefest inspection of Watt’s career in
the Federal Parliament helps to confirm those sus-
picions; affords a peep at the lurking little devil
which derides all his pretences of political bravery.
Turn back the page of history to the second Con-
scription campaign. At that time Watt was a mem-
ber of the Hughes Government and was bound by the
promise of resignation should the Commonwealth
again declare in the negative. The thunderous “No”
that followed forced Hughes to stage a burlesque
which was nearly ruined by the behavior of Watt.
Give him his due, Watt took the show seriously for
a while. He tarried in outer darkness, the grief-
stricken victim of an impromptu conscience. His
colleagues fumed and fretted, urging that his conduct
was both unbusinesslike and unpolitical. But Watt
stood firm. A promise was a promise: an oath an
oath: and a resignation a sacred thing. And so he
brooded and brooded, in a state of self-questioning
and perturbation, yet not striving for an honorable
retirement, as was eventually proved, but for the
invention of some graceful casuistry that would
justify him in resuming his billet. Twenty-four
hours’ hard brooding gave him the desired pretext.
Hughes and the others had made the same discovery
without any attempt at profound meditation. The
Empire needed Watt, it seemed, and with that com-
forting illusion as an anodyne to his conscience
he joined his fellow-frauds on the Treasury benches.
One cannot readily forget his exhibition of pol-
troonery and self-seeking, because he was then pre-
sumed to be superior to the political shiftiness that
a Hughes would practise without a blink. That
action condemned Watt, and it only needed his
failure in the fight with Hughes a few months back
to deepen suspicion into conviction that the little
devil of cowardice had triumphed in situations
which a show of moral courage would have turned
in his favor.
It would be absurd to suggest that such disabili-
ties are enough to disqualify Watt for the Prime
Ministership. Character, solidity, steadfastness,
and the other traits dutifully revered in English
politics are immaterial in this country beside the
ability to satisfy a popular want. But there is no
demonstrative demand for Watt apparent on the
surface of events. The Melbourne Age tries to create
one by shrewish insistence on the shortcomings of
Hughes, but the great body of the populace, which
is politically indifferent to the verge of imbecility,
is not greatly stirred by the possibility of a new
saviour wearing the haunting name of Billy. As
for the more intelligent democrats, I’m sure that
they will only accept Watt as the best alternative to
Hughes, whilst shying inwardly at the political com-
pany he keeps. It is an unpleasantness, for example,
to behold an alleged Liberal, previously prolific in
Deakanesque poses, smearing his opinions with
academic Toryism for afternoon-tea talks with
Wimmen’s National Leaguers. The value of these
speeches is hard to realise, for the matter of them
is so flabby and femininely decorous that the
Anous could, with perfect propriety, report them
under its heading of “Women to Women.”
Persecution in Keturn for Political
Support.
In Queensland last week one E. J. Pkice,
of the Anti-lievolutionary League, was re-
•fused permission to further express his views
in public. At a casual glance the ukase
suggest the workings of a Machiavellian
brain. It is doubtful if even Bananaland,
where the .Bolshevists are noisiest, could
muster enough genuine Leninists to terrorise
a Methody chapel. if Pkice talked till he
burst and fell dead it is unlikely that he
would convert a single I.W.VV. member to
the tenets of Capitalism. Put the treatment
he has received is the very thing that causes
revolutions: in fact, without such tyranny,
there never can be revolutions. Is Pkice an
instrument, then, employed with devilish
ingenuity to bring about the identical state of
atiairs against which it is Ins hobby to de-
claim? No: the idea is too far-fetched. The
oratory of Pkice has been butchered to make
a Government supporters’ holiday—much
as though the N. S. VVales. Ministry acceded
to the amiable suggestion of the local Protes-
tant Federation, and hampered and humili-
ated li.C. orphanages wherever possible.
PmcES, like orphanages, are side-lines. It
is the hostile demonstration against them
that counts; bringing pleasure to the bigot—
Labor or anti-Labor as the case may be —
and, consequently, political support to the
Government that has conformed. The
nauseating feature about the sand-bagging of
Price is that, like so many of these reac-
tionary demonstrations, it has been done in
the name of Democracy! In a similar spirit
the N. S. Wales Government discovered about
the same time that “disloyalty and atheism”
were being preached in “proletarian Sun-
day-schools,” and the Minister for Justice
(Ley) advocated what he called “drastic
action.” Pending advice from departmental
experts as to a suitable legal corrective
the Minister for Education (Bruntnell)
has introduced the Yankee notion of saluting
a flag once a week, and has added to it a
formula which is calculated to plunge any
normal, British-minded child into the ulti-
mate throes of self-conscious embarrassment.
The response of many of the Labor folks to
this palpable party trick has been to order
their children not to go to school on the
mornings the Bruntnell act is staged. It
is not with them, of course, a matter of sup-
porting atheism or the breaking-up of the
Empire and the ruin of Australia: they
simply refuse to allow their youngsters
to be handled as pawns in the unsavory
game of N. S. Wales politics. So the sole
result of this idiotic proceeding—if there is
a result—must be to widen the social breach
between the two political sections. And the
move was made, allegedly, in the name of
Loyalty and the Empire! One man who
objected to this test for the smelling-out of
the State’s “disloyal families” claimed to
have fought for Australia and the Empire
in the South African as well as in the
world war, and to have had two sons (one
wounded and one killed) with him on the
latter occasion. That, surely, is the true mea-
sure of a citizen’s devotion to the Empire.
How do politicians such as Ley and Brunt-
nell re-act to it—devotees who have never
risked a drop of blood for their Imperial
faith though the Empire has been in peril
of its life at least twice since they reached
manhood? In point of fact for all their
fulsome mouthings about loyalty, political
agents provocateurs of this description are
among the most dangerous enemies the
Empire has in this part of the world, even
as the Queensland politicians who blither
about Democracy and act like Czars are the
best friends of revolt. They have but one
permanent aim—to keep the fires of hatred
burning between one set of citizens and
another. Such tactics may be good business
temporarily for themselves, but a sensible
person must see that they represent the
worst sort of dis-service to the Empire.
The Degeneration of the N. S. Wales
Bar.
Thirty or forty years ago the N. S. Wales
Bar stood as high in the estimation of the
public as the N. S. Wales Parliament. The
advocates of the period were not all Josephs
any more than the M’s.L.A. were all tee-
totallers. But they had a fixed standard
of manners and dignity; and men of the
stamp of Alfred Stephen, Martin, Man-
ning and Innes saw that it was main-
tained. Counsel did not go to the gutters
for their wit or to gambling dens for their
metaphors; and a witness of good character
was safe with them, and knew it. A result
was that a practising barrister was ipso
facto a respected citizen, and could rely in
court on as much deference from the parties
and their witnesses as was paid to the Judge
himself. The atmosphere of restrained
urbanity which was thus created was
more than an agreeable social pheno-
menon : it made for justice. The costly time
of litigants was not wasted, as now. by
verbal scuffles between cross-examining K.C.’s
and their contemptuous subjects; and no wit-
ness of truth left the box with homicide in
his heart and an indelible stain on his repu-
tation. Certain modern barristers have
altered all that. They probably do not
number 10 per cent, of the profession ; but
just as a handful of drunkards and abusive


Ti e Farmers’& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA u Ss!i a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO,
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the hand.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in t,his soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R„ DIMOND, Managing Director.
blackguards has for years past given the
N. S. Wales Assembly an unsavory reputa-
tion, so a comparatively small body of dis-
reputable barristers threatens to permanently
besmirch the entire N. S. Wales Bar. They
are, for the most part, brief-hungry men. of
no position outside the legal world, employ-
ing the jargon of the city bars where so
much of their time is spent, ready at any.
moment for a monetary consideration to
use either the stiletto or the slop-bucket—
the shabby bravos of a litigious age. As
an example of how the notion is growing
that all this hired truculency and insult is
normal and right, the S.M. at Sydney Cen-
tral Court said a few mornings ago to a
defendant who, appearing for himself, was
making a gallant effort to do the job in
what he conceived to be a professional
manner
You be careful. You arc not a barrister, ' and
can't bully the witness.
Stephen (“Digest of the Law of Evidence”)
clearly sets out. tlie barrister’s rights as
regards bullying witnesses :
The Court has always power to disallow vexatious
or irrelevant questions; and lias also a discretion to
disallow any question if in its opinion the answer
would not affect the witness’s credibility as to the
matter in issue.
So that N. S. Wales’s little gang of
offal-throwers are, in a very real sense,
the product of. the line of mostly weak
Judges with which the State has been
burdened of late years. Nothing is surer
than that the operation of the law of supply
and demand will cause the ranks of the
bravo-barristers to swell: in fact, a notable
increase has occurred inside the past decade.
If the Judges—none of whom ever descended
to anything of the sort during his own life
as an advocate, or can be suspected of the
faintest sympathy with such methods —-only
have the courage to act, the N. S. Wales
Bar should begin presently to recover its
fading prestige. If they lack the nerve a
convention of ruffianism will have been estab-
lished within a very few years which may
be ineradicable.
Our New Kentucky Home.
A tithe ad of disaster runs through the whole
history of soldier settlement. nut if one
State has done the job more ruinously than
another it is probably A. S. Wales. Its
method of putting the returned warrior, on
the land has been simple enough for the
most part. The "unemployed" were sent
out to pave the way with a little preliminary
work—some clearing, some fencing, and some
house-building. In order that tne Govern-
ment might say that it was the ideal boss
and was rapidly solving the unemployment
problem, the hours were short, the pay h gb,
and sweating was strictly avoided. Tne
longer each job was spun out the longer the
difficulty remained solved, and the longer the
demoralised horde stayed away from the
Ministerial doorstep. So land was made
partially ready at a cost of twice wliat it
was worth; the soldier went on to it
because he had nowhere else to go ; and he
went on in blank ignorance of what he had
to pay, but with an assurance that he would
know all about it when the accounts were
ulade up. In many cases he is still wait-
ing for the information. Where he has
obtained it he generally feels a craving to
lead a lynching party to Sydney—only Syd-
ney is so far away. Besides, he is uftder
the tutelage of an official; the convention
being to treat the ex-soldier ‘as part child
and part lunatic. This person sells the
settler’s produce to such advantage that it
occasionally pays for cartage. He heavy-
fathers the place generally, and it would be
difficult to lynch anybody without him
hearing of it in course of time. Ken-
tucky (N.S.W.) was settled on these
lines. The land was resumed from a
company, and 69 soldiers were put on a
bit of it at a cost of £105,000, or £1521 each.
The poverty is great, and instead of the
place paying its way as it did when the
company ran sheep on it, it needs a lot
more assistance, and even then it may prove
.a bad debt. It has lived on aids and
allowances, which increase its liabilities, but
it needs much more of these or many settlers
must go, leaving their debts behind them.
Kentucky has the drawback of being 330
miles from any industrial town where there
is a serious demand for its produce, and the
same distance from a usable port. Towns
like Tannvorth, Armidale, Inverell, Moree,
Singleton and Casino, which are not so far
away, are fading spots that grow their own
dinner herbs.. Of course, if new industrial
towns were dotting the landscape, instead of
the remaining country industries being in
process of removal to the city under nressure
of the railway tariff, the Kentuckians might
fiud all sorts of side-line jobs to helr> thorn
through a worse time thaD usual. On the
figures' of 1921 it would have cost only
£24,150 (£350 each) in land, buildings and
machinery to settle the 69 Kentuckians in
factories under private management, with
short hours, a basic waee, a sure lodal mar-
ket, and no need to crinve for charity, and
in addition Kentucky would still be a paying
proposition in the jumbuck trade. Mean-
while the outlook is gloomy. If there was
one really successful soldier settlement a
gleam of hope might remain. But where is
that one?
♦
Australia’s Mystery Ships.
The Commonwealth mercantile fleet is, and
has been all its brief but hectic life, a thing
of mystery. It was understood to make some
sensational profits during two of the war
years. However, there were sceptics who
said that if the service consisted largely of
carrying Government goods, and the Gov-
ernment debited itself (on paper) and
credited its ships (on paper) with big
enough freights, there was no reason why
the profits shouldn’t be even more sensa-
tional. Though skeleton returns have been
published the flesh of detail in regard to
these same profits (or losses) is sadly want-
ing. In the “Quarterly Summary of Aus-
tralian Statistics” to the end of 1921 the
following appears
Commonwealth Government Steamers' Surplus
Earnings.
1917-18. 1918-19. 1919-20. 1920-21.
£BBO,OOO £1,015,762 . . £137,959
In a closely-printed pamphlet of SI pages
the two dots in the thiru column represent
absolutely all the information supplied about
this big enterprise. They imply that there
was no profit that year, but, in the absence
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
THE STATESMAN: “ He’ll be all the better for a little judicious trimming. And look at
the money it will save for Parliamentary salaries! Besides, he doesn’t represent
any votes, now.”
of a statement of receipts and expenditure,
they don't imply so definitely as they might
that there was no big loss. A matter which
wants a. lot of illumination is whether the
losses have been charged against the profits
of the good ships, as would be done by a pri-
vate company for the excellent reason that
it has no taxpayers to charge losses to ; or
whether the wooden ships still rank (on
paper) as valuable properties. An offer of
(allegedly) £3OOO apiece for six of them was
recently rejected, and that might be because
it seemed hardly worth while, for a mere
£lB,OOO, to face an unpleasant writing-down
job, instead of leaving it to the next Cabinet.
Another matter to be attended to on the
day of financial cleaning up is that Govern-
ment ships (and, for that matter, all Govern-
ment trading enterprises, including railways)
should be debited with every Federal, State
and local tax that they would have to pay if
privately owned, and they shouldn’t profess
to show a profit until these are provided for.
Otherwise a Government might nationalise
enterprises and take them out of the tax-
paying list till it had no tax-revenue at all,
and very little revenue of any kind. As
regards Government ships quite’ a big inter-
national row threatens. Such vessels became
fairly common during the war. The position
has been set up that a sovereign State can’t
be sued in a foreign court, even if it runs
ships to the country where that court func-
tions, and that, consequently, State vessels
can refuse to pay for towage or salvage, or
for damage done to other craft, and that, as
regards their earnings in foreign parts, they
are proof against the local tax-gatherer.
They can collect, it is said, but can’t, with
any certainty, be collected from. But plans
are afoot to put an absolute end to all that
happy immunity, which casts another
shadow on the future. Altogether things
look black, in a general way, for the Com-
monwealth liue; and there are signs and
symptoms that it didn’t do particularly well
—regarded as a business run on legitimate
lines —when circumstances were extraordi-
narily favorable. If this is all an injurious
delusion, -and if the ships are really blessings
in disguise to this debt-ridden land, then the
authorities would do well to make the point
public, by means of the requisite figures,
without needless delay.
Foul old Sydney threatens to scramble off
its asli-heap and become clean again. Dur-
ing three years of Tammany at the Town
Hall the habit of condemning insanitary
buildings almost died out, because the
insanitary people who lived in the insanitary
buildings voted, to a great extent, for the
insanitary aldermen. As the new Lord
Mayor described the situation: —
Since I took office there have been hundreds of
houses condemned in the city of Sydney—houses not
fit to provide accommodation for rats or bugs, let
alone human beings. I found quarters that you
could not conceive any human being living in. They
don’t exist to-day, and they should never have
existed. It was due to the men you put into last
council, who prevented the officers of the council
doing their duty.
It is pleasing to know that Sydney begins
to resume its place among the habitable
spots of the earth. There is even promise
of an investigation into the late lamented
cesspool, in the course of which it may
transpire why certain city fathers fought to
the last ditch to spend £75,000 <jf the tax-
payers’ money ostensibly on the purchase of
something worth less than £5OOO, and the
purchase of several other things on a similar
basis. Also the persons who sold to “block-
hoys” and others valueless “bonds” to raise
money for the fund for the re-election of
Tammany aldermen may be compelled to
refund with interest. And as the investi-
gation proceeds the newspaper heading
“Mysterious Disappearance of an ex-Akler-
man” may become fairly common, with the
result that in after years some old Sydney
friends may be heard of disguised under the
name of Smith, and taking a hand in the
municipal affairs of Rejkiavik or Upernavik
with the natural result that the local police
are on the alert.
It didn’t take the N. S. Wales Assembly
long to get into its stride in the Billingsgate
sense. In fact, before the session had lasted
a day it was evident that all the old tradi-
tions were safe in the hands of the 90 tri-
bunes elected on March 25. And when,
after three days the Chamber adjourned
for a couple of months, these playful obser-
vations, among others, had been caught by
Hansard for transmission to posterity:—
Fitzpatrick: Daring the division just taken Mr.
Molesworth said to me, “You got your cut out of
the Broken Hill leases.”
Molesworth : I intended at question-time to ask
the hon. member whether there was any truth in the
rumor that he got a cut out of certain Broken Hill
leases in 1918?....1 never asked that question, but
when the hon. member made some offensive remark
across the table, I said, “Did you get a cut out of
the Broken Hill leases in 1918?”
Fitzpatrick : You are a liar !
Scott Fell: The majority of you are not worth
£5OO a year.
Burke : Were you ever insolvent?
Soott Fell: I have been proved to be an honest
man. The hon. member may be honest, but the
proof is not yet forthcoming.
Davis (to Fuller) : You are too tired to do any-
thing.
Fuller: The hon. member has lived on the sec-
tarian question, and the moment the Protestants
felt that the time had come to put a stop to that
sort of business he saw that he ran the risk of
being wiped out, as he will be wiped out altogether
before very long.
Min'aha ti: I move that the hon. member (Flan-
nery) be not further heard.
WrigiiT: You are a skunk.
Bavin (to Dunn) : Your party turned the House
into g bear-garden and lunatic asylum.
Dunn : Whatever was done to-night was done %y
Ley: Intoxication of some of your own members.
Dunn : It is not true. How many members were
intoxicated ?
Bavin: You know how many.
Dunn : I will pit my party against the party
opposite at any time in the matter of sobriety.
You have never seen me intoxicated. It is one
of the soberest Houses I ever knew.
Yes: to that section which finds amusement
in exhibitions of bibulousness, bigotry and
blackguardism, the free show presented by
the 26th Parliament of N. S. Wales pro-
mises to equal the most discreditable of its
predecessors.
«
From a man who went abroad on a Govern-
ment ship:—
A month’s confinement on the Largs Bay has
convinced me that the Hughes Government has a
lot to learn about the passenger steamship business.
Some of the cabins are overcrowded, and most of
the inside compartments are dungeons. The bath-
rooms and lavatories are insufficient, and being
badly scuppered are flooded daily. Pipe leaks, hot
and cold, are everywhere. Most of them are ignored,
but occasionally a towel or a piece of bagging is
clapped on to check the flow —a device as effective
as putting a plaster on a cancer. P. and 0. and
Orient boats have five officers besides the captain,
and most other steamers that come to Australia
have four. The Largs Bay has six. More than
once the stewards refused to eat the meals supplied
to passengers, and stop-work meetings forced the
captain to provide them with better. The passengers
devoured inferior provender in stolid silence until
four days beyond Colombo. Then they, also kicked,
after which the stuff improved. The stewards hob-
nob. freely with passengers, and in some cases this
unusual, familiarity hag bred, the usual contempt.
One elderly female who apologetically asked for a
clean , cup was requested to “drink out of her ’at,”
Another lady who admonished a table attendant for
straining the supper coffee through a stocking earned
the ripost that the said stocking was cleaner than
hers. At Colombo Tamil coolies washed and cleaned
the ship’s woodwork and fittings—a job always done
on other vessels by the stewards and crew. It
was a striking contribution to the White Australia
controversy, considering that this is a Government-
owned White Australian boat.
— ♦
A lawyer on the N. S. Wales Legal Aid
system-
I have handled a dozen or more Legal Aid cases,
and, with one or two exceptions, the recipients of
assistance from the Department were in poor circum
stances, and had a good fighting chance. The system
would be justified if only for the relief granted to
incapacitated workmen, to enable them to proceed
under the Workmen’s Compensation Act, ostensibly
against their employers, but in reality against the
insurance companies, some of which will resist pay-
ment of compensation if they have any shadow of a
case. In 90 per cent, of these suits a verdict is
obtained by the workman. Still, the Poor Persons’
Legal Remedies Act (1918) is far from perfect. It
should be amended to make provision for (1) the
recovery of costs from the defendant if the poor
person secures a verdict; (2) payment of 70 per cent,
of recovered costs to the assigned solicitor, and of
30 per cent, to the Legal Aid Department, and (3)
the recovery of costs against the Legal Aid Depart-
ment by a defendant successfully resisting an action
brought by .a poor person. If the Act were so
amended, carelessness on the Department’s part in
granting assistance to malingering and undeserving
litigants would be discouraged. Also, more solicitors
would have their names put on the Legal Aid list
(ths few compassionate solicitors already enrolled
are in danger of being inundated with these cases)
and fewer defendants would be put to the expense
of defending groundless actions.


ď
CRIMEAN PYJAMAS
FOR COLD NIGHTS.
The soft warmth of the Crimean Flannel Peapes have utilised for
their new season’s Pyjamas will prove most gratifying on bitter
Winter nights.
Some of these Pyjamas show fancy-stripe designs of blue and pink,
or blue, helio. or pink on grey grounds. These are priced at'2s/-
A finer quality Crimean shows various designs of pink, blue and
white; helio., blue and white; two blues and white; fawn, helio
and white, and greenish blue and white. These Pyjamas are
marked 357-
PEA PES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state height, chest and inside leg measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ITALY’S BEST.
MODEL 501, 10/15 H.P.
Complete with spare tyre and tube.
The GREAT PRIDE IN TIIE OWNER-
SHIP of a FIAT DOES NOT WANE as
the car is used from Year to Year, for
THE WELL-EARNED REPUTATION
is maintained continuously throughout the
life of the car.
Because, THE QUALITY IS OF TIIE
HIGHEST and THE DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION THE BEST THAT
THE WORLD CAN PRODUCE.
Early Delivery can be had if you book
your order now.
Full particulars of all models and prices
on application.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICK MeNEIL, General Manager. 'Phones: City 682-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
Before long you will hear Hughes shouting for a
reduction of Parliamentary salaries. In this he will
be actuated by a desire to embezzle the Cocky
party's thunder, and, at the same time, to fall in
with the wishes of a majority of his Ministers.
Hughes’s colleagues feel they cannot reasonably
barrack for a reduction of wages in industry with-
out suffering some of the same sort of punishment.
A drop from £lOOO to £BOO p.a. has been sug-
gested, though Bruce, the Treasurer, is said to
favor a more drastic cut to the old £6OO. How-
ever, the Nationalist party is to be consulted first
before any action is taken, and if there is still any
capacity for disturbance left in the crowd the
uproar should be worth hearing. On the salary
question several Nationalists are heart and soul with
the Labor men, who reckon £lOOO little enough,
considering the claims they have to meet.
Section 15 of the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion provides that when a Senator’s place
becomes vacant before his term of service
expires, his successor shall be chosen by the
State “Houses of Parliament sitting and
voting together.” John Adamson’s tragic-
death has left a void in the representation
of Queensland, and one of Queensland’s
Houses, of Parliament has just abolished the
other, wherefore the hair-splitters are arguing
that unless the extinct Chamber is resusci-
tated and clothed with its ancient majesty
the gap cannot be constitutionally filled. The
contention looks pretty on paper, but there
is nothing in it. Compared with the worry
of selecting a suitable locum tenens and pro-
viding him with a majority when the Assem-
bly sits (some Labor members are apt to
disappear on these interesting occasions) it
will trouble Theodore little. Having run
fourth in 1919, and a respectable fourth at
that, Myles Aloysius Ferricks has claims
superior to those of any other Labor poli-
tician who can be named. Failing Myles
Aloysius, who has a seat in the Q. Assembly
and could vote for himself (or against him-
self if he decided at the last moment that
the candidate wasn’t satisfactory), Rill Dun-
stan, of the A.W.U., has unsatisfied yearn-
ings for a place in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment and £BB 6s. Sd. a month. And there
is always Randolph Red ford.
The one redeeming feature of Westralian
finance, is the public debt sinking fund,
which some wise man got so firmly fixed
in the Constitution that all the subsequent
foolish men failed to get rid of it. One
result is that, when the gold-fields water
supply loan falls due in 1927, the money will
be available to pay it off —in fact the money
is available already—so that Kalgoorlie will
die free of debt on that score. Another
result is that Westralia, always having some
of its own money available on loan-renewal
day, isn’t squeezed so remorselessly as the
other States,. wherefore it pays the lowest
rate of interest, though it has the biggest
debt per head, owns the smallest population
barring that of Tasmania, has the least
increase of population, and has no special
prospects worth mentioning. Rut- —and
this is a tremendous “but”—it has more sink-
ing fund than all the other States combined,
and so, at the end of last financial year, it paid
£3 19s. 4d. per cent, to its Shylock, while
N. S. Wales, the horrible bankrupt example,
paid £4 ss. lid. Ry reason of one frag-
ment of honesty and horse-sense the least
promising of the States makes a saving that
is a sinking fund in itself.
“S.M.” takes a gloomy view of it: —•
The trouble in the bullock industry of New South
Wales is simply that when the animal reaches
Sydney and is sold it yields Is. over and above
expenses—or else a loss of 55., and the owner is
called upon to give aw 7 ay his animal for nothing and
pay that much to get rid of it. There is no place
but Sydney to send it to, and the bullock being an
outlying animal, Sydney is a long way off. The
bullock man’s story is that railway freights have
gone up 50 p.c. since the pre-war days; most
materials and stores 75 p.c.; taxes 300 p.c., and
wages 110 p.c. And then a Government of ex-
trades-union secretaries, largely recruited from
Balmain and Botany, set up a frantic and expensive
court to declare that beef should be cheaper than
usual. In Queensland the situation is a shade worse,
for the Government set out systematically to ruin
the cattle-men by breaking the terms of their leases,
fining them enormous sums as newly invented arrears
oi rent, and commandeering their stock for its State
meatshops. Now', instead of undoing some of these
past follies, it has rushed to the rescue with freight
concessions, which will make its bankrupt lines even
more ridiculous than before.
If Federal Works Minister Foster had
the grit of ex-Treasurer Watt, Hughes
would have had a spare portfolio aimed at
his head the other day. The microscopic
Canberra strike arose mostly because the
.Minister in whose department the job lay
tried to enforce the 48-hour week. There
was no need to take the least notice of the
affair. But Hughes, who can brood over
a big national question like a transcontinental
railway or the cutting up of big States for
closer settlement for a dozen years, and be
the same dazed and obfuscated creature at
the end as he was before, is a lightning
operator when a dispute between two hod-
carriers about 2d. breaks out. He got “in
touch” by wireless and plain telegram and
letter and word of mouth, and effected a
compromise behind his colleague’s back in
quick time. Then he went to Grafton, and
when asked for an opinion re a matter big
THE MARRIAGE OF CONVENIENCE.
enough to interest a real statesman—the
New State idea—he became quite peeved
and vanished in a mist, and fell off his horse,
and went to bed.
The wildest dreams of avarice weren’t in
it with the situation at the Genoa Confer-
ence when The Bulletin went to press.
Soviet Russia lately fixed the strength of its
army at 3,000,000 men in peace-time and
5,000,000 in war-time. It aims apparently
at being equal in military force to all other
white nations put together. At the- Genoa
Conference the Bolshevik attitude was that
the wholesale repudiation of foreign debts
and the confiscation of foreign public and
private property (Allied property) should
be overlooked and condoned. With cheery
effrontery one Russian envoy quoted two
precedents, both from the United States —
the abolition of slavery and of the liquor
trade, both without compensation. When
the atmosphere had cleared a little the Rus-
sians formulated their demands in detail. In
addition to being freed of their old debts and
having their starving people looked after by
international charity, they want the Allies
to supply them with at least £150,000,(XX) in
(jold. Otherwise, presumably, the Soviet
people will get ready to make use of their
big army. Britain earnestly desires to see
Lenin’s rotten colossus make some kind of a
fresh .start, so that trade may resume, and is
inclined to knuckle under to this stupendous
blackmail. But France would rather fight
now —with the chance of bringing ruin on
all Europe—than face the possibility of a
Russo-Hun alliance subsidised by real money.
It will take all the verbal grease of the Old
Diplomacy to lubricate such an appalling
situation.
P. Airey’s opinion :
How Prohibition would work on a big scale may
be judged from the way it operates on a small one.
In Queensland the habitual drunk may have a pro-
hibition order taken out against him by relatives
or other interested persons. If he boozes he is
liable to a penalty. The other day a prohibited
gent, was found in a pub with “a double rum and
a beer in front of him.” A Crown Law official made
this statement to the magistrate, and added: “This
man’s wife says he gets more liquor now than before
the order was made. He knew he should not go
into the bar and he knew the police were watching
him.” If Prohibition can’t prohibit one poor
drink-slave who knows the police are watching him,
what chance would it have of prohibiting a whole
nation whose police are carefully winking the weather
eye? v
One of the alleged impossibilities in the
creation of new States in N.S.W. is that of
dividing the assets, or rather the liabilities
attached to the assets. It is really a bogey
of little account. The railways' are the
matter of most concern. In each annual
railway report a list of lines is published
divided into sections. There were 205 such
sections in last report, with the age and cost
price of each, and a statement whether it is
single, double, treble or quadruple track.
There are no other complications, for all
the money is owing, and a lot more. The
number of engines and vehicles per 100 miles
is also shown. Any new State could calcu-
late . the book value of its lines in half-an-
hour, and make out the lOU for the amount
in another half. As debts fell due it could
tioat its own separate renewal loan, and
take up its IOU —or else bux’st.
E. J. Price, organising secretary of the
Queensland Anti-Revolutionary League, has
been refused a permit to hold meetings.
Price is a man who has held high positions,
both in the Labor party and outside it.
When the war was raging direct actionists
like Adela Pankhurst and open-avowed Bol-
shies such as Peter Simonoff said what they
would and orated as they chose. Presum-
ably it would have been different had they
belonged to the Anti-Revolutionary League.
The musings of “0.K.”: —
One of the strongest passions in human nature,
seemingly, is the passion for retaining office after
one has got there. When the late Alfred Deakin, of
yore, twitted William Hughes with being dragged
screaming from the tart-shop, after a brief term of
Labor Government, he was but testifying to the
natural honesty of William’s protest. The desire
to get into office, with high ends in view, may appear
quite admirable, but the subsequent itch to cling
to a gaudy billet for the sake of the distinction
attaching to the occupation of it is merely an
ordinary symptom of vanity. Nobody, or hardly
anybody, accustomed to the garb of authority, will
yield up his trappings without a struggle. Melbourne
gets a reminder of this official ailment every year
when the whisper goes round that its Gaud Mayor
is striving unobtrusively after re-election. Some
years ago, owing to David Hennessy having, on one
excuse or another, kept himself going for five con-
secutive years and being more eager than ever for
further re-election, Melbourne City Council came to
a half-determination to adopt the rule of one mayoi
one year. Two or three blessed mayors came and went,
rapidly (and unwillingly) and then came Gaud
Mayor Swanson, who is now swallowing his second
bottle of mayoral beer with selfish disregard of all
the worthy colleagues waiting for their- cut. And
two goes of office may not satisfy his Ludship at
the end of his second year. Anyhow, he is said to
want re-election.
In the downward revision of wages the
unscientific incidence of the N. S. Wales
method of fixing a minimum (it was origin-
ally devised, of course, with a view to votes)
becomes more and more evident. Last week
the Board of Trade knocked another 4s. a
week off the basic wage. Within six months
there has been a statutory reduction of 7s.
a week, and—this is what makes the basic
wage such a heartless fraud—it falls alike
on the deserving and undeserving. With
prices still nearly 50 per cent, above the 1914
standard, £3 18s. a week is too little for
the worker with several mouths to feed
and too much for the unskilled yotfhgster
who takes his pay-envelope to the pony
races.
Queensland has some noble examples of
the art of using public money (borrowed, of
course) to stifle industry. Canungra, where
the Commonwealth Government bought a
couple of sawmills at boom rates and
promptly closed them down, and the town-
ship too, supplies one instance, and the Gov-
ernment coal-mine at Baralaba offers
another. The produce of this mine re-
ceives a special railway rate, so that it may
undercut Howard and Torbanlea coal in
Gympie, although Baralaba is 381 miles
from Gympie and Torbanlea only about 70.
One result is that Baralaba men are kept
employed, while Howard and Torbanlea
miners are looking for jobs. Another is
a substantial addition to the Government
railway deficit, which was If millions in
1920-21 and will probably be two millions
this year. No easier method of ruining a
country was ever discovered.
Melbourne Tram Board is trying to make
out that if it wasn’t for the handicap of
£94,000 a year placed on its revenue by the
Act which compels contributions to the infec-
tious diseases hospital, the fire brigade and
the pub-license fund, great things could be
done in the way of extensions. The fact is
that if there had been no stipulation for
such contributions the profits would have
been handed to the municipal councils, which
would have used them to lighten the rates.
Knowing suburban councils well the Law-
son Government felt that the only way to
make them do their fair share in providing
for fire extinction and the treatment of
scarlet diph. patients was to gar-
nishee the money. As to pub-license fees,
it does seem farcical that the Government
should give out of one fund and recoup
itself out of another. But Governments do
odd things in Australia.
Five years of the Senate have been enough
for George Fairbairn, and George Swinburne
has been nominated by Vic. National Fed-
eration to take his place next election along-
side Senators Plain and Bolton. Swin-
burne is a living exemplar of the truth of
the adage: “Them that has gets.” He has
got everything he ever asked for. and lie
has asked for nearly everything that Gov-
ernments are in a position to give. He has
been M.L.A., Minister, director of B. 11.
Water Supply, of Melbourne Gas, of Mt.
Lyell Co., of National and Mutual Life and
an Interstate Commissioner. Just now he
is an Electricity Commissioner and a direc-
tor of the Federal Note Issue Department.
George’s chance of succeeding the other
George is good.
It may be taken as read that when the
Parliamentary committee finishes hearing
evidence about the South-to-North railway
the vast preponderance of witnesses will be
found on the side of breaking the agreement,
and stealing the line for the two States with
the most voting power. It is a case of each
swearing for himself, and Queensland and
N.S.W. can raise 2,857,397 testifiers, while
the Territory and S. Australia have only
499,206 between them. Woolloomooloo alone,
though its people are rather an untravelled
lot, can outswear the whole Territory about
the merits or demerits of the Territory. In
fact, after Woolloomooloo had quitted the
box all the old Territorians would probably
wonder if they ever saw their own country.
FOR SERVICES RENDERED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Nearly a thousand returned soldier* are on the
bread-line in Sydney. Many are sleeping in the
Domain. In the queue yesterday were an ex-colord,
a Cambridge man, and a woman who until recently
had six children. Now she has five. The other died
of malnutrition.” —Daily paper.
This was a soldier, too, so let his clay
Be buried by his brothers.
No firing-squad will shoot, no band will play—
Such honors are for others.
But wrap his body in a Digger's coat—
The Flag were profanation.
(The Flag’s for paunchy patriots, Men of Note,
Not victims of starvation.)
Upon the coffin lay a crust of bread,
If any you can borrow;
And broken men will bear the nameless dead
Unto the place of sorrow.
A rough stone waits with an inscription rude —
A Digger-friend engraved it —
“A token of Australia’s gratitude
To those who fought and saved it.”
N.B.W.
TUART.


ROGUES SCORE WHEN HONEST MEN FALL OUT.


fMM
m
&
Jm
COSMOS
Ti MT\TT\n
S\N2
YmL/
CO LTQ'
ELECTRICAL
V v
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 Eli*>cib«>H-) Shi
Melbourne I
213 Clarence
St., Sydney
MOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel Gelignite Safety Fuso
Samsonite Blasting Gelatine Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you, and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he may maladminister the Funds?
Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
of 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000.
Write or call for Booklet. • Manager: B. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co., Ltd.: —
Ordinary Life Department. Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1908. . £667,435 £274,307 £74,674£157,054 £161,400
1909.. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
OVidows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
1911. . 1,047,150 534,801 95,864 5,275 411,210
1912. . 1,098,748 593,820 100,391 2,631 401,906
1913. . 1,127,198 595,487 92,604 15,320 423,787
1914. . 1,162,249 604,258 102,274 1,541 454,176
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
1916. . 1,191,225 676,011 82,324 6,837 426,053
1917. . 1,219,490 776,218 88,888 16,673 337,711
1918. . 1,273,685 805,623 95,304 147 372,611
1919. . 1,316,118 911,069 105,065 299,984
1921. . 1,440,577 863,018 142,092 .435,467
The table goes back to the time when the
M.L.A., a purely mutual life office, amal-
gamated with the co-operative Citizens’.
Another mutual concern, the Australian
Widows’ Fund, linked up two years later.
Both were highly respectable old offices, but
they lacked the punch necessary to make
them all a mutual office is theoretically sup-
posed to be. In mutual concerns the whole
of the profits is available for bonuses for
policy-holders. On the other hand, there is
no guarantee that a mutual office will earn
any profit, or that surpluses will be suffi-
ciently large to provide more than insignifi-
cant bonuses. It is wholly a matter of
management. The old Citizens’ Life Asso-
ciation had demonstrated that it was at least
efficiently managed. Shortly before the
amalgamation the M.L.A. had to pass a
bonus distribution altogether. The mutual
concerns were taken over under an agree-
ment which stipulated a definite outside cost
of handling their transferred business, the
co-operative office backing the undertaking
with its paid capital. Expenses have been
kept so low that the Citizens’ man-
agement has produced bonuses undreamt of
by either of the two offices absorbed. The
interests of both are still watched by trustees
and an independent actuary. In their latest
reports both parties certify that the old
agreements have been strictly followed, the
M.L.A. crowd announce record bonuses, and
the A.W.F. throw this bouquet:—
Tlie share of cash surplus apportioned to the
A.W.F. section amounts to £74,775 (the largest
cash apportionment since tile union) and provides a
compound reversionary bonus of £2 17s. 6d. p.c.
(against £2 12s. 6d. p.c. for last year).
The percentage of cash surplus to premiums re-
ceived in the A.W.F. section was over 83 per cent.
In other words, the cash surplus allotted to the Aus-
tralian Widows’ Fund policy-holders represents more
than four-fifths of the total premiums received in
the section. The trustees have no hesitation in
stating that an average cash return to policy-holders
of four-fifths of the premiums received for the year
is quite unique in the world’s history of life assur-
ance societies, and stands alone in its greatness.
The actuarial investigation Ordinary
branch business as at December 31 showed
a net liability, on an assumed interest of
3 p.c., of £10,221,191, or £416,064 less than
the funds shown by the department. Includ-
ing £5116 of interim bonuses distributed,
£420,896 was recommended for division, the
old M.L.A. and Widows’ sections getting a
compound bonus of £2 17s. 6d. p.c., and
M.L.C. policy-holders £2 ss. p.c. rever-
sionary bonuses on policies in force
5 years and £3 p.c. on those 10 years
and more. Valuation of policy liabili-
ties is on conservative lines: had the direc-
tors assumed 4 p.c. as the future interest
earning, as the younger cos. are doing, the
M.L.C. could show an additional million of
divisible surplus. The co.’s backing to its
policy contracts is thus very sound. Not
only "does that remark apply to the extent
of the reserves held to protect policy-holders,
but also to the investments in which the
funds have been laid out. The following
table includes shareholders’ funds and re-
serves of both Ordinary and Industrial
branches: —
1914. p.c. 1921. p.c.
Public securities £3,996,386 42.6 £13,855,334 83.5
Mortgages . . 4,165,349 44.4 1,417,595 8.5
Loans on Policies. 751,366 8.0 894.964 5.4
Cash, book debts, etc. 372,598 4.0 222,665 1.3
Property.. ... 47,988 .5 98.738 .6
Other assets . . 42,683 .5 116,639 .7
£9,376,370 £16,605,935
Liabilities . . 105,952 3,717,932
Net assets . . £9,270,418 £12,888,003
Four-fifths of' all assets are Government and
municipal securities. The M.L.C, subscribed
heavily to Commonwealth loans; it mort-
gaged its anticipated surpluses for several
years to get the high-interest gilt-edged
stuff, and most of the 3£ millions-odd owing;
to sundry creditors is the balance or
the advances, arranged on terms very favor-
able to the co., which enabled the manage-
ment to increase its holding of Government
securities to 121 millions.
The success of the M.L.C. has been re-
sponsible for the flotation of numerous other
Life cos. in recent years. Most of these
concerns have had little difficulty in raising
the necessary capital, and have not experi-
enced much trouble in writing business. But
the big difference between the M.L.C. and
the young offices is that, whereas the big
concern has made its profits by cutting
down its costs, the newcomers’ policies are
being written almost regardless of expense.
When the M.L.C. accepts a policy it
undertakes to handle the business at a
definite cost, which, should it' be exceeded,
the co. guarantees to make good. If the
management fulfils its contract in that
respect, there is a definite allocation of
pront: policy-holders get four-fifths of any
surplus in the Ordinary department and
shareholders can take up to one-fifth. So
for every extra £lOO the co. wants to find
for shareholders, the management has first
to make £4OO for policy-holders. These
are aspects of the true co-operative principle
in life assurance which seem to have been
overlooked by investors and managements of
the newer offices.
A low 7 cost rate is a feature of the M.L.C.
The published accounts show the all-in cost
of winning Ordinary income at 9.39 p.c. For
1920 it w r as 8.95 p.c., and in 1914 8.8. p.c.
A larger new business has been written
lately, and that has helped to elevate the
expense rate. New business has such an
influence on the figures that a separate in-
vestigation into these operations is of value.
For a start, this shows the new business for
the past eight years :
No. of New Average Amount
Policies. Assuring. Assured.
1914.. 10,619 £2,003,040 £lB9
1915.. 7,219 1,307,236 181
1916.. 5,839 1,315,471 225
1917.. 6,534 1,538,725 236
1918.. 8,103 2,048,870 253
1919.. 10,407 2,513,795 242
1920 . . 12,476 3,023,848 242
1921.. 11,105 3,025,926 272
Assuming that old or renewal business cost
7 p.c. and single-premium business 3 p.c., by
charging the balance of exes, against new
business last year’s accounts show £97,826
of first premiums to have been won at an
approximate cost of £84,000, or 86 p.c. Some
of the new offices have had to pay almost
tw 7 ice as much. Incidentally, though the
M.L.C. wrote 1371 fewer policies last year,
the total amount was larger, the
average per policy being £3O better than in
the previous two years,'and £9l better than
in 1915.
Paid capital is £200,000. Last year from
the Ordinary branch shareholders got £48,763.
But it is in the Industrial department that
they get their biggest bite —£66,237 during
the 12 months to December 31 last. How
the M.L.C. has built up its Industrial con-
nection is shown hereunder: —
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
. (Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1908. . £217,371 £98,068 £84,268 £1734 £33,301
1909.. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1911.. 264,235 65,606 108,077 3916 86,636
1912.. 281,597 63.186 111,978 6196 100,237
1913.. 298,526 93,365 115,794 6594 82,773
1914.. 322,017 66,240 134,643 121,134
1915.. 337,959 72,835 143,912 121,212
1916. . 354,568 68,702 153,102 802 131,962
1917.. 382,807 88,527 165,190 159 128,931
1918.. 409,949 160,209 176,638 2128 70,974
1919.. 430,803 183,019 195,605 1470 50,709
1920.. 446,911 154,264 201,103 1619 89,925
1921.. 488,369 150,210 213,639 2576 121,944
Including the divs. to shareholders last
year’s expenses represented 43,7 p.c. of_ total
income: the expense rate in 1020 was 45 p.c.,
and in 1914 41.8 p.c, At the balance funds
in this department totalled £1,889,372, which
was £71,496 more than the actuary esti-
mated was necessary to cover policy liabili-
ties, an interest rate of 31 p.c. being assumed
for policies 12 years in force and under,- and
4 p.c. for policies in force more than 12
years.
* # *
The Western Australian Bank:--
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1914.. 34,907 20 p.c.= 25,000 9,907 694,435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 ~,,25,000 4,955 699,390
Mar., 1915.. 27,488 20 ~,,25,000 2,488 701,878
Sept. 1915.. 27.209 20 „ ~ 25,000 2,209 704,087
Mar.’ 1916. . 28,753 20 ~,,25,000 3,753 707,840
Sept., 1916.. 27,140 20 ~,,25,000 2,140 709,980
Mar., 1917.. 28,390 20 ~ ~25,000 3,390 713,370
Sept., 1917.. 27,716 20 „ ~25,000 2,710 716,086
Mar., 1918.. 28,253 20 25,000 3,253 719,339
Sept., 1918.. 29,121 20 ~,,25,000 4,121 723,460
Mar., 1919.. 29,560 20 ~ .. 2'.000 4,560 728,020
Sept., 1910.. 29.951 20 „ ~,25 000 4,951 732,971
Mar., 1920.. 30,536 20 ~ ~25,000 5,536 738,507
Sept., 1920.. 32,056 20 „ ~25,000 7,056 745,563
Mar., 1921.. 32,806 20 ~ ~ 25.000 7,806 753,369
Sept., 1921.. 30,384 20 ~,, 25,000 5,384 758,753
Mar., 1922.. 32,070 20 „ ~25,000 7,070 765,823
This is the only bank of any importance in
the Commonwealth whose profits are smaller
than in pre-war days. For the March, 1913,
half-year, when the earnings of a fresh lot
of capital were showing up, net profits were
£5300 better than those, disclosed for the
latest term, though, besides having a larger
business, Westralia’s bank has £90,000 more
funds of its own employed. Heavier ex-
penses have been the trouble; extra out-
goings (including taxation) have outpaced
the grow-th of earnings :
March Exes. p.c. of
half, Gross Profits. Expenses. Gross Profits.
1914.. £74,901 £38,744 51.7
1920.. 77,292 46,756 60.5
1921.. 87,030 54,223 62.3
1922.. 88,259 56,189 63.6
Latest gross profits were £13,358 better than
those for the same half of 1914, but, though
there are now eight fewer branches, expenses
have soared £17,445.
The Westralian Bank did not share in
the sweet war pickings to the extent the
Eastern State banks did: Westralia did not
show the flush of prosperity experienced by
other States as the result of war financing.
Instead, its biggest industry, gold-mining,
was hard hit by heavier producing costs,
which even a high premium on the precious
metal failed to counterbalance, a severe
drought hit the State when world’s markets
were at the height of the boom, other indus-
tries have had their troubles, and, generally,
the West has been paying the penalty of a
succession of spendthrift Governments. The
Westralian Bank has also had to stand up
against the competition of the larger banks
operating in the State, including the Com-
monwealth Bank. For one reason and an-
other, deposits have grown only £721.739 in
eight years, an increase of 28 p.c. Surplus
profits have given the management £71,400
more to play with. Balance-sheet figures
have moved in this way over the period;—
Liabilities.
Mar.,’l4. Mar.,’2l. Mar.,’22.
Notes .. .. £12,913 £11,492 £11,450
Rills, etc. .. 120,424 271,175 152,997
Fixed deposits .. 1,243,584 1,467,087 1,470,451
Free deposits .. 1,361,349 1,841,738 1,856,221
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 1,216,475 1,270,846 1,286,298
Advances.. .. 2,413,229 3,269,216 3,163,594
Premises .. .. 78,000 79,800 82,050
Inabilities at March 31 totalled £3,491,120.
and not quite 37 p.c. was held in liquid
form. To protect the balance of £2,204,822
not covered by liquid assets there were
advances witli a book value of £3.103.594
and premises included at £82,050. One-
third of the book value of these assets would
have to become irrecoverable before a penny
of the public’s money would be in doubt.
On paper the Westralian Bank is a strong-
looking concern from the point of view of
creditors. That is due entirely to the large
proportion shareholders’ funds bear to liabili-
ties. After payment of the latest div. these
funds exceeded a million, and only £3 Bs.
of outside money was held for every £1
of funds employed. That means relatively
small profit-earning opportunities; net pro-
fits for the past 12 months represented only
6.1 p.c. on total funds. For many years
the bank has paid 20 p.c. divs. regularly, but
that rate of distribution has been possible
only because of the large reserves which
have accumulated during the 80 years the
bank has been in business. Paid capital is
a quarterqnillion, but reserves more than
three times as large are assisting.
* * * *
Dental and Medical Supply Co., Ltd.,
formerly the N.Z. Consolidated Dental
Co. (Wellington), M.L.: —
Bonus on Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Purchases, serves.
1912.. £2524 7 p.c. =£2060 £253 £5.891
1913.. 2506 7 „ „ 2060 222 6,115
1914.. 2456 7 „ ~ 2060 230 6,281
1915.. 3198 7 „ ~ 2060 405 7,014
1916.. 3682 7 ~ „ 2060 374 8,262
1917.. 3774 8 ~ ~ 2354 707 8,975
1918.. 3741 8 ~ ~ 2354 669 9,693
1919.. 2968 8 „ „ 2354 634 9,673
1920.. 4056 8 „ „ 2354 913 10,462
1921.. 4048 8 „ „ 2354 1019 11,137
Premiums on new shares, £339 .. 11,476
1922.. 3430 8 p.c. = 2835 512 11,559
Twelve months ago paid capital was £29,431;
at March 31 last £46,896. The additional
funds were got in to erect new 7 premises
and generally to extend the business, which,
as the old title implied, was mostly con-
cerned with dentists’ requirements. Sub-
scribed capital was almost doubled during
the year, but only £17,465 of the £28.212
of scrip taken up had been called in. These
new 7 shares w r ere issued at a premium, but at
what price is not stated : a share premium
account now 7 shows £339, but an unan-
nounced £lOOO has gone into an equalisation
of dividends reserve. In the table this £lOOO
has been included with profits, making the
year’s results look better than they
apparently w 7 ere. Gross profits, etc., at
£21.667 were £448 better than for 1921. but
working exes, and taxes were up £2438.
Some of the new- funds went in acquiring
the Surirical Supply Co., of Auckland.
Balance-sheet movements over the 12 months
were as folknvs :
1921. 1922.
Liabilities •.. •• .. £6.370 £1,357
Stock 19,978 23,957
Book debts .. .. .. 6,683 8,798
Cash, investments, etc. .. 15,223 12,930
Property .. .. .. 8,428 17,476
The co. is very comfortable financially, the
only liabilities being current trading
accounts, which were fully covered by
cash in hand. Shareholders’ capital is
now assisted by £11,559 of reserves, which
steadily accumulated while moderate divs.
were "being paid. During the past 10
years divs. have averaged about 71 p.c., and
meantime about £5300 of profit has been left
in the business. The co. is more or
less co-operative: each year it pays a bonus
on purchases by shareholders. The bonuses
are small in relation to gross profits, so a
considerable business is apparently done with
clients who are not shareholders.
* * * •
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal
Co. (N.S.W.), from the time arrears of pref.
divs. were met and divs. on ordinaries re-
commenced :
, Dividends. \
Prefs. Nominal
(121 Writ- Re-
Mar., Profit, p.c.'). Ordinary. ten Off. serves.
1913. . £26,020 £2500 10 p.c. = £8,878 £6,421 £3,959
1914.. 23,098 2500 124 „ ~ 11,234 6,499 6,824
1915.. 8.812 2500 Nil 6,468 6,668
1916.. 18,793 2500 10 p.c. = 9,000 6,389 7,572
1917.. 16,759 2500 10 „ „ 9,000 5,865 6,966
1918.. 15,649 2500 7* „ „ 6,750 5,749 7,616
1919.. 13,478 2500 8 ~ „ 7,200 3,778 7,616
1920.. 19,014 2500 9 „ ~ 8,100 8,213 v,817
Net To Re-
Profit. serves.
1921.. 21,217 2500 10 „ ~ 9,000 9,717 17,534
1922.. 32,841 2500 10 „., 9,000 ).q 28,875
Reserved for taxes, £lO,OOO .. ) ’
Since the 1921 accounts appeared big
changes have taken place in Wickham and
Bullock Island figures. Twelve months ago
the co. had £72,865 of its paid, capital of
£llO,OOO represented by surplus liquid assets,
mostly of a gilt-edged variety. Since then
the management has been steadily developing
and equipping the Ivalingo property. But old
investments have not been disturbed to
finance these operations. During the period
£68,783 net has been added to mine account
and £45,474 net to plant and railways. Mean-
time the investment list, including the couple
of thousands in coal stocks and stores, has
moved ahead from £84,972 to £97,779. The
co. went outside for the funds required, and
the latest balance-sheet, shows £51,236 of
debentures, and an increase of all other
liabilities from £9506 to £60,313. But with
the investments £41,085 of fixed deposits and
deposits at call are shown. The effect of all
the outlay on the new property is sum-
marised in this comparison:—
1912. 1916. 1921. 1922.
Liquid assets .. £23,785 £40,797 £88,121 £100,042
Liabilities (i nc.
divs.) . . . . 21,530 8,815 15,256 111,549
Surplus assets .. £2,255 £31,982 £72,865 —-_
Excess liabilities.. £11,507
Properties, railways
and plant £101,730 £85,590 £62,685 £176,943
For the first time for many years there is
now an excess of liabilities over liquid
assets. But the co.'s general health is very
different from what it was on the last occa-
sion outside liabilities were larger than
liquid belongings. When it had practically
worked out its old mines, the management
discovered that there was very little of share-
holders’ capital represented by assets of a
tangible character. But the co. had the
good luck to gpt interests in the Maitland
field at a low figure. Profits from the Neath
colliery enabled the Board to pay off the 11
years’ arrears on its prefs. in 1912, and the
two tables show how well the co. has done
since. A second mine, the Cessnock, was
opened up a few years ago, and now the
Ivalingo is a third producer. The co. has
thus undergone a remarkable revival. Like
other collieries, particularly those on the
Maitland field, Wickham and Bullock Island
has lately had a very prosperous run. The
past year’s disclosed net profit gave almost
30 p.c. on capital, and no doubt, particularly
as this co. learnt its lesson some years ago,
at least full allowance was made for depre-
ciation prior to the disclosure of_ the net
profit. Gross profits totalled £213,567, com-
pared with £153,157 for 1921; working exes.,
management and depreciation last year took
£180,726, and in the previous year £131,940.
The management is wisely holding on to the
exceptional profits; only the usual 10 p.c.
goes to shareholders.
* * * *
The Bulletin has remarked on numer-
ous occasions that, though an insurance co.
may show funds which are, to all anpear-
ances, ample to protect policy-holders, actual
security depends on the investment of those
funds. A striking example has come to light
in the case of the City Equitable, of London,
which is now being wound up. The Official
Receiver has discovered that there is no
market for £733,600 of miscellaneous securi-
ties shown in the books, and that, when a
market is found, hundreds of thousands will
have to be discarded for depreciation. One
asset consisted of a Brazilian ranch. These,
disclosures have been followed a Bill in
the House of Commons which proposes to
amend the insurance law to compel cos. to
publish full details of investments in then-
periodic accounts. Several Australian offices,
though under no obligation to do so, provide
such details. There are some securities,
however, such as mortgages, which no law


When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd ,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. r<>
Revolution in Sugar Manufacture.—A syndicate is
being formed to purchase and handle patents rights
in Australia, New Zealand and Fiji for the new
Continuous Running Centrifugal Separator, which
has successfully demonstrated the reduction of pre-
sent labor costs by 80 per cent. This promises to
be an exceedingly valuable investment. For full
particulars address: Mr. E. P. Crowther, Box 2349
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
The use of Pioneer Wood Pipe is to be -.specially
recommended in rough and broken country where
transport and haulage are serious conditions. It
requires no caulking, and there are no joints to make
or rivets or bolts to place. The shoulders of the
sections of the pipe are cut to fit precisely and
the grade, alignment and perfect seating of the pipe-
can be determined by merely observing from the top
of the trench whether the shoulders of the two pipes
are in contact throughout the upper diameter of the
pipes. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * ’ * *
Mr. E. Philpot Crowther, who has been recently
associated with the successful flotation of several com-
panies and patents, desires a partner—sleeping in-
active—to finance him in the highly-profitable busi-
ness of company formation, underwriting, etc.
Several very good propositions are in hand now.
Address: Box 2349 G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W. — Advt.
• # * •
In vent oirs.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Sc Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, l ink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt
• * » .
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co.. 483 Collins Street Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Writs
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
* • • *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney. —Advt.
1921 Models “National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quav
(East). — Advt.
Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
ThePadfic Cable Board
isrcsT route to great Britain.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Gt. Britain
New Zealand.
Canada
Daily
Ordinary, Deferred. Week-end.
/ 9d. (minimum
3/-
4jd.
2/4
1/6
1/2
115/-, 20 words)
j 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
U.5.A... ..2/4t02/8 1/2t02/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD.
281 Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084
J. MILWARD, Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
r
boord&so n
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
08
DT
Swift & Company Ctd.. Australasian Airents. 26 30 Clarence St.
Sydney,
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
could fairly demand detailed publicity. A
more satisfactory method of guaranteeing the
public would be* to subject insurance invest-
ments to review periodically by auditors-
general or other public officers.
The Insurance Office of Australia is de-
finitely going out of business: holders of 95
p.c. of the shares have agreed to sell to the
North British and Mercantile at 9s. per
share.
* -V * *
The experience of the Persian Oil experts
prospecting Papua for the Commonwealth
Government provides a warning to those in-
terested in the oil-hunt on the mainland.
Oil traces don’t necessarily indicate com-
mercial oil pools. The Persian Oil crowd
have been investigating 2000 sq. miles in
the Eitape and Madang districts, and in
50 sq. miles of coastal area two main groups
of oil-seepages are known to exist. After
careful examination the geologists are agreed
that "while small quantities of oil could
probably be obtained in the immediate
vicinity of the main seepages, such opera-
tions would probably not repay outlay and
working costs, and they could not recommend
a test-well.” Prospects generally in the
areas so far examined are reported as “un-
favorable.” Geological conditions are con-
sidered better in the middle Sepik basin,
about 80 miles from which, in Dutch terri-
tory, oil is known to exist. Further geo-
logical survey is recommended, and the
Commonwealth Government has approved.
British B. H. has given Associated Smelt-
ers, Port Pirie, notice of its intention to
approach the courts with an application for
release from the 50 years’ agreement which
was made during the war. The action is one
of the results of W. H. Woodhead’s recent
visit to Australia, and if the matter is
thrashed out in the courts Broken Hill
shareholders should learn a good deal more
about their cos. than they now know. The
metal agreements engineered by Prime Min-
ister Hughes have imported into the indus-
try many impenetrable features, and the
British B. 11. case should clear Jthe air.
* * * -X-
All the cash B. 11. Block 10 can lay hands
on is being mopped up by calls from the
Misima gold proposition and by the cost of
an idle mine at the Hill. Metals gave £2041
in the March half, and interest, etc., £723;
but after maintaining the mine, paying
Board fees and office exes., there was a loss
of £3410. For depreciation of plant £1217
was charged up, so the credit at-P. and L.
has slipped from £41,150 to £30,529. Misima,
having increased its shares sis.,_ will put a
further strain on Block 10, which now has
a £93,804 interest (less option exes, and
depreciation written off) in the far-off show.
Operations have been continuous at Misima
for five months, and “it is sincerely hoped
that the profit-earning stage has now been
reached.” The Broken Hill outlook depends
on the final report of the Technical Commis-
sion and whether it will allow the co. to try
its luck under Justice Edmunds’s first
award. Clive Baillieu, having preceded
W.L. to London on some zinc deal, an old
Collins House stager in Tom Birkbeck takes
his place on the Board. And young Alec G.
Campbell, general-manager, .now reports to
old Alec Campbell, chairman of directors.
The gold premium continues to decline,
and the precious metal is now at the lowest
price since it was first quoted at a pre-
mium in London. April sales by the Gold
Producers’ Association gave an average of
£4 14s. 2d. net per ounce (fine). London
gross price for the month averaged £4 13s.
Bd., only 10.2 p.c. above normal. Six months
ago the premium was 22 p.c.
Hampton Celebration’s first clean-up
gave £lO5O worth of bullion from 930 tons
treated, but in addition it is estimated that
there is £350 worth of gold distributed
through the plant. To say the least, the
yield is most disappointing. Three years ago
prominent Kalgoorlie mining men took an
option over the property from lease-holders,
and shortly afterwards appeared not only as
intermediate vendors, but through their pub-
lished representations of its value and pros-
pects floated the concern into a co. with a.
quarter-million capital. It was arranged that
even the taxation incurred in the purchase
consideration should be paid by the mine.
The Celebration has been one of the West’s
biggest disappointments.
* * * •
Outside the Golden Mile, Westralia lias
not had many big div. payers, and now the
last of them has gone out of business, the
Fenian, at Meekatharra, having put up the
shutters. It was a mine in every sense of
the term. Applied for by Ryan and Osborne
in 1903, the Fenian in its early days was
worked for little or no profit down to 50ft.;
but 10ft. further sinking disclosed a payable
ore-body 30ft. wide. Since then the mine
has been a highly payable concern, having
treated over 250,000 tons for as many ounces.
The mine, unlike most Westralian shows
not on the Mile, maintained its values down
to about 1000 ft., where a dyke cut short its
promising life. The last yield was 700 oz.
from 1000 tons, so tributors will no doubt
go into the mine. As Cosmopolitan, Gt.
Fingall, Sons of Gwalia, Edna May, Mararoa
and Fenian have all ceased operations, West-
ralia has now to rely on the Boulder district
for regular divs. from gold-mining.
* * * *
The term “payable ore” was discussed in
the Arbitration Court at Ivalgoorlie the
other day. Sutherland, manager of Golden
Horseshoe, gave the grade of ore he was
treating at 50s. per ton, while McDermott,
of the Ivanhoe, said his grade was 40s. Both
Horseshoe and Ivanhoe have big ore deposits,
efficient treatment plants, but neither pays
divs. that can be called handsome from the
grade of ore stated. It seems, therefore, that
about lOdwt. are required to pay. Many
investors believe that, generally speaking, a
lower grade is payable, but as a matter of
fact it is not so. Westralia has done little
profitable working with lOdwt. ore, although
many official promises of profit have been
made concerning it —Edna May Central, for
instance. The best performance, perhaps,
was Fraser’s, of Southern Cross, which paid
a run of a dozen monthly divs. of 6d. from
lOdwt. ore; but in those days a flat rate for
miners of 10s. per shift ruled at the Cross.
The belief that lower grade ore can be made
to pay in Westralia has in some measure
been due to the system of mine book-keeping
practised at Kalgoorlie. Shaft-sinking, driv-
ing, winzing, rising and in some cases even
leading stopes have generally been charged
to development, and only ordinary stoping
charged to working accounts. In this way
working costs at the end of a month are
shown about 225. Gd. per ton, and investors
then proceed to subtract this from the gold
produced per ton in the hope that the differ-
ence will be available as divs. Later, wffien
the accounts appear, they cannot understand
what has become of the “profits” they had
anticipated.
Freney’s party has arrived at Mt. Wynne
(W.A.) and the drilling plant is being
assembled there. Boring operations will
commence early in June, and thereafter
weekly or fortnightly reports should be re-
ceived by directors. The Okes-Durack party
should commence boring, a month or so later.
Meanwhile Derby, the port of call of the oil
expeditions, is busier than it has been fox-
years.
* * * *
Gnow’s Nest, near Yalgoo (W.A.), is a
locally-owned concern and is opening up
well. The lode is 10ft. wide with an extrac-
tion value, of 17dwt. Down to SOft. every-
thing is just about as pleasing as share-
holdex-s could wish. The mainshaft has been
sunk to 200 ft., and the future depends on
width and value of ore opened up at that
depth. Should the SOft. level developments
be maintained, the State should have another
regular div. payei*. The show is well managed
and is equipped with efficient treatment
plant.
* * # •
Old Geoi-ge Doolette, as buoyant as ever,
has popped Bullfinch into a sixth interest in
a belt of country in the Rioja disti-ict, Argen-
tine, along with the Great Boulder. The
Boulder Exploration Syndicate is to test the
axca, which is about 40 miles long by six
wide and is declared to show “150 outcrops
of gold veins.” It also is believed that cheap
native labor can be attracted to the mines.
Bullfinch has £13,600 to play with, and Dick
Hamilton’s show a lot more.
* * * *
“S.P.”: There is surely no Stock Exchange
in the world quite like the one at Perth.
Members solemnly meet at 11 each morning,
the list is called, but seldom is there a trade.
Buyer and seller did come close together the
other day, but the excitement thus caused
was too much for other members. Whether
a transaction really took place that day has
not been recorded.
* * * 4
A hitch, worse luck, seems to have
occurred in the scheme to resuscitate Mount
Elliott, Cloncurry (Q.). It was proposed
to raise £360,000 to develop and treat the
low-grade copper ores that Corbould had
vouched for, and which wei-e to give the co. a
profit of a million or two —that is, if £BO a
ton could be got for copper. London a few
months ago thought that the money would be
found in equal parts by the British and
French interests which hold the shares. Cor-
bould’s scheme included the building of big
central treatment works in the 'Cloncurry
district and an 80-miles railway to the rich
Mt. Oxide mine. That line alone was to cost
about £300,000; and to complete the scheme
about .a million would have been required.
There is now doubt whether the French finan-
cial group can find the backing for its por-
tion. Perhaps the continued low price of
copper is the principal trouble.
* * * *
J. W. Brophy, now superintendent of
State coal-mines in Queensland, intends to
push ahead at. the Styx River coalfield. For
a start he is installing more up-to-date
machinery. The present workings, like
those at the first shaft, are not too satisfac-
tory owing to faulting, and in this respect
it must be considered that although the
boring has been eminently successful in hit-
ting a number of seams of very high-
quality coal—-probably amongst the best in
Queensland—it has not been successful in
locating any considerable tract free from
disturbances. These have been sufficient to
make coal-winning awkward in the areas so
far worked, and it is intended to try for a
more settled area on which to sink another
shaft. In the meantime the present mine
is keeping Rockhampton and the new
Mackay railway in coals, but it is Mines
Minister Jones’s ambition to develop an
export trade from this field. The Styx is
admirably suited in one respect at least for
this role, being only a few miles from a
potential deep-water port.
The Titanic, at Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.),
is to have another trial. The prospectors
netted £5OOO when it was bought by the
Towers Brilliant Extended Co., but the
latter got little out of it beyond the £9OO
which came from the ore at grass when the
transaction was made. The lode immediately
pinched out, and the low price of tin settled
the Extended’s appetite for prospecting.
Practically all the tin lodes on this field are
lenses of ore, and it is not safe to turn
down a property there simply because one
shoot pinches out. A striking example is
the Sardine, which struck a lean period last
year and is now looking better than ever.
It would not surprise the local prophets if
the Titanic made good.
* * » «
A big tin-sluicing project is being con-
sidered at Kallanda, next door to the Three
Castles, near Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.). A
Sydney co. is about to test an alluvial area
of 300 acres by bores, and on the data de-
rived from these, if sufficiently promising, an
attempt will be made to raise the necessary
cash to work on a large scale. A good deal
of capital will be required to provide an
assured water supply for continuous sluicing.
Lack of cash has in the past been the bug-
bear to similar propositions in this area,
where there are considerable deposits of
tin-bearing wash up to 40ft. thick. Over
£2OOO has gone into the Three Castles, but
it has had a dull career, mainly due to water
difficulties.
* * # *
At Stannary Hills (N.Q.), Derek’s Tin
is marking time with a little development
work, but the co. has considerable reserves
blocked out waiting for a more propitious,
market. Hard luck is a mild term to de-
scribe the fortunes of this co.; when tin
was at its top thousands were spent in
equipping the Lass o’ Gowrie and You and
Me _ shows with mining and ore-treatment
equipment, concrete weirs, pipe lines, tram-
ways and roads. About 1400 tons low-grade
ore were put through, and then the market
crashed. A recovery in tin would mean a
big pay-roll for Derek’s and a bustle at Stan-
nary Hills, which now looks very sick.
* * * *
Mayor Kessell, of Gladstone (Q.), in sup-
port of a railway up the Callide Valley as a
part of the Government’s three millions’
Burnett settlement scheme, has been lauding
Callide coal to Premier Theodore. Eight or
nine years ago Callide coal was officially
proved to be of no value. Harbors-and-
Rivers Cullen had a try with it on one of
his dredge barges, and reported it not good
enough. The Railways tried the fuel between
Brisbane and Toowoomba, but failed to main-
tain a head of steam. The co. formed to
open up the deposits—J. W. Hetherington,
of Blair Athol Coal was managing director —
then went out of business.
* * * *
The veteran Tongkah Compound is mark-
ing time awaiting Compound No. 2’s appear-
ance on the divvy list. That pup co. is
shown in the Compound’s balance-sheet as
owing £40,076, but as the parent concern
holds 40,687 of its shares the Compound
itself practically runs the claim, though
there are two sets of Board fees and other
oddments. Compound is reserving itself for
another float in the Mantin Setul property,
which it values at £4O an acre. The ground
is claimed to go lib. per cub. yd. for 229
acres and .61b. over 125 acres. The better
grade block should pay good divs in ordi-
nary times. Having waited for a recovery
in the tin market, a heap of money has been
saved in equipping the property.
* * * *
Bux, one of the Badak boom floats, took
up the Star of Peace, near the Ringarooma
River (Tas.). Dry weather has hindered
work, but the bit of mizzling done has been
in ground averaging 41b. tin oxide per yd.
Cecil Ryan, at the Pioneer, has distributed
nearly £500,000 from ground going less than
21b.. so there should be good profits in 41b.
stuff. But the Star wants calls to brighten up
its glimmer. They should be got easily if the
directors can guarantee a fair area in which
41b. dirt is available. Bux itself has had
ex-Edna Central Boyd in the East Indies
looking for mining game. He signals that
he stalked down an area about which he is
“very impressed. ’’ but the Dutch don’t appear
to be any more inclined to encourage Aus-
tralian mining enterprise than they were to
let ’Murkans drill for oil in their East
Indies netroliferous belts. Bux’s big diffi-
culty will be to secure a good title to any
area that takes Boyd’s fancy.
• * « •
Preolenna Coal, 32 miles south of Burnie
(Tas.), is seeking capital to begin marketing
coal on a large scale. The earthworks of the
railway to the mine are completed, and the
line should be open in July. The capital of
the co. is small: £30,000 in 30,000 £1 shares,
of which vendors get 11,000 for the mine,
which has cost £lO,OOO to open up. State
Geologist Loftus Hills in 1913 spoke favor*
ably of the venture. He estimated five
million tons coal available on the Preolen.ua
coalfield, the average calorific value being
14,515 b.t.u., though as high as 16,450 b.t.u.
has been got from an analysis. The coal
yielded 12,030 e.f. of gas and lOcwf. 2qr.
of excellent coke. The prospectus, claims
that the four seams are 6ft. 6in. thick, and
that the total cost for mining and overhead
charges (except railway freight) works out
at £1 a ton, compared with Newcastle coal
on Burnie wharf selling at £2 4s. a ton.
Quality and quantity .seem right, so Preo-
lenna prospects look good,
i “Wart”: Recent mention by the “Wild
Cat” of the old Godkin silver-mine recalls
that the first silver smelted in the Speck
came from it. That was in 1889. The ore
assayed 408 oz. silver and 45 p.c. lead. F.
and W. Stewart, the Launceston jewellers,
did the smelting and manufactured the silver
into a pendant for Governor Hamilton.
* •* * *
An old underground manager on hot
places:—-
Some confusion exists in the matter of high tem-
peratures and hot places underground, especially in
deep mines such as those in Bendigo, recently men-
tioned by “Wild Oat” writers. The confusion is due
to the deduction formed from surface conditions
that the hotter one feels the higher is the thermometer’.
Depth, of course, causes a rise in temperature, but
the increase even in very deep mines is out of all
proportion to the increased “sensation of heat” caused
generally by inefficient ventilation. Humidity and
deficiency of oxygen are the prime causes under-
ground of a sensation of heat, and both could be
very greatly relieved by a proper attention to ven-
tilation. Unfortunately, during the infancy of a mine
ventilation is usually neglected, and when down deep
the management,-in trying to regain decent condi-
tions, is faced with caved-in passes throughout the
old workings. One of the hottest places 1 have
experienced was 200 ft. from the surface, when
handling a small block surrounded by old caved work-
ings. The dry bulb showed 88 deg., hut the terrific
heat was caused by a deficiency of oxygen; in that
air a candle lasted one shift. Another instance where
humidity was the factor lay at depths between 1500 ft.
and 2000 ft.: the thermometer varied between 91 and
95 deg., with a drop of one degree on the wet
bulb. Such conditions, of course, became impossible;
but mechanical ventilation reduced the figures to
between , 8 and 81 deg., with a three-degree drop
on the wet bulb.


M** 3Mnd Mr& Willie. Suburb re-aJiauz. -H->a.+
On foe sbrengfo »/ it M r S pay*
*^ lo foe House wort^^a.
***■» J bn'ogs Koi-ne gfva.vio.ikpb carats. ..
Ah>d AA** S t>o 'X* +*"*ot fc>a,clly n a-a-da-d
r>c.sv< .
VJbitb reminds AVT S foad bis noueb -pressed
suit is shabby.
2»\nly -tfcse. KlfohxZj-a Sv»-aci
baJnsow floors do r><z-<zd ibe. n«.w lirso.
all, why net" gfire tbe children
foe. best edue.a+i'on possible.
and no aka fog a
pla.*Siwra by buying a lawn-mower.
Kousa - woi'k £p«-*-ba.|o<,^)
by nozxi d .
And iioce it" ta*j be a/brdezd why r><jV
Spend foa. annual /or-tmobt4 holiday
on foa moontanns •
We. h&\d2u'l dona at all badly foi*,
v »aa»* ". observtei AAr.S +be
a/f"or- their return .
" I 4>viok tfaa. tnvalopaS your- Income
Tao*. '.' (-<z.rr->A.rk* +fi<2 Fostm^
'NOjiF mtor'ramg -
"ttot a, word . but I understand AA'ls> Wilke
Suburb i's> idrarh'singf yer ligrbt dukes /p
on* c/ ha-r dai.r<ist /bends .
" So youv**- el,’*
foe Public School kids.
&ac.uSe me sir, Would it" to. post>ible
‘"'der doubl *
/vr Willies. Suburb.
THE RETURN TO EARTH.


g|| | atafg.
BECKONS
Northern trades cool
Hawaii in July and August,
making it an . unparalleled
vacation resort. Surfing and
swimming —NO SHARKS
sailing, game fishing, golfing,
hunting, hiking, motoring,
mountain climbing and Kil-
auea—living volcano —all lend
enchantment to the Crossroads
of the Pacific. Booklet from
nearest travel, ticket agency,
or
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii,
Obtainable in
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane and Tasmania.
K. B.
LAGER
Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co., Ltd., Kent Brewery, Sydney^
A
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1021 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years'
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 3'ears, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Iford”: Tom Molloy, of Perth, an ex-
mayor of the city, and holder of substantial
property interests there, has contested more
Parliamentary elections unsuccessfully than
any other man in Australia—or, probably,
than any other two men. Tom sat in
W.A.’s first Leg. Assembly (’9l to ’94) for
a year or two. Since then there have been
nine Parliaments in Groperland, and the per-
sistent Molloy has attempted to elbow his
way into every one of them, and into several
of them more than once, but Fortune has
just as persistently frowned upon all his
efforts. Assembly or Council, it was all
one to Tom; his hat has gone into the ring
indiscriminately. How many votes of
thanks to returning-oflieers he has seconded
—in how many fields he has been an also-ran
—nobody knows, unless it be himself, but
the tally must be a staggering one. Yet
the grizzled veteran still keeps a stiff upper
lip and refuses to abandon hope.
Gaud Mayor Swanson (Melbourne) is con.
sidering a third rush for the rabbit-skin, and
he has till October 9 to make up his mind.
Success would hold the possibility of that
somewhat dingy distinction, a knighthood.
Still, who speaks of Hennessy and his sir-
ship now that he has ceased to drape him-
self in chains and the skins of dead animals?
D. J. R. Watson, a brother of John Reay
Watson, of Melbourne Age, who hopes to
represent Brisbane after the next appeal to
the 'Bananaland electors, had a previous
term in Parlia-
ment as the choice
of a Darling
Downs constitu-
ency. He is one
of the ornaments
.of the Queensland
Bar, and, like his
brother, writes
with some distinc-
tion. Both were
iborn with ink in
their blood, their
mother being a
mroducer of fiction
for several week-
-1 fc* . •
New Victorian
Chief of Police
NICHOLSON.
A. C. Mack, formerly of the C.E.G.S.
(“Shore”), Sydney, has followed gold a
long way in the last dozen years. After a
year at Day Dawn (W.A.) he went to
Po feu pine in Ontario (Canada), and then
to Russia and Siberia, where, at the end
of six years, Bolshevism pushed him over
the eastern edge. Since then he has been
pursuing his favorite mineral in Japan and
Korea.
“L.D.S.”: “J.C.’s” reference to the rare
N.Z. Cross (B. 27/4/’22) recalls that I
worked in the Auckland (M.L.) City Coun-
cil engineering office with another holder —
Harry Wrigg, chief draughtsman, who, as
Ensign Wrigg, saved the colors of his regi-
ment. There were only 21 medals issued
(March 10, 1869) to officers and men of the
local militia. The Governor of N.Z., acting-
on his own initiative, had the V.C. copied in
silver, with a few additions, and then wrote
the Secretary of State for permission from
Queen Victoria. It was granted, but lie was
told the incident must not occur again. The
medal carries a pension of £lO per annum.
Prof. Osborne, with 10 months’ leave of
absence from Melbourne ’Varsity Council
in his pocket, is off to the U.S.A.
Clara Bray, a full-blooded aboriginal, aged
58 years, has gone west from Byron Bay.
She was the last of her clan —the Byron Bay
tribe.
“Meataxe”: The Speck’s most venerable
councillor, Daniel Burke, of Westbury, has
been induced to retire at 94. His record:
Member Road Trust 65 years, Warden and
C.M. 42 years, chairman Court of General
Sessions 40 years, coroner 35 years, M.11.A.
(for Cressy) 10 years. He doesn’t hear
quite as well as he did, but otherwise he
is as young as he has been any time during
the past half-century.
“Coot”: Three Vic. Supreme Court Judges
are old-time footballers. McArthur and
Schutt played with Essendon (League), and
Cussen with ’Varsity and Melbourne.
Moule, of the Vic. County Court Bench, is
the only Australian XI player who has
scored a Judgeship.
.T. 11. Scullin, of the Reps., Tom Ryan,
Essendon’s elect in the Vic. Assembly, and
C h i e f-Sec. Mat
Baird were among
the budding ora-
tors who strove for
guineas at South-
street, Ballarat,
competitions nearly
20 v ears ago.
Scullin was easily
the most distin-
guished of the
trio. In those
days Ryan was a
railway employee
at Riverton (S.A.),
and he went across
to Ballarat as the
unbeaten champion
debater of South
Australia; but a
second was the
highest prize he
could bag.
J. B. GRUT.
president Vic-
torian Bowling
Assoeiation.
“Galleryman” on a baby hurricane:—
Even the briskness of Hughes is sluggish beside the
energy of Federal-Minister Arthur Rodgers. Every
time I see him he is in a hurry, and if I want to
get any information I have to take it on the run.
Such restlessness often suggests futility ; but Rodgers
is doing two men’s work. He has brought to the
control of the Customs the same application and
hunger for detail that distinguished his overtime as
the head of the Wannon scheme of repatriation
during the war. He is still a terrific night-worker,
and his home-life for most of the year amounts to
the intervals between the arrival at Horsham (Vic.)
of the Melbourne-Adelaide express at something a.m.
on Sunday morning and the departure of the Mel-
bourne train 24 hours later. This works out at
about 20 hours’ travelling to snatch a Sunday dinner
with the family. And he doesn’t always see that
meal, because he is too confident of the ability of a
motor-car to travel from his office in Spring-street to
the Spencer-street station in about two minutes with-
out breaking something, and he has occasionally
irrupted upon the platform when his train was well
on its way.
The last leaf dropped off the A.I.F. tree
when Capt. M. Langslow got back to Melb.
military headquarters recently after being
commander-in-chief of the remnant of 30 or
40 Diggers who kept, the Aussie flag flying
in the Smoke till the end. Langslow’s main
job in staying on there was to rake together
a few millions sterling that William
Mcßeath and his expensive disposals board
either forgot or mislaid in the Australia
House cellars.
“T.R.H.” holds a little review :
“J.8.D.” (B. 4/o/’22) speaks of Asquith, Grey,
Morley and Haldane as “great Liberals.” No doubt
they were—-in Gladstone’s time. But what are
they to-day? I doubt if any English constituency
would return Asquith for his Liberal principles,
though he might get in as 11. H. Asquith, an ex-
Prime Minister with a splendid future behind him.
He is wise to stick to Paisley, where they are not
quite sure yet that Queen Anne is really dead. Lord
Grey, always a wealthy man and a dreamer of high
ideals, was a very moderate Liberal even when Glad-
stone was alive. If ever there was a Conservative
Liberal he is the man. As for “honest John,” as
Lord Morley of Blackburn used to be known, he was
a staunch Gladstonian Liberal, but when his chief
died the politician in Morley died also. Nine Eng-
lishmen out of ten don’t know whether John Morley
the man is alive or dead. Lord Haldane is now
only known as one of the several ex-Lord Chancel-
lors who are drawing- a fat pension, and as a states-
man who fvery mistakenly, I admit) was suspected
of being too friendly towards Germany during the
war. Most Liberals loathed him because, before the
war was thought of, he founded the territorials on
the ruins of the old-fashioned “volunteers.” In
short, “J.8.D.” has selected as his exemplars four
Tories who continue to be called Liberals because
they are too negligible, politically, now to be
argued about. Australia is full of people who
will continue to be mis-described on the same prin-
ciple—by the majority of people—till they die.
“Blackfriars”: Commonwealth shipping-
manager Eva is about to sail for London to
put himself under the tutelage of Larkin for
12 months. Lancashireman Kneen, who
arrives in the Moreton Bay to replace him,
is a modest and suavely-spoken shipping man,
but lie held his own in Liverpool, where the
stalwarts of the trade are, and subsequently
made Larkin realise that there can be two
sides to a talk. So he is not likely to let
even Hughes browbeat him.
“The Wanderer”: Gone west at John’s
River, near Wingham (N.S.W.), Christian
Ivers, who came to Queensland from Schles-
wig as a lad of 14 in 1846. He put in many
years on stations, and had some hair-raising
episodes with Binghi. Then he went to the
Kurrajong, in the Ilawkesbury (N.S.W.)
district, and afterwards, in 1871, took up
land on John’s River. Later he and his wife
opened a roadside accommodation-house,
which became highly popular with bagmen
and other birds of passage.
A valued Bulletin contributor, Dr.
Archibald Lang McLean, succumbed to the
after-effects of Hun gas in Sydney on Satur-
day. He went to the Antarctic with Maw-
son in 1911, and afterwards accompanied
him to England, where he helped to compile
the book on the expedition. At the war he
saw two years’ service with the Black
Watch, then, after being invalided home,
joined the A.I.F. and was with the ,17th
Batt. till the end, bringing, back a badly-
shaken constitution and the M.C. What
had promised to be a brilliant medical and
literary career ended at 37.
Died in Sydney on Monday, in his 59th
year, Frank Bignold, Inky Wayfarer and
publicity man for Marcus Clark and Co.
Originally a teacher, he tried dairy-farming
in Gippsland (Vic.) before graduating
from the readers’ room to the literary staff
of the Telegbapii. He was an early district
secretary of the A.J.A., was general secretary
later, and was one of the founders and a
past president of the Sydney Press Club.
He had six children—three lots of twins
but only three survive with the widow. 11.
B. Bignold, barrister, is a brother.
John Perry, M.L.C., of N. S. Wales, suc-
cumbed to a paralytic stroke a few days back.
Born in Sydney 76 years ago, he went to
the Richmond in his young days, was elected
for the district in 1889, and continued to
sit in the Ass. from then till he was ap-
pointed to the Council a couple of years ago.
He held the Public Instruction portfolio in
the Lyne-See Cabinet; Mines and Agricul-
ture under Waddell, and Agriculture under
Wade. He was a genial soul, and one of the
Ma State’s best-liked Parliamentarians.
Just dead, “Billy” Macpherson, managing-
director of Holdsworth-Maeplit'r son’s, and
a leading light of the N.S.W. Chamber of
Commerce. He was a great athlete in his
youth. Of several records he established
two remain unbroken —'his world’s amateur
record for 250yds. (24 3-ssec.) put up at
Auckland in Feb., 1891, and his 9 4-ssec. for
the hundred.
“K. Sped”; “0.K.” (B. 11/5/’22) lias
apparently not seen the official papers when
he says they don’t include the name of Deem-
ing. The records of the Vic. Penal Depart-
ment have the following in the return for
1892: “At Melbourne Gaol, 23/5/’92, Deem-
ing. Murder.” No Christian names are given,
and the previous record of the ghoul is indi-
cated only in undecipherable pencilling. I
spent a whole day last month collecting
details from the records of the 173 criminals
executed to date, so I know.
“Ormond”: Lady Scott’s statue of her
explorer husband in Waterloo-place, Lon-
don (B. 30/3/’22), isn’t the only one she
did of him. There is a striking figure in
Christchurch (M.L.), showing Scott in his
Antarctic rig. Incidentally, the explorer’s,
memory is kept very green in Canterbury,
and the people of the province point with a
sorrowful pride to the fact that Lyttelton
was his last port of call.
“Yoyang”: In the latest Journal of the
Historical Society an article on the wreck
of the Sydney Cove, in 1797, gives the cap-
tain’s name as “Guy” Hamilton, the author
evidently following the account reprinted in
the Historical Records of N.S.W. from the
Asiatic Mibbob (Calcutta), of 1798-99.
Other sources (including the late Mr. Hunt-
ington’s account, which quoted from his
tombstone in the old cemetery where the
Sydney Town Hall now stands) call him
“Gavin.” Which is correct? From printed
accounts we learn that Captain Hamilton
was a native of Glasgow, a hardy rover tyho
had made voyages to the West Indies, and
sailed to Port Jackson in the Sydney Cove.
The vessel was owned by Messrs. Campbell
and Co., of Calcutta, who, after the wreck,
sent a successor called the Hunter. I have
personal reasons for believing the skipper s
name was Gavin.
■’Dido”: Re Billy Hughes’s habit of fall-
ing- off horses. A Sassafras (Vic.) 'resident
tells of one spill the press did not get on to.
He met a horse
with saddle and
bridle trotting
riderless down the
track. He cap-
tured the neddy
and turned him
back, and a couple
of hundred vards
further on came
UDon the Prime
Minister sitting in
the dirt, feeling
his bones. “Tour
horse, I believe ?”
said the ma n.
“Y e s,” growled
William. “A fine
animal,” remarked
the Sassafrasian.
“Yes, the blank,
blank, blanketty
blanker,” snorted
the little gentle-
man in the dust.
“What will you
give for his skin?”
H. H. NEWTON,
Clerk of the Par-
liaments (Vie.).
Thomas Dimbabin, of the Sydney Sun,
who has made a hobby of burrowing into
the dusty records of Australasia’s past, has
fashioned a book therefrom which has been
accepted by A. and C. Black, of London, and
will be out shortly.
Died last month, cetat SO, in Boston
(U.S.A.), Timothy Kelly, who, with John
Boyne O’Reilly and O'Donovan Rossa, was
deported to Australia from Ireland over the
political rumpus of 1800. For the past two
decades he had been attached to the office of
the Sheriff of Suffolk County (Mass.).
“D.F. ’: Governor Macquarie, who initi-
ated so many better things, sent to England
the first, Australian recommendation for a
knighthood. In 1810 he recommended that
Judge-Advocate Wylde be knighted “to mark
the Superiority of his Appointment, and to
add Dignity thereto.” But nothing came of
it.
W. W. Estcott, who has been a public
servant for luilf-a-century—-20 years in
Imperial and South African services and 30
in Australia —said so-long to his younger
companions of the Home and Territories
Dept. (Tas. Division) the other day, and an
avalanche of eulogistic oratory and farewell
tokens fell upon him. Railway construction
accountancy had been his chief job for the
last decade.
“Thorold”: J. L. Purves is Melbourne’s
classic example of a K.C. who pocketed many
wads from mere glances at briefs. However,
he qualified the proceeding in a way which
might have disarmed “Bill o’ Costs” (B.
4/5/’22) ; that is to say, by keeping a fine
all-round team of four juniors, Walter
Coldham, Justice Schutt, Judge Detridge
and another whose name has slipped me.
The client was sure that when any of these
four was associated with Purves, his case
would be well handled, although the busy
K.C. might be elsewhere most of the time.
Sometimes they fared even better when
Purves took the call to another bar not within
the Law Courts. Schutt, for instance, got
one of his best opportunities after the old
man had taxed the Full Court’s patience
with attempts to bluster through on three out
of four points in an appeal by a notorious
woman abortionist who had been found guilty
of murder. “Here, Schutt, you’d bettor
chuck the last dice, but you haven’t got a
dog’s show with it,” he muttered, gathered up
his silk skirts, and got out. Schutt pulled
the lady out of her trouble. Coldham was
almost as brilliant a pleader as Purves him-
self, and each of the others in the team had
some special quality of his own. When
Randolph Bedford as witness put a series of
Whistlerisms across the old man, Purves
grumbled to his junior. “This ’s beaten
me stiff. You have a go at him. I’m
thirsty.” It was audible all over the court,
and the Judge frowned. “I’d like to ask
’Sr*ior to come across,” added the irrepress-
ible, “but I’ll send one over.”
“J.H.L.”: Most of our early explorers
proved that a hard life isn’t necessarily a
short one. John Forrest, Sturt and Hume
died when they were over 70, Mitchell passed
the three-score mark, and, after the toughest
of fights with the Australian wilds, Grey
and Eyre threw in the towel at 86. Stuart
got one year past the half-century, but
Leichhardt, Kennedy, Burke and Wills had
the bad luck to leave comparatively young-
bones in the primitive places they so loved.
THE IGNORANCE OF SHAKSPEARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Professor McCallum delineated the limitations of
the dramatist, showing that, although he was no
ripe student, not even well acquainted with the pro-
gress of his times, his work was abounding in human
sympathy and fulness of vision, and that it followed an
ideal. Although the dramatist was not original, he
knew how to mould character once a plot had been
accepted, and he was always faithful to human
nature.” —Sydney daily.
How vain the roar of gallery and pit
On those first nights when Bill was all the vogue!
‘Tis true he had a modicum of wit
And could construct a sort of plot, the rogue;
But he was ignorant. He did not know
One-tenth of what McCallum has acquired
About the people who went to and fro
In London’s streets when he was most inspired.
Yes, he could mould a character and see
Some things in men that other folk might miss;
Had a broad vision and wide sympathy,
But it was based on ignorance, all this.
It makes one feel quite sorry for poor Bill
When thus great learning rises to impeach him.
If only he had stayed unborn until
Some earnest pedagogue appeared to teach him!
Vet, reading “Lear,” this fact at least seems true,
(I‘ace what passed at Oxford —or at Balham),
However little William Shakspeare knew,
There was a lot that he could teach McCallum.
x.s.w.
M. M.


z
i
s
■-- > - 4 «
. , w .
x:
h ,:
||»W'l* . .I
!.ii Mil!
A
m
«5*
V'\
a
d
,-s
b 674
C£
w
“Havelock” is a
good pal on the
links.
He brings con-
solation when
the game is
going badly and
adds to the
satisfaction of
the well played
shot.
Australia’s National Smoke
FLAKE CUT—DARK OR AROMATIC. ALSO IN PLUG FORM.
SPECIAL MIXTURE 2oz. Airtight Tin*—MlLD. MEDIUM, and FULL STRENGTH.
..OIAIO
d
Unique pansfe
op Models.
Obtainable
of all
Tobacconists.
THE PIPE THAT GIVES
DEPENDABLE SERVICE


Schweppes
Schweppes’Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance
winning a Prize.
Prizes
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
Own-a-Corona.
Write neat, up-to-date looking letters
that will make the right kind of an
impression. The cost is small—only
£l7/17/-
Lel us show you Corona and explain
our easy-pay ment plan.
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Weighs but
Six pounds.
/mi
SOCIETY
WHY HE SWORE.
HE : “ There's my horse finishing absolutely
last!”
SHE: “How fortunate you bached it both
ways!”
Brisbane Anglicans are discussing the
ndvisability of getting rid of the common
cup used in the Communion service, and
substituting therefore separate cups for each
individual. The present custom is to wipe
the common cup with a cloth as it passes
from one communicant to the other; a little
ceremony that may prevent possible infec-
tion or may spread it—according to the
state of the cloth as it proceeds on its duty.
Conservative Anglicans cling to the common
cup, and if they persist in so doing should
surely suggest some method of safeguard,
llow would it be if each communicant were
provided with a straw?
S.A. Supreme Court has given a wide
application to the legal doctrine that a Court
need not be particular about what a man
says in his will if it is reasonably sure that
he meant something else. The rule pre-
supposes that the Courts are incorruptible.
If they were not it would add a new terror
to detnb to know that the wishes one had
set down plainly in writing might be taken
to mean something quite different. In this
case a farmer had left section 1288 to his
son. He didn’t own it, never had owned it.
What he owned was section 027, and the
Court said the son should have that.
# * * »
“Rio”: “Hoppy’s” par. (B. 4/5/’22) re
the A.A.M.C. major who in 1919 used the
hypnotic-suggestion treatment for shell-shock,
and who wasn’t given a chance to “draw
Austialia’s attention to the fact,” grates on
me. In 1917 Dr. (lion, major A.A.M.C.)
Clarence Godfrey, of Melbourne, who had
for years used the treatment on civilians, was
attending No. 5 Base Hospital, St. Kilda-
road, and using hyp-
notic suggestion on
shell-shocked Diggers,
who rolled up by the
dozen. In 1918 i was
an out-patient there
myself and saw God-
frey, a Melbourne
native, treating Anzacs
with unquestionably
beneficial results. The
doc. also cured stam-
merers and other func-
tional sufferers and
insomnia patients. 1
was one of the last.
Major Godfrey is a
Vic. Government medi-
cal officer; has bad
charge of the Royal
Park Asylum, the
Lara Inebriates’
Home, and has been
M.O. to Melbourne
Gaol. He told me he
had studied the treat-
ment at a well-known
F rench clinic at
Nancy, which the Bri-
tish medical authori-
ties with their usual
conservatism refused
to recognise. I believe
he also used hypnotic
suggestion in lieu of an
anaesthetic for tooth-
extraction, lumbar-puncture and other minor
surgical op’s. I have been in Melbourne
very little since 1918, but I know that he
gave demonstrations to local practitioners
before 1914.
* * * *
“Billy T.” : Some two years ago a family
of three, living at Albert Park, Melbourne,
advertised a room to let, “single man pre-
ferred.” The single man arrived in due
time, a, gentle soul named Herbert, who had
just secured a job in a chemist’s shop in the
city. He seemed to find the quiet family
with which he had thrown in his lot very
much to his taste, so much so, indeed, that
within three months he
was engaged to Matilda,
only daughter of the
house. He requested the
favor of a longish en-
gagement to enable him
to get a bit of money
together. Br> the wed-
ding day was fixed for 18
months ahead. The
period of probation wore
to a close, but Herbert’s
show of exultation was
not equal to the occasion.
In fact, he had the air
of a man in the presence
of Death. The day came,
and two hours before thc-
ceremouy Herbert col-
lapsed and asked to be
excused. He said lie had
been looking forward to
a death in the family
that would enable him
to carry out his undertaking. Pressed for a.
more lucid explanation, he burst into tears
and confessed that the death he had antici-
pated was that of his wife; but the lady bad
failed him.
* * * #
“Silas”: He was grinding an organ under
my window, in collaboration w r ith a monkey.
But the monkey had lost interest in the busi-
ness, or wished no longer to be seen associ-
ating with a dusty Dago who wmre large
brass hoops in his ears. He alternately
dragged behind and tugged away : he refused
to tumble or beg; spat and swore primitive
simian oaths when urged to earn his living;
and, finally, running up his owner as if he
were a tree, bit him severely on the ear.
This was more than enough for the Tuscan
stoicism of the musician; he seized his col-
league by the tail, and hurled him over our
fence, then crossing the road began cranking
out “Killarney” to sufferers opposite. Some
children pursued the monkey. One small
boy yelled: “Here he is, mister—here ftfe is!”
The Tuscan shook his head. “Noa wanta
heem,” he cried. “Noa wanta. I half give-a
de de sack !”
“Bleare”: Adelaide surely carries consider-
ateness and courtesy, as well as culture and
refinement, to a point reached nowhere else
in Australia. As I write the woodwork on
the Town Hall tower is receiving the atten-
tion of renovators. And a full 100 ft. above
King William-street there blazons a placard
with “Wet Paint” inscribed on it in big-
black type. The idea locally is that it con-
stitutes a polite warning to" the pigeons.
PUTTING HER STRAIGHT.
“I suppose you noticed the boss teas a bit
swift'?”
“Don't worry , girlie. I won't let- him go
too far.”
“Far nothing! What you want to do is
not to let him come too near.”
“Bullwhanger” on a Mislaid Craft:—
It looks as if the fate of the Manurewa is going
to he a mystery like that of the Amelia J. The
fact that she sailed with a complement of 13 has
long since caused experienced shellbacks to shake their
hoary heads. What puzzles many people is the Navy’s
apparent apathy in the affair. The Melbourne did fine
work in rescuing the crew of the
jerry-built schooner Helen B. Sterling ;
but, then, the Helen B. was founder
ing almost in the big cruiser’s course.
The destroyers and the minelayer
Marguerite also helped in the search
for possible survivors when the Firz-
roy and Our Jack foundered off the
North Coast (N.S.W.) last year. In
favorable weather a destroyer can
search a large area in a short time
owing to its great speed, and if one
or two had been despatched when
fears for the Manurewa’s safety
were first entertained they might
have been able to save her or at least
clear up the mystery. There is, of
course, the ancient argument that salvage work is
no part of the R.A.N.’s job. But neither is the
giving of dinners and dances in Port Jackson, Port
Phillip and the rest; yet this takes up a very appre-
ciable portion of the Navy’s time and energy.
• * * •
“The Oldest Inhabitant” peers into the
past:—
The Burdekin house in Macquarie-street, Sydney,
which Hardy Wilson considers one of the architec-
tural beauties of the State, is to come under the
auctioneer’s gavel in June. It was built about 80
years ago by Thomas Burdekin, a wealthy merchant.
He died a couple of years later, leaving a widow
and three sons, Bossley, Marshall and Sydney. In
the ’seventies the first-named lived in Brougham-
street; Marshall at Starkey’s Terrace, Castlereagh-
street; and Sydney with his mother in the Macquarie-
street place. To the north of the mansion was the
little building known as Tawell’s Chapel, and when
Sydney Burdekin married he bought and demolished
it, erecting a residence for himself in its place. On
his mother’s death he moved into the big house and
made additions to it. Sydney Burdekin entered the
Legislative Assembly when it was, take it for all
in all, a resort of gentlemen, and left it at about
the time it began to be an abode of yahoos—namely,
m 1894. It was in liis drawing-room that the fif-st
Reid Ministry was formed. But the house was even
better known on the social than on the political side.
Mrs. Sydney Burdekin was, according to Lord Hope-
toun, “one of the most beautiful women of her day,”
and she led Sydney society for many years. Mrs
Alex. Hay (wife of the M.P.), who is the present
owner and inhabitant of the old house, is one of
her daughters, and a son, Beaufort, practises at the
A T .S.W. Bar. His uncle Marshall was also a barrister
Aot needing briefs, Marshall sat in the fourth and
fifth Parliaments, and was Treasurer for 17 days in
the Cowper Ministry (Jan., 1866). There is a legend
that when Tom Burdekin built he found he had
encroached upon someone else's ground, and the
knowledge and expense of setting things right killed
him. He lies under an old-fashioned altar tomb-
stone at Rookwood, removed, no doubt, from some
other burial-ground.
• *
“0.K.” clips bis stylo in gall:—
Let whoso will sing the praises of Annie Besant,
I prefer to regard her as a one-eyed seeker after
Truth and a persistently mischievous person. Looking
back over nearly half-a-century I want to know what
good over could have come of her association with
the late Charles Bradlaugh in the publication of
“Fruits of Philosophy”—a pamphlet bound to be
more or less effective in checking the growth of
British population among the more educated, sober
and well-to-do people, whilst the ill-fed poor, the
criminals, the unemployables and other non-readers,
if not illiterates, continued to breed inferior stock
as freely as ever. Yes; Mrs. Besant’s “Fruits of Philo-
sophy” taste d—d bitter in the mouth of experience.
How the prolific Germans, noting the steady decline
in the British middle-class birth-rate, must have
gibed at the broadcast sowing of Malthusian-theory
seed by the Bradlaugh-Besant firm! In retro-
spect [ see Mrs. Besant seeking Light in the
Blavatski impositions on credulity at the instance of
her brother in mischievous crankism —the late W. T.
Stead. A book of portraits and autographs pub-
lished by Stead, in 1891, includes a pleasing picture
(Annie Besant’s influence has radiated largely from a
prepossessing apearance) of the lady, and aii extract
from one of her letters—“l am immersed in Blavat-
ski! If I perish in the attempt to review her, you
must write on my tomb, ‘She has gone to investigate
the Secret Doctrine at first hand.’ ” When she came
to Australia, some 20-odd years ago, Annie Besant
preached: “You may make laws against sweating,
but sweating will come back unless you can remove
the sweating devil from human nature”—a doctrine
that earned its absurdity on the face of it, and
didn t need to be falsified by time. The well-
meaning, earnest, restless agitatress was as wrong in
protesting that you cannot successfully combat human
selfishness by Act of Parliament as she is now wron®-
in complaining that British Government in India”
with its maintenance of divers native princes in local
sovereign power, pays little attention to “the differ-
ence between races,” and treats India “not as a
nation, but as a conquered race.” Out on such a mis-
chievous misrepresentation of the facts! British rule
'!’ India has much to learn ; but it will never acquire
ihe lesson from Mrs. Annie Besant. She is one of
fhose dangerous enthusiasts who mistake the false
for the true, and make mischief to the glory of God
Ihe odd thing is that she seems never to have
unied her earnest lack of judgment in the direction
or Irish politics.
* U.
* *
Jarnac”: A fine porcelain jar that nro-
carne °"if ed to , Governor Macquarie
tame to light when a trench was heino- duo-
outside the galvanised-iron shanty ” that
m?nt HoiiS 6 Sit i 6 ° f N - S ’ W -’ s first Govern-
ment House and now serves as the Gov-
ernment Architect’s office. On the side of
ALL IN IT.
“Does your husband suffer much with his
rheumatism?”
“Yes. But not half so much as the rest
of us.”
it is a representation of the Battle of
Waterloo. The neck was broken by the
trench-digger’s pick, but the rest was in
perfect order when an official rescued it.
(Continued on page 18.)
BQOBYDAZZLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just for a moment every day
l see her when the dummies meet,
Site going on her northward way,
I passing southl.v down the street,
And as the clacking trams go by,
For half a tick I Hold her eye.
’Tis sweet to see
The way that dear eye smiles on me.
I am no longer young, I hide
Much baldness underneath my hat.
Her smile it fires a sort o' pride,
It bucks one up, and after that
About my daily task I flit,
Suffused with joy, I am for it
More strong, more wise.
The firm makes profit by her eyes.
At home there is a. little spouse,
About the yard three babies play.
If she knew this would it arouse
Her ire and turn her eyes away?
I tell myself it is as well
I shan’t he called upon to tell.
Each day at nine
My smile is hers, as hers is mine.
There’s liking in her glance, I think.
I have to look, our glances meet,
Then, like a man made strong with drink,
l feel my blood take sudden heat.
The brown-eyed girl I don’t adore,
’Tis passing friendship, nothing ’more.
So much 1 tell,
Since that I like her passing well.
I keep this secret from my wife,
’Twould never do for her to know
What ’tis that keeps our mutual life
In its perennial, even flow.
Not for the love that I avow,
Am I not hard to live with now,
But for the wile
Of one strange girl’s bewitching smile.
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


s
55
m
¥
m
VA
(k
mv
fm
&k2£=^i
■t
&
m
-<s<
&s
z.
m
s.
JZ -
V
%
m
m
~S//j
C 4
>*=
%
P®
m
we?
fd
IMPERIAL RESERVE
B. SEPPELT 8c SONS, LTD.
MELBOURNE. AUSTRALIA.
ď


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
“For Ever Best/'
STA(a
LA<SER
TOOHErS.
A LA CARTE.
tEoK The Bulletin.]
“Left at Card’s Luncheon Room, city, Lady's
Camisole. Owner please call.”—S. M. Herald’s
"Lost anti/ found’' column.
The flapper with her favorite boy
Took luncheon in the city.
One gathers that she was not coy,
She probably was pretty;
Hut this queer ad. has got me guessing,
Did she eat salad without dressing?
N.s.W. XORBELL.
* X- * <-
“ Wilfrklo”: A Sydney barrister com-
mented recently on the admirable lying of
private detectives. “They are brazen from
long practice and shamelessness,” he said.
Similarly, nervousness often makes the wit-
ness of truth look like a rank perjurer. The
tendency is added to by the knowledge that
a certain well-known type of counsel is
always liable, in cross-examination, to put
questions which are, in effect, so many accu-
sations of adultery, dishonesty and so forth.
The denial of the witness is, of course,
“taken” by the Court, and recorded in the
press, but the injurious implication stands.
In a recent case in Wellington (M.L.), be-
fore the Arbitration Court, a doctor of the
highest character was asked whether cross-
examination would cause a witness’s heart
to gallop, and he volunteered the information
that his own pulse was probably going at
about 100. The pulse of the plaintiff was
examined a few minutes before he entered
the box, and it registered .110.
“Hawker”: “X2XV’ note fB. 13/4/’22)
on the Parisian medico’s attempt at control
of sex has set. me thinking. The gist of if is
that, if a daughter is desired, the prospective
mother should eat plenty of nourishing food,
abstain from exertion and take a daily injec-
tion of choline. But is there any need for
the choline? I run over in my mind’s eye
some of the many mothers I know —Mrs. H.,
fat. restful, well-nourished, has five daugh-
ters, no sons; Mrs. M., ditto ditto, three
girls; Mrs. S., ditto, three girls; Mrs. R.,
ditto, four girls. And there are others. The
converse holds good, too. Mrs. C., tall, lean,
wiry and a worker, four boys; Mrs. 8.,
ditto, ditto, three boys; Mrs. F., a neighbor,
bore seven sons, then took things easy and
put on flesh —and the other day a baby girl
arrived.
* * * *
“J.H.N.” describes the sampling of a new
stimulant:—
Mulvary, the lumper, always claimed to know
everything about anything, and as always happens
in such cases he had his failures. This is the story
of one of them. Just before the war a German
packet was discharging a Hamburg cargo at Mel-
bourne Victoria Docks. It was an all-night job, and
towards midnight a sling containing mixed goods,
including a fair-sized keg, was landed. The liquor
receptacle was unobtrusively lifted and taken to a
dark corner, where a veteran broacher tapped it and
tested the contents. They produced a shudder which
suggested that the expectant toilers were in for
a dry evening, after all: Mulvany, however, butted
in, as usual, swallowed a tot of the stuff, and, like
a convinced connoisseur, screwed up his face in a
knowing manner, and declared that it was a rare
old German liqueur. In fact, he volunteered its name
—something like “Kaiserhochlioch.” Most of the
men took Mulvany’s word for it, and adventured the
stimulant. Some liked it; some didn’t. Most of the
former, before daybreak, were unable to discern the
difference between the ship and the shed. Towards
morning a Hun chief officer noticed the keg, which
had now been put with the other things. He
HER AMBITION GRATIFIED.
“How did you feel when the burglar seised
you by the throat and took all your
jewellery?”
“Delightful, dear; just like being a heroine
in the -pictures.”
seemed annoyed, and said that it had contained a
costly preserving spirit. He next demanded that
it should be opened up. This was done, and the
onlookers, including some of the wharfies, who were
still wondering what sort of chained lightning they
had struck, beheld a hairless ape which, Fritz said,
had been successfully preserved in the vanished decoc-
tion for five years. Mulvany obtained a transfer to
Williamstown.
“Lexite”: If one were to judge from a
request recently made by the Vic. railway-
men’s union, the erroneous impression would
be created that this class of toiler is oddly
lacking in initiative. The union asked
that all men on country stations should
periodically be given free railway passes to
THE DIPLOMAT.
“So you wish my daughter for a wife?”
“Well, partly, madam, and partly that I may have a mother-in-law I can look up to.”
the nearest town to enable them to get their
hair cut._ In a railway-workers’ camp in
N. S. Wales a similar demand was once
made on similar grounds. The camp engineer
countered with the argument that it would
be cheaper to bring a barber to the camp.
When the artist with the clippers arrived,
however, he found only four or five subjects'
awaiting treatment. The hope of snaring a
special train for a day’s picnic having van-
ished the others had turned to and barbered
one another.
* * * *
“Ceot”: The proletariat Sunday-schools,
which the professional Imperialists are talk-
ing of dealing with on Inquisitionist lines,
certainly appear to be getting results, of a
sort. In a Yic. police-court a very small
boy was called as
a witness. In an-
swer to the presid-
ing J.P.’s smug
query as to
whether he knew
where he would go
after death if he
told a lie, he
rapped back: “No,
I don’t; an’ no
more don’t you.
Nobody don’t.”
Taking advantage
of the stunned
hush which fol-
lowed, he added:
“I’m an Ammostic.
So’s me ole man.”
He manes an
Ignostur r,”
breathed the pro-
secuting constable,
in the voice of one
who has seen the
holy water deliberately upset.
“0.E.J.” all the way from Ontario,
Canada :• —-
“Dr. Nil” (B. 19/l/’22) says: “Any patient may
‘change the doctor’ at any moment by the simple
method of telling No. 1 not to call again and send-
ing for No. 2.” But can he? About 14 years ago
I was down with typhoid in a private hospital in
Cobar, N.S.W. After three weeks of it I decided
to try a different doctor. When my ultimatum was
handed to the nurse in charge of the hospital she
informed me that it “wasn’t done,” and, what was
more, that “it couldn’t be done.” I was Number
One’s patient, and s 0 Number Two would have no-
hmg to do with me i urged that as 1 was put-
t-ng up the money, I had a right to say how it
Should be spent. But no The utmost that would
be Permitted me, I was told was to call in No. 2
Z C °it X dn j pay W ° i OCt ° rS ■! °* °ue-
£ JT % , T POS n be T
““t* > «;e r «,
and loss side of the healing trade they yield no-
thing as regards business-like stringency to the
union rules of the Amalgamated Society of Kitchen
Mechanics and Biscuit Shooters.
* * * *
“Exul”: An unrehearsed performance,
suggestive of the “Bush Christening,” was
given recently at Hobart at the launching
of the Leprena. The lady who had been
chosen to name the vessel failed to hit the
bow as she struck at it with a bottle of
champagne, and fell off the platform. In
doing so she dropped the christening appa-
ratus and started the vessel down the ways.
With, remarkable presence of mind she
sprang to her feet, seized the providentially
uninjured bottle, pursued the retreating ves-
sel, took a pot shot with the liquor, hit the
bow a shattering wallop, hastily recited the
christening formula and triumphantly re-
gained her perch. Thus did pluck and per-
tinacity avert the grim calamity of a vessel
taking the water unbaptised.
n *• * *
The suggestion that the Domain should
be closed to platform orators recalls the clos-
ing of Hyde Park to the producers of chin
music in the early ’seventies. Domain ora-
tors were then unknown, Hyde Park being
the “convincing ground” of the period. The
most prominent fomenter of sectarian trouble
at the time was Pastor Allen, who had a little
Baptist chapel in Castlereagh-street, near
Liverpool-street. Numerous mild riots arose
out of his fulminations, and Chief Justice
Alfred Stephen, a trustee of the park, who
lived on the corner of College-street and
Frances-street, called his colleagues together
and passed a by-law that not more than three
persons should be permitted to assemble in
the place. The open-air Ciceros promptly
migrated to the Outer Domain, where they
have held forth ever since. The by-law
remained in force until the City Council took
control of the park.
* * » »
Jendi”: During the final mop-up in Pales-
tine one, Bill, was my bivvy-mate, and at
daylight one morning, as we passed an
advanced landing-ground, one of our ’planes
slid to rest close by. Bill became visibly
interested. “Perhaps that’s an omen,” lie
said. “Look at her number—Bos3—mine’s
the reverse—3soB.” We rode hard after
the retreating Turkish columns, gathering in
dejected rear parties, till about mid-day we
struck a snag in the shape of a little plain
that was raked from a ridge by enemy
machine-guns. A few rounds from one of
our batteries and the squadron charged with
the sword. Bill dropped out half-way across
with a bullet-hole that eventually landed him
in Aussie. We fixed matters on the ridge
and had a look round. There were onlv two
machine-guns there, and it was my job to
note their numbers. One doesn’t matter,
but the other was 3085. I haven’t seen Bill
since to tell him the sequel, but if this
catches his eye he’ll guess which of those
guns hit him.
* * *
“A.N.A.”: No white man born in Africa
would dream of calling himself an African
—an Afrikander is the correct style. Which
explains, if it doesn’t excuse, the following
from the cable columns of the Natal Mer-
cury (3/4/’22) :
A WHITE AUSTRALIA.
Aboriginals’ Resolution.
Melbourne, March 29.—The annual conference of
the Australian Natives’ Association. .. .re-affirmed
its belief in the wisdom of the policy of a White
Australia.
“Mandible” on Sydney University medical
course regulations :—•
Some wag has been at poor old “Cartot's” leg
(B. 4/o/’22). The leading universities in the
world do not insist on students having a science
degree before doing medicine. Or, to be more ex-
plicit. no English, Scotch, Irish or American 'varsity
doe:*. Of course some of them (like Sydney Uni.)
allow students to take a B.Sc. at the end of then-
third medical exam., providing they take one extra
subject. But that is 'a different affair altogether.
There is no compulsion in the matter, and, inci-
dentally, only about 1 per cent, of the students do
it. “Cartot” is also well out in the rough when
he complains that our course is too easy. The
average medical pass list is under 50 per cert., and
visiting professors have stated time and again that
they know of no medical school with a higher stan-
dard. The one occasion on which this complainant
registers a hit is when he says that the Senate should
limit the number of students admitted. Instead of
this they have been taking everyone who could pass
the Matric., and then limiting the output by increas-
ing the medical exam, standard. The consequence
is that many have “crashed” and had to abandon
their studies and take on other jobs, after wasting
the three best years of their lives.
* * * *
“Digger’s Bat.”: Many of those who
mounted the judicial bench in the A.I.F.
were gallant fellows in the field, but illiterate,
with the result that Diggers occasionally
found themselves being tried by “court mar-
shall” and other variants. On this ground
one bush lawyer raised the point that his
trial tvas illegal. The Court, conscious of
its blank ignorance of legal technicalities,
decided to acquit the stickler for orthography
rather than risk contesting the point. The
matter, however, came under the notice of the
authorities, and led to the issue of a general
order - , which, when retyped in one unit read
thus : “Greater care must be taken in the
spelling in routine orders, and especially it
UNMASKED.
“Why couldn't you take me to dinner hist
night?”
“Oh . circumstances over which I had abso-
lutely no control.”
“That’s a long name for your wife.”
must be noted that ‘court marshall’ is erro-
neous. This should be spelt ‘court marsh-
shall.’ ”
* * # *
“McPud” : The Maori Pioneer section was
near Neuve Eglise. There was a little H.E.
stuff coming over, but their position was
neither exposed nor close to the targets, and
nobody was worrying about cover. Sud-
denly one arrived that seemed closer than
the others. Or, anyhow, it did to a large
and agile Maori, who dashed madly for
cover. The ironmongery exploded miles to
the rear, and Henare became a subject for
vulgar jest. He was puzzled and crest-
fallen for a moment, then turned, shook
his fist towards Hunland and yelled, “Fritz,
you te plurry liar.”


Born 1820
Still going Strong
.j» ,T" ■'i -* • ; •• >* “• **’ *
f>.r--
'V
v-> s . Cl
3tS.
P££?
TO
\
n ■ 7
«ET|B»*J[jY
JW
A
iss
i#
H
1
iC
;<®
cv
wv
•s*
u=~
?€
E§
iiiikl'm
m
r*
wt
ij
«\i
<r~
§*g
>v
'T I '-
V,Vi
<9
*ss
. /?
V'--
r\
’Vv
!\
a?
<?/M
r
&
V
n
s
! _j!
CM
V
s
\
\
Vi
K
l
£2)
l\
\
&
a
i m v
E *% A
r IN
l i •11 11 •
!
\
■ i
&r~
„ Wi * \ V
j / v
\\
*» *
S V' * ;
\\< i .
V. 4 1
v/
V
\ '1
-4 v'"^
C>
\
<, i/ * »
rN
>'//
w
\
\
A
/<
m
N\
X
\
&
\
v
V
X
YE OLDE FIGHTING
COCKS, ST. ALBANS:
Claimed to be the oldest
inhabited house in
England .
Two minds with but a single thought
a cheery spirit
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND,


CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
le
ts
SHIRTS
moan moi # e
comfort and
Do not
tako a sukstituto
All Moa # ces # s
d
SVE 8,
m
BRISBANE
AMO
SYDNEY.
(SiatrWioi^
"WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
THE ONLY DRAWBACK.
“Oh, come on, you’ll have to make up your
mind which of us you want to marry;
you can’t love us both.”
Oh, can’t I. I’m fair breaking me heart
to think you both live in the same port.”
“Yarrum”: You might as well try to
turn the wind with a pitchfork as tame a full-
blooded Binghi. Sooner or later he’ll break back
to the camp and end up there. A squatteress at
Moulamein (N.S.IV.) took a piccaninny boy from
a handy camp and gave him a first-class education.
He spoke eight languages fluently, was a brilliant
pianist and a vocalist of no mean order. She took
him to England, where he was made much of and
had a young lord as a cobber. Back at Moulamein
again he found his way to the blacks’ camp, split
a darky s head in a little affair over a young gin,
did six months hard, and made foi* the camp
again. Last I heard of him he was hanging about
with the other abos. and answered readily to the
name of Sambo.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: The debbil-debbil of the Wilby
waterhole, on the Barcoo (N.Q.), has lately broken
a silence of five or six years. The waterhole is
one of the best on the river, and the drovers and
carriers had just begun to think that they could
camp there in the sure knowledge of undisturbed
nights, but recently four jackeroos from Ruthven,
on which the hole is situated, tied their horses
up there and were boiling their quart-pots when the
Voice was heard in the distance. It gradually
approached, gaining in volume, till at last it
seemed to be almost under their feet. The horses
broke away and made madly for the nearest belt
of scrub —and. their owners were almost as quick
off the mark. Now the locality is once more
shupned, just as it had previously been for years.
Old StrSajien who otherwise are afraid of nothing
draw the v line at camping within coo-ee of the
Ruthven Shriek. As far back as 70 years ago
Binghi on his tours up or down, with his fishing
paraphernalia, always made a detour when approach-
ing the Wilby hole, and explained to the new white
settlers that “Big debbil-debbil belong ’longa that
one.” People who have once heard the Shriek
never camp in the vicinity a second time—the weird
noise being too much for the nerves. Horses are
scared by it too, and camping herds of cattle, even
when rounded up some miles out on the Downs,
will keep the tailers going all night, as they refuse
to lie down. All this is local evidence, gathered
from reliable and sensible station people who,
though they have to pass by the waterhole very
often during the year, would not camp there on any
account. There are all sorts of yarns attached to
the Wilby hole—-one that a lost boy’s body was
found on its banks cut in halves, another that three
oveilanders camped there together, and two of them
killed the third—but Binghi had his superstitions
about the place in good working order before the
arrival of the first white settlers. A scientist of
bush experience attributes the nocturnal shriek to
some migratory bird —but the old hands refuse to
accept this theory.
* * * *
“PM.”: “Mag” (B. 27/4/’22) finds fault
with “Bowyang” for suggesting (B. 2/3/’22) re
Narcisse Pellatier, that all boys of the tribe under-
went sub-incision; but, if my memory serves, Spencer
and Gillen, in their account of the tribes of. Central
Australia, distinctly state that all boys were sub-
jected to the rite, and that it had not the preven-
tive effect supposed by “Mag,” though they admit
that many authorities previous to themselves seemed
to think that prevention W'as the express purpose
of the operation. They say they are unable to
discover that the natives have any other purpose
in view except a religious rite or initiation cere-
mony.
" » * »
“Mac Alan”: “T. Hold” (B. 23/3/’22)
gives me the retort discourteous from British Colum-
bia regarding the canine taint in the sheep in
Antigua (West Indies). If, as he says, he was in
Antigua from 1891 till 1900 it is
curious that he did not hear in
English Harbor and district what
was generally accepted as a fact
in the Fleet. Moreover, the ques-
tionable attentions paid the sheep
by dogs was a common enough
sight on the hills. I also heard
the matter alluded to at the
Montego Bay Exhibition . (1891
or 1892) by the secretary, Mr.
Magnus. Thi sheep Ji mentioned
were certainly more ungainly,
longer and cleaner-limbed—more
goat-like, in fact—than ordinary
sheep, and the meat was freely
described as “dog-mutton” by cer-
tain classes ashore and by the
sailors of the fleet. As I was
young and not interested at the
time I cannot assert that a dis-
tinct “cross” was evolved,, and
I should have more correctly ex-
pressed myself had I said the dogs
“had so mixed with the sheep.”
If this matter could be referred
to a Canadian paper my state-
ment might be confirmed from 'if
source “T. Hord” would consider
good enough, as Mr. Stanley
son of Lord Stanley of Preston,
Governor-General of the Dominion
at that time, and Mr. Meade, son
of the Earl of Clanwilliam, were
both officers on the ship I was serving on, and either
of these might have considered it worthy of a note
in his diary.
* * *
“M. Squash” : I can back “Pick’s” state-
ment (B. 30/3/’22) re a horse seeking the aid
of its master when going to die. We turned out
a young colt to get over strangles, but somehow
he got over a netting fence with barbed wire on
top. He came and died within 10ft. of the stable-
gate. Again, our next-door neighbor’s house stood
on a 3000-acre block, and there was only one fence
around the run. He had a horse that had been
turned out about a year, and it had not come near
the house in all that time. One morning they
found it in the front garden, dead.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: There seems to be no doubt
that “J.T.K.’s” potato-tree (B. 20/4/’22) is the
South American manioc, one of the staple foods of
the Indians. I first met it in the leaf on old
Tawata station on the Mambare (Papua), where an
early R.M. had planted a grove of it. A new police
constable who had struck it at Port Moresby said
that all the roots needed to destroy the poisonous
principle they are supposed to contain was a sound
roasting in the ashes. I had read that the Indians
crushed and soaked the roots in running water before
using them as food, and was doubtful. Hovever, the
John Hop was right, and the manioc roots joined up
with sweet potatoes on our vegetable course. It is
from the manioc, by the way, that genuine tapioca
is made.
THE BOSS’S ERROR.
“Here, Jacky, you’re a penny short.”
“No plurry fear, boss; you are.”
“Eddyson” : I love anecdotes of the fidel-
ity of dogs, they make such emotional leading. At
Smeaton (Vic.) many years ago an old man who
had appeared in the vicinity a few days earlier,
accompanied by a faithful honud, was found dying
in the bush about a mile out. The derelict died, and
was duly buried in the local cemetery. The follow-
ing - Sunday three girls and as many boys, who had
volunteered to plant the mount! and keep it in some
sort of order, approached the grave, when the
devoted hound hereinbefore mentioned, who was
standing guard on the sacred pile, attacked them.
The caretaker came to the rescue, but he too retired
before the bared fangs of the canine mourner. Then
while the assembled people respectfully but sympa-
thetically watched him, the dog started to dig in
the grave, scattering soil all over the landscape.
Having dug down about a foot, he recovered and
made off into the scrub with —the shank-bone of a
sheep.
A MATTER OF TEMPERAMENT.
“How very interesting; and so your father
has a separate name for each bullock?”
“Yes, mister, ’cept when ’e gets narked, then
’e calls ’em all th ’ same names.”
“Six-and-Eigbt”: Besides forgetting the
name of his adversary, “Colub” (B. 6/4/’22) has
also “forgotten” the point in dispute. I did not
say the bites of Australian snakes were as deadly
as those of the cobra, but that their venom was
more deadly, and so it is. “Colub’s” reinforce-
rnents do not touch the issue, and the following
digest of pages 157 and 158 of Lucas and Le
Souef’s “Animals of Australia” should settle him
if he will stick to the point instead of dodging it:
The nature of the poison [of Australian venomous
snaikes] has been investigated by Professor 0. J.
Martin and Mr. J. M. Smith, and they find the viru-
lence of-the poison of the black snake to be con-
siderably greater than that of the cobra. The facts
which explain why, although the venom of Austra-
lian ; snakes is more virulent, their bites are less
deadly* are that their fangs are 'not nearly so long
and the points are solid for a quarter their length.
Consequently the poison has less c<hance of being
injected into a vein which is ten times as deadly
as a mere sub-cutaneous injection.
“Pat JJushie”: Respite “Colub’s” contra
diction of “Soils” and myself (B. 20/4/’22) I still
say a snake can milk a cow, and I’ve seen it donr
when I have Been “off it” for a month. The wriggler
does not take the end of the teat in its mouth, as
“Colub” says it would have to do, but places its lips
to the nipple of the teat and extracts the milk by
suction.
“Artioms”: A few days ago, while the
1908 quota of young South Australians were being
medically examined for the senior cadets, we came
across one lad, /aged 13 years and five months, who
stood 6ft. 4in. in his socks, weighed 9st. 121 b. and
had a chest exjiansion of sin. And he was all bone
and muscle, not flabby fat. The M.O. remarked
that he had never seen such a hefty lad at the age.
Has anyone else?
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: While the Abos. are dis-
cussing stingarees and their stings, may I butt
in with a Binghi cure? Fasten a big poultice of
finely-powdered warm charcoal over the afflicted part.
This may make the pain even worse for a few
minutes, but in less than half-an-hour it will have
entirely disappeared. I have never been stung my-
self, so can’t speak personally of the remedy; but
my dad vouches for it.
* * * *
“Old Timer”: How about this for a
record droving feat ? Two pommies set out to deliver
a two-year-old bull to the buyer, who lived
the other side of their boundary-fence. After spend-
ing three days driving and losing him in half-an-
acre of scrub —all the scrub on the farm—they got
him into their own yard, threw him, and bound
him on a slide, hitched two horses on, and delivered
him, minus most of his hair and a good deal of his
hide, inside quarter of an hour.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE TYRANT WIND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind is awake
And the sound of his voice is
The call of a fiend
That in freedom rejoices;
The sunset is dying
On hilltop and hollow;
The black swan is flying
And mute is the swallow —
“Up, up!” he is crying—
“ And follow me, follow!”
Grey, grey grow the skies
That were rich with rose splendor.
No moon soars aloft
With a star to attend her ;
Clouds hurry rain streaming,
Swirled, tumbled and riven;
To sea-birds, harsh-screaming,
And ships seaward driven —
Their sails palely gleaming—
No quarter is given.
Thick rain fills the night
In a torrent down pouring;
The sea roused to rage
In the darkness is roaring;
As fiercer and colder
The gale rushes nor’ward
On beach and on boulder
And headland, thrown forward,
Gigantic of shoulder
His waves gallop shoreward.
“What demon art thou
In the night that thus warrest?”
The trees, bowing, shriek
As he leaps through the forest;
The torn leaf he chases,
And doom and disaster
He brings to green places,
As, wings flying faster,
He cries as he races—
“ Behold me, your Master!”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Novels by Best
Australian Authors
1f- per volume.
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES
OF AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
REDUCED TO PRE-WAR PRICES.
Cheaper paper supplies and largely increased sales of this popular
Australian fiction series have enabled the Publishers to reduce the
price of both old and new volumes.
120 AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
By foremost Authors.
3,000,000 copies already sold.
1/- each—All One Price—l)2 posted.
The best value in fiction on the bookstalls.
Complete descriptive catalogue posted (free) on application.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD
476 George Street, Sydney.
NAVY TWILL SUITINGS
SPECIAL PURCHASE.
Just arrived New
Shipment of West of
England Twill Suit=
ings, Best Two=Ply
Worsted Yarn.*
Suits to Order, in
similar Navy Twills,
18 months ago were
costing 1 Kins.
Guaranteed All Wool.
Guaranteed Indigo Dye.
Guaranteed Thoroughly
Shrunk.
mi-
The Suit To Order.
Perfectly cut and thoroughly
well tailored throughout. A
Suit that will ensure complete
satisfaction.
n
I «1
i i
mm
Write To-day for Special
Self-Measurement Chart,
Tape and Patterns .
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
Corner Swanston & Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE
PTY.
LTD.
4 kV G,.
Y$ ■
A'Y AA
Ac>ZY\A-
&
M
\J
LS!
“The extra cultivation at the
moment of planting counts for
much in the resultant crop.”
The “Suntyne” Drill (EX Cultivator Combined
is THE Implement.
CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST. ,
4 ' •- > • • :
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.


“NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.”
I
■
1
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., CIIALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
J-«C
I
‘^Rightoffthelce
,ABBOTS
I LAGER
Uhe Beer
i Without a Rival"
II3REWED FROM PURE MALT A HOW ONIY
“Invalid”: Re “.Tim Carew’s” query (B.
13/4/’22) as to how the widowed bird got a second
husband two hours after her first was shot. Darwin
in his “Descent of Man” devotes several pages to this
subject. He shows that in many species of birds,
no matter how often one of a pair (male or female)
is shot during the nesting season, another partner
is practically always found in a day or two.
Have we not some reason to suspect (he says)
that as the courtship of birds appears to be in many
cases long and tedious, so it occasionally- happens
that certain males and females do not succeed, in
Hie proper season, in exciting each other’s love and
consequently do not pair?
This calls up a picture of a gang of unhappy
“rejects” hanging round waiting for just such a
tragedy as “.Jim Carew” describes.
» ♦ * »
“Muhyalar”: Many stock wells in West-
ralia are equipped with “snake ladders.” These are
made by placing a rough spiral of sticks around the
sides of the well from water-level to surface. The
sticks are kept about four inches clear of the
A SMALL MAX.
“This ’ere price-firin', mum! I’m the man
it 'its—the little shopkeeper!”
wall, and lean from corner to corner, the bottom
of each joining the top of the one immediately
below. Plenty of knobs are left to help the snakes
to get a grip. 1 have never seen a wriggler on one
of these ladders, but at the same time you never
find a dead snake floating in wells fitted with them.
Either they pick other holes to fall into, or climb
out.
* * » *
“Snell”: You occasionally connect with
a bright mind in the hush. Dan was one such. A
pig expert on Bannon’s verandah, holding a pewter
in his left hand, told me his name was Dan. When
I arrived bv eoaeh about 10 in the morning he was
sitting on the second slip-panel in a fence opposite.
The top rail was down and behind him was an
empty paddock of about three acres. He wa3 still
there at a quarter to four. Curiosity having got
the better of me I sauntered across. I found Dan
a sunburnt, freckled native of about 18, with jagged
hair, and a chin tufted with bird fluff. He had all
the facial mobility of an ironbark pumpkin. “Good
day,” said 1. “Workin’f” “Yaas,” said Dan. “What
are you doing?” I asked. He flung his hand back
towards the paddock. “Iveepin’ the cow in.” “But.”
I remarked, “there is no cow.” He looked the pad-
dock over with some surprise. “ ’Struth! Neither
there ain’t,” he murmured. Then, settling down to
his job. “I mils’ be keepin’ her out,” said he.
HARD TO HIDE.
“Have you heard of Brown’s skeleton in the cupboard ?”
“Yes. It’s eighteen stone, and a bailiff.”
“Inibaga”: “Papua” refers (B. 30./3/’22)
to seeing- miners unearth stone pestles and mortars
on the Lake Kamu goldfield in 1911, and says these
were 50ft. below the “primeval jungle.” Maybe,
but “primeval” is. a risky word to use when speaking
of a tropical jungle which rots away and renews
its life in very short cycles. Years before Lake
Kamu was heard of a stone mortar and pestle were
found under SOft. or 40ft. of overburden on the
Todda goldfield, in the Northern Division of Papua.
I saw the claim not long- after, and there was ho
doubt among those present but that there had been
a slide from the jungle-clad walls of the ravine
in which the claim was. That slide might have
been a 100 years old, but “primeval” would hardly
fit it.
“Gouger”: A quick-eyed bower-bird has
been leading me a heart-breaking dance these last
three weeks. He and the missus have their play-
ground near by where I am searching for
the stuff they used to make into
sovereigns. One day I noticed something
a-glitter among the pieces of quartz and
glass and crimson berries that the birds
have collected in the bower, and it
proved to be a fine little specimen of
gold-—the very thing that has dodged
my closest search for a long long time.
So for the last three weeks I’ve been
trying some sleuth business on the shy
birds, and have learnt more about their
habits than otherwise I would have learnt
in a lifetime. It took me a week to
trace where they light out for every
morning—a tree on which the red berries
grow, beside a dry creek about two
miles away. The quartz they may pick
up from anywhere—there is plenty of it
about —but the original home of that
specimen, which has every appearance
of having been shed from a rich reel, I cannot
trace. The episode has made me appreciate the
dirty trick that was played on Tantalus.
<r Zanthus”: A drover employed by Ves-
tey’s recently trekked across the centre of Aus-
tralia from Oodnadatta to Wave Hill with his wife
and child. Besides that he carried along with him
on paekhorses two tons of flour for the station.
It was 1000-odd miles, most of it across what the
maps still show as desert.
“Emerlin”: “Holy Dan” (B. 6/4/’22)
asks what is the greatest area of land turned up
by one plough in a day. Up here (Maranoa, Q.)
there are farmers ploughing as much as 15 acres
a day with a 10-furrow McKay Sundercnt. Two
teams, each of eight horses, are used.
“Te W.”: “Colub’s” strange N.Q. wrig-
gler (B. 20/4/’22) may be the deadly Port Darwin
snake (Pseudeclm darwiniensis) , which belongs to
the black snake ( Pseudechis) genus. Many of our
venomous snakes are known and described from single
specimens only, and are therefore rare, as “Colub”
says his find is. Incidentally, “Battleaxe” (B.
20/4/’22) says venomous snakes have three large
and non-venomous snakes Seven or more small plates
or “scales” between the eyes. The brown tree-snake
{Dipsadormorphus fuscus), reckoned a harmless
species, has three large plates thus situated. But
this snake also has grooved teeth, though scientists
aver it has no venom glands. It may have been
venomous at some period of its evolution. The green
tree-snake again (Oendrophis pvnctulatvs), certainly
a harmless chap, has (according to diagram), only
three fairly large plates between the eyes, but differ-
ent in shape from those of venomous species. This
“scale” difference, by the way, is advocated by Wall
in his work on Indian poisoners as a means of dis-
tinguishing the various species; but unfortunately it
is first necessary to slay your serpent and then take
a tally of his platings. There is no certain way of
distinguishing venomous from non-venomous snakes
at sight except by their distinctive coloration.
“R. 8.”: At the Locomotive Hotel at
Werris Creek (N.S.W.), in the mice-plagued area,
there is a cockatoo who has learned to catch mice.
He cracks their skulls like little nuts and eats the
brains. It isn’t a pretty sight. He only eats
the brains, leaving dozens of tiny carcases to testify
to the meal. The stunt was witnessed by four
Sydney men this week, of whom my brothers Were
two.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The'strangest thing in the X. S.
Wales National Park stands right alongside the Lady
Carrington drive, but no one ever seems to notice.
It is a double gum-tree, half of which is a white
gum and the other half a kind of ironbark. The
thing is what bushmen call a sledge-tree, with two
arms like the sides of a sledge springing from a
trunk about 4ft. high. One of the arms has smooth
white bark and the other dark, rugged bark, and the
leaves are also Characteristic of the two different
species. .
* * » *
“Cambronne”: Do animals die of heart-
failure? One night, when shooting
’possums, I fired at one on a low
tree. He was not more than 1011.
from the muzzle of the gun, and 1
shot at the head, as I wanted the
skin. Directly I fired, down he fell.
I expected to find his head blown off ;
but it wasn’t touched. He was dead
as a door-nail; and though 1 took
particular notice when skinning him,
there wasn’t a mark to be found on
his pelt from head to tail. I had
clean missed him. Heart-failure was
my verdict. Again, my field spaniel
Carlo was after a wallaby one day,
and giving tongue at a great rate,
when he suddenly stopped barking,
and presently 1 heard a low, mourn-
ful howl. I found him stone-dead;
and there wasn’t a mark on him.
Heart-failure was again my verdict.
Curiously enough, though some years
separated the two incidents, Carlo
and the 'possum died within 200yds. of one another.
“Bobby” : Binghi has another way of
curing a headache besides the one “Kilang” de-
scribes (B. 13/4/’22). He puts his wife’s waist-
belt round his head, and if the charm doesn’t work,
it means that she has been up to mischief and has
to be treated accordingly. I heard one lubra say,
“Belt no more work —me close up deadfellow!”
“Mallee Murray”: My money is on the
brown hawk for the Mouse-catching Stakes (B.
20/4/’22). While 1 was cultivating a stubble pad-
dock two of these birds followed ine for 10 days.
Their smallest catch for the round was four and
the best seven ; and I was doing IS laps a day.
'‘Coot”: Re strange burials (B. 16/3/'22).
The landlady of a Richmond (Vic.) hotel, when her
cockatoo died after she had had it many years, had
the body enclosed in a tiny coffin and actually
arranged for it to be buried in a grave purchased by
her in the Kew Cemetery. It was taken to the
place of interment in a mourning coach.
* * -»
“Tin-pot Bill": I know Ford yarns arc
under suspicion, but this happened in the main
street of Peak Hill (N.S.W.) and can be verified by
several witnesses. A tin Lizzie was left standing
in the sun when suddenly the engine started of its
own accord. The owner, thinking some children
had interfered with it, walked towards the car,
but before he reached it the engine suddenly stopped.
He retraced liis steps, and Lizzie’s innards started
again. Three times the engine started and stopped
of its own accord, the last time with several people
standing close to it. My explanation is that there
was a slight benzine leak into the cylinders, and
the heat of the sun was sufficient to explode the
mixture which would he in a highly inflammable
condition; hut perhaps some car-expert, can give
a better one. P.S. —There was no battery on the
car; and please exclude the d.t.’s.
“Billy T.”: I was staying at one of the
leading pubs at tired little Mor well (Vic.) a while
back when my attention was attracted by three men
in the road. They were sitting' on their heels in an
attitude of intense discomfort to anyone but a true
township loafer. They made a small circle, and
they were gazing intently at the dust between them
and saying not a word. Their intensity and immo-
bility became exasperating aften 10 minutes, so I
sauntered over to them. There was nothing between
them that I could see. They didn't look up, and
they didn’t speak—just went on staring at the ground.
Another three minutes passed. Suddenly a small
grasshopper in the centre of the circle sprang
towards the watcher with the red beard. “Mine!"
cried his whiskers, at the same moment grabbing
three pennies concealed from me in the dust.
“D.F.” : Anyone from the Speck who cares
to go to Paris can see there a specimen of the
Tasmanian forester kangaroo, which the bushmen
used to call the bootner. This seems to be the
only museum specimen in the world. It is to be
feared that the animal is now extinct, though there
may he a few survivors in the north-east. This
was the only kangaroo that the Speck ever had —
what are commonly called kangaroos there are
really big wallabies. The forester was once found
over most of the island, and gave place-names like
Boomer Marsh and Boomer Island in districts where
it has now been extinct for half-a-century.
* # * *
“The Wanderer”: Here is a bad-luek
record, put up by A. .T. Simpson, of Inverell
(N.S.W.) district. He sent one of his men to bring
home from Delungra a sulky that had been genernlh
renovated. On the way the horse smashed the sulky
to smithereens. That night two of Simpson’s draught,
horses got at a wheat stack, and subsequently turned
their hoofs up to the daisies. Next day a pedigree
dairy cow ate poison laid for mice, and her light,
went out. Following morning Simpson was motor-
ing to Inverell, and a few miles from home his unin-
sured car burst into flames, and the whole concern
went up in smoke.
“Pick”: Yes, there may be something in
the contention of recent Abo.-writers that, a death-
adder will not bite while you stand on him. When
line-repairer Horsley, of Cohargo (N.S.W.), was
renewing broken insulators on the Eurobodalla tele-
graph line on one occasion, he descended a pole, to
find at its base a 2ft. spine-tail that he had almost
trodden to death while fixing his stirrups for the
ascent.
A COMPROMISE WITH CONSCIENCE.
BUYER : “No. no. I canna tak’ a box o’
cigars. I naer dae business that way.”
TRAVELLER: “If you have scruples you may
pay me a shilling for the box.”
BUYER: “ Weel, weel. in that case I'll take
twa boxes.”
BLUCHER BOOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you would trace your country’s life
To where it strikes its deepest roots,
heave far behind the city’s strife,
And hit the trail of blucher boots.
begin where hard blue metal ends —
The point where Art and Nature meet —
And choose some track that turns and bends
As if .’tis warping with the heat.
The wheel-ruts deep will act as guide
To lead you safely on your way,
But look, while keeping up your stride.
For blucher bootmarks in the clay.
Don't try to measure out the miles;
The soul that counts them soon despairs.
Greet every man you meet with smiles,
And watch what brand of boot he wears.
You’ll see strong teams from further back
Drag heavy loads through drifts and holes.
They prove you’re on the proper track—
The skids are shod with blucher soles.
Keep on and on among the trees,
Where bullock-teams are slower paced.
And tireless drivers walk at ease
In blucher boots with greenhide laced.
Keep on! The track splits into trails
That twist round fallen logs like eels.
Marked all the way from heads to tails
With hea vv iron blucher heels.
The (rails run on for days and years;
Roots where a nation’s life-sap flows—
The paths of restless pioneers
Who stir the dust with blucher toes.
Where wool or wheat, or corn or wine
Is brought to swell the city’s hoard,
On Nature’s scroll the seal and sign
Is clearly stamped by bluchers broad. ■
If you would trace your country’s life
And feel its great heart strongly beat,
heave far behind the city’s strife —
But first put bluchers on your feet.
SOUTH axtstrxfja^
STRIPPER.


i
p
m
r
r
tr
j*
Va
tr-
tr-
r'
■/,
&
VZM
5>
>V3
S*
g.
%1
y/V*
SB
g?
r/
m
w
m
er
%
Vs
m
'/V.
%
m
m
m
sa
ar
7i
£
%k
%
1
%.
J>V
%
V
1
1
I
%
/,
<?,
/a
«3
»Js
<r
In every part of Australia there
is an insistent call for more
“ Railroads”— despite our huge
output of these popular,
dependable covers. With
the completion of our new
tyre plant, we will shortly be
able to supply the demand for
D
D
No greater testimony to the superiority of
“Railroads” can be cited than the fact
that our mi'ls are working at their utmost
to cope with orders. The demand proves
that motorists appreciate Dunlop quality,
service and economy. Have “ Railroads’
they stand alone for real tyre
satisfaction. Your Garage can supply.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N Z.
m


a better Oil
and a Patent Swivel Pourer that
eliminates the cumbersome funnel
POSSESSING exceptional lubri-
* eating properties and freedom
from carbonising impurities. Shell
Lubricating Oils assure you get-
ting the very last ounce of power
out of your Car. Continuous
unfailing good service-no matter
the make of car you possess-
more miles, greater pleasure, less
expense; these naturally follow
the use of Shell Lubricating Oils.
CHELL Motor Oils are the high-
est expression of scientific
lubrication. Do the mere letters
of the alphabet denote to you in
any way whatever the consistency
of Lubricating Oils ? We think
not. Your car requires an oil of
either light, medium or heavy
body, and to simplify identification
Shell Lubricating Oils are graded
accordingly.
Ask for Shell Motor
Medium —or what-
ever grade of Oil
our Recommenda-
tion Chart advises
for your Car.
Leading garages stock
Shell Oils.
The British Imperial
Oil Company Ltd
ALL STATES
AND
NEW ZEALAND.
11
s*
Me
\\
\
%
V/,
%
US
c.a
h
\
\
?JS
9
I
W/fh
l
M
Mu
ď
Dodge Brothers dedicated themselves, from the very first,
to the production of a car which should rise superior to
all external conditions, and be, in effect, and in fact, a
law unto itself.
They were convinced that they should produce a car so
sound in value, so saving, and so satisfactory, to the in-
dividual owner, that no outside influence could shake its
hold upon the public.
That Dodge Brothers succeeded is evidenced by the fact
that Dodge Brothers Motor Car is more strongly and
soundly entrenched in the good will of the world at this
moment than ever in its history.
Dodge Brothers Motor Car is in demand because Dodge
Brothers Motor Car meets a definite economic need and
satisfies a human craving for honest and substantial value.
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
The Methods of a Model,
THE model seated herself on the dais.
She was not a young woman, but
there was a strange beauty in her
pale face with its clouds of dark-brown hair.
I went over and arranged her draperies.
“Do you mind if I take your hair down?”
I asked. “I want to do it up in a particular
way.” She nodded, and I pulled out the
pins. I was astonished at the flood of soft
hair they released.
“What wonderful hair!” I exclaimed
“You must let me paint you some day with
your hair down” I buried my hands in
the thick, silky masses of it. “I know some
girls who would give a small fortune to have
hair like that.”
She only smiled rather sadly. I knew
there had been much trouble in her life.
As I painted I encouraged her to talk. At
last my own curiosity overcame me, and I
asked what she did to make her hair so glori-
ous.
“Mine is always coming out,” I told her.
“I suppose I should have it cropped as most
women-artists do.”
“I’ve never been in a hairdresser’s shop
in my life,” she said. “I’ve only used one
or two old-fashioned recipes which I make
up myself. I always shampoo with stallax.
I find you only need about a tablespoonful
to cleanse one’s hair thoroughly, and so it
does not work out at all expensive in the end.
Once I tried something else, but my hair
did not dry all soft and bright as it does
after stallax, so I returned to the old recipe.
If it shows any tendency to fall out, I obtain
some boranium from the chemist, and mix
it with a little bay rum ; that soon makes
it grow thick and strong again. Perhaps
you wonder why at my age—I’m fifty, you
know —I haven’t grey hair? Once it did
begin to look faded and streaky, but someone
told me that the only real way to restore
the color was by dissolving some pure tam-
malite in bay rum and applying this lotion
to the hair each day. It’s wonderful stuff,
but people so seldom think of using any-
thing so simple, do they?”
“They don’t, indeed,” I answered, “but
you ve opened my eyes. You must write it
all down, if you will be so kind. And now
shall we rest? You must be tired.”
As she nodded her head gratefully the
sun flashed on her head and brought out
unsuspected golden lights in that wonderful
hair.
After a brief interval she resumed the
pose. As I re-adjusted her head I noticed
the extraordinarily beautiful texture of her
skin. What claims she had to beauty, I
reflected, were due to the wonderful perfec-
tion of detail —she bore the closest scrutiny.
I lingered longer than was necesShry over
the arrangement of her head in order to
admire the clear, fine tone of her skin. He-
complexion was almost colorless, but the
skin showed hardly a crease; the lips, I
noticed, looked warm and healthy, and her
eyelashes gave her rather pale eyes a
shadowy beauty. Feature for feature, she
was not pretty, but there \Vas a charm about
her that grew on one, and no one could deny
the loveliness of her soft hair and satiny
skin.
As I painted everything feminine in me
wanted to ask her if she had any secrets for
keeping that wonderful skin, but politeness
forbade. To my joy, however, she resumed
our former conversation.
“It always seems to me that old-fashioned
remedies are the best. Of course, I have to
consider the question of keeping such looks
as I may have, because being a model is
precarious work, and the market is over-
stocked with old models of the wrinkled
white-haired type. I always treat my skin
rather carefully because I look on it as busi-
ness capital. Every night I massage it with
pure mereolised wax, which I wash off in
the morning with warm water. That clears
the skin thoroughly, because the oxygen in
the wax absorbs all the waste outer tissue
of the skin, and exposes the new complexion
underneath, which is quite fresh and smooth.
Of course, this treatment is a great pre-
ventive of wrinkles, for they never have
time to form.
I have taken to using something for my
lips lately, as they used to be so dry and
sore. I bought an ordinary stick of prolac-
tum, and I do not think you could find any-
thing better. It is so soothing, and it gives
one’s lips just a nice W’arm healthy look,
without any hint of make-up.
“I am very interested in all you have told
me,” I answered. “I wish I could tell you
some things, too. But I don’t believe there
is any little secret you don’t know.”
“I have not yet found anything really
good for the hands,” she told me, holding out
a pair of shapely but roughened ones; “house-
work makes them so red and dirty!”
“Ah! I exclaimed, “then I can give you
one tip. Get some bicrolium jelly from your
chemist; you’ll find that it will get all the
ingrained dirt right out of your hands, be-
sides making them beautifully soft and white.
I don’t know where I should be without it
myself.”
She thanked me very sincerely, and the
time being up, prepared to go.— Advt.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
in tke
World
fd
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's schn^*^
STANDS ADO^®'
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
W'
Os
L
COUCHS
COLDS
5
CROUP
LUNG
TROUBU3
discovery of a vaccine suitable for injec-
tion into -our versifiers who are at present
uninfected. Is the Poet not a man and a
brother? And if so. is he not worth saving?
It is up to the scientists.
A. D.
Wells and His Critics
There is no English writer of the present
day who has aroused more hostility than
the unld-looking littie man whose name is
H. G. Wells. Not that he makes a business
of provocation, though he has a fair share
of aggressiveness when attacked. Ever since
the publication of “God, the Invisible
King,’' Wells has been a fair target for
anyone with a few witticisms to unload, or
who desires a horrible example of the re-
sults of dropping the silken cloak of Art for
the staff and scrip of the evangelist. It is
now an understood thing in respectable
circles that Wells must not be taken seri-
ously, and that any new book of his is
to be greeted with mingled indifference and
jeers—an Aunt Sally for the minor jour-
nalist to try his aim at. The Red Page
has seen more than one such article in
which Wells is shown very strongly the
error of his ways, and dismissed with hopes
of reformation for the future if he will only
listen to those wiser than himself. This
popular and easy trick of Wells-baiting
reaches its limit in the complacent attack
of H. A. Jones on “My Dear Wells” —a book
lately written by a man who apparently is
kept awake at night by the insistent neces-
sity of unmasking a villain.
Wells has his failings—a hastiness in acquir-
ing a mass of knowledge and facts which
he disgorges with rather too much of an
air of pedagogic omniscience. The Univer-
sal History is the worst case in point, with
its tragic inability to grasp the relation of
the Hellenic culture to our modern civilisa-
tion—an inability to understand the real
powers that dontrol spiritual development.
This appearance of omniscience, however, is
not assumed out of arrogance, but as the
result of a genuine humility—the humility
of Wells’s desire at any cost to find the
truth and to clear things up out of the
tremendous muddle that obsesses him in his
perception of the condition of the world.
Wells, indeed, possesses one of the few great
minds to-day that are really humble. He is
driven by the need to find, not by the vanity
of seeming to have found, like the Shaws.
This is Wells’s best quality—the sincerity of
his intellectual life, its harmonious develop-
ment ; and it is this very quality which, in
the eyes of his critics, he lacks.
. Wells’s affair is not with the high crea-
tive mind; and he has always recognised it.
His is a perceptive mind, seeking in actu-
ality, in the State and society, a condition
of order. He desires passionately to impose
his inner convictions on the fluid and in-
tractable material of humanity in the mass.
It is not the passion of the’ Hellene—and
that is why Wells does not understand the
Greeks —but of the Roman, the lawgiver,
the seeker of grace and cleanliness in exter-
nal conditions. To this desire of his spirit
Wells has remained true, trying all forms
and theories .from his early association with
Fabianism to his dream of the imposition
of a caste of effort and merit in the Samurai.
From the first fantastic stories in which his
biological knowledge led him, with the early
introduction of visions of future society, to
the direct transcriptions and criticisms of
present society in the novels, and to his
desire to find. a God who might bring order
and courage into the futile and misdirected
efforts of humanity to advance, we recognise
the inevitable and necessary development of
a sincere mind. The cries of surprise as
if at a volte face towards religious credulity
that greeted “God, the Invisible King,” and
the accusations of opportunism could only
have come from people who had made no
effort to trace the growth of his thought
from purely sociological investigation to
“First and Last Things.” There is no break
at all between the last-named book and
“God,. the Invisible King”—only a few steps
of logical advance in analysis; Wells always
belonged to the Humanist school, represented
most obviously, and sometimes most shal-
lowly, by William James, and in the essay
attached to “A Modern Utopia” he takes up
the Pragmatic conception of knowledge. His
fresh mind clarifies and vivifies the Human-
ist forces of Good and Evil, which were
very indefinite and amorphous, and so creates
his imperfect God, struggling through man
to develop and free himself, and only exist-
ing through man’s struggle. It was a - valiant
attempt to free the problem of Spirit from
the nightmare of an omnipotent God, and
to revolt against the primitivism and bru-
tality of nature and of man, the animal;
as fine and courageous a vision of libera-
tion as a perceptive mind faced by the in-
tolerable horror of such a world cataclysm
as the war could evolve.
One understands why the English have
repudiated Wells’s effort to bring conviction
and passion to thought in whatever form
he touched it. The English always feel in-
sulted by enthusiasm as by something vulgar.
The mind without a direction will always
be exasperated at a sense of direction in
another mind. Whether Wells is always
right in his sociological or metaphysical
statements does not matter. What is im-
portant is that he brings a live emotion to
them, that his vast quantities of work are
thrown from him in a desperate desire to
penetrate to the core of the man Wells and
find what is his essential relation to the
universe and to himself. It is not neces-
sary that Wells should make any converts
to his religion. He probably does not want
to, knowing that every man must find his
own way to his ideal. The important thing
is that, developing the Pragmatist position,
he makes God a practical symbol, an ele-
ment of himself, not something to be striven
for, but something striving; and so in one
stroke destroys the old academic and static
philosophies. His treatment of the ration-
alist, ill whose dogmatism and inertia he finds
the same credulity as in the complacence
of the pious, has not yet been forgiven him.
He struck there at the root of man’s failure
to achieve —that fear of the unknown that
dogs man, the hatred of all that would force
him to question or stand alone.
The basis of Wells’s latest warning to
civilisation in his analysis of Russia, of the
inevitable catastrophe for Americanism, the
weakening of production and the concentra-
tion in cities, is indisputable. But Wells’s
sincerity has brought him universal depre-
ciation. The extremist cannot forget Mr.
Britling and what seems a lack of decision
and clarity in Wells’s refusal to join any
school; the conventional mind is fatigued by
the spectacle of the apparently ineffectual
and unnecessary fury of activity in which
he lives. There seem to be few who see
the unity and homogeneity of Wells even
in his most incoherent utterances —the sin-
cerity of one who, at times almost naively,
desires to find order in what is most dis-
orderly, to impose intention on a process
that repudiates intention.
Meanwhile Wells seeks.
J. LINDSAY.
Nothing Happens
If the present taste in plays and short
stories—by which is meant tne taste, or
lack of rt, of theatrical proprietors and
editors—continues for a reasonable period,
the art of writing such things is going to be
infinitely simplified. A story wirn no plot
is always the most ditlicult to write; alter
it comes the story with a decent plot. To
have practically no plot at all necessitates
so much color, atmospher# and clever char-
acterisation, not to spqak of brilliant de-
scription and dialogue, that only the very
daring or very capable attempt to work
along such lines. On the other hand, to
find a really good plot which is not an
almost exact replica of 50 other really
good plots is by no means easy.
Chaucer and Shakspeare could go to Italy
and borrow complete tales, which only re-
quired re-dressing; the earliest novelists
could pick up yarns in any countryside
which had been told and told again, ampli-
fied, improved and balanced in the telling
to get the proper effect, but which had never
seen print. To-day all that ground has been
worked. Only sheer invention can make a
new plot; and even then the maker may
discover that he has only duplicated some-
thing he never read or heard of. So the
writer’s job had become difficult until edi-
tors and producers—mostly American—
came to his aid with a demand for the half-
plot. At once the skies brightened and the
domestic treasury began to fill; for if the
story with no plot is the most exacting, the
story with a half-plot is the easiest of all.
The most remarkable thing is that the
public of New York seems to be taking quite
kindly to the innovation. Some of the
American magazines have been giving us
popular plays from the local theatres, cut
and shortened in such a way as to enable
the alleged tale and the best of the dialogue
to be compressed into half-an hour’s read-
ing ; and these reveal the fact that the cur-
tain can fall amidst loud applause on a
drama which leaves most of its characters
in a moral and social tangle with no appa-
rent way out. Of course, in human affairs
there often is no way out; but the human
mind demands a finish of some isort. One new
drama, however, leaves a person in very un-
fortunate circumstances simply saying “Well,
well, well!” It isn’t at all well. The
woman he has saved from misery by long
devotion has just gone back to the misery
again—urged by a perverted moral senti-
ment. Everybody, is going to be very un-
happy, and no tale has been told. The
author has, in fact, merelv stated a very
ugly problem and left it unsolved. Shaks-
peare, under the circumstances, would have
introduced a little poison and a few knives:
and the stage would have been covered
with the dead and dying as a means
of rounding-off the affair. Then there
would have been teal applause, the
applause which follows the doing of full
poetic justice; for in plays of the kind no-
thing but the slaughter of everybody could
really meet the natural demand. The char-
acters are so vapid and so useless that the
sense of the world being well rid of them
would make the audience proud to have been
present at their dramatic execution. That is
the feeling which all along has made the tri-
umph of Hamlet. After three hours of bore-
dom the massacre redeems all the rest—
even the awful commonplaces of the futile
prince on the suicide he -doesn’t fealiy con-
template.
But to end a play or story with convinc-
ing tragedy requires a good deal of skill.
It is far easier to leave it on a “Well, well,
well!” The number of such half-plots is
endless. Countless millions of human pro-
blems can be stated; it is when it comes
to working them out that the trouble starts.
How many plays are moderately good in
the first and second acts, but fall to pieces
in the third? If the new idea becomes
established scores of such failures can be
revised, and by cutting off the last act
altogether be made to conclude in the
fashionable atmosphere of obscurity. Even
old plays that have had a vogue of a few
centuries might be thus remodelled. Take,
for instance, “The Merchant of Venice.”
Why not let Portia say “Well, well, well,”
as Shylock sharpens nis knife, and leave
the whole matter in doubt, but with a high
probability that the Jew will “cut the for-
feit from that bankrupt”?
Still, while the theatre and the magazine
allow their yarns to haze out into nothing,
the picture-show keeps far from the same
error. No matter how trite the tale, the
film-maker will fight his theme to a
finish. Mary’s stays and nightdress
must be as well known to the audi-
ence as her pearly teeth; and when it
comes to the end she must be gripped well
and truly in the arms of the man of her
choice, w'hile the music grows tender and
the mechanism of the operator slows the
close-up kiss into a kind of holy sensuality.
It may not be good art, but it is satisfactory
to the people watching. The makers of the
easy get-nowhere play look with scorn on
such crudities. If they had Mary they would
see that all her kissing was done off the stage
long before the action started; and that she
and Douglas faded into dimness to a cultured
refrain of “Well, well, well!”
P. O. M.
Getting Back
To a certain amount of friendly animosity
a deal of excellent literary work is attribu-
table. It keeps writers up to the mark; it
acts as a spur to prick them on to better
things. In addition to the intensification
of one’s own point of view, there is a grim
satisfaction in finding fault with the efforts
of one’s contemporaries. In their day, Vol-
taire, Swift, Pope, Marvell and others
satirised their kind, enjoying themselves
vastly in the process. In a sense Mencken,
the American, goes farther than any of
them did. He is the last of the lampoon-
ers. His method is ingenious and in-
genuous. First he disposes of prior critics
by characterising them as charlatans, para-
sites or liars: this done—the protective cov-
ering, as it were, being removed —he is at
liberty to destroy the reputation of his sub-
ject as he pleases. His assault on Conrad
Avas typical. In the course of it he proclaimed
Huneker a fool, Galsworthy a gasbag and
Walpole a waster of valuable time; while
the Foie himself at the end of the article
was reduced to naught but his genius and
a few splinters of patronising appreciation.
Still, it’s a poor worm of an artist who
will not deliver a counter-attack now and
then. G. K. Chesterton is the sort of stout
felloAv who, once aroused, makes a heavy
charge; on the other hand, Max Beerbohm,
in answer to the abuse that was poured on
his “Defence of Cosmetics,” wrote to the
editor of “The Yellow Book”: “It is a, pity
that critics should show such little sympathy
with writers, and curious when we consider
that most of them tried to be writers, once.”
The sting is chiefly in the comma. Bernard
Shaw i.s harsher in his reply to Nordau and
the prefaces to “Major Barbara.” But the
artist can do even better. Julius Hart, in
“Tag,” wrote: “In German literature to-day
there is nothing as vile as the art of Frank
Wedekind.” This sweeping statement Wede-
kind printed for posterity in the foreword
of his famous play, “Such is Life.” For a
more recent instance, I might use the press
opinions that Compton Mackenzie prints in
the advertising portion of his novels. Mr.
Hugh Walpole, we learn, dismisses “Sinister
Street” with “I refuse to look at it,” and
“Sylvia and Michael” with “A new chunk
from the erotic adventures of Sylvia Scarlett
....this does not sound thrilling to every-
one.” The Neav Age is recorded as saying
of “Carnival” that “We are more than sick
of it.”
Painters had their, champion in Whistler.
He had to sell his house to pay the costs of
his lawsuit against Buskin. It was pur-
chased by Harry Quilter, who defended
Ruskin’s attitude in the columns of The
Spectator. And so “ ’Arry” became the
butt of many of the painter’s remarks scat-
tered throughout his “Gentle Art of Making
Enemies/’ When the house passed into
Quitter’s hands there was, over the door, an
inscription painted by Whistler himself for
the purpose of annoying the architect, God-
win. It ran: “Except the Lord _ build the
house they labor in vain that build it. E.
W. Godwin, F.S.A., built this one.” Whistler
reserved most of his shafts for Wilde. The
painter cuttingly rebuked the poet, and
before the latter could reply in suitable
terms handed him a stamp. “That’s for the
witty retort, Oscar,” he said. “When you
think of it, post it to me.”
An example of a less lightsome variety of
“score” (and all these efforts are but school-
boy “scores”) is J. M. Synge’s “Curse,”
addressed to an enemy’s sister (the enemy
having disapproved of “The Playboy”). and
beginning, “Lord, confound this surly sister,
Blight her brow with blotch and blister.”
An altogether charming sentiment! His
compatriot, James Stephens, runs him pretty
close with his “Righteous Anger,” levelled
at the head of some barmaid who refused
him the loan of a glass of beer. “May she,”
he sa-ys:—
Marry a ghost and bear him a kitten, and may
The High King of Glory permit her to get the mange.
But perhaps the most striking tiling ever
done in this line was by Lord Alfred
Douglas:
Here’s to the man I hate!
Never a shroud or a coffin-board:
Wait and watch, and watch and wait,
He shall pay the half and the whole
Now or then or soon or late,
And Hell take his soul!
Lord Alfred wrote the lines to his father;
but they express neatly the sentiments
entertained by most authors in regard to
hostile critics.
WILFRID LWICRSTER.
A Satchel of Books
A Bush Cinema , by “Te Whare” (Carter’s Print-
ing Works, Sydney). A collection of nature notes
and anecdotes, most of which have appeared in the
Abo. pages of The Bulletin. “Te Whare” com-
bines keen observation with an insatiable appetite
for “nature’’ literature, and there is much of interest
and entertainment in these fugitive jottings. About
50 photographic illustrations of wild life add con-
siderably to the value of the little volume.
The Fairy Flute, by Bose Fyleman (Methuen).
Though the fairies can look after themselves they
have an able champion in Rose Fyleman, who had
abeady found in their ways material for two books.
With a light and airy touch she weaves her poems
with threads of gossamer rhyme. She revels in
their happiness as they race about, twisting, tumb-
ling, diving in the lake, or soaring to the skies on
the bade of the skylark. The book is not for the
curmudgeon critic, but for the fanciful, the young-at-
heart.
Under the Searchlight, by Violet Douglas-Pennant
(George Allen and Unwin). In the first week of the
war Miss Violet Douglas-Pennant fitted out a hos-
pital, and she continued to toil for her country till
June, 1918, when she was made Commandant of
the W.R.A.F.’s. Two months later she was “sum-
marily dismissed.” The 450 pages of explanation
and protest which she now supplies go to prove
that she is an admirable woman. They also sug-
gest that she is a hard one to get on with ; and that,
after all, was the gravamen of the charge against her.


'M
US*
>?x x
&& ,
xx*
Wool!
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Kven a sheep springs into activity at those words.
They are familiar and linked inseparably together.
Good work, good methods and good sales have made
the firm’s name pre-eminent in the wool trade. For
Top Values Consign Wool:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THU ItARKY SXEEJL SPIRIT HLIJ.EV
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken In the design anti
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
Tlie BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded bv
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY iR made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write lor Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “TF.”
JAMES HARDEE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY
581 >B3 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S,A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TYBiiF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/0 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sol* Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Pulverized
Fuel Figures.
Of the 66 Boiler Plants now fired with Pulverized Fuel in America
48 are either of Fuller design or use “Fuller Lehigh” Equipment.
There are 163 Plants using it for Metallurgical Furnace firing, 69
of these have adopted Fuller Lehigh Equipment.
While 37 different American Cement Companies have made use of
Fuller Lehigh Pulverizing Mills, the “Fuller Kinyon” Pulverizing
Material Pump System has been adopted on 46 Separate Plants,
3 of these installations being in Australia.
In Australia:
Fuller Lehigh Equipments are now being installed by:—
The State Electricity Commissioners of Victoria at Newport
Power Station.
Wallaroo and Moonta Mining and Smelting Company.
Victorian Railways.
Australian Portland Cement Company, Geelong.
The above figures undoubtedly show that this form of firing has
passed well beyond experimental stages, and they at the same
time certainly indicate that Australian Manufacturers, Engineers
and Power Users should give the question of the use of this fuel
thorough consideration in new or existing plants.
Fuller Engineering Go.
(Australasian Engineers’ Office), •
79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Full particulars from Sole Australasian Representatives:—
Elder, Smith & Go., Limited,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth.
ALDERDICE
Brassfounder
Warrnambool.
♦Specialties —
Plumbers’ BrassworK
Country and all Water Board Standards.
Windmill Pumps.
Write for Lists. QUICK DELIVERY.
[5
HEGiSTERED
fRAOP M»9.
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives* with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
c Ss
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/-
4* interest up to £5OO, and on any excess
to £lOOO.
PERSONAL, JOINT AND TRUST
ACCOUNTS OPENED.
153 Branches and 520 Agencies throughout the State.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Adelaide Register digs up a 50-year-old
ad. by an alleged “managing director of the
Port Augusta and Port Darwin Railway
Co.” for capital—presumably for survey
expenses. The modest suggestion was 50
shares of £lOO each, "no person allowed to
take more than one share.”
# * *
Treasurer Lee, of the Speck, finds one
small bright spot in his prevailing financial
gloom. The State’s record revenue from
its forests stood at £7OOO until last year,
when it jumped to over £20,000. This year
it Avill probably do a bit better. The Dept,
is now self-supporting and can spend at least
half its revenue in planting operations.
* * * *
“R.P.C.”: Yes, why shouldn’t Australia
grow most of her own medicinal herbs (B.
27/4/’22) V At the beginning of the war
England felt the shortage of medicinal
herbs acutely. Depots were established for
the collection of small quantities of plants
and for drying such as would not keep. In
Australia there are herbalists who buy .such
herbs as marshmallow and English dandelion.
But hosts of other plants will flourish here.
The opium poppy, horehound, peppermint,
meadow saffron, lavender, rosemary, fox-
glove, belladonna and aconite give good re-
sults and fetch fair prices.
* * * *
' “S. Slipper”: Departmental methods in
S. Ans. are the limit, Round Lake Bonney,
where the Government is preparing irriga-
tion blocks for soldier-settlers, the land is
denuded of every vestige of timber except
the mallee stumps, which are carted for use
at the pumping-stations. What the Digger
is going to do for a few sticks to boil his
billy Heaven only knows. After he ploughs
the “emu-bobbers” pick Up and burn good
firewood., which ought to be stacked for the
use of blockers. In 12 months’ time
they will have to go out 30 or 15 miles to
get firewood for the pumping-stations, and
this in face of the criminal waste of thou-
sands of tons, right on the spot.
* * ,» *
“Marri” : H. D. Tiemanu, who is interest-
ing himself in the kiln-drying of timber, has
been reminding the Westralian foresters of
tlie wonderful heritage they are handling.
Few Australians realise the worth of then-
eucalypts, compared with the other important
timbers of the world. They are probably the
fastest-growing trees there are. The vV.A.
coolibah is the hardest timber known. A
Soutn-Westralian timber, tue yate, is the
strongest in the world, its tensile strength
occasionally reaching to 85 per cent, of
that of wrought iron. Karri is a magnifi-
cent structural timber, but is difficult to
season. The modern tendency is to season
timber in drying kilns instead of the old,
haphazard method of drying in the open. It
lias been found that the seasoning can be
done cheaply and without waste of timber,
provided the kilns are controlled by properly-
equipped scientific men.
* * * *
“Dido”: Bought a shirt from a Melbourne
tradesman the other day, imagining in my
innocence it was woollen and would corres-
pond -with other winter wear I possessed.
The tradesman said nothing to disillusion
me. The other day a sturdy washerwoman
got at that garment, and reduced it from
a seeming fair sample of woollen underwear
to a wretched cotton drab you could blow
peas through. My wife in her just indig-
nation went back to the drapery man with
the remains. He looked the garment over,
frowned, shook his head, registered com-
plete bewilderment. Suddenly enlighten-
ment came, and he put his finger on the
real trouble. "Why, you’ve been washing
it!” he said.
“Mr. Ocky”: Many Vie. cow-cockies are
crying out against the unbusinesslike way in
which the law for the destruction of diseased
stock is administered. When Strawberry
is officially condemned to die the owner (per-
haps a struggling returned soldier) gets no
compensation, and there is no redress against
neighbors whose negligence might have
caused the disease to spread. The cockies
want a compensation fund to be built up by
a tax of, say, threepence a cow. But Law-
son thinks that the fund would be sw'allowed
up in administration. Probably he is right.
Anyway, that does not absolve his Govern-
ment from the duty of applying the Milk and
Dairy Supervision Act to the whole of the
State. At present it operates only in about
one-eighth.
* * * #
“0.K.”: Melbourne can always get a
gloomy laugh out of the published utterances
of W. Angliss, the butcherous authority on
meat and its market intentions. The song
of Angliss is ever inspiring to the trade. He
always sees a day near at hand when con-
sumers will have to pay more for their beef,
not to mention their mutton, and he always
advances the poorest sort of apology for a
reason why this should be. Everybody, bar
Angliss, can perceive reasons why meat
should be less expensive, but he invariably
shakes his head when market prices are
mentioned, and warns the public that, he is
honing for the worst. And he is so
invariably sorry for the poor meat-growers
and middlemen who somehow have been suf-
fering. If his name were Anguish he
couldn’t be more concerned about them.
* * * *
“Silas”: What is the matter with beef
in this country? What misfortune has
smitten the giant producer in the midriff?
We are led by the outcry to assume that
the. cattle kings are getting so little for
their beasts that ruin will stare them hard
in the eye if Billy Hughes doesn’t do some-
thing sudden, dramatic and beneficent to
assure salvation. And all this time you
must pay 2s. 4d. per lb. for a decent fillet
steak, and corresponding prices for so-called
cheaper cuts, and for joints once 7d. and
Bd. per lb. —and that within the memory
of an eight-year-old inhabitant—-you are
now asked Is. 4d. and Is. 6d. per lb. The
consumer has been wailing about high prices
for years, but B'lly’s bowels of compassion
were never stirred. If he can come to the
relief of the producer who gets too little,
how is it he can do nothing for the consumer
who pays too much?


\
'
. */ • ■
~'■ ' • -
&& -L’J
r<trr>e
~\Bfot/( /JO./03
r' ■*,' ,■* ■•
Listed on LLOYD'S REGISTER, London,
as Manufacturers of
»Steel
Castings
SPARES
for
CRUSHING, ORE REDUCTION
and
GENERAL MINING AND
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY.
SOFT, MEDIUM AND HARD CARBON
CAST STEEL. MANGANESE AND
CHROME CAST STEELS.
CARBON CAST STEEL.— Battery
Liners, Cams, Heads and Tappets,
Tube Mill Ends, Gearing, Truck
Wheels, and Castings for General
Industrial Machinery.
CHROME CAST STEEL.—"HEAT-
TREATED.” —For Battery Shoes and
Dies, and also Roll Shells and Parts,
which have to be machir ed but which
are required to give a maximum
amount of wear.
MANGANESE CAST STEEL.—For
Rockcrusher Jaws, Concaves, Slag
Elevator Chains, Truck Wheels, Coal
Crushing Machinery, etc.
Send your INQUIRIES with SKETCHES and DETAILS to the MANUFACTURERS.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD
Victoria Street, Richmond, Victoria.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES: ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER AND CO.. CIRCULAR QUAY EAST, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN QUEENSLAND: THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD.. MARY STREET, BRISBANE.
MM
TOSCHA
SEIDEL
TOSCHA SEIDEL,
who has been delighting Sydney
audiences at the TOWN HALL,
Records his magnificent solos exclusively for
ď
The Columbia Grafonola
We stock all Models of these marvellous Instruments. Our eight comfortable
Showrooms are at your disposal at all times. Call in and hear your favorite
artist, either Vocal or Instrumental—you will be delighted with the beautiful
reproduction of their solos.
Thousands of records to select from.
Any of the Famous Columbia Grafonolas can be purchased on our Easy Time-
Payment System. Prices from £B/10/- upwards.
fd
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MAR*
in
a
338 George St.
Sydney;—
ď
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK


r
cJhe largest selling;
quality pencil in.
{he w oxlci
r ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN
BUSINESS MEN,
ami are
CHEAPER than
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YounfcLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
f
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A DRINK
THAT IS
AS
REFRESHING
AS IT IS
BENEFICIAL
BE SURE
YOU ASK
FOR
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
LICMOLLIENE
Ligmolliene Cream is a
scientific preparation for
the treatment of ,all skin
diseases. It has curative
properties that give instant
relief and finally effect a
permanent cure. Sold by
all chemists, or send 1/6 for
sample tin to
W. MALYON & SON Ltd.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
A SURE CURE
for ECZEMA.
—and for Reading
Laurel Kerosene
The Laurel light is ideal for reading. Its soft, mellow glow
deals gently with the eyes of young and old alike and protects
them from eyestrain.
You will find Laurel clean burning and uniform. It does not
char the wick nor leave sediment in the lamp bowl. It feeds
freely to the wick and burns clearly and steadily to the last
thimbleful. Ask for Laurel and experience satisfactory
lighting in your home.
Be sure to say “Laurel”—Don’t say Kerosene.
I
/.
r
m
g-si
A
r=»
P VACUUM Oil. COMPANY PP P .
LQI
Large Shipment Just Landed,
“MAXIMUM” HIGH-SPEED
TOOLHOLDER STEEL
HARDENED READY FOR USE.
3-1 6in., fin., 5-1 6in., fin., 7-16 in., fin., fin., fin., lin. square
in 1 Bin. lengths; also short pieces 3in. to 4in. long.
Poldi Steel Works,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 8704.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
&
A
The a"-e of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your arteries young by
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arterio-Sclerosis, which
hardens the walls of the blood-vessels and renders them stiff and brittle.
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sign.) “If you should see between the eye and the root_ of the hair
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of hard,
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for you are
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a white hair;
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediately. Purify
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially of
"the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid.” Dr J L S BOTAL
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
“Morehead” : A harassed domestic dropped
into a solicitor’s office the other day to in-
stitute breach proceedings against a tram
conductor. “Have you any written evi-
dence that he promised to marry you?”
asked Costs. The weeping derelict dived
into a frayed vanity-bag, and produced a
sticky and motley exhibit. There were
“honey kisses” with printed love-verses on
the wrapping papers, also a number of con-
versation-lollies bearing such legends as
“I love you,” “Will you be “Oh,
kid! I couldn’t live without you,” “Will ma
let us?” and other amorous appeals. Costs
told her to leave the outfit while he went to
lunch. On his return he discovered that the
office-boy bad eaten the evidence. The
trammie is, of course, safe; but the wronged
girl is now in touch with another Gent. One
who advises an action for damages against
the rival firm on the ground of negligence.
“D.F.”: The first settlement within the
territories now belonging to Tasmania
dates back to 1798, or five years before
the first settlement at the Derwent. But it
was made on a remote specklet in Bass
Straits. On October 7, 1798, the brig
Nautilus (Bishop, master) cleared Port
Jackson for Cape Barren Island. Bishop
set up a camp ashore, planted vegetables
and spent about six months there, during
which time he secured 9000 sealskins and
12 tons of oil. He went back to Sydney
then, but other sealers soon settled on Cape
Barren, and it has been continuously in-
habited ever since.
“Dido”: A sad but true version of the
eternal mother-in-law problem has made its
appearance in connection with a brave deed
at a Melbourne suburban foundry. Some
time ago a workman was caught by his shirt
on the patent clip of a great belt, and would
have been carried over the pulley and dashed
against a rafter had not another toiler
swung on the belt, and at considerable per-
sonal risk thrown it off the pulley. The
rescuer’s hands were lacerated, and a raw
wound was scraped across his chest, but
the rescued escaped with a fall and a few
bruises. Bogg, the latter, was so grateful
that he promised Jessop, his saviour, a good
gold-filled watch, and in due time the watch
was forthcoming inscribed with the story of"
Jessop’s heroism and warm expressions of
Bogg’s gratitude. “I paid a deposit of 30
bob, and I’m payin’ it off five bob a week,”
said Bogg. Three weeks passed, and Bogg
presented Jessop with a document connected
with the watch deal. “You’ll have to pay off
the rest yerself, Jack,” he ssyid. “Why?”
asked Jessop. “Ain’t you feelin’ as good
about it as you was?” Bogg shook his head.
“It don’t seem such a very good turn you
done me after all,” he explained. “You see
me father-in-law died Sunday, and me
mother-in-law’s come to live with us.”
From a man who has his doubts :
A lot will be said about the agreement between
the Amalgamated Wireless Co. and the Common-
wealth Government when Parliament resumes the
functions for which it is paid. In some respects
the agreement looks almost too good to be true. It
is asserted that the Government has surrounded itself
with a network of precaution which precludes it
from any chance of loss. Again, the company, one
learns, has contracted to work between Great Britain
and Australia at a speed of 20 words per minute
for 24 hours, and that for 300 days of the year;
and subsequently between Canada and Australia for
12 hours a day. The average effective speed of
wireless working between Britain and New York
(3000 miles) is only 4.3 words per minute. It is
puzzling to know how the company can give a ser-
vice five times as fast over a distance three times as
great. A month ago writer handed in at Sydney G.P.O. a
Marconigram of 40 words for transmission to a ship
25 miles off the Heads. Three hours later Pennant
Hills advised that owing to atmospheric conditions
they were unable to get the message off, and the
charge was refunded. If the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment is as sanguine as the company of the
brilliant success of the project, it should immedi-
ately recommend the withdrawal of the proposal to
spend £1,000,000 in duplicating the Pacific Cable
Board’s route from Britain to Australia. Germany
was supposed to be well up in wireless before 1914,
and had no other means of communicating with
the world during the war. Strange that the Ger-
mans are about to enter into an arrangement with
the big Atlantic companies for direct cable com-
munication with the U.S.A. Also, Italy, the birth-
place of Marconi, is endeavoring to obtain direct
cable communication with Central and South America.
These are significant facts. Progress has undoubtedly
been made in wireless telegraphy, especially since
the introduction of thermionic valves. If it should
prove to be better than cable communication it will
cut the cables out. But it has a long way to go
before it is in that position, whatever may happen
in the future.
“Bouragi”: “Herodot” truly says (B.
13/4/’22) that aeroplane exploration of the
Papuan jungle is rendered difficult by the
absence of landing-places. Yet here and
there one strikes open glades covered only
with high lalang grass. These are as
flat as a pancake, and there are several in
the otherwise forest-covered Northern Divi-
sion. For example, at Papangi, on the
Bogi-Yodda road, and on the track to Buna
Bay, notably near Kandarita, where Yodda
miners have camped and rested these 20
years past. There are many rivers also
which are wide and deep enough to permit
the landing of a flying-boat. Distances
across Papua are not very formidable as
airmen reckon them. An air-boat starting
and returning every day _ from, say, the
upper reaches of the Fly River could photo-
graph a lot of country never yet seen, and
perhaps locate new jumping-off places.
“Private’s Batman”: Birdw'ood learnt a
lot of things about the Diggers, but it took
him some time to understand the frequent
irony of their speech. An ancient jest, based
upon the fact that when prisoners were taken
food had to be shared with them, was that
whenever rations were short we were “win-
ning the war.” Meeting two Aussies near
Ypres at a time when provisions were un-
usually poor, Birdwood stopped to have a
word. How were they getting on? “Oh,
all right, sir,” replied one; “I’m glad to
see we’re winning the war.” “We’re doing
very well,” assented Birdie: “but why do
you say that we’re winning the war?”
“Eleven men to a loaf of bread and 15 to
a pot of jam,” was the reply. Birdie, all
at sea, said that he was glad that the rations
were coming up so well, and passed thought-
fully on. It was only later when the correct
rations were explained to him that he real-
ised the noint: and our food allowances were
improved within a couple of days.


A conversation with Hupmobile owners would
convince you that the car does stand up
remarkably well. Tbat is tbe reputation it has
everywhere. It has g'ained that reputation
because it is strongly built.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings.
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment. '
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED. 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.. LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington,, N.Z.
Hupmobile
J9 ... - -
HIGH TENSILE
BRONZE SPINDLE
OF LARGER DIAM.
THAN IS USUAL,
THUS IMPARTING
GREAT STRENGTH,
AMPLE HIGH
GRADE ASBESTOS
PACKING,
HEAVY
BONNET.
SHUTS OFF WHEN
OPEN. CAN BE
PACKED UNDER
PRESSURE.
DISC CASE AND
NUT. TWO FLATS
ARE CAST ON DISC
CASE TO FACILI
TATE REMOVAL
OF CASE FROM
SPINDLE FOR
RENEWAL OF DISC.
HIGHEST GRADE
RENEWABLE DISC
SECURELY
ATTACHED BY HEX
NUT AND WASHER.
ROUND BRIDGE
GIVING UNOB-
STRUCTED PASSAGE
EQUAL TO FULL
BORE OF PIPE
»
c
J
HEAVY UNIFORM BODY.
CORRUGATED IRON
WHEEL, BLACK
JAPANNED FINISH -
COMFORTABLE HAND
GRIP.
STRONG PACKING
GLAND CAREFULLY
AND
FITTED TO ENSURE
FIRM COMPRESSION
OF ASBESTOS
PACKING
MACHINE CUT
SQUARE THREADS
NON-STRIPPING,
FOR SEVERE USAGE.
FULL LENGTH OF
THREAD ALWAYS IN
STUFFING BOX.
FIBRE WASHER
MAKING STEAM-
TIGHT JOINT, AND
• AFFORDING EASY
REMOVALOF BONNET.
NO WHITE LEAD
REQUIRED.
HEAVY HEXAGONS,
ALLOWING GOOD
GRIP FOR WRENCH
AND AMPLE DEPTH
FOR PIPE THREAD,
The Valve Engineers
have been looking for
“SUPER
FEARNOUGHT’’
(BRITISH MAKE)
Renewable Disc
Steam Globe Valves
JtOUPER FEARNOUGHT” represents highest-class
British manufacture. It is suitable for 2501 b.
S.W.P. Study the sectional illustration and note
the many splendid features that have quickly placed
“Super Fearnought” in an unassailable position in the
world of steam. We have large stocks. We also offer
Gate Valves, Globe Valves, Check
Valves, Steam Cocks, Gauge
Mountings, Pressure Gauges and
every class of good quality Steam
Fittings.
Price list and all particulars of “Super Fearnought”
Valves and any of the above-mentioned lines gladly sup-
plied. Send your inquiries now.
AGENTS i
PARKE & LACY
GO. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Pine Neiv Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Pishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Dars
and Sundays.
Tariff from !(»/- per iay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3003. Apply Manager.
ď
| {packs £mit/v
%
The IDEAL Way
TO MARK ALL LINEN
or any Material, CASH S Names en-
sure protection and individuality
They supersede Marking Ink A Clear
Neat Name woven in Fast Color is
easily sewn on.
Prices: 12 doz.7/6-6 doz. 5 --3 doz. 3/6
Sold by all best Drapers.
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH [3:
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Victoria.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF
FITTINGS
THE wear and riding ease of a
bicycle rest chiefly upon tbe
material and construction —
and since tbe early cycling days
bicycles built of B.S.A. Fittings
have been famed for these two
features A rigorous inspection
system originally devised for rifle
manufacture, ensures to tbe B.S.A.
owner tbe utmost good service
from bis machine.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
A
B.S.A.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The
B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
All B.S.A.Parts
are Guaranteed
I Merchant able.
B
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can-
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
serious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
The natural tonic elements contained in HYPOL are, in themselves,
sufficient to bemfit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition, this
famous preparation contains 50 % of the finest Norwegian Cod Lwer Oil,
which is so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh-forming,
strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence
HYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get one to-day
Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
-c<
>RS
. n
BathHcaters.
pr
i -
alleys
Chip
47/6
n
1-
Hot Water
Instantly.
NO BOTHER
NO TROUBLE
NO DELAY
NO DANGER.
For the country; home —and those who cannot get gas supply—-there _i«
no home convenience that can be bought for so little money that will give
such wonderful comfort and service as Malley’s Chip Bath Heater. Simply
marvellous, it provides hot water at any time you require it—for every
household need. No trouble —no long wait —no danger. Burns up old
papers, chips and house refuse—saves you buying fuel specially. Abso-
lutely ■ indispensable—handy for cleaning cans and dairy 'utensils.
SEND NOW FOR PARTICULARS.
Fully described in special booklet. Write for your copy. ‘ Attach name
and address to 1 this advt. and post. If in town call in and see a
demonstration —any time.
Ask also for particulars of
>1 ALLEY’S NEW “ICELESS” COOL SAFE.
Mallei/dJk
86 Liverpool St. Sydney.
The Jointing that
adjusts itself to the job.
It does not matter how rough or pitted the faces of pipe flanges
are, you can make a thoroughly satisfactory joint quickly and
easily if you use
eJhvT^Wder
Form
JOINTING
MATERIAL
This moulds to the surface irregulari-
ties of the two opposing members and
forms a permanently leaktight and
rustless metal-to-metal joint that will
withstand the highest pressures and
temperatures. Pressure may be
turned on immediately the joint is
made.
Get a tin to-day, and try it on your
most awkward joint—it will never
leant re-making.
p s*
nAc
4 l / / .'
'fN,
N
p£ p
pO*
The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd.
490 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
“A.C.R.”: Henpeck was sick unto death.
He lay perfectly still with his eyes closed
while Mrs. H., somewhat repentant, leaned
over and said as tenderly as she could:
“John —John, dear, you’re dying.” Henpeck
ignored the suggestion. “John, you’re going ;
but I’ll soon follow you.” At this the sick
one roused himself from his semi-comatose
state and, opening his eyes, exclaimed im-
ploringly : “Don’t say such things, Maria!
Stay here as long as you can. Look after
yerself. Take care yer ’elth. F’r my sake.”
Then he lay back and expired.
Threatened with exclusion from the
casualty department of Melbourne Hospital,
women doctors contend that there is “no
sex in medicine,” and who that has seen
much of hospital life shall say them nay?
To argue, like some male practitioners, that
“no woman doctor has done casualty duty
without expressing distaste for the work”
may be a thousand times true, yet it leaves
unanswered the claim of every woman in
the medical profession to be as inevitable in
the casualty department as in the operating
theatre. Did any man ever lie on the cold,
uncharitable table where his sense of naked-
ness is about to be lost in oblivion unless
there were women about to do the surgeon’s
bidding? After an operation he is almost
entirely in female hands, even though a
couple, of male doctors were ringleaders in
the original invasion of his privacy. Gener-
ally speaking, there is but one sex in nurs-
ing. and that’s the female. The ministering
angel soon convinces the man that hospital
modesty couldn’t possibly consist with pru-
dery, and even modesty is not essentia) to
decency. No sex in medicine! Of course
not. Why, there’s no sex in sickness, so
to speak, where the ailment is sufficiently
complicated and troublesome.
“Norbell”: Wondah’s” pieman par (B.
27/'4/’22) recalls one of the breed whose
stand was in Gertrude-street, Fitzroy
(Vic.). The Salv’army decided to hold a
stance near him, and this was how it
panned out:—
Sister ( con expressione) : Oh, my dear friends!
Think what your state will be hereafter.
Pieman ( moderato expressivo ) : Hot; all hot!
Sister (eon spirito) : Oh, you poor men! How
will it be with you
Pieman ( allegro ) : All hot!
Sister ( animato ) : There are some so-called
Christians in Melbourne to-day whose sins are
Pieman (con sentimento): All hot!
Sister (appassionato) : In the next world their cry
will be
Pieman (forte) : Hot; all hot!
Sister (fortissimo) : When the Devil gets them
they’ll be-
Pieman (andante religioso) : All hot! All hot!
Sister (crescendo) : Think of it, friends
Pieman: (allegro vivace) : Hot, hot; all hot! •
Sister (ad lib. energico) : E\ ery one of you
Pieman (allegro agitato) : All hot; all hot!
Sister (fortissimo) : In everlasting torment
Pieman (con expressione di dilore) : All hot: all
hot!
Ensemble.
Soprani: Amen ! Amen !
Pieman: All hot! All hot!
‘Wart”: If Robert Sticht had thought
more of him self and less of Mt. Lyell, he
might have been alive to-day. Over 12
months ago he was told he should be oper-
ated on for stone in the kidneys, but owing
to important alterations being made at the
mine and to the unsettled copper mar-
ket, he refused to submit to the knife.
A few days after Christmas he came to St.
Margaret’s Hospital, at Launceston, only to
be told he had no chance—-he had let him-
self get so low that it was impossible to
operate, and tiie doctor gave him only a
few weeks. The fact that his wife was in
the next ward did not improve matters. Yet,
still he fought on for four months.
“0.K.”: London Times gets off a neat
little gibe at ex-missionary Dr. Vanden
Bergli, who, after serving nine years in
East-Central Africa as a laborer among the
heathen, returned thither with a cinemato-
graph to get pictures for the screen and
material for an illustrated book of his experi-
ences. In his missionary days he had been
snubbed by a local official, Charles
Elliott, when he asked permission to clothe
2000 natives, and begged Elliott to forbid
the entrance of completely nude humans
within city limits. When he subsequently
came along With his camera his horror of
nudity was sacrificed to his zeal for the
enlightenment of the world re what had
shocked him. The nudity that had seemed
highly improper in East Central Africa now
seemed commercially suitable for publication
in London. "The photographer,” says the
Times, “must have taken a hint from’Pooh-
Bah and beckoned his lady models to a corner
where the missionary could not see them.”
The humor of Dr. V anden Bergh’s revela-
tions is in the fact that he, utterly uncon-
scious of inconsistency, tells the incident of
his having formerly wanted to cover up the
nakedness of the niggers for decency’s sake.
How like a wowser is the notion of photo-
graphing the things that Purity blushes to
look upon ! It reminds one of the holy eye
at the keyhole, and the moral gimlet boring
through the locked door.
“Section S ” on a thorny subject:—
By a curious coincidence, two cases dealing- with
the liability of employers under the N. S. Wales
Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Act, 1920,
in respect of lunch-hour accidents, were decided by
Cohen, J„ in one week. In the first case, the injured
toiler, in company with other employees, was taking
part in a group photograph for presentation to a
retiring boss (it was a voluntary arrangement among
the staff) when the chair on which another work-
man was seated squeezed his toe, causing blood
poisoning and subsequently the amputation of the
leg. The Court was asked to say that this was an
accident arising out of and in the course of his
employment, and that consequently the employers
should pay. But the verdict was in their favor.
In the other instance, some of the employees were
playing cricket when the bat slipped from the striker’s
hands and stove in the skull of a non-player, who was
having his lunch, the injury killing him. Here it
was held that liability did exist, and compensation
amounting to £4OO was awarded to the deceased's
dependants. Judge Cohen’s decisions have definitely
established that continuity of employment exists during
the lunch-hour, but that accidents in respect of which
compensation is claimed must not only happen in
the course of the employment but must arise out of
it. The fulfilment of the second condition has been
the rock on which many - a claim has split.


m
m
■nn
i Ili
§§i
■
B an
■
m
B I
I
9
Is.V
11111
u
HR
HH ■
■Hi
HH
i
HU
MM
fu';..
HH
mm
I :
■
■
n
■
I
ii
■
Hi
-V •
HI
WB
■
i 6
m a
m
mm
153
\
■
■B
HI
,/.’l
■
;
m
■
*
Hr
s Rssasa
HI
u
: H
H
m
'mm
\ ■■'/:
Hi
as
mm
Mi
Hi
.
.
. ■
■ I
Hi
!1
HBBIMB
i
111
m
s.\
I
■HHI
H
Is
MM
■
■ ; .s;
m
i
■
ran
gs
■1
-
■Hi
H
Hi
H
■1
V; i •
I 9
B ■'''
n
111111
H
mmM
H
. ■ sis
■ I
a
"s 'fes
■
H
llilll
RH
r
HR
MUsi
Hfe
i ■
HHHHi
ife-i
1
-
>- !
lli|ili::|;||lllli|l|
.. ■
■
K, -'1
■
■hhh—h
hhhhi §
Vfefevslfelfefevfe..
HMHHHHg^
'
mi
as
'
' ■
-
in
.
mm
"'ISIS li illlfj
ißiig BhHI
m
m
HHi
H
: ':'•' -:'i ■•
HiHHB
aHHE
' Jtl
-' * '
m *
I
Hi
Hi
H
wgamm
:
■Hi
Ihh 1
Bii
Hi
■i
RH
ipiiitp
■■
Hi
M
m
miriMM
■HHi
m
fSmm
H|
fen.
•fei;
I
■" ; 'l
mm
i
RsaS
':■•
f
■ .
fe
m
:>fc
- I
HHHHHI
■ H : H Hn
- f\ .
HBll
-^-g^-— gMMMaagMgaaagggggggggßgfflagg
Iliiillißißi - H
-- lIHHHiiI
ifeifefeyii'
f
-•■ t, -^j
mg > 'Mm?™
HHHHUH
cc Engulf’d in ocean’s deepest wave”
(Wagner’s "Flying Dutchman”)
The great musician - pianist, violinist, singer
-moves us to profound depths of feeling
with his artistry; his emotional qualities. By
his technical dexterity we are merely awed if we notice it at
all. One appeals to our inner sense of consciousness—intel-
lect, if you will —the other to our intelligence only. The New
model Beale Player-Piano is not so much an instrument of
tremendous technique as it is an instrument of interpretation
Technique it has, certainly,as all good musicianship rests on
a foundation of adequate technique. But its devices for in-
terpretive control of that technique provide the characteristic
which will interest you most. The New Beale is a musicianly
instrument supplying a means of expression to the inarticu-
late musician. It has no limitation for artistic playing other
than that of the operator’s own understanding of his theme.
qA descriptive illustrated booklet sent anywhere post free.
BEALE s’COMPANY UP i
. HD
Showroci
340 George Street, SYDNEY
Head Office and Factories:
r -47 Trafalgar St., ANNANDALE
BRANCHES —N.S.W. i Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle ami Goulburn.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams
Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide.
WA.: J. A. 'Thompson Co., Limited, Perth,
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
00-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough;
Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns,


A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, loct. Gold,
£75.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brocoh, 15ct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Bing, 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set two double-cut Diamonds,
£6/10/-
Smaller Diamonds, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A Saunders'
double-cut
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l5.
m
A Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Three-bar
Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS’
Exclusive Diamond Jewellery
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, compensation
balance, £lO. Others, £5/10/-, £O/10/-.
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £l2/10/-, £l5.
ft!
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Expanding Watch Bracelet,
full-jewelled lever movement, compensation balance,
£l2/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
SS
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Square
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, fancy dial,
£l2/10/-
ORDERS BY POST.
We give Special Attention to the satisfactory fulfil-
ment of Orders by Mail, the same care being given
to your Requirements as if you called personally.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch, loct.
Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover King,
18ct. Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, Millgrain
Setting, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £llO.
:
A Saunders’ 9ct. Cold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
’Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15et. Gold,
£35.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
w
'!!
11/ >
i
w
X'/j
m
2ilh 11
tttm
r>
3K
&
<*
tec
»»
s
ss£
1«£
3
m
sss2@@R/£
suits
m
|H
sir
Surfaces
5 -c.johnsons*
mb%
svr^ K
i£*?N»OX«.SO»4. <*<*Z
Kg
BS^Sfeite
cßgnew Tour Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlocking? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care.
JOHN SON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St Sydney, N. S. W.


Legal Notice.
T.\ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
1 WELLINGTON DISTRICT (Wellington Registry).
In Divorce —No. 2270.
To JOHN WILLIAM BRAGG, formerly of the City
oi Wellington, but now of parts unknown,
carpenter.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued out
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Wellington
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Emily Annie Elizabeth Bragg, of Wellington,
married woman, wherein she prays for a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of desertion,
and such Citation intimates that in default of your
so doing the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition and to pronounce sentence therein notwith-
standing your absence. NOW ‘THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you are
within forty-five (45) days after the date of the
publication of this abstract in the Sydney Bulletin
•to attend in person or by jour Solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at Wellington, New Zealand,
and there to enter an appearance without which you
will not be allowed to address the Court at any
stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the same at
the Supreme Court Office at Wellington.
Dated at Wellington this 10th day of May, 1922.
(seal.) G. S. CLARK.
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly requested
to forward to him the foregoing advertisement.
Oswald Ohcttle Mazengarb, Esquire, is the solicitor
for the Petitioner, whose addi'ess for service is at
the office of Messieurs Mazengarb, Hay and Macalister,
39 Johnston Street, in the City of Wellington, New
Zealand.
Missing: Friends.
IF PATRICK KELLY, formerly of Dur-
ham Downs, Thargomindah, Queens-
land, laborer, a son of Patrick Kelly, late of
Lawler. South Australia, farmer, deceased,
will communicate with the undersigned, he
will hear something to his advantage.
LRTJNDY, PELLY & HARDY,
Solicitors. 27 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide. South Australia.
p!5 ARSON.—FRANK MORRIS PEARSON, at one
time of Number 408 Victoria Parade, East Mel-
bourne, and Footscray Road, Kensington, and
THOMAS ALEXANDER PEARSON, sons of
ROBERT ALEXANDER PEARSON, formerly of
Fernsdale, Sisters Creek, Tasmania, late of Number
20 Laing Street, South Yarra, retired sheep-farmer,
deceased, please communicate with the undersigned
when you will hear of something to your advantage.
Any person knowing their whereabouts or of their
death kindly forward particulars to THE EQUITY
TRUSTEES CO., LTD., 85 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
4
Fop dress-
ing cuts,
bruises, scrapes,
burns, or scalds, there is
nothing like Zam-Buk. The re-
r ‘" e “ herbal extracts from
which Zam-Buk is prepared
f»nk into the tissues, soothe
the pain, and by reason of their
powerful antiseptic qualities,
prevent festering and blood-
poison. Having purified a wound,
Zam-Buk heals it with new skin.
i
amßuk
f
Championship
Calibre
Championship calibre goes be.
yond national boundaries; cham-
pionship calibre brings interna-
tional fame.
Tennis is an international sport.
Players like Brookes, Anderson
and Patterson are just as famous in
America as Tilden and Johnston
are in Australia and New Zealand.
Shaving is an international nuis-
ance, but it can be made less of a
nuisance with Mennen Shaving
C ream. Mennen enjoys interna-
tional fame because it works just
as well with hard water as with
soft, with cold water or with hot.
Let me ask you, “Would Men-
nen Shaving Cream enjoy inter-
national fame if it did not check
up with championship calibre?"
The test is in the tube.
(.Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 George Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Bui ding, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
Tf any illustration appearing in The
P.ur.T.ETiN takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
C VIIJI E Y’S CIII E F TIIEA T IS
W J. C. WILLIAMSON’, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
(. I!l I Kit lON :
MY LADY’S DRESS.
ROY’AL:
JOHNNY, GET YOUR GUN.
PALACE:
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY.
T O W N HALL, S Y J) N E Y.
1 DIRECTION THOMAS QUINLAN, in association
with E. J. and DAN CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING THIS WEEK.
MATINEE SATURDAY.
SEASON TERMINATES SATURDAY NIGHT.
THE SISTINE CHOIR,
THE GREATEST MUSICAL TRIUMPH OF THIS
GENERATION.
PRICES: Reserved, 10/10; Unreserved, 5 5.
PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAKEAN
1 I* ROD LOT lONS.
Australian Tour:
SYDNEY SEASON—GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 Hie Ranking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
w
IRT H S
nn«l
C 1 R C IT. S
Menagerie of Performing Wild Animals.
THE HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
MATINEE SATURDAY AT 2.30.
Children half-price.
This Year the Best Ever. Everything New.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
" ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE.
LAST NIGHTS OF SEASON.
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE BAT.
THE BAT IS A SUPER-MYSTERY PLAY’.
KING’S THEATRE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE FIRST YEAR,
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|y|\.JKSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
TOM MOORE in
HOLD YOUR HORSES.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
M OYT’S THEATRES, .MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
I)E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LY’CEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
EDWARD EARLE and MABEL BALLIN in
EAST LYNN.
HARRY *CAREY in
DESPERATE TRAILS.
Prices as usual.
Amusement*.
T" OWN HAIL, M E I, B O T R N E.
■ DIRECTION J. & N. TAIT.
SATURDAY NEXT, JIAY 20.
Also: Tuesday, May 23; Thursday, May 25; Saturday,
May 27 ; and Tuesday, May 30.
TOSCHA SEIDEL,
“THE WIZARD OF THE VIOLIN.”
Prices; 7/6, 5/-, 3/-, 2/- (plus tax). Plan at Allan’s.
PItITAKXIA I'll EAT It K, .MEI.ItOUKMC.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
|y| ISLHA Til EAT UK, ,M KI.KOIi KNK.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORI n and SET.ZNICK.
Public Notice.
WHAT LOWE’S HAVE DONE
FOR THE DIGGER!
£15,000 WORTH
OF GRATUITY BONDS NEGOTIATED
DURING LAST SIX MONTHS.
READ IIOW IT IS DONE.
For quite a while Diggers have found it
difficult to have their War Gratuity Bonds
negotiated, on account of the necessary for-
malities incurred, but Lowe’s have solved
this problem by assisting- the Digger in every
possible manner.
All that is necessary for the man who holds
a Bond of £3O or under to do is to call in at
Lowe’s George-street Store (opposite Queen
Victoria Markets) and see the secretary. He
will do all the work in connection with the
transfer, and the only remaining thing to be
done is the selection of men’s or hoys’ clothing
to the full value of the Bond, with interest added.
Diggers can buy first-class tailoring to order,
ready-made suits, hats, shirts, boots, boys’ cloth-
ing—in fact, anything that Lowe’s stock, at the
same price as a cash customer. It only takes a
few days to do the whole job, with no bother
whatever to the Digger. Thousands of pounds’
worth of Bonds have already been accepted—
and not one Bondholder has been disappointed.
.Missing Friends.
RE GEORGE RICHARDS, LATE OF
NEW ZEALAND.
ANYONE who can give information as to
the address of George Richards, late of New
Zealand, or, if dead, of the place where he
died, is asked to communicate with Messrs.
Chapman, Skerrett. Trip and Blair, Solici-
tors, Wellington, New Zealand.
S* MONARCH
Hand-made from Highest-grade Havana Filler.
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY.
Special sampling cabinet containing:
10 Cigars, 6|-; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9; 100, 46/-
POST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
s»
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Reduction in price
of the AMBEROLA
Following on our announcement of a reduction in the prices
of all models of “The New Edison,” we are now able to
notify a similar general reduction for
the “Amberola” and for Amberol
records.
At the new price level the Amberola un-
doubtedly represents the world’s greatest
phonograph value—-taking into account its
fine musical quality, its purity of reproduc-
tion and the facts that there are no needles
to change and that the records are practi-
cally unbreakable.
Let us send you our illustrated catalogue,
also name of nearest Edison dealer.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
\
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of the
British Commonwealth.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR MARCH
A PROGRAMME FOR THE BRITISH COM-
MONWEALTH.
CANNES, GENOA, AND ECONOMIC RE-
VI \ AL.
AMERICAN REFLECTIONS.
THE WASHINGTON RESULTS.
LETTERS FROM AN ENGLISHMAN IN
GERMANY.
THE NEAR EAST.
THE INDIAN PROBLEM IN EAST AFRICA.
Also Articles from “Australia ,” “New Zealand,”
"United Kingdom,” "Canada,” "South Africa.”
Price 5/- per copy, or 20/- per annum, post
free to any address within the Empire.
Macmillan’s
Books on
Agriculture,i
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks arc published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Principles of Australian Agricul-
ture. By W. CATTON OR AS BY,
F.L.S., Lecturer in Agriculture and
Fruit Growing, Perth (Australia)
Technical School. Illustrated. ss.
Science of Dairying. Bv W. A. G.
PENLINGTON, M.A., Science Tutor,
Auckland Training College, New
Zealand. Illustrated. Bs.
Management of Dairy Plants. By
M. MORTENSEN. Illustrated. 325.
Gd. net.
The Farmer’s Business Handbook.
By I. P. ROBERTS. His. net.
The Breeding of Animals. By F.
B. MUMFORD, M.S. Illustrated.
13s. net.
The Diseases of Animals. By NEL-
SON S. MAYO. Illustrated. 16s.
net.
Manual of Farm Animals. By MER-
UIT W. HARPER. Illustrated.
16s. net.
The Feeding of Animals. By W. H.
JORDAN. 38s. net.
Principles of Feeding Farm Ani-
mals. By SLEETER BULL, B.Sc..
Illustrated. 14s. net.
Western Live-Stock Management.
Edited by Prof. E. L. POTTER. 18s.
net.
Judging Live Stock. By Prof. C. W.
GAY. 14s. net.
Breeds of Live Stock. By Prof. C.
GAY. 14s. net.
Science and Fruit Growing. Bv the
DUKE OF BEDFORD, K.G.,
F.R.S., and SPENCER PICKER-
ING, M.A., F.R.S. 12s. 6d. net.
The Potato. By Prof. A. W. GIL-
BERT, Ph.D., assisted by Prof. M.
F. BARRUS, Ph.D., and D. DEAN.
Illustrated. 11s. net.
Peach-Growing. By 11. P. GOULD.
12s. 6d. net.
Strawberry-Growing. Bv Professor
S. W. FLETCHER. ’ Illustrated.
12s. net.
Manual of Fruit Diseases. By L.
R. HESLER, A. 8., Ph.D., and H.
11. WHETZEL, A. 8., M.A. Illus-
trated. 16s. net.
The Principles of Fruit Growing.
P.y L. 11. BAILEY. 20th edition.
14s. net.
The Pruning Manual (18th Edition
of “The Pruning Book"). By L. H.
BAILEY. 345. net.
The Principles of Vegetable Gar-
dening. By L. 11. BAILEY. 355.
net.
Manual of Gardening. By L. 11.
BAILEY. 17s. net.
Manual of Tree Diseases. Bv Pro-
fessor W. HOWARD RANKIN,
Ph.D. Illustrated. 38s. net-
Manual of Vegetable-Garden Insects.
By CYRUS R. CROSBY and MOR-
TIMER D. LEONARD. Illustrated.
15s. net.
Farm and Garden Insects. Bv
WILLIAM SOMERVILLE. D.Se.
With 46 Illustrations. Sewed, Is. 6d.;
.stiff boards, Is. 9d.
Injurious Insects. By Prof WAL-
TER C. O'KANE. Illustrated. 3 7s.
net.
Farm Poultry. A Popular Sketch of
Domestic Fowls. By GEORGE 0.
WATSON. 10s- 6d. net.
The Beginner in Poultry. By C. S.
VALENTINE. Illustrated. 36s.net.
Macmillan's Illustrated TAst of Books
on Agriculture, etc., will be sent post
free on application.
MACMILLAN# CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


A Signal Success
<S!
King George lV
The TOP-WOTCHScotch.
Presentation
Watches
We probably have the finest
stock of high-grade presentation
watches in Australia. At last
stock-taking we had in our safes
just on 4000 watches.
Special heavily-cased gent.’s
watches of the finest and most
dependable makes we specialise
in.
Special quality Gent.’s Gold
Wristlets —movements that go
to within a few seconds a
month, and will last a lifetime
of bal'd wear.
■
To public presentation committees we deduct a. very special discount from
our celebrated plain-figure low prices.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl’’
Criterion “My Lady’s Dress
Rov-Ui “Johnny, Get Your Gun
Palace “The White-headed Boy’’
Grand Opeu\ House Shakspearean Productions
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
Tocvk Mali The Sistine Choir
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hep. Majesty’s “You’re in Love”
Royal “The Bat;;
Kino’s ‘The First Year
Majestic Moving- Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Town Hah Tospha Seidel
The mystery of “The Bat” at Melbourne
Royal has been deepened by a managerial
announcement of an extra matinee on Satur-
day next. Meanwhile, that crowded bag ot
American shocks is being emptied every
night for the entertainment of large audi-
ences who take the horror good-humoredly.
People, as a rule, expect an even more amaz-
ing insult to their intelligence than they
actually get. On subsequent reflection they
are probably consoled by the thought that
nothing could have been more preposterous
than the noisy futility of Mayne Bynton, as
a detective who shares with Emma Temple
the control of the strange household where
the missing room stands concealed. No-
thing in the denouement accounts for the
blusterous proceedings of the unparalleled
sleuth who excites Emma Temple’s cool, col-
lected scorn. His persistent incivility is
meaningless. It explains nothing. _ Ihe
nature of the final revelation justifies a
complaint that the author missed a great
chance in not letting Emma Temple herself
turn out to he "The Bat.” Or Elsie Parkes
would have made a lionnie surprise packet
to spring on a staggered public. Elsie as
it is, merely amounts to a decorative feeder
of the plot. Fortunately, she wears a ball-
room frock which gives full play to her
lovely arms and shoulders, but no use what-
ever‘is made of her highly-educated lower
limbs. Why not let her open tlie second act.
with a pus de sent —a Dance of Death, or
Doubt, or Grave Suspicion ? Or she might
glide around, armed with a divining-rod. m
quest of the missing papers and the hidden
room. Why restrict all the comedy relict
to an imported village idiot-spinster when a
fine Australian dancer like Elsie Parkes is
practically spoiling to interpret some or it.
*❖ * ❖
To Melbourne Tivoli hill last Saturday
was added the extravagances of George Bar-
ton, a comedian of the American ‘ tramp
type, whose rags and tatters get quaintly
involved with a bicycle handle, and whose
baggy pants are a large part ot the game.
Barton is screamingly funny to many ob-
servers at the outset, but from all points or
view lie palls somewhat. George Carney,
on the other hand, is a distinctive comedian
who improves on acquaintance. Thus tar,
apparently, lie has not got hold of a con-
spicuously clever or striking turn, but In-
impersonation of a eounted-out toll m >
Thames Embankment is a strong bit ot
work/ suggesting that the , '.ready “arrived
artist lias a lot further to go.
sjs •-:<
At Melbourne Palace the well-attired
diversity of “Spangles” continues as before.
Yda Reeve’s show is a going concern, her-
self being capably supported by Bus
McNaughton and the rest. Mac. frivols in
the George Gee vein, but there is more sub-
stance in his drollery, even when he descends
to the ancient custom of falling olf a kg,
(which is easy) when a lady pushes him.
** * *
The long day of “A Night Out” closes at
Alelbourne Majesty’s, and on Satuiday a
vival of “You’re in Love ’ will begin the final
chapter in Melbourne ot Alfred l-ntR But
the event of the week at Her Majesty s wd
be a combined matinee on Friday by the run
force of theatrical professionalism on behalf
of Distressed Diggers. The programme for
this gathering of the clans will include some-
thing of everybody.
* * # He
The Pioneer Players, whose good purpose
in life is to bring Australian drama to its
native stage, start their enterprise at Mel-
bourne Playhouse to-night (Thursday). Two
performances of Louis Esson’s comedy. The
Battler,” a comedy of country life, will give
the Pioneer venture its send-off.
“The First Year” will deliver its con-
fused lessons to youth for one
more week at Melbourne King’s, and then
the Humphrey Bishop Comedy and Operatic
Co. will come to Melbourne King’s. Touches
of difference are discernible in "The First
Year” since tlie first night, apart from the
appearance of Lome Helms in the place
where Elizabeth Dunn used to be. Marjorie
Bennett quarrels with her Tommy Tucker
more humorously than she did, whilst Phil-
lips Tead, as Thomas aforesaid, seems more
reckless than ever in his transitions from
sober to drunk and back again to sober. Ihe
two principals make the comedy as droll as
they can, and in so doing they reveal it as
just a light and gentle farce with the clunk
of dollars in it.
iji v
If Melbourne had still a doubt about the
capacity of Andre Skalski to get every ounce
of capacity from the “Yerbrugghen Orches-
tra it was blown away last Thursday night
by a performance of the Tschaikowsky
cer to, with Spivakovsky at the piano. The
pianist and his crowd of accompanists luted
the audience to one of those exaggerated
heights of enthusiasm which only mock musi-
cal fervor can climb. The Concerto was
repeated for the concert on Saturday night,
when enthusiasm scored one notch highei
than before, having come prepared tor the
effort. The bleak Town Hall is now warmed
by recollections of the orchestra to a tem-
perature befitting the arrival of Toscha
Seidel, who brings his violin to light in Mel-
bourne on Saturday, this week.
* * 3' *
“East Lynne,” butchered by an American
co. to make an undertaker’s holiday, is
trying to entertain Hoyt’s Melbourne sup-
porters this week. On the same pro-
gramme the incomparable Harry Carey
keeps his nose glued to “Desperate Trails,
and another of the combative Farnum
family bashes his way through "Go, Get
’Em, Garrauger.” Both of those films deal
with the restless West of America, but in
“The Man of Stone” the camera turns its
eye on Arabia and discovers Conway Tearle
as the macadamised hero blithering sw£et
rubbish into a Princess’s ear. The
Majestic menu is a mixture of mystery and
pathos, the former revealed in the ingenious
“Earthbound” and the latter exposed in
“The Song of the Soul.” A few minutes
of this seraphic production, with Vivian
Martin as a beauteous blind girl, sets the
emotional aneroid pointing to “Rain.” At
the Britannia pretty Betty Balfour follows
the well-trodden rou,te from slumdom to
comfort as the facetious Cockney heroine,
“Squibs.” The Covered Carpet Tack Co.,
J. Rufus Wallingford, managing director,
is not arousing tremendous interest at the
Melba, probably because the populace
alreadv knows the prospectus.
* * *
From Australia’s culture-centre :
Adelaide audiences, which Robert Brough used to
count among his best supporters, have given Marie
Tempest a season at the Royal, which should satisfy
even her. The changes were frequent, and showed
her art on all sides. To begin at the wrong end,
“Outcast” is hardly in her line, and “The Marriage
of Kitty” depends on the triumph of youthfulness,
and should therefore now be dropped. But the others
were delightful. “Tea for Three” has all the modern
American insincerity, though it has been, for unex-
plained reasons, translated (mostly) into English.
“The Great Adventure” is a fine play, in spite of its
fragmentary nature and jerky “curtains.” Adelaide
“The Bat” Melbourne
Royal.
Gaston Mercale as
Reginald Beresford.
had already seen its
own Wilfred Neill and
Ivy Staeev, oi the
Repertory, , play this
more than once. The
two leading parts are
such as no skilled
actors could go wrong
in, and Marie Tempest
obviously enjoyed the
change into unbecom-
ing frocks . and a
“common” accent. In
the other plays she
was her own delight-
fu 1 self, looking
younger than before,
and getting every
ounce out of her
characters. Urahame
Browne had a tremen-
dous fortnight, and
attained to great per-
sonal popularity. The
strength which he
showed in the more
sensational bits of
“Tea for Three” was
a revelation. Ashton
Jerry contributed sev-
eral clear-cut (and
quite distinct) char-
acters. The gentle
humor of Mr. Pim is
finishing off a memor-
able season.
Other Adelaide shows are pleasantly varied. Melo-
drama as before at the Prince of Wales; Variety,
with Tozart sketching, and James Teddy jumping
at the King’s. Spivakovsky and the Orpheus Soci-
ety and the S.A. Orchestra, with Foote conducting,
have filled the Town Hall with their various forms
of art. In pictures Mae Murray at West’s is a
vision of frocks, but “The Rosary” at the York
relies on human interest and an appeal for tears.
“Anatol,” at Wondergraph, proves to be an American-
ised version of the Austrian originals which the
Repertory has made familiar to Adelaide. The Pav.
has taken over the adventures of Chaplin and little
Coogan “The Kid” ; not all foolery this, but having
a pleasant touch of pathos at times.
Johnny Wiggins does Wild West stunts
for a moving-picture company. Despite his
absurd name and bis impossible clothing,
he is a cool and capable young American
with a sense of humor. But the manager (or
it may be the director or the producer) is
his enemy. Ordered by that functionary
to step out of his cowboy habiliments into
those of a club waiter, Wiggins revolts and
chastises his tormentor with the custard-pie
of cinema convention. While the manager
is removing particles of the comestible from
his eyes and the orchestra from_ its shirt,
Johnny departs hurriedly for New York,
there to impersonate his pard (in gaol for
shooting an Indian), to be unquestioningly
accepted as genuine by several fatuous
females, to foil the matrimonial plot of a
bogus and senile Duke, and to recover
the family fortune from an uncon-
vincing villain. On these slender foun-
“ROSMEKSHOLM.”
AT SYDNEY
PLAYHOUSE.
Oregon McMahon
as Ulric Brcadel.
dations “Johnny, Get Your Gun,” now
at Sydney Royal, is built. If the
plot had to sustain it the play would fail
horribly. Considered as an attempt to hold
the mirror up to Nature it is grotesque.
In real life nobody would be deceived for
five minutes by the impossible noble-
man or the incredible prodigal son.
Yet the audience forgets the absurdities of
plot and characterisation in contemplating
Johnny. That genial figure dominates every
scene. He is one of O. Henry’s cowboys
transferred to the theatre, and the
impression he makes on even the hard-
ened playgoer is wholly pleasant. The
part is manifestly one that Louis Bennison
likes, and the newcomer is well qualified,
both vocally and physically, to play it. His
voice is agreeable, anti so is his manner.
He doesn’t hustle to any extent, nor does
he bawl after the fashion of so many Yankee
actors. Bennison is going to be a success
in Sydney. Leslie Victor does what an
accomplished veteran can with the prepos-
terous role of the Duke, Edith Drayson
is the nice maid Johnny marries. Diana
Wilson and Doris Kendall say the inane
things expected of them by the playwright
and wear handsome clothes. Lance Lister
is Doris’s unimpressive lover; Nellie Mor-
tyne her stately aunt. Others who chip
in at intervals are Gwen Burroughs, Dorothy
Seacombe, Vivian Edwards, Harry Paulton,
John Bedouin and—last, but by no means
least —George Blunt.
#* * *
Talbot O’Farrell, a portly purveyor of
sentimental songs and innocuous wheezes,
introduced himself to Sydney at the Tivoli
on Saturday last. This immaculately-
attired artist is an exponent of the “quiet and
r< fined” class of humor, which, it is alleged,
has secured a stranglehold on the red-nose or
slapstick school of wit. O’Farrell’s subtle-
ties about Ford cars and his confabs with
the leader of the orchestra will need, pro-
bably, to be more original in treatment be-
fore the person wiih the encarmined nose
puts up his shutters for good. Neverthe-
less, this comedian certainly has the gift
of getting a half-nelson grip on his audiences
(they giggle as often as he wants them to),
and as for his mushy songs, why the things
are absolutely eaten. Several other artists
also made first appearances, but none of
them affected the popularity of the jazzing
Henry de Bray and his partner, May Vivian,
or diminished the welcome accorded to Marie
la Vane.
* !'< *
For another four performances only will
the Treasury wax fat on the amusement tax
gathered in fivepences and tenpences at
Sydney Town Hall. After that the won-
derful Sistine Choir will move on, and the
conducting of Rella be seen no more.
* * *
Aunt Ellen still causes ripples of _ de-
lighted laughter at the Palace, where “The
White-headed Boy” is getting into its
stride. Everyone who has watched the Abbey
Theatre from a distance and read the modern
Irish drama is asking if at least one per-
formance of a play by Synge might not be
given before the season of the Irish Players
closes. We have seen the beauty of their
work; we should like to see their versa-
tility also.
Flinging off the malevolence of the blood-
thirsty Richard of Gloucester, Allan Wilkie
wrapped himself about on Saturday with
the inky cloak of Hamlet, the vacillating
Prince of Denmark. The change became him
well, for if Wilkie is not an inspired Hamlet
he was always human enough to make the
gentle, thought-ridden Dane very convincing.
Hilda Dorrington, as Ophelia, showed a
Puritan restraint in her normal moods, and
a thrilling abandon when circumstances had
made her a wild woman. Lorna Forbes’ rich
notes poured out in the lines -<f the Queen.
Fred Macdonald showed understanding of
the part of chief skull-juggler, and had an
able second in P. Vincent; and Plumpton
Wilson was cast as the old bore, Polonius.
To-night (Thursday) and to-morrow
“Twelfth Night” holds the boards, and
Saturday night ushers in the black-visaged
Othello.
The Repertory Society added to the
gloom of a wet Saturday night by pre-
senting a Sydney Playhouse audience with
Ibsen’s “Rosmersholm.” A lugubrious even-
ing was lightened somewhat by the delightful
acting of Gregan McMahon as Ulric Brendal.
Mrs. Rebecca West, who caused the death
of the first lady of the villa Rosmer and
then stepped into her shoes, failed to make
Pastor Rosmer’s infatuation for her wholly
explicable. And the pastor himself (Eric
Howell) sounded an unexhilarating person
for love of whom no modern girl would
plunge into a mill race. Still, that’s Ibsen’s
fault rather than that of his interpreters.
Mrs. Cam Marina provided the only hilari-
ous touches. Vincent Doyle represented the
Press, and Montgomery Stuart was excel-
lent as Rector Kzoll. But why Ibsen when
a young, glad country is clamoring for a
drama of its own?
** * *
“My Lady’s Dress” is still being worn by
Polini at Sydney Cri., and in spite of a long
season shows no need for renovations.
* :!< * *
Clarice Coles, the wonder-contralto, is giv-
ing her recital on the 25th of this month at
Sydney Town Hall. And then London and
two years’ study claim her.
The lure of “A Little Dutch Girl” at
Sydney Majesty’s only needs to be felt to
be understood. Under its spell State poli-
ticians have been known to forget the salary
cu t.
* * o *
The Haymarket’s screen is given over to a
First National attraction, “Love’s Penalty,”
and handsome Hope Hampton is the little
lady who sets out to make things uncomfort-
able for a villain who left her sister in the
lurch. The latter is saved, however, by a
disarmament conference between the parties
interested. The additional at this house is
Bessie Barriseale in “The Breaking Point."
In a further effort to 'please, the management
has installed on the premises a brace of
vocalists and a person with a banjo. Gladys
WaltQn is “The Gutter Snipe” at the Picca-
dilly. She trains on ice-creams and
“sloppy stories”—and even then her form is
above "that of the majority of snide Amur-
kan boxers who infest this long-suffering
country. Bill Russell is scattering all and
sundry about him in a heroic picture at
Hoyt’s.
* * * *
Two Adelaide shows: —
The Cumbrae-Stewart collection at Preece’s Gallery
shows all the lady’s well-known strength of delinea-
tion in pastel. They are a bare-backed lot, her
sitters, and an occasional subject who wears clothes
conies almost as a surprise; but these are equally
effective, and the artist should be in request as a
portrait-painter. To a delightful show nothing is
added by the inclusion of a few landscapes in oil.
It is odd that an artist of such distinction in one
medium should show such a lack of it in another.
A much larger one-woman show is that of Gwen
Barringer at the Society of Arts. She has her accus-
tomed gum-trees and gardens of bright bloom. Bur
this year she adds something move, mainly as the
result of a visit to Sydney. Her Harbor bits are
attractive, and she shows a tendency to cultivate
bridge, crusher or crane, giving scope for a strength
not hitherto expected of her. Prices are low and
sales frequent.
#* * *
By limiting bis latest Melbourne show at
the Athenaeum to 27 canvases, W. D. Knox
has set an example in self-criticism which
others ought to follow. And even then not
every picture is his best. He might well
have eliminated the vapid “Low Tide,” the
confused “Grey Day” and the indecisive
“Farm Lane” and vastly increased the gen-
eral charm of bis work. His biggest sub-
ject, “In the Murray Valley,’’ is one of
those sweeping vistas of smiling country
which calls every note on his color-key-
board into play. The picture is a success,
except in the cloud masses which appear to
have been perfunctorily treated. “The Sun-
bathed Plains” represents the same style of
bird’s-eye view from a higher elevation, blit
another similar subject, “The Blue Ranges,"
is marred by a twisted cloud shadow which
draws attention from the rest of the picture.
Knox gets some striking atmospheric effects
into the “Open Fields” and the graceful
“Evening Stillness.”


s/
I bring up my blades in
the way they should go
A Valet blade is like a millionaire’s son—
/ \ it has every advantage from the time
JL lit leaves the cradle. Furthermore, a
Valet blade is always a sharp little fellow.
The judicious application of leather plays
no small part in this. I always strop my
own blades so that I know the job is pro-
perly done.
I carry in my head a device which turns the blade
over-first one side, then the other—as I run up and
down my strop. The result is a keen razor edge for
every shave and every Valet blade lasts for weeks.
Come and see me do it at any good razor shop—the
dealer will be glad to show you.
€L
■VALET
99
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ffiff iff iff iff iff iff ff iff Wf
s
H
*
B*>
1
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 consists of heavily
plated self-stropping Valet _
Auto Strop Razor, 12 Valet
Blades and “Valet Strop, in
handsome case, lined 2*7/6
velvet and satin -***' w
The ward Valet on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of the Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for ll-
£looo
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWK IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Blue Mountains A. H. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4-000.
Winning Numbers published all Stales,
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chances,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke’s obtainable from N S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Secretary,
Cadzow, Warrega-street, Katoomba. N.S.W-
Legal Notices.
GEORGE BARTLETT.
Notice.— george bartlett is
entitled to benefit under, the Will of
James Bartlett, late of Cokeham Sompting,
in the County of Sussex, market gardener,
who died in 11109. George Bartlett’s interest
under the said will is liable to be forfeited
unless he makes a claim within 3 months
from this date (11th May, 1922) on the
subjoined.
Messes. VERRALL & SONS,
Solicitors, Worthing, Sussex, England.
Australian Tweed Suit
to Order, 84j-
The claims of Country and City life
often render the highest-grade Suits
superfluous except on special occa-
sions. To meet this necessity with
the minimum sacrifice of quality and
style, Lowe’s offer a suit to order of
Australian Tweed in a smart range
of patterns, and tailored on lines
similar to illustration
or in any desired
style. p r i C e . . .
84/-
PATTERN COUPON.
LOWE'S LTD., *
Box 1622 G.P.0. , Sydney.
Please send me Patterns of s}'/-
A ustralian Tweed Suit-to-Order.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 18/5/’22
Stores all over Town
510 George Street,
369 Pitt Street,
Daking House,
Oxford Street.
Lowe’s Sell it for Less . K
Q
SS"
u
/A
WSL
iN*
A
AM
L
<0
Lowe’s Pay Carriage .
Merchant Tailors.
Stores all over Town:
Bond & George Streets,
New Boys* Store
(Bond & George Streets),
Haymarket, 710 George St.,
Newcastle, Hunter Street.


0
z
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT de PIETE
D.E ■ ■ COY. I—TD.,
T 4 St. Sydney. 74
000 OOCK pwty
GZ£6&V
Joseph. W. Hill.
Genera/ Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: "The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. C'o. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King: St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
197 a Castlereag;h Street, Sydney.
159 Georg-e Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
“Norbell”: “O.K.’s” reference to "The
Silence of Dean Maitland” (B. 4/5/’22) and
his allusion to Arthur Dacre and Amy
Roselle, who were studying parts in that
drama at the time of their dual suicide, stirs
old memories. I had a small part in the
play, and its final rehearsal was called for
Sunday night, Nov. 17, ’95, at the Sydney
Theatre Royal. I spent the Saturday after-
noon wdth them at their Macquarie-street
lodgings, and I “heard” Dacre his long part
of the Dean. On the last typewritten page
were these words: “‘Forgive, forgive’—Dies.
Picture. Curtain.” AA’hen I Avent to the
Sunday-night rehearsal at the Royal, the
stage was set for the graveyard scene, two
property graves were in position, and th<>
church bell was tolling, when word came of
the tragic end of the tw r o principals—the
most charming stage couple I ever met. The
messenger handed me a letter from Dacre,
and in it he said: “Bury us as cheaply, un-
ostentatiously and quietly as possible—we
have really no absurd sentiment.” And.
deeply underlined. “AA r e have never failed in
our duty to the public before. In all the
years I have been on the stage I have never
missed a night’s performance yet.”
“T.AA T .”: Fcav Australian mummers and
“ Kosmersholm ,” at
Sydney Playhouse.
Mrs. Marina as
Madame Helseth.
dancers " r e a lise
that there- are
big g e r ups and
dowms in the Euro-
pean show'-wovld
now than there
were for a genera-
uon before the
call-boy shrieked
for “beginners” in
the AA T ar Drama.
The latest instance
of the downs is
Michael Mordkine,
Pavlova’s quondam
dancing mate, and
certainly the most
graceful and hand-
some male pirouet-
tist in the busi-
ness. From his
princely pre-war
earnings he became
so broke that a
charity relief or-
ganisation scouring
Tiflis ran across
his wife near death
from hunger, and
Mordkine himself
leaping in a local
hall for the equi-
valent for five bob
a week.
“T.W.”: When Willie Edouin and Julia
Matthew's w'ere doing their memorable Mel-
bourne season, David Martin, who resisted
the temptation that beset a promising ama-
teur actor to become. Vic. Secretary for
Publiti Works, had the- privilege of dodging
about i the wings. In one burlesque AVillie
and Julia both wore Jack Tar togs, and
Dave, doming suddenly on a stooping figure,
smacked the available portion of it good
and hard under the impression that it be-
longed to W. Fdouin. It was Julia who rose
in her majesty, and crushed his stammered
apologies with, “My dear young Mr. Martin,
I honor the inexperience of youth which
fails to distinguish between a - lady and a
gentleman on such an occasion.”
"Vaudeville Vet.”: The death at Los
Angeles of Harry Keller, best-known of
American magicians, recalls that he married
a Melbourne girl when in this country in
1887. Keller managed the first IT.S. tour of
the Davenports, saw how much money there
was in deceiving the public, and went into
tiie business for himself. When the curtain
came down he was a dollar millionaire.
"Riobox”: The slump in the pitchers is
world-wide. In Uncle Sam’s land things
have been so bad that a system of “pay as
yoj leave” was introduced. Admission was
free, the understanding being that, if the
audience liked the entertainment it paid as
it went out. Increased business resulted,
but the distributing houses threatened to
withdraw supplies from the showmen resort-
ing to the desperate expedient, so its popu-
larity waned. But the boom times in the
flicker business are over, and perhaps they
will come again no more.
“Snell”: The dirtiest actor ever known in
Australia came with a well-known Yankee
actress, and did very good w T ork, but no
powder on earth could induce him to take a
bath. And never was he in the least ashamed
of obvious traces of his great need. There
was a local competitor appearing at the rival
theatre, but the
visitor was given
pride of plaee, be-
cause, being the
bigger ma n, h e
presented a larger
unwashed area.
When the company
appeared at Bal-
larat several mem-
bers went across
the lake one Sun-
day afternoon in
one of the absurd
little steamers ply-
ing on Wendouree.
In mid-channel, so
to speak, the un-
soaped mime, lean-
ing on an untrust-
wo rt h y railing,
broke the bar, and
went headlong to
the bottom, bis
long legs waving
in the air. The
lake was not deep, •
and Blank was
perfectly safe, but
at this crucia I
in oment a tall
actress struck a
tragedy pose on
the prow. “For
(lard’s sake, save
LOUIS ESSON.
author of “The
Battler," at Mel-
bourne Playhouse.
him !” she screamed. “lie will be washed 1”
Melbourne Herald’s recent announcement
that employees in the theatrical and picture
indv vs trios had threatened an immediate
strike, was on a par with the same journal’s
cross-headings re Government steamers and
the Seamen’s Union. The paper is out of
a sensational murder at the moment. A few
days after this yell J.C.W-. notified their
intention to reduce prices of admission some-
what, except for Saturday nights. Employees
don’t as a rule hold a pistol to the head of a
trader who lowers his prices. Serious unrest
in the theatrical trade these times would be
more probably due to the fear of a public
strike for better entertainment.
“T. 0.1.”: Sydney’s first theatre was built
by Robert Sidaway, a guest of the King (he
came in the First Fleet) for seven years.
His leasehold was a little back from High-
street (now George-street), at the rear of
the Commissariat Store, and adjoining a
leasehold of surgeon John Harris’s. The site
would be a little north of Margaret-street.
Sidaway’s theatre cost £lOO to build, and
was opened on January 16, 1796; Young’s
tragedy “The Revenge” and “The Hotel”
were the pieces performed. The manager’s
name w r as Sparrow, and amongst the per-
formers were Mrs. Davis and Messrs. Green,
Hawkes, Hughes (the first printer) and
Chapman. There is a tradition that the
prologue accredited to Barrington was read
on this occasion. Sidaway died on October
15, 1809, aged 52 years; his obituary notice
in the Gazette says “he was charitable and
philanthropic and a good citizen.” As he
had no relatives his property reverted to the
Crown.
“Bond.” : William Follicle, a sound critic,
has caused a lot of heartburning among the
younger players by essaying in the April
London to pick the half-dozen most promis-
ing juniors on the stage, “the stars of 10
years hence.” He knows of a dozen, he says,
but restricts himself to half that. The girls
are fairly obvious: Meggie Albanesi, already
prominent in “A Bill of Divorcement”;
Binnie Hale, who lately startled London by
giving a merciless but lifelike “imitation” of
her own popular father, Bobbie; and Edna
Best, the Peter Pan of last Christmas, with
“the most rocket-like experience of any act-
ress I remember since Edna May was picked
out of the chorus to piay the name-part in
'The Belle of New York.’ ’’ Of the men,
Ernest Thesiger is already well known by
small but fat parts in Barrie’s “Mary Rose”
and “Peter Pan.” Pollock’s other two dis-
coveries are more arguable: J. H. Roberts,
with a face strikingly like Phil May, mostly
takes G. P. Huntley (or “silly ass”) parts;
and Nicholas Hannen's work so far has been
chiefly in Repertory plays.
“i’avra Ren”: Tatura (Vic.) was deprived
of a cheap and decidedly novel circus turn
when a local John Hop took charge of a
man who was performing acrobatic feats in
a paddock. The novelty of the act consisted
in the performer being entirely naked. Near
his pitch a scaffold was erected, on which —-
so the nude acrobat informed the Law—the
people insisted he was to be hanged. The
execution is postponed sine die.
“F. Major”: The Taits’ latest protege,
Toscha ..Seidel, owns a Guadagnini violin,
dated ITSG, which is alleged by his press-
agent to be worth thousands, and is guarded
like a royal child. Seidel’s instrument may
be an. exceptionally good one, but the Guad-
agninis were .not master-craftsmen like Amati
or Stradivarius. They merelv carried on
the Strad. tradition of giving a graceful
contour to the instruments thev produced. It
is declared that they knew all the Strad.
secrets of manufacture, but other equally
obscure makers said the same thing. The
authority who wrote on violin-making in the
last issue of the “Encyclopaedia Britanniea”
merely mentions the Guadagninis as the
“Guadagnini family.” along with a number
of others at the end of his tale.
"Wart”: “T.0.1.’5” mention (B. 4/5/’22)
of Melb. Garrick Club’s Shakspearean com-
mem. in 18(54, and of “Orion” Horne’s pro-
logue, reminds me that about that date
Horne, and G. V. Brooke carried on a
friendly newspaper controversy on the sub-
ject of Hamlet’s sanity. It 'was probablv
a dodge to secure a cheap advertisement. The
letters were published later in a pamphlet
entitled “Was Hamlet Mad?” Up to a year
or two ago, when someone souveuired it, I
had a copy of the pamphlet inscribed, with
"R. 11. Horne’s compliments,” to my grand-
father.
"Blackfriars”: The Taitocracy combined
its announcement of slightly reduced prices
lor seats with the statement that in Eng-
land prices of admission haven’t fallen as
yet. There really isn’t quite as much room
tor reduction. You can reserve seats in
most London theatres for 4s. od., including
tax, and in the costlier ones for ss. 9d. The
Firm points out that there has been a reduc-
tion of 10 per cent, in British artists’
salaries, but omits to mention that into
the average London production quite a lot
of people are absorbed who individually
would “star” in Australia. Curiously, it
also neglects to mention that the rental of
a theatre in the Mist is now three or four
times as much as a fair rental of a Mel-
bourne or Sydney playhouse would be. Ada
Reeve’s show at smaller prices has been
tilling up every night, and Hugh Ward is a
cloud somewhat bigger than a man’s hand
on the. horizon. If they are going to rake
in audiences of the old-fashioned dimensions
the Taits must come down a lot more per
seat.
“T.W.”: Sistine Choir-conductor Rella
substantiates my conjecture (B. 4/5/’22'
that the Vatican is after stricter control of
R.C. music in these parts. Interviewed
at Wagga by a Sydney Sun man, the Mon-
signor mentioned that he had told Mannix
that the women must quit the choirs
if the real church music of Palestrina and
his modern imitator Perosi is to he sung.
To take their places a host of male altos
will have to be found.
“T.W.”: The newest musical diversion in
the Smoke is the lecture-concert, where
somebody explains to the expectant listener
the inner meaning of the noise that’s coming.
If there isn’t a meaning there is every oppor-
tunity for the ingenious expositor to invent
one. This carries the annotated programme
idea a hit further, but it doesn’t get to the
length reached by eccentric pianist Pach-
mann when he carries on his running fire
of commentaries on his own playing of
Chopin. A digital performer like Pachmann
has the advantage over musicians who work
with their mouths, but it would lie enlighten-
ing to hear Melba stop before the high trill
in “Saper Vorreste" and exclaim, “Now there
really isn’t any meaning in this at all, but
it’s a little bit off the vocal ice, and there’s
nobody can do it as well as I cag." That’s
a fair specimen of what Pachmann gives his
devotees.
“O. Blin”: Dan Barry was a good soul.
Once when he was touring the wayback of
Victoria with one of his incomparable com-
panies, he rescued a couple of swaggies and
brought them into the pub where he was
staying for the night. They bore visible and
odorous evidence of having slept in cow-
sheds and other places, and the sight of
them, preceded by Dan wearing the air of
having discovered a Koli-i-nor. was a terrible
jolt to Mr. Public House. “Who are these
gentlemen, may I ask?” ho inquired tartly.
“Oh, don’t you know them?” answered the
tragedian. “Ivet me introduce Air. Frankin-
cense and Mr. Myrrh.” Dan’s wit and
good humor got them a meal.
“A LETTIE DITCH GIRL.” AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY'S
A lesson in Ger-ing up. How George Gee
fills in his idle moments.
■‘S.S.”: Alf Dam pier was fond of reciting
“The Charge of the Light Brigade." On oik-
occasion iie was working off his curious
Ali-halt' a league, ah-half a league,
Ah-half a league ah-onward
at an Alexandra matinee, when a youngster
possessed of most lusty lungs began to howl
in the gallery. The gifted actor-manager
kept hard at it:
Flashed all their sabres bare,
Flashed as they turned in air.
But the mummy’s darling went to the top of
her range, waking the welkin. Cried the
distressed reciter:
Stormed at with shot and shell,
Don’t let that baby yell.
Someone its howlings quell.
Stifle its fearful breath.
Back from the mouth of Hell.
And so on. Alf got a great “hand” that
night.
“E.F.” : Louis Esson's comedy “The Bat-
tler” will see the stage at Melbourne Play-
house on May 18 and 20, under the direction
of “The Pioneer Players.” The Pioneer
Players have been formed for the purpose, it
seems, of producing original works of Aus-
tralian drama, which announcement is not
nearly so interesting as the question hotc
will the original works be produced ? The
Mermaid Play Society produces things at
Melbourne Playhouse, but it doesn't put them
before the public as an original Australian
play would have to be put in order to get it
talked about outside a little literary circle.
How are the Pioneer Players going to pro-
duce things at this out-of-the-way little
theatre?
“Smike”: I see that the Firm has en-
gaged for its production of “The Peep
Show” the winsome and pretty Katlilyn
Hilliard, who has been one of the hits m
“The Beggar’s Opera” at the Lyric Theatre.
Hammersmith. Gay’s old opera, revived and
furnished with appealing scenery and cos-
tumes, designed by the late Lovat Fraser,
has a fine fat part in Polly Pea chum, and
Miss Hilliard has made the most of it, though
she is pictorially disqualified by having to
wear the marquee-shaped skirts of the early
18th century. The Firm has been talking
of doing “The Beggar’s Opera” in Australia,
and presumably the engagement of Miss Hil-
liard can be accepted as evidence of a ripen-
ing intention.
THE HANGER-ON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Ail artist once, an artist ever,'’
Says the act-or in the pub:
Neither well-informed nor clever:
Vain, but slow to take a. snub
(C4dging drinks whilst short of grub),:
Posing, prating, soaking, smirking:
Fat of form denoting beer,
Xine months’ “rest" and three months’ “working"
Keep him happy through the year.
Autumn, winter, spring and summer
Find Val Vapid at the bar,
In the manner of a mummer
Scoffing at the latest “star"
’Twixt the puffs of his cigar,
All his views on drama airing
To an audience of one:
Brighter men’s “weak” work comparing
With the things he might have done. ,
“Ail artist once, an artist ever,”
Ancient maxim always fresh:
Nothing now would serve to sever
Vapid from the dear profesli
(He is fairly in its mesh).
Thus he maunders on, not knowing
That himself and all his set—
“ Working,” “resting,” boozing, blowing—
Never have been artists yet.
VICTORIA.
O.
THE CLINCHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two theatre managers—rivals—met
In a club, and over the usual “wet"
Each started to swank of the play he ran,
Boasting and boosting, as stage-folk can ;
Each “kidding" to each, though the show each bossed,
As both well knew, was a shocking frost.
Said Manager A : “Our biz keeps bright.
We’ve the ‘House Full' boards out every night!"
Then Manager B said: “Bully for you,
But we have the ‘House Full’ boards out, too!"
Said Manager A: “Um —yes. But we
Have double your number of boards, you see!"
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


i/'
V
n
CvS.U
w
> y
f\A
rPRIZE
m
i V I I
5.
T>
n
The White Horse Cellar
fa
<L|
T 1
r i
A
<z-*
m
ii«
mi
a?
/ /
scasaa
ft
v
:l
Vi
22
K
//
Estab 1742
v
/
A
\
C>
\
w/
1 ~V*kO
-fef:
rv
r
1
l~lr~ffn r ~^r^]--^i
3
anybody, doubting .the . age.
OF - tYAner
«
wn
Q
™ WnsKsr
u
T
TO
*4l
r
iVA
UF>
n
UJ>h
heHor®
AND. WALK THE*TI6HT, ROPE.
Ia
S
WHIGKY
ur
OH
IP!
/
mjIEHOFSE
I’T/K.V
£-r
WHISKY
M
P
S
\
V, rT**
s
i
i?
4
/. > V
ft
<2i?
•as
CS^
V-A
*
\
/JT
n
V
Glue
Worth the Winning!
gs


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
CARTRIDGES.
“A.P.” Fresh-loaded Cartridges are loaded on
the premises by automatically correct
machinery. Only the best smokeless powder
. and chilled shot used.
“BLUE SEAL.”. The universal rabbit Cart-
ridge, 21 / - 100.
“KILOS.” For Quail Shooting, unsurpassed,
22/- 100.
“INFALLIBLE.” A splendid hard-hitting
Cartridge, 24/- 100.
“APOID.” Deep brass gas-tight cases, for long-
range shooting. Once used always wanted,
25/- 100.
“A.P. SPECIAL.” Deep brass gas-tight cases,
loaded with Ballistite smokeless powder.
Long range, 25/- 100.
CARTRIDGES loaded with Schultz or Amberite
or smokeless Diamond or Ballistite powder,
23/- 100.
• WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Gb
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD*** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Habitues of Randwick are beginning to
talk of the Repartee gelding Inia’s Boy as an Epsom
Handicap possibility. At Tatt.’s meeting on Satur-
day James Barden’s three-year-old was lined up
among a field of top-hole sprinters, and, after a
searching battle up the straight with Poitrel’s
brother Poilu, who had
been backed for liats-
ful, won handsomely
by a length. Barden
may have better luck
with Inia’s Boy than
he had with Norbury,
another Repartee geld-
ing, two or three sea-
sons ago. Up to seven
furlongs Norbury was
one of the smartest
neddies of his time,
but an additional fur-
long always pulled him
up. In the Epsom,
won by Rebus, Nor-
bury was leading at
the distance, but failed
over the last bit and
finished second. He
had been backed for a
fortune.
VIC. SLEIGH,
who heads the, list
of winning jockeys
in Melbourne.
Lance Addison, a local sportsman, owns
the Adelaide Cup winner, Repique, though the Piquet
gelding ran in the name of Timmens, the trainer.
A. R. Addison, Lance’s father, was a consistent
though not lucky owner in his day. It is a nice
point whether Repique was a present to Addison
from Ben Chaffey; the mother, Hasty Agnes, was
the gift, and was carrying this youngster at the
time. He is far from good-looking. Only his unusu-
ally long neck enabled him to push his ugly nose in
front of Queen Comedy in the w.f.a. Elder Stakes two
days before the Cup. But handsome is as handsome
does. Repique wasn’t produced in the 12fur.
S.A.J.C. Handicap, run on the last day of the meet-
ing, and in his absence the useful Sandbee (7st.
131 b.), who has won races in Sydney for D. U.
Seaton, beat Dependence (7st. 101 b.), the unlucky
Crusader (7st. 91b.) and 10 others (Queen Comedy,
Annexit and Bookaloo among them) in convincing-
style, paying £4 11s. for £l. The amount specu-
lated on the tote ( £101,000) was a record for the
meeting.
* * * *
Some stories of Edward VII., as an elderly
out sporting Prince of Wales, are told by Harding
Cox in his new- book, “Chasing- and Racing.” Mrs.
Langtry figures in them all. The Australian horse
Merman was one of her best investments, winning
the Cesarewitch and the Ascot Gold Cup. She
bought him on the advice of Allison, Special Com-
missioner of London Sportsman. “I never saw such
a deep and well-ribbed chest, nor such long sweeping
shoulders,” says Cox. Prince, lady and author each
took 1000 to 80 early about Jeddah for the 1898
Derby; then he went off and started at 100 to 1.
When he won, Cox was the only one who had not
forgotten the wagers. “What luck!’ said the ladj,
when reminded. “Run and tell his Nibs. He 11 lie
delighted.” , * #
A novel kind of wager is told of in a new
English sporting volume. The clever man offered
the mug £lO to be allowed a “penny accumulator
on all the winners at an Epsom meeting, and the
mug “rose like a famished trout.” The idea of
such an accumulator is that the backer is supposed
to have Id. on the first winner at starting price, and
to leave it all on the second-race winner, and so on
all the afternoon. It does not sound much; but as
a matter of fact even six winners at 4 to 1 make a
total of £62 10s. On this occasion, there were
seven races, outsiders got home regularly, and the
layer, who had imagined that £lO would more than
cover the possible risk, found himself faced with a
liability of £4323, and was glad to be allowed to
settle for £5OO.
» * * •
The combination of circumstances which
left neither Xavier nor Scotch College with a chance
in the Head of the Yarra final last Saturday hardly
discounts the glory of the winning crew. When Gee-
long Grammar and Wesley met in the third pre-
liminary on Friday, it was predicted that one or
other would take the Cup next day, and the result
strengthened the prediction. Wesley’s losing form
was rather more impressive than the dead-heat finish
between Xavier and Scotch an hour earlier. Both
boats were rolling, and though Scotch, getting all the
worst of the start in their unfortunate heat, would
probably have won the row-off that never eventuated,
no unprejudiced guesser would have picked Scotch
of the two - other heat winners next day.
Nor did Melbourne Grammar’s prospects look rosy,
except on the assumption that the Geelong College
boys, who stuck to them gamely in the prelim.,
were better than Wesley. The light blues undoubtedly
put up the two best performances of the contest. They
rowed with more strength and assurance than the
others. They had the wunning style when the pinch
came. As for medical objection to letting Xavier
and Scotch perform twice in an afternoon, with
two hours’ interval between races, it made the
regulations look absurd, seeing that a dead-heat
between Geelong Grammar and AVesley would have
required them to row again after only one hour’s rest.
The new decision, that future races shall be rowed in
two heats of three crews for the preliminaries, and a
final next day between the two winners, also looks
absurdly open to future difficulty. The Yarra course
doesn’t admit of four crews squeezing through the
Anderson-street bridge on fair terms, but a tie
between the three in one heat, or a dead-heat between
two in both heats, would leave four to complete in
the final. Also a dead-heat between two in the
final must mean the disqualification of both crews
if medical science is going to prohibit the affair
from being completed on the Saturday, according to
contract. And Heaven knows that it is not desirable
for the schoolboys’ annual frenzy to be carried over
into next week.
» * * •
“No. 4” : The Geelong Grammar boys have
been told by embittered partisans that they have no
right to the cup which they fairly won on Saturday.
Indeed, a mischievous suggestion has been published
that they should meet Scotch and Xavier in another
match, failing which the whole business will be
branded as a fiasco. Judged by the racing on the
Friday and Saturday, the light blues were unques-
tionably the best oarsmen of the bunch. They beat
Wesley in their heat in great style, and it was by
their superior blade- and body-work in the final that
they downed Melbourne Grammar, who looked like
winning at the Henley staging two or three hundred
yards from home. The Scotch and Xavier event
caused most excitement, but though both crews rowed
for their lives, they were far more distressed than
the others at the end of the journey.
• » # *
A. J. Evans, coach of tVe Melbourne
Grammar crew, who rowed off the final with Geelong
Grammar on the Yarra last Saturday, is a veteran
tutor of schoolboy oarsmen. Familiarly known as
“Bunty” to thousands who have felt his tart tongue,
he has kept an eye on the school boat for over 30
years. As an Old Boy who had passed brilliantly
through the University he joined Grammar as a
master in the ’eighties, and has remained. An excel,
lent scholar, a man of pungent wit and humor,
“Bunty’s” main diversions have been the preservation
of his tradition as a dresser and dresser-down, and
the production of boating geniuses. One of the
latter, who afterwards rowed for Cambridge against
Oxford, is the present Commonwealth Treasurer, S.
M. Bruce, and a contemporary coxswain in the
Grammar crew was Frank Tait, now a director of
J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
• * * *
In weather conditions that couldn’t have
been worse Major Goodsell, formerly a crack ama-
teur, won a professional match and £l5O from AY.
AVest, a promising sculler from Como, on the Parra-
matta. The race was a severe test of stamina and
gameness, and though Goodsell was three lengths to
the good at the finish West was not disgraced, and
is worthy of another chance. Goodsell’s time for
the 3 miles 330 yards was 22min. 45sec. Since Fel-
ton has beqn looking after him he has made remark-
able progress, and presently he will be after Ripley
for the N.S.W. championship.
• # * •
Melbourne looks like having an interesting
League football season. On Saturday Richmond
tackled Melbourne in a fast and clever game that
was anybody’s right up to the final bell. Then the
board showed Melbourne 88 points, Richmond 85.
A 25,000 crowd watched the proceedings. The Carl-
ton-Fitzroy match was another determined struggle,
with each side holding the lead for a few minutes
only. The Old Blues ultimately won by 10 points
—73 to ’Roy’s 63. Similarly, Collingwood and
South Melbourne alternately held the advantage.
Three minutes before the end the Magpies had
one point to swear by. Then the Red-and-Whites
notched a point and a goal from a long shot.
’AVeod set out for the goal, and a forward marked
close in, but his foot slipped as he kicked, and
South won —72 points to 66. Essendon went to
Geelong, and had their work cut out to keep track
of things up to lemon-time, but after that Geelong,
short of training, fell away, and the “Same 01 u
did as they liked, ending with 64 points to 42.
.# * * *
It was heavy weather in Sydney on Satur-
day, but 12,000 patrons of the Rugby League watched
Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney struggle for
supremacy at the Cricket Ground. The result was
a draw, 8 points each, South scoring 2 tries 1
goal, and East 4 goals. The best back in the mud
was L. Steele, East’s winger; never at a loss, he
handled, kicked and tackled superbly. This young-
ster will undoubtedly gain representative honors m
the near future. South were weakened by losing
Johnston, injured in the early stages of the fray,
and East were handicapped by the absence of Caples.
The surprise of the day was the downing of the
premiers, North Sydney, by Balmain. [Main kept
the game close, and Mick Russell, their sawn-ou
forward, hoisted 3 goals for them, North, who were
without Blinkhorn, Ives and Pye, failing to score.
It was North’s first defeat in premiership games since
1920. The Glebe huskies, headed by Burge and Bert
Gray (the latter’s first appearance since his injury
in England), proved too vimful in the slush for
’Varsity, whom they walloped by 8 points to nil.
Newtown gained their first victory this year at the
expense of Western Suburbs —10 points to nil; and
St. George had the bye. South now head the com-
petition list with 5 points, followed by North, ’Var-
sity, East and Glebe, with 4 apiece.
• • * •
Walter Lindrum left nothing to chance in
his rather uninteresting game with H. W. Stevenson.
He shattered the old ’mi’s nerves by scoring mono-
tonously oli the red
ball, and in one of
his numerous breaks
he put up a world’s
record (1417) for
bonzoline balls. But
no stipulation having;
been made regarding a
red-ball limit the
methodical youth was
at liberty to play as
he pleased. The vet-
eran, however, re-
sented the red-ball
business and heatedly
expostulated with his
conqueror after the
marker called the final
score Lindrum,
16,002 ; Stevenson,
6545. No one has
ever treated the ex-
champion so despitefully
before, and leaving the
Gray stroke aside the
young Australian is a
world-beater in th»
making.
H. W. STEVEN-
SON watching
Walter Lindrum
making his record
break.
“15-30”: If the battle for the Davis Cup
is to remain a. world contest, there will have to be
a change in the method of the draw. By relying
on blind chance this year, the U.S. Lawn 'Bikinis
Association has made arrangements which will involve
two or three nations in ruinous travelling expenses.
Hawaii, pitted against Czecho-Slovakia, for instance,
will have to half-circumnavigate the globe, whereas
by the use of the “seeded draw,” or by openly
matching nations nearest to one another, Hawaii
would be playing Canada and would save the latter
from defaulting because it has been ordered to tackle
France in Paris. Similarly Britain would play Bel-
gium, Italy take on Eoumania, and Denmark test its
stars against Czecho-Slovakia. Australia, remote
from Europe and America, will always have to pay
heavily to reach the scene of hostilities, unless our
men, now on their way to England, can manage to
bring the Cup here. So much depends on our fellows
this time. If they leave the drinking vessel in
America, the financial prospects for next year’s trip
will be dimmer than ever.
* * # *
For a change, two Australian pugs had
possession of the Sydney Stadium ring on Saturday
night, but they were not the sort of scrappers that
the public loves. Barring Griffo, the boxers that
put Australia on the pugilistic map —Jackson, Slavin,
Fitzsimmons, Goddard, Dooley, Tut Ryan, Foley,
Jim Hall, McCarthy, Dave Smith and Darcy—were
either heavyweights or middles, but these divisions
are not catered for nowadays. Preference is given to
undersized bruisers —fedders, bantams, flyweights and
the like. If another Darcy came to Sydney in search
of a Saturday night date—and they are the only ones
that matter—he would assuredly be frozen out, as
Frank Burns and Tom Heaney were. The eight-
stoners George Mendies and Billy Tingle, who would
have considered themselves lucky to get a “prelimi-
nary” when Darcy was in his glory, supplied the
latest head-liner. It was a pretty little mill for
nine rounds, with Tingle leading on points but pal-
pably tiring, when Mendies ended the argument by
knocking his man through the ropes with a body
punch. Joe Wallis declared it a foul, and crowned
Tingle. The crowd stormily disagreed with him.
» * * *
Ten thousand Melbournians saw Bert
Spargo administer an artistic lacing at the local
Stadium to Bud Ridley, the American. Ridley was
strong and willing, and in the last couple of wounds
it looked as if he might wear his older and lighter
opponent down, but Spargo kept his head, and ran
out a comfortable winner on points. He was too clever
for the Yank.
* * * #
Kid Lewis, the London Yid who fought
in Australia as a lightweight before the war and in
the U.S.A. as a welterweight during that interruption,
got £3500 and a fifth of the film receipts last week
for taking a knockout punch from Carpentier. His
share was £7500 and half of the cinema rights.
The farce was staged at London - Olympia on May 11,
and Lew'is went down to a clout on the jaw, after
two minutes of uninteresting scuffling, in which
each man endeavored to settle his antagonist by
’olding with one ’and and ’itting w r ith the other.
Georges ’eld ’aider and ’it ’arder than the Kid, and
that is the whole Story. On Lewis’s best American
form he hadn’t a thousand-to-one chance with the
Gaul, but as usual the rich Jugginses who abound
in London put their trust in the boxing promoter,
and had their legs pulled and their pockets lightened
according to custom. A tardy but hopeless effort
is being made to protect the mugs from themselves.
Commenting on the announcement that Dempsey and
Carpentier will be graciously pleased to repeat their
Jersey City infliction on London for a £75,000
purse, the Observer points out that the two pugs
and their managers have become extraordinarily
friendly, and that the match is “only an excuse tor
four men and their managers to wheedle money from
the public.” Which is undoubtedly true, but it won t
prevent the “fight.” #
“Dido”: The quaintest figure that ever
appeared in the ring in Melbourne was old Starlight,
a clever middleweight who is still pottering about
the boxing stables. Starlight was as black as a
coal, and had the airs of a Nubian king. One night
when he was boxing in the Victoria Hall, Bourke-
street, he heard himself addressed several times as
“Nigger.” When the gong rapped for a spell Star-
light went to the ropes and, shaking a glove at the
offender, said: “Don’ call me nigger, chile. I ain’t
black. You bin deceived by de dark circles roun’
mah eyes.” On another occasion when Star was
called upon to face a hefty gasman from South Mel-
bourne, the rightful opponent having failed to
materialise, the lean coon looked his huge rival over,
and, turning to the audience, said: “Ma gracious!
I never felt more like turnin’ white in de whole
course of mah life.” On another evening he com-
plained from the ringside: “I dunno why folks alwiz
speaks of me as de colored boxah. l’se as quiet a
dresser as der is in dis town.”
• * * *
“Billy T.”: The fight was between two
old-timer’s, Mick Keirnan and Tim Hennessey, at the
Cyclorama, Melbourne. Both were hefty wharf-
lumpers, with tremendous punching power but small
science. A gory battle was anticipated, and those
who looked for slathers of blood and hair weie not
disappointed. The scrap went the distance, but in
the last few rounds there was little )im left in
either man. Keirnan in particular, ha\ing receneu
the father and the mother of a hiding, looked a pitiable
object, with bloated ears like huge blood blisters,
swelled lips, lacerated chin and blackened eyes,
dripping red sweat. He just staggered up to wha*
was coming to him, while his opponent was onl)
left with strength enough to push him off. When
the gong went for the finish of round 20, and the
referee placed an approving hand on Hennessey,
Keirnan collapsed. From his corner Hennessey
turned a damaged but sympathetic eye upon ms
prostrate foe. “It’s all right, Mike,” he said, we 11
go over to the pub and have a pot. Keirnan
gave no reply. “Begob!” cried Hennessey, its
serious. Keep on saying it to him, for the love ot
Heaven!” They had that pot.
* # # *
“Centurion”: The case stated by ‘ Or-
mond” (B. 4/5/’22), where a cricket ball parted
company with its cover and a batsman was run out
with portion of it, is covered by a recent lulmg
which declares a ball dead under such circumstances.
At the same time any runs scored should have been
counted, and if the batsmen had crossed they should
have remained at their new creases, as in the case
of the not-out man when a high catch is held.
Not long ago the M.C.O. was called upon to give a
ruling on the question of the “liveness” of a ball
lodging in a batsman’s clothing before touching the
ground. Was the ball caught if collected by a field
man? Was the batsman out if he removed it from
pocket or shirt or (as. in one instance) from the
top of his pad? Such a ball is now' dead, and carries
no pains or penalties.
“Spes”: J. B. Mathers, the Ballarat
cricketer who turned out for North Melbourne ut
the end of the season, is not in the Vic. Education
Department (B. 27/4/’22), but is a master in- a
private school. To balance matters, J. A. Seitz,
Rhodes scholar and Oxford blue, now extracts his
monthly cheque from Treasurer McPherson.
'*» * *
“Pat Bushie” : It was a thundering hot
day. We were lounging in the bar telling yarns and
having an occasional drink. The subject turned to
poker, and the Champion Liar chipped in. _
playing in a game of whist once,” he said, and
one player had the whole 13 trumps, but only look
one trick.” “Kidstakes,” yelled half-a-dozen voices.
Bets were made, and the stakes handed to the bar-
man. “It was like this,” the Champion remarked.
“His partner played an ace on the first trick, and he
put the deuce of trumps on it. That made the partner
so wil'd that he chucked the cards down and
bogged into the other bloke. It finished the game.
As I said before, the cove with the 13 trumps only
took one trick. Pay over, barman and drinks for
the mob.”
* * * *
“Centurion” : At least one of the old Lon-
don sporting competitions lingers (B. 4/5/’22). A
potato-peeling race is conducted annually by the
proprietary of that long chain of London eating-
shops known as “Harris’s,” which purvey only
sausages and mashed. The original Harris, a queer
old bird who was as famous for his diamonds as he
was for his sausages, inaugurated the event, which
his heirs keep up. The potato-peeling staffs of all
the Harris establishments are assembled and each is
given seven pounds of potatoes to peel within a
limited time. At the close of the contest the naked
potatoes are weighed and the prize goes to the peeler
who can show the heaviest weight of clean and
snowy spud ready for boiling. Other unusual sporting
competitions not peculiar to London are the bird
singing “spells.” Competitors bring their birds.
Usually linnets or bullfinches, into a room together
with cages covered. Each man uncovers his bird
in rotation and the trained fowl begins its song, the
judge carefully noting trills, roulades, etc., in his
book. There is a time limit here, too.
* * * *
“Ned K.”: Know a South Coast (N.S.W.)
dairy-farmer who has been speculating in __ sweep-
tickets since he was 17. He is now over 50, and
has never yet drawn a prize. The walls of three
rooms of his house are covered with sweep-tickets,
which cost him over £7OO to buy. And he still has
hopes.
# » » *
The late W. T. Macpherson was managing
director of Holdsworth, Macpherson and Co., and
a past-president of Sydney Chamber of Commerce,
but a generation of amateur athletes knew him as
“Billy.” He was a great runner in his prime. At
Auckland, in 1891, he ran 100yds. on the grass in
9 4-ssec., and his record for 250yd5.(24 3-ssec.) is still
the best on the book. In 1893 Billy won the Aus-
tralasian treble —the 100yds. in 9 9-lOsec., the
220yds. in 22 7-10 sec., and the 440yds. in 50 l-ssec. He
was also a great Kugby Union footballer, playing
three-quarter with Randwick in the days when that
code was in the boom. A son at Newington College
is showing promise on the cinder path. If he proves
as good an Australian as his father in other respects
he Will do.
THE TIPSTER’S TRIALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lii a recent law case the turf-writer oi a provin-
cial paper asserted that he had been instructed not
to tip certain horses because his employer intended
to back them and didn’t want the odds shortened.
The scribe had made his forecasts up—
List of dead birds and griffins straight—
How Paladin should land the Cup
And Here We Are Again the Plate;
And why the staunch old Ginger Snap
Could liardly lose the Handicap
At that absurdly lenient weight.
The boss blew in. The ink-wet slips
Lay plain and clear for him to see.
He memorised the prophet’s tips.
“I trust,” he said, “implicitly
Your judgment, and my faith to show
I’m off to back the goods with Mo,
Each for a win and one-two-three.
“But mark ! he lit a fat cigar—
“ Your list must be another sort,
For those whose Oracle you are
(In print) for every realm of sport.
If these here tips went in the rag
The gentlemen behind the bag
Might make the odds” —he winked —“too short.”
The horse reporter choked an oath,
Then took his pen to demonstrate
The Cup a cert, for Lovers’ Troth,
A gift for Crom-a-800 the Plate,
And how the Handicap must fall,
Without the slightest doubt at all,
To Stilton Cheese at seven-eight.
Which held with books the stronger hand,
The Northcliffe of the local press,
Or that devoted punting band
The estimates revised that scanned,
I really wouldn’t like to guess.
The portion of the sporting scribf
Too oft is only jeer and gibe.
Yet trials may beset the tribe
But dimly glimpsed without, confess!
N.8.W.
T. THE R.


Some Day You’ll Be Sorry
that you cannot box. When you find
yourself facing the bully your size
and strength will not help you —but
SCIENCE will. Don’t envy others for
their coolness and confidence in a
scrap. Be envied yourself. Think
how humiliating it would be to be
beaten by a man smaller than your-
self ; think of the jeers of the on-
lookers and the taunts of your pals.
When the day comes it will be too
late for regrets.
LEARN BOXING BY POST.
Our system is simple, practical and thorough; it
embraces every punch, guard and counter known to
ringcraft. The student has personal advice and
supervision just as if he were attending the classes
in Sydney.
Hundreds of enthusiastic students testify their con-
fidence in the Baker Course.
»SM
■
■
I
If you want a copy of the inter-
esting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” just, write your
name and address across this
advertisement and mail it with
three stamps to cover postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
r.vAww.'rtwwwwftVAV.'.'.'.v.vv
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
. AND DROTHEKS,
103 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
d
22 RIM FIRE.
ďf
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
99
«*
Shotting Boot
\
♦
LIMED TAN WILLOW calf
bellows
TONGUE
WELTED.
SEWN ALL
WAV ROUND
/AX
THREAD
HAND STITCHED
> INtM[
©INSERTED RUDDER LAYER
In Finest
TUSCAN CALF
q m I
stJ|
Freight
Paid.
Here’s the Shooting- Boot you want—a marvellous
production—so strongly constructed that you wonder
if it can possibly wear out—a Shotting Boot really
worth double its price, 84/-
Made in the Finest Tuscan Calf, with stalwart soles;
sewn welts ALL THE WAY ROUND, Jin. rubber
“in-between” soles; bellows tongue firmly stitched
to sides; with the “BOOT-WITHIN-A-BOOT” fea-
ture of BEST TAN WILLOW CALF LINING and
strong- wax stitching throughout, this Boot ensures
dust-dry feet though ankle-deep in water.
This combination of “GOOD POINTS” will make
you marvel at the value at 84/- AH sizes.
WRITS NOW.
LINCOLN STUART l C° PTYUP
JMicint
Boudoir/nr
'Uottiovnl
JfomnL
f)isc Stove
d
JMmst
Radiant ")loi
Stocked
by
everybody
who’s
anybody .
ELECTRIC IRONS
THE CHOICE OF
150,000
AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
6lb. SIZE COMPLETE 42/6
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES FOR N.S.VV. AND QUEENSLAND:
W. G. WATSON &. CO. LTD.
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ď
One
price
one
quality—
the highest.
f
/mstat^WilJane
ni
t^Oww


Smart Balmoral Boots
in selected nigger-brown calf
Good value and distinctive ap-
pearance are characteristics of
men’s footwear at Farmer’s. For
instance, Balmoral Boots, of
selected Calf in nigger-brown,
are smart in style, with round
toes, whole-golosh, light-welted
soles. First-class workmanship
in every inch and stitch. All
sizes, two fittings. Price, 42/-
42/-
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
Carriage Paid. " The Store for men.”
Box 497, G.P.O
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON- INTOXICATING
r" 1
If it isn't..
It’s Better
A tin of "BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s (all shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Green Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and ail leading stores
in suburbs and country Or rostage paid 1/9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, ViC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Head-of-the-River racing becomes more
tumultuous every year. The roars that came
from Prince’s Bridge on Friday and Satur-
day were like several race meetings and
football matches rolled into one. Traffic
was a hopeless block on the bridge. Trams
gave up the struggle early in the day and
were heaped about in deserted idleness.
Forty thousand people watched Friday’s
races. Scotch and Xavier repeated history
and rowed a dead-beat, and when the doc-
tors forbade them to re-row there was more
fuss which ended in the crowd dribbling de-
jectedly into the dusk. But the disappoint-
ment of the onlookers was as nothing
to the consternation of the colleges on
Friday night when the .committee ruled
that Scotch and Xavier had forfeited
their privilege of rowing on Saturday in
the finals. Melbourne and Geelong promptly
vowed that, in that case, neither would they
row. All the zip and zest had gone from
the fight. The whole thing was as big a
sensation as if two favorites for the Cup
had been disqualified the day before the race.
Of course the final was rowed, and Gee-
long Grammar won, but it was a barren
triumph. Scotch held the Shield from last
year, and Xavier was in sight of its first
chance for the Head of the River when the
rules, inexorable as those of the Medes and
Persians, intervened. Senator Fairbairn
did not turn up to present the Shield : his
tall brother Fred did the job for him.
Frederick, as an old Geelong boy himself,
got a great hearing.
Gloom shadowed the countenances of the
12 Old Boys who organised the Boat Race
Night Ball. The mix-up over the finals had
transformed them into the outward seeming
of so many Napoleons after Moscow. But
heartless, thoughtless youth was not simi-
larly affected. Callow scholboys and imma-
ture flappers turned up in droves, and (alas!
that it should have to be stated) had the time
of their lives. , Chaperons comforted them-
selves with supper and toasted their toes at
radiators. But ever the Very Old Boys
gathered together and iuimicaliy discussed
Rules and Doctors. Mrs. Whiting helped
secretary-son Ray with the entertaining, but
poor Ray, pulling absently at a newly-hatched
moustache, was grief personified and refused
absolutely to be comforted.
Boat-Race night, which is cherished by
theatrical managers for commercial pur-
poses, brought a big crowd to a gaily-
decorated Her Majesty’s, but most of the
audience had left its enthusiasm on the
Fair a bank, and never properly woke up
until a film of the struggling crews scurried
across a sheet at the interval. Here sundry
schoolboys threw off their lethargy to urge
their particular giants to greater energy.
At this stage also Alfred Frith auctioned
three boxes for the Diggers’ Benefit matinee
to-morrow afternoon. But Frith’s tongue
doesn’t gambol in a job of this sort, and the
few offers were made in an assemblage that
closely resembled a Presbyterian congregation
when the platter comes round.
Pursuing its policy of building up its
staff in view of Sydney Sun’s invasion
next year, Melbourne Herald has secured
G. J. Dennis to supply a column in the paper
every night. This means that the Senti-
mental Bloke will have to live in the city
instead of at Toolangi.
Headmaster R. P. Franklin, of English
Grammar School, gave a party to let his
brother, C. R. Franklin, of the Naval Defence
Department in N.S.W., take a long fare-
well to his bachelor days. The guest is
about to marry Miss Marjorie Langdon. of
Melbourne. The little shivoo was in the
Millear Hall, and there was a big rounding-
up of friends. Mrs. Turner Shaw, whose
airman son has been flying in the Sydney
races, went along: also Mrs. Tom Leding-
liam, just returned from a Maoriland trip.
The Trevor Goulds and the Merritts were
there, and so was Professor Schutt—the new
man who takes Prof. Tucker’s place at the
’Varsity.
Sister Dowsley, R.R.C., is the newly-
appointed sec. of the Returned Army Nurses’
Association, which is to take up quarters
very soon in Anzac House. She saw service
all through the war in India and the Persian
Gulf.
Doreen Clark, the youthful Melb. pianist
who is off to London’s Royal Music College
for three years with the help of the Clarke
Scholarship, owes most of her training to
Waldemar Seidel, but more recently she has
been with that hardy perennial Benno
Scherek. The top-of-the-hill performer among
previous Clarke scholars is pianist William
Murdoch, though one or two others have
done well. The trouble with the girl winners
is that they marry and forget all about their
careers. Violinist Ethel Sinclair, who just
heat Amy Castles for the prize in ’99, met
Frank Bridge as a fellow student and
married him, and since Frank has chosen to
become one of Britain’s leading composers,
the silence of Ethel’s Strad. is broken only
by an occasional tune-up at home. '
The Gaud Mayor’s dinner on May 9 was
an affair of much swish. Mrs. Swanson, in
a black gown heavily decked in diamonds
and jet, beamed alongside her spouse, and
Mrs. ex-Mayoress Stein, who had a place
of honor, glowed in a flame-colored frock
with fiame-red leaves wreathed in her hair.
Of course David Hennessy was there. He
always is. This was his something-or-other-
thousandth mayoral dinner, and it’s not safe
to think of what he has consumed in that
appalling succession of guzzles. The Hen-
nessy lady was absent, but a bevy of pretty
daughters represented her. Another absen-
tee, by the way, was the oldest Councillor
of them all, Davey. He happened to be
honeymooning somewhere with his new
bride. Several florist shops had been heaped
into the Council room and corridors. The
electrics were dressed in grass skirts like
native belles, and the light fell soft and green
on carefully-prepared complexions After
there were more flowers and coffee
and much music in the Mayoress’s rooms.
Walter' Kirby, in his "Bpheme” selection,
with Ruby Groves as Mimi, was so carried
away with operatic fervor that he led Mimi
off-stage in true theatrical style-—but he
walked into the ladies’ cloak-room and flab-
bergasted half-a-dozen young councilloresses,
who were powdering their noses. In case
anyone escaped from dinner without enough
food a big supper was served from a buffet
outside the drawing-room. And through it
all ran a curious clinking obligato as of ice
striking glass from the direction of the Lord
Mayor’s sanctum. Yes ; it was certainly a
great evening.
The slump in house agency in Melbourne
is so bad that dozens of suburban residence-
merchants have put up their shutters. Even
in the Caulfield area, where more house-
building is going o,n than anywhere, there
are now only 17 or 18 agents where 40 were
rushing round 18 months ago. This is not a
sign that everyone is suited, but that the
speculative limit has been reached, and that
there is no room for the cute gent, who
dashed in the day after you had moved into
your new palace to ask whether you’d take
175 on your bargain.
Herewith a Broothorn study of Mrs. Gib-
sou Young, who has joined the Albert-street
Conservatorium to
impart dramatic art
and deportment to
the nightingales
ther e. The lady,
a Dublin native, was
drawn to the stage
through her father’s
connection with the
old Abbey Theatre
in the Irish capital.
The music an d
movement of the
new literature
turned the girl’s
head towards the
footlights, and when
she went to Man-
chester for elocu-
tionary training she
joined Miss Ilorni-
man’s company at the Gaiety, appearing in
Synge’s “Riders to the Sea” and other Irish
productions. Since she descended upon Aus-
tralia with the diploma of the Royal Albert
Hall Dramatic School (London), Mrs.
Young has been teaching, and between whiles
lending help to the Mermaid Play Society.
She is now training some of the Tintern
Grammar School girls for a performance at
the Hawthorn Town Hall next month, when
a dramalet, “The Little White Thought,”
will be the item of the evening. In the
spring the little lady goes over to the
Katoomba (N.S.W.) competitions, where she
will judge the aspiring Bernhardts, and her
husband will pick the winners on the musi-
cal side.
Australian songstress Gertrude Johnson,
who went to London a while back, has had
her ambitions realised with a bang. On top
of her appearances in oratorio and on the
best concert platforms came a request to
join the new National Opera Co. at Covent.
Garden, and she made her debut last week
as “Queen of the Night” in Mozart’s “Magic
Flute.” The late lima di Murski used to
be about the only one who could take the
“Queen” role and reach its phenomenally
high notes without straining the upper regis-
ter. The part was originally written by
Mozart for his sister-in-law. whose sky-scrap-
ing soprano was the marvel of her time.
The Anzac Buffet has been revived. A
band of devoted women (the Imperial
League of Soldiers and Sailors womenfolk)
have taken it up and are cheerfully handing
out food and as much heln as they can in
putting the Diggers in touch with the work
so many of them are seeking. Incidentally,
the buffet people are giving a ball at Anzac
House on May 23 to help the Warriors’ Day
appeal. So go along, all you who haven’t
quite forgotten the boys who were so popular
before it became the fashion to forget them,
aud get tickets from the buffet on St. Ivilda-
road, or from Miss Mcßae, at the Oriental.
Phyllis, a daughter of the late Canofl
Tucker, is to marry Syd Scott, of Woolon-
goon, Holbrook, in the Ma State.
Herewith Monteath’s impression of J A
Steele, of ’Varsity Conservatorium. A clever
performer on the piano as well as a brilliant
lecturer in har-
mony, Steele learnt
most of his music
from his present
c h i e f, Professor
Laver, at the time
William Murdoch,
now well-established
in Lond o n, was
spending industri-
ous days at the key-
board. For two
years he was an
Ormond Exhibi-
tioner, and in 1007
h e collected the
Mus. Bac. degree.
Then, after being-
appointed to the
Conservatoriurn, he
became one of the
examiners of the Australian Music Examina-
tion Board, and several of his songs and
part songs are highly regarded by thought-
ful musicians. Steele, who is the son of a
Baptist parson, was born at Ivyneton, not
very far from the village where William
Watt first saw the light.
An old Scotch Collegian by the name of
Paton, who totters along the Inky Way be-
neath the burden of a full 20 years, recently
wrote a play, “The Locked Door.” It was
produced at The Playhouse two nights in
Boat-race week. The author took the lead-
ing part and coached the rest of the cast.
Adoring flappers, with mothers, cousins and
aunts, turned up and thundered applause and
pelted flowers. All "the players were con-
nected one way or another with old Scotch.
The Alwyn Valentines’ son, Max, is en-
gaged to Vere, a youthful daughter of the
Alcocks, of Balbura, Toorak.
Mrs. Dr. Lambert, of the bobbed hair, is
chortling over the spoils of her recent legal
battle. A judicial separation, the custody
of the children, £lO 15s. a week alimony, a
house and several hundreds of pounds’ worth
of furniture, together with a solid wad of
insurance money and several other little side-
lines—these are amenities that it were well
worth facing a Court to secure.
Majt* Belcher and Colonel Christie—
members of the British Exhibition Commis-
sion—have been prowling round the Speck
trying to awaken enthusiasm in the big
show to be held at Wernbly Park (Lond.) in
’24. They are now getting into touch with
wool interests in our Western District.
Mrs. Zacutti is organising a dance at the
Austral Salon rooms for Saturday, May 27.
The show is to come to a full stop before
midnight so that no jazzing toe shall pro-,
fane the Sawbath.
Walter Howard Smith’s widow (she was
Mina Brien, and he died in M.L. the other
day) is back in Melbourne and is staying at
the Howard Smith house on the Esplanade.
St. Ivilda, while the affairs of her dead
husband’s estate are being sorted out.
Mrs. Bose, better known as Minnie
Hooper, the Firm’s popular ballet mistress,
had a visit from the Stork on May 7.
Minnie now brightly remarks that she has a
call-boy all to herself.
John Aarons, retired Vic. Treasury-clerk,
has reached the Bench as well as Frank
Gavan Duffy, who, as related last week, made
way for him 47 years ago by throwing up
his civil service post and taking to the law.
Duffy became merely a Justice of the High
Court; but Aarons has been made a J.P. for
the Central Bailiwick of Victoria!
Dorothy, daughter of F. E. Pincott, who
manages a concern that makes polish for
your boots, has decided to entrust her future
to L. J. Bolger, who is an accountant in
the parental firm. The young man served
in the war as a gun-layer on an armed mer-
chantman. The sea is in the blood, as it
were. His father used to be skipper
of the Vic. Government steamer Lady Loch,
and is now Deputy-Director of Navigation.
It seems that Park Mansions has not been
sold to the Y.W.C.A., after ail. Mrs.
Bodington, who runs the flattery, is bridling
somewhat at the suggestion. As a matter
of fact, she has a lease of the lofty place
for five years.
The Women Writers’ Club, which dis-
banded in the early days of the war and
took to knitting socks and packing billies,
has gathered its scattered members together
again and now meets in a corner of the
Lyceum Club dining-room. The veteran
president, Mrs. Ada Cross, puts in an occa-
sional appearance, despite her recent illness
and her 70-odd years. The club is proud of
Mrs. Cross. She was among the earliest
producers of the short story with a purely
Australian flavor.
Miss Riddoch had a party at her new-
home, Yallum, in T'oorak, the other day. It
was partly a house-warming and partly a
good-bye to her newly-married niece Mar-
jorie Langdon, who will live in future in
N.S.W. Marjorie became Mrs. Franklin very
unobtrusively at the house of another aunt,
Mrs. Rymill, of Toorak, and although only
.near relations were at the wedding, crowds
turned up at the other function. The Gric-e
lady, Mrs. Leonard, the Fiskens, the Colin
Frasers, Mrs. Ledingham, Mrs. Gurner and
the Ainslie Mills were amongst those
present. Mrs. Archie Currie, who is lead-
ing shortly for foreign parts, gathered in a
lot of farewells on her own account.
The Melbourne Mermaid Play Society,
which has departed considerably from its
original ambition of presenting the best
theatrical classics, has now Dr. G. A. Syme
for president in place of Archibald T. Strong,
who holds a post at the Adelaide University.
Dr. Syme (no relation to Melbourne Age),
was a surgeon at “No, 1 General,” Heliopo-
lis, during the war. Ilis promotion to the
chair is a reminder that various earnest
ladies are endeavoring to arouse interest in
the little society in the refined, tea-drinking
style. But what is wanted is not so much
tea, cakes and pallid at-homes as a course of
vigorous propaganda amone the public out-
side. The Mermaidens, if they want results,
should w T ear sandwich-boards or harry the
populace with a bell. Meantime their youth-
ful rival, the “Pioneer Players,” is dashing
down the glaive to-night, Thursday, May IS,
at the Playhouse, with Louis Esson’s “The
Battlers.”
Bendigo Art Society starts on Saturday
its annual corroboree —the fifth of the series.
A number of Melbourne names are among
the exhibitors, apart from such as MacXally,
Herbert, Cobb, Shirlow, Benson and Knox,
■who belong to the society. Young Knox, by
the way, has a little show of 27 oil-paintings
at the Athenaeum this week, and IT of them
were red-labelled almost as soon as they were
on view. The landscapes (mostly smallish
pictures) have a charm of their own. Fac-
ing the doorway is a striking little thing
called “After the Storm,” in which cows are
streaking across a sunlit patch on a distinct
understanding that the rain has ceased. The
foreground shadows and the dark clouds in
the background are perhaps over-accentuated
and the rural scene has a rather melodrama-
tic air of repose, but it is just Nature in one
of her peaceful picture-making moods.
A line or two from Adelaide: —
The four days’ fair in the Town Hall in aid of
the Kindergarten Union did not get the support its
objective or its merits deserved. The Union’s
expenses are forecasted at £2OOO, of which at least
£lOOO must come from private funds: hence the
fair. Its organiser was the Moulden dame, and its
secretaries Mrs. Stanley Skipper and Mrs. W. Jolly.
The Kidman dame, Mrs. A. A. Scarfe, Mrs. Osborne,
Mrs. Gavin Gardiner, Mrs. Arthur Cudmore and Mrs.
A. G. Rymill were among the stallholders, with Mrs.
Stanley Murray, Mrs. Fred Porter and Mrs. Hubert
Jay in charge of the Palais de Dance.
The South Australia Orchestra, launched by Dr.
Harold Davies two years ago, opened its 1922
season with a concert in the Town Hall the
other night. The packed house, which included
Lieut.-Governor Murray and his sister, told the
orchestra very emphatically that it liked it.
The Walter Smiths, of Yalumba, are off on a nine-
months’ trip to England and India. The. latter coun-
try W.S. already knows well, and he has a wonder-
ful collection of skins and heads bagged on various
visits there.
Lately the Arctic exclusion of North Terrace has
been disturbed by disquieting talk oi shops to be
erected there. The unpleasant rumor was laid tem-
porarily by the Town Clerk’s assurance that no
plans for so unhallowed a scheme had been sub-
mitted to him ; but he followed this up by saying
there is nothing in the Building Act to stop trades
men from putting up shops anywhere they want to.
So the nightmare of a butchery and an ole-clo’ shop
on the sacred spot continues to hover around.
The estate of the late James Melrose has been
sworn at £75,000. The executors are his son and
son-in-law, the latter a brother of Elton Mayo, once
of this State and now of Bananaland.
The first day of the Cup meeting brought with it
the first touch of real winter, and a consequent erup-
tion of furs, toques and coat frocks. Most of the
racing fraternity were there: Mrs. Hope, to see her
husband’s St. Speed annex the Goodwood after a
nerve-racking finish, the Hawker and MacFarlane
clans, the Lance Addisons, the Bowmans, Melroses
and the rest. Monday played feminine backers a
scurvy trick. After drizzling so consistently that
it drove most of them into their second-best raiment
it cleared into an afternoon of blissful sunshine.
Birds have no better friend than T. P. Bellcham-
bers, the naturalist of Humbug Scrub, and he speaks
enthusiastically of the big dam he has established
there just for them. Feathered travellers call in on
their way, sometimes for one day and sometimes for
several, knowing they can count on unmolested secu-
rity. Alterations are in hand now that will give
them more shelter and at the same time add to the
beauty of the place.
It is rumored that Sir Henry Galway, late Gov. of
this State, is coming to S. Aus. in a private capacity
to have a game or two of bowls with some of his
old pals.


TV
I
s^*'*
Me Cake fSLii
SeKiktd
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
is tAe Mown, fai tAei\ (jpiaAtfy-
Packed in the famous Red Boxes, and
mailed to you the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/*
Post free to any address in Australia.
OuuAtHiUux
fs St^cUtj
162-166 PITT Street
6 Cr George t, King Sts
SYDNEY
*— 7 l never varies.'
Producing an illuminating oil as good as “Light of the Age”
Kerosene is no hit-or-miss proposition. “Light of the Age” never
varies in any single detail of quality: it is always exactly the same:
uniform in goodness.
Its origin is the finest grade of crude oil produced in the great
oil-fields of North America.
It is cleansed of all impurities by the most modern refining
processes. It comes to you so clean that it is almost odorless. It
burns with clear, unflickering light right down to the last tea-
spoonful in the lamp.
“Light of the Age" gives a steady, restful illumination, free
from glare. Its flame is sootless. Above all, “Light of the Age”
is safe. Absolute purity makes it so.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEmco
o
A
33
ZJ
\
iEz
*
L
/''V
H
PALMOLIVE
TJSE it to wash away all
trace of the powder and
rouge of your evening toilet.
They shouldn’t stay on all
night—not if you value the
charm of a good complexion. This
bed-time cleansing with Palmolive
keeps your skin healthy, fine-
textured, fresh and supple.
Use the right Soap
Don't forget that this cleansing must
be done with that finest and mildest of
Soaps —Palmolive— whose lather is so
mild, so creamy, that it simply cannot
irritate. It soothes while it cleanses, pene-
trating the minutest pores, freeing them
from all clogging impurities.
•»«
m
m
m
w\
If you want to keep your
skin fresh and rosy, begin
this beautifying cleansing
to-night. Then let your
mirror tell you how well you
succeed.
Cleopatra preserved her
beauty by the use of Palm
and Olive oils, the oils con-
tained in fragrant Palmolive
Soap, and in 2,000 years
nothing has been found to
equal them as cleansers and
beautifiers of the skin.
Test also
the perfection of
Palmolive Cold Cream; Palm-
olive Vanishing Cream; ‘‘Violet
of the Nile” and “Egyptian
Rose’" Talcums; “Palmole”
Face Powder; Palmolive Face
Powder ; Palmolive Rouge;
Palmolive Shampoo.
Palmolive Soap
sells everywhere
at 1/3 per cake
P O 26


Under
Royal
Warrant
ďf
To H.M.
George V.j
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
QiarlfslleidsiecK
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfurnes
Soaps
Powders
Lady Forster was hostess to nearly 200
ex-service women at Admiralty House one
afternoon last week; and the Wanes and the
Wrens were in great feather as they crowded
into the launches that carried them from Fort
Macquarie steps to Kirribilli. Exquisitely-
socked Aide de la Cour met them at the land-
ing and escorted them up to where her Ex.,
supported by Mary Booth and high-collared
Dr. Marjorie Little, and the little Digby lady,
extended the glad hand. The girls wandered
about the gardens till tea-time, and when they
had been reduced to the purring stage by a
surfeit of good coffee and cream cakes, Mrs.
Verbrugghen was turned loose on them. She
discoursed relentlessly for an hour on folk
songs and their origin. Her Ex.’s good-bye
was characteristic: “.Remember, this coun-
try has now become your home. Don’t criti-
cise.” The shy English village maiden is a
thing of the past —the war saw to that.
When the launch, loaded with England’s girl-
hood, Hid away from Admiralty House
steps, the newly-arrived gent.-help cowered
before a fervent chorus of farewells and
hand-wiivings that suddenly exploded into
peals of laughter. The excitement of the
folk-songs lecture combined with the beauty
of his socks had been too much for them.
Kindly as well as honest hearts beat
beneath the Wirth Bros.’ knitted vests. Their
hot-cross bun party to the poor kiddies of
Sydney is as fixed a part of the calendar as
Easter itself. Last week, collaborating with
the two brothers, Mrs. J. A. Wilson, organ-
ised a benefit for St. Margaret’s, the Bourke-
street maternity hospital. The lady provided
the thrill of the evening by taking a stroll
inside the lions’ den, and more or. less non-
chalantly patting the King of Beasts upon his
regal brow. But that’s nothing to where the
lady’s “courage will lead her. A few weeks
ago she tried to enter Parliament.
At the Sistine; Choir concert on Wed-
nesday after Refice’s “Greeting to Austra-
lia,” Gov. Davidson rushed forward as
impulsively as a matin6e flapper, and, reach-
ing up, shook Monsignor Bella warmly by
the hand. At the close of the concert the
vice-regal Wally repeated the little per-
formance, and when one of the directors
expressed appreciation of this warm com-
pliment, his emotional Ex. declared: “My
greatest difficulty was to keep from jump-
ing up and shaking Monsignor Bella’s hand
after each of the superb performances.”
Mrs. Nelson Illingworth, who was Rita
Palmer, of Lane Cove, had been concentrating
on social-service work in Chicago for two
years with the idea of coming back and put-
ting experience to use in Pyrmont, when her
marriage with singer Nelson intervened.
Illingworth, in planning the programme for
his first recital in New York, put in the
numbers he really liked himself, and so
unusual and ambitious was the ensemble that
the public unanimously stayed away, but
every musical critic in Manhattan rolled up.
The next morning the papers came out with
glowing head-lines. From Henry Finck, of the
Evening Post down, they hailed the Syd-
ney man as an interpretative genius. His
resemblance to the portraits of Lincoln was
commented on in every critique, and he
hadn’t finished reading the last notice when
a ’phone call came asking him to play the
name-part in the film “Lincoln.” He is busy
on that now, during the slack concert time.
When the season recommences he and Percy
Grainger will tour the West and East under
the management of Wolfsohn. After that
Nelson will leave America, under contract,
for England. Mrs. Illingworth reports the
safe arrival of the Philip Newbury couple in
the Dry States, and the good luck of Philip,
who is singing with almost his pristine
freshness, after having his throat overhauled
by Caruso’s own specialist. When she left
John McCormack was simply wallowing in
success, crowding the enormous Hippodrome
at every recital. He has had a certain
amount of throat-trouble since then, however.
The wife of M.L.C. Roberts, who has just
gone west at 76. was Mayoress at the time of
the Duke of Edinburgh’s visit in 1879. and
entertained lavishly at her home, Chats-
worth. Potts Point, having the ballroom
refurbished to the tune of some thousands
for the frivols. Later on the old house
was sold or leased and wilted temporarily
as a boarding-house; but last years its
former glories were restored when it became
the property of shipping-man Scott Fell.
Miss Preston Stanley, who made such a
gallant effort to win an Eastern Suburbs
seat that at one stage of the delusive arith-
metical proceedings that preceded the decla-
ration of the poll, she was interviewed by the
dailies as to what rooms she would patronise
in the Assembly, figured in public once again
last week. She gave a tea-party at the rooms
of the Bertram Stevens widow to 150 of her
supporters, and in an eloquent speech
fought the campaign over again in a manner
of speaking, and demonstrated how it was
that the forces of masculinity triumphed.
The Gould lady sat nodding sympathetically
on one side of her, and Miss Soubeiran sup-
ported her on the other. The general tenor
of the speeches of the guests was that Miss
Preston Stanley must try next time for the
Federal Parliament, and that that unedify-
ing body would be lucky to get her.
Ted Simpson’s clever girl Helen has suc-
cumbed to the lure of Spain. Surfeited with
poetising in Australia and making music in
England, she has decided to stay long enough
in the home of ancient chivalry to write
a novel about it.
While his Ex. is entertaining the De
Veres, whom he knew in the Seychelle
Islands, Dame Margaret is with the children
at Sutton Forest, where they are conval-
escing after colds. De Vere, who has just
been appointed Condominium Judge in the
New Hebrides, claims descent from that
most popular of ancestors, Brian Born,
and his wife, Mrs. De Vere, an acknowledged
beauty, is the daughter of Bishop Lisle, an
Englishman. They leave for the islands by
the Makambo on Saturday.
His Ex. and Dame Margaret will tour
the Murray River irrigation settlements in
June, and, incidentally, open anything that
needs opening en route.
The engagement was announced this week
of Hazel, only daughter of the Alex. Hays,
to the eldest son of the late George Jenkins.
The young man is a station-owner up Armi-
dale way. His father was a son of Dr.
R. H. Jenkins, of Nepean Towers, and his
mother, who is still living, was the Hon.
Miss Herbert. The marriage is to occur next
month, and the honeymoon will be spent en
route to England, where the young woman’s
brother is doing a Cambridge agricultural
course.
Mrs. William Beith and her daughter,
F6o, arrived by the Makura from Honolulu
last week. They will pay a flying visit to
Queensland, and hope to return to England
by the Niagara in June. Fbo, who has been
abroad for nearly seven years, is as dark as
sister Toto is fair, and wears her fuzzy
hair bobbed and drawn straight back from
the forehead, after the fashion of the Vogue
miss. The body of the adored husband and
father has been cremated.
The air of the King’s Hall was electric
with the jostling of auras one night last
week when the leading lights of Theosophy
and the Liberal Catholic Church crowded
to welcome the head halo, Annie Besant. By
8 o’clock the tiny hall held a thousand or
more of the faithful, and when the wonderful
old lady arrived it was like a match to a
powder-magazine, for the enthusiasm flared
into a tremendous shout of welcome. Clad
in ivory silk, very lustrous in quality and
Indian in weave, she walked through the
human avenue without sign, followed closely
by her little court, in which were Ivrishna-
murti and her other young Indian ward.
Both these dusky disciples were dressed en-
tirely in white that started in puttee-like
entanglements wound round very slender
legs, and about the knee burgeoned into loose
bloomer effects, over which a white, knee-
length coat, tight-fitting at the waist, flared
out. The alert young faces were crowned
with turbans.
In the bodyguard were vice-president Jina-
rajadasa and his English wife (the latter
wrapped in a beautiful yellow sari), the im-
posing Bishop Leadbeater,. Ijr. and Mrs.
Bean, John McKay, of Ivirribilli, and a wife
in black velvet and diamonds, and the pre-
sentable Dutch Bishop Mazel and his)
spouse, who was Sydney girl Dorothy Shaw.
Presently Mrs. Besant was seated at the
top of the hall, and a presentation and hand-
shaking ceremonial that might have made
Edward of Wales quail was gone through.
The Women Painters made quite an
attractive showing against their own master-
pieces in the Education Department’s gallery
one night last week. It was a fancy-dress
flutter, and all the costumes were made of
paper. The crinkled sort predominated,
though one of the good-looking Walker sis-
ters wore a hooped petticoat made out of
large patterned wall-paper, and glowed from
under a Thackerayish-looking bonnet of the
same material. Another sister went as a red
poppy. Pianist Trixie Tange as a green
crinkled paper “Bubbles” looked as though
she had just walked out of the soap adver-
tisement, but was rather afraid to sit down
in a hard, cold world. One of the St.. John
chicks cuddled her gay paper wrappings
under an absurdly small umbrella fixed up-
right in her hair, and called herself “Come
in Out of the Rain.” The prize went to a
bestreamered costume worn by Mrs. Rix
Nicholas that was a cross between a maypole
and Folly.
The names of the women who pooled their
bobs to buy Princess Mary a wedding-present
have been neatly typewritten, and gathered
together in a Wal Taylor binding, for pre-
sentation with the Streeton picture. Whether
the lady will ever get past the cover is a
question of grave doubt. The binding is
carried out in Madonna-blue —a graceful
design in pointelle let in with intriguing
touches of mauve leather and here and there
an opal flaming out his fiery heart. Gold
shamrocks cascade down the centre back (but
Wal, being no sentimentalist, hasn’t put a
four-leafed one among them), and the edges
of the pages are heavily gilded. The inside
is as appropriate as a ferry time-table en-
throned on an ivory shrine.
The gods and Melba are giving lengthy
Findley Evans his chance, and the popular
young man, who has never once refused to
play for Charity, is off to tour England in
September as the Dame’s pianist. Lindley,
who originally hailed from S’Africa, has a
pretty taste in composition.
The pretty wife of Broomfield, K.C., and
Dr. Fraser’s flapper daughter Isabel have
decided to join the earnest ranks of the
women who work. Originals both they have
avoided the lingerie- or hat-shop, which is
the usual door by which the society woman
steps into the business world, and have de-
cided to make fortunes as manufacturers
of face-powder.
Miss Cox-Taylor, who used to write for
this paper as “Vandorian,” got back from
England last week. For the present she is
with her brother, Colonel Cox-Taylor, at
Victoria Barracks. Later on she will settle
down up the North Shore line.
Rosa Reisa, the songbird who comes out
next year under the Shipman banner, has,
in addition to the usual prima-donna ward-
robe, a rope of pearls that includes some from
the collection of the late Gaby Deslys, the
little lady whose charm lost Manoel of Por-
tugal his throne. Rosa, who is said to be
just 27, seems to have pretty well ever
thing—youth, fame, amazing contracts and
a handsome husband.
Here’s the latest picture of Rosina
Buckman (the gentleman friend is Maurice
d’Oisley, her husband), who has the most
successful London record of the younger Aus-
tralasian .nightingales. To be quite exact,
Rosina started out from Whangarei, in
Maoriland, and got her first big chance with
composer Alfred Hill’s “Moorish Maid.”
Later Sydney and the J. C. Williamson
Grand Onera Co. claimed her, and from this
stepping-stone the climb to London and
Covent Garden proved much easier than she
had found the ascent into Sydney’s trams.
She is coming here from M.L. in time for
the next concert season.
Esther Mitchell, of Hunter’s Hill, who is
playing lead in “The Green Ring” at the
“Neighborhood Playhouse” in New York,
recently appeared before a house made up
entirely of the New York Drama League.
The League, which discovered the play, had
sent it down to the N.P., and was naturally
very interested in its production. Esther
is bent on knowing all about her job, and
is learning the staging end of it, lighting
effects and all. She is now busy, rehearsing
the play to follow “The Green Ring.”
That consistent worker for North Sydney
C. of E. Grammar, Mrs. Esplin, is out on
another looting expedition. This time her
objective is £(>00 to build a “Mothers’ Pavi-
lion” on the school’s memorial playing fields
at Northbridge. At present the mothers who
follow up their boys’ sports have not so
much as a gunyah in which to shelter.
Singer Gladys Verona has won enough
laurels since her arrival in London to weave
into an outside wreath. One of her appear-
ances was as soprano in a new song cycle by
May Brahe, the Australian composer, which
Was given at the Central Hall, Westminster.
The three remaining soloists, Ivy Phillips,
Oswald Rippon and Harold Williams, were
all Aussies. The Music at, Courier inciden-
tally calls Gladys “one of the most brilliant
Singers who have come to London for many
a day.”
Two popular ’Varsity dances are billed
for June. St Paul’s is polishing up its
Hours for the 15th, and St. John’s will sport
a crop of lanterns up its long avenue on the
27 th.
Janies Burns, head of Burns-Philp, leaves
by the Orsova on May 30 with Mrs. Ernest
Brooks and her two girls, who have been
his guests for some months at Gowan Brae.
Mrs. Brooks, who, with her Melbourne hus-
band, now lives altogether in England, is a
half-sister of the young people who have
been marrying of late.
The Alma Bakers are back in Sydney
again, and are putting up at the Carlton. He
is the tea and rubber magnate who has done
so much to encourage aviation in both Aus-
tralia and the Malay States, and she is a
daughter of the late Frederick Whittaker
of M.L.
War-artist Septimus Power and his wife
are living at Labrador, M acqua l ie-street,
while the preparations for displaying his
enormous canvases at Anthony Horderns’
Gallery next week are going forward.
The only thing that could make Dame
Nellie Melba more wonderful than she is
would be the discovery that she is 71. not 61
years of youth. The registry of births in
the Government offices, William-street, Mel-
bourne, shows this entry :
Helen Porter Mitchell, daughter of David Mitchell,
born at Burnley-street, Richmond, on May 19, 1861.
Architect Mrs. Taylor was farewelled last
week by a swarm of women friends, and
every .station on the North Shore and Parra-
matta lines had at least one representative.
At the end she was so entwined in garden-
stuff as to look like Flora herself. There
were verbal bouquets for her as well, and a
ripping platinum and diamond brooch for
remembrance.
Organising-secretary for St. Luke’s.
Frank Lamb, estimates that if the present
stream of contributions continues to run
free the debt on the property will be wiped
off this year.
It was the beginning of the new term,
and one of the new flappers was bragging
of the family glories. “We grow wheat —
my dad’s an agriculturist,” she drawled.
“And we,” flipped back a derisive class-
mate, “grow organisms—my dad’s a Russian
culturist!”
Denise Jacob, who left Adelaide four years
ago to go to Java as a violinist, has come
back, with a clever scheme under her hat—
she intends to conduct motor tours-de-luxe
through Java and Sumatra. The enterpris-
ing lass knows the Dutch East Indies as
thoroughly as she does the Holy City, is up
in all their legends, and knows every stone
of their temples, so she should prove a fas-
cinating guide. She is a grand-niece of
tragedian. Samuel Phelps, who coached the
great Irving, and another great-uncle was a
vice-chancellor of Cambridge.
Passed through Sydney the other day
en route to her Brisbane home, Mrs. Anning,
who is a fine argument in favor of the North
Queensland climate. As a young Victorian
bride she went with her husband to the
tableland country near Burketown over 50
years ago. To this locality a few years
earlier the Anning brothers had driven their
flocks and herds before them from Victoria,
a journey of about 2000 miles. Mrs. Anning
reared 13 children (and never a doctor for
one of them) —seven sons not less than 6ft.
tall, and six daughters. The sons have car-
ried on the pastoral game from where she
and her husband, now dead, left off. Mrs.
Anning has made three trips abroad, but
says she prefers her own N. Queensland
to live in, with a change away sometimes in
the height of the summer.
Beneath Aide Pitt Rivers’s aesthetic exterior
there lurks an explorer’s heart. The ambi-
tion of the G.-G.’.s son-in-law is to penetrate
the heart of Asia, where the foot of white
man has never trod. That’s ithe lure that
keeps “Shadow Show” Curie on his travels.
Probably if Pitt Rivers ever sets out on his
quest he’ll come bang up against the dour
mining expert turned author. And Curie
will scowl and utter his everlasting groan:
“Can’t escape the d —d crowd, anywhere.”
“M.C.’s” vignette:—
Sitting on a Dulwich Hill tram the other day and
ruminating on the high cost of loving, my attention
was arrested and handcuffed by the presence of a
remarkably pretty girl. My admiration was also
shared by the Conductor, and, even more obviously, by
a third worshipper of the beautiful who was violently
disturbing the atmosphere with a garish sock-and-
handkerehief effect. After a while Horace An-
struther shuffled stealthily to within cooing distance
of the young woman, and informed her that “It
was a very hot day.’’ Not a muscle of the lovely
face moved. Thicker in the shell than his frail
appearance would have led one to believe, he “came
over the bags” again by asking her if she was going
into town. Again there was not the faintest sign
to show that |he heard him. I was delighted to see
such self-control in one so young. The tram stopped
and she got out. After a wait of some duration the
thing started again, and we all craned out to see
her in the act of tripping into the Deaf and Dumb
Institution. The rude laugh of the conductor and
myself was the next item on the programme, and
Lothario disregarded the by-laws by hurriedly alight-
ing whilst the tram was in motion.


Sure Protection
The Murdoch-made
Coat Sweater
To feel the cosy warmth of the pure wool—
to note the masterly Murdoch Workmanship—
double cuffs, close knitting, flat seams, taped
shoulders, is to be convinced of the absolute superiority
of this Splendid Coat Sweater at the price. Price is
low because you buy DIRECT from the manufacturer.
n
gpf
W 4:,
■ f , V S
,4
l‘3S
7
-M
j
B
li) iEf
w
Men’s Pure All-Wool Coat
Sweaters of splendid quality,
Winter weight. In colors of
Brown, Navy, Heather, Mid or
Dark Greys. V-front as illustra-
tion. S. Mens and Men’s sizes.
Direct from
Manufacturer,
22/6
O.S. & X. 0.5., 24/-
Polo Collars 1/6 extra.
If ordering by Post
address vour letter
DESK It.
M" R DOOS
In Park St. Ltd.,'
Sydney.
"The World’s Largest
Men’s and Boys’
Wear Store.’’
We Pay
Postage
on all
Goods.
PRES E XT ATI ON PI lOTOGRAPH-FRAME to
HER ROYAL HIGHNESS PRINCESS MARY
from THE PEOPLE OE VICTORIA.
MADE IN 18et. GOLD AND STUDDED WITH
FINE BLACK OPALS,
Designed and Manufactured by
13Jm. ®rummonb & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
® W
h
1
Cs
iJ
4
\\ . \
N.ssa
Make Work Like Play
for a farthing a day.
You who work indoors—
in office, store, factory or
shop—ought to be especi-
ally careful about your
health.
When you start the day’s
round in the morning you
ought to feel brimful of
energy and keenness, your
work ought to feel like
play.
If it doesn’t there’s some-
thing wrong!
No, it’s not a question of
“temperament” nearly so
much as a question of
health.
Just consider: working
indoors all day you get
little fresh air, hardly any
exercise. This affects some
people very vitally, and
possibly you are one of
them. Without physical
exercise and open air the
system gets sluggish. Liver
and kidneys don’t work
actively enough, so im-
purities get into the blood.
Depression, headaches,
“fits of the blues,” nervy i
temper follow. You don’t
feel ill, but still you don’t
feel fine and well.
Consequently your work
feels a burden instead of a
pleasure. Yet the remedy
is simple. Every morning
put a little pinch of
Kruschen Salts into your
breakfast cup of tea.
Kruschen Salts are not
like any other salts. You
can’t taste them if you take
them in tea, but they do a
world of good. They tone
up the liver and kidneys
so that these organs per-
form their functions as
Nature intended—actively,
thoroughly; they cleanse
the blood of all impurities.
Fresh, clear blood circm
lates all over your body,
bringing new health, new
life to every fibre of the
system. Your mind is
keener, you feel more
active, your work feels like
play. And what does this
cost? Less than a farthing
a day.
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast cup as will
lie on a sixpence.
S a
Good Health for a Farthing a day
The dose of a sixpcnceful taken
every morning is found in practice
just the right amount for a most in-
vigorating daily tonic. The medicinal
dose for persons suffering from pains
of rheumatism, lumbago, gout or
habitual constipation, with inactive
liver, etc., is half to one teaspoonful
in a tumbler of hot water before
breakfast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen Salts
in 2/9 bottles. Get a bottle to-day.
Australia—Trade Supplies of Ivruschen Salts are stocked by
H. and W. Grear, 119 to 121! York Street; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
N’en- Zealand—-Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
■ Fairbairiii Wright & Co., Christchurch, Wellington,
Auckland and Dunedin.


Learn to Draw!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
4*
3
The
above's I
the title
of our book-
-1 et, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a "profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing- Course bv
HARRY J. WES-
T 0 N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet- —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal JfcHool ofDrawine',
130 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
57/6 pair
To Your Own Measure
THE meticulous care in Tailor-
ing— the robust quality of
materials, and the approved fitt-
ing for Hiding Comfort are the
distinctive features of these
Riding Trousers. They are
I tailored from serviceable shades
I of F.twn, Grey, and Grown
i Garnett Gabardine of sturdy
| durability, an possess remark-
able resistance to wear. Write
for Patterns and S. Rl. Form.
Correctly Cut
RIDING
TROUSERS
PBKE BROTHERS
Townsville
LTMITED
BRISBANE
Toowoomba
) A
72
•*
vf
<..V:
° 0 .
/ii!>
■w? l
/ d/\ Vss
//VA
:/l
Iw
m
a
’■#
y
11a **«'**'•
7/
Nature has her
moments of
sweetest charm,
not when a tropi-
•. o- cal sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
( 3 J garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air,
c rf- Those “moments of sweetest
b* charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
Zenobia Lily op the Valley—a per-
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom —the
original perfume which, in name, his
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Z e n o b i a Night
Scented Stock- -a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
.Vewson &' Go.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
IS O’Connell
Street, Sydney.
i
V2s>
i-CXn. ©A sx7}^AErofCSi
ZgNOBIJ
ENO
jWL»y
the
yALLJEV
d
The Genuine “KEMP”
SADDLE.
Many inferior and low-grade saddles are being
offered to the public as “Kemp” Saddles.
The genuine Kemp is made only by us, and
we attach a name-plate under the staple
bearing the word “Kemp” and our name.
It is still the same high-grade saddle which
nas helped to build up our saddle reputation, and which
will give years of satisfactory use. It has all the ease
and comfort of the best park saddles, but the shape
and position of the pads give greater security for rough
riding. The tree is our own make “Fouright,” with steel
stirrup bars, and the saddle is fitted with special folded
“Kemp” pattern girth, bevelled leathers and solid
nickel stirrups.
£l4/10/-
Freight Paid for Cash with Order
to Any Station on N S W. Raiiway9.
WHITE FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
HORSE RUGS.
WRITE FOR SAMPLES OE CANWAS
AND SPECIAL PRICE LIST.
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.,
Saddlers, 395 George Street, Sydney.
o s, ? c K
§
s
msm
PA<-
Iv^cn
K& Z7l
Quality Governs Value
The Product of a world-famous firm of high-grade
Shoe Manufacturers,
BosToCk‘S
SHOE POLISH
imparts a lasting lustre to the shoes and adds greatly
to their life. COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN*
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
SHIP BRAND
ďf
Passes through
three refining
processes. Use
it always.
SOLO EVERYWHERE
Man ufa cturers
[CLIFFORD LOVE &C? LTP SYDNEY.
THE -
lIIIITCn insurance
UllllkU COMPANY Ltd.
HEAI> OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £1,000,000.
Fire Insurances v J l le .^ ed qn an classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Lunin
ture tvc. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks ° Q n W ?°J ! Merchandise,
.. Hulls of Vessels, L reigkts.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
Last Few Weeks.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Biackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
In aid of the Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
and
105 Other Priz'es valued at £BOO.
Positively Drawn 50th June, 1922.
Winning numbers published in this
paper June 1 , 1923.
1/. ONLY —TICKETS —ONLY 1/•
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughout the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Cofincil Chambers, BLACKHEATH, N.S.W.
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Use...
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returnee
unless stamps accompany.
“T.M.” "Bedrock”, and "Fly Trap” too
discursive.... C.V.8.: "Not Half” humorous....
Charles L.: Flowery obscurity. .. .11.E.L.J.: Not well
enough done.... Ilamish: You’re an unclean
person P.F.H.: Uninteresting. J.J.V.: It is
the ancient, tame cat of much wasted print.
C.L. (Kensington) : You haven’t made the
yarn Montville: Write to the Mitchell Library,
Sydney Rexbrinker: Horrible screed on two
sides of the paper contains no yarn Hustler’s
Reef: Not for us R.J.W.: Nothing fresh in
"Other Lives” Warradulla: Too jerky... .George
S.: You can’t do it 8.A.8.Y.: Poor stuff
Everybody: Put name and address on copy, not on
a letter that may be detached. .. .A.M.H.: "MeGrew’
misses... .Bruce L.: Not up....P.J.1.: Doesn t
arrive Gus C.: Too loose and thin Norman C.:
They all fail 8.R.M.: Why don’t you try to use
the Australian language?... .A.A.A.: They found the
basket May S.: There have been worse first
attempts, but not too man} r .... Gum Tree: I* ar too
rugged R.M.W.: Y r ou say you send a “poem.”
We can only find some lumps of prose hacked off
roughly at the ends... .James R.: Doesn’t strike
us C.O’M.: As far as we can read it it is no
g00d... .Fernleaf: Wobble-and-bump verse....
8.M.M.: No good XYZ: The matter is as strik-
ingly original as the choice of initials... .The
Dingo: You can’t howl here.... Pat M.: You have a
long way to g 0.... Lily G.: Write some more in
about 10 years.. ..D.H.8.: Not up.... J.J.11.: The
frenzied thing doesn’t take breath enough to be
intelligible Frank N.: Rolls heavily with frequent
bumps N.N.A.: Doesn’t get near... .S.A.P.: The
delicate rhyme-schemes of both the true sonnet
forms are worth while. Fourteen lawless lines
can’t get the same effect... .A.F. (Geelong): Not
nearly up A.D.J.: Can’t find the humor
L.L.M.: The yarn is as old as the first deliberate
attempt to be funny.... Wm. B.: You might still
land at Gallipoli in verse if you wrote better than
the 276,598 people w'ho have gone before you. On
its merits, your effort stands about 276,584 th....
A.D.L.: Not up... .Penguard : None of them get to
anything worth while... .D.S. (New Farm): Feeble
little flutter. .. .C.M.D.: Doesn’t strike us Flau-
tist: A statement of commonplaces... .C.N.F.: It
left us cold J.L. (North Sydney): Wild Imperial
devil-dances in commonplace noises are no use....
Kat: Of all cryptograms, acrostics and such-like
devices yours is the most remarkable: —-
Flyer, in he’s zenith,
And a Man,
Ross Smith.
Ended. Is he’s young life.
Willing was this pioneer,
Ever ready. For any risk
Loyal, to country and parents,
Left, for us, An Evergreen Memory.
Right. Were the brains, and heart,
On such a frame,
Supplied.
Shines he’s laurels. For evermore
Sufferer. Off the air.
Mammoth the respect that he’*
In life. But more in death
Till we Lost, We did not know,
Heaven and God. Wanted another Pilot.
.. . .A.G.J.: One must go back... .Paudh: Don’t like
it.... F.K. (ToowOng) : Shocking... .G.N.8.: "Mag-
netic Age” misses.... Bellerive: Forward the "Boat-
ing Fatality”:—
Four men upon the ruffled bay,
Within an open boat,
Struggled in the sight of land
To keep the craft afloat.
A gale did sweep across the deep,
With a shrill and wailing sound,
In the fury of the hurricane
The ill-fated men were drowned.
Borne by the splashing surge,
The up-turned fatal boat,
From the scene of the calamity
Did grimly toss and float.
Onward to the sandy beach
It drifted with the tide,
To reveal the sad disaster
Of how the victims died.
.... Cocky’s Wife: Curious that you can’t see it was
a hit for and not against the woman condemned to
boil the weekly wash in the kerosene-tin.... M.C.:
Not quite up... .E.McM.: Nothing new there,....
R.A.8.: Impossible to “sub.” such closely-typed
stuff; cannot return rejected pars... .C.C.: 01d....
E. 8.: Try something else and supply your Own pen-
name. ... G. A.M. : “Pay-purr” right off The Bul-
letin’s track.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INAKITaTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.M.: And a rather mis-shapen pebble at that... .
N.G.: Trio of contortionists going back.... R.W.:
Weak gag and weaker drawing... .M.McD.: Sur-
prised at you, Margaret. .. .M.G.: Can’t you get
some lessons locally C.B.McK.: A bad miss....
K.H.: Out. .. .W.G.F.: An awful mix-up M. 8.:
Nothing in it... .L.S.: Suspiciously un-Australian
' atmosphere... .C.S. : Misses. . ~.N.E.H.: Anaemic in
manner and matter.
“Two Seas”: A friend of mine has a Cin-
galese ayah,, who left her old man in Ceylon
when she crossed over with the memsahib’s
kiddies. She had told us that hubby was
learning to write English, and the other day
brought one of his “chits” to the missus to
interpret for her. It ended thus: —
You glad will much be. I speakit you I catchit
the good job yes. No more too much bobberri
hury up! Onlee small familee 2 only, 1 adult and
1 adulteress.
The ayah seemed pleased, but “What for
you make it too much laugh,” she asked.
“Oilskin”: “Tuart” (B. 27/4/’22) hasn’t
turned my hair grey over the Ivatoomba’s
passage of the Dardanelles. It wasn’t “a
ticklish bit of navigation,” and even if the
Ivatoomba’s crew did celebrate the Armistice
at Constantinople, it was nothing to go
dippy about. Prior to the British, French
Italian and Steak-h-da-Oyst squadrons mak
ing the passage, the Narrows had been ren-
dered quite safe <as far as the term is under-
stood in the Navy) by the sweepers. One
trawler was unfortunate enough to strike
a mine and pay the penalty. “Tuart’s”
merchantmen were not asked to do
any “ticklish” navigation. The Nar-
rows had been well “tickled” before they
went through, and the Sea of Marmora
m'ght have been navigated blindfold as far as
Stamhoul. How do I know? Because I
was there.


SlilpniaC’
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great. Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 14.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Him king. Public Companies. &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK;
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .... .. 799,740 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,GG9 4 5
lfinuCTOUs—James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.';
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E, PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. £250,000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.I).: Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Rodman •
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New Soutii Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. llowAll.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A.’F, Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn,
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. ~ .. £529,988
Preference Shares., ~ 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares ~ ~ , , 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. . • 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders . 625,000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL SiRKET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income .. • • • •
£1,502,572
£2,575.000
£47,000,000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
the largest, newest, fastest, and best-eqtjipped steamers trading
bei WEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—■
NIAGARA, 22ml JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 20th JULY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, Bth JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAR AM A, 6th JULY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION MOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
w
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restfuU holiday anion*gst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK
OF NEW, SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
PaUl-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
Thomas BtVklaiul, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MaCkellar,
M.L.C.
K.C.M.G.
Robert Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Tlireadneedle Street. G.f’.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT.'* ■ Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout ttie World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1831.''
Capital paid tip
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
, £2,909,025
. £2,360,000
. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
d
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
lion. Director.
General Manager:
H. H.. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Brandies throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County and
v Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited: i
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Hotel RosciusKo.
Winter Sports in Australia.
In order to meet as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation
at the Hotel Kosciusko in the Winter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number.
Large Bed-sitting Rooms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Comfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko,
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau.
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers: •:
“TASMA”GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne,
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting Loudon
should read the Rnrnsii Austuauasian,
lid. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
hlilT is n A TJfS trAI.A St a N Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn. Londojn. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
t Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
'Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart ParkerliM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be 'obtained bn appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m.; passenger due in Brisbane. Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Througli Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences Tor the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, Pill Ll*
& CO.. LTD.
A.U.S.N, Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SI VA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, MacdOiu.ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISITA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IliOQUOlS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co..
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktowu.


S'
r
/
On
11
to
W/Vq£
3
G
f
\
&
St^Av
In
DKio
Cs
>
Co
o
r
“REX"
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex"
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 133
Ar
St)
v
CRAIG &
II
SATISFYING S
Y THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
mfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ess brings to users of THEPLUM RAZOR.
-MOT
o
o
the
SELF-FILLING SAFETY
Ask to
the ne «
Streamlin
Model,
Onofr Ink—Best fo al* pens.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
ď
.THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&CIm.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*; 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“Ultra-Capital” High-Speed
Tool-Holder Steel. Why not ?
miu
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL” will save your time and money.
The ready hardened lengths only require grinding to
shape. When ground you can put “Ultra Capital to
severest tests and make but little impression on the
keen cutting edge. Short lengths up to 18in. in square flat
bevel sections. Send just a trial order to our nearest address.
or
fd
Special booklet,
“Hints on Steel
Treatment,” post free.
Ask for a copy.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Vssociated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., 1.tc1.. Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High Speed Steel,
o, Kent Street, Sydney; 312-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street,
9 ‘ 9-81 .4c Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie: Paul & Gray, Utd., Scott Street, Newcastle;
Fremant.e, 46 Ho Ide R street Hobart; John Reid and Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte
sJreef, Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-30 Currie Street, Adelaide.
"MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
RACKETS.
Special School Match
C. 8.8. Special Practice .
Haymarket ■
Haymarket Special .....
Havmarket Extra Special
Spalding’s Greenwood ..
Spalding’s Vantage .....
Spalding’s Tournament, .
Spalding’s Continental .
Spalding’s Gold Medal .
Avre’s Sand-own 30/*»
Ay re’s A 1 •••••• 40/-;
Ayre’s Matador 05/-:
Handicap
Champion
S.N.D
8/6 )
17/6 I
30/- I
40/-
70/- I
25/-
45 /-
40/6
55/-
70/-
37/6
50/-
87/6
Bussey's Sundown 25/-; Standard 25/-
Bussey’s Conqueror 30/-; Handicap 32/0
Bussey’s A 1 35/-; Invincible 50/-
Slazenger’s La Belle 27/0: Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Hensliaw 45/-; Demon 55/-
Whitehouse 03/-; Classic 80/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M. 85/-: Doherty 87/6
Slazenger’s Imperial 77/0; Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 05/-: Patterson 95/-
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon 95/-
Davis Riseley Hexagon 87/0
1 H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55/-: Spartan 70/-
[ H. C. Lee’s Church 90/- Monogram 105/-
RACKET REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Dost.
Dunlop Regulation Grey 1/4 15/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922 2/7 30/-
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922
Each. 1 >oz.
Ay re's Court 2/2 25/*
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 ........ 2/ 9 SIS 7 -
(airtight tins)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-,
\tme (square) Posts, pair
Tennis Court Markers
Tennis Tapes
Cut Solution, for renovating the
of rackets, bottle
60/-. 70/-
lO5/-
37/6
32/6
strings
/- l-
F.aih.
Racket Covers .... 2/6, 5/6, 7
Tennis Hatchet * 7/6
The “Grip" Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips ....... I/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books 1/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED tennis
PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
te
- /sra
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. la/ITIS/C
real leather, special value M"” IS'?' k*'.
■nrr'TT fJR ATIE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, o 01 a 0*....-. oc/ ,
™ H »VVgWTNING ’’made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
IH Bake“S™ s‘l:«y M.lbomw ».«! mumm MMf «»—— **;
L. (“Sno«.' > «V: K.S.W., 1/-: other Stole., 1/S.)
BOYS’ GLOVES.
407-
Set'of 4.
Superior, napaleather, hair stuffed —j • • ;;;; ];;; ; ' 9/-, 0/6, 12/0
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. I other States, 1/S.> 7/e each
BOXING BOOTS,
(Postage Oid.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
PUNCHING BALLS.
fey
\¥
mm
THE
ARMY
'* HE
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
ARMY Swinging Ball, reg., for fast work, 10/G, 13/G, 17/G, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
VKMV extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/”
EXPERT double-end Ball, medium size, elastic cord for floor and rope for ( eiling.. 12/6, 15/6
EXPERT’ double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPFRT’ double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, So/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 100/-
AU above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Double-action Swivels, 6/- each. Ball-bearing Swivels>••••—•• J®/f
Ball Gloves 3/9. 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 00/-, 75/-, 147/-
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
1C
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Miss Gwen Burroughs
Praises
Rexona and Rexona Soap.
“You have heard I have
been using Rexona and
Rexona Soap. This is quite
true, and I want to tell you
what I think of them. They
are both simply excellent. I
always keep a pot of Rexona
on my dressing-table, and
consider it simply indispens-
able. I always use it after
Surfing, and find it simply
splendid for Sunburn and
for preserving the skin.
“As for Rexona Soap, it
is wonderful how lovely it
makes the hair, so soft and
silky, and it is so refreshing.
“I think every girl should
use Rexona Soap, and 1 am
sure I shall never miss an
opportunity of recommend-
ing both Rexona and Rexona
Soap.”
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) GWEN DAY BURROUGHS.
% n ll \
Miss
OWES
BURROUGHS
(from a photo).
Get the Rexona Habit.
W
Jp'oothing. - \
Healing
flnlisepiic Omimerti
1/6
3/
gm\ JflOCi J? ;
nbiolulely
Reliable
A Reliable Remedy for all erupliom and irritations of Ihc
oSkin FxZema Pimples. Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hands
f Sciaitcn .Itching or Bleeding Piles. Culs. Bums. Bruises. Scalds
f bad Leys Slinys of Insccis and all kinds of Inflammahon
P'-oorfefo
A habit formed is hard to break. Bad
habits are easily formed; but good habits ean
be attained almost as easily. The Rexona
habit results in health and beauty, anti once
formed will never he broken. There are two
Rexona habits —that of using; Rexona Oint-
ment to heal all injuries to the skin, and the
Rexona Soap habit, which consists of keeping:
oneself clean and pure with a delicately-
scented and medicated soap. Rexona Oint-
ment and Rexona Soap mean skin health and
beauty, comfort to the user, anti immunity
from disease. So form the Rexona habit.
Take a tablet of Rexona Soap and a
triangular pot of Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, home to-night. You will he
delighted with them and wonder how
you ever got along without them.
Rexona the Rapid Healer,
1/6 and 3f-
Rexona Soap, 1/- per Tablet.
Black Bordeaux Calf Naval
Uniform Boots, J-ineh sewn
and screwed triple-wear
leather soles. A perfect
boot. 21/6.
For best or work wear.
Guaranteed Sturdy Built
Footwear 8 Wearing Apparel
FOR OUTDOOR WORKERS
BY POST WITH A GUARANTEE, viz.,
Complete Satisfaction
or Money Refunded.
Large Heavy
British
Woollen Bush
Rugs, 26/6.
Postage 1/-
in N.S.W.
ďf
d
The Best Boot of its kind
made. Selected Tan Willow
Calf, leather-lined uppers sewn
§-inch selected oak tanned
soles, now 25/- worth 35/-.
A 11-W o o I
Fringed
Travel Bugs
29/C.
Postage 1/-
in N.S.W.
ď
Black Waxed Kip Watertight
Cossacks, 1-piece whole-backed
uppers, standard screwed and
sewn. triple-wear Kromitc
metallic leather soles. 21/6.
Nothing better made.
Watertight Lightweight Cos-
sacks Black “Chrorno” Satin
Kip, watertight uppers, stand-
ard screwed, solid wearing
“Ironhide” soles, 16/11.
Light yet splendid wearers.
Strong D a r 1?
Grey Naval
Transport
Blankets, very
heavy, as good
as new, suit
double b e d-s.
17/C. Postage
1/- in N.S.W.
fd
Tan Regulation Army
Roots, made by Govern-
ment contractor from
selected special high-cut 1-
piece watertight uppers;
triple-wear, sewn and
screwed solid soles, 21/-.
Postage o n
Boots
throughout
Australia
V
'Goods For-
warded V.P.P
"You pay
your post-
master on
Delivery.
ďf
ď
Pure Wool Army Bedford
Corded Khaki Biding
Breeches, 35/-. worth 80/-
Fawn or Grey English
Gabardine Riding Breeches
28/6. Both have strapped
knees and lace-up calfs.
In strong Khaki Stockport
Drill 25/-.
f
Tan Willow Calf leather-
lined Army Officers’ Uni-
form Boots, Much sewn
and screwed wattle-tanned
solid soles, 24/11. Worth
35/ -.
Black Lightweight Naval
Bridge Oilskins, double
throughout, fly fronts,
waterproof sleeve lining,
35/-.
Solid Tan Smooth
Blocked Selected
Hide
LEGGINGS.
Light Horse Pattern.
18/6.
With stitched bound
leather tops, Officers
Pattern, 21 /-.
Also in Spring Front
Puttee Style, 22/6.
J. S. LEWIS
4 BIG RELIABLE
STORES.
Mail Order Department—l 66 B GEORGE STREET, near CIRCULAR QUAY.
Branches: 107 George St. West; 752 George St., Haymarket; and 175 North George St.
One Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ILIKE to-day.
Coming from liomc the mist was soft
ami grey;
Across the track a cloud of lories gay
Flung through the trees a banner of dismay ;
And further down a rabbit ran away
With mist-bright fur all ruffled from his play.
I like to-day.
I like to-day.
Here in the town I saw a red array
Of rain-washed apples on a hawker’s tray
Smelling more sweet than cargoes from
Cathay.
I stopped to count the gleaming pools that
lay
Like moonstones down the path. A beggar
may
(Jo jewelled if he set a bough asway
On such a day.
I like to-day.
So many small and happy things.... but
stay!—
A light shines down the homeward track,
a ray
That beckons me to rest, and shows the way
To happier things. My lagging feet obey
In thankful haste. And joyfully I pray
That when my last day fades I still may say
I liked to-day !
N.S.W.
MARGARET FANNE.]
The Failure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OLD Parkinson came out from what he
called his study, and looked over
the scene spread before him like one
to whom its beauty was a draught of wine.
It was towards sunset, and the gilded and rose-
colored parapets of the clouds stood out in
splendor before patches of blue sky, and be-
hind the undulating landscape and half-con-
tiuered bush, which displayed all the hues that
evening brings. The gum-trees showed a
restful green merging almost to purple; then
in a moment a sparkle of golden and red lire
rippled through them. The choir of the
locusts was singing an evening hymn on
the joy of life —a part song, for as the
shadow of a cloud fell upon one tree the
locusts there dropped into silence, their part
being taken up by those on another on
which the sunlight had suddenly fallen.
Then his eyes turned from the general
beauty of the scene to more particular de-
tails. At his feet were the broken boards of
the unmended verandah; growing by the
verandah-post a rose-tree that had never
bloomed, but had never been removed, a
creeper that was half dead twigs and leaves;
a leaky tank, leaky for years, but never
mended; wandering chickens which hovered
around the ruins of what had been intended
for fowl-pens but had never been completed.
Further, there were fences —some dow r n in
places, others repaired in makeshift fashion;
outbuildings which displayed an original
good aspiration petering away into forgetful-
ness. Far away, to the right, was a vision
of good fences and neat white-washed build-
ings. But that did not comfort him: on
the other side of that t.w'isting, bush-marked
fold in the ground w'hich showed where the
creek ran, it was Mrs. Russell’s property.
“I’m a failure,” he said, turning away
regretfully but with no bitterness; “there is
no doubt I am a failure.”
He returned to his study and the work
that he had relinquished—sorting out old
letters and papers, and burning most of
them in the grate.
“A failure all my life!” he said, speaking
aloud, though to himself. “I seem to have
been disappointing people all my life—
people w'ho expected all sorts of great things
of me.”
In a cheerless retrospect he remembered
himself as the bright boy of his school, the
pride of his mother, the hope of his school-
master. He certainly had not been a failure
there; but as the examinations he had passed
brilliantly had landed him now'here, those
triumphs were not worth remembering. He
had forsaken the pursuit of the law for a
literary career, and had been welcomed v'ith
acclamation in sundry quarters; but some-
how the hope of great achievement had
faded out. He had just drifted, the power
of application .being weakened by the ease
w r ith w'hich Tie might accomplish if he tried ;
and less brilliant men pushed their w'ay
ahead of him. Then the sudden desire had
come to him to go on the land —just a small
holding where he might find seclusion from
the temptation of the city world, to devote
himself to work, pursuing, side by side, the
cultivation of chickens and literature.
He bad planned a model farm; and he
smiled wanly as he recollected his calcula-
tions — how the chickens alone, penned and
handled according to the most modern
theories, would bring him affluence. The
highly-conceived notions about the conduct
of his literary efforts had succeeded no better
than the others: and a pile of unfinished
MS. —novels, dramas and solid articles—
showed the failure.
“They might like them,” he muttered;
“and they wmn’t know this time that I have
been a failure. The youngsters shall have
their chance.”
He began a search amongst his papers,
turning over all those that he had neatly
arranged, until he remembered his coat, hang-
ihg behind the door. He took from its
pocket a paper which, opened, proved to he
a life-assurance policy for £6OO.
“Even though it is not uaid up,” he said,
“that should see them out. Tom ought to
have got through his course in another year
and be able to set up his plate; and Nancy
won’t need mpoh to so through as a nurse;
and w'hen Hugh finishes with Hawkesbury
he ought to he all right.”
He spoke hapnily. w ith the happiness of
a man who has decided to make a great sur-
render in a good cause. He who had failed
in most things, had disappointed so many,
had made up his mipd to leave a world he
loved, in order that his insurance policy
should do somethin? towards establishing
his children in life. It must be done quietly,
skilfully, of course: an -evident suicide
would vitiate the policy. But Parkin-
son had all that arranged. The glow of
a love-sustained sacrifice caused him a feel-
lng that was almost ecstasy. He had felt
tnat he was to some extent a drag upon
his children instead of being the help he
had hoped to be. Tom had secured his uni-
versity advantages by his own brilliancy in
the winning of exhibitions and scholarships.
JNancy, longing to be a nurse, was staying at
home to look after the house. Now he was
going to help himself to the joy of feeling
that he was giving them the opportunity of
finding the careers they sought. The child-
ren loved him, of course, but youth soon
forgets.
C ome on, daddy—teaJ” said a girlish
voice as the door opened; and Parkinson
thrust Ins documents into a corner hurriedly,
llie girl was well set out in her plain, whole-
some dress; and, as often happens in the
younger Australian generation, showed bigger
than her father. To him she instantly went,
and, putting her arm around his shoulder,
led him away.
“And Mrs. Russell’s just dropped in—to
see me, of course. But she’ll be awfully dis-
appointed not to see you, I expect.” '
"Little goose!” smiled Parkinson.
Airs. Russell, an ample, bright-eyed lady
with a sharp, business-like appearance and
hair that was still dark—she was not yet
far advanced in her forties, and was well
preserved— was there. And so was Tom.
away from liis studies on a vacation —a talk
bony youth, with a pleasant face, who tow
ered inches over his father. “Waiting for
you. dad,” he said affectionately, pulling out
his father’s chair.
"I met Air. Framp when I was in town,”
said Airs. Russell, “and he spoke about you.
tour poem on Clifton llollow is to appear
in the next issue of the Express.”
Parkinson flushed with pleasure—he was
prone to be absurdly pleased at any adula-
tion.
“It’s nothing much,” he said depreciat-
ingly, “but Framp asked me for something,
and so”
“He's very lucky to get it from you,” said
Mrs. Russell sharply. “I know he wouldn’t
get it from me —if it was possible for me to
do it. Why don’t you send your work away
and not worry about a rag like the
.Express?”
“I’d have to pay the postage, and then I
might not get it back,” said Parkinson with
a laugh. He was feeling pleased with him-
self. Apart from the atmosphere of praise
for the little efforts that appeared in the
Express he felt that he was carrying him-
self well. No one might tell by his de-
meanor that he had sentenced himself to
death !
“You know, you do let people impose upon
you, daddy,” said Nancy warmly. “I wish
you’d let me manage things for you, and
then I’d see that you got a fair deal.”
“I think you ought to,” said Airs. Rus-
sell. “You know, you men of genius never
can look after yourselves.”
“Oh, come now, don’t joke at me,” cried
Parkinson. “Genius!”
“Well, Framp himself says you are,” said
Mrs. Russell, “and we all know”—-
i “Of course, we do!” boomed Tom. “Old
Fowler, the Mayor, says he’s going to get
you to write his speech for the opening of
the Alemorial Hall. He reckons if they
can’t make von get up and speak, they ought
to get you to write the speech. Fowler says
he’s not ashamed to own it.”
“Well, all that doesn’t help me around
the farm,” said Parkinson, flushing.
“It's not to be expected, Air. Parkinson,”
said Airs. Russell. “People can’t be every-
thing ! And when you have your thoughts
on other things—well, to me, poets and pump-
kins don’t seem to mhtch. I could tell you
how to set your*farm right.”
A sudden inspiration came to Parkinson.
He could picture himself walking over in the
moonlight to Airs. Russell’s farm, taking the
short cut across the stream. What more
natural than that in the darkness he might
slip on one of the stepping-stones, and, pro-
bably stunned in the fall, be drowned in the
shallow stream? The idea provided for any
possible question about his death.
“If you will let me, I think I will drop
over later on to .see you about it,” he said.
There was a strange feeling of elation
about Parkinson as he continued, after tea,
with the sorting of his papers. He felt
that the sacrifice he was making was good.
Life was sweet, but it was better to be dead
than an encumbrance ; and his children, re-
membering him with affection, would always
recollect that, in spite of all his failures, he
kept that insurance policy going for their
sakes.
Having destroyed all the papers he desired
to destroy, Parkinsc n once more disarranged
his room, to remove any evidence that might
be construed into an intention of suicide, and
disarranged his collected AIS. Then he took
his cap. and moved tQwards the door.
But a yearning entered his heart which
made him pause. Turning into the house
he came upon Nancy, sewing.
“I’m just dropping across to see Mrs.
Russell,” he said cheerfully. “You’ll be in
bed before I return, I expect, so I’ll kiss you
good-night.”
He felt another glow of self-congratulation
in his heart. He was doing it well—there
was not a tremor in his voice, not a twitch
in his muscles. Restraining a wild impulse
to strain his daughter to his breast in the
final embrace, he kissed her much as usual.
“You don’t mind being left alone?” he
asked.
“No, daddy ; Tom’s in his room,” she said.
“Tom” He paused, with another long-
ing, which he checked. “Good-night, Nance
darling.”
He walked out into the night with head
erect. The sweet odor of a dew-kissed earth
came to his nostrils ; the moon was l’ising,
casting silver embroideries on the clouds,
and a sheen and shadow on the paddocks and
woods. This was the earth that he loved.
But the greater his love the greater his
triumph. He gloried that his step was firm,
his heart decided; and so, feeling like a
hero,, going as a volunteer to meet the enemy
of Life, he strode through the darkness. He
was no longer the failure.
* * * #
He awoke with a great sense of peaceful-
ness but a bad pain in his head, wondering
to find himself in a bed that was not his own.
Even as he moved a cool, comforting hand
was laid on his forehead, whilst somehow,
under his head, the pillow was made softer.
(Continued on next page.)


Every Little Task
a Painful Effort.
A
!
S 1
■X/sWna
Mu,
••
»!
W&
*
ir'j-
-7
me
!***» ~
“Every Picture
Tells a Story**'
At all times of the year there are many odd jobs about the
home that every well man likes to do. But no man or
woman with a “bad back” enjoys doing anything. There s
surely something wrong when every day brings morning
lameness, sharp pains when lifting, and a dull, tired state.
Likely it’s kidney weakness. Don’t neglect it. It’s easily
corrected at first, but delay may encourage gravel, dropsy
or dangerous kidney disease. If your back aches and kid-
neys are disordered, get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
This successful remedy is recommended so strongly by
people you know'that you can use it with real confidence.
TWO COMPLETE CURES.
Mrs. F. Anderson, 22 Campbell Street, Balmain, Sydney,
says:—“l suffered with my kidneys for a good while, the result
being-that I was torturned with backache, and the pain at
times was so acute that I had to lie up. It centred just above
the kidneys, ami never seemed to leave me day or night. My
ankles and legs swelled somewhat, and , were sore to the touch,
and I always felt tired and languid, having no energy for any-
thing. I was really in a very poor state of health ; but, although
I tried different medicines from time to time, I got no relief
from my suffering. About two years ago .1 was advised to take
a course of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and they were spoken
of so highly that I made up my mind to try them. After using
a couple of bottles I felt much better, and as I continued
taking the pills the improvement was maintained, five bottles
effecting a perfect cure, and I have been well ever since.”
Four years later Mrs. Anderson confirms the previous
statement: —“Doan’s Pills made a perfect cure in my case,
for I have had no trouble with my kidneys since this remedy
cured me over six years ago.”
Mr. W. H. Trott, Keith, Gannon Street, Tempe, Sydney,
says:—“Off and on for years I suffered a good deal from
backache and kidney trouble. Sometimes my back. used to
ache terribly, the pain being particularly severe when I stooped.
At my work I have to bend my back a lot, so it was very hard
on me, and handicapped me greatly. I took several medicines,
but none of them seemed to suit my case. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were at last recommended to me, and they proved
to be the remedy I wanted. After taking a few doses I felt
much better, so I continued with the treatment for a few weeks,
and I am glad to say they drove the pain out of my back and
made me feel splendid. Two 'years have elapsed since then,
and I am still free of backache, but I keep Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills by me and take a dose or so whenever I feel
a little off color, and they always do me gor>d.’’
Ten years later Mr. Trott says;—“poan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me of backache twelve years ago, and I
still have great faith in this grand remedy.”
ď
iackache
Kidney
f
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McLellan
Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
“How are you feeling now?” said Mrs.
Russell’s voice soothingly.
So he had failed again!
As he turned liis face towards the wall in
anguish at this idea, Mrs. Russell’s arm went
tnder his neck.
“You old darling,” she said, "1 can see
you are better, and you’ll soon be all right.
But what a worry you have been! And
theu when we were talking two hours ago
and you suddenly dropped off again I thought
1 had overtired you.”
Somehow Parkinson seemed vaguely to
remember, and, anyway, he felt satisfied
and comfortable. Mrs. Russell had always
given him a sense of comfort; she was so
capable, so amiable that worry and distress
could not associate itself with her.
“And if we are married early Nance will
be able to go for her exam.,” said Mrs. Rus-
sell.
Her enthusiasm had to have an answer,
lie lifted her hand to his lips, and her lips
promptly fell on his. Then footsteps that
iic recognised as Tom’s sounded in the cor-
ridor. Tom was obviously making his ap-
proach heard before he entered ; and whilst
still outside he called, “How is he, Mrs.
Bussell?”
“Come in. Tom,” she said, and then
slipped away with: “I’m going to get a
com of beef-tea.”
Tom sat on the side of his father’s bed,
and dragged papers from his pocket. There
was a gleam of affectionate mirth in his eye.
“I know what you tried to do, Dad,” he
whispered.
“It was au accident,” faltered Parkinson.
“Oh, chuck that, Dad!” retorted Tom;
and then, with a sudden display of wrath he
tore the old policy to fragments. “There!
That damn thing’s gone. It was out-of-date,
anyway—the surrender value had been ex-
hausted. Yet it would have cost your life
if I hadn’t come right on your heels.”
A failure again! Yet Parkinson felt very
easy about it.
“Why did you follow me?” he asked curi-
ously.
“Why, Nance called to me and said that
you had marched out of the house like a
soldier with the drums beating; and she
thought you were making the visit to Mrs,
Russell’s an excuse to go out to fight some-
one,” laughed Tom.
He swung round to get his arm over
bis father’s shoulder.
“You dear, silly old bandicoot!” he said
in a husky voice full of affection.
HAMER.
Clothes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
greatest socialist, the truest lifter-
up and leveller-down the world
knows, is the uniform of a soldier.
Take two members of the' late A.I.F. As
uniformed privates they .were as alike as
two peas on a plate. And had you scratched
beneath the surface you would have found
them also very much alike there. But out
of uniform-—well, here’s a case in point:—
For the first time in 10 years Harold
Allspice was late. He was a wnole tnree
minutes late. And to Harold that was a
heinous offence. Harold worked in the
men’s department at Hoover’s drapery estab-
lishment. Ten years earlier he had started
as parcel boy, and by dint of hard work
and the gracious favor of Mr. Hoover, had
now, at 24, reached the dizzy height of
second assistant behind the men’s depart-
ment counter. By close attention to duty
and the dismissal or demise of the head
and first assistant, Harold hoped in another
10 years to have charge of the department.
After that there were no worlds to con-
quer. For deep down in him Harold had
the real draper’s soul.
Glancing fearfully about for a sight of
Mr. Hoover, Harold hastened down the
room, hung his straw hat on one of the
pegs fixed to the back of the big show-case,
changed into his alpaca coat, smoothed down
his well-oiled hair with both hands, and
with a sigh of relief took his place behind
the counter.
It was really a sigh of thanksgiving that
Mr. Hoover had not seen him come in late.
Harold was mortally afraid of Mr. Hoover.
To him Hoover was at once a man to be
feared and revered. Had he given the
matter consideration (Harold would have
owned that he had rather stand high in
the esteem of the master-draper than in
the books of the Recording Angel. Wasn’t
Mr. Hoover giving him his chance? It
would be by the grace of Mr. Hoover that
lie would one day stand the envied and re-
spected head of the department. To Mr.
Hoover’s level he did not, could not, hope
to aspire. There is such an offence as
sacrilege.
At 9.30 Mr. Hoover passed through the
men’s department on the way to his private
office. Engaged in brushing a stock suit,
Harold at once sprang to conscious atten-
tion. With quick, darting glances from the
suit to Mr. Hoover, to the suit back to
Mr. Hoover, he followed his employer’s pro-
gress across the room, fearful lest he should
miss the customary glance and nod. Just
when it seemed Mr. Hoover was displeased
with him and was about to pass out of the
department without speaking, the great
man glanced in his direction and curtly in-
clined his head.
“ ’Morning, Allspice.”
“Good morning, sir.”
His obeisance made Harold take up his
day’s work with a lighter heart.
Fervently cursing the war and the
authors thereof for robbing him of his
chance of promotion, Harold joined up when
the call went forth for men. Three other
members of the staff having done likewise,
the draper, caught up on the wave of shal-
low patriotism pervading the times, de-
cided to give them a send-off. Every assist-
ant in the shop was present in the small
hall hired for the occasion, and Hoover
made large promises against the day when
the boys should return. Normally, the
thought of mounting a platform beside Mr.
Hoover, of making a speech at him, would
have caused Harold to turn green. Now
in his crusader’s uniform, he surprised him-
self as, with shoulders back and chest for-
ward, he thanked Mr. Hoover and the meet-
ing for their kind wishes and benevo-
lent promises to self and comrades, and
assured them that they would acquit them-'
selves in such a way as to bring credit on
the dear old firm and on their splendid
employer. As he bade Hoover farewell
later in the night there was little of the
diffident Allspice about Harold, and his
handshake caused the draper to wince.
Like thousands of other counter-leapers
Harold made good. Two years from enlist-
ment found him in charge of a platoon, a
loose-limbed young giant into whom the
warmth of the sun and the Lord’s grand air
had infused a vital spark which nothing less
than an enemy bullet could quench. Gone
was the draper-boy who quailed before the
glance of his master. The pasty, sun-
starved face of the shop-assistant was
weather-scarred and bronzed ; and the hands
which once brushed suits were now expert*
with a bayonet. Indeed, Harold made so
good as a platoon sergeant that he ruined
his chance of getting a commission. A
fighting battalion could not afford to lose
such an n.c.o.
With the assumption of his new rank he
assumed responsibility for the comfort and
welfare of every man in the platoon. It
was this solicitude on his part thal pro-,
cured him a sharp surprise early one cold
winter morning. Overnight a number of
new men had come up the line to fill gaps
after a recent attack. Not knowing tlie
calibre of his fresh recruits, Harold offered
a devout prayer that they would be all right
as he marched them into the quagmire which
did service as a road, heading for the front-
line trenches. The enemy was shelling
heavily as they reached the support trench,
and they had not been in the front line more,
than an hour when the thing happened.
Coming in his direction along the trench,
the sergeant saw one of his men running
and making whimpering noises in his throat
as he did so. With the shells falling thick
each man had his own business to attend to,
so that none gave heed to the runner. Only
the young-old sergeant. In a flash he un-
derstood what was happening. As the mwn
came up he stepped out, blocking the trench
and extending his hand to detain him.
“Let me go! Let me go!” cried the
runner.
“Wliat’s the matter?”
“Let me go?” screamed the man.
In a moment Allspice had him pinned
against the wall of the trench, where he
fought like a fury.
“God Almighty! Hoover! Think what
you’re doing, man!” cried the sergeant.
The sound of his own name uttered in
the midst of that wild fury quieted the
would-be deserter for a moment, and in that
moment Allspice acted. Pushing him down
on to some sandbags in a bay of the trench
he stood over him.
“Hoover, have you gone mad?” he cried.
“Look, at me. I’m Allspice, Harold All-
spice, and I’m your platoon sergeant.”
The words had no effect upon the fright-
ened man. Clawing at Allspice he tried to
rise, only to be pushed back hard against
the soggy trench-wait.
"■incy 11 snuot you if you run, Hoover,”
shouted Allspice, shaking him violently by
botn shoiucters. "i n snoot you my sell,
he added, drawing his revolver.' “Pull your-
self together, Hoover. For God’s sake'hold
up!”
Perhaps it was the appeal Allspice put
into his voice. Something seemed to snap
inside the deserter; his lace fell into his
hands propped up on his knees; his shoul-
ders heaved ; he burst into tears.
“I’ve had no sleep for three days and
nights,” he moaned, "They sent me in half-
seasoned, and I’ve had nothing to eat for
48 hours. I’m not frightened. I'm no
coward. It’s my nerves. They just couldn’t
stand any more. You don’t think I’m a
coward, sergeant?”
Allspice understood the case. Despiiy
his magnificent youth he had several times
seen his mates, brave lads every one, break
up under the rack of bodily and' mental tor-
ment and turn apparent cowards, all be-
cause their tortured nerves had gained a
momentary mastery over their flagging,
weary wills.
“No. I understand,” he said reassur-
ingly. “You lie down in this bay on those
empty sandbags there and have a sleep.
And here’s a lump of chocolate for you
when you wake up. I’ll be here.”
Then Allspice left him. The phenome-
non of their wondrously changed relations
did not occur to either. The servant hud
suddenly become the master, the master the
one who served. Yet it was all in order.
Neither thought to <iuestion the arrange-
ment. The uniform had spoken.
It was to Hoover’s credit that, on decid
ing he should go and take his share in the
fighting, he had not exploited his consider-
able wealth to smooth over the rough places.
He had gone through it as a private from
the embarkation to the front trench. That
he had momentarily faltered on reaching the
latier was not to say that his heart was
wrong. Only his muscles and sinews were
deficient. With the fighting finished he
saw no reason why he should not hasten
back to the world of affairs awaiting him.
The importance of those affairs must he
his justification for having used his influence
to secure an early return. Allspice fol-
lowed six months later and reclaimed his
old position.
On a certain Saturday afternoon when
the war had been over long enough for those
who had taken part in it to be weary of
discussing it, a group of five or .six young
men stood on a street corner awaiting the
tram which was to take them to a football
match. A motor-car, chauffeur-driven,
passed along the road. With the ease of
much practice one of the young men raised
his hat to the tvell-dressed gentleman who
was seated alone in the back seat of the
passing car. ITis salutation was acknow-
ledged, though curtly.
“Strike me puce!” gasped one of the
group. “Fancy a bloke raisin’ his hat to
another bloke! Now, if it was a tart!”
“That was my boss,” said Harold All-
spice with dignity.
G. L. THOMAS.


m
s
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock-—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTJNCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Vlotorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
2
s
Shirley President Braces for Active Men
The elastic, resilient feeling of SHIRLEY
PRESIDENT BRACES gives you the
assurance that your wearing apparel has the
proper hang and grace.
They give the needed support to the clothing
and to the contour of the figure
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look toil the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee
label
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
■
vsss
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
• —their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT .SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
Ail
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, “* I ** i"* 1
d
1 Wetproof” Shotgun Cartridges
"Always dry on the inside whatever outside conditions may be”
IN unfailing priming, even loads and close patterns '
Remington UMC shotgun cartridges have been
tried and found not wanting in those qualities which
make up a really excellent cartridge.
The sportsman benefits still further in the latest exclu-
sive patented process of the Remington Company called
“Wetproof,” by which the contents of the cartridge are
effectually sealed against the deteriorating effects of *
Wet weather or excessive dryness.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are sup-
plied in four trade marked brands: ARROW, NITRQ 8
CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
They offer splendid values to the sportsman who insists
on having the best so that he can do his best.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative P* O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
TO ENJOY LIFE
Vou must be able to take the food you fancy without
discomfort-r-you can aid digestion and assimilation and
Insure maximum nutrition by occasionally- taking a
dose of the famous family remedy, Beecham’s Pills.
Under their safe, gentle, but powerful influence, you
can shake ost a host of troubles which tend to make
life miserable. Dyspepsia, headaches, biliousness and
constipation, to mention but a few, will disappear;
and you will be blessed by joys of solid robust
health. These wpnderfully efficient pills are
the favorite medicine of thousands of families.
What Beecham’s Pills have done for them they
can do for you. After taking a few doses
you will have every reason to congratulate
yourself on your progress. You may look
forward to renewed good health, and
to the happiness which attends a life
free from all dyspeptic ailments.
There is no need to deny yourself
your favorite dishes they will
not inconvenience you if you
'i 'TAKE f
OEECHAKTC PILI
LARGEST SALE OF IN THE WORLD"'
Cssentials-
A well-filled luncheon-basket and a “Decca” ensure the- success
of a day’s outing.
- The compact, handy little “ Decca ” can be carried anywhere
without inconvenience or fatigue. It is ready, to play perfectly,
immediately opened, any make and size of Record.
©ECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
3 Models—>
Leather Cloth £lO/10/
Fibre i. £l2/10/
Cowhide .... £l6
Obtainable all over Australia from All Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors • Stanley E. Green Ltd., :>79. Kent Street. Sydney.
'*'4V
•«**«
N*
o
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of bot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
mmm.
iC?
HORUCK& MALTED MILK
Slough, Bucks. Eng.
YuYnYaYnY lYir
SUCCESS IN LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The mail
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability ot
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver,; B Wake up yon. liver with
ir'ter’s Lit-
tle Liver Pills
and start the
lay with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourhealthand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young - purely
vegetable.
Small Pill-
Small
Doso —
Small
Price J
CARTERS
ITTLE
VER
PIUS
If any illustration appearing
Bulletin takes your fancy, write
Manager, who will quote you price for
R. G. WATKINS <& CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


WHISKY
The Spirit of
'• ' -V’.. '■ . - ;
UNITY
' ’* !(V ; - V ; v \ i: * '• ■ -r'7 .. ’ - \ ... ' ' .... . - ./
Unity is the very music of
life - a perfect symphony
of thought and action. With
Unity one may live ideals in
a world of wonderful reality.
And its surest foundation lies
in the. genial companionship
and unquestioned maturity of
Betoar’s
