

Comfort
X
\
5S
m
a
_ li
i
V
4fdl
w Vr^
SHSE/**'
K
Sfill /XX 1*
.V'>
u\m
;<sss^
■bsi
//A'k
wv*
SS^iH
SS&Ki." -
Ss>.X
s— V x
n\\
.’..,s»jt?tffc' .: ■ is..
CSS
|
i,.
&
\\\,f
\ !f 1 V
-s'
%m *
\v<
fawW-V'
rrrrm
rrpr rfe*,r
rrrrr
rrrrr,
fPPP.JCcrrr/
rr-cr-i
rrrri|rrrrn
rrrr^rrr
~i/na re
m
1 - ' ; .- v *
■ i . .....
: pi TT
t- %
wMUM.
r«
•
*r *
A cheerful glow of warmth, ease,
a big chair and a pleasant book.
It may blow or rain.
A restful evening in healthful and
comfortable surroundings dispels
any thoughts of inclement con-
ditions.
Luxurious comfort and conveni-
ence are achieved by electric heat-
ing. It is hygienic, safe and econo-
mical.
There is no smoke, soot or ashes.
Simply by turning an electric
switch you obtain a steady and
immediate glow of heat, which
penetrates to the farthest corners of
any room.
Everything electrical 'MBCIVIS more
recreation, less fatigue.
Our stocks of electric radiators
and heaters are varied. We will
gladly furnish further particulars.
f.
k
Corner Wentworth. Avenue i GoulburnSV
• • •
fdg
’ Comer Queen d Little Collins St?
• -MELBOURNE- •
Phone: City 3510
Box 2517
Phone : Cen. 2646 Ek>x 533 G.P.0.,
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
g
rt
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2210.
Thursday, June 22, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
CROUP
■ 5-
-»r;
WP* ng&S&i*
■
W
miiiriTHifiiiTTHTminn
EVERY Drop of
A Plain
Fact!
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
\V. G. Hcarnc & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
I Bond Street, SYDNEY.
dfg
dfg
SERVICE RECORDS THAT APPEAL
Mangrovite service records are, the credentials that
have convinced many successful manufacturers of
the strength, elasticity and longevity of
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING.
Mangrovite Leather or Raw-Hide Belting is made
from specially selected hides, which when tanned by
the Mangrovite process conserve power, grip the
pulleys, and increase production and profits.
Instal Mangrovite now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
4-9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid k Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs; Bright & -Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd.. Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
’ >
Onoto Ink — Best for all pens.
Ask to see the
New Streamline Model
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or woman of taste,
of refinement, of Discrimination.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSONS Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
JUj
&
POWEP.JniV
aseuaDt
NtOKAi.
•Ks*n
wmscmic
&KOOU>P«)G*«
m
«*v*ce
ro^
ON
mawa
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidaUy as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as th'eir antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals. £6
The Red Page
Hazlitt’s Dodsley
All my life-all 1 remember of it —I liad
longed for the possession of “Hazlitt’s Dods-
ley.” Two years ago, in the disreputable
litter that T.W.W. calls his library, I came
upon an odd volume. Half-a-day’s raking
in that invaluable rubbish-heap revealed the
other 14, and the disorderly but generous
owner opened his heart to my enthusiasm
and, iu lordly fashion, presented me with the
coveted set —thereby insuring himself against
its theft. With what pride I humped my
shoulders and carried my treasure home!
How fondly I cut the uncut pages (for
Thomas does not always read the treasures
he has collected) ! With what avidity 1 read
them ! That first reading was sheer, unadul-
terated pleasure. For were not these volumes
my very own? And all my life had I not
longed for them? Later readings have been
more critical. Still, with the old plavs them-
selves one finds no fault. Some of them are
worthless, perhaps, or useful merely as a
reminder that even three centuries and more
ago men wrote rubbish for money and found
both printers and popularity. Hut one still
delights in the broad boisterous English
humor of “Hickscorner,” wherein the author
reveals such a shocking intimacy with the
habits, haunts and humors of his cut-throats
and vagabonds, and wherein, galvanised into
life by the breath of humor and human sym-
pathy, even the good hermit Pity utmost
steps down from his allegorical pedestal and
becomes a man ; of “The Four P.P.,” writ-
ten so entirely to the taste of bluff king Hal,
who doubtless enjoyed as much ’the unadul-
terated filth as the grotesque humor of
“Jacke Juggler,” broad English farce, fresh
and clean, made from insanitary Latin
comedy by changing Iloman gods and
patricians to London cits and ’prentices,
shutting out the foetid atmosphere of Plau-
tus, and admitting the crisp, fresh air of
Elizabethan England. Again and again one
reads “Everyman” with ever increasing
admiration for its classical ' simplicity and
dignity. The play may be adapted from the
Dutch; but we thank God for so good a
thing as its fifteenth-century English. One
can occasionally even stand a little from the
Seuecaus —“Taucred and Gismund,” where-
in I can picture young Christopher Ilatton,
who afterwards danced himself into the
Chancellorship, acting Tancfed and writing
the fourth act to give himself all the “fat”-,
and “The Misfortunes of Arthur,” for which
young Francis Bacon, who, as Collier sagely
observes, “is no other than Bacon,” acted as
a sort of ballet-master. . ..
But I must get on to the editors. Chief of
the many failings, of the editorial school of
Payne, Collier and Carew Ilazlitt—faults oi
omission and commission, due to want of
knowledge, want of judgment and, especially,
want of humor—is their inability to see in
the old folksongs and ballads, miracle-plays
and moralities they collected and printed
with such commendable assiduity, anything
but the driest, deadest reliques of antiquity,
curious for their age and rarity, valuable for
nothing else, unless it were an occasional
“curious allusion” to contemporary history
and manners. They failed to see the flesh
and blood in them, the palpitating life and
thought, the human reality; the yearnings,
the heartache, the gropings in darkness after
the light, the buoyancy, the sheer joy of liv-
ing, the high animal spirits of a nation in its
youth and adolescence. They did not realise
that in them the spirit of three centuries
strove to find expression. Hence their pre-
faces and introductions are dull, empty, un-
sympathetic and uninspiring. From the
rubbish-tips of Asia and the ihlgean, the
modern archaeologist is learning to recon-
struct the life of peoples* and civilisations,
lost and forgotten thousands of years ago.
How much more readily may we, from these
very human documents, reconstruct the life
of our own people living only from 300 to
000 years ago! In Dante “ten silent cen-
turies found a voice.” But that voice repre-
sented only the intellect of the few. To
know the sniritual condition of the masses
we must go to the popular poetry and drama,
written “by the people for the people.” In
our old miracle-plays and moralities lives the
spirit of Mediaeval England, the childlike
spirit of a primitive people, ignorant, simple,
superstitious, healthy, hard-working, humor-
ous ; loving a rough jest, a huge feast and a
good fight; on a work-day earnestly toiling
at their humble tasks, on a holy day heartily,
entering into their favorite open-air sports
—dancing and cudgel-play, wrestling and
singing. We picture them staring open-
mouthed at a pageant-play, laughing boister-
ously at the coarse buffoonery of clowns and
devils, trembling at the bombastic fury of
Herods and giants, weeping at the simple
pathos of an “Isaac” or an “Everyman,”
And through these old plays we may trace
the development of that spirit as it grows
towards manhood. During the first half of
the sixteenth century, scholars and teachers,,
the ardent propagandists of the New Learn-
■ ing and the Reformation, sought in the stage
a means of popular education and the dis-
semination of their doctrines. The Morality
was made to serve the same.purpose as the
modern “Home University Library” and
cheap reprint. “Lusty Juventus” propagated
the spirit of religious reform ; “The Nature
of the Four Elements” was a popular exposi-
tion of sixteenth-century science; “Wit and
Science” inculcated the love of learning
“Calisto and Melibea” introduced to the
masses the polite literature of contemporary
Europe; “Appius and Virginia” that of
ancient Rome; history and politics were
taught through the Chronicle plays. Then
the “university wits” began to take a hand.
Suddenly the romantic drama burst into full
glory. But the' spirit of the drama was still
popular. Shakspeare alone, in the univer-
sality of his humanity, rose above the bounds
of space and time. He reflected humanity as
a whole, irrespective of era and race; yet
in him, too, is clearly seen the national spirit
of Elizabethan England. It is. however, to
the minor writers of a period that we go in
search of the general trend of thought and
life during that period.
Of course William Carew did not bother
about all this. But at least he has preserved
for us, in handy form and in more or less
chronological order, a large amount of useful
material at which it would be otherwise
difficult or impossible to get. It is strange
that in so doing he should have destroyed
half its value even from his own dry-as-dust
viewpoint. By modernising the spelling he
has been betrayed into innumerable blunders
that would be entertaining did they not make
such lamentable nonsense of the text. Take
an example. In “Hickscorner” the rogue
Freewill laments the tribulations of footpads.
In a nautical metaphor he tells how they
prowl in search of prey, but, meeting w r ith a
constable, scuttle off for their lives. “Whan
theyr monaye is gone and spente,” he says:
With theyr longe botes they rowe on the baye,—-
And ony manne-of-warre lye by the waye,
They must take a bote and thrown the helme a-le ;
And full harde hyt is to scape that grete jeopardise.
Mr. H. has never heard of a “long boat,” so
lie prints “boots,” nor has he heard of
“throwing the helm a-lce,” so, despite the
rhymes, he prints “ale,” which, he explains,
“=heel.” Equally fine is an emendation a
little earlier in the same play. Contempla-
tion points his pious arguments with the cus-
tomary Latin tags and Freewill cries:
Nay, 1 have done and you lade out Latyn with
scopes!
But therewith can you cloute me a payre of botes?
“Nay, I have done, an you lade out Latin
| latten 1 with scoops, etc.” Yet Mr. 11.
prints:
Nay, I have done; and you laid out Latin with
scope,
But therewith can you clout me a pair of boots?
Which, as Euclid says, is absurd.
H. RUSSELL-YOUNG.
Advertisement
Advertisement has swept down upon
literature with an irresistible rush. Among
the egoists of last century, from Nietzsche,
Stirner and Heinrich Heine, Stendhal, Bau-
delaire and Maurice Barrfes down to Wilde
and Bernard Shaw, we find the same spirit,
the same desire to talk, the same mental
attitude towards the proletariat. There is
little difference between Nietzsche calling
the Germans “the Chinese of Europe” and
Shaw saying that the British Isles are
populated exclusively with comic characters;
between Beyle-Stendlial speaking of the
fidelity of women as contrary to nature and
Wilde saying that they represent the triumph
of matter over mind, "just as men represent
the triumph of mind over morals.” When
the author N of “Zarathustra” decries the
“herding instinct” he is in sympathy with
the creator of Cashel Byron ; when Nietzsche
writes solemnly upon the question of “Why
I am so wise” he is but anticipating the
seriousness of Shaw when he likens him-
self to Shakspeare.
When Stirner purred, “I am owner of my
might and I am so when I know myself to
be unique,” he sounded the keynote of the
whole system. “Advertise!” is the slogan
of the writer to-day ; the egoist has realised
that he is. created as much by advertisement
as by ability. It was a sad realisation, and
has been a slow one. For egoism is as old
as earth. “It began,” says Iluneker, “with
the first sentient male being. It has since
preserved the species, discovered the •inferi-
ority’ of women, made civilisation possible
and founded the fine arts.”
The art of advertisement has been under-
stood more fully in France than in England.
In the latter country Israel and Ireland
have led the way. The young Disraeli, eager
for fame, attired himself, in all the hues of
the rainbow. Wilde, coming to London with
an unsaleable book of poems, assumed knee-
breeches, wore his hair long and commenced
the sun-flower cult. Naturally, the French
have outstripped us in oddities. Barbe
D’Aurevilly paraded the boulevardes leading
a lobster on a silver chain; Baudelaire dyed
his hair green and hinted darkly iu the
salons of a murdered father and roasted
baby; Banes threatened to promenade in
the guise of primitive man, and Gautier
wore a revolutionary red waistcoat in troub-
lous times. All these men went outside then-
art to advertise themselves ; all were deter-
mined to “shock the bourgeois.” There are
always short cuts to publicity. The remark-
able thing is that to abuse the public is
still the surest Way. When the mannerisms
of dress reached the English they were
toned down to the level of Walter Pater
with his apple-green ties and bowl of faded
rose-leaves. But when ideas of advertise-
ment by other means scaled the cliffs of
“perfidious Albion,” they soon came to lus-
cious pasture. Again it was the Irishman.
“I am a charlatan'.” says Bernard Shaw in
his preface to “The Devil’s Disciple.” “I first
caught the ear of the British public on a
cart in Hyde Park to the blaring of brass
bands, and this not at all as a reluctant
sacrifice of my instincts of privacy to poli-
tical necessity When an actress writes
her memoirs, she impresses on you in every
chapter how cruelly it tried her feelings to
exhibit her person to the public gaze; but
she does not forget to decorate the book
with a dozen portraits of herself.” Adver-
tising methods constantly grow more com-
prehensive. . All those carefully-written “in-
terviews,” illustrated with special views of
Mr. Dank’s country estate where he wrote
the .well-known comedy, “No Flies on
Flossie,” with the author “about to set out
on a buttercup hunt”—they are all engi-
neered with the willing-co-operation of the
journals. In America these “interviews”
are often paid for—and highly—by the “in-
terviewed.” But no one worries. They
all realise, that in these hard times when
the pace is so good they must keep their
names continually before the people to stand
a chance. And (who knows!) the man
with the greatest perseverance and largest
fund of ideas for advertisement may eventu-
ally be buried in Westminster Abbey.
QUENTIN POPE.
In the Matter of the Free-lance
The free-lance m the mixed journalism
and literature of Australia is likely to be
a permanent feature of the inkv landscape
Something which no permanent staff can
regularly supply comes from the outside
pens of men, who. having the liberty of
aniyor.se, can pick up a thousand themes
which in the hurry of the day’s work the
(Continued on page So.)


u
1
\
-O
<s*.
r
•o
D^o9
S*
y
rtN
jsg
■v
-O
fir
\
>
Mi
K§)
d 200/as
ossa
In the Interests of Economy
WINTER COSTUMES
are best bought at
ANTHONY HORDERNS
Attractive, indeed, is the wide selection of
Winter Costumes offered by Anthony
Horderns’. They are Smart, they are Well-
made —and that the value is keen may be
gathered from these examples.
D269.—A Particularly Smart
Black Serge Costume, with a long
roll collar, and inset pockets, fin-
ished with feather tacks. The
coat is the fashionable finger-tip
length, and has c. self belt of
medium width. S.W., W., O.S.
PRICE 90/-
D322/8. —A Very Smart Costume, D322/6
the coat of which has a design of
braiding placed below the waistline at each
side. It has tailor collar and rever front, and a self
belt of medium width. In Fawn, Mastic or Putty.
S.W., W., O.S.
PRICE £5/15/6
NOT ILLUSTRATED.
D3o9.—Cosy indeed, this
Costume of Heather Mix-
ture Wool Tweed, in warm
tones of Brown. Tailored
collar and revers are details,
and the self belt is rather
wide. Inset pockets finished
with flaps and embellished
with buttons appear at either
side. S.W., W., O.S.
PRICE 67/6
D 323. Attractive indeed
this Costume of Gabardine,
with strips of braid running
the full length of the coat.
The roll collar is cut to give
the effect of revers, and an
all-round self belt of medium
width finished the coat. In
Fawn, Mastic or Nigger.
E.O.S.
PRICE 8 gns.
0323
Carriage Paid on Fashion Goods in N.S.W., and to the
nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons Ltd.
Box 2712
G.P.O.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Telephone
City 9440.
D2OO/21. —A Serge Costume
that is both smart and comfort-
able. It may be had in Black,
Navy or Nigger, and is smartly
cut, with fancy pocket effects at the sides.
The tailored collar and rever front are
attractive, and there is A narrow all-round
belt at the waist. S.W., W., O.S.
PRICE . 79/11
D3l2.—Cosy and Appealing Costume
of Cloth, which may be had in Nigger or
Navy. On each hip there are rows of
cable stitching, terminating with buttons.
The collar is tailored, and there is long
revers. S.W., W., O.S.
PRICE
87/6


The Combs that cut the Shearing' Costs
21"
4 j cut
Comb 4/-
Cutter 1/-
The “A”
Standard Comb and Cutter.
This is the combination that has occupied the premier
position for many years. The cutting-edges, bevels and the
whole of the design ensure biggest tallies for least labor.
The cutter has plenty of wearing surface at the fork end
and great depth, giving it long life. The “Plain-back”
Cutter is a slight variation from the Standard, specially
made for light-woolled sheep, such as are found in Queens-
land.
The steel from which all “Lister” Combs and Cutters are
made is the outcome of countless laboratory, workshop and
shearing-shed experiments, and represents the highest possible
achievements in comb and cutter manufacture. The result
is that “Lister” Combs and Cutters take the keenest edge
and keep it longer than any other. There is less grinding
and, therefore, less expense in using “Listers.” To meet
the varying conditions in different parts of the Common-
wealth, “Lister” Combs and Cutters are made in several
styles and widths. Each is designed for a special purpose
and all are guaranteed of uniform quality and finish. They
reach you ready to put into the wool.
I
3"
8
cut
Comb 4
Cutter 1/-
The “Flier”
Intermediate Comb and Cutter.
The Lister “Flier” Comb was the great hit of the 1921
season and was used in thousands. Its great popularity is
due to its being the widest-cutting Comb possible with the
Standard 1/- Cutter, and also the widest-cutting Comb at
4/-. It is universally recognised as a beautiful-cutting
comb, entering the densest wool freely without picking up
skin.
For this season Listers have made a perfect combination
by introducing the special “Flier” Cutter—sold at the same
price as Standard—and with the usual “Lister” properties
of fast-cutting and edge-holding.
f
I
1"
2
cut
Comb 4/6
Cutter 1/3
The MsTffß
“Racer”
Medium Comb (10-tooth) and Cutter.
This is the widest Comb allowed by the A.W.U. and
undoubtedly the comb of the futuve. It is designed to take
the place of the 11-tooth Medium Comh which has been
proved mechanically wrong when used with a 3-tooth cutter
The Lister “Racer” can be used with a 3-tooth cutter with
perfect results on any handpiece without any special fork or
fork-spring. -It is made with an exceptionally wide-cutting
surface over the whole length of each tooth, obviating anv
danger of picking up skin, even when the comb is ground
right down. Shearers who have used this comb already
pronounce it the finest and cleanest-cutting comb ever put
into wool.
The “Racer” can be used with Standard Medium' Cutter,
but gives best results when combined with the “Racer”
Cutter —a 1922 introduction. This cutter is specially
arranged to get the full pressure over the centre of each
outside tooth instead of on the inside as with the usual
Medium Cutter. The result is a liveliness and steadiness
of action which, in conjunction with the “Racer” Comb, is
worth something like six sheep per run to any good shearer.
IS
CHIEF AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
INTERSTATE AGENTS :
Q’land: WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Brisbane
S.A.. . CLUTTERBUCK BROS. (Adelaide) LTD., Adelaide
W.A... MALLOCH BROS., Perth
Tas.. . WEBSTER & SONS, LTD., Hobart and Launceston
PROFIT from WASTE with
jBIFBBJLBIt* Home "Wool Scourer
5
SQUATTERS
HH
to the Market, Scooa YomWoot at Horn
m
mm
>
BBS
m
m
m
« V :
I
■
BUBBLER*Demonstration by DAWSdt SYDNEY&OYAL SHOW
The “Bubbler” is a small, patent wool-
scouring plant, invented by a West
Australian wool-classer, for home
scouring low grade, dingy, dusty wool,
bellies, pieces, stained pieces, locks or
dead wool. You can scour in the quiet
time after shearing, at a cost of about
lfd. per lb. (on the clean wool).
The saving effected will more than
justify the cost of the plant in one
season. The outfit is worked in con-
junction with any ordinary windmill
water supply. Expert labor is not
necessary—any novice can work the
plant. Follow the simple directions
and mistakes are impossible.
You will be surprised at the results.
No matter how hard the water is, you
can take at least 95 per cent, of the
dirt out of the wool, and make market-
able what otherwise would be waste
product.
The smaller size “Bubbler” has a
capacity of 5 bales a day, and the
larger size a capacity of a bale an
hour. These plants are alreadv in-
stalled and giving complete satisfac-
tion on some of the largest holdings in
Western Australia, including Austin
Downs, Mulga Downs, Boolardy, Yar-
rabubba, Burbina, Wad-
gee, Glenburg, Rio Tinto, Yalgoo and
other stations.
Write for pamphlet and testimonials.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTf LTD.
324 530 Pill SI. Sydney39l4o3Bout'keSl.rielbouriie.


PINKETTES
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath, Will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL, INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALE WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
MONARCH
The Cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
dfg
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6; 50,
23/9; 100,
46/-
Post paid to any
address,
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
"V
A woman’s attractiveness is
infinitely increased by hair of
a beautiful
Walnut Color
Why not add to your charms
by its possession?
So easily obtained with
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Perfectly harmless to the
skin, permanent and water-
proof. All chemists.
Jhe
Denver
g
Elastic
Ti
uss
RUPTURE
is not such a serious matter when a properly-
fitting truss is worn. Insurance companies
will insure your life if you consent to wear
a proper truss.
DENYER’S ELASTIC TRUSS
is a. well-known true support and safeguard,
providing comfort and freedom in any posi-
tion of the body.
Delays are dangerous. Call or write to-day
if you need a truss, and your inquiry will
be expertly attended to.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
" 281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Use....
L
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
1
EVERYBODY DOTES
Uncleiobv’s
VQatsx
A delightful breakfast food
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
•T. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
.Manager, who will quote you price for it.
20
TWO
SHILLINGS
ORSS
§yr
it^y
Gl*s
m
G/N
fil«
e
TURF
Dlft VIRGINIA
DIU CIGARETTES
The irresistible Cigarette
for discriminating Smokers
Turf Cigarettes make an epoch in cigarettes.
Beautifully made with golden leaf from the
famed Old Belt and Eastern Carolina
Districts of Virginia they are irresistible
to the man of taste.
Turf Virginia burn slowly and smoke sweetly
and have a softness at once distinctive.
Be sure to buy Turf —the Big Handsome
Cigarettes—2o for two shillings.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL TOBACCONISTS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Made by
Alex. Boguslavsky, Ltd-
-55, Piccadilly,
LONDON,
England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Unbearable.
This room is full of ghosts: 1 dure not loan
My face towards the wall, lest moving
round
My frail form one would touch. There
is no sound
But that of falling tears. Someone unseen
Breathes a dear sigh of pity. Is it God?
Or just the brush of angels’ wings that pass
Low, delicate, as the fall of dew on grass.
We said “good-bye” because you feared too
much
The essence spirit of me, my breath, my
touch,
I might have stilled the yearning and its
fears
Had I not seen that old familiar scar
Upon your mouth (where all my kisses
are),
Oh, small familiar thing, whose memory
sears!
There is no sound but that of falling tears!
new York.
HELEN JEROME.
To Joan.
I do not wish to sing the threne
Of lovely things that once have been;
Or weep that Helen now is gone,
Who walked the streets of Ilion
And watched the sunlight on the spears;
Or strain to tear down wide-wrenched years
To reach the lips of Iseult there.
I move my fingers through your hair.
Whv should I sing of Babylon
And how its splendors all are gone,
Who still have Babylon in my mind,
Where stranger forms and joys I find?
And when day dies, upon the night
In warm swift arabesques of light,
Steal out, amid the flowers and pearls,
A thousand naked dancing girls.
n.s.w.
J. LINDSAY.
Silk Stocking's.
The Prince besought the silkworm on the
i bough,
Where the ripe mulberries dripped honeyed
blood,
To spin a slender sheath, incurving now
And now expanding in more generous
mood,
To clasp his lady’s lovely ankles tight
That they might glimmer in the moonless
night
When fairies dance about the magic thorn,
His fairy’s limbs might twinkle like the
morn!
And envious fairy gentlemen at Court
Filched the floss-threads from thistle-tops,
to make
Hose for the partners whom their fancy
sought,
That maids might love them for the stock-
ings’ sake!
And foot it just as featly in the dance
As proud Titania, whom a happier chance
Donated, for her feet as white as milk, »
The close caressing of the finer silk!
Let prudes complain and grim economy
Wage war on these pure silken hose. We
know
Silk stockings have a hint of witchery
Suggesting rose-leaf textures hid below,
Whispering of Folly in the merry dance,
Of eyes demure, and Quaker gowns, and
chance
Or sly intent conceding to the flesh.
And hiding modest limbs in silken mesh !
The mistress'of a king in days of old,
Concealing ugly pasterns at the Court,
Brought long gowns into fashion, we are
told.
Another, with trim ankles, made them
short!
And bales of silken stockings came from
France —
So Fashion changes at the sport of Chance.
Till Prudery rose to lower every hem —
Grey knitted worsted did as well for them!
Time lifts a curtain and we see their feet—
Some in black shoes with flashing scarlet
heels,
Some in the flat, smooth satin, slim and
neat,
Only the feet and ankles Time reveals,
And we try hard to judge, as to and fro
They pass, the faces from the feet below !
These surely to a Charlotte have belonged,
And these Belinda, for no lovers thronged
After this flat and hideous support
Of Cinderella’s sisters ! What a sight!
Across the instep into ridges caught.
And round the big-boned ankle far too
tight!
While tripping as a wood nymph’s after
these
Arched insteps in glass slippers, if you
please!
That step quite haughtily, all shyness flown,
Into a carriage from a pumpkin grown!
There is romance in silken stockings, set
On velvet footstools before glowing fires,
When shutters in the gales of winter fret.
And fog shuts out the city and its spires,
And you and she contrive a honeymoon.
You reading from some tome a pixy rune.
Conscious the while how the reflected flame
Caresses each dear ankle in your name!
Till you believe you are that fairy prince
(A mulberry splashed then upon your
shield !)
The pricking of your dagger made it wince,
That crafty silkworm, whom it caused to
yield
Silk for the spinning of Titania’s hose,
The while you begged a flower to stain them
rose!
That she might dance with you from dusk
to morn,
Belle of the ball about the magic thorn!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


7
/
/
» *4 *
.2 r * l - - : -
iM/O
%
@S%
j «f^i
If
<2SS£
* Aft
•*w/
- y 1
jJdfv
Vf>Vi
f W&*s : e
YvXM&h
y^k^y,
.-• &&trAJ
Rt
£
*C=.
i*»
•v- !
s
I\
SS?
«H,. V
>** ■'S&
a#
3JV£'**‘Wr ; jj<*
38?
pS*
«r*>;
aras
m
ME
<.v.
Si '%“• •>„ '%£ -
y •;
*‘V
SI
•• v^SpC-
iSsS^^
£*3.
s;
iP
w&
mm
mm
-I»#5P
STARTS
TO-DAY
June 22.
Ten per cent, discount
(2/- in the £) is
allowed off all goods
excepting a few pro-
prietary lines.
FOR EVERY £1 SPENT 2j- IS SAVED
Listed below are a few items characteristic of the genuine sale values at Gowings’.
Country customers can safely order from our Catalogue, with the knowledge that ten per
cent, discount is allowed off all regular prices. If you have not a Catalogue, write for
post-free copy.
MEN'S SUITS TO MEASURE of good quality Tweeds, in Neat Dark
Grey and Brown Shades. Patterns and self-measulrement forms
on request.
Usual Price 84/-
Less 10 per cent, discount
“THE BOSKER RUG"—Famous all over Australia. An extra-
large-size rug, 6ft. Sin. x Sft. 4in., larger than a double-bed
blanket. In light and dark check designs.
Usual Price 42/-
Less 10 per cent, discount
37/10
75/6
MEN'S RAINCOATS of Proofed Gabardine, in Fawn Shades.
Check lined. All sizes.
Usual Price 84/-
Reduced to 63/-
Less 10 per cent, discount
56|9
MEN’S BLACK CALF BOOTS, Balmoral or Derby cut, with
genuine welted soles. Three shapes. Sizes sto 10.
Usual Price 28/6
Reduced to 22/-
Less 10 per cent, discount
19/10
CARkIAGE IS PAID on ALL ORDERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
COWING BROS. LTD.,
Branch at 304 George Street,
486 George Street,
SYDNEY.
And Specialty Hat Store at 454 George Street,


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2210.
THU USD AY, JUNE 22, 1922.
Pkice G».
WHEN SOUTH IS SOUTH AND NORTH IS NORTH.
Being a picture of Barwell trying to convince Hughes that white’s black.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
( 0., 214 George Street, S.vdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbouiine Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ant address in Australasia, weekly:
Id months, £1 Gs.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, is.
To ant address Overseas t 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Uusiuess Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Tetters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed, Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, ivill be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid fot as a
Suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
und Gutch, Ludgale Circus; and IP. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Ilouse, Dreams Buildings, London L.CJi;
E. T. Hole, liolerth Satire Service, IS Fleet Street,
London, L.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 31 High
llolborn, Loudon, IPX'./.
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, li.C.
U.S.A, — Chicago: J. Poland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Doulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentario’s. 3th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn X Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore.— John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Ilarry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.— Gordon & Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
U.s.A.'— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth : 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: J/OZ.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: foz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, JUNE 22, 1922.
LET THE MAJORITY RULE.
The gloom in which the late N. Wales
Labor Conference was enveloped when it
met to consider the party’s lost leaders and
broken fortunes was lightened by gleams
of sanity. In one of these lucid intervals,
which encourage the hope that Labor-in-
politics will eventually recover its reason,
the proposal of Buckley, ex-M.L.A., that
contortional misrepresentation should be
abolished and the single electorate restored
was carried by 77 votes to 35, a majority
so large that it will be unhealthy for the
Labor Assemblymen to flout it. Tlie Nation-
alist members, or a majority of them, are
also known to be against the freak system
which the dying Holman Government be-
queathed to a country that hadn’t asked for
it, along with the deficit, the super-tax and
the wheat scandals. Certainly, the National
Federation has registered its opposition to
Holman’s electoral nostrum in language
very different from the pallid diction of most
Nationalist pronunciamentos. The Progres-
sives, being a minority, are supposed to have
a lingering prejudice in favor of propor-
tionalism, but they are open to conviction.
Let it be demonstrated that their party
would fare better under the single-electorate
system, with preferential voting, and they
would sacrifice the present cranky expedient
without a pang. Anyhow, it is beyond their
power to save it, even if they support it in
a body, unless the Nationalists go back on
their principles and the Laborites on the
instructions of their Conference. The num-
bers are up. F.R. (i.e., Pernicious Rot) is
doomed whenever Premier Fuller says the
word. He is not likely to say it in 1022,
for it is the ineradicable habit of Australian
politicians to let important reforms slide
until the last moment, and then botch them,
but there is nothing to prevent the early and
total repeal of the Casual Fakirs (or Vacan-
cies) Act. The thing could be done ill a
bill of two or three simple clauses.
By the erasure of that blot on the
Statute-book, the people would regain a
right of which the Pernicious Rotters have
deprived them —the right to choose their
own representatives when vacancies occur
during the term of a Parliament, and to
express their opinion, in the old significant
and valuable manner, about the crowd in
ofli'ce.
• > • •
Proportional Representation is one of
those imported fads which are inflicted on
Australia because they have worked well in
Belgium or in some other foreign country where
the conditions are altogether different. In
theory, it has as many points in its favor
as daylight saving, which became fashion-
able about the same time and for the same
reason—that Europe had taken a fancy to
it—find, in practice, it has been as ghastly
a failure. To the doctrinaire type of mind
the idea of giving minorities representa-
tion according to their voting strength
is attractive. But our system of gov-
ernment is founded on the principle
of rule by majority, The Australian con-
siders, with Lincoln, that “a majority, held
in restraint by constitutional checks and
balances, is the only legitimate sovereign of
a free people.” Ana under Proportional Re-
presentation, as it works in Tasmania and
N. S. Wales, the difficulty is to find the
majority and to prevent minorities—who
may be representatives of interests, more or
less important, or merely individual job-
hunters or trouble makers —from running the
show. In the Speck, for instance, the poli-
tical situation was unsettled for years by
the caprices of an Independent who fulfilled
Dtskaeij’s definition of that kind of politi-
cian—one who cannot be depended upon.
Without contortional misrepresentation this
person could not have politically existed, for
single electorates don’t nourish Wiiitsitts ;
it was contortional misrepresentation that
lifted him from obscurity into a position of
extraordinary power. The Government has
been delivered from the whims of Whit-
sitt only to fall under the domination of
the Cocky faction. As happens so often
under a system which aggrandises minori-
ties and ignores the necessity for Respon-
sible Government, no party secured a majo-
rity at the recent election, and the Admin-
istration can only carry on by grace of a
third party. Which means that the legisla-
tion and public expenditure of Tasmania will
be determined during the next three years
by a group of members new to Parliament
and representing barely a sixth of the voters.
The Ala State’s first experiment in propor-
tionalism was equally unsatisfactory. After
a confused and very costly election, at which
only about 50 per cent, or the electors voted,
and nearly 10 per cent, of those invalidated
their ballot-papers, there were 45 members
on each side of the House. Followed two
years of intrigue and turmoil, of bad legis-
lation and worse administration, without
parallel even in the malodorous history of
N. S. Wales politics. After the Speakership
hail been hawked about the Chamber with
cynical impudence, a Nationalist accepted
it, and the Labor party waltzed into office.
Two dangerous opponents were promptly got
rid of by being appointed to the Bench.
These and other vacancies were filled, with-
out reference to the people, by the nomina-
tion of candidates defeated at the election.
In course of time so many of these vacan-
cies occurred that when a stopgap Senator
had to be chosen by the two Houses, sitting
as one, there were seven more nominated
than elected members; also, in one case, a
person who had never stood for Parliament
was promoted to the Assembly, the supply
of defeated candidates having run out. This
travesty of popular government was ended
by the sudden resignation of the Speaker ;
and the Government reluctantly went to the
country after extraordinary attempts to
secure a successor—£sooo is alleged to have
been mentioned in one instance—had failed.
* * * *
Again no party was returned with a
workable majority. In this respect, the
second N. S. Wales election decided by pro-
portional voting was as unsatisfactory as
the first. The Nationalists, who would assur-
edly have gained a majority under the sys-
tem which contortional misrepresentation
displaced, are in office with 42 members in
a. House of 90. Their Government exists by
favor of nine Progressives, one of whom
has cheerfully announced that if it doesn’t
conform to the Progressive policy it will be
turned out; and there are four Independents
to complicate matters if the Progressive
group splits, as it did last vear. But bad as
this position is, poor as is the prospect of
getting sound and stable government during
the lifetime of an Assembly so constituted,
it might have been worse. There was a
danger of the parties being so equally divided
that one or other could only reach office
by pandering to the Protestant mem-
ber for Newcastle, who holds strong
views on the Ne Temere decree and
convents, or to the Catholic member for
Eastern Suburbs, who demands a thumping
subsidy for R.C. schools. These and similar
enormities are always possible under contor-
tional misrepresentation. There is not a
million-to-one chance of their happening
under single-electorate rules. In no part of
Australia where single electorates obtain
could a Protestant or a Catholic or a Pro-
hibitionist or a Bolshevist be elected as such.
For this reason alone—for the prospect it
opens up of the State being blackmailed or
held to ransom by minorities, individuals
even—contortional misrqpjreseutatiou. -„de.-
serves a sudden blo\v with a sharp axe. Other
counts in the indictment are that it has
(1) swollen the cost of elections both to the
country and the candidate, in the latter
respect increasing the power of the machine :
(2) set up sordid divisions between mem-
bers of the same party by inducing a desper-
ate scramble for No. 1 votes; (3) destroyed
the old and useful intimacy between the
politician and his constituency; 14) absurdly
complicated the maehinerv for the provision
of local wants and the redress of grievances ;
and (5) deprived the people of their right
to vote at by-elections, an institution of the
greatest value. Contortional misrepresenta-
tion should be discarded, and the sooner the
better, in favor of preferential voting with
single electorates, as in Westralia; and
there is no reason why the Bill enacting it
shouldn’t declare the pre-selection swindle
illegal. Preferential voting is the best device
yet discovered for ascertaining the will -of
the majority. And the majority must govern,
if democracy is to endure.
OUR ELOQUENT VISITOR.
It is an axiom that the present-day politi-
cian delights in side-issues, and flees from
the obvious. He misses the view, and only
views the mist. To this defect are due many of
the problems that are harassing the Empire in
a large way to-day, and the Sastri mission
is a case in point. Tins brilliant native is
here on a side-issue, and he never would
have been invited here, but for th£ fatal
view that side-issues do not matter. It is
absurd that the alleged disabilities of two or
three thousand Indians in Australia, and
of less than a thousand in M.L., should form
the real reason for the presence in our
midst of India’s best-advertised Imperialist.
Australia and M.L. accepted the principles
laid down at the last Imperial Conference
that Indians lawfully domiciled in any part
of the Empire should enjoy the rights of
citizenship, and the assistance of Mr.
Sastri is in no way required for the pur-
pose of translating that principle into prac-
tice. It is noticeable, too, that in the speeches
he has made and in the interviews he has
given our visitor has had little or nothing
to say about the disabilities of his country-
men in this country; while several of them
have written to the papers to deny that they
labor under any disabilities worth talking
about. There has been mention of a refusal
of mining rights, of the old-age pension and
of motherhood benefits; but even such
wrongs, where they exist, affect so small a
proportion of the domiciled Indian popula-
tion as to be out of all proportion to the
dignity and importance of the envoy. Tigers
do not hunt flies! But if we have not heard
much about the woes of Sastri’s fellow-
countrymen here, we have heard a good deal
about the wrongs of India, about “Swaraj”
or Home Rule, and about the Indian demand
for democracy. These are the real, though
not the ostensible, reasons for his visit. In
accordance with well-established Oriental
practice, while he nourishes his finger, lie
neglects not his heart !
In what way, then, are the disabilities of
Indians in the Empire connected with the
progress of “Swaraj” in India, and in what
way is Australia particularly connected
therewith? The mission of the Dominions
is to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for
the advocates of separation. If Indians
domiciled in the Empire be deemed worthy
of full citizen rights, then assuredly Indians
in India must be at least equally' fitted to
exercise similar rights. The argument' is,
to the Oriental mind, incontrovertible. The
campaign is opened in Australia because
here Indians have wider rights than any-
where else. If still wider liberties be now
granted, a lever will have been obtained
to force open the doors elsewhere. “Aus-
tralia’s little measure of justice will be the
means of facilitating similar work elsewhere,”
observed the nation’s guest on Thursday
last. Consideration of Sastri’s pleading,
therefore, must involve careful consideration
of what acquiescence will mean in India, if
only, to use his own words, because “we
are all partners in the Empire.” Opinion
should not be swayed by eloquence, nor rea-
son by flattery. What Australia is asked
to do to-day, Canada is to be asked to do
to-morrow and South Africa the next day,
and then will follow the final demand for
complete Home Rule in India, “if,” as is
suavely suggested, “India is to be kept within
the Empire.” Thus will the circle have
been turned and merit acquired. But this
will not be the end by any means. If and
when India obtains Home Rule the next de-
mand will be for free migration within the
Empire in which India is an equal partner,
and again the suggestion will arise that, if
the privilege be refused, India will secede.
It is futile for this soft-spoken diplomat to
assure the cheering tradesmen of the Mil-
lions Club that India. will not challenge the
immigration policy of the Dominions. She
will do so, as soon as she can, and that will
be the moment she gets Home Rule.
* # * *
Whether the 300 millions of Indians want
Home Rule or any other democratic insti-
tution is quite a different matter. The
instincts and traditions of the East cannot
be revolutionised by draft constitutions, nol-
its troubles soothed by shibboleths. “Swaraj”
means absolutely nothing to 90 per cent, of
the population of India. Whatever his race
or caste, the Indian is aristocratic. Gov-
ernment is to him a divine gift to be exer-
cised absolutely by God’s anointed and
obeyed unquestioningly by everyone. A
ruler who is not absolute has lost, to the
Indian mind, the essential attribute of king-
ship. Democracy is government by the
power of public opinion, which does not exist
in India. There is not even an Indian
nation. There can be no national opinion
in a country where less than 10 per cent,
of the people read and write ; where fewer
than two millions out of 300 millions exer-
cise the franchise; and where there are
thousands of different castes and creeds
whose members, like the enthusiasts of
Hudibras, hate each other for the love of
God, and enforce their doctrines orthodox,
by apostolic blows and knocks. “Swaraj” is
the monopoly of a very few, some
of whom _ are altruists, some fanatics,
some idealists and some scoundrels. And
not one of them can truly claim to
represent India. It is as obvious as the
sun that Home Rule will not cure the ills
of India, which are the same to-day as yester-
day and the day before. Man, like the
beast, is most affected by the frequency and
quality of his food. Indian unrest is due
to chronic poverty and to the high cost of
living, which is the legacy of war and post-
war prosperity and the appreciation of
silver. This unrest has been exploited by
the politicians, who have promised vaguely
but vigorously that “Swaraj” is the panacea.
The reformer tells the starving ryot that
things will be better when the raj goes;
while hope is simultaneously held out that
pending the forcible expulsion of the whites,
fnany concessions may be got from them, in
the Dominions, as well as in India, by
threats. And that is the true basis of the
present movement in India. Sastri may
deny it. Indeed, it is quite probable that
nothing is further from his mind, for
amongst the reformers this “Servant of
India” stands apart as the thumb from the
fingers; yet these things are implicit in the
policy he advocates, and any yielding on
the part of Australia will consequently
amount to a felon blow at that Empire
which the people who are making much of
W. M. Hughes’s friend claim to love be-
yond all else.
THE PROBABLE INSANITY OF THE
DEVIL.
In the view of a large and influential school
of humanitarians, every criminal is innocent,
provided he is reasonably young, not worse-
looking than a mandrill, that his line was
homicide, and that he killed a female person,
or a terrace of females, under horrible, or,
at least, thrilling circumstances. The
female should be young also. Then he re-
ceives sympathy, advice and even offers of
marriage from maidens in their prime and
moneyed widows of the well-preserved order,
hmch one hopes that she may be chosen;
that her iniended may escape by a chance
or miracle; that they may live happily ever
afterwards, and that, lying awake on the
honorable marriage bed on windy nights, he
may tell her in low, soft tones about the
body.
A fair number of people warmly cham-
pioned the cause of Henry Wainwriuht
(.London, 1875), who may be ijuoted from
among a thousand others because he was a
leully difficult case to defend. The scene is
an ordinary muddy London street. Enter
Henry, an ordinary person, with no out-
standing literary, artistic or social gifts,
carrying a swag—or was it two swags -
They were untidy and ill-fastened, lie en-
gaged one of the innumerable seedy waiters-
on-events that abound in the world’s richest
city to help with the swags. Later, with
unpardonable carelessness, he left the
hanger-on alone for a minute while lie
hunted for a cab. A hurried investigation re-
vealed that the swag contained the chopped-
up ruins of young Harriet Lane, under-
stood to be Henry’s mistress. There is
always sympathy for the accused (provided
he is accused on a big scale, and hasn’t
simply prigged washing oft' a line) who
faces destiny with the flashing eye and
dauntless mien of conscious innocence. The
firm voice with which Henry disclaimed all
responsibility for Harriet, and the power-
ful yet melodious tones in which he re-
fused to explain why he was carrying
her remnants about the streets, ring
down the corridors of Time to this day.
Somebody—l fancy it was a Christian Isra-
elite philosopher— suggested that Harriet
had cut herself up, in combination with an
international society at Moscow, having pre-
viously hypnotised Henry so that lie had
to carry the debris around. When it was
too late a complete alibi and also proof of
temporary insanity were found for Henry.
These were what Cain required.
In the recent Gun-alley case (Melbourne)
the defendant had the eye and the voice
which cast back the accusation like a dinner-
bell, and the resounding or gong-like alibi.
(The Tichuorne claimant, an uncouth
monster weighing 26 stone, who had dis-
guised himself as a butcher at Wagga for
many years to avoid being a baronet with
£40,000 per annum, had the first two, but
his size precluded the alibi; besides his whole
case was that he was there, while the other
side said he had been dead many years.)
Colin Ross was the subject of much sym-
pathy and quarts of emotion. Because the
crime was so picturesque or grotesque, any
other young man, charged on any evidence
with the slaying of the same or any similar
young woman, would have been treated the
same. No real full-blown humanitarian
would have been satisfied with any other
theory than that little Alma, with the
unspeliable surname, for some beautiful but
inscrutable reason, lay down tidily in Gun-
alley (after hiding behind her package of
meat all day), ate her clothes and boots,
commended her soul to Heaven, and gently
passed away. Also, that not only the
accused, but every other person who could
possibly be accused, was 10 miles away at
the time, whatever the time might be, and
wrapped in spiritual contemplation.
Any leaning I have, which isn’t much (I
never was in the sympathetic Tower-of-Pisa
business), tends rather towards Horatio Bot-
TOjVELEY, though his name lacks beauty. He
committed no crime which could be pic-
tured in the homicidal press, accompanied
by a cross showing where the swindle was
found lying dead with its brains scattered
all over the place; therefore maids and grass-
widows and men with monkey-shaves didn’t
seek to slump on his bosom. But no pocket
electric torch ever looked the Judge in the
eye more firmly, nor did any bittern pro-
testing its innocence in a swamp ever
boom more boomfully. As for the courage
of effrontery, Bottomley was actually
tried at his own request—and I can’t re-
call any Wainwright or other homicide,
however game he might be to the .finish, who
set the ball rolling by carrying the body to
a police station, and laying it on the ser-
geant’s desk and clamoring to have his repu-
tation cleared. (Quite irrelevantly, another
man who made a splash in criminal records
was also put on trial at his own request —
Marshal Bazaine, whom even his worst
enemies only charged with betraying two
emperors, two countries, one fortress
and a great army, also drinking, keep-
ing a harem, and poisoning his first
wife —the lady he “picked up under a lamp-
post.”) Bottomley suffered under two
handicaps as compared with the plainest
and humblest homicide. lie couldn’t plead
an alibi and mistaken identity owing to his
constant attendance at his 'office, and he
couldn’t prove himself insane without de-
stroying his business, whereas the homicide
wants to destroy his alleged business, and
even to prove that he never had one. A
man so handicapped calls for sympathy, and
the lack of female sympathy aggravates his
case.
Incidentally, I would like to appear with
a capable junior, and advance both familiar
pleas on behalf of our old friend the Devil,
if he ever gets a fair hearing. The case
against him is full of holes. He makes his
first appearance as a footless creature in
Genesis iii, and his second (I think) as
a robust, chatty pedestrian in Job i. One
of these persons, and, perhaps, both, look
like mistaken identity. There were no con-
victions prior to Genesis, and no descrip-
tion was ever handed to the police, nor any
details re parentage, clothing or residence.
These are some materials for the alibi. As
regards the other plea, it is reasonable to
assume that either the Devil appears in his
lucid intervals, and that his secrecy in be-
tween is the cunning of insanity, or that
he only turns up and devils when he is mad,
and pursues some wholly different occ-upa-
tion at other times, like the sedate Chinese
clerk of Canton, who takes a week’s holiday


to go pirating when he feels the call in his
blood. The bright, sociable devil and the
recluse are dissimilar. The purposeless and
profitless nature of the crimes charged
against the Devil, and his utter avoidance
of family ties, all hint at the unbalanced
mind. He is still young—s 926 years if he
and Adam started abreast, and that is in-
fancy for an immortal. This, would garnish
the defence with the additional plea of
youthful irresponsibility aggravated by an
orphaned state. He seems to have been just
out of the egg when first charged, and there
is no record that anyone has said a kind word
to or for him since. If put under gentle but
firm restraint he might, or the jury might
think he might, develop into a useful citi-
zen. Failing everything else I would plead
non-existence, and say that the accused was
merely the pink unicorn that the first
delirium-tremens patient saw when ill, and
sketched on recovery. Here the defence
would branch off into a heated dissertation
on Prohibition.
I don’t suppose there would be much in
this line of defence that would help Bottom-
ley or the homicide either, but it should be
an interesting case none the less. The rush
of female society to rally round the defen-
dant if its worst suspicions were confirmed
would be a record.
CLIFFORD SNOOK.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Baffled.
Sydney Telegraph remarked the other day
in a hushed tone, as if somebody was lying
dead in the next room, that “even Mr.
Hughes has had to admit that he is more
or less baffled in trying to account for the
slump in the Australian steel industry.”
Why the “even” when timely haze is notori-
ously one of Hughes’s strongest points? When
it is politic to be non-committal he would
be baffled in the effort to find his way
through the open gate of Sydney Botanical
Gardens. Thus, after 28 years of politics, he
professes, pending the jumping of the cat,
to have formed no more opinion than a nude
baby about the New State movement. The
slump in the steel industry is partly due to
the fact that, to the end of 1921, wages were
still going, or being pushed, up, and in N.
S. Wales they were pushed highest. In the
last month of the war the average male
weekly pay was 655. lid. When the war-
wage rose to 955. lOd. in the third year of
the peace payment became difficult. The
man who paid the wage was receiving less
for his goods. The packet of all-sorts which
brought him 38s. 9d. at September, 1920,
was only worth 31s. 9d. at December, 1921.
Then a» State Government brought up on
strictly Hughes doctrines knocked one-
twelfth off the iron-and-steel employers’ in-
comes, but nothing in particular off their
expenses, by telling the men to devote all
Saturday to pony-racing, instead of only
half of it. The average price of coal, small
and large, x'ose, or was pushed, from 7s.
and 11s. (average 95.) per ton to 17s. 9d.
and 21s. 9d. (average 19s. 9d.). This
rise, to a great extent, came during the
peace, and a good deal of it after the be-
ginning of the price slump. It was largely
ascribed to the meddling habits of Mr.
Hughes. His Coal Tribunal, which, had
it met with better success, might have served
as a model for a Cauliflower Tribunal and
many othei-s, shoved up wages to please the
employees, and prices to correspondingly
aid the employers. When sufficient of the
cost of all these last straws was added to
the price of steel to make business barely
possible, orders absolutely ceased to come
in, and about 5000 men went out. With
a very big increase in the tariff work might
resume, but the new price of steel would
have a surprising effect on, among other
things, the railway accounts, and those of
N. S. Wales are already at such a shocking-
pass that the Cornmissioner wants a steady
allowance of £850,000 a year out of taxes
to prevent them closing up. The spectacle
of a baffled and blighted, not to say boggled.
Prime Minister gazing at the wreckage of
the steel industry, and wholly unable to
guess what struck it, is characteristic. Sup-
posing he discovered Sydney in flames he
would orobably find it equally hard to decide
—pending such time as he was assured of
how the matter might affect the approaching
Federal elections —whether the conflagra-
tion was a tidal wave or an epidemic.
The Grievances of W.A.
No Westralian of normal mentality wants to
see his State cut the Federal painter. And
no public man in Groperland eould indulge
such an idea without the risk of incurring
the comment of Francis Villon on his host
in Stevenson’s “A Lodging for the Night”:
“Age, age, the brains stiff and rheumatic.”
The lapse would assuredly awaken suspicion
t'hat he was in his senile dotage. But even
the present W.A. Government not long ago
gave a local statistician the job of trying
compute “how much Federation has cost
W.A.” Some allowance may be made for
an Administration that has got behind on its
revenue and expenditure figures to the extent
of nearly six millions in less than twice as
many years, and is desperately seeking to
divert attention from its own shortcomings
—and the Federal Government is obviously
the handiest of scapegoats. • The statistician
collected and wrestled with a lot of figures,
and reported that Federation has cost the
western State several millions. Perhaps
it was as well for him that he wasn’t asked
to compute how much it would have cost
W.A. if it had kept aloof from Federation,
like Newfoundland did, or how many things
at present in its possession it would have
had to do without for lack of the money to
pay for them. That would have been a much
more formidable task. The list would begin,
of course, with the Great Western railway.
But what is the use of all this hypothetical
calculating about what might have been and
couldn’t be? Gan anybody feature a W.A.
sending troops to the world war on its own,
and footing its own war bill afterwards? If
the State hadn’t come into Federation on the
ground floor in 1901, when the old Groper
and parochial element desperately but vainly
sought to keep it out, it would have paid
pretty dearly for its isolation. And the
longer it persisted in that isolation the
heavier would have been the price. That it
may have suffered, and has suffered, in many
minor ways and some serious ones, by being
a numerically small and exceedingly remote
State in a Federation dominated by Eastern
Australian influences and directed 2000 miles
away, is unquestionable. Such injustices and
grievances won’t be remedied by reviling
Federation in the abstract. The hands of
the clock cannot be put back. And it is at
least interesting to note that while Federal
centralisation (at Melbourne) is perpetually
moving Perth to indignant protest, the press
of Ivalgoorlie, Albany, Geraldton and several
other pl_aces_ is no less frequently addicted
to bursting into resentment over the policy,
which it regards as even more calamitous,
of State centralisation (at Birth). In fact,
it looks as if the Subdivision of States move-
ment, when it arrives in the range of prac-
tical politics, will nowhere find heartier sup-
porters than in at least three outlying por-
tions of huge, unwieldy W.A., three tracts
of country which chafe at being governed and
administered from Perth quite as much as
Perth chafes at being federally controlled
from Melbourne.
—•
The High Cost of Verbrugghening.
The words of “Hop,” artist and violin-
maker
A wail ascends from the bedside of the mori-
bund N.S.W. State Orchestra, a wail pitched in
a minor ke V> t,le dominant note of which is The
Civilising and Educational Value to a Nation of
Noises produced by Rubbing the Inside of a Cat
with the Tail of ,a Horse. By the agency of organ-
ised uproar, vocal and . instrumental, it is claimed
that, an unregenerate and even debased nation may
be dragged by the ears, so to say, out of the mire of
depravity, and set fair on the home stretch for
Heaven. All that is demanded is a certain amount of
financial haulage on the part of musical enthusiasts
and a further contribution of cash-power in the shape
of a subsidy. However, despite private gifts and
Government subsidies, there will be the inevitable
deficit, which our old friend the Man in the Street
(musical or otherwise) will be required to make good,
or risk the loss of his uncultured soul. The situa-
tion induces the twin questions: Is music of any par-
ticular value to the soul ? And has it really any-
thing much to do with true culture? Germany has
often admitted itself to be the most musical nation
in the world. And many agree with the contention.
How those wretched non-combatants of the Lusitania
must have appreciated the civilising influences of
harmony as they struggled with the waves, mingling
their dying cries with the strains of “Die Wacht am
Rhein,” chanted by gilt-laced and brass-buttoned cul-
ture-specialists from the deck of their near-by sub-
marine! No: music is good fun, but it is not neces-
sarily either civilising or educative. The writer
loves music in moderation, both of the home-made
and the highly-subsidised variety; but he feels in his
heart that neither he, nor any other citizen of a
bled and bleeding country, can afford to indulge
in the luxury—especially the extravagant, subsidised
form —until he has paid such taxes as already stand
in the books against him, including- income, property,
municipal rates, water and sewerage ditto; likewise
lighting, telephone, ferry- or train-tickets, quarterly
monthly or weekly as the case may be, church dues,
doles to indigent missionaries, etc., dog-license fees, and
so on. Having attended to these prosaic but indispens-
able details, let the good citizen with a light heart
cable to Mr. Verbrcgghex to hasten home to mother,
and all will be forgiven. But in how many house-
holds is there a residue these days to pay for the
cable, much less support the expensive Belgian and
his costly entourage in the style to which they claim
to be accustomed ?
The Search for Helots Who Will Stay
Helots.
“Send us low-wage, long-hour piece-workers,
for we have no room for any other kind of
immigrant,” is still the doleful cry of the
Australian immigration authorities' That
isn’t exactly how they say it, but that is
what they say. As the chairman of the
Overseas Settlement Committee put it after
the latest outbreak of complaint about the
unsuitability” of some of the recent arri-
vals: “It is no good sending industrial
workers to swell the ranks of the unem-
ployed in Sydney and Melbourne. Australia
must have more farmers. ’ Still a countrv
which, in one recent year, was short
±20,700,000 worth of apparel to cover its
nakedness, and bought that amount from
abroad, and borrowed £21,000,000 to help pay
for it, and charged the same to posterity
does seem a trifle short of industrial workers’
At the same time the country had a very
large surplus of wheat for export—wheat
grown by the worst-paid piece-workers we
own, and wrested from the least-promising
soil to be found among the 24 leading wheat-
producing countries of the globe (when we
have a 10-bushel year), or the least-promising
among 20 (when we have a seven-bushel
year), teo the position may strike some
peop.e as lopsided and savoring of misman-
agement. It might be amplified thus:—
We have toiled through a great bog of politics to
make Australia an ideal land for the day-labor, basic-
wage, trades-union, free, white, non-capitalistic
worker.
Send us no more raw material of that sort, for the
little we have is, to a great extent, wageless, work-
less and almost homeless. But send us piece-workers,
coolies, helots, drudges, people who are accustomed
to small pay and the strenuous, humble life. Coming
from a land where droughts are not, and where 29-
bushel crops are regular, and the market is next-door,
these men may get the surprise of a lifetime on
arrival, whereas the industrial worker would find
things very much as he is accustomed to, barring the
lack of industrial work; but they will be out of
sight in the dim remoteness of the Backblocks, and
out of mind. Anyhow, a land-settlement policy we
must have.
And send us the products of cheap-labor town
workers (as unlike the sort we seek to grow here
as possible) in large quantities. Otherwise, in a
country which supplies Britain with twice as much
wool as the next-biggest supplier, the president of
the A.L.P. may have to appear in public minus pants,
and his wife may degrade her station by wearing a
flour-sack like a gin.
Also send along as much .as you can raise of the
capitalist’s money, on the best terms you can arrange,
and charge it to the children. At the same time
don’t forget to damn the capitalist, he being a bad
lot.
The effort to secure small agricultural men
from a small country which has none to spare,
and to fix them on small farms amid strange
conditions, where the yields are small and the
distances and mosquitoes are large, is really
an attempt to keep up the supply of helots.
The eternal problem is that, unless the helot
is a different color from the aristocrat, or is
branded on some conspicuous place, or is
otherwise distinguishable, he won’t stick
to heloting. Even the blessings of
fresh air, and comparative freedom from
restrictions about hours, wages and the
use of child-labor are insufficient to
prevent him endeavoring to join up
with the (in theory at least) basic-wage and
short-hour aristocracy in one of the few cities.
The idea of a free, servile class with a vote
is an anomaly, and doesn’t work. Some day,
perhaps, the supply of apparel and ironware
in the Australian towns (not in. one or two
towns but in a lot of them) will equal the
demand. Then, there being little joy in
running an export business where sea-
distances are so long, a,nd the new industrial
population having made almost a famine in
vegetables, and the scarcity of cotton and flax
being acute, the rush of the weaver and black-
smith’s sons to get on the land will lead to
the suffocation of somebody. If football and
cricket records are any criterion they are a
fairly sturdy lot, and should do well on the
soil with a little training. They would at
least be acclimatised, which Giles and
Hodge are not. And when agriculture was
no longer a business of competing with the
world’s cheap niggers in the world’s markets
the helot idea would be quite off.
The Inwardness of the Murray Boom.
Joseph Carruthers and other N.S.W. poli-
ticians have, for some reason, adopted the
Murray River, and taken the long damp
thing to their bosoms, with curious results.
Victoria is being beguiled with a scheme
for extending its sjtt. railway across the
Murray, so that, the remote south-west of
the Ma State, may trade with Melbourne,
which might pay, instead of with Sydney,
which is hopelessly out of reach. The lines
to be extended are about the longest Vic-
toria possesses, and some of them should be
connected with Portland instead of Mel-
bourne for the sake of economy. They don’t
pay well, and whether they will pay better
when made longer and carried into a more
empty country is a question. .If the N.S.W.
politicians make a success of developing the
south-west after the Victorian railways
arrive, the Victorians may make a bare crust
out of their rather helpless position as
tenants, dependent on the progress of a land
which they ca.n neither control, settle nor tax.
If the Million Farms enthusiasts fly off on
a new wild-goose chase the tenant may
find that this curious dual role of State-
private railway speculators in a strange
country has its drawbacks. He is not even
offered the usual land-grant that private
railway-builders get. Yet the general
N.S.W. attitude is that the deluded Cabbage
Garden is being offered something handsome
by being let into a region where the owner
makes nothing but losses. It is a whole
essay on the Big City kink that N.S.W,,
despite its frantic local jealousies, should
prefer to do business with another State’s
bloated metropolis rather than open a few
new ports of its own. Of course the stri-
dent yell of the moment is for another Mil-
dura —one on the northern side of the Big-
Trickle to match the Victorian one on the
south. • Mildura is, at the moment, to the
Million Farmers like a new drink or a new
best girl. A settlement just at that treasured
spot must have an outlet at Melbourne,
Portland or some S. Australian port, or
perish. But N. S. Wales has other rivers
besides the Trickle, and other fertile areas
almost as waste and empty as the one which
stares at Mildura across the said Trickle,
and many of these are becoming more waste
and empty every year and more promising
haunts of rabbits, thistles, lantana and sun-
dries. And some of these regions are within
60 or 100 unrailwayed and almost roadless
miles of a good Cornstalk port, while a new
Mildura on the north side of the river may
easily be 875 miles from Melbourne. Some
politician may recognise this in a lucid inter-
val, but the hatred which the old-type Mae-
quarie-street political hack has for' the out-
ports of his own State eclipses even his rage
at the State next door.
Patent-medicine Swindles.
"Gregor” : A °-ood deal of publicity has
recently been given to a so-called patent
medicine warranted to cure anything,
trom a sore throat up to tuberculosis
and cancer, but. in fact, useless for
any purpose whatever. The publicity was
due to the fact that a Melbourne magistrate
decided to fine the vendor. But why should
the authorities stop at the nostrum-peddler
who puts up his panacea somewhere in a
back room in one of the suburbs, and hawks
it around from doorstep to doorstep V Nine-
tenths of the patent remedies now being
sold in Australia by dint of colossal advertis-
ing campaigns are as worthless as the Mel-
bourne swindle, and the claims of their pro-
prietors are no less impudent or untruthful.
When the B.M.A. collected samples of three
or tour hundred widely-advertised patent
medicines some years ago, and, after having
them analysed, published the results, it
looked as though the day of the quack had
passed. But within a few months he had
ms head up again. At present there is
daily being sold throughout the Common-
wealth a much-boomed pill which on the
sworn testimony of the B.M.A. analyst, con-
sists of .nothing but soap and ginger. Exactly
the same article, put up in boxes bearing
another label, is purchased by a certain typo
of female under the mistaken belief that it
is an abortifacient. Of course, it is neither
that nor anything else. There is an im-
ported nerve-mixture (swallowed in gallons
by local hypochondriacs) which is composed
of water, a dash of alcohol (to give it “kick”)
and a little coloring matter. Flesh “re-
ducers” and flesh “restorers” are legion. One
of the most popular consists of rectified
spirits and an aromatic oil. included for
flavoring purposes. But it is in connection
with what the charlatan calls “private dis-
orders” or “male weaknesses” that the cruel-
lest frauds are perpetrated. The victim is
invited to believe that quite natural func-
tional disarrangements or slight disorders of
adolescence, easily banished by a reputable
practitioner, are hurrying him towards a
shameful grave, via the padded cell of the
lunatic asylum. Incalculable harm is done
to neurasthenics by this type of propaganda.
Quite recently there appeared in the patent-
medicine market an extensively-boomed em-
brocation, reputed to cure, among other
things, tuberculosis. At least two authentic
cases arc known in which consumptives, still
in the incipient stages of the disease, wasted
five precious months rubbing this imposture
into their backs and shoulders. By the time
they realised the idiocy of their proceedings
all hope of arresting the disease had gone.
With cancer in its different forms, such
instances of damnable fraud and deception
could be enumerated by the hundred, even by
the thousand. There are ruffians who sell
water colored with cudbear for the treat-
ment of sarcoma; and who dispense pieces of
blue. glass through which the sun’s rays may
be directed with preventive effect on a rodent
ulcer. The whole trouble lies in the fact
that instead of the reputable wholesale drug
warehouses allying themselves with the retail
pharmacists to stop the traffic in human
misery and credulity, they encourage it by
handling the nostrums, manufacturing them
for their proprietors, and vigorously pushing
their sale, whenever the rate of profit allowed
is sufficiently attractive.
«
Points of Law and Order.
Deab Bulletin, —Canberra is still having
its ups and downs, likewise its exits and
its entrances, its strikes and its building
schemes that come to naught. Almost every
misfortune seems to have happened to the
unhappy Capital in Two Pieces, 140 Miles
Apart, except for the whole business to be
ruled out of order by the High Court; and
before its chapter of accidents is through
even that may befall. The Constitution was
hastily botched by a self-appointed committee
of State Premiers after the men whom the
people elected for the duty of constitution-
making had finished their work. The clause
they inserted about the capital says most
definitely that it is to be in N. S. Wales.
It also says most definitely that it isn’t to
be in N. S. Wales at all. It is to be on
some bit of soil that used to be there, but
which, having been ceded to the Common-
wealth, has left the Ma State just as de-
finitely as Victoria and Queensland did, and
their exit was definite enough. Any Court
which stickled for the letter of the law might
have an interesting time over this metropolis
which must be in the Ma State; must not
be in the Ma State; and yet must be no-
where else than in the Ma State. It might
even decide that there was no possible capi-
tal at all, and that the whole business must
begin afresh with an amendment of the
Constitution. Until this matter is decided
the spending of public money on ’Berra
looks risky. A less serious joke impends
in the matter of the South-to-North railway
—less serious because only an Act of Par-
liament and a point of honor are involved.
The terms on which S. Australia handed
over 523,620 square miles of land-grant in-
cluded a clause binding the Commonwealth:
To construct, or cause to be constructed, a rail-
way in South Australia proper from any point on
the Port Augusta railway to a point on the northern
boundary-line of South Australia proper, to connect
with that part of the transcontinental railway to be
built in the Northern Territory, from Darwin south-
wards to the northern boundary of South Australia
proper, and to maintain and work such railway when
constructed.
If a line, alleged to be this line, is attempted,
as proposed, from Katherine River (N.T.)
through Queensland to Marree (S.A.) it won’t
be “southwards” but sharply south-east, and
an action for breach of contract should lie.
If a line is built from Bourke (N.S.W.)
and is alleged to be this line, a
still bigger action should lie. If either
is started and declared not to be this
line at all but a different one. then the
obligation to build this line would still re-
main. The whole trouble might be cut
short by a Repudiation Act in which the
Commonwealth defined itself as a liar and
a common swindler. That wouldn’t look
nice, but it ought to be effective.—Tours, etc.
Henry Horsecollar.
•
Australian Radio-Telegraphy.
“Radio” : If a lot is to be said, when Parlia-
ment meets, about the Amalgamated Wireless
Co. s agreement with the Commonwealth
Government (B. 18/5/’22), I trust it will
include details of what has already been
accomplished in the way of direct reception
t rom . Europe. With locally-improvised
receiving gear, painfully amateurish in its
construction, almost all of the Australian
and M.L. coast stations could (and did) copv
the war press propaganda sent out by the
Huns from their Nauen station. So reliable
and . accurate was this reception that no
special station was set apart for it; one
coastal radio did this special job (it ran into
many thousands of words per month) in
addition to transacting its ordinary business.
Also the press stuff broadcasted from the
Brennan Can't Do It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The view of experts is that nothing will come of
Brennan’s helicopter.”— The controller of civil avia-
tion in Victoria (.Lieut.-Col. Brinsmead).
As great-great-grandmamma remarked, a
hundred years ago,
“One cannot do these things, my dear —we’ll
never fly, you know.
One might as well, my love, attempt to
drive the chaise to town
Without its horses. Nonsense! No, what
goes up must come down.
“In Holy Writ, we learn, but one there was
who flew to Heaven
(The second book of Kings informs us,
chapter ii, 11)
And he had horses- —and he was a. -holy man,
at that.
FlyV Fly! No more than we shall see
new arks on Ararat!
“The only other case I know was poor
Bellerophon,
Who tried to ride across the skies wild
Pegasus upon,
And fell to earth, my dear, because a gadfly
stung his horse....
But he was mub —ahem !—muh-mythologi-
cal, of course.
"No, no, my love! We have advanced as
far as we can go
In everything. I think. Indeed, what more
is there to know
Or do, that could be known or done? No
matter how we try
We cannot sail beneath the sea (tee-hee !)
—nor shall we fly !”
“Gorblimey, Biel, just letter go! Hey,
whatcher doin'’ there?
Leg -go!” With scarce a click or purr,
straight upwards through the air
Into the blazing blue observe the helicopter
rise—
The 1930 scouting type—and hover, eagle-
wise.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Spend the Winter in Sydney.
It is a city of sunny days, whose Winter climate is perfection,
whose beauty of setting is acknowledged, whose diversity of
attraction is proverbial.
Ir Sydney the conservative luxury of “The Australia” affords a pleasant
place of sojourn, as well as a centre for the social life of the city.
Comfort, convenience, atmosphere, service, management—in every
one of these you will find the fulfilment of an ideal.
At Luncheon, Afternoon Tea and Dinner there is music, while guests
may entertain friends at Dinner Dances in the new Dance Hall.
lia.
The/JUst
Features of “The Australia” in-
clude Stenographic Bureau : Turk-
ish Baths, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s
Manicure and Hairdressing Rooms,
Magnificent Lounge, Bars and Bil-
liard Room, Flower, Sweet and
Book Stalls. Theatre-hooking Office,
Motor hire Office, and Safe Deposit.
Single Room with Breakfast from 12/6.
Double Room with Breakfast from 25/-
Write for the new Rate Card.
PREMIER HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
■i
m
m
m
m
Government station at Leaiield, England,
can be received by valve-fitted ships around
our coast. The if an who 1 )oubts says
that the average speed of working between
Britain a.nd New York is 4.11 words per
minute, which is ridiculous. For years the
Marconi people, whose patents are held by
the Amalgamated, have worked a successful
transatlantic service, and the Doubter
wants to send a message to England the
cheapest route he should mark it "via
Pacific Marconi,” which means it will be
sent by wireless from America to England,
and hand it across the counter at the nearest
post-office. This service couldn’t possibly
be cleared at 4.3 words per minute. Again,
lie should remember that 800 days are men-
tioned, not 305, as a year’s minimum work-
ing. Since 1913 Thursday Island and Port
Moresby have, with an ordinary small-power
set, kept clear, across a 320-mile stretch, all
the official and private traffic to and from
Papua. They are in one of the worst zones
in the world for "atmospherics,” yet they
are out of action (i.e., unable to exchange
traffic all day) less than a week per annum.
So that when the Amalgamated Wireless
reckons on working 300 days a year it is
on the safe side. That European countries
are laying new cables is just plain business.
Although the Doubtful One can telephone to
almost any part of N. S. Wales he would
not suggest that no new telegraph lines
should be erected. In time to come “tuning’
will be so efficient that nearby transmitting
stations will not interfere with delicately-
adjusted receiving instruments. At present,
however, this cannot be guaranteed, which
is the questionable side of the arrangement
with the Amalgamated Co. Can we build a re-
ceiver sensitive enough for an operator in
England to read the weakest signals from
Australia, and capable withal of eliminating
all stray waves and harmonics from nearby
or badly-tuned transmitters? Personally l
think so, but only time will toll. Inci-
dentally, many of the telegraphists operat-
ing high-powered stations are poor senders.
I have read of Yankee operators sending traf-
fic at 33 words per minute (two sendings, in
fact), and the signals were shameful. Badly-
spaced Morse and misformed letters made it
hard work to read traffic sent twice, which
should have been easy to copy if transmitted
once. Poor senders are often noticed at
TT.S. stations, sometimes at English find
French, rarely at Italian or German. lor
fast, accurate and intelligent work Austra-
lian radio-telegraphists have a name second
to none.
A Blighted Paradise.
E. J. Brady writes: —
In the year 1909 I discovered the pearl of Aus-
tralia’s JSast Coast —Mallacoota. Frank Myers con-
sidered it the “most beautiful place in the world.”
Its one drawback —as Myers would have found if he
had been a permanent resident instead of a chance
visitor —is the fat, clammy hand of Victorian official-
dom. Lured by its glory 1 came back in 1914, after
two years’ absence, foolishly thinking that Eastern
Gippsland was included in the Australian Common-
wealth. Since then I have discovered that it is
really a sort of feudal duchy belonging to overlords
of the Lands and Fisheries Departments in Melbourne
and Bairnsdale.
Seeing- that this public asset was given over in
its landward aspects to the seneschals who control
whatever Minister for Lands happens to be in office'
for the moment (a recent one was a cloclcmaker
from Warracknabeal) and that its marine possibilities
were devoted to the right noble Wobbegongs of Fish-
eries and Game, I recently threw my lot in with
some Australians in Melbourne who were trying,
in tlie courteous, apologetic Victorian manner, to
have the waters of Mallacoota rested from net fishing
for a period—in order to save the show generally.
The other day these intelligent Australians waited on
the Government, and subsequently I received a tele-
gram as follows: —
Most influential deputation. Lewis opposed on the
grounds netting did not interfere angling; net fishing
better than ever ; all residents' but two wanted inlet
open all year round. Reply.
With The Bulletin’s permission I will put
my reply to Mr. Lewis, who controls the
Fisheries and Game Department of Victoria, and in
that capacity is custodian of a national asset in
which the States of Victoria and New South Wales
are almost equally concerned, and over which the
Federal Government is. supposed to exercise super-
vision, in the form of three questions: —-
(1) Putting the local incidence of these statements
aside for the present, is it not a known physical fact
that the more liquid one takes out of a bottle the
more liquid remains therein? This hydrostatic law
was established, I believe, by Heliogabalus.
(2) Is it not also true that, by stretching eleven
thousand fathoms of net across a shallow sheet of
water, one decreases the utmost resultant catch to the
smallest quantity of fish which can be secured by a
thousand fathoms? This law was proved, I think,
by Aristophanes in his famous attack on the philo-
sophy of Euripides.
(3) Is it not a fact, suspected by Kepler, surmised
by Newton, but not yet nroved by Sir Oliver Lodge,
that in order to increase the fecundity of fishes it is
first necessary to destroy, if permitted, all their
spawn ?
The last question was asked of Socrates by the
faithful Critto, just after the former had taken his
hemlock, and has hitherto remained unanswered. Mr.
Lewis can thus earn undying fame by solving the
problem in a manner which will be acceptable to -ill
concerned.
The Good Ship Federal Barnacle.
A while ago the clamor against the Federal
Government’s policy of building ships at
about four times their commercial value
grew so loud that W.. M. Hughes realised
the time had come to do something. So he
made a speech, and another speech, and
more speeches still, and by these exhibitions
of oratorical legerdemain he managed eventu-
ally to plug the main torrent .of. the agita-
tion. Without precisely committing himself
to anything he gave the Australian shipping
interests the impression that he had under-
taken to do no further work on the two
12,500-ton vessels for the Commonwealth
line at the Cockatoo yards until the "matter
had been placed before Parliament.” The
shipping people are now exasperated to find
(1) that work has proceeded so far on one
of the ships that she is ready for framing,
and (2) that there is no definite recorded
statement by Hughes on the matter that
may be waved before his face as evidence
of his want of faith. Renewed plottings
have accordingly begun against the s.s.
Federal Barnacle, in the hope that if all
plot with sufficient energy the . interloping
incubus may be destroyed. It is probable,
however, that local action will not do nearly
GREAT EXPECTATIONS.
g() much to hasten the end of the venture
ug overseas competition. And the competi-
tion that is going to do the line most damage
threatens to come mainly from the quarter
that j n( Jirectly brought it into existence-
Q ei . ma ny. Apart from France—and France
hasn’t the energy to keep step—Germany is
on]y natio |? at pre sent building ships,
manning shios and operating ships with suffi-
. j profitable results to encourage in-
creag/d l efiort Since the Armistice some
)g German shipping concerns have estab-
Ugh d or re -established overseas services,
mogt of which are now busy picking all the
juiciest plums of the South American trade,
w fiji e seven and a half million tons of ship-
Ping lie idle in British and American har-
• .. c ~
bors because near-sighted unionism refuses to
accept the reduced wages and altered con-
ditions which would allow this useless ton-
nage to be profitably employed. Though IS
shipping concerns have sprung into active
existence in Germany in two years it’s pretty
sa f e j- () re ekon that as many have gone bung
in Britain and America in one year. The
question arises: With the Navigation Act
and the Seamen’s Union, plus political eon-
trol, what will the Commonwealth line do
w b P n the Hamburgers arrive off our coast,
offering the Australian exporter a better
ocean service at about half the charge he
now pays V HUGHES will doubtless attempt
cone with the situation bv making a
number'of speeches ; but all the talk in crea-
tion will not avail to save his own net line,
and mere talk is likely to be equally impo-
tent as regards the menaced British and
Australian lines. Swift and preferably
silent action of a constructive nature is the
present requirement: it is desultory, long
distance loquacity that has already done
much to menace a large part of the Com-
monwealth overseas carrying trade with Ger-
manisation.
The Case of Federal Labor.
A Labor supporter writes in sorrow :
It must have been a source of grim satisfaction to
Hughes and his more intimate circle to find Frank
Axstby elevated to the deputy-leadership of • the
Labor party. • You can imagine him saying: “Not
long ago they had me and Fisher’-’ —not “Fisher
and me.” “Now it’s Charlton and Anstey. All’s well!”
When Charlton is not available —and his health is
anything but robust — Anstey will lead in the Reps.,
a circumstance calculated to add to the gaiety of
Parliaments, but hardly to the efficiency of Labor.
Neither, in this writer’s opinion, will it enhance the
prospects at next election. Not that there is any-
thing against Anstey himself. As member for
Bourke he is a success. Often threatened in his
stronghold, he lias' never really been in danger. He
has the gift of the gab, and among a crowd whose
stock-in-trade is mostly a list of formulas or falla-
cies his fresh way of saying things, his flying similes
and spluttering epigrams, have the effect of a cool
douche on a languid day. He can turn most things
to a jest, and set nearly any table in a roar; but it
would be hard to think of anything he had con-
structed more durable than an impromptu (with a
suggestion of the lamp about it) or an oration at the
Bijou Theatre. As for leading people anywhere —
well, he has always given the impression that he
does not quite know where he wants to go himself.
He can be a moderate among moderates, an extremist
among extremists, and a good fellow with anybody.
If he were a genuine leader, wedded to a definite
policy, and seriously bent on doing things, he would
not be as popular as he is. For the stern, strong
man who knows where he is going, and is determined
to get there, makes enemies on both sides. Anstey
has made none.
It is true that in looking for a deputy-leader the
Laborites in Parliament were more or less up against
it. As Charlton represents N. S. Wales, the pre-
sumption is that they wanted a Victorian. (It
shouldn’t have mattered what State he came from, but
they make it matter.) Whom w-ere they to get?
Little Maloney is the veteran of the party, but he
is a shade more impracticable than Anstey, and his
cobbers know it. Matthews seemed at one time to
be a likely claimant, but an easy seat and £lOOO a
year have not made him more energetic than he used
to be. Fenton, of Maribyrnong, takes himself and
his job seriously, but he has never been an inspiring
figure. A few months ago he announced his intention
of resigning, but, though he has again come forward
and received the party’s endorsement for next elec-
tion, there is an impression in many quarters that his
seat is not too safe. There remain of the Victorians
only McGrath, Scullin and Brennan. The first
has never filled the eye as a leader, nor does his
party regard him as possessed of the necessary quali-
cations. Sccllin is a likely man, but is handicapped
by lack of experience and the fact that he has only
just been re-elected after a “rest” of nine years.
What of Brexxan ? He is the party’s one lawyer, and
the fact that he has been told to remain in a back seat
is not a compliment to him.' Neither is it a com-
pliment to the party’s intelligence—always assuming
that it is seriously bent on making the best of its
materials. Admitting that Brennan’s attitude to
the war was weak and washy, even lamentable, it is
none the less true that he did on one occasion get as
far as the Town Hall recruiting depot, while most of
the loud-voiced stalwarts on his side were never seen
in the neighborhood. He is a good speaker, a man
of knowledge and education, means what he says,
and is above reproach in a personal and professional
capacity. To tell him to stand behind a plodder
like Charlton and an amiable jester like Axstey
is equivalent to telling the world that Labor is
content politically to stay where it is.
The Batlow soldier settlement is 333 miles
from Sydney, 15 miles from a railway siding,
and 18 miles from the dead end of a branch
line and the hamlet of Tnmut there deposited.
A good port exists much nearer, but of course
there is no way of reaching it because it
isn’t Sydney. At this lonesome spot 35 bits
of big forest were allotted to soldiers, and 10
acres were cleared and planted for each man.
at a cost of as much as £5O per acre. Some
people buy forest country to make a fortune
out of the timber, but in the hands of the
Repatriation officials this timber wag appa-
rently worth a great deal less than nothing.
Shacks were supplied at about £5OO each, and
generally the shack was at one end of the
block and the little rabble of apple-trees at the
other, so that there would be walking exer-
cise between. Orchards are much favored
for the returned soldier, presumably because,
though it is years before he gets any fruit
out of the business, it is also years before it
is clearly proved that he will never get any.
Between the debt on the land, the debt on the
shack and the accumulated debt for three
years’ sustenance, the bankrupt Rothschilds
of Batlow are only on a moderate wicket.
And in the Ma State a man can be settled
in a factory, with the basic wage, short
hours and a good local market, for an aver-
age of £350.
IE Tasmania, with 112,000 electors on the
Commonwealth roil, was unable to secure
exemption from the Navigation Act, it is
not surprising that disfranchised Fapqa s
plaintive wail fell on deaf ears. The planters
are sincere in their belief that, given unre-
stricted access to the world’s markets, they
could dodge bankruptcy without external
aid, and without expense to the Australian
taxpayer. Failing the liberty to make their
own shipping arrangements, there remains
the proposal of Judge Murray that the
Commonwealth Government should purchase
the copra and rubber output at fixed rates
for two years. There is no special enthusi-
asm for it in Papua. The price suggested
for copra—£lt> per ton —may return a
trifling profit to the small man located near
a port of entry, but the over-capitalised com-
panies would have to effect drastic econo-
mies, especially in overhead expenses and
production costs, before they could profit-
ably sell at that figure. Brown Brother still
signs on freely at 10s. a month and tucker—
a rate which has remained constant for the
past 15 years—so wage-cuts at his expense
are out of the question. Something might,
however, be done to increase his efficiency
by paying more attention to his health.
Plantation laborers, especially raw recruits,
are peculiarly susceptible to such diseases as
beri-beri, malaria, dysentery and hookworm.
Money outlaid in intelligent efforts to eradi-
cate or even limit the incidence of these dis-
eases would be well spent, from the utili-
tarian as well as the humanitarian stand-
point. The improved health of the laborers
would be reflected in a higher output at a
lower cost. To put it on the most material-
istic basis, Brown Brother is the white
man’s best asset in Papua, and the fitter he
is the better he will pay.
“Queenslander” : How is it that only poli-
ticians get State funerals hereabouts? Of
recent years four very second-rate legisla-
tors (I exdude Ryan and Philp) have been
so honored. During the same period at least
a dozen citizens of much greater capacity
and real importance have gone over, but
not being politicians their passing has been
ignored by those who have the ordering of
these ceremonies. The State funeral is, of
course, a highly popular institution. Motor-
cars, taxis and cabs are provided for “mour-
ners” at the public expense, and the civil
service gets a half-day off from its arduous
duties to smoke the pipe or cigarette of holi-
day contentment all the way to God’s Acre.
But if the public only knew how much these
little mortuary picnics cost there would soon
be a demand that the Hon. Simeon Cypher
or Zebueon Zero, M.L.A.. should in ’future
be allowed to bury himself. At present the
only satisfaction the taxpayer gets out of
the hypocritical business is in realising—
or, at least, hoping—that the bill for funeral
expenses is the last he will have to meet on
behalf of the defunct.


The .Aristocrat
of Pipes
D
V
X'
S»
¥
-f
For Smoker Democrats
Packed with your favorite tobacco, a GBD will add pleasure to
your leisure and fill your work-hours with joy.
During the long winter evenings put this genuine French Briarwood
Pipe to the test. You’ll find it thoroughly seasoned, ensuring a cool,
sweet smoke at all times.
Shaped by London experts and neatly finished in every detail.
Many
Popular
Shapes.
From
On
Sale
Everywhere,
Trade inquiries invited to Box 765 G.F.0., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A short epitaph for ex-Premier Philp, of
Queensland: “We had no idea how good a
man he was till we found out how rotten
subsequent men could be.”
Nine of the 20 anglers for the Denison
seat in the Speck Assembly lost their £l5
sinkers. The last six candidates on the poll
couldn’t raise 600 votes among them. “Pen-
guin” Hatch, the last man home, polled a
whole 28 votes.
Queensland owns the most travelled bunch
of Ministers in the world. North, south, east
and west, without haste if not without rest,
they wander, and the office, for some of
them, is merely an interlude between trips.
The wanderlust, of course, is to blame, but
the travelling allowance helps. It runs to
two guineas a day with expenses on top of
that. Properly worked, there is a respect-
able salary in the tripping business alone.
In the election for Darwin (Tas.) 17
primary votes were cast at a place called
Williamsford, and Laborite Ogden got the
lot. There were 11 other candidates. It
is claimed as an Australian record, but there
is no way of determining the point. In
States which don’t enjoy the blessings of
contortional misrepresentation, such returns
are lumped together to preserve the secrecy
of ballot.
“Northern Lights”: A cargo of Italians
was on the way to a northern port the other
day under the charge of a steaka-da-oyst
artist as heudman or interpreter. An insur-
ance agent got into conversation with the
latter, and discovered that he was running
a joint in Townsville; stock £5OO, and build-
ing £250, all his own property. The agent
suggested a policy for £750, explaining that
in case of fire Giovanni would have a nice
little kick-off for a new start. The Dago
beamed delightedly, and grabbed the agent’s
hand. “All right, mista, I vote for you.”
The only people he had met previously who
claimed to have an interest in his welfare
were politicians.
A Westralian Labor Congress has resolved
that, as a result of the shameless profiteer-
ing of undertakers, the burying industry
must be nationalised.
It is what union workers do —-
Create the higher cost of breath :
Why quarrel with the tradesmen who
Set up the higher cost of death?
Labor having thrown out so many of its
leaders that it has to fall back on people
like Lambert and McGirr, some dull but
“moderate” characters begin to talk of re-
admitting certain of the scapegoats, if they
will apply. Federal-leader Charlton lately
discoursed this way, but explained carefully
that he only proposed to re-admit men who
“had not joined any other party and liud not
departed from Labor principles in any shape
or form.” In short, he proposes to re-admit
those who had been “victimised” because
some envious persons of the baser sort
wanted their shoes. A cautious man is
Charlton.
“Sol. M.,” gloomily :
The search for bullion in the false teeth of dead
monarchs and monarchesses having- yielded little,
and even a Soviet being' unable to live on air,
prophets theorise that only some apparent impossi-
bility in the way of a big loan -will prevent the
present Russian system from raving to the tomb
in about another six months. The miserable place
isn’t blockaded by anybody save itself, and hasn’t
been for quite a long time. In fact, it has been
blockaded by itself nearly all the time, and only
by other people spasmodically. No goods, except
charity doles, are allowed in save to be sold to the
Government, which controls “the entire means of
production, distribution and exchange,” as the
familiar gag goes. It can’t pay in money, for it
lias frittered or fooled away its enormous treasure;
nor in produce, for slabs of famine are unsaleable $
nor in manufactured articles, for it doesn’t make, in
the universal breakdown, nearly enough to shoe and
clothe its own hordes. If it lifted the blockade
THE APPEAL.
“ ‘Among the multitude of suggestions re the peopling of the Empty North there are some that may
be of practical value,’ says Mr. Pearce.” —Press item.
private people might bring in money and start
trading, but that would mean sacrificing the whole
basic ass-principle of Sovietism.
Three electors turned up to hear the r.o.
declare Beggs re-elected as M.L.C. for Nel-
son (Vic.). The scene must have been
nearly as inspiring as one which occurred at
Brunswick nearly 22 years ago when Col.
Reay, then editor of Melbourne Herald,
spoke his thanks for being put in the Assem-
bly as member for East. Bourke Boroughs.
The gentlemen he addressed consisted of
a sanitary person who had paused on his
evening rounds, a sleepy fellow scribe and
the r.o.
It is reported that the twelfth final settle-
ment has been arrived at in the Irish Free
State, and the thirteenth breakage isn’t ex-
pected till the work of forming a Ministry
is reached. One recent statement is that ex-
President de Valera will be shut-out of the
portfolio-distribution, that Spanish half-and-
jjalf from New York being considered too
McGimsli for daily use. Unfortunately,
however, for the purposes of peace it is im-
material- whether the gentleman is shut out
or shut in. Things always happen wheu
he is about.
The A.L.P. Conference, at Sydney, after
10 days’ turmoil, ended its deliberations in
what is described as indescribable disorder,
everybody shouting “Order” at the same,
moment. The cries of “Silence” were also
deafening. Towards the finish little could
be heard through the dust save the voice of
the official Washer of Linen reading on to
the bitter end of ah interminable report
which seemed to say that everything McGirr
had ever said, in the course of a verbosely
mendacious existence, was a groundless fab-
ric of empty air, S.la.bs of chaos flew about
in all directions. Finding .the whole-crbwd
out of hand the chairman tried to put down
his foot, but the meeting picked it up and
threw it at him. Unfinished business, which
was most of the business, was thrown over-
board, and the sound made when .Jondll
threw his whale into the sea,by the tail was
nothing to the splash, Strange people broke
in and voted, and other people broke out in
denunciation of them and of things in gen-
eral, and the conference dissolved so suddenly
that hardly anybody could say whether it
had capsized or fallen to pieces. It is always
explained aftel- a shindy of Unusual size that
moderate Laborites are wholly opposed to
riot and excess. But all it does is to create
a doubt as to whether there are any moder-
ate Laborites. A Laborite is a person bound
by the party’s objective as fixed, and never
since unfixed, by inter-State Conference.
The objective is Russian Bolshevism. If a
man accepts that he isn’t moderate. If he
doesn’t accept it he isn’t a Laborite.
Summing up the record torn- of Prime
Minister Hughes, the mystery-man who looks
rather like Benjamin Disraeli from one angle
and rather like Abdul-Hamid from another,
one consistent line of thought runs through
it. He hates the Country Party with the
energy of a good hater. Hughes led the
Laborites once. He took enough of them
over with him, including Poynton, Laird
Smith, Pearce, Jensen and poet Webster, to
make a Nationalist majority, and in return
for this aid he was allowed to lead the
Nationalists. If the Nationalists weary of
him, which many are doing, he might carry
enough of the old brigade back (but not
Webster, whose sun has set) to give Labor
a majority again, provided in return it made
him leader again. But then, if the Country
Party, which refuses to be the tail but is
willing to be the head of a combination,
annexed the rump of the Nationalists, a
political apple-cart which has toddled along
very profitably in rain and shine for eight
years, might meet its Waterloo. On this
theory the Country Party is the disturbing
factor, the fly in the ointment, and the cloven
hoof in the soup. It is the first Federsl 1
party which doesn't lit into a Hughes pro-
gramme anywhere.’ Besides, it is miAed
tip.with New State and Separation policies,
and to Hughes, ail anti-Federalist, State-
Righter and Freetrader in every fibre, this
is like holy writer to Mephistoplieles.
lrish Free State Constitution, which
htts been provisionally accepted by the British
and South Irish Governments, although Rofy
O’Connor describes it as totten, incorpo-
rates most Of the modern improVehients—it
improvements they are, Proportional repre-
sentation, the referendum—in both the
initiative and checking terms —and elective
ministries are provided for, and two-thirds Of
the executive-are not to sit in Parliament,
As far as’possible, tile two-thirds are to lie
"representative of the Free State as a whole,
father than of groups or Parties,” but since
they are to he chosen by a partisan Chamber
of Deputies, the pi-ospeet of Horace Pliirl-
kett being preferred to Cathal Bi-uga, or “Aid,”
the poet-cd-operator. to Kdry O'Connor, is
father dim. Still, thefe is merit iii the idea
that a majority of Ministers should not be
professional politicians. In quieter times,
or iu a conn tty more politically stable) it
Would in all probability work olit Well,
One of the maladies from which the Labor
party is suffering is Confusion of thotight.
This has been drolly illustrated in tile atti-
tude of some Of its leaders to the subtle
Hindu politician now visiting the Cdinmoii-
Wealtli, At Adelaide, Gunn, the Opposition
leader, bade Sastri to buck up, since tile
A.L.r, was sending his people ‘‘fraternal,
greetings” and the hope that they would soon
enjoy Dominion Government “as Australia
knows it” j moreover, it believed in granting
the Indians ih Australia full citizen tights.
At MelbdtiriiC, Holloway, secretary of the
Trades Hall CoUncil, and author Of the Red
objective, burbled to the same effect, adding
that the Australian workers sympathised so
deeply with the Indian people itt their
struggle for hohie rule against the merciless
exploiter J. Bull that the pony Courses Were
Watered with their tears. But when the
suave turbaned gentleman got to Sydney, the
A.L.P. executive greeted him, not with gush
pi- mush, but with a shower of verbal rocks.
These, for instance:—
Mr. Sastri lias come across to Australia to crow-
bar an Asiatic footing here. He is worthy of a V.O.
for his nerve. The last people the Australian people
wish to have fiddling in the affairs of Australia are
those who are frantically in love with some other
country.
Still, what is the use of addressing such
admonitions to a touring foreigner? The
persons they ought to be heaved at are the
Moscow cranks, the werkers-of-the-world-
unite maniacs, who foregather at Labor con-
ferences.
“Gallery”: Hughes’s absences from Mel-
bourne always cause profanity among Par-
liamentary roundsmen. They hang about
the other Ministers for “statements,” but,
with the exception of Rodgers, who occa-
sionally hands out vast documents in tre-
mendous language, they hardly get a crumb
of copy. There have been two or three so-
called Cabinet meetings of lb.te under the
chairmanship of Pearce, hut not a line of
news was extracted from the gentlemen who
attended these mysterious conclaves, although
their demeanor suggested that they had
been discussing a declaration of war. Their
refusal to venture the mildest opinion is a
satirical commentary on Massy Greene’s re-
cent declaration that they are not puppets in
a marionette, turn. ■
Tummas ’Enley, Minister for Works,
Railways and State Enterprises in the
Fuller (N.S.W.) Government, has retired
with a howl of anguish, leaving his Depart-
ments littered with aspirates. Tummas set
out joyously to abolish the Government
stroke, clean up the State housing muddle,
get a move on with the city railway, throw
a bridge over Sydney Harbor, sell a forest of
Government workshops and factories, and
construct a railway to every one of Jokear-
ruthers’s Million Farms, but after two
months he has had to mournfully confess
that the job was too much for him. It
would be beyond the capacity of a dozen
Tummases. If preference to soldiers was
anything more than a fraudulent election
cry, ’Enley would be succeeded by a re-
turned-soldier politician—Jaques or Rosen-
thal, for instance. But the billet will almost
certainly go to some fat flag-waver who
never fought anythin;? more formidable than
a devilled oyster. When there’s a vacancy
to be filled in a Government which makes
a trade of patriotism, no Digger need apply.
MUG-DOPE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the N.S.W. Labor Conference, Louglilin, ex-
Minister of Lands, declared that when he pointed out
to Motherhood McGirr that no measure to maintain
the basic wage at £4 ss. would have any chance of
passing the Leg. Council, the latter said: ‘Well,
what does it matter? It’s good enough dope for the
mugs outside.’ ”
Knock up the platform, caucus man,
Hammer the planks as fast as you can.
Solid and durable? Oh, no, no!
‘Tisn’t for use, mate, merely for show.
’Tisn’t for standing on, God forbid!
Only let fissures and holes be hid.
Any old lumber will do to build,
If chinks are covered and cracks are filled.
Paint in the corner A.L.P.,
And there's the ticket for you and me.
Don’t look grave. It’ll never be tried,
So what does it matter how much is snide?
It’s good enough dope for the mugs outside.
Frame up the programme, comrades true,
Not of the things we mean to do,
Think we might, or opine we could —
Strike me perishin’! that’s no good.
Cram it with fair and tempting words,
Phantom worms for the hungry birds,
Gleaming bait for the finny shoals,
When next they’re swarming .around the polls.
Take it from me, you can sling it strong
When you’re out for votes from the thoughtless
throng.
Guff Utopian, cut-and-dried?
Clotted nonsense? That isn't denied —
But it’s good enough dope for the mugs outside.
ISig up the stuff in the tilered joints,
Aims, objectives, polities, points.
Lord! how we chuckle and wink and grin,
As this comes out and as that goes in.
It’s only the man behind the scenes
Who knows how much or how little it means.
Cures there are for all human ills
(Ain’t it a pity they’ll never be Bills?)
Tongue in cheek we intone them oft,
Titles to well-paid jobs and soft,
Fit for trumpeting far and wide,
When once we heads are satisfied
That it’s good enough dope for the mugs outside.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE LAST TRAM.


Efficient Power Transmission.
A 36-inch 3-i>ly Pioneer Leather Belt in Bris-
bane Tramway Company’s Power House,
transmitting up to 600 brake-horsepower.
Driving pulley, 17ft.; driven pulley, 4ft.; belt
speed, 6000 ft. per minute.
Engineers specify Pioneer Leather Belting
for efficient power transmission. Year
after year it proves its superiority in
use arid wearing ability. That is why
repeat orders are placed for
PI ONEER
LEATHER BELTING
with every extension of plant in hundreds
of factories throughout Australasia.
The belt illustrated is the twelfth repeat
order placed by the Brisbane Tramway
Company.
Confer with us on your belting problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneers since 1858.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fu««
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HAD FI ELDS LI Ml TED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings m Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breakmg
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address: —
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Ordinary Department.
Ex- Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. Off. | R Unds.
1908.. £488,932 £321,453 £98,4/3 f 69,006
1999.. 482,038 307,035 86,915 £50,000 38,088
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 10'-!°°
1911.. 622,924 316,776 16/,165 200 138,-83
1912.. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913.. 627,143 284,568 158,5/1 10,143 L 3,861
1914.. 628,243 327,210 126,362 11,182 151-189
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 191,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171-757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 112,911 8,1/5 £02,358
1918.. 732,389 414,448 109,982 7,473 200,486
1919.. 790,102 434,797 129,775 5,580 219,950
1920.. 880,031 344,060 141,684 4,303 386,384
1921.. 932,177 424,255 100,840 14,340 332,<43
Annual Ordinary income is rapidly climb-
ing to the million mark. Including Indus-
trial and Accident business that figure has
already been passed: premiums, interest and
sundry receipts totalling £1,176,841 were
handled last year, compared with ±7Bd,Jao
five years ago and £696,574 in 1911. These
comparisons tell how rapidly the society s
interests have grown in recent years. In-
dustrial business is a comparatively new
line with the Colonial Mutual: though the
office will next year celebrate. its jubilee
an Industrial branch has been in existence
only a dozen years. There are other rea-
sons for the greater activity of the
society nowadays. Many years ago it had
developed such a comfortable connection that
the management became tired and did not
make the most of new-business opportuni-
ties, and some time after it had begun to
shake off the cobwebs some nasty allega-
tions against it, which were dispelled by
Government inspectors, retarded its rejuv-
enation. The volume of new. business writ-
ten each year is gradually increasing, and
latest performances are surprisingly good
considering that conditions . generally were
not quite so favorable as in the previous
year, when war gratuities assisted policy-
writing. This comparison of new assur-
ances written shows how new blood has
helped the Colonial Mutual :
.. £823,215 | ±9iS .. £1,298,248
1890 . . 1,880,800 1916 . . 1,520,361
1900 .. 610,638 1917 .. 1,937,242
1905 . . 922,401 1918 . . 1,654,400
1910 . . 2,598,247 1919 . . 2,207,923
1912 . . 3,227,737 1920 . . 2,482,385
1914 .. 1,644,064 1921 .. 2,578,774
The society is not so active in the matter
of new business as it was in 1912 —the year
of record assurances —for though not quite
£650,000 more was written in that year
13,643 policy-holders were captured, com-
pared with 8646 last year. The average
amount of cover per policy lias meantime
increased from £237 to almost £3OO. The
effect the new business lias had on the
Society is shown in the increased annual
additions to reserves. In 1910 no less than
60 p.c. of all Ordinary income went to satisfy
policy claims; last year, in which they were
slightly heavier than in 1920, 45 p.c. of in-
come was paid out on behalf of or to policy-
holders;
The expense rate over many years has
inoved in this way:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905 .: £2l 17 10 p.c. 1916 ..£l5 7 0 p,c.
1909 .. 18 0 7 „ 1917 .. 16 6 4 „
1910 .. 20 16 4 ~ 1918 .. 15 0 4 i,
1912 .. 29 14 '5 „ 1919 .. 16 8 6 „
•1914 .. T 9 19 3 „ 1920 .. 16 8 10 „
1915 .. 14 19 7 „ 1921 .. 17 5 1 „
The ratios are governed . chiefly by. the
volume of new business, which is invariably
costly: hence the largest bite into income
was in the vear of record policy-writing
(1912). After having dropped to under
£l5 p.c. in 1915 the rate has gradually
moved ahead with the larger new business.
Precisely what is the cost of handling old
and new business is not ascertainable, but
assuming that old business costs. 7 p.c. of
renewal premiums, then, by charging up the
- balance of expenses to the new busi-
ness, first premiums have cost: 1913,
172 p.c.: 1914, 153 p.c.; 1916, 113 p.c.:
1919, 100 p.c.; 1920, 104 p.c.; 1921. 11l
p.c. On that basis of calculation costs are
slightly heavier now, hut the figures show
considerable improvement on those of a tew
years ago. Abnormal conditions have
affected working expenses of life-assurance,
and meahtime there has been no extra pre-
rnitim charge. But there has been full corn-
pensation in the improved return which the
same conditions have given from invest-
ments. The net interest return on average
funds has been as follows
1910 ..£4 3 lOp.c. 1917 ..£4 10 11 p.c.
1913 .. 4 8 10 „ 1918 .. 4 13 10 „
1914 .. 4 9 10 „ 1919 .. 4 16 0 „
1915 .. 4 9 11 „ 1920 .. 4 17 9 „
1916 .. 410 5 „ 1921 .. 5 0 5 „
The 38s. Id. increase in costs since
meant an outgo of approximately £17,100
more last year; but the 10s. improvement in
interest return gave £20,025 more on latest
average funds.
A moderate expense rate and a high interest
return accompanied by a favorable claims
rate—losses last year were not quite four-
fifths of what the management had “reason-
ably expected”—resulted in a handsome sur-
plus being unearthed by the actuary in his
recent investigation. The £5,487,704 of
funds shown by the accounts were found to
be £211.290 more than was required to
cover the actuary’s estimate of policy liabili-
ties, assuming future interest earnings at
a conservative 34 p.c. Consequently bonuses
on the same scale of those of a year ago
are to be distributed: £4 to £1 10s. per
£lOO of assurance for all participating life
policies and £1 p.c. on endowments.
The Colonial Mutual also pays bonuses
on its accident policies. Funds totalled
£39,057 at December 31, and after providing
for pnexifired risks and contingencies £3491
has been bxtractfefl to pay a Uniform add}-
tion of 2 p.c. to benefits provided by poli-
cies. The Accident business has not grown
rapidly considering the bonuses granted:
the underwriting record for the past dozen
years has been as follows: —
Accident Department.
Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit. 1
1910 .: £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 , . 13,166 3830 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 . . 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 . . 10,517 3103 4546 ?86$
1915 . . 12,250 3480 5978 2792
1916 .. 13,238 4275 6110 2853
1917 , 13,550 4451 6438 2661
1918 .. 13,971 4578 6498 2895
1919 .. 15,917 6045 7063 2809
1920 .. 17,620 6231 8174 3215
1921 .. 18,817 5193 9215 _ 4409
Income of the Industrial branch has more
than doubled in six years, and the additions
to reserves for the past year exceeded the
total income of 1916 :
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1911 . £60,484 £6,254 £66,630 £42,964
1912 . . 77,516 7,710 62,755 35,913
1913 86,155 9,356 53,556 12,670
Funds.
1914 . . 97,036 15,476 49,623 19,267
1915 . . 104,807 18,809 48,735 56,530
1916 . . 121,308 15,616 51,245
1917 .. 138,458 21,530 48,284 1(9,621
1918 .. 155,253 20,158 50,595 264,121
1919 . . 174,005 20,096 57,405 361,225
1920 .. 211,184 14,156 65,030 493,224
1921 .. 225,847 27,848 76,585 614,638
The grdwth of this department has been
assisted by cdncbssions to pdlicy-hplders.
“Non-forfeiture provisioliS drb .ndw in full
operation,” the directors say, “and already
some claims have been paid which without
this liberal provision would not have been
payable.” The society has also been develop-
ing a welfare scheme among policy-holders,
and at present is experimenting with a nurs-
ing scheme. The department is conducted
tm a mutual basis, and the actuary reports
its health so satisfactory that payment of
bonuses has commenced. The actuary’s in-
vestigation gave a surplus of £20,630 as at
December 31, and £14,347 is being distri-
buted to provide reversionary bonus addi-
tions ranging from £1 to 7s. Gd. p.c. Only
eight vears ago expenses took 12s. sd. in
the £' of income; last year not quite 7s.
Funds now total £614,638.
Including the £596,941 of Industrial funds
received by the Ordinary department for in-
vestment, the Colonial Mutual at the close
of last year had £6.206,673 of . assets, dis-
tributed in this satisfactory manner:—
1904. 1914. 1920. 1921.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Public securities and de-
bentures .. 9-5 22.7 63. a 67.3
Mortgages . . • * 39.2 37.3 13.4 H-l
Freeholds, etc. ... <» 23,8 21.9 12.6 .11*0
Cash and deposits .; 8,7 5.5 1.6 1.4
Other assets . : . ; 21.8 12.6 8.9 9.2
Almost £7 of every £lO is represented by
gilt-edged securities and .cash:.
* • ■» ■ * *
The Illawarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.I :
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910 .. £4,971 7 p.c. =£5,250 £8,434
Loss.
1911 .. 3,021 7 „ „ 5,250 163
Profit.
1912 . . 5,180 7 „ „ 5,250 93
1913 . . 5,247 7 „ ~ 5,250 --- 90
1914 5,705 74 „ „ 5,625 £BO ’ 170
1915 .. 5,975 7| „ „ 5,437 538 708
1916 . . 6,342 74 „ „ 5,624 718 1,426
1917 .. 6,611 8| „ ~ 6,187 424 1,850
1918 .. 8,882 10 „ „ 7,500 1382 3,232
1919 .. 8,039.10 ~ ~ 7,500 539 3,771
1920 . . 7.843 10 „ ~ 7,500 343 4,114
Special div. (5 p.c.) from inner
reserves, £3750
Reserves taken in, £17,350 . . • • 2.1,464
Co. reconstructed; £25,000 of re-
serves capitalised.
1921 .. 10,137 10 p.c. = 8,750 1387 1,387
1922 . . 10.500 10 „ „ 10.000 600 1,887
Paid capital is now £lOO,OOO, compared
with £75,000 prior to the reconstruction in
1920; Previous performances did not sug-
gest that the directors could find £25,000 of
bonus scrip for shareholders, but in addi-
tion to the visible reserves of £4114 shown
in the table there were accumulations, pro-
fessedly for repairs, public risk, taxation
and contingencies, totalling £17,350. In the
reconstruction these reserves disappeared,
and about the same time a special 5 p.c.
div. was also paid from a reserve for “pos-
sible contingencies which had hot arisen,’*
Though the margins of visible profit over
and above the dividends were slender for
many years, it was clear that the co. was
doing somewhat better than the manage-
ment had admitted. Profits have always
been shown “less provision for depreciation,
etc..” but balance-sheet movements indicated
that these depreciation allowances were more
than liberal. This comparison explains:—
1912. 1917. 1920. 1922.
Liabilities ..£21,785 £6,813 £11,505 £12,508
Ship property . . 75,376 61,550 49,500 79,470
Other property .. 1,450 937 1,717 2,324
Plant, stocks, etc. 1,366 1,624 3,362 3,806
Book debts .. 18,913 7,232 14,078 11,049
War Loan and'cash 2,981 21,696 43,062 28,787
Between 1912-17 visible reserves expanded
only £1757, but meantime the surplus of cash
and other liquid assets over and above lia-
bilities grew £28,100; and in the next three
years while less than £2300 was tacked to
visible reserves nearly £19,400 more was
added to the liquid surplus. In view
of the siaSe of the reserves for contin-
gencies which had hot materialised, no ex-
tensive writing-up of assets was required to
find the £25,000 of bonus scrip : probably ship-
ping and other assets had no more than £4OOO
added to their written-down book values.- Oh
the enlarged capital the former 10 p.c. divs.
are maintained, though, as in previous years,
there is visibly only a very slender margin.
But during the past year the surplus of
liquid assets over and above liabilities ex-
panded from £21,821 to £31,134, and mean-
time there had been ho recorded sale of
shipping or other property. That indicates
that prior to disclosure of profits something
substantial went up the sleeve.
The affairs of the Illawarra S; & Were
not always so easy as they now appear. Not
many years ago the directors were obviously
experiencing difficulty in finding 7 p.c. on
shareholders’ old capital. The co. has been
trading ou the N. S. Wales South Coast
for 70 years, but that portion of the State
did not progress rapidly, and the Pig-and-
Whistle fieet’s activities did not expand
much over a long period. But a new man-
agement made the best of opportunities/ and
profits and divs. were gradually improved
No doubt recent abnormal conditions enabled
the co. to re-adjust its operations on a more
profitable basis, and now the concern looks
more prosperous than at any time in its
career. The balance-sheet position is decid-
edly comfortable. The s.s. Duroby was pur-
chased in 1920 —that deal accounts for the
expansion of the book value of the shipping
item in the accounts since the balance prior
td reconstruction—nevertheless, after paying
the recent diy. the co. had £26,134 of its
£lOO.OOO paid capital .represented by the
surplus of War Loan, deposits, cash, book
debts and stores over and above all known
liabilities. The £73.866 balance of capital
not covered by the liquid surplus was sup-
ported by shipping property with a book
value of £79,470 —which seems a conserva-
tive figure—and premises, etc., set down at
£2324.
Pacific Insurance Co.. Ltd., headquar-
ters in Fiji, branches in N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, Westralia and S. Aus.: —
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1921 . . £9,541 1 £9248 £9,248
Preliminary exes.. £293, written oft j
Premiums on new shares .. .. 1185 10,433
1922 ~ 10,835 6 p.c. =£3532 7303 17,736
This insurance co. was established in De-
cember, 1919, by several of the big business
men of Fiji, who had for years seen their
profitable insurances trickle to Australian
and other cos. The Pacific began without
any promoters’ cut or heavy formation exes..
and the whole of the preliminary costs of
£293 was charged against revenue in the
first year. The first accounts covered a
period of approximately 15 months, and the
latest the .12 months to March 31. Under-
writing figures have beqn as follows
Net Pre- Ex r Claims Expense
milling. Claims, penses. Ratio, Ratio.
1921.. £11,503 £2.606 £2358 22.7 p.c. 20.5 p.c.
1922.. 27,394 11,731 8072 42.8 „ 29.5 „
Tn the two years the co. has written off
the whole of its preliminary costs, the
£1037 spent on furniture and office eouip-
nient. and shown a surplus exceeding
£20.000. - The management has set, aside,
£lo,9ss—the usual 40 p.c. of net premium
income—in a reserve for finexpired risks,
and after paying 6 p.c. on paid , capital for
the past year had £6750 in a general reserve..
Very few insurance cos. have done so
well at the start; but the -clean float and
the commercial connections with which it
began gave the Pacific opportunities not
offering to most young offices. The pre-
miums shown above are net: in a little move
than two years £94,350 of premiums have
been collected, but £55,453 has been laid-off
in re-insurances. Paid capital is now
£58,865, in 294,325 £1 shares paid to 4s.
During the past year 29,125 new shares
were placed at an average premium of
slightly more than 9d. per share, and The
Bulletin knows of no other co. which, in
its Second year and though no div. had
been paid, has sold its shares at a premium.
The whole of the funds at March 31 were in
assets of good quality: £44,244 had been in-
vested in Government and municipal secu-
rities, £35,512 in mortgages and loans at
short call. £5500 in debentures and shares,
and £17,335 was in cash, agency balances,
etc.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land
and Building Co. (Sydney) r
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911. . £24,624 10 p.c, =£6,-301 £18,323 £77,030
Transferred to capital, £9670 .. 67,360
1912.. 33,737 16 p.e. = 12,760 20,977 88,33 1
Transferred to capital, £9.308 .. 79,U2!>
1913.. 35,351 121 p.c. = 11,209 24,142 103,177
Transferred to capital, £39,774 . . 63,397
Cash bonus distributed, £145 .. 63,252
1914.. 30,263 8 p.c. = 10,482 19,781 83,033
1915.. 30,556 9 ~ „ 11,790 18,766 101,799 1
Transferred to capital £26,057 .. 75,742
Cash bonus distributed, £147 .. 75,595
1916.. 34,789 9 p.c. = 14,136 20,653 96,24.8
1917.. 36,016 104 „ ~ 16,492 19,524 115,772
1918.. 37,605 10 „ „ 15,708 21,897 137,669
Transferred to capital, £78,373 .. 59,296
Reserves disappeared, £164 . . 59,132
1919.. 39,305 9 p.c. = 21,190 18,115 77,247
Assets written up by £78,277 and transferred
to capital.
1920.. 41,789 8 p.c. = 24,321 17,468 94,715
1921.. 40,000 8 „ „ 25,098 14,907 109,622
Apl.j
1922.. 19,862 8 „ „ 12,549 7,313 116,935
The Intercolonial balances every six months,
but to show performances of the very suc-
cessful co. over 10 years the table gives re-
sults for periods of 12 months to October
each year. Conditions lately have not been
so favorable' for the land and building cos.,
but despite the uncertainties of employment
and of wage movements, and the continued
high cost of building, the Intercolonial’s
gross profits for the past half were only
£2677 less than those for the six months
ended October last'. So 8 p.c. is still de-
clared with ease on a paid capital which is
mostly transferred profits. Paid capital is
now £313,724, and though £242,300 of it
was bonus scrip provided by accumulated
profits, there still remain visible reserves of
£110,935. The Intercolonial has been the
most successful of all Australian building-
cos., and is also one of the most sound. It
employs very little outside money ; at April
30 all liabilities amounted to £18,030, and
that was more than covered by cash and tem-
porary investments. In addition the co. has
£52,901 in Government securities. Advances
represented almost three-quarters of all
assets, but as the £330,832 .shown as out-
standing in tlie balance-sheet —no doubt, less
a contingency account —is protected by
nearly £117,000 of visible reserves, share-
holders’ position is very snug. The Inter-
colonial specialises in subdivisions, but its-
holding of vacant lands is not large.
* * * *
Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin. M.L.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan.. Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
1910.. £16,707 7 p.c.-£14,000 £1336 £1,371 £40,063
1911.. 18,225 7 „ „ 14,000 1500 2,725 42,788
1912.. 19,191 ■ 7 ~ ~ 15,515 1560 2,176 44.964
Premiums on shares issued .. 3,750 48,714
1913.. 21,544 7 p.c.= 16,083 2500 2,961 51,675
Premiums on new shares .. 4,375 56,050
1914.. 14,221 7 p.c.= 17,453 1275 01,543
1915.. 23,459 7 „ „ 18,541 1506 3,418 54,961
1916.. 24,730 7 ~ „ 18,550 6,180 61,141
1917.. 25,575 8 „ ~ 21,200 4,375 65,516
1918.. 30,329 8 „ „ 22,120 5000 3,209 68,725
1919.. 33,520 8 „ ~23,917 - 9,603 78,328
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 90,828
1920.. 40,768 10 p.e. = 31,493 9,275 100,103
1921 . 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7,206 107,309
1922.. 32,921 8 „ ~ 31,828 1,093 108,402
At the 1021 balance, abnormally large stocks
were held, and the reduced profit for the
past year has no doubt been due chiefly to
the difficulties of unloading. Considering
the extent to which the markets for Maori-
land’s produce collapsed, the co. did remark-
ably well to earn an 8 p.c. div. for share-
holders. The concern has developed consid-
erably iu recent years, and the manufacture
of fertilisers is now its biggest line. Since
1914 £210,000 has been sunk in factories
and equipment, £170,000 of that amount hav-
ing been the net increase 'of fixed assets dur-
ing the past two years. The co. at one
time had considerable investments in gilt-
edged securities, but these have been realised,
and the proceeds, together with a lot of new
capital, have been put into extensions of the
business. These big changes have taken
place in the balance-sheet since 1014: —
1914. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Capital .. £263,656 £367,140 £395,378 £399,865
Liabilities .. 54,082 76,650 225,651 143,375
Stock.. .. 186,693 188,874 301,120 226,785
Factories, .etc, 101,489 140,114 209,750 311,831-
Book debts .. 69,342 105,283 103,001 101,999
Cash, etc. . . 22,120 133,976 140,555 . 30,745
The co. appears to be comfortably financed :
when the latest accounts were presented
there was a cash credit balance of £14,780


man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally oorrect in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.—Anvr. [1
The installation of a water-main is always a mat-
ter for serious consideration. A lot of money and
the health of many people depend upon the judgment
of the engineer. The conduit must not only be
sanitary and reliable, but it must give the best pos-
sible value for the money expended. A very inter-
esting booklet prepared by the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Lane Cove, Sydney, gives convincing reviews of
the many advantages of Pioneer Wood Pipe as a con-
duit. White for it. — Advt.
* * * ♦
Patents. —Have von an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codi.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
us for inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * . .
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., ’Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”—-“National" suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * •
Messrs. Felton, Griimvade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydney.— Advt.
FOR PLEASURE AND BUSINESS
HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES ARE FAST BECOMING EXTINCT.
Bad Roads have hitherto checked heavy
mechanical traction, but
Motor Lorries are now so substantially
constructed that they make light of
almost any obstacle.
THE WICHITA MOTOR-LORRY
has achieved a world-wide reputation
for making good under extraordinary
conditions.
►Wtt
m
No roadway, however rough or steep, will stop them.
Horses are slow and soon tire.
The WICHITA LORRY is fast and never gets weary
or hungry.
It costs you only a postage-stamp to get information
which cannot fail to interest anyone who has carting
. . to do.
WICHITA MOTOR-LORRIES AND
TRACTORS, 1 to 12 tons.
SOLE
CONCESSIONAIRES—
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street(Camperdown), City, Sydney
over and above the amount required for the
linal div., and, though liabilities looked big,
, i er< c.,^?, s ;,i!/ sur,)lus s t°eks and book debts
or t-uu,ooo over all creditor accounts.
Owing to the storage of profits during the
many years when comparatively mild divi-
dends were paid, shareholders’ paid capital
tPinScEvP* is now supported by
. do.UtXl of reserves, a comforting fact m
v iew of the extensive construction of works
in the boom years. Many cos. which ex-
tended in the period of high costs mav
presently have difficulty in finding a fair
return on the money so invested. A con-
certi like Ivemptliorne-Prosser, which has not
rushed reserves into its capital account and
consequently has £125 to work for every
.Pj shareholders’ scrip, will have less
m satisfying Its proprietors. The
old-established eo. has dotle very well with
chemicals in the past, niitl Its newer enter-
prise m superphosphates should be equally
successful. J
* * * *
• Gepp, then g.ln. of Amal-
gamated Zinc (Be Bavfty’s), first waded
into thh study of zinc hydfo-luetallurgy, the
production of electrolytic Hific In America
had ilot got very fdi\ Gepp studied the pro-
cesses there, thefij returning to Australia)
commenced experimenting, and gradually
built Up what will in a Very short while be
r^ e bf Australia’s biggest industries. This
electrolytic Zinc Go. has resulted in other
developments j for instance, it is necessary
to calcine the zidc-CbncentfUtfe to drive off
the sulphfir before it can be treated electfo-
lytically. The Kirte-eoneerttrate contains
approximately 20 p.c. Sulphur, and the manu-
facture of sUlphliriC acid is being accom-
plished by Sending the zinc to the fertiliser
cos. which have erected roasting furnaces.
The ealcihes ate theii shipped to Risdon.
Large quantities of sulphuric acid are used
in the manufacture of superphosphate, and
other, industries are also customers of the
fertiliser and chemical cos. foreseeing this,
the financial group behind the venture was
powerful enotigh to get a. duty of 40s. placed
on imported sulphur. It is how proposed to
erect works iti Sydney to manufacture acid
irom Broken Hill zinc-concentrate, and this
has resulted in a renewal of the agitation
to complete the last section of the railway
connection between Broken ltill and Sydney.
Incidentally, the Silver City would probably
draw its coal supplies from Eskbank, so that
the railway would liaVe considerable loading
both Ways. It is probable that the Risdon
works Will use 100,000 tons of zinc concen-
trate per annum. These concentrates con-
tain about 4(5.000 tons jfine, 1,000,0000 z.
silver and 8000 tons lead. In pre-war days
the stuff went to Germany, and Fritz got the
lead and silver as “bhnee.’’ That part of the
business will now be looked after by Pirie
smelterS. Altogether the industry started
by Gepp will employ one way and another
nearly a. Couple of thousand Australian work-
men.
* # * #
The Roma bote is slowly being carried
down alongside the old bore to get past
the obstruction, driller Atthtir Moore being
still in charge of operations. As there is
yet something like 900 ft. to go to the gas
strata the job may be accomplished in six
to nine months if nothing untoward happens
in the interval. Wherever one goes in
Queensland the canard that the choking of
the bore was deliberately done by the Ameri-
can borer in the interests of the Oil Octopus
still survives, although it has been denied
time and again by Queensland officials con-
nected with operations there. Public in-
terest in the bore has waned, and will not
be stimulated until another gigantic blow
out of gas occurs. Then there will be a
demand to see if petroleum exists below.
Opponents of boring there say that tempera-
ture increases too rapidly to permit of oils
remaining unvolatilised, and that, anyhow,
the gas is not very wet. In regard to the
former no figures have been published. The
second objection is adequately answered by
Beeby Thompson, who speaks with world-
wide authority. Here is the extract
During the early career of oilfields the gaseous
products are largely methane, but there is usually
also a portion of the higher homologues oi the paraffin
series, and their proportion increases with the de-
velopment of the field. The largest amount of
condensable hydrocarbons are present where a partial
vacuum is applied to wells, that is when a field is
approaching exhaustion.
In short, a gas becomes wetter as a field is
developed. Cunningham Craig, in “Oil-Find-
ing,” turned dow r n the Roma district as not
adapted to the concentration 'of either gas
or liquid oil. Subsequent events proved he
was wrong as to the former, for No. 2 bore
flowed gas for four years at the rate of
40,000 to 65,000 cub. ft. per day. Nos. 3 and
4 bores have since shown similar gas press-
ures. Over a wide stretch of Western
Queensland our artesian bores have shown
traces of hydrocarbons, solid, liquid and
gaseous, particularly in the Longreach and
Blaekall districts. Warbreccan, Spring-
leigh, Bimerah and Rutliven bores can b°
cited. Artesian boring is not oil-boring, and
probably traces of oil are all w r e wrnuld get
in some of the American fields with a heavy
artesian system. It can be expected to give
practically no criteria as to what oil or
gas exists interbedded with our abundant
water-flows. Water is a trouble in some
American fields, and has been overcome by
the improved technique of boring. Appa-
rently if Western Queensland is going to
be an oil- or gas-field there is great danger
that it may be spoiled by supplies being
trapped, emulsified or driven away from
bores by flooding of heavy artesian flows,
unless our drillers have the experience neces-
sary to deal with the expected difficult con-
ditions.
The prospectus of the Freney-Kim-
berley Oil contains the following: ‘‘Pro-
perty to be acquired : Licenses Nos. H 2 and
H 3, containing approximately 85,000 sq.
miles, and the licenses give the co. the sole
right for five years to prospect for oil. Under
the conditions which the exclusive licenses
have been issued, a reward lease of 640
acres, together with two ordinary mineral-
oil leases of 48 acres each, will be granted
on the discovery of any payable oil-basin.”
i‘ reney’s has not yet struck payable oil,
but the farming-out process is showing very
profitable results. The co. lately granted
the W.A, Oil Exploration an option over
1000 sq. miles on the following terms:
£lOOO for 12 months’ option, an additional
£4OOO to be paid if the option is exercised.
During currency of the option £2OOO is to
be expended on prospecting for oil. In
addition to the cash consideration W. A. Oil
is to hand over to Freney’s about 17 p.c.
interest in its capital should transaction be
completed. Also, Tarcoola Blocks Gold
Mining Co. has secured from Freney’s 12
months’ option over 500 sq. miles; terms,
£5OO deposit, plus 17 p.c. interest on exer-
cising option. These and other farming-out
operations have created a unique position.
Frcne.Cs was granted a prospecting license
over 85,000 miles for an annual fee of £lO,
and in the event of a payable oil-basin being
met with, is to be rewarded with 780 acres
of territory, the remainder of the area cov-
ered by licenses reverting to the State. But
Freney’s is surrendering portions of its
areas, and not only nominating the new
licensees, but at the same time exacting heavy
tribute from them. It would be interesting
to know what rights the new licensees actu-
ally possess in view of the terms on which
Freney’s holds the areas.
Westralian State Geologist Blatchford
discovered bitumen and traces of mineral
oil on Freney’s and Oltes-Durack territory,
and expressed the opinion that the geological
Outlook was favorable. Since then Vic-
torian Geologist Maliony has confirmed
Blatchford’s opinion so far as Okes-Durack
country is concerned. Maliony did not inspect
Freney’s. That is all there is to say up to
the present on the oil possibilities in the
North-West. Freney’s boring plant has been
erected at Mt, Wynne, and progress reports
of boring operations should be coming
through soon.
» * * »
Hampton Celebration’s May clean-up gave
£2025 of bullion from 960 toils, with Bs. 6d.
gold per ton in the residues. It was a de-
cided improvement on the April return, but
is still not good enough. Working expenses
took £1650; but no doubt other expenses
will absorb most of the balance. Celebra-
tion results seem to confirm the opinion
expressed in _ the Westralian Arbitration
Court by mine-managers Sutherland and
McDermott to the effect that a 40s. extrac-
tion is no good for divs. under present condi-
tions at Ivalgoorlie.
The recent Westralian Arbitration Court
award, making an all-round reduction of Is.
per day in mining wages, together with
abolition of weekly contract of service and
Sunday overtime rates, will not assist the
industry much. The decline of the industry
is principally due to exhaustion of payable
ore reserves, and no revival of any import-
ance can be expected until new discoveries
are made. However, more prospecting par-
ties are now on the move than has been
the case for some years.
Youanmi Gold Mines, Black Range
(Vv .A.), has closed down. Low gold values,
followed by exhaustion of oxidised ore, with
no funds available for installing plant to
deal with complex material, are the factors
that brought about its end. The co. asked
the Mines Department for an advance of
£6060 for two years on security of plant,
but the request was turned down. Water is
rising in the workings, and apparently the
last has been heard of the show.
* * , * *
The pioneering work of looking for the
deep-lead at Elsmore Valley (N.S.W.) is
goinsr ahead. Before taking the boring plant
across the Mclntyre River to where F. Grey
Wilson recommended putting down a line of
bores, it was decided, for general informa-
tion, to locate bottom in the shaft aban-
doned in basalt by the Brisbane co. which
succumbed to water and war difficulties. A
hole was successfully collared through 174 ft.
of water in the shaft, and basalt proved to
go hard on to slate at 250 ft. The first bore
on the line across the valley below the prob-
able functioning with the main lead of the
Newstead and the Bony Gully leads has
mst been bottomed at 412 ft., showing 75ft.
of clay between the basalt and the slate
bottom. The locating of the deep ground
with the first bore on this line is encourag-
ing, and it is anticipated that the gutter
cannot be far away.
* * * » *
Great Britain Tin, Emmaville (N.S.W.),
is feeling the pinch of low values and high
costs. Returns for half-year ended April
last from two plants run by tributors show
production of tons tin, winch realised
a net average of £lOO 16s. Od. per ton. The
loss to the co. on the term was £27, but
directors find some satisfaction in the fact
that “operations have enabled the mines to
be kept going and maintained in good order
at a small cost.” The Britain plant, work-
ing on the back creek in the township, is
now treating good dirt, the last run of 180
hours producing 101 tons. It is understood
that the Y-Creek property will soon be
abandoned. The co. has paid over 90 divi-
dends in 15 years, and with a slight improve-
ment in tin values should soon reach the
100 mark. It has at least five years’ life on
the back creek section. “Bob” Sands, who
has been identified with the co. from its
inception, still holds the position of chair-
man.
* * » #
Bingera, 40-odd miles from Inverell, has
long boasted alluvial gold; but fossickers
have so far had the field to themselves, the
ground being difficult to prospect owing to
water interfering with sinking to bottom, a nd
because shingle has prevented the prospector
from boring. Now Hugh Munroe, of Ivera
station, hopes to get as good a run for his
money on the field as he did in the Metropoli-
tan and other fields with his horse Boy
Blue. He and N. C. Bucknell, of Newstead
station, are putting a little 6in. hydraulic
sluicing plant in the creek bed, and, provided
technical knowledge is brought in to guard
against gold losses and to accurately record
results, the ground may be proved to warrant
an economical plant.
* * * «
Oswalds, at Maldon (Vic.), does not crush
much stone these days, but what there is
of it is good : 19650 z. from 2955 tons is the
latest. Concentrates added 2350 z. This gave
the neat little profit of £3223 which, with
£527 in hand, allowed three divs. of Is. to
roll into the laps of the Oswald family and
their followers. The wonderful old ' show
has produced over a million to kee~ Maldon
in the mining firmament. W. .T. Rickard
famed for cheap work, has left, and his suc-
cessor, G. Kingsley, promises another good
SlX o^ni n^s * Stoping has been principally
at 800 ft., where 2ft. of stone carrying good
gold opened up 00ft. above the floor of the
working. The next move will be to tackle
the reef underfoot from the intermediate, as
gold shows _ there. At 900 ft. rising on the
shoot has given pay dirt, so the outlook isn’t
dreary.
* * # *
•!• • Roberts, on Bendigo’s latest sen-
sation :
The latest fortnight’s return from the New Red
White and Bine Consolidated of 7150 z. from 509
tons and the payment of a dividend of Is. per share
point to a revival of prosperity similar to that
which was experienced by the co. over 30 years ago.
ifii an essay written by me in 1892 I stated: “The
New R. YV. and B. Cons, will he one of the leading
mines of Bendigo for years, and it will even
retain a place of distinction in the records of the
Held. ‘Despised and rejected of men,’ the ground
remained untouched for years until in 1888 YV. Lan-
sell and a few kindred spirits conceived the idea
that a spot which had been so marvellously rich
on the surface must contain gold in payable quan-
tities in the lower formations. In May of that year
the present co. was formed, with results up to" the
middle of 1892 which stand: Capital, 15,000 shares
of £2 eaih; called up, Is. per share, £2250;
crushed 37,694 tons, gold 24 | ,210 oz.; dividends,
£54,000 —the first on July 31, 1890.” The figures
for 1892 were; Tons crushed, 22,156; gold, 13,9340 z. ;
dividends, £31,500. Figures for the subsequent
period are not at command, but for some years it
was a highly productive mine. Latterly, however,
the Hill has been under a cloud of depression which
is now being dispersed. The most important result
of the revival of 1890-92 followed ou the fact
stated in my article that “Mr. Lansell gives the best
possible proof of his belief in the continuity of the
line by sinking ,a shaft in the eastern portion of his
180 lease in the hope of striking the reef over a
mile north of the Sheepshead workings.” ’The out-
come of this enterprise was the location of the
Little 180 reef, which has been worked almost con-
tinuously ever since and has produced an enormous
quantity of gold, and the opening up of the Central
Blue mine, yields from which for some years were
good enough to return nearly £750,000 in divs.
Local authorities predict satisfactory results from
the systematic development work which is now-
being done at Sheepshead Hill. Bendigo Amal-
gamated Co. holds a long section of this line, start-
ing not far distant from the northern end of the
successful Consolidated, and any payable discovery
in the intervening area might have an important
bearing on that co.’s prospects at. this end of the
field. Amalgamated wants something of this sort
to instil new life into it.
* * * *
A novel gold-mining proposition is afoot
at Eaglehawk (Vic.). The Borough Council
has originated, and is supporting, the Eagle-
ha\vk Golden Miie Co., at Snobs Hill, in
an attempt to re-open some idle mines in
the hope of reviving mining locally. The co.
is taking up ground formerly worked by 20
cos., ever since 1855, when quartz mining
really began at Bendigo. Such well-known
mines on the New Chum line as the Cath-
erine Beet, YY llliams Lnited, Belmont and
Saxby, Ellenborough and Sadowa are in-
cluded in the leases, and it is Dronosed
to work the shallow levels where in the old
days nch yidds were raised, chiefly above
r m in ( ' ne,^ b01 '» of the Eaglehawk
Bolden Mile are the Virginia, Great North-
ern, Constellation, Golden Fyke and \W
Prince of Wales, all good producers. The
Snobs Hill gold was won mostly from shal-
low depths. There are five main lines run-
mng through the lease, the principal being
Blue^ 0 "' ° lUm and the Red ’ White ana
* * * *
The May crushing of Tyrconnell, at Kings-
borough (N.Q.), was the best for a consider-
able period ; i t Ooz. bullion was won from 510
tons ore and 3 tons Tcwt. of concentrates. The
April figures, which represented the recent
crushing average were 515 tons for 4400 z
The ore has come from the stopes overhead of
Nos. 4 and o intermediate levels. These are
now pretty well cleaned up, and the co is
sinking its main shaft deeper in the search
of further ore.
* * * „
“MeliHa”: State Enterprise at Irvinebank
IN.y.) is in a serious condition. The
much vaunted State store has been closed •
the State battery has only odd runs, as very
little stone is being sent in. and the crush-
ing charges are still too high ; and the State
subsidy to the Vulcan mine has all been
expended, and the co. is in a fix As m
effort to avoid liquidation, the Vulcan' has
been offered on tribute, but tributors are
very slow in coming along. Irvinebank is
m a cbsmal condition The State mills at
fifante and Ut IvidstoU are also white ele-
# « *
Last year Waihi (M.L.) returned half its
paid capital, and during the 12 months to
December 31 last distributed 20 px on the
f|47.A53 remaining. The plant handled
164,042 tons for 4(>,7970z. gold and
305,(>340z. silver, realising £307,972. A
clean-up of the refinery gave £40,322' more
net interest £26.345. Profits totalled
£106,594 of which £40,140 was set aside for
taxes and £14,138 was written off for depre-
ciation. “Suspense” ore reserves—appa-
rently not including about a quarter-million
tons supporting levels and shafts—are esti-
mated at 354,73 1 tons of an average assay
value of 38s 7d., calculating gold at 84s\
per oz. (fine) and silver at 2s. Waihi’s
search for a new property—£so.ooo was ear-
marked for the purpose 12 months ago—has
so far not been fruitful. Several prooositions
have been offered but declined. The co.’s
constitution is being altered to give the man-
agement unrestricted powers to treat and
deal with anything that takes its fancy any-
where in the world.


dfg
dfg
To iba. 'J’ra.v* y, , 1 2s>mi>.2<z.cl iba, iaa.aivj'Vy iuxi
pro&p«jr’ily ©/ o-vo-ryttivn^-. \A/iH> 2.0 w5O vnilttoos Sp«.r>T or> ’(Y, a.r
Some, day, no wjJos»l* a» «,pl «.v?duj cetc, ate '■
HOW WE ARE GOVERNED.
“The political explorers in the promised lands rush like human meteors through the deserted spaces of the Murray. They hit Wentworth at dusk, have dinner
and at early morn, s P eed feverishly into the solitude of the nine-mile area. They only rest for a minute to study a glimpse of the river and have a drink’
when the waring horn is sounded, and away they are rushed across to the Gol Gol. Even the hospitable hostess of a hospitable homestead is not allowed
to hold the party too long. So, as a result of this haste, a sheep is killed by a non-stop motor-car, and it lies in the path of the following motorists.”
—Sydney News on a recent Ministerial tour.


CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castleraagh St., n«ar King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
Brewed and and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
Obtainable
in every
Capital
City of the
Commonwealth
£>
AUSTRALIAN
Before you buy a Portable Typewriter con-
sider the NOISELESS PORTABLE. We can’t
promise that you will hear anything, but you
will SEE a beautiful, convenient typewriter
that combines quiet with the speed, beauty of
work, durability and economy that only THE
NOISELESS can give.
Can be used anywhere at any time without
annoying anybody.
Full particulars on request.
NOISELESS AGENCY
82a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone B. 2666.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
There was a full congregation in a subur-
ban R.C. chapel south of the Yarra last
Sunday, and his riv’rince in commending
“Australia Day” urged the setting up of an
adherence to lofty ideals. “In fact,” he
perorated, “our young men might do worse
than take as an example that great hero
whose tragic and terribly sudden death we
are all deploring. I allude, of course, to the
late Sir Colin Ross.”
“8.R.C.”: Prof. E. O. G. Shann (B.
15/6/’22) won a scholarship at Wesley
College, Melb., when at the P’ran State
School. I remember him as a small, serious
boy with an overhanging forehead who
wrote in exercise-books improvised from
butter-paper. In those days the family ran
a dairy-produce business not far from where
I lived, and Shann and his tall brother
Frank had to battle for their education.
E.O.G. hadn’t been long at Wesley before he
was collecting ’Varsity Exhibitions, and
thereby giving the college a great advt. He
soon outran his brother (now headmaster of
Trinity Grammar, Ivew), and his scholastic
record is about the finest in the Common-
wealth.
“J.W.”: The late ex-Superintende.nt
Creaghe did not lead the party of police who
squelched the bushrangers Clarke in 1864, as
alleged (B. 8/6,/’22). The crowd that did the
job (near Braidwood on 27th April, 1.867)
were led by senior-constable W. Wright, who
was directly promoted therefor to the rank
of sub-inspector. One of the Clarkes was
shot through the
right shoulder.
The only member
of the attacking
force to be hit was
the black tracker
Sir W a t k i n
Wynne. Another
police party, under
senior-constable M.
E. D. Ford (after-
wards inspector at
Orange) was out
after the Clarkes
at the same time,
and arrived on the
scene just as the
bushrangers sur-
rendered. My facts
are from the diary
of my late father,
who was the
senior - constable
Wright in question.
E.H. FARRAR.
N. S. Wales
Minister for Labor
and Industry.
P. M. Sanders, the N.S.W. solicitor who
died last week at 46, was a son of Percy
Sanders, a, Richmond school-teacher. A
brother is J. M. Sanders, the barrister who
went to the Boer War as representative of
the defunct Sydney Star, and managed the
paper for a while on his return.
Lionel Frank Potter, who has become per-
manent head of Melbourne’s sleuths, has a
reputation for tenacity. Regardless of
official rebuffs he pursued the study of finger-
prints when that science had only a Euro-
pean vogue, and it took him nine years to
get it accepted in the courts. Potter, who
is a* rather grim-looking character with a
settled frown, was born in Bombay, in 1871,
came to Australia at 18, and joined the
police within a few weeks.
Died in Maoriland on his way back from a
trip to U.S.A. in search of health, Alfred Cecil
Rowlandson, proprietor of the N.S.W. “Book-
stalls,” a business with which he had been
connected for about 40 years. Born in tire
Ballarat district, he came to Sydney in 1878
and got a job in an indent office, but later
sold tram-tickets for the Bookstall Co., then
owned by Henry Lloyd. From that modest
start he climbed steadily until he reached
the managerial chair, and on the death of
Lloyd succeeded to the business.
“Lucius”: George Frederick Taylor,
whose sudden passing in Melbourne left
a vacancy on the Council of the Vic.
Master Builders’ Association, was a
brother of the Joe Taylor whose trans-
actions with Jowett suits recently received
some unprofitable publicity. George Fred-
erick was Mayor of Geelong in 1916, drop-
ping out to make
room for Hitch-
cock to sflart on
the five-years’ run
that has just
landed him a
C.M.G.-ship. His
tact was subordi-
nate to his ability,
and when Mayor
he was constantly
in hot water.
Finally he fell
foul of both the
local Trades
Hall and the
followers of
Mannix, and when
he stood for re-
election they
united against
him. His oppo-
nent was a promi-
nent Freemason,
so that the ex-
Mayor was hit
both ways, in a
sectarian manner
of speaking. Soon
after, he moved to
Melbourne, where
he achieved some
success as a con-
tractor and direc-
tor of a roof-tile
factory.
W.A. GALE.
Clerk of House
of Reps.
S. Australia has lost its outstanding abo.
—Matthew Ivropinyerie, a nearly full-
blooded native who used to spend much of
his spare time in the Public Library. He
was a skilled mason, shearer and farmer, and
his education, gained at the Point Macleay
mission station, made him a valuable link
between the white and the black in questions
of folk lore and tribal custom. He was only
56 at the end.
“Fed-up” goes back a few years:—
The recent Sydney press rumpus between Father
O’Reilly, of St. John’s, and the L.O.L. champions
recalls the attempt to get business made by the
then moribund and now defunct Protestant Stan-
dard. A youthful representative of the paper called
on George Crowley, the City Mutual magnate, whom
he knew, to solicit an “ad.”
“But, Arthur,” said Crowley, “we have one run-
ning in the Catholic Press.”
“Quite so. That’s why I called.”
“Surely you don’t expect us to advertise in both
papers.”
“What do you mean ?” cried the astounded Arthur.
“Don’t you know,” demanded Crowley solemnly,
“who is the biggest shareholder in the Catholic
Press ?”
“No.”
“Dill Mac-ky.”
“Gor’s truth!”
“And are you not aware that the Protestant
Standard is heavily subsidised by Cardinal Moran?”
“Gor’s truth!”
“Can’t you perceive, Arthur, my boy,” the chair-
man continued, “the game that goes on? If the
Press on the one side and the Standard on the
other didn’t bang the big drum, what on earth would
happen to the collection plates?”
I‘Gor’s truth!” murmured Arthur again, as he left
and went back to the office to hand in his papers.
Sergeant-Major Gamble, who recited “The
Charge of the Light Brigade” at a Thorn-
bury (Vic.) entertainment the other day,
says he is 101, and saw the original suicide
of the Brigade in the Crimea. He was in
the Black Watch (47th Highlanders), like
his father and grandfather before him, and
claims to have taught the rudiments of war-
fare to Lord Roberts.
Inspector Geo. Heritage, now about to
retire, has served the Tas. Education Dept,
for 57 years, during which he has been
everything from pupil-teacher to senior
inspector. He is one of the little band of
pedagogic Methuselahs who helped to train
many of the Speck’s leading citizens. Lieut.-
Colonel Heritage and J. E. Heritage, a
Launceston chaser of Costs, are his sons,
and his successor is to be Walter Wright,
headmaster at Invermay (Launceston).
Passed out. at Emita, Flinders Island,
Valentine Huitfeldt, one of the oldest resi-
dents. He was chairman of the first Road
Trust, first Warden when the municipality
was formed, first J.P. —practically first
evervthing. He was the soul of hospitality,
and the islanders still talk of the pace he
set as M.C. when Governor Harry Barron
visited the Specklet about 12 years ago.
“A.H.R.”: “Iford” (B. IS/5/’22) claims
for Perth iW.A.) the possession of a citizen
who has contested more elections unsuccess-
fully than any other two men in Australia.
Reminds me that here in Rockhampton (Q.)
we have a man whom the ratepayers rejected
12 times in succession for the local council.
At the thirteenth try he was accepted, but
he went out into the cold world again at
the fourteenth.
When Cleland, K.C., in the High Court
in Melbourne the other day, recalled, illus-
tratively, the fable of the snake that bit
the man who put it on his bosom to warm
it, Frank Gavan Duffy, from under his
judicial wig chipped in with: “It wished
to give a gentle reminder that it was purely
a carpet-snake.” Cleland had reckoned
without the author of “A Dream of Fair
Judges.”
They tell the story that when Valentine
Huitfeldt, lately gone west at Flinders
Island, Bass Strait, presided over the first
court held at Whitemark, one of his old
cobbers, quite oblivious of the dignity of
the Bench, interjected so persistently that
at last Whitty, as he was familiarly known,
roared: “Silence, or I will convict you for
—for tarn perjury !”
Bath and Tyner are the two new members
of the Vic. Upper House who will move
and second the Address-in-Reply. If they
are game to tell the assembled dodderers that
the motion is mere antiquated and time-
wasting foolishness that ought to be dropped,
they may horrify a few old hands but will
certainly raise a cheer from outside.
With the election of Peter Murdoch, of
Dulcot, as M.H.A. for Franklin, the Mur-
doch clan has put up a Tasmanian record.
It has now three brothers in the State legis-
lature. The other two, James and Thomas,
are in the other House. Peter is much more
like the aggressive Tom than the inoffensive
James.
S. C. Brittingham, chief architect of Vic.
Public Works Dept., who is over 60, but
still vigorous, retires next month on pension
and takes up private practice. His successor,
if a first-class man from outside, will open
his mouth much wider than S.C.B. ever did.
He is finishing his career on £9OO per annum,
and for long had to be satisfied with £750.
Of the five Liberal State Premiers Law-
son (Vic.) is now the only knightless one.
He is supposed to be still identified with the
Radical wing of Liberalism, and to have no
leaning towards a title ; but there is no Cell-
ing. A previous Oastlemaine Premier (J. B.
Patterson) was Radical enough to be a
lieutenant of Berry in the ’seventies, but he
lived to be leader of a Conservative-Liberal
Ministry and —to take a sirship. Berry, of
course, gave a lead on the title racket.
J. W. Lyall, who went out at Jarnadup
(W.A.) the other day, at 60, was, like so
many successful Westralians, an Adelaide
man originally, and, like so many successful
men originating there, the son of a parson.
As a young man he was in the old Commer-
cial Bank of S.A. till it crashed; then he
tried the Coolgardie goldfields, but success
eluded him till he took to the timber busi-
ness, first at Collie and finally at Jarnadup.
“Skipper”: C. P. Hill, Chief of Police and
Public Prosecutor at Sandakan, British
North Borneo, is a 25-year-old S. Australian.
As. a well-grown youngster from St. Peter’s
College, he was one of the first to reach the
recruiting-office in T 4, but was rejected on
account of his age. His ability to blow a
bugle eventually got him away with the First
Division. He was badly wounded at the
Landing, and was sent back to Australia and
discharged, but subsequently made his way
to England, and in T 7 I met him in London
battling for a commission in the Flying
Corps.
Walter Manifold, who got a walkover for
the Western Province, will be re-elected Pre-
sident of the Vic. Upper House on July 5.
Edgar is the only one in the running for
the Chairmanship of Committees, made
vacant by Drysdale Brown’s death, and
Richardson will be confirmed in his job of
member of the Railway Committee. Edgar
will draw £3OO and Richardson slightly over
£2OO a year. The President’s allowance is
£750.
“Chancery Lane”: It was recently cabled
that Victor White, an English journalist,
had inherited £BO,OOO under the will of one
Harriet O’Brien, of Victoria, a half-sister
of his father. If Victor has anticipated
these expectations to any extent someone
is due for a thud. Harriet, who died in
Carlton in March, 1920, left estate valued
at under £6OOO. Her will was informal, and
an intestacy as to the whole estate arose.
She left no issue, so one-half went to her
husband, and a worried trustee has been
searching for uncles and aunt§, nephews and
nieces, among whom to divide the residue.
“T. 0.1.”: John Thomas Smith (B.
15/6/’22) had one more claim to dis-
tinction which no other Australian poli-
tician had or can have. He was
elected _to the City Council on its inaugu-
ration in 1842, and to the first Vic. Parlia-
ment, and held seats continuously in both
until his death in
1579. Smith gave
the first fancy-
dress ball in Vic-
toria in the
Queen’s Theatre in
1553. He was the
fi rs t Freemason
initiated in Port
Phillip, and rose
to be Provincial
Grand Master of
the Irish Constitu-
tion. He was a'
Sydney native,
born in 1816, was
schooled by the
historic pedagogue
Cape, and his
first job was a
j unior clerkship
in the Bank
of Australasia. At
the close of 1837
he went south to
fame and fortune.
LEO CUSSEN,
Melbourne
barrister.
“Xox”: S. G. Wells, who does a daily
cartoon for Melbourne Herald is regularly
troubled by people who have discovered
juvenile Phil Mays and enclose some of the
infants’ horrible productions for criticism. At
first the artist tried informing these people
that he was “too busy learning himself to
advise others”; but experience has shown
that something more drastic is required. So
now, when father sends a packet of alleged
drawings, a stereotyped note goes back say-
ing: “Does your boy play marbles? If so,
keep him at it.” It seems cruel, but Wells
says he hasn’t yet had a case where the
reply wasn’t abundantly justified.
“J.F.11.” (Lond.) : Is there an Australian
editor still in harness at 85? That is the
record of Sir John le Sage, of London Daily
Telegraph. As a cub reporter from the-
country he joined the D.T. in its infancy
60 years ago, and has been with it ever
since. As war and special correspondent he
has represented it in most of the countries
of the world, and he still puts in eight hours
regularly every day at the office. It is now
almost forgotten that Marcus Clarke was
for some years the Melbourne correspondent
of the Daily Telegraph, and his work was
such that he was invited to join the editorial
staff —an offer he ought to have accepted.
A. G. Ogilvie, who topped the poll for
Franklin at the Speck election, is the rising
hope of Labor in the island. First elected
three years ago when only 27, he is booked
for the Attorney-Generalship when (or if)
the party gets back to office. He has a
flourishing practice at the Bar.
Amelia Boothman, of Armadale (Vic.),
became a centenarian this month. She is
the widow of Edward Westlake Boothman,
Deputy Comissioner for Crown Lands in
Tas. about 40 years ago. He was a son
of that John Boothman who married
Mary Westlake at Hobart in 1810. Mrs.
Edward Boothman, who was born in London,
arrived 83 years ago, an incident of her
voyage being a mutiny of the ship’s crew,
during which the passengers were locked in
their cabins. F. W. Walton, hon. sec. of
the Pioneers’ Club, Bydney, is a grandson.
“Tiberias” : Four A.I.F. men were entitled
to wear the white ribbon of the Polar Medal
—-Captains E. F. R. Bage, 8.C.E., G. H.
Wilkins, M.C., F. Hurley and L. R. Blake,
M.C. Bage was killed on Gallipoli in May,
1915. Wilkins, official photographer, for a
time, later joined the A.F.C., and, after the
Armistice, tried the England-Australia flight,
but crashed at Corfu. He is now with
Wild in the Antarctic. Hurley, who was
also an official photographer, is snapping
things above and below ground in Australia
once more. Blake was killed _in France
about a month before the Armistice.
“A.C.R.”: Alf Vincent used to tell of a
young lady who informed him she could
recognise his work the instant she set eyes
on it. “How?” inquired the gratified artist.
“Oh, it’s quite easy,” she smiled. “All your
characters are so beautifully alike.”
THE PHANTOM DEAD HEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The cemetery will be closed to the public from
11 o’clock until after the funeral of the dead aviator.”
—Press item.
Forth from the cemetery slunk the crowd,
Reluctantly: the gates were closed ere noon,
And none in God’s grim acre was allowed
Save the sad party that was coming soon —
The mourners, and the escort, and the few
AVho follow slow behind a great man’s bier.
“The show is but for ticket-holders’ view:
To no outsider grant admission here.”
Thus ran the order which the crowd obeyed,
When gates were opened wide and closed again ;
But as the hero to his rest was laid,
Entitled in God’s-acre to remain,
Lo ! / was there, the pageant gazing at,
Daring man’s brief authority to flout;
No grave official ticket-holder fat
IV.it just a ghost—they could not turn me out.
Dear living friends, the cemetery’s gate
Bars you no longer when ’tis time to die:
You get the entree certain, soon or late,
And like a monarch at your leisure lie,
Till pomp and circumstance disturb your sleep,
And move your shade to action for awhile:
Then, ’midst the living crowd unseen you creep,
And view the matter with a kindly smile.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


THREE. CASTLES
CIGARETTES
Jhe re’s mo sweeter
ZToba.cco comes from Virginia
and no better brand. tha,n
' SPii'ttMlmta e S>
TH/\CKE Fi/KY rue VIRGI NrANStf?
/>S *
A
P/e A7A
'/A
Cdstles
m
n
n
IV,
a
'X'
1/ 1
A)
n
iS
V
v?
b
v
The Famous
W. D. & H.
Brand of
O. Wills.


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
An Exclusive Novelty—
Knitted Undercoats.
Recently imported by Peapes is an unusual line of
Undercoats.
They are tailored of very fine soft-knitted fabric,
excellently cut and finished with loose-fitting coat sleeves.
The front is either square, or cut away as illustrated.
They are made somewhat shorter than the ordinary
sweater jacket, further to increase their utility for wear
under a street coat.
. These light and distinctive Undercoats are in a
variety of Lovat or Heather shades; all sizes bein®
priced at
£4/4/-
Peapes pay postage
Please state chest measurement.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
A CREDITABLE DISPLAY.
MRS. HA: “It's simply awful. These silk
stockings cost twenty-six shillings.”
HA: “Newer mind, dear, you’ve got some-
thing to show for your money.”
Morehead”: The national betting habit
crops up in some unexpected places. The
other Sunday a Melbourne Methodist parson
was scandalised to discover that some of the
junior members of his church choir had
contracted the habit of wagering {pair and
impair, as they say at roulette) on the
hymns given out during the service. One
youthful speculator owned up—impelled
thereto by a Third Degree ear-grip put on
him by the justly-incensed cleric —that he
had won 18s. 4d., chiefly in thrippences des-
tilled for the plate, owing to an astonishing
run of “evens,”
* * * *
‘Tekelo ’: The fine flower of mateship
blooms in mean streets, and, at an age when
romance and generous impulses are sup-
posedly dead. Joe and Jack were mates, and
both were fat and 45. Joe was a plasterer;
Jack the proprietor of a milk round that would
not support a horse and cart, and which
scarcely fed and clothed his family. In
the depths of a Melbourne winter Jack fell
sick. If he failed to deliver the milk he
lost his customers. Joe stepped in. For
a month, between 3 and 7 a.in., he plodded
up and down miles of cold, wet, foggy streets,
milkcan in each hand, and a hoarse
"Milk-o in his throat. The customers,
understanding the position, took double the
quantity in the morning, thus saving - an'
afternoon round. The milk delivered, Joe
would rush home, devour breakfast, then
bolt reach his plastering job at 7.30 a.m.
“Coot”: The absurdity of the provisions of
the ancient ‘‘Melbourne and Geelong Cor-
poration Act,” under which Melbourne’s
Council is elected and the city is governed,
was again exemplified the other day when
one of the assessors, a councillor, tendered
his resignation on account of ill-health. It
was then discovered that under the Act any
Cord Mayor, alderman or councillor who
resigns his office is liable to a penalty not
exceeding £5O. The City Fathers got" over
the difficulty by fining their lawless colleague
a bob.
* * # *
One of the most impudent drink-license
applications on record was made at Single-
ton (N.S.W.) last week, when a local pub-
keeper asked the Court for permission to
run a beer-and-whisky stand at a pigeon-
shoot. There have been no prosecutions of
pigeon-murderers' so far, either under the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act or the
Crimes Act. But the business is undoubt-
edly cruelty of a barbarous kind, and
many magistrates and Judges would find
that way if the police decided to give them
the chance. Not only is this never done,
but the police remain steadfastly blind, both
in Victoria and N. S. Wales, to the open
and continuous betting without which
pigeon-shooting could not exist. Since the
practice of laying three to one against the
bird is every bit as illegal as the habit of
betting even money at two-up, the official
discrimination between the two pastimes is
difficult to explain. But that it exists no
one has any doubt. Whoever heard of a
publican asking for permission to run a
drinking-booth at a two-up school?
* * * *
Ted Colies: I can’t hold with these pic-
turesque explanations about the origin of
the term “Digger” (James Green —Red
1 age, 8/0/’22). It was at Broadmeadows,
1!)14, while malingering behind a stone in-
cinerator that I had just helped to build,
and at the same time examin-
ing my blistered hands, that a
thick-set, bucolic-looking gentle-
man wandered over from where
he’d been excavating a sanitary
trench, and said : “How’re you
off for smokes, Digger?” I met
the term frequently after that ;
but, as far as my memory goes,
not more often than “Cobber,”
"Nugget,” “Darky,” “Tracker”
and similar terms of casual
address. If the term “Digger”
had had anything to do with
the act of digging-in, then it
would have been all the rage on
Gallipoli (as the Padre sug-
gests), for there at one time a
man could travel from our hind-
ermosf headquarters up to the
most advanced outpost without
seeing anything but clay walls
to left or right of him. Per-
sonally I have no recollection
of any particular usage of the
word there; while, as far as
France and Belgium were con-
cerned, the digging-in industry
was in a very advanced stage
long before any Aussies arrived
to take a hand in the game.
Wherefore I maintain that it’s
pure chance that members of
the late A.I.F. are not known
to-day as “the Nuggets,” “the
Trackers” or any other old
word suggestive of Australian
life and outback conditions.
The term “Digger” is just a
verbal hand-down, or echo, from the most
momentous and sensational phase in early
Australian history—the golden ’fifties.
* * * »
“H.H.” : One London report says that the
flow of terrified Protestant refugees from
Ireland is taxing accommodation in Glas-
gow and Liverpool. Another mentions that
a new flood of Catholic refugees from the
North is “streaming across the border into
the Free State.” It is pathetic, no doubt,
hut pathos of that sort is short-lived. As
a matter of cold logic, I should say, “Let
’em stream, and the more the better.” When
they have all strome, if such a blessed event
is possible, it will end a trouble that can
be ended in no other way. Hostile races
and religions may look at each other with
comparative calm across a narrow river or
even a line of boundary posts, but when
they are so mixed that their scattered forces
consider each other’s imperfections across
the landiug of a tenement house they are
too close, and when the boundary between
two pickets is a bar-counter with a beer-pot
on it someone throws the pot sooner or
AS BROAD AS IT WAS LONG.
“Why did they send back your short story? Was it too long?”
“No. As a matter of fact, they said it teas too broad”
later. The removal of tribes that have be-
come too much mixed (as in Macedonia,
where the dragging-apart and fencing-off of
Bulgarians, Greeks and Serbs is the only
alternative to anarchy) should be raised by
the Great Powers to an international in-
dustry, and their pantechnicon, or Black
Maria, forcibly shifting an isolated and
quarrelsome sept or sect to its homeland,
it it has one, should be as familiar an object
as a tramcar. The spectacle of one sect
cursing vehemently with its head out of
the window of a caravan going north at an
opposition sect, with its head framed in the
window of a similar vehicle going south
would then become, if not exactly a symbol of
peace, at least a harbinger of less' bloody
days to come,
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: A feature of immigration that
might be of interest to thoughtful Austra-
lians is dwelt upon in one of Wells’s essays
on the American population, the fact that
the native race does not get itself born with
its customary alacrity in communities where
immigration is pouring in. It would almost
seem that the local baby,
perceiving that he is not as
necessary, nor nearly as wel-
come, where the pommies
are thickest, resolves not to
be born pending some
change in existing condi-
tions. At any rate, the
birthrate among American
children of American parents
is always adversely influ-
enced by gushes of immigra-
tion, possibly the result of
would-be (or should-be)
parents recognising that the
pressure of foreign competi-
tion is not likely to be
favorable to the anticipated
little Yank in his struggle
for existence, and he is cut
off at the main, so to speak.
Have Australian statists
noticed any similar back-
wardness in coming for-
ward on the part of the Australian off-
spring as a consequence of the too-copious
injection of foreign blood? It is not probable
that a condition markedly observable in
America would be absent in Australia, given
a similar set of circumstances.
* * * «
The reflections of a Bible student:—
A millennium or two or three ago Lord Esau,
eldest son of Isaac D'lsrael, a sort of duke in those
duvs and ancestor of Benjamin, Earl of Beacons-
field, disposed of his birthright for a plate of soup.
When he found that he had sold, not merely the
reversion of a hairy tent and some cattle, but the
prospect of being the ancestor of all the pawn-
brokers on earth, he became an wild as the sur-
rounding scenery. A somewhat similar case is that
of Lord Edward Fitzgerald, third: son of the Duke
of Leinster, who, having married a bouncing actress
and being short of money for her to bounce with,
sold his chance of the family estate (he couldn’t
sell his chance of the title) for a small i<um. That
was before the war had improved the prospects of
third sons. Now he is a duke with no assets, save
possibly an enraged wife, but the buyer has offered
to sell back the agricultural property in Kildare
(Irish Free State) on reasonable terms. Apparently
he didn’t offer to make a bargain sale of the
ground rents in London, and Kildare is no great
place either for dukes or for people who collect their
rents. Both Esaus lacked faith, or the staying
quality, or something. George I, was born in
Hanover just about the end of the Cromwellian Pro-
tectorate, and there were over 50 lives between
him and the British throne, but his bony mother
swore that he would get there, and perhaps her
faith helped him there.
* * * *
“Sucre”: Peering through her drawing-
room window, shortly before lunch, the ben-
evolent old suburban lady saw a shivering
man in a ruined overcoat. Not all the
members of the capitalistic classes are iron-
souled persons intent on grinding down the
faces of the afflicted, yet virtuous, poor.
Taking a 10-shilling note from a heavily-
beaded bag, she scribbled on a piece of paper
the words: "Cheer up,” put both in an
envelope, and told the maid to give it to
the outcast from her. While the family was
at dinner that evening a ring sounded at the
front door. Argument followed in the hall
between a hoarse male voice and that of
the maid. “You can’t come in. They’re
at dinner.” “I’d rather come in, miss.
Always like for to fix these things up in per-
son.” “You can’t come” Another moment
THE WISE VIRGIN.
"If I had two wishes I'd wish for a hus-
band.”
“That's only one.”
" Yes, I'd keep the other till I saw how he
turned out.”
and the needy wayfarer was in the dining-
ro,,"i; He carefully laid five filthy £1 notes
on the table beside his benefactress. “There
you are, mum,” he said with a rough saluted
Cheer Up won all right. I’m mostly on
the corner race-days, as your cook will tell
you: an I’d like to say that if any uv
your friends ” J
(Continued on page 18.)
THE MARTYRED POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three men forced an entrance at midnight into
the house ot Darrell Figgis, the Irish poet and
essayist, saying they had army orders to mutilate
him by removing his beard. Figgis appealed to them
not to commit an act that Would disgrace Ireland
hut the intruders produced a pair of scissors and cut
oti his beard and moustache. Figgis siated after-
wards that the raiders were much moved, and that
one of them wept.” —Cable ■item.
For centuries the Right Divine
Of poets never has been shaken ;
Though from the Stuarts’ holy line
Theirs many years ago was taken.
In the dim womb of ages past
When hungry mastodons ran fast
To catch the pterodactyl,
Man’s life —though venturous —-yet needed
Diversion which it seemed to lack till
The poet sang around the lire,
Growing his hair to his desire—
By all that right conceded.
And that primeval due’s assured
By all man’s moral instincts still.
Shall an infraction be endured?
Shall any poet take this pill?
Xn matter if he small or big is
(And very small is Mr. Figgis),
Yet is his hair his might.
Think of a tongueless politician ;
Then if your nerves can bear the sight,
A poet by Intruders shaven.
Rise, writers! Let not one be craven,
And send the barbers to perdition.
Behold on every hand they gather,
A noble band of hairy wights,
’i heir cheeks untouched by blade or lather,
Their eyes ablaze with flaming lights.
Shall Figgis mourn in lonely shame?
Lo, rallying at his martyred name
All hasten to enlist.
From every side, Crusader-fashion,
We come, beer bottles in each fist...
Glad, in humanity’s disgrace,
To think that one his piteous case
Moved to a due compassion 1
N.S.W,
J.L.


m
IS
i
J 3 tke lady ?
11
H
I
.vm
ff ■ 'M.-M f
;•*.
/
ml
m
■FE
1
m 1
m
m
I ■ ■
I
■ i
■ 1111
£
EH
:
i;
&
*
m
;■ .
w
’
K
mm
m m
i
fIWCHWWtt
• • < ■; *
\ * ris j
* .J
m
mm
3*
«n.
9*i
:
15
.5
' <''' I■%
,5 : ■
Bi
H
Hi
jf l ?. aKHsa? ■
fill
■1
■ ■
si
1
B
&
:
HH
fl
«•>
$3.


Butterfly Hatpins and Brooches,
ranging in price, l6/6, 21/-
22/6. 25/-
Butterfly Ear Rings, ranging in price,
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 37/6, 40/-
Butterfly Rings,
prices, 16/6,
17/6, 21/-,
The New Butterfly Jewellery
VERY FASHIONABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
COMPRISING BROOCHES, RINGS, PENDANTS,
WRISTBANDS, EAR-RINGS, HATPINS, etc.
Made from African Butterflies caught in the wilds of
South Africa. The gaily-colored wings are mounted
under magnifying crystal glass, set in Sterling Silver.
A Very Handsome Selection now on view at our
Two Sydney Establishments. Call and Inspect.
Butterfly Hat
Pins, 16/6,
21/-, etc.
Stewart Dawson &(q () Ltd.
ylva Syd tig if :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
STRAND CORNER -412 GEORGE ST..
dfg
Butterfly Wrist-
bands, Black Moire
Silk Bands, choice
designs, from 30/-
Butterflv Pendant.
Price, 45/-
“1085”: The casual Digger of war-days
has carried it into civvies. Sighted one of
the original Tenth at the Outer Harbor
(Adelaide) wharf last week fishing. His
sinker was his “1014 Star.”
“Gnarelt” : But is it quite correct to de-
scribe Horatio Bottomley as always “clam-
antly religious” ("Inner Temple,” B.
1,/(j/’22) V Prior to the war this versatile
being was the chairman at the annual dinner
of the Bradlaugli Fellowship, a society
of pronounced atheistic views. I remember
Bottomley boasting during his second elec-
tion campaign in South Hackney that his
opponent (Monro-Ferguson, our late G.-G.)
could have the support of the churches, but
that lie would stand by humanity and free
thought. The religious feeling that came
over England during the " r ar, called for a
semblance of piety in Bottomley, and he
supplied it in leading articles in John
Bull and the Northcllffe Sunday Pic-
torial. Probably this misled many who
only knew Bottomley as a profes-
sional patriot during the war period. As
for the striking personal resemblance to
Bradlaugli, it is a curious thing, even in
his own biography (“Bottomley’s Book”),
Horatio makes no reference to his parents.
During the war he seldom mentioned the
UNAVOIDABLE EXTRAVAGANCE.
MISTRESS: “You have seven blouses in the
wash this week. My daughter has only
two.”
G LADYS: “Your daughter's young man's a
bank clerk. Mine's a sweep.”
Diggers in John Bull. I once asked the
leason for this omission. His reply was
that he had no colonial edition of his jour-
nals that needed pushing. This suggests
the motive underlying his tender solicitude
tor the welfare of the Tommies.
“Pindi”: Annie Besamt was discreetly
silent about caste distinctions in India. Just
a year ago to-day I lay under my Harley-
Davidson on .the Grand Trunk-road near
Allahabad. It was llOdeg. in the shade,
HANDS UP!
my topee had rolled off, and I was securely
pinned down. “Lift it off,” I said to three
Aryan brothers sitting under an adjacent
tree.” “O sahib, we are Brahmins and
are preparing our food,” was the reply.
Cursing, I lay there till the occupants of
a passing bullock-cart released me. But a
man in field boots is handicapped in a race
with three flying Brahmins wearing little
but an expression of abject terror. Hence
my conception of the White Man’s Burden
could only find expression in stamping out
their fire and kicking their brass cooking-
pots to blazes.
“Lip”.: The “self-
inflicted wound”
charge covered a mul-
titude of mishaps,
especially among the
Tommies. Knew a
labor-battalion chap
who had three fingers
blown off his right
han d. II e, when
cleaning out a hut,
had come across a de-
tonator, and in the
act of throwing it out-
side his hand struck
the door and the det.
exploded. That was
his story; but his
officers gave him a
chance to tell it to
a court-martial. An-
other case. A Tommy
s.m. was brought into
the C.C.S. from
Armentiferes, his skull
badly smashed by a
nose-cap from one of
our own anti-air-
crafts. He never re-
covered. Had he done
so he would have had
to answer an s.i.w.
charge of having been
in a danger zone with-
out his tin-hat. The
Imperial people fol-
lowed up these cases
like blood-hounds,
more especially in the
closing months of the
war. There were no
pension-rights attached to a s.i.w. sufferer.
■* * * *
“A.L.P,”: Re .“Pat Bushie” on birth regis-
trations (B. 11/5/’22). An assistant-district
registrar in S. Aus. was taking down par-
ticulars of a birth from a jubilant father.
The month was September, but the official’s
mind was on a bet that he had just made on
the forthcoming Melbourne Cup. and the
date went down as November. Back came
the papers from the D.R. with the following
memo: “Sir, —You are wasting your time
and ability in your present occupation. Why
not go into business as a maternity tipster?
In the present instance kindly retain the
papers until the child is born in confirma-
tion.”
* * * •
“Gaza” : It was plain that they were bored
with the show. His settled gloom after Act I.
indicated that, in
his opinion, the two
reserved stalls and
her bouquet
weren’t worth the
money. As if read-
ing his thoughts,
she sighed and
murmured: “ Isn’t
it a waste?” Evi-
dently wishing to
incur no further
expense, he studied
the ceiling when-
ever the chocolate
boy came too close,
and refused t o
notice how wist-
fully her eyes
dwelt on the boy’s
wares. Suddenly
she had an inspira-
tion, and; after
conferring wit li
her escort, beck-
oned to the
raucous - voiced
child of the tray.
He stumbled to-
wards them and
the three had a
short parley, after
which a 2s. box of
chocolates changed
hands. So did the
bouquet. “I can
get four bob for
this bunch,” the
kid confided to me
after the show;
“but, gee! They
were ’ard. I ’ad
to chuck in a pro-
gramme with the
belly-ache goods.”
“Lip”: “Globe’s” mention (B. l/6/’22) of
the n.c.o.’s stripes which were loosened in
anticipation of the “stripping” ceremony,
recalls to me the occasion when a derisive
Digger corporal, subsequent to the prepara-
tory loosening, stitched his bars on again,
adding a considerable amount of extra
needlework for luck. The s.m. got the shock
of his life when he attempted the “reducing”
process. On making a second and more
vigorous attempt he collected the sleeve of
the tunic —with the stripes .intact! This
ceremonial foolery, by the way, was dis-
pensed with even in the case of “broken”
officers long before the war ended.
* * # #
“M.D.” on a proposed bill: —
Sydney opticians and optometrists, faced with the
Fuller Government’s proposal to register them and
thus put the kibosh on the peripatetic eye specialist,
have lost no time in instituting a propaganda stunt,
by which means they hope to arouse the sympathy
of the public and forestall the certain opposition
of the oculists to the proposed measure. Oculists believe
that the eye is a variable organ, and that opticians
should have their energies limited to prescribing for
cases of presbyopia only, and that they should not
tackle even these if there are complications suggestive
of changes in the fundus oculi. Oculists argue
that the proper sphere of opticians is to make lip
the glasses from their formulas. Optometrists, on the
other hand, have alleged in the press that some
ophthalmological prescriptions are beneath criticism,
and that eye doctors don’t know their work—
while of course, optometrists do. « The Ophthalmo-
logical Society of N.S.W. is to be called upon
to adjudicate in the matter. As over 90 per cent,
of the work of eye doctors consists in refraction
cases, they should be perfect in that subject. The
mistake they make is in not having anything to do
with the shape and fashion of spectacles, or the
measurement of the interocular distance, etc. Con-
sequently, their “scrips” wander about town, and
come in for adverse criticism in optical back parlors.
In the present case the optometrists have scored
first blood.
“Chhattis Pultan”: James Green (B.
S/6/’22) is right off the rails when lie
schedules “cushy” as purely Australian. Like
many another hard-worked martial adjective,
it is, erf course, Anglo-Indian. Before the
war practically half the British Army was
stationed in India ; hence many words that
invaded the language in the world war. It
is universally accepted, nowadays, that
“Blighty” comes from the Indian word
for England. Yet an Australian lady
of wide reading once gravely informed
me that the word sprang up in Aus-
tralia after the first transports had left, pre-
sumably for England, the place where all
the “blighters” had gone to. “Bucltshee” is
another hard-worked warrior: “Backsheesh”
is Hindustani for unauthorised commission,
squeeze or graft. An ex-captain of the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps was telling me the other
evening of the indignities he had suffered
from “buckshee” sergeants, meaning in this
instance those who had gained their chevrons
on the transports and had never been in
France. One other point. Is the padre
on safe ground when he says the swearing-
soldier is departing? I, who enlisted in one
of his “better-class” British units, have been
trying for four years to break myself of the
habit. And having compared notes I find
in this that I am not alone. I found the
mess but little improvement on the barrack-
room. As a matter of fact, the hardest
swearers, first and last, were the best soldiers
of the Empire—the Old Contemptibles. The
old Duke of Cambridge had set the pace in
this respect to many of the seniors.
* * * '. *
“Wilfrido”: A recent advertisement for a
custodian for the Wellington (M.L.) Art
Gallery attracted 72 applicants. Among
them were two solicitors (one an Oxford
M.A.) ; five sheep-farmers, on whose lands
the mortgagee had foreclosed; and a multi-
tude of clerks. The post is not exactly a
sinecure, either: it demands attendance on
seven days a week, at a salary of £l5O p.a.
* * * »
“A.Ij.P.”: Gorman, the storekeeper, was
surveying his list of dud book debts
with unconcealed disgust when Marks blew
in. "There’s a hundred quids’ worth there,”
remarked the defrauded trader gloomily;
“you can have the lot for 30 bob.” The
optimistic visitor closed promptly. Next
day a covered van, with the words “Expert
Debt Collector” painted in bold lettering on
both sides and the back, rattled down the
street. Marks, in charge, was hurling
vociferous encouragement at the sorry moke
in the shafts. He struck his first snag in
the person of Mrs. McCabe. “Git to Hell,
ye pig-faced son of a baboon,” yelled the
lady, as she coursed the flying collector
through the gate with a fire-shovel and
several hideous threats. But at dusk he
was back again. To the disappointment of
the crowd no actual assault followed, only
a lurid warning from the inside of the house
that the visitor’s blood would he on his own
head if he didn’t halt in his tracks. Marks
took the hint, and went no further. lie
merely unharnessed the horse, dragged some
rugs out of the van, and began to make pre-
parations for camping outside the gate. It
was at this stage that Mrs. McCabe blas-
phemously capitulated and paid up.
# * * *
. “Coot”: Atherton (N.Q.), mentioned by
“Sucre” (B. 8/0/’22) as having had only
three patients treated in its hospital for a
year, is a hotbed of disease compared with
the old mining township of Walhalla (Vic.).
For 18 months its hospital had not a single
patient. Neither doctor nor chemist can
exist in the town, although it still has a
population of about 500.
* # * #
In Melbourne the other day a gentleman
was fined a tenner for advertising that n
patent medicine which he had for sale would
cure, among other ills, cancer, consumption,
hernia and diphtheria. Analysis showed
that the medicine contained 05 per cent,
of methyl alcohol. It is likely enough that
after a dose of this the world would take
on a temporarily different aspect for the
sufferer, whatever his trouble was. No-
thing was said about the actual selling of the
bottled lightning without a license. An-
other reflection provoked is that the high
percentage of alcohol probably accounts for
the vogue of many patent medicines.
According to the pamphlet on proprietary
medicines published annually by the
B.M.A.’s authority, nearly all the liquid
cure-alls have a staggering alcohol content
for a basis. This may explain their
popularity among blameless persons who
IVAN GOES FOR A TRAM RIDE.
would shudder at the idea of an open
“snifter.” Professional teetotallers are
peculiarly liable to digestive troubles, if
looks go for anything, and it would be in-
teresting to know what percentage of the
sales of nerve tonics, blood mixtures and other
cures is due to the demand of the more
or less unsophisticated wowser and his wife.
WHY NOT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Why do not magistrates always inflict imprison-
ment without the option of a fine upon persons found
guilty of assaulting the police, as is often done in
the case of those guilty of gross cruelty to animals:”
—Daily paper demand.
Societies are all about
To see the cabbage gets his due
(Or her, for they have sex, no doubt)
The turnip has its champion, too.
No decent man, so I’ve heard say,
Would kill an ant lest it should be
A soul upon the upward way—
And Hughes but lately was a flea.
So, in this general humaneness,
I have my fad and feel no shame,
I hough some perhaps may doubt my saneness;
For I would raise my voice to claim,
Maybe in nature’s wondrous plan
John Hops have souls like you and me.
And yet may rise as high as man—
So let us treat them lovinglee.
Don’t bash them on the head, or tear
Their uniforms because, perchance,
You hate the color of their bail-
or spurn the way they wear their pants.
Encourage them, and you will find
They will respond with toiuhing love,
Grateful because you have been kind,
And lifted them the beasts above.
N.SAV.
PANURGE.


m
« ■ • . \ - A
iill
v
i«»|
: ms .
mmaat
'k
mm
•*■9
mb
w
o Vm\
GjaiS
{&)
m
u
A BICYCLE
BUILT WITH
A
FITTINGS
Is Always Ready for 'Service
The early-morning shopper and the servant who must “dash out to
catch the last post” alike appreciate the sterling qualities of a Bicycl
built of B.S.A. Fittings. From early morning until late at night a
B.S.A. will give faultless service.
The economy in time and money on the many odd journeys necessary
in most households throughout the day will alone very quic y repay
the first cost of a B.S.A. Always ready for every emergency whether
the journey be long or short; such is the B.S.A. Fittings lc y c e ; n
weather and under all riding conditions this machine will give the
maximum cycling pleasure, because of its well-balanced design and con-
sequent easy running. And for the holidays too a B.S.A. is indispens-
able. No crowded trains, but real pleasure from the moment you leave
home and mount your machine. There is keen enjoyment in getting o
your holiday destination when you have a reliable, trouble-free m .
There is no fear of a breakdown or delay, because of the inbuilt quality
of every B.S.A. component, however small and apparently unimportant.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
B.S.A. Fittings are guaranteed interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained. Don t
be put off with “Pattern Fittings, but look for the
B.S.A. trade-marks on every component. they are
your guarantee.
Write to-day for the B.S.A. Handbook.
D.Y. RENNIE
Representing the Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd., B ham.
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS
MELBOURNE.
Also B.S.A. Motor Bicycles, Guns, Rifles 8 Engineers’ Tools.
&
«
*
. ■
am
r\
jaM
ft
E 2
i
Wm
m
I**
m
, :
573
m
%
*
*
1
\
=> '


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident g Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-06 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Cases containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5-GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case
Liquid, 37/6 per drum
F.o.b. or
f.o.r. main
/ ustialian
Ports.
Manufactured in Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne
497 Collins
Street.
Sydney:
7 Hamilton
Street.
Brisbane:
239 Elizabeth
Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
THE EARLY COW.
COCKY: “Hey, stop yer snorin' now. ’Ave
per forgotten the coirs?"
CHOOM: “What! Did I wake them up f”
“Myall”: “Yarrum” (B. 18/5/’22) is cor-
rect when he says it is impossible to tame a full-
blooded binghi. I have seen it tried repeatedly with
both boys and girls. On the west coast of S. Aus.
an abo. lubra was married to a Chinaman named
Ahang, who had a nice little place with a comfort-
able home and several thousand sheep. They reared a
fairly large family of rvhich Topsy was very proud ;
but after the youngsters grew up Topsy broke for the
bush to what was left of her’old tribe. Johnny could
never persuade her to return, though he spent many
Pounds in presents to try to lure her home. She
was asked by ah old neighbor why she had left
Johnny after living with him so long. Her reply
was: “You live longa Chinaman 30 year, see how
you' likem!” Some years later I took charge of a
station in the district, and a foreign-looking girl was
working there as a “general.” When the census was
taken Sophie was asked what her nationality was.
After considering some time she said: “Well, I think
I’m a bit of a come-back.” It turned out that her
father was a son of the lubra and the Chink, and her
mother was the offspring of a Mauritian and a Euro-
pean woman.
* * * . *
“Merah”: I read somewhere the other day
that Le Souef or some other authority on Australian
animals didn’t know if wombat flesh was edible.
That authority need only pay a visit to the country
around Bendoc in Gippsland (Vic.) to find out. Very
few of the bush-workers and miners in that locality
are ever without a ham or two. When properly
cured it tastes just like pig—in fact it is often
called “poor man’s pig.”
» * * *
“Floppy”: Another imported pest is making
the cattlemen of the North blasphemous. It is
the buffalo-fly, so called because it is believed to
have been imported with the first mob of buffaloes
to the N. Territory. It is now taking to cattle and
has spread beyond the buffalo haunts. Cattlemen
in N.-W. Australia say it is now in their territory,
and I wouldn’t be surprised if it has also reached
the Gulf stations of Bananaland. These flies are a
little smaller than the house-fly and of a lighter
color. They work in droves and settle about the
eyes and nose and under the belly of the beast. They
soon pierce the skin, and the irritation causes the
beast to rub the affected parts on trees and stumps
until these parts are raw. Then blowflies, etc., get
in their work, and soon the beast is fit for a bullet.
If this curse is not stamped out it’s going to prove
a mighty expensive Australian citizen. The fly is
not such a pest in its native land, so a few pounds
spent now in finding its natural enemies would save
many thousands later on,
» # # #
“Theo D. Lite”: One of our men brought
the news from the town that there was a rabbiter at
the pub who would fight anyone for a fiver. Bill
drawled: “I never seen the rabbiter that I couldn’t
beat. Lend me a fiver.” When he came back we
'asked what happened. All we got was: “He’s no
blanky rabbiter.”
* » # *
“Yarrum”: Years ago I wrote in The
Bulletin that I’d seen crows poisoned with strych-
nine at Dapto (N.S.W.). Since then somebody lias
said it couldn’t be done. AVell, the Western Post
(Mudgee, N.SAV.) remarked the other day: “Mr. K.
Church, of Sofala, recently secured a grand haul of
166 crows in one day by the use of poison.”
* * * *
“Technology” : There are twins at Fresh-
water (N.SAV.) —a boy and a girl—-who have 22
fingers and as many toee between them. The boy
has six fingers on the left hand and six toes on the
right foot, while the girl has six fingers on the right
hand and six toes on the left foot. Both are fine
healthy children about 11 years of age.
* » * *
“FraOch”: I knew another case of a white
girl marrying an aboriginal (B. 25/5/’22) about 20
years ago on the Northern Kivers (N.SAV.). She
was rather pretty, a descendant of an English
family. Binghi was a
landed proprietor, hav-
ing acquired a very
decent estate on the
death of a former
spinster employer
(Binghi must have had
“a way wid ’im”). He
owned a large, well-fur-
nished house, did him-
self well, had a fair
education, and was a
good rough-rider.' But
every year the “call
of the wild” came to
him, and he would
leave his wife and kids
(they had three) and
take himself to an old
tumble-down hut in ihe
bush, and there for a
month or two live in
solitude on his natural
tucker. Under the will
of the aforesaid spin-
ster, upon Binghi’s de-
mise the estate was to
revert to her relatives.
With an optimism that
was not without a
pathos of its own they
used to trot out every
outlaw in the district
for their dusky friend
to ridebut his neck
was Still intact when 1 left.
* * * *
“Wynfrith Revell”: Re the giant fish that
took in and spat out *‘Rab el Bram’s” diver (B.
1/6/ 22). The shark is by no means the most feared
fish of the Pacific. That distinction goes to the
man-eating tonu. He is of the same family as the
groper, but grows to a much greater size and gener-
ally ranges between 12ft. and 15ft. in length. Very
slovenly in his habits, he can at times show remark-
able speed. Sandy bottoms are his favorite lairs,
and his markings so resemble the bottom that he is
indistinguishable except at very short range. The
tonu has a tremendous mouth and gullet. I remem-
ber a case of two Tahitian brothers who, armed
with spears, went diving for fish. - One became
alarmed at the; long absence of his brother below
water, and on investigating found a tonu lying on
the bottom with his brother’s feet sticking out cf
its mouth. Transfixing both man and fish with his
spear he rose to the surface and gave the alarm,
and both were eventually brought to the surface.
Golden Coast : In the Agaire district,
Taranaki (M.L.), recently some yellow silver-pine
logs were unearthed from 15ft. underground, and
abo\e them were standing kahikatea and rimu
stumps at least 250 years old. Yellow silver-pine
as a tree does not exist in Taranaki to-day. Inci-
dentally, some years ago at Charleston, on the west
WOMAN, THE SPENDTHRIFT.
“Dad, what about gettin' a piano?”
‘ Chipes , you're 'ot. ain't yer? Wot’s wrong with goin' over to Thompson ’s If yer
wanter bit of moosic?”
coast of the North Island, backed by the serrated
peaks that Tasman sighted in 1642 as his first
glimpse of New Zealand, some miners were sluicing
gravel wash 12ft. below the surface when they
unearthed a splendidly preserved ship’s bowsprit
of Baltic pine with martingale and ironwork
attached. The spot was many chains inland from
the sea and covered with long-standing bush. Geo-
logically, the formation was probably 300 years
old and the Spar possibly belonged to a Spanish,
French or Portuguese ship exploring south before
Tasman happened along.
* * -if •
“The Moralist” : I was the solitary spec-
tator at a funeral the other day. The undertaker
resembled an elongated fly and made a noise like
a mason wasp. He dug a grave in a great hurry,
and then made a bee-line into the adjacent grass,
emerging presently on foot straddle-legged over a
nicely folded-up grasshopper, apparently dead. Push-
ing the corpse head-first in he filled in the grave,
smoothed off the surface and left. What’s his name,
anyway?
# * * *
“Ned Kelly” • Hearing a deuce of a racket
in the abo. camp near our place, we strolled over
to see what was wrong, and saw a young Binghi
giving his gin a father of a hiding for making eyes
at another buck. Every respectable Binghi has the
right to wallop his missus, but this one laid it on
so much that he knocked her senseless. This en-
raged her relations, and they went for him en
masse, while two or three gins applied restoratives
to the battered wife. She soon came round, and,
seeing how things were, grabbed a waddy and went
to the assistance of her lord and master. In the
end the twain routed the phalanxed relations. Same
old woman, whatever her hue!
* * * *
“Zantlius”: S. Aus. has the most stringent
laws in Australia for the protection of birds, but
they don’t always work. When permission was
sought to obtain a pair of the beautiful little
Burke’s parrakeets, now very rare, for the Taronga
Park (N.S.W.) Zoo it was refused; yet quite
recently one lot of 24 was shipped to U.S.A., and
within a short period there have been three lots,
over 50 in all, sent overseas.
* * * *
“Sir Spen”: A man in Moree (N.S.W.)
has a birds’ nest found in a tree near the local
cemetery. It is built of wires taken from broken
wreaths on sundry graves. A magpie was the sacri-
legious builder.
* * * *
“The Wanderer” : Here’s a twin record
that will take some beating. Joe and Alec Coleman,
who were born on the Paterson River (N.S.W.)
on Jan. 5, 1853, have plugged along life’s highway
together ever since they were able to toddle, and
have never been parted.
“Hecagus”: I’ve seen beer-cadgers do
many things for pints; but the limit came my wav
in a N.Q. pubbery the other day. The yardman
brought to the bar six young blind, hairless mic»
just when the-star cadger had become a nuisance
so someone offered him a pint if he’d swallow a
baby mouse. He did. 1 watched him chew two
more, then something inside me bubbled and I
charged outside. He cleaned tip the six miceleis
for six pints.
* * * #
“D.F.”: Why johnny-cakes? The name
is of respectable antiquity and it is useless to try
to derive it from any mythical Australian johnny.
William Hickey struck both the name and the tiling
in Jamaica in 1776, 12 years before the arrival of
our First Fleet. He says the name was supposed to
have come from “journey cakes,” called so because
they could be prepared in a few minutes.
A HEALTH QUESTION.
MUM: “Bill sez ’e likes th’ University, He's
gain' ter take medicine next year.”
DAD: “Next year? He orter take it onct
a week to keep in good nick.”
‘‘Globe”: There can’t be much telepathy
about bullocks anyhow. In Gippsland (Vic.) last
season a score of them were put into a strange
paddock and the whole 20 were found drowned
in a hole next morning. Tracks showed that they
had gone each on his own along a path, overbalanced
one after the other, and were unable to clamber uj
the rocky banks.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE SLEEPERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you climb to the crown of yon hill
And gaze below,
You will see where all roads end
And all folks go.
For the dead in their graves lie there,
Content, it seems,
To be folded in quiet sleep
That knows no dreams.
In the blue, clean April air
A-thrill with light,
Through the green of the arching trees
Their graves gleam white.
There are roses on some, and on some
Stones green with moss,
But they know not their mounds are marked
By stone or cross.
Though a thrush from its heart outpours
Its sweetest strain,
They are mute, and it seems to me
Would so remain.
For I doubt if they’d rise again
To toil and strife,
Tf the Angel of Life passed by
And gave them life.
They would think of the world they’d left.
Its care, its woe,
And would pray for the boon to keep
The peace they know.
For they learnt in their days on earth,
Though short, though long,
That the balance ’twixt tears and smiles ‘
Was somehow' wrong.
That it favored the wrong too much
And robbed the right;
And they’d say that they’d rather sleep—
If sleep they might.
If you gaze on the white gravestones
From yonder steep,
You will envy the folk beneath
Their dreamless sleep.
N.B.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


The Individual Pencil \
EVERSHARP is a distinctly indi-
vidual pencil with accomplish-
ments peculiar to itself. It does well,
all that an ordinary pencil does and
besides —
Is always sharp without the <
nuisance of your sharpening' it.
Its patented rifled tip holds the
lead firmly always so it can’t
loosen or wobble when writing.
It is a thing of beauty and gives
an air of distinction to its user.
Its eraser is concealed and pro-
tected by the top of the pencil.
It holds enough leads for writ-
ing almost indefinitely.
Eversharp is made in several patterns
—with pocket clip or chain ring, and
in various metals.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
ST Oft & HO ARE. Ltd.,
Benugg-ton House. Liverpool St., Sydney
fgdf
LSI
&
W 9
ib
it A Jl t
[f your memory is bad it is holding you back. How
can you hope to get on, or to even avoid dismissal,
if you have to continually confess to the boss that
you forgot ? There is no excuse; that most valuable
possession—a good memory—can be yours easily,
for within your reach is
The Roth Memory Course.
For three days you can examine
and use it absolutely
FREE.
If after three days you wish to return it you do so without obliga-
tion; or, if you desire to purchase, you can do so outright for £2/2/-
We don’t ask you to take our word for it when we tell you that the Roth Memory Course
is the quickest and most effective way to a good memory ; we don’t ask you to go through the
time-wasting preliminaries of booklets, leaflets, etc. All we ask you to do is to decide ior
yourself—use and examine the course in its entirety thoroughly and critically, without a penny
cost to you, to give the matter of a good memory your earnest consideration with the Roth
Course complete before you. And if you think the Jtoth Method is not the best method, to
return the course to us within three days, thereby ending the matter.
Could we make a fairer offer? Could we express more emphatically our confidence in our
course? Could you more clearly be guaranteed entire satisfaction? Just consider it again.
We will send you the complete course absolutely free for three days’ use and examination.
Return it to us if you will —or purchase it outright in seven bound lessons for £2/2/-. It is
significant that we stand alone in making this free use and examination offer.
Over 150,000 have already adopted the New,
Easy, Commonsense Way—THE ROTH METHOD.
The course will tell you why. Write
for it to-day and see for yourself.
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
178 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
FREE OFFER COUPON.
8. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
118 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Please send me free for 3 days’ use and
examination your “Roth. Memory Course’’ (com-
plete in 7 lessons). After 3 days I agree to
return the set to you or forward you £2f2l-
as complete purchase price.
Name
Address
B. 2 —22/6/’22.
SEND NO MONEY
Th/s Coupon/osted'Now
m/Thr mg you the
COMPLETE COURSE FREE!
■r''
FASHIONS
IN
PIANOS.
Nowadays it is the correct thing to be the
possessor of
A PLAYER PIANO.
Quite half our sales are of this particular
class of instrument.
:3fe*
The Modern Player Piano does away with the drudgery of practice, and the whole household
is able to reproduce at will any class of music—Classics, Dance, Jazz, Fox Trots or Song
Accompaniments.
We have five showrooms replete with the latest and best Player Pianos, and are at all times
pleased to show intending buyers our incomparable stock, and explain their unrivalled qualities.
SINCE 1853—OUR KEYNOTE— 4 ‘QUALITY. ’*
EASY TERMS.
gdfg
\TfIE BEJT KNOWN
MUJIC HOUJfc
"lN fIUJTMUfI.
<s*
sr
338
George
EY
CATALOGUES ERIE,
JELLING THE /
be/t piano/s.
PLAiIER PIANO/.'
dfg


MONKEY BRAND
/// WONT WASH CLOTHES
9. -
7
m
AT ALL GROCERS
M 3
YiV it -i^
—but keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
T-ti c
V
L
ii i
i
*lZighi off ike Ice
ABBOTS
LAGER
Dhe Beer
Without a Rival ”
jBREWED FROM PURE MALTA HO PS ONLY
“The Wanderer”: Geo. Fogarty, who has
been bullock-punching for over 20 years between
Nowendoc and Mt. George, on the Upper Manning
(N.S.W.), piloted 26 bullocks into Mt. George t’other
day. The oxen were attached to a waggon that carried
200 bags of spuds. George swears by his cabbage-
tree hat that the best load he ever cracked a whip
’longside was one that accounted for 84 bales of wool.
It was brought to the railway by 42 bullocks, and
George drove ’em four abreast, with two polers.
* * * »
“Pick”: In the arid parts out back the
wild birds infallibly indicate to the wayfarer when
the water in his bag must be rigorously conserved.
If in the early morning they descend in flocks to
the plain, and there collect the globules of dew
among the. dry stalks of grass, it means that every
tank, gilgai and puddle-hole within a bird’s drink-
ing flight has gone bone dry.
* * * *
“Cellu Lloyd”: Before you close down on
mangey horses here’s a cure I’ve never known to
miss. To one bullock’s gall add kerosene to make
up a full pint. Hjeat sufficiently to enable it to
mix well, not forgetting, of course, that half of it
is kerosene. When well mixed add one teaspoonful
of chrysophanic acid. Bottle and shake well. Before
applying take a hard scrubbing-brush and thoroughly
scrub the part with carbolic soap and hot water, and
when applying the mixture use the brush again. In
one case I struck a pair of buggy ponies that had
actually bitten pieces from each other, and rubbed
down a hundred yards or so of fence in trying to
allay the burning itch. Two months afterwards
they were growing hair and gaining condition, and
not a trace of mange remained. It is wonderful,
however, how lightly some horse-owners treat the
matter. When a horse works hard all day, and
spends the night rubbing a fence flat in his itch
frenzy, he at once loses condition and usefulness;
but in most cases the owner builds the fence stronger
instead of giving the unfortunate ani;mal the neces-
sary attention.
» * * *
“K. Sped”: A week or two back a Mildura
(Vic.) motor-cyclist ran over a tiger-snake while
travelling at 35 m.p.h. Ten minutes later his leg
became itchy, and shortly afterwards, feeling giddy,
he started back to the local hospital. He made a
very wobbly passage and collapsed at the hospital
gates. He was bad for a week, and was told that if
the reptile had not struck him on the bone he would
have never reached the ward. The snake must have
doubled up when the wheel struck it, and by the
merest fluke struck the rider’s leg in mid-air.
* * * *
“Onnor” : One of the guides at Mt. Buller
(Vic.) has an old gun the trigger of which refuses
to work, so he has a piece of elastic attached to the
rusty hammer, and this he flips off when he wishes
to fire. We asked him the other day why he doesn’t
have the weapon mended. “Mended!” he echoed,
“why, it’s the best blanky gun I ever used!”
“DEGENERATE DAYS.”
"Let me tell you the race is deterioratin’
fast —the old-age pensioner ain’t half
the man he was a few years ago.”
“Sucre”: I know a settler at the Don
(N.Q.) who was bitten by a death-adder a couple
of months after his marriage, but survived. Four
years later his first-born trod on an adder, which bit
him on the calf of the leg. The child was hurried
into Bowen, but on arrival at the hospital showed
not the slightest symptoms of snakebite. It looks
as though immunity was transmitted through the
father’s blood.
“D.F.”: The disappearance of the oyster
from much of the Tas. coast is one of Australia’s
biological mysteries. Half-a-century ago oysters
were plentiful in the east, from Blackman’s Bay to
Sehouten Main, and at Spring Bay and thereabouts
oystering was a leading industry. Now the bivalve
is as extinct as the Tasmanian emu in manv places,
QUICK WORK.
LADY (who has just opened door to country girl carrying suit-case ) : “I am suited. A
country girl has been engaged, and I'm getting her to-morrow.”
“I’m her; and you're not. The 'ouse is too big.”
and as rare as lawyers in Heaven in others. Some
theorists assert that as a result of the clearing of
the land the mud brought down by the rivers and
creeks has been too much for the oysters. But
I have seen banks in Blackman’s Bay with a bottom
of good clean sand and no mud, and yet there was
not a live oyster there, and hadn’t been for many
years, though the sea-floor was littered with dead
shells. Others talk of disease, but can’t say what
kind. Over-fishing hasn’t done it, for the same
thing has happened in places where very little oyster-
catching was ever done.
* * * *
“Sucre”: “Gouger’s” yarn (B. 3/6/’22)
about the alligator that wasn’t reminds me of an
experience in a lagoon at Brandon (N.Q.). I brought
down two “whistlers” and started to wade in for
the corpses in the middle of the lagoon. Two
yards from my breakfast I was astounded to see the
ducks disappear beneath the water. A sick feeling
crept into my tummy, and with legs that wouldn’t
work properly I floundered to the bank. I saw the
two alligators next day. They were 6ft. eels.
* • • •
“R.T.W.”: Having a small orchard in the
Derwent Valley (Tas.) district, I have lately been
troubled by something ringing my fruit trees.
Last week I saw an animal at it. The thing
appeared to be half-wallaby and half-hare—
having the head and tail of a wallaby and
the body and legs of a hare. When my
dogs took after it the harelaby or wallahare,
or whatever it was, cleared a sft. paling
fence with no exertion and got away. Can
any Abo., taking my sobriety for granted,
explain what the blamed thing was?
“Toby C.”: The cow-bail designed by J.
H. Maekay when Prof, of Engineering at Tas. ’Var-
sity, and “officially recommended by the Westralian
Government” (B. 4'/5/’22) was introduced to the
Speck by Vincent Furphy, a selector from Gippsland
(Vic.), who was using the contrivance on his farm,
Trowutta-road, Irishtown (Tas.), a couple of years
before the Maekay brothers appeared on the scene
a few miles further out. I was on the first survey
from Circular Head to Mount Balfour —through
Mackay’s selection —and later grubbed stumps on
the first road through Mackay’s land before they
any milkers. Each time we were camped in
that vicinity Furphy supplied our camp with milk,
butter and bacon, and I saw the appliance referred
to on his farm. But I had seen and used the same
sort of thing even before I went to Tasmania.
“Tab”: Re “Tin-pot Bill’s” Ford yarn
(B. 18/5/’22). I quite believe Lizzie may have
started and stopped without any human help. I
had an auto, of the same type, and once when the
radiator had burst, thus heating the engine above
the usual limit after a run of a couple of miles, I
turned the magneto off and the engine continued
to run for about 15 seconds. Was “Tin-pot Bill’s”
radiator empty, and had the Ford just stopped after
a run? The solution of the little puzzle may be
there.
* * * •»
“Bouragi”: Re C. A. W. Monckton’s repu-
diation of the tailed-men story
(B. 25/2/’22). He has only
himself to blame if any fan-
tastic yarns were fathered on
him, for he was always find-
ing out things that no one
else had ever heard of, and
for this reason was something
of a joke among his contem-
poraries in 8.N.G., of whom
I was one. In the very book
quoted his account of the
ascent of Mt. Albert Edward
—which merely entailed the
following of a well-used
native track which led up
and over the mountain —Mon-
ckton gives an elaborate
account of finding on the
summit traces and tracks of
a large and strange carnivo-
rous beast of a type hitherto
unknown in Papua. This ani-
mal was seen by a native
policeman, but by no one
else. Similarly he saw a
strange and new variety of
paradise-bird; but in neither
case did he collect any con-
crete evidence, in spite of the
fact, admitted by himself, that
the heather-covered plateau on
top of Mt. Albert Edward had
been burned off constantly by
native hunting parties. Monck-
ton, too, seriously advanced
the story of the “web-footed
people” of the Arghai-ambo
swamps—a discovery which
crashed when the district was
revisited by Governor Robin-
son.
“Eddyson” : The best worker I ever knew
in a whim was Spotty, and he was given his job as
a last resource when one of Canty’s horses broke its
leg at the Parker’s United Mine, Gordons, Vic. He
was a most willing animal, and although he had had
no previous experience of whim work settled down to
it with a contented mind, and caught up the terms
within a week. After 12 shifts he was the most effi-
cient animal on the job, and did everything bat
harness himself in. The driver on a cold nightshift
could sit under the breakwind by the braceman’s
fire, and need not budge, Spotty responding to every
call with a sort of mathematical precision. Spotty
was a black and white bullock, broken to harness,
and the only cow’s male relation I ever saw so em-
ployed, although the working-bullock’s training emi-
nently fits him for such an office. The task, however,
unfitted Spotty for all other bullocking duties. He
spent a year in the bow, and could never be got to
go straight in harness again, hence his untimely
death.
“Bean Stalk”: On Great Sandy Island
(commonly but incorrectly called “Fraser Island’’)
the Q. State Forestry Department in January, 1914,
sowed a patch of blackbutt and tallow-wood seed on
bare, cleared ground. The trees were inspected and
photographed in January, 1917, by W. Dudley le
Souef, of Melbourne, and the three-year-olds were
then 43ft. high, and with a trunk-diameter of 41in.
When inspected and photographed by Mr. Strong,
of Maryborough, in January, 1919, they were 67ft.
high and 7in. through. And in January of this year
Engineer Patterson, of the State Forests, inspected
and measured them as eight-year-olds, and found
their height 80ft. and diameter of trunks lOin.
These dimensions are averages, the largest trees
being over 90ft. high and 12in. through, while the
smallest are about 75ft. high and Sin. or 9in. in
diameter. The plantation is a small experimental
patch of 12 acres.
* * * *
“The Rumpus”: If you are in the big red-
ant country, don’t ever get stuck for good grit for
your poultry. Sweep up the small stones about the
ant mounds. You can go every week to the same
little hills and get a fresh supply. The big red-ant
hates to see a clear promenade around his house.
# » » #
“Yarrum”: Queer accidents? Father
Taylor, while riding between Queanbeyan and Bun-
gendore (N.S.W.), was thrown upon his feet on the
metal road, and had both big toes dislocated. He
was having a bad time when a man and a woman
drove up. The lady pulled the priestly tootsies into
their places, and his Riverince was then able to
climb into the saddle and continue his journey.
“X”: Maoriland is again in the throes of
a mammoth turnip epidemic, and some fevered
yarns are floating round. At Winton recently, it
is alleged, a cocky missed the family cow. Later
in the day he found that the animal had eaten her-
self into a purple-top, only the tail giving a clue
to her whereabouts 1
» » * *
“Sirdar”: The other day I noticed a
Derwent jackass make several futile attempts to
swallow a lizard. Then he looked as though he was
thinking hard for a minute or two, and at last be
noticed a crack in the dead wattle upon which he
was perched. He promptly pushed the tail of the
lizard through the crack, hopped round the other
side and pulled till the body was firmly jambed.
Having fixed his breakfast thus he. proceeded to eat
it piecemeal. Instinct, or reason?
* # * *
Wentworth (N.S.W.) was offered a strange
vision the other day, when V. E. and C. G. Seaman,
cockies from Balaklava (S. Aus.), struck it on (heir
way to settle on wheat land at Temora. At the
time they had travelled 850 miles in 14 days.
PUTTING ON DOG.
C APEN: “Take the crosscut saw and bisect
this ere piece of tember into three equal
paarts.”
Three teams were in the trek, one waggon being
hauled by 15 horses, and shod with 6in. steel
tyres. It was loaded with bran and chaff. Along-
side the teams walked a whole herd of foals.
JUNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
June has come. I saw to-day
Twenty thousand spirits grey
All along the garden creep
Scattering seeds of yellow sleep.
And they left the plum leaves red,
Shook the last pink from its bed.
Through the green wistaria vine,
Back and forth till nine times nine—
Beckoning fingers full of peace—
Out they called me. Soft as fleece
Sailed the clouds in folds of fear
Whispering, “Winter, winter’s here.”
But I cared not. Free as God
Where the Queensland wattles nod
Buds of snow through silver grey
Bobbed and tossed and seemed to say,
“Winter waits here white and cold
To pelt the infant Spring with gold.”
N.s.w,
ZORA CROSS.


PUBLIC NOTICE
Extract from letter of 11th January, 1922, received by
JAMES WATSON & COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
from their Principals at Dundee, Scotland. —IT SPEAKS
FOR ITSELF.
“The question of price must, as in the past, be based
on quality. We could, as you can understand, ship
cheaper whisky, but there does not seem any ultimate
advantage, either to our customers or to ourselves,
in doing so; besides, we would not associate our
name with the re-sale of Scotch Whisky three years
old. There is also the wider question of policy—
whether we are to come down to compete with the
cheapest, or whether we are to STAND on QUALITY
AT OUR PRICE. We believe we will gain prestige
by the latter course.”
Watson’s'No. 10’Whisky
Now as Ever. SUPREME.
Standard Ag'e - lO Years.
Ample PRE-WAR STOCKS
Held to Meet All Demands.
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Scotch Whisky Merchants,
DUNDEE, GLASGOW & LONDON.
Australian Branches:
SYDNEY,
26 King Street.
MELBOURNE,
453-455 Latrobe Street.
PERTH,
I 3 Barrack Street.
?a
S
tm
WH
m.
WmA
:


GjuAfitaA
9!
o
D
D
■ iliillHi
i
o
D
in
ipggl
s»
;
■
S.;>
m.
i
dfg
yi
*
sc
cua
BARNET CLASS
BARNET
GLASS
GLASS
BARNET
ml
■ m
WILL. NOT KINK OR BURST 1
m
; s v
*
NEW BAR “TREAD
i
m
a
ft N
mm
BARNET
GLASS
"i i
aw
7 / j-r
BARNET,;
dfg
6
gStMjLd
BARNET
CLASS
—I
m
0\
mf
m
'uo sax
2 pgßct
eR


The
Purest
Spirit
iathe
VLiLrIA
schna* s*s^ 5 * 5^
“IT STANDS ADO^®'
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
regular pressmen are unable to see or handle.
\ f ew are free-lances by choice; a good
many try to be free-lances because of the
accident which holds them from a perma-
nent job. For the good free-lance a good
living is possible, a large measure of desir-
able freedom from ordinary restraints and
possibly more recognition and reputation
than comes to the average man behind an
otlice table; but to gain these things he
must make some sort of study of his craft
and take it seriously.
The first thing a free-lance needs to know
is that to do anything at all he must beat
the regular staff in at least some phases of
its own game. If he cannot do that he
would be far better employed in chopping
wood or digging the soil. The man who
is inferior at all points to all members of the
staff can never be a free-lance in any decent
sense. But to be a successful free-lance
he should be able to tackle many varieties
of work; and this means that he must have
wide interests, a big reading and a very
considerable skill in dressing the shop window
at .short notice. Taking it for granted that
he possesses these qualifications, the first
thing necessary is that he should be in
earnest about making a living. The
advice sounds like stating a commonplace,
hut it is not. The earliest pitfall into
which the unfettered writer is likely to
fall, when he has all his time on his hands,
is the belief that he is a badly-used genius
whose hallmark is the inability to secure a
decent income. lie i.s easily fortified in
such a belief by the sympathy of quite a
number of his kind who have already dropped
deep into the pit and grown shabbily proud
of it. He declares to his exalted soul that
he will write only as inspiration moves him ;
and he is sometimes a little surprised when
the inspiration weakens and becomes pain-
fully infrequent. This kind of free-lance
is so common that he has thrown a little
discredit on the whole game. He borrows
freely of his friends, generally likes beer
and has a splendid contempt for the plod-
ding souls who make his existence possible.
The free-lance who wants to make a
decent living can certainly do so if he
possesses the natural and acquired qualifi-
cations for the work; but he should count
his income by months and years, not by
weeks and days. Cheques have a why of
arriving in bunches, and the ghost walks
for him with very uneven steps. He must
get out of the habit of being angry or down-
cast over the rejection of his choicest efforts.
At first he will probably not sell more than
one-third of his output; but one-third of a
large output will furnish him with a fair
amount of cash. Does it matter so much if
he gets the highest price for the work that
cost him least effort? His business is to
get a decent income in the mass, not big
prizes in detail. To do this it will be wise
for him to search out the market that is
easiest to write for. The work supplied
by him in this direction may have little
literary value, may even earn his own con-
tempt, but it holds things together and
makes him patient to continue his efforts to
win recognition in higher places. If a
daily paper will buy some sort of copy, it
should be written, even if the writing goes
against the grain, because a daily paper
comes out six times a week and has very
long columns for those on whom its favor
falls. '
But the man who seeks for the easy
market, finds it and stays there, to the ex-
clusion of all worthier attempts to produce
stuff with a hint of literary value, becomes
a mere hack writer. The real free-lance
will not be content until he has measured
himself with the best. His constant travel-
ling along a plain bread-and-butter track
does not disqualify him for climbing green
hills or even tackling sunlit mountains;
rather, the constant practice of the pen
brings facility both in clarity and expres-
sion and arrangement of matter. He may
use cheap newspaperisms in his cheaper
work; but the very frequency of their use
in copy that does not matter will force
him upward to a clean vocabulary when he
is putting his heart into the bigger thing.
To give editors what they want is his
business; to give himself what he wants is
his pleasure; and writing is perhaps the
only field in which a man finds his highest
entertainment at the top end of the thing
by which he earns his breakfast.
Some free-lances make notes of all that
has even a passing interest for them, and
work from carefully indexed commonplace
books, which they can turn up at any
time. Such method is a little foreign to
the natural writer. Success rarely comes
from clerk-like usage unless the clerking
has been done in the corners of the memory.
Freshness of approach and the sudden im-
pulse of words have a lot to do with the
attractiveness of an article or paragraph.
To be always fully alive is half the game;
and notes become very dead when their liv-
ing context has changed. There are, of
course, as many ways of writing as there
are men writing. Some have gained a
power of intense concentration by which the
copy is as good as it can be made at the
first writing; others require to re-write
several times; others ought to re-write, and,
by not doing so, find the basket of dead
hopes more often than their natural ability
should warrant. Some work all day;
some wander by day and toil by night; a
few get up in the very early morning and
find it pays. Speaking from some experi-
ence, one of them is able to say that his
best work was often thought oirt overnight
and set on paper in the morning before
breakfast.
Free-lancing is both an absorbing game
and a fine moral discipline. No one has
more pride than the _ consistently successful
writer who takes his chance of editorial
favor; no one is more modest about it. No
one has a wider general knowledge ; no one
is more ready to learn from those who have
special information about any subject. All
that is part of the game. In the flux of
men all the rough corners of the free-lance
are melted and rounded off; liis heart is
as pliable as his mind ; he has little senti-
ment and a lot of sympathy. After death
all earnest free-lances go to a place where
few editors are allowed to enter; and there
they rake the waste-paper baskets of ecstasy
for ever and ever for the only matter that
the press of Heaven desires to print.
C.O.M.
American Humor
The humor of the U.S.A. can be very
heavy nowadays. In snappy exchange—the
cross-talk of stage comedians, or the two-
sentence “gag” which properly demands a
picture—the Americans are still bright; the
marvel is that they could be dull in any
form meant to be funny. Take this quite
typical example, from the latest number of
the comic paper New York Life :
SUCCESS.
Is there anything more interesting than Failure,
or anything duller than Success? The moment
that Success comes, all is over. The occupation
has vanished. Ambition will depart. One bas
nothing else to do but live it down. But with
Failure all things are possible.
Now, there is a neat and original idea
butchered. A Frenchman would have made
it an epigram in 10 words. Chesterton
would have taken 500 over it, as a whimsical
essay, with examples. Treated as it is in
45, it leads on in expectation of some quaint
turn of phrase which never comes. Thus
it leaves one saying “Yes? And then?” And
that, I submit, is not how a paragraph in a
humorous paper should leave one.
But, you may say, a single example proves
nothing. The editor may have run that in
to fill up, or to please the author. Perhaps
she was a female relative?
Well, there are things even more stodgy in
the same issue; in fact, this one was copied
mainly because it is short. But the casual
paragraph may be a deceptive guide. Let
us take a carefully considered judgment.
Life is, I hasten to admit, probably the best
American- journal of its class. (It also
copies occasionally—with due acknowledg-
ment —from The Bulletin, and even from
London Punch, which most Americans con-
sider entirely un-funny). It has lately
thrown open one page to “Life Lines,”
brief paragraphs to be sent in by outsiders,
with a 100-dollar prize hanging to
them every three months. There are quite
30 each week, so the judges must have had
well over 400 to select from in the last award.
They took weeks over it, and submitted (as
officially announced) every paragraph to this
test: “Is it humorous? Is it brief? Is it
broad in its application and in its appeal?
Is it timely? Is it keen?” And “the per-
fect Life Line,” the pick of a quarter’s pro-
duction by 20 names which the editor cites
as humorists of standing, is this: —
“Just smile,” says Charlie 11. Schwab, “and times
will be better.” The trouble is that most people,
upon this advice, are likely to spoil everything by
laughing out loud.
No, the fun does not hang, as Australian
readers might perhaps suppose, on the per-
sonality of Mr. Schwab. Not liking to be
beaten by a joke, I sought out the nearest
U.S. Consul, who confirmed my impressions.
Scwab is a self-made man, a steel magnate,
a pupil of Carnegie; he is not reputed
gloomy, or stingy, or anything that could
give point to the paragraph. However,
substitute any name liable to be associated
with humor —Chaplin or Hughes, or any
name you please, and then is it funny—
supremely funny? Yet it has, Life says,
been “widely quoted,” and is, in fact, to
American taste, the “perfect” paragraph.
By way of antidote, let us take the second-
prize winner, and an also-ran. Both have
the mischievous, even sardonic touch which
we in this country demand in humor. One
is a war echo, the other a prohibition jest,
“hooch” being the new name for smuggled
liquor:—
Our statesmen declared that we fought to get
nothing out of the war; and then made a present
of it to the soldiers.
The word “hooch” is a hybrid, resulting from
crossing the Canadian line with an automobile.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
“Paudh”: Tell Edward Dyson that the
creator of “Jack Harkaway” was Brace-
bridge Hemyng, who died somewhere between
1912 and 1917. In the same lustrum passed
out also two others beloved of juvenility:
“Buffalo Bill” Cody (who slaughtered more
Indians than America ever held) and
Bichard Quitterton, the “Roland Quiz” of
the interminable (but justly celebrated)
“Tim Pippin” serials in “Nuggets” and
other Red Lion House publications of the
pre-Harmsworth era. Hemyng and Cody
took up their careers elsewhere, as eleventh-
hour members of the R.C. Churgli. Harka-
way is to us only a memory now, but our
Yankee cousins regard him as a species
of classic and bind him ornately for
prize purposes. For wider use, a New
York firm (Street and Smith) issues the
whole series in 10-cent volumes, with plaid
covers showing the picture of a wide-awake
boy of pronounced American appearance.
Jack is once again “Among the Pirates.”
E. Chapman : Two recent Red Page
writers in remarks on the gradual change
in the English language have \ cited
the suffix “O” as an instance L of a
longing for fuller vowel expression in-
duced by residence in a clime warmer
than that in which the language originated.
I was born and reared in an English Mid-
land city, where the language has suffered
very little from outside influences. [ The
North has had its accent affected by Gaelic,
the West and South-West by Cymric, the
South and London districts by cosmopolitan
tongues, and the East Coast by Dutch and
Flemish. In the Midland Counties there
are scores of almost pure Saxon words in
use in the vernacular which could only be
found elsewhere in books of reference. Yet “O”
is the commonest tag for vocal filling out of
monosyllables and abbreviations. Thus the
hawkers yell: “Ripe banan-o!” “Sweet
turnip-top-o!” “I.ine-prop-o !” “Fish-o!”
“Milk-o !” “Ividnev-bean-o !” etc. The'name
of our school was Huntingdon-street. This
to the boys was “Hunt-o.” A favorite park
named the Arboretum was the “Arbo.” The
Trent Embankment became by the same rule
the “Emmo.” Assent was always “right-o.”
Our teacher, Wilkinson, was “Wilk-o.” Boys
named Hutchinson, Tomlinson, Robinson,
Ferguson, etc., received the first syllable of
their names plus O ; and I sadly remember
that for calling- a teacher named Whitting-
ton “Whitto,” I got the “cod-o.” So I am
of the firm belief that the delight in the
full, round vowel is as old as slang itself.
“Azriru” : David McKee Wright shows fine
scorn in scofling (R.P. 20/4/’22) at Tenny-
son’s eulogy of “Ranolf and Amohia” ; but,
if Alfred’s judgment was “painfully wrong,”
he erred in remarkably fine company.
Longfellow forwarded a congratulatory letter
on its publication, and, later, sought permis-
sion to include some of Domett’s verses in a
collection he was editing ; while Browning
was_ so delighted at “Wariug’s” effort that
he immortalised him in two poems. And
Sladen, who deservedly has some reputation
as a critic of Australian verse, called
“Ranolf” the greatest achievement in Aus-
tralasian poesy! At all events it was a
colossal undertaking to preserve in a variety
of metres the legends, lore, customs, tribe
wars and mythology of Mori, interspersed
with such charming delineations of New
Zealand scenery. Without being a “Hia-
watha” or rising to the greatest heights of
poesy, it is, nevertheless, of great interest
and an enormous task well carried out.
A Satchel of Books
A Christmas Mystery, by W. S. Locke (John Lane),
is a modernised version of the Nativity told
with all this writer’s charm of style and fantasy.
There are half-a-dozen beautiful illustrations by W.
W. Lendon. An ideal present.
Tangled Trails, by William MacLeod Raine (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.). A neat combination of two
favorite lines of U.S. fiction—the Wild West yarn and
the mystery story. In it a cowboy turns detective
and runs the murderer to earth, after which he rides
away with the cowgirl to their home in the sage-
brush —or it may be the alfalfa. The tired foot-
baller will find it thrilling.
Cassell’s, Ltd., have collected into one ornate
volume, “Lloyd George, by Mr. Punch,” all the car-
toons that have appeared in the famous London
weekly that everybody criticises and all discerning
people admire. All the great Punch artists are
represented with Raven Hill in the first place as
regards both merit and numeroifsness. W. Algernon
Locker supplies a foreword which has an historical
value in addition to being extremely amusing. (From
Dymock’s.)
Partners of Chance, by Henry Herbert Knibbs
(Houghton, Mifflin). Inconsequent narrative of a
feud between the Arizona counterpart of a swag-
man and a “bad” man who has stolen the other’s
wife. They are both loafers, but whereas the swaggie
seeks consolation in songs of his own composition,
the adulterer finds it in drink. The story begins
interestingly, but the high note struck in the first
chapter is not sustained. However, there arc one or
two engaging characters—notably the swaggie’s
bright young son—and the descriptive stuff is racily
written, as a rule.
A Booh of Verse, Chosen for Students, by Sir
Henry Newbolt. A little anthology of about 100
pieces by English-speaking poets selected with an
eye as much to the foreigner as to his own people
the foundation of the book, as he puts it, is “the
humanity of it, the love of natural beauty, of
Htural kindliness, admirations, sympathies, longings
and darings, and the common experiences of life
in all lands of to-day.” The selection is well done,
even though only three of the 59 poets represented
have more verses quoted than Sir Henry Newbolt.
More Memoirs and Some Travels, by G. B. Burgin
(Hutchinson and Co.). A colored frontispiece de-
picts the writer as a smiling old gentleman crowned
with a scarlet fez and perched on a piled mass of
books which represent the 60-odd volumes he has
turned out in his time. Underneath is an inscrip-
tion—-“ The Author ‘sitting’ on himself.” This little
jape is an earnest of what is to come in the ensuing
300 and odd pages. Mr. Burgin is an amiable
prattler—about literature, about art, about scenery,
about anything—and he has a vast repertory of the
type of anecdotes that have made bishops smile
approvingly in every part of our Empire during the
past half-century or so.
The Fishes of New South Wales is one of those
rare works that end all arguments, settle all bets.
It has been compiled by Allan R. McOullpch, the
Australian Museum zoologist, and it is published
under the auspices of the N. S. Wales Zoological
Society. Every fish that the harbor black-bream
pursuer, or the haughty specialist in “outside” work,
or the humble rock-hopper has seen or heard of is
here depicted, with all its names and a full descrip-
tion ; and in addition there are a couple of hundred
astounding freaks of nature that few non-scientifie
folk know to be in these or any other waters. An
ideal present from any N.S.W. wife or daughter to
any hand-lining or rod-wielding husband or father.
In Pillars of Salt,, by Arthur Mills (Duckworth
and Co.), the male members of an English social
set spend most of their time making love to one
another’s mainly complaisant wives. The villain of the
piece, who can do most things well but whose
specialty is seduction, lays out his plan of campaign
in red morocco slippers and an embroidered silk
kimono, after a day’s hunting. Then ho “draws on
silk socks, silk underclothes and a comfortably warmed
crinkling white shirt, with sleeve-links of translucent
green jade”—also a hunt coat and presumably pants
—and lobs off to win his newest soul-mate from her
lawful lord with a cigarette case of pure rock
crystal, monogrammed with sapphires. And so on.
The Outline of 11. G. Wells, by Sydney Dark
(Leonard Parsons, London). An impersonally con-
ducted tour of Wells’s books by a man whoso criti-
cal competence is sometimes weakened by a mid-
Victorian spirit. For instance, lie says of “Ann
Veronica” that “one is glad at the end that circum-
stances allow Ann and her lover to marry and to be
as happy married as they were when defying the
conventions.” Behind Dark’s Other appreciations of
the Essex Solomon one perceives the lurking spectre
of his English respectability. Much is said and
truthfully about the books that count —“Kipps,”
“Love and Mr. Lewisham,” “Tono-Bungay” and the
immortal “History of Mr. Polly”—but there is a
strange reticence about “Joan and Peter,” in which
Wells manifestly had his intellect in curl-papers and
carelessly forgot to take them out. Dark also tries
to increase Wells’s reputation by contrasting him
with Shaw, Bennett, Galsworthy, Chesterton and
Belloc. This is a profitless job inviting contro-
versy and not adding a foot to Wells’s stature as an
artist.
Eugenics and other Evils, by G. 11. Chesterton
(Cassell and Co.). Herein Chesterton follows his
familiar practice of standing truisms on their heads
and alleging with heavy gusto that they are truer
than truth. Nevertheless, with all his crazy
paradoxes and false reasoning, his book bristles with
points for after-reflection. His argument that
the eugenists can do nothing without a full know-
ledge of heredity, and yet cannot study heredity
without the practice of eugenics, is the sort of
controversial impasse in which he delights. Also
his contention that eugenics would not have pro-
duced a Chopin, a Dostoieffsky, a R. L. Stevenson
and other geniuses, whose abilities seem to have
been stimulated by hereditary ailments, .is another
one in the eye for the enthusiasts who w.ant to
breed human beings like nrizc pigs. But what
annoys Chesterton most is the eugenist’s indifference
in the business of mating to the personal fancy
of the individual. He cannot contemplate the idea
of marriage without love. To him, moral as he is,
love without marriage would be preferable.
JUDGMENT—NOT LUCE.
NON-STRIKER: “You're lucky.”
STRIKER: “Why?”
NON-STRIKER: “To get a shirt like the one you're wearing as cheap as 8/6.”
STRIKER: “ That's not luck, that’s judgment. I got it where I buy all my
at David Jones'.”


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
9~b b ro I i
Weatherboard Houses
Build your new home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBROLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Roof with “Fibrolite”
Slates.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made in 36 sizes.
Write for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Aahnatna Hntiae **
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’grs, Queen Bt., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
At the Yards!
If you want top rates for your Fat Cattle, Sheep
and Lambs, consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Homebush Market, Sydney; or Enoggera
Market, Brisbane.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
9 9
“M.L.
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Syc’ney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Berth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
dfg
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
4 to 800
H.P.
«ole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON <O. ROBERTSON,
15-17 Lofttis Street, Sydney.
p
REGISTERED
TRADE MARE
Guaranteed'
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst,
60 York Stret, Sydney.
sS&s
5
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery,
fdg
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can-
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
serious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
The natural tonic elements contained in HYPOL are, in themselves,
sufficient to benefit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition, this
Jamous preparation contains 50 % of the finest Norwegian Cod Liver Oil,
which is so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh-forming,
Strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence
hYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get one to-day
Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Friday Island” : Yes, my box of water-
colors was made in Japan. Three pigments
are labelled respectively “Finest Violet,”
“Emelald Gleen” and “Codald Blue.”
* • » •
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos rat-catcliers (B.
8/6/’22). On the staff at Garden Island,
Port Jackson, is a professional rat-catcher.
His assistants are cats and terriers, which are
credited with existing entirely on the spoils
of the chase. The billet is, of course, an
Imperial one,
* * * *
For upwards of 80 years the south-west
corner of Hunter and Pitt streets (Sydney)
has been occupied by a pubbery. The tavern
was originally “The Currency Lass,” demol-
ished to make way for the “Empire Hotel,”
and now being structurally altered to pro-
vide accommodation for a Queensland bank.
* * * *
“Advance”: “Cambronne” (B. 4/5/’22)
may not be aware that axe-handles of red-
gum are turned out at Ivoondrook (Vic.), and
have proved veny satisfactory. In fact, the
first one made, some five years ago, is still
in use on the sawmill woodheap. These
handles are obtainable in a good many towns
in Northern Vic.
* * * *
A Dannevirke (M.L.) sheep-farmer re-
cently shipped 1171 carcases of frozen
mutton to England, which realised £2030
1.55. lid. But charges, expenses, etc., ate
up £1457 7s. (id., and the cocky got a net
return of £573 18s. 5d., or Os. Old. per
head. He has been considering since if he
could induce the- middlemen to take over his
property as a gift and employ him on it at
a fixed screw.
* * » t
“Kaitoa”: A somewhat similar institu-
tion to that mentioned by “Frenchencourt”
(B. 4/5/’22) is in existence in New Zea-
land. A State nursery at W'hakarewarewa,
Rotorua, each year sends out for permanent
planting on the adjacent waste hills some
five millions of seedling timber trees. In
preparing the land for planting the bulk of
the work is performed by prisoners, but in
one plantation, near Rotorua, has been estab-
lished a Convalescent Consumptives’ Camp,
whose members clear and burn off fern, etc.,
and perform other light duties. They receive
a fair wage, and pay their way. The feeling
of independence thus engendered, and the
free life amongst the pines (mostly Pirws
laricio), in the open air, helps considei'ably
towards recovery.
# * * #
“Zanthus”: If fashion ever gives them a
chance ’possum skins will be worth big
money. A first-class black ’possum skin
from the Tasmanian hikes country, or some
of the N.S.W. highlands, is every bit as
beautiful as the black-fox skins sold for
anything from £3OO to £5OO in U.S.A. and
London. But the 'possum skins are still offty
worth a few pounds. When their real value
is recognised there will be a boom in ’possum
farming, which has so far only been given an
experimental fly in one or t"o places in
W.A. It is an easy business, for ’possums
are hardy, adaptable creatures, are no
trouble to ‘handle, and feed largely on gum-
leaves and other inexpensive tucker.
“Lucius”: The Vic. railway ticket-inspec-
tors are vigilant, but there are ways of
getting past them. I knew a man who
worked in Melbourne, but liked to get home,
45 miles away, as often as possible. He in-
variably succeeded when the football team
from his town came along. The general
idea was that he took advantage of the cheap
fares on the football special, but this was
erroneous. He simply became a human card-
table. Half a dozen footballers, three on
each side of a compartment, would settle
down for a game, and the believer in free
rides, with a coat thrown carelessly over his
back, lurked on all fours between the two
rows of knees. When the checker looked in
all he saw was six card-players, from each
of whom he collected a ticket.
“T.R.H.”: Despite his reputation for
wiliness the Chow is comparatively easy to
deceive. A ship’s purser proved it in the
case of a Little Bourke-street (Melb.) Mon-
gol in connection with an opium deal. He
produced a sample tin of the drug and the
Chow tested it in the usual way by passing
a thick needle right through the tin. He
opened it and it was still “all li.” How
much could the vendor supply? Twenty-
five tins. “All li” again—at £l2 a tin.
That night the other 24 tins came along, and
the Chinaman tested each with the needle —
after which £3OO changed hands. Later the
purchaser discovered that the 24 tins con-
tained treacle, with a small layer of opium
at the top and bottom. The last thing the
needle had to touch was dinkum opium. A
Melbourne D. told me the tale.
“J.G.”: Re “R.P.C.” (B. 18/5/’22), there
is no reason at all why Australia should
not grow its own medicinal herbs, or most
of them, except the difficulty in getting any-
thing like a saleable price for them. The
big wholesale firms of manufacturing drug-
gists apparently prefer to import. Just
before the war a Sydney chemist and
enthusiastic botanist sent me about 50 par-
cels of herb seeds of different sorts. He
suggested that I should approach certain
Melbourne firms and get an idea of what
the herbs would be worth when grown. I
was prepared to find the land to plant a few
acres, but when I got a reply from Mel-
bourne manufacturing chemists and druggists
to the effect that there was Very little
demand for any of the herbs, I thought that
the land would be better occupied providing
tucker for Strawberry. Yet all the herbs I
proposed to grow are largely used in the
manufacture of medicines and drugs. It’s
the same with perfume plants. Nowhere
will these plants grow to more perfection
than in Australia, especially in the cooler
districts and on the poorer soils. But
the grower will find that there is no market
for them, although tons of perfumes are
imported into the Commonwealth annually.
There has been a society in existence at
Melbourne for some years endeavoring to
encourage the cultivation of perfume and
essential-oil plants, but it has been frowned
on so heavily by the importing manufac-
turers that little or nothing has been accom-
plished.


SUPERIOR FACILITIES.
LOCATION-EQUIPMENT-PERSONNEL.
The Meggitt Limited plant is the
largest Linseed Oil Mill in the
Southern Hemisphere —capacity
seven thousand five hundred
gallons per day —and is located at
Parramatta, Sydney.
This plant, which is one of the finest on the
continent, is modern in every respect, the equip-
ment being of the latest design and the personnel
unequalled.
These facts assure quality and uniformity under all
conditions — at all times.
When better oils are made—
Meg'g'itt Ltd. will make them.
HNSKDOUMEU
i (M
n MECGITT L TO 7T
PMPRAMATTA JL ««
Sffieboy on. the bag
guarantees quality "
e
HEAD OFFICE KING ST SYIM-Ff fW)rks:PanainaHa)
AGENTS — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. Exton
& Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage, A Co., Ltd., Hobart and
Launceston, Tas.; Messrs. William Adams cC- Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Johnston
d Co.. Ltd., Featherston Street, Wellington, N.Z.; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Rundle Street,
Adelaide.
MEGGITTS
MNSEEDOIIMfU
m
AAECGiTT U.°
\ PARRAMATTA
°JAe boy on the Jbaq
guarantees quality


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
they act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines—
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
r~r
7l
<A‘
' (SLAIN
/COWV fJtCHTtOI
Night Coughs
frJpHAT keep you awake and annoy the
whole household should be checked.
To stop the throat tickling which causes
you to cough and to remove the accumu-
lation of mucus in the morning, take
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COVGH REMEDY
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
#7
£
s*
These Smiling Shavers
Now honestly, when you shave, do
you have a silly grin on your face—
like a boy who is told for the first time
by a pretty girl thathe has lovely eyes?
I have had a lot of trouble that way
with artists. Xheir only conception
of registering satisfaction seems to
be an idiotic smirk. So I have given
up this obvious way of illustrating a
shaving cream advertisement.
At best, shaving is a serious per-
formance. It demands mental concen-
tration rather than blithesome vacuity.
What Mennen Shaving Cream does
is to get rid of the pain and pulling and
meanness. It takes all the fight out of
your beard and enablesyou to remove
it instead of hacking it off.
Because it doesn’t have to be rubbed
in with fingers and contains no free
caustic, it never irritates your skin, and
your face feels wonderful afterwards.
Everyone who has tried Mennen's
thinks it’s great. I know you will. too.
/ton
(Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO.,LTD.
240 George Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
Missing Friends.
RTHUR JOHN MILLER, hornT-
trainer. Last heard of at Kimberley,
Western Australia. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the above is requested to
iommunicate with the undersigned.
E. F. SKEWES;
Renmark, South Australia,
Solicitor for Edgar Pedley, administrator
of the Estate of John William Pedley, deceased.
ILL ITaIIRY STACEY, formerly of
Port Elizabeth, South Africa, kindly
write home. Aged father and mother very
anxious to hear from him. For further in-
formation write Miss J. Wiseman, Hippo-
drome, Sydney.
HE: “I wonder what all the girls see in Jones? "
SHE: “I think he’s a dear. He always buys us Hillier's Chocolates .”
“Te Pana”: My old showman friend Thomp-
| son was great on the idea of treating both
performers and audience as one large family.
I heard him years ago interpreting the
panorama “Rome” to an audience of 10 in
the old Exchange Ball, Wellington (M.L.).
“This,” he spouted loudly, “this is Rome.
Rome, the home of the the Popes; Rome, the
cradle of the Christian religion ; Rome, the
birthplace of the Caesars; Rome, the abiding
place of —but what the hell do we care about
Rome? Let’s all go out and have a drink.”
And, being one large family, we went.
“Cartot” : Judging by his gibe at the story
of Bill, the paradise-bird hunter, who carried
a sick man over 100 miles to Eitape, in the
mandated territories, “Iola” (B. l/6/’22)
is unfamiliar with New Guinea. Anyone
who has ever been north of the Warriar
River knows the story of Bill. His name
is Nicholson, and he is a native of Sydney,
where he was an apprentice at Mort’s Dock.
Just before the war he had a brush with
Kraus, the German policemaster at Morobe,
an official who was well known for his
brutality, which resulted in Bill being out-
lawed. 'He beat the Hun authorities over
the border into Papua by about 10 minutes,
and put in some time at Buna Bay, where I
first met him. When the Big Row started
he went to Sydney and enlisted in the A.I.F.
Returning about three years later, he started
paradise-bird hunting in the Dutch territory,
and was at it when the incident occurred
which I described (B. 30/3/’22). The
name of the American doctor was Morgan,
and he was said to be related to the Spreckels
of San Francisco. When they arrived at
Eitape the pair were attended to by Charlie
Bray, who was subsequently Govt, medical
officer at Port Darwin.
Adelaide ’Varsity has opened its new med.
school, the Darling building. The children
of John Darling, a politician who died
young (brother of the former Australian
XI captain), gave £15,000 for the purpose,
but it has cost £37,000 already, and more
must still be spent on equipment. Honor
was done at the opening to the memory of
Dr. Stirling, the first lecturer in 1882‘and
a professor till his death two years ago.
Prof. Watson, who held the first Chair of
Anatomy, has only just retired; Prof.
Rennie (chemistry) is still in harness; and
J. C. Verco, who also had a hand in the
beginnings, is still busy though nominally
in retirement.
“Snell”: The movies have hit the small,
peripatetic variety companies hard, but some
of them still make Saturday-night appear-
ances in the outer Melbourne suburbs. The
artists, as a rule, are youths and maidens
who earn their daily scran in other fields
and turn in a little extra with the burning of
the nightly limelight. I inspected one col-
lection at a small local hall. The audience
was fairly large, but not respectful; in
fact, a rather old bird handling serio-comic
material was ragged sans mercy. She got
nettled after a while and dropped her lady-
like affectations rather hurriedly. “Yon.”
she cried to the gallery, “you lot of
wasters! I’ll have you know I’ve sung be-
fore Toorak nujinces and never been treated
like this. Why, you, I’ve sung to
Tom Bent!” “Sure it wasn’t Pharaoh?”
asked a brute in the stalls.
“T. 0.1.” returns to the subject of Shaks-
peare memorials: —
In the tercentenary year, 1864, two memorials
were proposed in Victoria —a statue and a Uni.
scholarship. The latter was the suggestion of G.
W. Rusden, historian and clerk of Parliament. For
the statue Charles Summers supplied a plaster cast,
which was placed in front of the Public Library,
where now is the statue of Redmond Barry. The
cast was uncovered by Barry Sullivan with much
ceremony, but the general public failed to subscribe,
and the idea was abandoned. In support of die
scholarship a performance of “The Merchant of
Venice” was given in the Theatre Royal by members
of the Legislature. The Shy lock was Mark Last
King, who, as Morton King, had been a leading
tragedian in the early ’forties. George Coppin (an
M.L.C.) was Launcelot Gobbo, Peter Lalor the Duke,
Vincent Pyke Antonio, Donald (Beechworth) Bass-
anio, Howard (Bendigo) Gratiano, Tom Carpenter
Old Gobbo, and Joseph Wilkie Salanio. A pro-
logue written by Rusden was spoken by John Dennis-
toun Wood, and an epilogue written by Pyke was
spoken by the author. Mrs. Robert Heir (later on
Mrs. Geo. Darrell) was Portia. At the' succeeding
supper H. S. Chapman, later on an M.L. Judge, was
in the chair, and J. D. Wood,' in proposing his
health, suggested that he would make a remarkably
fine heavy father. Wood, I think, was the last
survivor of the company: he died a few years ago
in his native town, Dennistoun, Tas.
“Friday Island” on a medical question:—
“Cheiron” (B. l/6/’22) must know of a short cut
to the practical side of medical learning when he
states that the Casualty Room does not lead to Col-
lins-street. In these days of book-learned graduates
(many of whom have never “opened a boil” before
graduation) the “Cas.” affords a means of practical
experience in minor surgery and medical diagnosis,
besides being a training ground in responsibility.
The great difference between a fifth-year medical
student and his brother of three months’ graduation
is that the latter has experienced responsibility.
Ten years ago a fourth-year student was given many
minor Casualty-Room jobs. To-day in increased num-
bers he looks on, for the junior resident medico gives
nothing away, he being starved in turn by the senior
residents, who are deprived of major work by the
practice-hungry visiting honorary medical-officers.
As the number of hospitals has not increased in pro-
portion to the overcrowding of the profession, many
graduates are turned loose on the public without
any post-graduate hospital experience. This is un-
fortunate for the public and for themselves. The
Casualty Room is the only part of a metropolitan
hospital where a junior on the resident staff has the
responsibility of refusing admittance to a patient.
A patient, for instance, may be either (1) recom-
mended to a senior by the junior for admission as
a possible fractured skull case; or (2) sent away by
the junior on his own responsibility to a police cell
labelled “Drunk.” Should death occur in the latter"
case the resulting coronial inquiry may spell dis-
aster to the misled medico. “Cheiron” surely must
admit that an acquired sense of responsibility is a
great asset to any woman doctor, whether she drifts
“into marriage, bacteriology, the Civil Service or
Collins-street.”
“Friday Island” : Members of strange pro-
fessions occasionally wander into consult-
ing-rooms. Questioned as to his occupation,
one gentleman recently explained : “I’m the
bloke what fires the shot-gun what puts
worm-holes into the antique oak at Whiskers,
Whatboy and Co.’s furniture factory.” "


rC.
s-v
i
% .Sb
r "s
s
i
r iv
m
K. wT,
K
*. J. 140
I
food
9* 11
./^ —3
<=- \
> £A
'•//'
prtfCr. :
1
~JJU,r>t
-Jj
HM,
>, (II
■«
s\
'V--
gSrSS" feT’
XrttWl!
H'Ui
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it's such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
We st cl ox
2
Mann
10
3
8
4
7
5
6
Little Brother —Baby Ben
Baby Ben is just large
enough for the house and
just small enough for the
traveller.
He has that knack of
running, on time, ringing
on time, and staying on
time, that is typical of the
kind of construction
guaranteed by the name
Westcloxon the dial. Baby
Ben has been winning
friends steadily the past
few years, and what’s
more he is holding them.
That is a real accom-
plishment for a small
time-piece. It takes
faithful accurate service
to do it.
IVestclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/-;
Blue Bird, 12/6: Boyproof, 9/6; Pocket Ben,9/6; Jack o 'Lantcrn Luminous, 20/-;
Big Ben Luminous, 32./ 6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
i m HI mi
ac o
Cl
iMI
■v
|P?I ; *:1'?» i** WTJ3»*
■ %
S'
■■
i
H
iSS
ii
- ?
wtJ&i >
■ V
j "
y^f|
n
■ m
■pips?
‘ .
m
>; HI
U!
I
m
; H
ill
SHE
ISH
■ k:
mm
k,
t i- •■'''•— ~ . •' ■'.
----.si
c y
7
;/■ i
*"r
v.,A'“r
V
S?* :
1& I
k~T
IT*
ii
Sonny Queensland.
A wonderful sea trip for Health, Pleasure and
Comfort, occupying 23 days on the round trip
from Melbourne and 16 days from Sydney.
Smooth Seas and Sunny Skies.
By steamers up to 8000 tons fitted
with wireless and every comfort:—
CANBERRA
LEVUKA
COOMA
WYANDRA
BOMBALA
WYREEMA
WODONGA.
Prom MELBOURNE every
Tuesday, calling Syd-
ney, Brisbane, Mackay,
Townsville and Cairns.
Prom SYDNEY every
Tuesday and Saturday.
Tuesday’s steamers call
at Brisbane, Port Alma,
Mackay, Bowen and
Townsville, then tran-
ship for Cairns.
Full particulars from :
Howard Smith Ltd.
and Reduced,
35 Market Street,
Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 8314.
350 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: City 6221, '
A.U.S.N. Co., Limited,
476 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Tel.: Central 9708.
7 Bridge Street, Sydney
Tel.: City 10680.


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 8002. Agply Manager.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/C Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
dfg
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest, iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price,
LUX LIGHT CO.,
49a Collins Street,
Melbourne.
fdg
fdg
Jh
ofjorisJSane)
Hotel Carlton
The most comfortable
and best equipped
Hotel in Queensland
/CENTRALLY situated in the heart
of Brisbane it affords easy access
to commercial, shipping and shopp.
ing centres, theatres, railway ter-
mini, botanical gardens, museum,
artgallery. etc. £14.000 have recently
been spent on modernising Hotel
Carlton. Unmatchable cuisine,
every comfort and modern conveni-
ence. Newest American Bar.
Write for Particularsl
Keep hopping and hoping if yon wish
to succeed
dfg
dfg
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL & Cud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Last Days.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
In aid of the Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee).
£llOO Ist PRIZE *£lloo
£5OO 2nd PRIZE £5OO
£3OO 3rd PRIZE £3OO
and
105 Other Prizes valued at £BOO.
Positively Drawn 30th June, 1922.
Winning: numbers published in this
paper July 6, 1922.
1/- ONLY —TICKETS —ONLY 1/-
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughout the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, BLACKHEATII, N.S.W.
2»C
m
m
\ A i
MAINTAINS YOUTH OF THE
HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden their
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared to
the boiler and pipes of an engine, v.hich
would certainly refuse to work were its
various parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine.
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, remcwes sandy de-
posits from the heart
valves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 9/3.
Prepared by
Etablissements
Chatelain,
Paris.
URODONAL
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing
KILL
WITH KYNOCH
Cartridges
Made in England and
loaded in Australia
with the highest grade
Powders
i
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to ;
KYNOCH Ltd.
90 William St.,
MELBOURNE.
277 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
dfg
MOTOR CARS
Studebaker is the world’s largest
builder of six-cylinder motor cars,
—a position attained through the
public approval, and resultant de-
mand for Studebaker cars.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
This is a Studebaker Year
LIGHT-SIX 5-Seater
Cord Tyres
£555.
“Frinigga”: The biggest “combine” in
theatrical history is in process of formation
in the U.S.A. The two Shuberts and Erlan-
ger have already merged their interests, and
reckon they have practically secured Cohan,
Ziegfeld and Sam Harris, and others hold-
ing wide interests, though their names are
less known to Australia. The avowed object
is “to eliminate duplication.” It will also
eliminate competition.
A pleasing feature of N. S. Wales Labor
Conferences is that the job most sought
after, and round which the fiercest conten-
tion rages, is that of returning-oflicer. The
struggle for other positions, outwardly more
important, is tame in comparison. Cold
and deadly is the fight waged for possession
of the bailot-box, the implication being that
if the right man gets hold of that implement
and takes it home and sleeps on it —or
leaves it in the bar-parlor of the Dog and
Duck at Surry Hills—the executive offices
will nil themselves automatically, so to
speak. It is a bright example of comrade-
ship and mutual confidence. Also, it sets
outsiders wondering why the party doesn’t
win elections.
The name “Pentridge” originally applied
to all Coburg (Vic.). It derived from one
Joseph Pentridge, who arrived in Melbourne
in 183 S. He lived near the Merri Creek
until the end of 1840, and then went to
Adelaide. Returning after 11 years, he was first
gratified and then disgusted at the discovery
of the way in which his name had been
perpetuated ; and his closing years were quite
darkened by the reflection that he and his
would go down in history in close associa-
tion with a gaol.
Among the soldiers’ wives and mothers
presented to the Forster Exes, at Yass was
Julia Briar, who succeeded the late “’Ole
Lucy” as abo. queen a year or so ago. Julia
was gin to the half-caste Jimmy Briar, one
of the best-known stock-breakers in the
southern districts in the old days. She is
the proud mother of a dusky son who wears
the returned soldier’s badge. In recounting
her experiences of The Day in one of the
hospitable kitchens, Julia told it this way:
“Yes, miss, Lady Forster she a real lady,
she shook hands with me like a queen, she
dd. She’s no bush upstart. And, miss,” she
added in an awesome whisper, “the Lord, he
shook hands with me, too.”
On the paramount importance of rum:—
Government control of industries on the Hughes
model may be a good thing for the industries con-
cerned, but its success in injuring or preventing the
establishment of others is uncommon. The Priminis-
ter got an illustration of this in Queensland. (He
would have got another at Newcastle, N.S.W., but
was in too great a hurry to call.) He was taken
round the Bundaberg district in a car which burnt
motor spirit from the local distillery. Vowles,
leader of the State Country party, told him that
every ton of sugar yields \\ to 5 gallons of molasses,
and that three gallons of molasses will make a gal-
lon of power alcohol. Australia’s need of that com-
modity is urgent, for the foreign petrol bushrangers
have systematically held it up for years, and the
Bundaberg distillery, even with its present limited
plant, is capable of supplying half-a-million gallons
per year, at Is. per gallon less than the current
price. Were all the Queensland molasses output
turned into motor spirit, Australia would be in a
position to argue the point with the foreigner. But
under Hughes’s grandmotherly system of control the
molasses that isn’t wanted for Tommy’s bread has
got to be converted into rum. The Commonwealth
Government receives more revenue from rum. There
is so much rum in bond—Bundaberg alone could fill
Australia’s requirements for three years without dis-
tilling another drop—that 75 per cent, of this year’s
molasses must go into the ash-barrel unless the
interdict on power alcohol is, raised. But tol the
brilliant authors of the sugar agreement, power alco-
hol is less important than rum.
“Exul”: The term “Malthusian” has be-
come one of opprobrium in the mouths of
people who do not approve of artificial con-
traception. Why ? The question of birth
control is becoming an important one, and
the attitude of people who are opposed to it
on purely sentimental or religious grounds
must sooner or later be altered by the light
ot reason. It is highly desirable that cer-
tain classes of women should not continue
to bear children—notably those who suffer
after marriage from, e.g., T. 8., those who
aie exhausted by too frequent pregnancies,
or those who have already as many child-
ren as they can nourish. A movement with
this as its object is making great headway
in England, and has the approval of many
leading citizens, including the Bishop of
Birmingham. In Holland clinics for this
purpose are supported by the Government.
Its effects will really be to augment the
population more rapidly than at present by
increasing the survival rate of infants, since
those that a»e born will be given a much
better chance of living, and preventing the
birth and early death, or survival with its
attendant misery, of physical and mental
degenerates. Education of the people in
regard to this matter is as necessary as
it is in that of the prophylaxis of venereal
disease, and its general acceptance as a per-
fectly moral procedure is inevitable in a
tew years. It is not much more than half-
a-century ago that the unthinking righteous
denounced as a devil’s work the giving of
chloroform to women in obstetric cases?
“Thor”: The glacial immobility of the
pew school of chorus-men has at last been
explained. Charles Wenman tells a Mel-
bourne interviewer that these odd stoics
don t live solely on what they get for the
more or less harmonious noises that issue
from their mouths, some of them becoming
commercial travellers when on tour. In
certain of the shows done in Melbourne the
drummer part of the chorus must have been
c omg its best to damp popular enthusiasm
so as to get away on the road again. In
no pait of the world have I seen choristers
so completely blase about their work. The
average Indian fanatic who vows himself
to perpetual stillness is a ball of mercury
compared with some of them. And their
make-up is consistently deplorable. In the
tn l ?. l ' ?, hows ,. t ,e chorus-men still work as
though they belonged to the piece, but it
pains one to hark back to the earlier Wil-
liamsoman days when men like Stannis
Leslie, Arthur Hunter and several others
could step right forward out of the chorus
parts^ 0 lj ' S Gilbert and Sullivan or other


Perfection Marine Engines
tm
r
&
8-h.p. UNIT PLANT.
Special for the Speed Boat.
The “Caille” 8-h.p. Unit Plant is fitted with
reverse gear on the same bed. Perfect align-
ment is guaranteed. Ideal for private launches
and small speed boats. Its speed record up to
date is 2 1 j m.p.h. driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in.
hand V-bottom boat, turning a 1 6in. by 20in.
propeller. We have stocks. Call or write
now for Catalogues and Prices Qf Caille
“PERFECTION” Engines, 1-, 2- and 4-
cylinder, for light or heavy duty; also Out-
board and “Bantam” (Inboard) Motors.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands:
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED,
76-78 Liverpool Street,. Sydney.
IESSOP'S
U # STEELS
ipiL
Miner’s Drill
Steel, all sections
—solid and hol-
low.
Special Alloy
Steels for con-
structional pur-
poses.
Castings, Forg-
ings and Stamp-
ings for all
colliery and min-
ing work.
Every class of
Steel for mining
and Crushing
purposes, includ-
ing Shoes, Dies,
Cams, Tappets,
Stamp Stems,
etc.
Write for full
details to-day.
FOR ALL COLLIERY
AND MINING PURPOSES
With a reputation of 150 years to maintain
and an experience of 150 years to assist
in maintaining it, Jessop’s are in a particu-
larly favorable position to supply just the
right kind of steel best suited to any par-
ticular need. For mining and colliery work
particularly there are special brands of steel
—real high-quality steel—that have been
tested and proved under the most strenuous
and exacting conditions. Jessop’s steels
give lasting satisfaction wherever they are
used—they have a world-wide reputation
for durability and uniform excellence.
MAULER & QUEREAU,
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
AGENTS FOR
WM. JESSOP&SONS LTD.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
MADE IN
SHEFFIELD, THE
HOME OF THE
STEEL INDUSTRY.
w,
ft
m
m
if:
m
m
m
Hx
FOX
TRADE.
MARK
c,
a
0
\
ft
'X>
UW
X '
5«
Sfejiii
<4
fc
o
VA
Jl
i
d
%
‘U.
I
A
1%
1
Vv
v:
Pure Wool
Indi^oDcje
LOOK FOR THE
trade; mark
ON THE SERGE
FOX BROTHERS
E.CP LTD.
WELLINGTON, SOMERSET


A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, AX
quality, highly burnished, plain design, (io/m
A. Saunders’ Flower Vase,
pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality.
sin., 7/0. 6in., t<)/6.
7in., 15/-. Bin., 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, Cut Crystal Glass Bowl, 70/-
SELECTED TABLE ill APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunders; Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, gilt-
lined, handsomely fluted and burnished, £7/10/-
Others. £B/10/-, £lO/10/-, £l2/10/-
ME
"
comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar
bordering, £l7/10/-
A. Saunders* Tea and Coffee Set, pure Silver-plated, A 1 qualitv
and Cream, with Covers, highly burnished, engraved reed
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. Saunders’ Fern Pot, pure Silver-plated, Al
quality, highly burnished. Three sizes, 40/-
50/-, 63/-
A. Saunders’ Candlestick,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished,
35/-
A. Saunders’
plated, A 1
Cake Basket, pure Silver-
quality, pierced design*
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
605-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Hupraobife
Many people figure on the possible second-sale
value of the car they buy. Hupmobile owners,
when they re-sell, usually obtain prices con-
siderably higher than are paid for other cars
that originally cost about the same.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Hoad, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains—door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED. 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.. LTD., Perth, W.A.
E\ ERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street.
Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC-, Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington. N.Z.
Hupmobile


Amusements.
SY I) NIS VS CIII K F TIIKAT II E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON 1 , LTD., present
lIEli MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
('lll I KRION :
THE GREAT LOVER.
ROYAL:
THE LIE.
PALACE:
THE FIRST YEAR.
■p oW X HAIj L, SYDN E Y.
THE EMINENT ARTISTS,
GUY MAIER
and
LEE PATTI SON,
JUNE 22 and 24 (Matinee),
also
JUNE 26, 27, 29.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
1 PRODUCTIONS
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
Australasian Representative; HUGH I). WILSON,
17 'the Ranking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
THE FAMOUS ENGLISH
1 HUMPHREY BISHOP
COMEDY AND OPERATIC COMPANY
Under direction J. and N. Tait,
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COLEMAN
Quick-Lite
LAMP
There are no greasy wicks to trim; no dirty
chimneys to wash ; no smoke, soot, or dripping
oil. It is safe and cannot burst or spill the
petrol even if tipped over.
300-CANDLEPOWER LIGHT,
Twenty times more powerful than
ordinary lamp light.
PERFECT
PETROL
GAS
LAMP.
fgd
dfg
dfg
LIGHTS
WITH
A
MATCH.
FIGURE ON THIS FACT!
Quiek-Lite Lamps are made of heavy brass,
handsomely nickelled. Makes its own petrol
gas, and gives 48 hours’ brilliant lighting on
a gallon of petrol.
THE SUNSHINE OF THE NIGHT.
The wonderful, soft white 300-c.p. light pene-
trates the farthest corner of the room.
PRICE, 95/- COMPLETE.
With Two Spare Mantles and Tools.
ORDER FROM IRONMONGERS AND
STORES.
Spare Parts are Always Obtainable.
"'rite to Coleman Representative, Box 1083,
Melbourne, if your dealer is out of stock.
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Aniac Memorial
Hospital, Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permi sion of the Hon the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.
" The truest wan to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind."
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States.
September 16th, 1922.
lOnly TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more, Post Free
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5 f
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at ,£4OOO.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative ef ort
Ticlte s can be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in 'ew outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Boosstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from —
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Sec ,
Cadzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba.
Amusement*.
C. WILLI A M SON, LTI)., MELDOCKMi
■ ATT lIA CT lONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
NEW COMIC OPERA CO. IN
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL*
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY.
THE ORIGINAL ABBEY THEATRE COMPANY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
I.J OVT'S TIIKATKES, MHI.ISOIUNK
Also SVDXKV.
I)E LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
PRISCILLA DEAN in
WILD HONEY.
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
SMASHING THROUGH.
Prices as usual.
Like a
perfect mirror
The New Edison is like the perfect mirror that reflects
form and feature, true to’ every line and subtlely of
coloring. It gives you an exact RE-CREATION of
the singing or playing of the living artist or artists.
Mr. Edison spent seven years in developing the
perfect realism of the New Edison. He has proved
this perfect realism by comparing the New Edison
with living artists 5000 times before more than
five million people.
The new Edison is positively the only phonograph
which can sustain this test, and therefore the
only phonograph with which you will be really
satisfied. Ask us for further information.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
361-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
The NEW
EDISON
□P.PS3F
mm 3
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.”
ADA REEVE.
“She has no equal.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS MeNAUGIITON.
Matinees Saturdays and Wednesdays. at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
[yj VJ RSI IC Til ISATItE. MELBOU UN K.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WET GOLD.
ALL STAR CAST.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
T O XV N HAL L, JIELIIOURN E.
Direction .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 2-t.
Also
TUESDAY, 27th, THURSDAY, 29th, and
SATURDAY, JULY I
D ALVAREZ,
THE SINGER WITH A VOICE OF GOLD.
Plan at Allen’s.
OKIIAAMA TIIE.VTKE, MELIiOLKM',.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
IVi ELBA TII SAT BE, MELBOUIINE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAURAPU, PATHE
WORLD and SELZNICK.
• v
3> ?X
:os
o-;t
o
o-_c
- _xr
•o
*>
0*- {
■0
f, >c
ft-
• • 0-
•*
o-:c#
m
redsES
//
CvNCOKIIM
congoieum
ART-RUGS
ARTruqj
w
$
SZQ
r^j"
tf*t
$K
zz
o
<r
*ra
it -
GOLD
SEAL
GUARANTEE
SATISFACnON GUARANTEED
OR YOUR MONEY BACK ,
REMOVE SEAL WITH
DAMP CLOTH
Gold Seal
Your Protection Against imitation
The Gold-Seal pledge of satis-
faction on every square added to
the unequalled Congoleum qual-
ities of durability, attractiveness,
and economy ensures floor-cover-
ing service of the highest order.
There is satisfaction in knowing
when you buy a floor-covering
that there are certain definite ser-
vices it will render.
To appreciate fully their beauty
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
and appropriateness you must see
these squares on the floors of your
home.
Let them prove for themselves
by actual use how they lighten
your housework, brighten the
room and save money.
They lie absolutely flat on the
floor without fastening, and will
not “kick-up” or interfere with
swinging doors.
At all leading stores
or write
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Cr. King and Kent Streets,
Sydney
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


King George IV
1111 w m WHISKY
The TOP NOTCHscotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
How Often Do You Shave?
It makes no difference if you
use a
MURHAMI-juPLDC
Safe Razor
It shaves clean, with com-
fort, every time and all the
time. Try it. Convince
yourself.
W §
r#
iW/A'i
m
AH Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave wich it. It’s a revelation!
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Night Out”
Criterion “The Great Lover”
Royal “The Lie”
Palace ‘‘The First Year”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall ... Guy Maier and Lee Pattison Concerts
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Little Dutch Girl”
Royal “The White-headed Boy”
Palace “Spangles”
King’s Humphrey Bishop Co.
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
Town Hall D’Alvarez
In “The Grout Lover,” at Sydney Cri-
terion, Louis Bennison —known to Austra-
lians hitherto as the sportive cowboy in
“Johnny, Get Your Gun” —appears as a
grand-opera baritone, proud of Bis art, jeal-
ous of rival singers, and impenitently amor-
ous, though middle-aged. Lor the lost love
of his hot youth, as he describes the tragedy,
lie mourns “one week, two week,” and then
liies to numerous distractions in georgette
and crepe de Chine. A youthful lyric
soprano (Doris Kendal) inspires in him an-
other grand passion. Her he makes a mem-
ber of his company, and pursues with offers
of his heart and hand. But the lady is
already in love with Bennison’s understudy
(Lou Vernon). That young man, infuri-
ated b.v the suggestions of a stout but malig-
nant prima donna (Ethel Morrison), bursts
into the baritone’s dressing-room when that
unwearied lady-killer is discussing Mozart
or something with the lyric soprano. The
latter, in a transport of indignation, accepts
Baritone on the spot. Baritone bellows at
the fat prima donna until lie bursts his
voice-box. Understudy dashes on to the
stage and triumphs. The fallen star, his
throat ruined beyond repair, consoles him-
self with thoughts of matrimony, the lyric
soprano not having called the wedding off,
though dissolved in tears. But on his day-
dreams bursts a reproachful female (Gwen
Burroughs), who informs him that she is
the lost love aforesaid, and that the under-
study is their son. Conscience-stricken for
the first time in his life, lie withdraws his
lien on the lyric soprano, moodily resigns
himself to a loveless old age, and—-makes an
assignation with a married woman as the
curtain falls.
* * * *
It is a good, but not a great, play. The
first act, with its diverting glimpses of the
extraordinary people who sing in opera, is
the best; the catastrophe in the second act
is unconvincing ; and the third act is toler-
able only in patches. There is stuff enough
in the piece for a first-class curtain-raiser,
but it had to be beaten pretty thin to make
a three-act comedy of it, although the man-
agement, by starting late and finishing early,
does its best. Nor does Bennison’s acting
deserve tile rhapsodies it has excited in the
daily press. It is Capable, clever, amusing,
but totally uninspired. One imagines that
a Latin lover would be far more tempestu-
ous and compelling in amorous situations
than the tepid Yank. Bennison is the
kind of actor who would give a respectable
rendering of any part, but it is absurd to
write of him in language which would be
“The First Year ,” at
Sydney Palace.
Phillips Tead as
Tommy Tucker.
extravagant if ap
plied to an Irving,
preposterous t o
credit him with
qualities which he
does not possess.
Nobody else does
anything worthy of
much note. Doris
Kendal’s work is
wi th out distinc-
tion. Before Lou
Vernon becomes an
acceptable stage
lover he will have
to give up simu-
lating passion by
getting a neck-
hold on the lady,
and forget ai 1
about those hands
and feet. But a
number of clever
people drift across
the stage in an
honest effort to
earn their salaries,
among them Gaston
Merv a 1 e, John
Bedouin, Vivian
Edwards, Leslie
_ Victor, Roger
Barry and George Blunt.
** * *
From a man whom etching does not im-
press :
The second annual exhibition by the Painter-
Etchers’ Society at the Education Galleries is no
better than the first. This, despite the inclusion of
prints by well-known English and American etchers
—among them Whistler, whose one example, “The
Music Room,” may be interesting as an etching, but
certainly has no artistic value. “Cottage. Claren-
don,” and “Farmhouse, Hartley,” two small prints
fry Sydney Ure Smith, come nearest to a complete
expression of form and tone, the two out of the
three dimensions of art with which etching deals.
They are, therefore, more convincing than any other
work shown. His earth looks more like earth
which could be walked on ; his walls are more like
real walls; his sky more nearly suggests not
mere white paper but a space going on to eternity.
Withal his light, the element of the business which
provides the illusion of all these things, is more
logical than in any other prints shown; so the
honors in this show, as in the last, go to him.
Iu art allied to literature, that authentic genius
Norman Lindsay again dwarfs his fellow-exhibitors.
Incidentally, his “Unknown Seas” brings to mind the
finest achievements of such well-known Koval Aca-
demy pillars of 30 years ago as Draper and Water-
house, while his “Mieomicon” suggests similar work
by prominent Paris Salon exhibitors, of a slightly
earlier period. The finest examples of art applied
to decoration are shown by Syd Long, but the alliance
is least noticeable in “Pastoral” which is, therefore,
his best.
The general impression left by this show is that
the limited medium of etching has robbed us of
our conimonsense. llow otherwise could the majo-
rity of the prints have been taken seriously? .If
all the exhibits had been oil or water-color paintings
or direct shaded drawings, instead of etchings, it
is doubtful whether more than half would not suffer
rejection from either of Sydney’s three general
annual exhibitions. There is undoubtedly a charm
about the soft edges of the acid-bitten line. So
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Comedian George. Caniey as the fool of
the force.
is there a charm in the way Hie edges of two full
water-color washes mingle when they meet. But
the most attractive.mingling will not, make the pic-
ture right if the colors are wrong. llow often in
(his show is the rich, etched black used merely for
its own sake when the print would have been' more
meritorious had the dark been a grey? The majo-
rity of the exhibitors display the modern tendency
to sacrifice the end in order to demonstrate a clever-
ness in the handling of the means, or toy with
its superficial qualities.
* si: sk *
It is likely that the novel idea —novel,
that is, so far as Australia is concerned—
'’! * wo artists playing- at one another from
different pianos will attract many to the
Maier-Pattison concerts. Yet the intrinsic
worth of the performance given by Sydney’s
latest visitors is enough, in itself, to draw
big audiences. Though contrasted oddly in
temperament—the one all fire and dash, the
other classically restrained—they produce
an astonishing unity of effect. One piano
may be only one piano, but two pianos as
played by the Maier-Pattison combination
are much more than twice one. They pro-
duce a fullness of tone which gives almost
an orchestral result, especially when released
into complete volume. They plainly revel
in such works as the Scherzo Op. 87 of Saint-
Saens with its brilliant dash and cleverness ;
and are heard to particular advantage in
Rachminoff at his most melodious. These
pianists, who will play at Sydney Town
ITall throughout the coming week, possess
a repertory which ranges from Brahms to
Arnold Bax, and they are interesting and
artistic in all of it.
George Carney, who arrived at Sydney
Tivoli on Saturday with four associates,
combines the virility of Rickaby and the
whimsicality of Wilkie Bard. “The Fool of
the Force” and “The Count of No Account”
are old friends, in a sense, but he knocks
an immense amount of fresh fun out of
them, while _ “The Mess Orderly” brings
the loud guffaw of recognition from audi-
ences which know a lot these days
about the idiocies of the soldiering trade.
He gets his bull’s-eye hit in “Stony-broke
in No Man’s Land,” another soldier-item
which shows the pathos of the unemployed
soldier left to starve while the patriots
wave flags. Other new starters are Ray
and Ivath De Vere, Carne and Ivellaway and
the Aerial Delsoes.
* * * *
At Sydney Lyceum “Moran of the Lady
Betty” stars Rudolph Valentino, who is all
the more adorable in the eyes of most
of the lady-patrons of the house by reason
of the fact that he was recently charged
with bigamy. The Rialto’s offering is "The
Silent Call” (a canine masterpiece), and at
the same address and also at the Haymarket
flappers are crowding to the very latest in
amorous entanglements, to wit, “Wife
Against Wife.” Hoyt’s and Australian are
serving up stoush pictures. “The Chink and
the Child,” from Thomas Bourke’s “Lime-
house .Nights,” is the Strand feature.
“Broken Blossoms” is the screen name, and
Richard Barthelmess the star. Chaplin con-
tinues at the Crystal Palace in “The Kid,”
and “The Sheik” is in its 17th lurid week at
the Globe.
** y *
"The Lie” will be told for the last time,
so far as Sydney Theatre Royal is con-
cerned, on next Wednesday night; for on
duly 1 "The Bat” is booked to begin its
marrow-freezing activities in the Castle-
reagh-street playhouse.
* * *
At Sydney Palace “The* First Year” con-
tinues to school engaged couples in the
flying of post-wedding hurdles, and flappers
(should-they require it) in the art of forcing-
declarations. Marjorie Bennett and Phil-
lips Tead, the Biostonian, provide the
comedy-sweetened instruction.
* * -i= *
Packed houses are still filling Her
Majesty s, Sydney, to see and hear Maud
bane, Alfred Frith, Field Fisher, Madge
Flliott and their amusing colleagues in “A
Night Out.”
At Melbourne Royal an episode in the
family life of the Geoghegans and the
Duffys—Aunt Ellen being closely associated
with both families, and young Brosnan being
anxious to marry into the combination —is
going to attract the same intelligent public
interest as in Sydney latelv. The failure
of Denis, “The White-headed Boy,” to pass
lus medical exam, in Dublin, and his subse-
quent transference to the prospective man-
agement of Aunt Ellen’s co-operative store
business at Ballycolrnan, provide material
lor a story that grips attention by the
strength of its simplicity, and keeps atten-
tion smiling at the humor of its human
naturalness. Lennox Robinson’s much-
travelled play of provincial Irish life has
the charm of Truth, as well as the air of
novelty which distinguished Moffatt’s play
of Scotch provincial life. It is even more
ingeniously Ibsenie in construction, though
Ihe White-headed Boy” has no lines and
picturesque incidents that haunt one’s
memory like the best in “Bunty Pulls the
Slrmgs.” Less concerned about dramatic
(Ml<‘(*t, it is more open to convincing repre-
scutation than 4 -Runty” was. Of course
the story isn’t all troc. The drollery of the
denouement is achieved by the Bernard Shaw
device (Shaw, by the way, is Irish) of intro-
ducing the impossible in a matter-of-fact
manner. Denis, the spoilt waster of the
scene, would never have turned a hopeless-
looking honeymoon into a triumph at the
expense of Ballycolrnan snobbery, by engag-
ing himself to do dirty work 'for'a small
wage. The comedy makes certain of success
by becoming farcical and funny. Your impres-
sion of quiet realism in the earlier scenes,
wherein Duffy’s masterful wooing of Aunt
Ellen is the most realistic of all, are some-
what clouded by recollection of biting satire
in the farcical finale. But you have been
thoroughly entertained.
# * * *
The company’s character drawing (the
diversity of the family being hardly credible
considering the blood relationship of the
parties) is not forcible in every case, yet
invariably careful and practised. Arthur
Sinclair s embodiment of Duffy is a master-
piece of character work, and Maire O’Neill
i® a delightful Aunt Ellen, though the nature
of the character is undefined, whereas facial
eccentricities and tricks of gait in the actress
are very pronounced. Sydney Morgan is
a striking brother George until the character
loses color at the finish; Arthur Shields is
the right type of highly-improbable Denis;
Maureen Delany is successful in the difficult
part of their mother, and among the younger
woman characters the pathetic figure of Nora
Desmond, as Kate, is specially effective when
the girls are discussing fashion-plates. “The
White-headed Boy” is for some weeks to
come at Melbourne Royal.
* * '* *
Wee Georgie Wood, at Melbourne Tivoli,
has put the doings of his Black Hand Gang
beyond all reasonable doubt. The fiction of
the Gang s contempt for policemen’s helmets,
and its chief’s indisposition to go gathering
Nuts and May at his auntie’s evening party
is now an accomplished fact. Black Hand
George is a reality, likewise Wee Macgregor,
who comes after the sketch and suggests a
small-boy edition of Harry Lauder, with
unimpeachable legs. The Tivoli co. was re-
cruited last Saturday by Ed Ford, returned
to Melbourne after many years, presenting
a new mannab and an even more elastic-
countenance than when he lived by grimaces
alone. Other new arrivals of note are Elliott
and Godlee, singers with a sense of color in
their clothes and other appointments. The
lady partner has much of the Blessed Damo-
sel and more of Maudie Fane in her orna-
mental appearance. Meeting the tall, slim
golden-haired presence in the limelight one
would hardly know whether to give her the
glad eye, or ask to be remembered in her
prayers.
** * *
At" Melbourne Majesty’s defects in ‘‘A
Little Dutch Girl” performance continue to
be numerous. One of the most-easily reme-
died is defective enunciation, in which
“The First Year,”
Sydney Palace.
Thomas Lloyd as
Mr. Barstow.
respect volatile
Grade Lavers is a
leading offender. If
winsome Gracie
were to go a little
slower and give
m ore time an d
weight to her dic-
tion she would
seem more like a
maid of honor to
a plump princess.
Even though her
stage grandfather
was a plumber she
need not despair of
mingling a courtly
air with maiden
impishness. Some
plumbers have had
doosid tony grand-
children.
A change of pro-
gramme at Mel-
bourne King’s re-
veals no new
strength in the
active and intelli-
ge n t Humphrey
Bishop co., except
that George Ross
has devel o p e d
the facu It y of
piano-playing under weird conditions. Some-
times he rests on his stummick atop of
the instrument, whilst touching the keys
gently, and for a while he stands on his head
when resuming the melody. The vaudeville
visitors remain at the King’s until Friday
next week, and then comes “My Lady’s
Dress.”
Ada Reeve, throwing in an occasional
change of musical item, has registered the
75th night of “Spangles,” at Melbourne
Palace. Herself and Lisa and the rest of
them, are always adding finishing touches
to the show’s reputation.
** * *
Mae Murray treads the primrose path
to happiness in “Peacock Alley,” at
Melbourne Majestic, in a bewildering
display of gowns. At the same theatre
“The Empire of Diamonds” is provid-
ing a blaze that could only be properly
described in Yiddish. Iloyt’s are making
much of Priscilla Dean in “Wild Honey,”
and Gladys Brockwell in “The Sage Hen”
is also recommended. Priscilla has a com-
paratively heavenly time, whereas Gladys, as
an embittered social outcast, has to wgste
her tartness on the desert air of Arizona.
At the Lyceum most of the evening’s action
I s in the hands of Herbert Rawlinson in
“Smashing Through.” For pacifists there is
something more congenial in Bessie Barris-
cale at “The Breaking Point.” At the
Britannia Pauline Starke in “Snowbound”
finds a mate in a man whose face seems to
be slowly recovering from the ravages of
delirium tremens. At the Melba Pauline
F rederick is shaking the dice-box with Des-
tiny, and losing with the persistency of an
embezzler.
** * *
“The Bat” is about to flap its gloomy
wmgs at Adelaide Royal, which meanwhile
has been amusing itself with Douglas Fair-
banks as a Mexican bandit. “The Sheik”
continues to crowd the York, and has had
to extend its season. At West’s that always
effective actor, a big dog, is emotionally
torn between human affections and the
claims of “The Silent Call” set up by the
wolf-pack. Wallace Reid gives useful hints
for these crowded times at Wondergraph,
living “Rent Free” on a roof, with unex-
pectedly charming neighbors. The great
funeral accorded to Ross Smith is inevit-
ably a feature on most screens. Frank Gor-
man continues to act (and sing occasionally)
at the P. of Wales. Jn “The Fighting Parson”
he also exhibits a meritorious straight left.
Agnes Dobson is still the heroine at this
house, but Rutland Beckett has joined the
co. as villain, and Walter Cornock as a
comedian. The King’s is enjoying a return
visit from Walter George and his co., among
whom Daisy Yates and George Martin
edify with song and dance; while that odd
couple, Ling and Long, are prominent in
the other half of the show.


AN EXCEPTIONAL OPPORTUNITY!
TO PURCHASE ON THE MOST ADVANTAGEOUS TERMS
EDUCATIONAL BOOKS
WHICH HAVE ESTABLISHED A WORLD-WIDE REFUTATION.
Parents are specially invited to give this opportunity their most serious consideration. It js at once a dutyin^of'the
to give children every facility for gaining knowledge which will equip them for the higher stations in ie.
world have assisted in the compilation of these volumes, which have become standard works. , 1
The offer we are now making places at the disposal of parents and others on payment of a nommal deposit only—
MAGNIFICENT EDUCATIONAL WORKS
any one of which is a library in itself. All you are asked to do now is to fill in coupon asking for fuller details than can be supplied
in an advertisement, and these will be forwarded by return mail.
The Outline of History
The Original Edition, Written
by H. G. Wells, complete in
Two Vols.
In the preparation of a work
which aims at “being a plain his-
tory of life and mankind” many
minds and many books were indis-
pensable.
“The Outline of History” was
written with the advice and edi-
torial help of Mr. Ernest Barker.
Sir H. H. Johnston. Sir E. Ray
Lancaster, and Professor Gilbert
Murray.
The style in which the “Outline
of History” is written resembles
that' of no other historian. Mr.
Wells writes so that any intelligent
reader of English can understand,
and explains any scientific or out-
of-the-way word as he goes along.
His vigorous method makes this
history agreeable reading.
“The Outline of History” goes on
to our own times, through the Great
War to the League of Nations, and
concludes with some interesting
prophecies of the stages yet to come
before we reach a World State.
It is a work which would adorn
any library, and the reader who
assimilates its contents will be ex-
ceedingly well equipped in the sum
of human knowledge.
Eiftv full-page Colored Plates and
over 500 Illustrations, Maps and
Drawings. Issued in two bindings.
Full Cloth, gilt lettering, £2/10/-
per set.
Half Leather, £3/3/- per set.
Terms. —Cloth : Deposit of 10/-,
and 10/- per month for four months,
or half-leather bound, 15/- deposit,
and four monthly payments of 12/-
The New Harmsworth
Self-Educator.
Have these actual volumes for
companions. Share the secrets and
successes of all the branches of
experience and knowledge that they
cover. You will gain the view-point
of tne well-read man of affairs.
Efow vast is the ground covered
by these ten volumes! Their pages
carry over one thousand illuminat-
ing chapters of instruction, includ-
ing five languages and hearly all
trades and professions; SOOO illus-
trations, including 52 _ full-page
plates, are used to explain or add
interest to the letterpress- The
“Guide to Knowledge” (a descrip-
tive Bibliography of over 4000 care-
fully selected books on all topics) is
exhaustive; while the short Dic-
tionaries of Technical works and
phrases are invaluable.
Complete in 10 vols. Deposit 10/-
—ten monthly payments of 14/b
each. A discount, of 5 per cent
allowed on payment in lull (±»)
with order.
m
wtJi
m I
I!!
im
i
Get in
front of
the Crowd
Don’t Stay
in the Ruck
Harmsworth Popular Science.
The story of human progress towards Knowledge and Understanding--
The
Masterpiece Library
of Short Stories.
The Thousand Best Complete
Tales of All Times and All Countries
in Twenty Handsome Volumes, with
Two Hundred Cine Art Plates.
The living Leaders of Literature
who handed themselves together to
select what was most worthy in the
whole realm of the Worlds Shoit
story Literature are men whose
names carry weight among all book-
°Under the general direction of Mr.
j a. Hammerton, the editor-in-
chief, whose wide knowledge and
critical judgment make him a past-
master in the production of interest-
compelling works, they collaborated
in the selection of the Thousand
Best Short Stories of all times and
countries that are presented m the
great literary achievement now
offered to all lovers of what is best
in the world of books.
Never before has any work with
the scope and interest of The Mas-
terpiece Library of Short Stories
been presented. Ihe realms of
literature of all ages and of all
countries have been searched, and
from each the gems have been
rescued for the delight and enter -
tainment of the present genoiation.
The Editorial Board of lhe
Masterpiece Library of Short
Stories” has rounded off the work
of thousands of years of story
telling, by making the first grand
monument of universal Uteratur
devoted to the delightful, vivid,
popular art of the little prose tale.
Deposit £l. and 12 monthly instal-
ments of 20/- each. A discount of
5 per cent, will lie allowed on pay-
ment in full (£l3) with order.
The Children’s
Treasure House
(EDITED BY ARTHUR IVIEE.)
A Companion Work to the Child-
ren’s Encyclopaedia, containing 4UI
full-page plates (99 in color).
THE ALADDIN’S CAVE OF
EVERY CHILD.
Here is a book for the young
explorers who want to know more
and more of this vast treasuie-
world into which we all are born.
It is the aim of those who build
this house to make it like a little
world, to which a traveller comes
seeking the joy of life and finding
it. It is meant to be in very truth
the Treasure House of every child,
to guide him along a thousand
ways, along the paths that lead
through the kingdom of knowledge
to the greatest treasure this world
holds—a happy life.
Complete in 12 vols. Deposit 10/-,
ten monthly payments of 14/0. A
discount of 5 per cent, will be
allowed for payment in cash (£»)
with order.
WHAT RFTTER GIFT COULD YOU GIVE ANY CHILD THAN THE
WHAT BETTER Ulf 1 <- EIGHT VOLUMES OF
The CHILDREN’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA
WITH THEIR 5362 PAGES, 8064 PICTURES AND 542 COLOR PLATES?
F„ thousands .« ..tor. ... <*..<.--<» ,„ch.t, -d
of inspiration that gives world are explained to the child mind, and the graphic pictures—
in which the problems of the . p ereat truth fascinate both children and their seniors.
every one eloquent with the message o .. opens the gates of a veritable fairyland. It satisfies the
desife° r of eV the y to" know the “Why and Wherefore” of the world around it. It fascinates
6Ve Tt reveals^to the“young,Pondering eyes the beauties of nature, the marvels of science, and the sublime
triumphs of art. Children's Encyclopaedia has his eyes opened to the wonders of the world
Every child who has access to the Children a , v v d to appreciate the divine mysteries of
-he has the desire for culture awakened t he glorious triumphs of science, and the
nature, the sublime beauties of ar L enraptured as the new scheme of knowledge is unfolded to him.
grand story of human progress. He is enraptured as
<umciCRTPTTON TERMS:— Deposit, 13/6; 11 monthly payments of 11/6 each;
I ®e? discount allowed for cash payment of full amount (£7).
ym /- £&&& KC “ 80 that KhUe
GORDON and GOTCH (AUSTRALASIA) LIMITED,
EDUCATIONAL BOOK DEPARTMENT,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston,
Wellington, Christchurch, Auckland, Dunedin.
Fill in this Coupon NOW!
TO
GORDON and GOTCH (A/SIA),
LIMITED,
EDUCATIONAL BOOK DEPT.,
Please send me, without ©Migration, further
particulars of the Works indicated below (Mark
with a X the volumes which interest you.)
—The Outline of History,
—Harmsworth Popular Science,
The New Harmsworth Self-Educator
—The Children’s Treasure House,
—The Masterpiece Library of Short
Stories,
—Children’s Encyclopaedia.
(Name)
( Address)
B.


Wedding Presents.
LONDON Cash Buying in Large Quan-
tities ensures the submittal of the
latest and Best Goods of the World’s
Great Makers to our London Office.
AVe gather the cream of the Empire’s
best.
HENCE Ave always have Novelties.
HENCE our prices are notedly low.
HENCE our qualities are proA'erbi-
ally high.
HENCE our enormous output.
Fairfax # Roberts Ltd.
Plain Figures.
Si I'iefly Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydnoy,
dfg
Very heavily plated on
White Metal, Afternoon
20/- net.
Sterling Silver, 42/
special hard
Teaspoons,
- net.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: IS-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/-
4% Merest up to £5OO, and 3-p on any excess
to £lOOO.
PERSONAL, JOINT AND TRUST
ACCOUNTS OPENED.
153 Branches and 520 Agencies throughout the State.
POVERTY
POINT
“Stargazer” : George Tallis is said by the
Argus to have commenced his connection
with the theatres as Williamson’s private
secretary, but when I first came into contact
with him he was a dresser at the Princess's.
He did not last long in this capacity, but
was speedily promoted, largely because of
the uneasiness J. C. Williamson felt in being-
assisted on with bis boots by so very superior
a person. “I feel like a man employing an
archbishop to scrub the kitchen!” James
Cassius is said to have remarked. Since then
Tallis has never looked back, but travelled
rapidly to the topmost bough of the Firm’s
anple-tree. The Argus, by the way, describes
the recent bestowal upon Georgie of an
Imperial gaud as "a great compliment to
the theatrical profession of Australia,” but,
as it is a fact that the recipient was never
an actor in his life, the application of the
compliment to the profession is none too
obvious. The compliment, if any, is strictly
to old “business as usual.”
“Diggeress”: The male choir at St. Igna-
tius's, Richmond (Vic.), dates from 1904 'X 8.
ANDRE BKALSKI,
conducting N.S.W.
Orchestra.
l/0/’22). In that
year the Rev. J.
Hearn, a Jesuit
missi o n e r, ap-
pointed 11. V. Wil-
-liain s, a iv e 1 1-
knowri teacher of
singing an d a n
authority on Gre-
gorian music, to
train men and boys
for the church
choir. Williams
got together 30
boys and the same
number of men,
and the work of
this, the first R.C.
male choir in Aus-
tralia, was highly
praised by author
r i tie s who had
heard the finest
European choirs.
In after years,
strange as it may
seem to the Snow-
halls and Nesses,
the choirmaster be-
came a Digger. He
died on active ser-
vice in October.
1917.
Peter : Talking of alcoholic actors, I
recall an interesting character who. in "Mon-
sieur Bfeaucaire,” once grease-painted his
ears a vociferous red. Despite the beer that
was m him the offender had an explanation
pat when the furious actor-producer bore
down upon him. "What I have done is per-
fectly proper,” he said. “The script says I
exit L., flushing to the ears.’- Well, I’ve
only Painted on what I can’t produce natu-
rally. oil, 1 see,” answered the a.-p. sar-
donically, “You just go and paint your ears
white because you are going to ‘exit alto-
gether, turning pale from emotion.’ ” How-
ever, the great man didn’t carry out his
threat. “Dammit,” he remarked afterwards,
“a man as resourceful as that has got un-
usual intelligence—for an actor.”
“0.K.”: Charles Kenningham’s interest-
ing reminiscences of the late Kutland Bar-
rington do not date back to the cause and
beginning of his long connection with Gil-
bert and Sullivan opera. Barrington was
selected to play the part of the Vicar in
“The Sorcerer” on its first production at
the Opera Coinique, London, in 1877. He,
George Grossmith and Richard Temple were
the only members of the cast, I think, who
appeared in several subsequent triumphs of
the selies at the same theatre. Miss Ever-
ard, who was the pew-opener in "The Sor-
cerer” and the original Little Buttercup
in “Pinafore,” died early and was succeeded
by Alice Barnett. Big Alice filled a long
engagement in Australia a few years later.
Rutland Barrington dressed the character
of the Vicar in the gaiters, sacred to bishops
off He made a great success of his
song, “Ah, me! I was a pale young curate
then,” one of the few Gilbert and Sullivan
ballads that have been popularised on the
concert platform in this country. The late
Andrew Black was most melodiously humor-
ous in the Vicar’s song. The mere mention
of his name suggests—“ And when I coughed
—and when I coughed—all thought the end
was near.”
"Stony”: Interested the other evening by
signs of activity at Melbourne’s aged Tem-
perance Hall, I blew into the dark and
empty auditorium and observed several
dozen instrumentalists tuning their pipes
and fiddles upon the stage. No one threw
me out, so I took a few seats and stretched
out. It was a great evening—up to Heaven
and back, and
along all manner,
of scented bus h-
tracks, over blue
hilltops and beside
still waters, with
nymphs and naiads
accompanying me
portions of th e
journey. I slumped
back to earth at
about 10 o’clock,
when the players
began to pack up.
On the way out
I hum b 1 y ap-
proached a chap
with a ’cello and
asked him what it
was all about.
“Oh,” he answered,
“it’s the Lyric
Orchestra rehears-
ing.” (J h a lies
Levy, who started
this fine amateur
organisation years
ago, thereupon re-
ceived from me
three rousing
At Melbourne Tivoli.
We Georgie Wood as
a Scotch cabman.
cheers, for I hadn’t seen so many naiads in
one night since they broke down the Vic-
torian beer-standard in the early days of
the war.
Nero”: Billy Russell, one of the Firm’s
touring managers, is about to exploit Maori-
Jand with a stock company playing the
better-class of modern drama and comedy,
lie is to have his choice of the Firm’s accu-
mulation of scripts, and first call on their
Ai.ti theatres after their own wants are
satisfied. The company includes George
Hewlett, Victor Fitzherbert, Guy Hastings.
Kthel Rashford, Charles Lawrence and
Arthur Cornell, and Billy’s wife, Nellie
Bramley, will play the leading feminine
roles. Tallis is supposed to be financially
interested in the venture.
"Minim”: Rachmaninoff, the composer-
pianist, who is the Taits’ biggest catch to
date is best known here by his Prelude in
G Minor. Apropos, Jimmy Glover for 20
years conductor at Drury Lane, claims to
have popularised this work. “When Hall
Caine wanted a long piece of music for the
Sulphur Scene in l J?he Bondman,’ 99 he says
‘I suggested the Prelude. Until then it had
e y s t e< J a pianoforte publication.
t,! une thought it just what was wanted,
and Shaw wrote, ‘Your brimstone music
excellent.’ In six months innumerable
music-hall turns, sketches, acrobatic acts
had played [sicl the number.” And maestro
Glover proudly concludes: “Such is the
advantage of placing a composition on the
proper market!”
Te Pana”: Annette Ivellerman is setting
up a studio in Nelson (M.L.), and expert
American cameramen and mummers are
heme imported to help her through five reels
ot a South Sea island scenario. Nelson feels
rather pleased, and is seriously thinking of
chucking the apple-growing business and
hanginir out its shingle as “Los Angeles the
“Blackfriars”: Humphrey Bishop, who
runs the queer melange which is now at
Melbourne King’s, was a grand-opera aspi-
rant in the days just before the Cataclysm,
and among other deeds performed once or
twice as a big-voiced Landgrave in "Tann-
liauser.” Until I found his name on the
Adelaide hoardings a year since, I imagined
that Fritz or one of Fritz’s pals had got
him. Baritone Walter Kingsley, also of the
show, is Humphrey’s brother.
“J.F.IL”: There has been a sudden change
in the luck of the Shaftesbury, for years
regarded as the unluckiest theatre in Lon-
don. Although roomy, comfortable and cen-
tral, the Shaftesbury has hitherto had only
one period of prosperity, and that was when
George Musgrpve produced “The Belle of
New York” there. But even that ven-
ture was unfortunate in a way, for
it brought about an angry disruption of
the partnership between George and J. C.
Williamson, who thought “The Belle" should
have been a joint purchase, with the profits
going into the partnership account, instead
of a private speculation, as Musgrove con-
tended. And now, after a long series of
failures, the Shaftesbury has struck another
gold-mine in a farce called “Tons of Money,”
written by Will Evans, the comedian, and a
poet with the pseudonym of “Valentine.”
Completed seven years avo the thing was
hawked about the more ponular theatres un-
availingly. No manager could see any money-
in it until, in desperation, it was given a
show at the Shaftesbury. It now looks like
developing into another “Private Secretary”
or “Charley’s Aunt.”
“Nero”: Now that I have seen the play
1 can’t understand why the Firm so per-
sistently refused to let Julius Knight play
"The Great Lover.” Taking a line through
his Beaucaire, of which character Jean
1 aurel is distinctly reminiscent, Knight
would have been ideal in the part and quite
as good “support” was obtainable five years
aeo ns that given to Bennison. It was
alleged at the time that the piece could not
be adequately cast. A similar plea was put
forward as an excuse for not doing “His
House in Order,” but Hugh Buckler man-
aged to find a cast which gave a production
so satisfying that it filled the Little
1 heatre for weeks.
O. Blin” j One of the cleverest actresses
of my acquaintance, although far from voci-
ferous on the stage, is addicted to talking in
private at the top of her voice. I was sitting-
opposite her at food a while back, and she
was orating for the benefit of the whole
room Next to me was an old gentleman on
the first lap of his consomme. He was
enraged at the disturbance and scowled
at her dreadfully. The lady caught one of
his fearsome looks and for once was quelled
to silence. In tho amazed interval that fol-
lowed the old party’s' nervous wife strove
to restore the stains quo. “Please excuse
my husband, miss,” she whispered, address-
ing the actress, “he’s one of the old school
who loves to hear his soup.”
“0.K.”; One learns to respect the auda-
city of the publicity man in always saving
the right thing regardless of its untruthful-
ness. lor instance, the Melbourne season
of “My Lady’s Dress” is heralded by the
announcement that “Before very long Miss
Polini will be back in Melbourne, where she
made her .first Australian appearance.” Let
us hope that Einelie will not imperil her soul
by uttering a like allegation to interviewers
when she arrives. Before sbe came to Mel-
bourne for the first time as De Luxe Annie,
the dailies were deluged w-ith reports of how
Sydney had loved her for her velvet-and-
cream voice, or words to that effect.
"Fax”: Theatres are but shops—show-
shons—inasmuch as their lease value is
determined in great measure by the tenant.
V hen the E ullers were running lurid bello-
drama, relieved by cheap panto., at Mel-
bourne Palace, in Bourke-street, the business
worth of the premises seemed in need of a
good lift. Then Allan Wilkie came along,
and- his Shakspearean season brought cus-
tomers who had never entered the place be-
fore, nor ever heard of its uncostly bright-
ness. Wilkie came Ada Reeve with
her "Spangles” co., and a lot more people
entered the premises for the first time. Two
tenants of the Palace have enhanced its lease
value very considerably. They have created
a place of fashionable resort as decidedly as
J. C. Williamson did when he bought the
old Alexandra (which had gone begging at
±lO a week), and converted it into Her
Majesty’s. But in that case it was the new
landlord who created new popularity for his
theatre. The Fullers found tenants to do
it for them.
“Stargazer”: In a recent “P.P.” par
“Norben” speaks of having seen Emma
Temple s first appearance b(i years ago at
Melbourne Royal, when she figured as a
fairy in “lolanthe.” Surely this was at
Melbourne Opera House, when Bobbie
Brough tripped so fantastic a toe as the
Chief Chancellor, and Mrs. Brough was
Queen of the Fairies? It was only just
across the road, and time has turned “Nor-
bell’s” head.
liignold was producing a turgid sort of
melodrama at Melbourne Royal, and had
engaged Gus Glover (most stertorous of
pros.) for villain. Gus’s qualification for the
oftice consisted mainly in a voice that could
roar down the walls of Jericho. The nice
old father of the piece was Jimmie Cathcart
of blessed memory. In Act 11. James had
a long soliloquy, something in the manner
of “Denver’s Dream.” It was a tiresome
effort, and should have been expunged, but
Cathcart clung to it with desperate resolu-
tion, and the gifted management let him
have his way. Glover came in on top of
that pensive soliloquy, like a roaring bull of
Bashan, and the house trembled from floor
to ceiling. The change was too abrupt.
Cathcart complained that it spoilt the effect
of his fine artistry. “Spoils the effect!”
growled Rignold. “Why, man, after that
piece of yours Glover lias to do his damned-
est. Somebody must awaken the audience!”
“A COUNT OF
NO ACCOUNT
George
Carney , at
Sydney
Tivoli. “Yes,
the leather
was originally
patent , but
I'm afraid
the patent's
expired."
“Snell”: If Melba is ever down to it I
know where she can get a job. I sat with a
couple of Gippsland dairy-farmers, and the
wife of one of them, at Nelly’s last Mel-
bourne concert, and when her last note died
(she was singing “Lo, Here the Gentle
Lark,” I fancy), said Bill to Jim: “My
oath, she’d be all right on the farm.” “My
oath!” replied Jim. “Can’t you hear her
callin’ in the cows,” said Bill.
“J.F.H.”: Daniel Edward Bandmann left
£.‘>o,ooo, the accumulated profits of many
theatrical tours, mainly in India and those
parts. He was a son of the Daniel Band-
mann, who visited Australia in the ’seventies,
and who was probably the vilest-tempered
actor that ever trod the Australian boards.
I’a Bandiuann’s season at. the Melbourne
Royal was a succession of “scenes,” in the
disorderly as Avell as the dramatic sense of
the word. His best character was Othello, a
l'ole for which ho was temperamentally
suited. His wife, Milly Palmer, was a quiet,
gentle, unassuming little lady.
“Wymac”: After seeing Emelie Polini in
“The Lie” one feels that the lady gives too
much melodramatic effect to the part of
Elinor Shale in the third act, thus leaving
her cold and inert in the last. In the New
York production Jane Cowl handled the part
with rare artistry until the concluding scene,
when she had the audience at high tension
with her emotional tirade. In the local
production Mira Kenham steals Emelie
Polini’s thunder in the last act, and thus
weakens the finale. Of course, the producer
may be to blame for much.
“T.W.”: “Mr. Owen Nares is in bed with'
Miss Laura Cowie in the second act of Sir
Arthur Pinero’s new play,” was the joyous
opening of one London paper’s criticism of
“The Enchanted Cottage.” Responding to
the savory suggestion, people rushed Pin-
ero s show for the first few nights, only to
discover that the bedroom scene wasn’t
nearly as thrilling as they had hoped. This
must be the first time that any English play-
wright has invaded the sanctuary to that
extent.
“T.W.”: Cyril. Scott, the musician to
whom Percy Grainger’s mother would have
willed all Percy’s compositions and copy-
rights had. she outlived her boy, is about the
most poetical of all present British music-
writers. Having caught the Debussy germ
in its (and his) infancy, he has written
much, but only occasionally with flashes of
a very rare beauty. Mrs. Grainger cannot
have consulted Scott for some time on the
subject of her boy’s activities. Cyril would
scarcely approve some of Percy’s latest
orchestral vagaries, in which he employs the
jazziest instruments.
“Lond.”: This might be a parable or fable
of the theatrical times, but isn’t. It is
merely a statement of facts existing at Lon-
don .Shaftesbury last March. One Saturday
evening, “In Nelson’s Day,” historical
drama. Deadly frost. Following Saturday
evening, the actor-manager “cuts” his heavy
loss on the new production and revives
“Nightie Night.” Crowded house.
THE HYPNOTIC SNAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The python that all went to see,
Set in its iron den
in Billy Brooks' menagerie,
A wonder was to men ;
To women a prolific source
Of terror and surprise,
So mighty was its magic force,
Prodigious its size.
The audience gathered round ihe cage
With tremulous applause
Should it show true, pythonic rage
By opening its jaws.
It stirred among the piled-up hay,
And people said its eyes
In some most diabolic way
Had power to hypnotise.
At length a story reached the press
How on a certain day
A chap was held by serpent stress
And could not get away.
No kind of movement could he make
But clung—we were advised—
Close to the bars by Billy’s snake
Completely hypnotised.
They sent me round to get the truth.
I called on Billy Brooks
llis office in. There came a youth
With wild, dishevelled looks.
“Please, sir, the python has run down,”
lie started to explain.
Cried Brooks: “Then drop the sides, you clown,
And wind it up again!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


STRENGTH, PROGRESS
and
STABILITY
are the Outstanding Features of
Lift
Q>
Jo
SiMS
m*
m
m
OV
oV
c
'z
' '
»BV
m
im
m
&
P*
y
JssviS?
1365*
I (Jm i&tf
m
Ml*
G#3
/ - / 0
1 • I &!s p
*rf M\ * >M * ««£ Sp /
©i
V*\
, \ IV ~»4fe§E.'/'' ?w
; ,«
m-
-3*
MAGNIFICENT RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 1921
IN ALL DEPARTMENTS.
New Policies Issued During' the Year- 34,328
Sums Assured - £4,201,377
Total Annual Income - £1,176,840
Total Funds - - - - £6,144,134
ANNUAL BONUS
£l/10/- to £4
According to Duration of Policy.
INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT.
No other Life Assurance Office in Australasia gives to its INDUSTRIAL POLICYHOLDERS
so great IMMEDIATE Benefits as this Society. These are as follow :
NON-FORFEITURE REGULATIONS. For the first time in the history of Industrial
Life Assurance, policyholders are, after their policies have been in force a
certain time, protected against loss through premiums being in arrear. Already
claims have been paid which would not have been payable but for these
regulations.
WELFARE SERVICE: Through this service policyholders are helped to keep healthy by
the regular distribution of booklets dealing with matters of Health and Hygiene.
NURSING SCHEME. A visiting nursing service has been inaugurated, and is operating
in Melbourne with great success. This service is deeply appreciated by policy-
holders, and has proved of immense benefit. It is being extended to Sydney
immediately, and thereafter to other capital cities in due course.
BONUS DISTRIBUTION. This year’s Bonus ranges from £1 per cent, to 7/6 per cent.,
and applies to all policies in force at 31st December, 1921.
These benefits are possible because this Society is PURELY MUTUAL. All the surplus belongs to the Policyholders
and is distributed amongst them by Bonuses and immediate benefits. This forms
THE FINEST AND MOST COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE OF ITS KIND IN THE WORLD
and marks a new era in Industrial Life Assurance.
DIRECTORATE:
GERALD T. BAKER, J.P., Chair
HENRY BYRON MOORE, 0.8. E., J.P.
ARTHUR BOXVILLE WERE, J.P.
NORMAN BAYLES.
Hon. H. S. W. LAWSON, M.L.A.
JAMES
PULLAR, F.F.A.,
CHARLES E.
A.1.A., F.S.S., Secreta
MELVILLE, Manager.
ry
K.
and Actuary
• =jr'
EVERY YEAR IS A BONUS YEAR IN
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraidton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
vS T °A^
patent
An All-Steel Stock Watering Trough,
Perfectly watertight joints are made
with our patent- Coupling, securely
holding every section together as
rigidly as a bridge.
The Heavy Steel Angle Supports and
heavily galvanised Steel Sheets used in
the manufacture of the Alston Trough-
ing, together with our Patent Coupling
makes this Trough superior to all
others.
dfg
Alston § Sons Pty. Ltdi, Queen s Bridge, Melbourne.
Send for Free Catalogue.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
RoiseFs chance of winning the National
oil July 1 almost as easily as he won the Australian
Hurdle Race last year looked rosy enough after the
aged gelding had polished oft' his opponents in the
Toolambool Hurdle, at Caulfield, last Saturday. The
extra distance, with a lighter weight up, will be all
in favor of ltoisel on National day. Though older
in years than Fiscom, Roisel is as young, or younger,
at the jumping business, and therein lies his only
weakness, perhaps. Thus far he has not been a
success over Flemington sticks, and at Caulfield the
other day he scared his friends somewhat at the
last hurdle. Provided that he does the three miles
without a serious mishap in jumping, the son of
Blankney 11. should certainly be placed in the
National. Heavy going would be in favor of his
lOst. 41b., as compared with other fancies, which
are mostly among the heavier weights now that Shivan-
der has dropped out of the calculations, and some that
were thought to be coming on appear to be going off.
And heavy going”is likely. Much rain is overdue.
By the same token Mountain God for the National
Steeple looks less likely than he did two or three
weeks ago. His form in the steeplechase won by
Sunnymead, from Agar and Faithful Knight, was
not brilliant. Two miles was a short journey for
him, but on the other hand he is no better stayer
than Wooloo, or as good, for that matter, and YVooloo,
who finished fourth (the God was fifth), gave a more
encouraging performance in this case. The Steeple
promises to be a more open race than the Hurdle.
* * * •»
“0.K.”: There is a popular illusion that
the winner of a Grand National Hurdle usually is an
under-10-stoner. As a matter of fact, a light-
weight has got home seven times in the last 12
years, and the proportion of under-lOst. horses placed
tor the National has been exactly half during the
same period—lB out of 36. But the proportion of
wins and places among the over-11-stoners has been
exactly one-sixth only.
* * * . *
Hurdle racers are popularly supposed to
have legs of iron. Yet at least two fancied National
candidates had trouble with dicky pins as soon as
they resumed jumping, after showing good form on
the flat. Bright Plume, who had -gone near to vic-
tory in a race on the level at the V.R.C. Birthday
meeting, reopened an old wound when he beat
Fiscom over the hurdles. Shivander, winner of a
jumpers’ flat a fortnight earlier, went fairly dotty
on his doubtful limb when Roisel was beating him
at Moonee Valley, and has been withdrawn from the
big event at Flemington. A starter in a three-miler
ought to be as far above suspicion as‘ Caesar’s wife.
And now Gazomp has been taken out of the
steeplechase. The luck of the early odds-layer being
evidently in, it is likely that something will happen
before the day to Fiscom. Roisel, Mountain God and
what not. Especially what not.
Australia meets Belgium in the first round
of the Davis Cup at Scarborough (Eng.) to-day.
The inclusion in the Belgian team of a man who
played for the Cup in lfto4 argues that the little
country is not blessed with youthful talent, and it
looks as if the Australians will not be greatly ex-
tended. All the same, there is always the possi-
bility of a surprise, and Anderson, Patterson and
O’Hara Wood have been practising strenuously. The
two big fellows will, of course, appear in the singles,
but there is some doubt as to whether Anderson or
O’Hara Wood will partner the skipper in the doubles.
Unless Wood has temporarily mislaid his punch, he
will probably get a chance in the third rubber.
* *■ * *
“15-30”: Randolph Lycett, who learned all
his tennis in Australia, is now regarded as the most
formidable opponent that Anderson and Patterson will
have to meet in the forthcoming championships at
Wimbledon. In Australia Lycett was a doubles star,
but it is only lately that he has been prancing with
much success on the singles court. It took Tilden
five sets to beat him at AVimbledon a couple of
years back, so, if he has continued to improve, he
should give our pair some anxious thought. Lycett
is a fast-driving player with the hard-hitter’s natural
fondness for low-flung balls, and it is just in that
respect that Patterson may trouble him. Patterson’s
top-spun service shot on the backhand, which gets
head high as soon as it lands, should tie Randolph
into knots, as he can only return it as a ladylike
lob. Still, he has a fine array of ground strokes,
and Patterson has a bad habit of double-faulting at
critical times. Rheumatism is his persistent enemy,
and at latest advices it had him down again.
“Smash”: During 1918-21 I saw all the
tennis stars in action, among them Bill Tilden, Bill
Johnston, Williams, Garland, Alonzo, Shimidzu, Ivings-
cote, Ran Lycett and Gobert. The Tanks are not
going- to Wimbledon, and I can’t see any of the others
licking Anderson or Patterson. “Bov” Norton, tne
Afrikander, who ditched his chances last year when
he had virtually whacked a sick and weary Tilden,
Alonzo the sti'list, and our own Lycett are the
most dangerous. Patterson and O’Hara Wood will
make hacks of the opposition in the doubles. They
can’t play doubles in Europe.
*** * ■
Buckley and Roberts are the most success-
ful pair in Melbourne pennant tennis this season.
So far they have been undefeated for Grace Park,
which circumstance is probably due more to their
long association than to any remarkable skill in
ground play or service. Buckley certainly has occa-
sional flashes of brilliancy, but his service has no
sting, whilst Roberts’s would take the booby prize
in a pat-ball Competition. They finished well in
both their engagements against Brighton on Satur-
day, and Fiulayson and Strachan, the other Grace
Parkers, also captured their rubbers. The Only duets
likely to trouble Roberts and Buckley are the Hawkes
brothers, of Geelong, and Rainey and Schlesinger,
ot Malvern “A.” Probably the Hawkeses will prove
too warm a combination. Up to date they have won
all their battles by easy margins.
* * * *
Glebe and North Sydney are still leading
for the Sydney Rugby League premiership- In a
series ot matches played in mud Eastern guburfe beat
Newtown by 18 points (4 tries 3 goals) to 10 (2
tries 2 goals). North Sydney held a scoring bee at
bt. Georges expense, notching 41 points (9 tries 7
goals to 8 (2 tries 1 goal), and Western Suburbs
recorded a. wih, their first, over what was left cf
Varsity, whose stars had gone to M.L., by 39 (9
tries 6 goals) to S (1 try 1 goal). More interesting
than any of these was the ghme between Balmain
and South Sydney, at the Cricket Ground. Balmain
won a strenuous tussle by 6 points (3 goals) to 5
(1 try 1 goal). There was no better man on
the ground than Souths’ veteran oustodian Hallett,
who is playing his thirteenth season with the led
and greens, and completed his 152nd match. South
were unlucky to lose. Glebe, who had the bye,
repaired to Goulburn, where they routed a combined
team by 54 (12 tries 9 goals) to 20 (4 tries 4
goals).
* * * *
“Morehead” : Insatiable is the rapacity of
N.S.W. Rugby League. At Sydney Cricket Ground
nowadays the results of League mate lies played else-
where are posted on the scoring-board in code, llie
key to which is obtainable in the official programme,
which costs thrippence. Dog-meanness could r.o
further go. But the League, under its present con-
trol, is a blot on the name of sport. Its chilled-steel
impudence in billing the hapless side it imported
from Maoriland as worthy to meet the Ma State's
best received further advertisement last Week, when
JACK MUNRO,
Sydney Stadium
manager, who
is off, with his
brand-new
bride, to other
countries seeking
new talent.
a. succession of defeats was inflicted on the Maoris
in Queensland. Toowoomba beat them by 26 points
to 6, Ipswich by 20 to 3 and Brisbane by 31 to 19.
A lot of these misguided, and oft-licked youths were
alleged in League-inspired paragraphs to be repre-
sentative Maori footballers who had played against
the Springboks. The Maoris who really played
against . the Springboks have arrived in Sydney to
meet the pick of the N.S.W. Rugby Union, 'but they
can’t do it on Sydney Cricket Ground because the
League controls that rendezvous and won’t give it
up, even for one Saturday. It is scandalous that
a greedy professional body which is a living libel
on sport should enjoy a winter monopoly of Sydney’s
principal sporting-ground.
“Kewpie”: On the daj- the Maori Rugby
Leaguers played Sydney a group of enthusiasts
waited outside a Wellington newspaper office for
the result. It arrived at last. Sydney, 77 ; Maoris,
13. Then the inevitable small boy chipped in.
“Dud,” he piped, “what did Bardsley make?”
* * » *
On Saturday a 30,000 crowd squeezed into
Victoria Park to watch Collingwood and Fitzroy
decide their periodical argument. Neighbors and
keen rivals, they always give value for money. Both
play much the same game, though ’Wood have the
better system. Play was pretty to watch, the Mag-
pies’ passing and ground-work being almost fautless.
, ’Roy excelled ill marking and iong kicking, but their
; men lacked certainty iti passing, and that counted for
much. 11l the end* Cbllingwood collected 100 points
to ’Roy’s G&, and now stand second to Essendon in
the race for the lead: ' Geelong visited Carlton and
surprised themselves and many others by downing the
old Blue S—73 to 63. Richmond went to South Mel-
bourne, and should have lost a scrambling, disorgan-
ised game, South’s vile kicking accounting for their
defeat: Richmond, 12
goa i s 7 behinds ;
South, 10 goals 14
behinds. St Hilda
ground was packed to
see how Essendon
would fare against the
Saints. They won,
solely by concerted
play. Individually the
Saints were superijv,
ex-Westralian Gunyou
being especially bril-
liant, but their place
men wandered at large
find their kicking was
dowdy.; consbquehtly
the ’Dons got home,
with 15 goals 7 be-
ninds to ' St. Hilda’s
13 goals 11 behinds.
Veteran PADDY
O’BRIEN, who
plays for Carlton
again this year.
. ‘lren : One of the chief accomplishments
of present-day Melbourne forwards is stage-falling.
Many goals are gained by the free-kicks that follow
artistic bluffs when new-chum umpires are on the
job. But veteran Jack Elder is seldom caught.
Sometimes he throws a sarcastic gibe at the culprit.
When Essendon played Richmond Bayliss, Richmond’s
forward, threw himself on the ground from a crush
and loudly appealed. “You’ll have to fall harder
than that, Bayliss,” said Jack. A big bystander
sporting the Richmond colors shouted: “Elder, you’re
a blankard.” I asked him to moderate his lan-
guage, as there were ladies present. Came an
immediate chorus from the ladies: “And so he is.”
“Winkle”: While Dick Lee and Jock
McHale, of Colling wood, are tlie long-service cham-
pions of Vic. League, with 17 consecutive years’
football (“Coot,” B. 8/6/’22), their record is broken
by “Chinga” Harris, who kept goals for the Footscray
(Assoc.) team for 19 years. “Chinga,” a rough
diamond prodigal of expletives, was once lured to
Carlton. On the evening when his permit was being
discussed at the League rooms, he filled in time
by explaining to a band of enthusiasts how Carltori;
with his assistance, were to ge through the seasdn
undefeated. Then he wiis called before the commit-
tee. Said the Chairman: “W£ are sorry, Mr. Harris,
but we caiinbt ilccede to your request for a permit
to play with Carlton.” “Wot,” replied “Chinga,”
you won't give me a frightful permit!” “No, Mr.
Harns; we are sorry.” “Then yer a lot of natural
children.” That was only the beginning. “Chinga’s”
subsequent remarks were very entertaining, but the
high cost of asbestos makes them unprintable.
* *
Adelaide football is dominated just how
by the Norwoods. When they met West Torrens,
previously unbeaten, a great fight was expected, but
Norwood won by 18 goals to 6. The special
strength of a good all-round side lies in the forward
department. E or example, the 18 goals were accont-
panied by only 8 behinds.
* * * •
• Rugby Lnion Maoris who dropped
Hl™ Sydney during the week, and will meet a N. S
Wales side on Saturday, are a massive crowd. The
{™ds avel 'age 13st. 41b, (71b. heavier than the
N.b.W. team) and the backs list. 91b. W. T
Parata, their manager, Brought over the 19io team.
Mne of the present Combination played in tlife
great game against the Springboks last rear, gnH
A. Kiura, an 18-year-old Tc. Aute half-back, is
acclaimed the finest goal-kicker in the Dominion.
* * * *
The Australian Socbbr team were beaten
in their first Test with. Maoriland at Dunedin. Each
side had one goal at half-time; but M.L. asserted
their supremacy afterwards, and found the net with
two morg shots. Cook, a clinking forward from
Southland, got two of M.L.’s goals, and Knott (Auck-
land) the other; and W. Maunder, a fine voung
centre-forward, registered Australia’s score. For the
second match, 'at Wellington, the Rugby Union has
handed over its ground and cancelled most of its
club fixtures. W hich is something* like sportsman-
ship.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Every May in England the
directors of the limited liability companies called
Soccei clubs are allowed to buy and sell players for
oncoming season. This year, Preston North
End, a famous Lancashire club, bought a forward
from Bradford, giving £5OOO on the hoof. Tlie
valuable asset got £5OO as his “transfer” per-
centage, but, for some reason the club gave him an
extra and illegal £lOO. As a result, the British
F. A. has docked him of the £lOO, fined each club
£5OO, and put the Preston directors on the ice for
12 months.
* * * *
„ Tommy Uren has yet to reach his
zoth rinffpost, he is not the boxer he was when he
beat Eddie McGoorty, Jimmy Clabby and Fritz Hol-
land, conceding thpm lumps of weight. The knock-
outs he got from Shade and Frank Burns robbed him
of some of his zest for the game. However; he is
still able to. account for most of the present crop
of middleweights. At Sydney on Saturday he out-
pointed Jack Cdle in a brisk 20-round argument, his
judicious work at close quarters entitling- him to the
decision, albeit some Of the scribes disputed it. As
usual nowanights the offertory was small, and there
is no likelihood of an improvement in this respet
until the Stadium monopoly revises its policy. Or
until an opposition promoter arises who will cut
down the present outrageous scale of charges, cut
out the dreary 20-rounder, and go in for the en-
couragement of likely young boxers, instead of
restricting the rewards of stoush to a bunch of
foreigners and half-a-dozen Stadium pets.
* * * •
Although Spargo had trained down to Bst.
1241 b. to box Jerry Sullivan in Melbourne on Satur-
day night, and was half-a-pound lighter than the
Oirish lad from Sydney, it made no difference 10
the result. Bert was always the master and Jeremiah
the pupil. The lesson lasted the customary hour,
exclusive of intervals for reflection, after which Pro-
fessor Spargo departed to collect his fee and also
to be decorated with a silver belt studded with
precious stones, emblematic of the fedder champion-
ship.
“Machete”: Albert Doflrington’s Daily
Mail yarn (B. 15/6/’22) about the Japanese sailors
who blew into “Larry Foley's White Horse Hotel'’ in
the late ’eighties and objected to being served by
“the barman, Peter Jackson,” is a good one. So
good that I hate to spoil it by pointing out (1) that
there was no White Horse Hotel in the late ’eighties,
and (2) that Peter Jaeksoh iieVei- was barman thereof
anywhere else, except; perhaps, at his own pjb iii
Druitt-street. Albert’s further statement that it took
Foley and all his training staff tb chuck out the
Jap who is alleged tb haVe floored Jackson, is
delicious. If the affair had evei- happened a child
could have dragged but the unconscious carcase of
Nippon after it had attracted the notice of “Larry's
lambs.”, „
* * * *
“Wandoo”: Mick tlooley, who held the
heavyweight title more than once, is fighting a
losing battle with the undefeated champion Tempus
in the Old Men’s Home, Perth (W.A.). Mick’s
desperate mills with Goddard and Chovinski are
part of ring history. A splendidly game" man with
a wonderful left hand, he was a bit too heavy for
tlie middleweights and not heavy enough for the
heavies. There was no cruiser-weight division in
his day. It was his misfortune to have to meet men
stones heavier or years older than himself (some-
times both), but he took them all on. And now
that he has fallen on evil days the gallant old
bruiser doesn’t whine or whimper about his condition.
He used to be fond of saying that it was his boy-
hood’s ambition to be a priest.. “And a blankv
good priest I would ha’ made, too,” he would add,
challengingly.
“Snow”: That par. about the Griffiu-Itiug
scrap (B. l/6/’22) set me guessing how many
present-day boxers possess an effective block for the
straight left. This punch, as taught in the Mace
school, is the hardest in the whole category of
wallops to block. Old-timers like Paddy Slavin,
Mick Dooley, Jim Hall, Peter Jackson and others
cut men to ribbons with it, and of more recent
years George Johns, Tom Mitchell, Bob Turner and
Dave Smith won many fights through its agency.
Nowadays, in the multitude of hooks, swings and
jabs, the straight left has almost gone out of use,
and when someone happens along who can send ’em
in after the fashion of old Dooley, his opponent is
apt to fare badly. As Griffin did.
* » * •
Dick Al'iist turned out in a heavy-boat
handicap on the Parramatta liiver last week. He
was the scratch man, and showed good form until
his condition gave out. Dick was second in his
heat to L. Staples (14sec.), who in the final was
vanquished by L. Mclntosh (12sec.) after a great
finish. Arnst goes into serious training straight-
way for the match with Jim Paddon for the
world’s title. It is listed for September.
* » * *
“Exonian”: Australia’s present G.-G., in
his ’Varsity days, was a serviceable all-round
cricketer without being a bright particular star,
which is perhaps why my recollection of him in
the Oxford parks is faint rather than clear-cut. He
re-emerges, after an effort, as just a useful bowler,
with plenty of spin, and a batsman who might knock
up a few runs when the edge had been taken off the
attack. I think his anti-Cambridge years were ’B7,
’BB and ’B9, and that in the last year he was secre-
tary of the O.tT.C.C., H. Philipson being captain.
Both were Etonians and both at New College, But
Philipson, who was an exceptionally fine wicket-
keeper and. a batsman ttluch above the average, over-
shadowed his confrere.
. * * * *
“jtatagd” : “Cbnthrion’s” , jiar. (B;
18/5/’22) re the deadness of a ball lodging in the
batsman’s clothing or pad, recalls an incident in &
final played on the Richmond (Vic.) ground for
Boyle, and Scott’s Cup. Coburg and Hawksburii
Were the clubs, and Dave Mailer, batting for ’Burg
with an injured knee, was allowed a man to run
for him. The striker played a ball which lodged
between the top of his pad and the leg. While
he dodged about the wicket to prevent fieldsmen
securing the ball, his runner tore up and down the
pitch with the other batsman. Finally, becoming
excited, Mailer dislodged the hall with his hand and
was given out “poisoned ball.” Bob Crocket, I
think, was one of the umpires on that occasion,
"Nollig”: “Nitric” (B. 25/5/’22) is right
in the main about the overworking of smart school-
boy athletes, but there are some who seem to thrive
on a racing diet that would ruin others. Take E.
Terry, a student of St. Virgil’s College (Tas.). In
1919 he cleaned up the under-15 school championships,
viz., 100, 220, 440 and high jump. In April, 1921,
he won every open championship on the programme,
tip to and including the mile; also the high jump
and the hurdle. A week later, at the all-schools’
gathering in Hobart, he practically repeated the
performance, winning the 100, 120," hurdles (both,
including- heats), 220, 440, 880, and the mile.
This year he annexed the 100 (in 10 3-ssec.), 220
(23 2-ssee.), 440 (55 3-ssec), ,and 880 (2min.
14sec.), and was second in the hurdle and the high
jump. Just to show how these efforts affected him,
he led the field home in the relay iace. Later, he
proved himself the Speck’s best amateur bv running
third to the Springboks Bukes and Ayres-Oosterlaa k
in a hundred, run in evens, l-sth of a second better
than Nigel Barker’s 1908 Tas. record. And the
remarkable youngster is still going strong.
HOLY SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I say again: ‘1 am a rebel.’ And I mean to go
on saying it.”- —Father O’Reilly, of Sydney University.
Let others follow football up,
Or surf, or go to fights:
A Melbourne or a Sydney Cup
In me no joy excites.
I never hid behind my hat
And watched the ritual
Of Stadiums—and this is fiat:
I hope I never shall.
No: what I like’s a quiet spot;
A writing-pad, some ink ;
A fountain-pen that does not blot,
The liberty to think;
And —most essential thing of all —■
An angry Orangeman
(Or two or three) prepared to fall
Into the traps I plan.
I call myself “a rebel,” say....
At once the hunt’s afoot.
I face the world assured and gay,
Whilst sounding protests shoot
From P.D.A. and L.O.L.,
Fitzpatrick, Hoskins, Ness:
I much enjoy the inky shell
That crashes in the press.
As each ill-aimed projectile falls
I closely study it
For faulty hist’ry. It enthralls
My smiling soul to fit
A slip in spelling on to Ness,
In grammar on to Ley—-
Feats any fool, I must confess,
Could manage any day.
The row dies down, as all rows will,
Unless they’re fanned amain;
I cry: “1 am a rebel still!”
And start it all again.
Yes, well I like this game to play,
Where none has ever found
The foe reluctant, while it may
Be waged the whole year round,
N.S.W,
PERSISTENT CHRISTIAN.


A
/
SH
SIS
n
i
nn
'll
Wl
I
f/A
mMzw:
II
Bargains in
Men’s Wear
COAT SWEATERS
Murdoch’s Special.—Men’s All-Wool
Coat Sweaters. Made by Murdoch’s,
thereby saving you middlemen’s profits.
In attractive shades of Navy, Grey or
Brown ; an excellent wearing article. May
be had with V-front or Polo Collar.
S. Men’s and Men’s.
USUALLY 22/6
Red Spot Price ... 18/11
O.S. and X.O.S.
USUALLY 24/-
O.S. and X.O.S.
USUALLY 24/-
Red Spot Price .... 20/3
All Sale Goods are backed by
Murdoch’s unfading guarantee of
satisfaction or money refunded in
full.
Murdoch’s Famous Hats
Two Red Spot Specials.
This smart Soft Felt Hat is made from selected
quality felt, in all colors—Black and Brown, with
self-colored bands, Dark Grey, Slate, Drab, Steel
and Fawn with Black bands; cut and stitched edge
brims. Sizes: 6% to 1
USUAL PRICE . . 10/6
Red Spot Price -
816
This Soft Felt Hat is made in Australia from all pure
fur, trimmed with silk band and finished with sweat-
proof leather. Brims 2\ and 2| inches wide, cut
or stitch edge. Colors: Black, Brown, with self-
colored bands; Dark Grey, Slate, Pearl, Drabs,
Fawns, Reseda, Green, with Black bands. Sizes:
61 to 7f.
USUAL PRICE , 22/6
Red Spot Price -
14111
THE Money-Saving event of the
year!
From June 23 until July 15 Murdoch's
now famous Red Spot Clearance Sale
will hold sway in every section of the
GREAT STORE.
Every Lit\e Reduced at least 10 Cent.
Many Lines Clearing at HALF-PRICE.
What is more important than the low price is the
GENUINE nature of every reduction. Murdoch s
good name and good faith is indelibly written on
every price ticket.
Send for the Bargain Catalogue —FREE
A Smart Sac Suit
A Genuine Money-saving Special in
Ready-to-Wear Suits
Men’s All-Wool Three-Piece Sac Suits, from All-
Wool Australian Tweeds, in a large variety of
designs. Brown and Grey shades. Coat has two-
button fronts, rounded corners, and no vent, roll
lapels. Vest has four pockets and medium open-
ing. Trousers have side and hip pockets and per-
manent turn-up bottoms.
USUALLY . 84/-
Red Spot Price -
69
9
When ordering state chest, waist, height and
inside leg measurements.
POSTAGE PAID ON ALL SALE GOODS.
MURDOCH'®
In ParK St. Ltd., Sydney
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
Bargains in
Boys’ Wear
GOLF SHIRTS
Boys’ Cambric Golf Shirts. Made bv
shirt specialists in Murdoch’s workrooms.
Made with reinforced neckband, soft double
cuffs and soft collar to match. Neat stripe
effects on white grounds.
USUALLY 5/11
Red Spot Price 5/-
STRONG BOOTS
Boys’ Box Hi<le Derby Boots, of strong
wear-resisting quality. A splendid boot for
school or best wear.
Sizes 10 to 13.
USUALLY 13/6
Red Spot Price .... 11/8
Sizes 1 to 5.
USUALLY 15/6
Red Spot Price .... 13/5
GOLF HOSE
Specially strengthened. In Navy, Grey and
Brown shades. To lit 13 _to < boot.
Wonderful value even at ordinary price.
USUALLY 4/11
Red Spot Price 3/7
COTSWOLD SUITS
Made from Mid and Dark shades Australian
Woollen Tweeds. Coat has four patch
pockets, yoke back, half-belt, vent-
Knickers have two side pockets, plain
knees, and are strongly lined. Sizes <>
to 12. Fit boys Bto 14 years.
SPECIAL CUT PRICE 29/3
Red Spot Price .... 26/3
COAT SWEATERS
Heavy-weight quality, knitted in our own
workrooms. Polo collar or \-front. In
Navy or Grey shades.
Size, 20in. to 26in.
USUALLY 13/6
Red Spot Price .... 10/9
Size, 28in. to 32in.
USUALLY 13/6
Red Spot Price .... 12/7
YOUTHS SUITS
Youths’ Two-piece S.B. Sports Suits.
Coat has four patch pockets, yoke, half-
belt at back, with vent. Trousers have
side and hip pockets, belt loops and per-
manent turn-up bottoms. Made from Mid
and Dark shades Australian Woollen
Tweeds. Fit youths 28in. to 34in. chest
measurements
SPECIAL PRICE 5 7/6
Red Spot Price .... 51/9
For these and other Bargains address
your letter to Desk R. Ask for the
free Catalogue of Bargains!


Save on Hats
at the
Cash Bonus Sale
A saving on every item during
the Sale. Typical reductions
are these hats—and a second
saving of 2/- in £ off Sale Prices.
the
Less
Cash Bonus,
SB I2
SRI—G. B. Borsalino's Fut Felt
Hats, medium brims, cut edges;
light grey, slate, fawn, olive,brown,
black. Usual, 42/. Sale Price, 37/6
SR.2- Australian all-fur Felt Hats;
light, medium, grey, slate, fawn.
Usually, 25/-. Sale Price, 22/6
FARMER’S SYDNEY
' The Store for Men.”
Carriage Paid. Bo* 497, G.P.O,
Smart!
Serviceable!
We? should
satj so!
Why don't
ijcm wear a
SHIRT?
dfg
mm
2* Mar^
fdg
Stockman
Tho best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side—a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
18111
FINNEY, ISLES <a CO. LTD.
BRISBANE.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1533, 11609.
Tw° thousand secondary-school boys and
flappers packed the Town Mali the other
afternoon t°r Me lb a ’ s fi rst juveuile concert
to help keep the local kindergarten flag fly-
, J / ad - v trad broke, fur-coated and with
tLiVn , h l r *“ ile effac °d a red feather-
th mi fl at >, brought along her quartette of
bojs. ihe behavior of the youthful audience
Mas immaculate—not even the crunching of
a single chocolate was heard. The Voice was
not so peerlessly pure as usual in the Jewel
kong, but it got back to form in the later
numbers and reached perfection in "Home,
Jlome -, The youngsters thundered
USe ’ , a ’V after her second encore
Melba asked: "Do you really want
fmliSf 1 ' S £ n l ? ,’ Wfl ere at 2000 voices
politely yelled .“Yes!” The Dame looked
legal in apricot-tinted chiffonery, trail-
ing pointed panels with a ‘diamond
erownlet circling her brow. Mrs. a’Beckett,
who decorates the Scots’ College teaching
start, handed her a book-letter of apprecia-
tion from the different schools, and “Lofty”
r ranklin, the Grammar head, called for three
cheers for her. Perhaps the small boys
may have had a sneaking preference for ex-
Lorporal Philips’s “bird and beast imita-
tions, but they tried not to show it; and
not one of the lot looked bored when Una
Bourne, in pale blue fixings, did piano-solo
turns.
Matt Baird, the Chief Secretary, whom
nobody regards as a constitutional lawyer
(though he is a solicitor by profession), told
a (National Council of Women deputation the
other day that the Leg. Assembly could
admit skirted members. Then Mrs. Glen-
cross asked if Baird would give a hand to
get a bill through to remove the Upper
House ban on petticoats. “That’s a taci-
turn House, argued Baird, whereupon the
Glencross dame (formerly Eleanor Cameron)
it was about time a disturbing element
was imported into it. Which recalls the yarn
ot the lorkshire vicar who wrote to his
archgaiters and suggested a quiet week for
the clergy in his parish. The chief shepherd
replied that what was wanted in the parish
was not a quiet time but an earthquake.
Speaker Mackey and his dame will give
the at-home at State Parliament House on
the day ot the opening of the session (July
Lmilold, who has so often been host on
similar occasions, will be a guest.: but by the
time the function begins he will have been
re-elected President of the Council.
llie other week a Melbourne paper made
it appear that Mrs. Norman Menzies, whom
we think of as Dorothy Vane, was returning
with sister Hose” to their ancestral home in
Scotland, whereat many people wondered
why they had never before heard of the Scot-
tish home of the Norman Menzies widow,
but two or three days later came another
little paragraph in the same column announc-
ing that Mr. Norman Menzies and his sister
were the returning parties. They had been
staying with their mother, Mrs. A. Menzies
at Toorak.
A few days ago Mrs. Hidgcock, a squat-
teress from Hay, who is just now living at
Cliveden, spread a cheery afternoon party
at Scott s Hotel in honor of her son-in-law
and daughter, Dr. a nd Mrs. Cust, who have
brought their six-months-old babe to
town for the jazzing season. The
chief guests, armed with immense pre-
sentation bouquets of violets, clustered
round the biggest tea-table, glowing under
autumn-tinted decorations, and at intervals
Irene Certo and tenor Cliff Keate warbled
solos, while Walter Kirby smiled apprecia-
tively in the offing. Mrs. E. V. Richardson
good-naturedly improvised at the piano as a
background to a monologue turn bv Norman
Lee. The Hennessy and Weedon dames and
ex-Mayoress Stein were among those who
carried guest-of-lionor posies.
Irvine, C.J., has decided that a spiritualistic
seance is not a divine service, and has, there-
fore, quashed the conviction of a public ser-
vant who was fined £2 for making loud noises
with a mouth-organ while spookish “pro-
ceedings” were going on in an adjacent hall
at Ascot.vale. It was a Pyrrhic victory for
the musician, as no costs ivere given.
News from Maoriland states that Rosin.-;
Buckman and her husband. Maurice
DOisly, are having a great time there.
Melbourne looks forward to seeing
Rosina about the end of August. The city
claims her for its own professional daughter
in art, seeing that she was “discovered” by
—of all people!—Rupert Clarke and John
”n en ’ ." ' lO dropped their good oof, as they
Otilled it, on an English opera season at the
1 loyal once upon a time. Rosina was Eily
O Connor in “The inly of Killarney” in
those early days. Later on she was Musetta
u Mimi in "RohiUne.” Then was
the tiine. never to be forgotten, when Mar-
shall Hall induced Rosina to play the hero-
ine in his own "grand” opera "Stella,”
which had the silliest of modern novelettish
stories, and music which sounded like all
i i man composers, of whom poor Mar-
shal! had ever raved in admiration. Adelina
Leon and Percy Kahn are with the present
concert co., the latter as accompanist. He
was with Mischa Elman, and had already
made friends in Maoriland. In Auckland
Lady Jellieoe invited them all to lunch, a
garden party and to the Hunt.
Mrs. Elizabeth Aoperly, moving spirit and
producer for the Mermaid Plav Society, is
only a little less interested in "The White-
headed. Hoy” at the Royal than in her own
job with ‘Soiree on the Neva” and "The
Marriage of Columbine” at the Playhouse.
£ or some years Mrs. Apperly was herself an
Irish player, and the odd, unaffected charm
ot her acting was, one supposes, cultivated
under Abbey auspices.
A deep mystery surrounds the details of
the salt-cellar case at Government House.
I lie precious thing is back in Lady Forster’s
hands, but the condition of its surrender was
No questions asked.”
The Countess of Stradbroke, as boss Girl
rurn 111 \ letoj-iti. is holding a meeting in
, e . f °wn Hall next Wednesday evening, at
which she will put before the public the aims
objects of the movement. General
speak 6 aiK Pl ° f ' Meredith Atkinson will also
Flapper friends of the Merson Cooper
maiden have been viewing her trousseau
with reverence not unmixed with enw of
an embittering description. The maker of
the things (a man, of course) lias the vari-
ous garments hung like pictures in a special
panelled room dc luxe , and they represent
collectively a perfect study in pure whfte.
is not a hint of a tint of any kind
rV?v th ? ,? la ® sic l . simplicity of the confections.
Ihe delicate linings of the train have taken
an arniy ot hand-workers to complete. Her'
dinner, dance, tennis and tailored outfits
should certainly make Bananaland sit up
and take notice when Xavier de Bavav car-
ries her off to his station up there. The
joungest Hope Clegg daughter has been
comlnn ng fittings for her bridesmaid’s frock
with absorbing discussions about her own
bi-ida! dress. J homas, who tailored the Cooper
outfit, is to evolve it out of one piece of very
old lace. A de Bavav sister will be the other
de Bavay-Cooper bridesmaid. Girl friends
gave a lunch party last Thursday that fin-
ished up with a dress parade and a photo-
S'.*!]""'' Bo "' ns "' ith
„*•*? B-aO. is the new were-
a - <lf t]l c Returned Army Nurses’ Club,
which is to be offi-
cially opened at
Anzac House on
Monday by the
Countess of Strad-
broke. Already the
club has a member-
ship of 115. Edith
Cornwall, R.R.C.. is
president, and Mat-
ron Wilson, R.R.C.
(of the Children’s
Hospital), and Mat-
ron Ida O’Dwyer,
R.R.C.. of the Caul-
field Military Hospi-
tal, are vice-presi-
dents. Sister Dows-
ley, pictured here by
Lafayette, saw ser-
vice for three years
in India, and while on a hospital
ship in the Persian Gulf was bowled
°. vei ' *?y fever. The chief aim of the
club is to get returned nurses into
personal touch and afford opportunity for
mutual help in regard to civilian work,
it any are sick or in distress, the club will
bring their circumstances before the folk
handling the Edith Cavell funds. There is
a large amount of money in this fund, which
is intended to help individual cases, and
many nurses who would be diffident about
applying in person might be willing to let
the club state their cases.
The Ernie Austins’ titian-haired and only
daughter Lenore has agreed to make voung
Ken Watson happy in the near future*. He
!S the second hope of Mrs. George Watson,
ot Toorak and grandson of the late George
W atson, of the gilded Bendigo clan,
i T* 1 * 3 Alliance Frangaise intends to cele-
brate the French National Hay (July 14)
f a p « chs j a Bal ! the St. Kilda Town
- ihe decorations will be all in fuchsia
tones, fiom pink to purple and lavender to
red. and guests are asked to match the deco-
rations it possible—even if it be only as to
the color of their noses or hair.
The busy Housewives’ Assoc, has ar-
ranged with a certain milk-vendor to deliver
tic fluid to the public at sd. a quart as
against the prevailing (aid. to Sd. The dairy
herds are to be under the supervision of
Government inspectors, and any outside dis-
trict can have a supply at the same reduced
rates if it digs up 200 customers. House-
wives of such districts should apply to pre-
sident Mrs. Glencross at Clyde House,
Oollins-street, without delay.
J. Beresford Fowler, who was in the first
Melbourne production of "John Gabriel Bork-
man,” over 10 years
ago, will undertake
the hame-part in the
approaching amateur
performance of Ib-
sen’s drama at the
Playhouse. In the
previous show Fow-
ler, then 17, showed
great vocal enter-
prise ip simulating
the foggy tones of
the ancient Foldal,
and his work was
curiously convincing.
Since then his name
has been conspicu-
ous on many reper-
tor v programmes.
He played the tough
Rory Mega n in
(ralsworthy’s “The Pigeon,” ana it was
Ills awful duty as Bill Walker in Shaw’s
Barbara” to stoush the wife
or the State Speaker, in the part of Rummy
Jhtchens. lie was also the old man in
McEvoy s “David Ballard.” Three years at
the war left him a little slack for theatrical
work; but novv he is devoting an experience
that lyas been increased by engagements with
the 1 irm and Bert Bailey to licking other
amateurs into shape.
crowd was coming away from “The
\Y'lute-headed Boy” on Saturday when a very
Bntish-looking dame protested to her com-
panion in the sables: “Well, Kathleen has
teased me a dozen times about the Ohol-mon-
de-leys who are Chomleys, and the Beau-
champs who pronounce their name like the
Beechams. Note, I am going to remind her
that the Ge-osrh-egans are the Gaygans in
Old Ireland. Eh. what?”
J. Whear Roberts. Sydney mining-man.
recently lost his mother, who died at Ben-
digo within a few weeks of her 90th birth-
da,v. and also his eldest sister, Mrs. R. .T.
Miller, of Ironbark, who passed out at the
*^ rs - Roberts was one of the
Bendigo pioneers, and a recent investigation
proved that there were then only two living
women who predated her as a resident,
•these pioneer women must have been as
stout of heart as of limb, for she used to
speak of pleasure walks from Bendigo to
Castlemaine (25 miles), and she talked
finite nonchalantly of walking from Bendigo
to Vaughan, on the Loddon (at least 35
miles), in a day on “a neighborly visit;”
Bridge is dying in plutocratic Melbourne
circles, in face of the superior gambling
facilities of poker. At a recent party for a
charity, in a fashionable inn, two ladies won
over £lOO apiece at one table, while at the
table alongside £1 rises were played till 0.30,
with intervals in which cocktails were gal-
lantly tackled. Cheque-payments were
made without the flicker of an eyelid. How
grandmamma would have stared—grand-
mamma who played crib and whist for
iove, as the phrase went. But grand-
papa had no chance to make easy money out
of aimy contracts, nor did he keep a dr/per’s
shop and that makes all the difference to
the diversions of womenfolk.
Camberwell's flower-decked Town Hall re-
scan bled a monster yellow rose-bush for the
BeHmames’ mayoral hop the other night,
the “ os t ess appeared in handsome black
and blue fixings behind a big pink bouquet,
her head neing wreathed in jet. The Swan-
son dame was in black drapings and met-
alled trimmings, which held real orchids set
in a shower of scarlet blooms. General
1 ompey ’ Elliott and his wife and the
Robert Best pair were to the fore, and
topping the best-dressed list was Mrs. Rus-
-111 shimmering black-sequined
effects with a relieving dash of geranium
red. The eight white-clad debs, were refresh-
iafJ-Y / au ’> .and they swirled through the
o.hcml lancers with unjazzy grace. Phyllis
Belhnaine led the snowy procession, and all
of them waved bouqyets of pink roses, which
were more or Jess slavish imitations of those
carried by Princess Mary’s bridesmaids.
Margaret Dunn of the “White-headed
Boy co., now at Melbourne Royal, arrived
m the Vic. capital just in time to have a
ppw-wow with her sister Elizabeth before
the latter disappeared to make unearthly
noises in ‘ The Bat” in Adelaide. Margaret
l unn has been a frequent leading
, lac| y ,° a the _ American stage. She
headed the cast m a Yankee production of
Alias Jimmy. Y alentine,” following Laurette
JS ,I , or i. t,e original Peg o’ My Heart, who
had left to appear in one of her husband’s
snows.
Gladys MacDowell, whose contralto de-
serves more advertisement than it gets, is
giving a recital at the Athemeum next Tues-
day. She is to sing an aria from Tschai-
kowsky’s “Joan of Arc,” and items by
Brahms, Strauss, Max Vogrich and Sain.
Saens will also decorate her uncommon pro-
gramme. Ada Freeman will be at the piano,
and among other things will play the Tragic
Sonata of MacDowell, who, by the way, is
no relation to Gladys aforesaid.
The Voice that Breathed sang a sort
of duet with itself at Carlyon’s Hotel, on
the St. Kilda Esplanade, the other evening.
There were two big wedding-spreads there
at the same time, following on the knot-
tying of the daughter of Mrs. R. McCallum,
of East St. Kilda, and Roy, son of Justice
and Mrs. Powers, and that of Miss
Swann, of Mowendi, Malvern, who be-
came Mrs. Holden sen. So that there
would be no mix-up of brides and bride-
grooms, Car Ivon put one party aloft in the
banqueting hall and the other in the charm-
ing black-and-pink private supper-rooms.
Maybe the brides tossed up for the pink-
black-and-gold background. Cars buzzed
frantically round the Esplanade porch all
the evening, but everyone was sorted out
satisfactorily in the end.
Nesta Clarke, the youngest daughter of
the W. S. Clarkes, is engaged. His name
is Sydney Sturt, and he is an indentor who,
before the war, was a fairly familiar figure
at the more expensive Sydney entertain-
ments.
Something will have to be done about
Melba. Though the country is crying aloud
for more population, she is doing her darned-
est to empty it. The latest unit she wants
to pack off oversea is Louie Dunne, a Mel-
bourne elocutionist. In private life Miss
Dunne is the wife of an Anglican parson,
and the unfortunate man is naturally dis-
gusted at the Dame’s well-meant schemes.
Contralto Marguerite d’Alvarez, the Taits’
latest capture, got a civic reception at the
Town Hall on Monday. She is a large,
handsome brunette, built on the usual prirna
donna lines, and speaks in a voice that gives
an inkling of music to come. Though born
in Liverpool of French and Spanish parents
and well acquainted with the English cli-
mate, she is sufficiently Latin to shiver at
Melbourne’s moderate winter unless she has
a fi r '> that would drive a liner going all day.
Incidentally, she has brought several trunks-
ful of priceless confections, which, if they
live up to her press-agent’s descriptions,
ought to be housed under a corporal’s
guard at the Safe Deposit.
An Adelaide postscript:—
The funeral of Ross Smith was the biggest thing
of its kind Adelaide had ever known. The whole
community was in it. The Government gave it all
possible official pomp (Harry Blinman, the old
cricketer, had charge of the arrangements), the mili-
tary provided, sympathetic as well as formal support,
and airmen from Victoria lent a new note. But, beyond
all this, there was a universal sentimental interest
in' the fate of a boy' so well known locally, who had
earned a State funeral at an age when others are
thinking mainly of football. The casket lay in
state in the Cathedral for a whole day, then, after
an official service, was taken to the North-road
cemetery, and interred in the most prominent spot,
one traditionally set aside for bishops.
A children’s fancy-dress ball was given the other
night at the Adelaide Town Hall in aid of the
Soldiers’ Memorial Hall at Barmera, ar.d should go
far towards laying the nightmare of debt afflicting
the institution. The judges were the Moulden dame,
Mrs. Trewenack and Miss Ethelwyn Robin, and they
had a nerve-racking time in allotting the awards. It
stands to their credit that they managed it without
creating a riot. The show was run by a committee
that included Mrs. Peate, Mrs. Trewenack, Mrs.
Osborne and Mrs. Wallington, with H. E. Fuller as
secretary.
The National Council of Women wants a petti-
coated representative for Australia at the next
League of Nations assembly, and sent a deputation
to say so to Federal Treasurer Bruce when he was
here. His reply was something about the “uncer-
tainty as to the practicability of such a step at
present.’’ Incidentally, the Council is bemoaning the
loss of Miss Allen, who is leaving this State, and so
resigns as convener of the press committee.
A brand-new body is the Northern Territorians’
Association, of w'hich F. S. Andrews is president. To
be a full member you must have lived in the Terri-
tory once, and be living in S. Aus. when you join;
but there are one or two side doors for “associates”
and “honoraries.”
J. K. Shannon, of the Kapunda clan, and one of
the best-known pastora lists of the mid-North, died
the other day. He had come to town to stay with
his daughter, Mrs. Ross Sawers, and was playing
w’ith his grandchildren when he collapsed under a
paralytic stroke.
The winners in the Adelaide Competitions wound
up with a concert in the Town Hall, and went
through an amazingly long programme, including
everything from Gounod’s “Lend Me Your Aid” to
Scotch dancing. The best testimony to the very
varied performance was that the audience sat right
on to Gorsave.
At St. Peter’s Church, Glenelg, the other day the
only daughter of Charles E. Moore, the soft-goods
man of Broken Hill, whose home is at Glenelg, passed
into the keeping of ex-Digger Howard Alan Lawton.
Ihe bride’s trousseau, turned out by dad’s factor}',
is said to have beaten the record in beauty. An
evening affair, reception and dance were afterwards
held at the Pier Hotel, where the champagne flowed
among 150 guests.


E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
Y om
can Never
Fully
Realise
the Great
of
PEDAL TOUCH
as applied to the Player Piano
until you have Actually Played
the
GULBRANSEN
Z^uo^tfcncertb
(The Player with a soul).
When you hear this wonderful player piano
you will recognise a very great improvement
on other players; but—when you have actually
played it yourself, you will be astounded at
the ease with which you obtain hitherto
undreamt of results.
For durability of piano construction and tonal
perfection—coupled with amazing simplicity
of player control—the Gulbransen has never
had an equal.
The wonderful easy
pedal touch of the Gul-
bransen Player Piano
made possible this
childhood incident.
553
If through sentiment you would not care to part with your
own piano, we will convert it into an 88-note Duo Concerto
Player-Piano containing all the latest improvements.
We have a large shipment of Gulbransen Straight Pianos,
which are in every way up to the standard of the famous
Duo Concerto Player Piano.
Catalogue C will give some interesting details.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
V
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
(TWO DOORS FROM BATHURST STREET). TEL.: CITY 10751 & 10753
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
MAPLES, Chappel Street, Prahran, Melbourne.
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart—-Launceston.
Are you growing
old before
your time ?
&
/i
fk
*• (/
m
« V.
/
N.S. 57
An advertisement for business men.
You are chained to your
desk for hours every day.
You work under a pres-
sure cruelly severe.
You cope with your pro-
blems amidst interruptions
and clamoring telephones
—you are summoned to
attend business deals
which take your whole
personality to put through,
and leave you well-nigh
exhausted at the end of the
day.
This, more or less, is the
life you men of business
lead. And the question is:
How are you fortifying
yourself to stand up to it?
Just consider: You are
sitting most of the day in-
doors. You get little open-
air exercise, beyond Satur-
day’s golf or a week-end
walk. Is it any wonder
that you have “off-color
days, feel “below par”
sometimes, get headaches,
“fits of the blues” and
nervy temper?
It is no wonder at all;
and these signs mean that
your system is crying for
assistance.
The mental strain and
worry and lack of physical
exercise inseparable from
business life cause the sys-
tem to become overtired.
Liver and kidneys fail to
function actively enough.
Impurities creep into the
blood. Lassitude, depres-
sion, sleepiness after
meals, constipation and a
hundred other ills follow.
You need a corrective. You
need Kruschen Salts.
Every morning put in
your breakfast cup of tea
a pinch of Kruschen Salts
—just as much as .will
cover a sixpence.
Kruschen Salts restore the
system to activity. They
tone up liver and kidneys
so that these organs per-
form their work actively
again. Impurities are
cleared away. Clean, re-
freshed blood circulates all
over the body, bringing
new tingling life to every
fibre of the system.
You feel physically more
active, mentally more
alert.
Your whole outlook is
changed, brightened. You
are well and you know it
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast qup as will
lie on a sixpence.
dfg
Good Health for a Farthing a day
The dose of a sixpenceful taken
every morning is found in practice
just the right amount for a most in-
vigorating daily tonic. The medici-
nal dose for persons suffering from
pains of rheumatism and gout, or
habitual constipation, with inactive
liver, etc., is half to one teaspoonful
in a tumbler of hot water before
breakfast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen
Salts. It costs you less than a far-
thing a day for eager, strenuous
health. Get a bottle to-day.
Australia —Trade Supplies of Kruscheh Salts are stocked by
11. and W. drear, 119 to 123 York Street; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers througu
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
Fairbairn, Wright & Co., Christchurch, Wellington,
Auckland and Dunedin.


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CMfBW
NE PLUS ULTRA
f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO. LTD.
Jewellers, Gem Merchants, Goldsmiths & Silversmiths,
Two-stone Dia-
mond Ring, in
ease,
£l5O 0 0
Old Jewellery
remounted in
newest ideas.
An incomparable stock of
Diamond and Gem-set Rings
mounted in Platinum.
Fancy Diamond
Cluster Ring, in
Diamond Octagon
Cluster Ripg, in
case,
£75 0 0
Fancy square-cut
Diamond Ring, in
case,
£166 0 0
Designs and
estimates
submitted on
application.
SHOWROOMS
*n
Interesth^
Reflection
# t
ERASMIC
A choice of the right perfume is the
test of the fastidious woman or girl.
“ERASMIC PERFUME” is always
fascinating— always right.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumers
Soaps
Powders
The event in Anglo-Australia just before
the Narkunda sailed, bearing Lady Grey-
Egerton and Mrs. T. H. Kelly back to these
shores, was a tea given to them by Mrs.
Wilshire at the Carlton. Amongst the Syd-
neyites were Mrs. Gordon Wesche, of Red
Cross fame; Mrs. Reggie Allen, Mrs. Bob
Bowker and her daughter Barbara (horrified
at . the increased cost of living, they are
living at a boarding-house in Alanchester-
street), Airs. Ted Simpson (in a bright
fnagenta costume, stockings and shoes and
a white crinoline hat), Mrs. Hunt (who,
% like Airs. Bowker, was a Marks) and Alar-
jorie Watson, the tall, fair daughter of Mrs.
Alf Marks. But most of the tourists from
this side seem to be in Paris. Amongst them
are the Kelso Kings, who, with Airs. Fred
Payne, of Alelbourne ; are at the Hotel Lotti;
and Clara Alanning, Airs. Tregarthen’s
sister, who is staying with Airs. D’Arcy,
whose money, like Airs. Payne’s, came from
Alount Morgan. AV. K. D’Arcy, now dead,
was the only Australian who had a private
stand of his own on an English racecourse.
His was at Epsom, and invitations to it
were vastly coveted during Derby week.
Mrs. Worrall, wife of the surgeon, and
her two daughters have also been in London
off and on : and for 1,0 days they were the
guests of the Pudokotas. One of the sev-
eral interesting folks staying in the house
was a. Vanderbilt, an intensely financial
member of the New York family which is
synonymous with the word “dollars.”
Armidale’s show-place, Herbert Park, staged
its second wedding this year, when Hazel
Berry Hay, ivho is still in her teens, mar-
ried Richard Jenkins in the private chapel,
on the estate, Bishop Wentworth-Shields and
Padre Clive Dickons doing the knot-tying.
The bride, a daughter of the Alec Hays, of
Coolangatta and Burdekin House, inherits a
generous share of the family looks (her
grandmother Burdekin was one of the love-
liest women of her day), and her appear-
ance was enhanced by a dress of hand-
made Brussels lace. The two bridesmaids
were and Alaud Jenkins, sisters of
the ’groom, who officiated in their New Eng-
land school tunics. The Alec Hays looked
on in a church so weighted with white blos-
soms that it might have been a representa-
tion of a snowstorm. The slim mother
wore golrhni brown marocam with touches
of Oriental blue. The wedding party was
an affair of relations, the station employees
and their families. The bridegroom’s pater-
nal grandfather was Dr. R. L. Jenkins, of
Nepean Towers, and his mother’s male
parent was the Hon. R. C. Herbert, brother
of the Earl of Powis. Judge Murray, of
New Guinea, is an uncle.
Alelba has a ruthless way with her when
she feels like it. “You are too fat!” she
said to one aspiring Brunliilda the other
morning. “You must take off at least three
stone.” “But how?” murmured the unfor-
tunate one. “Roll!” was the laconic reply
as the great one turned to the next lass.
“And what are you going to sing?” she asked
a befurred songbird. “My first aria is”
Alelba gave her one look. “There won’t be
a second ,” she retorted firmly.
Lee Pattison and Guy Maier, to whom the
Alusical Association cried “Welcome,
stranger,” last week, are those rare birds —
pianists with a permanent wave in their
laughter centres. They demonstrated this in
their speeches in reply to the observations of
President AlcAlenamin. The party in honor
of the young men was a great success ; and
everybody who is even a demi-semi-quaver in
the sound-making world turned up to shake
hands with Lee and Guy and their wives.
American Consul Karl AlcVittie, .now sta-
tioned in Auckland (M.L.), who inhabited
the N.S.W. Club for a while last year, is a
living example of the fact that a Consul’s
life is not always a merry one. He was
consuling in Italy during the European up-
heaval, and one day the Hun managed to drop
some ground glass in his soup. No sooner
was he repaired than his country sent him
to Nassau to look into a little matter of
whisky-running. He looked so conscientiously
that one night he was set upon in his
office and well-nigh torn to pieces. It is not
surprising, therefore, that in his leisure
moments he should turn his hand to play
and scenario-writing. He admits lightly
to having dramatised as well as scenariod
g.tdney’s film sensation of this week (“The
Shepherd of the Hills”), because somebody
bet\him he couldn’t. It brought him in
a hatadful of £63,000. And he is a bachelor.
St. James’s dabbed an extra layer of
powder\on its nose for the marriage of Betty
Higgins\and her young man, Arthur Denne
Campbell- Betty, whose dress was a mix-
ture of soft satin petals and cascading crys-
tal, trailecLher vellum-tinted georgette train
up an aisle thipt was an avenue of. autumn
leaves and chrysanthemums. Incidentally
she wore some.' of her aunt’s beautiful old
lace, arranged <as a veil. There were four
bridesmaids to support the weight of her
accessories at 'the psychological moment:
Freda Higgins, ffiHizabeth Macarthur Onslow
and Marjorie arid Gwendolyn Ryrie—all in
frothy white tulfe and satin frocking. The
bridegroom, who was supported by Colonel.
T. F. Rutledge, bore up under the ordeal,
though, as far as his personal tailorings were
concerned, he) was flying no gay He,
bv the way, \is the oply son of the F. A.
Campbells, ofi Woden, Queanbeyan, and she
is a daughter i, of medico Higgins, of Penrith.
Madame D’Alvarez, the new operatic star
who arrived byj the Niagara, looks and dresses
the prima part.. The tall, creamy-
skinned lady evidently didn’t unstrap her
trunks while ini Sydney, as she drifted about,
the Australia always in the one rig-out of
black satin mafie with the loose cavalier
cloak effect anti a large black velvet hat
turned abruptly back from eyebrows arched
almost to interrtogation points. D’Alvarez
is billed as “the Peruvian Contralto,” and
a slightly-sozzled young man who floated
into the Winter Giyrden the other afternoon
inquired of the page boy at the door:
“S-shay, m’lad, was that the Per-peruvian—
er —Peruvian bark I passed just now?”
Last Thursday the quadrangle of St.
Paul’s shed its learned air and camouflaged
itself as a bit of the East. Chinese lanterns
lit up the surroundings sufficiently well to,
placate the conventions —but it’s a long
garden that has no shadowy turnings. Soft
black satin enwrapped Miss Garnsey, who
acted as hostess for her padre brother; and
the Warden’s pretty daughter Joan made a
first appearance, socially speaking, in white
taffeta and silver lace. Elma Percival and
Laura Wilson were the two other ddbs. of
a crowded evening.
Another good-looking bride of the week
was Dolly Quilty, of Darling Point, who
married her medicine-man, M. O. Stormon,
at St. Patrick’s iu broad daylight one after- 1
noon. She supported all the usual bridal I
hangings with distinction, and was aided
and abetted by two bridesmaids.
Renee Maxwell will continue to pour out
her soprano notes in the Firm’s interests
for another nine months. After that come
Paris and Lapierre for further study.
Renee’s friend and adviser, Natalie Rosen-
wax, is undertaking the coaching of a few
stage aspirants of promise, and the third
member of the original concert party, Ver-
non Sellars, is singing at the picture-houses
—the real bonanzas for the Australian
singer.
This is clever Beatrice Kelly, the eldest
of the Bertie Kelly youngsters, who is study-
ing architecture at
Sydney University.
She got back last
year from a yisit to
England where her
brother Tom is at
Eton (he is in
the House his
father inhabited be-
fore him), and is
going abroad again
after her course is
finished to examine
the architecture of
Europe before
settling down to
design homes and so
forth in Australia.
Her . mother, who
was Ethel Knight-
Mollison, is return-
ing from a trip to London on the Narkunda.
A London Times man pays some glowing
tributes to the late Bernhard Wise and his
brother-in-law, E. T. Cook, in a review of
a biography of the latter. This is about
Cook :
Unlike his distinguished contemporaries, Lord
Curzon and Bernhard Ringrose Wise, he won none of
the University prizes. Only at the Union, in short,
was he indisputably in the front rank. He lacked,
indeed, Wise’s roguish playfulness and Curzon’s
capacity for glowing periods; but he was better
informed and, above all, more mature than either of
them.
Mrs. Wise, who was one of the Baird sisters
(they all married brilliant men, the youngest
who was the original “Trilby.’' being Mrs.
Harry Irving), still lives in London. Her
son, Tony, is the first Wise for several gen-
erations who* has gone into business.
Sophie Throsby, of Throsby Park, married
her Queensland young man, Alick Clarke, at
the Bong Bong church the other day in the
presence of most of Bowral, Moss Yale and
Goulburn. Unlimited jazz and wedding-
meats were on tap at Throsby Park the
same evening.
The Painter-Etchers were at home in the
Education Gallery on Friday night, and
measuring by the crowds that positively
slwarmed the two big rooms, the Society is
sfenothered in popularity. Svd Long, Sydney
T\re Smith and Gayfield Shaw were all
things to all men. Norman Lindsay’s
gc*od-looking wife wandered about, wrapped
inj a somlbre cloak, and Mrs. Alec Gordon
lidtetessed a party that included Roy de
M#*stre. One of Norman’s nearly-grown-up
sojis wore a flowing tie, and looked as though
h* found life very, very real and earnest.
Mary Edwards sends a line from Colombo,
where she and her mother have dropped
anchor during flhe monsoon season. She
finds that Colombo gives her brush the
right stimulus, and is working very hard.
The two are li\fing in a bungalow’ set in a
compound of big shady trees, entirely run by
native servants of whom the major-domo is
paid the equivalent of eight bob a week,
feeds himself, and sleeps out!
The old woman w'ho lived in a shoe isn’t
in it w’ith Matron Clark, of the Royal Hos-
pital for Women, Paddington. Something
like 14,000 brand-
new Australians have
passed through her
ha.nds since she took
charge of the big
maternity institu-
tion. She was evi-
dently pre-ordained
to devote her life to
other people’s kid-
dies, for her parents
had her trained for
the teaching profes-
sion. But the call of
Florence Nightingale
was heard above the
booming of the
school bell. The
young woman has
' already ministered in
( hospitals in every
State —Brisbane General Hospital, Perth
Public Hospital, Queen’s Home Obstetric
' Hospital, Adelaide, the Melbourne Women’s
Hospital, and now the biggest women’s hos-
pital in Australia claims her care. Needle-
work and cooking are her brilliant subjects,
but Baby is her hobby. Sid Riley made
this picture of her.
The Rodney Hangars were at home to
the Stork at Arlington about a month ago.
The bird left a blue-eyed baby girl, who is
to hie named Roslyn. She is the first Han-
gar infant to shelter beneath the rooftree of
the old Macllardy home.
The Royal Alexandra Hospital for Chil-
dren is to have a matinee all to itself
in July. Mrs. Pitt Rivers is arranging a
short play—the “Pursuit of Pamela,’’ or the
“Perils of Peter,” or something equally
alliterative —and she has acquired a
retinue of willing male helpers that
includes heavyweight business men as
well as the social male butterfly. Mrs. Alex-
ander Gordon is in charge of the production
of “The Persian Garden” on the same pro-
gramme; and George Lambert has lived for
nearly a week with a wet towel around his
head thinking out designs for the East-
ern backcloths he is contributing to the
big charity. Other workers are Mrs. Tony
Hordern, Mrs. Ernest Watt and Mrs. Colin
Stephen.
Artist Hampel, who is filling Anthony
Horderns’ gallery with bits of Australian
light and shade, sky and water, is a Mallee
man, like Leason. A procession of brother-
brushes has been visiting the show, and
there has been quite an amount of enthusi-
asm over the nigger artist, who is one of
Max Meldrum’s school.
A hanging garden ruffling in its autumn
cloak was the Paddington Town Hall one
night last week, when the old boys of St.
Ignatius College staged their yearly dance.
Hr. G. M. McElhone, president of ’ the Old
Boys’ Union, brought a wife whose frock-
ing was tinted like a ripening apricot; the
Mayoral McElhone lady walked in satin
that was the moonlight blue of a frosty
night; a little Page resembled a fluffy black
powder-puff, and graceful Fay Ainsworth
emerged from bluely-grey brocade. Mrs.
Charley Pfeiffer weighted georgette lightners
with yards of silk fringe, and a Coyle child
chose the severity of black velvet.
A stalwart young Romeo, who sports a
returned soldier’s badge, and a fluffy little
lady, who was a “Sister” in one of the big-
base hospitals at the war, had arranged to
get hitched up at a Waverley church the
other day. But before the date arrived some-
thing was discovered to be wrong with the
tabernacle; with the result that the roof had
to be hauled down and a new lid put on. The
couple arrived in the middle of the work and
the parson wanted to carry the nuptial job
out at the rectory; but the lovers
stood, firm. They had come to be mar-
ried in a church, and they were going to be
married in a church. So the knot was
tied in the midst of a heap of debris,
and Mr. and Mrs. Bigger drove away more
than content because the setting had been
reminiscent of scenes so familiar to them
in the Big Stoush.
There are to be joyous interludes at the
masquerade ball in aid of the Disabled Sol-
diers Pottery. The Town Hall basement
is to be turned into a Bohemia where there
w'lll be beer and cheese and bread and long
clay pipes, so that shock-haired men and
short-haired women may foregather comfort-
ably and argue about the poetry of Swinburne
and Villon, the probable success of Norman
-Lindsay in the drapery trade, and so on.
Albert Collins is trying to persuade the rest
of the committee to invite G. K. Chesterton to
balloon over for the event; but Ernest Watt
and Sydney Ure Smith object on the ground
that no basement could hold enough beer and
cheese for Chesterton, and anybody else.
.. The pottery, by the way, is a struggling
little affair at Camperdown, in urgent
need of £3OOO. The ball is expected to
raise £l5OO, and any patriot can add the
other half. Kindly Boy de Mestre has been
interesting himself in the industry on the
art side, with the result that he* has un-
earthed some real designing talent among
the mostly doubly-amputated Diggers who
are his students.
The good work started by the Dixson dame
ivhen she gave a site and six terrace houses
at the corner of Riley and Cooper streets
to the Royal Welfare Society, was rounded
off one afternoon last week, when her
daughter, Mrs. Ohristian Rowe T'hornett
unlocked the door of a much-needed Surry
Hills Welfare Centre. This will be known
as the Emma Elizabeth Dixson. Already a
nock of small kiddies had taken possession
and, while waiting for mother to call after
her day’s waitressing or charing, interested
themselves in viewing the visitors. The
Little Citizens’ Kindergarten Committee was
the hostess of the afternoon, and, in the
intervals of tea-drinking, Mrs. Gaubert cas-
caued song to Ruby Rich's accompaniments
ihe applauders included the Gaud Mayoral
couple and the ever-faithful Layton, Drs
Purdy, Clubbe, Margaret Harper and Grace
Boelke, and Speaker Daniel Levy.
The girl with the cluster of yellow chry-
santhemums in the crook of her arm stepped
on to the tram at Castlereagh-,street and was
greeted effusively by the amateur vamp in
the grey panne hat and the jade necklace
Gy tile way,’ the flower-girl remarked, after
10 minutes vociferous interchange of confi-
dences: “Billy told me you were the hot
stuff of last night’s party.” The destroyer
ot souls blazed: “How dare he say a tiling like
Just you tell me the exact words he
used. The girl with the flowers looked
thoughtful, then started to make for the
door: “He said, dear,” she cooed, “that you
were the toast of the evening.”
Winslow, Darling Point, which came
on the market last week, was the original
home of the Long Dines family. George
Innes, the eldest son, died during the influ-
enza epidemic a few years after his mar-
ine to one of the McQuades. lie had no
offspring. Percy, who served in the Guards,
and his sister, are in England; and so the
only representative of the big family left
m Sydney is Reginald, the Equity K.O.
However, he is going strong, and' has a
sturdy lot of children, so the name is highly
unlikely to die out.
Beatrice Grimshaw sights the “Shawe
Dagon” and wants to lead a crusade:—
I was so anxious to see Burma’s marvellous Bud-
dhist pagoda that I went off my England-bound track
, ®°‘ , , [t towers over Rangoon, an amazing
shaft of gold, 300 ft. high, with every inch overlaid
with pure gold-leaf, which in some places is crusted
inches thick, since Buddhists think it a good action
to put on more and more leaf, a bit for every
visitor At the top there is a “flag” or vane about
three feet long and very thick, made of solid gold
and crusted with huge diamonds, rubies and sap-
phires—so many of them that the flag is covered—
and heavy gold balls also studded with jewels have
been hung to the edges to add yet more value. The
Pagoda is surrounded by numberless shrines and
statues on a series of terraces, enclosed by a retain-
ing wall, which is entered through wonderfully carved
gates guarded by grinning dragons 30ft. high. I had
been warned that, since the Ghandi trouble, the Bur-
mese were insisting that every visitor to the Pagoda
should take off shoes and stockings and walk bare-
foot as a mark of reverence. I hardly believed it,
but it turned out to be true. Admittance was
refused by the temple guardians, unless I went in
barefoot. I flatly refused. They told me Ameri-
can ladies often took off boots and stockings to
go round the grounds. “You come, Madam,” they
said persuasively. “Many beautiful things here,”
1 said: "I would as soon spit on the Cross.” For
generations Europeans passed freely in and out of
the Pagado under no conditions. This is a new
thing, probably allied with Ghandi propaganda. The
whites in Rangoon feel very strongly on the matter
and it will probably be the subject of trouble before
long. American visitors may have walked barefoot
o\ er ground soaked with spittle and worse, crusted
with dirty candle-grease, and probably infected with
leprosy, since lepers and cripples swarm inside the
grounds; but I have not heard of any English who
have done it. Passing Australians should - remem-
ber that the price of seeing the Pagoda is their self-
respect as white people and their loyalty to the
Cross. There is not a doubt in my mind that this
business is intended largely as a subtle insult to
Christianity.


m
HARDY BROS. LTD.
c Jewellers.
Wedding Gifts.
Green Fireproof China Chafing Dish, in
Silver-plated Stand, with Lamp,
£8 10 1).
The Company’s specially selected range
of Solid Silver and Silverplate suitable for
Wedding Gifts affords the finest display
in the Commonwealth. The name of
Hardy Bros., Ltd., stamped upon every
article, gives an added distinction, being
an assurance of exclusive design, fine
workmanship and sterling value.
Selections sent on approval and a copy of the Company’s
Catalogue forwarded on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
c Jewellers Silversmiths.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
110-118 Queen
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
The Camera of Distinction
dfg
The
Folding Ansco
For Roll Film —Daylight
Loading—and Plates
' Takes good pictures easily and
stands wear and tear. Seal-grain
leather, genuine leather bellows,
heavily nickelled trimmings.
Folding Anscos Nos. IA, 3 and 3A are similar in con-
struction, but No. 1A is provided with a Rigid Buttress
Front, while Nos. 3 and 3A have Rising, Falling and
Laterally-shifting Fronts, allowing the inclusion or
exclusion of the sky or foreground as may be desired.
Nos. 3 and 3A may also be used with Dry Plates or Film
Packs, by means of the combination back and adapter.
No. 1A takes Photos 2\ x 41-
No. 3 „ „ 3{ x4i (i-pl.)
No. 3A „ „ 3i xsi (P.C.)
PRICES:
No. IA, Rapid Symmetrical Lens, Ilex General Shutter,
£6/10/-
No. 3, Rapid Symmetrical Lens, Ilex General Shutter,
£6/10/-
No. 3A, Rapid Symmetrical Lens, Ilex General Shutter,
£7/10/-
dfg
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
FOR MOTHER AND THE JUVENILES.
u
BTNI.—SMART PULL-ON HAT, in
good black silk velvet. The brim is
smartly rolled back off face, being
broader side to side. Crown is soft
effect, and close-fitting to head. In
black only—-
LASSETTER’S
Millinery Salon and Children’s
Wear Section invite the attention
of mothers to these excellent
values—wherein price is reason
able and quality
and style are
equally as satis-
fying.
BTN2.
LTN3.
BTN3. L I T T L E
GI R 1/8 WOOLLEN
CAPp, in good-quality
wool: tie at neck.
Shades : Saxe and Vienx
Rose—
22in. 24in
259 27/9
27iji. 30m.
31 9 35/9
BTN2.—LITTLE GIRL’S WOOLLEN CO.4T, in smart shades. Long roll
collar; finished with contrasting stripes at neck and sleeves. In
Wedgewood and Rose —
18in. 21in. 24in.
12/11 14/11 16/11
Lviiiiftiiiiinniiimu
BTN4.—TODDLER’S NAVY SERGE FROCK. Turn-down collar
and half-belt; cable stitching and French knots—
18in. 20in. 22in.
21/-
22/6
23/6
BTNS.—GIRL’S SMART NAVY SERGE COAT FROCK. Trimmed
black silk braid — . A .
24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
39 6 42/6 45 6 49 6 55/- 59/6
BTN6. —PRETTY LITTLE FROCK IN VELVETEEN. Scolloped
and stitched in contrasting silks. Tones: Brown and Saxe—-
3 Sin. 20in. 22in.
14/11 15/11 16/11
dfg


Learn to Draw
The
above is
the title
of our bock-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet-
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.’*
dfg
dfgd
fgdf
gdfg
fdg
‘There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
139 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
S/True Ease inciting'
bruce”
STEEL^
SHELL
PENS
© elected and recommended by
>V? James Bruce. Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal ,
Schools of Sydney, NSW. & manu/actu red
by the celebrated Penniakers.
Joseph GILLOTT & Sons. Birmingham,
(Sold by alt Stationers 4,
m olesaleAlex . Cowan & Sons. L td
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
i
}il!|
& :
_
IP
Hi
BHi
cs..
A ‘i|
f^'lt
issa
t a.-
;' m!i
-auv.*.
. ' >
<*A 'l
Hi o
an
V\
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes truer to nature than
dfg
Zenobia Inly of the Valley —is as charm-
ins as the tender appeal of the living
flowers.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blos-
som —a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to nature.
Tlie original perfume of
the name.
Zenobia Night-scented
Stock —as sweet as the
perfume of an old-world
garden—a great favorite. 1
Manufactured only by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for New Zea-
land (Wholesale only) :
Newson & Co., Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Ci . Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydney.
<g3>
j o
(I
X
Missing: Friends.
TROY. —Anyone seeking information rela-
tives late Mr. Troy, born Limerick,
Ireland, and who came to Australia some
years ago, please communicate with
Mrs. KATHERINE TROY SCHWEPPE,
5652 S. Green Street.
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
7'ILLIAM SHARPE, formerly with
■ vAif. Mii£S,: Bright, Tic. Send address
T. Grotty, Bright. Important.
HEALTH MEANS SUCCESS
The man who has perfect physical condition is the man who is
going to make his mark both in business and social life. Good
health depends upon the organs of the body performing their
functions properly, and taking up the Baker
p ostal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
means toning up the entire nervous and muscular system.
By this simple, progressive series of exercises, which
can be undertaken without any apparatus, you can
become physically robust, alert and self-confident.
Each pupil who takes up the course is trained under
the personal supervision of Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
and the exercises are given in accordance with individual
needs.
YOU can have perfect health by enrolling now under
the Baker System.
If you write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and mail it with three stamps to cover postage,
you will receive the interesting booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-culture,” which gives you all the
facts about the famous system of Health Culture, Why
delay? Cut the advertisement out NOW!
REG. t. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“The All-found Champion Athlete of Australia,’ 1
124 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sidney,
m
■■; H
m. , & t
Kisili
The Drills for Service
MADE
“CAPITAL” BRAND
HIGH-SPEED
TWIST DRILLS
will serve yon better. We know the quality
because we make the steel itself, as well as the
drills, in our own British works. If you want
long dependable service and clean accurate cut-
ting at high speeds, you want a “Capital” drill.
We’ll replace every one that proves defective.
Table of speeds and feeds and “Balfour’s Hints
on Steel” in book form gladly forwarded. Send
us a trial order.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD., Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
370-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Doulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Paul &
Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-00 Currie Street, Adelaide!
TQC^
'
a
L
Right on Your Uppers
is where they shine. A brilliant, lasting shine, mind you,
plus 100% wear from your shoes.
bostock’sTshoe creams
(In Bottles and Tubes).
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Nigger Brown,
Blue, White, Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
■ ■
’
m
: ■<"
..
4* «
SfeyA.4,
I
Screens and Perforated Plates
For Stone-Crushing Plants, Coal Mines, etc.
Any size hole up
to in
fz in. plate.
Stone Breakers, Crushing Rolls,
Portable Road Plants, Elevators.
Manufactured
by—
JAQUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
sexd.:tdr:-QUE illustrated , catalogue No. 20.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A'o notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Willie Boy: “The Best Way” has some
neat lines but too many rough ones for topical verse.
....Apis: Benedict XV. was intended. Presumably
the Archdeacon thought he put the Papal imprimatur
on the work in question. The present Pope had
hardly been elected when the D’Arcy-Irvine-Forrest
dispute began... .E.J.J.: Read your first four lines
over carefully, and if you can’t hear where they
bump consult an aurist: —
Amongst our social institutions,
Where city magnates meet
And talk of city railways —
The extension of Moore-street.
.... Aglum: But Webster hardly bears out your con-
tention that the American “bushwhacker” is “iden-
tical with our bushranger.” Its original meaning
was much the same as “backwoodsman” (Australian
“bushman”) ; its secondary meaning came in the
Civil War when it was applied to those engaged in
guerilla warfare on the Confederate side.... John S.:
Don’t care for “Camps”. .. .T.J.A.: Not up....
A.R.N.: Take it away.... Steve B.: Horrible yarn
with no particular point... .J.J.F.: Poor yarns....
L.A. (Waverley): Doesn’t amount to anything....
A.D.M.: The “Cardens” are rather tiresome places...
Pongo: Not bad, but nothing much happens....
W.C.L.: The dog story had possibilities, but you
missed them.... A.M.H.: A commonplace wind for
Spring... .Gouger: “The Hatter” is too slight....
H.E.R.: Don’t care for it... .C.A.N.: Lame verse....
George A.: That sort of thing has been worked to
death... .8.1. M.: Flimsy stuff... .L.L.S.: Nothing
there. .. .Bill Bloggs: Not for u 5.... Hal II.: No use
dishing up a set of well-known facts. .. . A.8.C.!
Worry, not up. . . .N.F.: The “Antique” doesn’t grip. ..
Frogmouth: You are literally right; but the meaning
of “lifting” is rather obscure in the connection.
Anyhow, it’s not worth a par.. .Thomas J.: “Science*’
doesn’t strike us... .R.D.F.: It goes over ground
beaten dry and hard... .T.J.H.H.: The fact that
your flat is so small that the bathroom-door must
stay open while jiour bride bathes has been noted
and transferred to The Bulletin archives....
P.W.F.: Poor, very p00r... .G.P.M.: “Jones” is a sad
person. .. .P.M. (Largs) : “Sonnet” misses. .. .Becky :
May is not a spring month in this country when the
grass can “feel the warm earth.’* Things like that
throw suspicion on all the rest. .. .Jay M;: The story,
as told, has no more interest than any bald daily
paper account of a Crime.... Xingu: The only bright
spot in it is the defiant spinster who arranges her
words in an extraordinary fashion.... P.B.P. :'lf you
must sit in “Ihe quiet room” thinking about nothing,
for God’s sake don’t write about it.... Mary M.:
About the worst Omar parody we’ve seen —it is hard
to say more. .. .Ivlaney: Don't know what it means.
. ...H.A.J.: The kookaburra is the most overworked
bird for lyrical purposes in the Commonwealth, and
you strike no new note on the subject.... S.J.S.:
The “Shepherders” is naar; but there is no “con-
tent” about a line like “There upon my back I lay.”
Even a prize utility Black Orpington couldn’t do it.
. ..W.McB.: “Nightfall” too rugged. . .W.W.R.: It's
a dreary narration. .. Blighty : Horrible verse. . .E.R.:
Commonplace as a tramshed... .Coroglen: Don’t so
much mind the fact that it’s all written in capitals,
but we’d like a stop here and there... .A.C.C.: No
use... .H.M.J.: Not bad of its sort, but not our sort.
....Vera P.: Couldn’t say from the sample whether
you might ever write a yarn, but you waste a lot of
words. .. .F.G.8.: Lumpy and uninteresting.... Bel-
erive: The dog item is what might be termed sound,
practical poetry:—•
I pose not as a vet.
1 pen a plain rhyme.
I'd fond and true friends
Among dqgs in my time.
Sweet dainty repasts are
The creation of worms.
Brimstone and milk
Is a tonic for germs.
A dry and snqg kennel
For shelter from rain,
And sprint exercise
If reared to the chain.
Dog biscuits and bones
For the digestion is good.
Hash and beef-tea
Is fine winter food.
For sores or the mange
Which itcheth and peel.
Sulphur and lard gives
Ease and will heal.
A summer-day dip
For a refreshening cool
‘Will make a dog frisk
Like a frog in a pool.
. ...C.S.L.: Your dead-cat yarn arrives with great
regularity ; and each time the telling grows a little
worse.... Tyum: “The Wanderers” misses.... Tuan:
No.... Arthur P.: You can’t divert “the rustics
with shout and *song” while going “back to old
mother” in this paper... .Alice A.: The ordinary
conventional yarn with the same old plot. .. .Frank
M.: It discloses the heavy hand of manufact red
mirth. .. .A.M.Iv.: Commonplaces... .P.R.A.: Wobble
and bump verse. .-r.W.Ii. (Lismore) : “Bund Singh”
doesn’t make a yarn. .. .14.12.21: “‘A verse! A
verse!’ the fiery maiden cries.” She deserves to ne
stifled. . . .U. Poet: Horrible. .. .H.G. (St. Kilda) :
A libel on the swaggie class... .P.J.S.: P00r....
Kil l R.: Ditto J.A.V.S.: Ditto Frank S.:
Sony, but the imitation female must go back. . . .
J.A.W.: There’s real feeling in it: —
Floored by a hearty wallop,
A well-whipped pug collapsed.
“One, two, three,” rapped the referee as the fateful
seconds elapsed ;
While the bruiser lay in a muddled heap,
Only a stage from being asleep.
“Four, five, sixand it seemed to him
The counter’s voice was hard and grim
As Death stood by ; from the corner of a blackened
eye
Which, like some incombustible slab of coal
Who in a fiery furnace holds his own,
In solitarv grandeur stayed aloof.
He saw his backers round the ringside,
Some did encourage and others deride.
“Seven, eight, nine,” in a fashion fine he tried to
regain his feet,
But, slithering back with a sickening whack,
lie guessed that he was beat. Then “ten.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.D.: N. d. g00d... .W.E.J.: Beer joke appal-
lingly 01d... .W.O’T.: Still not up....V.5.: Some
merit in drawing; but gag is bewhiskered....
F.G.A.: Shows promise, if original... .H.S.: You’ve
a long way to go yet. . . .M.S.: Faint pencil sketches
of no u5e....T.L.: Not interested in be-skirted
gentlemen in Scotland.... M.V.: Caruso is dead ; let
him rest. .. . F^V.M.N:~ Old.. . . .C.H.W.: Drawing
not up... . V. 0.: All off the target.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. JULY 12.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND TIIE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS Ef&RY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORAItA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class bn rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
(tanking:. Public Companies. &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,740 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.009 4 5
DIRKtTOKs —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; lion. G. AY.
Gray; J Slues Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
Manager at Svdnev : E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
UEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. . . £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,480,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 . . £12,813,129
Directors ; Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E .; (George J. Sly, LL.D. ; Frank
N. Yaiiwood, FXf.P.A. ; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir.
New Soutli Wales.
BRISBANE’(264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queens hind: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS-
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve’ Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidsntSociety
The Largest anti Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about ..
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,502,572
£2,575.000
£47,000,000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assnrance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
Shipping. etc.
Can&diaft-Austraksian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAKUR'A, 20th JULY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and P'apeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can lie seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yelldwstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, Gth JULY”, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. UNION HOUSE, 247 GEOHUE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
THE IDEAL WINTER TOUR TO
JAVA
(THE GARDEN OF THE EAST)
BY THE BURNS-PHILP LINE.
The palatial and sumptuously furnished steamer “MARELLA” leaves Sydney on
the Ist Jul{y, followed by s.s. MONTORO on the Ist August.
A Wonderful 7-weeks' Trip through Smooth Seas and Sunny Climes
Send for particulars to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of , sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS" OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
S VIS VIC 12.500 tons
Mi?DIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also- (Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
XHEMISTOCEES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 12.500 tons
*DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALt AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
Directors V
000‘009‘8X3F
000'000‘S
000‘009‘S
000‘000‘S3f -
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq. _ _ „
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.TiC.
Robert, L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. (teneral Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office— George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, EC.
300 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the. world. . n7I1 „™ „ .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. —Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain) \ London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings
out Australia, and at Papua, New
Bank Agencies at 8049 Post Offices tlirough-
Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3i% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMBS KELL* Sif DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor.
Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“LASMA”GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Tattle Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
JA. should read the Bnrnsii Australasian,
(Id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasta-n Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shlnplng,
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACK AY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVIU.E JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping: at Brisbane for Maryborough. Bundn-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parker!,!!?
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar Bailings
from Sydney ami Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSO A Y ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
Monuuv •oMimigs Liit 11 <i i ici •
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, l’hilp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IHOQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co.J*' Ltd. P, & 0. S. N, Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Sendee (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown,
Public Notices.
NOTICE.
I AM prepared to take prospecting parties to any
part of the Northern Territory. My plant consists
of any number of camels up to 30, including saddles,
etc. My headquarters are at Oodnadatta. Have had
25 years’ experience in the Northern Territory.
Address all communications to
W. FOX,
c/o Fogarty & Co., Oodnadatta.
Terms reasonable.
Eaglehawk Golden Mile,
No Liability.
Capital, £30,000, in 30,000 £1 Shares.
Issue, 24,000; 1/- application, 1/-
allotment.
Twenty old Mines, from Catherine Reef to Ellen-
borough Mines, on Snobs Hill, Eaglehawk, Bendigo.
Past production, 500,f1000z. Prospectus from Sir A. J.
Peacock, Manager, Collins Street, Melbourne J or
Neil Walker, Eaglehawk. Originated by the Eagle-
hawk Borough Council to re-open some rich mines
and to revive local mining.
Agent: G. D. MEUDELL, 9 Scott’s Court, Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
TAMES HICKEY, son of John and Bridget Hickey
J and brother of Patrick Hickey, all of Doncaster
Road, Boroondara, please communicate at o’ cj with
NATIONAL TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen
Street, Melbourne.


All the great good in milk,
Nature’s all-important food, becomes
available when it is prepared with Benger’s.
The way to prepare Benger’s Food for Infants of all ages
is clearly instructed upon every tin of Behger’s Food, and
special formulae, commencing with babies of from one to
three months old, which have been approved by eminent
medical authorities, are included also within the tin.
dfg
Food
la • natural, Food, always prepared with fresh new milk, or milk
and water, according to the age of the child.
Benger’s Food is more than an addition to milk. It is specially
prepared to perform the important duty of modifying cow’s milk
to the delicate digestion of a child.
Benger’e 64 page illustrated book, most helpful to mothers, post free, front j
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
Bole Proprietor* and Manufacturer* BENGER S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
and 201 fiourke Street. MELBOURNE.
SOME MAGIC.
Playing Card to Matchbox . ..
Haunted Ace Trick ,
Billiard Ball Trick
Linking Rings (pocket size) .
Diminishing Pack of Cards
Chung Loo’s Fire Eater
SOME THINGS—
Grease Paints, Wigs,
Ventriloquial
CATALOGS FREE.
Beards,
Heads.
. i/a
• 2/-
3/6
. 7/6
• 5/-
. 2/6
Masks,
m*
■
SOME BOOKS.
Simple Card
Tricks That
Anyone Caoi Do
With Ordinary
Cards. Without
Sleights.. 1/6
Up Ills Sleeve,
the latest book
for the profes-
sional .... 8/6
Funniest Four
Farces, in one
book .... 2/-
How To Make Up, Guide to the Stage'.. 1/6
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “Mattamac"
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac" Stormproof. Reluse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac."
U nbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
BROTHERS
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
2 1 ioz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac’ Stormproof
The “Mattarnac" is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac" Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
Matta Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mabtamac ’ Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades,
19 oz.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE
mm
n, i " •>-»
y,
SSssSSSKV^
YAf. /
L !
m
La
o
111
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘DraW'ngs
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quently, truthful representations of the Feather-
Weight ‘ Mattamac" Stormproof, which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 21%05. weight; without
Belt. 19oz.
GENTLEMAN'S COAT, as illus-
tated, 19oz. weight: with Belt,
21 \oz.
MADE IN ENGLAND...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM!
If your regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write to us. Wewillsendyou.postfree.the “ Mattamac” Booklet, and giveyou the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac. If he cannot do so, write to us for
«iut an ,,address °f the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
‘Mattamac Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of "MATTAMAC ” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
“ Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET,
LONDON, W.I, ENGLAND. (A 504) @
MATTAMAC TRADE MARKS tire registered throughout the WORLD. {Copyright
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenehurch
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dependable Guns
X
A
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, ooin. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. m/l <•> if
Delivered, 6
Delivered, £6/5/-
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
WE REPAIR
GUNS TRIFLES
SUNOL ™ E Tobacco
The World’s Best.
dfg
barrels, both choke, top
patent fore-ends, highly
I*lB. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
engraved, matted rib, weight ahout 711 b. Freight paid,-
£14/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing; to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Ithaca field
89. “Ithaca” Anns Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
I'igeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top brer,
dense Irogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 741 b. XS X r lx r I
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid, 3E*lO/10/“
dfgdf
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight _
about 71b Freight paid,
82, Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
£l5
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 9/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/6 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
gdfg
dfgfdg
dfg
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pi geon Gun. 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-ineli steel
barrels, both choke, D. &E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2iin. cartridges, JP 1 A
beautifully engraved, weight about 7}1b.... Freight paid,
MYRROHL Si TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING —HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 2/- tube.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
dfg
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30m. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6}lb. Gun can be taken apart, same a:
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. EicCtOf
ac
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE


*
s
SWEAR
BY
Football Time is
Rexona Time.
Boys! Just think if you were picked to play in the match on
Saturday, and then had to drop out on account of a damaged
finger that had festered and got sore through lack of care, wouldn’t
you be furious? And if you had just had a tin of Rexona in your
locker it would be quite healed again. If you make a bad mistake
at practice or the match, if you fumble a pass, if you kick care-
lessly, you determine at once that it shall never occur again.
You do not neglect anything that will make your form better,
so when you get badly bruised and knocked about at football you
should never fail to make your-
self fit again by using Rexona
Ointment. Rub it in well after
your shower, and from bad
cuts and bruises no ill effects
will follow.
Boys, use Rexona and
keep fit.
Rexona-
The Rapid Healer.
1/6 and 3/-
1/6
.Eoolinq.
s§foolhmq. -
W - HealmQ
iglrMiseplic Omiment
■'*purif |C:> # /%jolu(ely N
6 Heali j Reliable
texona
■itiitm™
A Reliable Remedy for all eruption) andimianons of Ihe
Eczema hmples. Sores. Chilblains. Chapped Hand*
Sciatica Itching or Bleeding Piles Cuts. Burny Bruises. Scalds.
Bad Legs Stings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
)e>— X— fc—>— X— X
x— x—x— x—x-x— x—x-x
Second only to the “Swan.”
The “Blackbird” is the “SWAN ” Pen’s junior
and fully meets the demand for a reliable foun-
tain pen at somewhat below the standard price.
dfg
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND IMPORTERS
Made by the "Swan' Pen People.
Illustrated List Post Free.
MABIE. TODD 8 CO., LTD.
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney, Toronto, and Cape Town.
Associate House: Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Oil
Tfie Plum Ro^or
The “Tried and True'’ quality-maintained
Razor. For thirty-five years the “Plum” has
retained the confidence and patronage of men
who appreciate its sterling qualities.
PRICE, 12/6. Pa ir in Presentation Case, 237-
POST FREE.
Kept in order for two years free.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 Caorgg St >
SYDNEY.
ShcueJ A Multitude of China
The Witch-Mistress.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I FOUND a shadowy land ’twixt sleep
and waking,
And an autumn tempest, blown through
the midnight, stirred
A dusty music with leaf and petal-drift
through it
And creeper-buds, and a rustling quiver of
trees
And broken pools and streams, but never
a bird.
I found you, poised on a path by a mere
of blackness
Where dark reeds sang like a lyre ;
I took your hands, but your eyes were starry
with distance —
I kissed your lips, but Dreams had stolen
your fire.
Gipsy eyes and a dark gaze soft as music,
Ilad Dreams such power?
Did they reive your love as flame for their
water-lanterns,
Did they steal your grace to weave in the
poise of a flower?
I sought your moveless lips, but they made
not answer,
Kiss or a murmuring word;
I drew your hand till I held you against me
a captive,
No heart-beat stirred,
But the mocking voice of Dreams through
the leaf I heard,
Leave her —and wake ; love her —and at her
kiss
You become but a, shade-between-worlds as
we, Dreams, made this.
The land blurs grey;
1 wake at dying taper and breaking day
To wander blind at dawn through the stmts
of waking,
An alien land—
Mad for a shadow, deaf to the iips that lo\ed
me,
Cold to the honeyed kiss, to the seeking hand,
All for the dream of a wild wind, petal-
blowing,
Soft eyes by an ebony mirror in midnight
flower.
And certain doom —that, brave to its own
undoing,
My soul must spire to the vision that robs
its power,
A living dream for a prize—and the price,
eternal.
Eternal night between worlds. ... for a cap-
tured hour.
N.S.W.
ANTON DENNING.
Exit Andy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Joe Farrar’s shanty at Still Springs
the flies were as numerous as the
scorched pebbles covering the ground
outside. They were in multitude almost as
the sands of the desert-hillocks beyond.
These sandhills, which showed a white out-
line against the dry clearness of the blue
sky, were known to shift treacherously, so
the track skirted them. Out there, a hundred
miles or so to the north-west from the turn
of the overland telegraph line, lay Bilwa
station, where Andy Thompson belonged,
lie had come through with cattle three
months ago and was now on his way back.
He sat alone in one of the three rooms
of Farrar’s place, finishing a meal in the
early afternoon before starting out. His
head was encircled by a cloud of buzzing
flies. They crawled over his bare forearms
and his face and into his eyes. No efforts
were of avail against their persistence. He
merely made grimaces to disturb them when
they settled on his face. Farrar’s was a
wretched, patclied-up humpy at a point
where two stock routes converged on the
telegraph line. In a crude w T ay it combined
the functions of hotel and store. The roof
was of iron, with no ceiling beneath it. Such
shelters, which are common enough in the
Northern Territory, give at least the benefit
of protection against sunstroke.
Andy poured out his tea into the saucer.
It was not that he knew no better. Short
of cooling the beverage by adding water
from the water-bag, which hung a little to
one side of the door, this was the rational
thing to do; and, besides, the necessities of
rough living make a man careless. There
had been a time in his life when he would
have found it impossible to eat a meal at
that bare, grease-stained table and from the
scarcely-wiped plate w T hich he had cleared
voraciously and then pushed to one side:
and if, in those past days, a fly had dropped
into his tea while it was raised to his mouth,
he would not have drunk the rest of it, as
he did now when this actually happened. He
did not even bother to remove the intruder.
His elbows rested on the table, and both
hands held the saucer, which he merely tilted
forward and then levelled again. This dex-
terous movement left the unfortunate insect
stranded and helpless high near the further
rim, very much as a boat is left lyine on , a
slope of muddy beach at low tide. Indeed,
as he put down the empty saucer it had
something of the drab, cracked apnearance
of a dined mudpool; for it was discolored
beyond all resemblance to any whiteness it
may have had originally; the glaze was a
close network of tiny lines, while several
large cracks ran across it irregularly, so
that it seemed likely to fall to pieces at any
moment. Even the gold line around the rim
had faded, and only one faint glimmer re-
mained. Andy was automatically conscious
of these details as he torpidly watched the
drenched and scalded fly. It dragged itself
around, following the line of least resistance
towards the circular depression in the centre.
There it tried to raise its wings, but, with
feeble motions, remained in the same spot.
Andy suddenly roused himself. It was time
for him to be going. As he pushed his chair
back his glance was caught again by the fly
in the saucer. A rough instinct of pity
made him end its struggles by placing the
cup on it. Then he went out to the store-
room.
It was a partitioned corner of the build-
ing, with a short counter facing an outer
door. Some rough shelving along one wall
was adorned with fly-marked bottles of
spirits, tins of cut tobacco, and a few odd-
ments of packet goods. Around the other
walLs cases and bags of merchandise
piled indiscriminately. Farrar himself was
sitting on a half-chest of tea, the wood of
which was broken, exposing the lead lining.
He was reading a newspaper which Andy had
brought up with him, and held it open at full
stretch side-on to the light from the entrance.
As Andy came through the inner door he
looked up.
“Going?” he said, lowering the sheet to
glance over the top of it. The cheerful
unction of his voice was the result of a life-
time of retail grocery. He was a mean-
looking, under-sized man. The superficial
tidiness of his person gave a certain illusion
of cleanliness. He wore a stiff celluloid
collar, badly soiled; this was set off by a
frowsy but neatly-knotted tie; his light-
colored fa.ncy waistcoat, frayed at the edges
and threadbare at the back, was covered with
grease-spots; and the front of his khaki
twill trousers was in the same condition.
There was something anomalous and even
annoying about this shabby superiority of
attire to the men who, like Andy Thompson,
dropped in at Still Springs from time to
time. They themselves generally wore no
upper garment but a shirt, and their care-
lessness in the matter pf buttons led to the
exposure of neck and chest as a matter of
course
Andy looked down at Farrar from a
brawny height of six feet or more and begged
a favor.
“What about a bottle, Joe?”
“Can’t be done,” replied Farrar with
grave politeness. “Really can’t. There’s
30 quid owing already—and you know what
you are.”
“What am I?” retorted Andy, scowling.
“You’re just a little careless in these
money matters, that’s all, Andy ; but I can’t
afford to let it go on too far. Would you?
And, you know”—the little man added a
remonstrance —“I’m letting you take one of
my horses.”
“I wouldn’t use the damned crock only my
mare’s gone lame. Perhaps you’d like to
see me walk it? You’ll get your horse back
all right, and in better condition than it is
now, too.” Andy paused, and, looking away,
modified his voice in a shamefaced sort of
fashion. ‘‘So there’s no chance of a flask
even?” The note of entreaty, proceeding
from a weakness by no means unusual in the
back country, was as pitiable as if such a
strong man should weep.
Farrar shook his head.
“It can’t be done. I don’t mind so much
letting it stand over when it’s tucker, but not
liquor, Andy—not when there’s so much
owing. I’ve fallen in through it before.
Why, there was Butler, only the other day.
You knew Butler, over at Wurranji?
Well, he dies —leaves no will, of course. I
put in a claim to the Public Trustee at Dar-
win ; he cuts out all the liquor items, and I
dropped a tenner on it. I can’t afford it.
I’m not saying you’re going to die, or any-
thing like that, but that’s "just one instance
lately to show you.”
"It’d serve you right if I did die,” snarled
Andy grimly. lie made as if to go, and
stood on the threshold for a moment, and his
broad back tilled up the narrow width of the
doorway.
He screwed up his moody eyes because
of the glare of the sunlight, and
scanned the arid landscape. Toward
the right, pebbles and glistening gravel
stretched to the edge of the rockhole
that gave the place its name. The sand-
hills began sharply on the left. Between,
there were mediating patches of stubbly dry
grass, with one or two ironwood trees against
a far background where the mulga country
began. Under one of these was a low arched
structure not much bigger than a kennel. It
was made of bark and boughs, reinforced with
a corroded strip of corrugated-iron. 7 Near
by, a split cornsaek was stretched as an
awning, and beneath this a lubra sprawled
sleeping.
“What makes us stop in God-forsaken
places like this?” said Andy, half to him-
self.
“Same as brought most of us to ’em, I
suppose,” came the response, which was an
inane attempt at a joke. “Women and wine,
you know ; women and wine.”
“Lubras and whisky, more like it,” snarled
Andy, feeling something of the satisfaction
of revenge; for Joe Farrar’s associations
with the black women were notorious. “A
land of combos and boozers,” he muttered.
Then he swung out of the doorway with a
surly “So long” and went round to the bough
shed in the corner of the railed yard at the
rear. Two or three aboriginals squatting
there shared the shade with Andy’s mare and
the horse Farrar was lending him. One of
them changed the saddle from one beast to
the other, and Andy slung his swag and
tucker-bag across the pommel. Then he
mounted and rode towards the western dip
of the sandhills.
By sundown, through timbered flats, he had
reached the far side of Dunn’s Paddock. This
was the last of the fenced country south
of Bilwa; and Dunn’s Creek, where he in-
tended to camp for a few hours, till the
moon came up, w'as a few miles further. By
this plan he would get over the worst
stage of the journey before the sun was
high in the morning. At the corner of the
paddock there was a slip-panel gate. He
dismounted and led the horse through.
While he was replacing the sapling panels,
the animal moved off along the outside of
the fence back in the direction w r hence it
had carried him. With an oath he hastened
after it. It was moving slowly. He had
almost reached it, and was cautiously ap-
proaching it, when suddenly it lunged
against the fence as if with fright. There
■was a jangle of wires, and the horse disap-
peared w r ith a noise of cracking twigs. Andy
realised at once that the impact had broken
the fence, unless the wires were down in
the first place, and that the horse was mak-
(Continued on next.page.)


Examine
Yonr Skin.
At the First Sign of Any Skin Trouble
Use Zam-Buk.
DE ON YOUR GUARD against that early patch of
eczema, which, if unheeded, may lead to nights and
days of fiery irritation! Watch for the first pimple and rash
that may spell ugly disfigurement! Don’t let that simple
cut, bruise or burn take “bad ways.’’ Examine your skin
frequently and carefully, and treat the first sign of disorder
at once with Zam-Buk.
The secret of Zam-Buk’s power in creating a clear, healthy skin is that it
stimulates the cells to renewed activity, and rids the tissue of accumulated
impurities. It soothes away pain, irritation and inflammation and leaves no
trace of hidden disease to break out again; and, finally, Zam-Buk quickly replaces
diseased tissues with new healthy skin. The proved reliability of Zam-Buk
explains why it is the one skin healer to be kept always handy in every home
in town and country.
For eczema, pimples, boils, abscesses, ringworm, poisoned wounds, bad legs,
cuts, burns, scalds, or for piles, Zam-Buk provides the unrivalled remedy.
uk
am
i
A
7 '
s
A
/
k.
B® RB* C 1 Test Zam-Buk on
■■ BC !■ F I a.ny skin trouble you
I IBb b ■ may have. Simply
send your name and
address on a postcard to the proprie-
tors, C. E. Fulford (A/sia), Ltd..
Sydney, mention The Bulletin, June
22, and a free sample box of
Zam-Buk will be sent by return mail.
1/6 and 3/6 per box, of all
Chemists and Stores throughout
Australia.
e World’s Greatest Healer.
mg back home. He rushed forward. A
wire caught his throat. He spuu round
and fell sickeningly. He sat up and .stayed
there dazed for a few moments. Then he
crawled over the broken wires, scratching
his hands on prickly grasses, and stood up
listening. He heard the slow thud of
hoofs at a walking pace, and hurried after
the sound as best he could in the tangled
darkness. The hoofbeats led him on to a
cattle pad. He began to run. They
quickened to a trot and died away altogether.
For fully a mile he followed, though he
stumbled over obstacles on the way. After
a while he heard the slow steps again, and
at last came within sight of the animal
vaguely silhouetted on a slight rise. With
dismay he saw that he had been following a
straggler from a mob, for he had crept quite
near to the beast, and could see its peaked
ears .moving. The rise on which it stood
was a mound bordering a waterhole of some
kind, and the dark shapes of other horses
were grouped about it in masses.
He turned back. His throat was aching
where the wire had caught it, and lie felt
a sharp pain in one temple. That fall had
shaken him badly. He lost the track as
suddenly as he had found it, and groped
about despairingly. The suspicion occurred
to him that, when he had fallen, he had
sat up with his back to the paddock, and
had rushed away from the gap instead of
through it.
The moon rose. He judged his direc-
tion by it, calculating that Still Springs
must be towards the south-east. It would
be best to work his way back there. With
great difficulty he scrambled through thick
bush, which soon thinned into clumps amid
ironstone rocks that hurt his feet. The
trees and shrubs became fewer and fewer,
and at last gave way altogether to a
stretch of gravel. This, he thought, must
be the gravel reach that ran to the ridge
at .Still Springs. lie went on hopefully.
The land around him was flat, empty and
silent, and given over utterly to a pallid
desolation of moonlight. At dawn he was
still wandering about.
The sun came up, and the pain in his head
grew worse. He had not noticed before
that liis hat was gone. He was weak with
hunger, and his parched lips yearned for
water. Hot drops of molten light seemed
to drip from the high sun, stinging his spine.
About noon he reached a blacksoil plain.
Through the long afternoon lie staggered on
panting, and the ground on which he trod
seemed to grow concave, sloping up to an
infinite circular ridge all round him. At last
bis knees gave way and he fell. The light of
the western sun tilled the cavity of the plain
and whirled him round in a scalding vortex
of tawny light. Then, with a jerk, it tilted,
leaving him clinging to the downward curve
of the surface, as a boat is left lying on a
slope of muddy beach at low tide. He sat
up and felt that he would be sick in a
moment unless it righted itself. He saw
that the light was pouring out of it slowly
through a cloud-gap at one part of the edge.
When it was all drained out, the plain lay
with level edges sloping un as before to a
circular rim, which was now grey and dull,
except where one faint glimmer remained.
If only he could reach the rim and climb
over it; but he could do nothing but move
downwards, crawling and dragging, drag-
ging, dragging his own weight toward the
hollow in the centre.
Drought had flaked the plain into a net-
work of thin lines, and several larger ns-
sures ran across it irregularly. He won-
dered how long it would hold together.
There was something he did not quite
understand. It was like trying to remem-
ber something you were going to say when
someone interrupted you, or where you had
seen somebody before—some strange asso-
ciation of events. If he could o”nly get that
right there would be nothing more to worry
about. He felt as if he were trying to raise
himself on mangled wings. That, of course,
was his soul trying to fly. Fly—yes, that
was the word he wanted ! But a man couldn’t
be a fly and a man at the same time, except
in dreams. It was like that in dreams. What
was that he learnt at school about men being
to the gods as flies to wanton boys? No. it
couldn’t be that, for it was wanton boys that
swim on bladders. Anyhow, he remembered
“they kill us for their sport.” Shakspeare
wasn’t much good to him, as he had told
them when he ran away from school. He
was getting mixed. Of course, he had no
right in this place at all. It was quite acci-
dental. But it was just that about the flies
that lie wanted to understand. They were
so thick at Still Springs. No wonder the
gods killed men if m'en pestered them as the
flies pestered men. fie had worked that out
well. Now he understood. It was a pity he
had dropped into this old cracked saucer of
a plain where one of the gods had poured out
the light to cool and then drunk it up. He
had learnt about the gods at school,.too. But
it was terrible to think of dying. He would
never have thought it could be so awful —.so
empty—so entirely meaningless! He couldn’t
help struggling against it. Still, it would
serve Joe Farrar right, and he wouldn’t he
so stingy next time. If 0n1y....Ah!
The heavy circle of the sky descended and
crushed him. Night and death come quickly
in the tropics.
FREDERICE T. MACARTNEY.
Eve and the Morning.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was in the fragrant dawning of Janu-
ary 1, in the year One, that Eve
opened her large, sleepy, brown eyes
and looked round thoughtfully on the partly
Mesopotamian and partly Mesozoic land-
scape. A thin, warm mist arose from the
soil and wrapped her in its folds like a
garment bought at the bargain counter of
the drapery emporium of Nature, then just
opened for business. The trees were tall
and green. The earth was green. An
anonymous river which flowed almost at the
First Lady’s- feet was blue, and the anony-
mous lake that received its waters was
bluish-green. Million-colored birds and but-
terflies the size of tents, were in the air.
There was beauty everywhere, and, above
all, the globe, for the first and last time in
its life, smelled new. The smell of a new
globe, fresh from the oven, so to speak, is
something never to be forgotten by those
who have experienced it.
Eve was 23, having been created that way
the day before, with her Hebrew birth-certi-
ficate to prove it. Twenty-three is the best
age for a woman. She was straight and
graceful and strong aaid offt. high, and 51ft.
is the best height for a woman—especially
a New Woman. Eve was the only genuine
New Woman, though vainglo'rious impostors
have fraudulently claimed the title. Adam
was 27, and his birth-certificate was in
Aramaic to prevent their marriage being
within the prohibited degrees and arousing
comment.
The new queen sat up and brushed a
pterodactyl—the makeshift or acting flea of
the period—out of her wonderful hair, and
looked about her. She wasn’t at all sure
that she was satisfied with her lot, though
she had all the lot there was, barring the
bit that was left for Adam. She had been
born, to her great surprise, in the after-
noon, and married at sunset before she had
time to turn round. Already she wondered
in a blase sort of fashion if she had made
the best use of her opportunities, and if she
might not have done better. She wa's
frankly bored. Later she learned that
there were 000 years to be bored in, for she
lived to a great age, retaining her beauty to
the last, and she no longer hurried to bore
herself. Later, too, she realised that she
had unexpected things to be grateful for.
It was given to her to be the pioneer woman
—to invent sin, to invent marriagfe and to
invent beihg a woman. The patents of all
these inventions have expired, particularly
the first one.
Mrs. Eve suffered from a certain amount
of bodily discomfort to aggravate her mental
state. The new four-post bedstead of leaves
had proved hard and lumpy, and there were
red marks on parts of her produced through
lying down on parts of her that no woman
had ever lain down on before. The counter-
pane of boughs was quite insufficient, and
her feet had been sticking out all night. So
had Adam’s, and Eve remarked critically
that her husband would require a large
size in boots when boots came to be worn.
Blip almost decided that-the bedroom was
stuffy—an unreasonable idea, for it had
neither walls nor roof, and, in any case,
Adam had left both windows open the pre-
vious evening. Incidentally, the bride re-
solved that her first move in the intricate
game of life would be to make herself a
nightdress.
Some of the larger and more polite mam-
mals and a partially-reformed lizard of the
three-ton school had called the previous
evening to celebrate the fact that it was the
first evening that ever was. to congratulate
the young couple, and to discuss plans for
the management of the fresh globe. Not
one of them brought his wife to talk chif-
fons to the hostess, and after fuming for
a while Eve had pointedly asked the eldest
if his dame didn’t regard her as respectable,
The reply that she would call as" soon as
Eve got some clothes rather widened the
breach than otherwise. The visitors stayed
on drinking water with Adam till a late
hour, and some of them left with a perc-ep-
tible stagger. So the young wife went to
bed late and tired, not satisfied with the
past and hardly troubling to be curious about
the future.
Still sitting up in the only bedstead on
earth, and keeping half-pound flies off her
back with, an impatient hand, Eve inspected
the sleeping stranger, or almost-stranger.
whom she had thoughtlessly wedded. She
wondered languidly about his past, and per-
suaded herself that he bore traces of dissi-
pation. His aspect, she decided, was that
of a man who had been out all night. It
was the illogical way of woman. Adam had
been out all night. All the world was “out"
then, and “in” hadn’t been invented. As
he slept on Eve wondered what was the
recipe for waking a husband who didn’t
seem to know enough to wake himself. As
no husband had ever been shaken by his
wife before, precedent was lacking,
The First Husband woke at length, and
after some brisk recrimination the pair be-
came reconciled, and swam together in the
blue river and the bluish-green lake. At
breakfast Eve tried hard to extract some
information about her husband’s people, and
the dispute flared up again when she’ was
merely informed that when she could cook
half as well as the elder Mrs. Adam she
would be a better ornament to society than
she was. On his wife pouring some weak
tea over herself to simulate tears (she
learned how to-produce real tears later) he
hurriedly relented, however, and admitted
that the alleged lady didn’t exist. In fact,
he was a foundling. So Eve brushed her
husband carefully, and started him away
to his office, where he was setting up in
the importing business, with marine insur-
nnee as a side-line. Then she drifted back
to her housekeeping with the long, easy
stride of a matron unencumbered by skirts,
and found the first-known applicant for a
housemaid’s job waiting on the doorstep,
Sin* was a draggled, slovenly creature with-
out references, and said she'was an ourang-
outang, and also a grass-widow who had
been “deceived.” She alleged that she could
cook, and she carried an unwholesome baby-
ape under her left arm.
Eve and Jezebel are almost the only
women who have a big place of their own
j n Scripture history, for Esther and Ruth
are interpolations who could be left out
with no damage to the continuity of the
narrative. Women get a very poor show in
Holy Writ. Solomon owned 1000 wives, of
whom 700 were royal, and save that one is
named once they might all have been Ann
Smith. The usual formula reads: “And the
king slept with his fathers, who grumbled
a little but moved up to make room for
him ; and Shekeliah, his son, reigned in his
stead. And his mother’s name was Tibu-
hurra of Beth-Drought.” Very often poor
Queen Tibuburra was denied even that scrap
of attention.
JAMES EDMOND.


. f
.. -
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Fentherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— 98 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
7
S'
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2inches;
Weight G2lb.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
P. g,W. Chandler Ply. Ltd., BSr&SU
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
A
cj u
Man: this is the iron
the wife wants
—get it!
Haven’t you noticed how tired-out the wife is every ironing day—
after she has been toiling in the summer heat over hot stoves and
with old-fashioned flat-irons?
. It’s not a fair thing.
WITH A
“SPOT-REVO”
ELECTRIC
IRON
Ehe’ll iron in cool comfort and convenience. She’ll finish her ironing
earlier. There’ll be no after-ironing tiredness; in short, ironing
will cease to be a drudgery and become a pleasure.
Then there are two other things it’s worth your while considering :
One: Dinner will always be on time on ironing day as other days—
prepared with the care she likes to give it if the minutes permit;
and, two, your shirts, etc., will be ironed even better than they
are now.
Sir—an ironmonger or electrician will supply you with a
“Spot-Revo.” Get after it to-day.
IT WILL COST <PJd AND IT’S GUARANTEED
YOU ONLY O 0 " FOR THREE YEARS;
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL PTY., LTD.,
Head Office : 172=176 William St., Melbourne.
Sydney Office : 251) Kent Street.
fdg
FOUR Good Reasons
dfgdf
Three Different
Cartridges
15 Shots at Will
Quick and Sure
Convenient to
Clean and
Carry
for Buying a
Remington.. 22
This repeating rifle is chambered to take
without adjustment the .22 short, long or
long-rifle cartridge.
The magazine holds 15 short or 11 long or
10 long-rifle cartridges. Ready for instant use.
After firing, just slide the fore-end back and
forward, which operation ejects the empty
case and passes a cartridge instantly from
the magazine into the chamber —and repeat.
May be taken apart without tools. The barrel,
therefore, may be cleaned from the breech.
The breech block is easily removed so that the
mechanism and bore can be kept in perfect
condition. ,
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
G. P* O. Box 686, Melbourne, Victoria
0-8
f TO INSURE A >
“Good Morning”
—take Beecham’s Pills the night before. One of the
best corrective medicines for the stomach, liver and
bowels. They act promptly, surely and pleasantly;
relieve constipation, correct biliousness and improve
the digestion. Take one or two just before going to
bed, and you will awake in the morning feeling
fresh, fit and fine.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are a family remedy, tested and proved by over
seventy years’ successful use by people in all parts of
the world. The supremacy and efficiency of
Beecham’s Pills are due to their careful composition
from the finest medicinal herbs, without admixture of
any harmful or habit-forming drug. Taken as directed,
these pills relieve digestive disorders and promote the
health of the bodily organs, At night, if your stomach
is upset, or you are bilious, have a dull headache, and
feel out-of-sorts—take Beecham’s Pills, and in the
morning you will find that thev
Make All the
Difference
fpjlsfir-
W 4.
m
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled
(original English prices.)
gfdg
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and S'eed
Grading, Koad Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY.LTD.Jootscray.Vic.
fdg
• A I
netos
are
• • -■ ... " rJ> ‘ V
dfg
Not because we say so,
but because tests have
proved so. One of the
most fearless and inde-
pendent Motor Jour-
nals published, “The
Australian Motorist,”
has, in its May issue, a.
most informative
article comparing' the
Modern British Mag-
neto with the German
Bosch, and the conclu-
sion arrived at is that
the British Magneto is
a most superior instru-
ment in every way,
particularly in Design,
Workmanship and Quality of materials used.
Our experience in handling British Magnetos has been one of
pleasure, inasmuch as every customer supplied is a satisfied one.
Here is our present list of British Magnetos:—
E.I.C. Single-cylinder Magneto, £B/15-
Fellows Single-cylinder Magneto, £lOlO/-
Thomson-Bennett Single-cylinder Magneto—
£l3/13/-
E.I.C. Twin-cylinder Magneto, 45°, £8 15/-
Thomson-Bennett Twin-cylinder Magneto, 45° —
£l3/13/-
Fellows 4-cylinder Magneto, £l9/2/-
Fellows 6-cylinder Magneto, £22/12/-
Also in stock:—
MAGNETO OUTFITS FOR FORDS—
equipped with impulse Starter, and including Silent Chain Drive,
Switch, Wires, etc., £25
SWANS LIMITED,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers* Supplies.


'mm
- . - , ' £>
' \. v . • . i;"V . ' ■; _ ;/. s • . '
The Spirit of
REALITY
-
Reality is better than dreams
for it has to do with things as
they are and not as they might
be. What matter to-morrow if
to-day be kind? The cup of
life can never hold a greater
measure of happy content
than that ever found in
Bettar’s
