

.
I i, ■ ■ ■■ ‘ 1 • ;
j i U . J - : i: •>>
nj.n
V--'
r •v.
' ■ ' Vi : '
; v.: iUj .V-v/fKv.
I ...
■H
4 ■ '"■) ■ ■
at Your
Your Car can give no better service than the service rendered
by the individual parts of which it is composed.
rr.-.te/;:
■■
' • ,i
mb
v; ■ • ■•,
\
ARE BUILT FROM THE GROUND UP TO GIVE
UNINTERRUPTED YEAR-ROUND SERVICE. They are so
carefully and honestly constructed from start to finish that all likeli-
hood of trouble is minimised. The assurance of long, satisfactory
service is vouchsafed by the time-honored name they bear.
But
Xb
Service does not End Here!
In order to keep each piece of mechanism operating at the highest
point of efficiency, and to maintain the long-lived service that is
built into each Stewart Product a chain of Stewart Service Stations
has been established in every principal city and town through-
out the world, where Stewart Experts are ready to make adjust-
ments, repairs or replacements on any Stewart Product.
ACCESSORIES POSSESSING SUCH “BUILT-IN” SERVICE IN
THEMSELVES CANNOT BUT CONTRIBUTE ADDITIONAL
SERVICE TO THE CAR ON WHICH THEY ARE INSTALLED.
dteuxM SPEEDOMETERS, WARNING SIGNALS,
VACUUM SYSTEMS, SEARCHLIGHTS, etc., are obtainable
from all leading accessory houses throughout Australia, including
the following interstate STEWART SERVICE STATIONS.
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney; Berry & Roche Pty., Ltd.,
Swanston Street, Melbourne; Cornell, Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide; Arthur
Christian, Hay Street, Perth; Martin Wilson Bros., Ltd., Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
n
m
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2197.
Thursday, March 23, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.,'Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


The new Library Catalogue for 1022 is in
prpnnrnHon and w iJl be forwarded when
ready, with full terms, etc., post free c
apnli-fiHon. Telenhnhe 6431.
DYMOGIv’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A pew and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED) 0 Spring Street, Sydney.
S-ffi-Jsii
a\!SSUSfS!U,"|j|i|
m
INTERMITTENT LOADS
require a belt of considerable elasticity and' high
tensible strength.
MANGROVITE RAW-HIDE BELTING
is particularly adapted by its specdal tannage for
work where the arc of contact is small and the belt-
speed high.
Our staff of experienced engineers is ready with facts
and figures to prove that MANGROVITE LEATHER
OR RAW-HIDE BELTING is superior under all ,
conditions of manufacture. Order now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Direotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 307 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co., Fremantle.
TASMANIA : Herirv Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd.. Hobart.
QUEENSLAND; Philip Frankei & Co.. Ltd., Brisbane.
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Tieo
V/
nm
MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
100% Efficiency Ideal Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club, school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an '“IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN HE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWEIt will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users:—
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
AUSTRALIA:
T. TURNER SHAW. Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTH. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq.. Maeedon.
PHILIP -RUSSELL, Esq., Beaufort.
T. W. GUNNERSON, Esq., Balwyn.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, Melbourne.
NORTHCOTE CITY COUNCIL, Melbourne.
#
m
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
The “IDEAL JUNIOR” is specially made for private lawns. Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
Sole Australasian
Agents:
C. J. WHITE & SONS,
172 Little Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
The New Streamline Model
v
THE
It is often so difficult to find a present that is both
useful and ornamental—The Onoto Streamline is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it combines with
its elegant design all the practical utility of Onoto—
the Pen —safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every handwriting.
THOMAS IMS LA RUE & CO., LTD., Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS.
TO
5m
7
2
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE I/-
E'’
4 «
rm
St
a A
The Red Page
Rhetorical Poetry
Even in ancient Athens, where it was
born, the word “rhetoric” was sometimes
spoken with an inflection of contempt; on
the other hand, the commonsensc of the ages
has given it a place, and it still retains its
first and best meaning in the classrooms of
many universities. Rhetoric is simply the
art of speech; and in the attempt to deny
that speech is an art lies much of the modern
confusion. The Chinese have this matter
better. They define poetry as “purity of
language”; and such a definition broadly
applied really covers the whole field. Real-
ising that speech is simply thought made
vocal, the straining and clarifying of that
thought to its last and finest expression
must be poetry, though the quality of the
poetry will still depend on the value of the
thought.
Some sort of idea has grown up among
verse-writers that to use language strangely
is the one thing necessary; and many maga-
zine editors fall into the trap and readily
publish a mass of extraordinary words
thrown into something which is or looks
like a verse form. No notice is taken of
the plain fact that the thing could have been
said more intelligently, sweetly and force-
fully in well-chosen common words following
a natural prose sequence. New critical stan-
dards demand the bizarre and clumsy ; and
the constant publication of such verse creates
a taste for it. The lovers of this so-called
poetry have become prominent in little
coteries the world over —coteries exactly
similar to those which follow table-rapping
and spiritism and which have no remotest
connection with the puzzled mass of literary
readers whose poetry love ended with Tenny-
son and the Brownings.
What is needed as an antidote for all this
is the honest recognition of rhetoric and its
restoration to its true place as the founda-
tion of poetry. Behind the finest expression
of which language is capable must lie the
science of speech. The broken language of
a child always contains hints and sugges-
tions of essential poetry, but only a very
foolish blindness could exalt such hints to
the level of great song. Nothing written in
modern years can afford one iota of proof
that the standards of English poetry in the
past were wrong ; and even in our great lyrics
there is always a rhetorical basis. The “Ode
to the Nightingale” is strictly a rhetorical
poem; so is that to the West Wind. Even
the Elizabethan songs generally come under
such a description, though there an occa-
sional appearance of rustic simplicity is em-
ployed as the art which hides the art. Epic,
drama, lyric—all our verse up to the present
century is honestly built upon the foundation
of ordered and artistic speech; and the
momentary attempt to break with tradition,
skill and plain sense has produced no poem
that is even worthy to be called second-rate.
But there is a mass of English verse
which is more strictly rhetorical than the
rest in that, while it never reaches the in-
spired word, it has almost exactly the same
thrill for the superficial emotions as the
passionate speech of the trained \orator.
Sometimes it is used for narrative purposes,
sometimes for didactic; but at its very best
it may be fairly enough claimed that it
touches poetry. Dozens of modern writers
of fine rhetorical verse could be quoted;
but two of the most striking are Macaulay
and Lowell. Where are such lines as these
to be placed by modern criticism? —
The sentinel on Whitehall gate looked forth into
the night,
And saw o’erhanging Richmond Hill the streak of
blood-red light;
Then bugle’s note and cannon’s roar the deathlike
silence broke.
And with one start, and with one cry, the royal city
woke.
At once on a-11 her stately gates arose the answering
fires ;
At once the wild alarum clashed from all her reeling
spires ;
From all the batteries of the Tower pealed loud the
voice of fear ;
And all the thousand masts of Thames sent back a
louder cheer ;
And from the furthest wards was heard the rush of
hurrying feel,
And the broad stream of pikes and flags rushed down
each roaring street;
And broader still became the blaze, and louder still
the din,
As fast from every village round the horse came
spurring in.
The lines are certainly rugged and they
have a quality akin to prose; but there is
a rush and excitement about them and the
picture is very clear. Could fl.e scene
have been better described, or is this the dis-
tilled essence of language to match the
author’s purpose? Naturally we think of
“The Ancient Mariner,” of “La Belle Dame,”
of a few lines in Wordsworth’s sonnets,
aiid remember how more exquisite speech
can be; but it is speech applied to other
purposes, and these rugged lines have a
rugged emotion that suits a rugged theme.
Surely they have their place; and that
place is well within the circumference of
poetry.
Or hear Lowell: —
Slowly the Bible of the race is writ
And not on paper loaves nor leaves of stone;
Each age, each kindred, adds a verse to it,
Texts of despair or hope, of joy or moan.
While swings the sea, while mists the mountains
shroud,
While thunder’s surges burst on cliffs of cloud,
Still at the prophets' feet the nations sit.
There is nothing exquisite there, nothing
fieyond the commonplace except the general
idea. But that idea is finely and even
grandly poetical; and the writer with direct
purpose to make others see it has stated
it 'in the most direct way.
The tendency to despise work of this
kind has probably reached its limit. Lowell
is a good craftsman to a point, a good
teacher of new gospels, a man of very large
vision. From his peculiar angle he has
used language very finely, and there is
even a poetry in his elimination; of much
that might have made his burning message
vagpe and uncertain. To give a place to
such rhetorical poets is to restore to poetry
much of its force and purpose; and that
such a restoration is going on is proved
by the extent to which Bvron and a few
of fthe more forceful and less exquisite
poets are being read. No doubt they are
still excluded from the coteries who murmur
the rather incoherent phrases which often
pass for modern song; but the general
reader will wisely enough sum up his prefer-
ences in demanding the poet with something
to say. Let us have the most exquisite
expression that we can; but it is surely a
mistake to reduce all the flower garden to
the scent and all the range of human
emotion to that which can be said in a
manner extravagantly bizarre.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Renunciation in Literature
Youth is a heartless age. We rush
through it, attuning our being to a medley
of happy hours, pausing for a moment to
greet beauty in some external form, but
ever passing on with Circumstance as our
guide and Folly as our companion. There
is so much to be done and so little time at
our disposal that renunciation, while at
times it may enter our minds, does not
attract serious attention; we are wont to
ask what else should we do than enjoy this
youth and color and glory when it is ours
to have? Why should we not squander these
rich days that are with us now and will not
come again?
“What shall be done to quiet the heart-cry
of the world?” says A.E., the Irish mystic,
the friend of Moore and Yeats, in “The
Hero in Man.” When the Meynells gave
the diseased Francis Thompson, then wait-
ing “the inevitable last,” a place by their
fireside and made him welcome to their
home, they did more than restore faith to
one forsaken soul; they served poetry with
an ardor that many generations will not
diminish. Some would have given the
stranger a tract instructing him that death
was preferable to shame (typified, accord-
ing to education or the lack of it, by poverty
or by illegitimacy), and, in directing him
to the workhouse, have left him to his
laudanum and his pantheism. If any man
ever discovered the fullness of life in renun-
ciation, that man was Thompson.
From the beginning of time, man’s soul
has passed through the crucible of sorrow
before it emerged in a more purified state.
Through the tragedy of circumstance, man
has been hounded and driven, but the
intensity of his sufferings has cleansed
his body of “the perilous stuff,” and
death, when it comes, is accompanied
by the rich reward of immortality. The
literature of every age and every country is
fertile soil wherein examples of devotion,
sacrifice, reverence and courage have been
sown. The Romans, if they cannot roll
on their lips the splendid names of Milti-
ades, Aristides and Pericles, can at least
extol the bravSVy of Horatius, the philan-
thropy of the Gracchi and the clemency of
Julius Caesar. . But we proceed more readily
to Greece for intellectual achievements than
to the city where militarism was the order
of the day. The plays of Euripides present
a prolonged ritual, yet there is an underlying
spirit, tending towards the unification of
mankind into one exalted principle.
So. as the centuries pass, there arises
in St. Francis of Assisi . one whose fervor
was so great that his life became the reflect-
ing lante.rn of his principles. He discovered
the spiritual wealth of poverty, and light-
heartedly took all forms of nature into his
confidence; like Saint Augustine he saw
life in its divine significance. His confes-
sions are his acts of faith. And how is it
that Thomas a Kempis, a poor Flemish
monk, speaks in a voice that many hear
through intervening centuries? We can but
answer that so charitable was his existence,
so simple and so well-ordered, that the
sweetness of it clings around his “Imitation
of Christ” like the odor round the body of
a dead rose.
If only we could realise that life, to use
a phrase of Shelley, is like a dome of many-
colored glass through which now and again
we catch glimpses of the white radiance of
eternity, what tears would be spared ns,
what envy crushed within our breasts!
The poet writes ten thousand lines before
he brings forth one of surpassing beauty or
an ode that is flawless—that is his reward.
If by our toil we reach the exquisite moment
when the renunciant sees the fruit of liis
action—that is ours. Does not this Very
spirit of renunciation underlie the “Essays
of Elia” and permeate the very fibres of
their author? Cervantes knew it. Edmond
Rostand knew it, and hundreds of others
have known it. The Mirando of the
Spaniard’s “Numantia” and the Roxane of
the Frenchman’s “Cyrano de Bergerac” both
achieve by their sacrifices- a fleeting glance
into the true gospel of t existence: the one
when he gives his betrothed the bread for
which he has bargained with death, the
other when she t«lls Cyrano of her love for
him ere the walls of piety and umvorldli-
ness enclose her for ever. “All adventure,
all love, every success,” says Conrad in
his study of Henry James, “is resumed in
the supreme enersrv of renunciation. It is
the utmost limit of our power.”
WILFRID LEICESTER.
Jezebel
Isabel of Samaria, marked down for special
reproach through being spelled with a “.I”
and a “z,” ranks as one of the great women
of history, though her sphere was limited.
Especially she ranks as on» of the wonderful
old women of history. The record of her
that remains.to us. was written by a person
who didn’t sign bis political articles as re-
quired by the Federal law. and preferred to
be an anonymous slabber in the dark. But
though his venom was tremendous he is un-
convincing; and it is time that the case
against the lady should be retried. Litera-
ture-historical and otherwise—is speckled
with characters who are suffering similarly;
and it seems necessary to establish a Court
of Anneal for Departed Spirits.* As for
Isabel in particular, nothing, to begin with,
was ever proved against her moral standing.
(Gontinued on page 25.)


JL
V
Practical Autumn Styles in Quality Blouses
at Anthony Horderns’
Your Autumn Blouse problem finds a
ready solution at Anthony Horderns
however limited your shopping allowance.
Exquisite garments, equally suitable for
the ever-popular Blouse-and-Skirt Outfit
for between seasons, or to supply a
lightening note to the Winter Costume,
are presented in infinite variety and are
priced with surprising moderateness.
Write for the Fashion Catalogue. It
illustrates many charming Styles for
Autumn and Winter. A copy will be
posted you free.
IX4I2.—VERY HEAVY IVORY CREPE DE
CHIXE is used for a smart blouse, which has a
long roll collar, upon which appear dainty sprays
of embroidery; shoulder yoke, and turned-back
cuffs are details of smart cut
that give this blouse an air of
PRICE
45-
IX4SS.—EICH IVORY CREPE DE CHIXE
is used in a very smart blouse, upon which heavy
cable stitching serves as effective ornaments. The
shoulder, yoke and the sleeve-seams are outlined
with it, and it also appears on the front in lines,
which give square effect. This
blouse may also be had in Pink
and Sand. PRICE \.
37/6
1X339.—A VERY ATTRACTIVE SHIRT
BLOUSE, in heavyweight Crepe de Chine, has a
long roll collar,, with sprays of ■ enetian embroi-
dery and rever fronts, finished with self loops.
Faggot stitching and pin tucks are a further
finish to the front. This blouse
may ;be had in Ivory, Black,
Xavy, Putty. PBICE
39|6
(R
A
MX 4112
V
V
I***4
*0
n
M 455
Cl
O
> 9& <£3 y.
•#&Be&z*4
»"*»• W*-**
o
'
□
/
50.
•H*
.«»
(U«
»»»•*
•»v
W
1X283. A KOUXD-'NECKED STYLE, in rich ivory Crepe de Chine,
has openwork stitching forming square effect in front, and outlining
a particularly charming spray of Venetian embroi-
dery an ornamentation that is supplemented with
tucks. PRICE
2416
1X490. DAINTY GEORGETTE BLOUSE, cut on magyar line,
and having the short basque effect that is so popular this season.
Ihe front is richly headed with contrasting beads, and the beaded
design is carried right round the neck. In Pink,
Sand Champagne or Black Georgette. •
PRICE
n
1X450.—A ROUND-XECKED GEORGETTE BLOUSE has neck
and sleeves bound with satin to tone, and is finished with rieh sprays
of hand embroidery. This blouse may be had in
Ivory, Sand, Pink, Navy or Black.
PRICE
23|6
WE PAY CARRIAGE ON FASHION GOODS
in N.S.W., and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


Easter is
the best time
to start.
There is no better time than Easter to make a start with
Kodak photography. The making of pictures will add to
your pleasure over the holidays—the pictures themselves
will be a source of happiness for the future.
The No. 3 Box Brownie is a simple
and dependable model that is used by
thousands of enthusiasts the world
over. It takes good pictures 3\ x
inches—price 26/6—just what you
need to make pictures easily, and with
a minimum of expense.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior
is an instrument of high efficiency,
fitted with every appointment you
need for good picture-making. It is
thin—shaped to fit the pocket—and
convenient to carry. lakes good
photographs inches. Price 87/-
Ask for the Special Baiter Folder —
“ Hold Fast to Ha -pij Memories
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PT Y. LTD.,
Wellington, N.Z. PPiies Co., Perth, The Kodak Corner, corner Lambton Quay and Willis St.,
i - -w >
. X*' . -
Ip IS! 111 > \
- . ■
Jn 1 i." 1 /
•: • . . ■ " '*.;,; :
i
j •
X:' - Vv
rx,:
;xi-
Pfci
* X
I
wmm,:.
■
t
m m
:
' 'f\
m
Hi
m H
“ His Master's Voice ”
Double-sided Black Label Records
. ® Se S S7 eS nUmber man y wonderful records, among them the selection quoted
fo all Jr! Va --H y M OV f S ' e w W* 1 their quality is known
to all who use His Master s Voice Records—the world’s clearest and best.
E SERIES, lOin, 8/-
El 3
[ Etude—A Major.
1 Huinoreske (op. 101,
No. 7).
•Mark Hambourg.
E3B
i Antonia’s Song (Tales of Hoffmann)—Nora D’Argel
l Musetta's Song (Ea Boheme)—Violet Essex.
E4l
Little Playmates.
Tommy Lad.
-Harry Dearth.
E 59
Koses.
The Sweetest Flower that Blows.
_ _ _ —John Harrison.
E 74
f D’ye ken John Peel,
j The Meynell Hunt.
•1 —Robert Radford.
m
The Admiral’s Broom.
The Drum Major.
—Charles Tree.
D SERIES, 12in„ 12/-
D 55
f f Voi che sapete (Marriage of Figaro).
Ah! Io so, piu non m’avanza (The 3lagic Flute)
l —Stella Power.
D6B
f Norwegian Bridal March. '
•I (a) Pastoral; (b) Capriccio.
I —Mark Hambourg.
1)88
f Hungarian Dance in D Minor: No. 2—Late J. Joachim.
I Death and the Maiden—Philharmonic String Quartet.
0155
f Mors et Vita —Judex.
' Philemon et Baucis: Danse des Bacchantes.
I —Royal Albert Hall Orchestra.
DlBO
f Salut d’amoiir.
] Chanson de ■Nnit.
—Symphony Orchestra.
D2Ol
Agatha Green.
Catch Me!
—Margaret Cooper.
1)209
f A Dinder Courtship.
j Bashful Tom.
■Harry Dearth.
D 222
fAn Old Garden.
| The Devout Dover.,
*■ —Stewart Gardner.
D 236
My Pretty Jane.
My Sweetheart When a Boy.
—John Harrison.
D 247
[ Charles—Kennerley Rtimford.
i Will o* tne Wisp—Charles Tree.
D 272
f The Wanderer. . -. >•
j The Windmill.
—Robert Radford.
D 309
fO, Gladsome Bight,
j Oh, Hush Thee, My Babie.
L —Quartet.
D 351
Silver Threads Among the Gold (’Cello)
Valse Apache (’Cello).
—W. H. Squire.
D 352
f Scherzo Capriccio (Flute),
j Wind Among: the Trees (Flute).
I —John Lemmone.
D 373
f The Fallen Star.
j My Old Dutch.
—Albert Chevalier.
D 393
f Doughie the Baker.
-{ I Bove a Lassie.
I - —Sir Harry Lauder.
COMPLETE
SETS.
Pirates of Penzance—
(with album), £6/17/6
A Dover in Damascus—
£l/4/-
In a Persian Garden—
£2/16/-
Write for full record lists, instrument catalogue and name of nearest dealer.
THe Gramophone Co., Ltd.
“Gramophone”
Regd. Trade-mark,
103 Pitt Street Sydney.
“His Master’s Voice”
Regd. Trade-mark.
nm
n
m
n


PINKETTES
FOR CONSTIPATION
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Mains’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALL THE
NEW DRESSES ARjii WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any materials
21/- Complete Outfit.
Full directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a Jt REE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
1
I THE FAMOUS K
1 COD LIVER; f
/ OIL \
f EMULSION 1
and Wasting
k, Disorders i
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
mn
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
g£Si; « ..**:*«
WJ
«
CHARMING
WALNUT HAIR
All admire that exquisite
shade of youthful Walnut
which is so simply and easily
obtained with
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Perfectly harmless to even the
most delicate skin. Assuredly
Permanent and Waterproof.
Obtainable from all Chemists.
[9
m
A Tooth Paste
of Quality.
Because it is lower in price than
others do not imagine that it is vvnat
is commonly termed as “cheap.”
Eudenta is equal to the higher-priced
dentifrices in quality; its local
origin makes it possible
to retail it at !/• tube.
Your Chemist
Sells It.
£52
m
n
m
A" SWAN ” Pen is more than a con-
venience for busy writers; it is a
necessity. It is the pen which
never needs coaxing, for its reliable feed
ensures a steady flow of ink the instant
the nib touches the paper. Never a scratch,
blot or awkward break in the middle of a
word; just a smooth, easy glide—that’s
what the “Swan” Pen means to YOU.
Sold bv Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post free
MABIE, TODD Co., Ltd.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street,
London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
nm
f
J. A. BURKE 5.
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
Primrose Buildings. 255 a, George St., SYDNEY.
Genuine
French
Briar.
c
R
A
4RC*
100
Years
Old.
n
The upper pipe shows the MARCEE-DE-LUXE —a pipe
of super-quaLty. Made from century-old French Briar
Root —specially hardened and seasoned, fitted with super-
fine vulcanite mouthpiece. A pipe that every
smoker will appreciate —
15/=
The lower pipe is a MARCEE —one of the famous GBD
family—made from Briar Root —guaranteed over 100
years old. Beautifully marked and full of
smoke- satisfaction—
mn
ALL TOBACCONISTS AND STORES.
If you have any difficulty in securing these famous
pipes send remittance to Box 502 G.P.0., Sydney, and
your order will receive prompt attention.
mn
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Jest.
The banks from recent rains were green,
The gum-trees hung a fresher leaf;
You said “Since sadder days have been,
Dear woman, let us fool grim Grief —
Just for a day together rove,
And for a jest pretend we love.’’
You lied “I never loved before.’’
I smiled and linked my lie to yours.
And so our gay boat left the shore
(Blue distance is more fair than shores).
And when red sunset turned to grey
We had not known a shorter day.
We parted with a laugh; and yet
I cannot feel that we were wise
Who did not know before we met
That love can come with jesting eyes.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Moonshine.
The night is Nature’s way of seeing God;
The limpid loneliness is as a prayer
Rising to Heaven from the kindred sod.
So tender is it all, so very fair
It seems the heart of peace found birth in
these
Soft veils of light and languid swells of- air.
A gentle quiet reigns save where the trees
Give out an echo of the singing wind,
Echoed again by the sweet singing seas.
Ah, surely all this beauty is most kind
And will encompass me! Oh, I could
fling
My arms about this dear brown earth and-
bind
It ever to my heart, and sing, and sing.
For I am mad with beauty and the lure
Of every large and every little thing:
The slender stem that holds the leaf secure,
The merest weed before the wind a-swoon —
These, and all else that on the earth endure,
The sea pale at the slim feet of the moon —
Ah, soft she glides down to her silver
bath,
Casting aside her light and starry shoon,
Till now she swims within the singing sea,
Whilst I—l can but cry in ecstasy
To ease the overflowing heart of me!
N.S.W.
M. M.
If I Could See You Now.
If I could see you now! The night wind
blows
Across my heart and shivers on my breast,
And all the drowsy nestlings are at rest.
Only the pitying moon my sorrow knows,
And throws her silver where my head is
pressed
Against the smooth white trunks to rest my
brow.
The rustling murmur of the trees o’erhead,
The stir of leaves beneath, by night airs sped,
Take up my cry, and bear it on afar
Across the earth, beneath the first wan star.
To tremble where? What ears to reach?
and how?
The sighing wind its whispering answer
throws
That bears no word. If I could see you now.
If I could see you now! When Life was
young,
And lovers strayed beneath primeval trees,
Or pledged their vows by prehistoric seas,
And friend to friend in rare sweet union
When U .death or parting severed souls like
these, '
Then, raised to stone-clad gods, some grief-
wrung brow
Its anguish threw against the skies above
That smiled on death, as they had smiled on
love,
And pierced with yearning cry the senseless
air
To question ever should they meet, ana
where,
With cries on death to answer if, or how,
The sighing wind its useless dirges sung
That bore no word. If I might see you now I
If I might see you now! Oh, bitter moan
When love estranged, not death, has rent
love’s tie,
And time and distance build their barriers
high,
And love is all with coldness overgrown!
The breaking heart then thinks, if it were
nigh, .
If only Fate one meeting would allow,
Then all would be as it had been before,
Forgetting none may vanished hours restore.
For like a swirling flood Life rushes on,
And that once cast upon its breast is gone.
No gathering back the ruthless waves allow.
The sighing wind sweeps on with mournful
tone
That bears no word. If I could see you now I
If I could see you now! If you were here
Oh. desolate cry that beats and beats in vain
Against the sky that never heeds its plain!
When moons are high, or tender dawns are
near,
The heart bereft awakens to its pam
And storms the skies to answer “where? or
“how?” ,
Is there an answer? Time and death are
dumb!
Is there an answer? In some hour to home
Shall Hfe meet life, and friend again meet
friend ?
Or is this silence, silence to the end?
O Life! O I>nth! one sigh, but one, allow:
The sighing wind sweeps on in cadence drear
That bears no word. If I could see you
now!
N.S.AV.
G. M. V. KEABNEY.


\
z*.
u
The Burroughs Ledger Posting Machine
Have you ever considered how much of the work in a
Counting-house is purely mechanical—entering debits and credits,
adding the former and subtracting the latter?
A Burroughs Ledger Posting Machine can do all this mechan-
ical work more quickly than it can, be done even by an expert
bookkeeper. The bookkeeper writes down the figures and then
adds or subtracts—the machine writes down the figures as quickly
as the bookkeeper, and adds or subtracts at the same time. Imagine
the savi'ng—the figures written and added by the machine in the
same time that it takes a bookkeeper merely to write them. And
the totals of a Burroughs are always correct.
A Burroughs Ledger Posting Machine means neat, clear,
uniform and accurate work; an end to overtime; no more late
statements; the books balanced at the close of every day; the trial
balance at the first of each month. It means a Counting-house
changed from a department usually hard pressed to the point of
error to one that has ample time to do everything neatly, method-
ically and accurately.
Let us talk over the bookkeeping situation as it exists in your
offic.e. It will put you under no obligation and we believe our
advice may be helpful.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Challis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington,
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers, Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
Christchurch and Dunedin.
.....
Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines
4379


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2107.
TIiUKSDA Y. MARCH 23, 1922.
I'HICE GD.
MALVOLIO AND HIS MISTRESS.
AUSTRALIA: “You are sick of self-love, Malvolio, and it’s time you had a pill administered to you.” —Shakspeare (with variations).


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed anti published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Syclnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbooiine Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £ l 65.; 6 months, 135.; S months, 6s. 6d.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £ 1 10s.; 6
nionths, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 uords, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Neicspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllnck and White.
Anyone supplying to Ti:e Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a ament event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good tdea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re drawn —will be paid fo> as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus; and lE. Daivson aud Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The Britisli-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban : and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: ./. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan lloulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market' Streets,
San Franrisco. Neiv York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; lAberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Rgypt. — Jacques. Horn A- Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pcdder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — IP. G. P. Perera. 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. IJ. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. —. 4. Barker, Sura ; Harry Gardiner, Melropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postnge Rates.
Single copies of Tub Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Soz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz.,
3d.: lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, koz., lid., and
id. each additional Soz.
THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 1922.
IS IT TO BE THE BLOOD-BATH?
After the oracles had spoken at Lithgow
and Wollongong, the debating society at
Sydney School of Arts resolved, “by a large
majority,” that neither the Nationalists nor
the Laborites were worthy of confidence, both
having failed conspicuously when in office,
and that their policies and pre-selection
systems were alike rotten. SLght as the
incident is it expresses the feeling of the
average N. S. Wales elector towards the two
machine-controlled parties that are contend-
ing for his support. He sees little to ad-
mire in either, and a lot to condemn. Both
he finds lacking in leadership, inspiration,
sympathy with and understanding of the com-
mon man. And the insistence of each on
the total depravity of the other, when both
their records are black with sins of commis-
sion and omission, bores him stiff. In the
programmes of the rival leaders his political
thoughts and aspirations are unrepresented.
One repels him by its profusion ; the other
by its sterility. Chimeras are set before
him by the Labs; nlatitudes by the Libs.
The party of which he dreams, and which
would command his unswerving allegiance,
is one that would return to the enlightened
Kingston and Deakin tradition of hundred
per cent. Australianism and set its face
resolutely against the evil influences that are
stifling the orderly development of the Com-
monwealth —over-borrowing, Big-Cityism, Con-
tinental socialism, go-slow, and the wooden
resistance of the Tories to the worker’s
legitimate demand for the security denied
to him under the existing wages system—in
particular for some industrial equivalent
of tenant-right as regards his job. In the
absence of such a party the average Ma State
elector will go to the poll and vote for
Dooley or Fuller without enthusiasm and
without hope.
* 4 # #
The Government which will come up for
sentence on Saturday is by courtesy termed
Labor, although it has rejected nearly every
principle for which the old Labor party
stood. It got into office by making a toiest
of promises, none of which it has redeemed,
and hopes to retain power by the same
means, for the public has a short memory
and a long lee. Among other things, the
Ministry undertook to prick the profiteer
until he roared again, and a swarm of offi-
cials was appointed to chevy the small sub-
urban costumier and track the nefarious
greengrocer to his hiding-place. One of
these persons, who didn't happen to be a
defeated politician, served a summons upon
the Labor Lord Mayor for selling kerosene
above the fixed price. Promptly the prosecu-
tion was dropped and the sunject also. Exit
the great campaign against the profiteer.
Another promise was that farmers whose
war wheat was destroyed by mice and
weevils while under Government control
should be compensated by the Government.
Ilalf-a-million was mentioned. They are still
waiting for it. Freights were also to be reduced
on the railways and fares on the railways and
tramways. They went up heavily instead.
And still the railw’av deficit is expected to
reach £1,500,000 in two years. House-
building for tenants having been wiped out
by a multitude of restrictions, one of which
limited the owner’s return to less than he
could get by investing in War loans, the Gov-
ernment undertook to run up dwellings for
all the workers who wanted them. It did
build a few score, but at prices so prohibi-
tive that it has whole streets of them (at
least £BO,OOO worth) on its hands. Others
are occupied by good Labor men who refuse
either to nay rent for their over-capitalised
dug-outs or to quit. The “load of taxation”
was likewise to be “lightened.” In point of
fact the Government bumped up the income-
tax before Ministers had been in office seven
months. The increases were higher in nearly
every instance than the full rates then t and
now) existing in Victoria. That desperate ex-
pedient brought the Treasurer an additional
£2,091,000. Other imposts equally drastic
gave him a total increased revenue of
£5,462,000. But the Government was so
grossly improvident (for example, it added
£375 per annum to the Parliamentary stipend
and supported thousands of men who refused
to work at Broken Hill) that the year
1920-21 closed with a deficit of £445,000.
It is now* proposed to loot the taxpayer of
another £2.000,000 to balance the current
year’s accounts. A further £3,500,000 is
to be dragged from Heaven knows what
source for McGirr’s bribes to mothers. Yet
the industries of the country were never less
able to bear the burdens laid on them by
the Mad Ministry, and the other outrages in
contemplation. It was recently admitted by
one of the Labor papers—and that was before
disaster smote the iron and steel industry—
that 40,000 unionists were out of work.
* * * *
Australia has seen many incapable Gov-
ernments, but it has rarely had one that
was both incapable and perfidious. The
Dcoley-McGirr combination has added its
name to the list. It has distinguished itself
by its faithlessness, by its joyously-insolent
disregard for the sanctity of contracts, ex-
press or implied. In 1920 it tried —vainly,
as it happened—to enforce the sale of land
at its own price, payment to be made in
paper that was bound to depreciate, bearing,
as it did, interest at 2 per cent, less than
the market rate. When the Board of Trade
raised the basic wage from £3 17s. to £4
55., the cost of living having gone up, the
Government hastened to impose the increase
on every employer to whom it applied. When
the same Board knocked 3s. off the £4 os.,
the cost of living having gone down, the
Dooleys refused to gazette the reduction
on the ground that the Board didn’t know
what it was talking about, or some such
sophistry. This is the win-tie-or-wrangle
attitude of the push-bully; the morality of
the two-up tough who operates with a
double-headed penny. It is now announced
that Parliament is to take over the busi-
ness of raising wages and reducing hours
of labor. According to the chief advocate of
this new and perilous perversion of govern-
ment the basic wage is to be fixed by statute
at £4 ss. per week “for all time.” The under-
lying fallacy is that the workers can be
made rich by Act of Parliament. It is com-
petent for Parliament (which means a majo-
rity in the Assembly) to fix a wage of
£4 55., or £8 10s., or even £l7 if it feels
that way, but there is no way of compelling
payment of the fixed wage in industries
ruined by the exactions and extrava-
gance of the crowd in office. The
Government’s own minimum wage —the
£4 ss. it pays throughout the Depart-
ments —is only sustained by methods im-
possible of adoption by the farmer and
the manufacturer —by borrowing wildly, tax-
ing hugely and charging losses up to the
public and Posterity. Last year the
Dooleys increased the public debt by
£15,485,000, of which amount £7,935,000 was
expended in “public works and services of
a reproductive nature” ; this year the public
works expenditure alone is estimated to
absorb £11,874,000. (Incidentally, the more
they borrowed and the higher they taxed
the greater was the number of unemployed.)
Clearly, their whole policy of bribery and
buncombe is dependent on the goodwill of
moneylenders overseas. Take away the
monthly or bi-monthly loan, and the whole
fabric of fraud and folly—basic wage, 44-
hour Aveek, motherhood dole and all the
rest of it —would fall to the ground. Com-
pared with the glittering promises of
Dooley and McGirr Fuller’s programme
is cold and conventional. And there is no
great difference between Fuller’s policy
and that of Bruxner, the Progressive
leader, who lines up with Fuller on the
Dooley issue, except that Bruxner is a
sound New Stater and Fuller is cautiously
neutral. In that respect the Progressive
leader is preferable to the Nationalist. Un-
fortunately he has no chance of coming
back with a majority. The only present
alternative to the Mad Ministry—which will
be several degrees madder if McGirr gets
control —is a Government led by Fuller.
It is an alternative that is in no way ex-
hilarating, but Fuller is at least sincere
and safe. He is dull honesty opposed by
glozing humbug, with the Moscow Reds in
the background, and all N. S. Wales is the
prize. No one can whip up any enthusiasm
for the man or his programme, but he offers
the public a means of escape from the
calamities that threaten it from the other
crowd —-a few months of savage taxation
and hilarious borrowing, followed by
almighty crash, in which N. S. Wales may
not improbably get the “blood-bath” that
the Labor Council is already talking about.
THE FATAL POLICY OF HAVING
NONE.
The chief feature of the Empire’s post-war
policy on nearly all the big issues has been
hesitancy, opportunism, a tendency to cry
“No Surrender!” loudly, and then to sur-
render with the remark that surrender was
intended all along. Either of two policies
might have represented a saving of many
valuable lives and much money in the case
of, say, Ireland—the stark work of the 18th
century when the Welsh Eencibles so eliec-
tively silenced Newry, or the vastly different
theory of government which, after three
years’ desultory lighting, brougnt tne
Griffith-Collins delegation to London. A
weak-minded blend was bound to be disas-
trous. Not enough sympathy has been
extended by the world to the Black-
and-Tans: because their originators could
not make up their minds one way
or the other, those luckless soldier-
policemen were required to be blackguards
like gentlemen, to murder within the
Decalogue—an impossible job. The same
lack 01 policy has been pursued in Egypt,
where Downing-street, after vowing it would
ne er consent to an abandonment of the
Protectorate, has just consented; and it is
in evidence in India, too. Wherever one
side kno\vs what it wants and the other
shows by its actions that it does not —wher-
ever one side has mapped out a definite plan
of campaign while the other relies from day
to day on something turning up to avert the
threatened disaster—then it is not difficult
to tip the ultimate winner. Britain has
had to give ground in all its contests with
the nation-conscious peoples—even in the
case of such a contemptible crew as the
Gyppos—chiefly because its Coalition Gov-
ernment never handled any of these issues,
when they first arose, as urgent realities.
Arid Australia’s Federal Government and
the Nationalist parties of all the States
are doing the same in regard to the class-
conscious section which is aiming here at
a proletariat State. Our Communistic Sinn
Feiners and Non-Co-operators know just
what they want, or think they do, and are
going after it: the defenders of the old
order, the hosts of the Capitalistic citadel,
are hoping for the best, but making no real
effort to avert the threatened insanity.
* * * *
Ireland, outside the Empire, would only
have that mockery of freedom with which
the Belgians have been cursed for centuries;
Egypt and India left to themselves could
enjoy none at all as civilised States under-
stand the term. But if De Valera carries
the day against the upholders of the Treaty
Britain is not likely to fight; and the same
remark applies to Egypt if its De Valeras
get their way. Britain may be making a
fair recovery after the war, but it is not
nearly convalescent enough for another
great effort in the field. Capitalism is in an
even worse position, not because it need be,
but because it chooses to be. The tactics of
those who want to deal with it in Australia as
De \ alera would deal with the Empire con-
nection in Ireland, are well defined and ruth-
lessly simple: the opposition put up by such
opponents of revolution as W. M. Hughes
and George Fuller is merely flabby. Our
Miss Macswineys and Erskine Ciih.-
derses of industrialism—the hysterical
patriots of the Labor movement who hate
so vehemently that they scorn to consider
consequences—propose first to demand a
given wage. Say, £4 ss. Then more and
more—“blow upon blow,” to employ the old
anarchist slogan—till the Capitalist State
turns to fight for its life. Provision is being
made for that crisis—by Labor. Blakeley,
M.P., president of the A.W.U., in his
recent address from the chair to the dele-
gates, outlined some of the functions of the
newly-created Council of Action. In past
strikes he remarked, “the organisation for
the supply and distribution of foodstuffs has
been almost entirely in the hands of those
opposed to the strike: foodstuffs have been
commandeered by hostile Governments.” The
Council, “if clothed with the necessary
machinery and power,” will alter all that.
Once the 0.8. U. is an accomplished fact—
and it has more than the foundations laid—
the moment for the starting of the class war
will rest with two or three Trades Hall
dictators whose names may be as little
known to Australians as the name of the
ex-postal clerk Collins was to Englishmen
before the Irish war began. England could
do without Ireland, wherefore it was not
vital to hold Ireland. But for how long
could Australia do without Capitalism?
* * * *
It is one of Labor’s advantages that so many
well-advertised infamies have been done by
persons with money—and, for that matter,
are still being done and always must be—
that Capitalism has a bad name. The sys-
tem is confused with some of the individuals
who have misused it; just as after a great
war all soldiering tends to be confused with
militarism. Most of the Nationalist speak-
ers want seats in Parliament, and most of
the Nationalist writers are concerned to
help them in this respect; and so all are
disinclined to grasp the nettle of unpopu-
larity and offer a reasoned defence of a
system at which even the capitalists them-
selves launch a kick from time to time.
Public judgment has been going against Cap-
italism by default for so many years now
that the presentment of the case' for Capi-
talism on a public platform sounds in nine
ears out of ten like a reactionary paradox.
Yet if the tynicn.l Nationalist politicaln d : d
not usually prefer the opportunist method
of getting votes he might cut at the roots
of the tree which the Communists have
planted on some such lines as these:—
I am not asking you to vote against Brown be-
cause he goes jazzing on Sunday night, or lays
dummy foundation stones, or has been seen speak-
ing to a man who once burnt a Union Jack. Some
of the Empire’s most useful patriots and statesmen
have done worse. Bjiown’s whole offence is that he
is the creature of an organisation which is pledged
by its own written constitution to kick out of Aus-
tralia that which, with all its faults, stands between
us and Asia. There is a section here, as in other
countries, so class-conscious that arguments based on
reason are useless with them. They correspond to
those suicidal Irishmen who would see their country
ruined industrially and laid open to foreign invasion
rather than shake hands with a Sassenach. Disre-
garding them I turn to the worker whose love of
freedom and dislike of domination by a colored race
are stronger than his jealousy of the wealthy. To
him I say that a Communist Australia would not
remain white, as the nations are aligned to-day, for
six months. Credit, which is Capitalism, saved
Australia in the late war. Without it we could not
have maintained one efficient warship, much less that
up-to-date navy which made a German landing im-
possible and the briefest of bombardments unlikely.
Without it we could not. have sent one man overseas.
The nation would thus have saved its skin to the
extent of 60,000 lives, but it would have lost its
soul for all time. In other words, Capital gave
Australia the Digger and saved it, on the ranking-
list of the world’s Men, from being bracketed with
the Armenian. Without that credit which is derived
from Capital Australians could have sold little or
nothing overseas throughout practically the whole of
the war, and we could have bought nothing from a
foreign country. Without it in the future we will
have to face exactly the same economic troubles as
Russia went through during its now-abandoned
effort to “socialise the means of production and ex-
change,” but without Russia’s hereditary capacity
for living on a starvation ration, and without Russia’s
immunity from subjugation by a foreign Power —a
matter of its population of 200,000,000 people.
That is the foundation of the only sort of
anti-Labor argument which is going to
count with the only sort of Labor man
who counts —namely, the educated, logical
and patriotic worker who gets no pleasure
out of class-hatred, but is concerned chiefly
to see his country succeed in the world and
himself with it.
* * * *
It should be the aim of the Conserva-
tives as well as the Radicals to give
everv man this chance. The way to do it,
primarily, is to put the capitalistic system
back where it was before the world w T ent
mad, or as near thereto as is possible, the
sickness of Capital being as surely the cause
of exacerbated class-consciousness as the
sickness of Britain is the root-cause of the
outbursts in Eygpt and India. What is offi-
cial Nationalism doing to such an end? The
English Lord Chancellor, speaking the other
day of the financiers of Britain, said: “The
fact that during these trying times they
have been able to give us [the Government]
so little advice staggers me.” The same re-
flection is no doubt staggering Australia’s
advocates of revolution. Only instead of a
distressed stagger, as in Lord Birkenhead’s
case, the movement is one of joy.
LIFE IS ONE LONG LAUNDRY.
Some seven months ago a firm of Sydney
accountants was appointed by Chief Com'
missioner Fraser to investigate the working
•of the N. S. Wales railway system. The
general tenor of the report is that Com-
missioner Fraser must be a good man to
produce such excellent results, and the fact
that he is an exceedingly good man is ad
mitted by all who know what the business
resembles. It is because he is an able rail-
way manager, and tries to save something
for the country out of much wreckage, and
is not a mere servant of the Bolsheviks of
the N. S. Wales Labor Council, that the two
Ministers who do the blast and blither foi
the Government threaten him with official
extirpation. But, notwithstanding all that,
the system isn’t the almost matchless thing
the two patriotic accountants paint it
• —though that isn’t the nominal controller’s
fault. One volatile morning paper even in-
terpreted their verdict, in its big headlines,
as saying that Ma State has the “Cheapest
Service in the World: Pre-eminent in Effi-
ciency,” which was distinctly a case of over-
painting. The Ma State s passenger charges
are higher than those of Victoria over every
distance quoted in the Federal volume of
statistics (50 up to 500 miles), and in vari-
ous cases they are the highest in the Com-
monwealth. Almost all goods rates are
higher than in Victoria, though, of course,
they don’t equal those of Queensland —
that amazing place ruled by irresponsibles
elected by ghosts, who levy the highest
freight charges in the Commonwealth and
almost the highest in the world, and pro-
duce out of them a deficit which approaches
that of all the other States put together.
But, then, N. S. Wales has had only two
years of crazy rule instead of seven, and it
is just about where Queensland was when
it had been mad but two years. Where
there Is Ma’s uncanny knack of making 400
miles of haulage compulsory though 100
would serve, high freights are ruinous to
settlement. The man who went far out
in 1014. when there was no Federal income-
tax and when the highest freight charge per
ton for a haul of 300 miles was 90s Id.,
tends to drift back now that the charge is
141 s. 10d., and the second-class passenger
rate has risen from 225. to 345. (there has
been a further rise since 1920, to which year
the published averages refer), and the Fed-
eral income-tax has arrived, and the State
income-tax has risen, and the rural basic
wage is in the offing.
* * * *
It is proudly claimed that among the rail-
way workers of the six States he of N. S.
Wales gets the highest pay and gives the
least in return—four hours and a fraction
less per week than all others. And there
is a most strenuous movement on (encour-
aged, in their desperate need and greed for
votes, by the Chief Blaster and the Chief
Blitlierer) to give still less work for still
more pay—unless (and this is an absurd
supposition) the demand for job-control
arises out of a burning desire to work harder
and more cheaply. Greatly increased pay
and diminished output have to be paid for.
The 44-hours-down-to-30-hours-per-weok ad-
vocates declare that these things don’t cost
the private employer anything, and that
even if output goes down to zero and costs
rise to boiling-point the private employer
has no imaginable excuse for raising prices,
or for ceasing work when he can’t raise
them, and is necessarily actuated by
wickedness, aggravated by “conspiracy”
with parties unknown. But the one
thing that the State itself can think oU
when wages go up and hours diminish is to
raise its charges and with them the cost'of
living. As principal commodity it deals


in—railway trips—isn’t exposed to the com-
petition of importers it can get along by the
aid of this dull old drab expedient, while
the private employer has to close his doors.
Even before the last two increases, which
raised the average cost of hauling a ton of
goods over 100 miles of Ma State railway
from 7s. lid. to 9s. 2d., the handicap was
bad enough, as these figures show: —
Highest-class Freights per Ton.
Victoria. N. S. Wales.
For 50 Miles .. 27/6 32/11
„ 100 Miles .. 53/6 64/3
„ 200 Miles .. 101/- 111/11
Lowest-class Freights per Ton.
For 50 Miles . . 8/- 4/4
„ 100 Miles . . 4/6 5/7
„ 200 Miles .. 6/8 6/6
First-class Fares.
For 50 Miles .. 8/3 9/5
100 Miles .. 16/- 18/10
~ 200 Miles • • 32/- 37/8
„ 300 Miles . . 44/9 56/-
Second-class Fares.
For 50 Miles .. 6/6 6/2
„ 100 Miles .. 10/8 12/6
„ 200 Miles . . 21/4 23/4
~ 300 Miles • • 29/10 34/1
When some allowance is made for the
large increase in the Ma State’s charges
since these figures were published, for the
fact that State taxes are nearly twice as
heavy in N. S. Wales as in Victoria, and for
the other fact that N. S. Wales has hauls
of over 500 miles to pay for, it is no marvel
that settlement is as dead as Lazarus, and,
unlike that good brother and citizen, shows
not the least sign of resurrection. Further,
manufactures are being systematically
destroyed, because they can’t bear the
deadweight of so much lunacy. With
these two deaths in the house, the
one resource of barren minds is to bor-
row more and build more railways. In the
two years before the last accounts were
published (June, 19211 eight new railways
were opened in N. S. Wales. Seven of them
earn no interest and not much of their work-
ing expenses. The eighth pays expenses but
no interest. To help out the loss on new
lines charges are heaped up on old lines,
and then settlers flee because they can’t pay
the charges. The report which is the text
of this tale alleges that N. S. Wales is doing
more of this sort of “development” (for
which politicians and not the nominal man-
agers are responsible) than the others, and
the statement is true. The building of rail-
ways is the one thing about which nil Min-
isters can agree. As for other things it
has become quite common for one Minister
to declare that, if he told all he knows about
another Minister, that other swine, his hon-
orable colleague, would be hounded out of
politics, and would be driven into the wilder-
ness with his Billingsgate thick upon his
head. Life is one long laundry in N. S.
Wales with all this washing of dirty Labor
linen. _____
MISLAID HOPES AND LOST IDEALS.
Once upon a time —this will read so like a
fairy story that the old beginning seems
appropriate—once upon a time the N. S.
Wales Political Labor party was poor, lowly
md self-sacrificing; almost like the Early
Christians in its primitive struggles to keep
ilive and carry out its ideals. For it had
.deals then. Its creative and organising
work was carried out by ■ obscure _ enthusi-
asts who expended their scant time and
scantier money on propaganda, often expos-
ing themselves to a mild persecution. . Some
of those enthusiasts were trades unionists,
but the great bulk were not. They carried
on, and the party grew and attracted to
it generous spirits who helped to finance it
without wanting seats in either the Lower
or the Upper House, commissionerships,
or titles or jobs of any kind.
To-day the movement is practically a union
movement. In the dead and gone yester-
day the leading organisers, workers, cam-
paigners and evangelists were not, and could
not in the nature of things be, union-
ists. They were not industrialists or prole-
tarians. They were struggling people out-
side the trades unions, small shopkeepers,
small farmers, country newspaper proi>rie-
tors, workers in trades which were not
organised, small employers of labor and non-
descripts of various kinds, sprinkled with
a few trades unionists in the cities. Most
of them were the converts of a great wave. of
enthusiasm for Parliamentary action w’hich
followed the decisive and cruel defeat of the
strikers in 1890-91. The great trades-union
weapon, the strike——the sign of the right
to organise won by generations of struggle
and suffering in England—had broken in
the hands of the unions of Australia. Their
wisest leaders saw that, once the employers
combined, their control of funds and equip-
ment, with the pooled-up resources of a
moneyed civilisation behind them, made, the
defeat of trades unionism inevitable.. The
lesson was not lost then —though it has
been forgotten since, and may have to be
taught again to the young bloods of > the
unions who, without family responsibilities
or permanent homes, dominate the unions
to-day by methods and tactics which drive
the older, saner and wiser elements to the
comfort of their families.
The early ’nineties, too, was a period of
giant strides in economic thinking. The
masses had placed in their hands two. books
which caused a fundamental change in the
workers’ outlook, \’iz., “Progress and Pov-
erty,” by Henry George, and “Looking
Backward,” by Edward Bellamy. The
burning eloquence of the former in stating
the problems of poverty, and the scientific
building up (on paper) of a perfectly co-
ordinated socialist State in the latter, had
a profound effect upon the whole nation.
So, when an altruistic reform programme
was submitted by the leaders of the shat-
tered strike movement in 1891, it attracted
thousands of humane people, and led to the
election of a large Labor pnrtv to Parlia-
ment in that year. The organising work was
done in spare hours snatched from heavy
daily tasks. This work, carried on by
obscure leagues, never at any time had the
whole-hearted support of the unionists as
organised bodies. The coalminers, a pecu-
liar people, like the Jews —almost a race
within a race in anv community—stood
aloof. The A.W.U., that union of supermen,
might favor the struggling leagues from
election to election and Lpqr a hand. Some-
times it even languidly put up a few
pounds for election expenses. But the money
for permanent organisation was gathered up
with infinite tod by the men and women en-
thusiasts of the leagues. There were no
proletarian potentates in those days wire
could shovel out a thousand sovereigns.
Often the leagues dwindled to a few, but
these were staunch, almost fanatical, in
their determination to keep the work going.
The Labor members themselves did an im-
mense amount of the organising. They
concentrated on gaining fresh seats, hitherto
unwon, so as to add to the numbers and
hasten the day of power and usefulness.
There were no seat-snatchers then who pre-
ferred to intrigue a sitting member of the
same party out of his seat rather than go
out, like Chris Watson, and pioneer a seat
and win it for the party. The men and
women of the Labor movement of that day,
before the Industrialists and their manipu-
lators took a hand, have never been sur-
passed in organising ability and noble self-
sacrifice. They won the battle: the camp-
followers got the spoils.
Then came Rule 0, which changed the
whole face of the Labor world in N. S.
Wales. Those faithful workers and organ-
isers of the past had wooed the coy trades
unions for years for help without response.
The unions refused to join the leagues. They
intimated that they were not going to pay
2s. per annum for membership of a league.
They wanted a concession. Just before the
war that concession was made. The mem-
bers of trades unions were given the right
of mass membership of the leagues at the
reduced rate of “saxpence,” and with it the
right of mass voting by union ticket or cer-
tificate. It can be said without fear of
contradiction that ever since Rule 6 came
into full operation selection ballots have
been tainted and corrupt. The case of
the recent Sydney selection ballot is merely
the latest. There were scandals, hushed
up through a perverted loyalty, in several
selections in past years. The vote of the
great A.W.U. was always regarded as the
“mystery” factor in the selection ballots. It
still is. This has gone on- till we have Mr.
Buckley’s protest against the final decision
of the scared executive of the A.L.P. of N. S.
Wales, which protest will have no effect
against those great proletarian leaders,
Messrs. McGirr and Minaiian, who are
safely home with the bacon, except that it
will give a new significance to the catch-
phrase, "Buckley’s chance.”
It will be seen, therefore, that the Poli-
tical Labor party has suffered a sea change.
The old altruistic days, the old self-sacri-
ficing men and women, are gone—the latter
pushed out as fools for believing in the
cause of Labor for itself and not for what
you can get out of it. The days of sacrifice
and self-abnegation are gone. These are the
days of the salaried rewards, of the spoils,
of the loaves and fishes, of the lamb-and-
mint sauce. These ai’e the days when rich
families like the McGirks devote themselves
to government with an assiduity which is
most remarkable. With its ideals, its chief
asset, it lost also its sense of humor.
Hughes and Holman kept that sense sound
in their day. But it is gonej otherwise the
party would split its sides with laughter at
the sight of the rich and influential Me-.
Gtrrs, with the opulent booLmanufactttrer
P. J. Minaiiatni, leading a proletarian re-
volution against the class to which they
themselves belong!
Now that the Trades and Labor Council
has accepted the Third Internationale the
inhabitants of this State are automatically
classified into “Proletarian” and “Bour-
geois” ; and the avowed policy of the former
is the “class war,” ending, as it did in
Russia, in murder and rapine, in stoppage of
production, in famine, in national ruin.
Thus stands the N. S. Wales Labor party to-
day—bereft of its ideals, with noth ; ng left
but programmes, its governance delivered
over to scramblers for salaries and emolu-
ments ; “mint-sauce” men: men hungry fer
billets, not one but many; “men on the
make.” The pitv of it is that the great
rank and file, whose hearts are in the right
place, but whose heads are all wrong, will
have to suffer from the terrible ohnnsre which
has come to a noble and once unselfish move-
ment—a movement wlr'ob w-as the cynosure
of the eyes of many nations.
AN 1891 MEMRER.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Kicking the Old Horse Out.
Ever since the world-war ended The
Bulletin has been calling for military re-
trenchment; but for some time the onlv
people to be retrenched were ex-Diggers and
O.M.F. trainees. Then Massy Greene
took over from Pearce, and the public heard
next that 45 fully-trained instructional-staff
w.o.’s out of a class of 70 picked Diggers
from all over Australia had been discharged
at a moment’s notice. Later, straws which
showed the way of the wind indicated that
the same chill blast would not be long in
striking the commissioned ranks. No doubt
there are too many senior men for the times
and the Commonwealth’s pocket. But that
is not to say that they are devoid of rights.
The position of many of those who, on the
score of age, are likelv to go first is that of
men who deserve well of the country. They
were the brains of the A.I.F. in the earlv
years of the war, and some of them were
with it to the end. They have never had
representation in Parliament in the sense
that the ordinary civil servant has; in fact,
a soldier is debarred under the regulations
from using Parliamentary influence, as an
individual or otherwise. This may be one
of the reasons why our Army, is the worst-
paid white force in the Empire to-day, and
why it is the only one, white or black,
which has neither a Dension nor a superannu-
ation scheme. Particularly v-hastlv is the
position of the Duntroon-trained A.I.F.
major, who, in many cases, was doing a
lieut.-colonel’s job by 1918, but who came
home to the pay of his pre-war rank —
between £5 and £6 per .week, with neither
a ouarters nor a uniform allowance. These
officers are not allowed to retire, and when
one left the army without permission some
time ago he was c'ourt-martialled as a de-
serter, convicted, and punished. On the other
hand, any one of them may be discharged on
s’ght, as* the w.o.’s.were. An appendix to
the last report of Lieut.-General Oiiauvel,
as 1.G., indicated the discrepancy between
the pay and allowances (the pensions ques-
tion apart) of officers in the Imperial Army
and in our own. A British (regular) major-
general draws £2llO per annum; an Aus-
tralian (staff corps) major-general £1050;
a British brigadier £146 1 ; an Australian
£940; and so on down the list. And
whereas the Britisher’s pension is in all
cases equal to more than half the active-
service pay of the rank with which he re-
tires, the Australian officer has no pension
at all as of right. If men w r ere like cab-
horses, to be scrapped when they cease to
earn their oats, there would be little to be
said either for the retention in the service
of a large, proportion of those permanent
soldiers who did so much to create the
A.1.F., or for the pensioning of them later
on. But here is a case where the nation
cannot afford to be a Shylock —where by
exacting its pound of flesh it must do irre-
parable damage to itself. It is a thousand
pities that the pensions system which this
paper has been advocating for as long as
it can remember was not instituted, any-
how, with the compulsory service scheme.
As it was shirked, it remains for the pre-
sent veneration to foot the bill or suffer
the disgrace of booting into indigence a
number of soldiers, some at least of whom
bear world-famous names. And the chances
are that the disgrace will be by no means
the severest penalty.
“As a Business Proposition.”
“The Business Men’s Efficiency League of N. S.
Wales lias decided, after inquiries in America, that
as a business proposition it would be to the advan-
tage of N. S. Wales to adopt prohibition as a settled
policy. It was unanimously decided that for the
coming year the league’s work should be that of
an educational agency amongst business men in the
interests of prohibition.”
This almost equals the recent effort of Mrs.
Asquith in New York. Lecturing before
a hilarious audience in the New 7 Amsterdam
Theatre, she “confided to her hearers why
she favored a trial of prohibition in England.
‘The trouble w 7 ith most good servants in
England,’ she said, ‘is that they drink, and
we shall have to come to prohibition yet.’ ”
There is an argument for the abolition of
alcohol to which any man can listen without
impatience because, however impracticable,
it is sincere. It is that drink has caused the
world a great deal of misery, financial loss
and even bloodshed. True, exactly the same
argument may be applied to many other
institutions w 7 hich nobody tries to abolish.
For example, the Christian religion. It is
incontrovertible that Christianity has been
misdirected in the past to cause vast human
suffering. There have been periods in the
world’s history when nations have had this
fact thrust on their consciousness w 7 itli par-
ticular force; and then they have usually set
out to do what the Business Men’s Efficiency
League aims at, wdiat Mrs- Asquith, as
representative of the British servant-employ-
ing class, favors. That is, to abolish not
the thing itself, but that aspect of it which
was distasteful to them; not religion, but
the other fellow’s religion. The U.S.A. has
not abolished drink. In a sense it has not
even made the attempt. In its last fiscal
year just on 90 million gallons of spirits
had been legally distilled —“for medicinal and
industrial purposes.” That represents over
a third of the whole quantity produced by
the nation in a year before the Volstead Act
was put on the Statute Book. In addition
we know, from every returning traveller and
from every American pnpei*, of an immense
amount of illicit distilling and sly grog-
selling. Asked what he thought of prohi-
bition after passing through the U.S.A.
recently, that experienced observer Lord
Northcliffe replied: “I never saw any.”
Noi\ it is safe to say. would the members of
Sydney’s Business Men’s League be incon-
venienced by the spectacle if they visited
America; nor is Mrs. Asquith, in her com-
fortable financial circumstances. In that
quarter of New York where such people
stay, in the wealthy quarter, the present
year was ushered in significantly. As the
clocks struck midnight windows were raised
and bottles rained into the streets —empty
bottles. It was a perfect expression of
Prohibition for Business Reasons. Drink
for the wealthy in Fifth Avenue; sobriety
for the poor in the Bowery! But. what sort
of business brains have the business men
of Sydney who believe that such an
inequitable state of affairs can last even in
the dollar-bossod TTr>UnA
-» .
The Incorrigible Profession.
A few days ago Solicitor-General Sproule
{N.S.W.) remarked somewhat disingenu-
ously that “law reform as a slogan is quite
useless for election purposes.” If he had
said that the people had heard so much about
law reform and seen so little of it that they
have grown cynical on the subject, he would
have been nearer the mark. The last great
innovation in the way of democratising the
vast instrument which has come down to us
from ancient Rome occurred in the reign of
Henry 11., when trial by jury w 7 as insti-
tuted. Since then, though the political
system has advanced rapidly in lfoeping
with the changing sentiments of the times,
the legal system has virtually stood still.
There are few better proofs of it than that
common threat of the rich man with the poor
case —“I’ll take you to the Privy Council,
if necessary.” What he implies is that
finality is so remote in law that poverty can
never hope to tread those paths which wealth
may take—‘that it is still true that there is
one law for the rich and another for the poor..
If our legal monopoly, with its countless
devices for fleecing the client, were presented
to anv rational nation as a new system it
would be greeted with derision. Work done
by an attorney and paid for, by a junior
and paid for, and by a senior and paid for
(though the las*- may have no intention of
appearing at the hearing), and all of it
the same work; the compartmenting of the
whole into consultations, advice on evidence
and so forth, each with special fees; the
spinning out of cases by tricks which are so
obvious that a child can tell from a news-
paper report whether or no the “money is
good” in a given suit —all these things
would be recognised for the swindles they
are in any other calling. The convention
that lawyers are, in a sense, above the law
—that both in their handling of a helpless
witness in court, and in the billing of a help-
less client out of it, they are immune from
the rules of conduct which govern reputable
laymen—dates so far back that a vague idea
exists that, since they are so old, these
abuses must possess some sort of justifica-
tion. They have been allowed to grow old
because the lawyers, as a caste, have always
been intensely jealous of their privilege..,
and because the mumbo-jumbo of the pro-
fession is easily capable of being employed
to confound the mon-legal Parliamentarian.
Add to these facts the further one that the
lawyer is less of an everyday necessity than
many other professional men (doctors, den-
tists and so on), and it becomes clear why
he has largely been spared the reformer’s
axe in the past, and why he is likely to con-
tinue immune in the future. Broadly the
modern requirement is law cheap enough to
enable any man to buy it. That aspiration
almost every practising lawyer may be relied
on to fight, more or less, first by opposing
the passage of bibs with that end in view,
and secondly by working to nullify such
legal-reform measures as reach the Statute
Book. That is the obstacle which has been
defeating political law reformers for cen-
turies; and the Australian public is not pre-
pared to believe in the existence of a Govern-
ment capable of surmounting it till it sees
the feat accomplished. Especially will it not
believe when it hears the “reforming
Government’s legal spokesman talk about the
abolition of wigs as though it were one of
the matters of vital importance.
■ »
Fostering the Brute in Man.
Rosario Vella, of Sydney, worked a horse with “a
raw sore on its withers, a three-inch sore on the
shoulders, and a broken knee which was full of
blowflies.” When it became hopelessly weak and
emaciated he turned it out in a public park to die.
,— Fined, £1 and 13s. cos is.
James Dale v, of Melbourne, was told by Ins em-
ployer, Alice MoSiianb, to drive a pair of horses
one of which had sores on its shoulders. He remon-
strated, and, as she insisted, he drove to the nearest
police station.-— McShane was fined £h and £2 2s.
William Paul and John O’Donnell, ,of Sydney,
“bayoneted a horse in a sulky repeatedly with portion
of a hames till it fell. When it rose it was
thrashed by each man in turn till it foil again.
Constable Swan said that “the horse was covered
with blood and had sores all, over its body. Re-
produced some swordstieks which he found m the
sulky.— One month’s hard labor ■ apiece.
The proposition which this paper advances
is that, though the third sentence probably
constitutes an Australian record for sever-
ity, it was no more adequate than the first.
It is a psychopathic truism that many who
go in for this kind of thing derive the keen-
est pleasure from it. They may look mild as
curates ; and in most relations of life they may
actually be as mild as George Selwyn, the
18th-century wit who never missed a hang-
ing. But they are by nature bloodthirsty ;
and blood-lust, like any other vice, grows
by what it feeds on. The argument for
deterrent sentences in such cases as are
quoted above has no necessary reference to
the right to protection of the unhappy vic-
tims. It would be equally strong if we all
held the mediaeval view about animals
that since they have no souls they have no
rights. The ultimate aim is to save not the
animals but ourselves. Through lax laws
or lax administration brutes are developed
into perverts equally capable when roused
of using swordstieks on horses or their hands
on the throats of small girls. The tendency
is as fluid as the desire to murder, or
assault, and so it is absurd that it should
be attacked in one State at one time, and
almost encouraged in another State at an-
other time. The requirement is a co-ordina-
tion of the penalties for brutal treatment
of animals to the extent, at least, of mak-
ing them everywhere deterrent. A persis-
tent adherence‘to the easy-going conventions
,of the African kraal is bound to bring its
own violent punishment on the community
—and to an increasing extent.
+ —
Crime and Punishment in Australia.
Dr. J. W. Bean’s plea for prison reform:—
The people of Australia are not getting efficiency
from their prison system. In this country imprison-
ment is so far from preventing crime that from 35 10
50 per cent, of convicts repeat their offences and are
sent back to gaol. It is easy, enough to say that
vou must break, by coercive unpleasantness, the will
to crime, and it is probably true that a few prisoners,
after this “treatment,” become broken-spirited and
therefore only feebly vicious, instead of daringly so.
That single crude argument is the stuff which
in the main and in actual practice still series
Australia in place of the advanced thought
given to the subject in America, Japan and else-
where. In Japan, where every prison official has to
go through a course in penology, and in the best
American prisons, where the new science has obtained
its highest exposition, only 7 per cent, of the
prisoners relapse into crime.
This result, if the psychology of the Australia!,
prison system is sound, could only be brought about
by added severity and closer confinement. As a
matter of fact, in some American prisons
(c.g., Utah and Colorado), it is produced by
putting prisoners on a short probation in the
penitentiary, and then giving them a libert.'
almost like that of ordinary citizens. They are
permitted to go into town unattended, to shop or
dine with friends after working hours, and even to
week-end with their families. The prisoners largely
govern and administer their own community, learn-
ing citizenship in the process, and themselves dealing
with the few intractables of their own prison-
democracy, in that fashion teaching themselves the
necessity of law and order.
Of course the whole system is based upon the
ascertained laws of a science which is still unrecog-
nised in Australia. One of its bases is the proved
fact that 37 per cent, of prisoners, and 10 per cent,
of folk outside, are definitely below the normal
mental standard. Many of these are never in their
lives fit for “liberty,” and at present in our country,
with drink and other evils inviting them, they form
the scum of the social tide. The repeated shoil
sentences passed upon these unfortunates amount to
70 per cent, of all the convictions in our courts.
Instead of prison, as we know it, they need institu-
tion life of the kindest and wisest nature that can
be devised, administered —firmly, of course—by a
trained staff. In America psycho-analysis is called
in to assist, and the most modern system of classifi-
cation of prisoners is based upon it. In Aus-
tralia, upon visiting some half-dozen of the largo
prisons in various States, I found that the wardens
scarcely knew that in other countries there were
other methods than their own. These officials were


’&Settlers'Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ sttalia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
courteous and even anxious to learn of the work in
America, but they hardly seemed to have heard
even of Mott Osboune, the greatest of all modern
prison reformers. Yet gladly they received copies of
his classic work, “Society and Prisons.”
What we need is a full knowledge of what is
being done in Japan, the Philippines, U.S.A., Swit-
zerland and elsewhere. Once that knowledge is
obtained by our rulers and officials, responsibility
and the inculcation of self-respect, hero-worship,
loyalty and esprit de corps will be substituted in the
treatment of our moral defectives for the barbarous
business of keeping the prisoner cooped up in ugli-
ness, never allowing him to see women and giving
him no emotional outlet or intelligent physical
exercise. Our male convict wears a round patch of
white over the left breast in front and over the corres-
ponding shoulder-blade behind—a sinister reminder
that, if he attempts to escape, the warder’s bullet
has a specially-prepared target over his heart. To
take a man already guilty of an anti-social act and
treat him by a regime which is the harshest expres-
sion of anti-socialism—this it is that still passes in
Australia for the science of crime-prevention.
“A Mere Memsahib” : When first I went
to Burmah I particularly asked for Aus-
tralian foodstuffs, and was told bv an Indian
merchant that he did not stock them, as
they usually arrived in damaged cases and
leaky tins with smeared labels, and the
contents were always questionable. Later
I saw a case of treacle arrive. Most of
the treacle had left the tins and the case
too. The memsahibs prefer articles put up
by a large Yankee distributing firm which
knows its business. Its jams are a plea-
sure to look on—in glass jars with a dark-
green label. This firm puts up almost every-
thing that can be bottled or canned, and
does it well. The apricots open up brilliantly-
colored, well-graded and wholesome. When
you open a tin of Australian apricots you
generally find a pale, mushy-looking mass.
Is it any wonder American goods flood the
markets of Asia? I saw Australian peas
in Singapore which the merchants were offer-
ing at 15 cents a tin—and the people pre-
ferred to pay a dollar for S. and w. peas.
Australian cakes, biscuits and milks were
reasonably good. Bacon, etc., was not pro-
curable. This I cannot understand, as
there is a great demand for very poor Eng-
lish bacon, selling at three rupees per lb.
(4s. sterling). The Australian butter was
vile; yet I bought Australian tinned
butter years ago on a Westralian goldfield
and it was excellent. Being a pukka Aus-
tralian I hate to decry our industries, but
it’s tfme manufacturers realised that they
are wasting good materials and losing Aus-
tralia’s position in the markets.
“Boubagi” : There are signs that the path
of the white patrol-officer in Papua and
the mandated islands is to become even
more thorny than it is. The other day
Walter Marks, Under-Sec. for External
Affairs, told the Australian papers that a
white patrol-leader in German New Guinea
had been sentenced to six months’ hard
labor for killing a native. Marks took
great credit for this, and yawped about the
native being “a sacred trust.” The offend-
ing officer had been sent to suppress a
vicious tribal fight, in which about 20 natives
were killed —a big casualty-list for such a
scrap. Both sides joyously turned on the
Government party, which had to fight for
its life. Several of the attackers were
killed, and one frightfully wounded man was
“put out of his misery” by the patrol-
officer. It was for this that he received his
sentence —given, no doubt, with an appre-
hensive eye on the politico-wowser pack in
Australia. I hold no brief for the occasional
butchery of native enemies like that at
Paiwa in 1902, which left a stain on the
white man’s record in British New Guinea.
But even politicians and their friends should
be able to realise what may happen when
duty takes a Government patrol to enforce
order among savage and defiant peoples
practised in bloodshed from childhood. The
growing tendency to carpet Papuan and New
Guinea officials whenever a brush with the
natives occurs must destroy the morale and
efficiency of those officials. They will tend
to become either dodgers of duty, covering
their omissions with faked reports, or, as
has happened before to-day. callous mur-
derers, with intimidation of native subor-
dinates and bluff as their weapons of de-
fence.
«. .
Under the Theodore regime Queensland
has achieved the distinction of being the
first Australian State to go in pawn to
a country with a strange flag. And the
Labor Premier is proud of the unlovely
record. He said this during the Paddington
by-election:—
The Nationalists pretend to be very concerned
about the £25,000,000 falling due in 1924 and 1925,
but there will be no trouble in meeting the obli-
gation. Already some of this stock is held in New
York. Financiers there recentlv purchased a large
block of 41 per cent. Queensland stock maturing
in 1925. If London will not arrange terms accept-
able to the Government it can be easily arranged
to transfer the liability to New York.
The essential fact which Theodore ignores
is that Britain is Queensland’s best oversea
customer, whereas the U.S.A. isn’t a customer
at all. Out of the produce it exports to
Britain Queensland pays its interest bill,
but the U.S.A. has no use for Queensland
goods and takes all sorts of care to keep
them out. It won’t even admit immigrants
from Queensland, beyond a mere 30 or 40
per annum, and. of course, it is under no
obligation to defend it from foreign inva-
sion, as Britain is. At the rate things are
going Queensland will awake one morning
and find that it owes 40 millions or so to
a foreign creditor who demands his interest
— 2\ millions or thereabouts—in gold. Then
there will be some furious borrowing from the
foreign gentleman to meet the interest, and
after that he will demand concessions of the
stricken land. It is the process known in
China as “peaceful penetration.”
“Jobrer” inspects some land:—
Mention of the waste and mismanagement of the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area (B. 9/3/’22) moves
me to remark that I know where a few pounds have
gone. I was sent by train to Yaneo, and at Leeton
interviewed the bird who attends to the Diggers.
He told me the promised land was on the Mirrool
area, 40 miles across country, and that if I called
again next day a car would take me there. I
culled, and joined a merry party of seven, and we
started off in a big touring ear hired by the Com-
mission at Is. per mile. In due course we got to
the Mirrool area, .and from what I could see of it
as we tore along at about 30 miles an hour it looked
all right. We pulled up at the accommodation
house and had dinner, and after a spell of about
half an hour we started back to Leeton, at the same
THE FISHERMAN.
THE A.L.P. ( learning the latent. Russian melody) : “Now, Dooley, don't, forget.— it's
your halt, but it's my fish!"
pace, stopping only to open gates. That was how
the Diggers inspected the land. This manner of
showing prospective settlers the area went on, to my
knowledge, for over two years, and it would be
interesting to know what could have been saved by
sending them direct by train from Sydney to Grif-
fith. I must admit that towards the end the Com-
mission ran its own motor-’bus across; but still
that must have been much more expensive than the
direct route. Another good sink for the taxpayer’s
dough was the Commission officers’ cottages. I
know of five that were erected-by day labor which
cost as much as the material. One type of these
cottages contained three rooms, two of them 14 x 12,
and the other 10 x 12, with small verandahs back
and front. They were built of cypress-pine, grown
and milled on the Commission’s land, and lined
with fibro-eement. These cribs cost well over £5OO
to build, and considering the speed at which the
workmen went you would not have been surprised
had they cost a thousand.
From the heart that isn’t dead :
Since Minister Poynton’s visit to Darwin the
taxation branch of the Home and Territories Depart-
ment has been after us with a gun. Unlike the
Darwin Reds, Centralians don’t refuse to pay taxes,
but their money has to be toiled for, and they are
not anxious to part with it without the satisfaction
of knowing why. No amount of correspondence
elicits the required explanation, but a few minutes’
conversation with an accredited tax-gatherer might.
Were one sent oyerland from Darwin to Alice Springs
dissatisfied taxpayers could meet him and state their
cases, argue the point, pay up and be glad to have
the business off their minds. As it is, there is uni-
versal discontent with assessments made in hopeless
ignorance of local conditions, and fines and interest
are accumulating at a staggering rate. When Gil-
kuth was Administrator, he and the heads of the
Mines and Lands Departments made periodical trips
into the interior. These visits were a boon to the
settler, whatever his calling. The transaction r of
business by correspondence with Darwin is difficult
enough to the settlers on mail routes, but 90 per
cent, of us inlanders live miles from the overland
track. There is a mail every sixth week, but it is
not always convenient to travel fifty or a hundred
miles for your mail, and when you miss it you’ve
got to wait another six weeks. Gilruth made it
his business to meet Territorians so circumstanced.
But since he left the job has been botched by corres-
pondence clerks—in fact, the government of the
Territory has degenerated into a centralised bureau-
cracy of the most desolating description.
“Surveyor” calls for a stocktaking:—
Earle Page’s talk of “power schemes’’ and “de-
veloping national resources” invites a few queries.
Does anyone know just what our national resources
are? And where are they? Will they keep or are
they wasting away? Who is looking after them?
Can we weigh them or count them or measure them ?
Are they just “huge areas of virgin soil,” “millions
of gallons of pure fresh water,” “forests of valuable
timber,” “hundreds of miles of sheep and cattle
country” ? Does anybody know how many acres
really will grow wheat, for instance, and what is
our limit in this respect in good, bad and average
seasons ? How much land can we irrigate and where
is the best place? Are there really any desert
wastes and trackless arid regiors, and of what are
they composed ? The census will tell us how many
bootblacks and bottle-ohs and politicians we ovyn
and whether they are married or single; but what
about our waterfalls? How many tons of mallee
roots could we actually produce if it came to a
pinch? In fact, what are our visible assets? As a
professedly up-to-date nation, why have we not taken
stock ? Let us count our waterholes as we count
onr wowsers, and put a value on our sunshine as
we do on our rain. Is the place worth keeping, or
are we running at a loss? We should appoint an
official stocktaker or recorder of national resources
whose duty it would be to collect and record details
of these so-called assets, and revise frequently.
Great Britain has its Ordnance Survey and Geolo-
gical Survey. Every important European nation has
a similar record of its topographical and geological
features in map form. Other information obtained
during the survey is filed away for safe keeping and
reference. Many other countries have found it
imperative to do likewise; witness the Indian
Revenue Survey. The U.S. has soil-maps showing
the nature and depth of soil and subsoil. Australia
has—tourist road-guides showing petrol depots and
best pubs! How can we carry on like this f A
national power scheme such as Earle Page suggests
could not be commercially organised without a com-
plete economic survey. It will take years to make,
and will cost much money; but it wilf be the
means of saving many- millions on public works and
railways—many are now losing money, not because
they are badly built or because of excessive first
cost, but simply through lack of investigation into
the economic aspects before they were recommended
or designed. Until this survey is made we shall
only muddle along.
Newer postal regulations, identifying- a book
within the meaning of the Act, stipulate that
it must not contain advertisements other
than those dealing with publications by the
same firm. Which means, from the Austra-
lian authors’ and publishers’ point of view,
that another of the very few and limited
possibilities of profits from Australian books
is to be eliminated. The most consistent
publishers of Australian fiction, the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co., prints, as a rule, three or
four pages of general advertisements in each
volume. Not much this, but the books are
cheap, and things are cut so fine that even
the very little must be taken into considera-
tion. If the Bookstall Co. is forced to cut
out its advertisements the odds are 100
to one that it is the author who will suffer.
It always is the author who suffers; he
pays for the gains of printers, binders and
paper-makers, and for the losses of publish-
ers, and this latter move on the part of an
astute department, fatuously working with
the intention of befriending the Australian
writer of books, will be one more nail in
the coffin of the hapless man who seeks to
live by books alone in this benighted Com-
monwealth.
+
How much rope are we going to allow these
licensed pests who, under the guise of “test-
ing for credit,” thwart justice in the courts?
There was a typical case down south a few
days ago. A notorious street-pest, for whom
the police had been lying in wait, was seen
to behave most offensively towards a girl.
Two plainclothes men pounced upon him,
and after considerable urging persuaded the
girl to go into court. When the matter came
on, the defendant was represented by a
lawyer of the variety usually met in such
eases. Notwithstanding the testimony of the
police that the accused had repeatedly tried
to get into conversation with the girl, even
preventing her from' walking away by push-
ing in front of her, and that she had not
spoken one word to him, the legal scavenger
attempted to show that she had encouraged
him, and, further, that it was a practice of
hers to wait on street cornei-s for men to
speak to her. That there was no foundation
for the questions he put to her was
shown by other evidence offered, and the
Bench convicted. But the newspaper re-
ports of that ease, especially of the cross-
examination of the principal witness, will
certainly prevent other women from coming
forward in similar circumstances, which
means that the street pests are at liberty to
annoy decent women with no fear of retri-
bution—the more decent the victim the less
the chance of punishment. What is needed is a
rule giving the magistrate power to demand
a solicitor’s grounds for-his attack, together
with authority to commit whenever he thinks
such an attack is merely akin to black-
mailing.
O
“Hanno” : The free V.D. clinics in Mel-
bourne are used principally by the industrial
class; 95 per cent, of the patients are un-
skilled workers and nearly 50 per cent, of
them are, or say they are, out of employ-
ment at time of reporting for treatment.
But the most gruesome feature is the com-
paratively lai'ge number who are engaged
in connection with the handling of the com-
munity’s foodstuffs. It is a common thing
for a man or woman with highly infective
lesions on hands or bther exposed parts to
give the occupation of waitress, cook or
pantryman, which means that he or she
has the power to infect hundreds of inno-
cent persons in the course of the day’s work.
Not so long ago a man with syphilitic sores
on his fingers who turned up at the clinic
for treatment said he was a barber in the
city. The authorities who administer the
V.D. Act of Victoria are supposed to have
power to forbid a syphilitic or gonorrhoeal
patient from working in any place where
he or she may come into contact with food,
but at present it is next door to impossible
for them to use this power. Until the
public realises that venereal infection can
be acquired quite innocently, and that
syphilis is the disease whose effects are the
most far-reaching and disastrous, both to
the individual and to society, very little
headway will be made in stamping it out.


M
Peapes’ "Warrigal" Underwear
for the Change of Season.
The tinge of Autumn now frequently felt in the morn-
ings is remindful of the early necessity for warmer
Underwear.
Peapes’ Lightweight “Warrigal” Underwear is of the
purest, finest Australian Wool —comfortable, durable and
protective, just the weight for present wear.
AAISS. — 32 34 36 38 40 42 44
Pure Natural
Wool Under-
shirts, haif-
sleeves . . 12/- 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/-
Pu 11 -length
Underpants
to match -. 13/6 13/6 14/- 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Standardised
Model 4.
Satisfaction in the ownership of a
car is the result of deliberate and
careful choice.
THE STANDARDISED OVER-
LAND MODEL FOUR CARS give
the satisfaction demanded by
owners who insist on utmost relia-
bility, comfort and economy.
They are admirably suited for both
Country and City work, and
economy is one very important
feature in their favor. •
We advise you to inspect the STANDARDISED OVERLAND MODEL
FOUR before you decide.
GARRATTS LIMITED,
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
ALICK McNEIL, General Manager. TelephonesCity_sB2-3-L__
POLITICAL
POINTS
Hughes is boss of many departments, but
hq is so busy hurrying about and making
unnecessary .speeches that his worried heads
can never get hold of him for any length of
time. As he has created the idea that
nothing can be done without his knowledge
or permission, there is a congestion and delay
of business,, not to mention fat-salaried offi-
cials doing very little for their incomes. It
isn’t their fault: they try hard enough to
get the little man’s ear, and the more con-
scientious of them haunt his doormat for days
with, piles of papers, but are lucky if they
can fetain him long enough to get a quarter
of the literature under liis nose. Gullett
would not tolerate this, so he threw in his
resignation. But this valiant course is uot
possible to *the older men, who haven’t got
a profession calling to them from the outside.
Dooley, the Sydney Premier, is a cham-
pion promiser, but there is no worse arith-
metician in the world. Though often enough
corrected he keeps on repeating his absurd
narrative that “the Labor party will return
with a majority of three or five.” The fact
that-neither side can get an odd-number
majority, since there arc 90 members to be
elected, is too subtle to be grasped by Slip-
pery Jim. Another of Slippery’s ridiculous
illusions is that his Government “reduced
tjie deficit to £445,000,” The fact is that,
although it/raised freights and fares 16f
per cent., brought in a host of new stamp
duties, wharfage rates and the like, and
practically doubled the income-tax —the
lowest rate. added was 4d. in the £ and the
highest Is. 3d., whereas the Victorian
income-tax 'starts at-3d: apd ends, at Is. 3d.
—it increased the deficit by £445.000. That
was in its first year of office. And dn the
Treasurer’s own showing it will he another
two millions to the bad this year.
.It isn’t likely that the polyglot leaders of
the Rand Revolution left off work over the
wage question. Like the gentlemen who run
the Sydney Trades and Labor Council, they
probably had no hard toil to leave. Never-
theless, they called out their horde of armed
anarchists at the appropriate hour, and pro-
fessed that they were the strikers, and that
the strikers were them. As anyone who has
read history would expect, they behaved in
such a way that,- as soon as Smuts’s army
had relieved the unions of the incubus that
had fastened on to their simnle Tittle strike,
the unions disclaimed the bloodstained re-
generators root and branch. In view of that
the Melbourne Trades Hall people paid the
Rhnd miners a poor compliment 1 by half-
masting their flag for sundry dead Com-
munists, either implying that the miners ran
their strikes that way tor that it was the
way strikes should be run. Sydney Labor
Council also expressed its deep admiration
and profound sympathy, but that was per-
haps merely a hint of what Garden’s up-
heaval is to be like when it comes.
Pushing the claims of his friend Jones at
the Paddington (Q.) by-election, Premier
Theodore said that London financiers —the
crowd which so emphatically refused his ap-
plication for £9,000,000 a while ago—are
now snooping round asking him to accept a
loan, as they have monish looking for invest-
ment. But Theodore scorned the tainted oof,
saying he had already made arrangements
with his good friend Sam. Considering that
Uncle’s rates are high, and his terms short,
and his sinking-fund conditions stiff, and
that he hasn't advanced much, after all, the
hearers tried hard to assume a credulous
expression. Many of them were afterwards
treated for sprained countenance.
Concerning a Digger and his party:—
This is a word for, Mick »Bruxner and his Pro-
gressives—the true-blues, not the coalition lot.
Sydney writers persistently ignore Bruxner’s claim to
a place in the sun, but they will know better after
Saturday, the 25th. The chanpes arc that the Pro-
gressives will gain more seats than either of the'
bigger parties. The seven they hold at present they
are sdre to retain and they have a first-class chance
of acquiring three more —one each in Wanmierawa,
Maitland and Byron. Moreover, their prospects in at
least four other electorates —Goulburn, Oxley, Namoi
and Wollondilly—are by no means inconsiderable. In
Queensland, Westralia, Victoria and S. Aus. the
Cocky party has increased its strength at every
recent election, and Bruxner’s group is going to
repeat the performance. Admittedly, it is only a
minority, and in some respects it hasn’t quite found
itself, but it isn’t dominated by Sydney, doesn’t look
for inspiration to London or Dublin or Moscow, and
cleaves firmly to the New State faith. And for
those reasons it is going to poll heavily, and deserves
to.
During last financial year the Dooleys
of N. S. Wales piled on extra taxation to
the amount of £2,425,615 —in other words,
they collected about 50 per cent, more than
in the previous year. No public works were
built out of revenue, and nothing extra went
to the sinking fund. Increased fares _ and
freights were collected to pay the higher
wages of railway and tramway men. Not a
penny of child pension or motherhood en-
dowment was handed out. Even the Dooley-
est of Dooleys could hardly spend all that
lot and the new deficit in buying motor-cars,
though they acquired 14 in one lot; but mil-
lions fade' before the shiftless gang of ex-
perimenters like snowballs when the Devil
sits on them
BE-KIND-TO-AKIMALS WEEK—A CASE FOR THE S.P.C.A.
Labor Papers, Ltd., has missed the .’bus
again in Sydney, where another morning
daily—the fourth —is expected in August.
The idea now is to limit operations for the
time being to a Labor daily in a smaller capi-
tal, and Perth is favored. Grayndler, the
chief organiser, has gone to the West to
prospect for cash and canvass the chances.
Sydney unionists were recently asked to dip
into their pockets again for the newspaper
which never appears, but the response was
not a bit enthusiastic.
They don’t miss much, these Labor vote-
hunters. While thousands were lining the
beach'at'Co,ogee in the more 6r less vague
hope of seeing somebody else attacked .bv
a shark, Lazzarini, Minister of Fried Fish,
had his brain-wave :
If the Labor party is returned to power ope of its
first works of a developmental nature [good old
Developmental. Nature!] will be the -establishment
pf an industry for the treatment of shark carcases
ard the offal of fish.
The Minister of Health has also a scheme
in hand for turning corns to profit, and
there Will be at least six Inspectors of Tight
Boots.
No sooner did Victoria’s Cocky party
decide to ask the Lawson Ministry to sum-
mon Parliament early for the discussion of
soldier-settlement troubles than the Houses
were further prorogued for five weeks.
When the dozen trooped in to Lawson his
reply amounted to this: “Do you think I
was batched yesterday?” He cited most
of the problems, and hinted broadly that
there were few, if any, that couldn’t be
dealt with administratively. The triers
would be nursed, but the others would be
relieved of their farms and asked to get on
to something for which they were better
fitted. It is the same old business and the
same old result. Whenever we have wanted
to get rid of anybody in Australia we have
“put him on the land.” It is not going
much too far to say that, without selection,
training or experience, a man would be just
as likely to be a success if he were put on
the Supreme Court bench. Certainly more
men could stand a Judge’s life than a
struggling farmer’s ; and which has to know
more in order to be a success —the Judge or
the farmer—is at least doubtful.
What has just happened on the Rand has
set some people wondering what will happen
when our own One Big Union begins its long-
threatened “taking-over” of things in general.
Hughes isn't military like Smuts, is
rather conversational than decisive. And
under our Constitution he seems to have no
legal right to interfere, even if Sydney is
burning and Federal taxpayers are dying in
heaps, unless the State Government invites
him. If the State Government is Com-
munist itself, or if the insurrection has it
securely locked up, apparently a Federal
citizen must, do the best he can with the
poker.
According to Havelock Wilson, of the
British Seamen’s Union, the refusal to admit
the British crews of the first two “Bay”
steamers to local membership, which meant
that they had to be sacked and sent back
at great cost as passengers, was not only a
so.hr and grumpy act, but: a gross breach of
faith. The agreement between the two
unions for the mutual admission of each
other’s members, Wilson alleges to be an
armor-plated bond of long standing. Ap-
parently the craving - of the new gang of
mosfly-foreign revolutionists to do a bad turn
to an Australian national enterprise swamped
its fealty to its own class —it mislaid its
class-consciousness, in short.
The wage question,, over which so much
heat is expended by Dooley and others, is
clearly expounded on page 69 (helped out
by page 47) of the last Federal quarterly
statistics - . At April, 1914, the average male
wage in N. S. Wales (man and boy) was
5.15. 9d. per week. It was pushed up to
955. 3d. at .Tune, 1921. Female wages went
up from 265. 9d. to 48s. 6d. The increase
was made possible by various circumstances:
The selling price of everything Australia had to
sell (wool, copper, gold, silver, lead, tin and meat)
went up sensationally. Some things more than
doubled.
There were war loans galore to be spent, as well
as the usual loans.
During the war period the Federal Government
manufactured, some £40,000.000 of paper money,
and made the country feel’ that oof was springing
out of the earth.
Now every one of these reasons for the.
great wage rise is gone or going. There
is an end to the issue of notes-. There.-is no_
war. - And tile things Australia sells to raise
the money to pay the wage of 955. 3d. are
back at just about the figure they fetched
when the wage was 555. 9d. In some cases
(copper, tin and meat) the price is less
than that of 1914. The wagepayer is not
only called on to pay nearly twice as much
wages out of much the same resources, but
at least twice as much taxation. Cracks
were showing in many directions when an
inspiration came upon a Government; of
schemers and visionaries. In the hope of
buying three more years’ run of the Treasury
this body promised an increase of one-
twelfth on the existing war wages—payable
not in cash but in extra loafing time. With
the average man and boy wage at nearly
1045., and the woman and girl average at
5115., against 935. and 475. in other and less
heavily-taxed States, it was sufficiently plain,
even before Newcastle and other places began
to close, that the wage scale promised by
the billet-hunters was impossible. But if
the delusion can be preserved till the gang
secures a new lease of office it won’t matter
much to it what happens next.
Montagu, the flyaway British Minister
for India, who recently gave White Aus-
tralia a nasty jolt, has gone out on his un-
manageable ear. Ilis second break (he
crayfished out of the first) was the demand
that the desolating Turk should have Con-
stantinople back, also Palestine and the
city of Damascus. The Ilun, instead of
getting busy with the indemnity, is now
asking for the return of his ex-colonics, and
hinting at compensation for lost ships. And
probably there are Montagus who admire
that idea likewise. Who did win that war
—if there was a Avar?
Boynton, with ail his love for himself, has
some good points as an administrator. The
other night, in a conscientious attempt to
remedy abuses, he dossed incog, at a pub
near the Sydney G.P.0., to see (or hear) if
the clock chimes really do disturb the peace
of sleepers near by. A man who can think
of that is capable of daring things. He may
even one day disguise himself as a lettey, and
find out what happens to himself before he is
delivered in his old age.
L. M. Shoobridge, a member of the Speck’s
House of Dodery,' president of the Farmers,
Stockowners and Orchardists’ Assoc., and,
a prominent cog in the small machine that
runs the National Federation, is the cement
between these two bricks; but with the com-
ing of the Primary Producers’ Assoc, (an
imitation of the Vie. Farmers’ Union) he
is finding things difficult. The P.P.A. is
threatening to run three or six candidates
in each electorate, and there is a probability
of both the Nats, and the Farmers being
divided if this is done. Shoobridge has
therefore been calling conferences to bind
the three into one, and at the moment it
looks a« though this scheme will come off.
The‘most humorous comment on the.
trouble on the Commonwealth liners came
from Mahony, M.11.R., who held that “the
ships, being bought and paid for by the Aus-
tralian taxpayers, should be manned by Aus-
tralian citizens.” Seeing that the seamen’s
imported boss lately. said that his union was
-open to, imported niggers and all sorts, are
they/exactly the folk to put on airs about
Australian citizenship ?
Britain is over-crowded and is acquiring
1000 more people than it wants every week
by natural increase. The nation’s statesmen
sav they desire to keep their emigrants inside
the Empire. Yet a British ex-soldier who
is drawing a war pension must forfeit it
if he comes to the Commonwealth, though
many of these men, despite their disabili-
ties," are just the sort Australia most wants.
The British Government argues that the
Australian GoA r erhment admits only those
who have been passed as medically fit, and
that admission is proof that the’ pension is
no longer justified. It is a miserable pre-
text for a grotesquely short-sighted action,
worthier of a small, back-alley solicitor’s
office than of statesmen.
From the Federal Gallery-man:—
Gregory, is likely to swing over to th«
Nationalists at the next elections. He has not
been happy since liis resignation of the deputy-
leadership of the Cookies, and tbe fact that his
electorate will have a stronger Nationalist com-
plexion, should the proposed new boundaries be
accepted by Parliament, will be an added induce-
ment. Hughes would be glad to harm him, since:
there is the threatened defection of a Queensland,
Nationalist, and the loyalty of another is doubtful.
Furthermore, trouble is possible in Ballarat and
Corio. The former, which was considered a plum
for barrister Coldham, might now be saved for
Laborite McGrath, because Jowett, who has lost the
Grampians, is talking of standing. In Corio the
unpopularity of Lister among many of Hughes’s
supporters may compel the autocrat to endorse some
other fellow’s pre-selection, with the result that
Lister will appear as an Independent and cause a
disturbance in Avhich either the Labor or the Gum-
leaf crowd may score a success. . Meantime, Hughes
isn’t getting any extra sleep over the situation in
South Aus. Though the present of a portfolio to
Foster is supposed to have soothed the feelings of
the., Liberal wing of the Nationalists there, the
party ‘ik still torn with dissension and talks of
opposing Blundell for Adelaide, and may do like-
wise with Poynton.
THE REDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This council flings a challenge into the face of
Australian capitalism and declares that it stands
firmly for the. abolition of a system which main-
tains its existence bv exploitation and murder, and
calls upon the trade-union movement of this country
to rally to the fight against the reduction of wages
as the necessary prelude to greater tasks.” —Manifesto
of Sydney Labor Council.
Under our sdarlet rag behold us Reds,
Labor’s left wing, the harbingers of l ate.
..Sweet dreams of carnage riot in our heads
And in our hearts an ecstasy of hate.
Great warriors we; but do not be alarmed,
\ Abdul and Fritz —rest easily at night.
Whatever happens you will not be harmed:
Only our fellow-citizens we fight.
Our noble rage and blood-lust only cease
i When in our ears the foemau’s cannon roar.
'ln war, our tails well down, we whine for peace.
In peace, all cock-a-whoop, we cry for war.
: Trotsky, Marat, the Robespierres, St. Just,
' These are the gore-splashed gods by whom we
swear,
'" And images of tumbrils in the dust
Of Bourke-street surge beneath our matted hair.
cTo make a wilderness of Mavtin-place,
To pillage all the banks and sack the shops—
; Such are the hopes that animate our race.
And what prevents us, pards? Them cows,
the cops !
N.S.W.
S. GUMM.


JEKYLL AND HIDE.
“He had never been an advocate or supporter of the capitalistic system; he did not believe in it, but it was there; he saw its imperfections, and that as a system it glorified Mammon.” — W. M. Hughes at the Melbourne Methodist Conference.


WjSsem : :
m
m
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
JH
MOS
CO
m
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
2lEli}db<?H)Sh
Melbourne
\W\
I
U\' \ \
U
idlers
blE'/
\W
ELECTRICAL
‘CO.. LTD'
304KenhSh
Sijdnpy
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you, and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he’may maladminister the Funds?
Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
of 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
w T hich offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000.
Write or call for Booklet. Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney),
property auctioneers, subdivisionists, valua-
tors, etc. The co. started in 1880, and at
the time at which the table begins had
£39,500 of its capital represented by good-
will :—•
Written To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1909.. £6,173 5 p.c. =£3,000 £3173 £33,151
1910.. 9,898 6' „ „ 3,600 6298 26,853
1911.. 11,346 7 „ „ 4,200 7146 19,707
1912.. 12,349 7 „ „ 4,200 -- 8149 11,558
1913.. 12,024 7 „ „ 4,200 7824 3,734
Nominal
Reserves.
1914.. 10,787. 7 „ „ 4,200 6587 2,853
1915.. 9,775 7 „ ~ 4,200 5575 8,428
1916.. 8,102 7 „ „ 4,200 £984 2918 11,346
1917.. 6,571 7 „ „ 4,200 1114 1257 12,603
1918.. 8,273 8 „ „ 5,345 1452 1476 14,079
1919.. 14,883 12} „ „ .7,743 1465 5675 19,754
1920.. 21,299 274 „ „ 19,071 3735 18.247
1921.. 8,147 10.,, „ 6,955 4110 ■— 15,329'
If you want evidence of what loan money
can do, the record of this old real-estate
agency concern is a reliable barometer. Go
back beyond the year, at which the table
opens and ypu will find that profits for a
long time hovered between £3200 and £4600,
the co. having meantime added to its reputa-
tion for expertness in real-estate dealing.
Then the first N.S.W. . Labor Government
came along ■ with new-found possibilities in
the winning of votes by creating a construc-
tion boom on borrowed money. With a
general feeling of prosperity on it, the
public, as it. has invariably done the world
over in such . circumstances, turned its
attention to land, and deals became more
frequent. So up went Richardson & Wrench
earnings. The more loans that were raised
the larger grew the turnover. Then the
war created a temporary cessation of deal-
ing. But not for long. War 7 oaus took
the place of construction borrowings, . and
the public’s faith in land was gradually re-
established. By 1919 a boom was in full
swing; values had soared, and though hun-
dreds of Australian millions had gone in
smoke at the other end of the . world the
demand for land by the public arid of new
premises by war-rich businesses was greater
than ever. The height* of the boom was
reached in 1920, when activities reminded
the old hands of the ’eighties. There vfas no
need to look beyond the repatriation loans
and the abnormally high prices received for
produce for the explanation. This co. had
no illusions as to the foundations on which
the boom was supported.: the management
records that the activity “represented to a
considerable extent the artificial inflation
induced by the lavish expenditude on repatri-
ation and other problems created by the
war.” Last year the bottom fell out of the
produce markets, repat. loans dried up, and
money became scarce and dear: so whereas
in 1929 R. & W. had a turncmr of 14
million, last year’s sales amounted to only
£646,863. Consequently net profits gave a
return of only 11.7 p.c. on capital compared
with 30 p.c. in the. previous year. This
comparison tells in another way how the
tide has swung in and out over a. dozen
years:—
Commissions Deposits
and Interest, on Sales.
1909 .. £12,373 £,7,336
1913 20,904 10,263
1914 21,269 5,168
1915 .. .. .. 18,415 5,439
1916 17,152 7,194
1917 . . . . . . 15,683 5,566
1918 20,021 . 5,809
1919 . . . . . . 27,656 23.04,7
1920 .. . . . . 36,690 17,902
1921 .. .. ... 25,746 14,896
Even with business so restricted, Richard-
son & Wrench had no difficulty last year in
finding 10 p.c. for shareholders. After
making this distribution the introductory
table shows reserves to have fallen off bv
nearly £3OOO. That is explained by the
writing off each year of a large amount of
profit. Twelve months ago £l5OO was
appropriated for a special reserve, and that
and £2610 set aside for contingencies have
disappeared. The latter may have been
extracted for taxes, but there are indica-
tions that the co. has also been strengthen-
ing its position. But, being chiefly an agency
concern, there are few weak spots. Here
are the balance-sheet figures :
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. .. £60,000 £60,000 £69,350 £69,650
Liabilities .. 13,817 12,282 27,823 20.424
Advances .. .. 10,154 53,462 73,129 71,810
Bonk debts . . 2,736 6,281 3,684 1,972
Cush, etc., . . 34,250 21,206 40,594 31.881
Odds and ends .. 1,624 1,861 4,948 3,222
Advances are a comparatively new line: at
one time the co. did little of this business,
but, as it had piled up much cash, loans on
properties evidently appealed to the manage-
ment as offering profitable employment for
funds. The co. has had a remarkable career:
it began with no less than £39,500 of its
paid capital bf £60,000 represented by good-
will. But divs. were kept low for many years,
and there are now tangible assets with a
book value of about £84,000 to represent
£69,650 of paid capital.
* * * *
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic
Power Co.:—-
Written To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1910. . £12,300 8 p.c. - £9OOO £3300 £17,011
1911.. 12,009 8 „ „ 9000 3909 20,920
1912.. 13,145 8 ~ „ 9000 £246Q 1676 22,596
1913.. 12,048 8 „ „ 9000 776 2272 24.868
1914.. 11,641 8 „ „ 9000 2368 273 25,141
1915.. 10,175 7 „ „ 7875 2287 13 25,154
1916.. 10,037 6 „ „ 6750 1260 2027 27,181
1917.. 9,945 6 „ ~ 6750 799 2396 29,577
1918.. 11,129 6 „ „ 6750 4379 33,956
1919.. 10,698 6 „ „ 6750 3948 37,904
Profit from sale of assets .. 4183 42.087
1920.. 10,504 74p.c. = 8438 2066 44,153
1921.. 11,854 74„ ~ 8470 3384 47,537
Established in 18S9, this co. secured the
rights, by special Act, to lay mains condi-
tionally on the City Council receiving half of
any profits divided in excess of 10 p.c. That
rate of d v. was paid for many years, and
more could have been passed out at one time
had the directors cared to do it. But they saw
no points in sharing profits with the municipal
authorities; so the engineering side of the
business was sold to a subsidiary co. Mean-
time electric competition had arrived, and it
soon became apparent that the demand for
water-power would become restricted. Later
an electric competitor got control of the
hydraulic co.’s offshoot, and the water-power
concern was in the. curious position of hav-
ing the inspection, maintenance and. repair of
its installations attended to by people who
were pushing electric power. In 1915
there was a rumpus, and the Hydraulic
shareholders decided that their concern
should once more do its own engineering
work. It went further, and decided to under-
take also the maintenance of electric instal-
lations. At one stage it appeared that
the co. had fallen on hard times: —
' Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1895. . £20,950 £14,399 1916. . £28.001 £17,151
1900.. 40,589 23,843 1917.. 29,947 19,202.
1905.. 23,902 10,562 1918.. 32,395 20,466
1910.. 23,112 10,812 1920.. 36,441 25,088
1915.. 24,074 13,898 1921.. 43,495 30,642
Lately there has been a recovery and the
dividend lias been lifted to 7$ p.c., which is
a half-point better than the rate paid when
some shareholders thought that if the co.
undertook repair and maintenance work on its
oiVn account it would be “necessary to raise
a large amount of capital,” and that the
move would “inevitably result in very seri-
ous loss.”
A comparison of profits as displayed by
the two tables is not altogether satisfactory.
Down to 1917 disclosed profits were cut into
to provide for renewals; now renewals are
made prior to the disclosure of profits. But
the £47.537' of reserves shown after payment
of the latest div. may not be wholly an ac-
cumulation of surplus profits. They are
made ,up of £40,000 in a plant renewal and
contingency fund, £20,000 in general re-
serves, £2OOO set aside for equalisation of
divs. and £537 balance of P. and L., less
the £15,000 book value of the intangible
“Parliamentary rights and concessions.”
True reserves depend on whether the £40,000
earmarked for renewals is likely to be tapped
for that piirpose. Still, as support for capi-
tal, the reserves don’t count for much : most
of the accumulated profits have gone into
the undertaking:—■
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
More or less liquid
assets (inc- stock) £11,30.7 £9.888 £25,264 £26,384
Liabilities.. .. 1,113 5,235 3,272 .4,884
Surplus .. £10,194 £4,653 £21,992 £21,500
During the past year a Is. call on the con-
tribs. brougfit in £3731. But despite all
new capital and the £30.000 or so additions
to reserves, since 1010 the surplus of assets
apart from those employed in the undertak-
ing (but including stocks) has expanded
only £11,300. There is now £147,519 tied
Up in properties, plant and mains compared
with £123,676 in 1010, and profit-earning of
recent years looks even poorer when that fact
is taken into account.
*•* * *
The Squatting Investment Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1909. . £12,069 3£ p.c.= £9,733 £2336 £7,669
1910.. 9,696 34 „ „ 9,733 7.632
1911.. 7,444 34 „ „ 9,733 5,343
1912.. 10,461 34„„ 9,733 728 6,071
1913.. 18,292 6s „ „ 19,466 4,897
1314.. 17,601 34 „ „ 9,733 7928 12,825
1915.. 14,569 6i „ „ 19,466 —7.92 S
1916.. 1,839 34,,,, 9,733 34
1917.. 19,798 6s „ „ 19,466 332 366
1918.. 24,157 84 „ „ 24,334 1«9
1919.. 14.861 5 ~ „ 14,600 261 450
1920.. 4,506 IS „ „ 4,866 90
1921.. 9,842 34 „ „ 9,733 109 199
Poor though they are, both the profits and
the dividend returns shown there are over-
stated. The co. holds 1018 sq. miles of
south-western Queensland leases which ex-
pire in another 13 years; so, to provide for
a return of capital should a renewal on
favorable terms not be possible, the manage-
ment, besides finding divs., has to make
lease-wastage good. Instead of setting aside
portion of profits each year, when earnings
have permitted shareholders have been given
“bonuses” which they have been requested
to regard as a return of capital. Since
1912 9s. per share (15 p.c. on capital) has
been distributed in this way, and the direc-
tors announced eight years ago that when
10s. had been passed back they proposed to
write down both capital and lease-values
accordingly. The profits in the table are,
therefore, not the true net profits, and the
dividend returns are much poorer than those
given. In nine years 45 p.c. on capital has
been distributed, but the average dividend
rate has been only 3£ p.c. The co. has been
recovering from the drought, but very favor-
able seasons —-the past 18 months have been
the wettest on record —have been offset by
sick markets.. for wool and livestock. This
shows how stock figures have moved:—
1914. 1916. 1919. 1920. 1921.
Rams .. 1,412 935 1,583 1,208 1,290
Ewes . . 51,036 33,150 39,178 45,197 47,677
Wethers . . 24,949 10,705 6,257 10,714 18,955
Weaners 30,394 4,918 14,200 20,827 16,351
The valuation placed upon livestock is, of
course, an important factor influencing pro-
fits. At December, 1920, sheep, horses and
cattle were included at £54,452; on this occa-
sion a larger collection is given a book value
of £52,428.
Paid capital is £292,005, in 97,335 shares
of £3; but assuming that the directors still
hold to their policy in respect of the capital
repayments, shares can be regarded as paid
to 515., and paid capital as now £248.204.
Taking livestock at latest balance-sheet
valuation, after payment of the recent div.
there was a liquid surplus of approximately
£54,800. That, however, is no guide to the
protection there is for capital, because the
figure is liable to vary with the seasons.
There is probably something more which the
co. can count on in the near future: the
management did not take credit in its
accounts for the co.’s interest in the un-
realised carry-over wool acquired by Bawra.
Last year certificates helped the revenue
with £3lBB, and if all goes well Bawra may
be expected to give the co. some thousands
more. There is a very formidable task
ahead of the management if during the next
13 years it has, besides.paying divs., to find
£248.000 for shareholders. There is at pre-
sent £193,000 of capital represented by leases
and improvements thereon. Even during
the past year improvements costing £2859
were made. The co. no doubt has tenant
rights in the improvements, but what they
are likelv to be worth 13 years hence to an
incoming tenant cannot be even guessed.
* * * *
The New Zealand Refrigerating Co.,
Ltd., formerly the Christchurch Meat Co.,
one of the big freezing concerns of Maori-
land:—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Oct. £ £, & £>
1909.. 50,622 Bp.c.= 13,433 22,265 14,924 97,415
1910.. 75,719 10 „ „ 16,915 23,560 35,244 132,659
1911.. 42,213 10 „ „ 16,915 15.000 10 298 142,957
1912.. 41,269 10 „ „ 16,915 15 000 9,354 152,311
1913.. 37,760 10 „ „ 16,915 20,000 845 153,156
1914.. 40,438 10 „ „ 16,919 30,000 146,675
1915.. 42,564 11 „ „ 18.615 23,949 170.624
1916.. 44,851 12 20,307 24.544 195,168
Premiums on shares . . 31,400 226,508
1917.. 53,948 12 p.c.= 20,575 33,373 259,941
1518.. 66 479 14 ~ „ 47,100 ' -1- 25,379 285,320
£50,000 of internal reserves disclosed 1 0£300,000
£300,000 of reserves transferred to capital f . ’
1919. .147,940 16}p.c.= 75,000 72,940 108,200
1920.. 80,802 124 „ „ 75,000 5,802 114,062
1921.. 48,727 8 „ ~ 48,000 727 114,789
Despite all the difficulties of the period, this
big Maoriland freezing co. reveals a net
profit larger than was claimed in most pre-
war terms. How it was done is not ex-
plained by the accounts, which are not
informative. If the 8 p.c. was earned by
the year’s operations, the co. did surprisingly
well. That rate of div. means much more
to old holders. In pre-war times paid capital
was £173,000, and there were .visible reserves
almost as large. In 1916 £127,000 more was
got in at a premium which gave £31,400. A
couple of years later paid capital was doubled
by the transfer of £300,000 of reserves. But
so well did the co. do during the war that
there still remain visible reserves of £114,789
to back paid capital of £600,000. Besides
these funds, the co. is working on £150,000
of 6 p.c. debentures, which are included with
liabilities in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—-
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities . - £81.620 £307,385 £635,346 £705.064
Fixed assets .. 297.723 273,522 852.674 912,563
Other assets .. 99,891 542,587 534,233 525,289
No further details are provided by the ac-
counts : book debts, investments, consignments
unrealised and stocks are all in one heap. An
outstanding feature of the comparison,
though, is the expansion of fixed assets. So
much has gone into works that, whereas
there was formerly a substantial surplus
of liquid assets over and above all liabilities,
the latter are now larger than all assets
apart from properties, works and plant. The
question for the future is whether the de-
mand for storage will give ample employ-
ment for the co.’s six big works at Islington.
Smithfield, Ticton, Pukeuri, Burnside and
Imlay to provide fair div. returns on all
the new cash-paid and bonus shares which
have expanded the share-register since war
contracts created a boom.
* * *
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.
(N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1913. .£6,364 10 p.c.= £3OOO £3,364 £15,476
Dec., 1913.. 6,429 10 „ „ 3000 3,429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6,316 10 „ „ 3000 3,316 22,221
(Josh Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dec., 1914.. 4,414 10 p.c.= 3000 1,414 23,635
June, 1915.. 3,396 10 „ „ 3000 396 24,031
Bonus, 124 „ ~ 7500 ) 14701
Dropped out of Reserves, £1747 )
Dec., 1915.. 2,858 10 p.c.= 3000 14,642
June, 1916.. 2,917 10 „ „ 3000 14,559
Written off renewals reserve, £1570 12,989
Dec., 1916.. 2,634 10 p.c.= 3000 12,623
June, 1917.. 2,955 10 ~,, 3000 12,578
Dec., 1917.. 2,905 10 „ „ 3000 12,483
Written off renewals reserve, £303 12,180
June, 1918.. 2,978 10 p.c.= 3000 12,158
Dsc., 1918.. 4,170 .10 300.0 1,170 13,328
June, 1919.. 4,867 10 „ ~ 3000 1 ,o-«n. K
Special cash bonus, £l5OO )
Dec., 1919.. 6,098 15 p.c.= 4500 1,598 15,293
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 .. 293
June, 1920.. 12,923 10 p.c.= 3750 9,173 9,466
Dec., 1920.. 17.559 10 „ „ 3750 13,809 23,275
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 . . 8,275
June, 1921.. 11,100 20 p.c.= 9000 2,100 10,375
Dec., 1921.. 7,426 10 „„ 4500 2,926 13,301
The bulge in the profits column in recent
half-years was due in part to exceptional
earnings for which current production was
not responsible. The Lithgow Coal Associa-
tion, which markets all western N. S. Wales
coal, made a special distribution from its
reserves, and the Vale of Clwydd got £3020
as its share. Also a good market was found
for a lot of small coal which had been
accumulating. But apart from these titbits
the co. has obviously been having a great
run. For many years prior to the commence-
ment of the table —the co. next year will
celebrate its jubilee—-10 p.c. divs. were paid
regularly. Nine years ago paid capital was
£45,000, and not all of that was cash from
shareholders’ pockets. But £15,000 of bonus
scrip has been issued in each of the years
1913,1919 and 1921, paid capital having thus
been doubled during the course of the table
without calling up a penny from shareholders.
So the 10 p.c. divs. and the few plums dis-
tributed have meant much more to the pro-
prietors than the percentages in the table
indicate. In divs. they have had £72,000 in
nine years, and profits from sales of land
have put £9OOO more into their pockets. This
means that since December, 1912, in divs.
and bonuses they have had nearly double
the paid capital at that date. These distribu-
tions, however, have been only , a portion of
actual earnings ; the capitalisation of reserves
tells how storage of profits proceeded. A
more satisfactory view of the way in which
the concern has been strengthened by. surplus
profits can be got by an... examination of
liquid assets: —•
Dec.,’l2. Dec.,’2l.
Assets other than fixed assets.. £16,144 £59,974
Liabilities (inc. divs.) .. . . 3,415 6,531
Liquid surplus.. .. ..£12,729 £53,443
So while the mines and equipment and the
brickworks have been maintained in good
condition, during-the past nine years interests
wholly independent of mining with a book-
value of £40,714 have piled up. The whole
of the capital as at December, 1912, was at
the latest balance represented by assets
which could be rapidly turned into cash. Of
the present. capital of £90,000, £53,443 was
represented by surplus liquid assets after-
payment of the. latest div. That leaves
£37,000 to be represented by lands, mines,
equipment, brickworks (with a book-value of
£7OOO but written down from £12,000), £5OOO-
- of brick stocks and a few hundreds in
incidentals. It has been a feast for the old
hand; but the new-comer cannot expect any-
thing like it.
* * * *
Domara River Plantations, Ltd. (estate
in Papua, office in Melbourne), from the time
the accumulated deficit of £BlB4 was charged
to development:—
To Nominal
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919 .. £892 £892 £892
1920 .. 689 689 1581
Loss. Deficit.
1921 .. 2708 1127
A good deal of the loss shown for the past
12 months was due to over-valuation of
stocks at the previous balance. The 1920
accounts showed a profit of £689 on the
basis that almost 25,0001 b. rubber on hand
was worth Is. 2d. per lb. The co. averaged
only a shade more than 7d. during the past
year, and the difference between the realised
price and book value represented a loss'of
about £730. So a fairer w r ay of pre-
senting results for the past two years
would be to show a loss of about £4O
or so for 1920. and a probable approxi-
mate loss of £1978 for the past year. On
this occasion the directors are taking no


Dalgety 8 Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
MUST ROUTE to GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gfc. Britain .. 3/-
1/6
9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4Jd.
Canada
.. 2/4 ■ 1/2
j 7d. (minimum
1 11/8,20 words)
U.5.A...
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central -0.54
J. MTT.WMJp. Manager in the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Eight
and Power Unit has been develoDed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. — Advt. [1
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Mm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
»*- * *
“This would have saved me hundreds of pounds had
I known of it five years ago,” was the remark made
recently by an engineer who had just installed Wood
Pipe and learned the real facts about its marvellous
service conditions. The same is probably true in
your case. Pioneer Wood Pipe outlasts metal pipe
in length of life at one-third the cost of cast-iron,
and has many additional merits as well. Write for
illustrated 68-page book on the subject. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane
Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* f * »
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Kink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Cliallis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
. Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzo'l,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt. '
“1921 Models”-—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).— Advt.
FOR SALE —Steam Locomotive—Makers, W. G.
Bagnall, Ltd., England.—2ft. 6in. gauge. Double
cylinders, 6in. diameter x 9in. stroke; 45 1 Jin. steel
tubes; saddle tank; cab with hand brake; sand
boxes; four wheels coupled, 17Jin. diameter; wheel
base 36in., 1501 b. pressure. Forwood Down and Co.,
Adelaide.— Advt.
* * * «
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Company
of Australia, Limited, desires to notify the mining
industry that it has issued a revised tariff with a
view to stimulating production, and will be pleased
to supply a copy of same on application.— Advt.
6^
&
L
rOORD & soitf
L> LOfIDOM.ENGI.AND
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
DT
Swift X- Company Mil., Australasian Agent*. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
13
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney, And at Sydney and Brisbane ' Brisbane.
7 Hamilton Street. CORRESPONDENCE INVITED. 239 Elizabeth Street
risks with the market; the 11101 b. on hand
at December 31 has been taken credit for at
dd. per lb. If the co. gets a better price,
actual results will not be quite so bad as
the latest accounts make out. But it is
very doubtful if the stocks will be sold at a
price which will cover cost of production,
though the f.o.b. cost was got down from
almost llfd. to slightly less than B|d. dur-
ing the year. The market became so feeble
that production of rubber ceased altogether
in May. Hence the output was only 34,1321 b.,
compared with 43,4211 b. for 1920.
Domara, having been faced with charges
which gave no revenue in return, and having
no spare cash, got into financial difficulties.
It extricated itself by issuing £12,000 of
five-year debentures, carrying no less than
lo p.c. p.a. At the balance £5456 had been
got in. There was about £5OO cash in ex-
cess of amounts owing on current accounts,
so, with £6544 more available from the
debenture issue, Domara can keep going for
a time. But beyond that no forecast can be
made. There were signs recently that the
rubber market was on the mend, but the re-
covery proved only temporary. The industry
is very sick.
* * * *
Cambelego, near Cobar (N.S.W.), is a
typical one-mine field. The Mount Boppy
is, or rather has been, its ewe lamb. De-
partmental records show that in its exist-
ence of 20 years it has produced £1,824,982
worth of gold. This is easily a record for
the State, with Baker’s Creek—now idle—a
good second. The deepest workings at Boppy
are 800 ft. In 1921 its return was 56850 z.
It has been comparatively low-grade; at no
time has its average reached loz. per ton.
In 1920 it treated 33,362 tons for 10,1650 z.,
valued at £44,745, equal to about 275. per
ton. High costs have beaten it for the
present.
* * * *
The Taurus tin dredge, at Bullock Swamp,
near Emmaville (N.S.W.), has been leased
by T. 11. Martyn, and when operations are
started G. Poole is to be in charge. The
original syndicate (comprising half-a-dozen
of Sydney’s pluckiest speculators) had a
tough battle, financially and practically, to
work the dredge through a wide stretch of
massive boulders to the land-locked swamp
which is believed to carry high values in
tin, and it was downright ill-luck that just
as they had reached the productive point the
tin market should have slumped so badly
and that dredge-master Stoneham should
have died suddenly.
* * * *
Orders are still slack for Blair Athol (Q.)
coal, and none of the collieries worked half
the possible shifts during the past month.
In addition to the loss of inter-State and
M.D. orders the field is suffering from reduc-
tion of railway contracts due to the sup-
plies obtained from the State collieries at
Baralaba and Styx River. The Barnlaba
is producing 2000 tons a month now, all for
the central railways, and the Styx supplies
Rockhampton comfortably as well as the rail-
way contracts for the new Mackay line.
* * * “ *
The sapphire industry at Anakie (Q.) is
still sick, and there are few signs of a re-
covery. A few southern buyers visit the
field occasionally and get all the finest blues
they want, owing to lack of competition, at
rates up to £9 or £lO an oz. Many of the
miners are making very little towards the
tucker bill. It’s a pity, as it has been
about the best summer the old hands remem-
ber for water supplies.
* * * *
Owing to a move to get Government assist-
ance to resuscitate the old Woolgar goldfield
(N.Q.), Geologist 11. Smith has diagnosed
the prospects, and the gist of his report is
that there are possibilities. It appears
that Woolgar came on the scene inoppor-
tunely, and was neglected on account of the
richness of Croydon and Charters Towers.
The first properties to be opened up should
be the Perseverance and the Roman Crown.
A trial crushing was taken out of the former,
and over the tables gave 30dwt. per ton.
The field lies between Richmond and Croy-
don.
Gympie made a record in February with
a total return of 4oz. from the once-famous
field. The Scottish Gympie missed a crush-
ing ; and that explains it. The oo.’s
January output was 800 tons for 2030 z.,
which is only the ghost of former crushings.
But it is putting on three shifts to work the
Inglewood reef, hoping to ensure enough
stone to keep the battery going full time.
This will mean increasing the underground
staff from 50 to 150.
* * * *
Mt. Mulligan coal-mine (N.Q.) has been
cleaned up after the mess, and presents
almost a normal appearance. Production
may be expected within the next month or
so. In accordance with the Commission’s re-
commendations watering of coal faces will
be carried out, as Mulligan is notoriously
dry and dusty, and shots will be fired elec-
trically. Owing to the shortage of mine
inspectors with colliery experience the De-
partonent has had to send up the Ipswich
inspector at intervals.
Capt. de Hautpick, .from abroad, is the
latest to look into the Speck’s oil possibili-
ties. His lamp, after blazing over the
Mersey holding of the Victas Oil Co.’s leases,
fails to expose anything on the east side
of the valley, but he thinks it shows some-
thing on two blocks on the opposite slope.
De Hautpick’s methods are said to be those
of the Cadman-Redwood-Craig school, though
that doesn’t mean that he can see further
into the earth than Dod or Haley or any
other U.S. expert. Yet he says regarding
the tivo Victas blocks: “Bore, as I am con-
fident you will meet rich reservoirs of liquid
petroleum.” The depth of the flow is to
be between SOOft. and 3000 ft. Victas direc-
tors explain that Hautpick was sent out
only after liquid oil and not to estimate
the worth of the Mersey-Tasmanite carbon-
aceous seams, out of which they are intent
on distilling oil at the right moment.
« * « •
E. A. Gerlofif’s Associated Oil Corporation,
into which Mt. Gambier has gone strong,
is floated. Although the whole hundred thou-
sand wanted has not been forthcoming,
£22,440 of capital is in hand. This bit is
to be played with by the frugal crowd run-
ning the show, so an 18 months’ spin is
assured. Two drills are to be hustled on
to the job at the Springs, seven miles west
of the Mount. G. R. Andrews has dropped
the job of field superintendent, leaving the
post to D. 0. Milson, who comes with a
Yank record. Andrews’s part in the
now is that of consulting geologist, a change
that saves £B5O a year in salaries.
Baragwanath, of the Mines Department,
who inspected the site of boring operations
at Ivilmore (Vic.), .says he has no hesitation
in saying that “there is not now, never was,
or ever will be any oil produced from this
locality.” He made the inspection because
of a local boast that if Barnes, Minister
for Mines, who had asked for a thimbleful
from anywhere in Vic., came to Ivilmore he
could get a bottleful. A small flow of water
is coining from the bore holes. Considering
that the bores are near creek level, and that
the surrounding hills rise to 100 ft. above that
level, there is nothing wonderful about that.
* * * *
No interest is being taken by London in
Westralian oil ventures, but a Perth man,
who has more than a nodding acquaintance
with The Bulletin, has got six months’
leave and gone off with maps, plans and
specimens to arouse some. He has also
undertaken the job of asking the gold-mining
cos. w'hich have made money in the West to
risk some of their accumulated profits in
boring for petroleum in the Kimberleys.
For years several of, these concerns have had
experts touring the ends of the earth in
■search of new ventures, and the prospects of
some of those that have been acquired do not
compare with those of the seepages, pitch,
etc., which, according to Government Geolo-
gist Blatchford, are visible in the part of the
West mentioned.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Miners’ Union having bluntly
announced that it will agree neither to a
reduction in wages nor to any material
alteration in existing conditions, the. Cham-
ber of Mines is hurriedly preparing a case
for submission, to the State Arbitration
Court. Both sides are confident of victory,
and whether the men will take less without
a fight is very doubtful.
* * # *
From W. A. Ivingsborough, who knows:—
“Wild Cat’’ (B. 16/3,/’22) infers that operations
at the Murrin Prop, gold-mine will be discontinued,
as the company has acquired an option over 10Q0
sq. miles of permo-earboniferous country in the
N.T., and that shareholders may expect further calls.
The co. certainly has secured an option over 1000
sq. miles in one of the first oil areas secured in the
Territory, and will deal with it for the benefit of
the shareholders; but so far as the gold-mine is
concerned, the directors don’t intend to quit. They
will start driving on the big lode at SOOft. levei,
which is all virgin ground.
* * * *
Emu Bay Railway Co.’s gross revenue in
3920. was £67,845; last year it slumped to
£54,784, and as costs could not be reduced
by even 5 p.c. the result, was a loss of
£12,781. Traffic paid for itself and left a
surplus of £11,336; but the rent of £10,370,
paid under the V.D.L. Railway Act, with
interest on debentures £12.677 and deprecia-
tion £lO7O, turned the tables, .so that the co.
had to put up the total of its P. and L. debit
from £46,213 to £58,994. The old man of
the sea strangling the co. is the rent for the
block of line it leases. Of course the co.
would have had to build if it could not have
hired the section, but the rent is a terrific
burden, and the original shareholders look
as dead as a pickled cucumber.
* * * *
.Nasty things are being said about the
Ajax and Ajax North cos., of Daylesford
(Vic.). The announcement last year that
it. would be necessary to close down the
Ajax was at least unfortunate: since tlrnn
the mine has paid nearly £6OOO in dividends,
and looks like paying regularly for a long
uine 10 come tiom t«o u.ueu-nt nod es on
the No. 5 level. The “flat makes,” as local
miners know, vary in size and value; but
there are people wbo don t believe it accounts
for the drop in the last yield from an aver-
age of lodwt. to lOAdwt. Shareholders in
both cos. are in two camps. Qne group of
operators which has worked together amic-
ably for many years on the markets has
been riven asunder, and erstwhile dear cob-
bers are calling one another naughty names
while canvassing hard for proxies for the
next election of directors. Meanwhile old
Mother Rumor is gossiping industriously
and the gold yields keep on the uneven
tenor of their ways.
. A fight over the North Biplane at Har-
rietville (Vic.) isn’t worth it. The row
is about the installation of one E. Carter
as manager upon the retirement of H. Har-
vey on account of ill-Lealth. North Bi-
plane has had a small crushing of 254
tons for 410 z., but that is only a drop in a
bucket. The make of stone, like so many
of the district formations, has been faulted
and buckled about, so whether it carries a
shoot of gold of decent length has to be
proved. The old Ballarat element in the
co. wants to set the coach before the horse,
by erecting a battery to provide capital
for opening up the mine, instead of de-
veloping reserves first and putting up crush-
ing plant later. On the experience of a
six weeks’ run Carter, the new manager,
pens nice things regarding possibilities, but
gold must be there and the shoots long
enough to make the game worth the candle.
From F. E. Knox, hon. sec. of the Ballara
(Cloncurry) Copper Gougers’ Assoc.: —
The slump in Cloncurry is due not so much to
the difference between present and pre-war costs
in wages and stores as to the difference between
present and pre-war grade of ore. available. In
pre-war years the average grade smelted was about
10 p.c.; nowadays it is only about 5 p.c. Smelting
costs are not much more now, but when only about
half the quantity of blister is produced as the
result of a month’s smelting, the bank account takes
watching. If the cos.’ directors and managers would
only acknowledge this a bit more frankly, instead
of harping on inefficiency of miners, they would not
antagonise their workers as they do. The miners
toil just as hard now as they did in pre-war days,
and they dislike being made scapegoats.
As to the gougers, they are being lent money
by the Queensland Government, free of interest, as
an advance on ore at' grass, so that they can hang
on to their ore till copper gets back to a price that
will permit of a general resumption of mining and
smelting, and enable them to sell at a price which
will return fair value for their labor. The rates of
advance are £2 per week to a married man and
30s. per week to a single man, periodical inspection
of ore raised and work done being made by the
Department. The gougers sign an undertaking to
make repayment of the loan a first call on the
proceeds, and are allowed to sell when and where
they choose. No mushroom gougers are allowed to
participate; only genuine lease and claim holders.
This is preferable to rationing. The copper gougers
are, like all other prospectors, men of independent
natures, who take up the life to feel free of the
uncertainty of wages jobs, and who are grateful
for assistance, but do not want charity. Rationing
is a demoralising system, anyhow. Any man would
sooner do work to the value of the ration issue,
and a wise Government would always have some
public works job up its sleeve for times of slump
in such outback one-horse districts as Cloncurry.
Very few gougers sent their ore to Chillagoe State
smelters, as the best price they offered, with electro-
lytic copper at £75, was £4 7s. per ton for 20 p.c.
ore on rails Cloncurry, with 9s. per unit increase
or decrease; minimum grade 15 p.c. Buyers who
send the ore to Port Kembla could beat this, even
though handicapped by having to pay about £1
per ton more railage on the ore from Cloncurry
to Townsville than was charged on ore consigned
to Chillagoe State smelters. Now the buyers find
they can do better still by sending the ore to
America for treatment.
The gougers are fully alive to the waste of time
and copper in having to hand-pick the ore to a
grade of over 20 p.c. copper and send it to other
States, or overseas, for treatment; but this is entirely
due to there being no customs smelter in the
district. The Government should erect ' a State
smelter, or the local smelting companies drop their
conservative attitude and smelt public ores. If there
was a local market for ore containing 7 p.c. copper,
gougers would increase tenfold and their output
one-hundredfold, and motor-cars replace the buck-
board or packhorse. The solution for unemployment
in Cloncurry copper-mining consists in the adoption
of the sliding scale for the wages men, and a local
market for low-grade ore from the gougers.
“Barwonite”: Old White Cliffs and Cun-
namulla opal miners at present on Lightning
Ridge cling to the belief that the main opal,
area lies towards Angledool and Goodooga,
despite the fact that prospecting in that
direction has revealed nothing more than
vague colors. There are persistent rumors
of a Hindoo hawker having found “notch”
containing streaks of good color around Com-
borah, 30 miles west of Walgett. It would
he worth while for the Government to give
about £250 to a party of expert and honest
men and turn them loose prospecting. That
sum would keep half-a-dozen men a year, and
they’d cover a lot of ground if they had a
promise of a fair share of any resultant dis-
covery.
Before the F.M.S. discontinued the Govt,
purchase of tin concentrates in February, they
had accumulated 10,000 tons at a cost equal
to £229 f.o.b. Singapore. The Dutch East
Indies Government held about 6000, Banca
3000 and China 4.000 tons at the end of
the year. The recent slump is attributed to
financial pressure having been applied to
some of these holders. Limited as it has
lately been, production has been greater
than consumption, owing to plating works
everywhere being idle. Now, however, that
American works are running full time, that
a resumption at Swansea is contemplated
and that it will not be long before Germany
can command supplies for her works, the
market may be expected to slowly right itself.
Pre-war rates were slightly above £2OO on
a three years’ average.
i * * . .
The world’s oil-production for 1921 is
estimated at 750,000,000 barrels, or
55,000,000 more than for 1920. The
U.S.A. furnished 470,000,000 barrels, an in-
crease of 26,000.000 on 1920’s record
figures. Boring in the States during the
current year has slackened, and it is doubted
whether last year’s yield in that country will
be equalled, although the newly-discovered
field of Mexia, in Texas, is or was a month
or two ago producing 158,000 barrels daily.
* * * »
Associated’s recent rise was said in Ka'l-
goorlie to be due to a development in the
Keeley mine, Canada, in which the co. holds
160,000 shares. Latest advices from Lon-
don, however, state that the market assumes
from the persistence of the demand for the
stock that some other development must be
pending. It is suggested that operations are
to re-start on the Porcupine gold property,
in which it has a large interest.


'DI'‘S»gJOIS*Z.c( 2k« 2k " W3.1l "
ov-a<2. could ff-zLvr) "2xr» noti voja.'tvz. Uvoowl<z-dgj<z!
arj- J&zz *
Ar>3 it* is ovaly r»«.e- +"o tx(«uz
ak _}ob 2b■& 2k VToaa,ici 2k.
w&o.k' +o ob&cMrva. w»wy 1/jivag6.
One weuU p«.vY">a.j»S l<2JkV« noomx
a.foo«jt* +b«- Wjpa> &we( cjowo* aj l tba. Stoort*
kfV>o* by s* uttar by -S+xz.
uswa. <*f «sti6gois<£. .
STAGE
poo«
"hs OM t+>« »«»a.Y-
C.tY'cJa.e* e»f 2» two up Sthool -
Av>yW» »'gy ■lfxjra. IS T 6
b<& khoWK) <s/" tbaL cesuU
to a. le2ir»)<3<j by bac-Ok-kbi r>^
2k *v»«».>oV><Z-V +*»«. ballot' •
At»d -Um*. s|»oi+ of
¥rcffta*9X\n<Q would pr«S4ht no serious *te*H>a a>«.p«rt ir> «lis^uis«s.
»r<x limitlktioh* .
Pl'&2pise would v»ot Cbrry orxz,
wjkart .
FINDING THINGS OUT FOR HIMSELF.
“The Rev. Wallace Deane informed his congregation that he had visited the Stadium disguised in an old brown hat, so that he might know what lie was
talking about when waging war against evil practices.”


Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Hoof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Good To The
LasT Drop
m
ST
ii!
ABBOTS
LAGER
Tfip]sppr w/ZfioafdK/yff/.
73rpb/pd/rom Purefla/t iff opr On/p
4-8 91
?
Scientific Perfection
at
The New li)21 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Hears Labora-
tories. . . .
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Hears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT ATD TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
sena tor tree oooiuets nitty explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Blackfriars” : The row over the manning
of Billy’s boats goes a long way farther than
being a simple battle between Tom Walsh
and Hughes. The man Walsh has all along
wanted to get his marlinspike into is Havelock
Wilson, the British seamen’s demigod, whose
offence is that he refused to have any truck
with Australia’s coastal strike a couple of
years ago. I met Wilson many times then,
mostly when the crippled leader was stretched
on a bed of agony. He was not only un-
flinching in his determination to keep his
men out of that fray, but also severely criti-
cal of the great YValsh. And Walsh has
never forgiven him.
Frederick Derham, managing director of
Swallow and Ariel], Ltd., who at 78 has
just claimed his little lot in Kew Cemetery,
had a successful flutter in State politics
from 1888 till 1892. He had been in the
Assembly only three years as member for
Sandridge when Gillies made him P.M.G.,
and he held the job four years and a half.
He piloted the legislation establishing Dookie
and Longerenong Agricultural Colleges, and
helped to administer those establishments for
a couple of decades. Married twice, he left
a widow and a family of nine.
Little Professor
J. W. Gregory,
once Vic. Govern-
ment Geologist,
and now of Glas-
gow, is oft' as head
of a British ex-
pedition to pick up
novelties in pebbles
in the Chinese
mountain ranges.
The small man
with the big brain
has knocked about
many uncomfort-
able places with
expeditions
in East Africa,
Spitzbergen,
Cyrenaica and
Southern Angola,
not to speak of
Lake Eyre (1901)
and Antarctica.
HENRY ANGUS,
M.L.A. for Gun-
bower (Vic.), who
has been piloting
the newchum
Governor over
Gippsland.
You can’t rear white families in the North !
The other day Mrs. J. T. West, of Towns-
ville, celebrated her 71st birthday, and at
the party she embraced eight married sons
and their wives, four married daughters
with their husbands, 45 grandchildren
(seven of whom are married) and nine
great-grandchildren, the total number pre-
sent being 85. All of the grandchildren and
great-grandchildren are natives of Tcwns-
yilie or Charters Towers. At Bowen a
tew miles further south, there are four
married couples who number 52 children
among them.
.lowing his pension for only 34*
months Tip Drake, ex-Sec. of Vic. Public
Works, is dead of pneumonia. As inspect-
mg auditor of accounts, chief clerk of the
audit branch, Government Statist and per-
manent head of the Works Department
JJrake end big things, and when he retired
got a ‘curtain” that is seldom seen. It
was not a send-off but a demonstration.
Prom a table in the court:—
Irvine, C.J., and learned brothers Cussen and
Schutt, who heard Colin Ross’s appeal in Mel-
bourne, afford an interesting contrast. Irvine re-
mains the Iceberg, invariably courteous and fair-
dealing, but still betraying in his silky voice an
unpleasant suggestion of conscious superiority. His
dignity is impregnable to any sensation or surprise;
you yearn for him to fly off the handle just to show
that he is human. Schutt, largely overshadowed by his
more experienced brethren, is warmer in personality
than his Chief, yet not as appealing as Cussen, a
big-hearted scholar in whom the lawyer hasn’t suc-
ceeded in triumphing over the man—a tolerant,
kindly philosopher.
T. HOSKINS, N. S. Wales Parlia-
mentary Whip of the Nationalist party.
Senator Guthrie, who is being urged to
run for the Reps, at next elections, is a
cheerful character who doesn’t seem to be
hampered by owning but one leg. The loss
ot that limb is connected with an experience
that few men could think of without a shiver,
ihe left leg became poisoned, and, after
tinkering with it, the doctors saw that
nothing would save Guthrie but amputation,
ho the leg was sawn off just short of the
groin, and everything looked well until the
patient inexplicably collapsed under the
anaesthetic. The usual restoratives were
tried, but the patient failed to respond and
eventually was given up for dead, and an
undertaker, was called in. The fact that
an attendant was 1 looking when Guthrie
made his first feeble movement back to con-
sciousness undoubtedly prevented that opti-
mist being buried.
“Marangai’s” cheery adventurer :
Frank Worsley, R.N. and D. 5.0., now second in
command of the Shack leton exploring schooner
Quest, will feel strongly tempted to revisit his old
cruising haunts in the South Pacific. Many a year
ago I was shipmate with him in the M.L. Govern-
ment schooner Countess of Ranfurly, trading to the
Eastern Pacific Islands, and Worsley was known as
a broth of a boy in every island from Tonga to
Penrhyn. The risks he took in knocking around the
coral reefs would have made the scanty hair of the
Marine Department stand on end if it had only
known. He is—or was, maybe the ice has sobered
him-—chockful of daredevil pranks. If it wasn’t
Worsley who nearly caused an international rumpus
at Samoa 20-odd years ago by casually hauling down
the German Consul’s flag as a trophy of his visit, it
must have been someone darn like him. It certainly
was he who navigated the small boat in which
Shackleton and three or four others made the great
voyage from Elephant Island to South Georgia after
the rloss of the Endurance in the ice.
Jack Fitzpatrick, noisiest of all N. S.
Wales Liberals, will again battle his way
back for Bathurst. Though no water-
waggoner himself, the waggon carried him
into the State Assembly 17 years ago, when
he stood for Orange. His opponent was
Jupp Gardiner, nowadays the sole survivor
of Labor in the Senate. Jupp had never
touched anything but tea in his life, but
got well stoushed by Fitznatrick on the tem-
perance issue. The rowdy little man has a
positive genius for deriving nourishment
from sect.onal scraps round village pumps
and Little Bethels.
Charles Nitschke, dead in Adelaide at 54,
was in early days a prominent athlete, later
a successful hotelkeeper and president of
the L.V.A., and later still a useful poultry-
breeder. • (What this industry means to S.
Aus. may be judged by the fact that when
Sydney was recently paying 2s lOd. per doz.
for eggs. Adelaide was buying them at Is.
6d.) Nitschke did some successful racing,
played good cricket, and was a fine musi-
cian ; Richard, the baritone, is a brother.
Squatter Edward Jolley Crooke, who is
ageing visibly these days, says he will not seek
re-election to the Yic. Uppah Chambah when
his present term runs out in June. He was
an hon. Minister in the second Turner and
first Peacock Governments (1900-02), and
is one of the old brigade, having been first
elected in 1893. The House will have one
gentleman less.
Passed out at Auckland (M.L.) the other
day, J. J. Walklate, once general manager
of that hamlet’s tramways. He was im-
ported by Private Enterprise in 1907 to run
the trams, and when the Council took them
over he was taken over too. Most of his
life he spent dabblinv with vehicles that ran
on rails, but he was holding the job of towU-
clerk when he reached the terminus.
Governor Weigall has backed his remarks
about the poor quality of S. Aus. dairy cattle
by making a valuable gift to the Govern-
ment ; or, as he modestly puts it, the Lin-
coln Red Shorthorn Society in England
makes the gift through him—two young bulls
and eight heifers. Two other ladies were lost
on the voyage: one of these, which died in
rough weather in the Bight, was, his Ex
thinks, the best of the lot. The cattle will
be sent to Roseworthy Agricultural College.
The Government of the Speck has built
a memorial volume from the papers that
were read to the Royal Society by Statis-
tician Robert Mackenzie Johnston, who died
in 1918. Born in ’45 near Inverness, John-
ston started as a farm-hand, then became a
railway worker, and, having emigrated to
las., climbed up to his statistical job
through the railway audit office. He was
the adviser of Tasmania while Federation
was being hatched, and the Brad don Blot
was devised in consultation with him.
A man who might have done much to-
wards resurrecting the old Palmer diggings
(N.Q.) was Jim Watters, who went out at
Cooktown the other day, aged 65. He arrived
m Sydney in the early ’seventies, and shortly
afterwards went to the Palmer, where, with
Harboard and Kummer, he discovered the
Anglo-Saxon and later worked the Louisa,
Ida and Comet mines. He made a pile but
iost it in the ’nineties. Coolgardie (W.A.)
gave him back his fortune, and, returning to
Queensland, he organised a syndicate to
prospect the Maytown line of reefs on the
Palmer. He had just selected the sites for
the bores when the Reaper called.
David Orme Masson, who is about to
af . ter P earl y a quarter of a century in
the Chair of Chemistry at Melbourne, came
from the Edinburgh Uni. and found the
School of . Chemistry in Victoria a futile
uttle affair; but by degrees he evolved a
first-class laboratory. His own pet hobby
is the periodic classification of the elements,
and one scheme, he has designed for this has
to the Department being advertised
throughout the scientific world. A son
Irvme Masson, has already distinguished
Himself in scientific investigation in England.
“Lee-oh”; The last survivor of the old-
timc sandalwooders of the New Hebrides
a :?u Ne w Caledonia trade is Captain
Matthew Clayton, of Manurewa, Auckland
(M.Dj. He is now 91, and for many a
ye.ar has won a living with his brush as a
painter of marine subjects. He went to sea
in 44, and in 1847-48 was apprenticed in
the barque Statesman (Captain Dewar)
trading out of Sydney to the Western Paci-
nc Islands for sandalwood, then fetching
over £4O a ton in China. Captain Clavfon,
by the way, saw a good deal of Melbourne
in its rowdy youth. He was an officer, and:
later commander, of the frigate-built Black-
wall liner Kent trading between London and
Melbourne in the ’fifties and voung ’sixties;
and -on one of his voyages—lB62, I think-
carried back to London nearly half-a-million
in gold, besides many lucky diggers bulging
with dust and nuggets.
V Kiley has given up the secretary-
ship the St. Patrick’s Day celebrations in
Adelaide, after running the show success-
fully for 26 years. He is barely 50 now,
but has .handed the reins to his son Dennis.
“Cato”: Behind Premier Theodore’s new
agricultural policy stands Mark Harrison
ot Queensland Producers’ Review. Harri-
son is a successful business man. and jour-
nalism is only a hobby. Last year he visited
America to study Californian co-operative
methods and the operation of the county
agency system. His hard-hitting advocacy
of the farmers’ interests converted Theodore.
London Daily Chronicle recently de-
voted much space to a story of Rev. Ben-
ja,miii Reed, one-time Pentridge chaplain
and his relations half-a-century back with
‘‘murderers, bushrangers, cut-throats and
forgers of very choice variety.” The former
penal parson is now at Hatch worth, a plea-
sant little Hertfordshire village.
°f!, th l Vic - Usurer McPherson’s
pohtma l filends want him to nominate for
L e . , ne . w . suburban Federal constituency.
Segs Sf eg
confirni “ the*’ Let
sion first, he says,
and then he’ll say
what he’ll do.
Watt talked simi-
larly when sounded
for the same divi-
sion. They do not
forget the case of
Frank Madden,
who announced
that he would
stand for the pro-
posed Malvern
electorate when
Watt brought
down a State Re-
distribution
of Seats Bill. The
bill was not
passed, and the
Boroondara por-
tion of Madden’s
constituency went
cold, and ulti-
mately (19171
froze him out.
PERCY WHIT-
TON, Controller-
General of Trade
and Customs,
and, as a side-line,
father of Ivo, the
golf champion.
i Hullrout ’: The two old clocks in Banana-
land s legislative chambers have on their
diais Baynes Bros., London and
Bay l TT The y were i n the original Parlia-
ment House in Queen-street in 1860, and
they still do their .job well. Ernest Baynes,
now on his way to London after the Dia-
mond Sculls, is a grandson of one of the
makers.
Having become M.H.R. for Yarra, Jim
Scull in has handed the editorial pen of Bal-
laiat Echo to brother-in-law Jack Ivean,
who is secretary of the local Trades and
Labor Council and has a voice in the Vic.
branch of the Australian Labor party. The
Echo is the only Labor daily in the Cabbage
Carden, and reached the summit of its suc-
cess as a shrill small voice squeaking “No"
during the two conscription campaigns.
Richard E. Oaten, again elected president
ot the rapidly-growing Australian Clerical
Association (N.S.W.), is one of the best
chairmen in the Labor ranks. Practically
S Clerks’ Union was formed in
IJOB he has been president in .alternate
years, his rival for a long time being present
senator Walter L. Duncan. Oaten is secre-
tary of the lately-formed Accountants’ Asso-
ciation and likewise of the N.S.W. 'Athletic
League. As an extra he does the handicap-
ping ror league athletic events.
Cap’n Law Johnston, doyen of A.U.S.N.
skippers, has gone into retirement at Bris-
bane. _ Joining the company’s service at its
nmeption in 1881—he was previously second
officer in the A.S.N. Co.—he commanded 3i
of its steamers, among them the Kanowna
and the Kyarra, and navigated all of them
safe to port. The Cap’n steps down from
the bridge at 69, and thousands of Austra-
lians wish hini a long and pleasant cruise
in the quiet waters of life as master
mariner, retired.
“Mac” : Evangelist G. E. Burns, who organ-
ised the Plarlaxton (Q.) stunt of building a
church in a day (B. 9/3/’22), is not a Yank,
but a native of Bananaland. Before enter-
ing the ring with Old Nick he was a school-
teacher. He put in some years of church
work on the North Coast of N. 8. Wales,
where the cockies still remember him with
affection.
The gentlemen who have altered the boun-
daries of the Federal electorate of Denison
(Tas.) have _ done grave injury to Laird
Parliament approves of the
change, should lose his job. Denison has
been deprived of much Conservative terri-
tory, with a result that makes the seat
almost a plum for the Farmers. The an-
nouncement was made a few days ago
that Victoria’s ex-Chief of Police, John
Gellibrand, was going to stand in
their interests, but as the rumor was
denied on the following day and re-
affirmed a few hours later it is impossible
to know what his intentions are. If he nom-
inates as either Nationalist or Cocky ne
should command strong support. A member
of a family well known in the Speck, and
himself an orchardist, he has the additional
recommendation of a great war record.
Laird Smith could ask for no more trouble-
some opponent.
AT PAGO PAGO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As we sailed up to Pango
The sun was in his pride;
Across the lazy ocean
Six days from Sydney side,
As we came up to Pango
Pango was like a bride.
Her head was in the sun rays,
Her feet were in the sea;
Her veil of gracious greenness
Wind-tossed and floating free;
As we came up to Pango
Heavy the heart of me.
We floated up to Pango;
The feathery palm-fronds tossed
Their arms abroad in mourning
For some belovPd lost;
As I sailed up to Pango
And counted up the cost.
The gracious isle of Pango
Hath balm for many a care;
It drinks the peace long-lasting,
It breathes diviner air;
But vain to me its beauty,
And vain that it is fair.
For westward is from Pango
The land I love the best,
Hull down into the sunset
And glowing in the west;
And I go east from Pango
And, restless, seek my rest.
Honolulu.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


'MM
Wm
m
m
IIfBIR
; ,
''* ’
ill
•'/'-1~- r .'. ■-
MmiMMmm
v : ■'
mm®
«
B
@isSssi«
BEEF, PORT WINE. COCA 8 KOLA.
Cjt>ea fast //halfh-givfnc?
< L/omc in the Wor/ct^
<^eiy
%
w
tty
zyyy
yyy>
yy. >oo,
A?Vfc
£7/
/-A*
-//;
K/
jV'
&
/ /'
/I
5®
#
vz
/Z
/j
iffl /»
Kjw/
tmi M i
i
//AA&ytlrfl/t
*4
/%
A
u-.
C\
t<z A A
6 A'> "’■
n
ir/PW/
r//i
H/i
;///:
Si
i
r#
7/
Wl
//
rag
z
z
sC
y
V'NN'
3§*
:,m r
VfcK:
fSmmmwm
mmm
m.u&
■aKSv-j
sM&r
;«
iISiSk
immMm.
m
}?*g£
SgJKi!
s
as ; ; >
SfcS
«S>'!
I
, !£.
1
7 ;- U
IP^
mmm
m
SBSS§
2 «
••V v • ~
; -y&
;•«,/• ■ - : -. ~ r;
•-• \V.
3EDNA! makes tDaslviug dag an economical pleasure
Agents:—B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD.


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
B
LIGHT
'The drink of good taste.'
Imagine how appetising and
refreshing it would be with
luncheon or dinner to-day !
ana bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent. Brewery, Sydney.
PRESTIGE
How Much is it Worth to You?
CoronA
The Complete Portable Typewriter
WILL ADD PRESTIGE TO YOUR LETTERS,
ACCOUNTS, REPORTS, ETC.
COSTS ONLY & 17/17/- COMPLETE IN CASE
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
17 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
Society
[?]
“Groppi”: Of tlxe various agencies that
worked for the welfare of the soldiers
only the Salv’army escaped the sul-
phurous criticism of the lads in the
trenches. Why? Because none but the
Salv’army was administered always on
THE SEA HATH ITS
HE (a puffed-up one): “My fiancee's name
is Pearl —and she is one.”
SHE (a turned-down one): “No doubt —one
of the blister variety.”
democratic linos. When the legless private
was helped on board the average transport
for his long trip home he saw an array
of deck chairs marked with the names of
the padres, the Red Cross and Comforts
Fund colonels and majors and the senior
officers. After these able-bodied potentates
had been accommodated, the junior officers
got a look in, and that nearly always ex-
hausted the stock. I patronised five trans-
ports, and on but one (the Karoola. under
Gordon Craig) did I find this rule defied.
This Scotch doctor concentrated on the com-
fort of the disabled irrespective of rank.
At Le Havre there was a well-known offi-
cers’ mess with a Red Cross billiard table,
four expensive card tables (Red Cross) and
an immense quantity of comforts-fund goods
which made the place like a luxurious club.
During a two-days’ stay I made there in
1917 the permanent residents got their
“billies” —packed by loving hands in Aussie
for a very different type of soldier. It
may have been illogical for the Diggers to
get annoyed, seeing that privilege is of the
essence of every army system ; but the fact
is they were very much annoyed. If another
war comes they will be annoyed again—
unless the oliiciais of tne war-wurking
societies are allowed to function right out-
side the army system.
* * * *
"Merrigal”: Brown, who served his
articles with me, so went the pace that his
folk were on the verge of pushing him out,
when he suddenly joined the Salvation
Army. A little later he sailed in the Wan-a-
rapa to visit his only Jbrother at Dunedin
(M.D.), who had got a hint from the old
people of the conversion. The Wairarapa
was wrecked, but Brown was rescued. As
soon as he could get in touch with the tele-
graph he wired to his brother, “Saved,
praise the Lord.” And the brother wired
back “Hallelujah!”
*** . *
“Dido”: How wonderful is woman, how
unfathomable! In a smart southern suburb
of Melbourne the party of the hist part
divorced Ins wife because her conduct with
a neighbor (the party of the second part)
would not bear strict scrutiny. The lady
married the party of the second part, but
discovering in a few months that she pre-
ferred her former husband, she rolled her
bluey, or the female equivalent, and, return-
ing in the absence of the party of the hrst
part, squatted in her former home, and would
yield to neither argument nor persuasion.
So the first husband called on the second
husband in a heated state, intending to
demand the removal of the lady. But the
second husband, a hot-tempered Welshman,
immediately accused the first husband of
abduction, and tlie two rolled the lawn, doing
each other much mischief. When they were
weary they sat in their damages and resumed
the discussion. Hearing that the party of
the first part really desired nothing better
than to have the erring lady dragged from
his home, the party of the second part
joined in, and the two husbands returned to
the home of No. 1, and put their case. The
lady elected to fight them for it, and then
sat down hard, and declined arbitration. At
this juncture the first husband had a brain
wave. “Help me carry him out then,” said
he. So they took up No. 2, who was by far
the more damaged, and carried him on to
the lawn. Whereupon No. 1 executed a stra-
tegic retreat, retired abruptly on his defences,
and closed and locked the door. The neigh-
bors were curious about a seemingly dead
man on the lawn and a mad woman on the
doorstep; and she is still there for all this
writer knows to the contrary, and shouting
through the keyhole.
“T.C.J.”: There’s nothing
like a. real cobber. My grand-
father’s dad was a Government
official in Hobart, and had a
number of convict servants
(both male and female) about
his house. He treated them
well, and they would bring their
troubles to him to straighten
out. One of the men asked him
to use his influence to get him
permission to marry one of the
women, and gave an excellent
reason why the matter should
be hurried. When asked to
name his bride-to-be he floored
grand-dad's . dad by admitting
that two of the ladies had. an
equally urgent call on him.
“But you can’t marry both—
which. is it to be?” “Well, you
see, sir, I can’t tell yet,” was
the reply. “My mate has offered
to marry one of them for me,
and I’ve promised him his pick;
and now he’s doing a month in
barracks, so I can’t tell which
is. his fancy.” An interview
with the gentleman in gaol
didn’t help much—he’d never
seen either,lady. In the end
they drew lots, and love’s young dream con-
tinued unblighted.
“Mujik”: If anyone is looking for a
plank to float into the Senate on, here it
is. A bill intituled a Bill to Make Better
Provision for the Peaceful Life. Be it.
therefore, enacted, by and with, etc., that
there shall be established by direction of
the Minister for Preserving Equanimity, at
a distance of not more than 99 yards from
every public highway, lane, blind allev or
place, asphyxiating chambers, into which
shall be flung, on payment of Id. by the
flingee, and without notice, explanation or
argument (1) any person under the age
of 75 years who, being employed pn a daily
or other paper, writes more than ldoz.
words per annum about camisoles, sus-
penders or bathing-suits; (2) any male or
female who before 11.45 a.m. enters the
bathroom of any habitation and therein
makes loud noises, whether by singing or
attempting to sing, or by ejecting atmo-
sphere through the post-nasal cavity in,
snorts, roulades or arpeggios; (3) any in-
dividual \vho sets a mechanical musical in-
strument in motion before sunrise or after
sunset or in between times, possesses a
barking dog or is the registered proprietor
of a crowing rooster; (4) any youth who,
standing in a public street, makes aggres-
sive 40-h.p. announcements about the start-
ling contents of the latest edition; (5) any
girl .who, whether above or below the age
of consent, is detected learning the ukalele;
(6) any maid or matron found wearing a
complexion composed of stain, pigment or
any coloring matter whatsoever other than
HIGH FINANCE.
“Ten guineas! It’s a lot of money for a
hat.”
“Oh, what’s ten guineas to people who owe
as much as we do!”
spirit varnish. If we only had plain, simple
laws like this 75 per cent, who are trans-
ferred to the mortality statistics through
suppressed rage bursting their boilers would
be struggling to earn enough to pay their
income-tax and life-insurance premiums.
* * * *.
“X2X” Some new possibilities in the
detection of crime are suggested by the
recently-cabled story of a German female
criminal who dreaded to go under chloro-
form for an operation lest while unconscious
she should babble incriminating things.
Chloroform is not the only drug which causes
people to become voluble. There are some
which have among their effects that .of
exciting the patient so that he,
without losing consciousness, grows
extremely confidential and likely to
tell a perfect stranger all about
something which wild'horses could
not drag from him in normal cir-
cumstances. The majority of
these, compounds work by exciting-
certain cerebral centres, so that
the subject is in a greater or less
condition of “elevation,” closely
resembling, that of a man who has
been tippling. At the same time
the inhibitions which ordifiarily
make him cautious are temporarily
removed, so that he talks about
matters which he would otherwise
never dream of discussing. One of
these drugs is the alkaloidal active
principle of a Mexican plant from
which a commonly-used beverage
is made. It differs from chloro-
form inasmuch as the patient
under chloroform still possesses
some of bis. mental inhibitions, but,
owing to his being unconscious or
only semi-conscious at the time, he
doesn’t know what he is saying—
which is not the case with the
other drugs. Perhaps 'we will yet see the day
when suspects will be taken to police head-
quarters and given an injection which will
make them bare their souls.
* * * *
From Justice Cussen’s court:—
Rarely have woman’s waywardness and man’s
tolerance been better shown than in a just-heard Vic-
torian divorce case. A 57-year-old laborer was per-
suaded to marry a widow of 39 with five children.
“She,” said the husband, “did all the courting.”
They were married, and she left him at the door of
the church to visit a friend in a hospital. He called
at her home and was ordered off the doorstep by
one of her daughters. Then he intercepted the lady
herself, and was told that if he would go away and
lose himself she was prepared to take £1 a week
and call it square. Three days later, still in pursuit
of his “rights,” he called and found her ill with
what she called a cold. However, petitioner noticed
the mark of a rope round her neck, which he subse-
quently discovered was the result of an attempt
made by the lady to hang herself. The hint was
unmistakable. Hei* love was dead. He gave up the
struggle.
Rounds . how that Rannon has retired
frorn the post of sup-
erintendent of Vic.
tecs, the-, feeling is
very strong that the
Ministry should reach
out for the best man
obtainable, inside or
outside Victoria, to fill
the gap. Bannon did
not get his chance
till lie was half-way
through the fifties,
and disappointment
had then blunted him
somewhat. His suc-
cessor should, if pos-
sible, be not over 40,
and the more he keeps
his team a mystery-
group the better. Far
too many supposed-to-
be sleuths and sac-
suit .1. Hops have
been posing for their
photographs for the
daily and weekly
pape r s. It is not
s o mu e h slabs of
brawn as specks of
brain that are needed
to beat the crook. He doesn’t trust to his
brawn these days.
“Calulu”: Recent references to coats in
court recall an incident in a Vic. country
town. At the sessions one wire-whiskered
witness turned up in his shirt sleeves.
“Where is your coat, sir?” thundered the
Judge. “At ’ome, yer Honor,” replied Bill.
“Well, go home at once and put it on.”
The merest suspicion of a smile lit the
solemnity of William’s face as he shuffled
out, and the case was gone on with. About
two hours later Bill’s nam,e was again
called, but there was no response, and
Sonor was threatening to convict him for
contempt of court when a cobber of the
absentee sidied up to -one of the local John
Hops and remarked, “Bill lives in Dargo
now.” This news was passed up to the
Bench. “How far is Dargo from here?”
snapped the Bench “About 84 miles, your
Honor,” said the John.
* * * *
“Cleveland”: Re the Sydney doctor who
was the first to extract a bullet actually
embedded in the heart of a patient (B.
23/2/’22). The second operation, of this
kind was performed by a woman, Dr. Mar-
HIS BLACK DAY.
"And don't forget that before I married you
I refused you three times.”
"Yes, and then my luck gave out.”
garet White, in St. Elmo Hospital, Malta.
The operation was a nine days’ wonder on
the island, and as Fritz was then getting
two out of five mails the news of the opera-
tion in Cambridge did not come through
until after the one at Malta had been per-
formed. I saw the bullet within half-an-
hour of its extraction. Incidentally, I have
also seen the grave of the patient. He died
of goitre two months after recovering from
the operation.
THE NEW AXECRAFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now walks the new Macbeth with catlike stride
Through mansion and hotel and startled. flat:
The headless corpse is gently laid inside
The wardrobe where Eleusa kept her hat.
He uses axes, knives—perchance a saw —
A tragic but a silent trade is his.
No one has seen him, though the gore is raw
And none can tell you who Eleusa is.
London, New York, Chicago, Paris, Rome-
Each in the cyclone of new horror shares.
The housemaid’s morning duty in each home
Is first to sweep tile bloodstains from the stairs.
Tlie murderer and victim come and go;
The cause of slaughter none may even guess.
A thousand pounds in ready cash or so
Is left about in utter carelessness.
Jewels of priceless worth are scattered round,
But not a single post-card with a name
In trunk or drawer or suit-case can be found
To help to fix the motive or the blame.
And so the whole detective force grows bald,
Scratching a hopeless head to find a clue,
While readers in their millions sit enthralled
And stark Macbeth goes forth to slay anew.
. - 1
The fashion grows—who knows where it will end ?
In the near future we may hear men say
“Excuse me, I must go and kill a friend;
I find Eleusa rather in the way.”
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


..... ~
: : S- 1 ;':
:%'V
\* ',>Aisf *
Hi
■SsH
■
-. ;.
mm#
H
* .<
m
w
... .. : . , .
1
m
. E .. <y
I*
f»
;. -v .■
r*« ' ■•;
HBiillP
tfi
'i
iiiiftglSSSl
A:., |
mmsmm
iiSil
i i
■ - '
m
lr
m
: i
m i
■
§
■::g;gy;
X
i—
:
mmWMMM
-nniiiiiiiiiigprfrifitiTi^
HHi
.
333
Hi
I :
1
HRHM
n
«»: am
gg
.
RHH
-
PLAYER-PIANO is invaluable only in-so-far as it is
truthful in its reflection of the operator’s intentions.
The smooth, clear, rapid technique of the New Beale is en-
riched by a method of control which enables the subtlest
m shades of every composition to be fully explored. It is an
interpretive instrument upon which the musician with an indifferent
manual training finds pleasure as great as that of the virtuoso. It is an
instrument limited only by the performer’s own knowledge of music.
I 'Descriptive posted free to any address.
Showrooms:
340 George Street
SYDNEY
BEALE § COM PANY IP 5
Head Office a - .d Factories :
41-47 Trafalgar Street
ANNANDALE
BRANCHES N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle and Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans,
Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: J. A. Thomson Co., Limited, Perth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and Fi-ench Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
"For Ever Best/'
ST A 6
LAGER
TOOHEY'S,
Rae-akiaki .- There’s a queer matrimonial
tangle in a South Island (M.L.) country
town where a rather and daughter married
a sister and brother. The father, who has
14 children—11 bv his first marriage and
three by his second—is brother-in-law of his
son-in-law, and uncle to his own grand-
children. &
* * v * *
Dr. Bean clears up some mysteries :
It is quite a mistake to suppose, as I think many
people do, that there is anything more than a tempo-
rary and informal connection between the Theosophical
Society and the Liberal Catholic Church. Essenti-
ally, the Theosophical Society maintains a welcom-
ing but strictly neutral attitude towards all relig-
ions, as also towards all sects within the fold
NOT HER FIRST HOLIDAY.
"Good-bye, darling. I’ll write before the end
of the week.”
That's no good. You'll have to make that
cheque last longer than that.”
of Christianity. It is eager to help and illuminate
all with its teachings, just so far as they wish
and are able to be helped. The present temporary
association between one particular church and the
society only manifests itself in Christian countries.
The link is simply this. The L.C.C. has evolved out
of a now defunct British branch of the old CathcPc
Church of Holland. Prominent Theosophists hare
been the leaders in this evolution, which has
resulted in an entire severance from the parent
church, and the formation of a quite separate
body, owning allegiance to no other church and
teaching a creed which, roughly, might be described
as a theosopliised form of Christianity. The members
of this church are allowed the widest possible
intellectual freedom, and may interpret it.s creed
as they think fit. For ail the above reasons, a large
MADE A JOB OF IT.
MAY: “Fred said I teas the first girl he had ever knelt to.”
FLO: “Why, he has knelt to hundreds.”
MAY: “What, the brute!”
FLO: “Yes, dearie; he works in the ladies' department of the hoot store.”
proportion, naturally, of the earlier members of
this church have been previously members of the
Theosophical Society. Both bodies, however, are
equally anxious that it should be widely recognised
that they have no essential connection with each
other.
* * * *
“Bendy”: How about this for Australian
gameness? A widower with six youngsters,
the eldest 12, recently married a widow with
seven, the eldest 14. In the mob are live
under the age of six, including twins just
three years old.
* * *
“T.W.” : While it may astonish the Defence
Department to find that 43,196 ex-Diggers
in Victoria alone have failed to apply for
their war medals, it aston-
ishes me still more to hear
they have to apply for the
discs at all. We who served
with the British Army were
not expected to go cap in
hand and ask for the medals
due to us. Our addresses
were taken on demobilisa-
tion, and only when we
changed them were we ex-
pected to let the Army
bosses know. The War office
sends out medals direct to
ex-officers, and those due to
rankers are sent through
the district headquarters of their regiments,
where their records remain. It is easy to
scoff at the War Office for many things, but
it has succeeded in finding most of its
5,000,000 medal-winners, in whatever part of
the world they may be wandering.
“Zeitoun” : Victorian Diggers are said to
be “rallying to B. R. Peacock, who made the
scathing allegations against the administra-
tion of the Y.M.C.A. during the war.” They
would. And so would most Diggers in other
parts of Australia/, chiefly because of a
belief that eligible shirkers and limelighters
used the Y.M.C.A. to get military rank
without paying for it in risk to life or limb.
The same idea prevailed in the other armies:
the Yanks greeted one retiring consignment
of mostly-youthful Y.M.C.A. officers not with
cheers but with hoots. No doubt other organ.
isations were afflicted with the same sort
of people; the Y.M. suffered most because it
was most conspicuous. The sawny boys who
seemed to nredominate in it were everywhere
—as chaplain’s A.D.C.’s on transports, in
every English camp, and in billets round about
Bailleul, Amiens and other comfortable and
fairly safe localities. The ideal “camp
follower” was Adrian Knox, K.C.—now
Commonwealth Chief Justice. He wore
civvies and sank his military rank. Another
was Tom Henley. He was over the fighting-
age, and though he liked himself in uniform
as a “Colonel,” yet he was all there when it
came to standing by the soldiers. It is
safe to say that if a majority, or even a
fair percentage, of Y.M.C.A. officers had been
citizens of this age and class, critick of the
-organisation would have had little support
from the A.I.F.
* * * *
‘‘Jobber”; “Hamer” on mental telepathy
(B. 2/3/ '22) reminds me. On the night of
the day I took the count on the Peninsula
my sister wakened her husband and said
I had been wounded, and was calling to her.
As a matter of fact, I remember thinking
pretty hard of her at that time. The hus-
band, as is the way of husbands, poohed
the idea; but in less than a week they had
a cable from the military people. Another
time, while temporarily separated from Mrs.
Jobber, I was _ taken ill. One night, in a
moment of semi-delirium, I remember calling
her name aloud. Comparing notes later she
told me she was so certain she had heard
my voice that night that she got out of bed
and went to the window, quite expecting to
see me on the path below. Those two inci-
dents have convinced me that there is some-
thing in this mental-telepathy business.
* * * *
‘S. S. Severn”: Sung Lue having amassed
a competency was returning to his Flowery
Land, there to live as befits one who has
prospered. When his ship reached Thurs-
day Island he went ashore, and whilst there
he drank deeply; and when the tropic night
came down in all its rose-gold glory he
returned to the ship and swayed to and fro
on the narrow gangway. Five times he
swayed : the sixth time he lunged too far and
pitched into the swirling tide-rip. His
countrymen offered big moneys for the re-
mains, their desire being to bury them
amongst his ancestors—how otherwise could
a man of China sleep? Then word flashed
louncl the island that Sung Lue had worn
a }® at J?. e J' n bel t round his middle, and that it
held SUU sovereigns. A Thursday Island
artilleryman set out his shark lines each
sunset. Many sharks he caught, but none of
much account. Then one evening, as the
led star rose between two palm trees, he
hooked a white giant. In its belly lay a
man s leg and part of a leather belt—
empty That night, in the little beach hotel,
the artilleryman drank deeply, and presently
said he couldn’t get that look in the shark’s
eyes out of his mind. Nine sunsets later a
shark took him in three feet of water. Yes,
a queer business altogether.
* * * >.
“Crooked Sam”: In a N.S.W. North
Coast town a few years ago a man was
buried with a section of 4 x 2 hardwood
through his chest. He worked in a sawmill,
and was passing in front of a circular saw
when a piece of 4 x 2 scantling hurtled
rrom the metal and struck him end-on, com-
pletely piercing his body. It was impossible
to remove it, so the protruding pieces were
sawn off close on both sides and the re-
mainder was buried with him.
* * * *
Another Digger gives testimony:—
As to the Y.M.C.A. with the fighting army in
Egypt and Palestine there is nothing complimentary
to say. The whole situation was summed up in the
popular interpretation of the letters Y.M.C.A.: “Your
Money ; Christ Afterwards.”
“The Reefer” (Papua) : A young white
man has just been sent to gaol at Port
Moresby for six months for abducting
a native girl. Whether a white man
should be permitted to purchase a native
woman is—as it may be. ManyHtave and
many will. Quite a number have aiso legally
married native women. But all the history
of such piebald marriages goes to show that
the color “pull” is stronger than the legal
tie. In other words, when the white
husband is away the native favorite comes
into his own. Yet the husband, no. matter
how unfaithful his native spouse, cannot
obtain a divorce. Once married he is
anchored to her until death do them part.
It isn’t the only consideration, of course;
but I fancy it has a great deal to do with
the many temporary and unsanctified unions
one comes across in the Possession. Though
designed with the good intention of dis-
couraging such marriages, I question whether
it doesn’t do more harm than good-
“ Job”: We ran the usual boxing tourna-
ment on the transport, and in one of the
heats Darky hit Snow a bonzer on the point.
Out fell Snow’s right eye on the deck and
broke into a dozen pieces. If any officers
saw it they were sports; for as far as I
know our one-eyed cobber was not sent back.
* * * •
“Centurion” defends the rifle :
“Rio” (B. 16/2/’22) says that at the end of the
world-war the rifle was “only used for sniping.”
“Rio” falls into the same error as many others who
decry the rifle, assuming that all the 1914-18 war
was, and that all future wars will be, fought under
the conditions prevailing in France after the Hun
went to earth at the Aisne. A great part of the
war was fought in the open and very largely with
the rifle as the first weapon of attack. In the wide
and open spaces of the Sinai-Palestine front, where
30 miles or more were often covered in a single
night, the power of the machine-gun faded, the
Stokes mortar and the bomb had no field for
employment, and gas-shells and tanks were only
used once or twice in exceptional circumstances. It
THE YOUNG DOGS!
“I've always kept up my French—helps you
to express such delicate shades of mean-
ing.”
“Yes, rather, and such indelicate ones, eh,
what?”
was left to the rifle, with the traditional artillery
preparation now and again, to do nearly all the
work. On such a campaign the vast supplies of
various munitions which were always ready to hand
in France were out of the question. When the Light
Horse rode round the Turkish left at Feersheba they
did not stop till the Gaza dumps, such as they
were, were 60 miles behind them.
THE ONE THING TOO MUCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A book of verse, a shady bough,
A. flask of good Australian wine,
And what felicity were mine,
If, dearest, it were not for “thou” !
The loaf of bread is very well,
A sausage and a pipe or so,’
But dark Safid’s smile—ah, no!
Safid has too much to tell.
“There in close cover by some brook” ——
“I think these feathers are divine!
But, there, you never notice mine,
Or tell me, Omar, how I look.”
“Dissolve me into ecstasies”
“Of course, you’ve heard of Mrs. Smith?
’Twas Higginson she ran off with.
I love box-pleated skirts like these.”
And may at last niy weary age
Find out” “I’m tired of this rock!
Do let’s go in and do the Block.
These shades of blue are all the rage.”
“Till old experience do attain”
Oh, put the tiresome book away'!
You haven’t kissed me once to-day.
I must be growing old and plain.
“You sit there burying your nose
Ii: silly rhymes. You do not care
A button how I do my hair.
There is some other, I suppose.
“No, no, you simply must, I say.
One arm around me. Tighter still!”
Book, bough and wine, too, if you will;
But never book and Safie.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
• B iiI Bowyang : They were both- reared
m a N.Q. sugar-growing district, and neither
had been more than 50 miles, from home.
Iwelve months after the wedding the hus-
band was smitten with the wanderlust, and
grumbled about missing chances of seeing
a , ° t the world; then the wife confessed
she had also secretly cherished an idea
that she would like to work in a
city. The rest was plain sailing. Their
tarm has been leased, the proceeds to be
hanked in a joint account, and they have
parted for five years, during which time
they will not correspond with each other.
I hey said au ravoir a month back, and
' Vlll 1 * t again at Townsville on January
T Jo- (. The wife is now serving in a
Brisbane draper’s shop; the husband left
lonnsviUe on a trading schooner for the
fsoiomons, whence he reckons he will work
his passage to U.S.Ar


r
W I
/A
That tell-tale glance in the mirror
Does it leave you quite satisfied ?
THE girl with the fresh, smooth skm
turns away thoroughly self-satisfied ~
nothing to spoil her evening. No little
blemishes to conceal —nothing to worry
about.
But the girl with defects of complexion
which must be covered up—how can she
have a good time? Her pleasure will
always be marred by distrust as to her
appearance.
Yet every girl could have the radiant,
healthy skin which is the foundation of
all beauty. Intelligent care is the secret-
thorough cleansing the basis.
Stimulate your Skin.
The network of minute cells and glands
which compose the surface of your skin
should never be allowed to become slug-
gish and inactive. The dirt, oil secretions,
perspiration and remains of rouge and
powder, clog the pores, enlarge them and
produce blackheads and blemishes.
Once every day your skin should be
thoroughly cleansed with soap and water.
This is the only safe and the only sure
means of cleansing,
If you use a fine mild soap like Palmolive
there is no danger of irritation. Women
who fear soap have been using the wrong
soap.
Palmolive, with its mild, creamy lather, is
lotion-like in its action. It freshens, re-
vives and stimulates, and leaves the skm
delightfully fresh and rosy.
Wash the face gently with the velvet,
creamy lather of mild Palmolive, and
massage it softly into the skin. When
this foam is rinsed away, it carries off
the impurities which clog the pores and
are the foundation of skin infection and
disfigurement.
Palmolive is at once a cleanser, a tonic,
and a balm. Though so thorough and
beneficial in action, it is as gentle and
mild as a zephyr. Palmolive cleanliness
is different. You will appreciate it.
Sells everywhere at
1)3 per cake
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will be sent
post free on request by The Palmo'ive Company
(Aust alasia) Ltd., Broughton House, Clarence
Street, Sydney.
If.
ft
□
R
Mm
This was Cleopatra's
way
This simple method of beautifying was
Cleopatra’s beauiy secret. She knew
that to have a fresh, fine skin thorough
cleansing was necessary. She knew that
the gentlest means mast be employed.
She used palm and olive oils, the same
rare oils which are blended in Palmolive.
The crude combination which was the
best that even Royalty could command
in olden times is brought to perfection
in mild Palmolive Soap.
Other Palmolive Toilet
Preparations
Palmolive Cold Cream, tubes or jars;
Palmolive Vanishing Cream, tubes or jars;
"Violet of the Nile” and "Egyptian Rose”
Talcums; "Palmole” Face Powder;
"Palmolive” Face Powder; Palmolive
Shampoo; Palmolive Rouge.
m
x


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
SGEWO%
Z. EXTRA HIGH BRADE*/
Drubbed
3] E. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St. f near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE
Inclusive
TARIFF
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
A Signal Success
m
King George IV
** WHIM
The TOPNOTCHScotck
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
THE PERILS OF TRAVEL.
"Wouldn't you have Weed to travel round
the world and seen things, dad?”
"No. Eve seen all I want to, 'ere. Seen
goannas in red trousers once. I wasn't
riskin' no foreign animals after that.”
Moe : ‘Te Whare” notwithstanding (B.
0/2/’22), there have been numerous eases, both in
/ ustralia. and in Europe, in which people have lost
I heir lives tnrough the presence of ricin in samples
Of unedicnal castor-oil. There is probably no more
poisonous substance Known to science than ricin
'ne of the four true vegetable toxins, the others
leuig abrin, crotin and robin. Some experiments as
to the degree of its toxicity carried out a few years
ago showed that the smallest amount required to
kill a man was only the 1-25,000 th part of his
body-weight, and it is doubtful whether the next
most poisonous compound is half as deadly. The
processes sanctioned by the British Pharma-
copoeia for the extraction of castor-oil from the seeds
in ordinary circumstances are designed to guard
against even the most, minute quantity of ricin find-
ing its way into the expressed oil, but now and
again something goes wrong. About 20 years ago
12 or 15 children in a foundling hospital near Lon-
don were fatally .poisoned in this way, death occur-
ring a few minutes or so after administration of
the oil. Owing to its extremely toxic properties it
is not necessary that a lot of the compound should
be present in order to cause wholesale poisoning.
The majority of reputable drug-warehouses keep a
check on the purity of their castor-oil by means of
chemical analyses conducted at frequent intervals.
* * * *
“Lagani-Namo”: A little while ago some-
one had a word to say about narrow escapes from
death. But who could beat that of the Binghi who,
while skin-diving from a lugger in Torres Strait,
got his head and shoulder clean inside a big shark’s
mouth? His mates on deck were horror-stricken as
they watched the contest. By a fluke Binghi jerked
his fingers into the man-eater’s eyes and contrived
to pry his clapper free. The shark lit out for an
oculist, and the “boys” dived from the lugger and
brought up their mate. When they got him to the
Thursday Island hospital 168 stitches were required
to keep his head fastened to his body. That hap-
pened many years ago ; but I saw him a few months
back, and he displayed the damage with great gusto.
There were five rows of teeth marks beginning at the
forehead and ending in the shoulder muscles. At
the time there were great arguments at T.I. as to
whether it was the poke in the eye that made the
shark lot go his lunch or simply the taste of Binghi.
Judging by abos. I’ve smelt, I incline to the latter
view.
* * * tt
“Pip Tok”: A newly-appointed district
officer in the mandated part of New Guinea com-
menced his official life by taking stock of the local
gaol. He found among the prisoners 15 men the
records of Whose crimes and sentences were missing.
On inquiring of the police boys he learned that the
prison gangs sent out to do bush work were in the
habit of bringing back a cobber or two to spend a
few months with them as his Majesty’3 guests.
Re “Hokey’s” threshing-machine
engine (B. 9/2/’22) which was pulled out of its
setting at Axedale by a pair of bullocks. I can
supply a similar but mightier puli. About 30 years
ago, when Grylls’s threshing-machine had finished
at an Elmore (Vic.) cocky’s place, rain fell for a
week, and it was found impossible to get the bogged
S-horaepower portable engine across about three
chains of rotten country. Two bullock teams (16)
failed utterly to
move it. Neighboring
eockies brought along
their horse-teams,
which, they said, coulfl
pull anything up to
20 or 30 tons. But
nothing resulted except
a lot ox yelling and
smashed harness. In
desperation the boss
sent for an old black
bull, a champion gate-
smasher. The ordinary
bullock bow would not
go round his neck, so
one was specially made
and two fresh holes
were bored in the
yoke. Then, after a
lot of trouble, the old
bull was yoked to the
engine-pole alongside
the biggest and steadi-
est poler. Meanwhile
the rest of the two
bullock teams were
yoked together prepara-
tory to hooking them
on in front of the
pair of polers. Before
the hook of the chain
could be fixed on the
end of the pole the
old bull gave a mighty
roar, and the bullocks
promptly bolted. With
a tremendous heave,
the bull and the other
poler started after the
•bolters, dragging the
en-rino behind them.
They pulled the concern
across the rotten ground and went about 100 yards
farther before they were stopped. The bullock seemed
to be all out after the pull, but the bull looked as
if he could do the same thing again. •
“FY7”: “Camelero’s” frog which swal-
lowed a sparrow (B. 16/2/’22) recalls a big green
chap that used to hop on the dining-room table at
Noondoo station (Q.) and gobble the insects knocked
out against the lamp globe. One night a bat flopped
on the table and the frog was at him like a flash and
had him half-way down before we interfered. It
was only the widespread wings of the bat that
prevented his total disappearance. Someone pulled
the bat away and threw it on the floor, but Froggy
was on it again before anyone could wink, and he
was a most disgruntled jumper when his victim was
taken from him again and let loose outside.
“Ishmael”: The mailman introduced by
‘‘The Outsider” tB. 23/2/’22) seems to have a com-
paratively soft job, as he apparently has a home-
stead to camp at eacli night. Now, from Innamincka
(S.A.) the mails are carted to Cordillo Downs,
roughly 90 miles, over ranges of sandhills. Between
DEVOID OF ALL ART.
“So you were with old Buskin when he died. Sad—very sad.”
“Sad, laddie? It was terrible. I never saw a death scene so badly handled in my life.”
the sandhills are claypars which in the wet season
would bog a duck and in the dry season occasionally
melt the tyres off the coach wheels. There are no
stations, refreshment-rooms or ice-cream parlors on
the w 7 ay. When rain comes the track is washed
away, and the local “Fizzer” simply' makes a new
one. The service is Weekly, and the writer one
week, help to unload 14, large mailbags, mostly
parcel post, at the Cordillo end. The mail-driver is
no youth, and can tell many tales of other tracks he
worked on before the coming' of the motor-mail
forced him further out. So far the sandhills have
kept the motor-cars from this track, but there are
indications that the aeroplane will before long take
over the job. Sic transit !
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Re the enormous strength of the
bullock (B. 5/l/’22 and 9/2/’22). In 1884 Jack
Connors, well known in Middle Gippsland (Vic.),
shifted five tons of seed potatoes out of a sloping
yard at the back of Boyce’s hotel, Brandy Creek,
with a seven-year-old bull and a stag (the polers),
and he cut a figure 8 round the stockyard before
drawing out. Many old-timers will remember Jack
Connors. He was the man who introduced the
double-bladed axe into Gippsland.
* * * «
“R.1.Y.”; The platypus inhabits all the
waters mentioned by “Gecko.” (B. 2/2/’22). I have
netted them in Dunbible Creek, near Murwillumbah
(N.S.W.), which is salt right up to King’s Crossing;
Wilson’s Creek, Mullumbimby, which is fresh as far
as I know it; and Mulgoa Greek, near Penrith; brack-
ish from head to mouth. I have shot specimens often,
years ago, in Smith’s dam, near Penrith. The upper
reaches of the Nepean (fresh water) used to be fairly
stiff with them. When the platypus rises to the
surface the whole top of the body, fully extended,
comes into sight, and when he dives he humps his
back and goes down head first.
* * * »
‘‘Mag”: Though knowing the method the
kangaroo adopts in transferring her new-born to the
teat (her split lips are specially adapted for the
delicate operation) science has been singularly
unfortunate in obtaining practical demonstrations.
“Cooraleo’s” observers (B. 16/2/’22), therefore, should
be congratulated upon being among the very few
witnesses. Owing to the absence of internal nourish-
ment, all births are premature, and take place about
37 days after conception. The period of pouch-
residence is a month for each week in the uterus,
or six months in all; which proves “Cooralco’s”
statement. Some years back it was my good fortune
to see the dissection of a pregnant ’roo, and in
separate cells, side by side, were twin joeys. But
this is not uncommon.
“Wagtail”: Working in the garden the
other day I saw a cricket emerge from his home
underground, run about 18 inches, then sprino- into
the air, and do a series of complete back somersaults
till he was again in the vicinity of his home. After
a short spell (apparently to get his wind) he would
repeat the performance. This went on for about
five minutes, when another member of the family— :
perhaps the missus—began the old sweet song
below ground. On the instant my acrobatic little
friend made for home. The peculiar part of the
business was that he always ran in the same direc-
tion, approximately the same distance, and his
tumbling stunt was always carried out towards home.
What was he up to, anyhow?
* * * #
“Ando”: “Werrimee” (B. 2/2/’22) is
informed that kangaroo meat used to be a staple
article between Bridgetown and Albany (W.A.).
Some of the pioneer settlers did a. steady business
FINISHING HER OFF.
“Your daughter shows such fine talent I
should recommend you to Continue her
education.”
"Yairs! Too right. Be time yer come ’ere
next year she’ll he the best milker in
the district.”
purveying it to later arrivals at 3d. a pound. Let
some townies try a stew made *from the hindquarter
of a flying doe, and they’ll ask for more.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE VICTIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 saw him grieving by the kerb.
The hour was very lute.
I knew him formerly as ’Erb
Who sold the “baked potat’.”
Despondingly the little man
Crouched on the asphalt by his can.
“These pussyfoots and temperance blokes
Have ruined all my trade ;
Now no one in the city soaks,
And every man’s afraid
To go it,’’ said he, “with a list.
A baked potato in his fist.
“This early closing’s done for me.
One time as midnight fell
All sorts came homing from a spree,
And patronised me well.
They ate with splendid appetite
The frankfurt in his weskit tight.
“They fell upon the luscious pie,
They revelled in the spud.
Now sober streams go thinly bv,
And treat my pies like mud,
This prohibition means the boys
Turn down my toothsome saveloys.
“Because they are forbidden drink
The men decline to eat.
As pick-me-ups they used to think
My saveloys a treat.
Downtrodden and downcast, yet they
No zest for pick-me-ups display.
“On early-closing men would fall
And smash it out of hand
if you would only give them all
To see and understand
How it has wrecked decisively
The baked-potato industry.”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


3,000,000 Copies Sold
“Bookstall” Series
of Australian Novels.
Written by Australia’s best authors.
Illustrated by foremost Australian artists.
NOVELS FOR EVERY READER—
Sporting Stories
Historical Romances
Adventure Novels
Humorous Bocks
Australian Recitations, etc.
COMPLETE DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE POSTED
FREE ON APPLICATION TO THE PUBLISHERS.
112 NOVELS TO SELECT FROM.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSTALLS AND BOOKSELLERS
— IN THE COMMONWEALTH
1/3 each
All One
Price
1/44 posted
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 George Street, Sydney*
m
m
r
7
m
c
pure
food
OR 54-
Rex Ham Pate
The Ideal Spread for
School Sandwiches!
Good for them —economical for you* There you have the
reasons for the popularity of Rex Ham Pate.
Try it! “Rex” Ham Pate as a Sandwich filling gives their
healthy little appetites plenty of encouragement.
RpsiHp<i it is w’ olesome food —the country famed Rex
Ham with its inviting mildness and delightful flavor—pre-
pared so invitingly that no appetite cou.d possibly resist it.
Its real Economy wdl quickly make “Rex” Ham Pate a
favorite in your home.
“REX” ELAM PATE IS “REX”
HAM IN MOST ECONOMICAL
FORM—TRY IT!
Sold by all leading Grocers.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
r.J. i*t
M
mm
TILTH
TELLS!
“The extra cultivation at the
moment of planting counts for
%
much in the resultant crop.”
The “Suntyne” Drill (D. Cultivator Combined
is THE Implement,
CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
H. V. McRAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, S\UVShIHC
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Corner YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.


FULL FASHIONED ( MOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
ZJX
m
nm
o
<?
IN
n
v
“Bouragi”: With all respect to “Jim
Carevv” (B. 2/3/’22), there is little doubt that the
Rossel Islanders were cannibals. William Macgregor,
in one of his very early reports, tells how he found
the few miserable villages of the island at war with
each other, the trouble having started through the
killing and eating by one community of a visitor
from another. The visitor, by the way, was outed
in the fashion favored b.y the Rossel islander of
those days—several of his hosts sat on him while
others held his nose and covered his mouth till he
was smothered.
* * * - #
“Gouger” : Can any Abo.-ite tell me a prac-
tical method of keeping the fiendish March flies
from horses? Smoke fires give relief, but building
them from dawn till dark grows monotonous. Some
chemical that could be rubbed over the horses should
do the trick. This season’s flies have come here
(N.Q.) in countless billions. The forerunners were
a swarm of small blacks with a vicious sting; in
a few days they were followed by browns, slightly
larger: then larger flies still, and now this week’s
arrivals are a fly with goblin eyes of red, and an-
other with saucer eyes as vivid as a greeu signal,
lamp. And now I am beginning to notice new-
comers of a tremendous size, which advertise their
presence with a buzz like that of an angry Taube.
No, I never touch it.
HE DID.
“Will you now kindly explain how that
article came into your possession?"
“I went into a shop and I said to the gentle-
man, ‘I want some furniture. I’m think-
ing about getting married,' and he said.
‘Well, for a start, take a chair.'"
‘‘Pickles, J.P.”: Everyone knows the
capacity of a snake for disappearing while you are
looking for a waddy to hit him with. Here is a
method of meeting the case. Without moving, take
a glance round to locate a suitable stick. Having
done so, keep your eye on Fangs, and stoop down
SOME EXPLANATION NECESSARY.
THE PLAINONE: “I think kissing is a horrid habit."
THE PRETTY ONE: "Oh, you shouldn't believe all you read, old thing."
and gather a couple of fistfuls of loose earth. Move
round so as to get between the snake and the stick,
then shoot tiie contents of one fist in the wriggler’s
face. He’ll raise about 18in. of his front end and
get thick in the back of the neck about it. Give him
the other barrel, and, as he advances, retire on
your waddy. if he shows signs of stopping, renew
the bombardment. Not very long since I persuaded
a healthy five-footer to accompany me this way to
his doom 50 or 60 yards from where I met him.
* * * *
“JJJehap”: I made no mention of “solid
lead bullets” in my par. (B. 26/l/’22). “Mitchell”
(B. 16/2/’22) reads that in, I know most shooters
have their particular fads in the way of dum-dums —
hollow-nose, split and cross-split, wax- or soap-filled
or open—but soft, unalloyed lead in the ordinary
flat-headed bullet (itself a dum-dum, really) is as
effective as any. I note that after an extensive trial
“Mitchell” backs up my contention that the .22
h.v. is 'a killer, his chief reason for abandoning it
being the cost of the ammunition. Had he known that
he could reload, with metal-jacketed bullets on the
market at 4s. per 100 and high-pressure rifle powder
at 11s. 6d. per lb. at a cost of under 12s. per 100
(less than double the cost of re-loading .32-40’s —
not seven times), he would evidently have remained a
convert to modern 100 per cent, efficient firearms.
“T. Hord” (British Columbia) : “Mac
Alan” stated in The Bulletin some time ago that
when he was at Antigua (West Indies) in 1889-92
mutton was never purchased there. The explanation
given was that dogs had so crossed with the sheep that
it was practically impossible to get mutton without
the canine taint. I was in practice as a veterinary
surgeon in Antigua from 1891 till 1900, so I am in
a position to know this statement is absolutely
untrue. Such a cross is impossible. If it were not,
why has it not been recorded in England and other
sheep-breeding countries, where dogs are constantly
employed for herding and driving sheep?
“Trier”: The dog that swallowed the
steel skewer (B. 9/2/’22) reminds me. Not long
ago at The Sandhills, Bundaberg fQ.), our hemale
tabby swallowed a No. 2 fish-hook with a scrap of
over-ripe bait on it. Hours afterwards he jumped as
if a bomb had hit him, sprinted round the house
and then climbed a high dank stand, where he made
woeful noises all night. As we had no ladder and
no gun we had to leave him to it. We found him
in the morning on the verandah apparently on his
last legs. In desperation we handed him out two
small whiting, and to our surprise he promptly
sent them to look for the hook. To-day Tom is as
sprightly as ever he was.
“Cliftus”: Re the sprightly Trotting Cob,
heroine of a hundred tales of Victorian navvy camps
(B. 2/3/’22). Once at Loch (Vic.), through mixing
too much “bubbly” with outsizes in navvy cuss-
words, she landed in the arms of our mounted John.
He, being a gentlemanly bloke, tried to treat the
lady as such, and in her gratitude she gave him a
pair of beautifully barked shins. This annoyed the
trooper, but his gentlemanly instincts still held
good. He simply inserted the fiery lady into a
chaff-bag, tied the mouth thereof under her chin
and lumped her to the wee house up the road.
“Golub”: An Australian scientist hopes
before long to produce an antivenene serum. Work-
ing on the method commonly used for the manufac-
ture of polyvalent sera, such as are applied in the
treatment of infections due to a mixed strain of
organisms, he is immunising an animal with a mix-
ture of assorted venoms, made by mixing black-
snake, tiger-snake and brown water-snake poisons
together. In the result three separate and distinctly
different kinds of antibodies are formed in the blood
stream of the animal, so that the antivenene may be
employed against the venoms of any of these reptiles.
* * * *
“Mailman”: “Outsider” (B. 23/2/’22)
quotes as a hard-riding mail-service 175 miles in
five days—35 miles a day. How does that look
beside the old Maryborough-Gladstone (Q.) job of
504 miles a week? Here are the details: Mary-
borough to Eureka, via Musket Flat and Agnes Yale,'
63 miles, on Thursday; Eureka to Kolonga, v ia
Walla, Gin Gin and Munduran, 56 miles, Friday;
Kolonga to Rodd’s Bay, via Toweran, Warro and
Miriam Vale, 86 miles, Saturday; Rodd’s Bay to
Gladstone and back (stop four hours), 50 miles, Sun-
day ( same stages returning on Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday. As the mailman had to ride round the
station horse-paddocks to run up his own change-
horses at the 11 stations of the line, both ways, that
made 22 short bits of, say, two miles each, or 44
miles in all, bringing the seven-days’ total to 504
miles. I vouch for the correctness of these times
and distances because I was the mailman who rode
it. That was in 1866, and I was 18 years old. The
trip had to be done once in six days, as the police
subpoenaed me as witness in a bushranging case a
day before the return mail-day; and on one special
occasion it was done in 5i days. The longest stage
that trip without stop or rest, except for meals, was
from Rodd’s Bay to Gladstone and back to Walla,
174 miles. The route is a Government-cleared road
with the mileage marked on trees along it. W. H.
Louldery, w r ell known in Sydney a few years ago,
also rode that mail--—he was, in fact, my predecessor.
One day near Warro station the mail-horse fell and
broke Couldery’s leg, and I took his place. He never
returned to mail-riding, but when the Gympie field
opened he made his pile and retired to Sydney,
where I’m told he made a bit more*by a compara-
tively early investment in Manly Ferries.
* * * *
“Oilskin” : London Daily Mirror reported
(27/12/’2l)
What is stated to be a crossbred wyandotte and
leghorn cockerel hatched out in April, belonging
to Mrs. Hall, of Elmhurst, Cockermouth, laid an ego
of normal size.
I throw it into the Abo. ring for what it’s worth.
* * * *
“Tarago”: “Awright,” said Dad, “we
’aven’t reely got room fer a man, but seein’ y’re a
returned sodjer I’ll give yez a job.” Forthwith he
enumerated a long list of duties. When he paused
for breath the applicant mildly inquired: “And
milking—don’t you milk twice a day?” “No,
young feller,” said Dad, “we useter, but we found
it took up too much time, so we milk twice a night
now.”
* * * *
“Fidus”: “A.H.’s” method (B. 23/2/’22)
of germinating the acacia seed is obsolete. All local
nurserymen, as well as those in America, adopt the
quicker way of boiling them for a couple of hours
until they are almost like a jelly. A still more
rapid method is to secure'the seeds from the tree
before they are properly dry and the tough case
has not hardened. Under favorable conditions these
seeds will germinate in 48 hours.
* * * *.
“O’Ren”: For the sunflower stakes (B.
2/2/’22) I want to enter one I grew near Adelaide
last year—l2ft. 74in.. With it was one lift. 3in.
high and four all about the 9ft. or 10ft. mark.
“Te W.”: Harris, an early naturalist of
the Speck, seems to have been the first to describe
the Tasmanian wolf, or tiger, then known as the
zebra opossum, or zebra wolf. According to him,
this rare animal was even then confined to almost
impenetrable mountain gullies, where it abode in
caverns and among rocks. Its chief food consisted
of brush wallaby and other small marsupials. A
specimen was caught alive in a trap baited with
kangaroo meat, but did not long survive. It was
skinned and dissected, and the partly-digested body
of a porcupine anteater (echidna) was found in the
stomach. The coloring is yellowish-brown, with
about 16 black transverse stripes, broadest on the
back,- and gradually narrowing down the flanks. It
is, by the way, the largest of the Australasian flesh-
eating animals
THE IGNORANCE OF THESE
CHURCHMEN.
PARSON: “Ha! Hum! So you’re the little
girl who was horn in the Northern Ter-
ritory?”
L.G.: “Yeth, pleathe, mithter Hook.”
PARSON: “Hum! Ha! What part, eh?”
L.G. ( puzzled ): “Why, all of me, of
courthe!”
“Jobber”: I would like to hear about
“inside waybacks,” and will lead off with two I
know. One was a man of over 50 who worked for my
family in Harris Park, near Parramatta (N.S.W.),
years ago, and although the distance was only 14
miles by train, he had never been to Sydney in his
life. The other was a woman of about 40 who lived
about 10 miles from Moss Vale (N.S.W.) ; she had
never seen a train. One expects to find such cases
in the back country, but with “inside” people it is
hard to understand. What do they lack?
THE OLD MATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And thinking of Gildea brings back to memory
ray old cobber Jim Gordon, who once managed
Curranyalpa. So I had to go back and have a look
at the old homestead where I spent so many happy
days. And if Jim Gordon (who wrote a good deal
of. verse for the Worker and The Bulletin) reads
this, I hope he will write to ‘Jack the Rover.’ ”
‘‘Jack the Rover,” in Sydney Telegraph.
I wonder who this cobber is
That’s seeking after me;
I’ve not been there for twenty years,
Or twenty-two or -three.
Hand me the paper and the pen,
I feel that I must write;
Old faces crowd around my bed—
I’m sad to-night, to-night •
“Disturb me not, but let me rest”—
My heart hangs like a stone;
I’m looking backward twenty years
And I would be alone;
And put a tumbler by my side,
A silent toast to drink—
Old memories are haunting me;
1 want to think, to think.
I feel the west wind through my hair,
The hot sun on my cheek ;
I see my old mates’ faces there,
And wish that they could speak ;
I see the strong hands reaching out,
And almost feel the grasp;
The hands I held in friendship once
I long to clasp, to clasp.
I wonder who this cobber is
That’s not forgotten me,
Though we’ve not met for twenty years,
Or may be twenty-three.
Put by the paper and the pen,
My fingers will not write ;
Old mates of other years are here—-
They’ll stay to-night, to-night.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME (GORDON).
* * *
“FY7”: “Bill Bowyang’s” story of the
treatment of Narcisse Pellatier by the N.Q. blacks
(B. 2/3/’22) errs only in presuming that Narcisse
was subjected to the ceremony of sub-incision be-
cause of jealousy on the part of the blacks he fell
among. As he says, Pellatier was 16 when he joined
up with the Cape Direction natives. That was the
age at which all boys of the tribe underwent the
initiation ceremonies, one of which was the opera-
tion referred to. What more natural than that the
youngster had to share the lot of his black brothers?
The girls underwent an initiation operation at the
age of puberty, and if “Bill Bowyang’’ is lucky
enough to lay hands on the now rare book by Dr.
Both on the subject he will find several varieties oi
these rites fully described.


>Mki\ ' - '
. %r>-.
rmmm
*
r
■
a
f
I
im
m
m
E!
. m
r*
■
\ ’
\
I
mm
DAY AND NIGHT FOR 12 DAYS!
A gruelling tyre test—one unprecedented
in Australia—a test that “Railroad”
D
D
stood without the slightest difficulty !
This 228 hours’ endurance test (at over 17 miles per hour) was conducted under the
observance of R.A.C.V. officials. Mr. CH. Parker and party left Melbourne at 9 a.m.
on February 22nd, in a fully loaded, Dunlop shod Albani Six, and drove continuously
until 9 a.m. on March 6th. The following routes were covered m each 24 hours.--
9 a.m. to 4 p.m.~Melbourne to Warragul and back
4.5 p.m. to 9 p.m—Melbourne to Geelong and back
*9.5 p.m. to 9 a.m.— Melbourne to Bendigo and back
*9.5 p.m, to 9 a.m.— Melbourne to Ballarat and back
♦ALTERNATE DAYS
Just imagine the road conditions on the Bendigo and Ballarat runs, for instance--boulders,
loose metal and steep grades! Nine hours of darkness, of the twelve allotted ror these
sections! Yet the “Railroad” treads are smoothly worn and uncut. Note from the
untouched photograph above the excellent state of the covers. The spare wheel covered
200 miles only in temporarily replacing two punctured tyres. This great 5000 miles test
provides further convincing evidence of the superiority of Dunlop quality and economy.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ALL SPATES AND NEW ZEALAND
i m mm


MH
"aw
7
/
f
DOES yOUR
ENGINE KNOCK
VEN with a faultless ignition,
the modern high-compression
engine pinks —on acceleration
wken driven by an inferior spirit.
Shell
motor SPIRIT
owing to its kigk percentage of
aromatic kydrocarbons—such as
Toluene, etc. eliminates that
slight k nocking sound termed
“pinking,” also the anxious mo-
ments in which you wonder
what is happening in the engine
of your car.
SHELL Rpliabilrfg v
is provprbial
Cftp ißriMsK Imperial Oil Co Ltd
Stale? s c Mew Zealand)
n
SOUND METHODS MAKE A
SOUND MARKET.
Dodge Brothers have brought to bear upon the
manufacture of their motor car everything that tends
to produce value—extraordinary experience, immense
production capacity, complete financial independence
and that rigid insistence upon unerring accuracy which
has long been acknowledged as the chief characteristic
of all Dodge Brothers’ work.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co, (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Cc., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers Inc. U a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Tiie “Home-made” Craze
a_ \/\7~ finished? That’s splendid.
j j Well, I’m afraid you ladies will
have to be idle for a little until
a fresh lot of files are ready: this comes of
’hustling’!”
And the door closed behind the back of
the head of Department X. The four occu-
pants of the room settled themselves a trifle
more easily in their chairs. One, a slim,
red-haired girl, whipped a piece of lemon-
colored knitting from a drawer and bent dili-
gently to her needles.
“That going to be a jumper, Miss May-
field?” inquired a dark girl whose hair
tumbled untidily about her ears. Then, as
the other nodded, “you are clever: there’s
a regular craze for home-made things, but
I’m such an awful slacker. Oh, bother
my hair!” she broke off, vainly trying to
thrust back an unruly lock, “I washed it
last night, and I can’t do a thing with it
to day.”
“What do you wash it with?” inquired
Miss Mayfield. “Not Stallax, I’m sure.
Ah, I thought not.”
“I do,” said a pretty fair girl who had
not yet spoken. “It’s simply splendid
stuff.”
“There,” said Miss Mayfield, “I told you
so. You try it next time. If you haven’t
any at home a chemist will always supply
it. It works up into the most lovely foamy
lather and cleans your hair in no time.
Afterwards it dries quickly and crisply, so
that it can be done up at once—hone of
that untidy ‘endy’ look the day after a
shampoo.”
“Well, well,” said the dark-haired one,
“that’s something -worth trying. As we’re
on the subject, do any of you know a cure
for failing hair? I’m convinced I’m getting
prematurely bald; also I’ve got quite a
little patch of grey hair —overwork, of
course,” she grinned.
The head of the room, a slightly older
woman whose face was redeemed from plain-
ness by the masses of soft brown hair sur-
rounding it, sailed into the discussion.
“I don’t think you’ll beat my recipe, Miss
Carey,’ she said; “and, like Miss May-
field’s jumper, it’s home made. Get a pack-
age of boranium from your chemist, and
dissolve it in bay rum. If you rub this
into the roots of your hair at night you will
find, in a few days, that not only will your
hair stop falling out, but it will grow much
more thick and glossy. If you aren’t joking
about that grey hair I can give you a tip
which has been of great use to me person-
ally.”
“I’d be fearfully grateful, Mrs. Drewe,”
answered Miss Carey. '
“Well,” said the other, “it is not unlike
the first recipe, only this time the bay rum
should have pure lammalite dissolved in it.
You should apply the mixture with a clean,
small brush, and it will gradually restore
the faded part to its normal color. Of
course, this isn’t a dye; I know nothing
about hair-dyes, for I disapprove of them
entirely. But it’s a wonderful tonic.”
“Thanks so much,” Miss CaTey said; “I
ought to be a dream of beauty as regards
my hair. Seriously, though, I’m going to
try your ideas. Stallax, boranium, tamma-
lite —is that right? Thanks, Miss May-
field, what a delicious jumper that is;
but my complexion would never stand that
color. You red-haired girls are lucky, you
always have such topping skins.”
“I had anything but a topping skin a
year ago,” replied the latter. I used to
freckle and burn and get dreadfully blotched-
looking. Then a friend told me that mer-
colised wax was by far the most scientific
and effective thing she knew. If it is rubbed
on at night and washed off with warm water
in the morning it gradually absorbs the outer
skin which has become stained and rough-
ened, and reveals the fresh new skin under-
neath. It sounded rather wonderful, and
so I tried it; and I’ve used no other face-
cream since.”
“Would you believe it?” murmured the
facetious Miss Carey. “I wouldn’t be half
so bad-looking if I had your skin, Miss May-
field. Is this wax very difficult to get?”
“Not a bit,” said the other; “any decent
chemist has some in stock.”
Mrs. Drewe looked up. “You all seem
great beauty-specialists! I wonder if one of
you experts know if there is any way of
curing blackheads, as I have a friend who is
quite disfigured with them?”
Miss Carey knitted her brows, but the
fair girl said quickly: “I think most people
use something called stymoi, which you can
buy in tablet form. It closes the pores of
the skin, or, rather, reduces them to their
proper size, and that loosens any blackheads
and prevents others from forming.”
“How do you use it?” inquired Mrs. Drewe.
“For blackheads, I believe you dissolve a
tablet in warm water, bathe them and gently
remove them with a towel. But, though I
don’t personally suffer from blackheads I
often have a stymol face-bath. It’s so de-
liciously sparkling and refreshing.”
“Thank you so much; lam sure my friend
will be very grateful,” smiled Mrs. Drewe.
A step sounded in the corridor. “I’m
afraid this very enlightening discussion must
be postponed,” She continued. “I think that’s
the messenger with our files. Yes, here
they come. We must carry on with the
work now." — ADVT.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
intke
Vlijrli
K£o
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
schnap^
“IT STANDS Al^®'
THOMPSON 8 C
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WIBIAAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
in
AUSTRALIA.
highest efficiencies guaranteed.
: O
i ■•.sn
TOT 7
KT
• •
_,r
T' s ■-
i : ] '
i Hi I i
: r«L.c& s&jS Ifictil FSi;.',#
*.<i ; *
i
Vertical direct connected steam-driven Electric Geneialin„
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
M KXBOURN'E:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BKISBAXE:
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Etd.
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fenchurch Street.
Her husband was apparently the husband of
one wife* which was more than could be saici
of David or Solomon. And she was appa-
rently one wife, which was more than could
be said of Bathsheba, mother of Solomon, or
of Rahab, or of Mary Magdalene.
The grudge of the Southern liistolian
against Queen Isabel was national. Many
years before her time David, the first sov-
ereign of his line, declared Jerusalem the
capital of the Hebrew Commonwealth. Be-
fore that there was no capital. Jerusalem
wasn’t a Holy City then. It was the iast
Unholv City which held its own against the
Chosen Folk. Situated in the south-east
corner of the country, the same as Canberra,
it was located in David’s tribal area, just as
Canberra is situated inside Austin Chap-
man’s electorate. And the people weren t
consulted over the selection, any more than
they were over Canberra. Dav d, and after
him Solomon, proceeded to do things in the
wav <>f centralisation at Jerusalem which
would have turned a Sydney centraliser
crreen with envy. The land was stripped
bare to pay for the building of temples,
palaces and priests’ houses in and about the
newly-conquered place. And worship was so
centralised there that no one could pray on
a large scale anywhere else.
Jeroboam, great soldier and great states-
man, and with a divine commission to back
him, led the secession of the Tableland and
the Northern Rivers. His policy was exactly
that of Martin Luther and Henry VIII.,
that no extraneous pr esthood should take
money out of the country by threats of dam-
nation or other blackmailing Pi-ocess Jero-
boam established a mild form of ldolatiy—
the Golden Calf sort devised by Aaron ot
pious memory—as the only possible substi
tute for the Jerusalem monopoly, and the
rage of the orthodox priesthood and prophet
hood, whose collections were stopped, was
bevond all reason. Jeroboam looms up all
through the narrative of the Anonymous
Maligner as “the son of Nebat who made
Israel to sin,” as if Solomon hadn t made it
sin long before, and as if it wasn t always
sinning. Even when David s kwgdom had
sunk so deep into idolatry that the Book of its
own Law was only recovered by accident and
was such a revelation that the good but
flßhbereasted kins of tlio hour toio oft •
clothes^on reading it the Jerusaient peodje
professed to be shocked at the Nortnern
Secessionists who had suspended their sordid
contributions. And in the time of Christ the
pious Southerner made a point ot baling
three fits when he met a Samaritan. The
barrister who was convinced by the parable
of the Good Samaritan carefully avoided
mentioning the hated name in his reply, and
skirted round it as if it was an unlighted
"TSTtle warlike Omri came to the
Northern throne and built the great cy
Samaria, to outshine Jerusalem and as an
assertion that he had come to stay,hepro-
bably put the kybosh on the hopesof the
centralisers that they might recover the
seceded States. The city was an extra
offence, for the Southerners were more town-
stealers than town-planners and hadi even
lo hire idolaters from Jezebel s country to
help build their wfonderful temple. Against
Omri and his son Ahab and Ins daughter n
law the young and brave and beautiful
Jezebei (I really prefer that form of the
name), the rage of the Boys ot the Old Bn
gade was terrible. Prophets in droves per-
vaded the land—so many that when they
took to concealment there weie two cave
holding 50 prophets each. How many were
in other caves is not known, uezebel, appa-
rently the driving force the Government,
seems to have had illimitable patience with
these insurrectionists until their lcadci mad _
a great slaying of her clergy at Mount
Carmel. Then her anger blazed forth, and
Eliiah, losing faith and courage, fled to
foreign parts. Not one of the anti-Jezebel
prophets appears to have left written detads
behind him, they being an illiterate lot.
Even Elijah and Elisha dodged pen and ink.
One crime is definitely charged agains
Jezebel—the removal of the annoying
Naboth; Compared with the gory matters
of David and Uriah or Solomon and his
elder brother, to say nothing of other doings,
it is a lonesome episode. Also, she wor-
shipped her national god. which was a small
matter compared with the case of Solomon,
who was born in the faith and took to im-
porting gods. The rest of the case is indefi-
nite abuse against the rebel queen, as case-
hardened Jerusalemites considered her, wno
wouldn’t come to heel.
Ahab died in battle, as real kings often
did in those stormy times. His son died,
and Jezebel was a lone old woman who had
passed out of politics when the prophet-
pack ran her down at last. Jehu, the new
traitor, was a joy-rider who found his vulgar
level when cabmen, and especially those who
drove four-wheelers, began to be named
after him. He was untrue to his sn It.
After-events proved him to be a cold-blooded
liar and a slaughterman on a large scale.
Nothing is said about his personal courage,
but he lost a great part of the kingdom for
which he waded in blood, and he didn t die
fighting as Ahab did; in fact, it isn t men-
tioned that he fought at all. But he gained
the supnort of the foreign . hierarchy, and
he practised idolatry in a mild w r ay.
Old widow Jezebel was greatest m her
death. She didn’t bolt to save her life and
be shot in the back. When the prophets
were too strong for her she put on her best
clothes and did her back hair, and painted
her face into a semblance of her roval youth.
And then, sitting at the palace wmdow. Jeze-
bel. the daughter and wife and mother of
kings, moeked at .Tehu. the n'^ur-Wheeler,
and v>*de him do his Avor«t. Which he did.
While .Tehu the Four-WbeeUr sat at meat
ard made brutal jests and planned .whole-
sale murder, the dogs ate Jezebel in the
courtyard at Jezreel. And with the finish
of the mascotte queen the luck of the king-
dom departed.
JAMES EDMOND.
“English as She is Spoke"
A recent Red Page writer attributed to
climatic influence “the manner in which the
initial aspirate in Australia is becoming
softer with each succeeding generation.
But this softening is always to be found
with good speakers of English, and a strenu-
ous use of the aspirated h is usually taken
as indicating an over-violent reaction from
habitual neglect of the sound. Good Eng-
lish usage requires in certain words a clean-
cut and unmistakable /i-sound, but admits
in other cases of an aspiration so Hgnt
and easy as to be barely perceptible. This,
however, will satisfy an ear discriminative
enough to require in other cases a slightly
distincter aspiration, and in' yet others, as
has been said, the full stress of the initial
letter. It is easy to find cases in English
in which, to avoid cacophony, the h has to
be used with these three varying degrees
of insistence. “Did you hear him hit his
head hard?” These six successive aspirates
can, of course, be sounded with a full stress
on each, but the effect will be unpleasantly
spasmodic—a series of ugly jerks. The
good speaker will here —for it will be within
his discretion —select, for convenience, the
aspirations which shall be full, which shall
be slighter, and which shall be just discover-
able. „ . ..
As for the modifying influence of climate
upon enunciation, it will scarcely be con-
tended that it was climatic geniality that
made the Cockney transfer the aspirate from
what may be called its home-words to others
which, even now. have the air of looking
upon the has an undesirable alien. We can
at a pinch tolerate the “ ’en” as being a move
in the direction of simplicity and ease, but no
degree of familiarity will reconcile ear or
eye to such an atrocity as “hegg.” Tne
Australian’s tendency to eliminate the aspi-
rate is by some attributed to the fact that
he rarely hears perfectly-spoken English,
which excludes on the one hand the lament-
able “Oxford-bleat” as strictly as, on the
other, it rules out the asinine “Haw-yaw of
the military set. Maybe; but I think that
the modification is due chiefly to that ten-
dency towards facilitation of delivery w T hich
has reached its full development in Italian.
In that tongue everything has been cleared
out of the way of easy utterance, so that
with its broad, open vowel-sounds and clean,
firm consonantal separations, it has become
the ideal vehicle of vo : ce-production. Amen-
can-Spanish is travelling in the same direc-
tion ; but the guttural-aspirate is still very
strong in pure Spanish, and the Castilian
would object to “Osay” for “Jose as
strongly as the Englishman would object to
“ ’orse” for “horse.” Both usages may be-
come orthodox, but the time is yet far off.
To the Castellano, who rigidly conserves
the purity of his tongue, American-Spanish
is a hopelessly degraded dialect. I no nted
out to a cultured Spaniard that the “Century
Dictionary of Names” has given the “th
pronunciation of “d” in all Spanish names,
and said that I scarcely thought Professor
Whitney would be wrong on such a point.
My friend smiled grimly. “Whitney, ’ he
said, “is Yankee —and so is his Spanish.
St ; ll. having doubts. I locked up the recog-
nised authorities. Let Velasquez speak for
the rest. “The ‘th’ pronunciation of ‘d is a
mere vulgarism which has not impossibly
come to us from Chile or Peru, where the
aspirate is dying or dead, and where clumsy
Catalan and‘even Gallego constructions are
fast displacing the lofty rhythm of Cas-
tilian.” The aspirate, therefore, has by no
means deserted standard Spanish ; and even
in French it is still faintly perceptible in
such words as hdwital. As for Italian, it
cannot reasonably be said to have lost what
it never possessed.
ALEX. E. MONTGOMERY.
Australian Verse
Speaking deferentially, as becomes a mere
writer of Australian verse, with no claims
to the higher art of I say R. T.
Gollan (R P. 23/2/’22) is talking through
his hat.
When the average Australian critic writes
of poetry, lie writes as if all the pcetry of
the world had been written by Englishmen.
Yet the game is an old one. There were
poets before Keats, who I always think is
the one true singer so far of this hybrid Saxon
tongue. There was Jeremiah, and there was
the man who wrote the Book of Ecclesiastes.
Some of his quatrains, or whatever the critics
call them, bring the goose-flesh out on me
every time I read them even now. That’s
the test of poetry, I reckon. And there were
others, foreigners who didn’t even, like Edgar
Allen Poe or Walt Whitman, write in “Eng-
lish.” There was Yalmiki, a nigger, who
did a long thing called “The Ramayana.” I
haven’t read it since I drank Australian
wine for patriotism and cheap exhilaration
with Rod Quinn and Henry Lawson in the
knockabout days. But 1 remember the
hexameters, or whichever they are, that de-
scribed the birth of the Ganges, and, “Sonny
Boy, that was some poem,” as my imitation-
Ameriean Australian friends now put it.
Then I’ve read a lot of fine poetry dating,
pre-dating and sub-dating Shakspeare.
Milton and Browning, done by Ancient
Greeks and Latins, Arabians, Moors, Hin-
doos, Chinese —the Japs cannot write poetry
any more than the modern Americans —and
by Italians, Germans, Spaniards: even by
Scotchmen, though the best of their men.
Burns, -wrote in a harsh dialect which no
one but a Scotchman can appreciate. I
refrain from over-men tuning Irish poetry,
because, like Irish heraldry, it is universal.
Mr. Gollan says Brooke is “the greatest
poet this century has produced.” The great-
est Sassenach poet, maybe: but there have
been Celtic bards like Yeats, Wilde, Victor
Daley and Rod Quinn —to catch a handful of
jewels thrown rapidly in the a'r of recol-
lection —who possessed art and Heart quite
eoual to Runert Brooke’s. These are quite
close, and the others are too far away to
be seen bv average vivisectionists and post-
mortem evnerts.
Mr. Gollan reneats. parrot-Vke, the old
imported fiction that “as yet there does not
exist any Australian literature.” Also,
there are no rivers in Australia, and all the
interior of the country is desert, and the
mallee will never grow wheat, the Lach-
lan is an impenetrable morass. Neithei can
boots be made in this country, nor tweeds,
and the Australian as a fighter isn t in the
same street with Gough’s Army, and as a
horse-breaker and a bushman the pound-
a-week Pommy can show us all points-.
It makes me profane.
E. J. BRADY.
The Inky Way
From Alan E. Mulgan, one of the authors of
“Maori and Pakeha’’“There are one or two state-
ments in the Red Page’s kind review of the book
which, as touching matters of fact, seem to, me to
call for an answer. It is said that my picture of
Seddon ‘leaves out the wart on the hero s nose.
The wart appears on page 278 (Seddon’s use _ of the
Public Works Fund for political purposes), is sug-
gested on page 335, and more than suggested on
pa°-e 248, where I refer to his ‘unabashed
of “patronage.’ The reviewer also says that no more
than a glimmering’ of the governing influence of the
land question in politics is conveyed. Its importance
is emphasised especially in the chapter otv the causes
of the Liberal party’s triumph m 1890. from
which it is to be concluded that writer and reviewer
merely disagree as to the size of the wart and the
magnitude of the land question. .
“Blackfriars”: Ancient socialist H. M. llyndman,
now gone to his equality, claimed some share irt thc
parentage of “For the Term of His Natural Life.
He cut up a Marcus Clarke novel for the ignorance
of England it displayed ; and Clarke took heed and
forthwith wrote of what he knew about. The results
were so satisfactory that instead of hating the hostile
reviewer Clarke made a friend of him.
“C.”: “Gregor’’ (9/2/’22) discourses interestingly
on the changes operating in Australian speech, due
to climate, more especially in the use of the aspirate,
which if not actually silent is, he thinks, becoming
little more than a suggestion. I it ■ yet
very noticeable. I should say that over 90
of our people pay the same respect to their aitches
as do the Americans, and C. J. Dennis gravely
blundered when he imposed the Cockney impel fec-
tion on his Sentimental Bloke. There is one glaring.,
case of its abuse in the pronunciation of the letter-
itself when its unauthorised addition produces the
dreadful word “haitch,” which is surprisingly^com-
mon. Truly we have enough solecisms ot sound and
sense: “medicine” and “pomegranate” as so com-
monly pronounced are awful, and the broadening of
“ay”' in Mon day, Tues day, etc., is a distress to the
nerves. But I must stick up for our fairly generous
treatment of poor h.
“Kapiti”: There is still one place in Australasia
where the newspapers use the pigeon post. Tn
Christchurch (M.L.) both the evening sheets, the
Sun and the Star, use homers to get in the results
of races and other, sporting fixtures. It is a had
advt. for the telephone system, for pigeons are poor
carriers bv reason of high winds, hawks and other
things The Christchurch Press still has its pigeon-
boxes on the roof, but it has given up using the
birds. In Australia pigeons are regularly used as
messengers only in the case of one or two light-
houses like the Mootsuyker, south of the Speck.
“Oilv K.”: “N. Cliffwell” (B. 16/2/’22), railing
against the carelessness and ignorance of Australian
sub-editors, quotes their frequent averse to. John
GaPworthy is a persistent co-offender in this con-
nection. But Webster excuses him by admitting
that “averse” is used with either “to or from,
while Annandale in his Concise Dictionary asser,s
(rather dogmatically, 7 agree) that “averse ’■w now,
regularly followed by “Jo’ and not b ' r f '?™_
Nesfield, no grammatical iconoclast, says that eitnei
“from” or “to” can be used. The support of
Webster, Annandale and Nestle Id, to mention no
others, should go a long way towards Helping the
sub-editors bear Mr. Cliffwejl’s condemnation with
fortitude,' if not with indifference. ,
“J.F.H.” (bond.): The London dailies, are now
energetically competing with one another in the pro-
duction of rival attractive schemes for insuring
their readers’ lives and limbs, paying' their rents and
liquidating their grocers and drapers’ bills. Large
sections of their space, with coupons attached, arc
occupied with advts. setting forth the advantages
offered. It was started by Northcliffe in the Daily
Mail, and the Daily News, Daily Chronicle, etc.,
have been outbidding each other like cheap-jacks at
a country fair.
“J.C.”: The rarest Maorilatyl publication in exist-
ence is, I fancy, the Hokioi, a curious little paper
turned out by the Waikato Maoris in 1862-63, just
before the South Auckland war began. The copy l
have is one of three (or at the most four) still pre-
served. It was printed on a press which had Jieeu
presented to Wiremu Toetoe and Te Honiara, two
Waikato chiefs, by the old Emperor Franz Josef or
‘Austria in 1860, when those roving warriors visited
Europe in the Austrian warship Novara. The King-
ites sent a couple of their young fellows to Auck-
land to learn type-setting, and my old tattooed
friend Patara, te Tuhi, now camping somewhere m
the Shades, was the editor. The printing office oi
the royal rag, a little four-page sheet, was a thatched
hut at Ngaruawahia, at the junction of the Waikato
and Waipa rivers. My copy bears the date January
15, 1863, and the matter ■is mostly propaganda for
the Maori kingdom, with an account of Governor
Grey’s last visit to the Waikato tribes before the
war began. The Hokioi machine, used by Hone in
after years to press his home-grown tobacco, now
lies smashed up on the Waipa banks at Te liopua,
and a farmer thereabouts occasionally ploughs up
serne of the type.
“Cartot”: Youth, a Melbourne monthly which
started off brightly but seemed to contract some
wasting complaint, is changing hands, Tarleton Ra.y-
ment, who launched it, having parted with it to
a syndicate, in which Alexander McOubbin, of. the
printing firm, is the prime mover. As an antidote
to the wowser-inspired gloom which envelops life
in Melbourne, there is a distinct niche for it, especi-
ally if the new owners live up to their promise that
a feature is to be made of verse, drawings, articles
and paragraphs by Australians.
“D.F.”: Not long ago an English literary journal
announced that in the 12 years since its publication
26 000 copies of John Masefield’s “Everlasting
Mercy” had been sold. Far from mentioning the
awful fact with shame and contrition it seemed proud
of it. Australia can do better than that for poetry
In half the time Angus and Robertson have placed
116,000 copies of Dennis’s “Sentimental Bloke."
50,000-odd being sold in a single year. Britain has
taken 8000 altogether, U.S.A. a few, S’Afnca (a
very good customer for our books) rather more,
and Australasia nearly all the rest —oVer 100,000 at
any rate. Of “The Boree Log,” published late last
year 5000 copies have already been sold; and the
verses in that didn’t have the advantage of prior
publication in The Bulletin.
“M D.” : I don’t know why authors are so fond of
writing about “the best hundred books.” There are
no best hundred books. There are a dozen, perhaps;
but half that number would do me on a pinch if
circumstances necessitated my literary luggage being
compressed to that extent. I wouldn’t take very-
long either in making up my mind which' volumes
to include. Poets like Milton, Tennyson, Keats,
Browning, Wordsworth and Rupert Brooke wouldn’t
gel- a look in, and all novels would have to go. My
list would be: (1) Pepys’ Diary (Wheatley’s edition),
(2) Shakspeare, (3) the Bible. (4) Dante (Carey s
translation), (5) Boswell’s Life of Johnson, (6)
Memories du Comte de Grammont, par Antoine
Hamilton (1811 edition). “Gil Bias” and “La Char-
treuse de Panne” would be runners-up. With these
companions -I could endure hardships with equa-
nimity, if not enthusiasm.


mn
Winchcombe,
Carson!
No wonder the firm’s
name attracts his
attention.
The top values secured
for rabbit and other
skins at Winchcombe,
Carson’s sales are a
constant inducement
for skin-getters to
trap and quickly send
their consignments to
market.
CONSIGN SKINS
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
m
THE BARRY STEEL SPRIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY" is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated, Descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
' v
r.'-r-V-"
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 E oft us Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
PLUMBER’S BRASSWORK
Immediate Delivery.
“Medium” or “Country” Lines: gin., fin., lin. Bibs, Hose, Stops,
Ferrule Stops, Straight Ferrules, etc.
WATER-BOARD STANDARD. Melbourne—Brisbane—Hobart,
Perth, Adelaide, Sydney. All usual lines.
RANGE or TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS.
ALDERDICE,
Brassfoundry, Warrnambool.
We will
show
a
shape,
every
week, i
A
m
m
&
w&
THE WORLD’S BEST PIPE.
NON-CRACKING CORSICAN BRUYERE.
nm
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS
Against Cracking or Burning.
Any F.L.C. doing st> within that
time will be replaced FREE.
Illustrated is Style 502,
Silver-mounted,
15/-
F.L.O. Pipes
are made by
French Diggers at
St. Claude (Jura), France,
and only the finest flawless
Briar is used in their manufacture.
98 Smart Shapes, Plain and Silver-mounted.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a postcard to
Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you where to get one.
jdn (ongfisfi Garden lives again
A fragrance of England’s best loved flowers, as real
and true as if borne to you through the quiet evening
air in an old-fashioned English village garden
such is the fidelity to nature of Zenobia Perfumes.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the choice of faultless taste.
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, dainty and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night - Scented Stock, another favourite perfume,
sweet and fragrant.
mgMMmMS®^
7EN0BI&
n
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd.,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Agents for New Zealand (Wholesale only),
NEWSON & CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia (Wholesale only)
KENNETH BUCKMASTER,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 1
Zenobia Perfumes
are obtainable at
most high - class
Chemists, Per-
fumers & Stores
A TOOL ROOM NECESSITY
'* 4 Nff p Nr'«^
Australasian Agents:
Toolmakers declare this
machine to be of the greatest
service and indispensable to a
well-equipped shop.
For grinding hardened dies
and punches, truing the legs of
jigs and similar work, you will
find Lie
Brown 8 Sharpe
No. 2
Surface
Grinding Machine
just the machine you need.
If you desire further informa-
tion we will gladly send our
catalog, so that you can buy
intelligently and realise the
many superior features that
this machine contains.
Scruttons Limited,
101 Clarence Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Clare”: The yintage in South Aus. is a
good one, but prices given by the wine-
maker are a blow to the hundreds of returned
soldiers who have planted vines. These new
men are having the worst of it. For some
reason they were urged to pat in Doradilio
vines, and this grape is much less suitable for
wine-making than for spirits. In a poor
market, with Frontignac topping it at only
£8 per ton, Doradillos are down to £5; and
hundreds of acres more of them are coming
into bearing each year. It looks as if they
will have to be chopped back and used as a
stock for grafting some wine-grape or drying-
variety.
* * * *
“Rounds”: Peacock, Vic. Minister for
Labor, professed to be horrified when in-
formed by a deputation from the Churches’
Public Questions Committee that girls were
engaged on the manufacture of certain rubber
goods in Melbourne: but he was told the
same thing a few months before his Gov-
ernment was defeated in ’l7, and no action
was taken. In promising to ask the Cabinet
whether, the' Police Offences Act should not
be amended to bring local law into line
with, the Commonwealth (Importation Pro-
hibition) law, Peacock remarked adroitly
that the Liquor Licensing Act provided, in
certain circumstances, for prosecuting the
buyer as well as the seller.
“Cartot”: The Melbourne police are in-
vestigating a postal and parcel-delivery ser-
vice between the outside and inside of Pent-
ridge. For months forbidden articles like
tobacco and spirits have been finding their
way into the gaol, and letters have been
delivered to inmates with a regularity that
should make the P.M.G. ruddy. Not long-
ago the police picked up a clue which,
although it led to a dead-end, provided them
with a lot of interesting information. They
learned that the service operated from a
mobile post-office, generally somewhere in
one. of tlie suburbs, and located in a tobac-
conist’s shop or similar establishment. Let-
ters and parcels addressed to prisoners were
left there, and a small fee was charged, vary-
ing according to the nature of the article
to be delivered. Rut all efforts to locate the
present or latest depot have so far failed.
* * * •
“Tren” : The man who has doped himself
with soap-box theories has an idea that
the blood-sucking landlord” is quite a dis-
tinct variety of human; and there is a sus-
picion that it’s the wealth lie’s got hold of
that has made him so infamous. But if
you really want choice cases of blood-sucking
you have to go to the mostly far-from-rich
people who do the sub-letting. The Rich-
mond (Vic.) police lately dropped on to a
case of the sort. What is described as a
working woman” rented several rooms on
the ground floor of a building and others
over .a shop for 17s. a week—and sub-let
them for 41s. 6d. One room was occupied
by two women and a child for 55.; two
others, at 10s. 6d., by a married couple with
seven children (they all slept in one room) •
two more by a family of six at 16s. a week!
J.here were no more rooms to let; but a
young woman lived in a shed in the yard and
paid ss. a week.
# ** - *
“Bourjoo” discovers the dignity of labor-
When I send for a doctor I know the betting is a
hundred to one on he will come at once. Solicitors
arrive when required to make wills and the like, and
dentists are. swift to make appointments and chary
about breaking them. Turn now to, say, plumbers.
There is a plumber near my seaside house whom I
have been trying to capture for months. It is a
diainage affair, which no one else may handle,
though it has an important bearing on my health
and that of my family. Six weeks ago I called on
another plumber in a township some miles away.
I put it to him, as man to man, that he might
.name his own price and pick his own ear. Employ-
ing a manner that would be the ruin of any medical
man, he said he didn’t want the work, but would
come along that day week—to oblige. He never
came. I called on him and was curtly, even trucu-
lently , informed that Smith, the local man, should
have been given the job. “But I’ve been trying to
get him since December,” I explained. “Well, try
again, ’ he counselled. “It’s his job, not mine.” It
is a free country, of course, and if Smith doesn’t
want my money he is at liberty to refuse it and go
surf-bathing. But -in view of the multitude of
Smiths who are to be found in nearly all the trades
-and notably in the building trades—it seems incon-
gruous to hear the new bogus Laborites contrasting
the loafing capitalist with the job-hungry toiler. If
the few capitalists of my acquaintance were as work-
shy as a number of the workers—well, they wouldn’t
be capitalists for more than a year or so.
THE SPLIT VOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A writ was issued yesterday at the instance of
Mi. Daniel Levy, against Mr. Benjamin Francis
Maiks, claiming i-0000 damages, for certain state-
ments alleged to have been made in connection with
the selection of candidates.” —S. M. Herald.
Oh, Darlinghurst in Sydney town is where the pawn-
shops crowd ;
Where names like Cohenstein abound, and where
hands talk aloud.
There noses curve disdainfully, and lips are full
and red,
And kosher meat is on the board wherever folks are
fed.
For years Dan Levy feigned supreme, and no one
challenged him.
“Oy, Oy!” all said: “he’s by hisself a blessed
San-he-drim !”
Then crept into this Paradise the serpent Benny
Marks,
And straightaway in shops and flats and pubs as
old as arks;
In llesidentials, in whose looms stout forms move
to and fro —•
In all of these the word went round: “Oy, brothers,
speak it low,
“Our Danny’s stock is falling fast: lie’ll crash as
sure as fate,
Nor are our Benny’s prospects in a vastly better
state.
“Ar.d, ah! how needless is this threat with which
our race is curst—
Only when Jews fall out may Christians score in
Darlinghurst.”
N.S.W.
Y. KIPPUR.


t
r
r
<T\
m
/
One of the first thing's one learns about the Hup-
mobile is that one can rely implicitly on that
tremendous reserve power which literally floods
forth for an instant get-away; a remarkably
smooth, swift acceleration; or a dog'ged high-
g'ear pull.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter^
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne. ~
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 114-122 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia. , „ T t
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO„ LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 100 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
NZ. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
aiiqouidnii
ROAD-MAKING MACHINERY
All Australian Made.
If’*’ 1
1
a®
m
-■■■■■ '• ■ :
Kuwott
m
[//#
II ■HfeR 8 »#Sw
: T^g
rt*l
1 ■
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE “C.”
The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR >»d TROMMEL
This Equipment includes a Standard RUWOLT
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION.
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE
f Central - - 5993
\ Hawthorn 1675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS:
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


mn
he largest selling
quality pencil in.
the world
r ENUS
PENCILS
m
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Potastrop
nm
n
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
if Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=*
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
of
Judge Yourself:
Which is the best way to
MARK LINEN?
There’s no question that for a Clear, Neat
and Durable Name to mark any garment
or Article
CASHS
mn
NAMES
Are Unrivalled. Beats Marking Ink.
Easily Sewn On.
Be sure and ask for CASH’S Names.
Prices: 12doz. 7/6—6doz. 5/- —3doz. 3/8
Sold by all Best Drapers.
J. & J. CASH
m
85 Cubitt St.
Richmond. Vie.
WRITE FOR
STYL.E book
mm
a*;
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
- £1,000,000.
effected on all classes of
- Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &,c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Mananr.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD **» HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medxine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
c The
neu)
PLIIME SPIRIT
Easy starting. svteet running, more miles.
Enhances the Pleasure of Motoring
-V
\
r
0™
8 • &
Sfi
■~* *■ z&Stfxm/,. ’
There is an added pleasure on a
country trip when you have Plume in
your tank.
Your machine smoothly speeds along the
country roads, free from carburetor trouble, and
you have no anxiety regarding Petrol quality.
Shrewd, discriminating Motorists who want the
best results from their machines are enthusiastic
users of Plume, because it gives them Easy
Starting, Sweet Running, More Miles.
It is the spirit of economy —the spirit of power.
Under all tests and conditions Plume gives
unbounded satisfaction.
When next you are ordering be sure you say
“Plume Motor Spirit”
Ask for free booklet “Correct Motor Cycle Lubrication"
VACUUM OIL COMPANY P? LQ
Throughout Australasia
/
V
m
/ - -'h
WlieiteverVbuDriitk
order a glass of
Pure .Refreshing and Inviqoral inqi
RICMIN CURATIVES-CONTAINS LIMt/
VIS3N9VW VIHIIT vaos
AGENTS "ROWLANDS PIT L”
MELBOURNE.,
AND SYDNEY
Purveyors to Vico —Roxjcil t~tj -
THE
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED,
HEAD OFFlCE—Collins Street, Melbourne.
Established 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve i'und
Reserve Liability ot
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£3,000,000
X, 330,000
£3,320,000
828.000
£4,148,000
Directors ;—SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman,
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager-. JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 137 branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 22 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt.. Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq. ; Hon. Sir Robert Philp, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 43 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 30 branches.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
The last division-bell rang at Upper Hutt
(M.L.) the other day for Colonel William
Douglas Hall Baillie, the last of the “lifers”
appointed to the Leg. Council. He was 95,
and had been blind for 30 years.
Francis Greenway, Australia’s earliest
architect, who was kept busy by Governor
Macquarie, has a grand-daughter living in
Sydney, Mrs. S. R. Irving. The lady has
the only known portrait of the eminent
pioneer.
Prof. Orme Masson, who wanted to retire
from the chair of chemistry in Melbourne
f ni. early next year, is being asked to stay
on till 1924. Meredith Atkinson, who is
going to run Stead’s magazine and business,
relinquishes the directorship of tutorial
classes on May 31.
Charles Walters, of Maryborough (Vic.),
has been blind since early childhood, and
here s his record: Hospital president, town
councillor for many years, member of Water
Commission, conductor of Anglican choir,
brilliant Shakspearean scholar, keen crib
player, and the most cheerful person in the
town.
A new London weekly, Erin and Greater
Ireland, is devoting a lot of itself to the
exiles who have made good oversea. Its
first list jumbles Dailey, Lalor, Wentworth,
convicts Barrington and Sir Henry Hayes.
Archbishop Kelly arid the whole present-day
R.C. _ heirarchy, including the native-born.
But it clean forgot Mannix.
“Sixenate”: North Sydney Council has
had dealings with a man with strange ideas
of book-keeping. Some years ago he did
some work for the Council, but didn’t claim
payment for part of it. because, he said, he
had “lost the account.” The other day the
bill came in for the balance and was duly
paid. The “account” had been kept on a bit
of tin, which had got mislaid.
“Lucre”: lie “S.N.T.’s” par. (B. 16/2/’22)
about the bov who swallowed a penny. A
youngster who works with me went 2s. sd.
better, and swallowed half-a-crown. He
had no assistance in doing it; but it needed
a Ballarat surgeon’s help to relieve him of
it, as the half-dollar got caught somewhere
or other. He doesn’t know exactly how it
happened—“it just rolled down,” he told me.
The amiable Charles Long, who edits the
Vic. School Paper and Education
Gazette, has been made president of the
Melbourne. Shakspeare Society. He is an
enthusiastic champion of Australian litera-
ture, with a particularly warm corner in
his heart for Adam Lindsay Gordon. He
ranks as a senior inspector of State schools,
but is looked on as a superman by the
youngsters.
“0.G.”: Adelaide Register (28/2/’22)
seems to have let a cat out of the bag in
describing Edward P.’s doings in India:—
At the climax of three days’ .jollification, this
afternoon they saw. the imposing' arrival of the
Prince of Wales. His Royal Highness motored from
Government House after pinch, wearing an ordinary
riding kit and mounted on a horse.
But, after all. it is just the sort of thing
that might happen after a three days’ jolli-
fication.
“Percy Pawnticket”: A new highwayman
has recently made appearances in sundry
Sydney suburbs. He rides a bicycle instead
of a horse, dashes along the gutters, grabs
the handbags of women near the kerb, and
disappears before the victims have got their
breath. As usual, the reputation of this
brigand has brought trouble on the heads of
the innocent. Literally on their heads; for
the other day a harmless cyclist, running to
a standstill in the gutter near a pugnacious
lady who had just heard the story of the
robber’s misdeeds, felt the full weight of the
amazon’s brolly. And she wouldn’t apologise
either: she declared that in these days
honest men shouldn’t ride bicycles.
“Bailrise”: A working woman in Mel-
bourne, after the death or a relative in Eng-
land, got an official notice to call at the
post-office, Spencer-street, and pay £25 duty
on a package addressed to her. She went
along and told the official to keep the packet,
as she hadn’t £25 in the world. The packet
was then opened and revealed old jewellery
worn when grandmother was a girl. In the
end the official accepted £5 duty. The woman;
wondering whether she hud been wise in giv-
ing her savings for an old brooch, rings and
chain, asked a friendly jeweller to value
them. “I think this brooch with such a
unique setting is worth £BO at least,” he
said, and sent the woman on to an expert in
old jewellery. He offered her £l2O for the
brooch alone and she called it a deal.
“Homfrey Beale” as a hanging specialist .
An old gaol doctor (B. 2/3/’22) says the main
feature of most of the scraggings he has seen was
the coolness of the gentleman in the leading rOle. t
have acted as press rep. at only two kills, but in
both cases the star artists were considerably per-
turbed. The first was Bismarck, an abo. polica
tracker, who murdered a woman at Frairie Farm.
Jundah (Q.). When asked the usual question at
the end he expressed regret for the crime, and suppli
cated the Almighty for forgiveness in tones that
resembled the grating together of broken earthen-
ware. His hue changed from pretty well full black
to a most livid yellow, and he trembled violently.
The second case was that of Bradshaw, who slew a
man and a woman and wounded another man in the
Gulf country. His countenance was terrible, even for
hardened pressmen and police to see, and when asked
if he wished to say anything he could only mumbla
a few unintelligible words. Personally, I think th«
“coolness” of many hangees is really a form of
hysteria.
. “T. 0.1.”: Mrs. Kingsmill-Shaw, who died
in Milan a few days ago, was a daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Cousens, a couple who came
to Sydney to speculate in the mid-’forties.
When they failed the lady opened a g.rls’
school in a square red-brick house on the nor’-
west corner of Liverpool-street and Piliza-
beth-street. (The place belonged to Mrs.
Mary Re-b Q y. and the historic lady resided
there in 1839 before she went to live at
Newtown, where she died in 1855.) In
that house Mrs. Kingsmill-Shaw was born.
Dr. Arthur Renwic-k afterwards bought the
corner and built Clarendon-terrace upon it.
Mrs. Cousens educated many of the mothers
of Sydney’s Naicest. In the mid-’fifties she
removed to AVynyard-square, th n n she went
to °P e °f the old square red-brick houses
which stood in their own grounds on the
east side of and still later
she was in O Connell-street.


2I- fp »-••• T"n 1 1
-V“
k \
/ f-
\
umm m
the light that pleases
v
Just an ordinary lamp—with “Light of the Age” Kerosene.
A portable light, ready to be carried anywhere.
A safe light, because “Light of the Age” is a “high-flash
kerosene.
A reliable light, free from smoke and odor.
A bright light, because Texaco “Light of the Age” Kerosene
makes it so.
Just an ordinary lamp—yet the light that’s pleasing to the
eye over any other illuminant, save the sun.
Texaco Kerosene is known the world over. Its unvarying
high quality is established with every shipment—and the Texas
Company distributing system insures a convenient source of supply
wherever you are.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEX'ACO
o
Jti
Caillc—Bantam
M
Marine Engine
nm
Suitable for Canoes, Dinghies, Rowboats or
auxiliary to sail, fitted with High-tension Magneto,
Shafting, Propeller, Stuffing Box, Tank, etc.
Weight, 401 b. Prices considerably reduced.
For full particulars apply SOLE AGENTS: —
Benson Brothers Limited,
76 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
n
Handsome Art
Catalogue Free.
Any Instrument sold
on Easy Terms, and
your old piano taken
in exchange.
After a strenuous and busy day in
the city, you require relaxation and
pleasure.
Gan you imagine anything more
soothing to tired nerves than music?
But you require the music to be
rendered perfectly. This is where
a PALING Piano shines.
You can play the classics like an
artist and instantly change to a jazz,
song accompaniment or waltz.
Call in and hear
our Player Pianos
you will be delighted
with them.
%
&9
mn
A»0 AT
B FZISBAMZ, ntWCfIJTLt.
TOOWOOMBA UIXMORt.
w ROCKHAMPTPK.^xgg


Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
M osman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per jay, or from
4 % Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
ESS*.
Use a medicine that allays
fretful and feverish con-
ditions, that prevents
sourness after meals, one
that is a gentle laxative.
The favorite remedy is
Kruse)
fluid
Males' 3
50 years proof behind
every bottle.
Guard against imitation.
The genuine Kruse’s is
made by Felton, Grim-
wade & Co., Prop. Ltd.,
Melbourne
V.
s <
i. 3 ;
\
RIDE A
BICYCLE
BUILT OF
FITTINGS
It will serve you as a reliable and
ever-ready servant for many years
and will cost practically nothing in
upkeep during that time.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH,
Handbook post free
k
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
m
Confidence
aA
toO^
Jt/>
Ur**"
JLadt
<£>
j4usJ\yOjLcO>.
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD..
Head Office: 5-7 BarracK Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St,
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
“KITE” BRAND
TOOL STEEL
nm
“KITE” Brand tool steel is a particularly high-grade
special oil-hardening tool steel prepared for accurate
tool-making. It is indispensable wherever a tool
must be produced to a hair’s breadth of specifications.
It is uniform in quality, needs simple treatment only,
and is
NON-SHRINKING
“KITE” Brand special oil-hardening, non-shrinking
steel is recommended tor intricate and accurate tools
such as Milling Cutters and Reamers, Taps, Dies, etc.,
wherever extreme accuracy of size is essential. Rounds
from jin. to 6sin. Send your orders.
The Eagle S Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Associated Co. ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Paul &
Cray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. U. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Rtd., 88-90 Currie Street,
Adelaide.,
The Jointing that
adjusts itself to the job.
It does not matter how rough or pitted the faces of pipe flanges
are, you can make a thoroughly satisfactory joint quickly and
easily if you use
n
*yn7bWder
w Form
JOINTING
MATERIAL
This moulds to the surface irregulari-
ties of the two opposing members and
forms a permanently leaktight and
rustless metal-to-metal joint that will
withstand the highest pressures and
temperatures. Pressure may be
turned on immediately the joint is
made.
Get a tin to-day, and try it on your
most awkward joint—it will never
want re-making .
'~'v
cCk,
1 1ft
pi*
aO't*
./
(L,
The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd.
490 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
“Tren”: Express-bowler E. A. McDonald,
despite the strenuous denials made in certain
quarters, was booked for England all along. The
Nelson Club held him for a three years’ engagement
under a £lOO penalty. Australian cricket loses in
him and Gregory a record pair in record time from
lutir rust appearance as world champions.
* * * *
South Aus. Cricket Assoc., in view of the
lack of good bowling, asked Armstrong to have an
eye open for a likely coach. The man he recommends
is Kennedy, of Hampshire, at present on a summer
engagement in S. Africa. In 1920 he took most
wickets for his county, 80, with an average of 25.
Last season he was doing much better than that,
Armstrong says. He is not much of a bat.
* * * *
“Reflex”: One of the lesser champions,
in point of fame, is station-keeper J. Trengove, of
the Bendigo Fire Brigade. In 1908 he established
an Australian record for the one-man ladder race,
when he did the journey in 6 l-ssec. In 1910 he
was first at the Warrnambool demonstration in this
ev<-nt, and he filled first place at Bendigo in 1911,
Ballarat in 1912, Geelong in 1913, Bendigo in 1914,
Ballarat in 1915 and Geelong in 1921. The
previous best figures were 7sec.
“Rosmus” : “Pongo” (B. 9/2/’22) is wrong
in saving Irex won the first inter-State 22ft. cham-
pionship. Hayes’ Esmeralda (sailed by dingy-champion
skipper Billy Read) won, with Irex (sailed and owned
by Nick Johnstone) second. “Pongo” is probably con-
fusing the following challenge match over the same
course, Irex v. Esmeralda for £2O, which Johnstone’s
boat won. It was largely on the strength of this
effort that Mark Foy, who was looking for a champion
at the time, bought her.
*- . * * *
Dempsey has been offered a bait to face
the negro Wills—£7s,ooo win or lose —-which ought
to lure him. Wills was fighting 15 years ago, and
like many niggers he doesn’t know his age except
that it is probably five years older than rumor has
it. Jack Johnson may not have side-stepped him
exactly, but he always happened to have something
else to do when a match was proposed. But that
was when Dempsey wore short pants, and now the
champ, may consider the black and white gamble,
in which Jeffries disgraced the Caucasian race, one
from which he would emerge on top.
.* * * *
Model yachting grows in popularity in
Sydney year by year. The Liptons of the sport are
not boys but elderly men, and their Cowes is the
pond at Moore Park. The season commences in
April and lasts all through the winter. The present
champion is a two-footer belonging to a St. George
enthusiast. It carries a 7ft. 6in. mast and 52 square
feet of sails; but a new boat is building which, on
the same sized hull, will carry a spread of 70ft. of
sails on a 9ft. mast. The upper reaches of Middle
Harbor, Iron Cove, Lane Cove and Georgie’s River
are being increasingly invaded bv these costly toys.
* * * *
Frank Tarrant is returning to Melbourne,
where he will establish a racing stable. Playing
for Middlesex he achieved 1000 runs and 100
wickets in eight consecutive seasons—l9o7 to 1914
—his highest aggregates being 2030 runs in 1911
and 183 wickets in 1907. Since 1914 he has been
in India with Ranji. Warner chose him for Middle-
sex when he was a young Melbourne club pro., and
he came back to Australia for a trip at the end
of the (English) 1907 season. In the Sheffield Shield
match (Vie. v. N.S.W.) at Sydney, Syd Gregory
(201) made things look safe for the home team.
However, Tarrant stone-walled into three days for
the record total of 206, and Vic. won. This score
helped him to tile Victorian third-wicket record of
175 with Ransford, and, with Tommy Warne, to the
eighth-wicket record of 122 for matches against
N.S.W. He also made 107 against S. Aus. As to
his bowling, Victor Trumper, in making his first
century on the Melbourne ground, hit two sixers
into the top tier of the grandstand off one over
from him. He is now 41 and “of independent
means.”
* * * *
“15-30”: The defeat of O’Hara Wood by
Hawkes in tire M.C.C. tournament in Melbourne
should have the effect of livening him up: he is
plainly getting perfunctory in all departments of
his game. At his top there is no greater stylist,
bar Brookes, in Australia, and given hard and regu-
lar practice he would push Anderson and Patterson
to a five-set struggle in which the victor would
emerge with a narrow margin of points. Wood has
always been regarded as a doubles man, and it is
his readiness to take himself at this valuation that
has affected his confidence in singles tournaments.
Yet he has all the equipment of a singles champion.
With a brisk, spinning service, a perfect array of
strokes off the forehand and backhand, he lacks no-
thing but the will to win. I have watched him care-
fully for a long time, and I am amazed that a
master of stop-volley play who can backhand the
deadliest serve like a bullet down the sideline—a
shot scrupulously avoided by Patterson, by the way—
should go down to a backline plugger of the Hawkes
type. Wood should have a heart-to-heart talk with
himself.
* * •* *
“D.”: Nothing- strikes those who have
seen crowds in many parts of the world more forcibly
than the peaceableness of an Australian holiday
gathering of young men. In Britain fighting is one
of the chief masculine diversions on festive occasions
—fighting and beer. I have seen as many as three
lumbering fights in progress at once on the railway
platform of a seaside resort a few moments after
a cheap excursion from London had got in. No one
was hurt. No one ever is seemingly; the parties
roll up to one another, arms whirling and eyes closed,
and fall into an innocuous clinch. And that I fancy
is where the difference lies between this country
and Britain. Nobody learns boxing in the U.K.
except a privileged few. Almost every member
of a surf or cricket or football club has had experi-
ence of the art in Australia, and while most are
indifferent performers none are wholly incompetent,
and the fists of some are as dangerous as pole-axes.
So we have a condition of affairs comparable to that
of the days of the duels. No one goes looking for
trouble for fear of what he may find. What the
country spends in stadiums it saves in policemen—
and a bit over.
(Continued on page 53.)
PUNTER’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The caterers completely under-estimated the
magnitude of the public thirst, and long before the
last race there was nothing left but spirituous
liquors.”
I’ve often done me cash without complaint;
A bloke who growls at losing’s not a sport.
I’m lucky sometimes: other times I ain’t,
Though if I do me dough I never snort;
But, blimey, things are fairly up the spout
When, beer as well as punting funds gives out.
For rum or whisky I don’t care a jot;
No, spirits bring me very little cheer;
I get more consolation from a pot
That’s got an ’andle and is filled with beer;
Ah,, struth,, I felt like I’d been ’it a clout
When soneone yelled: “The beer ’as given out.”
I’m always glad to win, but if I lose
I never moan or whip the bloomin’ cat.
I merely drown me sorrer in a booze—
Or maybe several if it comes to that.
You’ll understand my sentiments, no doubt,
When someone tells me that the beer’s give out.
x.s.w.
JONICK.


m
I can’t imagine
anything better
The New Improved
Gillette
SAFETY RAZOR
has given me a new outlook on shav
ing comfort. The New Improved Gil
lette requires no stropping or honing
Priced
30/-
everywhere
The Gillette Safety Razor Co. of Canada Ltd.
Montreal, Canada
W’salc Distributors: S. Hoffnung & Co. Ltd.
Sydney Adelaide Brisbane
nm
The FULCRUM SHOULOCH
THE MINOR FLEXURE
OVtM-nANGING
CAP |
THE MAJOR I
THE^OiAMONO
Ull I icd'c
I Lh I ezl~ ww
ALMOfiD BRITTLE
S-
m
Wk
v '
K
mm
PACKED IN
lib AIRTIGHT
Tins 3fe Each
Postage 6° extra
sent to amj address
in Australia
162-166 PITT St
&Cr George & Kinq Sts
- SYDNEY -
“Start your day
the, Kruschen wav’’
r s
t
V>
y
\
\ \\
S:ch»»?
Kruschen Sas
c «%mig active principles of *
felf or a teaspoonful of
Swuld be Seen eacnroorn'J
. ‘he Kruschen Salt is &
T 1 blood ~ m
f %one suffering from
Constipation Uv&r
useful
,J *MA be taKen for » <**s
l^ ,er to assure its full e®^ 00
Organs
HUGHE^ ITD “
L^'Knch.
England
“Tasteless in Tea.”
DO you wake in the morning re-
freshed by sleep, glowing with
energy? Do you take a healthy
interest in your meals? Do you find
your work full of interest and your play
full of fun? Are you, in short, a happy
man or woman in glorious health?
Health means a body whose every organ
does its work well—Kruschen Salts
taken every morning keep your internal
machinery in regular active working
order. Health means a system free from
all impurities—Kruschen Salts cleanse
all waste matter from the blood.
Thousands of people take Kruschen Salts
in their breakfast tea —putting as much
in each cup as will cover a sixpence.
Make your cup of tea first, and then add
the Kruschen Salts. Taken that way,
Kruschen Salts are quite tasteless, and
do not curdle the milk. Remember,
however, to add the Kruschen Salts after
the cup has been filled up with tea.
JfruschenSahs
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists —2/9 per bottle
Enough for more than two months.
Kruschen Salts have been proving their great value as
a remedy and a corrective during more than 160 years.
Sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Lumbago, Eczema,
Constipation, Liver and Kidney Disorders find in
Kruschen Salts a sovereign remedy for these distressing
ailments. Kruschen Salts are gentle thorough in
their beneficial action.
\
For relief from these maladies take “half-a-teaspoon-
ful” of Kruschen Salts in warm water every morning.
The improvement in your general health from this
small but regular dosage will astonish you.
Australia. —Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H. and W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth.
Direct Indents executed by the manufacturers
through London Buying Houses.
New Zealand.—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are
stocked by Fairbairn, Wright & Co., Christ-
church, Wellington, Auckland and Dunedin.
Note.—Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes, Ltd., established 1754, in
the reign of George the Second.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £lO.
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £l2.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, . set
Aquamarine, £2,
A. Saunders' 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls'
and Aquamarine, 25/-
A. Saunders’ 9et
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines,
£2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Bing, 1 Set. Gold,
£l3.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders'
9et. Gold Scarf
Pin, set Pearls
and Red Stone,
13/6.
A. Saunders’
Oent.’G 9ct\
Gold Signet
Ring, 20/-
15ct. Gold,
£2.
18et. .Gold,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 25 /-; heavier,
30/-
Isct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Cluster
Ring, lSct., Gold,
£5/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Circle
Brooch, set Pearls,
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face Keyless
Watch,. £2.
Higher-grade movement, £2/10/-, £B.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver, Open-face
Lever Wristlet Watch, £3/10/-, £4.
Gold-filled, £5, £5/10/-
9ct. Gold, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
n
m s
■ .
A. Saunders’
Soft-collar Hut-
tons, chain con-
nections, 9ct.
Gold, 7/6.
Stone set, 8/6.
A. Saunders’
Qeni.’i 9ct.
Gold King, set
Aquamarine or
Tourmaline,
£2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, concave, convex or
flat. 20/ heavier, 25/-,
SO/-; 15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ci. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold Expanding
Side Bracelets and Leather Strap, £5.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Aquamarine or Tourmaline, £2.
l&ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 12/6.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines and
Pearls, £3.
JEWELLER,
805-815 GtORGE STREET (Opp. RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
X
Pi/'*" * -
rs/'
a
mmzfg
i
fuiamfih
11
l
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors—polished with Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furpishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
Waste — Liquid — Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, .or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson's
Wa it—there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W*


Amusements.
SY I) Nl5 Y’S CIII 15 I TIIISAT K E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
lIER MAJESTY’S:
BaBES in the wood.
CRITERION :
MY LADY’S DRESS.
ROYAL:
THE MERRY WIDOW.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS BENNISON in
JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN.
KING’S THEATRE.
NICOLA.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST WIZARD.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURNE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
PRISCILLA DEAN in
CONFLICT.
FRANK MAYO in
THE SHARK MASTER,
Prices as usual.
Jg KIT AN Nil A THEATRE. M ISLBOUKNK.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
Missing Friends.
TO JAMES WILLIAM WARD formerly of Mel-
bourne but now of parts unknown TAKE
NOTICE that ybur wife Hilda Ann Ward has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for Divorce on the
ground of desertion and a repeated act of adultery
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the office of
the Protiionotary of the Supreme Court in Melbourne
on or before the 13th day of April, 1922, the case
may proceed in your absence and you may be ordered
to pay • the costs.
J. WOOLF, 34 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
DODD.— -Any person who can give information of
the whereabouts, existence, marriage or death
or any other particulars of JANE DODD and AGNES
DODD, children of George Dodd and Agnes Dodd
(formerly Agnes Knight), who formerly resided in
Victoria, is requested to communicate with the
NATIONAL TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND
AGENCY COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
of 113 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria, or the
undersigned.
The two Sisters if alive would now he advanced
in years. They may have married. They or their
children (if the mothers are now dead) are entitled
to share in the estate of HARRIET O’BRIEN,
deceased, formerly of Carlton, Victoria, and of
Sydney, New South Wales.
Jane Dodd or Agnes Dodd may in infancv have
been adopted by or boarded out to some person or
persons and have taken the name or .names of such
person or ’persons.
H. H. HOARE, 440 Chancery Lane. Melbourne,
Solicitor for the said Company.
DUNBAR WILLIAM WYLD.
IF DUNBAR WILLIAM WYLD, for-
merly connected with Southport College,
near Brisbane, Australia, and who was last
heard of at Melbourne in February, 1809,
but is believed to have afterwards resided
at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), North Queens-
land and New Zealand, will communicate with
the undersigned he will hear of something to
his advantage. Any persons who could give
any information as to the whereabouts of
the said Dunbar William Wyld are requested
to communicate with—
Messrs. ATKEY & SON,
Solicitors,
9a Sackville Street, Piccadilly,
London, W.l, England.
WILLIE WlGG.—Please communicate
with brother-in-law, E. J. Tacklay,
Tamworth, Durham Road, East Finchley,
London, N„ executor of father.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
nr
a
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sines and styles
from J'g-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
■water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifeime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
!59 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
Amusement*.
jyjA.IIOSiIC TIIHATKIS. JIIiLifOL ItXE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE SON OF WALLIXGSOKD.
A VITAGRAPH SPECIAL.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
iV| ELEA Til EAT ICE, MELHOL KNE.
Showing tlie pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAURAPH, PAIHE,
WOULD and SI'LZNICK.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREVN
IMfODtCTIOXS.
Australian Tour:
MELBOURN E— PALACE THEATRE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 'ihe Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also, Po<ket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and' Stain h sa Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longl
st, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
SKmbS
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
Large Shipment Just Landed.
“MAXIMUM” HIGH-SPEED
TOOLHOLDER STEEL
HARDENED READY FOR USE.
3-16 in., fin., 5-16 in., fin., 7-16 in., fin., fin., fin., lin. square
in 1 Bin. lengths; also short pieces 3in. to 4in. long.
Poldi Steel Works,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY BJO4.
n,
f.
o
' n V*C^v fc . ~'
g. >
&«* s /
**<•
O:
/Z
J 2
•Z
£y~
20J9
ftrcwreri
SH4L/INS
mn
HKn,
m
tifl,
loTSs*
►>f/y
*tn
Edison Amberol Records
i:
for March.
Each and every one of the records for this month is well
worth hearing—for instance, the Royal Purple “Give a
Man a Horse He Can Ride” (Arthur Middleton) will
appeal to any man, and so will “Le Moulin de Maitre
Jean” (a French Record).
We also recommend “Spread Yo’ Stuff” as something
new and different in Fox-Trots, though “Rosie” and
“Siren of a Southern Sea” have a persuasive lilt. “Recol-
lection of 1861-65” is quaintly reminiscent of that period
—and, of course there is the usual attractive choice of
instrumental pieces, songs a:.d humorous items. Read
through the list —hear your selections early.
Royal Purple Record
29075—Give a Man a Horse
He Can Ride. Bass-
Baritone, orch. ace.
Arthur Middleton
French Record
27196—Le Moulin de Maitre
Jean (Master John’s
Mill). Baritone, orch.
acc.
Torcom Bezazian
Blue Amberol Records.
4229 —Rosie—Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Max Fell’s Della Robbia Orchestra
Trumpet, orch.
Edna White
4239 —Recollection of 1861-65.
acc.
4269—0-hi-o Medley One-step (introducing
“Thy Troubadour”).
Max Fell’s Della Robbia Orchestra
4272 —Siren of a Southern Sea —Fox Trot for
Dancing. Green Bros.’ Novelty Band
4276 — My Gee Gee from the Fiji Isle. Orch.
acc. Emerson Westervelt
4277 Uncle Josh Takes the Census—Rural
Story. Cal Stewart
4278 Golden Sunset Waltzes, for Dancing.
National Promenade Band
4280 — To the Strains of that Wedding'March.
Orch. acc. Marguerite E. Farrell
4281 — In the Heart of Dear Old Italy. ' Mixed
Voices, orch. acc.
Me tropolitan Quartet
4282 — Love’s Old Sweet Song. Saxophone,
oreh. acc. Chester Gaylord
4283 — Margie. Tenor, orch. acc.
Harvey Hindemeyer and Mixed Chorus
4284 — Bright Eyes. Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
4285 — Spread Yo’ Stuff —Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Joseph Samuel’s Music Masters
4286 — Ring and the Rose (Swiss Love Song).
Harp-Zither. Kitty Berger
4287' —Rose, a Kiss and You. Tenor, orch. acc.
Lewis James
4288 —Blue Jeans. Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet
4294—My Budding Rose. Tenor, orch. acc.
Vernon Dalhart
4298—Loveless Love. Orch. acc.
Ernest Hare
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
m
SELL
&
6*
k -5
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
If you are fond of drawing you can’
easily be taught bow to make money in
your own home. There is such a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr.tJ. C. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by bis easy
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexes are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks liimself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don’t
YOU Learn?
The Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Pays” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks will be very pleased
to write you hir, opinion of it — free.
But write for the book now, and judge
for yourself.
J. C. Bancks School ol Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
pjALTEOMIIv
wn
*w~ -
nm
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only*
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORLtCK'S
MALTED MILK
HORUCIti MALTED MILK M
Slough. Bucks. Eng. Jf
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for 1(-
£lOOO
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Bins Mountains A. H. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16 th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chances,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke's obtainable from N S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon, Secretary,
ICs dzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba. N.S.W.


n
Virginia Cigarettes
10 for 9d. 20 for 1/6
-6
Cool and—
fragrant, made
from perfectly
me 11 owed and
rlp ened leaf
from Virginia, “ Prince Charming ”
thoroughly deserves to be called the
Prince of cigarettes, jMoney cannot
buy anything better.
Manufactured ly GODFREY PHILLIPS, Ltd., London. England.
\
"r
w.
s.
r
i,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hek Majesty's “Babes in the Wood”
n® 1 ™ 0 * “My Lady’s Dress”
Hnvv*' “The Merry Widow”
OYT 8 Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
f* OYAB “Johnny Get Your Gun”
Her Majesty's “A Night Out”
Nicola
palace Shakspearean Productions
Hoyts Dk Luxe 4: Lyceum Moving I'ictuies
Britannia Moving Pictures
“Beauty draws us with a single hair,”
but m Knoblauch's series of playlets, "My
Lady s Dress,” first brought from its tissue
wrappings in Sydney at the Criterion last
Saturday, it takes Russian sable, hand-woven
lace and a French rose (made in
\\ hitechapel) to adorn beauty that she may
ravish the eye of an amorous old man who
has the gift of a job which her husband
covets. After the audkncg has been let
into the high-sou led motif of the entertain-
njent by means of a half-quarrel between
ell w * fe T (Emelie Polini) and the husband
(Prank ITarvey), the lady takes'"a headache
powder to prepare herself for a dinner-
party and the conquest, and thereupon
dreams a kaleidoscopic apd gyroscopic series
of sets, each concerning one of the materials
going to make her dress. Of constructive
drama it betrays no trace. It is as though
a writer wrote a serjes of short plays each
complete in itself, and because they were
bound in the same volume insisted on nam-
ing them a novel. Or a patchwork quilt
sewn together by impatient fingers, the
patches brilliant in themselves but showin"-
no color-,ficheme or design. From the
domestic tragedy in Italy, where the silk-
worms get cold feet qn the eve of spinning,
you are rushed through another domestic
tragedy, this time in France; then a snappy
bit of Holland raises a laugh. Russia and
the misery of an Intellectual married to a
woman of the people; a slab of London
misery; and a roaring mannequin parade—
then loop the loop and back again to the
boudoir where Anne (Polini) is awakened
from her dream by a telephone message from
the senile one telling her the job is her hus-
band s I After which Frank Harvey' looks
in, wrapped about in a petunia-shaded dress-
ing-gown, to make up the quarrel; and the
two pass through opposite doors in search of
baths, blowing kisses across centre-front.
Rather like a tail-piece to a week-tend adven-
ture in, say, La Vie' Parisienne.
If little can be said for the play, hardly
too much can be said for the players. Miss
Polini and Harvey have the leads in the six
playlets, and their work never fails to grip.
In the scene in the silk-weaver’s home in
Lyons their acting is very fine —here the
writer has drawn a faithful, soul-stirring
picture of the drama of simplicity. It is
his great moment, and Polini and Harvey do
not let him down. Nor do the other actors
in this episode, John Fernside and Maurice
Dudley. Good work is also done through-
out by Eily Malyon, Audrey Worth, Mira
Jvenham and Harry Roberts; and Roger
Barry is a recurring ornament.
*v * *
“The Babes in the Wood,” now installed
at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, inevitably chal-
lenges comparison with “Sinbad the Sailor,”
which vanished from the Criterion a few
weeks ago. It is stronger in the scenic and
Allan Wilkie as Shylock in “Merchant of
Venice,” at Melbourne Palace.
dancing departments and is more expensively
costumed ; also, in some cases, more left
off. In other respects the advantage is with
the less expensive show. Musically con-
sidered, the newcomer is unimpressive and
the book” has large stretches of aridity.
The show lacks a singing voice of veal dis-
tinction, and the alleged topical ditties put in
tne comedians’ mouths are dreadful in their
dulness. Noticeably bright features are the
Babes, Marjorie Powrie and Nellie Barnes,
an f the Bight Ballerinas, who bare their
well-powdered and totally inoffensive legs
to the electric light. But the Babes have too
much to do. Norah Delaney is a smiling and
handsome principal boy who wears rich
habiliments and is as dashing as circum-
stances will permit. One of her songs, “Bad
Boy, in which her mannerisms are happily
imitated by Marjorie Powrie, is the vocal
hit of the evening'. Floie Allen is a nice
principal girl, but, like the Am cry sisters,
Maud and Phyllis, she danqes better than
she sings. Audrey Thacker gives the impres-
sion that she is a capable actress in straight
comedy; singing, however, is not her forte.
Ihe fun, what there is of it, is furnished by
. w * S. Percy, Jack Williams, George Wil-
loughby and two importations, Naughton
and Gold- The last-narped pair are capital
dancers and their burlesque boxing bout is
brilliant, but they are on the stage too often
and too long. The appallingly dreary
schoolroom scene, in which they 'and Wil-
liams figure, should be reserved for chil-
dren s matindes or cut out altogether. Wil-
liams is a Dame who shows traces of humor,
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
J. W. Rickaby as F.C. 49.
notably in a drinking scene with Percy, but
the librettist rarely gives either a chance.
Agreeable interruptions in the dancing line
are provided by lissome Josie Melville and
h rederick Mackay, whose work is uncom-
monly good. And Bobbie Jackson’s Scare-
crow deserves an appreciative note.
** * *
Finding Sydney to her liking “The Merry
Widow has prolonged her stay. She will
exhibit her pre-war charms at the Royal
another eight nights, after which
Katmka will return to a city that has half
forgotten her. “The Maid of the Moun-
tains” follows.
** * *
There is no mention of Ireland in “Broad-
way Jones,’’ at the Sydney Palace, but an
rngenious advt.-writer has discovered that
Jones has an Irish heart. 4nd with that the
devotee of Allen Doone, who expects that
will saunter amiably through green vistas
ot tnsn-American romance, stopping at in-
tervals to uplift a thin but appealing tenor
m praise of_Mollie Gilhooley Asthore or
that dear-r Little Wexfor-r-d Gur-r-1, is
forced to be content. But Doone will go back
to the old trail presently.
** * *
Sydney long ago made a friend of Made-
line Rossiter, then of the Sydney James
company, and when she arrived in the
livoh bill on Saturday there was a theatre-
full to say “W hat-o'h!” A kiddies’ song and
another of tomfoolery were contributed at
the piano; then she dhnced and went
through a turn that is going to be a very
staunch pillar in a strong programme. J.
W. Rickaby, prematurely in his farewell
week, squeezes every ounce of laughter from
lus audience; the Two Rascals gallop from
the jump, and bike rider, xylophone players
and magician carry away a load of laurels.
* * *
To help the Bush Boo.k Club, on Thurs-
day next the curtain goes up in the Sydney
I layhouse on Quinneys,” and the stage
sets tb be used have never heen approached
in the brief Australian history of the Re-
pertory. _ Vachell’s delightful old character
is a curio dealer, and the scenes of the play
are laid amid his priceless bric-il-brac This
is where Tyrrell’s come in, and Lyster
Ormsby, of that firm, is denuding the shop
of its rarest antiques and most gorgeous
hangings to furnish the stage. Dame
Margaret takes a party of five the first night,
The Chief Justice Cullens are booked for the
second night, and the municipal ermine
swaddles the final performance. So far at
rehearsals Eleanor Ross has carried off all
the producer’s bouquets.
* * # ,y
On Saturday night Jennie Cullen cuddled
her fiddle with the N.S.W. State Orchestra
for the last time before she leaves for a
longish holiday in beloved Scotland. For
the occasion the chaste violin poured out a
fountain of pure tone in Beethoven’s
“Romance in G.” Only a body whose soul
lives in a mountain glen could transmit
such sound-messages to an arid and avid
city on a night swathed in an atmosphere
that made Dante’s Inferno seem a cool store.
Skalski conducted; but there was nothing
out of the common in the orchestra’s part
of the programme.
* * * He
“As You Like It” came to pass at Mel-
bourne Palace last week, with Wilkie as
Jacques and Miss Hunter-Wacts in her old
part of Rosalind. Wilkie was a passable
Jacques, but he didn’t dissipate the sugges-
tion of a heavy tragedian taking a night off
in a subordinate character. The philosopher’s
mournfulness was barely expressed, and
only woke up to the opportunity of
the beven Ages ’ speech because it appealed
to the actor in him. Miss Watts was good
ni spots, but she will be remembered for
her slim boyishness in the Forest of Arden
rather than for dramatic weight and grace
ot diction. Lockhart was a fair banished
Duke, but Augustus Neville could hardly
suppress his inclination to fruitiness as the
usurper. Roy Workman added Le Beau to
ms long list of undergrown courtiers, and
Leslie Manners had all the physique and the
honey required for Orlando. Touchstone was
not bred MacDonald’s masterpiece: his
reading lacked the impishness that Landor
gave to the part when it was last seen in
Melbourne.
* * * *
'£ or na ,£! 0 % s ’ comely and appealing as
Celia in As You Like It,” did even better
as Portia in “The Merchant of Venice”
on Saturday, Miss Watts having dropped out
to start a long rest. Miss Forbes didn’t cap-
™re Mrs. Wilkie’s air of cocksuremess in
the Trial scene, but she was a spirited advo-
cate nevertheless. Also she looked worth the
« her suitors took to win her
affections. Purdie was the successful Bas-
sanio, not above a suspicion of lagoish
saturnimty. at times, but, all the same,
charmed with the lady’s surrender. Jack
Lennon, as Antonio, wasn’t overwhelmed
by the possibility of having to part with
a . P°and of his meat. Vera St. John’s viva-
kept Jessica to the front, and it seemed
that the amorousness of Lorenzo (Leslie
Manners) was occasionally dashed by the
sprightly creature. Vincent Scully appa-
rently doubled Old Gobbo with Tubal, pre-
senting the latter in a cretonne kimono of
loud design. As for the Shyloek of Allan
Wilkie, he has not relented a bit in his
Semitic ferocity. Dangerously near to melo-
drama m Ihis forcefulness, the actor yet gave
a vivid impression of a Hebrew stung in a
tender spot his pride of race. In every
scene he compelled attention, but he pal-
pably hungered for the moments when he
could bellow his hates and grind his teeth.
I. lumpton Wilson faithfully emphasised the
strong strain of foolishness in Launcelot
Gobbo.
**. # #
“Macbeth” is the bill for tp-night and to-
morrow, and on Saturday comes “A Mid-
summer Night s Dream” with a new leading
lady, Hilda Dorrington.
** * *
Nicola s show at Melbourne King’s is
laigely a procession of the classics of necro-
mancy, interrupted in one sad interval by a
shadowgraphist, a lightning sketcher and
two crude exponents of songandance who
mi Snt have escaped from a “trial night” at
a b uller vaudeville theatre. Only the Hindu
basket trick in the first part is worth a
salute for its simplicity, effectiveness and
originality; and a headache will be the
reward of the investigator who tries to
explain the ringing of bells in a cabinet that
has been constructed before the eyes of the
audience. But the rest of the bill isn’t cal-
culated to suppress a desire for yawning
among tile sophisticated.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the united forces of
melodrama continue to minister to the pecu-
liar heroism of Johnny Wiggins, whose other
name-on the bill is Louis Bennison. Lots of
people make small contributions to the play’s
success; but outside of Bennison and Leslie
V ictor the performers are understood to feel
like good Christians who are dropping a
mere thrummer in the plate.
** * *
« , of t “’ edness mark the demeanor of
A iNight Out” (Melbourne Majesty’s),
especially at matinees. Frith is sometimes
guilty of expressing his desire to go giddy
m tones that sound mechanical and' out of
tune with his words. Which remark applies
to other people, and may be taken to imply
tnat the company needs a tonic. When
a translated French farcical comedy with
music in it. begins to lose its ginger it is time
for something to happen. A reprimand, or
a change of bill, or something.
“BROADWAY
JOKES,” AT
SYDNEY
PALACE.
Chas. Stott as Sammy, and Edwin Lester
as Judge Spotswood.
Most of what happened at Melbourne
Tivoli last week is happening again. For
instance, Henry de Bray (who called him-
self Henri at the beginnong) is still capable
of the ancient “Je t’adore” joke, which was
reckoned funny when the early farmers of
this country were sowing wild oats. The
entertainment at the Tivoli is good enough,
and it lasts a, long time, but to enjoy it
thoroughly you must bring a fresh young
fund of inexperience to bear upon its efforts
to provoke a smile.
$* * *
Bluebeard will retire from Melbourne
Princess’s this week, and the farewell of the
proud panto»record breaker promises to be
gay with episodes, and the corky Dame, the
hoarse contralto Boy, the somewhat ethereal
Birl, the Demon and Fairy whose sole busi-
ness is to “throw off’’ at one another, like-
wise Bluebeard, Rastus and the Fat Brother,
will be jointly and individually cheered to
the echo, wherever that is.
** * *
The steady drip, drip, drip of preliminary
pars, is preparing Melbourne to expect
Jascha Spivakovsky at the Town Hall on
April 1.
** * #
Adelaide is for the moment largely depen-
dent on pictures, even the Royal contentedlv
hlling in a spare interval with “Wav Down
Last. But the Pav. gives the screen a
rest while Argus, an alleged “boy prophet.’’
has his show; and at the King’s an adult
psychic marvel” named Paul does much the
same tricks. The York has a pleasant pic-
ture of Constance Talmadge electioneering,
with the inevitable love-making as a side-
hne. Tarkmgton’s old “Conquest of
Canaan us at Wondergraph, and is-care-
tully guaranteed to an irreverent age as not
, unheal; and at West’s Armstrong
and McDonald are bowling to the camera.
** * *
Melbourne meets a diligent pair:—
The strength and weakness of Harold Herbert
and M. J. McNally are well illustrated in their
joint show at the Melbourne Fine Art Society. Her-
bert is an uncommonly good colorist, and has long
dropped the clamorous treatment of plain bush that
made his pictures • audible to sensitive ears. Yet
some of the unimaginative realism remains. It is
apparent in two or three of his studies of Tasmanian
bridges. And it gives a certain slickness and smart-
ness to The Township” and a couple of other views
of Valhalla. He is suaver in his handling of
“Cloud Shadows” and “Into the Distance,” two of
the most attractive of his larger pictures, and the
merit of his Lome panel is that he has not been
obviously painting posters of a fashionable tourist
resort. Of the seven Croydon impressions the most
pleasing are “The Dandenongs,” “Summer After-
noon and “Sunlight and Shadows,” the last-named
notable for the pictorial commonplace of a pretty
purple mountain in the background. M. J. McNally
used to be a rather intriguing performer. The
charm of his pictures was that they were different
from others. But he has . deteriorated. The old
passion for the egg-flip wash is monotonously demon-
strated, as in “Afterglow,” “Winter Afterglow,”
“The Travellers’ Club,” “View from Glenbervie,
Toorak,” etc., and he has patented a tint like
watered blue-black ink that is artistically unlovely,
however sparingly used. But he scores 'some suc-
cesses. The largest effort, “The Quarry, Cave Hill,”
wherein he has good reason to indulge in pale yellow,
is a good bit of work. A bouquet is also earned
by “The Range,” which reminds one of the McNally
we used to know.


is/
Tv
/ bring up my blades in
the way they should go
A Valet blade is like a millionaire’s son —
/\ it has every advantage from the time
A2L it leaves the cradle. Furthermore, a
Valet blade is always a sharp little fellow.
The judicious application of leather plays
no small part in this. I always strop my
own blades so that I know the job is pro-
perly done.
I carry in my Head a device which turns the blade
over-first one side, then the other—as I run up and
down my strop. The result is a keen razor edge for
every shave and every Valet blade lasts for weeks.
Come and see me do it at any good razor shop—the
dealer will be glad to show you.
“VALET"
Safety Razor
Made in England.
Obtainable from all high-class dealers.
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 consists of heavily silver-
plated self-stroppincr Valet m
Auto Strop Razor. \2 Valet
Blades and **Valet StroD, in
handsome case, lined 27/6
velvet and satin • '
The word '‘Valet" on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of the AutoSlrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
Your Pocket Torch is Out-of-date
HIS
use a
mn
INEXHAUSTIBLE FLASH LAMP
THE HANDILITE is a new Magneto Flash Lamp, made in
England by the GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is inexhaustible, easy in operation and GENERATES
ITS OWN LIGHT by a simple operation of the lever.
THE HANDILITE requires no refills and is always in working
order.
indispensable to the DOCTOR, MOTORIST, SQUATTER,
ROUNDARY-RIDER, or anyone requiring a reliable, portable,
steady light available in any emergency.
THE FIRST COST IS THE ONLY EXPENSE.
Price 351
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Storekeepers,
or direct from
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC Company Limited,
154-6 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 590 Bourke Street. PERTH: Murray Street. NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.: Scott Street.
NEW ZEALAND: Willeston Street, WELLINGTON; Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
Sole Agents—BRISBANE: Norman Bell & Co, Adelaide Street; HOBART, Tas.: Medhurst Electrical Works, Ltd.
FIJI: Morris Hedstrom, Ltd., Suva and Levuka.


%
m
J
i
'A*
■
i
?//
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR. INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT dePIETE
St. Svdnev. 74
Phone City 9325.
Capital & 300.000.
Joseph. W. Hill.
Genera! Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mcnt de
Piete D. and I, Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Thole Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
J-Jj? latest conjuring game, the re-
shuffling of theatrical and concert managers,
is growing more exciting than the hold-ups
in an Arizona film. E. J. Carroll, the most
modest of managers, has now joined in, and
with the slogan “Australia first” has
arranged to produce a stage version of “The
Sentimental Bloke,” a closely-knit three-act
comedy-drama from C. J. Dennis’s pen. The
contract has been signed, and the goods are
almost ready for delivery.
Larry”: Allen Doone is busy getting
ready a brand-new piece to stage at Sydney
lalace when the middle-aged “Broadway
Jones has run its course. The novelty is
an American comedy by the librettist of'the
pleasing light opera “Maytime,” Rita John-
son Young, and bears the queer title, “Cap-
tain Kydd, Junior.” Doone will in this have
another of the “straight” parts which
brought him much kudos during his S’Afri-
can tour, and all the members of his present
clever eo. have good chances.
“Dido”: It happened in the Opera House
when Harry Rickards was running vaude-
ville there. Among the company were a
man and wife (presumedly married, probably
not) who had quarrelled in the course of
“Broadway Jones," at
Sydney Palace.
Ronald Riley as
Rankin.
the day over the
unabashed manner
in which she re-
ceived the atten-
tions of a local
broker. The part-
ing was supposed
to be for ever, but,
of course, profes-
sional engagements
had to be kept.
The husband was
in the dressing-
roo m, drowsing
over a book, and
waiting his turn
in the matinee per-
formance, when he
heard someone
moving in the
room, and a sniff
reached his ear.
He knew instantly
that his histrionic
spouse was seek-
ing a reconcilia-
tion, but he would
have none of it.
“Get out of this,”
he said. “Get out
or I’ll throw you
out!” The sniff
was repeated, and
the righteously
implacable husband
turned, hurled his
book and smote a
lion freshly escaped
from Professor Leo
Breaker's cage. The lion fled, while the
comedian climbed to the top of the wardrobe.
“Monopole”: What looks like an inspired
par tells us that Gladys Moncrieff has re-
newed her contract with the Williamson-Tait
firm. And rumor adds that the new engage-
ment is at a figure that big imported stars
would be glad to accept. As Hugh Ward’s
new enterprise is mentioned incidentally, it
would seem that the bare announcement of
coming competition has had its effect on the
theatrical market.
“T.W.”: Bennison is a blessing in dis-
guises.
"Thorold Waters” contemplates a desert:
Joseph Cook made one of the blunders of a
stumbling life the other day when he told a gather-
ing of British University dons that Australians “have
already brought to you musical culture of a rare
order.” I suppose Cook’s belief is shared by quite
a number of Australians doting on the successes of a
few of their vocalists and other musicians. But the
fact is that musically this country stands where it
did 20 years back, and some parts of it—Melbourne,
for instance —are 10 years further back than they
were then. Two or three of our pianists and a score
or two of our singers have managed to drive in
among the best during the past 30 years, but these
would be the last to pretend that they took away
from Australia “musical culture of a rare order.”
One may not like Stravinsky, for instance, but it is
at least necessary in these days to hear what kind of
noise he makes. It is necessary to have heard the
“Salome,” the “Elektra” and the “Kosenkavalier”
of Richard Strauss to understand why he is the
greatest force in opera as well as a master-
AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
J. W. Rickaby singing a little American
song.
symphonist. It is necessary to have heard Debussy’s
“Pelleas et Melisande” in addition to the stock
“L’apres midi d’un faun.” Though those things are 10
to 20 years old Australia knows nothing of them,
knows practically nothing of Granville Bantock,
knows nothing of Elgar’s symphonies, nothing of
Delius, nothing of Peter Cornelius, nothing of Wolf-
Ferrari, little of Chausson or Ravel. Yet music
has marched even since their decade. In England,
for instance, there is the astonishingly strong new,
school of Arnold Bax and Gustav von Holst, of
Eugene Goossens and Arthur Bliss. As yet has there
been any performance of any of their works here?
Would any purely Australian-trained vocalist under-
stand how to put the required meaning into the
wordless song-music of' Bliss? Yet we pay a futile
Jocook to step in and make us ridiculous by blither-
ing about taking musical culture out of Australia.
In the whole musical history of this country there
has not been an output of, say, 16 songs, or half
a dozen piano or violin compositions, of sufficient
merit and diverseness to justify an exclusive pro-
gramme. When our Jocook, and people who ought
to know better than he does, gabble about our
musical culture, it is time they were told that we
have none to shout about. The . chief reason is that
Australia has become a hunting-ground for creden-
tialless pretenders from abroad who set themselves
up as musical panjandrums in cities which know
no better than to pass them in at the doors on
their impudent faces. More than one man import-
antly waggling a stick in Sydney or Melbourne to-day
had no more experience before he landed than any
ordinary suburban choirmaster who was here before him.
Sydney, however, has the splendid compensation of
Verbrugghen. Another disastrous impediment to
Australian musical culture is that criticism has
passed almost completely into the hands of men who
work for their living in the music-aquariumS. The
ground bait all goes to the little fish from their
ponds.
“Stargazer”: Fritz Hart, Melbourne’s
brisk little musician, loses the chief expo-
nent of his Australian songs in Anne Wil-
liams, who sings “Wild Bees.” “The Mag-
pies” and “The Shepherd” just about as
well as they could be sung, her artistry lend-
ing them a quality which in the hands of
an ordinarily good singer they would never
possess. Hart aims at producing a kind of
Australian folk-song, but he isn’t the melo-
dist the case calls for. When he writes of
magpies, for instance, there is a call, but
it has no _ more of maggie’s splendid
morning clarion in it than if the musician
had never heard the brilliant performer
whooping it from her favorite fence.
"Fax” : The J.C.W. method of springing
Louis Bennison upon this country lacked
assurance. The first puffs spoke of him
as a “beauty actor” and a “matinde idol,”
but this was abandoned when it became quite
understood that he was going to play the
oaf in “Johnny Get Your Gun.” After
the play had been put into rehearsal at Mel-
bourne Royal the authorship was credited
to “Edmund Lawrence Burke,” but as soon
* IS tße weird vehicle for heroic oafishness
had got fairly going the announcement of
Bennison’s personal guilt in the matter was
made, in the disguise of a “modest confes-
sion. If the management had not been
afflicted with awful misgivings as to the
success of the farce it would surely have
been boosted as the child of its parent. Mis-
givings were certainly warranted. There
never was a play seen in Australia that
faintly resembled Bennison’s. Van Biene’s
"The Broken Melody,” written for a hero
whose strong suit was ’cello-playing, seemed
a fairly reasonable melodrama compared
with “Johnnie.” The romantic hero, at any
rate, belonged naturally to the story. Ben-
nison presents a hero who belongs naturally
to nothing.
0.K.”: Barbara James, the damsel who
is so expert with the xylophone on the Tivoli
circuit is daughter of two Rickards
turns that used to be very popular. Her
mother was Malvina Moore, and her father
James the ban joist.
‘ Boyd Cable” : Howard Carr has just been
appointed director of the Harrogate Orches-
tra. The billet is one of the plums of the
piofession in England, and was eagerly
sought after. Howard is the Carr who
wandered round Australia in 1908-09 con-
ducting for the J.C.W. Comic Opera Co.,
and married Trix Tracey, then of The Bul-
letin staff. He conducted the first per-
formance of his “Black Opal” with the
Sydney bymphony Orchestra, and has since
produced much music which has won loud
hear-hears from the critics. His “Three
tbA lO hp e t “ Til e Jolly Roger” are about
the best known, although the girl in the
gallery may be more familiar with popular
as composed for musical-comedy
Rienzi : As Othello Allan Wilkie loses
maiks through an unimpressive make-up.
His black buster crop, long silky mo., and
brown, aquiline countenance give him a
Hindu appearance which is accentuated by
trappings recalling rather a Grand Mogul
than a simple Moor, who ought, by all the
rules of the period, to be wearing the uniform
of a Venetian soldier. Apparently Wilkie
was strh ing for the color effects of Oscar
Asche, whose gorgeous robes were in keeping
with a countenance that had only to be
stained to look of African birth. No amount
or burnt cork could disguise the Caucasian
characteristics of Wilkie’s face. Plainly
he felt the hopelessness of sustaining the
illusion’ for there were large patches of
Wilkie visible on the inside of Othello’s bare
arms.
“Aiwyn” : The recent G. and S. revivals
at the Bydney_ Royal revealed some fine
samples of scenic art—particularly the pond
,°P V *° lanthe ” ail d the back Venetian
cloth m ‘ The Gondoliers.” The latter was
painted by the late George Gordon for the
original # Australian production, and the
other night it looked as fresh as any of
the canvases. Something of a rag to last
that long!
“Chris”: The Hobart Theatre Royal is
the most elderly amusement house in the
Speck. Its foundation-stone was laid on
November_4, 1834, in King Billy IV.’s time.
\ essels lying in the Derwent fired off a lot
of gunpowder to celebrate the event, and
the press in pompous style welcomed the
new institution as the corrector of vice and
the promoter of morals. The building was
first. used on January .17, 1837, when the
retiring Governor (Col. Snodgrass) was
handed the usual certificate of good con-
duct. On February 6 a variety co. gave
the first entertainment in the building, which
is still in use.
q /q /ibow' : “ T -O.I.” is wrong (B.
rWGr-W n l attributing “Cromwell” to W.
G. VV ills. It was written by Colonel Alfred
Bate Richards, and Was produced at London
Queen’s on December 21, 1872. Nor was
Coleman manager then—he did not have that
,iob until 1876, when his one and only pro-
duction was “Henry V.,” with himself as
, Clifton was manager at the time
1.0.1. ’ speaks of, and under him most of
the notable successes of the Queen’s, from
1867 onward, were achieved. But “Crom-
well” was not one of them ; and the audi-
ence on the opening night, out for amuse-
ment, visited the defects of the olay upon
George Rignold, John Ryder, Miss'Wallis
and others in the cast. They formed them-
selves into two parties, hissing or cheering
as Royalist or Republican sentiments were
expressed on the stage. Under these pain-
ful conditions the play dragged on for four
hours, and at the finish the co. was about
exhausted. Some of the critics found fault
with Rignold for making one costume do
duty for 10 years in the play’s action.
“Hamfat”: The idea that “gagging” in
Shakspearean plays has never been per-
mitted is wrong. One of my earliest theatri-
cal recollections is of a performance of
“Hamlet” by a crowd of amateurs with a
Leslie Victor in
“Johnny Get Your
Gun ,” at Melbourne
Royal.
stiffening of pros.,
one of whom was
the “first grave-
digger.” In the
grave scene the
digger, in response
to Hamlet’s ques-
tion, said “The
skull? That skull,
sir, is a skull of Levy,
the bookmaker,”
and introduced some
remarks about
Levy which
caused the house to
roar. “Yorick’s!
Yorick’s!” fumed
the dismayed Ham-
let. “No, sir—
Levy’s,” said the
gravedigger; then,
after coolly diving
into the grave
again, he con-
tinued: “Now,
this is Yorick’s!”
Afterwards the
angered amateur
demanded an ex-
planation, and was
told that the gag
was a time-hon-
ored one, noted in
o 1 d scripts, the
name being always
one whose intro-
d u c ti o n would
And the actor was
amuse the audience,
right.
“O. Ren”: “Hamfat” (B. 16/2/’22) refers
to Jordan’s prologue to the “Othello” of
December, 1000, written to introduce a
woman in the part of Desdemona; but it
seems fairly evident that this had reference
to a first exercise of the privilege granted
under Sir William Davenant’s rescript, be-
cause there can be little doubt that women
were playing parts in the days of James I.
and his son. As to the European continent,
Marie Vernier was earning the applause of
the gods in Paris in 1599.
One of the Heifetz entourage drops a line
to say that the young man has played to
the famous blind and deaf woman, Helen
Keller, at Denver. Miss Keller placed the
tips of her highly sensitive fingers under the
belly of his JStradivarius and the vibrations
told her all about it. Anyway, she seems to
have done the right thing—quivered with
emotion at “The Hymn to the Sun” and
gaily laughed at “La Chasse.”
“T.W.”: Two Australians, Fred Collier
and Gertrude Johnson, got their show with
the ex-Beechams, now the National Opera
Co., m its trial week at Bradford, and they
both made good. “Carmen” was the opera,
and Collier as Escamillo even succeeded in
pleasing the Times, which generally begins
to praise a musical artist at least three vears
after everyone else has approved of‘him.
Ej£P er also remarked that Gertrude was
an efficient” Micaela.
I itt Streeter”: The very edifying speci-
*2 quoted by “Oozit”
(is. lb/i>/i,2) is unfortunately only one of
many such. The license these picture-
people are allowed is astonishing. The per-
nicious stuff they circulate calls more for
censorship than the pictures themselves. A
certain film on exhibition in Sydney is a
screen version of a novel which, according to
the newspaper ads., is “the kind you carry
about in a brown-paper cover.” It’s this
land of offensive rubbish that is turning
thousands away from the shadow shows.
“Ducie”: “0.K.” gladdens me with news of
Madame Boema (B. 23/2/’22 > C Nearly half-a-
century ago _ I heard her in the Melbourne
Town Hall sing Schubert’s “Erl King” to the
accompaniment, I think, of David Lee. It
was a fine _ dramatic performance. Artisti-
cally working to the climax, in a pause
before the final phrase the singer .shut her
book with significant determination; then
with all the facial expression of which she
was capable came the agonised whisper, “He
is dead.” For a few moments the great
audience w r as silent, but the reaction was
tremendous.
“J.G.”: Barham, on the Murray, licks
an anticipatory lip. The local paper, in a
par. (l/3/’22) about the School of Arts
picture-show, says:—
In the near future will be shown “Gun-alley,”
with the Bottle-o who found the body of the
murdered girl. These pictures are very enjoyable
and they are greatly enlivened by incidental music.
But if there should be a hanging over it—
well, the pitchers will be simply a garden
of Allah!
THE RIGHTFUL HEIR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Garrick Brown with stately air
And padded legs stalked on the stage,
Adoring' girls were unaware
That his was quite a mellow age:
He played in parts so juvenile
That those who knew it had to smile.
He made-up even in the day
To hold the quite-young-man belief ; .
Ai t helped to smooth harsh lines away ;
But time, who is a soulless thief,
Had left his head in such a rig—
Just ten small hairs —he wore a wig.
That wig was of a sumptuous style,
With crisping curls of chestnut hue;
More than his legs it drew the smile
Of girls who adoration threw
Across the footlights, where, their god,
He in the drama nightly trod.
He played the wronged and unknown son
Supplanted by the villain’s child;
And as the moving scenes went on
Excitement in the house grew wild,
Until the last scene came—its task
The plotting villain to unmask.
The baffled miscreant, full of hate,
Sprang at brave Brown. Though to the floor
Brown knocked him flat, from off Brown’s pate
By accident the wig he tore.
A shocked house heard old Nurse declare:
“Be’old, me lud, the rightful hair!”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Post Coupon for Patterns To-day
E-aster Suit.
i
* •
8
r \
;., tar
M
1
K
&. ■
.M
|; # SB :
w mmMm
m
_ m-,„- rr
r jffifrag|| IPVHf
Iw *
■AB
I jl
H
Order Now —Avoid Disappointment.
New Season’s Materials
Purchased Direct from Mills
Excellently Tailored
To Order,
m
There is obvious quality in Leviathan Tailoring,
the cut, combined with every detail of fit and
finish receive the most careful attention by an
expert staff.
Our New Suitings feature a magnificent display of
All-Wool Imported and Australian Tweeds of
Fine-Texture in handsome patterns of greys and
browns for Men of Discriminating Taste—also
Navy Serges and Twills.
Our Suit Special
To Order.
Easter Price.
fflllQl.
If VIIVI
Tailored to Your Own Measurements in
Reliable All-Wool Tweeds, suitable for
Autumn and Winter Wear. Patterns on
application.
—now READY-
WINTER
Illustrated
Catalog
-—4 O Pages—
Latest La d i es’ and
Gentlemen’s Fashions.
Write for Copy.
500 Suit Lengths . Kept
for Majl_Ojj2lLS!^^‘
Patterns will be Sent Strictly in Sequence of Requests.
SEND TO-DAY.
Money will be refunded if you are not perfectly satisfied, provided the suit is returned in good order.
HOME-MEASUREMENT CHART and TAPE ON APPLICATION. v
POST COUPON FOR PATTERNS JS On .
Order by Post—We Pay Carriage.
me
hEVIATHAH "*• •-«-
Cor. Swanston &l BourKe Streets, /
MELBOURNE. /
y #
<<r V^ v
,r'
D* e}>
/
,v
A>y*
0»
/
.y -V\cf u?
V s*.
£* C>° #v
/ *
&s v


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Pistribntors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., ITD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey s whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS&WiIITTY
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
rat
Ware
t '.FENDER STEWART & SONSLTD.
BRISBANE S SYDNEY
NEW RIFLE.
.22 LONG-RIFLE AUTOMATIC. Bv
the famous BROWNING F.N. firm. Fires 8
Longjrifle Cartridges as fast as you can pull
The cheapest and most effective
.22 cal. rifle produced. PRICE 95/-
The same as above, made to fire 11 Short .22
Cartridges 807-
GUNS D.8.8.L. Hammerless, by ARM-
STRONG, 12-g. Chambered for 2J Cartridges.
Pistol Grip Stock £27/10/-
D.8.8.L. Hammerless, 12- and 16-g., by famous
BROWNING F.N £27/10/-, £3O
AUTOMATIC, 12- and 16-g. 5 Shots, bv
BROWNING F.N. The best by far, £l5/10/-
CARTRIDGES for all Guns and Rifles.
Repairs done on the premises.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
The unique position of lawn tennis as an
international sport is shown by the record entry
ot 15 nations for this year’s Davis Cup. Italy,
Koumania and Hawaii are making* first appear-
ances, ahd the first two have had the bad luck to be
drawn against two stiff teams, viz., Japan and India
Hawaii will face
Czecho-Slovakia. Bri-
ta i n an d Denmark
both miss the first
round; France tackles
Canada, Spain the
Philippines, and Aus-
tralia Belgium. If
the little kingdom
puts in Wascher, who
won the singles cham-
pionship at the last
Olympic Games, our
party won’t have it
all their own way.
The absence of Ger-
many from the en-
counter still continues,
but it is only a matter
of time when the
V aterland will be
reaching out for the
Cup. The Huns were
after it in 1914, but
war broke out and
the Kaiser’s two re-
presentatives had to
clear for their lives.
J. O. ANDERSON,
the tennis champion.
Lord Manton, who was killed in the
hunting-field last week (his horse threw him and he
died of heart failure), held his peerage for the
briefest period on record in the case of a “self-made”
man. He only got it the month before last, previous
to which he was Joe Watson, of soap-making fame.
He is also the only peer who ever took his title from
a racing stable. Two years ago he became the
chief owner of Taylor’s famous Manton stable, and
bought a costly string of thoroughbreds. Lemonora
won the French Grand Prix last year,, as well as
the Newmarket Stakes. Love in Idleness, the best
filly of the season, won the Oaks with great ease.
* * * *
“T.W.W.”: Does Eurythmic’s recent lick-
ing in the Newmarket scramble mean anything?
Flemington straight six on the day was a Quagmire
in which Whiz Bang shone. But how did Whiz
Bang do against Eurythmic on firm ground five days
later? As to the freak’s Melbourne Cup failures
McLachlan avejs that the 1921 calamity was sheer
bad luck; that but for his accident Lee Steere’s
champion would have had a decisive win. And
anyhow, the winning of a Melbourne Cup is not
necessarily a criterion of talent. There’s nothing
brilliant about Sister Olive. Kingsburgh, since winning
the Melbourne Cup was unplaced in a field of four
in a 30s. (or thereabouts) event in Gippsland.
Weight-for age races, which are free from ante-date
betting and course interferences, are the real tests
of superiority, and Eurythmic has a dominating
lead here. The secret of it is his ability to generate
full speed in about two strides and maintain a
terrific pace until the opposition is demoralised.
Poitrel, Kennaquhair, Cetigne and Greenstead—
horses whose time-records on the tracks make those
ot Carbines day look paltry—are the best testi-
monies to Eurythmic’s pace.
Only one actual favorite relieved the
tedium for the punters and disturbed the Te Deums
01 the bookmakers at Bananaland Turf Club’s St
Patrick’s meeting on Saturday. And that was in
the last race. Paladin, who won the Shamrock
Handicap, was an equal favorite with Orcadian,
who finished out of a place. In the seven-furlong
Open Handioap those two fine sprinters, Lady Pyrexia
? n , .canil met, but the mare’s 261 b. advantage
told its tale.
“Percy Pawnticket”: A Sydney bookie
recently evolved a more profitable method of deal-
mg with the local Captain Owen Peels than that
°L g ii n ?- them - Having been well stung on the
old, old lines, he paid up without a murmur and
did some wiring himself. In response an affable
stranger came to town and proceeded to make him-
self pleasant to some of the penciller’s patrons.
He suggested presently to those who were chained
to their offices on race-days that if he ’phoned
them a good winner immediately the race was won
they might have time to get their money on.
Buoyed up, both morally and financially, by the
success of their previous venture, they ' rushed in
heavy bets. Not till later did they discover that the
animal given them by their false friend from the
country had run nowhere.
* * * *
The Tiotting Assoc, of S.A., now but
enthusiastic is annoyed with a rival club, whith
has jumped in and hired the Jubilee Oval, the usual
m-onr? rOUI ! d ’ u°r, 20 Saturday evenings. The Assoc,
proposes to hold meetings on the night-before for
some weeks, and thus discourage the opposition, but
vnelay )s not nearly so good a date. The Govern-
ment owns the ground, and Duncan, chairman of
the Assoc., says Premier Harwell has encouraged
f P«* that they might get the use of a
totalisatoi —without which anyone making a bet
of any sort in S.A. is liable to be arrested. But if
is he „Are ie i ta, T C u Ub e \ ement comes in that dream
is not likely to be realised.
* # JL
* *
Ibcicic MacShortodds must have carried
Thp y ,?n£ agf -"u of r , n ? one y from Caulfield on Saturday.
PivnrifA * p Cled G n lnB ' ale u which beat the second
favorite, Purser, by a short head in the St. Kilda
Cup, went out at anything from 20) to 30 to 1
rwelves were obtainable about Oopina, which col-
lared the Narong I-lurdie, and 8 to 1 was the price
InLa ? bl r? r ’ 7 hl <; h ™ onl V fraction of a nose
ahead of Hands Up in the Übique Welter. Prince
fiessady, the winner of the Orrong Two-year-old,
was the shortest price of the day, 4 to 1 ; but fives
and sevens were offered about Irish Rufus and Mollv’s
Robe, first m the Steeple and the South Yarra Han-
dicap. The mostly female punters who follow the
fortunes of jockey Duncan also had an interesting
day. Duncan rode Prince Tressady and Purser, and
was second on Hands Up.
* * * *
Solfanello, who comes across the Tasman
reputation of being Maoriland’s most
brilliant sprinter of recent years, has been backed
heavily for the Doncaster. A £25,000 commission
was worked simultaneously at Melbourne and Syd-
,nef-„ . Solfanello was a starter in the Newmarket,
but finished well back. He has 9st. lib. in the Don-
caster and so will need to be, every bit as good as
• Ms he is to take the big mile, even though
the held this year is weak.
* * * *
“Locus”: The problem of the illegal book-
maker m acute in the Speck. Parliament has just
dealt Ike a further felon blow, and the club’s black
fists are getting so large that it is questionable if
there wiH be anybody left soon to go racing unless
Vn u. . in the busin ess of exclusion. And
still Mo flourishes. To some extent the clubs are
themselves to blame. They will have a ten-bob
•lote. At the recent Hobart Cup meeting, and at a
trotting meeting held in the same week, there were
strikes of punters on the flat becaues no five-shilling-
machines were provided. The books will take the
humble half-dollar, and it is estimated that at each
of these meetings they handled £4OOO that the
lote should have got.
Country cricket week at Melbourne dis-
covered a natural batsman of high-class in school-
teacher J. Mathers, who captained the champion XI.
He scored in the six matches 156, 82, 11 91 90 not
out and 88—an average of 103.6. He has an
aggiegate for the year of just on 1800 runs, which
even beats Woodfull’s record. Like the brothers
eie ibe Ballarat champions last year,
Mathers has been secured by North Melbourne, and
played for them on Saturday. He is not new to
metropolitan cricket, having once been in the
Western Suburbs (Sydney) team.
* * * #
The most interesting struggle in Mpl-
Carlton ° n ’ Saturday was between
Carlton and Collingwood, who are practically neck
”’w„ n i m °T the fll l t four on the Premiership
list. Wood, who won the toss, started with their
P a,r . Ryder and L. Keating, but the latter was
smartly run out by one of his- own side fielding for
Caritons bowler, Truman, and the team, dashed by
the early disaster, collapsed for 156 (Ryder 44) Sid
Hastmgs did best for Carlton (6 for 37), biit the
Dark Blues are in a bad position, chiefly owing to
Ryder s bowling, which wrecked four good bats for
lb. Carlton have now only five wickets to over-
come a deficit of 117. The best total of the day
was Roys 7 for 243 against North. Liddicut, the
mter-btater, provided an unenterprising 92. Essen-
don totalled 215 against Northeote. Mullett (62)
was Don’s best, but he wasn’t a captivating figure
Kenny, of South, collected five of Hawthorn-East for
33, and the latter’s position would have been sad-
dening but for Braid (88 n. 0.). Hawthorn-East’s
aggregate is 196, and South are 165 behind with six
wickets to go. Park (n.o. 18) will have to repeat
his inter-State form to prevent South’s defeat next
Saturday. University (197) have a chance against
Melbourne (4 for 70). Willis (53) was P’ran’s star
in the attack on Saints, but his colleagues had mis-
laid their punch and the result was but 163. As the
Seasiders have lost Cohen, Hotchin and Ferguson for
33, a victory on Saturday doesn’t look likely.
* * * '*
The feature of the 11th round of Svdnev
grade cricket on Saturday was the deposition of
Norths by Waverjey. The Boneyarders beat Balmain
by an innings and 40 runs. Kippax provided a
first-class 76 ; and Stevens took 7 for 19, which was
meritorious though ’Main did lie down to it. Norths
gave ’Varsity only 220 to get, and the afternoon to
do it in. Rock and Bardsley came off again, and
the side piled up 368 for 9 before close of play. Wests
topped Paddington’s 198 by 34. McKew collected 75
for the Sundowners. Paddington’s wretched ground-
fielding was Wests’ opportunity. St. George, mainly
owing to Adams’s 104 n. 0., put forward £l3 in
reply to Mosman’s 409 for 8. Marrickville preferred
a certain draw to a possible win over Randwick.
They batted until close on 3 o’clock for two short of
400 (G. Thatcher 85, and H. Thatcher 104 n. 0.) ;
and Randwick then lost 3 for 297 (N. Phillips 113
n. 0., and F. Merchant 84). S. H. Emery <"83) anc j
Long (88 n. 0.) stepped in and saved Petersham from
being beaten outright by Gordon. The latter had re-
plied with 192 to Pete’s 143,' and the Gordon bowler
Dive had started a procession among batsmen in their
second innings. Gordon won on the first by 49.
Glebe lost 8 for 89 in response to Manly’s 225.
However, Brolly (49) partnered Gwynne (130) and
the deficit was wiped off. Randall (6 for 80) was
Manly’s best bowler. Sydney topped C. Cumberland’s
283 by 5 runs. Cumberland deserved to lose on its
rotten fielding. Mosman and North Sydney are now
two competition points behind Waverley, which has a
substantial lead in the second and third grade com-
petitions as well.
* * * *
The attempt to amateurise Harold Hard
wick —ex-pug and ex-Digger—reached another stage
last week, when his friends proceeded on the new
N.S.W.A.S.A. rule which says that any application
for reinstatement as an amateur from
any member of the A.I.F. who, since
the Armistice, has not indulged in pro
fessional athletics would be received
without prejudice. At an ■, uproarious
Sydney meeting the famous all-rounder
was reinstated by a considerable majo-
rity. However, this action of r.he
N.S.W.A.S.A., before it becomes valid,
must be endorsed by all bodies subscrib-
ing to the N.S.W. Amateur Sporting
r ederation’s agreement. The next
obstacle will be the Australian Swim-
ming Union, which controls amateur
swimming in Australia. Then Hard-
wick must be absolved by the French
Swimming Federation, which controls
amateur swimming throughout the world
The Sports Club, Limited (Sydney), will
oppose Hardwick’s reinstatement, and the
A.S.U. has to support the Sports Club
whether it likes it or not. Both Hard-
wickians and anti-Hard'wickians have
sought legal advice upon the matter, and
the Council of the N.S.W.A.S'.A. will have
another with the dispute next week.
Tren : Cover Point” (B. 16/2/’22) is
nght; but the hostility shown by the M.C.O. towards
Bean is natural The M.C.C. had the management
1 T ® !" g Lll S l , ish , c l ea ; ns until he discovered that
v! Cr l£ k . e t Ground under its old name of
the Metropolitan Cricket Ground was well vested in
and so under the control of, trustees. He went
on to get from these long-forgotten persons prefer-
fVf.® ln _, the . matter of dates for matches with
vi.iting English XI s, and in that way secured for the
newly-formed Board of Control pre-eminence in the
to’Bran 'instil 9 Th M- Vic i pu ¥ ic ? rst becatTle hostile
f ®* n A 1^ 12 ’,- s [ d ?? largely with the players who
refused the English trip. But it was the omission
fr " Tr \ the Vie- XI in a match against
the Englishmen last year, coupled with the selection
of the unpopular Mayne in preference to Ransford
as Vic. captain this year, that led to the regrettable
incidents. Bean, who works harder in the interests
of cricket than any other man in Australia, will
remain unpopular until the people are acquainted
with certain secret history.
* * * *
On Thursday night, at Drummoyne, Beau-
repaure vvon the 440yds. N.S.W. championship from
Moss Christie (holder of the 880yds. title) and Keith
Kirkland (State sprint champion). His time was
omin. 31min. l-ssec., which is 16 3-ssec. worse than
Norman Ross’s world’s best and 14 2-ssec. behind
his Hobart time last year. But then, he beat
Christie by 10yds.
* * * *
. I? beating M. Christie and F. Cotton
in the mile at Sydney on Monday, Beaurepaire frac-
/oo • thr ®® Australasian records. His mile time
(23min. 49 2-ssec.) is 12sec. better than Lorig-
worth s 1911 record; and in the course of the swim
he did the 1000yds. in 13min. 26 3-sscc. and the
1500 metres in 22min. 25 3-ssec.
* * * *
uli . ne Hoeft, of Auckland (M.L.), did
220yds. in 2min. 53 3-ssec. last week. But it isn’t
the record that the islanders claim. Fanny Durack’s
best is 2min. 53sec. flat, and Margaret Woodbride-e
and Charlotte Boyle, of the U.S., put up 2min.
52sec. and 2min. 2-ssec. respectively last season.
Billy McCann has a stout heart and an
iron iaw but; a slow brain. At Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night Sid Godfrey swept one crashing right
Jft er another on to the American’s jaw, but for all
the effect it produced he might have been trying to
out one of the ringside posts. After McCann had
deliberately dropped his hands and given Australia’s
hardest puncher for his poundage the freedom of
his chin —a concession which was eagerly accepted—
Godfrey ceased trying for a knockout and confined
himself to all-round boxing. In this department
he had the visitor beaten from every angle. In addi-
tion to the capacity to receive unlimited punishment
without a blink McCann has a useful 1 left, but on
Saturday night he failed to use it with sufficient
speed. It. only landed on the Sydneyite once. The
latter took particular care that the unpleasantness
should not occur again. Godfrey, as usual, was in
beautiful nick, whereas his opponent seemed short of
a gallop—a possible explanation of his slowness.
* * * *
Except in the tenth round, when a swjft
right delivered at close quarters snatched his wind
and compelled him to hang on till the bell, Bert
McCarthy was always too good for the Mexican
Garcia, at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night.
The left was Mac’s message to Gareia. He drove
it, hooked it and swung it with untiring force and
unerring precision, and the done-up descendant of the
Aztecs was glad when it was all over.
* * * *
In beating Carlton, Camberwell secures
the Vic. Bowling Premiership for the first time in its
history. Carlton felt the losg of their skipper, T.
apiece 6 nnk Scores show * d two wins
* * *
last (Saturday) of NS W
amateur athletic championships at Sydnev' "the
ah^d 0 ,! 1 the 22 ? yds - Bukes inning’ home
ojas. ahead of his countryman Oosterlaak in 99
place 60 ' In T the q half nd R Hu " t dead-heated for third
of the five-mUe crLcouV™ ZT/LT"
rite, D Leathern (S’ Africa)" by halyard ° Tte
high-jumped sft. llin. (an inch below the N.S.W.
lecoid) \ Sutherland (M,L.) rapped at min*
and G. W Butler (Vic.) sft sin. T«l*
gU f ol ?> (Soiree) tossed a 161 b. hammer 121 ft 4in
and Payne another J. llop, put 99ft. Sin. between
himself and the discus. The 440yds. hurdles went
SAFETY FIRST.
“Where’s the dance, son-o?”
A'o dance, old thing. Just going surfing at
Coogee.”
to McClelland (Easts) in 61 l-ssec., and Grande-
mange (Botany) and Parker (Wests) were hardlv
troubled in their respective events, the three-miie
run and the mile walk.
* * * *
The Springboks endured their first Aus-
tralasian defeat in a relay race at Ashfield (Sydney)
last week, when Western Suburbs downed them in a
four-men-aside 100yds. sprint. The winners were
S. Beveridge, fl. Baker, R. V. Booth and T
McNamara.
* * * *
Ten teams of two wheelmen each pedalled
away for six stifling hours last Saturday at Sydney
Sports Ground. The Springboks, G. Thursfield and
H. Ivaltenbrun, won: they covered 1241 miles. A. E.
Hannon came at Thursfield in great style in the
last lap, but was blotted out for interference. This
g ? Ve xT w nd P lac ® to A - Scotton and S. Whiteman
of JN.S.W. A. Mantova took the mile in 2min.
19see„ and rode third to W. T. Gillett in the three-
mile scratch. Time: Bmin. 16 3-ssec
* * » #
C. H. Disney has been making some vigor-
ous attempts on the motor-cycle with side-car record
between Melbourne and Adelaide. After one mishap,
he tackled the westward journey again, and cut it
down to 17h. 3Smin. 55sec„ which is almost exactlv
the time the express takes. After a few days’ rest
he undertook the eastward run ; but a leakage of oil
stopped him with only 150 miles to go.
* * * *
Ihe V\ est Adelaide football club is trying
hard this season to bury all old discords. The
North Adelaide club, on the other hand, has had
a revolution, chucking out the whole of the old
Committee (except the secretary) for a new lot who
proposed to “support better conditions for juniors.”
Adelaide being the scene, the revolution is described
as having been carried out with “proceedings entirely
orderly throughout.”
* * * *
Rugby in the British Isles has seen a
startling reversal of form. The England XV, prettv
well unbeatable last season, went down before Wales,
2 goals 6 tries to 2 tries. Not since last century
have the Welshmen had so big a win.
* * * •
Premier Lawson has become a trustee of
Melbourne Cricket Ground, and will now be entitled,
like Speaker Mackey, Alec Peacock, Willie Watt and
one or two other politicians, to certain privileges.
He knows something about cricket, more about foot-
ball and a lot about administration; so he won’t
be a mere make-weight on the trust.
* * * *
“J.H.” (London) : Forsayth, A. W. L.
Row and T. Lawton all got their Rugger blues at
Oxford this season, and Forsayth has again been
picked to represent Scotland at full back. L. G.
Brown lost no time in nailing them for Blackheath;
and indeed, this famous club is fast becoming a close
preserve for Australians and S’Africans. Brown,
who has now played 18 times for England, was
skipper in the big international match which Wales
won m the mud at Cardiff the other day. R. H.
Bettmgton, the Parramatta (Svdnev) cricket blue,
is still playing clever Rugger, but he failed to get
into the ’Varsity XV this year. An exceptionally
not Jot of hefty forwards came up, and Bettington
is rather on the slender side and ha r llv puts enough
ginger into his game. Talking of “freshers.” A. C.
Wallace, who is expected next season, is certain to
add another Australian to the Rugger team.
HER ELEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Mary goes swimming there’s something to see;
i here’s the grace of her curves and the set of her
knee ;
Hhe’s as lithe as a lily, as straight as a lance —
The beach-lizards come trooping for joy of a glance.
When Mary goes surfing the ocean is gay,
And the tide in a hurry turns, running her way ;
But by scores of adorers the ocean is chid,
Bor the glory of glories its waters have hid.
On the sands little Mary in costume so trim
Is a black-and-white dream with an elegant limb.
Her leg’s perfect drawing no Lindsay could trace,
And the love of all loveliness lies in her face.
She’s as brown as a berry, as red as a cherry,
And no maid lias an eye that’s as dark or as merry;
Twenty curls that peep out where her cap is undone
Have the black of the magpie alive in the sun.
I'he's a swan and a seal, and as lithe in the water,
Act a swimmer of all who have ventured has caught
her.
When she comes through the foam in her beauty
surprising
All pagans do homage to Venus arising.
She’s a naiad, a nymph and a mermaid of wonder. •
V ith the sea spray above and the green water under,
She s a mate for old Neptune, with pearls by the
score;
But dressed she is Mary the housemaid—no more!
Do you wonder, then, Mary the land will abhor,
And scorns all the finery her sisters adore?
But she runs to the sea in her eel-skin, and then
She s robed and she’s crowned, and a queen among
men.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


BEAT THE BULLY!
Learn to have confidence in yourself!
Many a man is kept from taking his
proper part in life’s battles through
fear of making a fool of himself! The
man who can box is the one who
earns the respect of those around him.
LEARN BOXING
BY POST.
The simple, easily-mastered course prepared by Reg.
L. (“Snowy”) Baker contains all the master strokes
and moves as used by the world’s most prominent
boxers, it gives the student a thorough grip of the
points of ringcraft, each one being illustrated by
photographs.
A course you will take up with pleasure, prepared by
a champion athlete!
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and send it, with three stamps for postage,
and we will forward you “Snowy” Baker’s interest-
ing book,. “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
tells all about the course, fees, etc.
n
mn
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
11 The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
69 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
m
■22 RIM FIRE.
nm
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
sesse:
ALL BRITISH
7
w
//.
1
1
v?>
m
/AY,
YA
-**■■**&&£;
*A
Sv
a
£S4
m
W;
6
SS.
$
y
y-
ty
%
A'
:
*
fig
■M
■V\:>
m
r
jw
s*
IT •"•-...
vaJ'-gs
LC
The “
m
Riding JJogf
IN TAN
27|6
sc;asuiicu. **
Calf.vvith'BksticSides
arvdUoabTe Tags j Dust*_
-comfort*"
- Easy
Aptjniir oft-aod' off, the-
is _a boot
thatno Australian horse*
man should be without.
Obtainable in all sizes.
35
or
Guan
\ r fannedßtoc,
'■•'.s -orte*
’Lincoln,-Stuart .and Co; Pty."
—-‘Specialists™ \., r , r ~ :
244-254 Flinders Ste^^pfpOlQiirni
WBESS
“Lister” Patent Taper Self
levelling Crown Plate.
Sell’-seating Long Bush
for Main Spindle.
Oil Recesses in Rons
Bush and Spindle.
Renewable Tail-piece
Sleeve.
~,w#
mm
:
IS
mm
.
m
Adjustable Split lad-bush
with Lock Ring.
Reinforced Spindle at
Crank-head Screw.
Oil-returning Groov
on Spindle.
Adjusting
up
Screw to take
side-play.
An 8-point lead for the JistS Shear.
3.
THE “LISTER” PATENT SELF-LEVELLING CROWN PLATE
—automatically ensures level tension, requires no hammering or screwing
in, as it simply drops into its seat, and, being glass-hard, outwears ten
old-style crown plates. The 'principle of the “Lister _ Crown i late is
sure to be imitated, but only at the expense of simplicity. . „
THE SELF-SEATING LONG BUSH —first introduced by the Lister
and still a better and simpler fitting than its imitators, as, like the
crown plate, it simply drops into its seat and is held in place by screwing
up the tail-piece sleeve (4). Obviously much easier to fit than the old
separate bushes and ensures perfect alignment. There is thus no
danger of over-heating or wear on the spindle.
OIL RECESSES IN LONG BUSH AND SPINDLE— act as a reservoir
for oil for the whole of the spindle and prevent the overheating caused
bv some styles of long bush. „ ,
4. RENEWABLE TAIL-PIECE SLEEVE —takes the wear of the swivel
half of the shear joint, and so makes the tail-piece everlasting. As it
is simply screwed on, it can be renewed in the shed.
5. ADJUSTABLE SPLIT LID-BUSH WITH LOCK BING —a strong,
hardened bush, which will outwear several old-style bushes and can be
adjusted to meet the variation in tension nuts. As a result, the tension
nut can be made hard and lasts years longer. Also the Expander and
Stock and Die are no longer required in the tool kit.
6. REINFORCED SPINDLE AT CRANK-HEAD SCREW. —Every
sheepman knows the weakness of the spindle where it is threaded for
the crank-head. The “Lister” Spindle, however, is made much larger in
diameter at this part, and all danger of breakage is eliminated.
7. OIL-RETURNING GROOVES. —These grooves on the spindle prevent
leakage oij oil from the shear body.
8. ADJUSTING SCREW. —While the shear joint is still of the well-
known screwless pattern, this screw has been added to the. ‘Taster”
Joint so that any side play due to wear can be taken up quickly and
simply without the use of washers.
We have tried to prove to you—as well as we can in mere print—that the Lister meets the most exacting sheepman s require-
ments in a way no other machine can. Shearer, Expert and Shed-owner alike find the Lister the most serviceable shear It
not only shears quicker, closer and cooler than other machines, but, as we have just shown you it gets out of order less and is
more easily and quickly put right again. Let us discuss with you the bringing of your shed equipment right up to date.
Interstate Agents:
Winch combe, Carson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
Chief Agents for Australia:
DANGAR, GEDYE S CO., LTD.,
Sydney.
-
Interstate Agents:
Malloeh Bros., Perth.
A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.


i
Mrs. Pomeroy’s
Toilet Preparations.
Beauty is priceless— a treasure to be saved.
Wise the woman who preserves her charm;
wiser still she who seeks to improve her
personal attractiveness. To such these
dainty, reliable toilet preparations appeal.
Skin Cream, jar 3/6, 7/6, 10/6
Day Cream, jar 4/6, 8/6
Astringent Lotion, for wrinkles, bottle, 10/6
Lotion, beautifies arms and face, 4/6
"Linnie” Cleansing Lotion, bottle, ... 3/6
Liquid Face Powder, all shades, bottle, 4/6
Complexion Powder de Luxe, box, ... 6/6
Shampoo Powders, box of seven, ... 3/6
Farmer’s :: Sydney.
Carriage paid. Box G.P.O.
BREW yoUROWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
m
k
If it
Its Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEE R” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
R?i lc | r , th '^l 1 shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, Mark Foy’s,
in sub..^“nd ShOPS) ’ SaVage StoreS * and all lcadin « stores
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Cottins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
M[?]SES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
There was Melba and moonlight and a
the D l3th nd Th P da n Ce at - Coombe Cottage on
tne adtn. ihe Dame, m a green gown of
intricate simplicity, was starred with dia-
I 0 ™ 6 emeralds and pearls, and the
•]® wel j • er volce coruscated in several
Mrf S . dun " g the .evening. Daughter-in-law
I ? lstr o.ng- m silver-edged white geor-
hrnt« hel , ped ln th e hostessing. Lady Strad-
S • S< ? gowned m green and dazzling
with jewels—-went to Coombe to dinner
but several of the guests had dinner parties
and i^ tored their squads on later.
Mis. George Chirnside, in black and cherry
fp!°n ba F2 d , of the Italian sailor-men
X b ? tch - Mrs, Pitt Rivers’s brilliant
• kv blue diess gleaming with silver made a
hit m the moonlight. Ernest Watt and his
wife, over from Sydney, tooted up, she in
corn-colored chiffons and some opals. Roma
Clarke Harrison sported a gown of innu-
merable transparent Vandykes. Mrs. Stuart
Murray plumped for cloudy black georgette
U P. her diamonds. Mrs. Russell
C arke was m her beloved pink covered in
b 2 e rt g °X d l ace ‘ Captain de la Coeur slipped
° j ;" (t ’ aDd whizzed upHo the danc“
and two VC. men—Macnamara and Cour-
tenay Boyle—were there. Lady Lough-
borough, who arrived with her- lord, was in
orchid-satin draperies. Majah le Rov Burn-
nam s wife wore lovely pearls with her all-
black frock. The music-room—a sym-
phony in green tints lit by a crystal chan-
delier- was used as a ballroom ; supper was
served around pink roses in a delicate gmy
room, and there were bottles that popped on
the roof garden. The lovely Lil.vdale coun-
try, spread out in the moonlight beyoiid
the acres of gardens, roused extravagant en-
thusiasm m the Italian visitors. Everybody
sang “Auld Lang Syne” over cups of hot
soup on toward the cold, nippy dawn, and
a long snake of motors slid over the hilly
road to the subbubs at daybreak.
Melba’s most useful aide was Lough-
borough—Sheila Chisholm’s lord. He planned
a regular paradise for sitters-oiit in the
garden—an ideal arrangement of shaded
lights, downy cushions and thick-piled rugs
m divinely secluded corners. Ilis ladv
drooped about artistically. “He’s got all
sorts of ideas, y’know,” she lisped.
Her Majesty’s invited the commander and
officers of the Libia to see “A Night Out,”
and the Consul headed an Italian residents’
party to 60 of the boys. The boxes were
ablaze with gold epaulettes and buttons and
slim, neat-waisted navy uniforms. The offi-
cers were of contrasting types—the swarthy,
brack-eyed, and the frizzy, fair-haired. They
go in for long locks, whichever color they
favor. A sma-ll Italian child in one of the
boxes had a black mop like a Fijian, and
a lovely _ Titian-haired woman positively
blazed with diamonds. Every Italian in
Melbourne seemed to be in the theatre, from
Steaka-da-oyst to the dapper, beaming Con-
sul. The management draped the place
with gaudy bunting, and each stage star
sported a tricolor rosette. The orchestra
paired the Italian National Anthem with
God Save, and altogether it was da bonza
night.
Every year the Italian residents in Mel-
bourne have a reunion, and this time Consul
Grossardi invited the Commander, officers
and men of the Libia to the party and billed
a dance and supper to follow the reception
in the Town Hall. Among the officers is a
fair, curly-haired Prince—a big man with
blue eyes and pink, pouting lips—whose
autograph was rushed for Sassiety pro-
grammes. There was plenty to smile at
during the dance. Italy came in full force
and brought the whole darned family.
Mothers with small brown bambinos in their
arms invaded the dancing floor, with other
small Dagoes clinging to their skirts. Supper
was spread with bountiful bowls of fruit
and the Naicest discovered bits of banan’
under their dancing feet. Director of Agri-
culture Rich a,nd son—a large man—nearly
measured his length on the floor in a fox-
trot, and Senator Keating collided with a
square-shouldered fish-and-chips gentleman,
dazed with claret and glory, standing like a
bewildered bull in a Barcelona ring. When
the orchestra played the Italian national
anthem the scene grew chaotic with tears
and smiles, gleaming white teeth, vivid
colored neckcloths, swarthy skin and opera-
tip voices. Melbourne doesn’t realise how
many tenors are lurking behind its plates
of staka-da-oyst. The Consul’s wife, a great
hostess, glowed in a vivid carnation-pink
gown of Parisian cut. The wife of the
Spanish Consul was a picturesque guest in
a frock woven in shades from lilac to apri-
cot and baby pink.
The charming little wife of the Chinese
Consul-General was royally entertained in
Melbourne by officers of the Libia. The
lady lived in Rome before coming to Aus-
tralia and speaks Italian perfectly. She is
a brilliantly-educated little lady, with a
tannly-tree whose roots are traced back so
many centuries that the oldest Anglo-Saxon
aristocrat is made to look like a mere upstart
by comparison.
Two thousand-odd members of the craft
flocked to the Town Hall and decked them-
selves out in aprons, cuffs and collars, to
see the chairing of Lord Stradbroke. The
new Archgaiters and his episcopal brother
Cranswick were among the throng. F. T.
Hickford, the outgoing G.M., did the install-
ing, and subsequently the Earl named him
?> S rVYr Pr0 ‘ Ut is customary to have a
tro-G.M. to do routine jobs when a Gover-
nor is top man.) W. P. Bice, the Deputy
G.M., was ‘obligated” by Peacock. The
ceremonial was impressive, if a trifle boring.
In replying for the visitors, Archgaiters
Lees, who is an infant of 12 months in the
ci aft, said that Alee Peacock, being the
senior member of the State Parliament, the
senior delegate to the A.N.A. Conference,
and the senior G.M. of the State’s Free-
masons, ought surely to be styled something
more, patriarchal than “father”—say. “grand-
George Emery, inspector-gen.
ot the Savings Bank, chuckled. Perhaps he
remembered that Watt, when Treasurer, had
in a burst of gratitude cdlled him “uncle”
after he had fixed up a little loan for the
Government.
Mrs. Eeseigh, photographed here by
Latayette, is president of the Women’s Sec-
tion of the Victorian Farmers’ Union. Never
until this section was formed had anything
been done to organ-
ise the work and
play of country
women. Country
clubs and country
bees are in the
scheme, and there is
a plan to aid the
hard-pressed country
housewife in getting
domestic help. For
instance, one idea is
a body of laundresses
established in each
district to do. the
rounds—to go to
their set jobs as a
shearer goes to his
set sheds—and from
laundresses and char-
ladies the section
will get on to cooks, etc. The members are
also encouraging the further employment
of bush nurses, and aim at drawing the
country child into the social movement.
TV orking bees with badges and compensating
parties and picnics will educate the young-
sters to an appreciation of the wider move-
ments as they grow up. The executive mem-
bers of, the section are real country women
who know the ABC of rural work and
conditions. The membership, which pays
all expenses, is growing rapidly. At the
original meetings in Geelong and Bal-
larat there were only five or six present:
now sub-committees are spreading all over
Victoria, and a metropolitan branch is being
formed. Most of the members of this latter
are wives of retired farmers who, knowdng
the needs of farmers’ womenfolk, can put
m an effective oar from the citv end. Coun-
try-town club-rooms are Mrs. Reseigh’s pet
hobby. Her idea is that when farmers drive
into town to the stock sales and markets
their womenkind should have some place
where they could meet, see recent papers
and journals, write letters, read or chat and
have lunch and tea. Already such centres
have been established in a modest way at
Euroa, Donald and a few other towns,
and the idea threatens a rapid development.
Curiosity in petticoats ran amok in Christ
Church,. South Yarra, last Thursday when
little Fifi Irwin vowed herself away “to that
lengthy sprig 0 f nobility, the Hon. Nigel
Somerset. The bridal party barely escaped
with its chiffons intact.
The vice-regal Weigalls had dashed over
the border to see their gent.-help well and
truly tethered—he is a relative of Sir Archi-
bald’s mother. The bride’s medieval dra-
peries, a gift from Lady Weigall, were of
white _ brocaded _ georgette, flowing over
sheathings, of silver-embroidered net, and
girdled with . orange blossoms. Her head
was tucked into a gold tissue crown set
with brilliants; orange blossoms climbed up
two points at the side, and the edifice was
topped with silver leaves. The head-dress,
which had been manufactured by Lady
Weigall, supported the bridal veilings of old
Limerick lace, lent by Mrs. Charies Hope
ISichblson. A sheaf of white flowers com-
pleted the picturesque outfit. The bridesmaids
- sister Sheila and Isabel Allard—were in
frocks of apricot silk patterned with autumn
tints and bunched on the hips with silk
berries. Autumn leaves circled their heads,
and each was armed with a huge bouquet.
Little Patricia Weigall and Betty Con-
nelly wore fluffy apricot tulle fixings with
gold girdles, wreaths and posies in autumn
tints. The ’groom’s fellow gent.-help Boswell
attended him. and Dr. Irwin had crossed
from Westralia to lead his daughter to the
sacrifice. Healths were drunk at the Cam-
berwell home of Dr. and Mrs. Connelly,
the latter being bride Fifi’s maternal aunt.
The Weigall lady beamed approval from
under a big white hat to match her all-white
c-hiffonery. Mrs. Irwin hostessed in biscuit
embroideries surmounted by
a black hat.
The new couple are ’mooning at Flinders
before steaming to England under the
Weigall wing. The bridegroom, who is due
to join his regiment (the Gloucestershires),
is a son of the late Lord Raglan.
Apparently little Priscilla Weigall has not
many things left to wish for. When asked
to choose her bridesmaid present, she
plumped solidly for an umbrella —a real
gamp like mother carries.
Disregarding the interdict of the City
Council the Irish organisations and R.C.
societies held their St. Pat’s procession on
Saturday. It was the biggest demonstration
of its kind to date, and was so orderly that it
became monotonous. Mannix, a mixture of
ascetism and elation, “took the salute” for
an hour and a half, standing in a motor-car
drawn up in front of Parliament
House. The corporation didn’t supply any
barriers to keep off spectators from the pro-
cessionists, but the police regulated every-
thing so tac, (fully that there was no hitch.
Mrs, Allan Wilkie is off for a six months’
trip to England. 11l health has made a
long rest imperative. She leaves by the
Orvieto, and will break the journey to stay
for a while with friends at Florence.
Feodora St. Ledger’s young man, Lieut.
Frank Watson, R.N., of the Anzac, has been
visiting Dalton, the St. Ledger home at
Brighton. The marriage is to take place
in Scotland before the end of the year.
Mamma and Fedora are to go to the heather
a few months hence; meantime, they are
off to Sydney to meet papa on his return
from Maoriland.
Kathleen Twomey, the well-endowed
second chick of the late Edward of Pens-
liurst, has become the wife of Alan Mcßride,
son of Peter, who until February 20 was
Agent-General. The knot was tied at the
exclusive Brompton Oratory. Sisters Adel-
aide and Ina, who, with Kath and their
mum, have been doing the grand tour for
months, were the bridesmaids.
Dr. G. A. Syme has been made president
of the Mermaid Play Society, in place of
Archibald Strong, who has gone to Adelaide
to tell the ’Varsity youth all about English
Literature. Robert Garran and Enid Der-
liam will be vice-presidents.
Mrs, Thorold Harper is giving a party at
her Toorak home on March 28 to welcome
the new members of the Mermaids, the high-
brow circle that is trying to elevate the
depraved taste of play audiences.
There’s to be a so-long partv to Maisie
Maxwell, of the Plekald, at the Austral
Salon on April 7, and a room-full of her
friends met at the Lyceum Club last week
to talk it over. Mrs. John Leckie and Mrs.
Sergeant Whyte have the matter of a pre-
sentation in hand.
A. T. Sharp, secretary of the New Settlers’
League in Melbourne, knows the job from
both sides. An Australian, he acted as Vic.
Commissioner in London in the settlement
and immigration
business, and has but
recently returned. He
and his wife were
popular among the
Billjims in England,
where they asso-
cia t e d themselves
with all the Digger-
help schemes that
were going, and their
house was a real
home for many boys
in Blighty. 'As \
side-line Sharp en-
listed in ’l4 in the
volunteer h o m e-d e-
fence force, and with
the Willesden Batt.
of the Middlesex
Regiment had to
turn out when the Zepps. came buzzing
round. It was he who originated the Anzac
Day pilgrimage to graves of Diggers buried
m the United Kingdom, and for four years
he acted as organiser. The offices of the
New Settlers’ League are in Collins
House, and in case newcomers after assist-
ance and guidance don’t know the sec., here
he is, portraited by Alice Mills.
The new archbishop has nowhere to lay his
gaiters. Various huge packing-cases arrived
by a recent boat, and the Lees couple named
a date for terminating their stay with the
Governor-General. But when the archbisli.
got to work with cold chisel and hammer, he
found the boxes contained nothing but books
—and you can’t lie on books half as com-
fortably as you can lie in them. The rest
of the goods and chattels are still adrift on
the high seas. The disconsolate churchman
and his wife are now at the Oriental.
Louis Esson’s country house was burned
to the ground the other day, along with his
most precious possessions. He had some
fine paintings—a very particular Streeton,
a Conder, and many of Uncle John Patter-
son’s canvases. Also, a printing plant went up
in smoke; hut, worse than that, his MSS. of
plays were burnt, though the fact of several
of them being in rehearsal should make the
re-writing of those comparatively easy.
Some of them lie is to produce at the Play-
house in May. “The Mermaids”, offered to
“do” them, but Esson prefers to play off his
own bat, so to speak, and is gradually per-
fecting his casts.
As a native of the old town Premier Law-
son joined in the Back to Dunolly Week
gaieties. It was easy enough for «scores of
people who knew him as a wee laddie,, the
son of the meenister o’ the kirk, to pick him
out, but it was more difficult for him to
remember all who claimed acquaintance.
Somebody suggested that in similar home-
comings everybody should be labelled for
the first and second days; but that would
rob such reunions of half the fun.
With photographer Rudolph Buckner,
E. J. Brady, who has pitched his tent at
MallaCoota and turned his old home there
into a guest-house, has completed a movie
scenario with the purpose of presenting un-
known Australia to the pictures.
Nell Stewart is coming across from;
Sydney to play Romeo in the balcony scene 1
at the veteran actors’ benefit matinee on
April 6.
As soon as the nature of the promised new
evidence in the Ross case was disclosed, even
the two-upping friends of the prisoner aban-
doned hope. The Full Court didn’t hesi-
tate. Brennan had done ably for his client;
nobody could have saved him.
Jennie Brenan had a special tea-party at
the Oriental the other day to say “Howdy”
after her return on the Mantua. Jennie
danced through Paris, the Riviera, London
and New York, and, incidentally, flew the
Channel in a Handley-Page ’bus. She re-
ports that the fashionable world now revolves >
round four dances—the one-step, waltz, fox-
trot and tango—and that people are dancing-
mad on the Continent, where vou can spin
from breakfast till breakfast if you are so-
disposed.
A line or two from Adelaide:—
The National Council of Women, having got its
breath after reading the reports of two recent cases,
has petitioned Chief Justice Murray for a wider use
of the Court’s right of veto concerning the publica-
tion of evidence in divorce causes and other intimate
matters. The prayer was signed by the present
Mayoress and hey predecessor, backed by 60 delegates
from the 32 women’s societies that keep an eye
on our immorals.
The Weigalls came down from Marble Hill for.
president Sowden’s Society of St. George garden
party at his Glen Osmond home. Her Ex. sported
white georgette and lace that would turn any
woman green with envy, a filmy hat and a sun-
shade of gold tissue. Another figure that caught
the eye was the Moulden dame, in cool grey, with a
sweeping ostrich feather drooping from one. side of-'
a broad-brimmed hat.
From Marseilles comes news of the death of Mrs.
Malcolm Reid, while on her way back to Australia
after a visit to her son’s grave in France. She was
so ill that she had to be landed from the Naldera,
and the end came the next day. Her daughter and
daughter-in-law were with her.
Fifi Irwin, who was married to gent.-help Somerset
in Melbourne the other day, is a grand-daughter of
the late Dr. Willis Way, in his day the best-loved
of all our medicoes, and a grand-niece of Samuel,
who was Chief Justice here for uncounted years. The
Irwins are a S. Aus. clan, too, and it was when
she was on a visit to her father’s people here that
Fifi met her future husband. Incidentally, she was
one of Ed. P.’s partners in this village and one of
the successes of those hectic July days.
Chief Secretary Bice is mourning the loss of his
wife, who had been an invalid for many years.
For days before the Narkunda sailed “farewells’’
were in the air. One large lot at the Town Hall
said good-bye to T. H. Atkinson, who has done fine
work for the Soldiers’ Fund ever since ’l4, and with
his wife is now off to the Cold Country. Then
the council of the Liberty League entertained chair-
man P. J. Flannagan at the S. Aus. Hotel, and
handed souvenirs to both himself and his wife.
Councillor Bruce was also given a send-off at the
S. Aus. Hotel. He is going to dip into tramway-
matters on the other side.
Bishop Thomas recently went to the Burra, and
at St. Mary’s unveiled three of the handsomest
memorial windows in the State. One is to the
memory of Lieut. R. W. Hawke's, given by his
parents, the W. G. Hawkeses, of Koonoona station;
another was given by Mrs. J. C. Sandland in
memory of her son, Lieut. M. R. Sandland; the
third is the gift of the family of Mr. and Mrs.
John Bailey.
Mrs. A. C. C. Winser and her daughters (mother
and sisters of his Ex.’s sec.) arrived, by the Nestor
on a visit, and are staying at Blackwood with Mrs.
Legh Winser.


The Mark of
§
EFFICIENCY.
<■*s§!*
SMs
SSu
3438
W
««
-Si:-. --S
15,000
STEAM TURBO-ALTERNATOR SET.
Listof METROPOLITAN-VICKERS
TURBINES INSTALLED and on
ORDER in AUSTRALIA.
5—12,500-kw. Set
1— 12,500 „ „
2 12,000 „ „
I — lo,ooo „ „
1— 8,000 „ „
1— 5,500 „ „
2 5,000 „ „
1— 5,000 ~ i,
1— 5,000 „ i)
for Morwell.
~ Brisbane C.E.L. Co.
~ Sydney M. Council.
„ Adelaide E. Suppply Co.
„ Sydney M. Council.
„ Melbourne C. Council.
~ Broken Hill Pty. Co. Ltd.
„ Adelaide E. Supply Co.
„ Sydney M. Council.
m
mm
ELECTRICAL
CO.. LTD.
AUSTRALASIAN OFFICES:
84 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE; 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY;
Watt Street, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.; Vickers House, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
SUPPLY DEPARTMENTS:
21 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE; 304 KENT STREET, SYDNEY;
and at MACQUARIE STREET HOBART; TAS.
AGENTS: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH AND BRISBANE.


Under
Royal
Warrant
nm
n
CHAMPAGNE
mn
m
champachc
'^rifslleidsie&
Reims
“Sr
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT a COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL. Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holeproof
Hosiery
Crowds have been nibbling cakes and view-
ing the latest things in gowns and coats at
Farmer’s this week past. Strictly speaking
there is nothing very new in the modes, and
in spite of rumor skirts are to be worn but
very little longer. The knitted one-piece
frock, with sometimes a cape attached, will
apparently have a great vogue; and very
comfy it looks. A lemon-colored garment
of this description was shown with a
brushed-wool hat in the same shade. A
stunning evening-dress was in jetted net
with head-dress of jet and immense pendants
over the ears. Sweet simplicity was shown
in a soft Paisley silk blouse split at the
elbows. One of fashion’s freaks is to have
one side of a short coat three or four inches
below the other; but it takes time to accus-
tom the eye to this jazzery. Some courage
was needed to don winter wear on a sizzling
hot afternoon, but the mannequins strutted
about with ears and heads swathed in tre-
mendously-high collars as if they just loved
it. The velour cloth coats are mostly finished
with collars and cuffs of expensive fur ; and
some of them are elaborately stitched with
contrasting wool.
According to London club gossip one of
Lord Lascelles’s wedding gifts to Princess
Mary was a settlement of £500,000. As
she has £OOOO per annum of her own, this
relieves her somewhat stricken parents—
who are continually being called on to help
bankrupted European relatives —from obli-
gations in the way of an allowance that
would have hit them hard.
Major Eger ton leaves off being private sec.
to Governor Davidson in July. Then he goes
to Wagga Experimental Farm to pick up
points about eockying in Australia. He
will take a house close to the college, and
when he gets his diploma the family will
have a holiday in M.L. before settling down
to the simple life. The Major proposes
buying a farm in Groper Land.
John Mackay, father of the Free Kinder-
garten Union, presided at a meeting on
Thursday morning at the Education Build-
ing to consider ways and means of keeping
the good work going. Since the Wattle
Day League objected to the day of the
Golden Emblem being turned into a money-
making proposition for the kindergarten, the
latter has been much out of pocket. At the
meeting it was decided that the union should
have a flower day all of its own some time
in September, and later in the year a Game
Festival will be held at the Town Hall —
a festival at which the kiddies will be the
performers. Sydney’s Free Kindergartens
have proved incalculable blessings, and those
who freely give them their services deserve
something better than the wrinkles that come
from financial worry.
Captain and Mrs. Stanham (he was
A.D.C. to his Ex.—she Helen Macarthur
Onslow), who are now living at Brighton
(Eng.), lost their first son, but the Stork
has obligingly left them another.
Lady Maxwell (Norah Delaney) and her
friend Audrey Thatcher have taken a flat
at Elizabeth Bay. Carriers ungallantly left
them marooned without luggage for two
days, so that her Ladyship had to answer
the tradesmen in the garments of a China-
woman of high: degree—her recent tour in
Asia yielded its gorgeous plunder for <Us-
habilU. “I wanted to be a great singer, and
I used to pose for the Thackeray pictures
to supplement my vaudeville salary, so as
to save enough for singing lessons,” she con-
fides. “But fate trapped me into pantomime,
where a voice doesn’t matter.” The raven-
haired beauty with the cinnamon eyes is
a Queen’s County colleen, educated in Man-
chester.
Little Mrs Arthur Scrivener provided a
capital concert for the benefit of the sailor-
men at the Rawson Institute. There was
Brenda Deloitte with her ’cello; and D.
Hellmrich, whose rich baritone vastly
pleased the men; and N. Cook, a pretty
pianist; and the Lane Cove Choral Society,
20 _ strong. But for the Harbor Lights
Guild and the Mission for Seamen the sailor-
men would have few tuneful pleasures in
their lives on this side. These women work
on unostentatiously, and are quite satisfied
if they see the Institute crowded with sailors
when a special night of sing-song is pro-
vided. After the concerts tea and cakes
are passed round.
Twilight House, which gives shelter (at
a very tiny cost) to a score and more of
ladies who have left their youth far behipcl
them, is once more one of Innes Noad’s
worries. He has so many on his waiting-
list that it means constant refusals, and it
worries the poor man. The only solution
is to build another house, and those who
remember the fight it was to get this one
will have a glimmering of what that means.
Little Brisbane, by the way, maintains a
much larger Twilight House than ours.
The experience of Miss Gullett, who ran
the GrasSmere Dogs’ Home at Neutral Bay,
shows a queer side of human nature. Her
original idea was to care for any homeless
dogs that came her way until she could get
them owners. But she was soon swamped
with dogs. They even poured in over the
fence at night. A lady in a motor-car, see-
ing a stray pup, would give herself the
liearthrob of a generous act by. ordering her
chauffeur to pick up the animal and drive
two miles out of her way to take it to the
Home; and earnest Boy Scouts, mindful of
their “one good deed a day,” chased mon-
grels that looked lonely and carried them
in triumph to the bewildered lady. Miss
Gullett sadly closed her doors and solemnly
recanted. Her experience resembles that of
a Sydney parson who, finding a deserted
baby on his doorstep, decided to adopt it.
The newspapers got the story, and imme-
diately the unfortunate clerical bachelor
found himself deluged with infants. Only
the stern action of the lady he was to marry,
who insisted on an announcement that all
the infants were being handed over to the
police, saved him from insanity.
t The first dance in aid of the proposed
Nurses’ Home for Sydney Hospital was held
at the Wentworth; and George Black, the
orgiuator of the scheme to build adequate
rooms for the nurses (who now very often
are packed six in a room), was a busy man.
The present idea is that each of the rooms
in the new' Home shall carry some bene-
factor’s name: so one is to be called the
Rosalind Singleton Black, another the
Mrs. Briggs—this latter in recognition of
the fine work being done by Mrs. H. A.
Briggs. A head-dress competition brought
only three entries —but they were head-
dresses. Mrs. Horace McNevin, who topped
a smart black sequined frock with a dozen
or so of long black plumes, with just one
of jade to relieve the funereal appearance,
took first prize; and Mrs. Gregory (Queens-
land), w'ho chose paradise plumes, w r as a
good second. Another McNevin lady (Mrs.
Arthur) helped her husband to beat all others
in the waltz competition. Mrs. J. C. Leete,
hon. secretary of the campaign, and little
Jean Armstrong, social secretary, were all
smiles. But that’s easy w'hen financial suc-
cess is a sure thing.
It is doubtful whether this lady ever in
her life climbed on to a platform to make a
political speech ; yet there are some people
who think she is do-
ing more for back-
country settlement
than any Millions
Farmer who has
made at least a
thousand. She is
Rose Kirkcaldie as
May Moore’s camera
saw her; and Miss
Kirkcaldie is sec. of
the Bush Nursing
Assoc. —the s p 1 e n-
didly-useful body
which provides nurs-
backblocks. The lady
ins help in remote
knows what pioneer-
ing is—she herself
has the instincts of
the man who makes
tiie track : instincts that took her on to the
Grantala when, at the very outbreak of the
war, our cheering boys went off to argue
with the German in New Guinea. After-
wards she was in France and England, and
returning from the wars was assistant-
matron at Prince Alfred.
Ihe traditional British worship of “gen-
tility,” that mysterious quality which was
once defined _as the capacity to “own a
gig,” has received some severe setbacks as an
outcome of the war, but it still survives
in the Law Courts and in the press. Cap-
tain Owen Peel’s sentence of a mere 12
months (in the second division) is clearly
a tribute from the Bench to his kinsmanship
with the new Secretary of State for India,
The swindle to which he pleaded guilty was
worked on the grand scale, and it was not
a first offence. The Court assumed that
bis wife (the daughter of a baronet, and the
relation by marriage of a duke) acted under
her husband s “physical direction,” though
he was nowhere near when she played her
part in the business, and though a lady
with £7OOO per annum in her own right,
out of which she is allowing her husband
£2OO a month, is little open to coercion,
She was acquitted where the wife (say) of
a bookie in a small w r ay would almost eer-
tainly have gone to gaol. But the oddest
survival is in the handling of the affix “Mr.”
When Horatio Bottomley faced the first of
the Victory Bond fraud-accusations he was
Mr. Bottom ley. Ernest Terah Hooley,
with whom bankruptcy has been a hobby for
20 years, is always Mr. Hooley in court, as
elsewhere: But when Lord Lascelles shook
hands with the ex-private who had looked
after him at the time he was wounded, the
London papers unanimously referred to the
hero as “Benstead.”
Spivakovsky, whose high piano action
oddly resembles the pulling of corks, had a
rival at his final evening concert A large
flying beetle took up a (lead-centre position
on the platform and routed the player just
as he had successfully lost himself in the
music. Spiv., looking murderous, stopped
and silently argued with the intruder, who
stepped down to the floor of the hall in his
own good time. The audience, which con-
sisted mostly of white muslin with colored
sashes and black shoes and stockings, clapped
vociferously, and an enthusiastic flapper
murmured rapturously: “Isn’t he marvel-
lous ! It sounds just like our pianola.”
Queenslanders and rowing men have been
wringing the big hand of Arthur Baynes,
who left by_ the Orvieto on Saturday to
look for the Diamond
Sculls, the big single-
sculls prize of the
Henley regatta. A
Dutchman won it
last year, and is
ready to defend it
this year; and it is
the Queenslander’s
bad luck or good
fortune —it all de-
pends upon the finish
—that the Hollander
i s a particularly
brilliant champion.
Baynes, who dropped
in at May Moore’s
to have this portrait
taken, is a Queens-
lander of the third
generation another
evidence of the debilitating North —and
wears the colors of the Commercial Rowing
Club. He was born in Brisbane 22 years
ago, is an old Brisbane Grammar boy (he
is an ex-captain of the school) and is an
accountant when he isn’t in a boat.
Mrs. Charles Egan Lee hostessed a big
valedictory party to Walter Costello, of
the U.S. Consulate, at Bellevue Hill,
and Moira was beautifully decorated for
the occasion with mauve asters from its
own gardens. Opportunity was taken to
wish Mr. Costello “the biggest plum in Uncle
Sam’s Consular pie” ; and at the same time
new Vice-Consul Moseley, just in from Cal-
cutta, was assured of the warmth of Aus-
tralian welcomes. There was smart frock-
ing, a beautifully “gotten-up” illuminated
address in book form for the voyager, and
jazzing in the billiard-room.
Myrtle Thorne, the young contralto, had
a pleasant little send-off at. the Conserva-
torium. The singer looked picturesque in
a primrose-petalled dress with much lace
drapery, and sang with her usual charm.
An addition to the few women on the
teaching staff of Sydney Uni. is Dr. Lorna
Beveridge, who has secured a place as
demonstrator in physiology. The good-look-
ing girl was formerly at Prince Alfred Hos-
pital.
Society is bent on business. The latest
recruit is Joan Tregarthen, who has taken
over the management of the Sydney branch
of a Melbourne firm. The principals—Mel-
bourne society women —came to Sydney to
instal Joan in her job at the “salon” where
Jacobean wardrobes harbor frocks and
French millinery peers from scroll stands
of the same period.
Ruth, a member of the well-known Dight.
squatter family, of Whiporie, was married at
St. Philip’s to Horace Woolnough, of South
Grafton. Brother Geoffrey gave his sister
away. The wedding frock was a picture of
expensive simplicity, the old family lace
being a feature of it.
The flagship Melbourne looked very gay on
that moonlit evening of last week when
some of the officers gave a dance, chiefly to
celebrate the engagement of Lieut.-Com-
mander Cavage to Joan Taylor, the pretty
daughter of the Bellevue Hill Taylors, of
Brisbane. The bride-to-be looked smart in
glistening white and gold; Commander Bur-
rough was accompanied by his lady in black
lace and satin; Eve Lillingtou, who never
lacks dancing partners, was a picture in
green taffeta. As usual for these dances the
majority wore black frocks. The fashion
suits Nell Joske adorably.
A sort of a compliment from an old Eng-
lishman in London :—•
The people I meet who say they know expect the
worst in India shortly, and one reason is that your
Diggers who joined our army are exchanging into
regiments in India. They are believed to be capable
of scenting battlefields from afar, like those less
pleasant-looking birds the vultures! Another reason
for pessimism is that many of our notorious faint-
hearts, young fellows who were on a staff when the
war began or in a cavalry regiment in France
when it ended, are resigning their commissions and
coming home. They also, of course, have a quite
remarkable flair for bloodshed
Here s the story of the fur coat that the
little woman in the T. and G. held for her
own during one glorious week. The night
she was going to a family party with her
husband, he looked with distaste at her well-
worn tweqd overcoat and said: “Really, dear,
you need a new topcoat—l’ll buy you s me-
thing nice before I leave for Kosciusko.’’
Three days later, after husband had left, a
large box from one of the big fluff-houses was
left at the flat. And the little woman drew
therefrom a coat of mole, with an immense
collar and cuffs of musquash, and a brocade
lining that was a small banking account in
itself. The little woman nearly fainted
with astonishment, then slipped into the coat
and dashed out to buy a new hat and send
a wire of thanks to her husband. For a
whole week she lived in the coat. She
thought of long-neglected relatives she might
visit and preen herself before. On the
Saturday, a week after the coat’s arrival,
she was entertaining some friends to lunch
after giving them a coat parade, when the
bell was rung by an imperious hand. On
answering the door the little woman was
greeted by a still more imperious voice de-
manding the coat. It had been sent to tk>
wrong address, and the collar and cuffs alone
were valued at £5OO. Meekly and hurriedly
the little woman thrust it into the hands of
the messenger, who turned on her just before
the door closed and remarked, “All I can
say, Madame, is that the whole thing is
most peculiar.”
For a whole block in Castlereagh-street
the windows were dressed with faces whose
owners waited to see the foundation-stones
of the new Government Savings Bank laid
by the Premier, the Treasurer and O’Mal-
ley Wood, the bank’s chairman. As each huge
cube was adjusted cheers went up, along
with a few faint hoots —to some the business
looked a little too much like electioneering at
the public charge. Obligingly the trams tip-
toed past, so that the speeches could be
heard by the invited guests, who were com-
fortably seated in an enclosure. Trowels
and mallets were handed round among the
chief actors, and then the guests had after-
noon tea in a large marquee at the rear of
the scene of the stone-laying.
Clarence Moss is feeling happy at the
moment, for the Children’s Hospital, which
he secretaries, is being substantially helped
by a cafe that the Governor opened last
week at Waters’ corner.
Lots of people were pleased to read that
good-hearted Josephine Marks had won a
£5OO prize in a Northern gamble. She has
done so much to help others that it seems
only fair Fate should throw a bouquet.
Mrs. A. E. Alphen was farewelled at a
tea-party hostessed by Mrs. Percy G. Cooley
at Mortley on Thursday. Mrs. Alphen is
best known in connection with the flag
depf>t; since the cease-fire she has transferred
her efforts to the Ilavilah Homes and other
good works. Now she goes on a well-earned
holiday trip.
A Brisbane postscript
There has been a stir in Brisbane over some
unfriendly medical criticism of a theory that many
Queenslanders will stake their last banana bn. It has
to do with lead poisoning in children—these Queens-
landers say that carbonate of lead gets into the
kiddies’ system owing to their habit of brushing
crumbling paint off verandah railings and licking
their fingers, with the result that they get paralysis of
some eye muscles. Oppositionists point out that there
are children, paint and verandah railings elsewhere,
and yet the youngsters don’t get the eye symptoms
met with in Queensland. It seems to be a case
for the neurologist as well as the eye-man.
Mrs. Emily Pelloe, whose vivid illustra-
tions of the anatomy and psychology of
Westralian wild flowers are selling briskly
in book form at a guinea, added another
bottle-brush to her best toque the other day
after her command to the vice-regal gunyah.
There into her blushing ear his Ex. Newde-
gate purred the letter of congratulation sent
by George Ilex’s spouse to the bush artist
on her charming production.
The number of Art in Australia now
on _ the bookstalls is the first of the new
series that Bertram Stevens had seen take
form before he died; and ITre Smith, his
co-editor, had just time to put an extra page
into mourning for the Gentle Anthologist.
Setting out to offer the best, the Art in
Australia enthusiasts found the costs
mount so high that presently the quarterly
was out of the reach of very many of those
who most desired it. So they put in the
peg and said “Six shillings and no more:
if it can’t be the absolute best, it shall be
the best that that much can buy.” And
here it is, with more literary matter in it
than heretofore, including a remarkable
article by Norman Lindsay on “The Inevit-
able Future,” of great interest as a dissec-
tion of the versatile artist’s mind —or soul,
if you like.
An old lady who keeps a small accommo-
dation-house in the Dorrigo district had a
Ske played on her credulity by a visiting
igger some time back. Bill gave her a
framed “Ici on parle franqais” card, which
still hangs in the .dining-room. The trusting
old soul tells her guests it is French for
“God Bless Our Home” !


The Murdoch
Service.
s
-O'-.
mm
This Sturdy Suitcase
Embodies that degree of worth and excep-
tional value which permeates the whole
structure of Murdoch’s progressive organisa-
tion.
Made from specially-selected Fibre, stout
Metal Frame. Reinforced with 8 Capped
Corners, 2 Nickel Sliding Locks and strong
Leather Handle. Size 20in.
Murdoch’s Good Value, 20/6
SIZE:
22in.
22/6
24in.
24/6
26in.
26/9
m
W/,
m
A Rug Special.
Pure All-Wool Travelling Rug of superior
quality. In a wide range of choice 1 laid
Designs. Fringed Ends. Extra Large Size,
70 x 90.
Special Price, 35/-
If you cannot call in person order by post
and address your letter to DESK R.
POSTAGE PAID.
MURDOCH’S
In Park Street Ltd., Sydney,
“The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’
Wear Store.”
n
Ifti,. Silver Salver, £3O.
Best-quality Silver Plate,
£B.
Silver Candlesticks, in Case,
£lO/10/-
Silver Inkstand, in ease,
£35.
Presentation Silver
The articles illustrated are of the Highest Quality,
and offer the Best Value Obtainable. A com-
parison of price and value is invited before
purchase. Selections will be forwarded on approval
at the Firm’s risk.
Bntmmouft £ Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
mn
m
Egg!
and BUILDERS
Is it a matter of Cheapness or Good Quality when you are buying
Hardware items?
The prices at which we sell the best quality Hardware Fittings do most
effectively combine GOOD VALUE with ECONOMY.
Have You Received our Latest Price List?
It will aid you to revise building costs, as it places before you the best
all-round values that can be obtained in:
PORCELAIN ENAMELLED BATHS,
EARTHENWARE BASINS,
PEDESTAL PAN SEATS,
PEDESTAL PANS,
BATH HEATERS,
EARTHENWARE CISTERNS,
CONCRETE CISTERNS, IRON CISTERNS,
CONCRETE WASH TUBS,
EARTHENWARE SINKS,
COPPERS,
ENAMELLED SINKS,
BOILERS,
STOVES, GRILLERS
and
ALL GAS FITTINGS.
nm
NOTE OUR NEW
ADDRESS.
You are cordially invited
to call and inspect.
Our handy price list gives full details and prices of Wrought-iron Pipes,
Malleable Fittings, Small Brass Fittings, Guttermg Down-p.pmg, etc.
Everything in Hardware for Builders and Plumbers.
CM.
r,
line*
s r
if
«sSs'
“Send to Falconer’s.”
Wilfrid falconer Lt 4
Builders and Plumbers Suppliers
342 Pitt Street * Sydney
A Door from Liverpool Street
Warehouse and Bulk Stores, Lackey St., Haymarket
n
mn
Special
"Chip”
Bath-Heater
The most eco-
nomical on the
market, sturdily-
built, clean in
operation, safe
and trouble-
proof.
m
Price 47/6
Iron stand for same supplied
for 8/6.
Instal one now for the com-
ing Winter.


Learn to Draw!
@5
'*fA
4 * fcn 1
t&ffgl
‘There’s Money
in
the Pen.’
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing-—botn
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY ,J.
VVESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing',
119 Union House, George Street, S/OIEf.
14
Pith
Helmets
21/-
PoA Free
The Bombay” India Pith Helmet is a style
of Cool Headwear in which we specialise.
No hat is cooler for the wilting hot days of
our Australian Summer, nor lighter on the
head. The "Bombay” is a genuine Pith,
covered with Grey Alpaca or White Drill.
Leather Chin Strap, Self Puggaree.
21/- Poit Free. Write Desk “ W
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
BRISBANE
lAUNDRENA
T h e Dainty Womans lavou rife Starch
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE S-C9L 1 :? SYDNEY.
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
i
THE
“WINTON”
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
Read what P. J. De Wet,
of Sterkstrooni, South
Africa, says about
The “WINTON”
Saddle.
He writes:—“The ‘ Winton’
Saddle I ordered from you some
time back is a high-grade saddle.
It is one of the iinest saddles I
have ever ridden in, and the dis-
advantage is that someone else
always wants to ride in it. lam
quite satisfied with the s: ddle,
and I am absolutely safe on the
horse’s hack.”
That is a sample of what we are
continually receiving from customers
who have bought the “Winton,” and
without doubt it is the most satis-
factory stock saddle we have yet intro-
duced. One great future in this
saddle is the flap sewn direct on to
the seat, doing away with the usual
skirt and giving a narrow, non-chafing
grip. Fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel
.stirrups.
£l6/5/-
Freight free for cash
with order to any Port
or Railway Station In
New South Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd. Saddlers,
395 George Street, Sydney.
A Choice
Brooch
is the crowning effect of a smart cos-
tume.
We Make Choice Brooches,
We Design Them,
We Set Them
In Our Own Workrooms.
Work of the Highest Finish,
Work of Relined Taste,
Work of Best Quality Only.
We cannot illustrate the thousands of
designs we stock, as fashions change
from day to day.
3 Selected Diamonds set in Platinum and
15ct. Gold Brooch, £6/6/-
Selected Diamond set in Platinum on Plati-
num Front Bar, £4/4/-
Selected Diamond set in Platinum on Plati-
num Front Gold Bar Brooch, £4/4/-
9
7 Choice Diamonds set in Platinum on
Platinum Front Bar, £lB/18/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney, 23 and 25 HUNfER STREET.
nm
a
w
Chemists’
Recommend
it.
For the Skin.
Every skin trouble,
whether superficial or
chronic, quickly yields
to the LigmoiLiene
treatment.
Liginollieue is un-
rivalled for the treat-
ment of Eczema,
Barber’s Rash, Ring-
worm and all skin dis-
eases.
AH Chemists
5/6 & 7/6 tin:
or send 1/6 for
sample tin to
n
MALYON g SONS,
Sturt St., Ballarat.
f|AWA
THt YEAR RtJUND PLAYGROUND
ENJOY JULY
and AUGUST
in America’s Mid-Pacific Paradise. The
cruise offers a holiday of unusual pleasure
—splendidly appointed liners, calm
waters, blue skies, summer breezes.
Then the isles of your imagination:
n
Gorgeous scenery,
tropic fruits,
trees, • flowers;
continuous recreation
including golf, swim-
ming and surfing ; and
incomparable Kilauea,
living volcano. Ask
your nearest travel,
tourist or steamship
agency for new book-
let, or write direct to
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A. C*
Missing Friends.
ASHFORD or MIDDLETON.—Wanted
to know the whereabouts of HUGH
ASHFORD or MIDDLETON, now about
31 years of age. Left Aberdeen. Scotland,
about the year 1904 in the care of his uncle
and aunt (Mr. and Mrs. George Middleton)
for Sydney district, N.S.W., Australia. His
sisters Agnes and Grace are now resident in
Canada and would like to hear from him
very much. If this meets his notice would
he kindly communicate with his sister Agnes,
now Mrs. WILLIAM THORNTON, Junior,
Box 843 Coal Creek P. 0., near Fernie, 8.C.,
Canada.
Missing Friends.
THOMPSON. —Clementina Thompson.
wife of Walter Thompson, last heard
of in Melbourne about 20 years ago. Mother
inquires. Mrs. M. Mathew's, 2 Dublin Street,
Woodstock, Capetown.
TV] EAL.—William Francis Neal, who
13l came from England to Sydney some
years ago, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, please communicate with this office.
Brother Alexander inquires.
m
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
lij CHIUSXOPHEK
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
CJ
vipst* 1
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Raker & Lonarhurst. 50 York Street, Sydney.
n
CAREFREE AND HAPPY
in the knowledge that she looks well, and that her
shoes —than which no article of dress is more likely to
be criticised —are smart and fresh looking.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE DRESSINGS
ensure that “just-out-of-the-box” smartness, and at the
same time add life to the shoes. For Bostock’s
Products—whether Dry Suede Cleaners, Liquid Suede
Cleaners, Creams, Pastes or Liquid Dressings—are
Quality Products, made under the supervision of their
expert Leather Chemists. As Bostock’s are world-
renowned manufacturers of high-grade Footwear, it
is imperative that every article' under the Bostock
label should be up to Bostock standard.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
tal;en of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. icill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Oilskin: Some of the lines nearly shook
our teeth 0ut....D.G. Now, are they the facts of
the case? Give us names, and, if the statements can
be proved, we’ll publish them if they cost us our
last bean... .S.M.: In an attempt to cover too much
ground you say only the well-known J.M.W.:
Vivid; but a weak story.... Cap B.: Too ugly; yet
no fault can be found with the work in it....
Norman C.; That yarn made an Abo. par recently.
.... Marginata: Not much song in it; and that’s a
misuse of “temporise” in the first stanza....
W.M.M.: Just not quite good enough... .Roving
Reg: Get into communication with the Museum.
Your description tells nothing... .Jesmond: Might
have considered it if it had been first hand.... Mens
Sana: Let’s put it into an ode for you:—
Gregory McGirr
Didn’t know where
To find half he’d promised to mother.
But that is no trouble,
He’ll just make it double,
And one P.N. pay with another.
. ...F.C.11.: Very p00r... .Cross Xn: Well, we’ll sav
this for “Lexus” —if he’s a liar he is an interesting
one.. . ,T. Don; A new poet—come in ! :
DOMESTIC AFFAIRS.
i Bid, your ma’s wild because I said “Stays,”
And threatens that I must mend my ways.
Heavens, but I do love a neat waist,
And it’s a thing to every man’s taste!
It’s the rage now to get “A. and D.’s,”
They’re so much nicer than “W.B.’s” ;
“New Models” at eighteen and eleven,
And just like those they wear in Heaven.
I couldn’t think of you being bold ;
Ma may deck you out for one of gold;
1 would have you sweetly love the man
Who tomes to woo you, pet, if he can.
I wouldn’t say “No” to a Digger
Were he honest and straight in figure;
See and get a boy that’s a trier,
And he’s sure to rise to something higher.
, ...Dinjtum Oil: Neither gets near. .. .L.P. (Mary-
borough) : The wit seems to have dropped its sparkle
in the post... .E.M.E.: “The Closed Door” is well
done, but anaemic... .F.M. (Windsor): No use at
all. .. .E. 8.0.: Too slight.... 11. G.V.: No point in
it. . . .F.G.8.: “Mourning” and “dawning” won’t
rhyme. And even if they did they couldn’t make
the verse worth while. .. .Cigarette: A bit ragged
and full of overworked ideas... .Y.U.: You don’t
find the mirth in it W.E.8.: Doesn’t make a
coherent story.... Douglas C.: Some nice lines, but
too many run off into worn commonplace. .. .Sciolist:
Very wild.... T.W.8.: Goes mad at the fifth stanza.
....Margaret M.: Not up.... Valla: Not bad as a
school exercise; but there is nothing about it to
attract u 5.... Duncan C.: The vesse moves heavily
to say what has been said very often. .. .C.R.A.: We
have had that story in two or there better versions.
.... S.F.L.: Poor tale made worse in the telling....
J.R. (South Dunedin): It’s on the road, but get a
better story to tell G.M.C.: Not enough in the
yarn A.P.R.: “The Task” is not worth while
Frank H.: Nice verse, but the matter doesn’t amount
to anything. .. .J.G.D.: Moves heavily over well-
worked ground.... Roy P.: “The Story Old” is too
thin and haggard W.J.D.: “Shadows” fa 11....
Deirdre: A little thing like that wants to be all
music and thought.... Michael F.: They miss....
C.M.M.: An idea, but not well enough done
1897: Too apologetic and thin John L.: “The
Gift” isn’t worked out well enough. •• .0.C.T.: A
conventional story suitable for some boys’ paper....
G.A.H.: No hope for that sort of stuff E.E.
(Drummoyne): As exciting as cold porridge....
Oliver B.: Sounds like a real solution of the rural
workers problem:—
Bill Muddle was always early and late;
“Joe, Joe, I’ve called you twice —
It’s five in the morning till eight.”
“Er-er, all right, boss, it’s bub-blanky cold like
ice.”
“Well, I have got to be out hot or cold,
Whether I like it or not;
You want to be called and told.
Perhaps you’d like a whisky-soda hot ?”
“My—my word, boss, dud-do you mean it?
N’er ’ad a boss li-like you before,
An’ that —that’s saying a lot, isn’t it?
Let mum-me ’ave one, though I could do with
more!”
“I tell you what, Joe, this’s a bargain.
By five in the morning you stand up ;
Whether sunshine, cold or rain, >;
On your window-sill there’s your whisky in a cup. ’
“All —all right, boss, I-I’ll take it on.
You—you won’t nun-need to ca-eall me,
I’ll b-b-be up to put the kettle on ;
I won’t forget you, you see!”
B.M.J.: Didn’t move us Burrundie: It’s
pretty bad Slin: You don’t get the spirit of the
“Trumpet.” G.S.R.: The lines don't sing; they
are sawn out. .. .Mag: Looks here and there as if it
ought to mean something, but the clue always loses
itself H.G. (Orange): Can’t find any mirth in it.
... ,p. Stone: “Carryin’ ” is well enough constructed,
but lacks point; the other is too thin... .P.8.P.:
As ordinary as ham and eggs. .. .Jos M.: It’s a pretty
bad first attempt. Write naturally and leave “thou”
and “thee” alone... .Joseph P.: A lame duck. .. .
. ...A.S. (Brisbane): Not up...-AV.J.S.: “Lights
not for us....Tyum: Fair verse, but the matter is
nothing 1.R.M.: “Limehouse” wouldn’t make a
wide enough appeal.. . .The Cub: Short-weight in
interest.. . .Wilfrido: That pup yarn was told of
the grandfather of all hounds. .. .Elvin Faeral:
Hardly worth space Foot-slogger: Can’t return
unused pars.... Xingu: Time has blunted the point.
of the old gent.’s remarks Chris: A long way
out: the first Australian theatre was opened in
Sydney in 1796 S. j.H.: Impossible to deal with
that closely-typed stuff... .Waller B.: 01d... .Cave
Man: You take too long to say it A.Z.: May use
one or two Rhill: Noise not described definitely
enough. . . ,H.F.: That tip has already seen print
Ron "" Wills: Hardly worth it E.S.L.: Appeared
only a little while ago R.Z.W.: Not enough in
them.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.G.R.: No, you can't even draw clouds... .N.G.:
No g00d... .A.W.: Amazing anatomical freaks..,.
Pelican: Some promise, but drop those scratchy lines
and broaden 0ut....1’.H.: All making tracks for
home... .T.W.D.: Right off the target G.H.: No
luck again F.G.: How to get your sketches in
the papers? Draw ’em better... .H.S.K.: All miss.
. ...C.S.M.: Spidery futilities... .P.J.F.: All below
the mark... .A.G.F.: Too stiff.. .J.L.F.: His drawing
is a bit rocky... .11.E.R.: 0ut....V.Y.: Those that
look original are badly drawn.... Bully Beef: Several
davs too late.


Shipping,
ORIENJT LINE
New iiiid Luxurious Steamers all fitted
With Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-de-
hit £B. Staterooms with bedsteads and
pi-irate Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Flectric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
cjatfeS and First-* Second- and Third-class
fnreS,
Apply
biUFNT S.N. fco.i Ltd*,
Tel. —City 4246. 2. 4, 6 Spring Street,
481o!
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, APRIL 12, 1922.
VENTURA.
10,090 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. •• £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors — James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; lion. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.; VV. H. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - lIKISHANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. ~ .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman;
George J. Sly, LL.D., Frank N.Yaßwood, F.G.P.A.;
George F. Todman ; Mark Sheldon ; Duncan
CarsqN.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Clue/ Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. BnowN.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 ‘Threadneedle *Str«4, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
BYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. • • 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. • • 2,250,000
Reserve' Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,270
GRANTS DRAFTS
mn
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transact: all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
£625,000
620,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£1,245,000
625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREE'I, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
Drafts Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provide at Society
The largest and Most Successful
Mutual Liife Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,336,402
£2,273.000
£44,000,000
£6,375,000
The Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
fl. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Sblpptn*. etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
trading
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMEES TIL
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONiINENi.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 20th APRIL, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 18th MAY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also ie
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 6th APRIL, 11 a.m.
MARAMA, 4th MAY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SAD E
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM SIREEI. MLLDObK
r
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3£ TO 41 WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
“scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
m
nm
000‘00B‘Sl3f
000‘000'S
OOO‘OOS‘B
000‘000‘SJ
Directors
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq. v n ~ r
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackeuar, K.C.M.C*.,
Auditors fs. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq
Robert L.
The Hon.
Franc B.
The Hon.
Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
James T. Walker.
S. Falkinev, Esq.
Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: Oscar Lines.
„ . r Pn r« Street Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
a 353 Trashes and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the Forei „ n places DTTVFCT. Foreign Pills
negotiated a'nd eolleTed"''' Letter ‘of Credit and Cireular’notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund .. £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
n
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. K. lister, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
lion. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Uranch: 18 Bircliin Lane, E.C.
fnndon Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County NVestminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. L mated.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world.
otel Kosciusko.
Winter Sports in Australia.
Tn order to meet as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation
, the Hotel Kosciusko in the Winter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number.
Large Bed-sitting Booms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Pnmfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko,
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau..
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St.,Melbourne.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasias,
Gd. weekly—au illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British- Australasian Iteading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W. 0.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.,
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
McEaeharn's Line,
61 Pitt Street.
A.U.S.N. Co.. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Melbourne Steam-
ship Co., Clarence
& Barrack Streets.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEaeharn’s Line,
01 Pitt Street.
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Tues.,
March 21
Tues.,
March 28
Tues.,
April 4
Tues.,
April 11
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
Street,
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
Street.
Huddart ParkerLis?
Magnlfioent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Svdney anil Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
I'or full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengeis.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdon&ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND IIIE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 d m. : pasnenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p m.
S.S. ORA 11 A SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.in.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, io/o/o
Tlie speed and modern conveniences for the. comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast. ~ , .
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE,THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Steamer.
Tons,
6009
6880
5056
Leaves Sydney,
Noon.
Mar. 24
Apr. 28
May 26
Leaves
Brisbn ne.
Mar. 27
Mav 1
May 29
aki maru.
TANGO MARU.
NIKKO MARU. ___
Monthlv Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
‘"'“nIFTON YUSEN? KAISHA, .
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
managing agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Calf lonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. &O.S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Li e
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping- Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Austvalasian ltoyal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritime? Co. •'
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


You Don’t Have to
Hone or Strop
with a
m
MVHUn
UPLEX,
Safe Razor
When dull, and it takes a
good many shaves to dull
one, just insert a new blade
A second, ana it’s sharp
and new again!
** OIAOO’S
i
s
Ml WE
9 o.ok
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation!
THE BURMAN Power Horse-Clipping Machines
British Made.
WILL CLIP YOUR HORSE IN 30 MINUTES.
POINTS :■
Featherweight Flex-
ible Shaft, 6ft. long.
All Gears Machine
cut from Solid.
Total weight
packed, 351 b. Size
of case, 14 x 18 x 8
inches.
The Burman Clipper
Head will take a
thicker coat and
leave a better finish
than any other
make. Easy run-
ning.
nm
These machines
have, by perfection
of design and scrup-
ulous care in manu-
facture, obtained an
unrivalled reputa-
tion throughout the
World.
There is the weight
of 50 years’ practical
experience behind
every BCEMAN
CLIPPER. Rapid
Clipping.
The Burman No. 17 Power Clipper at work.
GEARS enclosed in dust-proof Box.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES
Burman and Sons, Ltd., Birin., England.
t7he ThVer pJcnic
The DECCA just makes the
delightful difference between en-
joyment and complete enjoyment.
Try it! Have it on the river with
you. Music wherever you go.
No trouble, easy to carry,
compact, never in the way.
Fine tone, clear reproduction-
n
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
3 Models—*
Leather Cloth £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide £l6
Obtainable all over Australia
frofn all Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors :
Stanley E. Green, Ltd.. 379, Kent Street, Sydney.
188
HfgWSTEr
« At|i!
■■■■a
■
m
'S//J
m
■
mm.
m
m
yy/sss
Y/S/s
m
S
a
$
Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, fin. or Jin., set ready for use and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Plum Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere.
Countrv visitors: CaH on us for your hairdressing
needs. \Ve provide the finest and most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing- Saloon in
Sydney.
mi
mn
m
n
DBp€nd&b!e Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
mn
“SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b,
Delivered,
£,51 12/6
1321. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£6/5/-
WE
GUNS g RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
m
barrels,
patent
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.H.8.1. Gun, 12-gaug'e,- 28-inch
both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7-Alb. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
nm
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top isver,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke, Greener crossbolt, ' high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7ilb.'.
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid,
£l6/16/
fcsfe^fSiaSl
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b. Freight paid,
n
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
Freight paid,
*l5/15/-
POWDER
AUSTRAL ... ... 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN .. 6/- lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS ... 10 6 lb.
PLE ASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 1-1/6 in N.S.W.
mn
810. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7 Jib Freight paid,
*l4/14/•
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING -HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 2/- tube.
Steven’s
5.8.6. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
m
top action, solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin. or 32in.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about Gun can be taken apart, same as
ah ordinary Double-barrel Gun. ““EjcCtOf, ■ 65/- freight paid,
1C
'J
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 20242 Edward St., BRISBANE.


IlfSi ‘ 'X
J j
if
1
' %
T'sjw.
• * f
'
-
-
Miss MARIAN MARCUS-
CLARKE (from a photo).
Another Tribute to Rexona.
SSSSSgitE «S3*«,^
good, ami it is delightfully refreshing. Everyone I have Hnaraaraded * „d I think
so pleased with it. I have also used Rexona Ointment. It is aadltm
there is nothing on the market that in any way approaches the »exona,“ l e ' ne<U
I wish you much success with them. (g^a<) MAIUAN MAKCUS-CEAKKE.
REXONA—EVERYONE’S FAVORITE.
Rexona Soab and Ointment are unlver.al fayoelteo wltli ov*yone a
of tbe many and unpleasant
forms that skin trouble so
often assumes. Rexona, the
Rapid Healer, and Rexona
Soap are sure preservatives
for the health and skin.
Rexona Soap keeps the skin
soft and pure, and Rexona,
the Rapid Healer, will immedi-
ately eradicate any disease
which may be apparent, for
it arouses the skin to healthy
activity so that it quickly re-
cuperates, and the diseased
skin becomes once more sound
and healthy. Rexona is sold
everywhere, in triangular
pots at 1/6, or in larger pots,
holding nearly four times the
quantity, at 3/-. Rexona Soap
is sold at 1/- a tablet.
V//.
m
i
n.
m
0a
u
0
m
i
Cleanses
f
Purifies
FACIAL
SKIN
VA
m
m
I
%%
0/.
W. G. WATSON M CO. Ltd.
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS.
QUOTATIONS given for SUPPLY OF
LAURENCE SCOTT & CO., LIMITED-
DIRECT CURRENT DYNAMOS & MOTORS.
CENTURY ELECTRIC CO.-
ALTERNATING CURRENT MOTORS.
ALLEN WEST & CO., LTD.-
LIFTING MAGNETS,
ALTERNATING CURRENT AUTO TRANS-
FORMER STARTERS (Oil immersed).
THREE-PHASE LIQUID CONTROLLERS.
ALTERNATING AND DIRECT CURRENT
REVERSING CONTROLLERS arid
RESISTANCES.
IRON-CLAD SWITCH GEAR FOR MINES.
LARGE STOCKS KEPT OF ALL THE
ABOVE LINES.
The Mystery of Jane’s Jewellery.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS pale as tin the moon arose
Out of a leaden sea, __
The starshine on the high clifl s toes
Spangled the long, dank weed that grows
Beneath our trysting tree.
On such dim nights you might suppose
Joy had no call for me ;
And sadly I agree.
Corpse-cold she came, for she had been
Some time beneath the ground;
Her wasting fingers were so lean,
Her hair had such a mouldy sheen
Where its long hanks, unbound,
Fell, making shadows stark and green
Her sunken bosom round.
She came without a sound.
I shivered somewhat in the air
That blew along the wave.
Her eyes had such a glassy stare,
While all the robe she deigned to wear
Was mildewed with the grave. _
\nd though her face was ghastly fair
My hot lips did not crave
The awful kiss she gave.
It is a frightful thing to be
Betrothed to lifeless clay,
By such an oath that air and sea
Had coldly registered for me
One bright but luckless day.
An hour the grey night ghosts are tree,
They flit and frisk in play,
And who makes oath must pay.
Some explanation is required
To make my story plain.
My soul last year was much inspired
And all my fancy fed and fired
By my delightful Jane.
She was so much to be desired
I could not well refrain
From swearing, to my pain.
It happened when I bought a ring,
Gem-set, for her to wear.
The leaves were green in early bpring.
And all my pulses seemed to smg
With love’s unselfish care.
I swore by every strand and string
Of her light-fondled hair
Her joy or woe to share.
While still that ring was in its place,
I swore by sea and sky
No hand of mine should e er unlace
My boots at night till on her face
In rapture hot and high
I set three kisses fit to chase
All moisture from her eye
And keep her nice and dry.
The oath was made and soon forgot,
And then my gentle Jane
Acquired a fever large and hov
Accompanied by quite a lot
Of most unpleasant pain. .
At Christmastide she corpsed. Great bcotr.
Sweet love lay fever-slain
And oaths seemed void and vain.
But there I made a great mistake,
For by her last command
The ring she wore for my dear sake
Linked to that oath I could not break
Was left upon her hand.
Ah, woe is me! I had to make
Three nightly kisses land
On ghost lips moist with sand I
As pale as soap the moon arose
Out of a soupy sea, . „
The starshine on the high clin s toes
Spangled the coarse grey weed that grows.
Beneath our trysting tree,
And on such nights you may suppose
Jane used to come to me
When spooks and sprites are tree.
Each night she came and I could see
How much of wear and tear
W T as caused to beauty that must be
Closed up from light and joy and me
And sun and wind and air.
Ere long I recognised that she
Was needing much repair—
Some of her bones were bare.
Bertha was rosy as the day
When afternoon and night,
In happy weather, pause to play
With little tufts of cloud astray
In some pink pillow-fight;
And Bertha’s laugh was light and gay
And both her eyes were bright—-
I thought the girl all right.
But there was that old business still,
That oath I could not break,
The nightly task I must fulfil,
The charnel damps, the midnight chill
A ghost’s kiss-thirst to slake.
As dreary as a laundry bill
That makes the pocket ache
I saw those grave-robes shake.
One night Jane kept me rather late;
The moon was in the west,
Pale stars were at the morning s gate-
It seemed a frightful time to wait
For such a sorry jest,
While Bertha dreaming of her mate
Had now been long undrest,
Snug in her quiet nest.
The bones that once were Jane arrived
Shaking like anything.
One leg bone only now survived
W 7 hose fitful hopping scarce contrived
To give her body spring.
At sight of her my soul revived,
My heart began to sing—
She did not wear the ring.
Perchance she pawned it in the ni<?ht.
Perchance the jewel lay
Hiding its claw-set facets bright
Some distance from the public sight
Where Jane had been all day.
I know her bony finger slight
No longer glistened gay
In the moon’s parting ray.
She tried to keep her finger veiled
In that thin robe she wore
As the thick ocean slowly paled
And distant cloud-banks greyly sailed
Past dawn’s unopened door.
In that attempt she sadly failed,
But pity moved me sore—
I gave her kisses four.
She passed before the morning broke;
I knew my soul was free!
No longer oath-bound ’neath the yoke
Must I be made the midnight joke
Of earth and air and sea.
I was as happy as a bloke
In decency could be
Beneath that trysting tree.
I thought of Bertha when the sun
Climbed out above the wave.
Her lips I need no longer shun,
For T had absolutely done
With flirting round a grave.
And Bertha might be wooed and won.
The fair deserves the brave —
I hied me home to shave.
But Bertha when I called was out,
And when I called again
And found her absent some pale doubt,
Creeping my hot heart round about,
Wakened a sense of pain.
Some awful dread I could not flout,
Nor to my soul explain,
Connected her with Jane.
I met her walking in the street
When day to eve declined ;
Her lips were red, her eyes were sweet.
But something in her restless feet
Appeared to me unkind;
And then my soul began to heat
And reason all went blind
So strange a thing to find.
Upon her small and dimpled fist
I saw the lamplight fling
A ray of light that sparkling kist
Two sapphires and an amethyst
Joined in a claw-set ring.
And horror like a shrouding mist
Clung to that awful thing
I bought for Jane last Spring.
Yes, here it shone beyond mistake,
The selfsame ring I knew
That Jane had worn for my dear sake
While sleeping, dead and wide awake
The changing season through.
My life upon that fact I stake,
And there it was in view—
On the third finger, too.
On that engagement digit white
It told me by its shine
That, while I trysted with a sprite,
Some other less embarrassed wight
Had won this maid of mine;
But who he was that from the night
Could pluck its treasures fine
My soul could not divine.
I mourned a night and half a day.
Arid then I came on Lou,
With wisps of bright hair blown astray
And lips of love and glances gay,
Weaving a hash-house stew.
All thoughts of Jane she chased away,
All dreams of Bertha, too —
The ring she wears is new.
n.s.w.
GEORGE STREET.
The Brumby.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAT’S a fine thing. What is it—a
| Murray?”
Loraine looked round from his
desk. “Oh, that! I believe you—it’s a fine
thing, my boy. No, it’s a copy—l’d be
likely to have an original Murray, wouldn’t
I?”
He put the cap on his pen and leaned
back.
“Arnold’s got the original; he had that
done for me—young Winston did it.” He
cocked an eye at me. “There’s a yarn if
you”
Loraine is not much good at yarns viva
voce; he’s better on paper when he’s finished
trying them on his acquaintances. But he
seemed extra-keen to get' this one _ off on
me, so 1 stopped wandering about his room
and sat down. He was silent for a moment
marshalling his incidents and recalling his
color. When the yarn did come he’d got it
more or less in shape, even to dialogue. But
naturally I’ve trimmed his word-of-mouth
diffuseness a bit.
* * * *
We were sitting on Robertson’s verandah
.—Robertson, young Murray and myself. It
was not late, but it felt like it; Robertson
week-ends at Blackheath, where the air is
overproof, and I was half-asleep. We were
staying with him —Murray because he’d just
got engaged to Myra Nicholls, Robertson’s
partner’s daughter; I because I happened
to be with him when Robertson invited him.
Also, because I could probably wangle a par
in The Vanguard about the sumptuous
mountain-home of Mr. Samuel_ Robertson,
the Australian jam king, who likes a little
cheap publicity. He sat at the back of the
verandah, a study in black and white and
pink, and went on telling us what a won-
derful fellow he w r as and what income-tax
he paid (and what proportion of it he’d
dodged paying), when his man looked over
the rail and said:
“I can’t find any trace of the mare, Mr.
Robertson; I’ve been everywhere and no
one’s seen a sign of her.”
“That’s bad. Bill. She’s not pounded?”
“No, I telephoned down as far as Law-
son and over to Hartley.”
Robertson ruminated, bulging over his
shirt-front.
“Did you try Arnold’s, Bill?”
“I went there, but there was no one in.
I think they’re away.”
“No. they aren’t.” Robertson was the
triumphant business man pinning his oppo-
nent to a lie. “I saw Mrs. Arnold on the
balcony as we passed this morning. You’d
better go over there. No, I tell you what”—
he turned to Murray—“we’ll drive over
there to-morrow. You’d like to meet him,
Archie —Arnold, the novelist, you know.”
Murray looked up. “D’vou mean Gilbert
Arnold? ' I’d no idea he lived up here.”
“Good Lord, yes!” Robertson set young
Murray right in emphatic kindness of heart.
“Settled here years a so. Never shifts from
his place over the gully there, umpteen miles
from anvwhere. Pleasant, though; I met
him at the flower show —I’m president this
year again—and we pass the time of day.
(Continued on next wage.)


Do Things “Get on
"Every Picture
Tells a Story"
Your Nerves”?
Are you “quick,” irritable and easily upset? Do you
continually worry over trifles? Then there’s something
wrong. At the back of it all may be bad kidneys. When
the kidneys aie weak they no longer filter all the uric
acid and other poisons from the blood. These poisons
get into the system, irritate and upset the nerves and
vital organs, and you have backache, nerves, dizziness,
despondent spells and an all-worn-out feeling Trv
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They are
recommended the world over and are perfectly safe
and harmless,
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY
TWO PERMANENT CURES.
PEOPLE.
Mrs. S. Drew, 30 Briggs Street, Camperdown, Sydney, says:— •“Some
time ago my kidneys were in a seriously disordered state, and in consequence
I suffered terribly. My back never stopped aching, and I often used to feel
I could hardly bear it any longer. The pain took all the life and energy
out of me, and I was almost crippled with the ailment. Dropsical swellings
showed on my legs and- ankles, and there was puffiness under my eves. The
state of my health worried me terribly, and as I had taken all sorts of
remedies without deriving any benefit, I was beginning to think I would
never be well again However, to make a long story short, at last I got
S°K n tti BaCkaC j e k ldne y P ills > and th ey proved a godsend. The first counle
of bottles eased my suffering a little, and seven bottles of the pills cured
me completely. The backache has gone, the dropsical swellings P have dis-
Mrifkll’kidney 1 h *” pIe "' ,w “ D °““’ s
t «^ r ' n S ™“°» s > Dutton Road, Bankstown, says :—“For some years
suuercd dreadfully from backache and kidney trouble. I was under a
octoi tor a good while, but his treatment did not benefit me very much.
mi. 1611 u mine heard of a wonderful cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney
nis, so be urged me to try these pills, and I decided to do so. After taking
one bottle I felt very much better, and as I kept on with them the improve-,
ment was maintained until finally I was completely cured, and I have not
t>-ii .\ S!gn backache and kidney trouble since. Doan’s Backache Kidney
i ills pave my hearty recommendation, and I hope many will benefit by my
experience and give them a trial.”
. Dive years later Mrs. Simmons says:—“My husband has had no return
ot his old complaint since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured him some
jeais >ye always keep this medicine in the house and find it a most
beneficial tonic for the kidneys.”
nm
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
n
Price .2/0 per bottle, at
all Chemists and' Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
He s got a nice property down there.” A
hint of solemnity crept into Robertson’s
voice. “It ought to be worth money some
day.”
"i'es, I’d be glad to meet Gilbert Arnold,”
Archie Murray said, “I’ve got all his books.”
“Righto, my boy. You shall meet him to-
morrow, You’ll come over, Loraine?” he
added as an afterthought. I said 1 would.
I’d have made a Sunday’s engagement in’
Melbourne provided there was a bed between
me and it.
I went into my room, and held deep
sleep off just long enough to dec.de tnac
Murray was a fool to tie himself up to this
stinking money. Besides, I'd met old Myra
Nicholls—bit too obvious.
Arnold’s house sat on a ledge overlookin '
a gully—one of those gullies wnere the bush
looks grey and withered until you get down
into it and feel the life in it. The place
w{is about half-a-mile off the Western-road,
with a poorish cart-track to the fence round
the ga rh en . Robertson drove his costly e r
with great care. We walked up through
the beautiful garden—the sort of garden
lennyson might have seen in dreams—to
the two-storey, mansard-roofed house. Grey
and placid, it hung over the abyss with an
indescribable air of happiness—l know it’s
a queer word, but it’s the only one that fits
Dormer-windows looked serenely out of the
mansard-slope, and a white balcony jutted
over the gully. The grey stone of the house
toned with the slate of the roof, and the
Weathered white of the windows; the grey
bush completed the color-scheme. A. woman
came singing round the verandah-corner as
we went up the steps.
“Good morning,” she said, quiet eyes
glancing at each of us. She put her trowel
on a seat and stripped off her gardening
gloves. “Come in, won’t you?”
We followed her into a‘wide hall full v>f
flowers and bright-looking chintzes.
. fetch Gilbert,” she said, smiling and
pointing to chairs; “and you’d like some
tea. Robertson started to protest, but she
was gone. Young Murray took his eyes
from the doorway through which she had
vanished, and looked round the room and
out to the trees dipping and rolling to the
horizon. His eyes were vaguely troubled
when they came back to Robertson and me.
“Nice Mace, isn’t it?” Robertson seemed
proud of it.
A footstep sounded on the verandah-floor,
and a man, thin and brown and upright,
smiled at us from the open door. Fifty if
you looked at his hair, 30 if you looked at
his eyes.
“Oh. hullo!” he said, seeing Robertson.
What can I ——
Ive lost a5l a re—my man’s been looking
for her tor a • week—and I thought you
might have seen her.”
Arnold looked thoughtful. “A mare’ No
I’ve seen nothing ofi her. But peopie are
always losing maresv here. It’s generally
our brumby’s fault, so she’s possibly not far
away.
He glanced at Murray and me, and
Robertson introduced us. Hearing Archi-
bald Murray’s name, Arnold excluded the
rest of us for a moment.
“I know your pictures,” he said. “I
tried to buy your ‘isaowground,' but 1 was
too late.”
Murray flushed and smiled. “I wish I
couid always count on reiays of buyers. As
a rule, nobody even otters.”
“Yes, that s the trouble at first if you’re
off the beaten track. But you’ll have no
difficulty soon. And it’s worth it.”
Robertson laughed. "You’ll have to hurry
up, Archie. You’ve only gut six weeks be-
fore you'll be chief chemist to Nicholis and
Robertson, and the son-in-law of the senior
partner.”
Murray flushed again without smiling, and
Arnold locked puzzled.
“A chemist? But you’re a painter!”
“Yes; but I left chemistry for painting,
thinking I could do the work I wanted to
do and make a living as well. I found I
couldn't, of course.” Young Murray’s face
looked hard and half-contemptuous. “So
when Mr. Nieholls’s offer came along I
accepted it—naturally.”
“And you are engaged to be married?”
‘Yes, to Miss Nicholis.” Murray was
looking out of the doorway to the sunny haze
over the gully. “I’ll paint in my spare
time, of course.”
“It should be a pleasant hobby.”
Murray glanced sharply at him and
changed the subject.
“Did you say you had a brumby?”
Arnold laughed. “Nobody has a brumby,
but there is one that lives down at the far
end of the gully.”
“Have you ever seen him?”
“Yes, I’ve seen him once or twice —but I
don’t think anybody else here has, except
my wife, of course.”
Murray sighed. “I’d give my ears to see
a brumby,” he said.
“Yes; he would appeal to you.”
Mrs. Arnold- came in with a tray which
she told me to put on the verandah-table —
“where you can see the garden.” Robert-
son and the others came out, the jam-king
being sorry in a loud voice for troubling
Arnold about his mare, and patronising the
view and the garden and the fine morning.
We listened to him while he drank a cup of
tea. Mrs. Arnold asked me if I’d like to
see the garden, and we went down. She
showed, me roses and great dahlias like soup-
plates in a garden as hapov as the house,
as happy and free as the silence that stole
up from the gully. Murray came running
down the steps to us.
“I say, Jim, d’you want to see a brumby?”
Ilis eyes were dancing like a boy’s. “Can
we camp in your gully to-night, Mrs.
Arnold?”
“Yes, of course,” she said, laughing at his
excitement. “Are you going to stalk the
brumby?”
“Yes. Mr. Arnold says we may stay”—
he turned to .me—“and that the onlv way r 0
do it is to camp in the far gully and wait for
the light, Then we’ll have a chance to see
him before he gets our scent. You’ll come,
won’t you, Jim?”
And' I said yes, of course.
Sp’ Robertson went bursting away in his
car and we stayed. Arnold took us all
over his house —Jacobean furniture, Crown
lfeiby ana Spade, insn sdver, and oooks and
books and uooas. Murray woke up anu
tuiiitd —raid down the raws of color and line
and atmosphere witn ail the certainty and
wnd excitement of a first-year student. Mrs.
Arnold gave us lunch on tlie verandah ana
looked at us with the placidly friendly eyes
c/i a. ueuicutCi iJuteitbc; vjiliueit -diuoiil \vujs
her only real interest on eartli. In the after-
noon we fooled about the garden, cut wood
in the yard, and listened to Murray compos-
ing (and practically painting) a series of
bush-pictures running from the middle of
tne Queensland coast down to (Jape Howe.
Arnold went away to write for a bit, but he
came back at afternoon-tea. Through all
tne talK a couid ieei cue .nutscriouuie iiitcu-
liness and happ.ness of the place. This
man, whose name v/as known all over the
English-speaking world, had somehow caught
tne-true sp.rit of life in his eyiae here—
umpteen miles from anywhere. There was
freedom here, freedom and well-being for the
strong, purposeful mind to tell its thoughts.
You could feel it in his easy serenity of
speech and bearing; you couid see it in
the quick deftness of his movements, in his
brown face lit by his calm eyes; but most
of all you could feel it in the air when his
wife spoke to him or looked at him.
He told us at dinner that tlmy sometimes
rolled up a swag and wandered away, shut-
t.ng up the house and taking to the open
like gipsies.
“Where do you go?” I asked.
‘ Oh, anywhere;—wherever the track takes
us. Just wanaercng tree, you know.” ■■
Murray laughed like a kid, but his face
clouaed over as we got un and went out to
the verandah. Arnold said that we had a
thiee-mile walk before us, w'th some rathei
rough going before we got to the far gully,
and that we ought to start about 9 o’clock,
wmen tne moon would be up. She came up
nearly full at 9 o’clock, and we took the
rugs and started. Mrs. Arnold waved us
farewell from the balcony.
The going was rough at first; my citified
eyes had tneir work cut out to distinguish
between twigs and slanting moonlight. But
it was better when we got into the first of
what was apparently a chain of gullies, the
fourth of which was our objective. Arnold
and Murray were on ahead; their voices
came back to me—l could hear Murray’s
quick, light questions and Arnold’s longer,
more musical answers. Presently they fell
s lont and I caught ut> to thorn.’ It was a
ghost journey, splendid and eerie. Grey and
haunted gums supped, by into the moonlight
as we passed in silence; the whispering
rustle of our feet was the only sound on
earth. Night had opened a beautiful path-
way for us here at the end of the world, and
lit it with her moon, and put the gaunt trees
beside it to keep guard.
We reached the fourth gully at last and
found a good place out of the moon’s rays
for the rugs. Arnold said that we should roll
up and go to sleep, that he would wake us
at daybreak, and that when he did so no one
must speak or make a sound. We nodded.
Archie Murray’s eyes were burning with
tue "color, luie and atmosphere” he had just
been through.
-drnoid s aiand woke me. I remembered
his command or silence and sat carefully up
Murray was already squatting on Ins heels
like an Indian god, and a mist was curling
up through the palpitant air. We sat there
three deai-mutes, part of the Lush and as
soundless and still as the rest of it. The
mist swirled and eddied round us in great
clouds white and encompassing, rising and
fulling and rising again. Soon it grew
thinner and a sort of golden flush shone
through it; and soon it lifted gently and
hung over us, swaying softly between us and
breaking day. Presently it drifted away to
the white cliff of last night and hovered
against it like smoke. The cliff was red
now, shot with yellow and silver and lean-
ing over the silence. As the Sun pushed
higher over the horizon the crags gleamed
above, the mist like broken red clouds be-
tween earth and heaven. It was hard to
believe that they were only rock-faces in the
morning sun ; even to me they were a strange
new beauty undreamed till now. As I looked a
faint wind caught the mist aqd blew it away
and the red sunshine'flooded the place. I
felt Arnold’s hand on my arm again, and
looked at him. He made iio sign, but I fol-
lowed his gaze to the head of the gorge. A
distant rustling broke the silence.
Above the crags a black war-horse stood
pawing the turf gently and shaking his long
mane into the morning sun. Coal-black and
splend.d, he gleamed and shimmered there
as the last faint smoke of the mist drifted
caressingly over him. I caught the shine of
his red nostrils as he lifted his head and
stared down, his eyes, angered and burning,
or. n«e We were disturbers of his peace’
potential lords of his freedom. His memory
V " u us and our like from his days of
bondage; a mighty anger seemed to come
down to us before he swished his tail in
contempt and posed once more against the
sky. Immense and proud he stood in the
morning of the world, a figure of unconnuer-
able, immemorial freedom—freedom to the
ends of thought and desire, freedom to
the limit of his own unbreakable endurance
to the last splendid moment of life.
I heard young Murray catch his breath as
a e brumby kicked up his- heels and vanished
Archie s eyes were staring up at the crags,’
his white face strained and haggard with
longing ; he crouched on his rug like a runner
waiting for the pistol-shot.
* » * •
Loraine came out of his, story.
“Archibald Murray didn’t
marry Myra Nicholls, and he didn’t become
chiet chemist to Nicholls and Robertson. He
went down to Sydney and saw them all—
tnoli Ins medicine. And then he went to
Queensland and painted hard.”
Loraine got up and walked over to young
vv mston s copy of the brumby ia the morn-
ing sun.
“They bought him in Melbourne, Sydney,
lans, London— all the galleries bought him.
Put Arnold got this first, and it’s the best,
xou can see the name on. it ; ‘Freedom.’ ”
HILARY LOFTING.


I
m
■
mm
artrs
'm
AS 1
l 4k AM
S \ tfS }'oj
i®
*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure mini mum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agente- HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—63-107 Fentliereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—B9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
mn
Shirley
President
Braces Are
as Evenly
Balanced as
a Set of
Scales
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are made to fit
the figure from the raw yarn, which first goes into the
web, down to the sewing and trimming, which are all
designed with the one point in view—correct suspen-
sion of the trousers without binding or retarding the
graceful lines.
Look to your braces and buy SHIRLEY PRESI-
DENJ. They make clothes hang better and more
gracefully.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT"
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
m
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Offioe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
nm
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.
'tm
r/
3
tf
t-
mm
m
T'"
Remjnst°n,
Repeating Rides
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity,
They have a solid breech and many
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
lor Shooting Right
Ask your dealer to show you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25,30,32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request,
other
nm
nm
nmn
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Good Health is Happiness
but how can either exist with a disordered
stomach or a torpid liver ? It may be
humiliating* but it is true, that the very
powers on which we pride ourselves most,
insight, judgment, ambition, ability to work,
are often dependent upon the condition of our
digestive organs. If these important organs do
not perform their functions satisfactorily, the
body and brain both suffer. How necessary is
it therefore, for us to live so that the stomach and
liver do their full duty and supply our bodies
with the vigor we need for our daily work.
v -
were introduced over seventy years ago for the
very purpose of preventing or relieving all these
troubles arising in the stomach, liver, kidneys
and bowels. That they have been successful is
proved by their wonderful popularity in all parts
of the world. They are everywhere recognized
as the most useful and efficacious remedy*
They give speedy relief in cases of impaired
digestion, sluggish liver, bilious headaches and
constipation. They tone up the system and
keep the body in a satisfactory state of health.
They
Make all the Difference
Sold in boxes, labelled IOJd., la-lid and 2»-9d. (original English prices.)
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at yonr service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life—to think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling”
Small Pill-
Small
Dose —
Small
m
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
n
by taking
Carter’s
Little Liver
Pills, the
Great Liver
Invigor ato r.
Thousands
have attained
success by their
timely help.
Just try one
after meals.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for «*■
£2700 for 1/-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers' Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
dell OO First Prize valued £IIOO
£SOO Second Prize valued £ SOO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 19i2.
II- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
Bv Post 1/2 —Two or more Post Free.
FRANK BURROWS, Queen st.. Glebe, N.S.W.
Tickets obtainable from N S W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
Stare and Samuel T. Green, Hon secretary.
Council C ambers, Blackheath, N.S.W
mn
m
each
Post Fife
Thousands in Use.
nm
( Patented )
n
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
, Dreadnought is fully maintained.
Titan Manufacturing Company
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .
*


g
an
§
m
% i % m
M
: F
JTP
l
Jm
,
i
■
m
wm
I
J
I**ol t MAI/TDt
JL> Cm ' rIA IVC» tv•#
MEMBERS OF THE
%
as
»I<L
AERIAL WIRES
AND CABLES*
sar<? or Braided.
t v r
mn
VW
Exclusive
Licensees
Members of
the C.M.A.
TELEPHONE WIRES
AND CABLES
PAPER
PINIONS
m\
A
y
ci
FLEXIBLE
WIRES
Electric Insulated
Wires and Cables.
Flexible Wires, Lead=covered
Wires and Cables, Braided
Aerial Wires and Cables,
House Service Fuse Boxes, etc.
Metal Manufactures Limited,
PORT KEMBLA, N.S W.
Bare Copper Wires & Cables.
Hard or Soft Drawn j Copper Rods and
Strips, Cotton-covered Wires, etc.
INSTRUMENT WIRES
Coh-on Co v<?r <?d
SilK Coverod
Enamell t?d
t
TT1?»
' '
TROLLEY WIRES FOR
TRAMWAYS
a
31 HI
FUSE BOXES
mmmrnmm.
INSULATED WIRES
X AND CABLES
W.B
4
171 Clarence
PHONE, CITY 912,9180.
Edward and Marij Si*
’PHONE. 160,
