

5^
A
wm
-
.-«
S&.
v 4
...-- » rt,
&&
i
Sf ■
w
¥
f
* * -’ii ■> »" ivtv _' »
■
5-lSSpfeWi^l^^i
■g.
su
in
■ lint
ppm
m
W&i 1
■
\ 5
■i «
I 1
. v , t '
v _f r „
■
, ‘ ,
. -'.
S^rdra
*to nw™ ***
brewed from
'•»C(Hv *»At
OXCbTMALTo^
<**
fe
r **ot
.
S3®®
l|g|gP||
=
BREVjed SjBOTTI-EO 8>
wmwtjreai
r /j
/T
M
**>?&&■ rar-y
NT* ■“““>•• - —•<•••• ••*•’•'" >4
r/i
Si
i
J
The
Winning Double
to the thirsty.
»
“The drink of good taste.”
Your money is well invested
on either !
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH &t CO. LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2229.
Thursday, November 2, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


New 1922 Circulating Library VJOtiUU6t
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’g BOOK ARCADE, LTD.
428 George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of Quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
SE& £5
SATISFIES
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE—“The Standard of Quality.”
K
KRRB
m
THE REPUTATION OF
mangrovite belting
is summed up in ABlLlTY—ability to carry the strain, ter
resist abrasion, to work consistently under various atmospheric
conditions, to set up new records, to operate with absolute
freedom from trouble, and to wear well generally, and thus
protect our good name. If you are experiencing belting
problems let us solve them for you. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
\ ICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Pty.,'Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND; Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
a
Beautiful, Brilliant Finish
—instead of Rust and Decay
TO make an article bright and attractive, to give it a
smooth and washable silver finish, use SAPOLIN
ALUMINUM ENAMEL. Easy to apply on any surface
—for fittings of all kinds, for rails, lawn furniture, iron
fences, mail boxes, hydrants, metres, lamp posts, hitch-
ing posts, etc., etc. For indoor and outdoor use, wash-
able, untarnishable and lasting.
For surfaces exposed to heat, such as boilers, stove
trimmings, gas and oil stoves, use SAPOLIN HOT
PIPE ALUMINUM.
For easily gilding and decorating the many articles about
a home that want a touch of brightness, for imitating
Genuine Gold, at small cost, use SAPOLIN IMITA-
TION GOLD GLAZE. It gives a smooth, brilliant finish.
Sold wherever paint is sold. Look for the SAPOLIN label.
SAPOLFN
ALUMINUM ENAMEL
H
SAPOLIN
ot Pipe Aluminum
SAPOLIff
Imitation Gold Glaze
also
SAPOLIN Floor & Furniture Stains
SAPOLIN Carriage Gloss Colours
SAPOLIN Decorative Enamels
SAPOLIN Bathtub Enamel
SAPOLIN Aluminum Glaze
SAPOLIN Varnish Stains
etc.
IUtSIS
EHAMa
Made by G6i*stendorfer Bros., New York, U. S. A.
Also manufacturers of “OUR FAVORITE’ Imitation Gold
Enamel, washable. Best imitation of genuine gold leaf. Eco-
nomical and easily applied.
A GERMAN POWD
11
8*
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
«nd STORES. Price 1
The Great Insect Destroyer-
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
[5
r
MUSTDIE
The Red Page
A Prattler Abroad.
“After the War: A Diary/’
by I<ieut.-CoI. C. ft Court Repihgton, C.M.G.
(Constable & oo\.j Ltd. Our copy from Dyinock’s.)
The defect of Colonel Repington’s new
diary is the defect of the writer. Full
though it is of interesting information of
places, people and events, the reader cannot
avoid the impression that these things are
merely introduced as contrasts or comple-
ments to the importance of the Colonel. In
fact, it is impossible to escape the Colonel.
Largely the diary is a record of trivialities,
though sometimes of trivialities potent with
importance. It is not important that Sir
Basil Zaharoff should own a gold dinner-
service, but it is important to know how he
got it. The act of possession is merely vul-
gar ostentation, but the processes leading up
to possession might explain a good many
mysteries of modern European history. It
is unimportant that the author hobnobbed
vvith the Balkan kings. Monarchs are in the
discard in that part of the world, and likely
to remain so. As the book is unillustrated
it is only peppering bread to tell us how
lovely “Eudoxia” or any other princess is;
whilst the little asides as to the charms of
the ladies he meets are extraordinarly offen-
sive in their w r ay.
However, those who have the patience to
read, and are willing to discount the self-
importance of the author, will find a consid-
erable amount of interesting matter in this
record of journalistic travel for the year of
grace 1921. They will also get some impres-
sion of how policies are created and press
sympathy organised. Repington exposes
plainly enough the irreconcilable policies of
Britain and France, both signing the Treaty
of Sevres, to confine the Turks to Asia Minor,
and Britain aiding Venizelos to steal that
area from them, France simultaneously help-
ing the Turks back to Europe. Franklin-
Bouillon and his Angora walking-stick repre-
sented not a cause but a consequence.
Generally diplomacy has been abased in
Europe. Diplomats are not even the clerks
at the end of the wire. They are just house-
keepers for the Embassies. The work of
the diplomats has been neglected and, instead,
foreign relations are conducted by amateurs.
At these international conferences practi-
cally always the Foreign Offices are ignored
and even unrepresented, though obviously
negotiation is the business of diplomacy.
Neither Lloyd George nor Poincare, to men-
tion two statesmen most prominent at recent
conferences, is a diplomat, nor are they
accustomed to handle foreign affairs. Both,
as a fact, are lawyers, whose business it is
to make a case.
In “After the War” one cannot help being
struck by the ignorance of vital facts on the
part of those in high places. For__ example. a
I rench Minister of War solemnly informs the
author that submarines were being built for
German account-in Swedish shipyards. We
have Marshal Petain ignorant within a few
millions of the population of the Rhineland,
of which he was to become Governor under
a new blockade then threatened, and the
population of which he would have to pro-
vision.
Perhaps the most distressing chapter is that
headed “Infelix Austria.” In what was once
the most brilliant of all the European capi-
tals, 356,000 children were being fed. 18
months ago, by British and American Relief
r unds. The glorious Hofburg was a desert.
A foreign military attache occupied the
archducal palace, that of Franz Ferdinand
and the Duchess of Hohenburg, who were-
murdered at Serajevo. For Kaiser Karl and
ms consort, the vivacious Zita of Parma, there
was much sympathy but little sorrow. If
Austria goes monarchist—and republicanism
m Vienna must be like a priest in a night
club—the chosen will come from the Hun-
garian house of Hapsburg, and it will not be
by a coup d’etat, such as the late Karl’s
frolic, but by solemn application to the
League of Nations. That Austria will again
be a monarchy is likely, and then again,
with its wealth of tradition and history, its
taste and experience, it may become one of
the centres of European culture and civilisa-
There is certainly no lack of interest
1 “ Golonel Repington’s latest book. He tours
all the Balkans, Italy, Germany, the Rhine-
land, and we have glimpses of London and a
chapter on Washington and New York. His
style is cheap. His literary stomach must
bo strong if he can read his diary every day,
and doubtless he does, and purrs over
it. The main objection really is to the
Colonel himself and the type which he re-
presents. These unofficial diplomats are
a public nuisance. They may have the best
ot intentions, but they are liable to the worst
of constructions, especially when their social
prestige is used to hallmark their political
pretensions. The value of foreign corres-
pondence in _ the British press has always
been rated high, because of the impartiality
or the correspondents. Colonel Repington’s
idea ot foreign correspondence appears to be
to puff the wares of disgruntled diplomats.
Tom Collins
Quite recently in the Goulburn Valley
(^ic.) I turned the tap of an on-wheels
iron tank to which a horse could be har-
nessed. The resultant flow was torrential,
a tumbling cascade good to see. The owner
or the portable contrivance agreed with a
remark of mine, adding: “I wouldn’t be
without a Furphy.” Quite close was Shep-
parton. I had reason, then, to contemplate
the tank with interest. Flashing memory is
a conjurer. As I regarded the structure, in-
verted commas grew round its embossed
name, which died away to let another name
appear, and I saw—“ Tom Collins.” The
memory-magic of things read excelled itself,
and the tank became a picture-flung screen,
whereon I beheld a man working in iron
but dreaming of words, for pen-hunger was
gnawing persistently....
We know that this hunger was appeased.
“Such is Life” is a vessel with the virtue of
a Furphy tank: it jields vigorously and
abundantly. The turning of its pages obtains
a cascadian result like the turning of the
tank tap.
Too much so, for “Such is Life” wearies
all but the scholar. It bores with its pedan-
tic digressions, which make the reader feel
that they were influenced, rather than in-
spired, by the author’s reading. They create
a profundity which conflicts with the set-
ting—Greek echoes ringing above an Aus-
tralian bush-camp! The learned lapses are
too frequent to come under the heading of
studied incongruities of the bush, and are
clearly not intended to be a broad depic-
tion of that sometimes Never-Never wan-
derer, the possessor of a college mind at
work beneath an old felt hat. Still, it is
honest, candid pedantry, and the reader
submits to the frequency of it with a mea-
sure of the admiration with which Sam, in
“Rigby’s Romance,” followed Rigby’s rheto-
ric on the memorable night at the river-side,
when that gentleman should have been court-
ing instead of “spruiking.”
A. G. Stephens, in his preface to “Rigby’s
Romance,” throws back the curtain on
Joe Furphy’s scholarship: “With dictionary
and synonyms-book and a shelf of 18th-cen-
tury authors, he labored at language for the
dignity of literature: producing a ponderous
style, heavy with words.” Thus soaked,
Furphy, unless a great wisdom prevailed,
could hardly avoid wielding a pen that had
the generous outpouring way of the tap
on the Furphy tank. No wonder the. plain-
English-loving Archibald did not like the
MS. of “Such is Life.” It was “too long
and too slow.”
To my mind, “Rigby’s Romance,” read
first, improves “Such is Life.” The Tom
Collins who “chips” the wound-up Rigby is
altogether different from the tedious Collins
you met before. The personality of the first
person singular author is everything to a
book. The listening, amusedly-interjecting
Collins is more lovable and more of a “bloke”
than the Collins lecturing to his pipe. His
derision of the pompous “Senator” sweetens
that fault in himself in “Such is Life,” for
it reveals that Furphy wrote doAvn his ver-
bose phrases deliberately and with an ambi-
tion that can be guessed. Moreover, after
“Such is Life,” this passage falls very plea-
santly into your bombarded, sulky ear: “It
was a beautiful evening... .no annoying hum
of mosquitoes marred a concert of evening
sounds, made up by the homely clatter of
myriad frogs, and the tangled melody of a
dozen bells, copious in range of tone and
timbre. And from time to time, like a
drunken Welshman talking in his sleep,
came the guttural discourse of a ’possum,
or, perhaps, the mumble of a bear; while,
at shorter intervals, some solitary mopoke
solemnly announced himself by name, elicit-
ing occasional response from two or three
far-away friends, who seemed to call them-
selves ‘pope-pope’—certain sound-waves of
the note being exhausted in transit. Three
hilarious kookaburra, sitting side by side
on a dead branch close by, did their best to
liven things up before retiring for the night;
while now and then some dejected curlew
yelled his probably imaginary woes on the
sympathetic air; and away in different direc-
tions the monotonous and foolish barking of
several dogs might lead the thrifty soul to
meditate on the unpreventable leakage of
Energy in this world of ours.” You cannot
stay sullen after that. The component pic-
tures of the vignette stand out as delicately
and attractively as might the little flat fingers
of a fern-frond contrasting against the side
of the black billy strapped to a thrown-
down swag. You thrill and sit up: you
know all those sounds, and you are delighted
at the very excellent manner of their repro-
duction. Pleased, you read on for other
Australian samples. You find instead a tire-
some philosopher, and the atmosphere be-
comes that of a forum of the Ancients.
Therefore, you lose nothing by skipping the
Rigbyisms and going back to Dixon’s pro-
fane intolerance of the patient methods of
Moses with the ungrateful tribes of Israel.
Everybody, more or less, has a Dixon
tucked away in a memory-corner. That
person is real, and, at heart, splendid in
spite of his conversation’s very necessary
brackets. Not so the stately Rigby,' who is
Furphy. Here obtrudes a might.v-tongued
scholar. It is true that he would educate
you, but that was not your purpose in taking
up the book. Too much philosophy makes
you feel wistful for more evening sounds and
more humor in the shape of Dixon.
Now, Furphy knew the bush, and he,
knew bush types. The great Australian
novel must have pleaded for construction to
this well-equipped writer. Seduced by that
“dictionary and synonyms-book and a shelf
of 18-century authors,” he turned the chance
down. \-
Clearly Joseph Furphy wrote for the sake
of homage and not for that more precious
literary tribute, gratitude. The penalty of
that is a tardy, doubtful fame.
R. L. CLAY.
Foreign Literature in Australia
It is an odd fact that in Sydney,
a city of 900,000 souls, there is little or no
demand for new French or Italian literature.
The other capital cities are in much the same
position—£loQ or so per annum would cover
the trade of a bookseller in a big way in any
of them. It is different in the second-
hand departments, where library lizards
are always to be met with who are
very keen on acquiring a good edition of a
French classic, and who don’t mind paying a
reasonable price. But, alas! prices are any-
thing but reasonable, nowadays; in truth,
they remain abnormally high, which is a curi-
ous condition of affairs when one considers
that most of the volumes offered were pub-
lished 50 years ago. But I suppose it’s the high
wages! I notice that purchasers of expensive
French literature are almost always Austra-
lians. Books in Italian are, as a rule, not
available in the shops, the only one that meets
the eye being the Oxford edition of Dante. I
remember obtaining Henry Beyle’s “La
Chartreuse de Parme,” and a New Testament
in Italian, but that was an accident. They
are not stocked. Editions of Molidre are
prone to linger long on the shelves, but a
nice edition of the “Memoires de Saint-
(Continued on page 25.)


Ah
w a
Incomparable Valve in Reliable Firearms
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
YTI42. —Winchester S.S.
Rifle, 1904 Model, to take '„«22
Calibre Short, Long or Extra Long
Cartridges. Round -barrel, 21 inches
long. Weight, about 41b., with
Elevating Sight.
Price ...... 55/-
Anthony Horderns’ enjoy the
proud prestige of possessing the
absolute confidence of every cus-
tomer who knows their values in
Firearms. They know that any
goods bought there will give satis-
factory service. This prestige has
been wholly achieved by the care-
ful selection of Reliable Firearms
—and, in further proof, we submit
the following examples:—
We undertake Re-
pairs of all kinds to
any make of Gun,
Rifle or Revolver.
New barrels and
other parts fitted to
Rifles. Sights fitted
and adjusted.
YTl2o.—The New B.S.A. 12-bore
Gun, Chambered for 2-J-inch Cartridges,
of Nitro Powders. Weight about 7.]lb.
Price
Hammerless Pigeon
Proved for heavy charges
£ls/15/-
We are always pre-
pared to give an
exact price, if re-
quired, for any work
before it is put in
hand, but it is neces-
sary for us to have
the Firearm (com-
plete, if possible)
before we can quote.
YTl72.—The New .22 Savage Hi-Power Rifle, “The
Imp.” Featherweight “Take Down’’ Model.
Price £l2/10/-
.22 High Power Savage Cart-
ridge.
Price . . 8/- box of 20
37/6 box of 100
YTl44.—Winchester Rifle,
1890 Model, made for .22 short, .22
long, .22 long rifle, or .22 W.R.F.
24-inch Octagon Barrel, “Take
Down” Plain Trigger, Straight Grip
Stock of plain wood. Weight, about
5-Jib.
Price
£7
GUN LICENSE ACT
To avoid delay when
ordering Revolvers and
Pistols, a Gun License
must be sent with
order. This does not
a PPIF to Rifles, Guns
or Ammunition, which
may now be purchased
without license.
2 2
SHORT
SHORT
ORDER BY MAIL.
You can write for
any goods from
Anthony Horderns’
with perfect confi-
dence of satisfactory
results.
INov
§»«l§H[
Lubricates
mm ix pKt on. cd
YT494.—3 ini 1
Oil. Cleans anil
Polishes. Prevents
Rust and Tarnish.
PrippQ •
loz. Bottle, 9d.;
30z., 1/6, Boz.,
3/3.
YTlol.—Hollis & Sons’ 12-g. Anson &
Deeley Pattern Hammerless D.B.
Pigeon Gun, Cross Bolt, Steel Barrels (both
choke), Automatic Safety Bolt, proved for Nitro
Powder, chambered for 2§ Cartridges, high, fiat,
dead-level, File-cut Bib, Walnut Heart Stock.
Price ....... 77 £127
As above, with 32-inch Barrels and Side Clips.
Price £2B/10/-
YTI66. Remington
Auto-L oading Rifle,
Model, 24A, easily assembled
and taken apart for cleaning
or carrying; solid breech, ham-
merless. Will fire .22 Calibre
Short Smokeless Cartridges of
any make. 20-inch round Bar-
rel. Weight, 4’lb. Maga-
zine holds 11 Cartridges.
Price
£5
VT26o.—Webley & Scott Auto-
matic Pistol, .32 Calibre. Maga-
zine carries 8 Cartridges. Length 6J
inches. Weight, 200 oz.
Price £6/6/-
Handy Oil CQ&
THREE IN ONE OIL
PREVENTS R» sT
giFrtj lubricates
rEL| ■ CLEANS AND
9E POLISHES
'Bn ■ taikihg machine*
RAZORS A *TNOF9
COfimfTAJ®*'
*°*«**: 03 HT MACKWCfpr. 'IS
H4 *<OS.FURN!TU*C AVVOOOWOR* 1 *
THfEE pio^^;‘cm. t COMPAH ,
itgw*mu&A
YT495. — 3 in 1
Oil, 3 02. handy
Cans.
Price . . 1/6
TRAPSHOOTING OUTFITS.
YTso.—Winchester Junior
Outfit, the best practice for trap
Price
Trapshooting
shooting.
£lO
Y T 5 I.—Winchester Midget
Clay Targets. Weight, 8-Jlb. 100.
Price 10/- 100
£4/15/- 1000
m
r*
YTs2. — The “Dupont” Hand Trap, a
Practical Device for Throwing Cla3 r Targets for
those desiring to become proficient shooters in
the field and at the traps.
Price
45/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


w
u
mt
§
+ GF+
1
r
ft
This Plumber Knows
He has had the handling of too many
jobs to overlook the importance of
getting the very best of materials for his
Plumbing work.
Miles of Piping of varied sorts passes
through his hands for the different classes
of work, and he goes to considerable
trouble to find the most reliable kind.
But when it comes to ordering the Mall-
eable Fittings, on which is staked the
success of his whole work—he never
hesitates, but demands —|— GF |-, the
Fittings which are unfailingly up to stand-
ard and reliable to the utmost.
Not only are they of less weight than
Wrought Fittings, but are more accurate
both in fit and angles; further, their
larger variety of patterns enables install-
ations of all kinds to be executed more
quickly, technically more correct, and
their flawless make and perfectly parallel
threading invariably saves from 25 to 50
per cent, in the fitting-up labor alone.
MALLEABLE
FITTINGS
ff
r
Besides being used
for all Plumbing pur-
poses —|— GF —|—
Fittings are exten-
sively used for the
construction of Stair
Railings, Engine
Barriers and Artistic
Railing Work.
r A
ROSE
For
GAS. STEAM. WATER, etc.
are
Made from best English Iron.
Tested and guaranteed to 3001 b.
Steam Pressure.
All Beaded, and show no liability
to stretch when used with
Taper threads.
A Few Big Users
of + GF.+ FITTINGS for
GAS, STEAM and WATER WORK.
N.S.W. Government Railways.
Sydney Harbor Trust.
Australian Gaslight Company, Sydney.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (at all mills).
Public Works Departments.
Broken Hill Steel Works, Newcastle.
All Water & Sewerage Boards.
Government Dockyards.
Broken Hill Mines.
Waterworks Department, Adelaide.
Breweries, Flour Mills, etc.
Leading Plumbers and Gasfitters throughout N.S.W.
Write now for the Complete Illustrated List to
William Adams s Company Ltd
SOLE AGENTS,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth,
Adelaide, Launceston, Newcastle.
B
-J— GF -}- Fittings are Guaranteed to
3001 b. pressure, but look at this phenomenal
test, by the David Kirkaldy Testing and
Experimenting works, of 99 Southwark
Street, London, S.E., made on March 27,
1907.
OFFICIAL TESTS.
We hereby certify that we sub-
jected a combination of Malleable
Cast-iron Fittings, received from
the Cyclops Ironworks, Millwall, to
internal bursting stress, by hydraulic
pressure.
TEST No. P.P. 864.
At a pressure of 36101 b. per square
inch water was sweating through, the
metal at fork branch marked “B” on
photo. All other Fittings remained
dry, and all joints remained tight.
Marks cast on branch.
14
“B” +GF +
14 . .
(The pressure could not be raised
higher, owing to leakage of water
through the mteal.)
Plug was removed from connection
marked “A” to permit of pressure
being applied to the combination. The
fittings varied in size from 2in. down
l ° DAVID KIRKALDY & SON.


Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/C lied and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
Monarch
A ROYAL
SMOKE
23
All Good
Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d.
each.
Special
samnlirg
cabinet
containing
10 Cigars, 6/•
25, 12/6
50, 23 9
100, 46/-
Post paid to
any address
Craig sAitken
6548 George Street,
Sydney,
Distributors for Club
Reil Cigar Factory.
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutohinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
k
*<r
mxt •
*s**ri ««»<«•
HORLICK‘S
MALTED MILKG.
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
9
“ What a
Difference!"
Try Dr.
Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut
Stain on
YOUR HAIR,
and you’ll be
more than
pleased with
the difference
M
A
n
in your appearance! Don’t look
old any longer—change vour
GREY Hair to a glossy WALNUT.
Easy to apply—harmless—water-
proof—permanent!
All Chemists.
MEXICAN
IWAINUT STAINJ
Use Eudenta Twice a Day
You’ll Never Have a Tooth Decay.
Sickness cannot always be avoided, but
greater care of the teeth would minimise
much unnecessary suffering. It is well
known that decayed teeth poison the system.
Use “Eudenta,” the antiseptic dentifrice, and
assure yourself of sound teeth.
Every Chemist Sells
“Eudenta” at 1/- a Tube.
Eudenta
Tooth pas’e l
sw
~t-v
sTY
; {n/
Wr
orDisorders of
the JLiVer
Biliousness, sick headache, giddiness, lassitude,
drowsiness and depression of spirits, all result
from an inactive liver. A teaspoonful of
ENO’s “Fruit Salt” taken in a glass of cold
water at intervals will prove soothing and
refreshing, and stimulate the sluggish functions
into wholesome activity. Your chemist sells
NO’S
FRUIT SALT
32T-
tales Representatives I
THE BRITISH
H. F. Ri I CHIK & Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
Some of the
Masterpieces
from the famous
Red Boxes.
HILLIER’S
CHOCOLATES
Passion-fruit Chocolate Creams
Reception Chocolate Creams
Creme de Menthe Chocolates
Coffee Cream Chocolates
Walnut Maple Chocolates
Bitter-s we e t Chocolates
Centennial Chocolates
Chocolate Nougat
Chocolate Raisins
Every piece a Masterpiece
of the Confectionery Art.
Mailed to you the day they are made
Post Free to- any address in Australia.
PRICES: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- & 30/-
162-166 Pitt Street, Sydney,
and Cr. George 6* King Streets „
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before a Shelf of Poetry.
What a melody of passion,
What old wooings out of fashion.
Virgin lips and eyes of fire
Wake again to old desire
From the poet pages here,
In the clamor of the year!
Swinburne’s rivers of word-honey
Flowing through the meadows sunny;
Whir of wings and clash of swords —
Francis Thompson’s angel hordes,
Wordsworth’s grave, sequestered way
Half disturbing this calm day.
What a hurly-burly blowing!
YVhat an apple-blossnn snowing!
Witches’ wine and Pan’s red pleasure,
In a swift and lordly leisure,
Slumber here the years along,
Sheltered in the sleep of song.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Shuttered House.
My heart is like a house where none comes
nigh,
Where every door and pane is shuttered
fast:
And only dead, blown leaves go whirling
past,
And pale clouds dreaming on an empty sky.
Throughout the echoing rooms, white-walled
and high,
I make my ghostly rounds, each like the
last,
And stir the drifted dust the years have
cast,
Fearful of some frail latch I have passed by.
For I am sore afraid that one will come —
Some wandering thief called Love, who
knows no law,
Who with his hasty hands will force the pin
That’s loose, and find me there, wild-eyed
and dumb!
I dare not clasp him yet; and so I draw
The covering curtains close and hide within!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.
Magdalen.
Married. Alas! and staid and commonplace,
And so you come one little year too late,
To find me robed in grey and white sedate,
My lord and master’s perfect, ptallid saint.
Lebne, I did not look to see your face.
I gave you in the loving, laughing South
My lips—my soul —a million ecstasies
(Lovers of "mine had died for less than
these)
To you, who fled to save your coward soul
From my white arms and loving, wanton
mouth.
In the dead days, rose-crowned and gar-
landed,
I came to you, as flame to passion’s fire,
With scarlet lips that sated not desire;
But Magdalen were only Magdalen,
Robed royally in rose or poppy-red.
Could your love dare, in this grey, quiet
place,
To leap the bounds your shudd’ring soul
abhors,
And, victor of a hundred bitter wars,
Clasp me and keep me. Nevermore,
Leone;
The past and I have perished. Hide your
face!
Speak low! The dead lies here; no pulse
a-stir.
The scarlet lips—the hair’s massed scented
gold—
The soul you bargained for —all slipped
your hold.
Leone, the woman that you loved is dead.
The lily flowers of peace blow over her!
N.S.W.
A. A. EVANS.
La, la!
Two eyes demurely shaded
By lashes soft and long.
What though my charm has faded?
What ''though the olden son?
Of “Youth’s forgotten now?
As I go down the years
I still love silken lashes.
Fire stirs among the ashes
To warm my heart. I vow
She has delicious ears!
Full lips of pleasing sweetness
(They’d not do things by halves) ;
Slim feet of teasing neatness
(I dare not mention calves).
Alack! and dearie me!
Mere words cannot express
Her beauty’s lure that thrills me,
Her beauty’s grace that tills me
With dreams of witchery!
(Disturbing, I confess.)
Two little hands that flicker
About the stuff she knits.
They cause my blood to snicker,
They hustle into fits
Prudence, the mistress staid,
Who orders now my life,
They make me think of kisses
Exotic, vivid. (This is
Between us, be it said.
Pray, keep it from my wife.)
Alas, for dear Romance’s
Last effort to atone!
With this one all m.v chances
To join m.v youth have flown.
I cannot meet her lord
(’Twuld heln me), her papa
Is a fat fool desnotic,
Who deems mv ’?pr«e “neurotic.”
Never by her adored
I’ll be. Alack ! La. la !
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


Minchinbury
¥
rev
W\:
m
m
mt
o
o
/. • :
x tm
. „•* „* 7 *
■'
' -V/‘4 /
> ...' 4 ' *.£.'**.*
r j - -4 , , >44 - * •>,:-
■ i v 4 /<i ~ &
\ * *»? ■- . -y- *■*
' ' *4 „ . '*; * . ,
■ 4 *
a


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2229.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1922,
Price 6n.
AUSTRALIA MOVES.
“American Flier at 24S miles an hour. Huge New Bombing Machine. Now Motorless Monoplane Records Established.”—Recent cable headings. cannot
“Another set-back to aviation in Australia has occurred. The historic aerodrome at Richmond (N.S.W.) is to be dismantled-because the State Government cannot
afford it, and the Commonwealth has finally refused to take it over.” —Sydney TELEGRAPH.
HISTORICAL PICTURE (Circa 1932). The Commonwealth Government borrows from the Sydney Museum the only aeroplane left in Australia, and sets up
in opposition to the Great Air Transport Combine, with the object of lowering the latter’s extortionate passenger, freights- and mail-charges.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the Wbito .Man.’’
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co.. 214 Goorse Street. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO STTrtSt'RTRERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ant apdrkss in Australasia, weekly:
12 months. £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.: S months, 7s.
To ant address Oveiiseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; S months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO nords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received ate those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival oj each mail, from■ Messrs. (Jordon
and Ootch, Ludgatc Circus ; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.-i;
E T Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; •■The Brilish-Auslralasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central hews Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — (J. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Poland hay Co., 161 East
Eric Street, A'. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets.
San Francisco. New Fork: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty Newi Co.,
Seattle, Washington. .
Kciypt. — Jacques, Horn A C 0 ,9 The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said. Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., / edder Street,
Hong Kong. „ . ,
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. ....
Cktlon. —IV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. , , _ ~ .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarat and Port Moresby.
Flit.—4. Barker, Sura: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EC4. . _
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper ) ; —Throughout the Commonwealth : loo*.,
Id. (/or single copies'). All British Possessions: joz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., kd. United Kingdom,
A'll Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: kof or
part thereof, Ud. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, M.
ifce'&xzlleiMi.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1922.
THREE POLICY SPEECHES.
The war on the home front, in which words
are the weapons of offence and defence and
portfolios the trophies of victory, was
ushered in thunderously last week. In one
night two policy speeches were fired at the
electors and a third came along 48 hours
later. All three were delivered in N. S.
Wales, and the longest and least interesting
was that of the Priminister. There wasn’t
a punch in it from first to last. Not a single
arresting phrase or original thought. The
thing was as dry and flat as the Nullarbor
Plain; an altogether mechanical and lifeless
performance; the jaded production of a mind
which has lost the capacity tor feeling and
imparting enthusiasm and even for simulat-
ing it —of a politician who is tired of every-
thing but office, and is ready to sacrifice
anything that will weaken his hold on office-
In" that respect he has outdone all previous
efforts in the same direction. On the scrap-
heap he has thrown, not only the remnants
of his Laborism, but policies with which he
has been peculiarly identified since he be-
came a “Nationalist.” Scared of the Liberal
reaction he exhibits himself as a Liberal of
the 1913 vintage in all things except the
name. That was the year in which he
strenuously exerted himself to get State
railway employees brought under the Com-
monwealth Arbitration Court and wrote a
pamphlet to prove that nothing could be
fairer. Now his Government “believes that
State instrumentalities should be outside the
Federal jurisdiction, which Should be con-
fined to disputes in industries Federal in
their nature.” Hitherto he has been the
prop and nillar of coal control, and last year
he had it renewed for 12 months. But coal
control has become unpopular—exit coal Con-
trol. Four months ago he travelled through
Queensland encouraging the sugar farmers
to expect a renewal of their agreement if
they voted the right ticket. But it has been
made piam to him that he can’t renew the
sugar agreement and retain his job, so the
sugar agreement goes. In lieu of the agreement
the planters are promised a tugher rate of
duty than the penny a pound brought down
when Parliament was in extremis, but this
particular promise is only one of a multi-
tude. There are promises for every State
and every section of a State; promises of
railways and reductions of taxation, of jobs
for the unemployed and financial backing for
food pools—definite promises where votes are
to be gained thereby, indefinite where it is
safer to refer disputed questions to conven-
tions and commissions. The Priminister
even had the face to declare that it was the
policy, past, present and future, of h s Gov-
ernment “to observe the strictest economy.”
Fortunately, the roof didn’t fall in.
* » * *
There was honester stuff in Charlton’s
speech. The style was terser and the matter
more pertinent, and through it ran a note of
sincerity that the other effort lacked. And
the Labor leader’s criticisms of “National-
ism” on its administrative side were, in the
main, effective. They could hardly fail to
be effective in some degree. Things like the
Ividman-Mayoh contract, which involved
the country in a loss of £166,000; the
wooden ships, winch cost £812,000 and were
sold for £10,000; the £115,000 paid to the
S’African victims of nefarious transactions
in Australian wheat (nothing has ever bepn
said as to the identity of the sellers or
whether any of the £115,000 has been re-
funded), and the unexpiated political crime
of the war-service homes carry their own
condemnation of those responsible for them.
The dullest speaker could score heavily
against the Government merely by recapitu-
lating the facts. Of these and other fea-
tures of an unspeakably rotten administra-
tive record Charlton made skilful use. It
was when he tried to shape a constructive
poLcy that he fell down. He talked vaguely
of “stimulating the land developmental pro-
cess” by “readjusting the law asainst mono-
poly,” without touching the original exemp-
tion of £5OOO. This in a country where the
Backbloeks have been half ruined by
drought, slump and over-taxation, and where
even the Queensland Government has had
to admit a loss of £342,000 on its rent- and
tax-free cattleruns in one year. The sugar
industry he would stabilise by tackling the
Colonial S.ugar Refining Co., whereupon the
growers, canecutters, millers, consumers,
fruitgrowers, jam-makers and confectioners
would get all they ask for. So, at least, it is
to be inferred from his misty remarks. On
the New State question he mumbled some
futile commonplaces about provincial coun-
cils. His deplorable Defence policy is to
abolish compulsory training and reduce mili-
tary expenditure to the pre-war figure. As to
finance, he has a wild idea that the note issue
“can be so utilised as to be made an active
agent in the reconstruction of society.” One
of the hundred objections is that the more
paper you issue the more you increase the
cost of producing beef, fruit, wheat, copper
and so forth, some of which articles are un-
saleable. and some doubtfully profitable. as
it is. Perhaps the notion of monkeying with
the note issue was thrust on Charlton by
his Bolshie associates. He is bound by the
communistic platform of the Brisbane con-
ference, and it is the function of a Labor
leader to be led.
• • • •
In the programme of the Country party
there is nothing startlingly new. However,
Earle Page’s speech differed profoundly
from those of Charlton and Hughes. Dif-
fered in this respect, that it contained no
sops or threats. It appealed neither to
the cupidity of the electors nor to their
class prejudices. It was imbued with a
sounder spirit than has obtained in Austra-
lian political polemics since Deakin retired,
and recalled other days when party leaders
didn’t disdain to address arguments to the
people instead of treating them like a mob
of gibbering idiots, to be bribed or scared
into voting the desired way. To a public
bored stiff with the interminable wrangles
of Labor and ex-Labor legislators, and re-
sentful of the many injuries they have in-
flicted on the country, it is encouraging to
find a young politician commencing his
policy speech with the statement that “Aus-
tralia has reached a period in her his-
tory when her greatest need is sound gov-
ernment on an ordered plan,” and emphasis-
ing that his party is an organised protest
against centralising tendencies “which have
resulted in practically half the population
being lured into the capital seaboard cities,
while the great hinterland, by its loneliness,
isolation and lack of facilities, drives its
dwellers away.” It is refreshing to turn
from dreary lies about Nationalist plots to
reduce wages and Labor plots to set up a
Soviet Republic, and read that the Coun-
try party has plans for the survey and
mobilisation of the national resources, insists
that “the first essential in a policy for Aus-
tralia is to reduce her unproductive debts
at the earliest possible moment,” and stands
for “the subdivision of unwieldy States into
compact, homogeneous areas, with commu-
nity of interests” —in short, for the big Aus-
tralian policy of new States. Nothing very
brilliant in all this, perhaps ; but it is radi-
cally clean and healthy. Unlike the ’isms
with which the other groups are tainted, there
is nothing imported about it. The inspira-
tion is wholly Australian. And there is
not much wrong with a party of which that'
can be said.
STARVING THE STEEL INDUSTRY.
One of the many death-bed promises made
by W. M. Hughes in his public recantation
at Chatswood, last week, was that coal
would be decontrolled after the coming
Federal elections —or, specifically, after
December 31. But a question that will
be asked by the discerning elector,
who has been paying more —in many
cases over 100 per cent, more—than he
should for most of his necessaries owing to
the inordinate price of coal is: Why was
rot decontrol, instituted a year or more ago?
The trade was resigned on th a whole, and
only W. M. Hughes stood in the way when
it came to the point.. It is a trifling circum-
stance, relatively, that each ounce of food
we eat, every garment we buy, every train
or tram journey we make should be costing
anything up to double what it ought to,
chieily because coal is from two to three times
more'costly than in pre-war times. The out-
standing calamity is, not that Brown is
paying 2d. instead of Id. on a tram, or that
Smith’s sheep are costing him 50 per cent,
more to truck than they should, but that
dear coal is killing the prospects of the
Commonwealth’s iron and steel industries —
the master industries, without which no
country can become or remain great.
As an immigration agent, steel is worth a
thousand Australia Houses, an Army Corps
of Percy Hunters. During the 150 years
preceding England’s industrial revolution,
the population increased by about 33 per
cent. In the century and a half that fol-
lowed the population increased by 450 per
cent. Before the age of iron and steel the
nation lived chiefly by agriculture and com-
merce, and was poor; only when the British
began to supply the world with manufac-
tured goods did they become rich and power-
ful. And it was the same with America.
France, in a very real sense, fought the
late war for coal. In 1914 Germany had
423 billions of tons to France’s 17 billions,
and' the Fatherland’s population was swell-
ing proportionately. “Revanche” was the
rallying cry of the French, but the goal
was’ coal; the unforgettable, because nation-
ally priceless, coal of Lorraine. France
needed the coal of the stolen provinces for
its gas, benzol, creosote, carbolic acid; for
its fertilisers and aniline dyes; and for
innumerable drugs (saccharin, aspirin,
phenacetin and the rest), but, most of all, it
wanted coal for defence. It has taken from
its beaten foes a good deal of that which
made Germany for nearly half-a-century the
powerhouse and arsenal of Europe.
* * * *
Australia’s mineral i - esources have, so far,
been barely scratched. However, N. S. Wales
alone is already known to possess over half the
coal supply of.Greatßritain and Ireland, while
the Commonwealth’s iron reserves have been
proved to be ffig. and may turn out to be
colossal. The most valuable of the French
iron deposits w r ere, after all, only recently
discovered. Newcastle is the Common-
wealth’s greatest coal-producing centre, and
here it was that the Broken Hill Proprie-
tary decided, shortly before the war, to
invest upwards of £5,000,000 in the steel
business. For a year this huge enterprise
has been virtually idle. The reason was
revealed at the annual conference of the
Associated Chambers of Manufacturers of
Australia held in Sydney last week: —
Speaking as a delegate to the conference, and not
as the Victorian representative on the Coal Board,
Robert Gibson said that he found it difficult to
reconcile the advance in the price of coal and the
advance in wages. In 1914 the price of large coal
at Newcastle was 10s. per ton, and for small coal
the price was ss. per ton. Since then prices had
advanced to 225. 6d. and 18s. 6d. respectively, show-
ing advances of 125 per cent, on large coal and 370
per cent, on small coal. According to the figures
issued by the Government Statistician, surface laborers
received 48s. in 1914, and the latest figures for July,
1922, showed that they were then receiving 995. per
week, an advance of iO5 per cent. “What I would
like to know,” said the speaker, “is, if wages
advanced only 105 per cent., why there is such a
big advance in the price of coal?”
The whole of the reasons why coal has been
advanced in such a way as to endanger
the existence of the Newcastle steelworks
must remain a matter for speculation, _ cer-
tainly for the present, perhaps for all time;
but the reason why certain people have been
able to make such a move is as clear as
print, and may be stated in one word: "Con-
trol.” It is only necessary to glance at the
results of the activities of the coal tribunal
to see that it gives the public no repre-
sentation whatever. Small coal, which
is the variety used in the steel industry, is
17s. 9d. a ton to-day as against ss. a ton
before the war. Since Justice Edmunds
allowed an increase of 3s. per ton in 1916 —
he “apparently regarded the making of the
order as obligatory upon him under the
terms of his commission” from W- M.
Hughes —the procedure has been for propri-
etors and miners to go before the tribunal and
hoist prices and wages by common consent, the
presiding official being no more really than
a registrar in the matter. It is the most
pernicious brand of trust manipulation, and
the fact that for once in a way masters and
men are more or less associated in
the conspiracy makes it no more en-
durable to the public, which is re-
quired to pay through the nose for
every imaginable service in order that these
two classes may enrich themselves. Another
deplorable effect is lessened production. The
owners sell less coal at the inflated price
(the B. H. Proprietary, for example, could
carry on with small coal at 10s., but is abso-
lutely unable to pay 17s. 6d.), and the
miners do less work for their inflated wages
—an arrangement which, wffiile satisfactory
to the two sections concerned, is fatal to the
progress of the country.
» * * *
An excellent reason why W. M. Hughes,
instead of being about to decontrol coal two
months hence, in the problematical event of
his getting back to power, should have done
it a year ago, lies in the facility which the
existing system offers for what the Yankees
call “graft.” Suppose, for the sake of argu-
ment, that some local or foreign syndicate
wanted to acquire the B. H. Proprietary’s
steel works at bargain-sale rates. The only
requisite would be to organise a stoppage of
the coal supply, or make coal too expensive
for steel-manufacturing to be undertaken as
a paying proposition. The businesslike
Rockefeller laid the foundations of his
vast fortune by performing a manoeuvre on
much the same lines when the pipe-line epoch
started in the U.S. oil industry. For-
tuitously or otherwise, with the connivance
of certain persons or against their wishes,
the fact remains that the false price of
small coal threatens to do to the 3091 New-
castle Steelworks shareholders precisely what
the false price put by Rockefeller on the
land he mhde a practice of purchasing round
districts where oil had been struck did to
the oil-pioneers. There is no more profit
in 'steelworks which are debarred from
making steel than there is in oil-wells from
which tbe oil Cannot be piped. The Victorian
representative on the Coal Board, at the
end of his speech above-quoted, made this
remark
It is said that the intervention of the Federal
Government during the first • big strike has. brought
about the present position, and is largely responsible
for the present high price of coal.
Granted that there is nothing sinister behind
the position, either as regards members of
the Federal Government or undisclosed pri-
vate capitalists. Still the fact remains
that the present ruinous state of affairs is
the fault of the Government, and should be
rectified by the Government. The Gov-
ernment still holds the powers which it
used to allow the price of coal to be raised,
and will retain them till the end of the year;
and it can use them to-morrow to.lower the
price of coal in the same way as they have
been used with an opposite effect. When
control goes a fresh situation will of course
arise, but it should not prove too strong for
the combined energies of the State and
Federal Governments, provided neither is in
thrall to any malign influence. There are
industries which no rational modern State
can afford to have so much as touched by
Big Business of the predatory order; and the
first and greatest of them is coal, and the
second is steel.
FADS AND FRILLS OF EDUCATION
The N. S. Wales Department of Education
has been undergoing changes. It recently
acquired a new Director, a new Chief Ex-
aminer and a new Superintendent of Music.
The Director, S. 11. Smith, has grown up
under the system he will be called upon to
administer, but there is evidence, first, that
his job is too big for one man to handle
properly; second, that the system is badly
in need of an overhaul. Abounding as is the
admiration professed for it by perfect gents
whom a grateful Sovereign has honored for
their services to the important Sydney indus-
tries of pony-racing and pony-ballets, there
are critics who maintain that it is. defec-
tive in many respects—that too much atten-
tion is paid to fripperies and not enough
to essentials, that country schools are starved
in the interest of city academies, that in
some of the latter at times there are nearly
as many instructors as scholars, and that
some or the teachers are paid out of all
proportion to their qualifications. It is
also contended that, insofar as the system
is “a preparation for life outside the voca-
tion” (Petek Board’s expression) it is sig-
nally successful in turning out mannerless
young ignoramuses whose intellectual crav-
ings are satisfied by the pitchers, Sqttizzy
Taylor journalism, and Ethel M. Deli,
literature; and that, insofar as its aim is
vocational, it produces an amazing number
of tram-conductors, shop-assistants, unskilled
laborers, typistes, bad clerks and worse
cooks.
The argument, in short, is that the people
are not getting the worth of the £4,000,000
a year they are spending on Government
education. That amounts, roughly, to £2 per
head of the population, and, considering that
about 25 per cent, maintain their own
schools, it ought to suffice for all reason-
able requirements. More especially as the
traditionally excellent Scottish system—in
which attendance is compulsory up to 15
years (14 is the retiring age in N. S. Wales!,
and ‘‘adequate provision is made for all
forms of intermediate and secondary educa-
tion without payment of fees,” besides which
there are travelling expenses and mainten-
ance allowances for students at training col-
leges and universities —is run for about 15s.
a head. Yet these disgraceful admissions
have been made by Bruntnell, the Min-
ister
When I assumed control of the Department I
found that 730 classes, comprising 31,500 children,
were without decent accommodation; that 1,030
class-rooms contained 12,000 more children than they
could decently accommodate; that 104 school build-
ings were imperatively needed where none existed,
and that the building requirements of the primary
schools alone involved an expenditure of £1,120,000.
This to put them in such a state that it could be
said that the children in our primary schools
were receiving education under conditions conducive
to their physical, mental and moral well-being.
And bad as the conditions were when
BruntnEll entered upon his duties, they
must have been a lot worse in Mutch’s
time. That exuberant person boasts of hav-
ing spent £250,000 of loan money in build-
ing new schoolhouses and furbishing up the
shanties and cowsheds in which many coun-
try children are taught. Bruntnell in-
tends (1) to double Mutch’s loan expendi-
ture, and (2) to get interest on the half-
million by charging high-school fees where
the parents are presumed to be able to pay
them. The latter proposal moved the Labor
members to. howls of rage, but it is more
honest, if honesty can be imported into the
argument, to impose fees on the few than
to bluff the many with the fiction that they
are getting something for nothing. Making
the kid pay for his schooling (or part of it)
when he grows up is mean enough without
sliming the proceeding with a particularly
detestable form of hypocrisy. Another point
in mitigation of Bruntnell’s offence is that
by raising the interest in the manner sug-
gested he will be protecting the State
alike from wealthy parents who sponge on
it (according to Bruxner, the Progressive
leader, three youngsters attending a free
secondary school arrive every morning in a
Rolls-Royce) and from indolent urchins who
embark on a high-school course and abandon
it when they get tired. In which connection
he has stated that “many of the high schools
begin the year with 40 or 50 pupils, and
finish up with seven or eight, because the
children have gradually dropped out.”
But going to Uncle for the cost of repairs
and additions to schoolhouses is a low-down
business at best. When the thing is done
by Governments which have been given £2
a head to play with it is a crime that no-
thing can excuse. The Lord knows what
they do with the money. Certainly techni-
cal* education is getting very little of it;
and, considering the vanishing apprentice
and the increasing dependence of the Com-
monwealth on imported skilled labor, no
branch of instruction is more important.
As Mutch admits —
It has been consistently neglected. The whole
system of technical education in this State is utterly
unable to Cope with the demands that are made
upon it. Hundreds of students are every year
turned away from the Technical College at Ultimo
because there is no room in the college to place
them.
On the other hand, there is never any lack
of paper currency fof fads and frills.
Not long ago a Westralian M.L.A.


declared, after a P e £ f
that girls in the housewifery c Jf ss ®*
2*thc S Government eehools were taught*®
coot by shoving food Prepared by to ; m
into an oven heated to tne propec
temperature by the same teacher, o was
by experimenting with perfectly clean
articles, and to dress babies (the instructors
were spinsters) by practising on celluloid
dolls. In a like spirit of tomfoolery
plumes himself on having added boxing to
the N. S. Wales curriculum. He arranged
with a retired bruiser to give lessons m
thumping, with the result, as he records de-
lightedly, that “the headmaster of every
school where the tuition was given signed a
request to me, which was presented by a
deputation, that the system should be made
general and free.” Another innovation of the
Mutch regime may be described m that
gentleman’s own words: —
While I was Minister the Department made
arrangements by which a girl was sent abroad to
leam eurhythmies. The last figures L have m
regard to the matter —I do not know if theyare
complete—show that that young lady cost the State
£1751. She came back, and stayed a f<>w months.
She had two classes, of about 50 teachers in all,
and taught them to do a little dancing on the
green, and then she went away and got married.
By “eurhythmies” is meant the kind of danc-
ing in the semi-nude that is alleged to be
neo-Greek —the modish invention by which
well-nourished young women, clothed in
pocket-handkerchiefs and cut-down bloomers,
are enabled to prance absurdly about subur-
ban lawns lined with newspaper photo-
graphers, all waiting for the moment of
greatest exposure. It is rough on those who
don’t send their children to Government
schools that they should be taxed for the
instruction of other people’s boys in the art
of blackening eye? and bashing noses, and
other people’s girls in woman’s latest excuse
for showing her legs. But what sort of a
“system” is it that encourages pugilism and
bare-legged dancing while hundreds of lads
are turned away worn one technical school?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Price of Autocracy.
The typical Hughesite Nationalist faced
with his leader s appalling administrative
record —a record wlucn has produced a vast
multiplication of departments, mostly. super-
fluous, and a resulting flood of public debt
and taxation —is beginning to fan back on
a strange justification of his leader. '’Who
else is there to run the nation?” he asks. He
then shows, without difficulty, that, however
incompetently Hughes may have penormed
as a nation-runner, he has anyhow done
infinitely more in this line than any of his
rivals. Earle Page, for example, has never
done any. An honest man, no doubt. One
who has strong convictions regarding
economy. An Empire man and an anti-
Bolshevik. But emphatically not a
Hughes ; not the sort of man to rise up in
a crisis —coal, sugar, wool, shipping or any-
thing else —and say: “Leave it to me. X
have handled this sort of problem beiore and
I will handle it again, if I have to double
taxation from end to end of the Common-
wealth in the process.” One of the most
pernicious legacies of the war is the growing-
up in the minds of a race which was once
proud to be free of this coolie-like notion that
good government can only be supplied by a
despot. For about eight years now Austra-
lia nas not known Parliamentary government:
it has not even known Cabinet government.
Most of the big decisions have been arrived
at by the Prime Minister —either alone, or
in consultation with those financial interests
which are behind Federal Nationalism —and
the business of his Ministerial colleagues
and of Parliament has been to ratify those
decisions. There are fatal objections to this
arrangement —what might be called business
objections —even assuming that Australians
have had their old passion for freedom and
democratic government drilled out of them.
Henry VIII. purchased his triumph over
the Pope, his title of “Defender of the Faith,”
and the success of the Reformation by the
gift of the great monasteries to the great
nobles. The King of England became there-
aiter, in Coke’s phrase, “the noble hiero-
glyphic of the Crown.” It was the end
of the 17th century before the inarticu-
late compion people ceased to be exploited
on the one hand by the Sovereign, and on the
other by the Sovereign’s aristocratic allies.
It is not in human nature for acquisitive
mankind, presented with such opportunities
for aggrandisement, to wholly neglect them;
and so England—common England—suffered
in various ways, from the Enclosures to the
depredations of those in high places, w r hich
culminated in Walpole’s time with an orgie
of corruption and the beginning of Cabinet
government as we know it —or did before
the war. These men, who wielded power,
either as Kings or as Ministers, knew all
about “running the nation”; it was their
specialty. Neither W. M. Hughes nor his
friends of the National Club could teach
them anything in that respect. But the
nation, as soon as it was enabled to make
the opportunity, declared that it had no
desire to be run; that, apart from other
considerations, it was • too expensive to
those who were required to pay for the
luxury in the form of taxation. And so the
prerogative—which had sometimes been the
King’s prerogative, and sometimes that of
his strongest Minister—was transferred to
Parliament with results of immediate benefit
to those outside the charmed circles of high
society and high finance. Mr. Hughes may
be as honest as Pitt, and this paper makes
no suggestion to the contrary; on the other
hand, if he suffered a change of heart and
became as corrupt as Walpole, we have to
remember the disquieting fact that the very
qualities for which some peonle are now
acclaiming him would make him the more
dangerous. In short, he is exactly the type
of autocrat that a self-respecting twentieth-
century business community should reject.
We have not reduced the constitutional
powers of a George V. to a minimum ns
regards running the nation to deliberately
place ourselves under the sway of a
Hughes I.
A New Use for Prohibition.
For the past year German firms have been
buying practically all the shipping tonnage
that British shippers were willing to sell
them. About 70 per cent, of the vessels so
taken over came to the United Kingdom ori-
ginally as reparations payments. Most of
the other purchases consist of fairly up-to-
date British-built ships, though a few have
been acquired cheau for breaking-up pur-
poses. In this connection an interview
published some days ago by Sydney Even-
ing News with one of the Hanau officers
is significant:—
The German merchant marine is making rapid
recovery, and with the re-opening of trade between
Hamburg and Australian ports has now resumed
practically every service abandoned in 1914. Already
the German ships have established themselves strongly
in the South American trade, and it is believed that
it will not fie long before they are in active compe-
tition with the large English and American passenger
fleets in the North Atlantic. Shipping interests m
the U.S.A., having failed to establish a great mercan-
tile marine, seemed disposed to enter into something
in the nature of a partnership with German com-
panies. Co-operative agreements have been made
between several German and American companies, the
latest of importance being that between the United
States lines and the North German Lloyd and the
Harriman Line and the Hamburg-American Company.
This is the age of transport. The World
War was largely a transport war, in the
sense that victory was from the first a ques-
tion largely or cutting world-lines of com-
munication. And the same war of transport
is continuing now that the nations are sup-
posed to be at peace. Last week’s remark-
able decis.on, on appeal, in the U.S. Supreme
Court that British vessels may not enter a
Yankee port with alcohol on board is a
case in pqint. It has no basis in consis-
tency or logic. A liner belonging to
the Oceanic Steamship Co. may n.,t have
liquor aboard, even when berthed off an
Australian wharf, because, according to a
ruling of the U.S. Federal Court, given on
Saturday last, a U.S. ship is forever U.S.
territory. Yet the same Court says that
a British ship becomes amenable to the
freak laws of the U.S., in other words is
transformed into U.S. territory, by the fact
of entering a U.S. harbor. The real mean-
ing of this piece of illogicality is that
the Yanks, in collaboration with the
people who sank the Lusitania for them,
intend to use the Volstead Act to de-
liver a stroke at Britain’s mercantile
marine, which they have failed to
land on legitimate lines. It is notorious
that most of the jerry-built mercantile ves-
sels which were knocked together during
the war are now useless, or next door
thereto. This applies particularly to those
of the U.S., a nation which not only built
more trash and lost less than any of the
Powers while the fighting was in progress,
but went on with the insanity after the
Armistice. The British have been getting
rid of their uneconomic ships, and from
the moment practically that the last shot
was fired in 1918 they have been concen-
trating on turning out improved types—
ships capable of being run more cheaply, of
travelling faster, of carrying more and more
cargo to the tonnage, and so on. It is hard y
credible that British inst'tutions, 1 ke the
White Star and Cunard lines, will allow
America to impose on them a law
does not obtain in Britain, and which
is being flouted all over the U.S.; and that
the great British shipping cos. should con-
form in this respect is probably the last
thing that the Yankees, with £400,000,000 of
mostly war-built shipping on their hands,
desire. As for Germany, the shipping alli-
ance referred to by the Hanau officer is
the sort of thing for which it would sell
any vestige of soul it has left. As ear'y
in the war as 1917 far-sighted Germans,
such as Naumann, were talking of the
“economic peace” that would have to follow
the fighting if the Fatherland was to sur-
vive. And particularly with the U.S. The
Americans still need Germany’s potash,
sugar, aniline dyes and a huge number ot
luxury goods, and the Germans require even
more urgently the raw materials which the
U S. can supply—notably the cotton which
is necessary for Fritz’s second great-
est industry! In conjunction, the two coun-
tries might push Britain off the North Atlan-
tic to all intents and purposes; and there
does not seem much doubt that some such
aim is at the bottom of the latest phase of
the Prohibition offensive.
«►
The Eternal Modern.
Fame in many, if not in most, cases rests
on trivialities. Alfred of England is re-
membered. not for any of the reasons which
impel the pragmatists to style him Great,
but because —maybe with an eye to pos-
terity—he allowed an old woman’s cakes to
burn. Canute is associated with an absurd
ep’S ,de on the seashore; Henry VIII. with
a plurality of wives; Shakspeare with deer-
stealing. Oscar Wilde remarked that an
Anglican curate had only to declare for the
Eastern position to become such a theolo-
gical storm-centre as Galileo was after he
propounded his new theories of the solar
system. Wilde was a judge in such mat-
ters. He had just walked down Piccadilly
wearing a blue velvet coat and carrying in
his left-hand an arum-lily. In our own country
we have had Chidley. When the Zlot-
kowsk'i case began before the Medical Board
in Sydney, a Mr. Evatt, of the junior
Bar, appeared and informed the somewhat
bewildered doctors who presided that he was
there to “represent Smith’s Weekly.” He
was told, in effect, that he had intruded upon
a purely domestic affair, and that, while he
was at liberty to remain, his status could
be no different from that of any other mem-
ber of the public. He admitted, in effect,
the correctness of this view, inasmuch as
though he stayed, and though his name ap-
peared daily in the papers as representing
Smith’s Weekly, he asked no question,
called no witness, made no speech, and, in
point of fact, did not so much as interject
during the entire proceedings. A Wilde
or a Whistler would, at least, have
created the opportunity to cry “Shame!” or
“Smith’s !” or even, mutatis mutandis,
“Evatt !” Still, what the young lawyer did
served. Whenever and wherever in days to
come this affair is discussed, the name of
the Sydney paper’s dumb advocate will bu'k
as largely as any. There are no limits,
really, to the possibility in this connection. A
barrister, correctly wigged and gowned, might
lean from a stage-box during a performance
of “Cairo” and intimate that he was there
to watch the interests of Oscar Asche. Or,
for that matter —instructed by the S.P.C.A.’s
solic’ters---on behalf of the camel. Unques-
tionably, Mr. Asche, as a business man,
would be delighted to pay all costs. At
about the same time, another junior bar-
rister branded the detectives of N. S. Wales
as perjurers. A particularly shrewd touch
this, since the Force could hardly a' T o d deny-
ing the charge. The resulting controversy
is still raging. The sen.or uuwn prosecutor
good-naturedly played the game by pubLcly
stigmatising as a liar any man who accused
the police of being perjurers. The junior
immediately wrote to the papers drawing
attention to the fact that he was the un-
named person who had been called a liar,
and intimating that he had complained to
the Bar Council about his learned friend’s
insult. Note the effect. The Evening
News published a contributed “special” on
the leaner oage reviewing the whole business,
and garnished with photographs of the junior
(in wig) ; of his asperser (in full-bottomed
wig) ; and of the now, by
the remorseless procession of events, dragged
into the business. All perfectly legiti-
mate, of course. The world moves. These
were not the methods of a Stephen or a
Barley, a Martin or a Simpson. They
never have been the methods of contemporary
lawyers of the stamp of Adrian Knox,
Alexander Gordon, Ernest Lamb and
many others whose identities will readily
occur to the pubhc. Old-fashioned, no doubt.
Behind the times. Lacking in “pep,” “zip,”
“chilled-steel nerve” and similar virile quali-
ties wh ch our friends of the U.S. have taught
us to admire. And yet, somehow, the old
wavs have an appeal of their own. The
fault, perhaps, lies with us, who no longer
possess, the ingenuous and eager heart of
Youth.
The Sympathetic Touch.
Another H.Q. vignette:—
Of course there is a Publicity Man. No modern
Prime Minister could exist without one. Not that
publicity is strictly necessary for the proper perform-
ance of a Prime Minister’s duties, but there are so
many little things a man does that won’t bear the
light of day, and there are more bushels than lights
anyway—so that when a go'od selling stunt does
come along he can discard the bushel, and —enter the
Publicity Man. It may be a reply to the reptile
press, it may be a touching little paragraph about a
dear, departed opponent, or, best of all, an announce-
ment of a grant for the unemployed by a kind, far-
seeing Government in search of honor —and votes.
As the House sits about its business and members
earn their salaries in the billiard-room and the bar,
comes news of the death of a Dominion politician.
The cable is handed to the Great Man, who hands it
out again to the Publicity Expert. There is a search-
ing through the pages of “Who’s Who,” a glance at
the Year Book, and the following cornea to light:—
The Prime Minister stated to-day that he had
learned, with great regret, of the death of Sir Ebnest
Bluffem, Premier of the Lemon tree State. His
life was given to the service of his country, and the
Empire would be the poorer for his loss. His dis-
tinguished military and political career was an honor
to the State, over whose Government he so ably pre-
sided. He felt that in offering his sympathy to Lady
Bluffem he was voicing the sentiments of every
true Australian.
It is neatly typed and handed to the Great Man’s
Private Secretary, who bears it into the presence.
“Very well—leave it with me now, I’m busy,” is
the order, and the work of transformation is begun.
All is peace for a while, until the Publicity Man
rings the Private Secretary and makes inquiry.
The Private One peeps into the Inner Chamber and
reports that alterations are in the air. Half-an-hour
goes by—another ring—and again the same reply.
Then the buzzer, and the communique is_ sent out to
be re-typed. The Master Hand has been at work.
The choking despair of the P.M. for his overseas col-
league (whom he never met and only saw once)
has broken into words.
Towards the close of an arduous day I heard,
with deep regret, of the death of Sir Ernest
Bluffem. It is difficult, with the first flood of my
grief still upon me, to say anything fitting upon
this great calamity. Suffice it to say that wherever
the tongue of our land is spoken, wherever the flag
of our land is flown, there will his name be honored,
there will his fame be sung. It was not only in the
world of politics that his great qualities were pre-
eminent ; in the world of war he was a master also.
He wielded his sword as he wielded his majority—■
for the good of the people and the well-being of the
masses. In many respects we were kindred spirits, we
had much in common. He was a fighter. A man
among men. He was a genius, and his name will live.
But we are left —left to mourn his loss and carry
on the work which he so ably commenced in the
Empire’s cause. He knew the real England. He
knew the heart of the Empire, and he used his
knowledge for his country’s gain. To his widow, to
whom he owed so much, I tender in the name of
Australia the expression of the deepest sympathy of
a great people. ,
The Private Secretary gasps a little, but in his
most private and secretarial manner despatches it
to the reporters. The Great Man leans back, con-
scious of a good work, well done. All is peace —
until the morning. One thing remains. The Printed
Version. Here it is:—
The Prime Minister stated to-day that he learned
with regret of the death of Sir Ernest Bluffem,
Premier of the Lemon Free State. He tendered, in
the name of the Commonwealth, his sympathy with
the widow and relatives of the deceased.
And, of course, the Publicity Man gets the blame.
Peace-time London.
Dear Bulletin, —The London of to-day is
not the London so many Diggers knew.
Then hospitality abounded, money was plen-
tiful and days were pleasant; and though
things material were dear by comparison
the light of those ruling now. Peace-time
with pre-war rates, they were cheap in
London is a place to avoid like the plague.
There is no mirth —but the paid, and poorly
paid at that, mirth of the professional. The
people are careworn; money is scarce—or,
anyhow, as regards the multitude; prices
and taxes are high; and winter has come.
Most of the Diggers’ old haunts are changed
in character or are no more. Horseferry-
road, where the famous Lancers of that ilk
served, is once again a girls’ _ school, and
the Jews’ shops, where the Digger bought
trifles at exorbitant rates, are gone —their
only occupants being uhderstood to have
mostly secured Government contracts for
the purchase of surplus stores —and the
cats’-meat vendors, with their delectable
wares, again hold the fort. Wandsworth,
the old No. 3 London General of varied
memories, is much reduced in size, though
the other Wandsworth, the clink, still func-
tions for detenus of the British Army. Red-
caps still haunt Victoria Station and chivvy
the Guardsmen when they dare. The post-
war Guardsman, however, does not stand
much of it, and about half-a-minute’s rebuke
is, as a rule, enough to start a free fight.
Anzac Buffet, which did so much good work,
despite the opposition of Horseferry-road,
is now in other hands. The Strand is still
the Strand, and peopled by much the same
people as the Digger knew; only now they
wait on the Yanks, who are everywhere.
Some of the better types of U.S. citizen
are seen, but the majority are war-winning
Noo Yarkers in search of a quick sight ot
the world they saved from the Hun in 1918.
I talked to one —he did Egypt in two, ana
Palestine, the home of his forebears, in one
and a half days, and what he was in search
of now, he told me, was a place where there
was “something noo —not like Egypt, which
is 3000 years old.” Tube fares are up, and
taxis are plentiful: the drivers will even help
with your baggage and say “Thanks” for a
tip of 3d. Whisky is dear and weak and unin-
viting. Railways still maintain the war-time
surtax of 50 per cent, on fares, although a re-
duction in 1923 is heralded. Contrasting
with the opulence of the new rich, there is
tne direst povetry. Numerous bands, of one
to ten performers, are in every street —even
out-of-the-way squares have their quota- —-
and every corner is a vantage-point _ for
some pedlar or beggar. Street musicians
start at 6.30 a.m., and are still operating
at 9 p.m., and are of all types, some of them
pathetic in their misery. Stories of despe-
rate robberies are made public every
day. And all that many of the once law-
loving poor say is: “People must live.
Bagwell’s appeal for boy-emigrants for
South Australia, and Carruthers’s pro-
posal for a million farmers _ for a million
farms, are naturally attracting attention;
but to most they sound too good to be true,
and people wonder where the catch is. The
emigration facilities to Australia are not
nearly so good as they are to Canada, where
one can go for £lO and get free land on
arrival. I do not know where, in Australia,
an immigrant can get free land, which is
land: and neither, evidently, do the Agents-
General; though that does not stop them
talking glibly about the great natural re-
sources and potentialities of their respective
States. While on the subject of natural re-
sources, Australia has one which she is
handling with supreme stupidity and short-
sightedness. I refer to fruit Tons of good
Australian fruit are sent to this country
every, year, yet it is very difficult to buy any
of it as Australian. It is spoiled in the
marketing. Australia House has a beauti-
ful display, but the stuff lies about in the
loose state, and when it is distributed to the
retailers it loses its identity as the product
of Australia. One sees everywhere Conti-
nental, South African, North African and
Californian fruit, but never an Australian
package. These others are all carefully
surrounded with tissue-paper and shavings
in handy small boxes, and on the outside
are colored labels showing the name of the
fruit, the packer’s name and the country of
origin. Australian fruit is sent abroad in
coarse wood boxes about 12in. deep, too
large to go in any fruiterer’s window: it
is packed without" any effort at grading;
the case is hard to open, and when it ’S
opened is generally useless for re-packing on
account of the mess inside; and the grower’s
name is roughly stencilled on the wood and
is mostly illegible. The fruiterer buys these
boxes at a job price. -Then he takes the
fruit out, grades it, repacks the best in a South
African box and sells it at the highest price.
The throwouts he places in a heap and
gets rid of cheap as “a job lot of Austra-
lians.” It is the same with jams and canned
fruit. Australian stuff will not bear com-
parison with the high-graded and packed
products of California and England. When
one can buy an attractive jar of jam or
fruit, an ornament to any table, who is
going to buy a crushed tin with a tawdry
label of a make unknown? Butter as Aus-
tralian is practically unobtainable, though
on its merits it should command as good
a market as Danish or Irish. It is quite
possible that this also, on account of the
bulk packing, is sold a 3 foreign butter of
known types. On the other hand, Australia
is getting to be well and favorably known
in the clothing trade. A guarantee of the
quality of all woollen goods is given in the
statement that the article offered is pure
Botany wool. I was doubtful if the assistant
knew what “Botany wool” meant, and in-
quired ; whereupon, to my surprise, I was
informed that “it was the best Australian
wool.” and that “I must surely have heard
of Botany Bay, which was where the wool
was made.” A further inquiry as to whether
the actual tops were made there or not
elicited the remv that it was only woven
into the fabric in this country. Here endeth
this antnoloo-v of woe. I suppose the sun
is shining in Aussie now.—Yours with nos-
talgia, Yal.
The Pro-consul of the North.
“El Verdugo” draws a parallel:—
In its turbulent career of 30 years the Queensland
Labor party has produced only two men of out-
standing originality. One was Lane, and everyone
knows what happened to Lane. The other is Theo-
dore, but no one knows for certain what is going
to happen to Theodore. A politician for 15 years,
he has been Deputy-Premier, Acting-Premier or
Premier for half the time. He served under Bow-
man, Lennon and Ryan ; with the clever and cau-
tious Hunter ; with that Machiavellian strategist
McCormack, and with a not-to-be-despised rank and
file. At the end of it he is the same sombre and
enigmatic person who took his seat on the Labor
benches, as if he had bought them, in 1907.
Theodore is a figure without parallel in Austra-
lian politics, and in a wider sphere his attributes
might have earned him greater fame. Aloof, studi-
ous and dignified always, he is something of a
paradox. It would be hard to vision him toiling
with the horny-handed on the roads ; but to draw him
in a purple toga, wearing his laurels at the fashion-
able angle and followed by adoring lictors, with
a gang of ancient Britons in woad and whiskers
clanking well in the rear, would not be so difli-
cult. Unthinking people have sneered at the man’s
origin, but it solves the whole riddle of his career.
A Latin ancestry gives him a mind which is a closed
book to most of us Angles. From it he derives his
capacity for thought along undreamt-of lines; his
penchant for methods of despotism which have been
startlingly successful in a party where all are tech-
nically equal; his swift wrath and measured diction,
which might have been bom of a close study of
Cicero. He manages—quite involuntarily, one
would imagine from a study of his career —to hold
his own party in subjection without receiving its
.adoration and without even making iriendships. At.
the same time he keeps the Nationalists obsessed with
the notion that he looks often and longingly towards
the moderate camp, and that he may yet come over.


T h iFarmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
Branch
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
Total saving, £lB,OOO. The new revenue
expected is ±90,000, being £20,000 from land-
tax, £50,000 from incomes, and £20,000 from
a tunher 2j per cent, on tote receipts. In
view of the fact that the public debt of the
island is now within a kick of £22,000,000,
and the annual interest bill is nearly
£850,000; that the annual loss on the rail-
ways is £118,000; that the Hydro-electric
Department is still spending ioan money;
that the State Shipping Department blewed
£31,000 more than it earned this year; that
the Government Insurance Office made a
profit of only £3344; that the total receipts
from public works and services for the year
was only £874,000 (barely sufficient to meet
the interest biil) ; that land sales and rentals
are necessarily decreasing; and that the
Commonwealth special grant of £85,000
ended last, year and is be mg extended over
this year because Priminister Hughes has
an eye on the Federal elections—in view of
these facts and others too numerous to men-
tion, Treasurer Lee’s proposals don’t look
up to much. Quite apart from the methods
of graduation in the proposed new income-
tax (on which Lee is ominously silent)
there is bound to be an “all-in” fight over
the proposal to raise £50,000 from incomes
and only £20,000 from land increments.
Lee himself admits that since the introduc-
tion of the Land-tax Act in 1911 there have
been no alterations in the graduations or the
scale of rates. He also, like his predecessor,
Treasurer Lewis, points out that since 1912
approximately £3,600,000 of loan money has
been spent in developing the landholders’
property, yet land values only pay
±15,000 more than they did 10 years ago.
In other words, while land values have been
bag and baggage, to the Pastoralists’ Association and
the Federation of Employers.
Things which would bring the whole country
shrieking about the ears of a Hughes or a Ryan
Theodore does with an impenetrable calm. He
destroyed the Leg'. Council with only half the out-
cry that a mere attempt upon its existence excited
against his predecessor. Ryan, when some silly
capitalist conceived a bright scheme of bribery, met
the writer in the street and told him of it. “Buy
him a drink,” he said jovially, “and tell him not to
be a fool.” THEODOitE, confronted with a similar
emergency, acted like a Roman Principale di
polisia handling the Camorra. The events which
followed were spiced with Italian sensationalism,
garnished with secret trapdoors, creeping police
agents and decoy assignations, which made the
prisoners seem only half dressed when they appeared
for judgment without manacles, spiked necklets,
gyves or leg-irons. In the hands of Ryan the pro-
ceedings would have been farce; in Theodore's they
had all the polish of the first-class dramatic novels
of Dumas.
Those who knew Theodore in his earlier days,
when in an occasional moment of confidence he was
wont to sketch his ambitions —sometimes in as many
as 10 words —expect the next scene in his strange
eventful history to be distinctly exciting. But it
will not be laid in the camp of Liberalism, where
Kidston, Kerr, Airey, Hughes, Holman and a score
of others eventually found themselves. Theodore
is the most formidable personality in Labor politics
to-day. In no party, State or Federal, is there a
leader of weight who has his youth or his strength
or his imagination.
Australia House.
Evidence for and against, by two Austra-
lian pressmen :
“J.H.”: Oscar Asche's attack on the staff was
cruelly unjust. The “English clerks” who “chuck
pamphlets” at the visitor, and adjure him to “read ’em
yourself,” merely exist in his imagination. The
bulk of the staff is Australian, and patient, courteous
and efficient. I mention especially E. R. Garnsey,
Barnes, of the Migration and Settlement branch,
H. C. Smart, Faraker and Arthur Mason. An
Evening News man went to the Migration office the
lay Oscar's libel was published in the Times, and
‘stood for three-quarters of an hour at the counter
pretending to be a would-be emigrant.” He col.
lected no missiles; “only a share of sunny courtesy,
which was evenly distributed by the staff arpong the
scores of people who wanted to make Australia their
home.” To which this exile, whose calling takes him
almost daily to some official or other at Australia
House, to clear up a point or check a reference, adds
a sincere “Hear! Hear!” So far as my experience
goes, Asche has never gone out of his way to iden-
tify himself with Australian activities in London.
His zeal for his native country only finds expression
when he visits it in search of coin. Let him criticise
if he likes, but he should mix a little knowledge
with his criticism.
“O’South”: Although Australia House sends out
wads of copy to inform Britain and the world in
general what a wonderful country it represents, very
little finds its way into print. The trouble is that
the stuff is so wordy and unjournalistic that most
editors won’t look at it. On the other hand, damag-
ing attacks on Australia are allowed to go unchal-
lenged. In a leading Glasgow paper there appeared
recently a letter from a disgruntled female bitterly
denouncing the emigration of women to Australia.
Most of it was lies, but the Scotchies wouldn’t
know that, of course; and as W.A. was trying to
beat up 1000 Scotch emigrants the same month, the
harmful influence of the letter can be imagined. So
an Australian who knew the facts cut out the screed
and sent it to Australia House with a suggestion
that it be contradicted. Nothing happened. No
contradiction; no anything. Then there was a bright
young Australian who, travelling on the Continent,
found that the Argentine Government, having repre-
sentatives all over the place, had the run of the
market with their meat, alive and frozen. Armed
with irrefutable documentary evidence, he inter-
viewed, on his return to London, a very high Aus-
tralia House official, who was fatigued from his long
round of Functions (they spell it with a capital
here), and urged that something be done regarding
grabbing a bit of the trade for Australia. The
Very High Bloke replied that (1) he didn’t think
Australia was missing any opportunities on the
Continent ; (2) he had done eight hours’ work that
day; and (3) he was too fatigued to go into the
matter. Oh, they’re a queer crowd that represent
Australia in their palace in the Strand.
Tasmania’s Financial Leeway.
Treasurer Lee, of Tasmania, lias more or
less cheerfully announced a deficit for the
year of over £120,000, exclusive of the
State’s loss on soldier-settlement, which is
estimated at £143,000. A further deficiency
is anticipated next year, and the total
revenue deficiency (still excluding soldier-
settlement losses) will stand on June 30,
1923, at £418,000, even if certain proposed
savings are fully realised and certain pro-
posed increased taxation produces the ex-
pected revenue. It is proposed to economise
by a six per cent, reduction, in salaries of
married public servants in receipt of £240
and over, in salaries of single officers getting
£l5O to £240, and 10 per cent, on unmarrieds
receiving over £240. including allowances.
This will save £12,000. . Some £SOOO is to
be saved by a scheme of re-organisation of
departments to be effected by an Economy
Board, and £IOOO is to be lopped off Parlia-
mentary salaries (Parliament permitting).
WHAT IT MAY COME TO.
MR. COSTS: “Yer ’ Onor, my client wishes me to thank you for the kind words
you have spoken whilst discharging him. Of course, the charge was ridiculous.
If my client had gone a little further, and murdered the complainant, there
couldn't have been a bigger fuss made. As it is, we propose to proceed against
complainant for unlawful arrest and false imprisonment .”
increased by a State expenditure of
£360,000 a year, the lucky land-owners have
been asked to return only £BO,OOO a year to
the State. If Treasurer Lee had timed
his figures the other way about, pronosing
to raise £50,000 from land values and £20,000
(or less) from incomes, he would have done
better for his country and, incidentally,
perhaps, for his Government. There is no
hope of prosperity for Tasmania while the
land-loafers, as distinguished from the land-
users, control the taxation policy and set
the pace for the whole insular donkey-race.
Inconclusive Medical Tests.
“X2X” shatters another illusion: —
The public confidence in the infallibility of the
Wassermann serum reaction as a test for the
presence of the syphilis organism is far from justi-
fied. This disquieting fact was proved during a
series of tests carried out recently at one of the
Government V,D. clinics. In a hundred cases of
undoubted syphilis, diagnosed on unmistakable and
long-standing clinical manifestations, the Wasser-
mann gave 10 per cent, of negative reactions at the
first test, 7 per cent, at the second, and 6 per cent,
at the third—-in other words, it pronounced three
times that sure and certain cases were free from
infection. Again, when 20 subjects, known abso-
lutely to be clean, were taken; and Wassermann
tests carried out on samples of their blood, two posi-
tive reactions were obtained, and in further tests
on the same two a similar result was obtained time
after time. The -fact is, that the Wassermann method
is not a specific test for the presence of spirochatse
pallida (the causatory organism of syphilis), but
merely for that of protozoa (the micro-biological
classification to which sp. pallidum belongs), and
hence, since the organism of malaria is also a pro-
tozoon, there will be a positive reaction in a person
suffering from that disease, a fact which caused a
good deal of trouble when the test was first elabo-
rated. In general practice, it is exceedingly unsafe
to rely upon one complement-fixation result, either
negative or positive. The capacity of the syphilis
germ for lying dormant during perhaps 20 years
means that many who have been certified as free
from infection after three negatives, are living—and
have sometimes married and begotten children —in
false security. There are already several cases on
record in which children have been born with con-
genital syphilis after one of their parents had been
pronounced to be cured of the disease, and their
blood had given a negative reaction. This illus-
trates the extreme riskiness of placing too much
reliance on either the Wassermann as a diagnostic
test, or the organic mercury-arsenic compounds and
derivatives as therapeutic agents. In the old days,
when mercury and potassium iodide in combination
were the chief mainstays in treating syphilis, instances
of the scourge breaking out anew after 20- and 25-
year periods of quiescence were not rare. Sufferers
were rightly warned that they could not consider
themselves safe from danger until at least three years
had passed after the last sign of any external symp-
toms. So far, “606” and its derivatives have not yet
been in use long enough for us to say that the
disease will not recur, say, 20 years after it
has been apparently eliminated. And it is cer-
tain that, since the advent of these compounds, there
is a larger number of partially-cured cases mas-
querading as completely cured than in the days of
mercury alone. This is due to the fact that injec-
tions of arseno-benzol, salvarsan, galyl and the like
rapidly remove all visible signs of the complaint,
while leaving the patient perhaps as badly infected as
ever internally, with the result that patients of a
certain type promptly abandon treatment. The
whole thing illustrates clearly the foolishness of
placing implicit trust and reliance in the Wasser-
mann test. As a matter of fact, in point of effici-
ency, it has been superseded in other countries by
the Sachs-Georgi precipitation test, which is practi-
cally unknown in Australia outside of one or two
research laboratories. And even this method has
been proved to possess an error-percentage ranging
from 2 to 4 per cent.
«
“Herbert Hedgehog” : The Vic. medical
man responsible for “Artisans Gone Wrong”
(B. 12/10/’22) is barking up the wrong
tree when he endeavors to place on party
politics and cheap education the blame for
the congestion in our Universities. “No
gain is obtained by a. country from the
possession of large quantities of mediocre
talent, instead of small quantities of first-
class men....” Doubtless. But how remedy
this state of affairs by the alteration of a
system under which “lack of wealth is no
bar to the requirement of a University edu-
cation?” The possession of wealth can never
be an effective primary, indication of the
possession of brains. ‘The- bursary system
cannot conceivably result in the presence of
students within the Universities who take
10 and 15 years to complete a five-years’
course. If the .holder of a bursary fails to
pass, lijs examinations within a reasonable
time, he forfeits it. Moreover, while 75 per
cent, of the students who have failed so often
at one examination are to be found in the
faculty of medicine, investigation would
surely show' that the majority of bursary
winners enter the faculties of arts, law,
science and engineering and education. The
truth is that these deplorable students w T ho
fail so repeatedly are those who have wealth
at their command, and can afford to lead an
idle life, dallying about the University, and
particularly about its clubhouse and billiard-
room, while at the same time gaining a cer-
tain social prestige from the fact that they
are medical students —a prestige which their
money alone could not give them, and which,
till now, their Alma Mater has not with-
drawn as long as the money lasts. These
are the men who “have no interest in their
work, and no love for it, and have adopted it
only because it appeals to them as an easy
and soeially-desirable means of making a
living,” or of pretending to make one. The
remedy for the present state of affairs assur-
edly does not lie in the abolition of the
bursary system. Let the standard of the
matriculation examination be raised, in the
first place, so that it shall only be possible
for the best brains in the community to
qualify for admission to the University. As
a further measure of precaution, it might be
made compulsory for any student who fails
to pass, say. two or three annual examina-
tions, to withdraw from the University. In
this way the number of students would be
considerably reduced, the staff would have
ample time for the research which has been
so badly neglected of late, and the standard
of professional attainment would rise as
automatically as the output of professional
men would fall.
“G. Elburg” : “G.R.’s” mud-picture of West-
ralia’s immigrants (B. 5/10/’22) is chiefly
remarkable for its inaccuracy. A few indepen-
dent migrants may land in the West with the
idea that prepared farms and other luxuries
have been arranged for, but all who leave Eng-
land under the wing of the Government have
a perfectly clear understanding of the con-
ditions awaiting them. Mitchell, not being
an incurable idiot, quickly found, even if
he didn’t know it before, that the supply
of skilled agriculturists for export from Bri-
tain was practically nil, and that it was
useless to give a farm to the average city-
bred Britisher. His system is to meet the
local demand for farm hands, and at the
same time to provide means for the new-
comer to learn the business of Australian
agriculture before tackling it on his own.
The wages—from 255. to 355. a week and
keep—would certainly not dazzle an experi-
enced man, but the pay and conditions are
not bad for an apprentice, who will be put
on the land on the most liberal terms when
he has learned the game. So far from Perth
being full of new arrivals, “many of whom
are looking for a ship to take them back to
London,” the two last batches to arrive,
numbering about 120, found that they could
pick and choose among; the jobs offering.
The demand is still unsatisfied, and the
New Settlers’ League looks after the busi-
ness of bringing the immigrant and the job
together, and the records of the organisa-
tion show that of the thousands of men
placed with cookies and other producers, only
an infinitesimal proportion has rolled up
its swag and made for the city.
“Brugglesmith” : Every word of “Artisans
Gone Wrong” (B. 12/10/’22) is true. And it
is true, mutatis mutandis, of the other pro-
fessions. But I would go a little further.
The problem of the inefficient who fails in
his examinations year after year is mainly
a University problem, but the problem of the
inefficient who succeeds in “getting through”
without much trouble is a community pro-
blem. I have..done much tutoring and coach-
ing in two University courses for some years,
and have been astounded at the number
of men approaching the end of an academic
career who had the crudest notions of spell-
ing and were congenitally incapable of writ-
ing logical and consecutive English. These
men become, apparently with no great diffi-
culty, licensed “teachers” and “lawyers.”
The pity of it is enhanced by the equally
indisputable fact that the ability of the
better men is of a high order. My way of
barring the professions to unsuitable people
would be to raise the standard of entrance
examinations substantially. Few things are
more pathetic than the annual crop of post-
examination letters to the press by the dis-
appointed parents of Claude and Herbert,
complaining that the standard set by the
examiners was so high as to be almost un-
attainable. The fact is that the standard of
preliminary examinations is far too low. Of
course, the old infernal curse of snobbery is
at the bottom of it all. If we were not satu-
rated with that curse, we should realise and
admit that an efficient carpenter is not only
a far more useful citizen than an incompe-
tent lawyer, but is also infinitely more
worthy of respect and social esteem. As
things are, occupational inefficiency is fast
becoming one of the greatest of Australia’s
many self-imposed handicaps. While the
legal and medical worlds are being invaded
by people whom it would be" flattery to call
mediocrities, it is the hardest thing; on earth
to find a gardener who knows his job. The
Apotheosis of Inefficiency seems to be at
hand.


&
M
W
W rite for a copy of the
newest Catalogue , just
issued.
Peapes' “Warrego” Shirt
in Strong Khaki Drill
11/0 each, 3 for 33/-
This is a new variation of the famed
“Warrego” Shirt —all the established good
points worked out in a different material.
It is a light or dark drab cotton twill, very,
strong, very reliable; will not show dust
and dirt.
The features that have made the “Warrego”
Shirt so popular are in evidence —the roomy
pockets with button-down flaps, deep collar
with button-down points, the handy single-
button cuff.
Price: 11/6, or 3 for 33/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state collar size, and color required.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
FIRT
Italy’s Best
All the qualities of speed and comfort, reliability and economy are embodied
in the range we offer, and the prices represent the most practical expression of
value. There is—
THE MODEL 501, 10/15 H.P., the embodiment of comfort
and economy, Price £595.
THE MODEL 505, 15/20 H.P., touring car “Par Excellence,”
Price £825.
THE MODEL 510, 20/30 H.P., the acme of perfection, speed,
power, luxury combined. Price £995.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The latest convert from Hughesism to the
Country party is Llewelyn Atkinson,
M.I-I.R. for Wilmot (T.). If Bell, of Darwin,
joins the rush, as seems likely, the Priminis-
ter will be left with Jackson (Bass) and
Laird Smith (Denison), and the latter’s
number has been taken. His chance is as
hopeless as that of Blundell, another devoted
Ilugheselier, in Adelaide. Hughes is reported
to have stated that if he is returned with 30
followers he will still be Priminister. There
may be 30 Nationalists in the next House
of Reps., but it looks as if at least a dozen
of them will be anti-Hughes.
When Wally Marks, M.H.R., startled the
House of Reps, with his prophecies of more
wars, he mentioned, as one of the events
leading up to Armageddon in 1935, that the
Turkish Empire would have entirely dis-
appeared by the end of 1922. It is hard
luck that just in that very year Abu Ghosh
should have smitten Oysteropoulis, the Greek,
and recovered not only Asia. Minor but a
good portion of his old domain in Europe.
However, there are still a couple of months
of this year to run, and, in any event, there
is nothing to prevent Wally, who is now a
fairly accomplished politician, protesting
that he was misreported.
“The Rumpus” : Quaint lament of Tees-
dale, M.L.A. for Roebourne (W.A.), who is
trying to interest Westralia in cotton-
growing : —-
There’s a million square miles in the Nor’-West
and a population of only 600. It takes four camels
in a buggy two days to get one man’s vote.
There was nothing out of the commonplace
in Hughes’s policy speech, but Charlton got
in one good thing. It was a brisk allusion to
the. Priminister’s modest admission, repeated
every month or r so, that all the virtue went
out of the Labor party when he left it: —
The people will be told once more that “Labor has
lost its soul.” It . will be legitimate and proper
then to remind them that it has not sold it to
anonymous buyers who parade their purchase but
not themselves.
Clever, undoubtedly—almost too clever for
Charlton. One suspects Anstey.
If Australian Governments weren’t all gas
and jelly something sudden would happen to
the Council of Action. The Sydney end of
that imitation soviet has worked up a strike
in the pipe-moulding industry against the
legal 48-hour week. The moulders them-
selves didn’t want to down tools —their
union passed an anti-strike resolution and
notified the employers that they were pre-
pared to work —but the Council of Reaction
forced the position by calling out the iron-
workers’ assistants, without whom the
moulders couldn’t proceed. Badly needed in
Australia is a law providing for the depor-
tation of foreign-born union officials proved
(1) to have had any part in stirring up an
unlawful strike, and (2) to have been in
communication with Moscow. Then the
country might have some peace.
What may happen to a Digger in Queens-
land under a Labor Government: —
A returned soldier applied to the State Butchery
Department for a job as a mechanical driver. He was
allowed to commence work, but the foreman stated
that the policy of the Government was to employ
union men. and the soldier was advised to apply
to the Federated Carters’ Union to be admitted
to that union. He accordingly interviewed the sec-
retary of the union, and was told that the union
books were closed. He pointed out that he had a
job to go to, had canvassed it himself, and that
he Should, therefore, be allowed to join the union,
hut was informed that there were two unionists on
the books, and that until these men were placed, he
could not become a member.
The incident is vouched for by the Returned
Soldiers’ League. It is the blackest case
yet recorded of the malevolent tyranny asso-
ciated with a certain kind of unionism and
practised with the connivance of worthless
Governments.
A betterment tax for trams is contem-
plated by Vic. Ministry. Such an impost,
the Railway Standing Committee thinks,
would cheek cheeky demands for tramway
connections by land syndicates, who expect
municipalities to bear all the loss incurred.
GEORGE AND THE DRAGON-1922 VERSION.
The committee and its shrewd secretary
(Gilchrist) have spoken none too soon.
Their proposal would put a brake on the
mere speculator and give some measure of
protection to the harassed race who buy
his section of the pripieyal wilderness under
the impression that it is cheap.
“Joe”: Jack Gunn, leadei* of the Oppo-
sition in the S.A. House of Assembly, has
acquired a lingual polish which was not
noticeable when, a decade ago, he led the
drivers’ strike in the Holy City. Politi-
cally, he was nobody in particular until the
Conscription split made him leader of the
Parliamentary Labor party. But now he
grows daily in eloquence and dignity. He
is ambitious, and his gift of silence at the
right moment is going to be no handicap
to him.
Vic.’s new Liberal Union has 15 planks,
not to mention sub-planks, in its platform.
They include White Australia; protection;
investigation of the two-dot mercantile marine
and other qf Hughes’s achievements; £6OO a
year for members, instead of £1000; wages
boards and conciliation councils in place of
Federal arbitration; additional States; a
board of directors for the Commonwealth
Bank, and a “flexible” system of military
training for youths. The programme is
much better than was expected from the
inner ring of the organisation.
The faint-hearted Fuller Government is
wearing a hunted look. Informed by the
hectoring Sydney Nationalists that they
must have the North Shore bridge, and
mortally afraid of offending its country sup-
porters,' it hit upon the feeble device of a
non-party bill. The lymphatic measure
struggled through the second-reading debate,
but was nearly settled by a stonewall in
the committee * stage. Its fate is still in
doubt. The idea is to build a cantilever
bridge at a cost of £6,000,000, two-thirds
being found by the Government and one-
third by the North Sydney municipalities.
One boinb from a raiding aeroplane would
put the bridge out of action. An inventor
with a company behind him offered to pro-
vide a fully-equipped tube, which would be
bomb- and shell-proof, for £750,000, and two
tubes for £1,000,000, payment to be made
in N.S.W. debentures. But it transpired that
he was a mere Australian, and that, of
course, ended it.
The Vic. Cocky party will make a bold
bid for the Uppah Chambah seat vacated by
Kendell’s death. Dr. Harris, one of the
Hayseeds, beat a Liberal for the same pro-
vince two years ago, and was unopposed
last June. The F.U.’s already have Crock-
ett. Goudie, Abbott and Harris in the Flush
House.
“First Turn” : A lot of us who sit in the
Federal gallery, out of consideration for
the missus and the kids, want to see Hughes
in opposition next Parliament. From the
recording pressman’s point of view, Billy is
in the wrong place as leader of the House.
His speeches on international subjects and
on second readings are painfully slow and
hesitating. He mumbles, pauses for half-a-
mi nu-te to find a word, picks on something to
suit him, utters it, changes-his mind half-
way through, says “er” 14 times a minute,
and finally delivers himself of something
which, if it did not come from a Priminister,
might be regarded as the attempt of a broken-
mouthed crock to chew half a brick. In
these respects he is nearly as irritating as
Groom, who stutters and flounders until
Hansard’s hair goes visibly grey from excite-
ment. Hughes used to be eloquent when
he was addressing a roomful of disgruntled
wharfies, and a term on the Opposition side,
where his talent for invective would have
a chance, might provide us with copy. As
it is, we yawn when Caesar is on his feet,
and dream of a Parliament in which people
who talk without having anything to say are
sent to the guillotine.
From above the Speaker’s chair: —
Many people would like to know whether Willie
Watt really has something up his sleeve. I have
my doubts. Watt isn’t the politician he was. He
had his chance in the last eonple of sessions to pave
or as a leader himself, but made a mess of it.
Maxwell has been a far keener critic of the Govern-
ment, and the blind barrister is a strong party man
who wouldn’t at a pinch see Nationalism go under
if he could save it. Watt was expected to show
rnore than passing interest in the attempted revival
of the Liberal party, especially since he recently
declared that he was a Liberal and would always
remain so. But he has given the movement no
help, although it is by no means to be despised.
His supporters say he is only waiting for the thing
to develop before he steps in as leader, but that is
no good to the men who are doing the work. The next
Parliament will assuredly contain some S.A. Libs,
and if Victoria can supply a few, these, with Page’s
Country party, ought to have the predominating
influence. If Watt really means anything now is
the time for him to declare his intentions, but he
hangs off and does nothing more than address an
odd meeting of the Women’s National League. My
own opinion, after watching him for the last couple
of years, is that as a political fighter he is finished.
If the Liberals want a leader, or the Nationalists
want to replace Hughes, Massy Greene is the obvious
man.
From the Murray Auuger Motor Co., Adel-
aide :
Nobody will dispute “Stellsby’s” contention (B.
12,/10/’22) that the motor trip to Darwin under-
taken by the Public Works Committee was an expen-
sive one. Subjoined is a comparison of the Com-
mittee’s expenses with those of our managing director,
each expedition having used three oars:-
Government Party.
Tyres and
tubes ..£429 0 0
Benzine .. 117 19 0
Provisions,
cartage,
etc., . . 358 19 8
Darwin rail-
age, cart-
age, etc. 279 9 7
Total £1176 B*3
McCallum-Aitnger.
Tyres and
tubes .. £ 198 0 0
Benzine (in-
cluding
special cases
and tins) 95 0 0
Provisions,
cartage,
etc. .. 106 0 0
Darwin rail-
age, cart-
age, etc. 101 6 0
Total.. £499 6 0
Another point is that the Government cars were
offered for sale on their return, but no offer could
be got. Of the three Dorts used by the McCallum-
Aunger expedition two have been sold for very
little under the market price, and one is being-
used as a demonstrator.
Bill Denny, M.L.A. of South Aus., and
once a Labor Attorney-General, has had a
tilt, before the Industrial Court, at Govern-
ment circulars. There was one calling for
strict economy in every branch of the civil
service, and counsel for the Crown sought
to put it in as evidence in a wages argu-
ment. Then said Denny:—
These pious circulars are distributed periodically.
They contain excellent advice, like quotations from
Holy Writ or admonitions from father to son; but
the advice is never carried out. In any case, the
circular has nothing to do with the matter before
the Court. It would be a simple matter for me to
get circulars sent round to the unions, urging the
necessity of obtaining higher wages; but they would
not be evidence.
And president Jethro Brown was convinced
by the argument, and heaved the document
out.
“First Turn”: Bruce has been a disap-
pointment as Federal Treasurer. His Bud-
get was not original. The hand of Hughes
is seen in every portion of it. One ca?i
imagine William saying to bis complacent
follower: “Stanley, there’s £6,000,000 or so
lying about in the Treasury as surplus.
Scatter half of it among the electors, and be
sure that each section gets something.”
Bruce is a hard worker and a thoroughly
conscientious person, but he was behind the
door when punches were handed out. And
a politician without a punch of some kind
is like a drum without parchment.
In going through the accounts of Melb.
Board of Shirks Vic. Auditor-General
Norris discovered that brokerage on loans
was paid to two firms in which a brace of
members of the finance committee appeared
as partners. The Crown Solicitor was
stirred up, with the result that one of the
pair resigned from the Board, but was re-
elected by his council, and then reappointed
to the finance committee. The other made
a declaration that he had sold his interest in
the firm, notwithstanding the record of part-
nership in the Registrar-General's office,
and the explanation was accepted. Excep-
tion was taken by Norris to brokerage of
£250 being paid on a debenture of £lOO,OOO
lodged by the Savings Bank Commissioners
for conversion, and he castigates the Board
for being so dull as to issue an additional
loan of £500,000 at par when the previous
instalment was marketable at £lOl. With
delicate irony he adds that “this issue was
also immediately marketable at a profit.” •
A law-reform motion in S.A. Assembly
met with modified support from Premier
Barwell, although he objected to appointing
yet another Royal Commission. A private
member hit the nail on the head when he
said that it is not the law which needs
reforming, but a few prominent lawyers.
The lower courts are distinctly cheaper for
suitors in S.A. than in other States. It was
stated publicly by a man who should know
that not one-fifth of his profession earn
£5OO a year, and that not one dying within
the past 20 years has left an estate of
£lO.OO0 —unless made out of some side-line,
such as station-owning.
THE WHISTLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“To relieve the monotony of waiting- for the open-
ing of Mr. Hughes’s policy speech at Chatswood,
General Ryrie gave one of his justly-iclebrated
whistling solos, and some returned soldiers sang a
Digger classic, ‘Mademoiselle from Armentieres.’ ”
—S. M. Herald.
Billy’s opened the ball. People flocked to the hall
For a rich oratorical treat;
A policy yap from so fluent a chap
Is difficult spruiking to beat.
There’s something in Hughes when unfolding his
views
Suggesting a Churchill or Cecil—
But Granville de Laune beats a blackbird at dawn,
When it comes to a musical whistle.
The Welshman was raucous and fiery,
Like an eagle that screams from its eyrie.
But mellow and clear,
On the listening ear,
There lingered the whistle of Ryrie.
The Digs, were O.K., you can bet, in their way;
They bellowed with feeling and force,
Their pet ehansonette of a faded soubrette—
A bowdlerised version, of course;
Even leavened with French of the troopship and
trench,
Bits o’ that might set wowsers a-bristle —
But the chef d’ceuvra, quite, of that notable night
Was Ryrie's melodious whistle.
Like Apollo, but minus the lyre, he
Made music ’twas rapture audire.
To hear Hughes perorate
Is admittedly great,
But give me the whistle of Ryrie!
’Twas a bit of a freak at a policy “speak,”
To mimic the warble of birds.
Still, mere notes may convey, when there's nothing
to say,
As much (or as little) as words.
The quivers and trills were like wind in the hills
That rustles the thorn and the thistle,
And some thought there was less in the statesman'#
address
Than the General put in a whistle.
O soldier so wary and wiry
Permit the intrusive inquiry
I have in my mind:
Will your chief be inclined
When December 16 (and himself) are behind,
To echo the whistle of Ryrie t
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


'lhe. K'VstP* - u> l^i/f-
jjo/d <3eor£e reckoned
he would stTind huvN ’
ujp easily*-* win? one
As he would
tfeers \r% \J\5 ip Words
Comlol
blister
Av\d the wildest -tafe
him uws d> life
stretch on S T HELENA
k a U N/\Pou£.or*,'
K'**
l£3s*v
* W *' r r^>
nothing h^ / j?|’e^e<3< ( he
Shooed his Supreme GovTt&nfct by
&®""!g * "3‘ff"
>l* N&tt&sl£> |^f
him.!
-is*
• GiWtSJfc*
HIS FINISH.
“The wedding of the Kaiser has been fixed to take place at bourn on November 5.” Cable


'Jut.
mi
fm
COSMOS
'V URiil J.
7.
/
o
m
GIVE A
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 SH
M<?Tbouw<?
m&m
2s/
W*
ELECTRICAL
CO. LTD
r~\
213 Clarence I
St., Sydney
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout thm Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Qeiatine Dynamite
Qelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF CONTINUED PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS, 1905
£5,758.000
TRUST FUNDS, 1915:
£11,890,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1922
£20,399,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1922, £1,960,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETDAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The South British Insurance Co.
(Maoriland) : —■
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1912.. £83,633 374p.c.= £37,500 £46,133 £603,295
£200,000 Reserves transferred to Capital 403,295
1913.. 91,070 13J p.c.= 40,000 51,070 454,365
1914.. 88,875 15 „„ 45,000 43,875 498,240
1915.. 134,880 15 „„ 45,000 89,880 588,120
1916.. 109,7 < 7 15 ~ „ 45,000 , .w i
Written off investments, £21,268 )
1917.. 151,779 16 p.e.= 47,500 104,279 735,90 S
£120,000 Reserve Fund capitalised .. 615,908
£BO,OOO other reserves capitalised.
m 8 162,434 10 P-c.= 50,000 ) 7 2
Written olr premises, £20,000 \ ’
1919.. 150,133 114 p.c.= 57,500 ( 77 Q 7( =
Written off premises, £15,000 ) ' BU,a '°
1920.. 237,618 14 p.c. = 70,000 167,618 948,593
Contingency reserve taken in .. 20,000 968,593
Unexplained additions to reserves, 85,531 1,054,124
Reserves capitalised . . £250,000 . . 804,124
1921.. 225,115 13 p.c. - 79,167 145,948 950,072
Written off investments, £410,984 . . 929,088
1922.. 160,343 11 1-9 p.c. =83,333 77,010 1,006,098
Twelve months ago, when the South British
and N. Z. Insurance were arranging a part-
nership, this co. brought to light £85,531 of
hidden reserves. Of the additions £40,531
showed up in an investment fluctuation fund.
But the partnership scheme has been aban-
doned, and, without explanation, £20,984 has
dropped out of the investment reserve. For
the past 12 months the South British made
its largest div. distribution, but the surplus
available for reserves was smaller than on
any other occasion since 1910. For many
years the handsome divs. have been fully
covered by the net return from investments,
and for the past 12 months interest and
rents exceeded divs. by £2023. The co. is,
therefore, in the strong position of being
able to add every penny of underwriting pro-
fit to its very substantial reserves. After
payment of the final div. reserves exceeded a
million, equal to no less than 113 p.e. of last
year’s net premiums. Paid capital repre-
sented 84 p.c. of premiums, so the co. had
funds equal to 197 p.c. of its policy-income.
Funds times premium income are
regarded as fair protection for policy-
holders, so the co.’s underwriting position is
very sound. In addition, there is a quarter-
million of uncalled capital at the command
of directors should the worst happen.
The underwriting surplus last year was
only £75,412, compared with £341,246 for
1921 and £166,927 for 1920. Further de-
tails are given in this comparison:—
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. penses. Rate, Rate.
1895. . £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65.-0 p.c. 24.0 p.c.
1900.. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60.3 „ 26.9 „
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60.4,, 27.7 „
1910.. 336,542 197,320 94,824 58.6 ~ 28.1 „
1915.. 553,297 287,117 159,063 51.8 „ 28.7 „
1916.. 558,799 296,038 171,537 52.9 „ 30.7 „
1917.. 612,870 316,669 189.250 51.7 „ 30.9 „
1918.. 656,989 329.466 215.176 50.1 ~ 32.7 „
1919.. 645,953 328,738 223,090 60.9 „ 34.5 „
1920.. 792,664 369,194 256,543 46.4,, 32.3 „
1921. . 924,159 499,300 283,013 54.0 „ 30.7 „
1922.. 893,340 538,289 279,638 60.3 „ 31.3 „
Owing chiefly to lowered values net premium
income declined £30,819. The period was
unfavorable for the insurance cos., and this
co.’s losses were £38,989 larger. Expenses
were slightly heavier, so the underwriting
profit was only 8.4 p.c., the smallest for any
year in the table.
At August 31 assets totalled £2,101,171,
and this comparison shows how the invest-
ment policy has altered since 1914, when the
balance-sheet total was £942,670: —
, 1914 , , 1922
£ £
Public securities 206,124 21.8 p.c. 1,111,407 52.9 p.e.
Deposits, cash and
book debts.. 145,396 15.4 p.c. 426,801 20.3 p.e.
Premises .. 262,191 27.8 p.c. 331,044 15.8 p.c.
Mortgages .. 297,034 31.6 p.c. 52,969 2.5 p.c.
Stock and deben-
tures. . .. 31,925 3.4 p.e. 178,949 8.5 p.c.
More than four-fifths of assets now comprise
public securities, cash, book debts, shares
and debentures.
* * * #
The Southern Cross Assurance Co.,
Ltd.—This is the life concern promoted by
Thomas Confoy, who received 25,090 8 p.c.
prefs. of 10s. each fully-paid and £lOOO cash.
After seven years as a very active policy-
writer for the Australian Provincial Assur-
ance, it was to be expected that Confoy
would put the new infant into running-shoes
from the beginning. The revenue accounts
now presented, though stated to be for “the
year ended August 31,” cover the period
since policy-writing began—May 19, 1921.
During the 154 months the co. accepted
ordinary policies assuring no less than
£1,105.350, not counting £73,425 of re-
assurances. Meantime the management had
established 18 branches throughout the Com-
monwealth and Maoriland. Including the
promoter’s cut, establishment and brokerage
costs took £51,689. Portion of this deficit
has been made good in an unusual way: in
January last 125,000 new 10s. ordinaries to
be paid to ss. were offered at a premium of
ss. per share, or 100 p.c. on the amount called
up. The public bit; all the capital invited
was subscribed and the co. was made a gift
of £31,250 of share-premiums. There was no
visible justification for any premium. The
management, having speeded-up policy-writ-
ing from the start, had won a large volume
of business when the shares were offered, but
prospects of profit-earning were no more
definite than when the first policy was
written.
The Southern Cross has so far restricted
operations to Ordinary and Accident busi-
ness. In the latter branch £12,111 of pre-
miums were received and £9O of interest.
Claims took £2217 and expenses £7554, and
a surplus of £2430 resulted. The million-odd
of Ordinary assurances gave £41,475 of first
premiums and renewals £12,248. Interest
lidded £3003, making a total income of
£56,726. Only two death claims were experi-
enced, together taking £1357. The manage-
ment says that all expenses have been
charged up in the first accounts, and they
are a very weighty lot: commission, agents’
and medical expenses, £39,186; management
exes., including rents, taxes, printing, etc.,
£47,839. Including all charges, £87,096 was
spent to win an income of £56,726, giving an
expense rate of 153 p.c., apart from ann-
exes. charged to the promotion and estab-
lishment account.
The establishment of the Southern Cross
and its early policy-writing have both been
costly. But the early accounts of a life
office are not a reliable guide to prospects.
Much depends on whether the expensive
early business is renewed —this co. declares
that so far renewals are averaging from 75
to 82 p.c. The future also depends on reduc-
ing exes, so that nremiums will do the work
for which they were designed, that is, the
accumulation of funds to meet policy liabili-
ties. The Southern Cross has a long way to
go before much relief can be expected in
costs. A considerably larger business of a
permanent and healthy character is required
to enable the eo. to maintain 18 widely dis-
tributed branches. Meanwhile all new busi-
ness will necessarily continue to be costly.
Shareholders must wait for years before they
can hope for the tide to turn in their favor.
For the present, all that is visible is that
£52,819 of the paid capital of £139,619, to-
gether with £31,250 of share-premiums, have
gone in “establishment, organisation and
new business extension,” and that paid capi-
tal is at present carrying all liabilities under
policies. It is worth noting that one in four
of the co.’s shares is a pref.—loo,ooo paid toss.
and 25,000 fully-paid, and both lots entitled
to a cumulative 8 p.c. p.a. Which means that
throughout the rteriod when profits cannot
be expected, the co. is accumulating a lia-
bility on these shares at the rate of £3OOO
p.a. There’s likely to be a U'dy sum due to
the prefs. before any div. distribution can
be justified.
So far, the policy-holder is well protected.
Though premiums have not provided a penny
for assurance funds, intact shareholders’
capital gives substantial support for any lia-
bility which now exists. At August 31 there
were tangible assets with a book value of
£117,871, made up as follows: Government
securities, £59,886; mortgages and loans,
£18.840; agency balances and book-debts,
£14,258 ; cash, etc., £16,188; motor-cars, fur-
niture, stationery, etc., £8699. Liabilities,
apart from policy obligations, amounted to
£28,391. Not including office equipment,
there were net tangible assets of approxi-
mately £83,000.
* * * *
Farmer and Co., Ltd., who run a soft-
goods shop in Sydney :
, Dividends.—
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.e. Ordinary. Reserves.
1912. . £43,027 £12,000 12Jp.e.= £i9,529 £46,166
1913.. 47,223 12,000 124 „ „ 19,529. 61,860
Premiums on new shares, £17,508.." 7.9,368
1914.. 48,453 12,000 12J p.e.= 20,134 95,687
1915.. 41,814 12,000 10 „ ~ 20,000 105,501
1916.. 40,161 12,000 124 „ „ 25.000 108,662
Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. 15 p.e.
1917.. 43,940 12.000 602 30.000 110,000
1918.. '49,590 12,000 7,590 30,000 110,000
1919.. 54,995 12,000 12,995 30,000 110,009
Transferred to capital, £100,000.. 10,000
124 p.c.
1920.. 98,049 12,000 14,331 32.500 49,218
10 p.c.
1921.. 77,561 12,000 19,570 33,816 61,393
Reserve for war-taxation and contingencies
taken in, £50,542 .. .. 111,935
1922. . 78,304 12,000 19,570 33,816 124,853
Paid capital is £817,738. made up of £200,000
of 6 p.e. prefs., £279.579 of 7 p.c. prefs.,
and £335.159 of ordinaries. Though
£585.734 of capital is tied up in properties
—some of it vacant land and not productive,
except to the extent of the business cap-
tured by. the temporary display-windows
erected thereon—the co. pays 10 p.c. on its
ordinary capital without difficulty. During
the past two years of collapsing values
J- armer and Co. has done very well: there
have been no visible losses, no transfer of
reserves to re-adjust stock values, and
£20,093 has been added to reserves after
distributing £130,772 of divs. Twelve
months ago The Bulletin remarked that
shareholders could reasonably regard as a
genuine reserve the £50,542 accumulated in
previous years for war-taxes and contingen-
cies. During the year the directors trans-
ferred £40,542 of it to the reserve fund, and
left £lO,OOO in a reserve for contingencies.
But as stock “has had the most careful con-
sideration, and its value is strictly in accord-
ance with present-day market values,” that
£lO,OOO is no doubt as genuine as any other
reserve of accumulated profit.
The accounts for the past two trouble-
some years indicate that Farmer’s has been
a soundly-managed concern : during the period
of high prices the directors evidently nursed
stock values carefully. Of course, on the
other hand, the big retailers were assisted
during the period of slump by customers
who had not had their spending power
impaired to any extent: this co. admitted
a “greater volume of trade” for 1921 than
in the previous boom year. Profits nowa-
days are much larger than a few years ago,
but the increase must be considered along
with capital expansion :—•
Paid
Capital. Profits.
1914 .. £400,000 £48,453
1917 . . 501,355 68.910
1918 .. 552,032 - 73,599
1919 . . 602,710 79,047
1920 . . 719,266* 98,049
1921 .. 817,738* 77,561
1922 . . 817,738* 78,304
£loo,ooo of capitalised reserves.
In that comparison profits include the
amounts set aside each year for war-taxa-
tion and for contingencies. Last year net
earnings were nearly £30,000 larger than
in 1914; but £317,738 new money had been
got in from shareholders and £129,166 more
accumulated profit was in the business. This
shows how all the new funds have been put
to work:—
1914 1 Q 9 0 1 Q 91 1 Q 9 9
Capital . . £400,000 £719,266 £817,738 £817,738
Liabilities .'. 204,740 390,436 363,980 272,416
Freeholds and
plant . . 431,778 573,762 577,283 585,734
Leaseholds . . 14,356 2,349 2,000- 1,900
Stock.. .. 174,659 545,096 587,255 533,171
Book debts .. 37,470 72,338 82,027 91,075
Cash and invest-
ments .. 56,048 38,416 61,996 20,036
In eight years £141,500 net more has been
invested in properties and plant, stock has
expanded £358,512, book debts are £53,605
larger, but cash and investments £36,012
smaller. Last year the co. liquidated an
£BO,OOO mortgage, but notwithstanding the
rapid growth of the business total outside
liabilities are only £67,676 larger than in
1914. After payment of the year’s final
div. the co. showed liquid assets £371,866
in/excess of all liabilities. The £479,579 of
prefs. are supported by assets with a book
value qf £942,589 —almost £2 for every £1
put in.
*** * .
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1912.. £4193 10 p.e. = £2651 £1542 £12.371
1913.. 5496 15 „ „ 3977 1519 13,890
1914.. 5131 10 „ „ 2,651 2480 16,370
Written ofF, £5OO .. 15,870
1915.. 4746 10 p.c. = 2651 2095 17,965
1916.. 3691 10 „ ~ 2651 1040 ,19,005
1917.. 4829 10 „ „ 2651 2178 21,183
Transferred to capital, £20,200 .. 983
1918.. 5044 7 p.c. = 3341 1703 2,686
1919.. 5799 9 „ „ 4295 \ , n . „ ICl n
Voted to Provident Fund, £lOOO ) ’
1920.. 6363 9 p.e. = 4295 t 1068 4 268
Provident Fund, £lOOO ) ’
1921.. 6321 IQ p.c. - 4829 1 092 Q
Provident 1 und, £ 500 i
1922.. 6775 10 p.c. = 4829 ) 1446 6 696
Provident Fund, £6OO )
Transferred to capital, £5050 .. 1,646
At June 30 there were 101,000 50s. shares
paid to 95., but reserves have since been
dipped into to make scrip paid to 10s. Paid
capital now amounts tb £50,500, and as there
is every prospect of an improvement on earn-
ings of recent years, the management should
have no difficulty in giving shareholders the
usual 10 p.c. Since 1917 capital has been
doubled by bonus issues, so old shareholders
now get very sweet pickings. The eo. has
been in business since 1888, but its most
rapid progress has been in recent years. The
value of trusts has almost doubled since
1913: put another way, in the past nine
years the co. added as much business as. was
entrusted to it w T hen it had been in business
25. years. This shows how rapidly the trusts
have accumulated since the IJ-million mark
was reached
' 1908 .. £1,528,345
1910 .. 2,135,244
1915 .. 3,382,095
1917 .. 3,908,382
1918- . . £4,049,378
1920 ... 4,770,752
1921 .. 5,363,333
1922 .. 5,679,335
The expansion in recent years has been re-
markable, considering that a Public Trustee,
who has no capital for which he has to earn
interest, has been competing since 1916. In
some instances his tariff is lower: the
Queensland Trustees charges 2i p.c. corpus
commission on estates up to £50,000, 1£ p.c.
in excess of that amount up to £lOO,OOO, and
1 p.c. on amounts over £100,000; the Govern-
ment office charges at the higher rate up to
£25,000, and 1£ p.c. in excess of £25,000 up
to £lOO,OOO, and 1 p.c. on the balance. But
after six years, and though the Government
is guarantor instead of Private Enterprise,
the Public Trustee held trust funds totalling
only £470,101. The Government office has
numerous side-line interests, so, notwith
standing that the co.’s trust business was 12
times larger, the Public Trustee in his latest
financial year had a gross income of £51,580
compared with the co.’s £29,394. But his
expenses were proportionately larger : £48,402
as against the co.’s £21,620. And on the
subject of expenses the Auditor-General had
something to say in his latest report
I understand from the Public Curator that these
costs are now at a maximum, and that considerably
increased business could be performed without pro-
portionate increases in costs. It is to be hoped for
the future financial outlook of the office that such is
the case.
Incidentally, the Public Curator last year had
to write off £1539 to cover defalcations and
£541 depreciation of securities—losses which
had been “accruing over a period of years.”
The Queensland Trustees management has
had no reason .to be concerned about the
Government office. As things have turned
out, it has probably welcomed the competi-
tion.
* * * *
Colton, Palmer and Preston, Ltd.,
hardware merchants, leather manufacturers,
etc. (Adelaide) :
Dividends.
r - A \
Pref. Written Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. Ordinary. Off. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1914.. 26,670 5160 7 p.c. = 12,600 8,946 7,800
1915.. 32,968 5345 7 „ ~ 12,600 12.990 9,833
1916.. 44,657 5345 8 ~ „ 14.400 20,343 14,402
1917.. 44,603 5345 104,, „ 18,900 12,589 22,171
1918.. 52,961 5345 104 „ „ 18,900 24,288 26,599
1919.. 66,959 5345 104 „ „ 18,900 8,532 26,599
1920.. 66,959 5345 104 „ „ 18.900 24,630 44,683
1921.. 56,809 5345 104 „ „ 18,900 21,540 55,707
1922. . 43,332* 5345 104 „ „ 18,900 11,782 63,012*
*Subject to income-tax.
The directors’ report contains the usual
stereotyped announcement that “the business
has been successfully conducted.” Beyond
that and the assurance in the auditors’ certi-
ficate that “all proper allowances have been
made for loss by depreciation or by any other
cause whatsoever,” the directors have no-
thing to say. But a management of a hard-
ware concern which for two of the most
difficult years in the trade has maintained
divs. at boom level can be excused for allow-
ing the accounts to record its success with-
out comment. Notwithstanding the slump
and - erratic markets, the co. has continued
to pay 10J p.c. on ordinaries, and, allowing
for taxation, has put £13,000 or so into re-
serve during the past two years. When values
were high and stocks large, the directors
were fortunate in being able to arrange tem-
porary accommodation and avoid raising
new capital. Since the present co. took over
two old firms 11 years ago, paid capital
has been increased by only £4OOO, and
£106,903 of the present share-register total of
£286,903 is pref. capital carrying only 5 p.c.
Balance-sheet movements since the second
lot of accounts were presented have been as
follows:—■
1913. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities . . .. £106,035 £180,671 £119,678
Freeholds and leaseholds 81,595 89,822 99,763
Machinery, plant, etc. .. 15,755 7,669 8,143
Stocks . . . .. 209,943 308,068 235,223
Book debts .. .. 93,858 134,484 136,568
Investments .. .. 1,405 2,924 2,931
Liabilities during the past 12 months were
reduced £61.000, and at the latest balance
were only £13,000 larger than nine years
ago. Stocks had been cut down £72,845
during the year, so the co.’s position has
again been restored to a very comfortable
basis. Since the first year £15,375 of good-
will items have been written off, and after
paying handsome divs. approximately £55,000
of visible surplus profit has been left in the
business. The improvement may have been
even. greater: a feature of the accounts has
been the large amount written off at each
balance. There are indications that values
have been written-down hard: for instance,
after adding to machinery and plant, etc.,
the book value of these items. has been re-
duced from £15,755 to £8143 in nine years.
The assets shown by the balance-sheets do
not disclose the necessity for allowances
which have exceeded dividend distributions.
* * * *
About 4500 men are employed on the
Bander mines to-day, compared with 7500
three years ago. There has been a slight
increase lately on account of the North Go.
doubling its output, but most mining men
consider that 5000 will be the maximum the
field is likely to employ in future years. At
present a large number are employed on
treatment of dumps, but the old heaps of
tailings are coming to an end. Within a
few months the Zinc Corporation mill will
close, to be followed later by Amalgamated
Zinc and probably B. H. Prop, Amalga-
mated Zinc may have its life prolonged for
a few months by continuing treatment of


Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: “London House,”
97 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Esq.,
Governing Director.
The Pacific Cableßoard
REST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN.
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/- 1/6
(9d. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4jd,
Canada
2/4 1/2
j 7d. (minimum
i 11/8,20 words)
U.5.A... ..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
261 Ceorge Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(S lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central i!084
,T. MTT.WARD. Manager in the Pacific
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * * »
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth. — Advt. - [2
* * * *
When the Tasmanian Government selected Pioneer
Wood Pipe as conduit for their great Hydro-Electric
scheme their choice was influenced by its extreme
economy and faultless records. It conveys from
20 to 25 per cent, more water than metal pipe,
never requires cleaning or renewing, and is manufac-
tured in sizes to suit all requirements from the
largest main to the smallest pipe line. All inquiries
to the Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
# * * *
Inventors. — Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* « * «
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling ' and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and. Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * »
“1921 Models’’—“National’’ suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
&
0OORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Swift >V Company Australasian .Airents. 26 SO Clarence St., S.vtlne.v
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
E 3
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals,
Materials and Manufacturers’ Suppli es *
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
South tailings until the latter company has
its new zinc plant ready, but in any case
there will be a crowd of surface hands
anxious to see increased underground pro-
duction in order to provide feed for the
treatment plants. The treatment of the huge
dumx>s of tailings a fid slimes, accumulated
in the days w*hen metallurgy had not reached
anything like present-day standards, has
played an important part in the history of
the Hill for the past 15 years. It is possible
the industrial position might have worked
out in a very different manner had it not
been for the cheap concentrate which has
been won from the dumps. This revenue has
been got without the aid of miners. There
is one fair-sized heap of slime remaining to
be treated—that of the North mine, which
has about a quarter of a million tons of very
nice stuff stacked away against a rainy day.
Spelter continues to rise in price, and the
Electrolytic Zinc stable wears a large and
unanimous smile. From reports just issued
apparently it made £ll per ton out of
spelter for the year ended June 30. During
the productive period the metal averaged
about £26, so that with price now £35
the profit per ton should be correspondingly
greater. In a couple of months or so the
production will be 120 tons daily. The zinc
concentrate to supply the works for the
next eight or nine years is already secured
and stacked at Broken Hill and elsewhere,
and it was bought at a remarkably low price.
E.Z. promises to be a co. of a rare species:
on present appearances it threatens to live up
to prospectus estimates
•X -X- -v *
George Weir promises shareholders that
during the current financial year North
Broken Hill will crosscut, for the lode at
the 1550 ft. level. If this level opens out as
well as the one above, the North will be truly
a splendid proposition. It is unique in that
the general layout of the ore-body corres-
ponds to text-book ideals in almost every
particular. Ou the field it is generally
accepted as a fact that the Great Architect
consulted Collins House before the North
was evolved.
* * * *
The Federal Government has notified that
all restrictions on the exportation of metals
and minerals to Maoriland have been re-
moved ; the usual Customs entry will now
be sufficient for this trade. How much
longer will the Prime Minister disregard the
united protests of the State Governments
against unnecessary restrictions and cum-
bersome routine which apply to trade with
other countries? If there be sound diplo-
matic or commercial reasons for blocking the
export of metals to Germany, w r hy not pro-
hibit it specifically? But if Australian wool
may be consigned there, why not metals?
With Percy Piggott away, squatter Rob-
ertson broke the news to Mt. Cuthbert sur-
vivors that their co. owes prior-lien bond-
holders £26,600, ordinary debenture-holders
£55,000, unsecured creditors £26,000. In-
cluding interest £111,600 has to be found
before shareholders can get a look-in. Rob-
ertson’s idea is that the prior-lien crowd must
be bought out, especially as the fattest
among them want both capital and
interest. If they cannot be satisfied, the
whole of the £300,000 of assets will go to a
forced sale. Shareholders have now a little
committee to help man the boat until a
haven is reached.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta miners seem to have
been well hypnotised by union agitators.
They are now out on strike against the appli-
cation of the one-man-one-drill system of
working. This is the universal rule in
America, the home of the jack-hammer, and
it is followed in most parts of the world. In
some of the Cornish counties it has been a
common practice from time immemorial.
Gympie (Q.) was an Australian field where
it was adopted—hence a particular style of
light hammer is known as a “Gympie.” The
workmen’s only objection to it is that it in-
creases the risks, but experience has shown
that there is no justification for this assump-
tion. It does not involve the machine-man
in any harder work —quite the contrary, as
he is relieved of the severe strains of handling
heavy machines and massive column bars.
The real, grievance probably is that men who
L ive been accustomed to work in pairs have
toil “on their lonesome,” but this ought
not to affect the Cousin Jack of S. Aus., who,
by training, if not instinct, is quite com-
panionable in himself in singing or praying.
Lucknow 66 is the newest co. to...par-
ticipate in the Lucknow (N.S.W.) revival.
It proposes to take over leases, totalling
about 65 acres, adjoining South Lucknow
Extended, and to ascertain whether the
famous Lucknow joint lives there. “There
seems strong evidence,” say the promoters,
“that the serpentine belt, so closely .con-
nected with Lucknow ore-bodies, continues
as far as the Lucknow 66 areas, and for
a considerable distance beyond.” Under-
ground prospecting alone can definitely
establish whether the surface evidence is
reliable, so the syndicate, which already has
a shaft down 50ft., is being converted into
a N.L. co. to provide funds for the neces-
sary plant and work. For purposes of the
float the leases and work done to date are
given a valuation •of £23,300, for which
86,000 3s. paids and 104,000 paid to 2s.
are to be allotted. The syndicates have
the right to take up 56.000 contribs. to be
paid to 6d., and 24,000 more are under option
to members of the syndicate. Whether,
in view of the distance from old producers,
Lucknow 66 ground has been over-valued
for purposes of the float remains for actual
work to prove. But if the syndicate-holders
take all the shares, as was the case in other
floats by the same crowd, it is not a matter
which concerns the public until shares are
quoted on ’Change.
* * * *
Luck is in and out at South Lucknow.
At the 60ft. level about 170 ft. of cross-cut-
ting was necessary before locating the contact
between diorite and serpentine —where Luck-
now’s good values have always been found.
But the rocks w r ere so altered that, in the
absence of a definite channel, the contact was
difficult to follow. Better luck was experi-
enced when what was apparently a false joint
was followed behind the shaft, and a gold-
bearing spur was located. The shaft was
then deepened to 125 ft., and the search for
the contact began afresh. A crosscut and
several drives were put in, but no joint was
reached. Nevertheless, two prominent spurs
were located, and for some time work has
been proceeding on them tow r ards the con-
tact. A drive is in 131 ft. on one and 95ft.
on the other. Occasional rich patches have
been cut, but no large tonnages can be ex-
pected until the vicinity of the contact is
reached. How far it is away cannot be
determined, but it is probably further than
the 170 ft. in the level above. Since March 1
last the co. has jogged along on £2500 appli-
cation money and £1250 received from a 3d.
call, the £3750 also covering all co. formation
costs and £4OO of plant. Some of the good
patches met in the spurs are being raised and
a first crushing of up to 100 tons, expected to
go about 50z., should be- ready in about a
month. With this the directors are hoping
to postpone calls which would otherwise be
necessary to finance the search for the
elusive contact.
* # * #
North Fingall (W.A.) has a parcel of ore
ready for treatment, but at present there is
no plant available for crushing. Lease-
holders and tributors on other shows are
busy booking parcels of ore at treatment
plants to see them over Christmas, and Hart-
rick must wait his turn. Meanwhile those
interested in the show are impatient. Market
opinion is divided as to prospects, and both
parties say the result of the crushing will be
a surprise. As a matter of fact, the yield is
not likely to be sensational either way
* * * ♦
Gnow’s Nest, Yalgoo (W.A.), has declared
a div. of ss. per share. But prospects of
further divs. being earned at an early date
are not good. The mine-manager, in his
latest report, hopes that the balance of the
shaft-sinking will not be retarded by further
heavy flows of water, as, “owing to several
breaks occurring in the ore body between the
180 ft. and 80ft. levels, the quantity of ore
now left in the stopes is barely sufficient to
keep the battery running until the 280 ft.
level is opened up.”
* * * *
Sons (W.A.) during September
treated 15,000 tons sands and slimes for
12600 z. (fine). The cyaniding of 15,000
tons of accumulated material in a month is
about a record for the Commonwealth.
Gwalia’s crushing plant is still closed down.
Freney’s bore at Rough Range (W.A.) is
only a small outfit, and is not likely to bore
to 1000 ft. At Mt. Wynne the country con-
tinues very hard, and boring is slow. Okes-
Durack plant will be a month later reach-
ing the port of Wvndham than expected,
and as the wet season will soon set in the
delay is unfortunate. Carting machinery
100 miles inland from Wyndham during the
wet season is a job to be avoided.
* * * *
Birds Reef Co., the latest Bendigo float,
has lost no time in getting busy. The Tam-
bour Major plant at Specimen Hill, Long
Gully, has been purchased, and is now being
removed. It is expected that the mine will
be unwatered within three months; when a
start will be made with the sinking of the
shaft 100 ft., to test the formation, the top
of which was passed through at 500 ft. The
plant will need to have better luck at its
new location than it had at its last, for the
hope of Birds Reef people to be realised.
Three plants have been put on the T.M.
ground within the past 35 years, in defiance
of the publicly-expressed opinions of original
Specimen Hillites that deep prospecting
should have been undertaken at the southern
end of the hill, instead of at the extreme
north, in the old Agamemnon ground, which
was never any good. The failure of several
cos. to find anything payable there will
probably deter any further prospecting on a
hill which, on its early records, ought to be
tested in some central position, where gold
deposits might reasonably be expected to be
localised.
* * * *
New Blue, Bendigo, working one day short
last week owing to the miners’ holiday,
crushed 520 tons for 2500 z. gold, and treated
copper plates for 2720 z. Why Bendigo cos.
should go to the trouble of cleaning up every
week and of treating their copper-plates as
frequently as they do is incomprehensible, un-
less “safety first” prompts the idea that it is
better to have the gold in the bank than in
the battery-houses. The chemical process
which enables a man to strip the amalgam
off a plate in a few minutes, and leave the
plate so that it does not require re-dressing,
beyond the regular swabbing, is supposed to
have been first introduced at Bendigo, and it
may still be adopted by the cos. for the reason
suggested. The miners’ holiday referred to
represents a commendable departure on the
part of the employees on the field. Under
an award they are entitled to an occasional
three days’ holiday, on full pay, but, recog-
nising the critical position of the industry,
they agreed to be satisfied with one day.
More power to them for this display of com-
monsense! But it was what might have
been expected from a field which makes the
proud boast that it never had a strike of more
than a day’s duration.
* * * *
Two shillings per share has gone into Langi
Logan South (Vic.) in the last six months,
so altogether it has mopped up £183,000 in
its will-o’-the-wisp chase after gold in the
big gutter. Galls show at £112,699 and gold
at £45,700. This is bad even for a deep-lead
show, but as the wage earner got £93,262
direct, and another £40,000 indirectly, he
is not worrying over the economics of the
venture. John Cock, jun., who manages, still
regards the future as bright: he has “in-
creased confidence,” strengthened by late
developments. It is not the first time this
sort of fiddling has been heard about the
Langi gutter. The average of lioz. from
243 fathoms is good enough for anything, but
as only 1500 fathoms have been opened up
that won’t keep the w*olf from the door, nor
put a stop to calls. Proof is still wanting
that the Langi lead is anything more than a
patchy affair*.
* # * *
Torquay, on the ocean beach near Geelong
(Vic.), w*as the spot selected by Doc. Prit-
chard as an oil possibility. H. E. Connolly
does the propaganda. The doc. turned up
the other day with a report that the No. 1
bore had run into “true” oil-sand, so Tor-
quay, Moutajup and others of the breed
started to jig. Torquay directors jumped
their over-the-counter price, for a “further
limited number of shares to those who
wished to get in on easy terms,” from £1
to a fiver each. There was some sign of an
office rush before the market opened, but
those who waited saw the scrip slip back
from 50s. to 305., though w r ord went along
Queen-street that a gang of oil-tankers had
been engaged to save if a gusher was got. So
the game goes on.
# * # *
There has been nothing startling as the
result of prospecting in Clark’s, Charters
Towers, during the last couple of months.
No. 11 north level, where the best stone in
the bottom levels was located, is out 350 ft.
from the underlay, and has a patchy but
small reef —6in. to 9in. —with good values.
This alone cannot feed the mill, and the
stopes above No. 10 are becoming played
out. Driving in No. 10 south has proved
disappointing. The last crushing of 240
tons average £5 10s. per ton, and the tail-
ings should pan out at a little over £2 a
ton. It looks as if the deeper ground block-
ing off the reef on the underlay, which was
acquired when things were looking decidedly
better than they are at present, will not
be of much use. Although erushings have
been averaging about £7 to £8 there have
been no divs. since September, 1921. High
costs and prospecting work have eaten up
a lot of cash.
* * • *
The Canary, Kangaroo Hills (N.Q.), is
turning out up to expectations, and ranks
next to the Sardine now. The main shaft
is down 85ft., and although there has not
been much in the lower half of it a nice
shoot of rich ore up to 3ft. wide has been
very constant in the north levels. At the
60ft. level there is 27ft. averaging 2ft.
which looks worth 40 p.e., and this has been
followed down to 82ft. While the shoots
may be smaller than those in the Sardine,
the latter mine has nothing on the Canary
as regards their persistence. The erushings
have been small so far, but ore-ra : sing has
been subordinated to blocking out reserves.
A Towers syndicate paid a big price for
an option on the mine, and it is certain to
be exercised. Millings to date have aver-
aged 37 p.c.
* * * #
The State arsenic-mine at Jibbenbsr (Q.)
had a four-weeks’ spell due to water-shortage.
Notwithstanding, the flues returned 120 tons
of white arsenic from 1424 tons ore, the
best quarterly output to date. The stuff is
still available to Cocky at £lO a. tou for
pear-destruction, but the demand has been
so limited that Minister Jones is considering
the prospects of mixing his own arsenical
poisons. The last returns show a slight fall-
ing off in grade of ore mined, and the lode is
becoming thinner; but there is no immedi-
ate likelihood of ore shortage. Development
work on a couple of lodes nearby should add
considerably to reserves.
* * * *
John Ditchburn’s Carbide and Electro
Products, formerly the Hydro-Electric, only
scraped over the jumps last year, even with
the course all to itself. It found a market
for £107,545 of carbide of calcium, of tip-
top grade. It had to shut down for four
months to try to shape its plant to meet
demands, and a lot of cash was lost in fight-
ing the little Jap and the cheap European
maker. In the end Minister Itodgers
weakened, and withdrew the embargo. All
the co. gets now is an assurance that it will
not be dumped out of existence, though it
may be starved thin. The year’s accounts
aren’t cheerful, but ■ with the Speck deep in
the show the financial backing is not weak.
The co. had to get another 1500-h.p. of elec-
tricity, and while it could be transformed to
factory requirements, the old furnace could
not stand the added load, while other plant
also staggered under the test; so there had
to be a lapse back to the old output, thus
offering the chance for the importer to com-
plain of short supplies. Ditchburn and
Gillies believe the new furnace will be
pouring out carbide at the end of the coming
summer, and that then Australia will not
need outside stuff. A lot of cash went to
lay the four-mile tramway to Ida Bay, and
more was swallowed up in converting the
steamer Excelsior as a Carrier. So while a
gross manufacturing profit of £26,767 was
wrung out of sales of carbide, charges took
£21,233. Oddments, including a zinc-mine
option which shows the hand of Gillies, ate
up another £5522, so that the net profit in
the end was shaded down to £l2l.
* * * #
From J. L. Strevens: —
Tell “Peter” (B. 12/10/’22) that I tested rocks,
bitumens and waters at Okes’ “find” and elsewhere
in the Ivimberleys in August, 1921, having taken with
me appliances for that specific purpose. Also, that
my diary tells me we broke camp on the Negri River
and made for the Territory five days before Blatch-
ford arrived at the “find.” It was certainly Blatch-
ford who officially reported upon the possibilities
of petroleum on the Okes-Durack area, and who
made possible the subsequent flotation of the property.
Neither Blatchford nor the writer could lay claim
to be the actual “discoverer” of asphaltum in the
Kimberleys, as Walter Okes knew of the existence
of the material there years before either of ns.


THE NATIONAL TROUPE OPENS ITS SEASON.
“The Chatswood meeting, at which the Prime Minister delivered his policy speech, opened with an impromptu concert. Sir Granville Ryrie gave one of his justly-celebrated whistling solos, and Mr. R. B. Orchard gave recitations. Finally some local
returned soldiers sang a Digger Classic, ‘Mademoiselle from Armentieres.’”
MB. TAMBO: “Ladies and gents, one Prime Minstrel will now, with your kind permission, sing that favorite ballad entitled: ‘Mother Trust’s White-headed Boy, or My Banking Account ’tis for Thee.’”


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose c.uisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
so
/
PURL COCONUT
OIL BLEND
7
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1021 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years'
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT ATP TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fullv explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 Geor&e street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LIMSEED
OIL
"The Deacon”: Mention of T H E Bul-
letin’s tame Puseyite (B. 19/10/’22) re-
calls that Captain Pusey, a grand-nephew of
the Original, has lived at Penrith (N.S.W.)
for years. After leaving India, where he
did his soldiering, he came to Australia, and
marrying Lillyan Ryan, a Victorian good-
looker, settled down in the Ma State.
Though«well over military age when the
Hun broke loose he went to England, re-
joined his old regiment, and served through
the scrap. On returning he was called
again to England by the death of his father,
Admiral Pusey (retired), an old gentleman
in the nineties, who left a fair “roll” behind
him.
“Dash Dotty”: A telegram was recently
received addressed: “Hon. W. M. Hughes,
Grime Minister.” Speaking telegraphically,
the difference be-
tween P. and G. is
slight, and on a
long line the mis-
take wou 1 d be
easy. Neverthe-
less, had it reached
its destination in
a n unexpurgated
form, the resultant
explosion mig h t
well have wrecked
Parliament House.
Providentially, a
senior officer
noticed the error,
and with the brief
remark : “Grime!
More Labor dirt,”
made the necessary
alteration and
passed the emascu-
lated insult on.
FRANK CLARKE,
Vic. Minister
of Works.
“Whitehall” sums a few of them up:—
The inclusion of the Marquis of Salisbury in
Bonar Law’s new Cabinet affords proof that in
modern England there is still much of an adventitious
nature in being wealthy and a peer. His brothers,
Hugh and Robert Cecil, are incomparably bigger
men, and carry more weight in the country which,
in truth, is heartily sick of the old-style feudal
Tory whom the owner of Hatfield best represents.
Lord Derby is equally conservative-minded; but he
doesn’t look it, being fat, genial and approachable.
And he is a sportsman and a manufacturer of epi-
grams, racy of the soil, such as the Englishman
loves. His bland reference, apropos his then leader,
Lloyd George, to the fact that “poachers make the
best gamekeepers,” is a case in point. Amery is
the perky little Empire enthusiast who was in
Australia shortly before the war. He is an amiable
mediocrity. The same applies to Leslie Wilson,
who married a rich Sydney girl while A.D.C. to a
N. S. Wales Governor. However, he will make a
first-class Whip, tact and affability being his strong
suits. The Duke of Devonshire is an immense,
cold, fat-lipped, solemn man, of whom it has been
said that, without means, he would probably have
had to take to lumping coal or something similar.
He had to sell his vast house in Piccadilly the other •
day, but is still a millionaire. Douglas Hogg, the
new Attorney-General, is a chubby-faced, sai dv-
haired young man who has carried the immense
popularity he won at Eton with him through his
professional and social careers. His elevation is
a tribute to his talents, but still more to his
pushing self-assurance, which is remarkable. Lord
Novar is well known here. He is another of those
affable, colorless characters who are to be found
by the hundred in any big West End club. He
may have been chosen owing to his association with
Australia, but he has also the merit of being rich
now—far richer than when he came here first as
Governor. Lord Cave, the new Chancellor, earned a
huge income at the Chancery Bar before going in
for politics on the same side as his father, who
was a Tory M.P. in Gladstone’s day. George Cave
has been uniformly successful (he went to Oxford
15 years ago on a scholarship, took firsts in both
Mods and the Final Classical School, and was estab-
lished at the Bar within five years of being “called”),
but he is one of the most unpicturesque fig ires imag-
inable. He stands in this respect for the Cabinet
which is one of the drabbest of recent times —Carson
or Birkenhead fairly typifying the brilliant, if
dangerous, combination which has been ejected.
A weird record has been put up by one
George Brown, of Eastwood (S.A.). He is
an ex-market gardener, 90 years old, and has
made it a rule to attend the Assembly, while
in session, about twice a week for nearly a
quarter of a century.
“8.J.F.”: Though Australia has no
laureate, Barealdine (Q.) can boast its
official bard. Tony
Levian chronicles
in topical verse
every race, match
and notable event
in the town, and
sells the pomes in
MS. for sixpence
a time. He gets
rid of as many as
he can write. Tony,
by the way, turns
the scale at about
24 stone.
J. S. MAC-
DONALD, Mel-
bourne's well-
known literary art
critic and artist,
whose recent litho-
graphs are being
sought after by
Australian Art
Galleries.
The “See-Australia-First Millions Club”
was recently entertained by ex-Minister for
Justice Hall, who took his listeners, as they
sat over the nuts, on a verbal jaunt through
the N.S.W. gaols. D.R.H., during his term
of office, achieved quite a reputation |or his
interest in the inhabitants of the prison-
house, and tried hard enough to give many
of them a new start and hope in life. And
they appreciated it. Prior to his depar-
ture on the lure of the elusive A.C’ship
he was entertained at Long Bay and
given a rather touching au revoir. The day
after, a friend, who was at the function,
remarked how interesting the whole affair
had been. “But,” he said, “what did those
chaps mean when they sang ‘God be with you
till we meet again’?”
“F.W.G.”: Let me squelch any further
argument about the M.L. Cross (B. 13/7/’22)
by giving the actual list (taken from the
records) of those who received the decora-
tion : Ilenare Kepa Te Ahuru, Solomon
Black, Benjamin Biddle, William Lingard,
George Hill, Angus Smith, Arthur Wake-
field Carleek, Isaac Earl Featherston, John
Mackintosh Roberts, Kepa Rangihiwinui,
Ropata Wahawaha. Francis Joseph Mace,
George Augustus Preece, Samuel Walker,
Christopher Mating, Richard Shepherd,
Samuel Austin, Antonio Rodriguez, Thomas
Adamson, Thomas McDonnell, Gilbert Mair,
W. H. Northcroft and H. C. W. Wrisrg.
Thus fhe real number is 23, and only the
following holders are still above ground:
Hill, Roberts, Wahawaha, Mace,. Preece,
Mair, Northcroft and Wrigg.
“The Deacon’s” adventurous padre :— 1
The Roman priest, Pfire Peter Rouillac, who went
out recently, at just about three-score years and ten,
did most of his soul-chasing in the Solomons;
and it was in those wild parts that he and a few
choice spirits staged a stunt that drew a lot of
attention at the time. With nothing but a blind
trust in Providence, and a crew of half-civilised
niggers, they set out to sail the mission-boat
Eclipse (a 20-ton yawl) from the Islands to Sydney.
And by some miracle they did it. Cardinal Moran’s
publicity agent, Dr. O’Haran, thereupon arranged
for the public baptism by the Cardinal himself of
the woolly-headed crew. Rouillac wanted to tempt
Providence some more, but the port authorities
stepped in and forced a navigator on him. Once
clear of the Heads, however, he put the navigator
off in a dinghy. The wisdom of the authorities
was later demonstrated when the bearded padre,
after days of hopeless drifting, finally piled the
Eclipse up on a reef. Soon after malaria got him
badly, and Bishop Higgins gave him a shore
berth at Bowen (Q.). The dead “skipper” was a
scholar and linguist, who had at one time been a
Professor of Philosophy in his native Brittany.
“Col”: Captain Norman Packer, who was
accidentally killed last week, while serving
with the Ii.A.M.C. on the Rhine, was a Syd-
ney graduate who left for the Front the
day he became a doctor. He served from
early in 1915 till the Armistice with the
Imperial Army, and then accepted a job in
India. Later, he joined the Army of Occu-
pation in Germany, where, at the age of 31,
he met his tragic end. His mother, Mrs.
Lewis Packer, founded the Voluntary
Workers’ Cafe in Sydney in the interests of
the soldiers.
“Wagtail”: “The Oldest Inhabitant’s” par
re the jubilee of Hay (N.S.W.), coupled with
Burrabogie station and manager Hill (B,
19/10/’22), reminds me. The first time I
shore at Burrabogie, an old shearer showed
me the following lines, written on the wall
of the men’s hut, evidently by someone
with a grudge against Hill:—
Between Hill aud Hell there’s only one letter,
And if Hill was in Hell, Burrabogie’d be better.
This old gun shearer (he rung the shed that
year) told me the couplet had been there
“more than 20 years to his knowledge.”
Henry Bateson: It is claimed that only
two front-rank crooks who have managed to
escape from the custody of the M.L. gaol
authorities have succeeded in making a clean
get-away and avoiding recapture. One was
the 27-year-old Jonathan Roberts, forger
and horse-thief; the other the notorious
Pawelka. Roberts escaped in 1888 from
Ripa Island, off Lyttelton; and Pawelka
slipped out of Terrace Gaol, Wellington,
They are credited with having made South
America, to become officers in the coffee-
colored army of one of the smaller republics.
“Corona”: “ ’Dona’s” nominee for the
Operation Stakes (B. 12/10/’22) will ease
a few points when I weigh out my starter.
I left him in “Y” Ward, Wandsworth, early
in April, 1918, and up till that time he
had “hopped the bags” no less than 72 times.
He had progressively lost his leg from above
the ankle until there was only about Gin.
from the thigh left, and the joint was anchy-
losed. His issue had been collected at Vaux
about 12 months before, and for the first 10
he was lying on his face on a water-bed. Yet
he was the cheeriest cove I met in six
months as a hospital patient. He always
had his bed with his head towards the centre
of the ward, and was the life and soul of
the place. Early in 1919 I returned on a
visit, and Sister More, known to many Aus-
sies who passed through the Third Ijondon
General, informed me that, later, he had had
the leg taken off at the hip. So what his final
tally was can best be found out from the
optimist himself. His name was Lieut. L.
Hincks, 10th Batt., one time a noted Crow-
land footballer and all-round sport. I “dips
me lid” to him, for he gave me a new view-
point on life, and a very good one for a
disabled man. “If what hit our legs had hit
our heads —well, we were lucky.”
Viscount Novar (Ronald Munro Fer-
guson) is the second Caledonian ex-G.G. of
Australia who has been made Secretary for
Scotland in a Tory Cabinet. The other was
the Marquis of Linlithgow (Hopetoun),
who got the post in the waning Balfour
Cabinet.
“D.”: Bob Pillans, of Lithgow (N.S.W.),
is the district’s classic example of the
political ’bus-misser. From the time Dooley,
with the aid of Dan Clyne, beat him
for the Hartley selection, till Sam Nicholls
outed him the other day, he has been in
every local movement from the mayoralty
to the harassing of ironmaster Hoskins. This
time it looked as if his chance had come, for
the Macquarie Laborites were tiring of
Nicholls. However, though Pillans is a
staunch Scotchbyterian, and bigotry is not
in his outfit, the Protestant Federation
endorsed him; and he stood under their
ticket, and the result was—outski.
“Lexite”: “Monty” Plenwood, who went
into business as an industrial advocate at
the same time as “Mick” Connington, is retir-
ing. He has been a prominent unionist as
far back as the oldest hands can remember.
He took many cases for nothing where weak
unions were concerned; and proved a bril-
liant success. A roomful of illuminated ad-
dresses testify the gratitude of unions he has
helped ; but his greatest testimonial is that
when a unionist says “Monty Henwood says
so” he means that a fact is squarely on its
feet.
Straight from the horse’s mouth:—
As to “Tay Pay’s” talk (B. 26/10/’22) about a
Cardinal for Australia. It was only by accident that
this country ever acquired a Cardinal. Moran was
taken from his job of Vice-President of the Irish
College in Rome to succeed Vaughan of Syd-
ney in the early 'eighties. After a couple of years
his uncle, Cardinal Cullen, began to pull strings to
get him made Archbishop of Dublin. But the Irish
prelates and priests, fearing a repetition of the Cullen
Castle policy, kicked up such a row that the echo of
it penetrated through to Leo XIII., who squelched
the appointment—and was immediately confronted
with an unemployed problem in the form of Moran.
In the end Moran was solaced with the Red Hat, and
returned gladly enough to Sydney. “Tay Pay” need
not concern himself with the Apostolic Delegateship
ever again being sunk in a local Cardinal or Arch-
bishop. Pius X. finally settled that little matter.
Neither is the Apostolic-Delegate ever likely to be a
Cardinal. The position is a temporary one, and the
smallness of the territory and its comparative insigni-
ficance spiritually would make it infra dig for one
of the Sacred College.
It isn’t always wise to take the first offer
that comes along because it means more
dignity and a trifle of promotion. That, at
any rate is the inference to be drawn from
Archgaiters Lees’s reply to a civic welcome
when he went to
Bendigo the other
day. He men-
tioned that when
he had been only
six weeks at Swan-
sea rectory, he was
offered Bendigo,
but turned it down
on the advice of
the Archbishop of
Canterbury. And
the result was the
bigger job in Mel-
bourne. No doubt
the far-sighted Prh
mate of England
sized it up this
way: “Lees is a
cut above Bendigo.
If he takes it he’ll
never get promo-
tion, as those Vic-
torians are terrors
for thinking they
can never rear an
arch, locally.
Better wait.” Not
in that language,
precisely; but Vo
that effect.
A. WIENHOLT,
D.S.O., M.C.,
M.H.R. (Nat.,
Moreton), farmer
and big game-
hunter.
“T.W.”: “D.E.” is behind the times in
describing L. V. Biggs as a straight-laced
Anglican who “works for the Age.” Big"s
left the Age a couple of years back, and is
now the well-paid organiser of Vic. National-
ists, and nearer the long-contemplated heaven
of a place in Parliament than ever before.
The Symian organ, which still imagines it
buys the souls as well as the pens of its
scribes, objected to Biggs figuring eveh as
a suburban councillor, so he got out.
“T.W.”: Kyrle Bellew, daughter of the
old-time beauty actor and wife of Arthur
Bourchier, is not likely to get far in her
House of Commons candidature for Brighton.
England knows her only as a glorified
Eugenie Duggan, who shows more naked
emotionalism and bare back than any
actress now vamping. Unlike Lena Ash well,
Lillah McCarthy or Cicely Hamilton, she
has failed to identify herself with public
movements of any kind, and it will pro-
bably turn out that her aspirations towards
getting Brighton’s mostly Yiddish-cwm-hash-
house vote are the mushroom growth of some
bright young publicity-man’s brain.
“Lucius”: A. J. Hampson, whom Billy
Hughes displaced at Bendigo at the last
Federal elections, is to have another fly for
political honors, Corio (Vic.) Laborites hav-
ing put their money on him for a contest
with Lister. Since his defeat Hampson has
been inspecting soldiers’ settlements in the
Mallee. A dinkum Dig., and a fair plat-
form man, with Parliamentary experience,
he is likely to be a formidable opponent.
Corio has a big Labor vote. Even the dis-
credited Ozanne was able to score over
11,000 votes there at the sfast time of ask-
ing.
Swinburne is relinquishing his
f5OO-a-year-job as Electricity Commissioner
—an office of profit under the Crown —to
stand for the Senate as a Nationalist. He
hopes to capture the seat of which Fair-
bairn got tired.
PASS THE HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You want a football for your school?
Pass the hat.
Your father needs a grubbing-tool ?
Pass the hat.
If Myrtle’s voice is high and strong
She might become a Queen of Song
When finished on the Continong,
So —pass the hat!
When baby’s billed for his debut —
Pass the hat.
You mustn’t let that worry you.
Pass the hat.
Why fathers should be asked to pay
When kids first see the light of day
Is really more than I can say —
So —pass the hat!
Suppose your union goes on strike-
Pass the hat.
Don’t get a job unless you like!
Pass the hat.
There’s not a chance of going broke.
You needn’t do a blanky stroke.
Just cadge it from the other bloke,
And pass the hat!
You say the country is in debt?
Pass the hat.
We haven’t all gone bankrupt yet;
Pass the hat.
The thought of work just makes us reel!
If we’re to have our hard-earned meal,
We’ve got to borrow, beg or steal;
So —pass the hat!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.
JACARANDA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The jacaranda’s flovage like a purple carpet lies,
And an arabesque of sunshine prints a gilded
pattern fair - r
But the jacaranda’s purple pales before my lady’s eyes,
And you quite forget the suri-gold when you spy
my lady’s hair.
QUEENSLAND.
J. A. P.


• ?
*
-I
mm
&
.*' •»«•. .f. ■ :, . *. &
::
:
|jj|jj j|(j||jjj
■
V”
f , 4
I
liiliK pi
M SHI
: '
4MB
il®
M
" j
iy w
■' 111
■'■: :
a mm
■
: #
: :
: I
■■■■■■■
• , ■■
WM
■ :
-if- i
■
1
... : '. SSlt
75
J
/ ' ‘ : 'v<■ I -
'
• ■ • ' /V' “; : ' '
* >
'■’•■•V. ■ '
■
......
1
I :
' W<: %•?■>
:
HHi
mm i
IHiSII
: fe. V-.
.
iSflij si |»
■ .
BW
illilli
jK'f , - .
' ' ' ] '.V"- •
j£j
I
.'1; r <,>f< . '
mm 1
•f
■
..• •
| | |ggS
;v.':
■
' :••; i.
i
msi
k


*6
/
Schweppes’
Flavoring Essences.
You only require to use half the quantity
if you use Schweppes’
Essence of Vanilla, Lemon, Pineapple,
Cochineal, etc.
Schweppes’Pure Olive Oil
Schweppes’ Pure Malt
Vinegar.
The best is always the cheapest.
High-Grade Clocks— B=Day Models.
X
m
GIFTS OF LASTING VALUE.
They possess the charm of
distinction and exclusive-
ness, and their high quality
is apparent at a glance.
We aim to give you some-
thing “unusual” and some-
thing “better.” We invite
inquiry, and welcome in-
spection.
Boudoir Clock, Octagon shape,
2 Jin. diameter, lacquered gilt
frame, 8-day movement, folding
easel back, £6/6/-
With luminous dial, £6/15/-
8-day Travelling Clock in fold-
ing leather case, obtainable in
various shapes. A perfect gift,
£B/8/-
French Carnage Clock, glass sides, gilt frame, 8-day movement. Complete with carrying case.
With alarm, £5/5/- and £5/10/-; Timepiece only, 75/-, £4/10/-
ANGUS & COOTE LTD.,
Sydney's Leading Jewellers,
“ On the Great White Way,"
4-96 to 502 GtQRGE ST REE T , SYDNEY.
Society
“Sucre”: Hand Toowoomba (Q.) the bun
for honesty—or gradualness on the uptake.
The Downs Pony Race Club held a meet-
ing there recently. While counting the tak-
ings on the great,night, the secretary turned
white with fear—£3o was missing from the
cash-box. He made record time back to
the course, three miles away, and discovered
a bag with the exact amount lying on a
table. On a Sydney or Melbourne course
it's dangerous to leave your footDrints on
the doormat overnight.
A HARD LIFE.
“Come to bed now, darling!”
“Bother it! I'm too little to stay up at
night, and too big to stay in bed in the
morning!”
“Digver’s Batman”: The Sportsmen’s
Thousand (B. 26/10/’22) was a queor
affair. Like Ryan’s Thousand (which
didn’t materialise at all) and Carmichael’s
Second Thousand (which may have been
400), it failed to function numerically.
However, the name succeeded in roping in,
together with a proportion of genuine ath-
letes, a large number who were sportsmen to
the extent only that they were pastmasters at
such games as poker, snooker, two-up and the
three-card-trick. Many of them seem to
have gambled on the chance that the unit
wouldn’t be sent away before it. was a
thousand, and that the desired number
would never be reached. Anyhow, a large
crowd deserted, or tried to, when they
heard that they were to be temporarily
included in other formations. Months
afterwards, in scattered places in I ranee,
incurable optimists spoke of the time when
the promised unit with the attractive name
would march into the line and get busy; but
a much more frequent circumstance was the
Spectacle of an angry Digger threatening to
stoush any other Digger who should hurl
his initial connection with the Sportsmen s
Thousand at him. ‘‘Some of the Sports-
men’s unit must have arrived,” was a stand-
ing joke in those strained days, when thiev-
ing became particularly hot.
• * * *
“Bond,” on the fate of the Man who
Didn’t: —
Law and morals have come into collision at the
Old Bailey. It was shown that a returned soldier
of excellent character took a woman friend to a
hotel, engaged a bedroom, had tea with her, and
left the room looking as if it had been “occupied.”
Yet it hadn’t been occupied, in the Divorce Court
sense, and therefore the man was given
four months’ imprisonment 1 The farce was
called a criminal conspiracy. The soldier’s
wife had threatened to enforce a maintenance order
(which he was quite unable to comply with, and
had already been imprisoned twice for not observ-
ing), unless he furnished her with evidence on
which she could get a divorce. And so he had
obliged her, but, being a moral man, had omitted
the really essential item. Judge Dickens promised
warmly that any such omission in future, on the
part of persons similarly situated, will mean a far
heavier sentence.
« » » *
“Friday Island”: Thus Sydney Sun in
an article entitled “The Beachcomber” :
I first saw him in a low drinking-shop on the sea-
front at Port Moresby. A noisome hovel it was—
smelly with the odors of the water-front... .and
the feverish, muggy heat of Thursday Island.
Three days later I left Port Moresby—and saw
the man sitting on a pile of timber waving to a
follow-passenger —-a man who was leaving the curse
called Thursday Island, and a swamp that had been
sold to him as a cocoanut plantation, for ever.
One doesn’t want to be hypercritical, but
the capital of New Guinea isn’t in Thursday
Island. Moreover, T.I. isn’t feverish. It s
one of the few tropical spots in which malaria
is not a standing menace. It is not
swampy. The only fresh water is in the
town reservoir. Except during the mon-
soons. the climate is dry and bracing not
niuggv. And on its four square miles of
area "the only cocoanut “plantations are
those growing in the town streets, the
back yards of the five pubs, or the gardens
of some of the white residents.
* * * *
"Harold Ilardupp” : The growing ten-
dency of Australian children to bolt
from" home is beginning to worry the
police. In Brisbane, last week, a
troubled mamma scolded her three child-
ren (aged 13, 9 and 7) before they left
for school. They were discovered several
days later beyond Ipswich, where the eldest
rebel had been endeavoring to get a job
wherewith to support the other two. In Syd-
ney the child runaways actually reported to
the police number about three a week; many,
of course, reappear unreported, or are dragged
home anonymously by neighbors or friends.
At 5.30 on one recent morning I found, whilst
passing through Belmore Park, a bright, well-
dressed boy who had been sleeping out all
night. Over some breakfast he explained.
“I lost me job, and 1 ain’t going to loaf on
t them at home. So I just left until I found
I another.” At 9.30 lie left for home to tell
the family about his new job.
* * *
The Baptists hold an odd Aus-
tralia: they are the Common-
wealth’s champion Sunday-
school attendants. Forty-one
gold medals were awarded on
October 23 to scholars of Bap-
tist Sunday-schools in Victoria
for 10 years’ consecutive un-
broken attendance. Dorothy
Crump, of Canterbury, began
at the age of one, and at 11
can look back on her past life
with pride at not having missed
a day at Sunday-school. There
is no limit to age among the
scholars. One of the medal-
winners last year was an old chap of 70 who
had been blind for 25 years.
* * * *
“Magela Bada” on a Port Moresby enter-
tainment :
“C.G.C.’s” par. about the New Orleans phono-
graph record of a lynching (B. 19/10/’22) re-
minds me of an execution I once saw “staged”
for “educative purposes.” It was in Papua
about 54 years ago. A young Baruni woman
had been murdered, and three bucks were called
on to pay the penalty. The natives of the adjacent
villages were ordered to be present, that they might
be impressed with the punitive properties of the
than pleasantly disillusionised by the failure of the
condemned were perturbed. The others were more
than pleasantly disullionised by the failure of the
Baruni men to convert themselves into animals—an
accomplishment that had previously been claimed for
the tribe —and shouted with merriment at this blow
to unseemly boastfulness. Some European onlookers
snapped the entertainment, but the films were con-
fisc ated at the request of the white hangman, who
somehow did not relish that particular brand of
limelight.
. * - •
“Exul”: Justice Ewing, of Tasmania, has
just had to refuse a divorce to a man whose
wife for 20 years has been an inmate of
a lunatic asylum. The petitioner employed
a lady to keep house for him, and became
fond of her and the father of several children
CLASSED.
“I'm still a bachelor. I never saw the woman I cared to marry:”
“Or is it that no woman who ever saw you cared to marry you?”
by her. The case draws attention to the neces-
sity for making divorce easier to obtain
in circumstances like these. Why should
not the mere fact of the committal of one
party to an insane asylum, ipso facto, dis-
solve a marriage unless the other party can
adduce good reason for its continuance? If
traditional morality is held to require that
a fertile and profitable union shall be pre-
vented in order that a harmful and useless
one may be perpetuated, then the sofmer it
is revised the better. How much longer shall
we tolerate the mediaeval stupidity which was
recently displayed by a Tasmanian cleric who
denounced divorce and birth-restr etion, even
in cases in which there is a crying need for
them, as “cognate atrocities”?
* * * *
“Randolph Rentless”; Ambitions run in
all shapes. Dashing into our suburban pub
just before the door banged at 6 (you are
good for another hour if you are
in on the right side of the stroke
of doom), I found myself mixed up
with a celebration of some sort.
Binks was being congratulated
upon what appeared to be the ful-
filment of a Life’s Ambition, and
was so pleased that he was doing
all the shouting. He made me
think of Foch at the Armistice as
the latter would have looked had
he worn a dusty crash suit, an
old bowler hat and an infinitesimal
brown bag. As I left with a
chance acquaintance after singing
“He’S a Jolly Good Fellow,” I
learned the cause of the festivity.
The Ivanhoe Cricket Club has
been in existence for 11 years, and
after standing for president each
year, during all that time, Binks
has at last achieved the position. “He got
it by canvassing,” added my companion bit-
terly. I found later that the disgruntled
one had been an unsuccessful candidate
himself.
“Cutter”: Many and ingenious are the
methods of the King Country (MX.)
whisky-runners. I struck a new one the
other day. We had a puncture, and I was
starting to give a hand by getting off the
spare wheel when the driver’s protest made
me drop it like a hot coal. “For God’s sake,
leave it alone, mister!” came his anguished
whisper. “I got seven bottles in that tyre,
and there’s just enough wind in the tube to
keep them tight.”
* * * »
“The Rumpus”: Brown tugged at my
sleeve as we emerged from the Bottle and
Brick, and demanded to know if that wasn't
his wife going into the Chow’s shop oppo-
site. I agreed there could be no doubt of
the lady s identity,
and he lugged me
hurriedly away. “I
told her never to
buy from a China-
man,” he explained
hoarsely. “F o r
Gawd’s sake, come
to my place to-
morrow an’ help
me down her.” I
agreed, and the
next day found me
seated at their hos-
pitable board. As
soon as the lamb
and gree n peas
were dished out.
Brown took a whiff
and emitted a
nauseated
“Phew!” “What’s
the matter?” asked
Mrs. Brown. Her
husband gazed
hard at me. “Sorry,
old man,” he said,
“but these peas are-
Chow-grown. Smell
’em.” I did, re-
coiled. and then
nod d e d sad 1 y.
“That’s the worst
of white vegetable
sellers,” observed
Brown: “they must
bu y from tli e
Chi n k s the m-
selves.” We left
the peas un-
touched. though
with difficulty, so
far as I was con-
cerned, for they
both smelt and
looked perfect.
Mrs. Brown cleared
them away pre-
sently, and the
meal came to a
somewhat strained
end. As we pulled out our pipes she
remarked to Brown: “Those were your
own peas from the patch, in the back yard.
When you two saw me going into the China-
man’s shop yesterday I was only after a
piece of mint. Our man had none. ’ The
silence that followed was intense.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : Said Pincher Swipes, bitterly:
“The Law’s ag’in the pore man. It’s alwiz eir-
cumwenting him. See how it cireumwented me at
Crabtree. When I was at Crabtree in 1918 Torn
Jolly got himself bit be Brownin’s bull terrier, and
he summonsed Brownin’, when he was a bit healed
up, and got a matter of 45 quid damages for torn
clo’s and laceration of the feelinks. I come back
to Crabtree in 1921, and there was the same dog
wallerin’ in the dust afore Brownin’s gate. I won’t
say I didn’t hold out some indoocemer.ts to him;
I won’t say I didn't give ’im encouragement to bite
me. I was stony-broke and I wanted the money, Lor
knows. Well, the dog bit me; he bit me more’ll
he was called on for to. He tore me clo’s near of
me body, and me legs got that bit up the scars is
THE BUSINESS INSTINCT.
“Vot does der man rant, Repecca?”
“Money, Abraham, money!”
“Vot securidy does he offer?”
there yet, as you can see for yourself. Well, 1
wanted 45 quid. I told Brownin’ I was expectin’
it. I had me torn clo’s and me wounds to prove
me title. Brownin’ kicked me ..off his property.
Fact o’ the matter is, he’d sold the dog to Tinker
Smith a year or more before, and Tinker Smith, as
everyone knows, hasn’t a bean. How was Ito
know he’d sold his dog? I was circurmvented! The
Law is alwiz circumwentin’ the poor!
(Continued on page 18.)
PIPING TIMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Sydney tobacconist, just returned from London,
has brought with him a consignment of jewelled
pipes for women. They will be on sale in a few
days at £30 each.” —Sydney paper.
Ah! love, “if 1 were king”—“if I were king”—
A wild conception, I am well aware;
Say, rather, had I captured from the Ring
Sufficient to permit me of a fling
In some chic gift for my receptive fail' —
1 would not bring you pearls upon a string,
Or place a queen’s tiara on your hair.
No, Duleinea, you should have, by cripes !
The very latest thing in jewelled pipes.
In unison the fragrant clouds we'd blow
At close (or any other time) of day.
1 —for I've never bought, as well you know,
A “GBD,” much less an “L & Co.”
Since prices started on their upward way —
A mellow corn-cob in my face aglow,
Or, better still, a humble penny clay,
And you, betw'een those lips so red and ripe,
Holding a thirty-pounder of a pipe.
Then there would come on you conviction clear,
As Latakia through your teeth you drew,
That whatsoe’er I buy myself to cheer
Must be at least six thousand times as dear,
To make it fitting, in my eyes, for you.
And, placed upon a pedestal so sheer,
Breathing such frankincense, what could you do
But show me rings and brooches are as tripe
For gages d’amour —beside a jewelled pipe?
x.s.w.
PIPARDS.
THE REJECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her father spurned me forth with hate.
There stood the fair adored,
Wiiere roses shone so proud, elate.
I whispered: “Angel at the gate,
Where is your flaming sword?”
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


mm
BEEF, PORT WINE, COCA 8 KOLA
(jrreafestffealtti-givinc?
in the W&r/cf. —
w
m
w
£vv
7**
HI
Tt
nm
i/
■>-
;4K
r
i=&
I£A
S "
\ l\
%
%
%
V
$
; A
X
2*
r
-wUW
“7S
-=s
7
%
m
n
VM
wm
l
m
aw
■J§
■•£#2
m
S'S
S”?i
r l
1:
. C"
ere*
tager-r^:
■■>■'■: v
,v>a: y .;.
ESF<
••rVHg* »r
•:’v -\~ H"'
•/ \i- *
SEJ3NA makes tDashiug dag an economical pleasure
Agents:—B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD,


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For pltffection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
"For Ever Best/'
STA 6
LA(jER
TOOHEY'S:
“Gossie” scans the tavern signs disgust-
edly :
What fearsome lack of originality is shown in
the matter of pub nomenclature! Take, for one
thing, the prevalence of “arms” a t the tail of a
hotel’s designation. In Sydney there are the Bath
Arms, Bristol Arms, Butchers’ Arms, City Arms,
Clippers’ Arms, Cricketers’ Arms (four at least),
Farnham Arms, Glasgow Arms, Picton Arms, Pyr-
mont Arms, Royal Arms, Tradesman’s Arms,
Queen's Arms, and Woolbrokers’ Arms. Yet
when I proposed to call my new pub
the Barmaid’s Legs, I was spoken to quite
severely by a smug Jack-in-office, clothed in a
paltry fragment of brief authority. Here are a
few more incongruous and mostly-imported names
over Sydney pubs: Angel, Bald-faced Stag, Beehive,
Cauliflower, Cottage of Content, Dry Dock, Fortune
of AVar, Four in Hand, Friendship, Hit or Miss,
Honest Irishman, Light Brigade, Waterworks, and
Yorkshire Stingo! There are 15 Royal Hotels in
Sydney, six Commercials, eight Railways, six Stars,
six Imperials, four Prince of Wales’s, and four
Grands. Not a brewer or publican among the
lot has had the sense to give his place a really-
alluring label like, say, the Foaming Beer.
* * * *
Cruma”: A friend of mine invented an
excellent patent spanner and brought it to the
notice of a big firm in Sydney. The firm was a
Yankee concern ; and it was so impressed with
the . invention that it paid Mugge’s passage
to its U.S. headquarters. In America the
firm paid a small sum down for the patent
and agreed to pay a thumping rovalty. The
Australian returned home confident that his
fortune was made. A year or so passed,
and no royalties arrived, so he began to
make inquiries. Then he found out that
his invention had never been manufactured
much less put on the market; so that the
prospect of royalties is nil. The explana-
tion is that the firm is already making- span-
ners that sell well enough, and only bought
the patent to get a possible competitor
cheaply off the market.
The Pariah”: Having been two months
at a fashionable Melbourne hashtower, I
am qualified to sit on the boarders’ jury.
Two cases, which were taken together, were
up for trial. The first was that of a couple
newly-arrived from Sydney. Evidence
showed that they had demanded—and got—
a table for themselves, that they went out
together, and that they frequently laughed
IN CELEBRATION.
“What would your husband do if we were to
elope?”
“Well, he got drunk on the night he learned
of his win in the Golden Casket.”
—presumably at each other’s jokes. The
other alleged delinquents were two couples
from Adelaide who also had a table to them-
selves. Any day there was no racing the
men could be seen at expensive city “joints”
with women who were not their wives, and
meal-time conversation often stopped so that
the regular boarders might hear the bicker-
ing from the Croweaters’ table. The jury
returned a verdict that the South Austra-
lians should be asked to enter the sweep on
the Melbourne Cup, but not the Sydney
pair. They added a rider that Mr. and
Mrs. Sydney would do well to get respect-
ably married as soon as possible, provided no
legal impediment existed.
MORE TO THE POINT.
WIFF ": “It has been a lovely holiday. I am wondering how I am going to settle down
after we leave here; aren’t you?”
HUB: “No. I’m wondering how I am going to settle up before tee leave.”
“Borom” tolls of a new snifter: —
As an instance of the difficulty of enforcing com-
plete prohibition some of the prisoners in a N. S.
Wales gaol were discovered recently to be unmis-
takably “‘under the influence.” It took weeks to
find out where they were getting the stuff; but the
solution of the riddle turned up at last. Among
them was a man who had been an analytical
chemist; and who was employed in the gaol kitchen.
Sugar was out ,of his reach, but starch, in the
form of hominy, . was available in plenty. By
means of an arrangement of pipes he steamed the
hominy and converted it by hydrolysis into sugar.
Then, using the yeast that was available for bread-
making, he fermented the sugar and distilled off the
alcohol in an old tin-kettle. The result was a
fiery liquor almost capable of taking the skin off
the back of a man's hand. The distiller had been
in the habit of making a couple of gallons each
week and handing it around amongst his bibulous
friends.
# * * *
“R.D.”: The only people who seem to be
affected by the Vic. regulations against the
carrying of firearms are the timid amateurs
who never like to take a risk in the dark.
In the suburban courts harmless persons
are continually being hauled before the beak
and fined ten bob or so for transgression of
the law. Yet the professional gunman never
seems to be embarrassed in this way. Shoot-
ing-affrays have become so common in some
localities that the denizen of Fitzroy, for
instance, hardly bothers to look out of the
window when he hears a gun go off. He
simply stays under the bed until the can-
nonade is over. Perhaps it would be bet-
ter, in the interests of logic, to amend the
law, and deny the use of automatics to any-
one but the professionals who need them as
tools of trade.
* * # *
“Wilfrido”: No field gives a more plen-
tiful crop of malapropisms than the court-
room, owing to the number of witnesses
anxious to show a passing acquaintance with
legal phrases. “My wife died inter-state.”
is a remark I heard passed in a recent will
case. Another witness at the same hearing
referred to his “iniquity over the mortgage”
on his property. In a theft case the defen-
dant, when asked why he removed the goods,
replied that it was “a fallacy” of his. But
the prize must surely go to the respondent
in a divorce suit, who, on the action being
called, rose and said: “I apply, your Honor,
for a change of venus.”
* * « •
“Cartot”: A suggestion is periodically put
forward by cranks that certain classes of
criminals should be mechanically sterilised.
One reason why I regard it as impracticable
is the exceeding doubtfulness of finding
medical men who would assume the risk
and responsible ty. Even if legislation sanc-
tioned stirpiculture the Courts might, and
probably would, declare that the measure con-
travened other Acts, and award damages
against the surgeon who performed the opera-
tion. For this reason the two or three States
in America where such a law has been
passed—States which have always been
notorious for “freak” laws —have made the
discovery that the carrying-out of the steril-
isation provisions is impossible, apart from
the fact that medical opinion is completely
against them, and has threatened to ostra-
cise the first doctor who undertakes such a
job.
* * * *
“Rus” scientific vein:—
The possibilities of a new power that has been
brought into ifrominence by the spread of wireless
are beyond conception. A writer in a leading scien-
tific journal attributed the falling of the walls of
Jericho to it. Joshua ordered the Children of
Israel at the crucial moment to blow a certain note
on their trumpets, whereupon the walls toppled over.
And here are modern instances of a phenomenon which
is still only imperfectly understood. While living
in Brunswick (Vic.) I knew of a house about half-
a-mile from the railway line, the door of which
would always swing open as the 3.25 p.m. down-
train passed through. No other train, passing or
re-passing, affected it in the slightest. With the
arrival of the electric trains the effect is no longer
apparent. In the same house the whistle of the
Hoffman brickworks would cause a vase to vibrate
with a soft, sweet musical note which continued
for a few seconds after the whistle had ceased.
“Lexite”: As a class they are despised,
but I know one Sydney money-lender who
can show the way in prac-
tical patriotism to a whole
lot of flag-flappers. He had
a p.n. of mine when I went
away with the A.1.F., and
I called on him, intending
to pay up, shortly after my
return. He told me that
no debt existed; that no
man who had fought owed
him any money. Since then
I have discovered three other
ex-Digs. whose indebtedness
has. been wiped out in a
similar way; and I know of
another case when
the Hebrew, hear-
ing that a Digger
over whose furni-
ture he had a lien
had _ been killed on active
service, not only tore up the
bill of sale, but made a pre-
sent of a cheque of £25 (re-
presenting instalments the
dead soldier had paid prior to enlistment)
to the widow. This man is employing a
one-armed ex-soldier as “inquiry clerk” at
quite a decent salary. His only son, by the
way, was killed in action.
#
Father Clarke, of Auburn (N.S.W.) :
“Cartot” (B. 19/10/’22) may be surprised to hear that
his remedy against “the slaughter of the unborn” lias
long ago been anticipated by the Catholic Church.
When the Popes were temporal rulers of Rome there
existed in the city an institution where unwanted
infants could be secretly deposited in a special
receptacle. They were then cared for by nuns till
they were old enough to look after themselves. To
come nearer home, a pious lady (Mother Aubert)
founded some years ago a special order (“The
Sisters of Compassion”) in Maoriland for this purpose.
Unmarried mothers can place their infants in the
institutions of this Order, and are encouraged to visit
the little ones and to take a motherly interest in
thetn. In many cases these poor girls retrieve their
past, and often marry happily and take their children
to their new homes.
* * * *
“Sucre”: A Sydney fakir has op°ned up
a remunerative line in its way. Carrying
an envelope ostensibly addressed to ’ his
grandmother at Stony Creek (N.Q.), he
cruises about the posting-boxes at the G.P.O.
“Kin yer spare a bloke a tuppenny stampV
Me grandmother’s dying, an’ I wanter send
er a few words before she goes.” With this
plea uttered in broken tones he pushes the
addressed envelope into the hands of his
mark. The other morning I saw him “bite”
seven women and five flappers. He mostly
got the cash, too, instead of gummed photos
°f George V., which have the disadvantage
of taking time to be converted into beer-
money.
* # * *
. “Cartot” happens on a couple of finan-
ciers in the making :
Saw two barefooted kids trying to sell bunches
of wildflowers during the “rush” hours of Sunday night
on the wharf at Manly (N.S.W.). Although they yelled
their loudest, there was apparently no business at
ninepenee a bunch, and they ceased operations for
a conference. The result was that the boy with the
smaller stock advanced his price to a shilling, while
the other continued to cry his wares at the old
figure. Within a few moments the latter got a bite,
and then another; thereafter, in the language oi
the commercial world, flowers moved briskly. When
the stock was almost sold out, I bought a bunch
and put a question or two. The elder salesman
was delightfully frank. “If yer ’awks them all at
ninepenee,” he explained, “the mob won’t look at
’em. But if yer sticks a few up ter a deener they
comes at tlier others, ’cause they thinks they’re
gettin’ a bargain. It’s dead easy.” His cobber,
aged about nine, spat cynically as he counted
the takings. “Come at it!” he sneered; “thee
public’d come at rotten prawns if yer served them
up properly.”'
* * * •
“A.P.”: Asiatic labor was not unknown
in Australia long before the gold diggings
attracted the Chinese (B. 21/9/’22). In
1842, only seven years after the foundation
of S. Aus., Governor Grey notified the
Imperial Government that certain persons
had imported Indian coolie laborers from
Calcutta, and were employing them on an
indenture system at 5 rupees a month and
certain rations of rice and butter. The
Colonial Office immediately notified Grey
that “Her Majesty’s Government had always
opposed the introduction of such laborers
into the Australian colonies.” But they
needn’t have worried much about the In-
dians, who, according to one report, did
little work, needed much looking after, and
proved almost worthless except as shepherds.
* * * *
“Gustavus Gravelpit’s” oyster-shop study:
The seedy and none-too-sober individual had lin-
gered over his small plate of oysters,: scraping the
last fragments of the bivalves from their shells
and mopping up the vinegar on his plate with a
portion of bread. At last he pulled himself together
and faced the green-visaged Greek at the cash desk
with a trepidation that his words explained.
“Sorry, boss, but I’ll ’ave ter owe yer for the
TO WEAT BASE USES
“I hear they used that play of yours on the
stage, after all?”
“True, laddie; but not in the way I wanted.
They cut it up for the snowstorm.”
small plate—l got no money on me.” The pro-
prietor’s visage changed from green to purple as he
enjoined the nearest waiter: “Nicholas, you kicka dis
bilk into da street quick.” The oyster-fancier, vio-
lently propelled through the doorway, had no time
to pick himself up from the pavement before Fishopo-
lous himself was dancing round him: “Look-a you
hear,” he hissed. “Ef you had-a da large piate,
by gorra, I kicka you myself! ”
* « * *
“Herodot”: The idea that the most numer-
ous name in the directory is Smith, vide
“Randolph Rentless’’ (B. 19/10/’22), is
erroneous. Jones, Brown and the Robertson-
Roberts-Rob'nson tribe take up more space
in directories. Then come Irish or Scotch
names, like Reilly, Ryan, Kelly, O’Br'en,
MacDonald (with its variants) and Mac-
Pherson. Smith comes no higher than fourth
or fifth in the table.
SYDNEY: NIGHT CLUB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The girls are all seductive, though not all
Are beautiful to a dispassionate eye.
The music leaps and lilts with sensual
Allure, as hot of breath the hours drift by.
Here the temptations are most circumspect,
And every old morality is afraid;
For Thais will be treated with respect
And high decorum in the way of trade.
Grey eyes, white shoulders, carmined lips that tease,
Ankles and so forth delicatel^ is disclosed
To barb the hodks of the prqpfhquities,-
And keep the things forbidden daintily posed
Behind men’s thoughts that are so staid and' chaste
To outward seeming. If a gentleman has
Strange visions as he clasps a lady’s waist,
That’s his affair—and hers. On with the jazz!
Behind the veil (crouched in the man, the Beast)
Of cool decorum, still the jungle lies.
On with the jazz! What’s hidden matters least....
Smooth shoulders, lips enticing, insolent eyes!
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.


This Machine Makes
Ledger Posting Over
75% Automatic
Burroughs holds its commanding position in the
sale of ledger posting and statement machines because
it> gives the business man so many automatic features
in return for*his investment.
Each of these features eliminates a certain amount
of huinan labour —saving time and therefore money.
Each eliminates one more chance for human error
•preventing a direct loss of money due to the error? or
an indirect loss through the time spent in finding and
correcting it.
And the more bookkeeping becomes automatic, the
more easily and cheaply can you secure your daily
figure information.
Let us show you a Burroughs machine that will
handle your particular work in the easiest and most
economical way.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Challis Houser Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Back of Australia Chamber*,
Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton*
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland*
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
A Burroughs saves
time and money on
your bookkeeping be-
cause it —
Automatically
prints the correct date where you
want it with each posting.
Automatically
prints ciphers and punctuation—a
remarkable saving considering.the
fact that about 25 per cent of all
commercial figuring is ciphers.
Automatically
adds debits and subtracts credits.
Automatically
extends the new balance with each
posting —giving positive proof of
correct posting every day.
Automatically
selects proper columns for all en-
tries without attention on the part
of the operator.
Automatically
designates totals, sub-totals, sub-
tractions, credit balances, over-
drafts and closed accounts —sym-
bols that appear on carbons as well
as originals.
Automatically
non-adds folios and other descrip-
tive numbers. Repeats folios and
descriptive characters, if desired.
Automatically
Shuts off the motor when not in
use, thus preventing possible waste
of current.
Besides these automatic
features, the Burroughs
has —
full keyboard, descriptive keys,
electric drive and many other
features that save time and atten-
tion on the part of the operator.
The combination of these and the
automatic features enables the
Burroughs Automatic Bookkeeping
Machine to pay for itself in a short
time in timesaving alone.
You will want to look into the
matter of mechanical ledger post-
ing. A post card or a telephone
call will put us at your service,
without obligation on your part.
'—
4*41
Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines


ROTHERHAMS
English Watches
Are now
Procurable
from all
Jewellers
Foremost throughout the Empire for
over 60 years.
If your Jeweller should not have them
apply to Box 420, G.P.0., Sydney
A Signal Success
The TOP-NOTCHScotch.
te
SHIRTS
moro
comfort and
Do not
take a substitute
All Mercers
■ Mskprs -
Alfx Stewart
£>• SONS-‘LTD
BR/SBA Ne
4/y<>
SYDNEY.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“T.R.S.” : Re the lubra who asked “The
Rumpus” (B. 5/10/’22) for the clippings of his nails,
and the explanation of “Ned Kelly” (B. 19/10/’22).
Tears ago the curator of our museum wanted an
abo.’s skeleton, and I persuaded a couple of Binghis
to show me where I could get the bones of an ancient;
but they laid down the condition that I should hand
over to them the dead man’s finger- and toe-nails. It
turned out, upon the exhumation of the nig., that
he had been below so long these nails and the small
bones at the ends of the fingers and toes . had
A GAME LAD.
MARMADUKE MONK: "May I have the pleasure of the next dance,
Miss Elephant?"
decayed to powder. The live niggers, who had refused
to give me any assistance in digging up the skeleton,
would have nothing to do with me afterwards. They
simply ignored my existence for a few months, and
I never again managed really to get into their confi-
dence as I had been prior to the transaction. My
own opinion is that they were under the impression
that I had not kept faith with them in not handing
over the bits of the corpse as agreed, and I often
puzzled over why they made the request in the first
place.
“Tauwarra”: The march of civilisation in
Papua has left at least one white man unimpressed.
After 15 lonely years on the Yodda, Fish-eye Bill
thought a trip to Samarai would improve his health
and broaden his mind. He was back on the Field
in less than a month. “Samarai’s no blanky good
ter me,” he confided to a sympathetic patrol-officer;
“gettin’ too dam’ civilised altogether. Gorblinm,
they got women and dogs there now!”
* * * *
“The Overlander”: Re “W.D.G.’s” refer-
ence (B. 19/10/’22) to the weight-carrying performance
of “Black Andy” on the Darling (N.S.W.). In the
'eighties that dusky freak was considered the king of all
weight-carriers. It was at Culpaulin, 25 miles
below Wilcannia, that he carried a case of galvan-
ised-iron on his back from the wharf to the bank
of the river, a distance of about 20yds. Men steadied
the load, but none took any of the weight. At Wil-
cannia Andy carried for about 30yds., one after the
other, two bales of fodder, weighing 65 and 7-J cwt.
respectively. Another day they were unloading
cement in 4fcwt. barrels. Andy picked one up to
hump it across the plank from the steamer to the
bank, but the captain objected, saying that he didn’t
want to leave the cement at the bottom of the river
and to waste his time fishing out a drowned lumper.
* ’ * * *
“Unkl”: “W.D.G.’s” 6G kanvaroos in one
night (B. 28/9/’22) don’t make a lecord. Foster, on
Authoringa station, Charleville (W.Q.), in October,
1919, shot about 1000 ’roos within three weeks, the
biggest tally being 88 for one night, with a .32
Winchester. He got them where a fence ran across
the end of a bore drain. About six yards away he
built a gin’s gunyah, in which he secreted himself
and bagged his victims as they came in to drink.
• « • *
“Lofty”: “Some folk ’ll tell yer,” grunted
old Dave as he applied a firestiek to his pipe,
“that a donk. ’as no brains. See that cove I took
the pack off ter-night? Well, once, when I was
working into the Selwyn Range from Mackinley,
him and his mate, an old ’orse I had, kept making
hack every night. Striking a nice grassy pocket
one evenin’ I ’obbled ’em, put the bell on the old
’orse, and turned ’em up in the hollow. I camped
right in the opening so's I’d 'ear the bell if they
tried to work past me. I woke up ’round midnight,
and I could ’ear ’orses walking quietly in ’obbles,
but what beat me was I couldn't ’ear no bell. I
gets up and sneaks across, and there I finds me
noble leadin’ the old ’orse out past the camp—
and ’e’d got the knocker of the bell in his mouth
to stop it ringin’!”
* * * *
“Rae-akiaki”: Re “Akaroa’s” early rabbits
(B. 5/10/’22). In 1776 Capt. Cook called at Robben
Island, now the great leper segregation camp, c.ff
Cape Town, and took away “a number of rabbits
with a view to stocking New Zealand, Otahiete
(lahiti) and other places.” The M.B. pests* are the
offspring of these rabbits, but the ones : left at
Rarotonga failed to survive.
* * * *
Jim Carew”: One of Binghi’s cheerful
little weapons was the
“werpoo.” It was a
piece of the curved leg-
bone of a kangaroo or
emu, about a foot long,
iin. wide at the point,
and about l-10in.
thick, and was made
for killing human
beings. Two men were
required to use it pro-
perty. The victim was
thrown on his face,
and the point of the
“werpoo’’ was inserted
under the skin, then
forced along just ne-
neath the epidermis
until opposite the heaH
when the point could
be turned inwards, and
with a steady pressure
the vital organ would
he pierced. As soon
as the weapon was
withdrawn Bing h i
would place his thumb
over the entrance hole,
and after a few minutes’
pressure this would be
almost imperceptible—
and only a properly-
conducted post-mortem
could reveal the cause
of death. Superstition
was, of course, behind
the use of the “wev-
poo.” A man killed
by it, according to
Binghi, was well and
truly dead, and as
there was only a small
wound in the body,
the man’s spirit could
not get out and come back to worry the killer.
* * * »
“Te Whare”: I think the satin bower-
bird rarely departs from blue in favor of, say, a
red or yellow color scheme in its bower decorations
(B. 28/9/’22). The eye of the bird is a light blue
tint, and perhaps, as “E.N.” (B. 14/9/’22) suggests,
this has some influence on the color choice. Among
the decorations of bowers I have examined blue-
bags were a popular feature, and many washing-
ladies in the vicinity had to lament the loss of
these useful articles. One energetic female thus
despoiled by the bower-birds sought them in the
scrub, discovered the bower, and recovered, not
only her own blue-bags, but several others filched
by the birds from her neighbors’ laundries. She
appropriated the lot. Among the decorations of one
bower I found over 12 blue-bags. All the other
decorations ' (blossoms, scraps of glass, etc.) were
of a blue tint, except a snail-shell or two, a scrap
of snake-skin, a moth cocoon, and a duckling’s white
skull.
HIS AILMENT.
MINE INSPECTOR: “Have you any occupational disease ?”
COUSIN JACK: “Yes, a permanent dryness of the throat. You
might induce the manager to keep a bottle underground
for me.”
“Pilgrim”: He ambled into the station
one day last week, humping Matilda. He had about
three weeks’ beard on his chin, and looked like
something that had gone to seed. The boss came
along and remarked “Good morning; nice day.” The
stranger thought this over for a full minute, then
drawled: “Yes; but the lice is pretty troublesome
these warm days, ain’t they?”
“Moe” ; Some time ago, in the country be-
tween Madang and the mouth of the Sepik River, in
former German New Guinea, there was found the
almost petrified remnant of a large canoe quite
different to the type now used by the natives. It
was dug up near a swamp by some “boys” who were
constructing a drain. There w'ere no carvings or
decorations of any kind on it to give a clue to its
place of origin, but it was obviously foreign.
The inhabitants of that district have a strong
infusion of Malayan blood in them, and it is
possible that the canoe had brought some visitors
from the straits further north, though it was not a
Malayan canoe. It would hold about 50 men, and
was so constructed that no outrigger was needed to
keep it upright in the water. Judging from the
state of its wood it was anything from 300 to 400
years old.
* * * #
“King Kurrajong”; Can any of the Abo.
council supply the real history of the “Trotting
Cob,” the “Coo-ee-ing Woman” and the “Man Who
Rode the Yellow Bull Through Wagga?” Some
yarns w’ere spun about the “Trotting Cob” a few
months back; but who was she, anyhow'?
* * * #
“Wild Oat”: Yes, animals do commit sui-
cide (B. 21/9/’22). A neighbor of mine bought a
horse for snigging logs, but Carbine proved an
utter jib w'hen hooked in. Bill used the whip and
a fine assortment of blankies, but all to no purpose;
so in desperation he grabbed the nose-bag, and, plac-
ing it just out of the pra.d’s reach, he roared, “If
yer w'ant a blanky feed—then pull fer it”—and left
him to it. But when Carb. struck he struck properly.
He died a true martyr to the cause of “I Won’t
Workism.”
*****
Parana” : I bave only once seen an
animal commit suicide (B. 21/9/’22). A few years
ago, on Thursday Island, a forlorn and bedraggled
dog raced past me on the jetty, trailing a short
length of clothes-line behind him. He was whim-
pering and running with his head held lopsidedly.
At the moment I thought he’d been left behind by
someone who had gone by the boat a little while
before. But half-way along the jetty he stopped,
went to the edge, looked down at the water, gave one
howl and jumped—a drop of 12 or 15 feet. I dis-
tinctly saw him strike the water. He made no
attempt to swim, but kept his head down; and
floated slowly off on the tide. He perfumed the
atmosphere along the water front for some days
afterwards. On thinking it over afterwards I came
to the conclusion the tyke had distemper, as I had
heard some years before of a somewhat similar case.
Can any Abo. say whether the disease does affect
them this way ?
* * * * . ... *
“Colub”: Re “Exul” (B. 12/10/’22) and
“Azrim” (B. 7/9/’22), on the venom of the
black-snake (Pseudechis porphyriacus). Experiment
after experiment has
shown that this particular
venom brings about death
by haemolysis; that is, the
poison contains so m p
highly-active body which
causes the disintegration
of the red corpuscles in
the blood, and, accordingly,
no fresh oxygen is carried
to the tissues ‘in need of
it, which brings about death
by a kind of asphyxiaton.
To a much less extent, the
same venom acts on the
nervous system, as it gener-
ally does in the case of a
snake belonging to the
coiiubrine classification, and
by partly paralysing the
end-plates of the phrenic
nerve, sets up a condition
of semi-asphyxiation. Thus,
it has three actions (two
of them being almost iden-
tical) —the first and most
important is the haemolys-
ing action on the blood,
the second (through the
first) on the oxygen supply
to the tissues, and the
third on the respiratory
system. One factor that
has been largely over-
looked is the state of the
venom at the time of its
injection. The poison varies
in composition—perhaps
according to the season,
or according to the snake’s
food. Thus, under one set
of conditions, the prepon-
derating, effect may be the
hasmolytic otie, while under
it may be the respiratory
one. As far as “Exul’s
statement, that death may
odcur from the delayed
effect of the venom on the
lungs or kidneys, presum-
ably he means this may
■ occur from secondary causes and, in any event, it
is so extremely rare as not to be worth taking into
account.
* * *
“M. Magee”: Is “Ragar” (B. 5/10/’22)
aware that in the United Kingdom dried puffballs
are stocked by many chemists?—-as they regard the
powder as an infallible remedy for staunching the
flow of blood from recently-acquired wounds. I
have often wondered why they are not so used here.
As to their edible qualities, “Ragar” is the first
I’ve ever heard mention them in that connection.
* * * *
“Kilang”: .1 have recently read several
Island tales in which persons have been poisoned by
eating fish that were edible for 10 months of the
year but deadly poison during the other two. in
one yarn a man had eaten fish on Monday with r.o
ill effect, but the same species of fish freshly caught
the next day, and cooked and eaten at once, killed
him. I know that at spawning-time some fish are
unwholesome and apt to cause digestive upsets, especi-
ally if not cooked as. soon as caught, and my own
experience has been that crabs caught at full moon
time are very poor and tasteless eating; but I can’t
understand how a live fish can become poisonous
overnight. So will someone pass along the truth of
the matter?
THE PREVALENCE OF ANGULARITY.
“Say, gran'ma, here's a man named Einstein
wants as to believe there's no such thing
as a straight line in nature!”
“Preposterous!”
“Kas Kas” (Hermit Islands): Why is
it that once a dog, well bred or otherwise, goes
“kanaka” it will never return to its original white
master ? I had a fine fox-terrier for three years,
and brought it up here. The boys started to pet it.
Now it lives with them, and won’t even, answer my
call.
(Continued on page 22.).
NIGHT SONG,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bird has sought its nest,
The covert shields the beast,
A new moon lamps the west,
A bright star gems the east,
The shades of night invest
The famine and the feast.
A camp-fire down the vale
Makes merry in the dark,
The fretting swans make sail
And down the skies embark,
The dry grass hides the quail,
The plover and the lark.
Afar the dingoes howl
Till there is dearth of song,
The mopoke and the owl
Hoot out their watches long,
The startled waterfowl
Forsake the billabong.
The moon has dipped away,
No note of discord mars,
And crooning breezes sway
The myalls and belars,
And young leaves dance and play
Against the kindly stars.
Now ends all slumbering,
The world’s fair spaces yawn;
AVhile zephyrs sigh and sing
Night’s curtains are withdrawn,
The lark is on the wing,
The pilgrim greets the dawn.
x.s.w.
GERARDY.


BEST NOVELS by
Australian Authors
1/- each (posted 1/2).
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Novels.
Nearly Five Million Copies Sold.
HAVE YOU READ?
Ensign Calder,
by J. H. M. Abbott
The Boss of Killara,
by Vance Palmer
The Squatter’s Daughter,
by Hilda Bridges
The Oil-Seekers,
by Jack McLaren
Equality Road,
by Vera Baker
Tap-Tap Island,
by J. M. Walsh
In Racing Silk,
by Gerald R. Baldwin
Billy Pagan, Mining Engineer,
by Randolph Bedford
The Fenceless Ranges,
by Roy Bridges
For Turon Gold,
by Don Delaney
The Mare with the Silver Hoof,
by Bob Allen
The Calling Voice,
by E. F, Christie
The Black Opal,
by Jack North
The Colt from the Country,
by Arthur Wright
Rogues and Ruses,
by Con Drew
The Pearls of Cheong Tah,
by S. W. Powell
Bodger and the Boarders,
by Ernest O’Ferrall
The Double Abduction,
by H. K. Bloxham
South Sea Sinners,
by Arthur Crocker
Queen Vaiti,
by Beatrice Grimshaw
Fac’try ’Ands,
by Edward Dyson
A Curate in Bohemia,
by Norman Lindsay
Hack’s Brat,
by A. lan Macleod
Wolaroi’s Cup,
by Ambrose Pratt
150 Novels to select from. Write for Complete Descriptive
Catalogue (free).
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers throughout
Commonwealth.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney,
m
'nmWA
\*-d \
r
$
n
I
TEXACO
FARM
LUBRICANTS
Make Your Working Capital Go Further.
The more extensive and complete your farm equipment is, the more
essential for you to consider the money value of proper lubrication.
Every year added to the life of a machine is a clear saving in the
amount of capital needed to run your farm.
And even though you are cultivating but a limited acreage there’s a
need for some one or more of the many Texaco farm lubricants.
How much better it is to know you are using the right oil or grease
than to take a chance.
When you get a harvester, start right with Texaco Harvester Oil.
When a tractor is added to your equipment, Texaco Tractor Oil is ready to
help you keep it in perfect working order.
Texaco Farm Oil is another product—a straight run, heavy red oil,
suitable for general use on a variety of farm machinery.
Send for our booklet on farm lubricants. Ask your dealer to helD in
the selection.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
E
»CO
0
A
The SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
THE GREAT GRAIN GETTER.
Gets the best possible result in standing crops or in fallen crops.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works,
BRISBANE, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.


m
at-Mvhsli?*
ROOFING, FLOORING, DAMPCOURSE.
GENUINE Malthoid Roofing lasts
indefinitely.
GENUINE Malthoid Floor Cover-
ing it is almost impos-
sible to wear through.
GENUINE Malthoid Dampcourse
has never let moisture
through, and has been
in use for IS years.
The Paraffine Companies Inc
( F M.PRINCE Auriralorian Manager)
Original Manufacturers of
P & B Materials.
innmmim
tmnnmmng
RX
m
as,
mm
it must be
ABBOTS
.LAGER
°!JP*c a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT 5- HOPS ONLY
“Tauwarra”: We used to say class dis-
tinctions didn’t exist in Papua; but times are chang-
ing. A strange youth, passing “Billy the Cook’s”
in Samarai the other day attracted the attention of
a couple of copra kings. “’Oo’s that bloke, Bill?”
asked one. “Damfino,” W'as the response, “but ’e’s
got a white coat on—’e must be in the Gov’ment.”
* * » *
“George Rich”: The black cockatoos
have got the orehardists in S.-W. Westralia seared.
Last season they raided the orchards for the first
time, and stripped rows of “exports” in a few'
minutes. Their quest was the seeds—the flesh of
the fruit being merely bitten into to get at the core.
The satisfying of a cockatoo’s craving (and storage
capacity) for apple-seeds is likely to prove costly;
but, in addition, the birds, in fluttering among the
trees, litter the ground with fruit worse than an
extra-special hailstorm will do. The cultivators of
the pippin want to know if the Abo. Council can
render first aid.
AND A GOOD ONE, TOO.
“Yes. It's ‘Keep to the left ’ here. Is there
any rule of the road up-country?”
“My oath, yes—‘Never pass a put"!”
“B.”: Another entry for the Queer Acci-
dent Stakes. At a log-chopping competition at
Encounter Bay (S.A.), a little while back, the head of
an axe flew' off the handle and struck a spectator,
E. Francis, on the chest. H. Cakebread, another
onlooker, w r as standing with arms folded in front
of Francis. Cakebread, when he heard the thud,
turned round to aid Francis, and then found that his
own hand W’as covered with blood. The axe had
painlessly cut one of his fingers clean off before
striking Francis, who was merely winded by the back
of the axe.
INSULTING BRUTE.
“They tell me there’s a hypnotist in town who makes people eat candles and drink kero-
sene.”
“What hoarding-house does he keep?”
“X.Y.”: Re “A.M.R.” (B. 12/10/’22) on
Islanders who stupefy fish with the extract of a
w 7 eed. On the North Coast (N.S.W.) the blacks used a
plant known as “smart-weed,” though that is not the
only name applied to it. In that respect it resembles
that aquatic plant of which Shakspeare w r rote:
“.... called ‘dead men’s fingers,’ to which liberal shep-
herds give a grosser name.” The Binghis used to
thoroughly crush the leaves by pounding them be-
tween stones, after which they would throw them into
a fishpool, with the result that the fish came to
the surface and ran ashore. The effect was only
temporary, and the fish recovered after an hour or so.
Those caught in this fashion were quite wholesome
as fooci. Whether the sap of the plant attacked the
eyes of the fish, or their gills, or both, I could
never ascertain; but it probably affected both. The
weed is full of an acrid, pungent principle, and no
stock will eat it.
• » * •
“M. Magee” : Another entry for the Coin-
cidence Stakes. A few years ago a man employed
on a station in the Hunter River district (N.S.W.)
was driving a quiet old mare in a single buggy
when she shied and capsized the vehicle. The man
was thrown against a tree and killed. About three
months afterwards the station-owner’s daughter was
driving the same turn-out along the same road when
the mare repeated the performance in every detail.
* * * *
“8.H.”: Some Abo. in his wrath the other
day said the emu is a brainless cow. I’ve always
believed the common turkey-hen to be just that
particular kind of animal; but not since last week.
Noticing a turkey-hen defending four chicks against
a crow in a gilgai hole full of old tins, we went to the
rescue and started the old lady and her young
quartet towards the house. She however, was reluct-
ant to leave the tin-heap, and clucked round it
until we heard some more small fry answer her. It
took us some minutes to find four additional chicks
in a full-size kerosene tin which was standing right
way up. Those turkeylets were not more than a.
day old, so how did they get into that tin if mum
didn’t put ’em there?
* * * #
“J.P.L.” (M.L.) : A wealthy Maori chief
sent an urgent wire to the nearest doctor (about 80
miles away), stating that his missus had need of
his services. The doctor rode out to the pah, and,
being a stranger, approached a Maori who was
sitting on the doorstep of the first whare he came
to. “Is this where R lives?” he asked. “Yes,”
came the reply. “Then, where is he?” The Maori,
who appeared to be admiring the doctor’s riding
pants and leggings, remarked casually, “Oh, he gore
to te races.” “That’s very funny,” said the doc.,
“I got a wire from him yesterday saying the wahire
very bad.” “Oh, py gorry,” chuckled the dusky
one, “you te doctor, eh? Well, me’ R ——. I tort
you te prurry poriceman!”
-» * * *
“Adrem”: “A. Borig” (B. o/10/’22) and
“Ey Emma Ey” (B. 7/9/’22) on heliography caused
my cobber (an army man with 10 years as a signal-
ling instructor, and one time of the signalling school
at Kasauli, India), to chuck a fit. After coming
round he spluttered something to this effect: “In
spite of the wonderfully high visibility as a rule
in India, we usually had trouble in communicating
by helio. over more than 50 miles. The greatest
distance I ever read a sin. mirror was 70 miles,
and that was only possible with a powerful telescope.
The alignment was made by map and compass, the
distant station not being visible to the naked eye.”
Remembering that this feat was accomplished by
experienced men with the best of army gear, I’m
wondering how “A. Borig” managed a similar feat
with his shaving-mirror-like apparatus, and apparently
experienced no difficulty in reading his messages.
* * * *
“Valamac”: “Snell’s” suicide yarn (B.
28/9/’22) recalls a recent incident at Wolfram
(N.Q.). An old miner, with a skinful of the stuff
they sell for whisky in those parts, having decided
to leave this world, placed some dynamite under his
bed, attached a fuse, lit it, and, lying full length
on the stretcher, waited for the bang. When the
explosion came it blew' the shanty sky-high. The
startled neighbors were unable to find any trace of
the old chap in the bits that came down; but later in
the day he was found asleep in a gully not far off.
“The blanky fuse was too long,” he explained dis-
mally. “If the flamin’ thing ’ad only gone off five
seconds earlier I wouldn’t ’ave ’ad time to change
me mind.”
» * * *
“Ragar”: “Jim Carew” (B. 2S/9/22)
doubts my non-rusting billy. I’m not sur-
prised. Had it not been unusual I should
not have written about it. It was an ordinary
quart size, and, as far as I know, had not
been treated in any special manner. Possibly
it was made from metal extra-heavily tinned ;
but I don’t think so. Incidentally, I have
found that it pays to dry a billy thoroughly
instead of leaving it wet; also to keep it
upside-down when not in use. But should
any Abo. be interested in prolonging the life
of- his billy or any other tin pot or pan let
him try this: Take a new billy that has
not contained water, fill it with fat. either
lard or dripping, then bring to the boil,
finally allowing tp cool and stand for a few
hours. Better still, place the billy full of
fat in a hot oven and thoroughly bake for
an hour. The first treatment I got from an
old bushie in Bananaland some years ago—the
latter' through noticing that baking-tins and cake-
tins don’t rust, and last much longer than tins used
in other ways.
* * * *
“W. Blister”: How’s this for penetration?
The rifle used was an old-fashioned .44 cal. Win-
chester, the range about Bft. and the target a cat.
The bullet entered high up and behind the right
shoulder, and finished up between the skin and ribs
low down behind the left shoulder.
* * * *
“Naracoo”: An antidote tor strychnine is
it? Well, give as much bromide of potassium as
will cover a sixpence, or even more, and tie Pido
up for at least 12 hours without a drink. The
bromide of potassium forms an insoluble sulphate of
strychnine in the stomach, which is not absorbed and
passes through—furthermore, it stops the fits and
allays the twitellings. This antidote will never fail
l given within a reasonable time after the tyke has
swallowed the bait.
* *
“M.P.P.”; i can g j ve “Centurion” (B.
o/10/ 22) another instance of a bird bandaging a
broken bone. Several years ago I shot a cock
pheasant in Poverty Bay (M.L.), and noticed a
peculiar growth, as I thought, on one leg. This 1
caiefully dissected with a pocket-knife, and found
it to consist of long, flexible grass and feathers twined
round the leg, and cemented together with some
glutinous substance and what appeared to be coagu-
lated blood. The bone had been shattered, probably
by a shot, and had started to unite. The bandaging
was beautifully done, one blade of tough grass en-
circling the fracture eight times.
* * # #
“TV errimee”: Why do our dairymen im-
port grasses? Stock are reared and fattened on
native grasses all the year round on every run in
Australia, though most other countries have to resort
to artificial feeding part of the time. Among well-
known grasses that can hold their own with the
best from anywhere, and never become outlaws or
Bolsheviks, are kangaroo, Mitchell, blue, Flinders,
rib, mulga, coolah, reed, silver-top, water-couch,
oat, crowsfoot and red-top. Most of these are
drought-resisting, and make excellent natural hay.
Of 880 species indigenous to Australia, more than
50 per cent, are considered good pasture grasses.
“Murrauji”: I don’t want to butt into the
argument on record loads, but how’s this for a pull ?
Old Eugene had a team of 16 bullocks log-hauling
on the Blackall Range (Q.). One day he hooked
them on to a 22ft. log of hoop-pine that was jambed
between two big rocks in the bed of a creek. He
stood the hornies up, and they pulled that stick
clean out of the bark, which was left like a long
pipe still wedged in the rocks. They had a big
struggle getting the log up the creek bank, and pull ;d
so hard that when it was measured it was found to
be 26ft. long—it had stretched 4ft. Old Eugene
told me this himself, so it must be true.
“H.V.E.”: Rouen and other breeds
of domestic ducks, if allowed to swim at large
on rivers, etc., will cross with the black, or Aus-
tralian, wild duck (Anas superciliosa), the resulting
“mule” being, as a rule, very like the latter, I
have never seen crosses between teal, shoveller or
other breeds of Australian Wild duck and the tame
ducks aforesaid, but they may so cross at times.
Wild birds of one species never, I think, cross with
another (wild) species. Yet, in breeding certain
Australian parrots in England—the birds being
allowed at times to range about a small park—the
Marquis of Tavistock found that male parrots of
different varieties sometimes tried to mate with
females of other varieties.
* « * •
“Ack F. O”: If, as “Stellsby” (B.
12/10/’22) would have us believe, the albatross i 3
never found north of the Equator, why do the ancient
legends of the Ainu (Japan) so frequently name that
bird? And why does the albatross with the tern
and the buffin haunt the salmon banks on the Cana-
dian and Alaskan coasts? Does “Stellsby” call the
bird by another name when it flutters across the line?
RIDICULOUS.
"Mummy, is father going to die and go to
Heaven?”
“No, my child. What put that silly idea
into your head?”
“Hayband”: Curious how animals, at first
objecting, develop a liking for some medicines,
particularly the stimulating variety. I had a horse
which needed dosing with a mixture containing
whisky, and we used to have to back him into a
corner and administer it by main force. Then he
got to like it, and thereafter objected to being
yoked without a springer. It tickled us to see him
back into the corner and hold his head up.
THE IMMORTAL DOG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I heard it in the good old days
(I found them mostly bad) ;
I hear it in my hoary age;
I heard it as a lad.
And though it happened long ago,
The truth we can’t deny,
A dog sat on a tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
It’s whistled up Monaro wav;
It’s danced to on the plains;
It’s written over autographs
And scribbled in the trains.
And dogs may come and dogs may go,
But one will never die —
The dog perched on the tucker-box
Nine miles from' Gundagai.
The hatter hums it to himself
(Poor exile of the scrub) ;
And the loafer in the township
Tells the barmaid at the pub.
The soldiers sang it at the Front —
A kind of battle-cry—
“ The dog sat on the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.”
You’ll hear it in the drovers’ camps;
You’ll hear it in the bends;
It travels from the river’s head
To where the river ends.
The blat k gins croon it in the night,
A droning lullaby—
“ The dog sat on the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.”
And thinking of the dogs I’ve known,
I wonder was he like
The collie dog, the kelpie dog,
The mongrel or the tyke?
And as they pass before my mind
Like phantoms slinking by,
I see no canine on a box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
There is a spring that trickles there—
So says the oldest hand—
Where man and beast may quench their thirst
When drought is on the land.
And though I’ve never seen the spot,
I’ve often wondered why
That dog sat on the tucker-box
Nine miles from Gundagai.
N.S.W’.
JIM GRAHAME.


g'
■v
1 1
Soar •. . 7 J
JSr
this -typc
I
: : i
:
’
!jf 111!
■
• . , • ' ~7m 1
4-1
-.■ * 1
IiJL . V
K ■..
IS
wm
€kSL . <*
Ifesfe...
: • 1 I V :
I 4 • imNfflMP’•
■ •• - » * ' * * J*
' •■-. ■ v * ■* ■■ S , . /" .N
" /* ■ fY '3 -r-r
»<* * t^
5 it M -d
S%
. ■
<*->* ! 4 -
I SiP.v s'fei
■■ ■. ' | S V : ' I :
■ ■ . : r ' :
v •
\ ..."
Tine World’s Greatest
Handicap Road Race
The Premier Cycling Event of Australasia the “Warr-
nambool —Melbourne” - promoted by the Dunlop Rubber
Co. was revived on the 14th October, after a lapse of
eleven years. The revival event —witnessed by some
150,000 along the 165 miles course—was worthy of all
the old-time traditions of this great contest. The starters
numbered 200, comprising the finest long distance road
riders in Australia and New Zealand. Starts extending
out to 70 minutes were conceded by the scratch division
—and a great contest resulted in a triumph for New
Zealand—P. Hill (N.Z.) off 32 minutes winning by three
lengths, in 9 hrs. 20 mins. 45 secs. The N.Z. champion,
Phil O’Shea, established fastest time—B hrs. 59 mins. 8
secs., thereby winning the Australasian Road Champion-
ship for 1922. He won the same honor in the 1911
event. The contest afforded a striking illustration of
the speed and reliability of
D
D
they being used by the first 12 riders to finish, and also
by the winners of fastest and second fastest times (D.
Kirkham, scratch). The superiority of “ DUNLOPS ”is
to-day greater than ever—they having no equal for
cycling or motoring. The illustrations depicted will
interest you. They are
(1) P. O’Shea (N.Z.), scr., winner fastest time and Australasian
Road Championship for 1922, __
(2) R. J. Arnold (W.A). 38 mins., 2nd, 9 hrs. 26 mins. 47 secs.
(3) W. G Rose (Vic), 58 mins., 3rd, 9 hrs. 47 mjns. 10 secs.
(4) P. Hill (N.Z.), 32 mins., Ist and winner of Ford car.
(5) Optimists around the “ Ford.
(7) A Feeding Station.
(6) Finish.
(S) Bread and Milk.
(9) Leaders at Geelong.
(10) Leading Riders—lo miles from Melbourne.
(11) Through the Stoney Rises.
When you require tyre satisfaction use “ Dunlops ” t
All States DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd. And NZ.


w
..UVMt
I
m«l
is •<
m
fife
m
gp^g
i ne juu joy oj a run
on the harbor or river is not possible
if your mind is continually on the
qui vive — wondering whether the engine
will take you there and hack. Th is
element of uncertainty is entirely
removed when you use the reliable
Shell Motor Spirit
Shell Spirit d istills from Nature s hands free
from all impurities, and as it needs
no artificial aids it retains
all its natural power. ae
Shelf never varies—the
standard is inflexible f
The British Imperial Gil Coy. Ltd.
ALL STATES AND
NEW ZEALAND.
Dodge Brothers have brought to bear upon
the manufacture of their motor car everything
that tends to produce value —extraordinary
experience, immense production capacity,
complete financial independence, and that
rigid, insistence Upon unerring accuracy which
has long been acknowledged as the chief
characteristic of all Dodge Brothers’ work.
Concentrating on one car simplifies the pro-
blems of production, and leaves Dodge
Brothers free to devote themselves to a con-
tinuous process of improvement.
The latest productions just landed embody
higher radiator, streamline dash, improved
style instrument-board and wind shield, all
greatly enhancing the appearance of the car.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty.,-Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. ia a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Violet Blue Eyes
By “PHLOX.”
** T WAS a wallflower again last night,
mother.”
“Most unfortunate, my dear, most
unfortunate. I can’t think who you take
after; certainly not after me. Anyway, we
must try and marry you off.”
“Suppose I don’t want to marry?”
“I’m not going to suppose anything of
the sort.”
“But if no man asks me?”
“Then, you’ve got to do your part, and
see that he does.”
“That I’ll never do.”.
“Then you’d better go into a nunnery.”
“No, mother; that wouldn’t suit me. I’m
too fond of the joys of the world.”
“What about going to the Islands as a
missionary?”
“And run the chance of being eaten?”
“Whatever you do in this world, my dear,
you have to take your chance.”
“Anyway, mine’s not going to be in the
Cannibal Islands.”
“By the way, Millicent, w'hat are you
wearing for the dance on Tuesday?”
"I’m not going to the dance.”
“Not going! Why?”
“I overheard that horrid Talbot girl say
to Bessie Myers that my skin was blotchy,
and my hair like rats’ tails.”-
“How very rude of her.”
“Rude! I call it beastly. Anyway, I
have a grain of comfort. Jack Summers
says that I have lovely violet-blue- eyes.”
“Of course you have.”
* * # *
Instead of going to the dance Millicent
had Jones drive her to the home of Mis.
Douglas—a friend of whom she was vety
fond.
“I’m delighted to see you, dear,” was Mrs.
Douglas’s greeting; “but I understood you
to say that you were going to a dance to-
night.” |
“I was, but—er —-well, I’m tired of being
a wallflowex - .”
“I’m sorry, dear. Did you enjoy that
book I lent you?”
“I did, indeed; especially where Trine
says that you can usually be what you make
up your mind to be. Now, I want to be
beautiful. Do you think if I desire beauty
long enough, and earnestly enough, it Will
ever come to me?”
“It will, dear, if, as well as desiring, you
take practical means of assisting nature.”;
“I would love to. I wonder if you would
be kind enough to advise me?”
“In the first place you need a good cream
that Will nourish, and at the same time
remove the discoloration from your skin.”;
“I did use a cream, and that horrid hair
you see on my face is the result.”
“So many creams do grow hair on the
face; but have you ever tried mercolizted
wax?”
“No; I’ve heard of it. I thought, how-
ever, that it, too, might favor the growth
of hairs.”
“Not at all, dear. I’ve used it for quite
a long time. You’ve heard of Frenchwoman
going into retirement during Lent, and hav-
ing the skin of their faces and necks re-
moved by a painful process.”
“Yes; I’ve read about it.”
“Well, mercolized wax has the same effeqt
without causing any pain or inconvenience.
At night, before retiring, you simply wash
your face in warm water, using a good
soap—l always use Pilenta Soap—then
apply the wax to your face and neck.
Wash it off in the morning, and before
powdering rub in a little of the mercolized
wax, which is obtainable from most good
chemists. Instead of ordinary powder fl
always use cleminite, which gives that soft
velvety bloom to the complexion.
“For those blackheads on your nose and
chin, stymol tablets are the best cure. Drop
a tablet in a tumbler of hot water, and when
the fizzing has subsided bathe the face with
the liquid; After drying you will find that
the blackheads have come out on the towel.
“For the hairs on your face there’s
nothing better than powdered pheminbl,
w T hich removes the hairs without disfiguring
the skin.”
“How very fortunate I met you, Mrs.
Douglas.”
“Now, for your hair. The first thing to
be done is to shampoo it with stallax!”
“Yes, I’ve written that down. But I don’t
suppose you know of anything that will
keep my hair in curl?”
“Yes, I do —something, in fact, that will
make it curl.”
“How marvellous!”
“It’s a perfectly simple preparation, called
silmerine, which you can get at the chemist’s
and you apply on retiring at night. Bx-ush
your hair out in the morning, when it will
be beautifully wavy, and any short pieces
curly.”
“Oh, how lovely that will be ! You can’t
think what a load you’ve taken off my mind.
Now if you would only prescribe something
for my red hands. I’m so ashamed of them.”
“I can, dear, give you a prescription that
I’ve tried myself with the best results. Add
bicrolium jelly to your list of wants from
the chemist. This pleasant, non-greasy sub-
stance quickly blanches the hands, removes
tan, clears out the dirt which soap cannot
reach, and makes the skin soft, white and
smooth.”
“How clever of you, Mrs. Douglas, to
know all these things.”
“I’ve just found them out by degrees.”
“Oh, there’s Jones for me. ‘ Good night,
Mrs. Douglas; I don’t know how to thank
you.”
“Don’t, dear; but consistently use what
I have told you. When you have improved
your skin and hair you will be quite beauti-
ful, and should make many conquests with
those pretty violet-blue eyes.”
Prolactum Lip Salve for cracked lips-
your chemist has it.—Advt.


A MAN'S, sensitive
finger tips—his in-
stinctive recognition of
fine felt and sincere work-
manship, will tell him
more about Stetson quality
than a volume of words.
You are sure to see Stetson
Hats wherever well-dressed
gentlemen congregate.
John B. Stetson Company
STETSON HATS
P. B. SHEATHER COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Melbourne,
Sole Australasian Representatives.
Simon” (20 vols.), or an Elzevir edition of the
poems of Victor Hugo (8 vols.), are readily
snapped up. It is amazing to note the
quantity of sterling French literature that
will disappear from the tables in a single day.
Yet booksellers have assured me that they
would lose heavily if they were to stock books
in French in any form other than those sorry-
looking productions issued by
(marked two francs, and sold here for Is. 9d.),
which are foisted upon us year after year,
without the ghost of a change, by ignorant
buyers in London. One gets sick of the
very names of the paper-covered novels issued
by this firm. “L’Envers D’une Courtisane,”
“Les Confidences D’une Biche,” “La Biche Re-
lanc6e”—who does not remember the titles?
One would think from the kind of stuff ob-
tainable in Sydney that French literature
was stagnant, at the present moment, instead
of being more vigorous, and vital, than
ever. The fault lies with buyers in London,
who don’t know their job, and who are quite
at sea with regard to Australian taste in
literature, English as well as foreign. I
know very well that if French books were
carefully selected by somebody in Paris who
had an idea of what Australian requirements
are, they would find a ready sale in Sydney
in spite of what booksellers tell me, but the
working up of such a business here would
have to be handed over to an individual with
special gifts—to one who was well versed in
literature, and who had several languages at
his finger-tips. That time will come, but
not just yet awhile, I fear.
M. D.
An Anti-Australian Islander
A study of Monckton’s two books, Some
Experiences of a New Guinea Resident
Magistrate and Last Days in New
Guinea, produces an impression that Papua
is cursed with bitter vendettas which are
not only official but racial. These books
are fine records of travel and adventure, bue
they are spoilt in places by the writeiN
appalling snobbishness and more than Prus
sian arrogance. Even in his preface the
personnel of the Crown colony regime are
officers and gallant gentlemen, while the Aus-
tralian administrators are “officials” and
“clerks.” Fiercely hostile as he is to Aus-
tralia, and to the generality of Australians,
he yet seems to approve of the few Austra-
lians he happens to know. Kenneth Mackay
is always “colonel” or “a soldier.” Justice
Murray, however, who, like Mackay, is a
citizen colonel with South African service,
is always Mr. Murray. But then Monckton
hadn’t camped with Murray for weeks on
end. Very illuminating is the account of
how Monckton and another Resident Magis-
trate dealt with an Australian pressman.
The visitor, “a finicky young man in im-
maculate white drill,” asked civilly enough
for an interview concerning a journey across,
Papua—a fine performance which Monck-
ton had just accomplished. For no reason
given the lad was told to “Go to Hell.” “‘But I
represent the press.’ ‘You can represent what
you damn well please.’ ” And then, “ ‘Hell,
blazes and damnation.’ ‘Surely, Bramell’
....‘this pest.’ ‘Here, get,’ responded
Bramell, the other R.M., taking the man
by the shoulder,” etc. Why Monckton quotes
such an exhibition of bad manners, bad
temper, and bad language is a mystery. It
is precisely the sort of thing which, done by
the worst class of English tourist, has won
the whole race of courteous and self-
restrained Britishers unmerited opprobrium
in foreign lands. Coming to the war, the
author remarks: “Von Spee left German
New Guinea on his last cruise, and had the
German rush on Paris succeeded Australia
must undoubtedly have surrendered to his
squadron.” Apparently, he scorns, as an
English gentleman, to mention that Von
Spee went for his life to get out of the reach
of H.M.A.S. Australia. As to Paris, before
ever the British Army was in action, Maori-
land troops were on their way to Samoa
escorted by the same Australia. In fact, the
M.L. Government would not let its troop-
ship leave until the Australia arrived.
Monckton, by the way, is not a pukka Eng-
lishman, but what he would call a “colonial” :
he is a native of M.L. Only a reader of
his works will be able to appreciate the pain
that this reflection must often cause him.
RIO.
The First “Bulletin”
Having once studied the history of modern
Europe, with a fair amount of profit, by
wading through London Punch from 1843
to 1908, it occurred to the present writer
that he might inform himself as to the story
of Australia for more than a generation
past by exploring the’ back numbers
of The Bulletin, from the time
of the paper’s foundation until the
present day. There are not' many com-
plete files in existence, but the Mitchell
Library has one, so a start was made there.
From no other source probably can one gain
so complete an insight into the political,
social and literary development of Austral-
asia during the last 40 years. You may
go through the files of any other daily or
weekly newspaper—the writer has travelled
some of those roads, too —and may learn a
great deal, but in The Bulletin alone will
you find that broad sweep which includes
the doings of all classes all over Australia.
It would take many columns of the Red
Page to do justice to The Bulletin’s
career between 1880 and 1922, and so this
screed will concern itself with the very first
number, as it was sold in Sydney streets
on the last day of January, 42 years ago.
At the head of the leader column there
are. four inches of apologia pro vita sua,
which announce “a new departure in jour-
nalism,” and conclude with the following
sentences: “The public eye rejects as unin-
teresting more than half of what is printed
in the publications of the day. It is only
the other half which will be found in TnE
Bulletin.” There were four daily papers
and five or six others in existence in Sydney
at the time, every one of which was con-
ducted according to the best traditions of
mid-Victorianism, and each of them reflected
most faithfully a period of which, many
years afterwards, J. F. Archibald wrote in
retrospect:—•
It was a cant-ridden community. Cant—the offen-
sive, horrible cant of the badly-reformed sinner
reigned everywhere. There was no health in the nub-
ile spirit. Socially, politically, all was a mean sub-
servience to a spirit of snobbery and dependency.
What was most Australian in spirit had been lost by
the secessions first of Victoria and then of Queens-
land. Sydney, socially, limped in apish imitation
after London ideas, habits and manners. Politically
and industrially it was the same. And over all
brooded in law-courts, press and Parliament the deso-
lating cruelty inherited from “The System.” Sydney
invited revolt from existing conditions, and The
Bulletin was the organ of that revolt. It was to
stand for more humanity in the laws, more freedom
in the Parliament, more healthy independence in the
press.
So these two young men, J. F. Archibald
and John Haynes, established themselves in
a little office at 107 Castlereagh-street—
near the site of the present Tivoli Theatre—
with very little capital, a supply of type
and no printing machine, but with a large
amount of hope, energy, courage and faith
in themselves. The editorial office was in
the composing-room, and its furniture con-
sisted of a box and a deal table. Archi-
bald attended to the literary side of the ven-
ture, and worked at the “case,” and Haynes
looked after its business interests with an
ingenuity and resourcefulness that, as his
partner afterwards testified, almost amounted
to genius. Twenty-five years later Archi-
bald wrote
For the first three issues The Bulletin had not
even a plant... . The Express —a Roman Catholic
publication since dead —had the honor of setting up
the first issue of The Bulletin. But I don’t think
the honor was fully appreciated. Indeed the priestly
proprietors did not know that their office was being
used for the purposes of the wicked sheet, and when
one of them, who happened to be able to read type
in the forme, came across The Bulletin pages, he
promptly “dis”-ed the matter by putting his foot
through it. Thus we early came under the heavy
foot of the ecclesiastical l'aw.”
Number One consists of eight pages, of
which the last is devoted exclusively to
advertisements, none of which appears else-
where in the issue. Here are its complete
contents, briefly summarised. On page 1,
after the editorial announcement alluded to
above, are three leading articles, a wood-
cut of Camilla Urso, the violinist, and a
column of biography of the lady, by “Critic.”
The first of the leaders, under the title of
“The Happy Land,” is a criticism of Graham
Berry, Premier of Victoria, for having inter-
dicted the performance in Melbourne of a
burlesque of that name which had been sup-
pressed in London by Gladstone, (He was
Prime Minister at the time, and the play
burlesqued him.) The second is entitled
“Snubbing the Press,” and goes for Henry
Parkes, as Colonial Secretary, for having
prevented the presence of reporters at the
execution of Scott and Rogan, the Wanta-
badgery bushrangers, and at one or two de-
partmental inquiries where they should have
been admitted. The third is called “An
Untimely Craze,” and has to do with the
first successful shipment of frozen meat to
England, asserting, curiously enough, in
view of the paper’s future fiscal policy, that
the adoption of Protection in Australia
would militate against the development of
such a trade. Half a column of notes that
look like the ancestors of “Plain English,”
unfier the title of “Long Odds and Sharp
Ends,” are continued to the extent of a
column and a half on the next page. Page
2 has one-and-a-half columns of “Dramatic
and .Musical Review,” signed “Critic,” a
column of “Stage Gossip” in short pars, of
the characteristic Archibald style, a par.
about the Anniversary Regatta and some
theatrical notes from M.L., besides one or two
“fill-ups.” Page 3 starts with half-a-column
of “Original Verse,” of which there are three
brief and not very distinguished examples.
Half-a-column of “Notes on the Exhibits”
has to do with the International Exhibition
then in progress at the Garden Palace.
Under the title of “A Heavy Wet,” and
signed “The Man in the Bottomless Pit,”
two columns of sarcastic description and
comment refer to the proceedings of a Mr.
Frank Warden, who had recently baptised
by immersion some ten or a dozen
converts to the Baptist faith in Foley’s
baths at Woolloomooloo. The article
is illustrated by a series of wood-
cuts signed “B.” There is a third .of a
column about “The Drama at Newcastle,”
and two-thirds which give the scores and
bowling analysis of the Australian Xl v.
N.S.W. XV, when the former won by 75
runs.
But it is on pp. 4 and 5 that Archibald
is in his element: the whole of that space,
and about half-a-column of page 6, is de-
voted to an account of the hanging at Dar-
linghurst of “Captain jMoonlite” (Andrew
Scott) and his fellow-bushranger, Rogan.
Officially, the press was not allowed to wit-
ness the dismal function, but The Bulle-
tin’s representative obtained an admission
order through the kindly interest of the
hangman—“Nosey Bob”—with the sheriff.
Probably never before or since has one of
these painful affairs been so vividly pictured
in print. Archibald hated capital punish-
ment. This was his way of making his
readers hate it, too. On page 4 are por-
traits of the principal performers, and on
page 5 a sketch of the actual scene on the
scaffold.
Page 6 contains, beside the finish of the
account of the hanging, a column of “Sport-
ing Notes” in very brief paragraphs, a
“write-up” of the American Novelty Com-
pany, a fifth of a column of “fill-ups” called
“Fun and Fancy,” half-a-column of corres-
pondence relating to the arrangements for
a sculling contest in England between
Trickett and Hanlan, an illustration of the
Bull Dog Ale exhibit at the Garden Palace,
and a third of a column of “Incidents”—-
pars, that would to-day be found under
“Society” and “Aboriginalities.” On page
7 thex-e are two-and-a-half columns of “The
News in a Nutshell,” mostly three-line pars.
“Personal Items” consists of half-a-column
of similar terse paragraphing, and of the
half-column of “Brief Mention” a typical
example is the statement that “The Bul-
letin is in no way connected with the
Sydney Morning Herald.” There is a
paragraph concerning a lev6e at Govern-
ment House, and one in the interests of the
licensed victuallers. Page 8, as has been
mentioned, is entirely devoted to advertise-
ments. It will be noticed that the only
survivors amongst the titles bestowed upon
different departments that are in the paper
to-day are “Personal Items” and “Sporting-
Notions.” But although The Bulletin is
six times larger than it was on the day of
its birth, it still retains the same, shane, and
the influence of its first editor upon its con-
stitution and make-up persists.
T. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Inky Way
Jacky Rco” (Lond.): Fred Salisbury, only son
of the retired Bankruptcy Registrar in Sydney, is
making a name for himself as a contributor to such
papers as Punch, London Opinion and The Pass-
ing Show. He pushes a most amusing pen.
Some .good billets should be offering in connec-
tion with the new afternoon paper which is
going ~ to shake up newspaperdom at Adelaide,
ihe literary director is J. E. Davidson, a journal-
istlo ve f e >” w ho was for nine years on the
Melbourne Argus, aiid later editor-in-chief of Melb.
Herald.
“Blackboy”: Perth dailies still cling to the war-
time price of twopence. During the newspaper
strike there was a persistent rumor that both the
morning and the evening paper would drop to the
old rate on resuming business. Neither has done
so, though each has added to its stature a cubit or
two of ads.
“O.B.” (Lond.): Australian Inky Wayfarers in
Britain figure largely in the Daily Mail's literary
page, for which contributions are paid at a rate
said to be the highest in daily journalism. In one
week there were signed articles by Albert Dorring-
ton. Jack McLaren, Win Ogilvie and Dale Collins,
without reckoning Aussies who used pennames. Over
JOO articles are submitted to this page every day
and but six are chosen.
Kobbi”: A. H. Chisholm, of the Brisbane
Daily Mail, follows his old chief, Farmer Whyte, to
Sydney lelegraph. Chisholm, who dips a versatile
pen, has seen quite a large slice of the northern
state, mostly in the train of visiting Governors and
suth-like celebrities. As the dailies put it, he has
been prominent in the nature-study line, and has
given that subject a well-deserved boost in this
part of the Commonwealth.
“T.R.H.”: Cannot agree with “F.H.” (B.
12/10/’22) about the late Northeliffe and his staff.
That Fleetway House “editors come and go so
quickly that you lose count of them” and “security
ot tenure is unknown” was not my experience. I
was with the Harmsworth firm for nearly 11 years.
I nee a nd Hammerton were by no means the only
hardy annuals.” Such men as Lima, Hamilton
Fyfe, Alec Kenealy, Palmer, Filson Young, C. M.
Dick, Hannen Swaffer and scores of others had
long contracts and stayed for years.
“Morehead”: Can anyone disclose when and why
Ihe Cosmos Magazine expired? I ran across
Number 3, Vol. 11l (September 19. 1896), the other
day, containing half-a-dozen poems, a number of
short stories and small articles, a serial entitled
In an Australian City” by Louise Mack, a write-
up of Hugh M. Nelson, sometime Premier of Queens-
land, and illustrations by Percy F. S. Spence and
H. Stuart Wilson. The late Alex. Montgomery was
editor, and he contributed a poem above his old pen-
name, “Sardonyx,” and a review of a book on
Aboriginal lore.
An interesting figure in Australian journalism
passed out in Legerwood (Tas.) recently, when Wil-
liam T. (“Dad”) Feutrill threw a seven at the age
of 83. He must have held the long-distance record
for one job, for he celebrated his diamond jubilee
at the Examiner and Weekly Courier offices, Laun-
ceston, on June 12, 1915. In 1855, at 16 years
of age, he started work there, and gradually climbed
to the position of overseer. Even after his retire-
ment in 1915 “Dad” used to come down to the
office every Friday to collect his pension, and to
keep alive his acquaintance with the youngsters who
hadn’t completed 40 years of service. The Examiner
itself is the oldest but two of Australian newspapers,
having been established in 1842.
“J.F.H.” (London): Australia’s pioneer poet,
Charles Harpur, has at least one ardent admirer in
the gentleman who reviews Mary E. Wilkinson’s
new Australian anthology for London Times. Harpur
is placed first in the trio of Australian
“for whom the English reader has long had a kind-
ness.” The place-fillers are Kendall and Gordon.
It is alleged that “there was a forest spirit about
Charles Harpur, which swept with great power
through his best poetry.” His friend, Henry Ken-
dall, is “of kindred inspiration and still more strik-
ing eloquence.” Kendall is also a poet of “nearly
ferocious vigor.” Adam Lindsay Gordon is a
“master of rhythms since pirated by poetical cheap-
jacks, florid at times but daring always, beating out
his own path and wielding his long lines as a
stockrider might his whip.”
“Topee”: Wartime stranded many hitherto un-
familiar words on Australian shores, yet no one
seems to have salvaged that very useful island one
“maski,” for which, like the U.S.A. term “snide,”
we have no competent equivalent. It conveys “Who
cares?” “What’s the odds?” “My troubles!” A
concrete example. My boy, Panni, went to the mis-
sion the other Sunday for devotional purposes. (He
is, or rather was, a convert.) Owing to some past
remissness on his part in the matter of pew-rents,
baptismal fees or something, he was received with
such utter lack of enthusiasm that he dissevered
himself from the connexion there and then. As he
explained it: “Me go alonga hieesun talk alonga
God. Messunry speaka me —‘Panni! You catchum
two fella mark (shilling) ?’ Me speak him, ‘Me no
catchum no fella mark.’ He cross—he cry (scold).
Fee-nish ! Maski!”
“Blackfriars”: The reference to war-correspondent
Martin Donohoe (B. 5/10/’22) passes over hjs
work in the same capacity for the first year or tw r o
of the world outbreak. It was not until he had
set up the correspondents’ übiquity record by writ-
ing stuff from every European front, including Rou-
mania’s, that he went off to Mespot as an intelligence
major. The Chronicle’s Donohoe, Daily Mail’s
Valentine Williams, and another pressman forfeited
their chances on the French front by their zeal ,in
trying to break down absurd G.H.Q. restrictions, and
the first had to make way for Philip Gibbs, while
Williams stood down for Beach Thomas, the suc-
cessors getting the ultimate K.B.E.’s. Donohoe,
Frank Fox and Gullett, all three products of Aus-
tralian journalism, were the only accredited war
correspondents who turned down that game for real
soldiering, and Fox carries his packet for life. Gul-
lett, of course, was roped into official writing, while
Fox, after being smashed about, also had to put his
pen to War Office service.
“0.K.”: “C.0.M.” speaks of Dagonet Ballads, per-
petrated by the late G. R. Sims for Sunday newspaper
readers in the early years of London Referee, as
though the audacious bathos of them had a measure
of serious effect on Australian verse of the period.
•I would not have charged any Australian atrocities
to the account of Sims, for I have an idea that sickly
sentimentalism from America, the production of Will
Garleton and such, preceded the Cockney yarns about
“Billy’s Rose,” and “Ostler Jo,” though it is
true that the once-famous Mrs. Brown Potter gradu-
ated for the stage by reciting “Ostler Jo” in a
New York drawing-room. Dagonet Ballads were
matters for parody in Australia at an early
age of their career. Marcus Clarke , wrote his
“Fireman’s Story” in parody of Sims’s style—the
tale of a gallant fellow who rescued a damsel from
the top noom of a blazing building by getting himself
carried to her on a stream of water from the hose,
but eventually met his death through, somebody turn-
ing the tap off. Was the stuff that Sims wrote with
his tongue in his cheek ever taken seriously by Aus-
tralian verse-writers? Was it not always turned to
humorous account ? I have spoken of Marcus Clarke’s
parody, never published, but much recited by his old
friend Jenkins, of the Vic. Legislative Council.
Long ere I knew of the fireman who sat on the
nozzle and was shot to the attic of the burning dwell-
ing-house, I had myself written a “Melbourne Fire-
man’s Story” for The Bulletin, apropos of the scan-
dalous incompetence of the local amateur fire brigades
at the burning of the old Bijou Theatre. I remember
these lines, among others
“There’s my mate, David Feeder, ah, a ’ero, sir, is
Dave;
’E’d go through Are and water solid heatables to save,
And I makes bold to say, sir, knowin’ well old
David’s worth,
That at savin’ beef and pickles he’s the bravest bloke
on earth.”
So I can swear that at least one Bulletin verse-
writer was getting a laugh out of the Dagonet style
more than 30 years back.


Judge by Results.
Records, experience and the example set by
thousands of growers prove the wisdom ot
this advice.
SEND YOUR WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SELLING BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY It. & J. DICK, LTD.
THE RUST-PROOF BRIGHT METAL
PLATING of the inside and outside
surfaces considerably increases the life
of the BARRY Steel Split Pulley, ren-
dering: it absolutely immune from rust
and corrosion.
There are no rivets in a BARRY Pulley to
work loose or shear under strain. The tubular
reinforcement inside the rim preserves the
exact shape of the pulley under heavy loads.
This also ensures true running under all
conditions.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
rfjf-
tl
m i
iir"'
m
I
B
7 03
A -i,
S' - < iij'
I'lill
4m
M
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes truer to nature than
Xenobia Lily of the Talley—is
ing as the tender appeal of
flowers.
as charm-
the living
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blos-
som —a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to nature.
The original perfume of
the name.
Zenobia Night-scented
Stock —as sweet as the
perfume of an old-world
garden—a great favorite.
Manufactured only by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for New Zea-
land (Wholesale only) :
Newson & Co., Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
> Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydney.
I
il
&KL2
FULLER-LEHIGH
Pulverized Fuel Plant.
COMMERCIAL-SIZED UNITS NOW BEING INSTALLED IN
AUSTRALIA FOR—
Australian Portland Cement Co., Geelong.
Electricity Commissioners, Newport, Victoria.
Wallaroo & Moonta Mining & Smelting Co., South Australia.
National Portland Cement, Limited, Tasmania.
Victorian Railways.
Some Characteristics of the Fuller Mill
A complete self-contained unit.
Requires no outside accessory equipment.
Requires no overhead shafts or drives.
A single stage reduction mill.
Reduces lump coal to dust.
All coal discharged from mill is finished product.
No inside journals or bearings.
No inside lubrication.
Uniform feeding device.
Constant and free discharge.
Low installation cost.
Low operating cost.
We can show you a Plant in operation.
Elder, Smith & Co. Limited,
Sydney—Melbourne —Pertb —Brisbane.
PHILIPS
‘/■WATT
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale Distributors—
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
Ericsson Telephone Mfg. Co.
(Formerly James Patou & Co.^
Specialists in the Manufacture of
Telephone and Switchboard Apparatus for
Magneto, Common Battery & Automatic Working,
7 Macquarie Place, SYDNEY; 509 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
52-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)'
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
S 1 PARLOR 7 TRICKS and- MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1 /-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
jMagic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
CO CONjVIUNQ APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
Make tl Vp° nS of All Kinds-GREASE PAINTS,
1 WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE. ' ;
'3?
s&ji
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 2/-
Contents—r Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Breath
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 1/-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/G to £5«
HOW TO MAKE ~UP, Guide to the Stage... . _l/C
4EOISTIRK6
tI»CE »•»>
Guaranteed.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & £O., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian .Representatives:
Noitman Baker & Longliurst
Kn Vnrl- Street. Sydney.
Skandia
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OILENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sola Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“A. Borig”.: The Japanese toothbrushes of
“M. Magee” and “Heeagus” were long-lived
in comiiarison with mine. I got it from the
local storekeeper when I wasn’t looking: it
lasted about 40 seconds, from the time
it wasi first used, and the subsequent
row with the storekeeper dragged on for half-
an-hour. I understand that anthrax is a
most unpleasant disease.
* * # *
“McPud” : While “Calorie” (B. 28/9/’22)
is in the mood for explaining standard rail-
way gauges, ask him why the collieries con-
cerned adopted the commonest one, and why
it was in general use in Pompeii before that
city was buried. The wheel tracks there
are just that width., Presumably 56|in. is
an exact multiple of some ancient mea-
surement unit; or maybe it was Cleo-
patra’s circumference, or the length overall
of the snake in the grass of Eden.
* # * *
“U.P.”: Recent Bulletin pars, have re-
minded my friend the undertaker of two
notable happenings in his career. They were
reverently removing the remains of Mrs.
Brown’s late husband from a house In
Bowen (S.A.), when the widow’s raucous
voice butted in with: “Here, you fellers,
mind y’ don’t scratch the wallpaper
with that box!” In another Adelaide
suburb a storekeeper, who was noted
for “nearness,” lost his wife, and called
to give the coffin-maker instructions. The
bereaved soul brought with him in a cart half-
a-dozen kerosene-cases, and remarked, with
a sweep of his hand : “Y’ might be able to
work these in and make the job a bit
cheaper.”
“Splinter” : If rats fully develop the taste
for sugar-cane they have evinced on North
Coast, N.S.W., farms, Hughes needn’t worry
whether there is an agreement with the grow-
ers or loud and continued discord. As a rule
the rodents pick out a stalk here and there,
so it’s hard to estimate the damage they do;
but where they work on the clean-sweep sys-
tem, as they do sometimes, the effect is start-
ling. They chew through the stalks a few
inches above the ground, and when one stalk
falls, leave it to tackle another. The thick
cane-crops provide ideal harborage for the
pests.
“George Rich’’: The Westralian Govern-
ment has thrown October and November open
as a season for snaring opossums. During
the first week greys were selling at 85s. a
dozen, with royalty a charge against the
purchaser. In the same two months last
year rovalties, at one shilling a skin, yielded
£7OOO to the State. This year the royalty
has been increased to Is. 6d. In many south-
western districts men are throwing up their
jobs to go snaring, and farmers, with sheep
to shear, are damning both Government and
’possums. A ’possum will soon be a rarity
in some of the regions where they were most
abundant; last year’s official tally of the
slain was 140,000. * *
“T.R.H.”: Wealthy mend : eants, such as
“Randolph Rentless” (B. 12/10/’22) men-
tions, must be few and far between, or more
would take to such a paying game. A beggar
so well fixed as to have £lB in cash on his
person or £BOO in the bank must be en-
dowed with many excellent and rare attri-
butes, such as a strong personally, eloquence,
persuasiveness, perseverance and sobriety. I
fancy anyone with such capacity would be a
success in most walks of life. If begging is
such a paying game, how is it that the cheap
dosshouses, the n : ght refuges and the State
hospitals—half-full of men who are not ill—
are so well patronised at the present dme?
“Snell”: Bent and Mcßride were on a
springtime walking-tour in Gippsland.
Mcßride, a rich property owner in the city, a
proprietor of much land and two flour-mills in
the country, and a canny gentleman whose only
objection to walking-tours was in the fact
that they were “so dnnged harrrd on the
butes.” ' At Catgut the pair encountered
Mullah Singh, an Indian hawker, who had
taken sick on his provincial tour, and was
languishing on the pub verandah, selling his
•roods at an enormous sacrifice. Mcßride, to
the intense surprise of Bent, bought 11 shirts
for 665. It -was a kindly act, Bent thought,
intended to relieve and help a stricken fellow-
creature, and his opinion of his companion
jumped seven points. That afternoon, at
Mcßride’s suggestion, they shifted their trail
to take in the sawmill at Jumbuck. Around
the common campfire Bent found his
friend very jubilant. After they retired Mc-
Bride spoke out of the darkness of the hut.
“I sold every one of those shirts to the mill-
hands.” said he. “I got 12 shullin’ apiece
for them. Mack it a rule of life, laddie, never
to miss a chance the gude Board may send
ye.”
LO, EVEN AS A WORM I TURN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hope is an evergreen nothing kills,
Trust's a perennial pea - ,
So the baker and butcher leave their bills
With wonderful constancy;
And the grocer sends, and the milkman, too,
AVho leaves us the milk so nice and blue,
To ask that I'll “note the amount’;
And the woodman seems to have spared the tree,
But he keeps on chopping away at me
And presenting his “small account.’’
I take them all, for this life is brief,
And we must, whene’er we can,
Soften the pang of another’s grief
And be kind to a fellow-man.
But I never read them: it’s not worth while,
I simply stick them upon the file.
But of one thing, really, I must complain,
Though I’m not the grumbling kind,
And I trust when the tradespeople call again
They will bear the matter in mind:
My writing-paper comes off that file,
And I find the small size simply vile;
It fetters my genius, cramps my style—
It would hamper a very Keats!
Will dunning creditors please amend
The sole fault grieving their faithful friend,
And on future occasions kindly send
Their bills upon larger, sheets ?
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


&ti
m
mi
WA
7 a
m
"M
4
' - ;
m
fS :.:
Adopted by the LAWN TENNIS
ASSOCIATION OF VICTORIA
as a STANDARD BALL . . . .
BARNET- GLASS TENNIS BALLS have been
tested by First Class Players and competent
authorities,and adjudged equal in all respects
to the best known Championship Balls.
Obtainable at all Leading Sports ‘Depots.
Price 2/6 each or 29/- per doz.
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
Founders of the Rubber Industry in Australasia'
ALL STATES 8i NEW ZEALAND
H
m
1#
17
1 '
it '
I
ggj§t§|l|§g
■k ?;
■
■ -
1
&m*i
:
■'■■
WMiip:
V"’
*
': '' ' \'£. kxki
.
j ” '.- -Ti -■■■' TT/T t L~ “t*
, TENNIS BALLS
Mjg.i ■
Sgfgfiig
./
, I 7
/ #'
$
. >
«ies
H
’ll ,asj
■
: -%
HMKSaMM
m
isg
■ - *
m
r &^ :
*8
■, t««
mm:
mosi I
c?i ™
,rs* ~ HH' ■; —
***&%%'* v
7'.
■r-.-. i
■ _ J7> ' / •* /\,XT. ,
- .. / ' |//
\- /
■'lk . ■ „^iV
I
:,f.< .
X >
s?/«
171
/;. X/
1 | gfl
Mi
/■aw
-\„. • " 7 '* : '^M7~
’ .: X ' V -■• 77
-■' 7 ‘ '■ v . V . ~'^Bfm^
-Aw.. ' J ’wr r y- ,/v
'/ ‘ ,-,,
•7/':;
"■: r:
X
#. Ml
sen
: !
■ ,7, ; ::7'
§iLLXtM!k
192 S
S
W


D-O.M.
Yes
Sir!
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant;
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL '
BOTTLES
nr
a
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from J-a-pint up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manage!’, who will quote you price for it.
«FI
All
Shapes
Now
Choose
the
Shape
You
Favour
Now
Pipe smokers can adhere to the policy of
quality with economy by choosing a G.B.D.
It cannot be too widely known that these
famous pipes ensure supreme quality and
give the utmost in satisfaction. Made from
genuine French Briarwood, shaped by experts.
There’s a shape to please your fancy at 7/6,
Prove the merit of a G.B.D. to-day
AH shapes and sizes—Sold everywhere
‘Trade enquiries invited to Box 765, Q.P.0., Sydney
<r
me.Pol’asfi &So(
ujifh emulsifying & flavoring
Ingredient's
o
7 S
S'
Cod Liver Oil
x>
%
m
?S/.
The manufacture of this famous medicine is not
surrounded by closely-guarded secrets.
As the diagram shows, HYPOL contains 50 per cent, of Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural Oil endowed with nutritive and healing
qualities that no mysterious formula can equal.
With the added Hypophosphites, and pleasant flavouring, a most
enticing and strength-giving Emulsion is produced.
HYPOL is a famous remedy for Chest Complaints, and
a great restorative in all cases of sickness.
Those of delicate constitution should commence
to-day to take HYPOL.
Made by FELTON. GRIM WADE & Co. Prop Ltd . Melb.
SOLD E VER Y WHERE.
ALDERDICE
Brassfoutvdry, WARRNAMBOOL.
Prompt Delivery
Plumbers’
Requisites
Windmill
Pumps
Medium Bibs, Stops, etc., gin., fin., lin.
Standard Bibs, Stops, etc., gin., fin., lin*
Hose Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
Ferrules, etc.
Tank Cocks, fin., lin.
Well Pumps, Bore Pumps, Artesian
Cylinders, Check Valves, Ball Valves.
[*
“T.W.”: Australia’s most prolific song-
writer, May Brahe, who has now given the
world about 100 lyrics of the “Quiet Down
Here” type, or a little better or worse, has
turned her ambition to comic opera. Her
opera is pretty certain of production, for
she possesses a decided pull these days, and
if so it will be about the pioneer, so far as
Australia’s women-eomposers are concerned.
L. Broinowski, associate-editor of the
Hobart Mercury, who is trying for the
Denison seat in the Reps., is a native of
Melbourne, and worked on mainland dailies
before joining Tasmania’s most conserva-
tive sheet. He stands for Nationalism, of
course, and will try to beat at least one
other partyite—Laird Smith, who has had
the seat for several terms, but seems
to be losing popularity,
Walter Gill, S. Aus. Conservator of
Forests, who was 71 this month, was the
first man in the wheat State to use suc-
cessfully the Finns insignia for commercial
purposes. He is a sou of an English Con-
gregational parson, comes of a long line of
tree-growers, and, before joining the service
in 1884, was overseer for John Howard
Angas, at Mount Remarkable station.
“Wessei”: Connolly, convicted of an
attempt to bribe Brennan, M.L.A., in
Queensland, must wish he had stayed" oh
his island up in Torres Strait, where there
are no M’s.L.A. and precious little money.
He was teacher on Duke of York Island for
years, but came down to journalism or some
such thing in Brisbane, According to re-
ports from the North he lost his teaching-
job for sticking up for the natives.
Albert Coates, who has just secured an
exhibition in pathology and first-class honors
in therapeutics, surgery, public health and
materia meUica at Melbourne ’Varsity, though
only a youth still, went off with the A.I.F.
in ’l4. With a flair for languages he did
much special service with the Intelligence
Branch, and was one of the few who pene-
trated the enemy lines in disguise. He did
it by impersonating an enemy soldier- —as
risky a job as the war had to offer.
“Perdix” : “Arainac” (B. 12/10/’22) talks
in hushed tones of a piece of Q. maple cut
“on the quarter,” which bore a lifelike de-
sign of a fern. If he comes over to a myrtle-
cutting mill in the Speck he will see as a
daily occurrence myrtle cut “on the back,”
when green, off the saw, bearing the same
impression. It fades as soon as the timber
dries and is brought out again when planed
and polished. I have a piece which is doubly
figured ; in addition to the above marking it
will put in the shade the figuring of the best
blackwood. It may interest “Aramac” to
know that when timber is cut “on the quar-
ter” here, it is not cut across the grain, but
always with it.
"Azac”: “Australian Timbers First” is
apparently the motto of the W.A. rail-
ways. The chief mechanical engineer
recently informed a Royal Commis-
sioner on Forestry that his depart-
ment had been using local timbers (tuart
and wandoo principally) for the construc-
tion of waggons during the past 20-odd years.
Two classes of waggons had been built, one
with steel under-frames, and the other en-
tirely of wood. Estimated maintenance cost
of waggons oyer a period of 12 years showed
between £2 10s. and £3 per year in the case
of those with steel under-frames, and only
11s. 3d. in the case of those waggons wlioby
constructed on local timber. Local timber
is also being used in decorative work for
the interior of cars. Banksia is replacing
river teak and Queensland cedar is now used
for sheathing the outside of cars.
“Splinter”: To men who must blow or
bust, cotton is now like old wine. One after
the other they stump the country at some?
body’s expense, luring the lonely cocky from
his cows and tying him up in a tangle of
tall tales and conflicting statements. I have
listened to five of them to date, and on a
vital matter like the time of the year to plant
the seed they nearly all differed. One said
September, not later; . another the end of
November, no earlier; the rest some time be-
tween these dates. Hardly two of them
agreed on what depth the seed should be
planted, their estimates varying from one
to three inches, and whereas a Queensland
(Dawson Valley) grower contended 31b. of
seed was ample to sow an acre, others fav-
ored quantities up to 151 b. On the class of
soil cotton thrives in, all -were in hopeless
conflict. Unless all these points and others
are cleared up very soon, the experimenting
is going to cost Australia a lot of money.
The snarl of “Clausewitz” :
I suppose there’s something in the trainee busi-
ness, but it takes some finding. This is the usual
procedure where I parade to learn the martial busi-
ness: The “fall-in’’ is bellowed (not sounded) about
20 minutes after the appointed hour. Another 20
minutes is lost in an attempt, always more or less
a failure, to get some semblance of order and grading-
in the ranks. The roll is then called, amid
an unceasing buzz of idle chatter, making it
almost impossible to hear or answer. Responses
are the exception. The officer mumbles on, marking
down “absent” with monotonous regularity. This
section of the “drill” takes on an average quite an
hour. If it is a night-drill the parade is then over.
If it is a half-day drill the officers assemble and talk
on weighty problems such as whether the next issue
of miniature Rising Sun badges will be polished or
dull. Meanwhile the other ranks smoke and swear
until they are dismissed. In four years’ training in
this State I have been to the rifle-range once. Many
of my fellow-trainees who missed that occasion have
never fired a shot. It looks as though they never will.
“Derwentside”: In October next year the
Speck should celebrate an interesting cen-
tenary. On October 13, 1823, that old re-
probate, George IV., granted her a charter
of justice separate from N. S. Wales, and
in May, 1824, John Lewes Pedder, a modern
Judge Jeffries, arrived as first Chief Jus-
tice. Since Pedder (whose term ended in
1854) there have been five Chiefs: Fleming
(1854-69), Francis Smith (1870-85), Lam-
bert Dobson (1885-98), Dodds (1898-1914)
and Nicholls (1914). In addition to the last
four, there have been nine puisne Judges:
Montagu (1828-47), Horne (1848-60), Gib-
lin (1885-87), Adams (1887-98), Clark
(1898-07). Mclntyre (1898-1914), Dobbie
(1914-1915), Crisp (1914) and Ewing
(1915). Four of these, Giblin, Clark, Mc-
Intyre and Dobbie, have sons practising,
while Dobson (whose father was admitted
to the Speck Bar in 1834) is represented by
a nephew.


1
7&W.
m
m
rf
*i # J*
Comox in the
Steel Mill and Foundry
A Steel Mill needs more than a roaring blast
furnace. It must have the help of
COMOX! Masses of metal must be cut into
convenient sizes for efficient melting. Comox
(Oxy-Acetylene) Blowpipes do this work
quicker than a saw goes through wood. When
tap holes of furnaces are choked with adhering
metal, Comox Blowpipes soon clear the outlet.
And, most important, steel production is
accelerated by the simple process of enriching
the air blast with Oxygen, thus inducing a more
rapid reaction.
In the modern foundry, COMOX (Oxy-Acety-
lene) Blowpipes are very profitably employed.
Defective castings, cracked or filled with blow-
holes, are filled and fused by COMOX Welding
Blowpipes. Risers and adhering metal are
rapidly cut away by COMOX Blowpipes, cast-
ings being cleaned up in minutes compared to
hours by old-fashioned methods.
Every industry gets some help from COMOX,
either from its own plant or from a Comox
Welding Station. Whatever metal article—
from garden fork to battleship propellor—
Comox will make it strong as new again for
much less than cost of replacement. Ask for
(a) particulars of Comox Welding Plants, (b)
address of your nearest welder.
Commonwealth Oxygen and Accessories Ltd.
FOY STREET, BALMAIN. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MELBOURNE—Fyvie & Stewart, 362 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE—Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE—Evans, Deakin & Co., 121 Eagle Street.
LA JNCESTON—Harrison Bros. & Co. Ltd., 20 Patterson
Street. PERTH—Geo. Wills & Co. Ltd., Murray Street.
SUVA, FlJl—Brown & Joske.
COMOX


cjhe largest selling
quality pencil in
iheyvovld
VENUS
V PENCILS
ItESX roil
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, With its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OQI. 3002, 3599.
BRITISH
AND BEST
. YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LT?
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS A BOON * A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN,
W O V E IM
X
A Great Convenience
For Marking Linen
And they s~ ve a noyance often caused bv
exchange or loss when the a: tides are
not marked. Any Name woven into a
Fine Cambric Tape in Fast Color.
C M WALKER
Actual Size of Style No. 9
Prices: 12dz, 7/6. 6dz 5/-. 3dz, 3/6.
Sold by All Best Drapers. •
JjP T /"'' oc U pty. 85 Cubitt c treet
• ltd. Richmond, Mel
Write for Style Book.
\.
'<v C"
N
h *#/"
V>‘
x-, 2
\j^
\ v-#^
■a"”~y
-t3*V
Well Satisfied!
in
/
&he
neu)
LUME
MOTOR
Easy svieel running more miles.
Motorists who have tried
the new Piume Motor Spirit
speak in the highest terms of
praise of its easy starting quali-
ties, splendid pulling power,
mileage, and sweet running
under all road conditions.
They are well satisfied.
Because of its correctgroup-
ing of boding points the new
Plume Motor Spirit is highly
volatile, every drop being in-
niiMf
t'RSP^I
stantly and
completely
vaporised
ensuring a
perfect ex-
plosive mixture. This elimin-
ates any possibility of liquid
petrol working past the Piston
Rings and so breaking down
and ruining the lubricating
qualities of the oil used.
Test Plume in your car
to-day. Whenordering do not
say—“ Give me a fill up of
Petrol” but ask for Plume
Motor Spirit.
Forhighestpossible Engine
efficiency use the correct
grade of Gargoyle Mobiloils
for your Car, as specified by
Vacuum Oil Company’s
Chart of Recommendations.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY P™ L™
Q. 14. A.
\
o
o
D
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
THE
\0
a
if
-vaea
dfiP-Cir*:
.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIIVHTED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE —Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £sjoooj(,o °
Capital pa,d up .. £i,7ij,osU
Reserve Fund Account 1,633,605
Reserve Liability of
Shareholders .. 1,255.998
Total Shareholders’
Fund .. •• £5,572,933
Directors :—SIR JOHN CHICK, rhnirm.m
EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. li. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
'Total Assets, 31st March, 1922—£33,195,076.
Chief Manager: E. H. WItEFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA— Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 135 branches.
N. S. WALES— Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 25 branches.
QUEENSLAND— Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred Cowley William Danes, Esq.,
E. H. Macartney, £sq.; Hon. A. J. inynue, m.u.c.
State Manager: E. 11. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Principal Office, King William 'Ranches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace. Perth,^
TASMANIA— Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE —7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
A roval aboriginal passed out recently at
Byron Bay (N.S.W.) Harry Bray, a lineal
descendant of King Bobby of Burrumbum
and the aboriginal royal division south of
Byron Bay. ills years were 15. Harry’s
father was supposed to be 90 when he lost
his life and the royal stomach-plate in a fire.
A statue is generally favored as a suitable
memorial to Boss Smith. About £l5OO is
already in hand, collected through the medium
of the Register Shilling Fund, but it is con-
sidered that £5OOO will be needed. ' Adrian
Jones will probably get the job. There are
already in Adelaide two fine pieces of work
by Jones, the Soldiers’ Memorial and the
Colonel Light statue.
“Gouger’s” tribute: —
The Bowen (N.Q.) Red Oross is the dinkum
article. It is carrying on to-day just as it did
when red-crossing was a fashionable sport; and in
these late hard years many is the footsore ex-l)igger
who, passing through the little coastal town, has
been handed an issue of much-needed clothes and
given the helping fin generally. The local climate
may be injurious to humans, as Southerners like
Barwcll claim, but it’s a great place for humanity.
“Billy T.”: The lady was being soundly
larruped with a cane carpet-beater, and two
or three neighbors, their chins resting on the
top of the fence, were watching the oper-
ation with no particular concern. A strange
woman out shopping joined the impassive
watchers. She was most indignant. “Call
yourself a man,” she said to one on-
looker, “to stand there with your hands in
your pockets while a poor woman is beaten
in that shameful way.” “Oh, I dunno,”
drawled the fellow addressed. “You see, as
I’ve always give Bill every encouragement
when he was beatin’ his own wife, I can’t
conscientiously go back on him when he’s
beatin’ mine.”
“K.Y.” : “Y.K.” stated (B. 31/8/’22) that
there were three Masters of Engineering of
Sydney University. As a matter of tact,
nine Sydney men have gained the Master’s
degree, all of them civil engineers. The
other six are J. N. C. MacTaggart, assistant
engineer of the Water and Sewerage Board;
R. J. Boyd, chief draughtsman of the City
Railway and chairman of the Sydney divi-
sion of the Institution of Engineers; R. W.
H. Ilawken, Professor of Engineering, Bris-
bane University; W. A. Miller, Lecturer in
Civil Engineering. Sydney University; G. B.
Carleton, supervising engineer, Public
Works Department; and R. W. Lahey.
“Dido”: It happened at the juncture of
Swanston and Flinders streets, Melbourne,
when the heavy traffic was flowing at about
half-past 5 p.m. A man with two bundles
and the general aspect of one safely at large
on the Old Man Plain, drifted into the thick
of the vehicular parade, and was seized by
a stranger, and dragged satis ceremony, from
the nose of a tram-dummy, amid yells of
warning and some spurts of execration from
tram vripmen, who invariably swear at
people they fail to kill. The saved soul
dropped his bundles, stared about him with
some bewilderment for a moment, and then
bit his rescuer a cruel punch on the nose.
“How dare you,” growled he; “how dare
you save my life!”
Supt. J. McGrath is retiring from the
M.L. foorce after 45 years of it. A few
months after joining the armed constabulary,
in the ’seventies, he took part in the Te
Whiti native trouble and captured the ring-
leaders, one of whom, Hiroki, had long beeh
wanted for murder. In 1895. as a detective,
he brought to book baby-farmer Minnie
Dean, the last woman to be hanged in M.L.
Before the final ceremony the lady gave
McGrath a public boost for his kindness
towards her. It has always been his way to
scrupulously bring forward every fact that
would favor an accused —a policy that should
store him up riches in Heaven, though it
often made Crown Prosecutors curse on
earth.
The old discussion as to where in Adelaide
the body of Colonel Light, its founder, was
buried, has been revived. There is clear
evidence that it was in the centre of Light
Square; there is equally clear evidence that
the remains once rested in West Terrace
Cemetery. But it is certain that the
Colonel’s bones now lie in the square named
after him, under the theodolite put up as a
fitting monument. (His statue is else-
where, close to the G.P.0., Light Square, hav-
ing become an unfashionable district since
those early days.) A. T. Saunders, the
diligent searcher into newspaper records, de-
cides that the body must have been taken up
immediately after the first funeral, for burial
in consecrated ground, and removed again to
the square later.
“Dido” : He is a plump and pleasing musi-
cian inhabiting one Australian metropolis,
where he is very popular. His face
ripples to his low Byronic collar in an
elegant succession of folds, in which the
identity of the real chin has long been lost.
He met a friend, a freelance journalist, the
other day. The songbird was wearing a very
disconsolate face. “Aren’t you well?” asked
the friend compassionately. The singer slrnok
his head drearily. “No,” he said; “the
mumps are about, and I think I have got
them. What do you think?” The pressman
looked the maker of melodious noises well
over, clucking his tongue in deep sympathy.
“Got the mumps?” said the scribe. “I should
just think you have. Why, my poor friend,
my very dear, poor friend, you have three
helpings!”
“Wymac”: Mention of chef
at Fleetway House (B. 12/10/’22), brings
to mind that ir the same building
Hnrmsworth w-as office-boy to Donald
MeCrae, the proprietor of the Financial
Times. It was probably this humble start
in the newspaper world that founded Harms-
worth’s career. Always a copyist, he fol-
lowed the lead of older newspaper men, and
when George Newnes started Tit-bits
Harmsworth followed suit with Answers.
On its success he built up his fortunes. Long
before he was created a baron, his friends
tolerantly smiled at his attempts to play
Napoleon. Northcliffe’s. head bore a super-
ficial likeness to the famous Cors : can’s. He
tried to intensify the resemblance by comb-
ing a broad lock of ha ; r down over his fore-
head almost into the right eye. There was
a story that he che*e the. title Northdiffe
in order that he might sign himself “N,”
believing that Nanoleon did. though, as h;s-
torv ’"•'•ves, Napoleon invariably signed him-
self “B.”


Electric Tool^
Handling to-day’s work
under to-day’s conditions.
Handling it speedily and with positive accuracy for better quality and
lower costs —the only way open to the manufacturer who would prosper
against competition. We have a “Cincinnati" Portable for your job,
for use on either current.
Hand or Breast Drills, Heavy-Duty Drills, Radial
Drills, Tool Post Grinders, Bench Grinders, Aerial
Grinders, Floor Grinders and Buffers, etc.
Remember the name Cincinnati. Keep it in mind when buying a
Portable Tool. Write or ring us for literature and all particulars.
SOLE AGENTS:
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
m
M
m
H
SMMmm
m
mma
m
mS$®B888g8B&,
Showing a “Cincinnati” J-h.p.
and 5-h.p. Portable Electric
Tool Post Grinder, with feed
in operation.
Portable Heavy-
duty Brill.
Heavy-duty
Beneh Grinder.
.Portable Electric
Aerial Grinder,
with end handles.
ll 1
$
rx
x
r
MUSIC and CHRISTMAS.
From time immemorial Christmas and Music
have been inseparable.
The festival of Christmas has been, through the
ages, a time of rejoicing and the giving of presents to
those near and dear to us and to our closest friends.
WHY NOT MAKE THIS XMAS
A MUSICAL ONE?
We can supply any or all of your Musical require-
ments, as we hold an immense stock of
PIANOS - - - PLAYER PIANOS - - - ORGANS
GRAMOPHONES - - - VIOLINS - - - CORNETS
FLUTES - - - ACCORDEONS, etc.
In our 24 Catalogues of Musical Instruments you
are sure to find an instrument suited to your needs. We
shall be pleased to post any one of our Catalogues to you with full description of the
instrument you prefer.
SEND FOR A CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Branches at
Newcastle
Lismore
*
7a
338 George Street, Sydney.
Brisbane
Toowoomba
Rockhampton


A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£B/10/-
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Albert, £4/10/-; lighter,
£4, £3/10/-; heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £6,
£6/10/-. Isct. Gold, £7/10/-; heavier,
£B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Necklet, Set Ruby or
Aquamarine, 35 /•
A. Saundiers’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saundiers’
double-cut
Diamond King,
18et. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ -9et. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 20/-
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine and Pearls, 35/-
12
lVi
j* it
2*l
-10
.8
4 M
5. A
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold
Expanding Sides and Leather Strap, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Keyless
Watch, 30/-
With f extra quality non-magnetic lever,
£2, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Nickel Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless Lever, compensation balance,
£2/10/-. Extra jewelled, £3. Solid
Silver Hunting. Lever, £4/10/-, £5,
£o/10/-. Gent.’s 10-year Gold-filled
Waltham, £4/10/-. 20-year Guaran-
tee Case, £6/10/-. 25-year,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Diamond
Ring, 18(t. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine or Red Stone, 20/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarine and Pearls, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Wristlet Watch, full-
jewelled ' Lever Watch, Silk Ribbon Bracelet, Solid
Gold Catch and Mounts, £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. solid Gold Curb Albert, £5/10/-
heavier, £6, £6/10/- to £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5, £2O.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarine or Peridot,
£3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s solid Silver Lever Watch,
Leather Wristlet, £3, £3/10/-, £4, £5.
Gold-filled Waltham or Elgin, £5, £5/10/-
His Master! Voice”*
“His Master’s Voice”
Instruments are known
everywhere as the
world’s supreme musi-
cal instruments.
on
“His Master’s Voice
“His Master’s Voice”
Instruments, each one
the best of its kind,
range in price from 11
guineas to 91 guineas.
The thousands who have flocked to see “Cairo” and the
thousands who have not had the opportunity will thrill to the
beauty of these exquisite records. All the Oriental fascination,
the haunting spirit of the “Cairo” score, are preserved in these
entrancing numbers. These artists render them perfectly.
“His Master’s Voice” Double-sided Records.
12=ixicH, 9/6.
C.lo3s.—“Cairo” Selection 1., containing:—“Ali Shar’s Entrance and Song,” “A Fool
There Was,” “When Love Knocked Upon the Door,” “The Sultan’s March.”
“Cairo” Selection 11., containing:—“The Chinaman’s Song,” “My King of Love,”
“Love in My Breast,” “The March of Nur-al-din’s Men,” “Hast Thou Been to
Mecca?” MAYFAIR ORCHESTRA
10-incH, 6/3.
8.1264.—“ When Love Knocked Upon the Door” (“Cairo”), “Naughty Cupid,”
“The Gipsy Princess” DE GROOT & THE PICCADILLY ORCHESTRA
8.1291.—“ Me Welly Poor Old Chinaman” (“The Chinamen’s Song”)—
WALTER JEFFERIES
“Hast Thou Been to Mecca?” . GWYN ELLIS
Make a point of hearing them at your dealer’s to-day.
Write for Instrument Catalogue, Record Lists, and
name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
I
0
“His Master’s Voice,
Itep. Trade-mark.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney
'* Gramophone, "
Ref/. Trade-mark.


Amusement*-
SY I) Nl5 Y’S CHI 10 F TH K A 11 E ® -
J. C. WILLIAMSON. LID., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
THE SILVER FOX.
ROYAL: THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS.
ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSFEAKEAN
I I* HO DUCT lONS
NEW ZEALAND TOUR: NORTH ISLAND.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SO DEN,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELIJOL KNL
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MARY.
•HE
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PEEP SHOW.
A WHIRLWIND OF DANCE AND MELODY.
KINO'S THEATRE. MKII!OSi It N E
Sole Lessees: Bert Bailey and Julius Gram.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
E. J. & DAN CARROLL present
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE,
an Australian Comedy in three acts,
by C. J. DENNIS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
P A LACE T HEAT RE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN A J. FULLER, L'l D.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
t.AST NIGHTS OF THE AUSTRALASIAN RECORD
SEASON OF
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BV HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
30th WEEK ON SATURDAY.
Matine&s Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HALL, Collins St., Melbourne.
OPENING SATURDAY, NOVEMBER i
(Derby Night),
FOR SHORT SEASON.
THE HECTOR LIGHTFOOT FAMILY.
This is a show which all country Cup visitors
will revel in.
MUSIC, SONG AND DANCE.
OYT’S THEATRICS, MELItOU ItNl5.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
THE LURE OF EGYPT.
FROM NORMA LORIMER’S FAMOUS NOVEL.
Also,
GLADYS WALTON in
PLAYING WITH FIRE.
Prices as usual.
A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
GREAT ATTRACTION.
STOLEN MOMENTS.
A YVARD PICTURE SUPREME.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
o*
Y M P I A, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MatinSes Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays.
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS.
A host of entirely new International Celebrated
Artists personally engaged by Mr. George Wirth on
his recent tour of the World,
Prices 7/-, 5/-, 3/- and 2/-.
Plan at Glen’s.
Position Vacant.
The Queensland Pastoral and
Agricultural Society, Ipswich,
INVITE APPLICATIONS FOR FULL-
TIME SECRETARY.
Salary 1250 p.a., plus Commission.
For further particulars address —
The President, Box 04 P. 0., Ipswich.
Applications, stating qualifications, and with
copies of Testimonials, close Nov. 30, with
the President. Enface envelope, "Applica-
tion for Secretary.”
F. G. WOODWARD, President.
Public Notice.
British Australian Wool Realisation
Association, Limited.
EXTRAORDINARY GENER A L
MEETING.
6th DECEMBER, 1922.
Notice is hereby given that in
accordance with requisitions received
by the Board an Extraordinary General Meet-
ing of shareholders in the above Association
will be held at the Assembly Hall, 160 Col-
lins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, the
6th dav of December, 1922, at 2.30 p.m.
BUSINESS.
To consider and, if deemed advisable, to
pass with or without amendment the follow-
ing resolution: —
THAT it is desirable to have a Central
Organisation for the protection, stabilisa-
tion and development of Australian Pas-
toral and Agricultural Industries, includ-
ing the formulation of policies respecting
the disposal of primary products or of
■ such of them as may be decided upon b v
the meeting, and that British Australian
Wool Realisation Association, Limited, be
such Central Organisation, and that the
Directors thereof be and they are hereby
authorised to take such steps as they con-
sider necessary to carry this resolution
into effect.
By Order of the Board,
G.' F. PARKES, Secretary,
Proxies should reach the registered office
of the Association not later than 2.30 p.m.
on Monday, 4th December, 1922.
540-542 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
27th October. 1922.
Legal Notices.
rpo JOHN HAROLD GORE formerly of
I. Albert Street Windsor in the State of
Victoria miller TAKE NOTICE that your
wife EVELYN MAUD GORE has instituted
proceedings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the said
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the second day of December 1922 the case
may proceed in your absence and a decree
for dissolution of your marriage may be
made against you with costs.
T P. Mclnerney, of the firm of Melnerney.
Mclnerney & Williams, 90 Queen Street.
Melbourne, Proctor for the Petitioner.
mO FLORENCE MAUDE FREEBODY
I. formerly of Port Melbourne in the
State of Victoria :
TAKE NOTICE that your husband
WILLIAM GEORGE FREEBODY has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce
jon the ground of desertion. Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on
or before the 2nd day of December 1922 the
case may proceed in your absence.
REYNOLDS & LARKIN, 443 Chancery
Lane, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
BIG
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
THE CIGARETTE FOR
THE “BIG” MAN.
The man who takes a cigarette from a ‘Turf ’
he:; pauses to admire —for here are Big,
Handsome Cigarettes, splendidly made and
fragrant with golden strands of the choicest
cigarette tobacco that America produces, the
unrivalled Old Belt and Eastern Carolina Leaf.
You will admit the quality and taste as soon
as ever you try a ‘ Turf * Virginia, and the
distinctive flavour and softness remains right
to the end of your smoke.
‘Turf’ Virginia are 20 for Two Shillings and
represent the highest achievement possible in
Virginia Cigarettes.
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
Made by
limited,
55, Piccadilly,
London, W.,
Engl and.
20
for
TWO
SHILLINGS
TTTn
LUJJ
mm
sm
is
%
mnrm
a
1
rm
rTTTrrm
VrtmwnT
I
4T
rTTTTTT
irnrn
7A
rtr
nTHT!
WN
rm
ITTTTTTI
Wa
Y, Yj
uu
■
r
W
VS//SJL i
R
a
SI
m
i
m
li
p Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but—
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle. 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets. 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, gin. or Jin., set ready for use and guaranteed anc
kept in order for two years free.
Plur.i Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post fret
anywhere.
Country visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest ami most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon in
Sydney.
■AA-.
DENTAL- m
CREAM AW
Pyorrhoea — be
Careful
in the selection of your dentifrice. Above all
avoid any preparation containing grit.
I p HB 22? w W vs ■
mi "'mA ' >Wi
DENTAL CREAM
contains no grit, and has been proved to be of
the greatest assistance in cases of Pyorrhoea,
and inflamed conditions of the mouth. Dentists
and Doctors throughout the world are recommend-
ing it, and find it an invaluable aid in the
treatment of these distressing complaints.
Pyorrhoea is increasing, so it behoves everyone
to take all necessary precautions. This you can
do by using Kolynos Dental Cream twice daily,
and consulting your Dentist at least twice a year.
Kolynos is obtainable of all chemists, druggists,
Stores, etc. Send for sample. Fill in coupon
attached and post to us to-day.
Please send me a free sample
of Kolynos Dental Cream
KIU4 — B.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS:
LIOTT BROS. LTD., O’Connell Street, Sydney; FELTON
GRIMWADE & CO. PTY, LTD., 342-346 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne; ELLIOTT BROS. LTD., Eagle Street, Bria
bane; A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., 42-46 Currie
Street, Adelaide; FELTON, GRIMWADE & BICKFORD
LTD., Wellington Street, Perth.


BRISBANE, Q.
Wire
Ahead
for
Rooms
■vT
m
E
YSr*
mm •*
m-’fi
m
Queen Sf.
BRISMHI
INCLUSIVE TARIFF
JDEALLYsituated in the heart
of Brisbane, this establish-
ment offers every comfort,
service and convenience you
expect to find at amodern hotel
14/
DIAMONDS
AND
DIAMONDS.
Diamonds differ in value just as bank notes.
Two bank notes —one may be worth' ONE pound
and the other FIFTY pounds. So ’tis with Dia-
monds. One may be worth TEN pounds a carat,
and another may be worth ONE HUNDRED
POUNDS a carat, and each be as good value as
the other.
One Diamond is perfect, without flaws; another
is imperfect.
One has chips off it, or internal faults ; an-
other is flawless.
One is blue-white; another off-color.
No gems are too good for Australians, and so
we specialise on the best grades only. ::
Our prices for the best gtms will be found to
be as low as those of London, and as low acj the
poorer qualities usually sold in Australia; ’
Diamonds, set in Platinum, on
Platinum Front, 15ct. Bar Brooch, £lB.
Smaller size, All Gold Bar, £l5.
, . ..
&
2 Choice Diamonds, set in Platinum, on
Platinum Front 15ct. Bar Brooch,
£lO/10/-
Fine Diamonds, set in Platinum, choicely
cased, £75.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD,
Plain Figures.
Cash onlv.
The Oldest Jewellery
House In Sydney,
23 8l 25 Hunter Street.
STETSON’S
Famous
“SOMBRERO’’
Kw \
s -
-7
Just a Great Big
"STETSON”
for wear between
Sunrise and Sunset.
60/- each.
CARRIAGE PAID.
Leaf 3J inches wide—worn up or down —
high crown- —splendid protection from Sum-
mer’s blazing sun—Shades Grey and Fawn-
Grey with Black band, Fawn with Black or
Grey band —Greaseproof Leathers.
Write to Desk “SB.”
PIKE, BROTHERS,
limited,
BRISBANE
Townsville
Toowoomba.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. fj
Her Majesty’s Calro „
Criterion B‘ e Silver tox
Royal ‘•‘The Naughty Princess”
•***•••••••••♦ *••*•••**• AloV IIIJJ l ICtUiOS
MEMIOIJRNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s • • “^ ar y’’
Royal The Peep Show^
Palace "S<ia "ales’
King's . “The Sentimental Bloke
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Olympia • Wirths’ Circus
AtheNjEUM Hall .... The Hector Lightfoot Family
“The Silver Fox,” which Lawrence Gros-
smith staged at Sydney Criterion on Satur-
day night, is not a fantasy: it is intended
to be a sincere study of contemporary man-
ners and customs in England. It remains
to be seen if Australian audiences are either
sophisticated, or unsophisticated, enough to
take the show in the desired spirit. We are, of
course, no more moral than any other British
community. Never a Government House, or
other gathering of the affluent, without its
divorced, about-to-be-divorced and ought-to-
be-divorced, quotas. But we are more Brit-
ish than the present-day British, inasmuch as
we cannot yet endure the idea of these mani-
festations being taken for granted in every
day colloquial intercourse. England has got
right away from this convention if Cosmo
Hamilton’s clever comedy is a truthful pic-
ture. Captain Belgrave strikes the new note
by turning up in his R.A.F. uniform at a
peace-time dinner-party. The pre-war
home of mufti has apparently gone
stark French. Now the fundamentals of
Palais Royal farce —and “The Silver Fox”
is simply a bowdlerised and modernised ver-
sion of that popular old Parisian art-form—
never were based on life. The playgoer of the
period ivhen this class of entertainment was
in flower took a number of psychologically
absurd conventions in his stride, chiefly be-
cause the side-splitting bedroom scene in the
third act called for them. But a severe
strain is put on one’s credulity when those
same conventions are presented in a semi-
suburban, upper middle-class milieu in Eng-
land. Even the war isn’t enough to account
for such a revolution.
* * » *
Consider the position in Edmund Quilter’s
household —remembering always that, though
a novelist, he is a quiet, conventional English-
man, Who plays golf, wears the colors of
his public school or University college, and
moves amongst people of his own type. As a
husband he is so complaisant that when he
hears his wife has committed adultery with
Captain Belgrave, he shows no annoyance
with either of them: his only regret is that
the favored one was not his best friend, Chris
Stanley. Mrs. Quilter is not disturbed by
the _ spectacle of Edmund enthusiastically
kissing her flapper cousin, Frankie Turner.
For her own part she is wildly in love with
Chris, and the story of her lapse in Bel-
grave’s flat is based on a misunderstanding.
And Chris is wildly in love with her. We
are asked to believe that this lovely and
passionate woman, whose husband is obvi-
ously indifferent to her, cannot get Stanley
to declare himself; that Stanley, a middle-
aged man of the world, does not dream she
loves him ; that she imagines that the way
to win such a lover is to get herself divorced
“THE NAUGHTY PRINCESS,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
A. Howett-Worster as Prince Ladislas.
for misconduct with the man he most hates
and despises; and that the co-re. (who has
made three previous appearances in the same
role, by the way), after being first used and
then derided by the lady, would be sportsman
enough to combine with her to bring her
lugubrious ass of a major up to the scratch
Devious imbecilities of the sort are the
breath of whatever vitality French farce
may possess, and they may be seen in an-
other aspect, in the typical London daily
paper feuilleton, but they bear no real rela-
tion to life anywhere. Such things simply
don’t happen ; though post-war England has
ho doubt developed free-and-easy ways which
superficially suggest the possibility of them.
It is not a matter of changes in the moral
or social outlook of a people, but of a basic
alteration in human nature.
There are only five characters in the play,
and they would be admirable collectively if
one of the performers were out of the cast.
Lawrence Grossmith, by his ease, his gentle
naturalness and his perfect articulation,
fairly plays his colleagues off the boards.
One has to go back to the remarkable little
performance given by Evelyn Beerbolim in
“A Butterfly on the Wheel,” and before that
to the period of the Broughs, for a stage
figure so wholly devoid of staginess. Diana
Wilson, luxuriantly beautiful as the wife,
provides her best performance in this coun-
try. She overplays at times, but the part
is one that calls for a certain amount of over-
play. The same guarded remark applies to
Doris Kendal’s capable rendering of the
tricky part of Frankie Turner. Ashton Jarry
is not happily placed as the amorous Major,
por is Paul Plunket in his right niche as
Captain Belgrave. They look like British
soldiers, but mouth their words like actors.
However, this, as above-mentioned, is largely
the fault of Lawrence Grossmith. The per-
fect restraint of his own art tends to vul-
garise the art of everybody associated with
him.
“Cairo” whirls and roars and glitters
along its crowded pictorial way at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney. And quite unaffected by
the din and the
dancing and the
k a 1 eido scopic
changes of gor-
geous scenery, the
love idyll of A 1
Malik-al-Nasir, the
Sultan, and Zum-
murud, the strong
man o’ Persia’s
daughter, is un-
folded, and the
devilish machina-
tions of Prince
Nur-al-Din and his
satellites defeated.
Even in the Syd-
ney underworld,
which is getting so
much prominence
these times, there
can’t be any
toughs worse than
Nur-al-Din’s lot,
who sally forth to
seek their prey
when the owl be-
gins to hoot and
the jackal to yowl
and the fireflies to
“Mary,” at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne.
Maude Fane as Mary.
flit over the sleeping Nile.
At Sydney Theatre Royal, Kitty Reidy,
the Princess who wanted to see Naughtiness
at close quarters, is nightly shocked by
Parisian improprieties into a conviction of
the blessings of virtuous domesticity. Marie
le Varre is a delightful Countess-chaperon,
Grade Lavers a piquant Chiquette, and if
there were monarchs as jolly and human as
Jack Cannot available for the new nations
that the war brought into being, Czecho-
slovakia and the rest might be reverting to
thrones and crowns. “The Naughty Prin-
cess” is a brightly humming and pleasantly
impossible conceit.
*
Sydney Tivoli continues to boom, the, star
turn at the moment being Ethel Hook,’who
has Edith Page for accompanist and Arthur
Argent as supporting baritone. The
crowded house couldn’t get enough of the
handsome young woman’s glorious contralto
the other night. Billy Maloney is effective
as a sort of vocal anti-prohibitionist, and
Gene Gerrard is still very much on deck as
a diverting drunk.
* sis sjs *
The most-boomed pitcher of the week in
Sydney is “Waiting for Dawn,” the wait-
ing being done, so far as the ladies are con-
cerned, in very meagre lingerie. The Rialto
has dug up one of Charlie Chaplin’s real, old
pie-throwing comedies—“ Tillie’s Punctured
Romance.” The Haymarket has “The
Eternal Flame,” and the Lyceum and Lyric
want to know “who pays the jazz b’lls” in
“The Good Provider.” “The Four Horsemen
of the Apocalypse” is still at the Crystal
Palace, but the 40-vamp-power “Madame X”
will take its place on Saturday, and the pro-
gramme will be eked out by Charlie’s latest.
“The Idle Class.” “Over the Hill” is still
at the Globe, but “The Sin Woman” has
moved from the Town Hall to the Empress.
** * *
Emelie Polini has switched on to a
straight-out four-act drama of the older
fashion for the end of her season at Adelaide
Royal. “The Lie” is an ugly story, but
played with all the delicacy possible, and
she is a supremely natural heroine. Frank
Harvey and Claude Flemming play with
great restraint, too. Kay Soaper gives a
careful study of the crafty and unvenerable
baronet, and little Sheila Helpman shows
extraordinary promise as a natural and un-
squeaky child. Guy Bates Post, whom Adel-
aide never saw in the flesh, is on the screen
at the York, as John Chilcote, M.P., and his
double: a strong drama. At Wondergraph,
Gloria Swanson gives wives a lesson against
being used as a mere trade-mark by the hus-
band; in her case, however, it has the com-
pensation of introducing some gorgeous
gowns. “What’s Wrong with the Women?”
is the problem at West’s; the Yankee author
thinks the trouble is a craving for amuse-
ment and extravagance. The Pav. has real
ocean effects on a whaler in “The Sea Lion.”
Rosina Buckman uplifts a glorious voice
at the Town Hall. At the Majestic the
Courtneys- have some new yarns and up-to-
the moment topical allusions ; Tubby Stevens
dances better than he sings; the Harem
Scarems do some agreeable romping, and
“The Major’s Reflection” is a cleverly de-
vised scene on familiar lines. At the Prince
of Wales’s, the proverbial Girl is just coming
to the Cross Roads so often heard of; but
the Fuller melodrama co. at the King’s is
about to take a rest. Cross, Riley and
Agnes Dobson have during that season
shown better acting than some of their
nlays deserved, and in the final production
Darcy Kelway and M’ldred Carlton put up
some riotous comic relief.
“The Sentimental Bloke,” at Melbourne
King's, continues to build up its reputation
as a poetic Australian comedy with a mes-
sage in it. Ten of the performers, or there-
abouts, continue to shine naturally at the
expense of Doreen’s “mar” and uncle (but
especially her “mar”), both of whom have
a tendency to overact, instead of leaving the
simple nature of the scene to take its course.
❖❖ * *
At Melbourne Royal, as elsewhere in the
city, they are waiting for the Cup rush to set
in. Meanwhile one of the most forgivable
items of “The Peep Show” is Josie Melville
m the conventional ballet character of a
lovely slave, who appears alternately scared
and joyful.
# * s[s *
“Mary” goes on at Melbourne Majesty’s,
not like the proverbial house afire, but like
a medley that means well and has a lot of
good, brisk squad work to recommend it, as
well as a good enough cast. Human interest
has nothing much to do with “Marv,” but
the ancient evergreen effect of a tall stal-
wart lady lavishing her affection on a dimi-
nutive suitor, for the sake of theatrical con-
trast, gets many vigorous laughs. Probably
the supreme moment in “Mary” is not when
Maud Fane executes the familiar little catch
m her throat which counts as humorous, but
when Ethel Morrison picks her little Percy
from the ground and carries him off as
though he were a trifle light as air.
*$ * *
The long, long trail of “Spangles” breaks
off at Melbourne Palace next week, so, what
with visitors from the country, and Ada
Reeve, and the reputation born of constant
lepetition since Easter last, the closing nights
of “Spangles” will be full of beans and busi-
ness.
❖ O £
. ee Georgie Wood, not being able to stay
_ m Australia for the Cup, will carry Black-
hand George and Wee McGreegor away from
Melbourne Tivoli this week. Lee White and
Clay Smith are returning for the Feast of
rloise. Also, there are others, who have to
trust more to what they perform and less
to a passive personality than Lee White
does.
* Jfi #
Melbourne’s good word for Wirths’ Circus
appears to be centring this time in the turn
or Evans and Perez, the equilibrists, one of
whom balances on a ladder or nole which his
partner supports on Ids feet. Peril seems to
play a part in this porformanco, and a circus
loves peril even better than it loves
the Ten Commandments. But. whilst new
items have their day the abiding charm of
educated lions, tutored bears, dogs that turn
m the camp, is outrivalled only bv the bulk
somersaults and monkeys that make mischief
ot the elephants. A circus on its own is a
festive thing, but a circus with menagerie
attached is even better. One of the silent
aids to Wirths’ annual attraction is an
awtul warthog, which borrowed its hear]
trom a hippopotamus, its body from a pig,
IF tusks from a rhino, and its disposition
-t rom Gawdknowswliere
* >;c Bjs sj:
Melbourne’s Pioneer Players had their
two nights and five short plays at the
“CAIRO.” AT
SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S,
Most miserable, most dishonorable wife of
Wci-San-Wei (Jessie Page).
Athenaeum Ilall last week, without revealing
evidence of any advance in the art of man-
agement and the trick of attracting the
public. The Orpheus Trio did well m the
orchestral department, but truth to tell the
set-up of the outfit was hopelessly amateur*
ish, and the cause of local production in
drama got no assistance to speak of from
the Pioneers’ earnest endeavor. The strong-
est and most adequately treated item on the
broken programme was Louis Esson’s “The
Woman Tamer,” which William Moore
brought to light years ago. The color of
criminal life is cleverly laid on. A highly
unvirtuous donah is mistress of the little
•l°int in Lagland, where Chopsey Ryan rec-
kons himself lord and master, till Katie gives
him the push and installs Bongo, fresh from
quod, in the fatuous waster’s place. Katie,
Chopsey, his cobber, Smithy the Liar, an
incidental crayfish, and a policeman who
drops in friendly-like to notify the shady
household that he is likely to call again on
copping business—these are live characters
and verv actable creations. You get the
atmosphere of a home where felony and free
love are general topics of conversation.
Chopsey was the least real of the three
men, but he was fairly satisfactory, whilst
Winifred Moverley’s attempt at Katie was
plucky in its polished amateurishness. When
Lsson produced this playlet of yore
Maisie Maxwell was the bad girl of the
family, and she, with professional stage ex-
perience and striking virility, dominated the
Henry Lawson’s dramatic version of
‘Telling Mrs. Baker” is insufficiently drama-
tic. The air of truth is there and the action
goes smoothly, but the situation has no
strength of pathos in it. “The Trap.” taken
by Stewart Macky from one of Price
Warung’s gloomy convict yarns, has the
same disability as his drama of “John
Blake,” derived from another of the Waning
series. Only a. competent professional pro-
duction could justify its appearance as a
public, entertainment, and in this case the
interview between an “incorrigible” lag, a
humanitarian Governor of Norfolk - Island
and his wife, who herself has worn irons,
puts a strain on probability that no amateurs
are equal to. Hilda Bull, as the ex-convict
matron, had the hardest of three hard rows
oe ' first uud last of the five plays—
" The Nov/ Bridge,” by Gerald Byrne, and
B’shon and the. Buns.” by Ernest
O Ferrall —are but flimsy affairs.
. The picture bill at Melbourne Majestic
is of comparatively light and airy texture
this week, though “In Full Cry,” taken from
Robert Marsh’s novel, is rich in slum life
and misguided suspicions. “Too Much Busi-
ness,” the other, leading feature, is a violent
ant*dote to sentimentality with an easy far-
cical swing in it. At Hoyt’s “The Lure of
Egypt takes the form of buried traditional
jewels of great price awaiting discovery in
a royal mummy’s resting-place. A faint
smell of dust and ashes pervades the far-
fetched tale. . “Playing with Fire.” on the
same screen, is a broad comedy wherein the
unconscious spirit of American snobbery
rules the plot, and “The Hills Of Missing
Men’ deals with lawless intrigue in the land
where the cowboys grow. The Britannia is
showing “Blind Hearts,” late of the Majes-
tic, whilst the Melba features Pola Negri in
“The Last Payment,” which gives the lady
a quittance in full for a red-hot, riotous
time, such as no girl really has, but a lot
of them would like to get.
THE SENTIMENTAL BLOKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, lovely woman! since old time began
The helpmate sweet (or otherwise) of man:
E’en as an angel minus heavenly wings
We glorify her now at Melbourne King’s.
Crime flies her presence; Ginger Mick reveals
A kind compassion for the high ideals
That claim possession of his cobber’s soul
And guide him upwards to his golden goal;
Love doffs its lid before the wondrous maid,
Whose passing frown leaves Bill, the Kid, afraid
That fate has cast him wreckt upon the rocks;
A fairy bright, in inexpensive frocks,
She stands for all that’s purest in her sex—
A pickle-foundry idyll, free from specks—
A beautiful example, vision rare,
For Bills to raise their eyes to, if they dare—
A human disinfectant, making clean
The world around her —and her name’s Doreen.
O.K.


1
■
H
■
'$ :
emm
m
..■"I
■ ~J
m
.
H
■
S
y
in
■
Jr/a
I ii
S
a
■>
US
H
Ml
■’ *
m
wm
mm
v ■ mmimm "
iiSta
SS2S”
11
>*■
O
O
«o>
V*
"V
m
This is the Typewriter
you have been waiting for
Remington
Portable
Makes a friend of every user —a revelation to the man or woman who is tired of the pen.
lias the Standard Keyboard
—no shifting for figures—with automatic ribbon reverse and every other feature common
to the big machines. STRONG, EFFICIENT AND COMPLETE.
Fits in case ONLY FOUR INCHES HIGH. Can be carried everywhere, used any-
where—even on your lap. SO LIGHT —weight ONLY 11 Jib.
SO SIMPLE YOU can operate it at sight.
Fully Illustrated Instructions with Every Machine.
The Ideal Christmas Present.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW
MORE ABOUT THIS MACHINE?
Then sign and mail this Coupon TO-DAY
Please forward illustrated descriptive matter
regarding—
REMINGTON PORTABLE.
Name
Address .
(State whether you desire particulars of our easy terms.)
MAILED POST FREE.
Only 19 Guineas,
Cash with
Order.
REMINGTON SALESROOMS:
New South Wales:
STOTT & HOARE, LTD., Liverpool Street, Sydney.
(Central Showroom), 86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
STOTT & HOARE, LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Victoria:
CHARTRES PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
REMINGTON AGENCY, LTD., Grenfell St., Adelaide.


j£gSSS&»
1
M
fi
i
Ml
i
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONT de PJETE
T 4 CcLstlered<sh St. Sydney. 74
Phone City 9325.
Capital §, 300.000.
Joseph . W. Hill
Genera/ Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: ‘‘The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. MGnt de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street We6t, Sydney.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS.
The FACE POWDER
de Luxe
“Second Murderer”: Mummers should
have well-defined and unpiistakable stage-
names. “Toby” Barton, who sounds the
loud timbrel when Allan Wilkie is about
to open fire, was gazing approvingly at one
of his Shakspearean posters on a hoarding
at Waipawa (M.L.), when Henare hap-
pened along. “Good shot!” said Henare,
“Allan Wilkie coming here. He te fine
actor. I hear him in Wellington singing ‘I
Want* to Sing in Oper-r-r-r-a’!”
“Pitt Streeter” : I dips my lid to the press-
agent, or whoever is responsible, for the
announcement on Sydney Criterion poster
the “The Silver Fox” is a story of “the
Silken Socks of Infidelity.” It is a great
idea, and admits of seductive variations,
such as “the Black Belltopper of Respecta-
bility” and “the Busted Boots of Bohemian-
ism.” And what’s the matter with “the
Pawned Pants of Inebriety”?
“Permanent Blot”: David Bispham, who
toured Australasia under Freddie Shipmanls
management, is dead in New York, at 69.
He made his first hit outside America by
singing in “Meistersinger,” with Jean de
Reszke and Albani at Covent Garden. But
he was better known at the Metropolitan
Gus McNaughtow
in “Spangles,”
at Melbourne
Palace,
Opera House, New York. Nature gave him
a splendid baritone, and Art enabled him
to get every ounce out of it. His forebears
were Quakers, who went .to Philadelphia
with Penn.
“Blackfriars”: Marie Lohr seems to
have pulled an unusual winner with
“The Return,” by the Frenchman Robert
de Flers. Lottie Yenne has one of the
big narts, and Dot Boucicault an inconsid-
erable one. A jealous husband gets home
unexpectedly when his wife is leaving with
a would-be lover. She doesn t stay to hear
the argument, but rushes in to interpose
when voices at top pitch indicate that the
worst is going to happen. The two are only
re-fighting amicably a war-time episode in
France, having completely forgotten their
own dissension.
“E T ” : Concerning Marie Lloyd and her
early days (B. 26/10/’22), the rorty seno
was fond of telling a yarn about the propri-
etor of an East End free-and-easy with
whom she practically started her career.
During her turn he took a stroll amongst his
customers. Noting their evident apprecia-
tion he waved his hand towards the singer
and remarked in a loud gin-and-fog vmce :
“Ah. not so bad for 30 bob a week, eh.
“Early Turn”: The ghastly news comes
from the U.S.A. that a ban has been placed
on the prohibition joke. E. F. Albee, pro-
prietor of the Keith vaudeville circuit —the
biggest in America—has notified all per-
formers under contract that he will allow
no references to Uncle Sam’s dryness —or
wetness —on his stages. As the subject has
been a stock wheeze with the song-an’-dance
people for several seasons, the ruling has hit
them hard. Indeed, it wouldn’t be surpris-
ing if they decided to strike. When an
American comedian is debarred from making
fun of “booze” the end of his occupation is
in sight.
“Dido”: Curious how all masculinity
seems to be in the process of being squozen
out of the musical play. In “Mary” and
several other recent so-called operas the
woman element predominates more and more,
and if a man is dragged in now and then
to make a specious
show of love-mak-
ing he is never
permitted to be
aggressively male,
and often he is a
mere something for
the lady dancer to
hook on to in lan-
guorous moments.
One time we had
male features like
Charley Riley and
Brownlow, for in-
stance, who were
good singers, good
actors and aggres-
s i v e 1 y masculine
elements, taking
very conspicuous
places, whereas
there is a dis-
tin c t strain of
effeminacy in all
the actor boys do
and all they say in
later plays, and
the girls display
their arts and
graces directly for
the delectation of
the men in the
audience, without
making anything
but the shallowest
pretence cf try-
in g to bewitch
“Mary,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Roland Hogue as
Jack.
the hero, the sub-hero, and the assistant-sub-
hero in the play.
“Nella”: In “The Naughty Princess”
Jack Cannot makes his first entrance, as the
King of Panoplia, with two or three aberrant
and protesting dogs on a string, so that
he may exclaim, “I am the King—and here’s
the rest of the pack.” It seems like put-
ting on a lot of dog for such a small jest.
J. J. Burke, a comedian of yesteryear,
used to strike an attitude and annbunce,
“I am the King!” whereupon a cornet in
the orchestra emitted a tantara, enabling
him to object, “I never play the King but
someone’s sure to trumpet.” Perhaps the
best kingly joke is in “La Mascotte.” The
King’s coronet breaks in two, and his
Majesty complains, “Here’s a sovereign re-
duced to two half-crowns.”
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Madge Titheradge
and Norman McKinnell are trying a little
summer season at the Queen's,. with an. odd
farce styled “Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife.”
The French original was too spicy for faith-
ful reproduction, but Arthur Wimperis had
deodorised and reconstructed it cleverly,
although it retains a bedroom scene in which
our Madge has to change from skirts into
pyjamas. It had a friendly first-night recep-
tion, but seems unlikely to run long.
Pyjama plays have outworn their welcome.
“J.F.H.”(London) : It came out after her
death that Genevieve Ward was an R.C. Dur-
ing her long life nobody had suspected it. In
her will she left instructions that her re-
mains should be cremated, and an embar-
rassing situation was thus created, for cre-
mation is not sanctioned by Rome. The
difficulty was solved by a priest conducting
a service in her mansion in Regent’s Park,
while later a clergyman recited prayers at
the crematorium.
“Minim”: The Beecham family is as well
i known in England for its music as for its
■ pills. A 17-year-old son of the orchestral
conductor, Thomas, of that clan, has just
completed the score of an opera, with, as
collaborator, one William Shakspeare. The
“book” is, in fact, “The Merchant of
Venice,” and the youthful Adrian Beecham’s
music is said to be worth a guinea a box.
“O’South”: After a good run at the Phil-
harmonic and other swagger London halls,
M. P. Adams has taken his “Australia’s
Wild Is or’-West” film to New Yoik, and
under the wing of a scientific society will
introduce the habits and customs of Binghi
to the cultured of about 125 TJ.S- towns.
There is talk of an arrangement with J. D.
Williams, the person who introduced con-
tinuous pictures to Australia, whereby a
duplicate of the picture will be exhibited to
the common herd. Adams is accompanied
by his wife, Irma Caron, who will cheer
the scientific heart at each performance by
lifting her melodious voice in song.
“Orb”: Grant Hanlon, who has been doing
organising work for the Taits in connection
with the recent Garden Fete and other
shivoos, was the first of the mumming bri-
gade to secure a commission in the A.I.P.
He began on the lI.Q. staff at Enoggera
(Q.), part of his duties there being the
control of the entertainments given seven
nights a week at “White City,” the amuse-
ment centre in the camp at Rifle Range.
When he got back here after the grand
entertainment abroad it was with one arm
practically useless. Years ago he was with
West’s Pictures, J. and N. Tait, Edward
Branscombe and others, and he piloted the
Sousa Band around these parts.
“T.W.”: They are setting up a novel
scheme at London St. Martin’s—the luxury
theatre which started in wartime —for try-
ing out the plays of the younger set of
dramatists, Milne, St. John Ervine, Clem-
ence Dane and Lennox Robinson among
them. New plays will be done on after-
noons, and if they catch the fancy they
will take their turns for the night bill. While
some of the advantage will go to the authors,
the object really is to help actors who have
got into a prosperous long-running cast to
do a bit of repertory w r ork without its
risks and disillusionments, and thus avoid
becoming groovy and inexperienced. Like-
wise idle and mischievous.
“T.W.” : Surely it is time the lid was shut
down on Ballarat’s dreary month-long South-
street competitions and other afflictions of
the kind. In a score of years at least
10,000 perspiring gutscrapers, squawkers,
piano-thumpers and verse-murderers of ages
from 4 to 40, have passed through the
dreadful South-street mill, and been ground
so exceeding small that nothing more has
been heard from them except at similar in-
flictions. It is fair to believe that a per-
centage of these must have had something
decent to trade on in the first place; if they
hadn’t South-street is an even greater abomi-
nation than appears on the surface. What
leading musicians think of the affairs is clear
from their almost general insistence that
pupils must keep right away from them, but
there are others who revel in prodding mis-
guided youth into wasting its years in a
hatred-breeding struggle for a lot of abso-
lutely worthless “honors.”
“C. Oockney”: “The Lights of London”
was a notable money-spinner amongst plays,
and even now, after 40 years, runs “The
Silver King” close as a “royalty” producer.
The recent death of George R. Sims revived
the old (and true) yarn of how he very
nearly parted with the rights in his piece.
During rehearsals Wilson Barrett made so
many alterations in the script that Sims in
desperation told Barrett that he could have
the play, lock, stock and barrel, to do as he
liked with for £5OO. Barrett jumped at the
offer, but luckily for Sims could not raise
the money; so the original contract was
adhered to—s per cent, royalty on the gross
receipts. Barrett missed a fortune, for “The
Lights” turned Sims in £40,000.
“Centurion”: The Grand Guignol plays
have been banished from London, but their
spirit lives. Arthur Bourchier has put on
a thing in which the hero is a brilliant but
impecunious young surgeon, and the lady in
the case a lovely American millionairess, who
has won his affections. His creditors are
so pressing that when Mamie consults him
on some slight indisposition he orders
an immediate and horribly expensive
operation. The last act sees him in sur-
geon’s rig in the operating theatre, while
the lady is being put under an anaesthetic in
another room. Then his assistant and
the nurses gallop in with the news that
Mamie has thrown in her marble. Grief-
stricken at the catastrophe, and recalling
with horror that he hadn’t drawn his fee in
advance, he takes an unpleasant poison
which induces a hair-raising demise by way
of curtain.
“Ellae” : The late Archibald Nugent Robin-
son (B. 19/10/’22) is best remembered for his
famous controversy with Wilson Barrett.' It
began with an unfavorable criticism of
Barrett’s “Hamlet,” published in Sydney
D.T. over the initials “A.N.R.” Followed
a somewhat schoolboyish reply from Barrett
to “One who skulked behind an alias.” To
this succeeded a stiffly dignified note to the
effect that “A.N.R.” had not considered it
necessary to sign an ordinary criticism in
full, but, if Mr. Barrett felt aggrieved, he
remained “Archibald Nugent Robinson.”
Then the whole company went mad and
bombarded the Telegraph with hysterical
ravings of which the chief feature was an
overwhelming astonishment that anything
English should be approached otherwise than
“ CAIRO ” AT SYDNEY MAJESTY'S.
Zarka. housekeeper of Ali Shar (Beaumont
Collins).
in a spirit of worship. Barrett led off with
a howl about the iniquity of talking “piffle
and slosh” of those who “came as guests to
your shores,” and a Thespian to whom The
Bulletin airily alluded as Carter-mind-the-
hyphen-Edwards hotly declared that the
whole thing was due to its being wormwood
to know he was English while “those who
sneered at a hyphen” were not. It was a
mirthful correspondence while it lasted, and
it lasted for weeks.
“Norbell” : Full of hope I went to see the
much-boosted “Daughter of Australia,” which
was guaranteed to breathe the true spirit of
the Bush, and I was pained to find it a very
unconvincing salmagundi. There were several
glimpses of the Kensington ponies and other
intercalations which perhaps breathed some-
thing of our great primary industry, but seem-
ingly they had been pushed into the film
without any cogent reason. The leading
parts were indifferently played, and the
vision of the tender-hearted heroine _ smil-
ingly looking on while a number of writhing
poddies were branded with a red-hot iron,
gave one an unpleasant jolt. Gilbert
Emery, who has done good work in local
productions, was about the best of the
mimes, although he came back from the war
in civvies, and had dipped his badge. Also
his alleged remark in a sub-title, “Not so
much of this ‘we’ stuff,” breathed the flavor
of chewing-gum rather than eucalyptus. Of
course there were bushrangers. In this
case they were an ironical aside, and were
shown sticking up' the Sydney G.P.O. If
the film ever goes abroad I presume those
bushrangers will be taken seriously. We,
who know that the bushrangers mostly do
their sticking-up inside Government build-
ings, must grieve at the anachronism.
“J.H.” (London) : “Ginger Mick” was
introduced to the pitcher-loving Cockney on
September 11, and, judged by the chuckles
which greeted him at Stoll’s, Kingsway, is
going to be as popular as “The Sentimental
Bloke.” It was a capital idea to cut out
all Sub-headings and so forth, and let the
poem tell the story. E. A. Baughan, the
able critic of the Daily News, was so im-
pressed that he wrote a column in praise
of Den’s brilliant work. There’s only one
objection—the war incidents are spread over
too much canvas. London has been flooded
with war-films —mostly of the “sob-stuff”
variety, from Los Angeles—and is bored
stiff with them. One fancies there should
have been less about the war and more
about Ginger’s home life, and the doings of
the Bloke, Mrs. Bloke and the Kid in the
Bush. The Australian scenes please
Cockaigne immensely. Anyhow, the film is
a credit to the Commonwealth, and knocks
the average U.S. product endways. British
audiences have lots of time for the dinkum
Australian screen story—the Bloke and
Ginger Mick have proved that beyond argu-
ment.
THE ITINERANT ELOCUTIONIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Came to my villa door to-day
A man of histrionic station,
Who, when I opened straight away
Began a doleful recitation,
Developing a horrid scream —
The thing they’re calling “Denver’s Dream.”
“Sometimes,” said he, when he had done,
“I’m offered hospitality.”
“Come in,” said I. Another one
He gave with marked formality,
But with emotion’s greater stress
He swelled to strident dreadfulness.
It was “To Be or Not to Be.”
He shook my house to its foundation.
Then said he with simplicity:
“I have had gin for that oration.”
I gave him whisky, all I had.
He drained the tumbler, and was glad.
To me and mine in grievous way,
He gave “The Ancient Mariner.”
Of warm applause, I grieve to say,
No audience could be barrener.
Presenting me his battered hat,
He said: “I’ve had a bob for that.”
I gave a shilling, two old shoes,
And from the board a roasted chicken,
Which latter he did not refuse,
Said he: “Here is some wholesome pickin’.
I go, sir, and my heart is stirred —
An actor grateful for the bird!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


k/
/ bring up my blades in
the way they should go
A Valet blade is like a millionaire’s son—
/ \ it Has every advantage from the time
1 A. it leaves the cradle. Furthermore, a
Valet blade is always a sharp little fellow.
The judicious application of leather plays
no small part in this. I always strop my
own blades so that I know the job is pro-
perly done.
I carry in my head a device which turns the blade
over—first one side, then the other—as I run up and
down my strop. The result is a keen razor edge for
every shave and every Valet blade lasts for weeks.
Come and see me do it at any good razor shop—the
dealer will be glad to show you.
VALET
M
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PIIIPSON & COMPANY. LTD..
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WJ&&/WT
o
< / f//f / /
m
i
m
m
THE STANDARD SET
No. 1 consists of heavily silver-
plated self-stroppin? "Valet”
Auto Strop Razor. 12 “Valet
Blades and “Valet" Stroo. in
handsome case, lined 97/fi
velvet and satin •“v v
The word "Valet” on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the
genuine product of the AutoSlrop Safelu Razor Co.. Ltd., 197-207. City Road. London, Eng.
c \ v ees e
A food rich
in solid
nutriment!
Get away from the idea that
Rex Luncheon Cheese is merely
a luxury.
It is a food rich in vitamines —
a food that provides real nour-
ishment and fits you for the
heavy tasks in the day’s work.
Specialists in dietecties tell us
cheese is a valuable addition
to meals at all seasons.
Therefore, Rex Luncheon
Cheese must be good for you,
because it is the cheese par
excellence.
It is perfectly matured, full
cream cheese in most easily
digested form. It comes in an
easy to spread consistency - an
ideal sandwich spread, or a
table delicacy.
At all Grocers.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
f.j. sei
V
m
jQ
New Shipment of
ARMYTAGE'S WORLD-FAMED
BOTANY TWILL.
Another Splendid Shipment of ARMYTAGE’S SUPERB
BOTANY TWILL has been secured for us by our English
Buyers at such a favorable figure that we are able to feature it
m a SPECIAL SUIT OFFER —at a Big Saving to you—as
the following figures show: —
The Old Price - £l4/14/-
The New
Price -
<£7|l s|-
“Armytage’s” English Botany Twill needs
no testimony of ours as to its quality, since
it is everywhere recog-
nised to represent the
highest standard of
perfection in an /1 11-
Wool, Pure Indigo-
dyed, Guaranteed tJn-
fada ble Fine Twill
Coating.
At the low charge of
£7/15/- we are pre-
pared to provide this
Flawless Fabric in a
Beautifully - tailored,
Perfect-fitting, Style-
satisfying Suit-to-Order that in the
ordinary course could not possibly
be produced below 10 guineas, and
which has sold readily even at the
old price, £l4/14/-
WRITE TO-DAY.
PATTERNS ARE POST
FREE.
SATISFACTION IS
GUARANTEED.
A
14
m
a
m
m
llillii
S-li?
Lincoln,Stuart & Co. ptu. Ltd.
Tailoring Specialists
244-s*l FLINDERS ST. MELBOURNE


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE &. STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
HAWA||
THE YEAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety ; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis anti tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Automatic Rifles,
Shotguns (El Pistols
We are the leading people for AUTOMATICS.
RIFLES.
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire 11 ordinary Short
Cartridges. Neat and effective, 807-
BROWNING .22 Cal., fire 8 Long-rifle Cart*
ridges. 95/-
WINCHESTER .22 Cal., fire 8 Automatic .22
Cartridges. A splendid hard hitter, £9/15/-
GUNS.
BROWNING 12 and 16 g. Five shots. Com-
pact, £l5.
WINCHESTER ,12g„ slightly used, £l2/10/-
PISTOLS.
BROWNING.—The world-famed pocket firearm.
25 Cal., 80/-; 32 Cal., 857-
COLT and WEBLEY k SCOTT.
The BROWNING AUTOMATICS are unrivalled
for qualitv. We are Sole Agents.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
Snorts Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPELY
Purser’s success in the Moonee Valley Cup
rehabilitated him in the estimation of his severest
critics, and moved some of his most fervent admirers
to declare that nothing but the penalty lie earned on
Saturday could have stopped him in the Melbourne
Cup. The truth seems
to be that it was
Purser’s day out, and
that the distance
and the turns of the
course just suitpd him.
Statton, by failing to
win the race from end
to end under his light
weight, added nothing
to the stable’s faith in
Tile Cypher, who split
Tangalooma and Stat-
ton in the October
Stakes at Caulfield,
when the four-year-old
was carrying w.f.a.
All tile same, Statton
can at least b e
credited with making
a record pace in the
M.V. Cup, and if the
going’s good he may
do almost as much
next Tuesday. Para-
too, by running into
second place, showed
that his capture of the
Coone-v Handicap was
no fluke.
G. C. AITKEN,
M.L. Rhodes Scholar
and Oxford Uni.
centre-threequarter.
In the new w.f.a. race, the W. S. Cox Plate,
Eurythmic’s party didn’t accept for him, and the
marvel was that Tangalooma. the fitful, should have
been made favorite when Violoncello was in the field.
Sam Hordern’s handsome horse won convincingly,
and if in the racing mood, he will give Eurvthmie
a good tussle in Melbourne Stakes. By leading
most of the way and beating ail but the winner
(Furious, David, Salatis, Caserta, Anton King and
Wirraway were behind him, as well as Tangalooma),
Easingwold proved himself quite first-class, and if
the race hasn’t done him any harm he will take no
end of beating in the Cantata Stakes, for which the
handicapper has given him Bst. slb.
» * *
The number of solid chances in the Mol-
bourne Cup is not many, as far as form points.
David must be given an unquestionable show, because
he is a proved stayer and is probably better than
when excuses were made for his moderate performance
last year in the big Flemir.gton event. but he
also has run moderately in a Sydney Cup, ami his
victories in rich long-distance w.f.a. races may have
been gained more cheaply than was thought at tne
time. If David is to win, as he may, it will be the
want of brilliance in the opposition that leaves him
at the head of affairs in the last stage ot the Cup.
Harvest King will get the course, but, like David, he
must carry more than 9st., and cannot be greatly pre-
ferred to Sister Olive, seeing that the mare meets him
91b. better than their terms in last Australian Cup,
where she chased him home. Another proved stayer, who
has thickened a lot since she scored her sensational
win in 1921, Sister Olive ranks among the dangerous
ones, despite her apparent lack of grit under a sub-
stantial weight. Mufti, at 7st. 91b., cannot be
rejected. The little mare was a great disappoint-
ment in last Australian Cup, the only time she has
been asked to go further than 12 furlongs, but the
one bad performance doesn’t prove her want of
stamina. She was interfered with early in the race.
Up to 11 mile Mufti has run almost brilliantly
since she won the Oaks, and her capture of the St.
Itilda Cup at Caulfield, six months ago, gives her
a great show in the Melbourne Cup, under 7st. 91b.,
provided she can stay like her little sire, Almissa.
Keneppil and Prince Charles can be bracketed
together among the likely ones, because they are old
opponents who ran pretty consistently against one
another at Randwiek. On their comparative form up
to 12 furlongs Keneppil has distinctly the better of
the handicap in Melbourne Cup, but when they met
over two miles (Sydney Cup) Prince Charles won
like a good stayer, whereas Keneppil was only sixth.
The pace was not very good, and because three-year-
old Stare ran a good third, with Bst. 41b. up, and
Stare is a questionable two-miler, one is disposed to
hold the Sydney Cup form rather cheap. Still, the
long run that brought Prince Charles past? a number
of tiring horses into front place was a fine finish-
ing effort, and on that account alone the son of
Prince Foote is to be preferred to Tangalooma,
Purser and others that threaten danger in notable
races when they are near home, but seem to lack
ginger in the grand finale. Tangalooma, placed in
two Caulfield Cups, has failed badly in two Mel-
bourne Cups. The writer doesn’t give the big fellow
a hope over the longer course. Nor hardly a hope
to Purser. He is kindly handicapped ; he has been
placed in two Caulfield Cups, a Metropolitan, an
Australian Cup and many another handicap, but in
three attempts to win a two-mile race Purser has
been unplaced. Why fancy him for a Melbourne Cup
outright ? There is an apparent probability of Honey
Bee and Heir Apparent having the necessary stamina,
and therefore they are more hopeful propositions than
Wirraway, who has already failed in two Melbourne
Cups and a Metropolitan. Heir Apparent is about
the best-handicapped animal in the Cup if his three-
year-old defeat of Harvest King, and the price sub-
sequently paid for the colt, can be taken seriously.
But some of his form has been very so-so. and at a
shortish price Heir Apparent is not a tempting invest-
ment.
Among young horses left in the Cup at time of
writing Whittier, Soorak, C'aserta, Wallace Mortlake
and Prince Minimbah are still among the unscratched
for the Vic. Derby. Rivoli and The Cypher are not
in the Derby. Both of them, on paper, will be as
well worth considering for the two-mile handicap as
the Vic. Derby winner, whoever it may be—unless,
indeed, such a fine handsome colt as Wallace Mort-
lake were to astonish the natives by running up to
his appearance in the classic race. Soorak beat
Caserta badly in the Sydney Derby, and ran away
from Whittier in the Caulfield Guineas, so the way-
ward colt still looks worth backing against his Caul-
field Cup victor over the 12 furlongs next Saturday.'
That Soorak can stay out the Cup course is out of
the question. Rivoli is sure to beat him for stamina,
as he did at Randwiek, and Whittier ought to be
equal to giving him 41b. in a long struggle, though
the Caulfield Cup hero is likely to have to knock
under to the Caulfield Guineas winner in the Derby.
But if a three-year-old is to down all the older
stuff in the Cup this year it will probably be The
Cypher. Thus far the Maorilander has not shown
nearly as good form in Australia as his half-brother
Sasanof, who carried 6st. 121 b. to easy victory in the
Melbourne Cup, after running third in the Caulfield
event. All the same, The Cypher, with 6st. 101 b. up,
is the sort that might repeat the Sasanof trick —a
sturdy, good-looking colt with the good opinion of
the stable behind him, despite some disappointing
gallops in public. Even on his respectable failure
in the Caulfield Cup, where his trusty stable-
companion Stare was much more badly beaten, The
Cypher has a show to turn the tables on Whittier,
Tangalooma and Purser, anyhow. Where there’s
youth (and Martian for a sire) there is hope. Taking
Harvest King, Mufti, David, Honey Bee, Prince
Charles and The Cypher as a promising half-dozen
this paper will give preference to The Cypher and
Mufti.
* » » *
“0.K.”: A consideration in horse-racing
that cannot be exactly calculated is the value of
size and weight to an animal running round a circu-
lar track in a field of, say, 25. It stands to reason
that a small, light horse is, as a rule, at a disadvan-
tage in a rough race, the exceptions being where the
little ’un has more horsesense than most of his
bigger comrades, and is in a measure able to avoid
difficulties which would be fatal to the chances of
stupid horses. Little Whittier, for is said
to have the intelligence that was part of the cham-
pionship equipment of Poseidon arid Carbine. But,
generally speaking, a small, horse runs, a big risk
in a Melbourne Cup field. Mufti, for instance, is
physically incapable of withstanding buffets that a
strong fellow like Purser would take as a matter of
course. Nearly all the small ones are handicapped
by their want of weight in a jostling field, whilst,
on the other hand, extra sprvness may assist them
if they keep as much as possible out of harm’s way
and have fortune to favor them. The Melbourne
Cup has been won by little ones that started at a
fair price. Sister Olive, last year, was on the small
side. Sasanof was lightly built, and Lord Nolan
was only a midget. All the same, it is better to
have a sturdy battler on your side where the field
is numerous and a lot-of money is at stake. Apropos,
are the stewards taking any measures to prevent this
year’s Cup from being another push-bump-and-shove
contest such as was seen last year?
“Fax” : I am sorry for punters who back
popular Cup candidates with “concession” bookmakers,
and have to collect after a race in which more than
one popular candidate has been placed. I’ve been there.
For me Cauifieid Cup I incautiously backed Tanga-
looma with a “concession” man who was doing a
large trade, and as Purser, another of the place-
getters, was almost as popular as Tangalooma, the
job of recovering my stake front the bookie was
worth more than the money. For half-an-houv I
battled with the pushing, squeezing throng around
the money-bag. Had the actual winner been also a
public favorite I would never have got my Tanga-
looma money back. I’d have gone home rather than
lose my life in the scrimmage. Money can be too
dearly recovered from a “concession” bookmaker. And
on a Melbourne Cup day the job of collecting from
any sort of bookie is apt to be too awful for words.
The happiest man is he who backs nothing but
losers, and has no further anxiety.
* * * *
“0.K.”: A deputation of bookmakers to
the V.R.C. committee last week was a study in un-
conscious humor. The object of the malcontents was
to get “concession” betting prohibited by the club,
and to have it made a general rule that bookmakers
must lay the odds at Flemington for both “win and
place,” which rule is only enforced against those
who have stands next to the rails of the
members’ reserve. “Concession” betting appeals
to the public as a poor apology for Tote
wagering. Punters don’t hope to win by it, but they
see a means of reducing the average amount of their
losses, an object which is also attained by betting
only with “place” bookmakers. These latter would
be practically wiped off the course in a little time
if all the odds merchants were required to offer a
price 1,2, 3 as well as “to win.” But the humor
of the argument lay in the talk, both bv bookies
a n u V.R.C. committee men, re “fair dealing” and
“legitimate” odds, as though there ever was, or will
be, any fair play for the public save in a Tote. The
machine’s odds for first, second and third are made
by investors themselves, and are bound to expand
with increase of all-round investment instead of
being contracted when business is biggest, as hap-
pens on a Cup day. Then bewildered, incommoded,
ignorant punters are content to take any price the
grasping bagman offers, and get out of the howling
crowd. “Legitimate” odds, indeed ! Who gets them
save owners who lap the cream of the market? Do
ordinary punters get the starting prices you see
quoted in a newspaper report of a Cup race? Not
much. Straight-out prices are not what the papers
profess them to be, and robbers who lay for “places”
don’t offer a fourth of the odds the other robbers
are offering for a win. Take the Caulfield Cup re-
cently decided. Tangalooma started at a nominal
12 to 1, and it may be that some of the big books
on the rails laid 12’s and 3’s to their clients on the
nod. But the bulk of the merchants laid no more
than 10 s, whilst none of the “place” men offered
more than 2 to 1, which was a sixth, not a fourth,
of the “legitimate” price. Take a popular outsider
like Imputation. Rawdon’s mare was quoted at
100 to 1, although quite a lot of little punters had
to take 50 s. Robbers licensed to lay for “places”
only were heard offering as little as 6’s against
Imputation, or one-fifth of the “legitimate” odds,’
which should have been 25 to 1 for a shop. The
virtue of the Tote is in its truthfulness. It always
: la - v ’ s the Price the newspapers say it laid. It leaves
no room for hypocritical discussion about “legiti-
mate” prices, nor awakens regrets that a certain horse
was backed one way instead of another. The Tote
compels its clients to bet the same way, and they all
get the same odds from it. The crowd bound for
the paybox after a race forms a queue instead of eh
ill-conditioned rabble, and the number of punters
who lose on every race, or never get a win bn the
meeting, is much smaller than at present. Likewise,
racecourse life is less ugly than the existing mob of
bookmakers and their myrmidons necessarily make it.
* * * *
Gloamiug lost no time in adding to his
record of wins on his return to Maoriland. He
donkey-licked five others in the Champion Plate, at
Trentham, and left the 10 furlongs behind in 2min.
6 l-ssee. It was the third time he had won the
Plate. There is talk of bringing the old ’un back
to Sydney at Easter. He must be made of cast-iron.
* * * *
The Murray Bridge (S.A.) four and
Arthur Baynes, the Queensland sculler, were the out-
standing features of Henley (Vie.) regatta. West-
brook, the Derwent River (T.) crack, was expected
to make a race of it with Baynes, but, after winning
his heat in fast time, the Tasmanian cut up badly
against Barton, the Richmond rep., and the latter
proved no match for Baynes. George Towns has
effected a 25 per cent, improvement in the Queens-
lander’s form. For the third successive year Mur-
ray Bridge, stroked by the tough Pfeiffer, lifted the
Stewards’ Challenge Cup, leading all the way from
Wendouree and Brisbane. The senior eights pro-
vided a grand race, Vic. Mercantile beating Ta 3.
Mercantile by half-a-length. It was nip-and-tuck over
the last half-mile, and both crews were dead beat at
the finish.
* * * *
An interesting race for 21-footers marked
the opening of the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s
season. There were seven starters, but E. A. Arnott’s
Nettie and R. A. Carter’s Gymea, both new Hayes-
bnilt proved much too slippery for the
others. Nettle won with 64min. to spare from
Gymea, with Fred Doran’s Inez next. Doran was
followed home by the G.-G. in the vice-regal barge
Corella. Sydney Sailing Club’s first race for the
Annette Kellerman cup resolved itself into a struggle
between Desdemona, 3Jmin. (A. C. Roberts) and
Sydney, 2mia. (Norman Blackman). Sydney snatched
the trinket by 2see. in one of the most exciting
finishes ever witnessed on Port Jackson,
* * * *
The Yacht Squadron of S.A., usually a
jolly and sociable body, has been behaving like a
suburban town-council. At the annual meeting the
retiring secretary was opposed, but re-elected—and
then promptly threw up the job, proposing his de-
feated rival for it, and remarking that he would not
take it again if offered “a diamond as big as the
billiard-table.” Then a retiring committee-man
called a rival a “crawling, sneaking, cringing eaves-
dropper” ; after which these two dead-heated in the
voting for office. The user of the vitriolic language
retired from the contest; his rival declined to
“accept a gift from you”; the “storm centre” (as
he had called himself previously) offered to toss for
it;, but A. Q. Rymill, the commodore, ruled that the
resignation stood good.
* *
„ damaged wickets enabled bowlers to have
o « ! etter °‘ things in Sydney cricket on Saturday.
O. 1. Asher (Sydney) made a wreck of Western Suburbs
by taking 9 for 46 in
the second innings, and
J 2 for 106 in the match.
He bowled unchanged on
Saturday, and sent down
o>d.V 13.1 overs. R. Bubb
(Manly) also had a
second innings’ harvest, 8
for 28 CIO for 57 in the
match ). agai nst U niver-
sity, and Bert Ironmonger
(Balmain) got 8 St.
George wickets for 40
(14 for 83 altogether).
Joe Taylor (Gordon) was
the only century-maker,
scoring 127 v. Padding-
ton, 90 of them on a
moist wicket. Four-point
wins were gained by Bal-
main (innings and 32),
Manly (innings and 37),
and Sydney (innings and
52). Marrickville, Gordon,
Waverley and Mosman won
on the first innings; and
Norths and Glebe played
a draw.
J. SAUNDERS, the
old Victorian left-
hand howler.
The most interesting thing in Vie. cricket
on Saturday was Fitzroy’s win over Melbourne. With
tour wickets down and only 50 or 00 to make,
Melbourne seemed to have the game in hand, but a
rot set in when Flintoft was disposed of for 98, and
no one contrived to stop it. The last wicket fell
in the last over of the clay, with the batting side 32
to the bad. A fine 68 by Lie Couteur relieved the
gloom of Hawthorn-East’s defeat by Collingwood.
For the rest, Uni., North Melbourne and Prahran
gained victories, and Richmond drew with Carlton.
Left-hander P. Hornibrook, who plays for
Toombul (Q.), is in great form this year. Against
Western Suburbs he took 10 wickets for 92, and he
followed that up by getting 6 for 52 against South
Brisbane. Hornibrook went with an Australian
combination to M.L. two seasons ago. There were
some who thought he should have been one of Arm-
strong’s' team, but the selectors decided otherwise.
He is young, tall, and has an easy action.
* * * *
The first two centuries in Adelaide cricket
this season were made by Jack Rymill, of East
Torrens, and L. V. Pellew, of the University. Both
are young players, which is a good sign. But what
Adelaide needs far more is the discovery of some
young bowlers who can be effective in the inter-State
class.
* * * *
“Albert D.”: Champion pugs are a study
in contrasts. When Carpentier fought Dempsey fit
Jersey City, he faced the mighty gathering fresh
from the hands of his manicurist, his face powdered,
his lips tinted. Dempsey stood for the old school,
a three days’ growth of frightfulness on his black
chin. At close quarters he was hairy and snarlful.
Georges remembered many things of that encounter.
“I was smellin’ ze negro all ze time 1 clinch wis
Dempsey. VVhenefer I fight 1 alwis smell ze nation-
ality of ze boxer. Dempsey! Ah, oui, monsieur, he
is clefar; but 1 feel zat 1 was fightin’ a negro I” It
has taken Kearns, Dempsey’s manager, all his time
to civilise the unlikeable champion. “At first,”
Kearns confided, “I couldn’t get an American film
actress to go near him. You know what American
women are. They like men-fluffers and footle special-
ists and fellows that can sit on the piano without
breaking it. It was a hell of a job teaching Jack.
I used to get him to look at books so’s we could
take his picture. Then we got him to play with
babies and jump round with the kiddies. Carpentier
does those things like a boy. He likes doing them.
But we had to get a gas-engine to pull Jack into
the right frame of mind!”
Sydney boxing crowds won’t pay war
prices to see second-rate bantams in action, but often
the boys provide better sport than bruisers who draw
10 times the money. The Bobby Gray-Vie King mill
was a sparkling affair. It looked as if .Gray would
be an easy winner when King was knocked down
before the end of the first round, but the rest revived
him and he was; not far behind Gray at the end of
the 20th. A bout between Sid Shannon and George
Waters was also shaping well when Shannon, who
was leading on points, hit Waters below the belt
and was disqualified. Which happened in the third
round.
* * « *
Jamito and Sullivan, stepdancers and
feather-pillow jugglers, supplied the entertainment at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night. It is a
familiar act, and nothing new was introduced by
either partner. After an hour of it, Sully was ad-
judged to have done more work than the other
comedian, and to be entitled to 60 per cent, of the
net proceeds.
* * * *
“Centurion”; The appearance of Tom
Lawton, the Queensland R.U. rep., as full-back for
Oxford, may mean an England cap for the Northern
Rhodes Scholar. Lawton made a great impression
at five-eighth for Oxford in 1921, but Kershaw and
Davies, the United Service halves, have been un-
approachable as a combination for England behind
the pack. All last season England was looking for
a full-back, without success, and since Lawton is said
to have made a brilliant showing in his new possie
in Oxford’s opening games this year, he may yet
wear the red rose. His handling and kicking have
always been faultless, and as the English climate
should add the necessary weight, his chance looks good.
Among the track cyclists of Queensland
Les Munro is in a class of his own. At a recent
championship meeting he won the half-mile (lmin.
16 i-ssee.), the mile (2min. 13sec.), the five miles
(12min. 11 2-ssee.), and the 10 miles (25min. 31sec.).
Munro came to Sydney last year to meet the Spring-
boks and the southern cracks, but had a bad smash-up
while training at the Sports Ground.
THE CYPHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Cup was run, it seemed to me,
The din was dying down,
And ail the brows that I could see
Were clouded by a frown;
The race was run. and none had won
(How like a Melbourne Cup!).
I pushed towards the judge’s box
To note the number up.
Still rang the thud of many hoofs
In my bewildered ear;
Strange memories of sad “gorstroofs”
Were lurking vaguely near;
But, all the same, no winner’s name
Was uttered by the throng,
As slowly to the judge’s box
We fought our way along.
No wild, exultant “Told-you-so,”
No shrill “What-did-I-say ?”
The crowd seemed reeling from a blow,
In quite a Cup-time way.
“What is thought I, “the reason why
Pale punters look so glum,
And flappers purse their lips, as though
The victor’s name were ‘Mum’
Some colors gay had flitted past,
Nor left one time to think —
If white and blue were coming fast,
What price the green and pink ?
Some racer slick had done the trick,
And made its owner rich —
I pushed towards the judge’s box
And wondered, wondered which.
At last, when close enough, I brought
My glasses into play:
And lo! behold, the number “naught”
Completed my dismay.
I gazed again, the fact was plain:
My wonder greater grew;
What meant that lonely figure “0” ?
Then, in & flash, I knew.
The light of prophecy streamed down
And lit my dreamy mind:
That “0” explained the widespread frown
On Melbourne’s humankind.
“Alas!” quoth I, “it’s ’ome and dry,
Its duty duly done;
Too late I’ve got the griffin straight— ■
The Cypher was the one.”
The Cypher! told in cipher thus
To them with wit to guess.
The cruel truth conveyed to us
In jest at our distress.
Fate sometimes jokes with punting blokes,
And girls in gala frocks,
As when The Cypher’s sign went up
Above the judge’s box.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


:
ill
'mm
■
■
.
’sr
■
>Z :
■ V ■
m
9
y : ; •"
!
a
i
aw
IS
m
is
mi
s
Si
m.
m
mu
m
;' -
m
v
m
:
9
m
ill
ms
:
11
:
&
i
s*
%
M
■
25
; ;
SfiS* 7
• • •
m
m
m
■ <■
~ . .
m
3
<r


Permanent Hair Waving
Accentuates Attractiveness
The many advantages of softly waved hair are
too obvious to need much commendation. To
the smart woman, so important a part does it
play in her coiffure, that it has become quite a
fashionable craze. Farmer’s use a special, per-
manent hair waving process which produces
exquisite waves that remain the same even
after shampooing, and does not in any way
effect the growth, or destroy the natural sheen.
Appointments may be booked by personal
application in the Hairdressing Salon, Third
Floor, or by phoning, City, Eleven Thousand.
Farmer’s:: Sydney.
Box 497, Q.P.O.
m
&
*3
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating Svstem
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne,
PRO[?]
Misses MONNEDOYLE
Phones Cant1533, 11609
Lord and Lady Dig'by are combining with
the Pitt Rivers pair and Captain Jimmy
Traill to hold a mask-and-domino revel in
the vice-regal ballroom on November 13. And
already the social welkin is rent with the
wails of the uninvited.
Though the Henley authorities had much
to„thank High Heaven and the weather for,
the crowd in the three-shilling arena this
year was thinner than in the bad old days
when frenzied hordes surged dustily over
rutty, uneven, earthy stretches where now are
smooth green lawns and spreading oak-trees
—miles of ’em —backed by neat hedges. Then
the severe slump in house-boats was doubt-
less to blame for a lack of social tonnage,
only three decorated craft being moored
alongside the terrace wharf. Henley sub-
scribers were on a lengthy barge with a top
deck at one end draped in blue floral effects
and yellow lanterns with kookaburras, kan-
garoos and boomerangs thereon. President
George Fairbairn’s boat was ablaze with
scarlet blossoms and streamers, punctuated
with white. The visitors aboard were chiefly
male and Parliamentary, with a sprinkling
of the Most Superior. The Bowes Kellys
convoyed the Courtney-Stainer widow (Cey-
lon) ; and the Melbourne Club secretary,
Captain Nacey of the ingratiating smile, was
there with his wife and Mrs. Jack Fisken.
Dr. Gilrutli strayed in for a cup of tea, and,
later, Governor Stradbroke and his Countess,
having seen their nag beaten at Moonee
Valley, tripped up the gangway, she
smothered in brown draperies collared with
fur under a drooping brown headpiece.
Lady Helena topped fawn tailorings with
a pink hat, and a schoolboy son defied the
sun with his college cap.
The mayoral Swansons were beckoned
oyer to feed at the vice-regal board, after
w hich they led his Ex. and his host to their
specially decorated two-decker. The Lad^ r
Mayoress wore black, w r ith Oriental embroi-
dery, and a beflowered black toque. View-
ing the waterway from the Civic boat were
the Mackay lady, the Best dame and her
daughter Margot, the Harry Emmertons,
Norman Brookes and his w r ife, the Phil
Finkelsteins, the Cabenas, the David Hen-
nessys, Mrs. W. E. Robins, Mrs. Robertson,
and the- Carty Salmon widow.
The craft on the tvater, though picturesque
in the mass, showed a singular lack of
originality in decorative effect. Still, a
group of pirates called for three cheers of
approval. The river girl lolled back in her:
little canoe —sometimes nicely, sometimes
naughtily. The racing events did not call
forth much enthusiasm on the 3s. side —most
of the cheers coming from the opposite
bank. In the evening the carnival district
was packed from end to end. The shining
river, crowded with gaily-lighted boats and
green lawns under blazing ropes of electric-
light, suggested a Night in Venice —-even
though one particular section of the lawn,
spread with canoodling couples, was more
suggestive of a Night with Venus. The fire-
works made a good show, and among those
who viewed them were the Earl and a small
son, sheltered on a boat with the Norman
Bayles pair. At half-past 9 the rain unex-
pectedly washed the crowd homeward, the
river girls the while making frantic efforts to
save their new head finery with the aid of
evening papers.
Despite heavy rain, the Very Best over-
flowed the Collins-street Scawtch Kirk to
see young Malcolm Maslin married to 20-
year-old Mary Mills. The starry-eyed bride
was in white cr§pe georgette drapings, with
a silver-brocaded train and a tulle veil that
floated from a four-tiered coronet of orange
blossom. The bridal posy of lilies-of-thc-
valley was in a silver bouquet-holder handed
down from her maternal great-great-grand-
dame, Lady Baillie. A euddlesome tot,
cousin Judy Price, was in lilac georgette’with
velvet leaves about her waist and golden
hair, and a quartette of pretty bridesmaids,
sisters Peggy and Betty Mills, Em’ Falkiner
and “Fluff”' Cox, fluttered in similar drap-
ings reinforced by floating ribbons. Roy
McCaughey, J. Isen, Fred Knight and the
Langlands 5 Jack stood by the bridegroom.
After the ceremony a vast procession of
c-ars unloaded everyone at the Toorak home
of the bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Charles
Mills, where the cake was cut in a pink-
liped and flower-decked marquee. The bride’s
mother, Mrs. Ainslie Mills, who was escorted
by her small son Tony, relieved her all-black
chiffonery with steel-bead embroidery and
a dash of purple and gold in her hat-front.
Stately Mrs. Charles Mills’s black sillaness
was hedged in with silvery lace panels, and
she flew a grey osprey from her headpiece.
Mrs. George Maslin. the bridegroom’s mother,
spread black lace, and had a white plume to
break the blackness of her hat. The bride
started out for a Gippsland honeymoon in
a rose-pink frock and black head-covering.
The congregation included many wool-grow-
ing Maslins from N.S.W., Jack Carse and
his little wife, the Parker Adamses, a batta-
lion of Falkiners, the Leslie Stuarts (she
is a cousin of Mrs. Ainslie Mills), Mrs.
Herbert Power. Mrs. William Leonard, Mrs.
Dick Casey and dozens of other lm-
portants. Mrs. Evelyn Ffrench took an
active interest in the proceedings, as befitted
one who had been bridesmaid to the bride’s
mother.
.Teames trill give the show away occa-
sionally, however closely he watches him-
self. Discussing the numbering of met-
ropolitan postal districts to expedite delivery,
the Argus said that some people who really
lived in South Yarra wished, “for obvious
reasons,” to be considered as living in
Toorak. And there were some of us who
had thought that you couldn’t tell t’other
from which!
The li.C.’s have been holding a confer-
ence of prelates under the presidency of
Archbishop Cattaneo. It is understood that
the Papal delegate delivered a message to
the effect that Rome thought it was now up
to Australia to supply its own wants as
regards shepherds, and not lean quite so much
on other countries —Erin being more parti-
cularly indicated. The exertion of restrain-
ing themselves from cheering is understood
to have caused some of the native-born dig-
nitaries to well-nigh burst.
The Hughes dame oiled up to Berwick
the other day and. after snatching her mid-
day rations at the Andrew Ohirusides’
mahogany, unveiled the annual flower show,
and its twin frivol, the local Anglican church
bazaar, in the Soldiers’ Hall. The wind be-
ing delicately iced, the Dame wrapped com-
forting sables round a top storey of smoky-
grey cr€pe de Chine, girt with black and
grey entanglements. Her black toque was
ballasted right and left with fluffy grey
feathers. Bell apd ex-Mayoress Stein
judged the flowers, and Mrs. Willie Godfrey
and a couple of other townies decided the
cake and needlework contests. Mrs. Andrew
Chirnside, with her dark-eyed daughter Joan,
had a feverishly-busy time selling knitted
jumpers at crashing bargain rates; Mrs.
Fred Barker and a bunch of bright-eyed
girleens traded off the tea and cake, and
the wife of Dr. Griffiths vended lolly-
pops. Each stall boasted a real live flower
fairy to match its decorations. Banker
Joice’s dimpled infant, Pauline, scored an
easy first as a stunning paper laburnum, and
a special award fell to a ducky baby poppy
of Flanders. Mrs. Willie a’Beckett, who did
the platform decorating, turned on some
musical tableaux in which her little lot of
chicks starred with much effect.
This is Maorilander Lilian Alexander,
who, as Doreen in the stage edition of Den-
nis’s “Sentimental Bloke,” is cveft more
appealingly poetic
than the damsel of
the ‘‘pome.” Lilian
did not spring from
a theatrical source,
hut pract i c a 11 y
danced across the
footlights with
twinkling feet that
had been trained by
Carrie Moore’s sister.
Mrs. Hume. After
acquiring comic-opera
experience in Edward
Branscombe’s and
Pollard’s Dominion
productions, chiefly
as solo dancer. Miss
Alexander, who is
very keen on the re-
vival of the Grecian
school of rhythmic dancing crossed to this
city, where she was teaching classical dancing
with success when she blew into Jules Grant,
who, thanking Heaven for delivering the ideal
Doreen into his hands, tempted her to switch
back to the theatrical limelight.
Wilma Berkeley, who steams off by
the Moreton Bay next week under Ada
Casey’s protective wing, gave Melbourne
a final taste of her voice at a concert in the
Prahran Town Hall, organised by Miss
Josephine Helm, in aid of the Hawksburn
Anglican Church. The thing was rushed —
so were Nellie Helm’s exquisite hand-
painted programmes. - Never has little Wilma
warbled more sweetly; Muriel Campbell’s
fiddle was a delightful item ; and Miss Taylor,
Bert Sutcliffe, C. Iveat, Farmer and Middle-
ton were among the “also sangs,” while
Miss Stewart was busy at the piano. Vicar
Seaton and his handsome wife loomed ap-
provingly in the middle distance. The octo-
genarian Mrs. Helm was led tenderly up
the aisle by her adopted grand-daughter. A
lorry-load of flowers was afterwards distri-
buted among the sick of the parish from the
budding prima donna, who, owing to the
packed crowd waiting to see her exit at the
porch, had to be smuggled through a side
door.
Talking of song-birds, the “Mrs.” Taylor
referred to in last week’s “Chatter” as hav-
ing sung at a Sunday-afternoon gathering,
should have been described as a “Miss,” and
a young one at that. Helene Taylor is an
Adelaide girl, who has never been out of
Adelaide till now\ Her practised young
warble has won her a three-years’ scholar-
ship at a London academy, and her friends
and boosters are trying to equip her with
handsome concert profits ere she sails.
The affair staged the other day at Clive-
den by the Merson Cooper and Barry Thomp-
son matrons will add another fat wad to the
funds of the Broadmeadows Foundling Home.
Mona Magnet. Wilma Berkeley, Wee Georgie
Wood, Gertrude Healey and Frank Hanna
provided a fine musical bill of fare; there
were bridge and poker groups, and
flower, sweet and other brigands ramped
all over the scene. Ada Reeve, in
black tailorings, with a miniature floAver-
garden on her ruddy thatch, breezily
Dutch-auctioned handkies and lollies; but
later, in the heat of the moment, she sharply
upbraided an unfortunate Avaiter Avho skidded
painfully over an unseen obstacle, scattering
ice-cream and tea broadcast. The crowd
chortled Avhen the fallen minion, having
righted himself, fired an unanswerable back-
ansAver and exited with an almost ducal dig-
nity. Blue beads trickled brightly over Mrs.
Barry Thompson’s black georgette under a
black satin head-covering. Mrs. Merson
Cooper Avore a lace-veiled henna toque above
a smart black coat. Among those who lent
a hand Avere Mrs. Ben Hoare, Mrs. Pat Mc-
Cauley, Mrs. Esmond lioAvney, Mrs. J. Alston
and Mrs. Watt, Mrs. W. M. Robins, Marie
de Bavav, two Hennessy daughters and Miss
Pelany.
This is Janet Spark, of Maffra (Vic.),
a keen bota u i-
eal student, who has
painted, in careful
detail, much of the
beautiful flora of Vic-
toria—particularly of
her native Gippsland
—and has thus com-
piled a valuable re-
cord of bush blooms.
Mrs. Spark recently
gave an exhibition
of some of her scenic
work in Melbourne,
and, apart from any
artistic considera-
tions, the sho w
proved of particular
interest, because it
included so many
scenes of country
that has since been bespoiled by the heavy
hand of Civilisation.
Paul Bibron’s kiddies’ ball in the St. Kil.da
Town Hall was a picturesque and cheerful
happening, which switched right back from
the ear-splitting jazz to the elegant waltz
days, which now threaten a revival. The
kids loved every second of the frivol, which
ended up with lashings of ice-cream and cake.
The jazz, by the way, has been kicked out
of New York, Paris and London ballrooms.
Paul Bibrou learnt that on his last dance
exploration overseas, and now the Carlyons,
father and son, have steamed back south of
the line to say so, too.
Claude Cooper, a grandson of the late Sir
William Mitchell, is engaged to Miss May
Scott, youngest daughter of the late squatter
Thomas King Scott, who has been renewing
her acquaintance with Melbourne after ump-
teen years in the land of the Bagpipes. A
sister who married medico Cairns Lloyd,
passed out suddenly about two years ago.
When May was still wearing woolly bootees
the Scott family owned Kenley, the William
Leonards’ roomy Toorak place.
Mrs. Shierlaw, who died recently -while
staying with her son at Auckland (M.L.),
was the widow of William Shierlaw, a well-
known Adelaide business man. Her brother
is the Kev. John S. Greer, Methodist min-
ister of Malvern, and she has left £12,000
for the education of young ministers in the
S. Aus. Methodist Church.
The octogenarian Madame Summerhayes
took her final concert curtain at the Assembly
Hall the other evening at a complimentary
farewell organised by Mrs. Quinnell, Mrs.
C. B. Moore and Alex. Raff. Neither the
Stradbroke Countess nor the Mayoress, who
were billed to appear, graced the special
pen, but it was a great evening. There were
items by Gertrude Summerhayes’s Magpie
Orchestra, veteran harpist Walter Barker,
Florrie Green’s little powdered-and-patched
dancers, Gertrude Summerhayes (violin,
with Benno Scherek accompanying), Sydney
Mannering, Alex. Raff, Marie Power, Evelyn
Ashley, Jean Middlemiss, Winnie Hesse,
Natalie Dawson, Grade Funston and
Marion de Sasse. There was a burst of
applause when gentle old Madame w T as
escorted to the piano by her anxious-looking
daughter. She played Chopin’s difficult C
Sharp Impromptu with a delicate perfec-
tion which belied her SO-year-old fingers,
and she followed this with an e\ r en more
surprising florid number. The stage after-
wards sagged under the floAvers that were
showered upon her.
Thirty-five years had passed betAveen the
time Mrs. Chadwick, of Lancashire, Eng.,
left Gympie (Q.) and her A'isit there the other
day. She made a leisurely tour of half the
world on her Avay, and intends seeing the
other half on her return trip to England.
Her daughter, Avho accompanies her, knoAvs
a good deal about East End slum AA-ork, is
keen on politics, paints, and carries a port-
able typewriter on which her impressions
are jotted down, although she won’t admit
she intends writing a book.
The South Yarra A.N.A. Hall was Avreatked
Avith evergreens on Thursday night, when
the dancing Hyams sisters staged a fancy-
dress whirl for their kiddie pupils. Little
Essie Butcher, as an early Victorian, got
away with the best-dress prize sent along by
an anonymous giver. During the evening a
rose-shaded electric lamp was presented to
the kindly hostesses from their little pupils.
The most musical did not exactly rush
Andre Skalski: in fact, to be brutally
frank, he played to a half-empty Toavu
Hall on Tuesday night. Perhaps his
short-lived conduetorship of the State
Orchestra affected the Verbrugghen en-
thusiasts; anyway, they missed a good
thing. The young Pole’s rare genius for
creating an atmosphere eventually lifted an
unpromising audience into a frenzy of ap-
plause. Muriel Cheek sang several songs
Avith perfect diction and vocal expression.
The Vic. Commercial Travellers’ Concert
Party has been captured by the energetic
Women’s Hospital appealers. On the last
Saturday of the Cup meeting they are to
perform in Malvern ToAvn Hall for the
cause. The Mayor of that breezy subbub
is prime mover in a local effort to help the
W.H.. and the concert is to be more than
a good entertainment. It is to be a function.
An event.
A line or two from Adelaide: —
The Amateur Hating (Slub had its meeting at
Oakbank, while the thermometer was registering
102.9 degrees. A few braAe spirits tackled the motor
run up, mostly inspired by the hope that they’d find
the hills cooler than town, but a totalisator aggre-
gate of only £4700 tells its own tale. Amateurs
rallied nobly to tlieir own cause, and the entries lor
their events were good. An easy win went, as usual,
to the MacFarlane clan-—Allan pere’s Gezira, ridden
in the Trial Stakes by Allan fils.
Dorothy Slane, whose dancing has been the star
item at many entertainments this year, is hound
for America for a year, so that she may learn some-
thing of New York’s notions of dancing. The pro-
ceeds of the annual show by Nora Stewart’s pupils
are to be divided between her and the Mental Defec-
tive Clinic.
The Willie Magareys, who have put in the last
nine months in England and Europe, with a look at
Africa and Japan by the way, are back again. The
Wallace Bruces ami James Marshalls, too, are among
the returned trippers from England.
Mrs. Gordon Short and Madame Delmar llall were
joint hostesses at a dance in the Osborne flail the
other evening—the former with the grey satin of her
frock relieved by silver lace and woven with flame-
eolored and silver flowers, and the latter also in grey,
filmy chiffon strewn with flowers that deepened from
mauve to violet. Guests were largely a replica of
the cast of the “Ugly Duckling,” and its workers
—among them Mrs. Yilleneuve Smith in bedraped
floral glace, Evelyn Hyland and Yvonne Tolley, the
llueket dame in pale pink fringed with ostrich
feathers, Sylvia Whitington, Dorothy MacDonald and
Mrs. Brewster Jones.
An aftermath of the last Girl Guides’ meeting is
the resignation of the Butler dame as president, and
her further intimation that she has “severed her con-
nection with the organisation.”
A business-like committee, headed by Mrs. F. J.
Fisher as president, Lucy Ayers as secretary, and Mrs.
11. P. Wilson as treasurer, organised the Mission to
Seamen fair at Austral Gardens on Friday, and un-
commonly well they did it, too. Mrs. Fisher and
Mrs. J. 11. Gosse, with Miss Ayers and the Misses
Waite to help them, ran an Indian stall, Mrs. Boy
Milne, Mrs. Hew O’Halloran Giles, Mrs. Collier Cud-
more and Miss Nan Mitchell lent a hand with cakes,
and Mrs. A. M. Cudmore, Mrs. Herbert Rymill, Mrs.
Maxwell Fowler, Mrs. L. W. Bakewell, Mrs. Hedlev
Porter and Miss Molly Milne were among the other
stall-holders.
The League of Loyal Women, one of the most use-
ful of war organisations, has gone into recess “until
further need arises.” It organised and controlled
Comforts Fund work in this State, and both the
Soldiers’ Cemetery and AVomen’s Memorial were the
outcome of suggestions from its executive. Since
the war its chief activity has been a Needlework Dep6t.
At the annual and winding-up meeting a special
vote of thanks was handed to Mrs. Lendon, Mrs.
Lungley, Miss Ayers and Miss Hill, the four who
launched the depot and have kept it going ever since.
A picturesque old gum at Salisbury (S.A.) has just
made a spirited attempt to wipe out a Sunday-school
that was picnicking in its shade. Fortunately the
day was hot, and the kiddies, after lunching directly
underneath, had moved a bit eastward as the sun
declined. So, when the tree poured down about two
tons of firewood on the post-prandial group three
mothers were the only people seriously hurt. But
crushed boxes and benches showed what a near thing
it had been.


mum
m i n m 11 1 m iTnrm
ri rTTmuni 1 1 1
ea
n
V/
.iiimi//,.
i
v.
iiNvM
ROUGE
OMALO
THE RED SPARKLING
WINE~OF AUSTRALIA
■ - . ’ "'''4-’ :
Obtainable on and after Ist December
at all Leading Hotels, Stores, Etc.
BLANC
THE WHITE SPARKLING
WINE OF AUSTRALIA
Will be available early in 1923
JSfew South Wales
Victoria
South Australia
Western Australia
Queensland
Tasmania
AGENTS :
Collins 8C Watt Limited
Cohn Bros. Limited
Adelaide Wine 8C Spirit Co. Ltd.
Samuel Allen 8C Sons Ltd.
E. Chancellor
Johnston & Wilmot Ltd.
Sydney
Melbourne
Adelaide
Perth
Brisbane
Hobart
Launceston


Under
Royal
Warrant
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPA.CNC
t -tarfellcidsie(fc
REIMS
• I }) rtc-*’**
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
qA la ‘Rente des Fleurs
Established 1774
L.T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These
ders are made in France bv a Firm Established 1 50 Years,
they are of exauisite fragrance, oerfedly adherent, ana
will suit your skin: the name is the guarantee of quality.
m
Exquisite created by the
House o 1 L 7. FIVER'.
Le Trefle Azurea. Floramye Satranor. Pompeia.
Esoeris, Mismelis, Gerbera. etc., etc.
OBTAINABLE « '
'■tc AND STORES
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
Powders
Thursday night’s drop in temperature, plus
a stinging wind, took ail the curl out of
Friday s theatrical garden-party m aal of
the Rawson Institute. Probably there never
was seen a more lamentable gathering of
unfortunates on Sydney Sports Grounds
the only ones who looked moderately happy
were those who walked in fur coats. Or tne
stalls huddled together on the lawn the best-
equipped were the Cairo and the Tivoli. At
the former big-eyed Gladys Mason, as busy
as though she were on piece-work, tied up
cakes for customers, and apparently never
snatched a minute off to view the effect of
her cinnamon brown millinery in her vanity-
bag mirror. Oscar Asche hovered about this
stall and persisted in taking chances in “the
Cairo cake" in the hope of winning a theatre-
box from which to see himself in action.
Jack Cannot shouted the names of the
gamblers on this chance while Garde Trou-
ton wrote them down. Edith Drayson was
another of Cairo’s attractions. Marie la
Varre, in grey velour, was among, the on-
lookers, and Renee Maxwell, in leaf-
brown tailorings, was with her father.
Ruby Coxhead, in black and white,
presided over the Fuller stalls, and Nell
Stewart arrived from her afternoon turn in
time to give a shine to Governor Davidson’s
boots, after which Daphne and Diana shook
hands with Sweet Nell in demure admira-
tion. Belgian Consul Segaert, in his make-
up as L’Avare, from Moliere’s comedy, kept
a chocolate-wheel whirring, while concert-
manager Jack Griffiths spent a small silver-
mine trying to procure toys from the wheel
of chance for a groun of small relations.
There was a miniature Melbourne Cup. in
which the field was made up of a camel,
some dohkeys and a fabulous animal that
looked like the bull of Bashan, while the
riders ranged from Jackie Coogan to a near-
Sheik. Everything was there but the sun.
and with that absent all was misery and
Dead Sea fruit.
The marriage of Mollie Dangar and Denis
Allen is one of the matrimonial fixtures for
November, and is to be staged at Neotsfield,
the Dick Dangars’ station, on the ninth. In
the meantime, the bride-to-be is rashly squan-
dering her last days of freedom in a mild
jamboree of measles.
The Women’s Club, which now coyly hides
itself within the top layers of Stanway
House, proposes to build a new home in
Elizabeth-street, opposite Hyde Park. They
expect to have the six-storey building ready
in about a year. The members of this club
belong mostly to the well-to-do class. Chem-
ists, lawyers, doctors, writers, artists and
political aspirants (all of the milder sex)
form the bulk of the lunch-hour patrons of
the dining-room. The new building will be
residential.
The Cavalier Club, which is a “shout
yourself” foregathering of the exquisites of
Sydney’s art and writing circles, held a
food flutter last week as a farewell to
the Charlie Jones couple, who are off to
do the grand tour. The Ernest Watt pair,
Thea Proctor, Barbara Knox, Lionel Lind-
say, Longstaff, Syd Smith and about three-
quarters of the Society of Artists, with Leon
Gellert flying a solitary banner,to the glory
of letters, cooed the usual compliments to
one another and the departing guests.
Mary Floyd Williams, on a five-year
world tour, has just made Sydney her first
anchorage. Daughter of a Californian pioneer,
she’s a direct descendant of William Floyd,
who was one of the signatories to the Declara-
tion of Independence. Two of her books on the
San Francisco Committee of Vigilance of
1851 are in our Mitchell Library. She wrote
them at the instigation of that brilliant
Professor of English at the Californian ’Var-
sity, Henry Morse Stephens. In addition
to being a historian Miss Williams is a lec-
turer for the Extension Division of the Uni-
versity of California. Her friend here is
Margaret Windeyer, whom she met xvhen
the latter was in the U.S. studying
library methods. Americans know' praci-
cally nothing about Australia, says our visi-
tor, and she w r ants to find out how the pro-
blems of out-back life are met here, since our
interests are similar to those of California.
She intends writing about us, if she gleans
sufficient information during her stay tc war-
rant it. She’s already noticed that our men
are magnificent and our women virile, and
our White Australia policy strongly appeals
to her. Miss Williams remains in N.S.W.
until after Christmas, then so® to Maon-
land and the Speck, returning to Sydney be-
fore sampling the other States.
Winifred Carter, who has been solo harp-
ist in the State Orchestra during the whole
of its short life, is, like the Minstrel Boy,
off to the wars, sling.ng her wild harp be-
hind her—at least, she starts for Amer ca
end the big competition next month. in
the meantime her fellow artists are tiying
to raise a penny or two to drop into her
wallet by a complimentary concert to be
staged at the Conservatonum on the 2uth
of next month.
Kathleen O’Connor, from Bowral (she’s
the youngest of the late Justice O Connor s
ouiverful), whose singing was one of the
attractions of St. Vincent’s Fete, has- had
word that an “Irish Lullaby” composed by
her has been given the world by a .New xoik
firm of music publishers. The song will be on
sale in Sydney about Christmas. Kathleen am
a fr.end are jo.nt authors of a song, J-L
Blue Pacific,” which may be introduced i>
one of the Firm’s Christmas pantos.
Hugh Ward’s youngest son—he’s anothei
Hugh—has just nominated himself life pro-
vider for Muriel Holds worth, the I'l-yoar-
old daughter of the senior partner of the
lioldsworth-MacPberson firm. The young
woman is sporting an engagement ring ot
dazzling des.gn, the large centre dia-
mond being surrounded by a circle
of black pearls and these in turn
by a circle of small diamonds. Hugh is
snatching a crust these days in the service
of a stock melodrama company, appearing
at Newtown, and as all his evenings are
taken up with appearances and his morn-
ings and most afternoons with rehearsals,
most of his courting had to be done in the un-
romantic hours following breakfast. It is
pleasing to think that he should have won
out in his game struggle against heavy odds.
Iris Flower, the Sydney girl who was in-
troduced to the public by Professor Sauer
before a bumper house at the King’s Hall, a
few weeks back, is an echo of a voice Sydney
heard in its infancy. Sarah Flower, who
died in 1565, when only 43, was her great-
aunt, and she was a queen of song in her
day. Her grand-niece, like her, is a con-
tralto.
Herewith May Courtney, one of the few
Australian composers to secure a local pub-
lisher for one of her songs. It is named
“The Jewel in the
Lotus,” and the
music is as poetical
as the title. The
words are from the
Pali, and have been
translated by an-
other member of the
gifted Ivirribilli
family, whose head
is the associate-edi-
tor of the Daily
Telegraph. The
song is Oriental in
its coloring and rich
in harmonisation, for
all this composer’s
work is influenced
by the East, and she
brings the savor of
it even into her own
room, which is fur-
nished with some wonderful red lacquer cabi-
nets and wardrobes designed by herself. In
addition to being a composer, and speaking
divers tongues, May is an artist with pen
and brush, and recently illustrated some
booklets of fairy-tales and legends which
Whitcombe and Tombs are bringing out
for school use.
Sydney’s traveller friend Charlotte
Cameron drops a line about her visit to the
King and Queen of Roumania, with whom
she stayed first at their mountain home,
Castel Pal I 'son, at Sinaia, and then in their
palace at Bucharest: —
On my arrival the Queen received me in her
boudoir, dressed in national costume, as she cannot
afford European clothes because the depreciation of
the lei's has made such a difference to her income.
The boudoir is very beautiful, having been designed
and modelled by herself in the old Byzantine style.
All through the palaces are wonderful crosses of crystal
and opal; and everywhere ,are lilies. The Queen
is very fascinating, with hair like spun gold and
deep blue eyes. She always wears long ropes of
pearls, and pearls in her ears. King Ferdinand had
his 57th birthday during my stay, and celebrated it
by a luncheon to 70 of his Ministers, officers and
friends. I sat third from the King, between the
Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The
Crown Prince of Greece, Prince Carol, and his
Princess were opposite, as well as several other pretty
Greek princesses. That night the King and Queen
had tableaux vivants in their white-and-gold theatre.
The princes and princesses posed in Shakspearean
characters, and the only unmarried daughter of the
house, Ileana, who is just 13, showed signs of being
a second Ellen Terry. The Queen wore on her head
a gold veil of tissue, which fell to her feet at the
back and was bound to her brow by turquoise chiffon.
Her bodice was white and gold, her skirt red, and
woven solid with gold. The supper afterwards was
a simple buffet affair, at which there were all kinds
of wines, but the things to eat were tiny sandwiches
or little rounds of toast with caviare « something
easy to convey to the mouth. One daughter of th
house is Elizabeth, Crown Princess of Greece, and
the other daughter is the young Queen of berbia.
When I left for Bucharest I travelled in the roya
carriage, which was attached to the ordinary train.
During my stay two maids were told off to wait on
me —an m y clothes were taken to be laundered, a
even my gloves were cleaned.
This is Miss Elizabeth Betts, f 10 l e
mother was the youngest daughter o • •
Wales most famous
cleric, Samuel
Marsden, of Parra-
matta. The lace
collar she is wear-
ing was worked by
her mother nearly
100 years ago, and
is the one on view
among the Marsden
family exhibits at
the Historical
Society’s show in
the Education Gal-
lery. Though tiny
i n herself, Miss
Betts looms large on
the council of _ the
Historical Society,
and is indeed its
chief living link with
the days of the
pioneers. They tried everything,, those
pioneers of ours —even cotton-growing, as
witness the reel of thread manufactured in
Manchester from a bale sent to them from
Frederick and O. B. Ebsworth, of Sydney.
The loan exhibits of Rose Scott are like a
bit of embroidery on the strenuous garb ot
those far-off days. Through the satin-edged
invitations to quadrilles, the ladies purses
won at the first meetings of the A.J.C., toe
music, the caricatures and the letters,, runs
the silver thread of social life that knit the
community together when the Tank Stream
was vet a reality, and what are now sophis-
ticated highways were known as “Lovers
Lanes.” There are many dresses of silk on
the platform, but whereas these were, the
apparel of our grandmothers, the lay models
on which they are now displayed are what
are known as “small maids’ ” size. A wed-
ding-dress of rich grey silk worn at St.
Mary’s in 1875 stands with its back to the
audience; but this is not from any prideful
desire to display the train, but to coyly hide
the fact that the chest measurement of even
the very slim lay model is about inches
too wide for the dress worn by the bride in
1875. Another curious discovery made by
David Jones was that none of the modern
heads and faces “went with” the old-time
frocking—so incongruous was the combina-
tion of the modern face, even with a powd-
ered head-dress above the century-and-even-
older silks and laces, that the heads had to
be unscrewed —and the platform conveys a
suggestion of the decapitated wives of Henry
VIII.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Trial by Jury”
is being performed at the Conservatorium on
November 15 by the musical circle of the
Salon, and this marks the first public per-
formance of these clever amateurs. In pre-
war days the Salon embraced all the arts
—it had reading, dramatic, musical and
literary circles that foregathered at stated
intervals in drawing-rooms, and three times
a year these circles intersected in monster
geometrical patterns when the clash of in-
tellects was so great that a man might
have mistaken the clamor for a Highland
Gathering in rehearsal. However, one by
one the circles have shrunk till scarcely
a ripple is made by any but the musical
one and a tiny half-circle of reading enthusi-
asts kept together mainly by the enthusiasm
of Dorothea Mackellar and Mrs. Hardy
Wilson. Mrs. Milner Stephen is secretary
of the entertainment which is to help the
Adult Deaf, Dumb and Blind Building Fund,
and the cast is an all-star one, including
pretty Nancy McNaughton, the medical
Silverton couple (she was Dulcie Huxtable)
and Dr. Halloran. Tenor Crouch, whose
father was the great Dickens authority, will
be the defendant, while versatile Philippa
Alston will be the plaintiff; Milner Stephen
will be the judge, and Dulcie Starkey and
about 20 others will complete the bill. This
building for the grown-up afflicted brother
and sister is badly needed in Sydney. The
idea is to make it a sort of club where the
members will feel sure of finding work or
amusement.
Drayloads of rock coming out of and loads
of steel girders and timber going into a
huge excavation in Pitt-street, Sydney, near
the Strand, have for some time led people
to assume that the work is part of the cPy
railway scheme; but it’s nothing so prosaic
as that. It is part of the fashioning of
“The Ambassadors,” a project originated
and financed by jeweller David Stewart
Dawson, which is to embrace a jazzery and
refectory, that for extent and appointments
will, the owner swears, be unequalled in
Australia. “The Ambassadors” will occupy
the basement right through from Pitt-street
to George-street. The walls of the
pr ; nc ! pal ballroom are to be covered with
panels of bas-relief tableaux depicting- the
life of Cinderella, and designs for these have
been prepared by Australian women-artists
who are now engaged on the mouldings and
castings. Percy Stewart Dawson has been
the world ior months to acquire the
latest ideas for this super-house of food and
frivol.
A previous generation to that which has
taken to sundaes and cocktails will remem-
ber Mrs. Geddes Crawford, now back in
Sydney after considerable travels. Her hus-
band, W. I. Crawford, was known on Syd-
ney’s Inky Way, and was associated also
with the North Shore Grammar School. Mrs.
Crgwford, herself a writer of bright articles
on women’s topics, was better known as a
lecturer and for her association with many
feminist and social activities. She lectured
also in New Zealand; and in England she
has done more than her share in explaining
Australia to people there. She has made
a temporary camp at Dulwich Hill, but is
projecting a further flight Eondonwards with
lectures in her mind and the type-script
of an Australian novel in her handbag.
War-working Sydney was shocked to hear
of the sudden death of Miss Brace. A fully-
certified gardener, and trained in all sorts
of agriculture, she arrived from England
when the enthusiasm for intensive garden-
ing was at its highest, and at that time
she helped to form the short-lived Women’s
Horticultural Society. Later she became a
president of the Housewives’ Association
and a keen member of the Feminist Club
and the Girls’ Realm Guild. She was a
striking figure at all meetings for the better-
ment of conditions for women and children
—her hair cropped short like a man’s, sur-
mounted by a hard little hat, an uncompro-
mising collar upright between the coat (usu-
ally cut with pockets) and her chin, thick
shoes and stockings, and about the smallest
and prettiest feet and hands in Sydney.
The Ryde Home for Incurables will hold
its yearly fair next Saturday, and Maggie
Thwaites, from her wheeled chair, is once
more the brains behind the organisation.
This fair is quite the end-of-the-year social
event in Ryde. The stalls are beautifully
furnished with embroideries and craftwork
from the patient fingers of those who are
doomed to pass their lives in invalid-chairs
or on crutches; and carloads of people from
town take the road to the River Village,
while the hundreds of people disgorged from
the afternoon trains are conveyed to the
Home in anything from basket-carts to an
affair that looks like a Dickens coach and
is as high and steep as an. Alpine peak.
A kiddies’ party on the Narkunda is to be
the next big effort to swell the funds of
Dame Margaret’s appeal for the Rawson In-
stitute; and the big ship, with its immense
deck space, threatens to be a full house on
the 9th. Magicians and Punch and Judy have
been invited, and various other kiddies’
joy-makers are to be in full swing. Mrs.
James Burns and Rose Merivale are secre-
tarying this new venture, for which tickets
can be had at Paling’s and the Australia.
A Brisbane postscript:—
Queensland is sitting at the feet of the peregrinat-
ing cotton gentlemen, and when it isn’t it is feed-
ing them. On the 26th his Ex. had a tennis party tor
them, supported by local tennis enthusiasts, and he
dined the lot in the evening together with Tom
Heney, some pretty girls and Walter Kirby.
His Ex. turned up at “Cinderella in Flowerland”
in aid of the crOche and kindergarten. A girl. with
the poetic name of Armyne Gildea played Cinder-
ella. The kindergarten kids were turned into Spring
blossoms in crinkled paper, and a wee page named
Max came in for much petting. His. Ex. had two
Toowoomba girls with him, and a faithful captain
in his wake.
The Governor wandered through the Arts and Crafts
Exhibition the other day, and said nice and tactful
things. Bertha Wassail has some churchy ’broid-
eries reminiscent of the Renaissance on view, and
Macauley-Turner supplies another feature in black
wooden bowls breathing the bogs o’ Ireland, and a
litany desk.
Battalions of pretty girls went to see Elbe Ward-
rop become Mrs. Bruce Macgregor (and daughter-
in-law to Macgregor, of the Sydney Morning Herald)
at the Cathedral. Canon de Witt Batty tied the
knot, while Sampson managed the organ part. Ex-
Judge Chubb’s grand-daughter, Enid North, duetted
with Vera Cotton, of Hidden Vale, in white geor-
gette, and the bride was sheathed in ivory brocade.
Among red, white and pink roses and wreaths of
jasmines, the company supped at Lennon’s at the
call of the bride’s mother, in black charmante and
jet; and the rain came down with a good deal of
noise prior to Bruce carrying his bride off per-
manently to Sydney.
Went' out in her sleep, at 82, Mary Spence, of
Rosedale station, in the woolly Longreaeh district.
She was one of the old type of wives, and is sur-
vived by 10 children as well as her husband.
Caroline* Foote, of Mulga grazing farm, followed
her within a few days and lacking two years of her
age. She had been 40 years in the Tambo district,
and was born on the Darling Downs.
The Castles sisters and the Abbey Players passed
like ships in the night through Brisbane this week.
The northern tour of the Irish players was not much
more encouraging in its financial aspect than the
Brisbane season. His Majesty’s is at present locked
and barred, and no remarks are being made about
coming events. At the Theatre Royal the house
rocked with mirth over “Fair and Warmer” despite
the weather being unfairly warm.


Wedding Presents.
Drummonds’ invite inspection of their collection of
Wedding Presents in Gold, Silver and Silver-plate.
Their productions are of the highest quality, and are
particularly suitable for Wedding Gifts and Presen-
tations. Prices are based on the reduced cost of
production, and offer a value not to be obtained
elsewhere.
Mm, Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
mans
m
ti
TS
for
'CONSISTENCY
QLUALITY*
OP
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
w
I!/’
i
///
(?
«
%
Ill'll 11
niiim
sr^
S
&
i*»
L'u
; I
*
inf imnfi
2
$038(2
—.*
W
g—<ffW>k _Jg
O9 and Prawn
Surfacel
5 -C.JOHNSONSS(
WACiMB v*>o>
sJlfcs
*
?4g
O-JChNtnu 0 r nil Q>Ctf<r.
d£HN»ONftSON. oxix^gSjJilV
£
a
£9ggg
22k
c l(gnew Your Linoleum
Is your linoleum dull and deadlooking? Bring it back to life
and it will reflect a bright, clean, well-cared-for home. All you
need is Johnson’s Prepared Wax and a cloth. The Wax gives
a dry, glossy, dustless polish of great beauty and durability.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax brings out the pattern of linoleum
—preserves and protects it from wear. It doesn’t take long—
an ordinary sized floor can be polished in less than an hour
and it may be walked upon immediately. Waxed linoleum
and tile are easy to keep clean—they require but little care,
JOHNSON’S
Paste—Liquid—Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Polish all your furniture, wood-
work and floors with Johnson's
Prepared Wax. It forms a thin,
protecting coat over the varnish,
similar to the service rendered by
a piece of plate glass over a table
or dresser top. It covers up mars
and small surface scratches, and
prevents checking and cracking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is made
in paste, liquid and powdered form.
Use the Liquid Wax for polishing
furniture, woodwork, leather goods
and motor-cars. We advise the
Paste Wax for polishing floors of
all kinds —wood, linoleum, tile,
marble, &c. The Powdered Wax
will give a perfect dancing surface.
Tour dealer has Johnson’s Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON &. SON
379 Kent St- Sydney, N. S. W.


Clears the Pores
Of Impurities
Daily use
of the Soap,
with oc-
casional
touches of
the Oint-
ment as
needed,
.cleanses
andpurifies
' theskinand
' keepsitfree
[from pim-
Iples and
blackheads.
Cuticura Talcum is ideal for
powdering and perfuming.
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress; “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S. W. ’
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Learn to Draw
*j^a^n»nja
fy?r\
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing-
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TON, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send t li r e e
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
17* Onion House, George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR THE
MAN WITH
A FACE AS
TENDER
AS A
BABY’S—
THE
•HOZVHAXHVS
auam
*pDOOjdIUJ
<naj\{
mam
Makes a
Success of
Summer
Delicacies.
Man ufQ c/urers
CLIFFORD LOVE &C? LTP SYDNEY j
Missing Friends.
T 3 QBERT McILWAIN MILLER, qr-. anyone knowing
•**- j his whereabouts, immediately communicate with
the; undersigned, who will notify Mr. Miller of some-
thing to his advantage. The said Robert Mcllwain
Miller is the son of Francis Miller, late of Black-
wood, Victoria, Solicitor, deceased, is about 55 years
old,! and was last heard of at Wagga and Cootamundra,
N<4 South Wales. T. A. KENNEDY, LL.B., 472 Little
Coljins Street, Melbourne, Victoria, Solicitor.
NOTICE.
Australian Authors and Artists.
MUTUAL Advantage Enterprise now
moving. Not a school —but a Busi-
ness Proposition. Wake up! It concerns
you deeply, so write now to
W. 11. LATTY, sec. pro tom.,
Opp. Itipponlea Railway Station, Yic.
Wa
M
mm
' \ u
Aft ...x-
-m
■-; ■■;;
THE
“WINTON."
THE “WINTON"
HIGH-GRADE
Stock Saddle.
The “WINTON” is a Saddle
with pleasing lines that will
arrest the passer-by any-
where.
Its great feature is its comfortable
seat and narrow grip obtained by
sewing the flap direct on to the seat
and doing away with the usual skirt.
The pads are set well up along the
rider’s thighs, giving perfect security
for rough riding. It is mounted with
folded girth, bevelled leathers and
solid nickel stirrups.
£l6
Freight Free for Cash with
Order to any Station on
N.S.W. Railway System.
WHEN FLIES ARE BAD.
No. 4 Headstall Fly Veils,
with Leather Lace Veil, o/6 posted.
State if for pony or draught.
WRITE FOR OUR FINE SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
WALTHER & STEVENSON LTD.,
395 George Street, SYDNEY.
r
j
i
i
£
i
VxW
DRY SUEDE CLEANER,
If you wear suede shoes you need Bostock’s Dry Suede
Cleaner. It cleans quickly and surely, brings up the nap
and keeps it velvety soft. Obtainable in all popular colors.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 91, Haymarket.
Missing: Friends.
MOLLER, NEWTON THOMAS.—
Sister Ada anxious for news of where-
abouts. Any information concerning him,
whether living or dead, gratefully received
by Miss Moller, Barina, Milling Street,
Gladesville, Sydney.
Mi3sir.g Friends.
OOBERT B. CRUDEN, late Fraser-
burgh, would like to hear from his
brother James Louie Cruden, last heard of
in Melbourne 25 years ago. Write 7 Rae-
burn Place, Aberdeen, Scotland.
//
Pi
iiimn
V
f
1 > I i ! 11// 1 It
I M
"lull
£3
a
o
O
m
SODA WATER
DRY GINGER. ALE
THE BEST /
New South Wales
Chamber of Manufactures
All-Australian Exhibition
All-Australian Exhibition
All-Australian Exhibition
R.A.S. SHOWGROUNDS.
DAILY FROM 12 NOON TO 5 P.M.
EVENINGS 7 P.M TO 10 P.M.
Interesting Exhibits, Showing the
Development of our Industries.
War-trophy Museum.
Open-air Pictures.
Musical Competitions.
ADMISSION—MONDAY TO FRIDAYS . . 6d., Children 3d.
SATURDAYS l/-» Children 6d.
w. J. DONNELLY, Secretary.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must api)ear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily sübmitted; and no MS. ivill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Hobo: You win, the letter being anony-
mous. Take a course for your spelling and grammar,
which are abominable, and try again in a couple of
years’ time Tom Hah: Two verses from your
Bottomleyish strictures on Bill Hohenzollern that we
haven’t the heart to destroy:—
Russia the doped,
i It has eloped
From civilisation afar:
And on the ex-Ivaiser
There are no flies, sir,
He may yet become Czar.
Every man to his right:
The mail-fisted might
Get his desires or not,
But instead of a wife,
I’d take his life,
Gor’struth, the cow should be shot.
....Hilling: Unpleasant stuff that doesn’t suggest
truth E.D. (Randwick) : The verse doesn’t amount
to anything Eden: Too mechanical... .8.C.F.: Not
bad, but not up....Fal: You offer it “gratis,” but
the price is much too high... .F.T.8.: An ugly inci-
dent without point M.S.: Note your desire to die
young and useless... .A.E.P.: No, you won’t get much
further while you model your verses on drawing-room
songs 8.8. (Argyle): A patchwork of worn
phrases J.S.H.: Your “Song” would be better if
it meant something Tasmanian Devil: Crude
verse.... Binnie: Doesn’t strike u 5.... Stanley C.:
Not up... .W.S.T.: Wanted better handling.. ..
Riverina: The idea is old....Huia C.: Not nearly
good enough Oliver B.: Weep here if you must: —
All seems sad, dreary and lonely,
Out in the dark-looking forest of sheoak;
All seems quiet as if in agony,
Now and again you’ll meet a bloke.
Oh! some still mornings glitter—
Like wrapped in the mist of the sea,
Hanging silver beads nothing seems fitter;
Ah! it seems so fresh and sweet to me.
A rosy hue, the sun rises higher in the sky,
Leaves a dull aching sort of pain;
Looking across the limestone rocks, one sighs.
Oh, for a lovely, soaking, soaking rain!
It seems so sad, the very winds moan,
The grasses bristling and writhing
Ah, here! why am I here alone?
When everything in life is blinking, sinking?
Ah ! yet still it brings fresh life in all it sadness,
Although gloom-stricken, lonely shadows;
Under the sheoak as I write of its blackness,
Of which very few that knows.
S.E.S.: We don’t reprint Tom A.: ‘Yours is
about the hundredth set of verses on the same sub-
ject; and a poor set at that... .H.E.R.: “Candle
Banksia” doesn’t stir u 5.... King K.: All fail....
W.J.T.: The moon rises; the city sleeps; the dawn
breaks. But you are not one of those who can make
poetry of such events J.C.8.: Not up, but there’s
a hint of feeling R.F.S.: Some of the lines
move very heavily P.A.L.: Doesn’t make a yarn;
and the idea was worked by Lawson. .. .H.R.8.:
You say the thing, and then merely repeat it three
times; and it was a very small thing to say even
once Suffenus: Not enough there... .Then C.:
Might have made a sort of yarn, but you spoil it in
the telling Isidos: You have a horrible idea of
metre... .A.S.N.: Doesn’t get near. .. .Fred W.: The
end of the tragedy is moving:—
The man at the wheel then called to the mate,
“The ship will not steer,” said he.
“Then take to the boats, before’s too late,
And pull for the open sea.”
But what was the use, the storm was too wild,
So the crew prayed to God above.
And the cabin-boy cried just like a child,
He thought of his sweetheart who gave him her
love.
Next morning the sun was shining bright,
The sea was peaceful and smooth.
All trace of the storm, that had raged o’er the night
Had gone, but for one thing that was left to prove.
Upon the reef a derelict lay,
The seabirds soared all round.
The sharks in the water were at their play,
Devouring the bodies of the ones who had drowned.
A pretty maid prayed for her lover in vain,
Her heart yearned for his return.
But her sweetheart, the cabin-boy, ne’er saw her
again. . , ,
Of his fate, some day, she was going to learn.
....George C.: It is just the sort of stuff that we
never print. .. . Jack F.: Not for us. .. .R.K. (Dulwich
Hill): “Desire” is very lumpy Ben J.: The points
that a woman has legs and is not constructed like
an umbrella are duly noted S.A.C.: Not up....
Alice S.: Too feeble to rise above the basket lay
Melb.: The aroma of a billygoat as the fundamental
of a. humorous episode makes no appeal to u 5....
H.E.F.: There have been dozens less commonplace on
the same subject.... Bullet: Not up.... Emily D.:
Don’t think there is any direct foresight ; Angus and
Robertson, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, might be able
to supply date.... A.W.G.: It’s a bit rugged....
A.W.D.: “Premature” misses.... Arthur D.: Not
enough there... .F.E.F. t The metre runs a bit mad
and the matter isn’t much.... J.M.W.: Pan is a sadly-
overworked deity R.W.W.: You’ll have to improve
a lot!.. .Mrs. P. (Manly) :No use for the description
of fortune-telling. ...A'.E. (Vaucluse) : Omar imita-
tions don’t work Oru Wirna: They don’t get near.
S.S.S.: “Australia fair” gets many a hard deal
in verse. .. .Hunter C.: Miserable little yarn....
Norka: Not well enough t01d.... Gerald B.: Very
rugged Bellerive: A blistering indictment of our
judicial system:—•
lie clutched the rail of the felon dock,
To acquittal he’d lost all hope.
Wavering was he’s wretched life
Between prison or the rope.
He faced the Judge in the crowded court,
For'murder he was tried.
A tragedy of the underworld
Which firmly he denied.
Arrested in a muddled state,
A widow’s wayward son,
The scapegoat of evil men,
For a deed he’d never done
Sent to gaol, for he’s natural life,
To the youth an awful dream,
Guilty to Judge and jurymen,
But not to the Great Supreme.
Harold D.: Matter and manner are both a trifle
weak G.G.M.: Not up... .C.T.C.D.: You don’t
get any feeling into it F.C.: Never mind the lack
of education: if you send along any yarns worth
using, they’ll be licked into shape.
TO ARTISTIC (AND IN A RUSTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS.
• -
N.F.: Nowhere near it W.R.: Hoary-headed
joke K.W.: Some promise, but drawing weak
G.H.: As usual.. . .T.C.: The worst abo. to date
T.H.D.: Couldn’t get past the lady’s hand V.L.:
No drawing there. •• .R.H.C.: Scratchy sketch and
venerable gag.... J.M.N.: There’s a special corner
down below for the person who draws in blue ink
on writing-paper... .A.J.: May use cats... .G.M.:
Falls down badly in drawing.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE.
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR "MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. NOVEMBER 15.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hanking, Public Companies. Stc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. ., 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —Jame3 Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. TV.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
UEAI) OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank j
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George !
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. R. Lysaght, i
O. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Comer George and King
Streets). Ac ting-Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. IT. Brown.
Manager: G. II. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager.: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Faiubairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Ikcokpouated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 106 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability ot Shareholders
£625,000
650,000
£1,275,000
. 625,000
£1,900.000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State,
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world. , ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual; banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest anti Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,183
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income • • • • ■ • • • £7,000,000
Tbe Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPEBLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 23rd NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 28th DECEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smootli-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 14th DECEMBER.
; . > : 1 ~~
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3-J- TO 4\ WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
.. people.
1
■im 1^
m
/ ■ , -~ J
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide anti Brisbane.
;
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages booked to LONDON, EUROPE, AMERICA*
AFRICA, CHINA, JAPAN, INDIA, etc.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS arranged,
leaving Sydney and calling at JAVA, SINGAPORE, thence to
CHINA, JAPAN, and returning via HONGKONG, MANILA,
BORNEO, etc., or vice versa.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT, £146/10/-
BURNS-PHILP LINE to Java and Singapore.
Through Bookings to INDIA, BURMA, etc., by this
Route.
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
l’aid-up Capital
Iteaerve Fund
lSeserve lilnblllty
Directors:
- £5,640,700
- 3,000,000
- 5,640,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maekellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidlev, Esq.; A. 6.. Milson, Esq.
'Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manaper: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
300 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
“ Cable remittances made' to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £<5,,000,000
Reserve Fund .. £3,460,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.b.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W, Macarthur Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
T nndnn Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and
and AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHAIiIjIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
JENOLAN
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAV, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Huddart Parkei L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast and favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdou&ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED IUVER.
Weatiier and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YtISEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
e NI ’ ppON yUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,’
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“J HOQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS I'OJi
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. lAti.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., !Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, I>td.
Eastern .& Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
Uiitish India S. *N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Uoyai Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritime!) Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


Your Xmas Suit
Will Cost Less
if Ordered Now^
from LOWE’S.
i, fIKI
t i i
i j. i \iW
4A)
* **
.. T ——BL /% |
9RHV
Twill Serge Suit
to IVSeasure
Reduced from
£B/8 - to £6,6Jm
THE man quick to grasp an opportunity of
“getting in on the ground floor” will make
a point of ordering his holiday suit while
Lowe’s present bargain offer holds good. In any
case, the ninth week-end from now will be
Christmas; but, should you prefer it, the Suit ordered
to-day need not be taken delivery of until within
a week or so of that festive occasion. The logical
course to pursue, then, is to order without delay!
Men’s Sac Suits, to order, from fine English Pure Wool
Indigo Twill Serge, fast in dye and of Summer weight;
tailored in a fashion most responsive to your individuality,
and representative of what
in style-expression. English,
and Semi-American models.
£B/8/-, now
is- newest
American
Price was
£6|6|-
PATTERN COUPON.
LOWE’S LIMITED,
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me patterns of English Fine
Twill Indigo Serge, for suits to order, reduced
from £B/8/- to £6/6/-; also self-measurement
form, tape, etc.
Name
Address
F.D. —2/11/’22.
Towes,
HMITed
Merchant Tailors, Sydney.
Stores all over Town; one at Newcastle,
RELIABLE GUNS
BY WORLD-RENOWNED MAKERS.
TRY US FIRST FOR ALL SPORT EQUIPMENT.
SUNOL FINE CUT
TOBACCO.
The World’s Best.
“SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matehes.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
I!
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gum. 12-gauge, top lever, SOin. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stocs, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£,5/12/6
£6/5/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES ,
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.Ii.B.JL. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib. weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsinan.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Tthuca Tietd
159. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.1j.
rijjeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever*
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Alb.
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid,
£l6/16/-
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
£l2/12/-
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun F * re 'jjhVpaid
£l5
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 9/0 lb.
DUPONT'S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/0 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO O lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pi " eon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Gi eerier cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jlb Fiei = it pai ,
£l4/14/
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles and Guns without
first obtaining a license.
Steven's
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-g&uge
toD action solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, SOin. or 32m.
pistol grip, walnut stock; weight about 6*lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun. B 8 Ejector, 65/- Freight paid
1C
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


MISS IVY SHILLING
is the Original Rexona Girl.
'
/ f lT
Mis# IVY SHILLING {from a vhoto).
The Rexona Girls now
number many thousands,
and Miss Ivy Shilling, who
is everywhere recognised as
Australia’s greatest dancer,
is the original Rexona Girl.
Why not be a Rexona Girl
too? Use Rexona and
Rexona Soap—it means
health and beauty.
“I have much pleasure
in recommending your
Rexona, for I have been
using it constantly for
some time.
“As a rub-down after
acrobatic dancing, and as
a magical reviver to
strained muscles, I have
found it excellent. After
surfing it is invaluable as
a protection against sun-
burn and freckles. It is
a wonderful healer, and I
always keep a tin of it
handy.
“Yours sincerely,
“(Sgd.) IVY SHILLING.”
Rexona—the Surfer’s Friend.
To all lovers of outdoor sport a dip in the
roaring breakers on a summer’s day is indeed
romance. Next day the sunburnt, blistered
hands and scarlet face are painful realities.
This distress can be avoided by the applica-
tion of soothing, cooling, healing Rexona to
the face, hands and arms.
Try the following treatment after your
swim, and you will be delighted with the happy
results: First bathe the face, hands and arms
in tepid water, making a good lather with
Rexona Soap. Massage with this, then softly dry
and apply Rexona gently to the skin. If
this is done there will be no after-effects
from exposure to the sun, no regrets after
a happy day, for the skin, soothed by the
wonderful influence of Rexona, will quickly
regain its normal temperature and com-
fortable coolness. You will find Rexona
Skin and Facial Soap ideal as a shampoo
for the hair after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona, in its dainty,
pot, should stand on the toilet-table of all
who indulge in outdoor sports.
l|6
Cool IRQ
£ooolhir\Q.-
neahnq v
7'drviLscplic Omlmeixt
w\oarf ieb \ /ibioloielY \
Meals ) Reliable
fA —y ' ’
A Reliable Remedy for dll eruption) and irrilations of Itu ‘~X\\
V Skin Soro. ChilbUiMi* Chapped Hands 'y\
> ScufK-a Itching or Bktdmg Piles. Gits. Burns. BnusesVald' \ '
Bad legs. 3dnqs of Insecb and oil kinds of lnflaininaw* l j
JJJ
-J REXONA DEPT
IgLySHELDON DRUG CO L.TJ?
"Jh
3/-
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
•22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
Tnt.
ALL BRITISH
BE PREPARED TO MEET THE BULLY!
You should learn “how” to box
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector. No
man knows the day or the hour when
he will be called upon to avenge some
insult, or the time when he will have
to defend himself against some bully
or ruffian.
We Teach Boxing by Mail
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The boxing instructions are very thorough
—you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under our coach-
ing. The lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and
are eramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to us, and we will send you by
return mail the interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about the
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps for
postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
202 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney (corner Crown St.)
Sudden Death.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I CANNOT but believe that some great
will .
Worked through all time until the
call came shrill
For youth, who was so splendidly alive
One hour, and in the next slept very still,
That not by chance the moment could
arrive , ,
Which robbed life’s breath and made our
hearts to grieve:
Bather I must believe
That some dread Power who strives for some
great end . .
Beyond all knowledge, had ordained it so:
That when the time was ripe Death stooped
to rend
As was designed and ordered long ago.
If I should move my finger (who can tell?)
Empires may fall as Rome and Carthage fell.
Their cities crashing in flames. On some
far day
Bed troops may storm a frowning citadel
And my dead action throw their lives
away.
All things are so upon the one wheel bound
That as the hub turns round
They all must move together, each small
spoke
Pushing his brother, turning the great
rim:
Thus when youth fell at Death’s most sudden
stroke
Great purposes were born because of him.
Not only all the smallest deeds are strands
In the Creation’s web of seas and lands,
Building God’s kingdom; they themselves
are built —
The smallest grain among the desert sands
Rounded because a Caesar’s blood was
spilt.
Therein I find mv comfort, being assured
That all the griefs endured,
And that those trysts youth kept with foe
unseen
Must Be rewarded greatly, since they were
The fruit of all the ages that have been,
And since such mighty force they caused to
stir.
But I can see the onward-moving Shears;
And, ah ! pale sorrow will not hide her tears
Behind such veils of reason; nor will she
Be yet persuaded that a dawn appears.
What care I for a world that is to be,
Here in this present when the clouds float by
O’er the unheeding sky,
And all the air with memories is rife
Of other sunlit skies which we have
seen ?....
And who can give us back the splendid life
Or the tall sons who some day should have
been?
Consider all the beauty Earth has known,
Perished, destroyed, neglected, vanished,
flown,
Men’s hearts forever make it live and be;
Naught of its splendor can be overthrown
For the sign it is of Immortality;
Only the ugly things at last must fall—
These perish one and all!
He. too, in mind and in his body’s grace,
Was beautiful: I saw him stand one day
Naked and poised to hurl a stone through
space,
Like a tense statue, a Greek god at play I
When thus I ponder on the strength that died
(Power that has vanished swiftly from our
side)
How can my heart believe it thrown to
waste?
’Tis but departed like a fallen tide!
Think you the great Creator would in
haste
Destroy a perfect force at His command—
A tool made for His hand?
Think you that He would temper it in flame,
Sharpen its edge, prepare it, when com-
plete,
Use it but once—then for a childish game
Break it and mar it in His forge’s heat?
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
The Sergeant’s Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
U /\F all the animals Man is the most
® 9 adaptable,” declared Higgins.
“What’s that mean in English?”
asked the Sergeant.”
Higgins smiled.
“While other animals do not appear at
their best away from their natural environ-
ment, Man readily adapts himself to new
conditions. Take your own case, Sergeant.
In civil life, before the war, you carried on
your business, thinking and planning for
yourself, and entirely independent (.so far
as anyone can be independent in a complex
modern community), yet, as soon as you
joined up, you were able to fall into step
with the army regulations. Of course, some
men are longer than others in conforming
to new conditions, but that does not alter the
fact that, as I have stated, Man is the most
adaptable of all the animals.”
“You make an error,” said the Sergeant.
“He ain’t.”
“Well, what animal is more adaptable?”
“Woman!”
“Oh. when I say Man, I include Woman,”
snorted Higgins.
“Include Woman! Not much you don’t.
Woman is in a class by herself, and don’t you
forget it. Let you or Smith here try settlin’
down among a lot o’ niggers, and you’ll
quick find out you ain’t so dam’ adaptable
as you think. Yet, I saw a white woman
livin’ contented among the Arabs —and I
s’pose you know what they’re like.”
We expressed readiness to listen to the
yarn.
“Well, after Eumani, we had a lot of
trouble with the Arabs —Bedawins, they call
’em over there, though we reckoned they
were only niggers. Most of ’em, as far as
I could make out, never did any work, but,
when they ran short of anything, they just
took it from anyone that happened to have
it. Yes; they tried pinchin’ from us at first,
but, after we outed a few of ’em, they dropped
that game. But you never knew what they
were up to. We’d be movin’ for’ard with
a screen out, but we never seemed to get
nowhere. The .Tackos (Turks, you know)
always knoo what we were doin’. The Arabs
was always spyin’ on us and keepin’ the
Jaekos wise to what we was tryin’ for.
And now and then the dirty swine would
get to snipin’ into our c-amp at night.
“Well, we soon got fed up o’ that
and started hittin’ back. There was one
crowd o’ Arabs that had been makin’ a dam’
noosance o’ themselves, so a few of us—
about 80. I think —was told off to go out
and give them a bit of hurry up —‘dispersin’,’
they call it in the army.
“We started out about ha’-past three in
the mornin’, and come to the Arabs’ dug-out
about sunrise. A nigger what had a aerry
on the Arab chief, was guidin’ us. The
Arabs was camped near a bit of a rise, and
we come up over it, and has a screw at the
village. There was about 40 or 50 tents, we
judged. Pretty black and dirty-lookin’, they
was, too.
“The Loot calls me up.
“ ‘What do you think would be the best
way to start ?’ ” he asks.
“ ‘Give ’em a volley,’ I sez.
“ ‘No, no!’ he sez; ‘there’s women and
children in them tents. We mustn’t risk
killin’ them.’ Terrible polite bloke, the Loot.
“ ‘Very good, sir,’ I sez, ‘though it seems
to me that if a few of the sort o’ women
that’d live with them did get skittled
it wouldn’t be no loss.’
“ ‘Tut, tut!’ sez the Loot; ‘let me think.’
“Just then there’s a h —l of a row, and
we see a woman come rushin’ out o’ one o’
the tents, and a big Arab after her. She
didn’t get more’n about 20 yards ’fore he
had her by the hair o’ the head, and he
starts knockin’ th’ eternal stuffin’ out uv
hef.
“ ‘My Gawd!’ sez the Loot. ‘I can’t stand
this. Come on, but don’t do no shootin’
’less they resist.’
“Thinks I to meself: ‘Rotten way to fight.
That’s the best time to do your shootin’.’
But o’ course, I don’t say nothing.
“The Arab leaves off stoushin’ the woman
when he spots us, and looks like he’s goin’
to do a duck at first, but changes his mind,
and stands there, scowlin’ like Old Nick as
we ride up. Then the other tents starts
emptyin’ out, and, spare me days! you never
seen such a collection. Not too bad-lookm,
as far as looks go; in fac’, some o’ the young
tarts was real pretty. But dirty! I’ll take
me oath some uv ’em hadn’t never had a
wash since they was born. Useter roll in
the sand when they wanted a clean-up, I
reckon.
“The bloke what’s been beltin’ the woman
is a big, fierce-lookin’ cow —the dead ring
for one o’ them old bushrangers in the wax-
works, only not so clean —with a big mous-
tache and long beard.
“The woman has a screw at us, and then
she sings out: ‘Englishmen! My country-
men !’ and we see she’s a white woman;
leastways, we see she’s been white one time.
She’s pretty dark now, and her eyes all
screwed up—from the sun and sand, you
know.
“ ‘We belong to the British army,’ sez the
Loot, ‘but we’re Australians.’
“She gives a little scream.
“‘Australians!’ she sez. ‘Oh, yes, I heard
the Australians was over here.’
“‘Are you a Englishwoman?’ asks the
Loot very polite. (Terrible polite bloke, the
Loot. I think I told you.)
“ ‘Yes,’ she sez.
“ ‘What are you doin’ here—among the
Arabs?’ asks the Loot.
“ ‘I —that is, I—l came here with my
father and his party—a few years ago—four
or five —I forget,’ she sez.
“ ‘What become q’ the rest o’ the party ?
asks the Loot.
“ ‘Oh, they were —they met with —they
went home,’ she stammers.
“The guide bloke and me’s standin’ bes : de
the Loot’s horse; he’s sittin’ on his moke.
The guide bloke plucks the Loot by the
sleeve, and sez :
“ 'He killem,’ he sez, pointin’ at the big
Arab what had h&pn dealin’ it out to the
woman. She twig! what the nigger’s up to,
and lets out a yell.
“ ‘Don’t believe him,’ she sez. ‘They went
away home, and I stayed here with —with
my husband.’
“ ‘No; he killem; take ’em woman. Me
see ’irn,’ sez the guide.
“The woman whispers somethin’ to the
big Arab, and he glares at the guide and
shouts out a lot o’ gibberish at him. The
nigger makes a move to get behind me, but
I gyabs him be the arm and I sez: —
“ ‘None o’ that!’ I sez. ‘You stay where
you’re put till we get the stren’th o’ this.
What’s Whiskers sayin’?’
“ ‘He say me son of Sheitan’ (whatever
that means, I dunnoj, ‘and he cut my tongue
out if tell infidel about Englishmen,’ sez the
guide, lookin’ as near white as he can get.
“ ‘Never you mind what he’s goin to do
to you,’ I sez: ‘We’ll take care o’ him,’ and
the Loot, he sez, ‘I intend to sift this matter
to the bottom. You tell us all you know. I’ll
protect you,’ and so the nigger goes on and
tells us how, about six years ago, a party
came along, lookin’ for ruins and that, and
how his nibs (old Whiskers, you know) had
murdered them all except the girl. He said
she went oh terrible at first, but the Emu
(or something like that, he called him)
soon tamed her—with his horsewhip, the
nigger sez, and she’s been livin’ with him
ever since.
“By the time the nigger’s done talkin’ the
Loot’s shakin’ all over. He beckons a couple
o’ troopers up and tells them to grab the
Arab, and they just walk up and grab him.
He looks fierce enough to bite them, but
don’t do nothing—’cept cuss in Arab.
Sounded like cussin’, anyhow, though he
might ha’ been prayin’ f’r all I know.
“ ‘Ask him if it is true that he killed the
Englishmen, as you have stated,’ sez the Loot
to the guide, and the nigger starts waggin’
his chin in great style, but the old Emu
don’t say a word —only just scowls at him.
“The Loot tells the guide to try again—
and the guide gabbles away like a good ’un
again, but don’t get no change outa old
Chocolate. ....
“ ‘l’ll soon get a answer outa him, if you
let me have a go,’ I sez to the Loot, an’ he
sez ‘O’right!’ so I goes up to the Arab and
tells the troopers to leave him to me, and
they take two paces to the rear. I fixes
me eye on the big Arab and says: “You
flamin’, brindled cow! Don’t you go
kiddir.’ you’re deaf, ’cause you ain’t. You
heard all right when the missus was whis-
perin’ to you, and you heard all right what
(Continued on next page.)


Is a Bad Back
Sin
y
M
Uzi/erj/Picture
jt, tells a Story
Making You Old ?
Is a dull, nerve-racking backache wearing you out —
making you feel years older than you are? Do you find
it hard to keeping going—impossible to be happy or
enjoy work? It’s time, then, you looked to your kidneys.
A cold, chill or overwork may have weakened the kidneys
and brought on that nagging backache and those sharp,
piercing pains. You may have headaches, dizzy spells
and annoying kidney irregularities. Don’t wait until the
trouble becomes serious. Take things easier for awhile,
and strengthen the weakened kidneys with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped thousands.
They should help you. Ask your neighbor!
Mrs. E. Wilkinson, 29 Campbell Street, St. Peters, Sydney,
says:—'“For some time I suffered agony from lumbago-like pains
across the small of my back. These pains prevented me from
bending or getting proper rest at night, and seriously hampered me
when attending to my household duties. Sometimes I was so bad
that I could hardly move, and if I tried to get about the house the
pain was almost unbearable. After trying all sorts of remedies
without success, Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were brought under
my notice, so I got some, arid they did me good almost at once.
After taking two bottles of these pills, I was ever so much better,
and eight bottles completely cured me. That was twelve months
ago, and I have been well ever since. I always keep a bottle of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills in the house' and take a dose
occasionally, and they keep me in splendid health.”
Ten years later Mrs Wilkinson says:—“l have been free from
backache since Doan’s Backadhe Kidney Pills cured me eleven
years ago.”
SYDNEY
PROOF
FOR
SYDNEY
PEOPLE.
Mr. A. B. Cowell, Sutherland Street, Mascot, Sydney, says:—
“Some months ago I was suddenly seized with a terrific pain across
my back, just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought
at first it would, but, on thy. contrary, it got. worse, and I was soon
so bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled,
and eren at I gQt very little rest from the constant pain. I
could not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact no position
was comfortable for long. My secretions were affected, being thick
and cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies, but
they gave me no relief whatever. One day a friend suggested I
should take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be
good advice, too, for three bottles cured me completely, driving the
pain out of my back, regulating the secretions and banishing every
other distressing symptom of kidney disorder. I feel splendid now,
and my recovery is due solely to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Backache
Kidney
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney,
the officer was askin’ you. You cough up
what you know’ about the business, or I’ll
push yer ugly face in. Did you kill them
people, or did you not? Is that plain
enough? Speak up, now, or forever after
hold yer peace.’ (I read that last bit in a
book somewhere.)
“What d’ye think the swine does? Spits
in me face ! What do I do? Swing me right
on to his jaw 7 and knock him about 10 foot.
First time I’m ever guilty of hittin’ a man
what doesn’t have his hands up, but spittin’s
a bit over the odds. Yes; and I’m goin’ to
put the boot in, too, but the Loot sings out
to stop and, o’ course, I stop. Then the
woman takes a hand. Yes; rushes at me
and tries her best to scratch th’ eyes out o’
me head. Fair dinkum, she did. I was
dam’ near jobbin’ her, I was that wild about
that old swine uv a Emu spittin’ on me.
Every time I think about it since I go hot
all over and want to wash nie fac<^
“Yes; and she’s howlin’ like a she-dingvr
all the time, too. ‘What if he did kill them?’
she sez. ‘He’s a independent chief,’ she sez,
‘and he’s got a. right to kill anybody that
comes here —into his country, if he wants to,
and your British Army ain’t got nothing to
do with him. Yes,’ she sez, ‘he did kill them
—and he took me, and I love him,’ she sez.
“ ‘Some people’s got rum tastes,’ thinks I
to meself, ‘and ain’t over particular’ what
they love.’ He hums worse’n any billygoat
ever I come across, but it ain’t my funeral.
Anyhow, I’m too busy wipin’ me face, and
that’s how I came not to spot what the dam’
old Emu’s up to. He fumbles in his petti-
coat and pulls out a revolver, and lets drive;
no, not at me, but at the Loot. Yes; dam’
near got him too, knocked his cap off, but
before he can fire another shot, one o’ the
troopers brings the butt uv his rifle down a
h—;l of a swipe on the old cove’s head.
“My Gawd! You’ve killed him!” yells the
woman, and the Loot gets down off uv his
horse and has a look at him.”
“Was he dead?” asked Smith. •/..
“Too right, he was,” replied the Sergeant.
“The bash on the head would ha’ broke a
boiler in. The Loot examines him, then he
stands up and sez: ‘l’m glad he’s dead, else
I d ha’ had. to kill him.’ The woman went
on something scandalous over the Emu,
kissin’ him, and howlin’ for him to come
back, but it didn’t work. Then she jumps
up and starts cussin’ me, and the Loot and
all the rest uv us, and the British Army and
—and all the Australians she knoo (she
didn’t know many), and then went over it
all again for good measure. ‘And I pray to
Gawd,’ she sez, ‘that you’ll all leave your
bones in the desert,’ she sez, to wind up with.
“It wasn’t no use wastin’ time talkin’ to
her, so the Loot calls up the guide-bloke
and tells him to interpret for him, and the
nigger hands out the Loot’s farewell speech.
“ ‘This dog,’ sez the Loot, pointin’ at the
dead Emu, ‘not only dared to lift his hand
against Englishmen, but he committed the
unpardonable crime of forcin’ his filthy atten-
tions on a white woman. Mv Gawd! when
I think of the infamy of it, I feel like I want
to kill all your dam’ race. Pack up, and
get away out o’ this, and defile some other
part o’ the earth. Get away to the desert
or—elsewhere,’ he sez.
“ ‘As for you,’ he gez, turnin’ to the woman,
‘you have degraded your womanhood and dis-
graced the mother that bore you. But, worse
than all, you have shamed your race. If we
had found you a prisoner here, there ain’t a
man among us that wouldn’t ha’ died to res-
cue you. As it is, there is no place for you
among decent people. I leave you here—in
the hell you have made for yourself,’ he sez.
“The Arabs didn’t wmit to be told twice.
They started pullin’ down their tents, and
we only waited to see they had the wind up
proper; then we trotted back to camp.”
H. M. JOHNSTON.
The Ruined Outing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIKE so many other idiotic projects, my
I 1 fishing excursion with Fred Fuller-
ton came about without premedita-
tion. “Let’s go fishing,” he said, apropos of
nothing, at the same time throwing down
the cards he was holding. ;
“Where?” .
“To Watson’s Bay.”
I was opposed to the locality. I live
there. The Bay already owhd me £8 (£1
a week for two months) for fishing expenses,
and the only thing I had caught was a six-
inch fiatheafi which r foul-liooked by accident.
“Why not go to some better plaice?” I
suggested. ■ j
“There is none.” - *
I yielded: somehow, where fishing is in
question I invariably do yield.
We started off at 2 p.m., yet did not actu-
ally reach Watson’s Bay until 6.30. A fish-
ing excursion is not a venture to be launched
in a hurry. Prawns and lines cannot
obtained without delay, and the acquisition
of liquid sustenance is invariably a lengthy
process. Six bottles of beer purchased at
six different, hotels entail many preliminary
transactions; and it must further*fee borne
in mind that the buying of each boffle repre-
sents the passing of one tram. In this way it
required six trams to get us to our destina-
tion. This, I think, is a satisfactory ex-
planation of how the afternoon was spent
in the mere groundwork of the outing.
We chose a boat, and it was then that I
sent the fatal note to my wife:—
Dear Tup,—Fred and I are going fishing. Meet
us at the Military Wharf at 7.30, and bring some
sandwiches with you.—Your affectionate Hubby.
At least, that is what I meant to write,
but just exactly what I did write I have no
idea. I could not read the note myself, but,
anyway, I gave a boy sixpence to take it
to her.
Fred fell into the boat, and would have
capsized it but for the fact that half the
length of the keel was buried in the sand.
“Launch hersh,” he ordered, forgetting all
about our purchases, which were left to me
to put aboard—a difficult job in the circum-
stances. An American negro, who was re-
sponsible for hiring us the boat, here lost his
patience and charged us a shilling extra for
the delay. But he repented when I gave him
a bottle of beer, and knocked two shil-
lings off. Then, to establish his friendliness
beyond doubt, he intimated that I was in
danger of wetting my feet if I remained
standing in' the water much longer.
After an hour’s hard pulling against a
choppy sea and a strong wind, we reached
the Military Wharf, wet through and almost
swamped.
My wife must have succeeded in reading
some portion of the note, for she was on
the wharf as we swept up. The sea,- car-
ried in the arms of a gathering gale, rushed
around the foot of South Head and dashed
our boat against the piles.
Commanding the position from the wharf,
my wife shouted what was meant to be an
imperative order to me to come ashore.
“Can’tsh be done!” I called back with all
the courage of a man who is standing by his
mate. “Can’t y’ shee th’ boatsh nearly
sunk ? Sheesh down t’ th’ float-railsh now!
Mush stick t’ th’ ship, dearsh.”
When the next wave carried us against
the piles Fred sat down in the stern-sheets
with a splash. The water was up to his
waist, and he commenced bailing it out with
the prawn-tin.
“Will y’ comesh fishishing with ush,
darlin’ ?” I asked her. “Thish ish Fred ; he
writes hand-billsh f’ th’ picture-showsh.”
She sorted out the invitation from the in-
troduction and replied snappily, “No, I will
not!”
“Well, will y’ run homesh ’n’ gesh us some
san’wishes?” I urged in winning tones.
“No, certainly not! Can’t you see you’re
not in a fit state to be out in a boat? You’re
mad. Absolutely mad! You’ll be sunk and
drowned. Come home at once !”
Fred continued bailing in a dignified man-
ner, and I clung to the piles to prevent the
boat from sinking. Mine was a responsible
position, and I could not see how I could
throw it up at a moment’s notice. I ex-
plained to my wife that Fred was going to
teach me how to fish, and if she would only
be patient for a little while we would all have
snapper for breakfast. Almost before she
had time to reply a big black cloud directly
above our heads burst and emptied its rain
all over us. I threw my umbrella on to
the wharf and told my wife not to get wet.
“I have an umbrella wffth me!” she said
haughtily.
“Havesh another one,” I replied hos-
pitably.
“Don’t mindsh ’f I do,” Fred interposed,
as if some offer qr suggestion had been made
to him. ,
Fred., who had not taken any notice of
my wife, now stopped bailing, and lay down
in the bottom of the boat.
“W’eresh we now?” he asked after a short
silence. It looked extremely bad, and I tried
to put a better face on it by asking Fred
if his old wound was coming against him.
“Woundsh be damsh!” he snapped; “too
mush drinksh. I tole y’ din’ warrer go
booshin’!”
I couldn’t bear the look in my wife’s face
after this dastardly accusation. It seemed
to me, right or wrong, that the only thing
to do was to escape from the reproach in
her eyes.
Somehow or other we got away from the
wharf, and eventually, with the use of the
three remaining oars, managed to reach the
beach. It was still raining: we were soak-
ing wet to the braces; and the matches and
cigarettes had dissolved in our pockets.
The negro boatman was just putting out
to iook for us.. “I thought you had got
wrecked, he said. “What sort of luck did
you have?”
".Rotten !”. Fred replied. “Damsh woman
tallun all nighsh, frighten’ fishish away.”
The black invited us to his boatshed and
helped to carry the beer.
j decided. at this stage to go home alone,
and did so, leaving Fred and the boatman
with what was left of the bottles.
My wife was in bed when I arrived. I
approached her tenderly, doing my best to
speak naturally. “Good night, my dear,” I
said; “how are we nowsh?”
Somehow I had an idea that she had been
ill, and I was naturally anxious to know
what sort of progress she was making.
She didn’t speak. She looked careworn,
but capable of making a last brave stand
for herself. I became sentimental, and told
her what a dear I thought she was for put-
tmg up such an heroic fight. Still,, she did
not speak. She turned her head slowly
until our faces w'ere in a line. Into her
eyes, glistening with fever, there came a
wild, delirious expression that alarmed me.
“You mush ’ave a doctor at oncesh,” 1
insisted; “no usesh fightin’ a thing like thisli
without medishine. , I’ll callsh up doctor
now.”
“You fool!” she shouted. “Gome to bed
this instant; and don’t you dare to talk to
me again until you are sober.”:
I sat on the side of the bed and tried
to reason with her. I had seen influenza
patients before imagining they were well
when they w r ere almost dead, and she had
the same fever burnt deep into her eyes.
“Get up, you idiot!” she snapped, and
driving her feet out with all her strength
she pushed me on to the floor. “Look at
the mess you’ve made here!” and she pointed
to a wet patch on the bedclothes the size
of a saddle.
This annoyed me, and I told her she
could ring up the doctor for herself. I
would wash my hands of all responsibility
for her welfare.
With my clothes dripping water, and my
feelings lacerated, I went into the kitchen
and had supper with the cat. Then I went
to bed in the spare room.
At daylight next morning I opened my
heavy eyes to find the world full of beer-
fumes and headaches. The fresh air called,
and I went to it quickly, slipping from the
house like a thief. I felt that a swim
might possibly cure my head. On my way
to the baths I passed the boatshed/ Fred
was reclining upon the sward nearby. .
“What brought you here so early?” I asked
in astonishment.
“I don’t know,” he replied. ' “I don’t seem
to ouite remember what happened.”
Then his position dawned on him sud-
denly. “My God!” he gasped, “what will
the wife say?”
I put him on the first boat for Sydney and
said good-bye to him for ever. I never wish
to set eyes on the fellow again. A man
who is capable of betraying a mate as he
betrayed me does not deserve a friend. The
excursion cost me £2 55., and all I got out
of it was a splitting headache and one
unnecessary lecture 21 meals and seven
nights long.
WALTER JAGO.


a-*™*.
1
1
i i
■ .
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured -to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
{et BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOOSE BRAKE CO. OF
.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—B9 Queen Street. Melbourne.
Refrigerating U Ice-making Mac
While the Greatest Selliug factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN ItUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not oniy to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
&
mce Building, 97 Pitt Street,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
The Make
Not every fountain pen is a Waterman’s Ideal.
Therefore it is necessary to look for the name on the
barrel and on the nib. Make certain that ic really is a
Waterman’s Ideal, then complete the purchase with
confidence. You will but follow the lead of the most
famous living writers and of the world’s busiest pen-
wcrkers who, by their choice, acclaim Waterman’s
Ideal to be the best fountain pen made.
Watermans(to)BuntainPen
Three Types: Self-Filling, Safety and Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN Ltd., Corner London, England.
Australia : HAROLD D. DIXON, 105, Clarence St., Sydney.
to
and hoping if you wish
.THINK OF
S'l> ■
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office;: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote yon price for it.
Remington.
“Wetproof” Shotgun Cartridges
D-4
D.D.
“Always dry on the inside whatever outside conditions may be”
IN unfailing priming, even loads and close patterns
Remington UMC shotgun cartridges have been
tried and found not wanting in those qualities which
make up a really excellent cartridge.
The sportsman benefits still further in the latest exclu-
sive patented process of the Remington Company called
“Wetproof,” by which the contents of the cartridge are
effectually sealed against the deteriorating effects of
wet weather or excessive dryness.
Remington. “Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are sup-
plied in four trade marked brands: ARROW, NITRO
CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
They offer splendid values to the sportsman who insists
on having the best so that he can do his best.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
BRYANT, Australian Representative P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
Jr~
01L>
s
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AX WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
• 'M
■ SKgr..*
Vertical Triple Expansion Quick Involution Engine,
650 b.h.p., at 400 r.p.m.
: !- J n
ENG/NES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Etd.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd
Francis Chapman Son
Fenchurch Street.


m\VX T rrrf^MjZ N B 9^ICIIP*CJ^:
'<2
2?
£2
%
25
1^
is
>
mvmn
M
%
§>
is
5# S
'• ~
• ■'■:■■' :■;?'> -' "V-.-gßw ■ i ■?/■ ■'"
■m
&
m
. r.-~. '<: - - •■- _
'
. > ■- • : .
*■ : H;
Si
S 8
a
itf.
A,
s
m m
is
r>3A -. .-> ipr •*;■ *
'
•, ' ■
-
-■ ; ‘
■■ ■
: H'*
M;
25
25
ft
■ >,
*
i
:i.
ife
.
iy
i-'j *'
*«r
p-:
!g (
£
;;T ..
V
-
'
y v| , , ; ?? - ,*.
■
■
-V' ~ ■ -#;' .. i >.'•*“
' -;, ...-
:<• - 1 x:■• :>/• *&>.: t y -'&r\
£
■f ~
V • '. * •-■.■
=
s
i
\
t'T'’y' : .l ''■K'
y
*
V v ';
25
' -• •' ..•' .:
.
I
a
n
.
x
d
,
ss
.
£ ' S '■
■
£
y
-
;
■ ■
1
-
A :
m
m
"
/,:'<&•..■ .'»-»
*
(
':fe
■k‘
J' .
*
tfft.
■ ■ ■ ■
..
BG
k** 1
I t
«
y/L:^ ;.,- v? -y..1,/- ; .. 1
‘3
2
-
- v ,■;, ... ' ■ •' ■ .-
? *- .' *-
' *’/'- '-v;.;, v
Si : ?
'I
#» w < .
.»“ > - • ’r-
;
><
N 3
: G? s
. ,
V- -i
'V ■ ■ • ' ; ■
m
&
7: 7r7.
*
R
id
i*—
.
■
1
31 A n rwMnTI
~ JH*k jggML\\ V SLf oJjßk Vo
.
m.
%
■Wr
-ru. ' V ~ . ,
• ’ Gi.«
t-'-r.
The Spirit of
HARMONY
Harmony is the soul of all
things good—the perfect
blending of colour in art,
of sound in music, and
of sympathy in friendship.
And the soul of Harmony
is found to-day, as it was
in generations gone by,
in the grand purity and
perfect maturity of
JSetoar’s
