

V
II
Electric Irons
.smooth, the -way
on irorurvdj day
Highly finished in polished nickel, the Edi-
son Electric Flat Iron conies fo you neatly
packed, ready for use. Its cleanliness
and the ease with which it can be
I
Come in and see it demonstrated.
BOH - 1
tihmJ w
■■HI
m
Sfwi
MM
•m
'M&.
Wfi*t
' 1,:--
X^r-' v:
V ■ ;
SIS
.>■
E-l
«K
isw?*
v
V“- ( ', - .'• ~ ,;_
;■
3a V? - #
,; tfl
/*TN
$M
v s 4«^y
«s
1
I?-) uSi.us
. Studio 5
an G^n
35-45 WENTWORTH jWENUE
SYDNEY
dfg
116 QUEEN STREET,
MELBOURNE
AGENTS:
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Charles Atkins Pi Co. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
BRISBANE, Q, -The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia Ltd.
(E.S.C.A.), corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH, W.A. - Charles Atkim 8C Co, (W.A.) Ltd., "Mazda House,’'
894 Hay Street
TASMANIA -Oliver and Oliver, HOBART and LAUNCESTON
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2188
Thursday, January 19, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Have you had a copy of the new library
catalogue for 1921? It will be sent post
free to any address on application.
BYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE. DTD 400
George Street, Sydney. Tele. 6431. —Advt.
sss
Jh# 1
Si
We have been manufacturing raw-hide and leather beltings
for forty years, which means that nearly half a century of
experience is demonstrated in the makings of this reliable
product, as well as a deep knowledge of the manufacturing
conditions peculiar to Australia.
Mangrovite Leather or
Raw-Hide Belting
has earned its reputation by its tenacious grip on the
pulleys, its great tensile strength and unique durability.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (WynyarcS Square), SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Fremstntie.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark & Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
The Car for the Owner-Driver .
The Standard Car is designed expressly for
the Owner-Driver, particularly the one
driving in all weathers over the roughest
roads-r-and gives faithful service.
2 and 4-Seaters supplied.
STANDARD MOTOR CAR CO., LTD..
COVENTRY
AGENTS . I. FHIZACKERLEY.
168-171 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
The AIL
rd
fg
i&M
a
maen
B
V
A fragrance of England's best loved flowers, as real
and true as if borne to you through the quiet evening
air in an old-fashioned English village garden—-
such is the fidelity to nature of Zenobia Perfumes,
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom, the choice of faultless taste,
Zenobia Lily of the Valley, dainty and bewitching in its appeal.
Zenobia Night - Scented Stock, another favourite perfume,
sweet and fragrant.
(/ENOBIA
fin!-a
j^iL-y
Jki
pf tK
YALLEy
si*!!!
£ENOBI^
dfg
Manufactured only by Zenobia, Ltd.,
Loughborough, Leicestershire, Eng.
Sole Agents for New Zealand ( Wholesale only),
NEWSON & CO„ LTD.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia (Wholesale only),
KENNETH BUCK MAST K It,
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Zenobia Perfumes
are obtainable at
most high - class
Chemists, Per-
fumers £■ Stores
o
o
w,®
Ask to see the
New Streamline
Model
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The pen for the man or woman of taste, of
refinement, of discrimination.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD., Bunhill Row. London, E.C.I.
ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS.
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
Sold Everywhere. PRICE 1/-
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
dfg
The Red Page
Music and the Masses
At a time when Sydney and Melbourne
would like to appear much concerned about
the perpetuation of an orchestra for the
performance of classical and mostly un-
English music, the publication of “The Life
and \V orks of Sir Arthur Sullivan” is oppor-
tune. The little book, issued by Hassell,
of. Adelaide, contains the substance of a
series of extension lectures delivered by Fred-
erick Bevan at Adelaide University. It is
the story of a long success. Sullivan became
equipped in his youth for the business of
the musical life he was born to, and acquired
a versatility that had not been possible to
the heavier “great masters” of his art. When
lie was three years old his father was ap-
pointed bandmaster to the Royal Military
College at Sandhurst, and the boy’s earliest
recollections were of a practice-room with
his father ruling a crowd of soldier musi-
cians. The youngster sat and looked and
listened, studying the nature of each instru-
ment. His knowledge of flute, clarionet,
horn, cornet, trombone and euphonium came
of “a lifelong and intimate friendship.” His
acquaintance with the making of military-
band music thus dated from infancy. At
12 he was a chorister at the Chapel Royal,
London. There his taste for church music
developed, and a practical knowledge of
voice-production and singing was added to
his education. And, of course, he was
blessed with genius as well as opportunity.
He had barely turned 20 when his “Tem-
pest” was performed at the Crystal Palace,
and Charles Dickens walked into the artists’
room to tell the yotihg coniposerdhat, though
he (the novelist) made no pretence of being
a musical critic, he was sure he had been
listening to a very remarkable work. The
same year the young fellow went to Paris
with Dickens, met Rossini, heard a perform-
ance of Gluck’s “Orfeo,” and was thereby
incited to obtain the billet of organist in
the opera at Covent Garden when he re-
turned to London. The conductor asked
him to write a ballet, and the experiment
was a great success. What his musical
career might have been if his charming per-
sonality had not brought him into close
touch with other sorts of' gifted artists is
a matter of vain conjecture. He was what
he was, a composer-musician with a glorious
sense of humor and a wide range of personal
acquaintance, not a grave master obsessed
with a sense of his own mastery and en-
vironed by a merely musical circle of friends
and idolaters. He produced a notable “Sym-
phony in E” when he was 25. The hand
that wrote “The Tempest” five years pre-
viously had in the meantime written a
famous “In Memoriam” overture. “The
Light of the World,” “The Martyr of An-
tioch,” “The Golden Legend” and the grand
opera “Ivanhoe” were his principal achieve-
ments in non-humorous composition, as "The
Lost Chord” was the most serious of his
songs. Incidentally, he was the happiest
of hymnsters, and he took a particular plea-
sure in setting Kipling’s “Absent-minded
Beggar” to “a tune, that the people can
sing.” As the man who melodised the whim-
sical fancies, droll satire, cynicism and ten-
der sentiment of Gilbert’s comic-opera
libretti, Sullivan has lived in the Hearts of at
least three generations of intelligent theatre-
goers, and will probably outlive, in the esti-
mation of posterity, every other light-opera
composer now known to the English-speak-
ing world. “The Yeomen of the Guard,”
for instance, can never be out of fashion.
Bevan’s appreciation of the Sullivan
whom Gilbert discovered is not too highly
colored:—
A. comparison of - the scores of his comic operas
with those of his serious works will show any com-
petent judge that he took the same loving care with
the one that he did with the other; his nature
was so eminently refined that he shuddered at a
vulgarism, and his knowledge of music so profound
that he never strayed from the direct path of beauty.
.... Musicians were ready to comprehend the
marvellous merit of this light music of his; but
some superior persons affect towards it a patronis-
ing air, and pityingly express their regret that
Sullivan should have wasted his time on such
ephemeral work, and in other ways they have
sought to give evidence of their superior intellectual
equipment, their admiration being only for what is
severe and lofty in art; while others have been
known to boast of their ignorance of the works in
question. A prominent critic has said that such
people are the curse of the musical 'world. For my
own part I fail to see that there is anything
particularly precious about any form of art because
it appeals.to the few; on the contrary, if the work
of art, be it book, music or painting, is such that
it can never be popular, its unpopularity is in
some measure an indication of its limitations.
Besides, it is much ‘less difficult to compose music
which nobody understands (and many people do it)
than to give forth strains on which there be no
shadow of doubt, no possible doubt whatever. Sulli-
van might have gone on writing symphonies and
quartettes his whole life, but would the final result
have compensated us for the possible lpss of- the
wealth of beautiful music which is now familiar
to the whole world? I say advisedly that the world
is sadly in want of another Sullivan.
Somehow Bevan’s remarks on the superior
persons who would belittle the fame of
Arthur Sullivan because he was a witty and
sparkling, rather than a deeply profound,
composer, remind one of Chesterton on Pope:
The general critical theory common in this
and the last century is that it was very easy for
the imitators of Pope to write English poetry. The
classical couplet was a thing anyone could do.
So far as that goes, one may justifiably answer by
asking anyone to try. It may be easier really
to have wit, than really in the boldest and most
enduring sense to have imagination. But it
is immeasurably easier to pretend to have
imagination than to pretend to have wit.
A man may indulge in a sham rhapsody,
because it may be the triumph of a rhapsody
to be unintelligible. A man may pretend to
be a poet: he can no more pretend to be a wit
than he can pretend to . bring rabbits out of a hat
without having learned to be a conjurer.
What musical preciosity says of Arthur Sul-
livan’s charming compositions is what liter-
ary preciosity says of Pope’s poetry. And
the fact retrains that it is easier to pretend
to have Beethovenic strength than to pre-
tend to have Sullivanesque grace and wit.
Any intelligent professor of music, such
as the late Marshall Hall, may compose an
opera which in various places suggests the
work of half-a-dozen German notabilities—
an opera which may pretend to the imagina-
tion of a Beethoven and a Wagner. But
he cannot write an opera which, without
being glaringly plagiaristic, would suggest
the elegant wit and humor of Arthur Sulli-
van.
EDMUND FISHER.
De Gustibus
A x’ecent lied Page discussion of nursery
rhymes and stories led me to the discovery
that there are children and children ; and
for every sweeping generality concerning
them hundreds of emphatic little exceptions
boh up. The greater number of infants cer-
tainly demand happy endings to their tales,
but there are plenty who love to be har-
rowed. One tiny boy pins together certain
heart-breaking pages of his favorite picture-
book that he cannot bear to look at. His
twin sister takes out the pin and greets her
father almost every evening with jthe open
volume and the order: “Wead about the poor
lost lamb. 1 ’ “But it always makes you cry,”
he objects. “Never mind, wead it!” And
while he does so she, curled up on his knees,
buries her face in his waistcoat and howls
luxuriously at the proper time. “Oh, poor,
poor lost lamb!” she sobs. “I think that
line ‘The wolf hungry eyes' is
so dweadful, don’t you?” Iler tears and
horror are quite sincere, but she already
enjoys them, and is beginning to develop a
critical literary appreciation. Luckier than
Grimms’s Young Man Who Could Not
Shudder, she will go through life a-seeking
thrills, and surely find them.
Children take things so literally, we say,
yet even those who do so differ in degree and
in kind. One poor mite, through taking
“Peter Pan” too “literally,” met its death
by trying to fly from a high window. An-
other dismissed “Puss in Boots” with a
scornful “How could a cat walk abcuut in
boots? How could it?” And his parents
explain; “He is so literal.” A certain wise
and charming old lady is known as a great
teller of tales to her own and other children.
The heroine of one fascinating extravaganza
of hers, “The Bravest Girl in the World,”
has been a favorite for two generations, but
lately met her Waterloo when the newest
grand-daughter reached the ripe age of four
and heard the story for the first (and last)
time. True, she listened intently, but at
the astounding climax, instead of the usual
half-awed wriggles of delight, came this
crushing opinion; “Grandma, you must be
mad.”
From the first lyrical masterpiece de-
claimed to the tender understanding of 10
months or thereabouts, “Patty-cake, patty-
cake, baker’s man,” babies learn that the
cake in question is purely imaginary.
Thenceforward, like adults, they are always
conscious of the line between the world of
fiction and that of fact, and what they
enjoy most in the former is often what they
know they do not want at all in the latter.
The boy who runs away from a cow delights
to stalk invisible and non-existent tigers.
The dear old gentleman who cannot bear to
set a mouse-trap sighs with enjoyment as
he settles down to a new detective-yarn: “I
do love a good murder.”
The best tales have the best villains in
them, but none of us wish to encounter live
villains under our actual suburban rooftrees,
having modest misgivings, perhaps, that we
lack the fiction-hero’s peculiar faculty for
always coming out best in the end. We find
fun in the astuteness of W. W. Jacobs’s
“Bob Pretty” between the covers of a book.
But if we had to do business with that
slippery person come to life, there would be
letters in the papers from innumerable “Pro
Bono Publicos,” denouncing Mr. Jacobs as
a creator of nuisances who-should not bh
allowed. In the “Vanity Fair” of real exist-
ence Amelia Sedley would be easier to man-
age, but, oh, we would rather read about
Becky Sharp! And what would “Mansfield
Park” be without the unsquashable Mrs.
Norris? We linger over her fondly, won-
dering how Jane Austen, could have limned
such a perfect “stickybeak” a hundred years
before the term was invented ; but if we
met her in the flesh we would take to our
heels lest we smack her face and have to pay
40 shillings’ fine for it.
So, one small human can say “The Hunt-
ing of the Snark” by heart, and another
thinks it stupid ; and this one likes to listen
to simnle ballads, and that one likes to swim
out of its depths in the dark waters of
“Sintram.” As children, we are at least
aware that we have much to learn, including
the mysterious problem why grown-ups, who,
of course, 'know everything, make such curi-
ous mistakes about us. And before w r e have
solved the nuzzle, 10, we are grown-ups pur-
selves, confidently laying down the law and
indulging in sweeping generalities on the
infant mind, as in the present instance!
ELSIE COLE.
Thistledown
The flight of thistledown on slowly-moving
air has a grace of its own ; but, watching
it. you know that it only represents an
effort to eat the good bread of worthier
and not less beautiful vegetation. Philo-
sophies in Little . b.t Helen de Guerry Simp-
son (Angus and Robertson), is mostly
thistledown, with an occasional scurry of
withered leaves.
Take the opening poem, “What Things
Are Precious”-
Money? I should onjy spend it.
Love? What use since death must end it?
What, then? Clouds in the great spaces,
Birds that call in barren places,
Little rivers, cool and shallow,
Green of pasture lying fallow,
Wind among the mountains blowing,
and a swift going. ■.
That -is pretty enough in its way; but thou-
sands of things are enually precious, and
thousands of lines could be made equally
futile. For instance :
Money? I could wisely use it.
Love? Ah, yes—though I might lose it!
Add to these the simple graces
Of a swift horse in the traces,
Overhead a skimming swallow.
Long red roads that lead and follow,
Small grey milestones plainly showing
Distances, arid where we’re going.
(Continued on page 25.)


v
Excellent V alue in Dependable Tools of Trade
at ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Chapman’s ( English) Carpenter’s Ratchet
Brace.. . Bin. sweep, 18/-; 10,in. sweep, 19/-;
14in. sweep, 24/6.
Chapman’s Plain Brace. sin. sweep, 7/-; 7in.
sweep, 7/6; Bin. sweep, 8/6; lOin. sweep, 9/6;
12in. sweep, 12/6.
Extra Jaws for Chapman’s Braces.
» Plain, 1/10; N.P., 2/-
Brade’s Shingling Hatchets. No. 1, 4/9;
No. 2, 5/3.
Stanley Hickory Mallets. No. 8, 3/6; No. »,
4/3; No. 10, 5/-
dfg
No. 3.
Miller’s Falls Hand Drills.
No. 1, capacity oto 3-16 inch in diameter.... ...... 16/6
No. 2, capacity 0 to $ inch in diameter.. 207-
No. 3, capacity 0 to 3-16 inch in diameter 17/-
Noi 5, capacity 0 to 3-16 inch in diameter 187-
No. 980, capacity oto f inch in diameter, with two speeds 26/-
Cheney’s Adze Eye Nail Hammers.
Nos. 2 3 4 5 7 7$ 8
11/- 10/- 9/- 7/6 7/3 7/- 6/9
Anthony Horderns’ reputation for
value is supreme. In buying depend-
able Tools, this fact, together with the
wide variety and value offered, make
Anthony Horderns’ the ideal place at
which to purchase. Whatever the
requirements they can be supplied at
The House of Economy.
Enumerated hereunder are a few
typical examples. Note our lower
prices and bigger values.
Tinsmith’s Straight Snips.
6in. Bin. 9in. loin. llin. 12in. 12in.
2/9 3/4 4/- 4/0 5/6 6/6 8/- each.
Reliable Stanley Planes.
Stanley Iron Block Planes, No. 120, 7sin. long x lfin. Cutter.
PRICE 9/« each (with lever adjustment).
No. 110, long x lfin. Cutter 6/6
Stanley Adjustable Smooth Plane, wood bottom, with latest
adjustment.
No. 35, 9in. long x 2in. Cutter 20/-
No. 36, 15in. long x 2in. Cutter 22/6
Stanley Iron Smooth Plane, No. 4,9 in. long x 2in. Cutter 23/-
No. 4i, loin, long x 2gin. Cutter 26/6
Stanley Iron Jack Plane, No. 5, I4in. long x 2in. Cutter.. 26/6
No. s}, 15in. long x 2Jin. Cutter 29/0
>
IB
i■ ■ a
" „ Aim
tali
iS ifililiP
Pike Junior Tool Grinder
This is a powerful and compact Grinding Machine, upon which
a wide range of work can be performed. It is equipped with a
sxl inch Pure Corundum Wheel, and all kinds of tools can be
easily sharpened.
price 50/ .
■M Wzm
;i| --
Parallel Jaw Bench Vices.
2Jin. 3in. 3iiii. 4in. Bin. Bin.
16/- 19/6 24/6 55/- 87/6 £5/15/-
Rabone’s Boxwood Rules. 2ft., 4-fold, 1/6,
2/3, 2/6, 2/9, 3/- each.
Rabone’s Plumbs and Levels. No. 102 x 27in.,
12/6 each ; 30in., 13/6 each. No. 104 x 27in.,
18/6 each; 13in., 19/- each.
Stillson Pipe Wrenches.
Bin. lOin. 14in. 18in. 24in. 36in. 48in.
6/6 7/6 10/6 15/- 21/6 40/- 60/-
dfg
dfg
No. 45.
British Combination Cutting Plifers, flat nose, black finish.
No. 45, 'din., 3/3; 7in., 3/9; Bin„ 4/-
Side Cutting Pliers. No. 43, 6in., 3/-; “in., 3/6; Bin.,
4/- each.
Crystolon Oil Stones. No. li x 7in. x 2in. x lin., coarse,
3/6.
Silver’s Hand Post Drills. No. 3, double-geared, self-feed,
weight 1401 b. Drills 0 to IJin. holes and to centre of 16in.
circle. Drill spindle bored for Jin. straight-shank drills. Feed
has run of 3in.
PRICE £7/15/-
Portable Forges and Requisites for Blacksmiths and Farriers.
XTIO7. —Buffalo Horseshoers’ For"o.
equipped with 12in. Buffalo No. 200 Silent
Blower; size of Hearth, 23in. x 30in. ;
diameter of Fan Case, 12in. ; shipping
weight, 2051 b., with tank.... £l6/10/-
Buffalo Forges—•
No. 5,18 in. pan ... . .. £B/10/-
No. 6,18 in. pan . . . £B/10/-
No. 3, pan 18in. x 27in... £l3/19/6
Blacksmiths’ Bellows.
16in. 18in. 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
45/- 53/6 70/- 76/- 87/- £5/2/6
28in. 30in. 32in. 34in.
£5/17/6 £7 £B/1/6 £9/13/-
36in. 38in. 40in.
£l2/7/6 £l5/10/- £l9/7/6
42in.
£23/5/-
Bench Blower, with Tueyere Irons,
£9/7/6
Green River Swage Blocks and
Swage Block Stands, of specially
strong, hard Iron, carefully moulded.
13 x 18 x 41 in., regular finish 53/-
181 x 181 x 41 in., regular finish, 85/-
Stands for Swage Blocks.
13 x 18 x 4l in.
181 x 181 x 41 in •
121 X 12l"x 4 in
53/-
85/-
35/-
Set Hammers 5/6
Flatteners 5/6
Horseshoe Heel Cutters, 4/-, 5/6
Square and Round Nunches.
i> s, hf,f, 5 and 1 inch.... l/-lb.
Top and Bottom Swage.
i,. f, i, f, I, 5, 1 inch 4/. each.
Top and Bottom Fullers.
i, i, 1, S, }, s and 1 inch... . 1/2 lb.
Face Plates.
13 x 13 in. 14 xl4 in. 15 xl5 in.
13/- 15/- 17/6
Cold and Hot Sates, with or without
XTlo4.—Buffalo Portable Forges,
with geared hand-blowers; size of firepan,
18in. ; height to top of firepan, 32in. ; 44in.
over all; diameter of Fan Case, 12in.
£l5/10/6
HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
Telephone: -City 9440.


MEGGITT FOODS
Are Good Are Uniform Are Reliable.
V
Poultry Foods—Dairy Foods—Pig Foods—Horse Foods.
MEGGITT FOODS contain a liberal percentage of Linseed Oil Meal, the most
desirable food ingredient for all stock, under all conditions.
MEGGITT FOODS contain the proper amount of Mineral Matter (Calcium and
Phosphorus) so necessary for bone-making. Recommended by feeding experts
everywhere.
MEGGITT'S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
PROTEIN 33 per cent, or better, made by Old Process from thoroughly cleaned
Indian flaxseed, is of recognised superior quality.
We are prepared to supply Linseed Oil Meal and Stock and Poultry Foods to the
trade in either small or large quantities.
WRITE TO DEPARTMENT A FOR SAMPLES, LITERATURE and PRICES.
DNSEEDOHM^
M
AVEGOITT L Ta
PARRAMATTA
-
OUe boy on the bag
guarantees quality ”
o
HIvAD OH-ICE ?X> KING ST S^YKNEY
AGENTS:—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne Messrs R S Erton
and Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane Messrs William Adams a% Co?M,'
r Jh. e fj rs - I - • Heritage and Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston Messrs Johnstone
n ‘ SA - Fm ™ n ' Union, M,
DNSeedoumeu
m
ttECGITT U
VAeboy on the baa
guarantees quality


PINKETTIS
FOR CONSTIPATION
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes disordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes,the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as str&ng purgatives do ; and
they do not Wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is rtot a con-
stant necessity.
1 /3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Hand Embroiderer
REDUCED FROM 37/6 to
01/_FOR A LIMITED PERIOD.
~*7 Full Directions with Every Machine.
Send a stamped Envelope for a.
Free Specimen of Embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australasian A cents.
Club Reil
dfg
Ask for it —
The cigar with a flavor
and fragrance that you
will enjoy.
Sold by all Hotels
and Tobacconists.
6
d. each.
BOX PRICES—POST
FREE.
Tins: 10 cigars, 5/6;
50, 23/9.
Boxes: —
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
ALLUVIAL GOLD
MINERS
mav set the highest price for
gold from
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Healthy Scalps
for
School Kiddies
No longer need mothers have any
worry regarding their children’s
heads. DAND’S NURSERY POMADE
effectively keeps scalps free from
nits and all troubles that school
kiddies are liable to get. Always
keep a tin in the home ! Obtainable
from chemists, or direct from DUER-
DIN and SAINSBURY, PTY., LTD.,
349 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. Re-
member the name—
DAND’S NURSERY
POMADE
The DENYER Service of Surgical
Appliances and Artificial Limbs.
When a requirement of this nature becomes necessary, t°°. g®
exercised in securing the need. Get the advice ot items that it
much depends upon the correct construction and reliabil y
does not pay to have a service other than the best.
For many years the name Denver has been identified th e
Artificial Limbs and Surgical Appliances. Anatomical accuracy and g anoth g r
manship characterise each Denyer item. Reas°nable _ P u the benefit
feature worth consideration. Get in touch with Denyer s aid
of invaluable advice.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dfg
✓
V
m
/
WkeneverVbuDrink
order a glass of
Pure .Refreshing and Inviqorat in<jJ
RICH IN CURATIVES - CONTAINS LIME..
SODA.LITHIA & MAGNESIA.
AGENTS-ROWLANDS PTTL”
MELBOURNE. BALLARAT
AND SYDNEY -
Purveyors to Vico ~
Some corner of
Great Britain has
a warm place in
your heart.
dfg
Do you
wonder
is h a p p e i
there ?
ever
what
i n g
The
Over-Seas Daily Mail
Weekly Over-Seas Edition of The Daily Mail— Britain’s great National
Newspaper.
TELLS YOU IN FULL.
Post Free 10/- 52 weeks
SOME OF THE CONTENTS ARE:
A JiKKSS. which have appeared during the week in TH.
Daily Mail.
A Fashions Feature for women readers with illustrated designs by Miss Bessie
Asooush the famous Daily Mail artist. T
Compete results of all sporting events-Football, Cricket, Racing, Boxing, Lawn
t HaTv following Commercial Supplements are included free, week by
* n nk • Fmn’neerins Textile, Motor and Cycling, Building and Furnishing, British
week. Engineering, Lexui , Ttpmiisites. These Supplements supply a
crastant; U s tie am British commercial intelligence and are invaluable to Over-Seas
buyers.
Send Your Order To-day to Your Regular Newsagent
or to
GORDON & GOTCH (A/sia) LTD.,
Barrack and Clarence Streets, Sydney,
who will transmit your instructions by the first Mail Boat.
A FULL Service of British News for 52 Weeks for 10/- post free.
DURABILITY IN ENGINEERS’ TOOLS
Inferior steel. fails to give that keen cutting edge that is so necessary for punches,
dies and milling cutters.
To obtain satisfactory service always order
Best Warranted Cast Steel
Branded “An Eagle on a Globe.”
dfg
This is a carbon steel of high repute throughout
the Commonwealth, and is particularly suitable
for all tools where carbon steel is used.
Full particulars of tempers supplied promptly on
request to Department A.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
MaKers of Ultra-Capital
High-Speed Steel,
379-381 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Swat ston Street, Melbourne.
46 Boulder Road, Fremantle.
Paul & Gray Ltd., Scott Street,
Newcastle.
R. L. Milligan, 32A Argyle Street,
Hobart.
jo in Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte
v Street, Brisbane.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., 88-90
cwt Adelaide.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Australia’s Flag.
A century ago “Australia” meant
Some scattered settlements along the coast
And rivers of a virgin continent.
Immediate cares and dangers so engrossed
Them that none saw the greatness of the
thing
Their fumbling deeds were slowly fashioning.
While yet the growing settlements were
young,
A prophet stirred them with a trumpet-
call—•
“One continent, one nation and one tongue,
With one proud flag unchallenged over
all!”
And for a banner robbed the Zodiac
To place the Southern Cross on Britain’s
Jack.
Gold was discovered and men flocked to win
Fabulous riches that were = sbon the seed
Of madness, making strife ’twixt kith and
kin,
Until Eureka saw Australians bleed
Beneath a banner poorer for the loss
Of Britain’s emblem by the Starry Cross.
Years passed. Again the vision of one
nation
Peopling one fair wide land from sea to
sea — ...
And dreamers’ dreams came true with
Federation:
Once more in proud, unchallenged empery
Flew out the banner with the cross of stars
Upon the flag that pennons Britain’s- wars.
The banner that on bleak Gallipoli
Was consecrated in her best sons’ blood,
Flies,-in the peace that follows victory,
The- symbol of Australia’s nationhood
Within the glorious commonwealth of
Nations.
Through future triumphs, future tribulations.
Pray God she keep as steadfast and as true
As the eold stars she plucked from Heaven’s
blue!
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.
[The Australasian League, organised by the Rev.
John West (author of “West’s History of Tas-
mania”), flew the present Australian flag, without the
five-pointed star, in January, 1841.]
Sydney Roofs.
The roofs are like so many towers,
High cliffs and foothills low,
Of rusted iron and chimney-pots,
And slender pipes and window-plots,
Where summer blossoms blow.
High, hideous flats with spider stairs,
The glint of gilded signs,
A ladder through a trap-door thrust,
Black streams of soot and isles of dust,
And empty washing-lines. >
The scaffolding of some new wing
Rearing above the old;
An oval lattice grey like rain,
That in the sun will shine again,
Patined to ruddy gold.
A busy Martha’s hand has hung
Through open skylights for the air
Bright colored mats that almost seem
As magic carpets of a dream
To lure a genie there.
t
A narrow tank, a cone of slate,
Smoke plumes of white or brown,
And circling here and fluttering there
Grey servants of the upper air,
The pigeons of the town!
N.8.W.
M. FORREST.
Reverie.
Within dim, vernal silence, scarcely stirred,
Save by the wind’s low psalms among the
The crystal voice of some sweet-throated
bird
And murmurous droning from the haunt
of bees,
I hear the heart of Nature softly beat,
And tinkling music of faint faery feet.
Here breathes a living symbol of fond Hope—
White-breasted, satin-winged, in matchless
blue, .
Deep as the velvet of the sky s fair cope.
My bird has flown, swift as the thought
it drew. . .
But, solace brow-bound with immortal
flowers,
Hope yet with me may pace the gilded hours.
Than precious sandalwood or odorous musk,
Far richer is the pungent incense rare
Of pine-fumes, wafted through the cloistral
dusk,
Leaving a subtle, fragrant memory there
Of scenes departed when a knightly band
Bode ’neath the oaks in old Broceliande.
The quiet paths, where, stoled in silken
grace, „ , V
Wood-violets hide and orchids wave slim
wands,
And insects weave fine snares of silver lace,
Transilient ’mid the plumes of ferny
fronds,
And leaves of russet-brown droop o er me so
They key the hours to all the tunes they
know.
Beautv lies in this solitude a-swing
With pure white flowers, whose golden
tongues are mute,
And frail bells, pendulous, as though to ring
The lyric music of the zephyr’s flute.
But with then- rapture falls a not° of paint—
The petals will be scattered like the ram.
My song is ended of one more dear day,
And evening comes, grape-colored, hushed
and dim.
It seems as if God’s fingers gently lay
In benediction, for earth breathes of Him,
And noetrv from dewy calvx sips
The limp’d nectar meant for her sweet lips.
QUEENSLAND.
E. COUNGEAU.


1- Hours (standing start), Average Speed 78.30 m.p.h.
2- Miles (standing start), AvCfdj ge Speed 78.67 m.p.h.
These two World’s Records were established at Brooklands on October 27, 1921, by
a Wolseley Ten, which in all its main essentials was a standard car.
The mere establishment, of two such eloquent records by a standard Wolseley is in itself noteworthy, but the performance becomes even more emphatic
of Wolseley capability when it is considered that apart from 3£ minutes to replenish with oil and petrol the car did not stop once during the entire
run ; that not the slightest adjustment was made; that it was never necessary to pick up a single tool; that a flying five miles was accomplished at
an average speed of 85.97 miles per hour; and that the axle was of the Wolseley Standard, worm-driven type.
seldom enters for races, in fact until the record-breaking race at
Brcoklands a Wolseley had not been in a competition for 20
years. However, although Wolseley Company is not particu-
larly interested in racing it has always contended that its standard
cars are capable of performing in a manner which compares more than
favorably with specially-built racing cars. This performance at Brook-,
lands certainly bears out that contention.
250 miles at an average of 78.67 m.p.h. illustrates to a measure
Wolseley reliability—-but Wolseley reputation for reliability rests on
something far more secure as its foundation —the proof of the consummate
reliability under all conditions of the many thousands of Wolseleys
rendering efficient, service to owners throughout the world.
However; the Wolseiey Company realise that many people attach
considerable importance to track results, and the test mentioned above
was therefore carried out as a demonstration of what a practically
standard Wolseiey can achieve under racing conditions. The result is
a striking testimony of the high efficiency of the Wolseiey Standard
productions.
We suggest you pay the nearest Wolseiey representative a visit. He
will gladly demonstrate .to you the Wolseley’s many distinctive features
which have earned for it the great reputation it enjoys to-day.
Write, call, or ’phone for full particulars and illustrated literature.
Later News of More World’s Records
A cable has just been received announcing that once
again the Wolseley “10” had been put on a track at
Brooklands, and once again it established new records
for the world—this time for 3,4, 5,6, 7 and 8 hours’
running.
Y.l
w
%
n
.7
mm
5*5
X
fx
The Wolseley “Ten,” the car which with a few
minor alterations established the • two World’s
records mentioned above.
REPRESENTATIVES:
VICTORIA—DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—DALGETY & CO., LTD..
Phillip Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—H. C. RICHARDS, LTD.,
Richards’ Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
TASMANIA—TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LTD.,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND—G. W. SPRAGG,
Auckland; INGLIS BROS., Wellington;
TODD BROS., LTD., Christchurch;
TODD BROS., Dunedin.
Wolseley Motors Limited
Head Office for Australia:
125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.)
Works:
Adderley Park, Birmingham, England.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2188.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1922.
Pbice 6d.
TRAPPIN’.
“Between quarrels N. S. Wales politicians are busy making their plans for a general election.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co.,’Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Syd-nev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbouhne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 135.; 3 months, 6s. 6d.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 ivords, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
.sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Holerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Ilolborh, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Daivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neiv York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City.
Egypt . — Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands., 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet— otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bloz, to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
ffie'SSzrfleZz/n.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 19, 1922.
DE VALERA AS AN EMPIRE ASSET.
If De Valeka and the London delegates
had organised and carefully rehearsed the
late row in the Dail Eireann they could hardly
have done better work for speedy peace in
Ireland. So shadowy are all these tears -and
protestations and threats over a name that
a politically suspicious country such as
France —where the newspapers are now
arguing that the Landru case is a fake
arranged by the late Government to divert at-
tention from its misdeeds—would have con-
cluded long ago that the Free Staters and
Republicans were in league with the British
Government to hoodwink the Unionists. To
realise the value of the disunity among the
Nationalists from the standpoint of those
who want the partition spectre laid —and
this is the one genuine obstacle which re-
mains to be overcome in Ireland —it is only
necessary to picture the position if there
had been unanimity or anything like it.
Downing-street, and particularly Lloyd
George, would have been accused of betray-
ing England, or at the best of having been
outwitted by a little band of amateur poli-
ticians. There would have been genuine
nervousness as to what Sinn Fein meant to
do, and one of its reactions might have been
a revival of tight Unionism, followed by mes-
sages of encouragement to the irreconcilables
of Ulster to go on being irreconcilable in the
name of Empire loyalty. As matters have
developed, there is no likelihood of any such
message being sent, or of any large body
of Ulstermen listening to it if it was sent.
The Nationalist split promises anti-National-
ism 100 per cent, more chances of influencr
ing legislation in an all-Ireland Parliament.
And it presents Lloyd George and his col-
leagues as statesmen who struck a bargain
with Sinn Fein which was so good from the
English point of view that nearly 50 per cent,
of Southern Ireland’s representatives profess
to fear its results more than they do a
return to the old life under the Black and
Tans.
* * * *
If these premises are granted, and if it
is further admitted that there is nothing
like a healthy Opposition to keep an Adminis-
tration on the right track, it becomes evident
that the chief peril to Ireland just now lies
in a too swift and crushing exposure of the
rottenness of the case against the British
connection. The basis of all Ireland’s past
grievances has been commercial, fiscal, finan-
cial. Hundreds of promising Irish indus-
tries were killed from London, at the in-
stance of English manufacturers, by legis-
lation—the glass industry, for instance,
which in George ll.’s reign was threatening
some of the London works. And, of course,
no Irish concern was allowed to build itself
up behind a tariff. Legislative control over
Irish industries was abandoned in the terms
of Lloyd George’s first offer, and now that
the Anglo-Irish freetrade formula has been
sacrificed the Irish manufacturer has as good
a chance against his English competitor,
other things being equal, as an Australian has
in the same line of business. For seven cen-
turies the Irish have been humiliated at the
spectacle of capital leaving the country for
that of the oppressor, by the most exasperat-
ing of all routes. In the last year for
which _ figures are available (1918-19)
£37,275,000 of the Irish taxpayers’ money
was disbursed in London or under the direc-
tion of London. Never again, if Irish differ-
ences are now composed, will an Irishman
be taxed unless for the maintenance of an
institution or the fulfilment of an obligation
with which he has voluntarily associated
himself. The Irish will control their army,
their police and their judiciary; and there
will be no Privy Council appeal from the
decisions of the Irish Appeal Court. De
Valera’s republic could enjoy no greater
powers unless it elected to stand entirely on
its own bottom. And that this was never his
intention till the Irish delegation made its
astonishingly good London bargain is indi-
cated by an interview printed in the N’York
Tribune (2/6/’2O). “The United States,”
he said, “safeguarded itself from the possible
use of Cuba as a base of attack by stipulat-
ing that the Cuban Government shall never
enter into any treaty or other compact with
a foreign Power or Powers authorising them
to obtain a lodgment or other control of any
part of the island. Why doesn't Britain
Jto with Ireland as the United States did
with Cuba?” But so little is Cuba free, as a
British Dominion understands the term, that
it is unable to frame an immigration policy
of its own. United States troops only keep
out of it so long as it behaves in accordance
with the ideas of American “big business,”
and immediately its last serious upheaval
occurred (1906) Washington established a
Provisional Government and put the island
under martial law. In short, though it bears
the high-sounding name of Republic, it is,
constitutionally, a firmly-controlled State
functioning under a suzerain Power.
The longer within reason the ranks of Anti-
Nationalism can be kept from appreciating
how much more Griffith, Collins and
their associates have got than De Valera
ever asked for, the better chance Ireland has
of achieving that freedom concerning which
the professional patriot, whether national
or industrial, talks with such persistence.
There cannot be freedom without peace.
During the late war civilians had to sacri-
fice many of their liberties, and the soldiers
nearly all of them. Dublin has only just
become a free city once more; and Belfast,
where people are liable to be shot in the
streets, where there is no adequate protec-
tion for workers in certain trades, and where
a curfew order is in operation, is as unfree
as many a front-line trench. The origin
of the hatred which has produced all this
profitless bloodshed is the ascendancy cry
which recent developments have transferred
from the South to the North. Once it is
laid, as it ought to be with three Irish
parties already in existence and the immi-
nent possibility of a fourth (the Irish Labor
party), there should be no grievance left
to keep Irishmen from coming together suffi-
ciently to achieve that other essential of
freedom —prosperity. Ulster, which takes
three-fourths of its foodstuffs from the South
under normal conditions, needs peace if it
is to live, and the South needs Ulster if
it is to make money ; and they both need more
Irish industries, more capital and more
tourists, none of which will appear in great
numbers till the country begins to show that
it is capable of exchanging the shotgun and
the bomb for Acts of Parliament. Rut in-
ternal peace is fiot enough, and in this con-
nection the best friend of real freedom is
going to be the institution to which the
Republican formalists most object—the Brit-
ish Navy. The proposition that De Valera
is asking the Irish to accept is that Serbia
or Belgium before the world war enjoyed
some privilege which was denied to Aus-
tralia and Si Africa, and that this boon is
worth fighting for to the death. It is for-
tunate that he has nut it forward, for the
reasons already mentioned. But as an ideal
for a business-minded people it is as hone-
less as the T.W.W leaders’ scheme of de-
stroying capitalism in order to make life
easier for the workers.
A NEW PAWNBROKER RISES IN
THE EAST.
Alt, Australia has either two or three mort-
gages on it, Federal, State or municipal,
some British, the rest local. Now a prophet
has arisen to preach that all Australia should
aim at getting a United States mortgage as
well. This new Moses is Trade Commissioner
Makk Sheldon, whom the country pays to
push the sale of our wool and sundries to
Geokge Washington. So far our luck with
him has been very indifferent. George
Washington, who always sold us much and
bought little from us and collected vast
quantities of gold to settle the difference, has
been even more active than usual in passing
on to us things which we should make our-
selves for the good of our unemployed. On
the other hand he has been as passive as
usual in furnishing us with a market in
his country, and has, moreover, passed a
law by which Australians are kept out
almost as rigidly as we ever kept out Chinese.
But, notwithstanding all that, Mr. Sheldon
comes back hypnotised into profound ad-
miration for the Place of the Cocktail, and
some samples related to Sydney Chamber of
Commerce of the advice that we pay him for
are quoted hereunder :
American financiers will probably soon make offers
of loans to Australian business men, and I hope
nothing will be done to discourage them.
Australian wool, butter and minerals should soon
find a better market in America.
At present the duty on merino wool is 100 per
cent., but it will be reduced to 30 per cent.
American financiers are anxious to get into the
British Dominions.... No doubt they would make
offers. If suitable terms could be obtained, why
should not Australians accept them? It would be
advantageous to Australia to use up some of the
capital of America.
Australia should not go too far into the cotton
trade, but should devote herself to wool.
* * * *
It is all very interesting, but it sounds almost
as if the advocate had got: his brief uDside-
down. There no doubt is a widely-held
belief that this mortgaged continent should
be “tickled to death” to fand new lenders com-
ing forward, and should receive them with
open mouth. Yet, after all, the circum-
stance doesn’t put us in a very different posi-
tion from that of poor old China. Japanese
and other financiers were anxious to “get
into” the Chinese Dominions. Some of them
almost lent China money at the point of the
bayonet. If a lender has money that it
breaks his heart to see lying idle, and has
profound faith in his ability to collect the
interest in cash or valuable concessions, and
belief in his capacity to make good terms on
renewal day, he is naturally anxious to get
the money out so that it mav set a new army
of drudges working for him. The U.S. de-
sire to “get into” the British Dominions and
Japan's desire to get into the Chinese Do-
minions are therefore equally plain. The
new world-financier is in the unique position
of owning one-third of the coin in the world
and having a mortgage of 40s. or 60s. on each
pound of the rest. He has to lend to his
nigger (the globe is his nigger) so that his
factories may be kept going. Having, for the
first time in his history, no superior in arma-
ments as well as none in wealth, he can go
into world-finance with a light heart. But
the question for Australia is whether, in-
stead of borrowing U.S. capital to buy U.S.
goods with, while its own factories languish,
it wouldn’t be better to get some capital of
its own by saving most of the money that
now goes out to pay for U.S. and other im-
ports, and thus get our own shops working at
high pressure. In other words, whether we
shouldn’t do as Uncle Sam does and flatter
him by imitation.
* * * *
Certainly,’ in this matter, there is some-
thing hazy and unsatisfactory about the
words and ways of Australia’s paid represen-
tative. He assures this country that there
is a great future for its wool in a land
which bangs the door with a 100 per cent,
tariff. It is going, if the luck holds out and
nobody forgets, to show that abounding good-
will about which so much is said by some
day reducing the duty to the scourging rate
of 30 per cent. Then, though the U.S. drains
Australia of millions of gold every year
through selling us a lot and buying from us
very little, the Trade Commissioner bids Aus-
tralia to repose confidently on Samuel’s
bosom, for he is to be a lavish buyer one day
—the day the leopard changes its spots. On
the strength of this prospect this country
is urged not to plant its great waste North
with cotton, which is a profitable crop and
an article for which the British Empire is
craving. Rather it is to stick to wool, for
which a great part of the cotton country is
quite unsuitable, and which Uncle Samuel
hits with the hostile tariff already mentioned.
The fact that the George Washington re-
public, which grows more than half the
world’s cotton, despite the utmost efforts ~f
the British Government to produce cotton
in its own territory, would hate to see this or
any other big place break violently in on its
rich semi-monopoly, enough.
What isn’t understandable is what great kind-
ness Uncle has done us that we shouldn't
break in. Also, why Australia should pay
an ageht who comes back merely to advise
borrowing more money when we have bor-
rowed so much already, and leaving work
undone when so much work is undone already.
As to the cotton business in particular it is
Father Bull’s desire and our interest to get
to work, and it is the interest of Samuel of
the U.S. that we shouldn’t. The Bulletin
prefers to satisfy Father Bull’s desire and
advance our own interest. What the atti-
tude of Australia’s paid representative
should be is of course a matter for the Com-
monwealth Government to decide.
EXHUMED POLICIES AND STONE-
AGE TACTICS.
When proportional representation arrived in
N. S. Wales it was greeted, as elsewhere,
with hopeful enthusiasm by all but the pro-
fessional politicians. The latter, as else-
where, at once set themselves to nullify its
objects; and they have succeeded more
completely than their fellow-conspirators in
the other States. Parliament has just done
its share, and last week both the rival
machines intimated that, there being danger
in numbers when it came to carrying party
banners at the polls, they would endorse only
an approved few for each seat, all others, of
course, automatically becoming bogus. What
this means is that a couple of irresponsible
bodies—in the present case Macdonell House
and the Nationalist Club —will choose the
State’s legislators for it. The party hack,
with all the servility and lack of principle
which he represents, will have an immense
pull over the free man. Pre-selection on
the part of persons unknown even by name
to nine-tenths of the electors has been placed
on firmer ground than ever.
* * * *
It is a blistering commentary on the re-
sults of this system, rigidly adhered to for
many years, that, so far as the Nationalists
are concerned, they have had to turn to a has-
been iike Joseph Carbtjthers, who left
active Liberalism a dozen years ago for
Liberalism’s good, in order to get a reason-
able supply of brains. The patriots who used
to confer in a Pitt-street basement, but who
have taken latterly to settling the destinies of
the State in Wynyard-square, presented N.
S. Wales with almost every member of the
present Parliamentary Nationalist party, and
with several Progressives who will presently
revert to Nationalism in order to hold their
seats; yet these authorities do not consider
that any of their linds has enough ability to
run an election campaign. In other words,
their mentality is good enough for the State
but not for the party. Now, assuming that
pre-selection is here to stay—and if any of
those who detest it know of a reliable
method of wiping it out they have yet to be
heard from —then, plainly the thing to do is
to make the best of a bad job. The case
against Dooleyism is strong enough: it is
only the ineptitude of those in charge of it
which makes it look weak. An example of
the formidableness of expert knowledge in
Parliament is offered every time any move is
made or even suggested against that most
selfish and archaic of all monopolies—the
law. It happens, for one reason and an-
other, that the law tends naturally to be
well represented in every Parliament;
wherefore on any sign of an attack on its
privileges a succession of members belonging
impartially to all the parties rises to point
out that such suggestions are outrageous;
that the profession to which they belong is
an honorable one and so forth; that con-
ditions in it can only be changed to the
detriment of the public. It takes hardihood
for a non-cricketer to argue with a Test
player about an English tour; for an ordi-
nary citizen to put Melba right as to the
merits of an opera; for anyone to take up a
strong line on a subject which is not his own
in the presence of an expert and a special-
ist. This is the position in which most indus-
tries and practically every profession with
the exception of the law stand in the N. S.
Wales Assembly. The State's great bank-
ing business, for example, is spoken for, when
its claims are urged at all, by Mr. James
OnsloW. Mr. Onslow is an honest man as
politicians go, but so hopelessly unimpress-
ive is he, intellectually and from the stand-
point of personality, that his uprising is
usually the signal for derision. There is not
a man in the Assembly who can speak with
authority on shipping, or on insurance, on
the steel or any other big national manufac-
turing industry, or on the running of mines.
But there are plenty on both sides of the
House who are capable of case
from the standpoint of the employees, and
who often find it hard, owing to early train-
ing, to take any other view.
It is already obvious that Joseph Car-
ruthers means to run the Nationalist cam-
paign on the lines 'that were in vogue when
he collared the wire-netting. George Reid’s
Socialistic Tiger has received its mobilisa-
tion orders, and the 1922 Sectarian class
has been called up. The futility of these
methods of presenting the case for Conser-
vatism is best proved by the fact that, year
by year, ever since they were first adopted,
the Conservative cause has been slipping
back, till latterly it has had to slink about
under a series of ever-changing aliases. And
yet there is nothing inherently wrong with
Conservatism as a aeneral principle. In
every age there are numbers of institutions
which call for defenders against iconoclastic
hands. And, above all, there are institutions
which can only be ’ safely tampered with
mnder the eyes of those who understand the
machinery. The Nationalist notion of get-
ting Property defended is to go to nonentities,
without ideas or anything worth calling edu-
cation, and say to them: “Pledge yourselves
to vote with us against Labor, and the
Maching will get you a first or second pre-
ference, according as you decide to call your-
self a Rationalist or a Progressive. We
don’t want intelligence, information, experi-
ence of affairs, solidity of character or any-
thing whatever except your vote when it is
needed.” This arrangement can only get one
class of man, and that class may be seen
blithering on the flooj of the House through-
out every session. If the campaign bosses
were sincere Anti-Socialists—if, that is to
say, they thought more of the cause than of
the party-—they would begin by ruling out
their faithful but incompetent old retainers,
and follow that by backing for the latter’s
seats men with the capacity to state the
case against Socialism on the floor of the
House. But such men would not submit to the
humiliations which the regular party-man
stomachs in consideration of his job; and so
the approach would have to be on this basis:
“We recognise you as an authority on manu-
facturing [or banking, or insurance, or ship-
ping]., and we want you to speak for the
interest you understand ; to answer the ex-
operatives, ex-bank clerks, ex-mariners and
others who now have it all their own way.
All we ask is that you shall perform this
service for Anti-Socialism. In every other
respect you are free to act, speak and vote
as you like; and if you agree you will re-
ceive all the first preferences' our organisa-
tion can secure you.” This has never been
done, and any suggestion that it ought to
be done is sure to be received with the same
scorn by the professional politicians as the
professional lawyers heap on all law-reform
proposals; the obvious reason being that it
would eventually bring about the end of
party government. In the opinion of a
habitual politician, rich or poor, knight or
commoner, the maintenance of Partyism is
much more important than the overthrow of
Socialism.
THE DIGGER AND POLITICS.
It is on record that Grant’s veterans ruled
the U.S.A., through the Republican organ-
isation, for quarter of a century after the
Civil War. I am wondering whether the
same will be written of the Diggers by the
historian of the Commonwealth in 1950.
The men who fought Australia’s battles
abroad have not troubled much about poli-
tics since the troopships brought them home.
They have had other things to occupy their
minds —the farm, the job, the girl, the house
that was jerry-built, the pension that was
boggled at and so on. But now that they
have got back into civil life they have had
leisure to ponder on the situation, and are
profoundly dissatisfied. They look about
them and see the country for which 260,0ut)
perilled their lives, and 60,000 of their mates
perished, degraded by the political brawls of
dull old flagwaggers and shrieking pacmsts.


They have found by personal experience
that both sets of politicians are siniully in-
competent—witness the imbecile war-service
homes scheme and the soldier-settlement
muddle in N. S. Wales and Queensland —
and by both they are treated with chilling
indifference, varied in the case of one party
by malevolent hostility. They know that ij
the repatriation money had been expended
with average commonsense the thousands of
Diggers now unemployed would be in work.
And with all this they realise that the poli-
tical destinies of Australia are in their
hands —that their organised vote, and that
of their womenfolk (to say nothing of their
fathers and brothers), is sufficient to put
any party in and turn any party out. Sooner
or later the dissatisfaction of the Diggers
with the way things are going will find over-
mastering political expression. The only
doubt is whether they will take one of the
existing parties and suffuse it with the
Digger spirit or run a party of their own.
Hitherto, for no reason except that
Huqiieb and his followers supported the
war, while the Laborites, after 1917, at
least, were officially against it, the bulk ot
the soldier vote has gone to the Nationalists.
That party professes to see an analogy be-
tween its position and that of the U.S. Re-
publicans in the Civil War and after, and
is tepidly ambitious of playing the same
part. But there are essential differences.
Unlike the Nationalists, the Republican
party came into existence before the war,
and its history during the struggle was
proud and inspiring. It enforced conscrip-
tion, abolished slavery—in each case against
a hostile majority—and passed traitorous
politicians into the ranks of the enemy.
Compare with these vigorous proceedings
the Nationalist conscription campaigns, in
which the executive ignobly surrendered to
the mob; compare Lincoln imposing con-
scription on rebellious New York by force
of arms with Hughes sordidly abandoning
the policy after protesting that he wouldn’t
carry on the Government without it. Be-
sides, the Republicans have a fine tradi-
tion of constructive statesmanship. It was
they who built up the great U.S. manufac-
turing industries by Protective tariffs, which
tariffs, in Mask Sheldon’s phrase, “made
America.” But the self-styled. Nationalist
party is without a national policy. It has
neither pride of ancestry nor hope of pos-
terity. A coalition of expediency and not
a coalition of principle, it is composed of
Tories, Radicals, State Socialists, Protec-
tionists and Foreign-traders, whose sole bond
of union, apart from hunger for office, is
hatred of the Labor party. If that hatred
hadn’t been kept alive by the arrogant anti-
Australianism of fanatics who speak for
Labor, the party would long ago have re-
solved itself into its original elements. It
preserves its useless and unornamental exist-
ence only because the public regards it as
the lesser of two evils.
Most of the young men who went to the
war were supporters of the Labor party.
But when they came back they found that
Labor had lost pretty well everything except
its label. It had become violently pacifist,
fanatically Marxian, furiously pro-Irish and
pro-Russian. It gloried in the friendship
of such personages as Wren and Dr. Man-
nix, and some of its dreadful newspapers
were full of venomous libels on Britain. The
old robust Australianism which lifted Labor
above all other parties had disappeared. In
its place was a softheaded internationalism
imported from the degenerate parts of
Europe, the craven creed of the watery-eyed
idiot
Who praises with enthusiastic tone
Each century but this, and every country but his
own.
And such, in essentials, is the state of the
Labor party to-day. It stands in relation
to the Diggers much as the U.S. Democrats
stood in relation to the warriors of Grant
and Sherman after 1865, except that the
Democratic party, with all its faults, didn t
have Marxian socialism and international-
ism on the brain.
It is probably within the compass of the
Diggers to capture the Labor organisation,
weed out the alien cranks and work-stoppers,
warn off the scowling patriots who get their
living out of the wrongs of Ireland, and
make it once more an engine of honest and
progressive nationalism. Nor would it be
difficult for an organised Billjim to take
hold of the Country-party movement and
rid it of the sterile sectionalism which is
its bane. The question is whether either
effort would be worth while. There never
was—there never could be —a more favor-
able time for the formation of a new party,
one that by its very nature would be a
hundred per cent. Australian. The average
elector is fed up with the alleged parties now
before the public. He is weary alike of a
fraudulent Nationalism which is merely a
necklace of negatives and of the new foreign
Laborism, which is Bolshevism with the lid
on, and which hasn’t a word to say about
the development of the continent. And to
the large majority of Australians who are
not financially interested in cows, sheep,
wheat or pigs the Cocky party is but a
walking scarecrow signifying nothing. There
are too many duds in the existing parties;
too many fat old frauds who waved flags
during the war; too many gaseous young
men with rabbit brains and chicken hearts
who stayed home and read Karl Marx.
What we need in our Parliaments is a new
breed of politicians imbued with the iron
courage, the fine camaraderie and love of
country, the individuality, inventiveness,
swiftness in thought and action that dis-
tinguished the A.I.F. and made its deeds
immortal. But I don’t see where they are
coming from unless the returned soldiers
supply them.
So I am for a Digger party in politics.
And the sooner the better.
TUART.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Half-castes as a Substitute for Railways.
Premier Barwell of South Aus. has sug-
gested colored immigrants as a remedy for the
stagnation of the Northern Territory—a
stagnation due to lack of people and inability
to attract them. Jervis Bay, Port Stenhens,
Twofold Bay and other good places are
troubled in the same fashion; but nobody
seriously propounds niggers as a remedy for
their loneliness. In fact, it is quite widely
recognised that to fill them up with niggers
would no more help than filling them up
with rabbits or cactus. At one stage of
human progress it was possible for dense
populations to grow up without railways,
roads, books or even clothes. The human
outlook having changed, railways are essen-
tial, except in places like Polynesia, where
steamers are better. Civilisation wants to
cut down distances, and niggers don’t cut
down distances. Experience shows that a
mile in a black country is quite as long as a
mile in a white one, and generally is not so
well paved. The hope of the North lies in
changing Darwin from an isolated and dis-
colored spot on the map into what God and
geography meant it to be —Australia’s prin-
cipal sea-gate for business with Asia and
Europe and Northern Africa. Even if it
was so pervaded with cheap spotted labor
that every white inhabitant was the proud
owner of a tribe of brownish relatives, the
destiny would remain unfulfilled: it has
already tried colored labor on a larger scale
than any other part of Australia, and the
results are horribly discouraging. The cen-
sus of 1911 showed that 572 out of every
1000 inhabitants were not of European
descent (487 were pure discolored and 85
hybrid-discolored), which was 23 times worse
than the average of Queensland. (This of
course does not include our aboriginal
brother.) In addition the so-called Euro-
peans of the Territory were under an un-
usual amount of suspicion, for the Turk and
the Maltese and the whitish British subject
who is classified as a member of the Auto-
cephalous Church of Cyprus are to a great
extent honorary Europeans. Out of a popu-
lation of 3310 located on census day, 1422
read and wrote English; 918 read and wrote
some foreign language, and the rest left the
painful subject alone. To bring a still larger
proportion of color into a country which has
got such poor results from the consider-
able quantitv it has had would be to
fly in the face of practice, then, as well
as theory. What the place wants is a
new deal and a turn of European civilisa-
tion; and it can’t get either without the
railway that the Commonwealth is pledged to
give it. True, now when it is suggested
that the bargain which S. Australia made
with the Commonwealth should be honored,
the State finds itself treated as a sort of
impudent mendicant. But even so—even it
the situation were a great deal worse than
it is—niggers are no remedy for it. ihey
are no remedy for anything.
Aircraft and Suicide.
How little difference there is between the
Defence outlook of the Commonwealth
Nationalists and of the confessedly pacifist
Laborites in the same sphere of politics may
be gauged by- the almost joyous way m
which they have combined to emasculate the
Air Force. Air defence is not merely in
itself the cheapest form of effective defence;
it is indispensable in sea defence. The Brit-
ish Navy would have a much better prospect
of saving this country and the Empire in
the event of another big war if we then pos-
sessed an efficient local air force to do for
the R.N. what was done for the Germans
at Jutland bv their Zeppelins; and that is
at least part of the reason why Australia
was presented with 128 modern aeroplanes,
plus equipment, free of charge. The same
House which unauthorisedly raised its own
members’ salaries proceeded the other day,
with equal lack of authority, to fling this
British gift back in the donor’s face by cut-
ting down the number of ’planes m the
R.A.A.F. from 90, which was the original
irreducible minimum.J:o 19. To get an idea
of relative values in this connection, it is
merely necessary to observe that Australia
in the coming years will have about 50 flying
officers (between five and six “other ranks
go to one officer), while Japan will have
about a thousand ; and while Australia s five
squadrons will be skeleton formations Japan s
200-odd will be up to full strength. One of
the essentials of success in modern warfare
on land or sea is pursuit aviation. The unit
for the purpose is the squadron, composed ot
three flights of at least five machines apiece;
and its success, like that of a battalion, de-
pends on intensive training as a unit. The
business of these organisations as soon as
war comes is to go out and blind the enemy;
for if the invader’s forces are not blinded
he will blind those of the defender. Tnat,
at least, was the position at the end of the
last war. But by the beginning of the next
it seems certain to be modified in a way
that will make the ’plane as necessary for
the day-to-day safety of the civilian popu-
lation as it 'already is for the success of
armies and navies. A recent issue of Eon-
don Times quoted Sir William Pope, the
famous chemist, as saying that by the
Armistice the Allies had sufficient supplies
of mustard gas to have enveloped the Ger-
mans knee-deep, and had discovered a new
vapor against which respirators would be
of no avail —so strong that it would stop
a man if it were present in the atmosphere
in the proportion of one part in five mil-
lions.” Experience shows that nations never
abandon an arm which is a cheap and sure
killer; and so much is this taken for granted
in connection with gas and related horrors
that the first news many countries may get
of the fact that they are in the next war
will be a cloud of ’planes drenching every
city which contains a fort or arsenal with
death-dealing chemicals. The defence
against this form of attack, where distances
have to be traversed, is again pursuit avia-
tion, carried out by squadrons capable of
cutting the enemy off before he can reach a
zone where the moral of the nation may be
destroyed. What both political parties m
the Federal Parliament say in effect is that
it is better for Australia to take this risk
than find the very moderate sum which
should insure us against it.
Votes, Fractions and Formalities.
Regulations under the N. S. Wales Elec-
toral Act made it obligatory on the citizen
to vote at the last general election in order
of preference for every candidate whose
name appeared on the ballot-paper. There
were on several papers from 15 to 20 names.
Thousands of puzzled electors kept away
from the booths. Thousands more voted
mechanically, according to lists supplied
them. Many neglected to mark every can-
didate; and the vote in that case became in-
formal. If the wretched elector omitted to
record that he placed Smith 19th in order,
or if he inadvertently put “15” opposite the
names of both Brown and Jones, his vote
had no influence on the official arithmetic
even though the 15th or 19th preferences
were not brought into the count. Thus
first, second and third preferences which
were clearly expressed and were material to
the purposes of the poll were tossed into the
discard on account of omissions or inexacti-
tudes relating to remote preferences that
were irrelevant and immaterial. If the regu-
lations were drafted for the purpose of con-
fusing the elector and disfranchising him
they were eminently successful. Holman
never got half the credit or whatever it was
he deserved over that business. Instead, the
theory of proportional representation was
heavily clouted, the allegation being that re-
duced to practice proportional representation
is a snare and a delusion. It may be. Re-
presentative government itself may be. But
it is simply no use holding proportional
representation up to obloquy because of
what it produced under this scheme. Strych-
nine has no recognised place in a kitchen,
and if a cook introduces a handful into a
pie a prohibition of pie-eating is not the
only means of future protection suggested.
Proportional representation is either rotten
on its merits or it isn’t. It cannot be judged
by demerits wilfully or ignorantly imparted
to its use. That the theory has defects in
itself is clear enough from the action taken
in Parliament after experience with it.
Thus, though the obnoxious regulation com-
pelling the elector to vote for all candidates
lias now been abrogated, a serious attempt
was made to introduce another permitting
an elector to vote for a single candidate in
a multiple-member constituency. In a three-
member constituency the elector who fol-
lowed this practice would discount the value
of his vote. His man might conceivably get
thousands more votes than his quota ; and all
these surplus votes would be wasted. And it
can be taken as certain that powerful argu-
ments would be dropped into receptive ears on
and before polling days in favor of marking
only one preference, for every candidate yearns
to secure the greatest number of first pre-
ferences. Carried to any large extent the prac-
tice of recording one-third (or one-fifth) of a
vote would obviously make proportional repre-
sentation yield results no more satisfactory
than the sudden-death method of deciding an
election, or the scheme which gives 46 per
cent, of Australian electors one member in
the Senate. As the law now stands the
elector must vote for as many candidates as
his constituency returns, in the order of his
preference; and if he goes further, as he
may, and indicates his next one or two pre-
ferences, so much the better. But the whole
purpose of proportional representation is
defeated if they are not honest preferences.
Family Quarrels.
The Ma State election campaign was for-
mally opened last week by an exchange of
ponderous pleasantries between Premier
Dooley and Joseph Carrutiiers. But,
apart from the editors of the Sydney morn-
ing papers, nobody heeded them. Their
labored irony and simulated ferocity coin-
cided with a wild outbreak of faction-fight-
ing in each of their parties, and when a
real scrap is raging the sham article fails
to interest. The row among the Progres-
sives over the coalition with Fuller’s
Nationalists has reached such a pitch of
fury that the co-operators and non-co-opera-
tors now hate each other more cordially than
they hate the Labor Government. Even the
placid Wearne has been baited into a bitter
attack on the Sydney farmers who until
recently called him leader :
Because I refused to take instructions as to my
Parliamentary duties everything that can be done
to injure me in the eyes of the primary producers
will be engineered from the head office of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association in O’Connell -
street, Sydney. If 12 years on the executive of the
F.S.A. and five years in Parliament are not enough
to counteract the wilful misrepresentation of facts,
manufactured by certain persons for their own ends,
and with such spite that they would sooner see the
present socialistic Government returned to power
than anyone who dares to oppose them, then I have
been. mistaken in my opinion of the electors of the
Namoi.
But Wearne’s remarks were mild and be-
nevolent compared with the language evoked
in the . Labor press by the appointment of
J. H. Catts, M.H.R. for Cook, as Dooley’s
campaign director. For a year or more
Catts has been at daggers drawn with the
wirepullers of the A.W.U. At the last
A.L.P. conference, according to the Worker,
he was the Government’s agent in “a cun-
ningly-conceived plan” to secure the election
of “a complacent and plastic A.L.P. execu-
tive —a spiritless thing of paint and putty,
useful only for covering up defects and put-
ting a fair face- on that which is rotten
within.” Later on Catts genially explained
in a newspaper that he was “the big pro-
testing voice against an organised gang of
vice, corruption and criminality operating
in political circles in Sydney, and all the
force of this brutal Tammany dictatorship
has been exerted to strangle the member for
Cook as a public man.” For which the
paper that is the official exponent in N. S.
Wales of what Whitman called “the insti-
tution of the love of comrades” gently chided
him:—•
Catts employs the little sheet to make malicious
attacks on prominent members of the Labor party,
and to speak of the whole official movement in Syd-
ney as though it were a den of thieves and black-
guards.
It also playfully observed that comrade
Catts was an “acute megalomaniac,” a
“strutting, boastful egotist” and a “jlosing
purist dropping poisonous hints and vile in-
sinuations,” and likened him to “a cowardly
assassin who stabs his enemy in the back
and runs away.” That is only three months
a<ro, and the wounds are still raw. So when
Dooley appointed the acute megalomaniac
as his chief of Staff in the war against
Plute, the gusty rage of the A.W.U. heads
nearly blew the roof off Macdonell House,
and the Worker editor foamed at the mouth.
A party — any party —that can’t rise above
screaming personal feuds and the pursuit of'
sordid class advantage, proclaims its own
unfitness. Unfortunately unfitness is no bar
to success at the noils when politics has
become an affair of small men and mean
issues.
Two Orders Which Are the Same Order.
In August, 1920, an order issued from the
Military Boars in Melbourne that “members
of the Australian Forces who volunteered un-
conditionally for service overseas but were
refused permission to enlist” might be
awarded the British War Medal. And Medal
Boards were assembled “to adjudicate upon
all cases and to determine the eligibility of
applicants.” Within a very short time
practically all those permanent officers and
men who remained in Australia throughout
the war had been recommended for the medal.
The Returned Soldiers’ League began such
a furious agitation in all the States that this
order was cancelled. Its place was taken
last week by one which says that the medal
may be granted to applicants who produce
satisfactory proof that
(a) During their service in the Citizen Forces (com-
pulsory called-up service) or in the Permanent Forces
(1) they applied for permission to enlist for military
service outside Australia without reservation as to
rank; (2) the permission was not forthcoming; (3)
they did not have an opportunity of serving outside
Australia in any rank.
Clearly it is the old order in a slightly more
elaborate uniform; and, lest there should be
any miscarriage of unearned glory, “as far
as possible the personnel of the Boards
assembled to carry out the necessary re-
vision shall be the same as that of the
original Boards.” Now, though a few humbly-
placed warriors may be required to dip their
ribbons under the new arrangement, the em-
blems will be held by those mostly
senior officers who (1) marked themselves
“indispensable”; (2) were too old to go
abroad; or (3) were medically unfit. But if
members of the last two classes have a right
to the medal, then every civilian member of
the Rejected Volunteers’ Association is
equally entitled. In fact, to the extent that
there was not the same obligation on the
civilian to offer himself as there was on the
man who had spent years acquiring the sol-
dier’s art, the former has, if anything, the
better claim. The Rejected Volunteers put
forward no such suggestion because they
probably appreciate a point which is plainly
hidden from the Military Board —that a war
medal is not a certificate of character, but a
sign of achievement in a defined sphere. So
closely is this principle adhered to in the
place the medal comes from that soldiers on
home service in Hartlepool (Eng.), who were
wounded by German bombers, and whose
comrades were killed, have been denied the
medal by the British War Office. If the Mili-
tary Board is determined to give its friends
who for one reason or another stayed in Aus-
tralia during the war a decoration in memory
of the event, the obvious course is to strike
a home-service medal. This, like the V.D.
medal, would be recognised as a fair thing by
members of the A.1.F.; and it would save
what ought to be a combatant’s decoration
from falling to the level of the 0.8. E.
Not Stiggins, but Galen.
The British Medical Journal (26/11/’2li
printed the following from a lay reader who
wrote urging the value of clinics: —
It is established, then, that more than half our
male population, at any rate, are venereals. Tc
those people who would damn us as social outcasts
the retort is obvious-r-it is ridiculous to maintain
that half our male population are blackguards.
They are not, but are merely average young men.
Of those people among whom I live in the suburbs
of London the vast majority are as regular in
their illicit sexual intercourse as they are in their
football and cricket.
Now the majority of young men in suburban
London are quite decent-living, law-abiding and
hard-working citizens. To address us from the
moral aspect is waste of time —we do not consider
it immoral —but we are fully alive to the terrible
dangers of venereal disease to us and to the State.
While this paper is not prepared to accept
the ipsissima verba of the B.M.J. correspon-
dent, there is no reason to assume that the
morals of Australia are vastly superior to
those of England. The same arguments in
favor of continence which were used by the
Apostles have been put to the world in an
increasing volume ever since, as the printing-
press, the cheap newspaper and, finally, the
cinema, opened up fresh publicity-avenues to
the reformers. They are being employed
to-day by every Christian Church, and by
almost every doctor, and by millions of terri-
fied parents. The results may be gauged,
so far as Australia is concerned, by a visit
to any clinic: one great Sydney hospital
which is appealing for funds to build a N r .D.
wing spoke in its annual report a few days
ago of crowds of sufferers who had to be
controlled by the police, and of hundreds who
were turned away for lack of accommoda-
tion. London Observer remarked the other
day, apropos the venereal scourge: “We have
won the war, but are losing the race.” Dr.
Stopes, in her recently-published book, which
has the endorsement of Sir Jas. Crichton
Browne and Sir William Lane, says that
“the previous estimate of the cost of the
venereal diseases to the United States of
America of £625,000,000 per annum is
now regarded as an under-estimate.”
So that in any country, however religious,
however idealistic, however educated, where
the old laissez-faire methods are relied on,
there must be ruinous loss to the State and
infinite misery to the individual from these
diseases. And yet they are as eradicable as
the plague or small-pox. Nothing keeps them
alive but a prejudice masquerading as moral-
ity, which is on all fours with the supersti-
tion that in the Dark Ages precluded any
attempt being made to cure insanity. Dur-
ing the war self-disinfection was instituted
on a vast scale, the American effort being
so thorough that by the middle of 1918 the
Yankee medical authorities were able to
claim that they had virtually eliminated
V.D. from their army in France. No one
obects to the advocacy of disinfection in
tetanus, septicaemia, gangrene, erysipelas. It
may be said to be compulsory, insofar as a
doctor who handled a case of the sort, and
omitted to disinfect before and after, would
be regarded by the profession as an infamous'
character. Why should it not be encouraged,
or even be made compulsory, in the case of
those who lay themselves open to venereal in-
fection and who, as all history shows, will
thus lay themselves open whether they are
safeguarded against transforming themselves
into plague-carriers or not? No one objects
to a typhoid area being segregated until it
has been rendered harmless; and health in-


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000
AUTHORISED CAPITAL
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS ' “°°,OOCI
ASSETS EXCEED
" “ - £1,100,000
! V ? Blboume ’ Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
C 11 nr** rs ■ *r«* i i SELBY P. WOOD, Managing Director.
Full Time, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
spectors are part ot the daily routine of
every civilised city. Why, then, allow women
whose profession automatically transforms
them into disease centres to go unregistered,
and, in a sanitary sense, uncontrolled? Aus-
tralia has only to realise the wicked illogi-
cality of the existing system, and a source
of death and anguish to millions of innocent
women and children, as well as mere sinners
who may or may not deserve all they get
will begin to go the way of enteric, diphtheria
and the rest. The moralists have had their
chance: it is time that science took a hand
in the problem.
The Way We Live Now.
Less is heard of the house-shortage now
not because houses have grown any larger'
but because people have settled down more
to the new conditions. They have learned
to do with less air, less seclusion, less
decency. It is wonderful how much de-
cency people can do without when they try.
It is also wonderful how many partial or
complete strangers can sleep in a room at
a pinch. Marvels are accomplished, too, these
days m the way of turning back-street bal-
conies into complete dwelling-houses for com-
pressible families. A view of Sydney’s by-
ways from an aeroplane is a' revelation.
Civilisation, in fact, has slipped down a
few notches as the price of high wages for
little work and many loafing days. It has
taken on an Indian aspect. In Delhi or
Calcutta the bright, ambitious young man
just starting life, with his card inscribed
“Rhamadashtrra Bhux, Failed Entrance
Calcutta University,” begins by sharing a
room with three other bright and soaring
spirits. There is a bed in each corner and no-
thing in the middle. When he has prospered
he has half-a-room all to his murky self.
When he has prospiared more he marries
and has a whole room. Australia is becom-
ing like that, though it doesn’t do the thing
so naturally and picturesquely. Meanwhile
Mr. McTiernan says that, if he comes back
with the rest to wallow in the hog-trough
of £2OO a month, he will do something mare
furious than ever to deal with this trouble.
The scheme he outlines doesn’t provide for
the building of any new houses: it merely
provides for giving so much more particular
sheol on top of existing sheol to anybody
found trying to supply the. house-want that
the last attempt in that line will promptly
leave off. He explained in the capitalistic
press—the Labor daily not being started yet
—that his object is to save N. S. Wales from
“the Gombeen-man.” A Gombeen-man is
defined by the dictionary as “a grasping and
usurious moneylender in Ireland.” Why N.
S. Wales should give McTiernan (who'was
born here, and is merely a sort of stage or
professional Irishman) a new lease of salary
that he may combat a creature that isn’t a
landlord and never comes out of Ireland it
is difficult to say, but probhbly McTiernan
would accept a salary with equal readiness
for doing: battle with the loathly worm or the
hyperborean salamander.
The Frozen Heretic.
Like the frozen heretic looking in at the
window of the warm, sociable church which
he left in haste, and to which he craves re-
admission, Lenin makes mew overtures
almost every week for the renewal of Rus-
sia’s ticket as a member of the Nations’
Union. He is prepared to swear off Com-
munism, McGirrism and Marxism, and even
Buddhism if that will help. He is willing to
“recognise” the long-repudiated public debt,
and to give a fresh lOU in place of the old
one. He would be glad to make his State
“capitalistic” again, if he could only find
some capital to be capitalistic with. He
asks, in return, for the recognition of his
Government, the “resumption of ordinary
trading relations,” and a big, generous loan.
.There have been Governments that got along
without recognition for many years, and
were little the worse, but Lenin’s isn’t that
sort. Though it has saved four years’ inter-
est on its foreign and local debt the country
is down to its last bean, and at recent
advices it took £23,160 in paper money to
make £l. Naturally the situation is diffi-
cult. Attempts were made in various quar-
ters long ago to resume “ordinary trading-
relations,” but there were none to resume.
The Government allowed no one to trade but
itself, and it had nothing much to sell, and
only paper to buy with. It still has little or
nothing to sell. When it has got some-
thing—that is to say, when its neonle get
back to work and throw overboard the silly
notion that any ism is a substitute for toil-
relations with the other nations will soon
restore themselves.
♦
Dominion Status.
G. C. Dixon has his final rejoinder:—
In that small portion of his “further reply’’ which
deals with the points at issue, Mr. Dalt.ey alleges
(on very slight evidence) that in his first article he
“put forward two main propositions.’’ The first
was that, except for one thing-, we had ( achiev-ed
all the characteristics of a sovereign State.’ ” This
very fact that we have achieved virtual independence
•without having- to pay dearly for it is, as I have
twice said, an excellent reason for not tinkering
still further with the Constitution. The “one thing”
which, according to Mr. Dalley, infringes our in-
dependence is presumably the right of a Governor
to refuse assent to legislation. Since this right
has fallen into disuse, as Mr. Dalley himself admits,
his only grievance disappears into thin air. So
much for his first point.
Mr. Galley’s second “main proposition” is that
“nothing will ever get Australia respect, or any-
thing else worth having, but force of arms.” One
may agree with Mr. Dalley and with his hundred
Diggers—unnamed but apparently learned in the
Constitution—without accepting their view that the
best way to achieve this desirable result is to weaken
the connection with Britain and rely upon the mailed
fist of five and a half millions of people. My own
opinion—which does not seem to appeal to Mr.
Dalley —is that Australia will command the respect
of outsiders just in so far as she is backed up bj'
the wealth, the man-power and the niilitary and
naval resources of the British Empire. It naturally
follows that to weaken the few thin links that
remain in the Imperial chain is calculated to lessen
rather than increase our prestige in the eyes of
the foreigner. Australia cannot get anywhere just
as present by sabre-rattling, for the simple reason
that she hasn’t enough sabres to rattle.
Stripped of personalities, generalities and banali-
ties, the theory unfolded in Mr. Dalley’s lines seems
to be that if we could only avoid the indignity of
submitting bills to the local Governor and appeals
to the Privy Council, we should be in a position to
“maintain our war-efforts relatively to the rest <of
the Empire”—whatever that means —and join the
ranks of the great military Powers. If it pleases
anyone to hold such views, I have not the slightest
objection, but I still think it rather foolish to air
them before the people of Australia.
The recent stir in Melbourne about the lack
of hospital accommodation has subsided, the
rattle of the subscription-box has abated, and
for the moment one hears very little about the
wandering Lazarus for whom there is no
space to spare in any public institution, save
the gaol infirmary. But the scandal exists
STILL A HANDY MAN.
"Mr. Hughes has again reconstructed his Cabinet."
BILLY: "Fortunately I can still turn my hand to the old game."
as usual, and the sinful absurdity of it is
the same disgrace that ever it was. Even
from the mouth of a City Father —and a
scandal must be pretty glaring before a town
councillor protests—comes the complaint
that Melbourne’s system of running public
hospitals on charitable lines is essentially
bad. All demands of the sort on charity
are unjust, seeing that only a section of
the community responds to them. Fur-
ther, apart from the time and money spent in
collection, the incomes of charity-supported
hospitals are precarious, because private
fortunes fluctuate, and Death, the Great
Irresponsible, has a say in the matter —a
generous rich man passes out and a miser
reigns in his stead, or vice versa. Nothing,
in this connection maintains a fair average
save the annua] proportion of citizens who
ought to contribute to the support of the
hospitals—and don’t. Obviously the only
proper way of financing public institutions
for the sick is to charge their upkeep to the
State. Councillor Atkins, the City Father
before alluded to, mildly suggests' that it
would “hardly be equitable” to tax the rate-
payers only. It would not be a little bit
equitable. Old-ace pensions are charged to
the public revenue. The maternity bonus is
provided for out of taxes. The" mentally
infirm are supported by the Government as
a matter of course, and never a word is
heard about the refusal of admittance to a
lunatic at a public asylum. Then why does
not the Government undertake the care of the
physically infirm, and put an end, once and
tor all, to hospital-subscription lists, hospi-
tal Saturdays and Sundays, hospital jazzes,
teas, dinners, bazaars and 20 other sorts of
frivolity that sport the guise of a Good
Cause ?
Victoria's new scheme for supplying infants
with reasonably pure milk is only fooling
with a solemn subject. It provides for "ap-
proved” dairy farms, depots and milk, which
article the public is to be invited to buy at
a price slightly higher than that of ordinary
eowjuipe; and the public is to be "educated”
in the virtue of using only milk from cows
that have been tested for tuberculosis. Direc-
tor of Agriculture Cameron has other ideas.
He suggests a wide extension of the Dairy
Supervision Act, which applies to only one-
third of the State. In that district only 1
to 5 per cent, of-milk-fed pigs are diseased,
whereas, in the other two-thirds of the State
the percentage of diseased porkers varies from
.12 to 28. per cent. Cameron wants to know
why the whole State shouldn’t be inspected
and diseased stock destroyed where' and' when
found. Were it made compulsory for all
cow-owners to pay 2s. per cow per annum
into a compensation fund it wouldn’t be
worth while concealing a tuberculous beast
from the prying inspector. If the Govern-
ment’s “educating” policy ik effective the
owner of the tuberculous cow will have to
go out of his nefarious business. He might
as well be compelled to go at once, and thus
save a lot of baby-massacre.
Dear Bulletin, —I was having a shave the
other day, and the barber had just finished
telling me at length how his mother-in-law
died of cancer (it seemed that she spent the
last three years of her life running round
the garden in deshabille and screaming at
the ton of her vo.ce) when an idea struck
me re the vexed question of the Federal capi-
tal. Why not have it in England, so as to
be handy for borrowing money, which is,
after all, the chief political business of this
country? It might be necessary to have
branch offices here (they could be at the
different State metropolises), but the Prime
Minister, the External Affairs man, the
ireasm-er (he could cable out the deficit),
the Chief Borrower, the High Commissioner,
the Federal Railway Manager (who could
keep the Federal railway shortage in Eng-
land out of our way), and a few Plonorary
Ministers could make a happy family in
.John Bull’s country. As the capital would
be m every State and yet in no State no
one should be jealous. I forget where the
barber’s mother-in-law was buried, but she
has very little to do with the case, after all.
—Yours, etc., J. E.
Tile streets of Sydney were never before in
such a state of chaos as they have been dur-
ing- the past three months. And, if pos-
sible, they grow worse .instead of better. The
new rule of “Keep to the Left” is observed
by only just enough pedestrians to make
the progress of all slow and difficult and
exasperating. In a few central blocks con-
stables direct the traffic-—and it continues as.
directed for a dozen yards. After that there
is chaos again. Time was when time was
valued. It is still supposed to have its
offices, shops and work-rooms; and,
though more of it is wasted than is good for
the country, bankruptcy would certainly be
ahead of the employer who allowed his em-
ployees to get in one another’s way as pedes-
trians now habitually do in these streets
Yet the majority of people don’t as a rule °-o
into the streets for the mere fun of the thing
They use the streets for business pur-
poses just as truly as they use the shops
or offices where they are employed or where
thev employ others; and the time they waste
in the streets, through this introduction of
chaos to the traffic, is just-as truly money
wasted as if the time was lost indoors. No
attempt lias yet. been made to translate into
£ s. d. the cost of the new rule, but it cer-
tainly runs into tens of thousands a week •
and that money has to be added to the cost
of living. The fiasco calls for one of two
things. The rule should be either, resolutely
enforced or promptly abandoned. If the
authorities are game to risk it on the eve of
a general election 20 prosecutions a day
would work a change within a fortnight If
they are not prepared to go that far, then
in the public interest, and that those who
are law-abiding may escape the unpleasant-
nesses which at present befall them, the new
rule should be abandoned.
The g. M. Herald on January 5 had an
article on the “wonderful roads” of the
United States. On the same day Mel-
bourne Age came out strongly about the
wonderfully prompt way the Washington
1 arliament does business. A possible ex-
planation as regards the roads is that, even
°fishort road, there is a big town at the
other end to share the cost of maintenance.
On the other hand a road, beginning at Syd-
ney with the best intentions, grows dis-
couraged and faints by the way when it
finds it has no place to go to save a gum-
tree on the Lachlan. And the Washington
Pailiament, unlike ours, doesn’t waste its
time Minister-baiting, for Ministers aren’t
there to be baited, nor on no-confidence
motions, for Ministers care not the least
whether the member for Kangaroo Tale has
confidence or only swelled head.
!bn«P nf T US a d be ’ the habit of courts like
those of Judge Beeby to strike a ruminative,
head-scratching attitude when it was pro-
posed that work should be reduced to 44
hours while pay remained at 48. The ques-
t;on, they said, was whether the change
would have the very obvious result of in-
creasing cost by reducing production. Gen-
erally in the early days his ’Onah showed
his impartiality by suggesting that the em-
ployer should give the thing a trial for a
year or two, and then, if he found himself
mined and a suicide, he could come back
and report. But however much Dooley
Cabinets or Dooleyish municipal bodies
might scorn the assertion of the private em-
ployer that the change meant heavy extra
cost, they fully recognised the cost in their
own case, and began making preparations
tor taxing the public some more as a matter
of course. The N. S. Wales Railway De-
partment mentioned straight out the big sum
that the 44-hours week would cost, and
some part of the Sydney municipal conces-
sion was made a postponed boon so that
there might, be time to loot the ratepayer.
If the Railways couldn’t levy on the
Treasury to cover their shortage, nearly half
of the Cornstalk lines would Have ceased
running before this. And, because the pri-
vate employer can't levy on the Treasury, a
large number of private industries are ceas-
ing to run. There is nothing sinister about
it —no conspiracy or anything of the sort.
They are simply forced to do exactly what
tlie Labor Government’s own railways con-
fessed that they would have to do in similar
circumstances.
“Solomon Stout” heads a revolution:—
In view of coming N. S. Wales elections and the
house famine I would suggest a reversion to the old
property qualification with a difference. House
property used to belong to a privileged or lucky
class. Now it belongs to an accursed caste which
is recognised as necessary, yet has all manner of
laws made against it. By way of distributing the
curse while meeting the necessity I suggest that no
man should be eligible to stand for Parliament
unless he owns at least 10 houses of not less than
five rooms each, available for rent according to the
provisions of the Fair Rents law. The .trouble is
not with the landlord, who has done his share by
being a landlord, but with the shirker or work-
dodger who refuses to be a landlord. The bachelor
who doesn’t help to provide children is a frequent
subject of complaint, but the loafer who doesn’t
supply homes for children to live in is
no better. Compulsory taxation, compulsory
unionism and compulsory military service are com-
mon enough. Compulsory subscription to loans is
threatened. Compulsory house-building is logical,
and the Parliamentarian is the right man to start
with, so that he will know something about the
subject when it next turns up. McTiernan’s
remedy for house shortage in the Ma State is to
heap insults and disabilities and discouragements on
the people who have done their. bit in the way of
supplying houses, instead of going for shirkers like
himself who haven’t. It is very like McTiernan,
and some people’s resemblance to themselves is the
worst thing about them.


Important to Motor Truck Buyers
REDUCTION IN PRICES.
The dollar exchange being now more favorable we are able to make an
appreciable reduction in prices of new shipment just landed of the celebrated
Wichita Motor Truck Chassis, 1 to 6 ton.
r *»w
ft.
otors
sku
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, TO George Street, Camperdown, Sydney
Australian Representatives Wichita Motor Company.
POLITICAL
POINTS
From a Federal Gallery-man :
Frank Tudor was nearer in thought to the
average Liberal than to his bright young followers
who want to see more red in Labor’s objective.
A good number of the party grew restless under his
leadership, and it was only the adherence of the old
heads and one or two of the new men that kept
him in command when Ryan appeared on the scene.
Ryan and Tudor, often nearly irreconcilable in
their ideas, were personal friends, and their mutual
respect and tact enabled them to keep their differences
from the public eye. Both were terrific workers,
but Tudor was the more attentive to his duties
in the House. He was always in his place on the
front Opposition bench or at the table, and whatever
the warmth of the debate he never gave the enemy
one under the belt. He was probably the most
fluent speaker in the Reps., and if he had taken
the trouble to cultivate a vocabulary and an
oratorical manner, he would have been second only
to the late Roberts, who -was the most impressive
talker the Federal Labor party ever had. Tudor
was enthusiastically anti-Conscriptionist, but not
for the reasons that afflicted the pacifist and Bol-
shevik sections. He showed where his heart was
in the war when his only eligible son enlisted on his
18th birthday.
The 0.8. U. Council of Action, which
burst into existence at Melbourne last June,
has Started to “function” at last. That is
to say, it has issued a vaporing manifesto
in which the serfs of Piute are urged to
become active and get “linked up,” the
latter expression (it is nearly as popular
as “functioning” with these pinchbeck
Lenins and Robespierres) occurring five
times in 10 lines. But it seems that the
victims of the soulless competitive system
haven’t paid the threepenny levy which the
Council of Action struck when it was a
bouncing infant and without which it can’t
“function” to any extent. Probably their
idea is that Councils of Action would be
dear at two a penny.
Notwithstanding the manoeuvres of. city
wirepullers, officials of co-operative societies
and so forth, circumstances are forcing the
Cocky groups in various States into working
arrangements with the Liberals. Last week
the Queensland Country party agreed to con-
fer with the other section of the Opposition
so as to secure unity in the next session of
Parliament and an amicable division of seats
at the general election. Unless the sore-
headed Yowles is permitted to make a hash
of the negotiations this spells trouble in
quantities for the Theodore Government,
which wouldn’t have got through last session
if the Opposition had been ordinarily vigi-
lant and resolute. Theodore’s majority is
precarious, and an enforced appeal to the
country in its present temper would be his
finish.
Tas. Parliament meets this week to clean
up the more or less urgent business that was
interrupted by the toy trumpets of Christ-
mas. As this is the final opportunity mem-
bers will have to advertise their indispen-
sableness (general election in May next),
the proceedings will be vociferous in spots.
The astute Premier Lee fears the formation
of a Countrv party, and has spent a good part
of his holiday-time explaining to his country
supporters that a Country party would split
the Nationalists and allow Labor to slip in.
Also he points out that his Ministry contains
three practical agriculturists (Hayes, Hean
and Hays), and what better guarantee of
good and faithful Cocky service could Pretty
Cocky have? If Lee can persuade liis three
lawyer colleagues to hold their joint and
several tongues during the remainder of the
sesion all may yet be well.
On a man who can’t make up his mind: —
These days the muddy geyser of N. S. Wales Labor
politics is working at a furious rate. The latest
eruption has been caused by the vain and unstable
McGirr. On Saturday this extraordinary person
bounded into the capitalistic newspapers (he seems
to camp on their doorsteps) with an assurance that
his “relations with Mr. Dooley were never more
cordial, and the Premier has the confidence of the
whole party.” By Monday he had persuaded him-
self that “Dooley and his cautious, prudent and
“HOO—COLD!”
“In view of the small amount of legislative work accomplished by the Labor Government of N. S.
Wales, a desperate effort is being made to induce the Ministry to postpone the general election and rush
through some popular legislation.”
opportunistic colleagues” were leading the party
to perdition, and that if the A.L.P. executive didn't
accept his motion for the postponement of the elec-
tions “it will impel me to appeal to the better,
saner and more democratic elements in the Labor
movement to follow me into a field where Mr.
Dooley and his anti-democratic instincts will not
be allowed to palter- with the great principles of
the Labor movement.” In the meantime, appa-
sently, the gentleman had come to terms with the
0.8. U. section, which hates Dooley like poison
and is determined to oust him even at the cost of
another party split. But in relying on McGirr’s
leadership the plotters forget his fatal predilection
for being everything by turns and nothing long.
He lacks both constancy and the courage of his
convictions —if he has any. Next week he may be
looking for a Nationalist nomination or proposing
to lead a Labor mission to Patagonia. Meantime
the muckrake is kept busy, and some of the
harvest is being used for blackmailing purposes—
or being offered for it. It is a sweet atmosphere
altogether.
The Westralian Parliament adjourned last
week for a seven or eight months' speil, hav-
ing put through the usual swarm of amend-
ing bills relative to the width of tyres, un-
registered dogs, straying cows and the bridge
over the Njookenboroo drain. Also it was
decided to borrow another two millions, and
three new Royal Commissions were created
in one day. But nearly every relatively
important bit of legislation introduced during
the session was shelved or slung out by the
Leg. Council. A measure permitting a co-
operative co. to build grain elevators suffered
equally with a wild attempt to compel the
cultivation of idle land contiguous to rail-
ways, a proposal to establish a small public
works committee and household suffrage for
the superiah House. It would be dangerous
to take such liberties with some Govern-
ments. But there is no more fight in the
Mitchell crowd than there is in a tapeworm.
The other day Minister Huxham (Q.)
sacked a teacher who had been so indiscreet
as to go criticising the Government in his
leisure hours. The Minister alleged he had
many superfluous teachers, and in the cir-
cumstances this teacher was very superflu-
ous. Three years ago some hundreds of
railway employees in Northern Queensland
—all quite superfluous, as the Commissioner
has 3000 more men on the pay-sheet than
he requires—criticised the Government by
downing tools and paralysing industry for
some months. But they were not sacked,
and still flourish amazingly. Under this
Government they are the bosses, and know it.
The ways of the N.S.W. coalminer sug-
gest those of the domestic kitten. The small
cat rushes headlong at nothing and stops
half-way, and the northern miners, with
471 stoppages last year, were just as irrele-
vant. Bitter complaint is made about the
intermittent nature of the employment, and
that is well grounded—47l stoppages in less
than 50 weeks of 51 days each make employ-
ment intermittent enough for anything. The
supreme aggravation is that no one can find
out why all* these intermissions occur any
more than one can analyse the kitten. When
the ostensible cause of suspension is that a
man wasn’t allowed to maltreat a horse it
can’t be taken seriously. Presumably some-
one who must be obeyed gives the sign, but
who he is and why lie is are mysteries. Of
course, the theory is that it is all to “im-
prove the miner’s condition” ; but how inter-
mission -improves the miner’s condition isn’t
obvious. Intermission (that is, loafing) isn’t
at all saleable. A miner couldn’t get tup-
pence for a ton of it.
In its first hectic twelvemonth the Ma
State’s Labor Ministry spent about four
times as much loan money as the Victorian
Government, collected £4 6s. more revenue
per head of population (its income-tax rates
were from 24 to 5 times higher), and wound
up with a £445,000 deficit against Victoria’s
surplus of £150,000. And at the end of
1921 it was estimated that there were
40,000 unemployed unionists in N. S. Wales,
whereas only 5000 were enumerated in Vic-
toria ; and the 5000 included out-of-work
shearers in the Riverina branch of the
A.W.U. As the beaming Dooley remarked
in another connection, any fool can go on
a loan-drunk and smite the wage-paying
section with terrific taxes. But the end
thereof is sackcloth and ashes.
The total baby bonus expenditure will
pass the six-million-pound mark early this
year. The birth-rate is smaller than before
the dole was established, so it hasn’t caused
any increase of baby; but as the death-rate
has grown it may have killed some through
injudicious celebration on the part of the
parents. Not one infant remembers getting
the gift or remembers being any the better
for it. Now, if the money had been spent
on constructing the South-to-North line free
of debt, the child would possess at least one
big unencumbered asset. And he would have
a new province for a birthday present.
The few Federal politicians who turn up
in the lobbies these days are wondering whe-
ther Pearce’s new job in the Home and Ter-
ritories Department is merely a spring-
board for a leap into the chair of High.
Commissioner in the U.S.A. Press cables
from Washington, presenting admiring pic-
tures of Pearce as a diplomat, seem to sug-
gest that something is brewing, but as usual
Hughes is dumb regarding the future. It
is pretty certain, however, that Pearce won’t
be content with his “promotion,” especially
as his department is beihg steadily stripped
of its not too numerous responsibilities.
Papua and passports, for instance, previ-
ously in the keeping of the II. and T. man,
are now under the eye of Hughes as Min-
ister for External Affairs. When a couple
of other functions are passed over, as anti-
cipated, Pearce can go golfing all day.
Simpson, president of the Queensland
Landholders’ Defence Association, puts the
acid on the Government cattle-station busi-
ness. The official report acknowledges a loss
of £194,000, but Simpson holds that it is
probably three times as great. Officially the
values were written down for the 12 months
by 8.8 per cent., but during the same period
cattle values throughout Queensland have
gone down by 50 per cent. In June, 1919,
the balance-sheet showed an average value
of £4 13s. The enormous depreciation that
has taken place since then has been allowed
for officially to the extent of only Is, 3d.
per head. Somebody will have to do a lot
of explaining presently. But he will make
a hard fight to nostpone it till after the
general election.
“Rounds” on a matter that has a smell: —
Vic. Attorney-General Robinson can’t be prodded
into revealing the reason for the- premature release
of the notorious Henry Stokes. He has issued a long
and vague statement regarding the exercise of mercy
to prisoners, but why Stokes should be due for
any special clemency is still unexplained. The police
are naturally pretty wild, considering that they
went to immense trouble and personal risk to convict
a citizen who was becoming a social menace.
They will be a lot wilder at the imminent re-
appearance of the offender, for apparently he. is to
return to his old haunts after spending in Tasmania
the two or three months he should have been serving
in the Melbourne Gaol. Even the brightest days
of Tote Boss Wren, when the Law was openly
defied, can show nothing more remarkable than
the gift of the freedom of Melbourne to Henry
Stokes. If Premier Lawson has any regard for the
reputation of his Government, he should have the
whole subject ventilated without delay.
There is enough silent contempt in the
world to ignore all criticisms with, but Aus-
tralian Agents-General don’t know how to
use it. Recently Lamington—bearer of a
name well known in Queensland —published
some comments on the finances of the Aus-
tralian railway Systems. An A.-G. with the
wisdom of the serpent might have deftly
changed the subject with a new recipe for
broiled brolga with barramundi sauce. But
Connolly, of Westralia. leaped in with a
statement that Australia has railways not
for profit but to, develop the great natural
racecourses of the country, etc.. What he
didn’t explain was (1) why railways that
don’t pay their grease-bill should develop
a country better than that do; (2)
why high charges and a huge loss, as Queens-
land has now. should develop it better than
low rates and a profit, as it used to have;
(3) what is gained by reduced railway
charges if tax bills grow 300 per cent, at
the same time; and (4) why Queensland
and others ever bragged about the profits of
the railways if they weren’t built for profit.
Premier BarweH’s bad break in S. Aus.
has stirred up the A.N.A. At the conference
to be held at Mildura in March Chief Presi-
dent Rust will ask the delegates to re-
affirm the association’s unalterable cham-
pionship of the White Australia policy. The
declaration will be very timely in view of
some mysterious underground engineering
which is in progress—and not in Australia
only.
A PARABLE OF RIVAL NOISES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The two volcanoes roared and flamed
Their hate across the tropic sea;
And they respectively were named
Volcano A, Volcano B.
They spat their lava in a flood,
They shot their ashes very high ;
And each cried loud to Heaven for blood
And said the other had to die.
Yet in the ages of their strife,
Though one went up and one went down,
They took their turns of fiery life
And burned their mountains very brown.
But as they raged in hollow spleen
The sides of one grew very thin,
Until one day a wavelet green
Observed a hole and tumbled in.
B saw the awful plight of A
And raised a loud and flaming cheer,
Proclaiming he had won the day
And that the other’s death was near.
But even as he cheered he felt
Above A’s thick and watery scream
A sudden pressure at his belt
He had to diagnose as steam.
The death of A was death to B.
No matter which threw ashes higher,
The fact was patent to the sea
That both were using the same fire.
And so they burst and peace came down.
Their angry mouths at last were shut;
And on the ragged ruins brown
The kind years grew a coeoanut.
Now, all good Christian men take heed,
The seas of truth may find a rent
In party rocks and end with speed
The double noise of Parliament.
For party A and party B,
Though both are filled with loud desire
To dump each other in the sea,
Are fed by the same useless fire.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


VALE PRANK TUDOR!


Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Managing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
Sub-branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonator*
Cartridge*
HIGH=GRADE STEEL
produced by the Electric Process under strict Metallurgical Control.
We specialise in Low to High Carbon Steels to any specification,
Manganese, Chrome, Nickel, High Silicon, Chrome Vanadium, Acid-
resisting or other Alloy Steels of every description.
Consult us on your Steel Problems.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
(Listed on Lloyd’s Register, London),
MITCHELL ROAD. ALEXANDRIA, N.S.W.
Branch Works in course of erection at West Guildford, Perth, W.A.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance,
shipping, merchandise and general agency
people:—
Ordinary Written off
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises. Reserves.
1910.. £211,808 8 p.c. = £BO,OOO £40,000 £457,579
1911.. 209,138 8 ~ „ 80.000 40,000 521,717
1912.. 207,438 8 „ „ 80,000 40,000 584,10rn
1913.. 213,377 8 „ „ 80,000 50,000 642,532
1914.. 209,483 8 „ „ 80,000 747,015
1915.. 206,672 8 „ „ 80,000 40,000 808,687
1916.. 203,857 10 „ ~100,000 40,000 847,544
1917.. 260,227 13 „ „ 130,000 100,000 852,771
1918.. 251,000 14 ~ „ 140,000 25,000 913,771
1919.. 252,157 14 „ „ 140,000 30,000 970,928
1920.. 282,577 15 ~ ~150,000 50,000 1,028,505
1921.. 130,607 10 „ „ 100,000 1,034,112
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
The £130,007 profit was a few thousands
more than was required to pay 5 p.c. on
prefs. and 10 p.c. (free of English income-
tax) on ordinaries. So things might have
been much worse for shareholders, even
though profits were only half those of recent
years and smaller than in any term since
1906. The co. was fortunate to have come
through so well. The bottom dropped out
of the markets for most of the big lines it
handles, and for some there was, for a time,
practically no market at all. The period
was probably the most anxious Dalgety’s has
experienced. The management has, from
its long experience, come to regard droughts
as all in the day’s work. But last year’s
happenings threatened more serious trouble
than any drought. The wool and meat, col-
lapse reacted on stock and station values,
resulted in the curtailment of credit, and
made many clients look groggy. Bawra,
however, prevented a wool debacle and helped
to revive the market. And there were cheer-
ful features even of last year’s trading—in
wheat and dairy produce, for instance. The
net result was that, instead of going to the
bad over the year’s dealings, Dalgety’s, after
paying divs., was as strong as if not a little
stronger than 12 months before. So there is
a very fine prospect now of the undisturbed
war-time earnings remaining in the business
for keeps to help future profit-earning.
Paid capital is li million: a half-million
of 5 p.c. prefs. and a million of ordinaries.
To help ordinary divs. there are visible re-
serves exceeding a million, more than one-
fourth of which was piled • up during the
war period. There are, in addition, in-
ternal reserves: for instance, the reserve-
fund investments shown in the accounts at
£900,000 represent £1,165,960 of paper, which
means that if the co. is not forced to. market
the stocks there -is a further quarter-million
of prospective profits in that corner alone.
Over many years office properties have J 5 ®®®
written down hard : premises cost £788,23.)
and now stand in the balance-sheet at
£243,239. No doubt the co.’s biggest asset
—advances on land, stations, stock, wool and
other produce-—has also received attention.
But, apart from all the internal reserves,
Dalgety’s visible strength is very great. This,
shows how balance-sheet figures have moved
over 12 months and six years:
, Liabilities.
1915. 1920. 1921.
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Perpetual 4$ p.c... 509,749 499,910 499,910
~ 4 ~ .. 1,753,391 1,725,544 1,725,544
Terminable p.c.
5 125,520 100,048 73,198
” 4 „ 269.598 12 200 6,750
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,314,392 3,005,804 2,713,914
Assets.’
Advances, proper- . '
ties, etc. • • 4,119,579 4,031,192 4,429,092
Premises, etc. . . 790,428 389,293 243,239
Stock .. .. 270,494 762,811 541,116
Sundry debtors .. 905,573 962,997 881,429
Cash & investments 1,356,264 2,006,768 1,927,996
Merchandise stocks, cash and investments
covered all except about a quarter-million of
the £2,713,914 of current liabilities. The
feature of the year was the raising of
£278,943 by the issue of 61 p.c. terminable
debentures. In pre-war days the co. did
not have to offer more than 4 p.c. to get
temporary capital.
* * * *
Queensland State Government Insur-
ance Office :
Fire Department.
Ex. To Re- Re-
Income. Losses. penses. serves, serves.
1917 .. £B,lBB £744 £2,602 £4,842 £4,842
1918 30,602 3,327 13,889 13,386 18,228
1919 38,872 8,740 15,267 14,865 33,093
1920 .’. 68,468 18,451 28,479 21,538 54,631
Added to reserves . . 9,554 64,185
1921 .'. 71,949 13,427 45,000 13,522 77,707
Of the 78,385 policies written during the five
years 63,442 were in respect of dwellings.
Two years ago premiums on house-property
risks were kuuccu ..
premiums by one-fifth. Tins rate-cutting
has helped to build up business rapidly, but
the pace has lately not been so swift as might
have been expected. The income shown by
the table is made up of net premiums and
interest: the Commissioner has not dispensed
with Private Enterprise in fire writing, and
£30,000-odd of the year’s gross nremiums of
£111,149 went to re-insure risks with out-
siders. The Commissioner also dropped
£11,707 into an internal re-insurance fund.
This comparison of gross premiums gives a
better idea of how the business has grown
in four vears:—
1918 .. £48,908 | 1920 .. £98,405
1919 .. 60,889 | 1921 .. 111,149
Notwithstanding the reduction of premiums,
the loss rate has been very mild, owing chiefly
to the majority of risks being of a good class.
Less than one-fifth of last year’s income was
required to meet claims. The underwriting
experience of the branch has been as fol-
lows: —
Loss Rate. Expense Rate.
1918.. .. 10.8 p.c. 45.3 p.c.
1919.. .. 22.5 „ 39.3 „
1920.. .. 26.9 „ 41.6 „
1921.. ... 18.6 „ 62.5 „
Though there was a saving of £8 per £lOO
of income compared with the previous year
owing to the lower claims rate, 12 guineas
less remained in the office. The accounts
show that £16,500 extra was spent last year
to get ±3500 additional net income. Ex-
penses took no less than £62 10s. of every
£lOO of income, compared with £4l 12s. for
1920. Commissioner Watson in his report
gives no reasons for the sudden leap. And
therein lies a big difference between a State
office and a proprietary: an insurance co.
manager who dared to show such an increase
of expenses in fire operations would risk his
job; the State office piles up costs without
a word of explanation.
It is unlikely, though, that the Fire de-
partment costs were actually so heavy as the
Commissioner makes out. There are indi-
cations that this branch, which has been
turning in very handsome profits, has been
called upon to help suckle other branches —
notably the Life department. In a big office
like the Queensland State Insurance, it is,
of course, impossible to ascertain to a penny
what expenses should be directly charged
against any particular branch. Each sec-
tion first charges itself with the expepses
definitely known to have been incurred by
it; at the balance the Commissioner decides
what proportion of general administrative ex-
penses should be met bv the various depart-
ments. Last year they amounted to £122,324,
compared with £106,034 for the previous 12
months. The Workmen’s Compensation 1 de-
partment, which added £25,000 to its income,
was billed for £11,050 more than in 1920; the
Fire branch increased its net income £3500
and was loaded with £8156 more of adminis-
trative exes. The Life department during
the year was very active; new business was
written at a great pace, and £53,000-odd more
income was won than in the previous year.
But notwithstanding its widened operations,
the amoi'iit of general administration exes,
charged against the Life branch was £5923
less than in the previous year, £18,559 being
debited compared with £24,482 in 1920. The
accounts show the Life department to have
performed miracles: unlike all_ other offices
it is shown to have been established without
heavy preliminary expenditure—no establish-
ment or organisation account has appeared in
its balance-sheet. And, greatest miracle of
all, in its fourth year, according to the ac-
counts, it wrote new business more cheaply
than the big A.M.P ! It is all too good to
to be true. The “Wild Cat” can come to no
other conclusion than that the Fire branch,
and probably also the Workmen’s Compensa-
tion branch, has been called upon to feed the
Life department. In other words, instead of
reducing fire and "ther premiums to bed-
rock —which, after all, is the function of a
State office—it looks as though the premiums
of some classes of insurers have been called
upon to make possible the surpluses shown
by the Life branch : Life policy-holders have
nlreadv received a bonus.
* * * *
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1909.. £420 9 p.c. =£1162 £4;458
1910.. 1261 8 „ „ 1032 £229 4,687
1911.. 1938 10 „ „ 1292 646 5,333
1912.. 1333 10 „ „ 1292 41 5,374
1913.. 1698 10 „ „ 1292 406 5,780
1914.. 2199 10 „ „ 1292 907 6,687
1915.. 2067 10 „ „ 1292 775 7,462
1916.. 2276 10 „ „ 1292 984 8,446
1917.. 2942 10 „ „ 1292 1650 10,096
1918.. 4005 12* „ ~1614 2391 12,487
1919.. 4380 15 „ „ i 937 2443 14,930
1920.. 6319 15 „ ~ 1937 4382 19,312
Transferred to capital, £18,324.. 988
1921.. 4995 7£ p.c. = 2341 2654 3,642
Twelve months ago there were 28.773 shares
paid to 7s. and 16,090 more paid to 3s, 6d.,
giving a paid capital of £12,886. There were
reserves of £19,312, and as net earnings gave
48 p.c. p.a. on capital the directors derided
to transfer most of the reserves to capital.
So £18,324 was extracted to pay a half-
guinea call on the 7s. paids and a 4s. call
on the 3s. 6d. lot. Paid capital is now
£31,210. During the past half-dozen years
or so the co. has done remarkably well; de-
spite all the prosperity which has been talked
of by politicians and politicians’ off-siders,
there has been a great rush to Uncle, who
has obliged at rates in keeping with the un-
certain and dearer-money times. The past
year’s profits were not so good as for the
previous 32 months, but the £4995 ■ disclosed
represented 10 p.c. on paid capital, and
though more has gone out in the 7$ div.
than ever before went to shareholders, a still
larger amount than was distributed was kept
in the business. The co. has a lot of out-
side money to assist profit-earning, and
since the management developed the policy of
acquiring freehold premises—besides the
Bourke-street headquarters, there are nine
Melbourne suburban branches —liabilities
have expanded. This compares balance-sheet
entries over six years:—
1915. 1920. 1921.
Deposits . . • . .. £18,949 £18,934 £21,452
Mortgages .. .. .. 41,370 37,390
Other liabilities .. .. 3,007 9,341 7,804
Total liabilities . . £21,956 £69,645 £66,646
Advances, stock, etc. . . 37,307 40,751 42,062
Freeholds and.furnishings,. . 4,521 58,423 57,813
Liquid assets . . . . 1,397 4,773 3,214
The co. thus has more than £2 of outside
money for every £ of its own, though £37,390
of the £66,646‘0f liabilities represents mort-
gages on premises. It is doubtful whether it
is advisable to rely so much on deposits:
at October 31 there was a bank overdraft of
£6212 and £21,452 of deposits. On the other
side there was only £3214 of cash assets.
How comfortable is the position depends on
the terms for which the deposits have been
left with the co.; should an unfavorable
period be experienced for getting in loan-
payments and the bank and depositors press
for their money the co. might find itself in
an awkward corner, notwithstanding that
the security for depositors’ money might be
good. Maoriland has gone cold on the finan-
cing of businesses by deposits. Last year it
had a bitter experience. Many concerns
which had sunk their deposit moneys in their
businesses and were hard pressed for ready
cash found that the banks turned a deaf ear
to appeals for advances (from the bank s
deposits) to meet their maturing deposits.
The banks, quite rightly, pointed out that
they were compelled to hold a fair propor-
tion of their customers’ cash within easy
reach ; obviously other businesses which in-
vited deposits should do likewise. The de-
claring of a moratorium by the Maoriland
Government alone saved an ugly situation,
and meantime many people have been dis-
illusioned as to the advantages of working on
short-dated loans. The Australian Mont-de-
Pietg, as has been shown, not only has
all its deposits out on loan, but prac-
tically half of the bank overdraft is not cov-
ered by liquid assets. The safety of this
basis of financing depends, in this business,
on the rate at which loans are repaid, and
how the money would be likely to flow in if
a period of depression was suddenly experi-
enced In view of the handsome profits
which are made by the co. considerable addi-
tional capital could well be employed. It
is a matter which the management might
consider. By the way, the reserve transfers
last vear were in part a replacement or can-
celled cauital. Some years ago employees
raided the cash-box. and subsequently the
old capital of £21,579 was written down to
£12,911.
* * *
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and
Dairy Produce Export Co. (Maoriland)
z— Dividends—^
Pref. Ord. Written
■yr«... Prnfit 6d c 8 p.c. Off. Reserves.
1910.. £45,944 £4600 £8,698 £18,972
IQII 21 946 4500 8,698 4,613 04,113
54 852 4500 8.698 4,340 61,427
1913.’: 45,412 4500 8.698 15,073 <8,508
Premiums on new shares, £2B .. 78,59 b
1914 28,226 4500 8,(04 7,335 8( >,..83
1915.’.’ 53,044 5215 8,704 1,169 124,239
1916.. 40,633 6000 11,975 3,856 143,041
Premiums on new shares, £734 . . 143,(75
1917 25,090 6000 12,230 3,381 14(,254
10 p.c.
1918.. 15,957 6000 11,250 1,534 144,427
14 p.c.
1919 80,815 6000 15,750 6,748 196,744
1920.’. 43 331 6000 15,750 7.920 210,405
1921.. 37,939 6000 15,750 6,069 220,025
Canterbury Frozen Meat Co. has been in the
trade nearly 40 years, and from its long
experience of the erratic business it mis-
trusted the boom which Maoriland experi-
enced as a result of its British war con-
tracts. Many other cos. rushed up additions
to works in the belief that the activity would
last; and when the slump came they found
that not only were the extensions no longer
required, but there was also very little de-
mand on their pre-war capacity, borne ot
the cos. have crashed horribly: one lost
the whole of its paid capital and portion of
the deposits on which it was working, fhe
C.F.M. during the flush years added a visible
£40,000 to works and plant, but only £3600
of new capital was called in during the
period. Meantime, though* and after paying
74 p.c. in divs. on ordinaries compared with
48 p.c. for the previous six years, the surplus
of liquid assets over and above all liabilities
was increased £67,000. The co. nowadays
has an amount equal to one-third of com-
bined pref. and ordinary capital in War
Loan. There are prefs. for £lOO,OOO carry-
ing 6 p.c., and £112,500 of ordinary capital:
and after paying latest divs. there were vis-
ible reserves of no less than £220,525. po
there are £430,000 of funds to earn divs. for
£212,500 of capital; and that strength and
the fact that the C.F.M. had no illusions
about the so-called prosperity of recent
years explain why, in the recent very adverse
run, the handsome div. rate of 14 p.c. has
been maintained on ordinaries. This co. s
records provide a striking illustration of the
soundness of the policy of piling up reserves
and not rushing the distribution of bonus
scrip. How balance-sheet figures have moved
over a number of years is shown next: —
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities .. £90,115 £111,262 £519,840 £319,358
Works and other
fixed assets 274,792 282,328 315,290 322,114
Stocks, debts, etc. 73,680 169,337 641,705 444,519
At November 30 War Loan and sundry book
debts exceeded pref. capital by £20,982.
There was also a surplus of £4179 of “inter-
est in consignments unrealised, ihcluding
advances to owners of meat, etc., and stock
at works” over all liabilities. So £25,161 of
the ordinary capital, as well as all the pref.
capital, was represented by fairly liquid assets.
There were works, etc., at nine centres with
a book value of £322,115 to represent the
£87,339 balance of capital. Put another
way, the £7 10s. paid ordinaries were repre-
sented by £1 13s. Od. of liquid assets and
£2l 9s. 6d. of fixed assets.
* * * *
Nicholson and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept.,’l3.. £8,653 71 p.c. = £5259 £3394 £39,826
Mar.,’l4.. 6,365 71 „ ~ 5248 1117 40,943
Sept.,’l4.. 5,021 Nil 5021 45,964
Mar.,’ls.. 5,008 *6 p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3,655 5 „ „ 3499 156 42,731
Mar.,’l6.. 6,014 7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept.,’l6.. 5,936 7 „ ~ 4898 1038 44,885
Mar.,’l7.. 8,08110 „ „ 6998 1083 45,968
Sept.,’l7.. 7,968 10 „ „ 6998 970 46,938
Mar.,’lB.. 7,741 10 „ „ 6998 743 47,681
Sept.,’lB.. 8,037 10 „ ~ 6998 1039 48,720
Mar., ’19.. 7,970 10 „ ~ 6998 9,72 49,692
Sept.,’l9.. 8,512 10 „ „ 6998 1214 50,906
Mar.,’2o.. 9,821 10 „ „ 6998 2823 53,729
Sept.,’2o.. 10,093 10 „ „ 6998 3095 56,824
Reserves capitalised, £52,587.. 4,237
Mar.,’2l.. 11,184 10 p.c. - 9641 1543 5,780
Sept.,’2l.. 10,413 10 ~ „ 9641 772 6,552
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
At the March, 1921, balance liabilities were
only £12,853 less than the paid capital of
£192,820. Like other importers, early last
year Nicholson’s had big stocks unexpec-
tedly delivered, and in consequence the man-
agement had to go to the bank for £53,242,
besides owing £104,475 on various accounts.
This load was too heavy, so the 10 p.c. div.
(£9641) declared in May was not distribu-
ted until December. The directors recom-
mended a similar div. for the past half, but
the date of payment was left to their dis-
cretion. The withholding of the div. helped
the position a little, but during the six
months the co. also succeeded in finding buy-
ers for some of the excessive stocks: book
value of “stock, goods afloat and hire-agree-
ments” was £319,740 in March and £286,950
in September. Liabilities, apart from the
£22,250 mortgage on premise's, moved in
this way :
Mar., ’2l. Sept., ’2l.
Overdraft .. .. £53,242 £28,203
Sufidry creditors . . 93,907 84,180
Trust account . . 1,868 312
Bills payable .. 8,699
£157,716 £112,695
Debts are still uncomfortably large: six
years agq the directors, proudly drew atten-
tion to the fact that the bank overdraft on
which they had long depended had been
wiped out, that the co. was £lB7l in funds,
and that all trading debts totted up only
£18,890. Like everything else, the cost of
pianos and other musical instruments soared
high, and as no additional funds were pro-
vided by shareholders outsiders had to carry
the load.
The difference between this business and
others has apparently been that the retailers
have not had to cut prices to unload stocks,
and no serious losses have been made as in
softgoods and other lines. Perhaps competi-
tion is not so keen in the music trade. But
there was a very real danger lurking in
the stocks, and the co. cannot be regarded
as snug until it has succeeded in unloading
a lot more. So far sales have been very suc-
cessful : that is evidenced by the £10,413 net
profit claimed by the management for the
latest half. The co. has been particularly
fortunate in having a continuance of the
abnormal conditions which aided profit-
earning during the war. The outlook is not
so bright now: unemployment does not favor
the trade in luxuries. And if anything should
go wrong there is only a handful of reserves
to protect capital. A year ago £52,587 of


Since the introduction of electricity for lighting
and power purposes, many homes in both the city
and country have been denied its numerous uses
owing to the inaccessibility of a supply. To over-
come this state of affairs, and permit everybody to
enjoy electrical convenience, the G.E. Home Light
and Power Unit has been developed. This outfit
consists of an engine, generator and storage battery.
It is compact, strong, simple, economical to run
and practically automatic in operation. Write for
full particulars. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street,
Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne. —Advt. [1
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering'prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required .where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * *
Alert engineers of experience increasingly specify
wood pipe as being most efficient. They find the
initial cost lower and maintenance charges practi-
cally nil. Pioneer Wood Pipe has been proved by
exhaustive test to have none of the faults of metal
pipe.- Being unaffected by electrolysis, frost, acids,
salts or corrosion, therefore both eommonsense and
economy demand its use. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlerengh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Finks Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. —Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 4S3 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models"—“National" suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). —Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies. Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, 1 urnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowest
rates. Call or write for particulars. II. B. Selby k Co.,
Ltd.. 265 George Street (between Hunter and Bond
Streets). Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street. Melb.-— Advt.
* * * -*•
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
mf their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all- classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydn°v.— Advt.
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write us for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
■ a
s M
■
m
'
The Largest Driving Belts
in Australia.
The illustration shows portion of the
Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s
Rod Mill at Newcastle, equipped' vrith
three 34-inch and one 4S-inch
“Pioneer” leather belts—the largest
driving belts in Australia. These were
specially manufactured for the purpose
by J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, Ltd.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street,
Sydney.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine. Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Gar. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Rates.
\ lOTORIAN BRANCH. 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
, AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS-
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P., Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
reserves were converted into scrip; and the
wisdom of that move was questionable—
unless there were also large internal re-
serves, and there is no evidence whatever
ot their existence.
“ * * *
From over tow’ards the sunset:—
A Westralian Royal Commissioner is to look into
the affairs of the Kendenup Development Co. and
those of C. J. De Garis, its promoter. This is the
result of an Assembly resolution after De Garis
had applied for a Government advance of £30,000
and been refused. De Garis paid £50,000 , for
41,325 acres at Kendenup, which is about 40 miles
from Albany; and old Westralians said he paid too
much. Hjs idea was that the property eouldy be
cut up into small farms and sold for a modest
£450,000, the profit on which was estimated at
£200,000. In order to realise these hopeful antici-
pations he floated a company with a nominal capi-
tal of £200,000 (his. consideration was to be
7a,000 £1 shares, plus the return of his purchase
money), and invited the public to finance it by
subscribing £150,000 in first-mortgage debentures
bearing interest at 8 per cent, and repayable, in
five years. After some gaudy talk about sugar-beet
Kendenup soon resolved itself, speak-
ing, into an unexciting fruit-and-vegetable proposi-
tion. The instalments on the land sold weren’t suffi-
cient to meet the half-yearly payments to the de-
benture-holders, and the latter didn’t provide nearly
enough to finance the settlers, many of whom will
require to be carried on while their fruit-trees
are growing. So thus early in its too optimistic
career the co. is in difficulties. Indeed, unless it
can contrive to win a succession of Tatt.'s sweeps
or Golden Caskets liquidation is probably inevitable,
for the Government has made it clear that if it
grants any assistance at all it will only be to the
settlers. The debenture-holders haw the consola-
tion, whatever it amounts to, of knowing that their
securities are “a first charge against all the assets,
land, buildings, improvements, etc.,” on the estate.
Rut their prospect of drawing a £5O bonus for
every £lOO invested —this inducement was held out
to ihem in addition to the 8 per cent, interest—
has faded into thin air.
* * * *
The co-op. dairy-produce distributing cos.
nave for some months been feeling the strain
of high local costs and market slumps over-
seas. Lower prices have curtailed commis-
sions to such an extent that they are “alto-
gether inadequate to meet working expenses.’’
And as the societies cannot get exes, down
they have “no alternative but to revert to the
nominal selling commissions ruling previ-
ously.” Handling charges have, therefore, been
increased to 3$ p.e. on butter .and 5 p.c. on
cheese and bacon. The Coastal Farmers’
Co-op. (N.S.W.) also decided, “in com-
mon _ with other large organisations, not
to incur the expense of issuing the
interim half-yearly statement.” The
C.F.S.’s accounts to March 31 should be in-
teresting, particularly in showing how the
recent liberal advances made to butter fac-
tories have compared with London realisa-
tions.
* * * *
Money is cheapening in the Cabbage Gar-
den. So freely have Victorians been invest-
ing in State Government securities, sold over
the counter at the Treasury, first at Gi and
then at 6 p.c., that Treasurer McPherson has
reduced the rate to 5f p.c., at which figure
he thinks he can get all he wants. The
bonds are redeemable October 1, 1924, but
the Treasury has the right to pay them off
any time, after September 30, 1923, by giving
three months’ notice.
* * * *
The gold premium continues to diminish.
December sales of 130,4060 z. by the Aus-
tralian Gold Producers’ Association re-
turned an average of 995. Bd. per oz. (fine)
and, owing to the improvement of TJ.$. ex-
change, London quotations during the month
got as low as 975. Bd. That is nearly 235.
per oz. less than the G.P.A. was getting a
little over a year ago.
* * * *
From mining-engineer J. Malcolm Newman :
The “Wild Cat” article on old Y-Water (B.
12/l/’22) ends with the following remark: “Any
hope that Emmaville may have rests on a proba-
bility that a continuation of the deep-lead may be
discovered. It is not reasonable to assume that
this lead ended abruptly in the rich pothole re-
cently worked by the Vegetable Creek Co.” It is
hard to say. I think it is not unlikely that the
Vegetable Creek lead was the result of the denuda-
tion of a rich shoot or group of shoots in close
proximity to “the rich pothole.”
Based on experience of very many tinfields I hold
the opinion that most, if not all, payable alluvial
tin deposits adjoin and practically overlie the lodes
from which the tin was derived, and that the com-
mon jargon about the “continuation of the lead
downstream” is often without scientific justification.
Where payable alluvial deposits extend over a large
area, such as in the Taiping district, the Kinta
Valley, and many other localities in the Malay
Peninsula, I have found by careful geological obser-
vation that the contacts between the granites and
the sedimentaries (limestones, slates, etc.) extend
under the alluvial throughout such areas. This is
proved not only by examination of the samples of
bedrock obtained in boring, but by the tin results found
in boring and dredging the ground. These show a
succession of points where the wash is rich and the
tin coarse, tailing out in a few chains to poorer
wash and. finer tin, and were it not for the fact
that these rich patches continuously recur throughout
the areas I think there would have been no Kam-
pongs or Laruts. At Rawang, where the method
of working (gravel-pumping) exposes the bottom to
view, 1 have seen the contacts of the granite and
the sedimentaries and have,found tin-bearing veins
in both series of rocks.
It will be appreciated that, if. my views are
correct, where so-called “lost, leads” are being'
chased a detailed geological investigation to deter-
mine the likely contacts may easily be of more
economic importance than random boring for a
continuation of channels. These views also limit
one’s belief in. the familiar gag that adjacency in
alluvial properties, necessarily means similarity .in
richness.
/ *■ * * *
“Skimpole” : Electrolytic Zinc Co. is slow in
putting out the prospectus of the new issue
of £-100,000. Meantime canvassing is going
on among likely sub-underwriters at £95.
As the public is to be asked £96 a solid
1 p.c. commission is the inducement. Chit-
chat has it that the underwriters mop up
2 p.c. If so they would get 3 p.c. on all
stuff taken up direct, so they stand to clean
up a choice commission. Quite a lot of
those who, waded into the pref. issue are
considering whether they, should swim out
and dive into the 8 p.c. bonds. It looks a
good move. Interest will be forthcoming
all the time, and if the option to convert
into profs, is to hold good for two years a
breather ,is given for a term during which
a . lot may happen. If things don’t move
kindly the debs, will rule all future arrange-
ments for additional cash, and so mop up
concessions. The interest rate of S p.c. at
£96 to the investor on a 10 years’ issue gives
a handsome return. But Electrolytic Zinc
has yet to win its spurs commercially. For
that reason neither interest nor conversion
concessions can be cavilled at.
Justice Powers has gone to South Aus. to
have a talk with the W allaroo and Moonta
miners, and learn how they like work on
terms decided off their own bat. Meantime
lie has left Mt. Lyell upside down with care.
One crowd has to work 48 hours one week
and 40 the next, while other workers do 44
regularly; and all are expected to operate
in harmony. Copper is back below the pay
point for Mt. Lyell; but Powers isn't con-
cerned as much over that as that he gave
his word to stick to his 44-hour pledge to
the men. The other copper cos. want Lyell
to shut, down and bring things to a head, but
restraint comes from somewhere-—probably
from, the manure side of the co.’s business,
which it would be dangerous to jeopardise by
cutting away supplies of pyrites.
* * * *
As surmised by the “Wild Cat” '(E>.
5/l/’22), information has now been re-
ceived in Cloncurry that W. H. Corbould has
been guaranteed capital for constructing the
Mount Oxide railway and developing the
mine. The - mine is somewhat of a dark
horse: there is no development below 300 ft.
worth speaking of, and nobody can say what
its future holds in the way of reserves. But
down to 300 ft. it gives evidence of possess-
ing a chance of being the greatest copper
producer the Commonwealth has owned.
According to- Government Geologist Dunstan,
who sized it f up two years ago, it has pro-
bably 200,000 tons of 12J p.c. ore in the one
big shoot down to the 300 ft. level, and he
expects this shoot to be picked up at 500 ft.
unless some extraordinary and unforeseen
structural or mineralogical change takes
place. In the southern workings, crosscuts
at the 208 ft. level show up to 140 ft. width
of ore averaging 4 p.c., so the reserves there
are gigantic," although an estimate of prob-
able ore cannot be made till further develop-
ment is done. If the mine gets a fair deal,
and Corbould may be expected to see it is
not stripped unduly of the rich stuff, it
stands a fair chance to surpass all others.
It seems a good thing from whatever angle
it is looked at —either as a very large body
of rich ore, or as a gigantic body of medium
to low-grade stuff. And then it is only the
central group in a district embracing Mount
Gordon, Matlock and other copper shows
that have scarcely had a pick in them owing
to their isolated position.
Westralia’s 1921 gold yield was 553,7300 z.
(fine) and the lowest since the Coolgardie rush.
The Arbitration award interfered with pro-
duction last year, as most of the big cos.
operating at Kalgoorlie got their backs up
because of the wage increases and holiday
concessions, and did as little work as pos-
sible. Now they are asking the Court for
relief, and, if they are successful, more gold
will probably be won during the current
year.
* * * *
J. L. Strevens has gone to London to try
to interest a British corporation in Westra-
lian oil. Meantime there is some talk of
Freney’s, Okes-Durack and the Petroleum
Development cos. amalgamating their hold-
ings and forming one big concern; but such
a fusion is unlikely.
Oroya Links Co. claims that the £20.000
it paid for the Kalgurli mine and mill is
more than covered by the realisable value
of the machinery. The plant , is to be en-
larged and improved to give better extrac-
tions, and regular monthly profits are anti-
cipated. Should costs come down, operations
on a much bigger scale are promised.
The Bulletin has received complaints
from Westralia concerning the failure of the
Ingliston cos., at Meekatharra, to publish pro-
gress reports on the spot. Reports appear
regularly in the Melbourne press, but are
rarely made available locally. The grievance
is an old one in the West.
New Minnie Moxham, near Mareeba
(N.Q.), reopened about six months ago, has
had about £lOOO spent on it and now looks
like giving some returns. Most of the cash
has gone into the 130 ft. level, where over
100 ft. of driving has been done, revealing a
good, payable body, some of which prospects
up to 2oz. to the ton. The owners are now
erecting a 10-hd. battery from Mareeba, and
also a small concentrating plant, so that they
can market antimony concentrates. There
is also a (sft. reef running east from the
shaft, carrying payable values. The run-of-
mine ore is expected to be in the vicinity of
Ifidwt. A Government subsidy assisted to
reopen the mine, and it looks like money well
spent.
On the Normanby goldfield (N.Q.) the
Billy Hughes has opened up the old workings
of the Frederick mine, and the manager goes
nap on prospects. At 50ft. there is a reef
averaging lOdwt. for sft., and as the hanging-
wall has not shown up there is a chance of
it being bigger. This is about the best lode
for size yet opened up by, the co.; most of
the others are on the small side, though richer.
The Perseverance reef continues small, only
making Sin. between SO and 105 feet in the
shaft and averaging 13dwt.
* * * *
The last two crushings of the Sardine, Kan-
garoo Hills, have averaged 21 p.c. tin for TO
tons, and the co. has just increased the scrip
issue' from 40,000 to 100,000 shares on which
it will pay 3d. per share on January 27.
This brings the dividend total up to 9s. a
share, or £lB,OOO altogether. That is a fine
performance considering that most producers
have the shutters up. Production is claimed
to have come mostly from development work.
* * * *
“L.R.”: The slump in Queensland gems
recalls the very early days of the sapphire
mines'. ' It was not unusual for visitors,
shareholders or otherwise, to drive out to
the mines and return with pockets full of sap-
phires. I remember seeing a score or two
of such stones in a child’s toy boat at the
house of a^very small shareholder., A week
later one of these stones was sold to a travel-
ling jeweller for £lO, -and others for smaller
sums. One manager presented stones of
more or less value to all his female relations
and their friends. It was merely proving
the truth of the old adage that “familiarity
breeds contempt”—the gems were so numer-
ous, and so easily acquired at the beginning,
that their value was not appreciated.
Scottish Gym pie, which has its home in
Glasgow, went £4242 to the bad last year
after providing £4057 for depreciation. The
current year opened with a P. & L. debit of
£17,040.
The Vic. gold yield for 1921 was 104,5120 z.
(fine), and 45,2800 z. less than for 1920.
The December output alone was 56530 z. less
than for the last month of 1920.
It took £50,000 to re-open the Morning
Star, of ancient Wood’s Point (Vic.). An-
other £20,000 went in plant, etc. To help,
the Mines Department lent the co. £15,000
on a £ for £ basis. The mine has turned
up trumps. So with due, pomp and cere-
mony the State loan has been wiped off by
George Dickenson handing Minister Sam
Barnes a final cheque for £lO,OOO. It must
have been a bit of a wrench to the “Money”
Millers on the Board not to be able to keep
a bit for a div. Dickenson has struck sev-
eral winners in the mountains—the A.I. and
the Morning Star. His mining connection
began with the Caledonia, at Warrandyte.
The Millers went into that, so he was able
to persuade them to back up the A. 1., at
Gaffney’s, and now he has struck the treble
in the Morning Star. Jim Mackay and
some of the old hands are trying to revive
the Loch Dyne and other has-beens around
Wood’s Point, but luck will not smile their
way.
• * * * * :
“M.”: Morning Star supplied some of the
romance to the history of the earlv days
of that most wonderful of Vic.’s goldfields—
Wood’s Point. In 1564 36,0000 z. were won
from 10.000 tons of stone, and in 1.865
57.0000 z. from 17.000 tons. Not even Hill
End (N.S.W.) could equal that record. The
modern Morning Star has spent £BO,OOO to
get 14,0120 z. of gold, worth £46,000. This
is the first time the Mines Department has
hitched its Development Act to a star and
got so much of its money back.
New Dempsey’s, Gaffney’s Creek, near
Wood’s Point (Vic.), is about to be revived.
The mine has a good record. Started in
1897, the co. did not get gold till 1901, when
it was struck in shallow workings. Since
then 23,1440 z. have been taken out for a
return of £87,456. Divs. amounted to
£29,400, or 245. 6d. a share. The last crush-
ing before the mine shut down was 134 tons
for 1950 z. Owing to war and lack of capi-
tal, work was suspended. The plant is in
good working order and the mine can be un-
watered in about four weeks. The old
shareholders have stuck to the show, and the
share register is intact. There is plenty of
room for development: the No. 5 level is only
339 ft. deep.
New Ruby Plat (Tas.) is taking cover for
the time being, and operations have been
suspended. The November clean-up of 18
tons tin oxide enabled the co. to square its
liabilities, amounting to over £2OOO. Work
is to be restricted to development and to
repairing the mine and races, in anticipation
of better markets.
A protest from Darwin: —
Oil and coal concessions are being sought all
over the Territory, and the general feeling is that
most are merely wild-cat schemes which will result
in the N.T. receiving a further set-back, if it is
possible for us to be shoved back any further than
we are. Co. promoters have been obtaining- conces-
sions for 15 to 20 years, but only the promoters
have benefited. One of our latest concession-seekers
spent exactly 171 hours in the Territory—the time
the boat was in the harbor.


Willie, Hogaan
ftxz, -
sa.ci plight
of -tbe, poor*
I*3*o/ kwd •
Tba- tc.».db<2.r biting
Zibsarit fcyc 'mamajrft
Pov'ta.Wo. School
bolts dew Slippery
HiU,
• '• *fot
era y«r
' IctHio’ ’asm
' QO /or ? "
" Yfel-, ,
<inv<z. io to n<z-®t
4K<r or “
upscziH-irxg)
P.s 2.55^,
dfg
THE PERAMBULATING- SCHOOL.
"The Vietorian Education Department is about to provide portable schools for certain country districts. The schools will be on wheels
and may be moved from place to place."


Vs
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it Was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
lament! Storc 102 Daking House,
LaHIMIU Service Svdnu,
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W.A.-H. Little £r Go.. 851 Hay St.. Perth
V Won its favor >
through the flavor
K.B
LAGER
Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co., Ltd., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
ffiGEWOMi/
*■* EXTRA HIGH GRADE 4 *
SMOKING TOBACCO
Sliced Plug or Ready-Rubbed
is the Original Tobacco of
this style.
Does not bite the tongue.
In tins from all Tobacconists.
2] It. TOWNS & CO.j Sydney, Agents.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Tudor’s death reduces the number'of ori-
ginal members remaining in the Common-
wealth Parliament to 15. They are Pearce,
Millen, Keating, De Largie and Thomas in the
Senate ; and Hughes, Poynton, Chapman, Barn-
ford, McDonald, Fowler, Chanter, Best, Higgs
and Watkins in the Reps. Best and Higgs
started as Senators, but, losing their seats,
got into the other house. Chanter was de-
feated in 1903 and 1913, and was out of
Parliament for just on two years. The rest,
including Josiah Thomas, who stepped from
the Reps, to the Senate when the Barrier
became untenable in 1917, have sat con-
tinuously. Of the 96 others sworn in with
them 21 years ago 48 have heard the last
division-bell.
Richard Penrose
(“Lofty”) Franklin,
headmaster of Mel-
bourne Grammar
School, got that post
in 1915 at 30 years
—a rare appointment
for a juvenile. Born
at Surbiton in Surrey,
he entered Cambridge
on a scholarship. Here
h e registered first-
class honors in
classics and put up
athletic records. Com-
ing to Australia for
“colonial experience,”
he was a clerk in Dal-
gety’s at Melbourne
and Terang, then
master at Geelong
Grammar, and subse-
quently senior classi-
cal master, senior
house master and
sports master at Syd-
ney C. of E. Gram-
mar. When the Big
War called for men
he ’listed, served with
distinction, and
brought back his 6ft.
sin. without any sub-
traction.
R. P. FRANKLIN,
headmaster Mel-
bourne Grammar
School.
Perhaps “old John” Fairfax, the founder
of the Fairfax interest in the S. M. Herald,
and a big man, had something to do with
the development of Frank Tudor, the Labor
leader of lialf-a-century later. “Old John”
helped several of his young men into the
pulpit of the Congregational Church—he
was the principal pillar of the Pitt-street
tabernacle—and among them was F. H.
Browne, who had worked for him as a com-
positor. In time F. 11. Browne took charge
of the Richmond (Vic.) church, and Frank
ludor became one of his “young
continued to be one of them until the fine
old man retired 15 years or so ago.
Charles Rolling, the modest Ma State
27 Aj? a!i) r0 P 18 as si ven the Masons
tIUO.UUO, his whole fortune, to establish a
college at Bowral, made the money at Mt.
Morgan. An engineer by profession, he is a
Quaker from Philadelphia, which accounts
for his anxiety, rare in these days, to keep
his name out of print. Quakers “write no
bulletins of their victories”—or their bene-
factions.
The nearer he got to the wonderful things
the Communists have done for his native
Russia the less he liked them, apparently.
Anyway, Peter Simonoff, the new Republic’s
lepresentative in Australia, who set out for
home a few weeks ago, decided on the way to
get married instead and return to Australia.
Ibis paper would be inclined to insist that
u a , 1S w^e — a Maorilander, it is said —
should spend at least one winter in Russia
before being allowed to land.
. James Robinson who died suddenly
m Adelaide while playing bowls was one of
feouth Australia’s best-known commercial
citizens. Lineoln-
shire born, h e
came to Australia
as a young man,
and established the
Britannia Foundry
a t Gawler; the
local opposition of
May Brothers and
the Martin co.
never seemed to
worry him at all,
and he built up a
big business i n
agricultural-imple-
ment making.
Captain F. G.
WALEY, chair-
man of Southern
( N.S.W.) Col-
lieries. who gave
his farm-home at
Richmond to the
Red Cross for the
benefit of invalid
soldiers.
Perhaps there isn’t one law for the rich
and another for the poor in Victoria; but,
judging by the concessions granted to an in-
fluential convicted lawbreaker, there is one
punishment for Stokes and another for
Blokes.
From a N.S.W. Gallery-man :
Many men have their names associated in public
memory with some oddity—Parkes with his hair,
Reid with his eternal monocle, Peacock with his
laugh, Dibbs with his “Damnchieago.” And now
there is the Dooley grin—expansive, inscrutable,
irremovable. The N.S.W. Premier never smiles or
laughs. He grins—grins always. He goes to bed
with a grin and gets up with it. He meets the
House with it. He keeps it on at the barber’s and
gets shaved around it. Of course there is an in-
human quality somewhere in a man who never
mislays his temper; and yet the closer you get to
Dooley, the more you see of him and the grin,
the more like 16oz. to the lb. he seems to be. To
this podgy little tailor there has been given an
instinctive fidelity in his relations with other men.
Nc man more loyal to his friends and associates
has ever sat in an Australian Parliament. This
exceptional' quality seems to grow stronger with
time, to become intensified by provocation. He is
in truth the one Happy Warrior in thfc politics of
the State in these latter days.
Tudor was entrusted with the public
announcement of the selection of Canberra
as the name of the Federal capital which
refuses to become one, and the occasion was
the A.N.A. Conference at Ararat in March,
1913. He had forgotten what the name was,
apparently, and fiddled about with his pince-
nez to look through a piece of paper in his
hand.
When Ray Parer ’planed over to Groper-
land last week he found that the Westralians
hadn’t forgotten his ill-fated partner in the
London-Sydney flight. A Mclntosh mem-
orial fund realised £4300, of which £3lOO
goes to the mother, widow and baby, £lOOO
is earmarked for scholarships, and the bal-
ance will be spent on a headstone designed
by General Hobbs, who commanded the
Fifth Divvy in 1917-18 and the A.I.F. in
1919. Hobbs, a Perth architect before the
war, has gone back to the old office.
South Aus. has lost its most notable S.M.,
the veteran T. J. S. O’Halloran. He was
born in 1835, just before the province was
founded, but spent 83 years in it, getting his
education at St. Peter’s, of which school his
father was one of the founders. He did
enough banking to become a branch manager
of the National, but since 1874 had been a
magistrate all over the State, so that few
men knew the length and breadth of it so
thoroughly. He was a tremendous worker
right up to the end, most old-age pensions
being in his department. In such leisure
time as he had he was a mighty Anglican
Chui-eh worker, and a resolute supporter of
the Cheer-Up Hut, where carving joints for
passing soldiers was his special delight.
O’Halloran was six feet tall, and perfectly
upright at 86.
The toughness of Vic. Labor-leader Pren-
dergast seems to be emphasised every time
another prominent Labor man passes. And
it is not as though things have come his
way. Twice he had the Premiership almost
in his grasp, and twice he just missed it. But
he still keeps on looking about 42. His
hobby is collecting potterv, lacquerware and
china, cartoons and sketches of friends.
There is a fascination about his den at
Parliament House. He is on speaking terms
with everybody, and gets a heap of enjoy-
ment out of life.
George Fairbairn (Vic.) does not intend
to offer himself for the Senate again when
his term in the Senate is up next year.
Nomination may suit Premier Lawson if
State politics become too bothersome.
Grayndler, of the A.W.U., has just repu-
diated his 0.8. E. The decoration was con-
ferred on him over a year ago; and if he
could have got it through the post, all would
have been well. But that is not in the
gaine ; and rather than be “invested” with it
in the usual way he decided to do without it.
It is still doubtful whether Genei-al Gelli-
brand will hold on to his job as Chief of
Vic. Police. He is now in the Speck, and
Matt Baird, the Chief Seci'etary, has ex-
tended his leave, making Feb. 1 the tei’minat-
ing day instead of Jan. 20. The hunt for
the slayer of Alma Tirtschke was conducted
in his absence, and Superintendent Nichol-
son, of Ballarat, the Acting Chief, will get
some of the limelight if Ross, the man in
custody, turns out to be the murderer.
Gone to his camp at 90, Mick Miles, one
of the best known of Queensland bushmen.
He followed the tracks of explorer Cunning-
ham in 1862, and settled down on land at
Reedy Lake, between Southwick and Gain-
ford (N.Q.). Later on he sold out and
bought a eattle station at Mt. Elsie, where
lie iived until the sunset. The North knew
him as “Mickey the Tracker” —he was every
bit as good as Binghi at following a trail.
Frank Edwai-ds, about whose appointment
as secretary to the Millions Club (Sydney)
over a soldier applicant there was a rumpus,
has got tired of the job of attending to an
affair which lives on its lunches; and he is
now the business end of a new photographic
concern. Apparently the Bar, which was once
his ambition, is forsaken. Although not a
member of the A.1.F., Edwards smelt powder:
he was with W. A. Holman in France when
the escorting staff officer (Holmes) was sent
west by a Fritz shell.
Dr. J. C. Earl, the new lecturer in
organic chemistry at Sydney Uni., has been
lately with the S. Aus. Govt. Department of
Chemistry. Rejected for active service he
went to England in May, 1917, on munition-
work. After some months spent in shell-
filling factories and the like he was sent to
St. Andrew’s ’Varsity to carry out research
work on dyestuffs, and while there got his
Ph.D. for a thesis on glucosamine. He also
owns the B.Sc. of Adelaide, with Honors in
Chemistry, and is a Fellow of the Institute
of Chemistry and of the Australian Chemical
Institute.
George Martley Davies, one of Lawson’s
new hon. Ministers, is following in dad’s
footsteps in Vic. politics. The father joined
Shiels’s Government 30 years ago as a Min-
ister without portfolio. Five weeks later he
became Minister for Defence. (Those were
pre-Federation days.) The son may have
similar luck, but he will have to wait more
than five weeks for it. He is a stock-and-
station agent and a sport, and wears one
of the ..few “ziffs” to be seen on the Plush
seats. James Kerr Merritt, the other new
honorary, looks wise and sells plate. The
fact that he is a lay canon of St. Paul’s
attests his respectability.
For the little £4OO-a-year billet of librarian
at Hobart there were about half-a-hundi-ed
applicants, including several likely-looking
entrants from Svdney, Melbourne and Adel-
aide. The finish was fought out by J. A.
D. Collier, president of the local A.J.A., and
W. C. Baud, of Melbourne' Public Library,
the local man winning on the post. The
new librarian is a returned soldier who,
while convalescing after war hurts, did some
useful staff work at Copenhagen. He is a
capable senior-grade pressman, a book-lover,
28, and thinking seriously of matrimony.
Probably the last-named item had some-
thing to do with his application for a steady
daylight job. It certainly couldn’t have
been the salary.
Shand. Iv.C., the real leader of the N.S.W.
Bar, has just passed into his 58th vear. He
is a native of N. S. Wales, and has been in
practice for 35 years. He intends tripping
to Europe soon.
W. G. Gibson, whom Redistribution of
Seats threatens to deprive of a cushy place
in the Reps., is one of the most ardent Free-
tectionists in the Corner party. Usually
silent and meditative, he raised his voice to its
shrillest during the consideration of various
agricultural duties last year. He wanted
foreign harvesters, seed-drills and so on to
come in free; but he also wanted a prohibi-
tive duty against Japanese onions. And*
PETER
McBRIDE, Vic.
Agent-General
being utterly with-
out humor, he was
never shaken in
attitude by the
liveliest sarcasm
from the other
side. Yet the
House generally
liked him —a quiet,
gentlemanly man
and a compendium
of informa-
tion about farm-
ing. He and his
brother, the ex-
M.L.A. (Vic.) who
has just gone off
to England for the
new Wheat Trust,
used to run a
store at Romsey
before taking to
the soil for a
richer living.
Their old dad,
Leonard Gibson of
Bolinda, is one of
the pioneers who
carved a home out
of the wilderness
in the Lancefield
district.
“Bloggs” on a man with a tongue :• —
If McGirr doesn’t leave N. S. Wales State politics
the Federal Parliament will miss some fun. For
McGirr has Willie Kelly’s trick of scarifi-
cation. His speech in which he dealt with the
careers of the N. S. Wales Progressives won’t be
forgotten for years. One of his hobbies is to care-
fully document the lives of his political adversaries,
and none of them knows when the wasp will break
loose again. Himself a good deal of an impostor,
McGirr is yet a holy terror to impostors of every
other brand.
“Chemist”: There is a sad mistake in
Senator Russell’s oration, quoted in The
Bulletin under title “The
Princely Rewards of Science.” The Direc-
tor of Chemistry in S. Aus. (Dr. W. A. Har-
greaves) and his staff, by solving the weevil
problem, saved Australia, not £200,000, as
stated by RusSell, but many times that
amount. (The British Government paid the
Australian Wheat Board £522,000 for 60,000
tons of wheat destroyed by the weevil, and
the amount saved by the chemist can safely
be placed at three times that.) Hargreaves’s
reward, however, was just £4OO less than the
sum mentioned by the Minister. That is to
say, it was nothing at all. Verily it is
easier to draw blood from the nose of thine
adversary than gratitude from the breast of
the multitude.
After waiting a good while to get him,
the Speck has a Public Service Commis-
sioner—R. J. Meagher, who will also be chair-
man of Wages and kindred Boards; and the
composite installation is reckoned to save
£lOOO a year. The new man is a Victorian
who had seen civil service in his native
State and in W.A. before he went to Tas in
’9l- .In 1006 he got a seat on the Public
Service Board and became chairman eight
years later. In 1919 he was made assistant
to Gellibrand, then Public Service Commis-
sioner, and when the latter went to Vic. in
September, 1920, Meagher took over all the
work without the title. He is State presi-
dent of the Federal Institute of Accoun-
tants, has a place upon the Hobart Hospital
Board, was for nine years a city councillor,
and mayor in 1914.
“T. 0.1.”: The death at 82 of Mrs. Eliza-
beth Grant awakens memories. Her him-
band, Edmund Craigie Grant, was a pioneer
quartz-miner at Pleasant Creek, now Sta-
well, and another member of the family was
James Macpherson Grant, who served
articles as a solicitor with Chambers and
Thurlow, and later was one of the solicitors
who undertook without fee the defence of
the Eureka, men. Afterwards in Parliament,
he was Minister for Lands, and carried a
popular Land Amendment Act. A sister
married David Blair, who came to Sydney
from England under the auspices of Dr.
Lang, but instead of joining the ministrv
became a pressman and politician. Florence
Baverstock—a name verv familiar to Bul-
letin readers —was his daughter. A son of
the lady who has just died —the only son—
is Brig.-General Grant, a station-owner in
Bananaland, whose daughter Mary was one
of the favored dancing-partners of the Prince.
PERFECTLY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The following simple question was put yesterday
afternoon to Mr. Fuller and Mr. Dooley: ‘What will
you do, if returned to office, with regard to the
liquor referendum?’ Both leaders were wary. Mr.
Fuller said: ‘I am very busy on other matters, and
would rather not go into it at present.’ Mr. Dooley
said: ‘I can tel] you definitely and straightforwardly
—the matter will receive the fullest consideration.’ ”
Do I hold with prohibition? Here, sit down, my
dear old chap.
Have a whisk , beg pardon, water. See, it’s fresh-
drawn from the tap.
Or perhaps you’d like a milk? No drinks! Quite
so. AVell, to resume:
You will find no sterner foe of drink than me. I
fairly fume
When I think of all the harm it does, the pleasant
homes it wrecks,
The businesses it brings to naught and the industry
it checks.
Yes, I fume and fret like —what’s that? What do I
propose to do!
Now you’re talking. That’s exactly what I want
to state to you—
State so honestly and clearly that no possible mistake
Can arise about the question, no suggestion of a fake
Come from evil-minded critics. What 1 mean to do
is this:
I shall watch this matter closely, and I say with
emphasis
That no trick or bribe will stop me, neither plaint
nor angry threat:
I will scrutinise this problem, howsoe’er I am beset—
Will I hack the referendum? That depends how
Duty calls.
Just at present I am watching, watching hard and
taking notes
On this vast and clamant issue—and its influence on
votes.
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.


PORTER. "DON'T YOU SEE THE NOTICE FORBIDDING SMOKING"
"HILARIOUS PARTY. "SHURE BUT THERES' OTHER NOTICES BEYANT WID BETTER ADVICE."


A Splendid Out-door Shoe.
*—most suitable for walking, golfing or
general sports wear. Its stout yet pliant
sole protects and rests the foot.
This Brogue Shoe lends itself specially
to the application of Phillip’s Rubbers,
which render it damp-proof and particu-
larly easy and comfortable.
In Tan Willow Calf, with stout double
soles, wide rope-stitched welts, leather-
lined back 42/-
Or in Black Box Calf 39/6
Phillip’s Rubbers: Stout, 7/6; Light,
6/-; attaching, 1/6 extra.
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
■-
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
309-311 GEORGE STREEET, SYDNEY.
MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
Usher’s Hotel ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Bath.s-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
/Rewarewa”: I once worked on a M.L.
d>xijy, the hereditary directorate of which
included several spinsters with Mid-Vic-
torian ideals, and the editor saw to it that
the sheet lived up to them. Certain things
simply could not be mentioned by name in
the paper. Once a gx'eat Anglican mission
came to the town,, and a young C.E.M.S.
man on the staff had to write up the show.
After a neat intro, lie told how the preacher
took for his text the story of the woman
taken in adultery. When the editorial pro-
tector of the Mid-Victorian ideals saw the
terrible word in the rough proof he hit the
roof. And the sermon was made to refer
to “a woman taken in a serious offence”!
“Copper-Catcher”: That par. of “Sixen-
ateV’ (B. 12/3/’22) about the Is. balances
left in savings-banks reminds me that in the
eighties when I was a callow clerk in the
Melbourne Savings Bank ( John Alsop, actu-
ary) there was an iron rule that we should
use every kind of persuasion to induce
depositors to leave a bob to keep their
accounts open. This was not so much to
TACT.
“Didn't I see you and your husband at the
theatre last night?”
“Oh yes, dear. But for Heaven's sake don't
ask my husband if you saw him!”
encourage thrift as to make the total num-
ber of accounts sound bigger. There were
over 60,000 accounts open when I left, but
rows of “O” ledgers disclosed nothing but
“bob balances.” I remember a derelict blow-
ing into head office one day and presenting
an. old passbook which he had unearthed
somewhere. He diffidently asked if the shil-
ling it recorded was still available. It cer-
tainly was, for when this chapi had drawn
his tidy deposit more than 20 years before
it was within a week of the annual balance,
and the year’s interest had made his shilling
into £B-odd, and that in turn had gone on
bearing compound interest ever since. We
had no difficulty in persuading him to keep
his account going with another bob “for
luck.”
* * * *
“Ked Itust”: During the Fritz advance
of 1918 a staff-major of the Imperial bri-
fa ue, supporting u s
in the line, got lost in
a heavy fog, and wan-
dered far out into
wliat had become No
Man’s Land about 24
h ours earlier, bu t
across which ou r
duckboards still lay.
Suddenly the fog
lifted, and the Major
found himself within'
a few yards of a Ger-
man S.P., while our
lines were 250yds. be-
hind him. After his
first gasp of astonish-
ment he sprang on to
a duckboard track and
made for us at an
amazing speed. Fritz,
as soon as he realised
the position, opened
fire with all sorts of
weapons, and the re-
sultant din scared the
wits out of a hare,
which jumped on to
the boards a few yards
in front of the sprin-
ter, and with his ears
well back came streak-
ing towards us too.
It was then wy fully
appreci a t e d t h e
Major’s turn of speed.
In spite of the num-
ber of m.g.’s and rifles
turned on him he
reached our trench un-
untouched—h e beat
the ha re easily—and
I still can’t make out
whether it wms due to his remarkable luck
or because the bullets couldn’t catch him.
*****
“X2X” : Some months ago a young man of
28, of excellent family and without a visible
blur on his past, consulted a specialist for
what the layman calls “brain-fag,” induced
by over-study for a University examination.
A year before he had had similar trouble,
but a trip to a country town in another
State had fixed him up. The specialist, sus-
pecting he had something on his mind, pressed
for further details, whereupon the patient
owned up to an obsession, which
entirely filled every waking
moment, to the effect that he had
once appeared an a police-court
over something in connection with
a razor, and that he had been fined
and had paid the fine. He had
no knowledge of any details of the
incident, and on the face of it the
obsession was ridiculous. The
consultant tried to persuade him
of this, but it was no use. Then,
at the suggestion of the medico,
the patient engaged a firm of
agents to look up the court records
in the State in which, according
to the obsession, the occurrence
had taken place, the doctor think-
ing that this would be the easiest
and surest means of driving the
idea from the young fellow’s mind.
The result of the investigation
staggered him. Just one year pre-
viously a young man, of the
patient’s name, had been convicted
of stealing a safety-razor and ease
from a shop in the capital of the
State where the year-old holiday
had been spent, and had been fined
£5. This might have been put
down to sheer coincidence, but the
description of the thief tallied
exactly with that of the patient,
and subsequent investigation
showed the fingerprints to be iden-
tical. Moreover, the date upon
which the case had come before
the court fitted in with the
patient’s sojourn in the country town, within
easy reach of the city in which the affair
had happened. No doubt, amnesia is the
correct diagnosis; but the case deserves a
niche all to itself in the archives of nervous
diseases.
* * * *
“Dr. Nil”: Re “Lex’s” lady whom the
doctors would not attend (B. 5/l/’22).
There is no “rule of the 8.M.A.” or of any
other medical association recognised in the
British Dominions putting any obstacle in
the way of any qualified medical man attend-
ing any patient at any time in case of emer-
gency. The present writer is a doctor, and
the brother of a doctor* and the son and
grandson of doctors, all of whom (and
other medical relations also) belong or be-
longed to the and he has never
heard of any medical acquaintance refusing
to attend an urgent case if he could possibly
do so. When a medical man finds himself
unable to respond to a call, urgent or
otherwise, and whether because he is
“too tired” or ill or is simply unwill-
ing so to do. he either sends for a
neighbor or leaves the patient’s friends'
WAIT AND SEE.
"Would you feel hurt if I hissed your ?"
"I don't know —are you so -eery rough?"
to do so independently. There is nothing
to prevent any other doctor attending
the case if he is able. “Lex” says “this cast-
iron rule forbidding one doctor to have any-
thing to do with the patient of another ap-
pears in the B.M.A. Lexicon under the head-
ing, ‘Medical Ethics.”’ There is no such
“lexicon,” and there positively is no such
rule. Any patient may “change the doctor”
at any moment by the simple method of tell-
ing No. 1 not to call again, and sending for
No. 2. I have been sent for in such circum-
stances, and have always attended and never
had any reproach cast at me for so doing.
I do not deny that individual doctors may
refuse. to attend urgent cases for reasons
of their own that may not justify such re-
fusal. That is on their own consciences and
in no way governed by the “rules of the
8.M.A.”
**« . *
“Camb” : I first met him on an Aussie-bound
hospital boat, and he looked as though some
vampire was sucking hifc blood away. T.B
had been the verdict in London, and no one,
least of all himself, reckoned on- niore than
three years of life. Nine months later he
seemed more like a
corpse, mechanically
operated, than a liv-
ing man. That was a
year ago. A few
days back I collided
with him in Collins-
street. It took me a
full minute to recog-
nise him. Well-fleshed
and radiating health,
he didn’t look the
same person. It ap-
pears that while stay-
ing with a medical
friend he had con-
tracted a cough, and
in a paroxysm one
night he dislodged a
fragment of a 5.9 shell
that had been wedged
_in - the lung and over-
when its 12
fellows were removed. Thereupon the diag-
nosis of T.B. was buried instead of mv
friend.
* * * *
“N.W.”; When the new colonel took over
our batt. he wanted a servant, and one of
the officers recommended Sailor, a hard-case
Dig. who had been in the Navy and was
known for his lively wit and livelier taste
for rum. “Believe you want to see me, sir?”
said Sailor when he had been sent for.
“Yes, I want you to be my batman.” “That’ll
do me, sir,” remarked the Digger cordially.
The old man looked at him quizzically for a
moment, then said, “But I want you to
understand that there is room here for onlv
one man who drinks, and I’m that man/’
Sailor scratched his head ; then with a grin
came, “What about taking- it day about sir*'
lie got the job.
«- * * *
"T.R.H.”: Tilings have changed at Mel-
bourne Gaol since “Maram” (B. 5/l/’22)
knew it. The site of the old “murderers’
cemetery” is now completely outside the gaol
precincts, and is used as a playground and
bicycle-garage for the Workingmen’s College
students. The last two murderers hanged
in the gaol—Budd, the Port Melbourne mur-
derer, and Arthur Oldring, the Trawool
tragedian—were buried in the hospital yard
just in front of the morgue. Initials were
cut in the old cemetery wall to show where
the prisoners were buried; but Budd and
Oldring have no such grim memorials. Only
a bed of Weeds marks the spot where each
moulders.
* * * *
“0.K.”: The ultra-melodramatic murder
of a young girl in Melbourne revived mem-
ories of the slaying of Bauer, the diamond
merchant, whose daylight assassin was
never brought to court, and whose stolen
gems were never officially recovered. Yet
it is hard to believe that the man who slew
Bauer in a city office was never known to
the police. Among pressmen there is an
impression that the culprit was a young and
amusing individual, in the sameline of busi-
ness as Bauer, who died in a lunatic asylum
shortly afterwards. But what became of the
goods, and, if this was the man, why wasn’t
his identity reveajed in justification of the
C.1.D., which for nearly 20 years has been
more or less scorned for its supposed failure
to elucidate the “mystery”?
* * * *
“Mirza” sees the end of wlibeze and
sneeze:—•
Anaphylaxis, which is simply a state of increased
sensitiveness to any antigen (or substance capable
of forming antibodies) as a result of inoculation
with such antigen, is by no means as rare as some
Bulletin writers suggest. A Melbourne doctor has
inquired very closely into it, and his researches show
that chemical substances, such as strychnine or
sugar, never cause a hypersensitiveness,, whereas the
injection of any protein foreign to the body may
do so. One produces antibodies; the other doesn’t.
The next injection of the foreign protein is followed
by a violent contraction of all the involuntary
muscles of the body, noticeably those around the
bronchial tubes and bronchioles. He claims that
asthma and hay fever —or hay asthma, as it is now
termed—are generally examples of anaphylaxis, the
former being due most frequently to the absorption
of horse dandruff, the latter to the inhalation of
various pollen dusts. -Even the odors of flowers
may induce an attack in the susceptible—the effect
of magnolias a rd tuberoses is well known. Further,
lie has been able to cause typical asthmatical attacks
in certain patients by injecting alcoholic extracts
of dandruff or pollen. He is now attempting the
cure of the malady. Having determined by pre-
vious cutaneous injections the particular protein to
which the patient reacts or is hypersensitive, he
makes an alcoholic extract of the offending protein,
and twice a week injects very minute quantities of
this into the sufferer. The dosage is gradually in-
creased until the patient is taking a comparatively
EASILY OVERCOME.
“I don't think father would ever hear of my
marrying you."
“All right, then, Weill tell him ourselves.”
large amount without discomfort; and then 'it is
assumed that the patient is immune to that particular
protein—otherwise, cured. As yet the treatment is
in its infancy, but results are encouraging. One
who had invariably had a weekly attack has gone
four months under treatment without a single asth-
matical wheeze.
HER HATRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her face may be smiling,
Soft lights in her eye ;
But I know she’s beguiling,
And so I am shy.
Can a girl seem so tender
Whilst acting a part,
And sweet aspects render
With hate in her heart?
Her hate won’t diminish
Till settled’s my fate:
She loathes and would finish
My bachelor state.
x.s.w.
THE FREQUENT LOVER.


dfg
mi
Vv.
• < • 5
m*.
»
&
\ i
"wvr;
.
v
&
x.
L«S
tV-..
■
'■
Pent old -
the Australian
Godfather of the
Spirit of the Vine


K 372. —Elegant Diamond Brooch, eet plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/- •
No. 114. —Three-
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K444.—Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
No. 160. —All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
es™ ments -
Wristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets. Prices-
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Stewart Umsm & (q gw.) Ltd.
,Jujo Si/cJn&if Ssfablismentis :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 412 GEORGE ST.’
K37s.—Fashionable Diamond Brooch, set
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129—Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set. Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
No. 155. Five-Stone Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
Remarks of an old gaol surgeon—
The suggestion (B. 22/12/’2l) that hard-up State
Governments should revive the custom of public
executions and charge for admission would, if adopted,
meet with instant success. The streak of morbidity
that is present in everybody would guarantee bumper
houses. It , draws a crowd even when the hanging
is conducted under such conditions that none of
the “spectators” see anything more than a few offi-
cials and reporters going in and coming out of the
gaol. Since the first scragging took place within
prison walls every ceremony has been marked by a
gapfng crowd standing about the gaol gates talking
in hushed whispers and discussing previous execu-
tions. But this crowd is nothing to the one that
has hopes right up till the last moment of being
able to get inside as guests, so to speak. As soon
as the date is fixed for a hanging the office of the
sheriff is deluged with applications for permission
to be present, and just before some executions these
applicants have numbered thousands. They are a
representative crowd. Quite a lot profess to be
students of criminology, and others write themselves
down doctors or lawyers—the most illiterate medi-
coes and gents, one in the world, to judge by their
notes. Then there are always one or two who have
the impression that admittance to a hanging is one
of a citizen’s inalienable rights. One gentleman
stated that he was Writing a play, in which the big
scene was an execution, and he wished to see' a real
one so that the scene might be true to life. An-
other put forward a similar plea with regard to a
book. None of these requests is ever granted, but
some of the applicants have put in their little claim
at every hanging in Melbourne in the past 10 years.
BUT WHY DID SHE KICK HIM
DOWNSTAIRS?
BINKS ( showing of his daughter): “She
positively adores Beethoven!”
JOHNSON ( musical critic): “Then what does
she torture him for?”
And it’s a man-graduate who says it: —
“L.E.” (B. 22/12/’2l) says women university
students are seldom original, and that they nearly
always have the same opinions as their instructors.
On the contrary, what original thought there is
in Australian universities is invariably supplied by
the girl students, who, taken in the mass, are gener-
ally industrious and have a genuine thirst for know-
ledge as knowledge, and not merely as a thing to
satisfy the examiners. Women figure much more
extensively in the honors lists than men, and about
75 per cent, of the prizes and scholarships are
annexed by them each year. One striking fact is
that, while it is only the most brilliant of the
men students who carry off the academic distinc-
tions, the number amounting to about three or four
per cent, of the total, something like 50 per cent.
A SORT OF CLEA NED-OUT SENSATION.
“Do you have an unpleasant feeling after meals?"
“Often, doctor—when I find what I have to pay for them.”
of the girls achieve success in this direction. And
after they have completed their courses, more especi-
ally in the professional schools, these things still
hold good, and you will find, for insta'nce, that
women doctors are more likely to make a correct
diagnosis than men, because of the thoroughness
they bring to bear on a case and their capacity for
detail. Returning to the main point, at one uni-
versity a year or so ago every prize for original work
was taken by the women students.
“Heredot”: In the early days of Hobart
the unmarried female who strayed from the
narrow path, and paid the Usual price, was
sometimes compelled to wear an iron collar,
in much the same way as the erring sister of
early-American Puritan times was branded
with a scarlet letter. This collar, fashioned
like the ruffs of the Elizabethan period,
weighed as much as 101 b., the idea of the
inventor apparently being that if the lady’s
head wasn’t bowed it ought to be. There
is one case on record in which an 18-year-old
girl was made to wear the collar for three
hours a day for a week, having to report at
a stated time every day to the official whose
duty it was to see that the sentence was car-
ried out. He, after placing the ornament
around her neck, paraded her through the
streets of Hobart. But the custom doesn’t
seem to have lasted long: a dawning sense of
decency among the citizens resulted in its
abolition. What is believed to be the only
collar in existence is in the possession of a
Melbourne collector of early Australian
relics.
* * * *
“Mrs. Lance”: The Biblical story of Sarah
presenting her handmaid to husband Abra-
ham has been scoffed at, but it had its
counterpart as late as 1880 in N. S.
Wales, when the childless wife of a
settler hied her to a ship that was bringing
assisted immigrants to Queensland, selected a
healthy young Irish girl, and, returning to
the home, presented the colleen to her hus-
band, on the understanding that the child of
their union was to be hers, on her paying
the mother the sum of £2OO. She had first
induced the girl to sign an agreement to give
over her infant and disappear one month
after the birth. A male child was in due
course handed over, and the mother vanished
according to the bond. The couple pros-
pered atid became wealthy, and the boy was
as the apple of their eye. Then, on or about
his 12th birthday, the Irish mother, now a
person of more or less distinction, turned
up and demanded her son. She had married
and had a son in the interval, but husband
and child had been drowned in floods in N.
Queensland. The couple produced the agree-
ment she had signed, but the Law said all
they could do was demand the return of
the £2OO, together with a sum plus interest,
representing the cost of the boy’s upbring-
ing. This being done the money was
promptly paid, and the mother departed with
her son. To-day there lives in an Australian
city a distinguished lawyer, who, if he hap-
pens to refer to his wife, will tell you that
her name was Sarah and her price above
rubies.
“Sierra” : After 52 adventurous years the
Gutty Sark has furled .her sails, and now lies
for sale in the Surrey docks, London.
Launched in 1569 by Denny, of Dumbarton,
she immediately started, on the track of the'
Thermopylae (launched the previous year)
and thus commenced an
argument—which never will
be settled so long as sea-
men exist —as to which was
the faster vessel. In their
one and only race, from
China, the Cutty Sark lost
her rudder off the Cape and
arrived at London one week
behind her rival. In 1881,
when homeward bound from
Singapore, her captain
(Wallace) killed an A. 8.,
and a few nights afterwards
quietly disappeared over the
side. Conrad used the inci-
dent in his “The Secret
Sharer.” As a wool clipper
the Cutty Sark put up a
record never equalled by any
other vessel. Out of 28 pas-
sages between England and
Australia, only three ex-
ceeded 90 days, the best
being 68 days from London
to Sydney. Her record is
368 miles in 24 hours. In
1805 she hoisted the Portuguese flag and
registered at Lisbon as the Ferreira.
* * * ' *
What is liable to happen to the visitor
nowadays in Canada; being a page from the
peregrinations of Frank Coffee, of Sydney:—
I was sorry I could not say good-bye to my friend,
as I had to leave Toronto hurriedly. The pleasant
evening we spent on Saturday was turned to gloom on
arrival at my hotel. While disrobing, between 11
and 12, a knock came, and four provincial detectives
entered and demanded to search for liquor. Thev
asked me if I had any. 1 had about Boz., and j
told them so, and said I always carried some or.
the advice of my doctor. I referred them to mj
Toronto physician, Dr. McMann. They questioned
me closely, and asked if I did not know the law.
I replied that I understood there was prohibition
in Canada, but that -that would not interfere with
a traveller having some liquor in his room for
medicinal purposes. They said that while a man
was allowed to have liquor in his home for con-
sumption, he could not have it in a hotel. I told
them my home was in hotels, on sleeping-cars,
steamboats, etc. They asked how long I intended
to stay in Toronto, and I replied that if my lawyers
had certain papers completed on Monday I would
leave on Monday night or Tuesday, and showed them
my steamer ticket across the Pacific. At this junc-
ture I asked them what my position was, and one
of them said I was liable to a fine of $2OO-
- and three months’ gaol. Two guests, one a
country storekeeper and the other a city resident,'
were taken to the police-station at midnight, and
had to put up $2OO each for bail, which amount
they were fined on Monday morning: About 20
detectives took possession of the hotel floors, placing
tw'o at the telephone switchboard, so no warning
could be sent to the guests (200 in number). The
search was pretty thorough, and furious protests
were made by many of the married couples whose
rooms were invaded at midnight—no warrant shown
—and their baggage searched. The officers took the
small portion of whisky I had, refusing to allow
me to retain any, one of the officers remarking that
if it had not been for my steamer ticket they would
arrest me and take me to the police-station. Acting
on advice, I packed my things at once and left the
city by the first train that steamed out.
"Centurion”: Rummaging among some
papers a few days ago, I came upon an old
set of A.L.H. Brigade orders, issued when
the Light Horse regiments were re-forming in
Western Egypt after the Evacuation. The
extract I quote had to be read on parade to
each L.H. regiment, and serves to recall
Pearce’s frustrated attempt to embody the
provisions of the English Army Act in the
amended Defence Bill:
Discipline.—3: Death Sentence Carried into Exe-
cution. Army Routine Order No. 15, dated 7th
January, 1916, is re-published for information.
No. 3610, Sergeant J. Robins, sth (Service) Bat-
talion, Wiltshire Regiment, was»convicted by a Field
General Court-Martial on 6th December, 1915, on
the following charge: "Disobeying in such a manner
as to show wilful defiance of authority a lawful
command given personally by his superior officer in
the execution of his office.” This n.c,o. when per-
sonally ordered by his Company-Officer to accompany
him on patrol, §aid he was not well enough to do
so. He was medically inspected and found fit for
duty. His Company Officer then again gave him the
order, but the accused refused to obey. The Court
sentenced the accused to death by being shot, and
this sentence having been confirmed by the Com-
mander-in-Chief, was carried out on January 2, 1916.
The “active service” at that time happened to
be on the west frontier of Egypt, with the
only enemy, the Senussi, -occupying the
Baharia oasis, in small numbers, a hundred
miles away across a waterless desert. The
patrol the sergeant was ordered to accompany
was a thoroughly formal affair, a few miles
out into the Libyan desert, with no earthly
chance of meeting anything more formidable
than a jackal. The reading of the order
quoted hhd a strong disciplinary effect on
the Aussies. Two hours after the parade,
the 2nd L.H. regiment released a couple of
Tommy prisoners undergoing field punish-
ment, tore down the triangles they were tied
to, and took the pieces to their lines for fire-
wood. Murray was the G.O.C.—and retri-
bution came to him at Gaza.
THEN THERE WERE MORE WORDS.
DORIS (ending a discourse on pursuits and
pleasures): “Well, girls, I’ve never
tasted’ a cocktail, never played cards
for money, never put anything on a
horse.”
TRLXIE: “Good gracious! I wish I could
say that!”
GLADYS: “Why don't you, dear? Doris did.”
THE STARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The oldest man in all the world sat down
Beneath the green arms of an ancient tree
That felt the laughter still in its gay crown
No older than the Spring’s last witchery.
The man was wrinkled, hoary, scant of breath,
l* e remembered those broad arms outflung
In summers numbered with the sighs of death
When he and all that once he loved were young.
A low wind stirred the drooping green to speech,
The great tree whispered in the old man’s ear:
“Next year or the year after I shall reach
The stars of night that I have climbed so near.
“How have you grown, poor, dust-bound, leafless
thing ?
For fifty summers you are withered grey;
You bend upon your staff and dare not sing
W ith the high winds that call the merry day.
“You shall not gather stars, nor kiss the sun,
Nor laugh with Spring and dance to sparkling rain.
You fail and die when I have but begun
A splendid life that mocks your striving vain.”
The old man heard and closed his weary eyes
And dreamed again that all the stars came near,
Each with a sorrow that could make him wise,
Each with a courage that could conquer fear.
He rose again and leaned upon his staff
And walked the dusty road and passing smiled
To hear across the field the silver laugh
Blown from the red lips of a happy child.
Wide over all the world were trees and men
Grown old with striving upward to the skies
And stars beyond the stars ; but now and then
A child looked up and caught them in his eyes.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


¥
BATTERIES
O
c
c
Mm
"to,
jm
m
<m
c
i
r&
u
r&
ILLCt
sS'<
s
0
That Extra Measure
and What It Means
More power than you are likely to need; longer
service than you are likely to expect; freedom
from repairs that you are sure to appreciate—these
things make Exide the superior battery for your
car. They mean true economy and the maximum
of satisfaction.
We have an Exide the right size for you; but
perhaps you don’t need a new battery. Let us
have a look and give you an impartial judgment
Our repair service extends to all makes of
batteries. You can rely on unprejudiced advice,
skilful work, and reasonable prices. Call and see.
BATTERY
j?3Ct6e
SERVICE
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA ...
NEW ZEALAND .......
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire/Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SIDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COJXINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ PUNE BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St. f near King St
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
King George IV
* UI,V
tH E TOP NOTCH ’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
HE TOOK IT FOR AN OLIVE BRANCH.
ORANGE BITTERS : “ I’m a Briton of the good
old stock, rooted deep in the soil, I
am.”
GREEN CHARTREUSE: “Oh, go along wid
you. ’Tis not necessary for you to be
miscallin’ yourself a hog to make fri'nds
wid me.”
“X.Y.”: I am sure Mrs. Pat Mooney,
who recently died at 86 (B. 29/12/’2l), was not the
first white woman born in the Manning River
(N.S.W.) district. AVhen she was born, in 1835, there
were many prolific families in that locality. The
cedar-getters were the first arrivals; but they, as
a rule, did not bring their families into the ’new
country. Still, settlement followed very closely
upon them, and the Manning was occupied by stock-
owners very soon after Port Macquarie was estab-
lished in the early ’twenties. In 1827 Captain
Wynter arrived to take possession of a grant of
256 acres, which he named Taree and upon which
the town of that name now stands. He arrived by
sea with his family at the northern entrance of
the Manning, and made the passage up the river
in an immense canoe dug out of a cedar trunk.
He landed and settled at Cundle Point, where he
resided for two years under the mistaken impression
that he was on his own grant. Cundle was after-
wards granted to Hart Davis. I was well acquainted
with the late Wm. Wynter, son of the captain, and
he well remembered the arrival of the family on the
river, as he was about seven at the time. He told
me there were several families living in the dis-
' trict when his people got there. A military grantee
(Captain Whiting I think) had Moto Plains, having-
acquired that property with the intention Of grow-
ing sugar ; and he was established there with his
family before the Wynters landed at Cundle Point.
I don’t know whether Whiting brought a carriage
with him, but he brought several “carriage dogs”
—big spotted Dalmatians, and when he quitted his
holding in disgust he left these dogs behind. They
crossed with the dingoes and produced a ferocious
and destructive breed which was not exterminated
for 40 years.
“Valamac”: “To Whare” (B. 1/12/’21.).
says the carpet-snake never exceeds 10ft. or 12ft. At
Macknade Mill, Ingham (N.Q.), one was captured
that careful measurement proved to be 21ft.
long. A photo taken after he had been killed
shows the body supported by over a dozen men. Snake
yarns are very often stretched, but I know one case
where the actual reptile was. Two timber-getters
hitched a wire round each end of a recently-dead
adder and gave a good, steady heave. When the
body had been stretched to 3ft. 6in., it showed
signs of breaking, so they left it at that, and
invited the neighbors to inspect. As the adder
was just ripe enough to prevent close examination
the whole country-side was fooled, and is still
trying to force the yarn of the 3ft. 6in death-adder
down the necks of doubting visitors.
* # * *
“Crabtree”: The faithful hound, which
happened this time to be a terrier, got a special
mention again the other day. His master was a
N.S.W. timber-splitter who fractured his leg while
working two miles from his tent, and after crawling
some distance fainted. His dog set off, and induced
the man’s mate to follow him to where his injured
master was lying. It reminds me of that other dog
belonging to a man who was thrown from his horse
on a lonely road. Being unable to rise the injured
one scribbled “I need your assistance” on a scrap
of paper, spoke the name of a doctor whom the
dog knew, and sent the faithful hound off with the
note in his mouth. Later, roused from a swoon at
the sound of wheels, the man looked up and saw—
an undertaker’s cart. The dog had delivered the
note at the wrong address.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: Excepting the brush-wattle
bird, or little gillbird, from whose open twig incu-
bator I have seen the flesh-tinted egg taken, I had
not ascertained till recently on what
birds the pallid cuckoo (Cuculus in-
ornatus) foists its offspring. The
other day, however, I saw one flying
away from a reddish-breasted whist-
ler’s nest, with Mrs. Whistler in
close pursuit. This cuckoo, like
some others, occasionally deposits an
egg on the bare ground, no suitable
nest being available at the time.
The bird doubtless takes up the dere-
lict egg in its beak later on and
places it in a suitable domicile. I
have more than once caught bronze-
wing cuckoos in the act of flying
out of the downed nests of blue and
ground wrens. The cuckoos certainly
are useful insect-killers, but it often
costs other birds, just as useful, their
whole brood to rear one cuckoo chick,
as the usurper usually ousts the rest.
It is very remarkable, by the way,
that, although birds consistently hunt
cuckoos away from their nests, they
never eject the cuckoo’s egg, once
it is laid among their own. This
isn’t brainy. But if the cuckoo lays
in the nest before the owner does,
the latter sometimes covers it over
with lining, and the egg fails to
hatch. I have found the nest of a
ground wren (striped tit-warbler) with two cuckoo’s
eggs and three of her own in it. One of the inter-
loper’s eggs was under the nest lining and addled.
Angustura ’: They were playing two-up
on the station with several abo. stockmen looking
on. Then Jacky thought he knew a bit about the
game and came in with a couple of half-crowns to
have a bet. He was a tail bettor. Presently he was
given the pennies to toss, and just as he was about
to heave them, Billy, who had been watching closely,
warned him that they were double-headers. Jacky
thought hard for a few seconds. Then, “No matter,
Billy,’’ he said; “I might fluke it.”
* * * „
“J.G.”: I agree with “Colub” (B.
22/12/ 21) that the Vic. black snake is a pugnacious
devil when aroused. Years ago one chased me for
two or three chains across a dried-up swamp when I
met it unexpectedly and had nothing to fight it with.
Those who say the black is no fighter probably con-
fuse him with the copperhead, which is often of a
slaty-black color on the back. I have come across
hundreds of copperheads, but have never yet met one
that did not try to clear out. Quite a lot of people
persist in calling the copperhead a black. The
main difference is the coppery-colored head of the
former and the bright pink belly of the latter. It
is just as well that the copperhead is such a coward,
otherwise he would leave a trail of corpses in many
districts south of the Dividing Range, as he is the
next most venomous reptile to the tiger.
“Eddyson”: Hairbreadth escapes by flood
and fall in Australian mines during the last 50
years would make a volume beside which the ordinary
adventure book would look pale and seem to move
heavily. Take the story of Donald Wyley, for in-
stance. Donald was trapped by a rush of water in
ROOM FOR THANKFULNESS.
THE DRIVER : “I’m very sorry, old man. Still we ought to be thankful—it might have
been more serious.”
THE VICTIM'S HUSBAND: “By Jove, yes; you’re right. Another inch and it would have
been me.”
a cross-drive in a mine at Creswick. He found him-
self about 60ft. from the shaft, with only his head
above water, and the tide slowly rising. There lay
between him and the one faint hope of salvation
15ft. of the smaller drive and 40-odd feet of the main
drive, both filled to the roof with water. Wyley
recognised that his solitary chance rested in his
being able to force his way all that distance under
water. Once the shaft was gained he might rise to
the surface of the flood with a lively chance of
making himself heard and being rescued. The im-
prisoned miner shrank from the ordeal till the
water was about his lips and the little air available
was extremely vitiated; then, filling his lungs with
Such air as was available, he went under, and
started for the plat. He could not swim ;he had to
make his way under the water, clinging to the
timbers. But he could not keep on his feet: the
flood lifted him, and bruised his head against the
cap pieces, and almost immediately on submerging
the desire to breathe seized him. Before he reached
the main drive it became an agony, yet he knew
that to attempt inhalation meant death. He had
to fight against an almost overwhelming necessity.
Suddenly, when further resistance seemed impossible,
the suffocating man reached the shaft. Giving a
powerful upward thrust, he felt his head collide
with something barring the way and realised
that the cage was in the shaft and that
he was in it. He turned with a des-
pairing final effort hoping to lunge into the next
compartment. Overwrought nature gave way, the
water rushed into Wyley’s lungs, he collapsed in
the cage—and recovered consciousness some hours
later lying abed, with his wife at his elbow and his
faitiily about him. The very moment when Wyley
collapsed the cage started ascending. It brought
the miner’s unconscious form to the surface to the
amazement of the crowd, who had long given him up
as lost, and flopped him, apparently dead, upon the
flat sheet at the braceman’s feet. Fortunately there
was a doctor present, and efforts at resuscitation
were successful. To his mates’ extreme surprise no
inducement could get Wyley down a mine again.
* * « #
“Yoyang”: “McNorth” is adrift when he
says (B. 8/12/’2l) \hat no positive case of the use
of envenomed weapons has ever been recorded in
Papua. When surveyor Stuart Russell took an expe-
dition to mark out a road over the Owen Stanley
Range to the Yodda Valley goldfield, one of his
carriers died and was buried. Shortly afterwards
the relief expedition found the body disinterred, arid
acting as a pincushion, for dozens of spears and short
slithers of wood, the latter were to be used as ground-
or foot-spears. Captain Monckton, R.M., believed
that tribal sorcerers used to “strengthen” the wea-
pons of the fighting-men by poisoning them in this
fashion, but that the fighting-men themselves did
not do so.
* * * *
“Lincolnshire”; Re “Jobber’s” cabbage-
planting (B. 22/12/’2l). Forty years ago my father
took a job in Lincolnshire (Eng.) to transplant tur-
nips to let go to seed, for 7*d. per 1000. The first
day we pulled and transplanted 6000. The foreman
of the farm came along in the evening and told us he
had a boy of 15 who could do that many, so we had
to shake things up. The third day, my father, a
younger brother and I planted 12,000. The foreman’s
son worked in the same field, and I can assure you
he could put in 6000 a day and then wait for the rest
of us to knock-off.
“Barcoo” : Our longest reptile— political
press and other contemporaries included is the
rock-python, which ranges from Bft. to 12ft
and the so-called carpet-Tnake (python), which
rung from 12ft. to 23ft. The former gets its
name because its bungalow is usually a small
rocky knoll —it is in the boulder-strewn ranges in
the interior that this brand is most numerous.
On the other hand, the carpef attains its greatest
perfection in length and girth on the humid, tropical
coast running from Rockhampton round to Darwin.
Both the carpet- and the rock-pythons have smaller
and larger varieties, the smaller in each predomi-
nating. The rock-python is credited all over the
far west of Bananaland with being most venomous,
though really he is quite innocent of the charge.
He is also described as a tiger-snake in those
latitudes in 19 out of 20 identifications. He cer-
tainly has many of the characteristics of his fiery,
venomous relative. He will show fight with head
erect and will advance on the human intruder
near his lair, and is particularly vicious in the
breeding season. In the North, especially about
Ingham and Halifax, the sugar-planters make pets
of the carpet-pythons, they being eradicators of
vermin (including venomous snakes). .
AGAINST HIS PRINCIPLES.
THE SQUATTER: “And so you don't find
work in the country to your liking?”
IKEY : “Vot you tink! Everywhere they
wants me to 'elp puttin' fires out.”
“Searchlight” : Driving along, the Coramba
(N.S.W.) road a few years ago the mailman saw
his two prads struck by lightning,, and he wasn’t
hurt. When I was on the Dorrigo (N.S.W.) a bolt
entered a house, travelled the entire length, upended
a shed and finally dug itself into the garden. After-
wards it was found that the clock was fused into a
solid mass. All through the storm a woman was sew-
ing and didn’t know how close she was to sudden
death. Lightning will sometimes twist and buckle
a tool and leave the user unscathed, and I have
seen a silvered mirror which had what looked like
the imprint of a huge tree placed on it by a flash.
(Continued on page 2 2.)
AN ARGUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the hut verandah they talked of horse
As bushmen will as a matter of course.
Mat was saying he’d match his filly,
A mile with Abrupt and beat him silly.
Nobody answered; and there they stuck
Till Billy remarked that Blaze could buck.
Then in an instant woke the strife:
“Never could buck in his blasted life!”
“Half-a-dozen that I could tell
Could ride that rotter from here to Hell! ”
“Bless me, I’ve rode in my younger days
Many a score of ’em worse than Blaze;
Pig-jumps a bit if the girth should pinch.
But buck! He never could buck an inch!”
Billy, under his broad-brimmed hat,
Slowly into the sunlight spat.
That sort o’ talk is cheap,” he said,
“There’s always 'a skite ’ll open his head
As soon as you say that a horse can prop;
But it ain’t the kind that can stay on top
When they’re up in the air with a snort and squeal
An round an’ round like a Catherine-wheel.”
“Good for you, Billy!” a friend remarked,
And someone suggested, “William’s narked.”
But Billy shifted his pipe and spat
With the air of a man who says “That’s that.”
A long-legged fellow behind cut in
With a gentle drawl, “He can buck like sin,
An any who Says that he can’t would say
That nothin could buck —not Dargin’s grey ! ”
“Call me a liar?” Red Aitken said.
“Rot!” said the overseer; “shut your head!
Pou re looking for lash one-half your days ;
Sydney is right. He can buck, can Blaze.”
And the night came down on them wrangling still
Sydney and Mat and the rest—and Bill.
SCOTLAND.
WILT, H. OGILVIE.


THE dtewa?it> VACUUM TANK FOR MOTOR CARS
has been imitated, but its popularity has never been impaired;
in fact, it has been enhanced.
dfg
dfg
THERE ARE GOOD REASONS WHY!
The basic principles and special features of the
Stewart Vacuum Feed System, which are directly
responsible for its constant service in delivering fuol
to the car year in and year out with unfading
regularity, are covered by patents throughout the
world, and these patents cannot be infringed. As a
result 95 per cent, of the world output of cars are
to-day equipped with Stewart Vacuum Tanks. Should
a spare part be required at any time, it can be obtained
from any leading garage in Australia. Every motor
mechanic is familiar with the Stewart Tank, and
knows just how to adjust it.
When you fit your car with the Stewart Vacuum
Tank you have a trouble-proof, long-lasting, satisfac-
tory fuel feed, backed by a service organisation
throughout Australia that stands ready at all times
to see that you get that service which the Stewart
Vacuum System is capable of giving.
rnOM MAI NT "
SASOUNE TANK
Hi
BENNETT
MARTIN
FOR SALE BY LEADING
AUSTRALIA, INCLUDING
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL ACCESSORY DEALERS THROUGHOUT
THE FOLLOWING INTER-STATE SERVICE STATIONS:—
& WOOD, LTD., SYDNEY; BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., MELBOURNE;
WILSON BROS., BRISBANE; CORNELL, LTD., ADELAIDE; ARTHUR
CHRISTIAN, PERTH.
THE PATHETIQUE SYMPHONY
-Ofe:
m
YOUR PRESENT PIANO CAN
BE TAKEN IN EXCHANGE AND
ITS FULL VALUE ALLOWED.
And at—
NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
IS HEARD AT ITS BEST
WHEN PLAYED UPON A
6EHNING PLAYER PIANO.
It is to the music of the great masters that the
musician owning a Behning Player Piano most often
turns.
This is the music which is beyond the reach of all
but exceptional performers. With a Behning Player
Piano there is no difficulty. The whole mind can
be given up to interpretation and appreciation.
The mechanism of the Behning Player Piano is
beautifully constructed. It is always under perfect
control, and the pumping is light and very responsive.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
PRICE LIST and EASY TERMS.
338 George Street,
SYDNEY .


Why do Comedians draw
big' salaries ?~
One theatrical manager has said that every laugh
is worth £5O. This is one probable explanation
why comedians draw big salaries.
Just the same in private life. The man or woman
who radiates the joy of living, and wears the smile
of perfect health, must succeed.
—and it’s so easy to wear a smile—if you keep fit,
enjoy sound nerves, hearty appetite and. restful
sleep. CLEMENTS TONIC imparts that happy
condition. It’s energising nutriment is readily
assimilated by the blood and affords relief from
anaemia, neuritis, insomnia, impaired vitality and
similar ailments. Try CLEMENTS TONIC and
enjoy the perfect health that ensures contentment,
energy and brightness.
Your local chemist or storekeeper sells CLEMENTS
TONIC, and ’tis particularly efficacious during these
trying sultry days.
Clements Tonic, Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
“Groper”: Re long-distance rowing (B.
W«>- over 40 I' ears ago a party of Albany
(Vv.A.) whalers, putting in the season at Doubtful
Island fishery, had their boat stove in by a right
whale, and one of the crew was badly crushed. Making
up a full crew with two spare hands they pulled
over 100 miles to get the injured man to Albany,
only to find on arrival that he was past help. Prac-
tically throughout the pull the boat never ceasfed
tiavelling; and a rough sea didn’t - make the trip
any easier. It was like a nightmare to several of
the crew, all of whom have since gone west.
S.I. : R. J.F.’s” pepper-tree Jhat meas-
ures 12ft. 4in. in circumference 4ft! from the
ground (B. 8/12/’2l) is not a record-breaker. I
have one growing in my yard in Gawler (S.A.)
which tapes 14ft. sin. 3ft. from the ground. And
I remember it being planted.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I have met the one undeni-
able, duly qualified dry dog. He belongs to a
farmer at Gembrook (Vic.), and afforded much amuse-
ment to certain Christinas visitors. We had reached
Gembrook by a slow, tortuous mountain train like
a string 0 f mad perambulators, and we bee-lined it
for the bar. Carn got in just ahead of us with
his certified dry dog, and had a pint. He bit it
off short, and asked for one more in a whisper
and with one dubious eye on his tyke. But no
sooner did he grapple with the measure than the
dog was at him in a condition apparently approach-
ing madness. The dog tugged at Cam’s clothes; it
bit Carn in impressionable places; it hurled its
• big body against him, driving him ' headlong into
a corner. Then it treated him as an accomplished
herd-dog treats a stray sheep, until it had him treed
in his trap outside. Carn drove away without his
second pint. The landlord enlightened us further.
TROUBLE IN THE PUPROLETARIAT.
"Call yourself a socialist, and here you are
hiding a bone!”
“Dog’s always like that—won’t let him have a
second. Carn trained him himself, knowing what
he is if he takes the fatal second, and now Mrs.
Carn keeps Carlo up to his work.” Up the track
later we discovered Carn with a rope, trying to
entice Carlo to come and be tied up. Carlo, circulat-
ing at a distance, wouldn’t hear of it.
“C. Coral”: In earlier days Australia’s
black citizens up in the Torres Strait islands feasted
on portion of the body and the “fat” of deceased
residents or visitors. When a person died, the body
was mummified and preserved in the house for two
or three years, or, in other cases, placed on a bamboo
platform in the bush to dry. To procure the “grease,”
OH, THE EVIL-MINDED WOMAN!
HOUSEKEEPER: "What! Deliberately putting water in my milk!”
MILK-O : No, mum. Jus' washin’ me thumb-mark off the can.”
as the native terms it, incisions were made at knee,
ankle, wrist and elbow, and clam shells were placed
beneath for the liquid to drop into. When the
ceremony took place, banana leaves were laid on the
ground to form “tables,” upon which were placed
portions of the dead bodies, together with receptacles
containing the ghastly “grease.” In the centre was
placed “Madoob,” a curiously-carved wooden figure,
of which an example was found recently at Rennel
Island. The participants sat round, eating and
drinking to the accompaniment of weird songs and
dances. One informant told me that “Man he come
all same wild, he run, he go long way, he want fight,
you no stop him.” I don’t wonder. The idea,
apparently, was to acquire virtues of bravery and
fortitude. The same old fellow told me: “S’pose
man he want to come strong heart, he kai-kai eye
belong man; he take that eye, make him along yam
and some ’nother ting, and eat him.”
* * * *
“’S’fact”: I nominate the dingo for being
the hardest dier in the bush. I shot one with a 25.20
rifle; and, according to all the rules of
the game and the .holes in the pelt, the
bullet should have punctured his heart.
Still he did a dash across the plain at
something under even time. When he
stopped I had a long-distance shot, which
got him in the head. ’Twas a verv sick
dingo I found lying where he had fallen;
but seeing that he still breathed, and
being a tolerably humane person, I sac-
rificed a* third bullet, fired point-blank
into his head. To remove all possible
doubts as to his demise, I then, clouted
that Same old head several times with a
stick, before carrying the carcase away.
I was making for a waiting camel buggy
about quarter of a mile off; and was
just about 50yds. from it when I felt
something gripping my leg and inciden-
tally heard and felt the tearing of my
trousers. That corpse had recovered suffi-
ciently while getting his buckshee ride
on my back to realise there was some-
thing edible handy. While I was sur-
veying the damage, my Binghi came
along from the buggy and grinningly
commented “Cripes, that fella do-do not
dead, boss.” I agreed with him and let
him take charge, and in a few minutes
Dingo’s biting career came to a definite
full-stop against a near-by rock. By the way, the
local (W.A.) binghi isn’t at all averse to wild-dog
flesh, and my chap promptly put in his claim for
the carcase.
* .* * #
“Bilbo”: “Gavin B. F.” (B. 8/12/’2l)
might let his blue-gum leaves grow up. I want to
introduce a small tree I found near Mt. Warwick,
between the Rose and King rivers (Vic.). I measured
about a dozen leaves from it, and they all stretched
the tape over 36in.
“Sierra” : It rained heavily. Two muzzy
individuals lounged against the bar. The blotchy
one staggered to the door and poked his hand out-
side, .palm up. “Come on, i’sh stop rainin’,” he
called to his mate. It still rained. There was a
12ft. verandah round the pub.
“Jim Carew”: Re black snakes swimming
(B. 22/12/’2l). At Cumberland Reach, near Sack-
ville (N.S.W.), I disturbed a blaqk snake on ,the
bank of the Hawkesbury, and he immediately took
to the water and made for the other side. He did
it with ease, and the river there is between 25,0yds.
and 300yds. wide. Next morning there was a snake
almost at the spot where this one started from, but
whether it was the same one or its mate I can't say.
“Bill Bowyang”: I recently met an old
blackfellow near
Burketown (N.Q.), who
informed me that
when he was a young
man he cast a glad
eye in the direction
of a gin who was an-
other buck’s property.
The jealous husband
gathered a few fol-
lowers, overpowered
the gay youth, and
plucked every hair
from his body. It
took two days to com-
plete the job, and
then Lothario was
banished from the
tride. Binghi had no
time for vamps, so
the lady who assisted
in creating the disturb-
anee was declared to be, public property—with
disastrous results to herself.
Geo. Ballingall, of Alice Springs, writes :
With respect to his recent air-plane fly along the
overland telegraph line, from Hergott Springs to
Alice Springs, landing at Oodnadatta and Charlotte
Waters telegraph stations in between, it is a pity
Mr. Birtles or those who speak for him do not take
the trouble to stick to facts and truth. Many
people, in many parts of the country, know what
value to place on some of the extraordinary state-
ments about Mr. Birtles’s performances; and it is
just as well that those in other parts should have
the cold, hard facts, too.
As to his last “expedition,” he stated—at any
rate, it was stated —that he discovered by air-plane
“new waters” between Hergott and Oodnadatta, near
the borders of Lake Eyre. Now, the western shore
of Lake Eyre you can see from the train, as it
passes only a couple of miles off. All round it are
cattle, horse and some sheep runs. There are water-
holes and claypans, here, there and everywhere; and
many water-courses and creeks usually if not always
have some water in them, and can be seen by anyone
whether the viewer goes by air-plane, horseback or
tne Matilda wav. The whole country has been
walked over, ridden over (and possibly some of it
crawled over)-, and waggon-teamstered over this
last 40 to 50 years. Every water is known to the
many horse and cattle run-holders, excepting those
that are dead. Some of the claypans, waterholes
™ “ l ]' es are fresh, some brackish, and some salt.
Had Mr. Birtles alighted at his “newly discovered
water he in all probability would have found
some evidences of long-ago and present civilisation
such as empty jam-tins, bully-tins, old boots pos-
sibly the grave of some white stockman, pasto’ralist
boundary-rider, shepherd or waggon teamster ’
Again, in a Sydney pictorial are photographs which
are good enough in themselves, but some of the
descriptive letterpress, I take full responsibility for’
saying, is positively contrary to truth, and very
annoying to residents of 30 to 40 years in the
country between Oodnadatta and Alice Springs. He
says all the loading between Oodnadatta and Alice
Springs is carried by camels “owned by Afghans ”
Those three words are, in ..plain Australian, a lie.
Quite half of the camel teams are owned by white
men, and many are worked bv the white men who
own them, assisted by some half-caste or black boys
Some of the white owners are Wallis and Co., mer-
chants and camel carriers, and ’ Alice
Springs; Fogarty and Co., ' ditto; Sargeant and
Elliott, Horseshoe Bend, Finke River, ditto • the
Crown Pastoral Co., Crown Point; Mr. Fox, Mr.
Sharp, C. Bromley and others—all camel-owners.
Mr. Elliott is standing alongside me while I am
writing this, and he has at this moment said to
me: “You can tell Mr. Birtles, with my compli-
ments, that 1 am no Afghan, and that no Afghan
owns any of my camels.”
Comes yet another statement which if it isn’t a
simple lie is a lie. “Many of the blacks seen
by the Birtles party had never previously encoun-
tered whites.” On reading this aloud I have just
heard roars of derisive laughter. Mr. Birtles landed
at Charlotte Waters and Alice Springs, where all
the blacks are well known and identifiable—some he
saw probably knew gaol and other evidences of civil-
isation far better than Mr. Birtles. All the couhtry
around Alice Springs and between Oodnadatta anil
Alice Springs has been pastoral country, horse- anil
cattle-runs, this 30 to 40 years, and in continual
occupation. I myself have been in this country,
continuously, over 30 years, employed on various sta-
tions, and at times prospecting, and in all my travels,
which have been extensive, both east and west of the
telegraph line, I have never come across, to my know-
ledge, a black who bad neyer previously seen a white.
I came 30 years ago, and was even then too late. As
a matter of fact, they had all seen whites —couldn’t
help seeing them —long before I first came in the
country. He might possibly find a few who have
never previously encountered whites, but to do it
he must go out over 200 miles west of Alice Springs,
in the country on the Westralian border, west or
nor’-west of Tempe Downs or Ilaaste’s Bluff. But
I was employed at Ilaaste’s Bluff as long ago as
30 years, and it is very doubtful whether there are
any there now who haven’t seen the white. It is
certainly most improbable that any had come in from
a distance of 200 or 300 miles just at the moment
of Mr. Birtles’s arrival at Alice Springs, more especi-
ally as there is mutual hostility between these ex-
tremely distant tribes. And even in the very
remote possibility of a straggler having come in
he would necessarily see whites on his way.
* * * *
“C.O’C.M.” : It appears that iguanas also
swallow their young. Last week a dog killed a big
iguana up here (N.Q.), and next morning one of
the men discovered the dead go.’s mouth open and
three young go’s poking their heads out.
* * * *
“ J.G.”: My young black cattle-dog has de-
veloped a habit of biting junks off his tail. He has
already bitten off about half of it. Does any Abo.-ite
know why he does it, and,what will stop the prac-
tice? Or will he continue to gnaw all his tail off
and then go at his body until there’s nothing left
but his teeth?
THE MARINER FROM WOOF WOOP.
COUNTRY OARSMAN ( to yachtsman who is
tacking in dinghy): “’Ere, why can’t
yer sail straight instead o’ zig-zagging
about the ’arbor. You’ll run into us
soon, then perhaps you’ll be ’appy!”
Big Bend”: Is there any place in Aus-
tralia where young mulga-trees grow every season,
or do they spring up only in odd seasons? For
five years I have been on the lookout for a seedling
mulga, but so far have been unable to find one, and
there doesn’t appear to be any on the half-million
or so acres over which my job takes me fairly fre-
quently. Nor is there a boundary-rider or musterer
on the place who can point a very young tree out
to me. It cannot be that this is not the right
country, as there is thick mulga scrub pretty well
all over the run (West Darling). One man, who
has been on the place a lifetime, knows of a small
clump of trees which were only about 2ft. high
15 years ago. These are now mature trees, and
appear to be the last that have grown around here.
I scout the idea of stock eating seedlings, as one
very thickly-scrubbed paddock was spelled absolutely
for 11 years, and although every ether kind of scrub
indigenous to this part came up not a single mulga
was noticed. What is the explanation?
BY THE QUAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fishing round the breezy Quay,
Catching bream and mullet-oh,
Life was just a joy to me,
Years, ah, many years ago!
Boy-mates sitting at my side,
Lovers of the Harbor ways,
Free as wind and washing tide,
Truants all, we spent out days.
One with freedom and the morn,
There we sat through sun and rain,
Scorning school with royal scorn,
Loving life with might and main.
Though around us, gathered thus,
Rose the city’s noise and stir,
Time danced merrily for us,
Like a droll old mariner.
Ships of England, ships of France,
In those wondrous days of yore,
Came deep-laden with romance—
Came and went, and came no more.
Sometimes from their burnished rails
Bearded sailors, brown and old,
Sang us songs, and told us tales
Strange as ever yet were told.
Sometimes, too, we thrilled to hear,
Sounding far o’er bay and town,
Sunset bugles, sweet and clear,
Calling flag and pennon down.
Then we ro?e and. homeward strolled,
Eyes alight and hearts aglow—
Ah, those days were good as gold,
Catching bream and mullet-oh! J-J
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


the WORLD’S
MOST RENOWNED
AY>SO^ f tplQo
yv^V.ir7tb e, r^ualifie s 7™
\T
-<x
s*
HIGH=CLASS
CIGARETTES.
CIGARETTES
Grades to suit all tastes but one Quality only the Highest
VIRGINIA
No. 555
No. 333
No. 999
ASTORIAS
DE LUXE
MY DARLING
HIS MAJESTY
AU REVOIR
Absolutely Unique
in their Qualities.
High-class Cigarettes
at moderate prices.
Extra Quality
Gold Tipped.
Billiard-room Size.
Magnum Size.
Gold Tipped
for Ladies.
Cork Band
with Gold Tip.
For Travellers’ Use.
25 for 2/6
20 for 1/6
25 for 3|3
25 for 3|6
25 for 3/3
20 for 2/-
25 for 4/""
50 for 7|6
===TURKISH
No. 444
No. 1
QUO VADIS Grade
H.R.H.
Pure Macedonian Leaf.
Extra Mild
Turkish Leaf.
50 Turkish de Luxe.
Patent Silk Absorbent
Band, Gold Tipped.
25 for 3|-
25 for 3|6
20 for 3|6
20 for 316
Also Obtainable in Boxes of 10, 50 and 100.
Sole Manufacturers:
ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON


•t.
■
&
m
«
o
M
9
- ■:
sr*
i ■
»
«;i
. . 5
»
•II
mi
.
". 1 ■ , :
K
- ; . f rr
I
■
in n
ri
i
,
m
m
fit i ' \
,
BwßwjMppMl
•• :
? *
“^L/
113
I**
**'''!
£
r^rWci
L./Si)
w
3
res
m
i
fg
iSSIMi
PAYS FOR ITSELF.
Electricity for Everyone
Everywhere.
Valve in. head
Air Cooled
No Belts
One place to oil
Runs onKerosene
NEW SOUTH WALES.
VICTORIA
TASMANIA. . ....
.Warbiirton, Franki, Ltd., Kent Street
Sydney. ’
. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Bourke Street
Melbourne.
•W. F. & E. A. Stewart, Cameron Street,
Launceston.
FACTORY DISTRIBUTORS: W. A.
QUEENSLAND
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA. .
NEW ZEALAND
Limited, 161-163
. .Smellie & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
‘ Ltd - Grenfell St. eet, Adelaide.
. .Gilberts, Ltd., King Street, Perth.
I P^' Ri ! e Z & Co ” Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Chr^tchurch.


Purest
Spirit
in tke
Vi'orUL
u
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
schna^
“tT STANDS ALO^-
PULVERIZING EQUIPMENT
FCILER-LEHIGH PULVERIZER MILL.
If you have a Product requiring thorough Pulverization
CONSULT
Elder, Smith § Co., Limited,
Sydney, Melbourne, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
SOLE. AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATIVES
for
FULLER, LEHIGH CO.
Australasian Engineer’s Office,
81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Or this:—
Money ?' I can never find it.
Love? It wears a sting behind it.
What, then? Cloud that sunshine chases,
Small blue wrens in yellow places,
Mighty rivers deeply calling
Under willows green and falling,
Large red cattle softly moo-ing.
Idleness, and nothing doing.
Any person with a little knowledge of simple
versecraft could write four such poems per
hour for 12 hours a day. There would be
no reason to pause for thought nor to hesi-
tate for a word. Not one of the “pre-
cious things” of Miss Simpson’s choice could
matter much more than the other selected
at random; for the human .mind does not
narrow itself into cramped conventions
about this phase of nature being more pre-
cious than that. Silences, distances and
idleness are all equally beautiful in varying
moods, and the only good reason for men-
tioning them in verse is to say something
about them, which this author does not do.
The verses quoted are a keynote to the
book, though it contains a hint of real
thought here and there—a hint that seldom
broadens into anything definite. In the
second poem Miss Simpson tells that “the
themes for poets’ songs are very few,” and
adds, “I do not care for subtleties”; yet
the subtlety of half-suggestion is the thing
with which from first to last she plays. There
is a certain delicacy about the work—a deli-
cacy heightened by the occasional choice of
ugly phrases—and a rather breathy melody,
which seldom dares a full burst of rich
words. Here are two stanzas, entitled
“Sound,” which show the writer at her best:
A length of gut whereon the horsehairs whine,
The tapping of a hammer on a string,
A reed vibrating ; these things more than wine,
Or drugs, or even sleep itself, will bring
Dreams into life, and tears, salter than bitter brine.
Such visions, drawn in Sorrow or in mirth
Out of these common, unconsidered toys—
By breath of finger swiftly brought to birth- —
Are proof, in their too evanescent joys,
Of the divinity that dwells in things of earth.
Yet it is very difficult_J:o see how they are.
proof of anything of the kind, arid still more
difficult to see that a bald statement of the
sort is worth while. And the riddle asked
in “The Happy Folk” is more perplexing
still
The gods are fled, fled is the age of gold,
Youth will not stay ; what need of youth have we,
Whose lamps are stars, whose minstrel is the sea,
Who, ’mid the clash of people, still are free,
And kin to things immeasurably old ?
What does, that mean? Because we are
kin to the old things and have the stars
and the sea we have no need of youth?
That is a most amazing bit of philosophy
in little! If we had been “kin to things in-
comparably young,” the idea might have
been worth while, but then it would have
been necessary to look for a new rhyme for
the first line.
The verdict must be that it is possible for
trifles to be too trifling, and that emptiness
put in pretentious words does not make
thought. The volume is beautifully printed,
but the punctuation is sometimes staggering.
D. M. W.
The Greek and the Celt
Divine simplicity is the greatest of
imaginative gifts as it is the happiest
of personal qualities. Curiously, it seems
to reach its highest point in the
work and lives of men who are otherwise
rather complex and even rather preten-
tious. The complicated Greek life and
thought produced the splendid, cold simplicity
of straight marble columns rising white and
unornamented out of blue sea' against blue
sky. The Roman red exuberance, the Byzan-
tine purples and scarlets and saffrons, the
Norse yellow and green, the Celtic cool white
and green—these subtle and delicate decora-
tive arts, semitoned, curved and complex, ex-
pressed the imaginations of their civilisations.
Comparatively these civilisations were simple.
Yet they never rose to the gaunt simplicity of
straight white lines on a background and
foreground of blue, nor to the haggard beauty
of the Greek plays, nor to the windy fresh-
ness of the Athens games.
It is an art which is no art. Unadorned,
untroubled, untouched, it speaks in loud,
downright monosyllables, in childhood’s un-
compromising truth. It pretends nothing,
confuses nothing, decorates nothing—just
states. Through age and middle-age, youth
and adolescence, it goes back and back to the
children’s first vision and first words; when
the greybeard sculptors and painters and
writers come to these they are content. It
is the topmost height of expression ; it must
be. Words and lines and colors so utterly
simple and direct must hold the fullest ex-
pression. There is no ornament or beauty
or eloquence to distract attention or to ob-
scure or deflect the reader’s or critic’s full
reception of the thought.
As I said at the beginning, flashes of this
divine simplicity come and go in thousands
of books. All writing men inherit something
from Greece, of course, if it is only some-
thing of technique and nothing of the white
fire of inspiration at Greece’s heart. Some —
a few —go so far as to inherit the inspira-
tion. Again this simplicity is side by side
with much complexity. “The Playboy of
the Western World” is as complex a concep-
tion and achievement as there is in the
language. Ironical, cynical, tender, bitter,
farcical and poetically beautiful, it would
seem to be artificially written round some
purple patches which Synge heard from the
lips of Galway and Arran Islands peasants.
Synge was a genius, so he made a good play
•of his material, gave it a good plot and hung
it to an excellent theme. The result is
first-class artistry. Because the whole con-
ception of the thing was (as I see it) an
artificial vision of the good drama to be got
out of purple patches juxtaposed with drun-
kenness and squalid farce, he, doesn’t quite
carry his fine theme of the death of dreams
to its tragic end. He loses directness and
pluck in the mess of complicated material
he handles so artistically. Hence a bril-
liant, mordant complexity without equal or
like in English. In the same book is “Riders
to the >Sea,” the half-liour at the end of an
old woman’s hopes. The sea has taken the
last son left to her; it “can do no more to
her.” While the women prepare for the
keening her mind takes stock of her dis-
charge of her duties to her dead, of the fine
white coffins some had, the decent suits and
the decent burials, of the good prayers all
had. This last duty, this examination of
conscience, done, she looks up for what is left,
all her riders to the sea, her blood, gone.
Only her clear conscience is left, and with
that she must be satisfied. Simple as the
day, the tragedy is perfect. Even the stage-
directions seem wet with heart-breaking,
hopeless tears. You can’t take one line out
and say “That’s fine.” -You can’t find one
word that an old, ignorant* woman used to
death and looking at the end for what is left
wouldn’t use. It is the Greek, haggard and
bloodstained and speechless as (Edipus
breaking away for his darkness and solitude.
George Moore’s “Evelyn Innes” is a deli-
cate, overlapping, complicated presentment of
the physical and mental make-up of an
artistic, sensuous woman. It is terribly exact,
terribly convincing—an admirable work of
art. Only a most ingenious, thoughtful
man, sensitively aware of the fine semitones
in a conflicting personality, could have writ-
ten it. Most of Moore’s work is of a similar
artificially charming nature; his true literary
skill is astonishing. But here and there he
forgets himself and marvellous knowledge
of women and sex, sits back from this tink-
ling business of being an artist, and writes
what is in his heart. One time he was
called from London to his Irish home to the
funeral of his mother. Afterwards he wrote
a paper called “Resurgam,” telling of his
hurried journey and her death, and his wan-
dering round the house and the garden.
Another time he went to Paris through
“Spring in Normandy,” and wrote a paper
of the journey and the Spring he saw from
the train-window. In the quiet, simple,
moving sentences of “Resurgam” there is only
a little boy looking about the house and gar-
den for his. lost mother. There is nothing
of Moore in it, not a trace of the skill of
“Evelyn Innes” or the bitter realism of
“Esther Waters,” nothing but a boy and his
sorrow coming out in words. His middle-aged
joy in Normandy’s Spring and the approach
of his beloved Paris inspire him to an equal
simplicity of diction and revelation. No
style, no egoism, no “writing” at all; only a
few haphazard simple sentences thrown on
paper—some bare statements of an eager,
happy man. ,
James Stephens in “The Crock of Gold,”
much of which is pretentious and overloaded,
has a couple of pages of a tired old woman
lamenting that she has no cup. of tea. Here,
too, there is the Greek perfection in utterly
simple, insignificant words. Nothing in the
world could be so sad as that tealess old
woman. In “The Demi-gods” _ and “li-ish
Fairy Tales” Stephens often strikes an equ-
ally true and pure note.
Lady Gregory, “A.E.,” Colurn, even Yeats
and Patrick Magill, get a heart-wringing
depth of expression out of a few poor words
when only poor words can do it. Not the
will o’ the wisp flashes which dot the French
and English work, but firmly sustained scenes
running into a couple of thousand words.
Soon perhaps a whole book will come to help
the theory that the mantle of Greece was
left trailing on the shores of Ireland.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Modern Men and Mumm.ers, by Hesketh Pearson
(Allen and Unwin). Recollections of Shaw, Frank
Harris, Francis Galton. Stephen Phillips, George
Alexander, Tree, Forbes Robertson and Robert
Ross, written with knowledge and feeling. Besides
which there are some ill-natured impressions of
Wells Gosse, Conrad, Churchill, Mrs. Asquith and
others: this section of the volume, as Dr. Johnson
observed about something else, hasn’t wit enough
to keep it sweet nor vitality enough to preserve it
from putrefaction. The essay on Galton (he was
the author’s uncle) is nevertheless delightful.
Those on Tree and Alexander are racy and impishly
humorous. The Shaw and Harris papers contain
some uncommonlv interesting letters, in which Shaw
discourses on things in general and Harris on the
war and his disappointment with the Americans. But
the study of Stephen Phillips is the most memorable
thing in the book. It is cruelly realistic, but amaz-
ingly clever. For example :
“He sat with his elbows on the table, hunched
up and ungainly looking. His proportions were
Falstaffian, His belly was far too large, and he
didn’t know how to make the best of it. The chief
points about his face were a very square jaw and
a set and rather cruel expression—not unlike, I
imagined, a Roman Emperor of the decadence
“This time I ran across him in a common or
garden pub. He sat, bunched up, in a corner, with
a large glass of whisky by his side. He looked very
disreputable, his slouch hat drawn well over his eyes,
and he seemed to glower in a semi-fuddled manner at
the other occupants of the room He was simply
a sensualist, a full-blooded, passionate sensualist,
who, whether in love or in drink, indulged himself
to excess. This explained to me also his sudden
falling off in poetry. The desire for the high-
sounding phrase had over-topped his purely lyrical
gift and he gave way to it, just as in life he had
allowed the coarser things to force back the gentler.
He wallowed in the majestic phrase, just as he
wallowed ill strong drinks.”
Such writing may be objected to on the score of
taste. But its strength is beyond question.
Humours of the Street, G. L. Stampa (Methuen).
Illustrated jokes reprinted from London Punch
with an introduction by W. Pett Ridge. Full of
grins, though nearly a round hundred of uniform
drawings make it rather monotonous.
The Law Inevitable, by Louis Couperus (Thornton
Butterworth). Whether the greatest of living Dutch
novelists has a faithful translator in A. T. De
Mattos this page is unable to say, its’ knowledge of
Dutch being small; certainly, though the English
is strong, the translation leaves us with no sure
knowledge of what the “law inevitable” is. And
it is very doubtful if the original makes it any
surer. Cornglie de Ritz van Loo has married a
lieutenant of Hussars, and after 12 months has
divorqed him. She has never loved him (at least,
she says she hasn’t—but then who knows exactly
what love is?), and he has beaten her and knocked
her head against a wall and been unfaithful. A
masterful fellow is the Baron Brcx; but I*‘ lets her
go. In Italy (the atmosphere is all Italian) she
meets the other man—Dutch, too, but not masterful:
an archaeologist, a poet and a painter: not a namby-
pamby, but no good at a bargain ; yet, as he shows
on one occasion, a man who can put up a good fight.
Cornelie loves him passionately, or thinks she does:
perhaps she does. She will, however, not marry
him, but they live together. Of course, they come
near starvation: and, though they are supremely
happy, Cornelie decides that she must take a job.
Then, the divorce 12 months old, she meets her old
baron. “She flushed crimson with nervous distress.
And she felt with her whole body that he had been
her husband, and that he had entered into her
very blood. His voice ran like molten bronze along
her nerves of hearing. t .. She felt, like a sudden
despair, that she knew and felt him in her whole
body.... She, a virgin, had become his wife, had
been initiated into womanhood by him. And she
felt that he had branded her as his own, she felt
it in her blood and the marrow of her bones.” And
more to the same effect —much more. But none of
it any more convincing than that. In terror she
tries to break away from him. But he knows—
insists —holds her in his arms —she kisses him.
Separated again she flies for protection to the other
man. Again he urges marriage. What is there to stop
it? She has her divorce. She answers: “I feel. ..that
I am not free, although..... although I am divorced.
I feel....that I am ins wife all the same....No,
it’s not hypnotism. It’s not a delusion; it’s a
reality, deep, deep down within myself. I love you
and you only. That alone is love. I have never
loved anyone else. But with him.... 1 am not
myself. I belong to him, I am his property, his
chattel.” And she goes back, and the other man
helps her to pack and sees her off. Presumably
this is the Law Inevitable. It seems to this page
to be, instead of inevitable law, incredible nonsense.
And dangerous nonsense, too; for it is dangerous
to suggest to women Worried with their troubles, and
therefore liable to be hysterical, that they have no
power to resist the brutes from whom the law has
separated them.
Sight Unseen and The Confession, by Mary
Roberts Rinehart. Two mystery-stories by a clever
American who will persist in writing a class of
fiction for which she has no special gifts,. She
ought to get back to her humorous stuff.
The Young Enchanted, by Hugh Walpole (Mac-
millan’s). A novel emphasising that the making-
over of, the world is in the hands of Youth. The
author has adopted the fashion of continuing the
history of a family in separate volumes —here you
have the younger Trenchards of “The Green Mirror.”
But it is self-contained and not a “sequel.” A
fine bit of craftsmanship. The people are touched
in with keen, clear strokes, and the interest itself
never drags. Walpole has a good grip of the
feminine mind, and, though he introduces one mor-
bid type that figures in English literature with
fortunate infrequency, he has here made a signal
.addition to his list of well-drawn women.
E. George Marks, of Sydney, has been notified
that his “Merit and Democracy” has been placed
in the permanent section of the French BibliotliOque
Nationale.
“Breton”: “C.O.M.* would have us believe that
Robert Burns was a scholar, and “Athos” is deter-
mined to prove Shakspeare an aristocrat, (botn
lt.P. 27/10/’2l). But has “C.O.M” read Burns s
Autobiography? And is “Athos” familiar with Ben
Jonson’s. poem on Shakspeare which includes the
“small Latin and less Greek” line? Rare Ben
knew . Will pretty well.
“Newborn”: Surely “C.J.D.” (R.P. 29/12/21)
has erred in crediting Marcus Clarke with the state-
ment that the Australian bush has neither bird-
song nor flower-scent. A. L. Gordon won immor-
tality by perpetrating the lines:-
“In lands where bright blossoms are scentless,
And songless bright birds.”
If Marcus Clarke also committed a similar crime I
would be glad to have the reference.
“Muzzie”: Herbert G. Shaw, formerly of Bris-
bane TunEQHAPii, has, after two years as editor
of the Geelong (Vic.) Advertiser, had a difference
with the management and- resigned. Lance Fallaw,
M.A., B.Litt., succeeds him. He, too, came from
Queensland —Cairns, to be exact. For a month the
Geelong paper was without an editor, and the sub,
G. H. Brownliill, carried on.
“Wallabalulah”: The Yass (N.S.W.) Courier can
hold its own among family-run newspapers. The
late A. C. Wood began with it when a lad, took
it over on the death of .1. .T. Brown, and in his
later years he and a brace of sons ran it, assisted
by his wife and two daughters.
“Alan B.”: I don’t know where “W.E.M.” (R.P.
17/U/’2l) gets the name “Somerset Walpole” in
Hugh Walpole’s novel, “Mr. Perrin, and Mr. Traill.”
In the copies I have seen the unfortunate youth
with the spectacles and the protruding chin is
“Pomfret Walpole.” Also, to my mind, the boy
is intended by Walpole to stand for himself, and
not for his father/the Maoriland professor of theology.
The description fits him. He is fond of being photo-
graphed with that prognathous chin well in the pic-
ture, as in the portrait in the Bookman Special Num-
ber last Christmas. “The dullest, fattest and
heaviest boy,” as Hugh characterised him, is a phrase
that seems to clinch the matter. Walpole is greatly
given to these little references to himself. His own
full name is Hugh Seymour Walpole, and it is
obvious that the novelist Hugh Seymour whom he
introduces into “The Golden Scarecrow,” “The Green
Mirror” and other books is a close picturisation of
himself. The youngster Jeremy, the hero of the
most delightful of this author’s books, is also appa-
rently still another ghost of the übiquitous Walpole.
The Inky Way
I ARRIVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For thirty busy years and nine
I’ve been the man behind the pen ;
My splendid prose and verses fine
Have gone forth for the joy of men ;
These and the books of high intent
Which to the publishers I’ve sent
Would paper half the continent.
And here I’ve waited all these days
With one ear to. the ground to catch
Some proof that somewhere someone pays
Homage to me. Not mine to match
The triumphs of an Ethel Dell,
Or great Hall Caine to parallel,
Or Char-les Garvice to excel,
“But,” thought 1, “here and there maybe
Are gentle souls who bear in mind
My native worth, and think of me
With admiration of a kind.”
In vain I bent to get the sign,
My readers’ feelings to divine.
No laurel wreath was ever mine.
But hor.est work must have its meed,
And in my latter middle-age
Here’s proof at least that people read
My work, and lightly mark the page.
Have come to me quite half a score
To beg me state what their girls wore
At someone’s jazz the night before.
It moves! It moves! They come to me
When they have twenty friends to sup,
Or when they give a children’s tea,
And beg that I will “write it up.”
Now is all apprehension o’er,
And when comes knocking just one moie
I feel ’tis Fame that’s at the door !
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
H~i is r>csl i S~&
The cost of a home or any other class
of, building constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Ajsbestos Ce>nent Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot. rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write for free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
By Hook or Grook
Send your Rabbit, Fox and all other skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane. High Prices secured
will show the benefit of taking this step.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
The Semi-Diesel Oil Engine
with a Record.
Specially constructed to use as fuel, Low-
grade Kerosene, Heavy or Residual Oils.
MARINE, STATIONARY, PORTABLE,
eminently suitable for Electric Lighting,
Pumping and Industrial sets, and all classes
marine motor work. Ship and Contractors'
Hoists.
HORIZONTAL & VERTICAL TYPES.
Constructed according Lloyd’s Surveyors’
requirements. Has no water drip, batteries,
valves or gears to get out of order. We
invite inspection.
All particulars can be obtained from
Nelson & Robertson,
11-15 Loftus Street, Sydney
8010 Agents, Australasia and South Sea Islands.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulln Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
: :
o
o
I
C_J
m
If your car is equipped
throughout with
You can set out on a cross
country trip with every
confidence
They are ycur best assurance
against tyre trouble - • •
ASK YOUR GARAGB
THE COLONIAL RUBBER CO. LTD.
Head Office. 5-7 BarracH Street, Sydney.
Also at
Newcastle: 7 Royal Court, Scott St.
Melbourne: 54 Market Street.
Brisbane: 98-100 Edward Street.
Adelaide: 4 Twin Street.
Perth: 47 King- Street.
Auckland: Albert & Swanson Streets.
100% Efficiency liaW&KSM: ltJ eal Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club, school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an “IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN BE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users: —
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON.
JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
MARY ROBERTS RINEHART.
AUSTRALIA :
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTH. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHILIP RUSSELL, Esq., Beaufort.
The “IDEAL JUNIOR” is specially made for private lawns. Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
“Sf"' C. J. WHITE & SONS, "’''i'lLlSSXXl*'-
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
#
fc^O/lIKI
THe Finest Pipe in the World
FLC
style No. 503,
Silver mounted,
i, 18/-
vM
MmWM
i
1
We
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
~ FAMOUS
NON-CRACKING
CORSICAN
BRUYERE
or
and
is made at St. Claude (Jura),
France, by French Diggers, in
98 smart shapes from the high-
est-grade, flawless Corsican Bru-
yere Boot. Every pipe sold with a
12 Months’ Guarantee
against cracking or burning. Any doing
so within that time will be replaced.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST FOR F.L.C.
send a postcard to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne,
we will tell you where to get one.
rs
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jackeroo”: The cocky (B. 29/12/’2l)who
bagged £3 12s. for eight calves in the Sydney
market is beaten by a Laidley cocky (Q.).
He recently sent 26 poddies to the Brisbane
market and they averaged Is. 6d. each. He
got a bill for 7s. 6d.
* * * #
“Rounds”: In the hurry of classifying
advts. odd things occur. Not long ago the
Age had, under “Wanted to Sell,” an inti-
mation that a “young gentleman” wished to
meet a “young lady” with a view to above.
Truth probably guided the hand of the
printer that night.
* * * *
“Chris”: A M.L. importer, despairing of
getting a supply of toy tramcars for his
Christmas trade, sent a sample to Japan
with an order. The goods arrived without
delay, exactly like the sample, even to the
brand “D.R.G.M., made in Germany!”
Again, a repeat order was given for a so-
called London perfume, the instructions sent
being : “Package, bottle, label, same as be-
fore.” The articles came along promptly,
with a label; “Same as before.”
* * » *
“D.D.”: I don’t know which was most
Irish in connection with the presentation
to Dwyer on the occasion of his severing
his connection with our ‘old firm—the party
of the first part in giving him a sovereign-
case at a time like this, when sovereigns
are as plentiful as snakes in Spitzbergen, or
Dwyer himself, the party of the second
part, who, thanking the donors, said: “I’m
proud to have the suvrin-case, so I am, but
instead iv buyin’ the case yiz should have
give me the money to put in it.”
* * * *
“Sixenate”: Enterprise shows itself in
small things. A Jewish citizen intending
to take his wife for a trip to England asked
Various big shipping cos. if they could carry
a supply of kosher meat and otherwise help
him to conform to the Jewish laws; but in
every case he was told it couldn’t be done.
At last, not very hopefully, he went to the
Commonwealth Line—and was informed
that it would be delighted to meet his wishes
at no great extra charge, although he was
willing to pay. This news is even now
spreading like wildfire among the Chosen,
and it will mean an accession of passenger
business to a line that showed a little bit of
nous.
* * *
“Mirang”: Unionism is dead in the N.
Territory to-day. The 0.8. U., for which all
unions battled fiercely for over three years,
survived just three months from its birth. Six
months ago ho goods could be carted from
bond or steamer save by members of the
Carters’ Union, and prices ran to 15s. per
ton. Now anyone who wishes can do the
carting, and prices have dropped to 2s. 6d.
per ton. One consequence of the breaking
of the monopoly has been, that meat has
dropped from lid. and 9d. to 7d. and 6d. per
lb., and bread from 9d. to Bd. When the
wharf-laborers were Lords of the Jetty the
unloading was slower than anywhere else
in Australia. On November 1 the Railway
Department tdok over the jetty, and the first
three steamers that called in were unloaded
(by the same wharf-laborers) in the quick-
est time on record. And the proportion of
goods pilfered was the least ever known.
The N-T. presents a large-sized lesson to
0.8.U.-ites.
* * * *
“Old Lightning Jerker”: I have grave
doubts of the success of the new Murray
multiplex system of telegraphy that is to be
installed between the Australian capitals.
Compared with the present Wheatstone sys-
tem, it is complicated. In the Murray sys-
tem the line is successively given for a frac-
tion of a second to each of four pairs of
operators at each end, who, in that time,
work “duplex,” i.e., send and receive, with
each other. The synchronism between the
two stations is regulated by electric impulses
passed along the line, and it is plain that it
wants only one impulse to “miss” to throw
the whole system out of gear. In England
and on the Continent the lines are under-
ground, and, compared with those in Australia,
are short and highly insulated ; nor are they
affected by climatic changes like those of Aus-
tralia, where a wire, say, from Melbourne to
Brisbane, passes through several different
kinds of weather, necessitating special “bal-
ancing” and adjustment. If the money
spent on the new system were put into the
erection and equipment of a good copper cir-
cuit, and quadruplex handworking installed,
the business could easily be handled.
ON AN OUT-OF-DATE ENCYCLOPEDIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hei'e is the whole of civilisation,
All that it did and hoped and planned,
Every kingdom and tribe and nation
Bound in leather, and second-hand.
Here is the heart of every religion—
Priest and church and collection plate,
Scapegoat and sacrificial pigeon
And souls repaired while the wearers wait.
Here are commerce and evolution
And science and art and war and beer,
Equity, lav; and the Constitution
And a picture in pink of each hemisphere.
Troy has fallen and Tyre and Babylon—
Watch them bumping the ultimate dust.
Here are subjects for all to gabble on—
Meadows of May and cellars of Must.
Here is the whole of civilisation
Cut till each facet in lustre shines —
Epitaphs written for tribe and nation —-
And Australia goes into fifteen lines !
Turn it down as an old edition—
Twenty years old, as its dates evince—
Still, on the pathway to broad perdition,
What have our statesmen been writing since?
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


/a
FITTINGS
Build the Perfect Bicycle.
The bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings is depend-
able, looks good and is cheaper in the long run
than the machine which in first cost is much
less than the B.S.A.
You can compare a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings by every possible test with a
so-called cheap bicycle, and you will readily
understand why a B.S.A. is the cheapest machine
in the end.
Year in and year out this bicycle will give
unfailing service, providing many hours of real
enjoyment because of its easy running and comfort.
The chbice of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is a businesslike decision; the economy,
reliability and freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A. a sound investment
which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. riders say there is nothing to equal the satisfaction which the bicycle
of the “Three Piled Rifles” gives.
The range of models and constructional improvements shown in the B.S.A. catalogue
will illustrate why the bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is so popular.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
Look for the B.S.A. three piled rifles trade-marks; they
are stamped on the Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat-
pillar Lug, Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back
Stay Bridge, Hubs and Pedals.
These trade-marks carry with them a guarantee of long
and reliable service, and are backed by a reputation of
over sixty years’ standing.
TRADE MARKS
B.S.A.
B.S.A. Fittings are Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained. Don’t
be put off with “pattern fittings,” but look for the B.S.A.
Trade-marks on EVERY PART. They are your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
REPRESENTING THE B.S.A, CO., LTD., BIRMINGHAM,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS.
MELBOURNE.
rT'


\h
THERE is nothing equal to Chamberlain’s Tablets
to relieve constipation. When the proper dose
is taken their action is so agreeable and so
natural that you do not realise that it is the effect of a
medicine. These tablets possess tonic properties that
aid in establishing a natural and regular action of
the bowels. Many cases of chronic constipation
have been permanently relieved by the use of
dfg
dfg
What Will Your Car be Worth
a Year from To-day?
Any car built by Dodge Brothers commands a high price—
whether it was built twelve months or six years ago.
This high valuation on any car bearing Dodge Brothers’ name
has been fixed, not by them, but by the public.
Freedom from repair and replacements is not an occasional
result, but a characteristic of the car.
The surest and quickest way to judge the worth of Dodge
Brothers Motor-car, is to ask any business men who uses it
to give you a few facts and figures.
The Price to-day is attractive, and distinctly competitive.
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
• Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce,
i ame runs in all shapes. A Stinday-
school class at Howie’s Creek (Vic.) was
invited to say who Lazarus was, whereupon
the son of a miner replied that the personage
in question was “the lawyer who defended
the Woods Point gold-stealers.”
“Rio” : One reason why the Medical Schools
are so overcrowded is the snobbery of parents
who want a son with a handle to his name.
Medicine is the only profession in which a
man is entitled to call himself a doctor when
he isn’t one. Several professions offer better
prospects than medicine, but in none of them
can the fond parent look forward to referring
to a boy of 21 or 23 as “my son, the doctor.”
Let students of veterinary science call them-
selves “Doctor” immediately on graduation
and things will soon alter.
“C.H.8.”: The latest instance of the
craze for altering long-standing and some-
times historic names comes from Five Dock,
Sydney, where there is a movement to call
the suburb Hoggville or Buggberg or some-
thing. The abutment of the south end of
the bridge from Drummoyne to Gladesville
is a rock in which were five deep indenta-
tions, some of them now hidden by the pier.
These were the five docks, which supplied
a name for the bay between this point and
Chiswick. Thus the name has an interest-
ing historic basis; so why change it?
“Michael Mulligatawny”: I hate barking
back, but “Moab” (B. 8/12/’2l) s though
correct in every other particular, is in error
in assuming the Jewish battalions (38th and
39th Royal Fus.) were not in existence in
December, 1917. Whilst doing a course of
instruction at the G.H.Q. Officers’ School,
Brocton Camp (Staffs.), in November, 1917,
two of my classmates were from Patterson’s'
Yid battalion, and both were Irishmen trans-
ferred from the Dublin Fusiliers. The one
Jewish member of our class was in the
Welsh regiment!
A Melbourne court had a queer case to
deal with during the Christmas holidays.
Exasperated beyond endurance with their
loafing ways, a Carlton widow hauled her
two sons, 24 and 21 respectively, before the
beak for trespass. It seemed an unfeeling
thing to do at the season of peace and good-
will, but there was a bitter story behind it.
The pair wouldn’t work, she said. If they
ever gave her any money they “borrowed it
back,” and she was so full up of them she
wanted to be rid of them. One was given
three weeks and the other a week in gaol
to think over it. Fines were named as
alternatives, but time to pay them was re-
fused.
“Bildad”: Circumstances and a vehicle
took me through some of the poorer quarters
of Sydney on Boxing Tuesday, and I saw
the people enjoying the blessings of compul-
sory holiday. The Government had ordered
them to do nothing and (mostly) they were
doing it. There were few places to go to
that day, and the jobless-looking crowd
had obviously little money to go with. They
were outside because tjhey were locked
out of their factories by Dooley and they
were tired of being in their houses —it is
very easy to get tired of being indoor in
Woolloomooloo—so most of them were prop-
ping up walls and lamp-posts or sitting on
the kerbstone. Dooley had told them to
rejoice, but, having nothing to rejoice about,
they merely sagged.
Report on the Harassing Rubber Estates,
Rabball:—
On the 32nd February, 1921, I visited the above-
named estates in company with the well-known
planter, Mr. S. 0. Risky, and now beg to admit my
report on the same. We. arrived at the ‘ manager’s
bungalow in time for tiffin. He had some wine on
ice, and we took the precaution of immediately
emptying the bottles. Mr. Risky was of the great-
est assistance.
After tiffin we set out to inspect the plantations.
The plantations are situated in very ’undulating
country. Owing to the heat the trees are very
difficult to measure. Trees from 10 to 15 inches
of age appeared to have been planted in pairs
except when there were three of them together. The
manager said it was quite a common thing after
dinner.
We took the measurement of several trees, many
of which were up to circumferences, when one could
get the tape round them somewhere near the ground;
others were less. This is not good growth, as trees
planted three years ago ought to be much older.
Some unpleasantness was caused by Mr. Risky taking
his pocket-knife and tapping a coolie who was
digging a drain, but eventually Mr. Risky gave the
man a dollar to go away.
Soil: The soil is largely decomposed with ants
and insects, which make it unpleasantness sitting
down to do duty measuring trees.
Weeding: The estate seemed rather weedy. I my-
self counted 68 nuts on one of the rubber-trees.
Rainfall ; This is very wet and badly managed.
Buildings; These consist of one bungalow with
refreshments. A ditch was left lying near the front,
and was inspected at full length by Mr. Risky.
Valuation: Mr. Risky valued the whole plantation
at 3s. 6d. per lb., and he offered to toss the manager
for it.
Mr. Risky was trying to count the coolies on the
estate when a man came up and insisted we were
.on the wrong plantation. We accordingly recom-
mend the manager be dismissed.
THE DIALECTS OF ENGLAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dialects of England
Come sweetly to the mind
With recollections of the days
Now far and far behind.
From Zoomerzet and Yarksheer
And Luncasheer and Harts,
And Nottin’am and Darbyshire
And “all they furrin’ parts”—
No matter where he journeys,
Or be he old or young,
You know’ where “Johnnie” comes from
By the tricksies of his tongue!
The “coozen Jack,” the “Geordie,”
The “web-foot” and the “Tyke,”
Each has his own good mother-talk—
They’d scorn to speak alike!
Around the world they wander,
True Britons, “one and all,”
To settle on the far-off lands,
Or man the ships so tall.
But though they live a lifetime
Beneath an alien sky,
The dialects of England
Shall mark them till they die!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


\
wv.
The world tours made by Hupmobiles in 1910 and 1912 demonstrated to
the whole world the stamina that can be built into a car selling at a moderate
price, and established the Hupmobile reputation for strength and performance.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body.
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot anti rug rails.
Tyre-carrier —extra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
1. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney,
Australia.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Australia.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
114-122 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Australia.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED,
105 Macquarie Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC.,
Christchurch.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION,
Wellington.
Hupmobile
UkdMte
m
i
CHOCOL7VTES
*4
\
t*
P/*
©
r-'i
TTY-
P^TEHOOW
Packed
always in
red boxes.
Mailed to
you on the
day they are
made.
SIZES:
3/-, 5/6,
7/6, 12/6,
20/- &
30/-
Post free
to any ad-
dress in
Australia.
Suteof HitiU/j
1 The wise man wins
HIS GIRL WITH ~ _ ,
Uit&els
162 Pitt Street,
and corner George and King
Streets, Sydney.
I
FOQ2S
PUR
REX” HAM PATE
IS ALL HAM!
Yes all Ham— but oh so different from the
everyday ham paste.
The choicest “Rex” Ham used in its pre-
paration is cooked ever so tenderly by a
process which keeps in all that bewitching
savor and aroma of the famous Rex Curing
Then it is minced fine—and mixed with the
distinctive “Rex” Dressing of choicest Eastern
Spices until the piquant seasoning penetrates
Pate on thin crustless
slices of fresh white bread! Youve the
greatest Sandwich in the world.
The monotony can be varied m ever so many
ways by adding sliced Cucumber,Tomato, Beet-
root, Chopped Olive, Lettuce or Anchovy, etc.
“Rex” Ham Pate is packed m solderless
hygienic tins. , 1 •
Include a few tins on your Grocery order this
week.
Foggitt Jones Ltd.
/-JGL.
F.J. 74


n
Showing
Bottle
de-mouuted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wiihout
ioYSarSKSfe
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
lastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
159 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
Hotel c/e Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre? Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per Jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND
Tels. • Y3OOl. 3002. Apply Manager. ’
A Specially Good “Tt „ C 4.
riding boot- lhe MocKman
18/11
POST
FREE.
It’s a solid Tweed Seamless Emperor, light
in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the
patent strip on elastic.
FINNEY, ISLES & CO., LTD.,
_ BRISBANE.
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
r*
'im
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, 4-5 /-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
BaN
Don't expect him to
chuckle and coo when
his little stomach is
upset. Try a simple
and safe corrective
such as
KriiseJ
Ask mothers who
have tried it—they
know.
The genuine Kruse’s
is made by Felton.
Gr i m wade & Co.
Prop. Ltd., Melbourne
"Half-a-
teaspoonful ”
mi
■'A\
so-
Suschen sS
the actye principles of foe ff,c
w^J r 3 teaspoonful of this safl ®
Th» s f? he taten each
Kmschen Salt is a remedy ,flr
- 7 blood
,fcSla'r SUffer,n ? ,Tom “tS
IS? Constipation Liver and w an
7 ssr
usetul
should be taken for a coi
Mn • full effect
assure its
_Organs
•**hT« T 777
inside
fSLULgans____
L? FF,THS hughes I
England t
Two months of clear-eyed
health for two-and-sixpence
Australians are a specially favored
nation. They get plenty of food, sun-
shine and fresh air. But, usually, they
eat too much meat. This—-and a vari-
able climate—put an undue strain on
the liver. '
A sluggish liver—one that is performing
its vital cleansing and regulating func-
tions imperfectly—is the nucleus of
many troubles. Constipation,. Lumbago,
Rheumatism, Sciatica—all these come
from a disordered liver.
Yet of Kruschen
Salts—taken in hot water each morning
—will prevent these ills and keep you
brisk, fresh, alert, eager and capable
for business and pleasure.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists—2/6 per bottle
Enough for two months
The diet of the modern man—-because many foods
have valuable elements “refined” out of them—is
usually deficient in those salines essential to healthy
life. Kruschen Salts supply these.
Kruschen Salts are now sold in the New Dry Powder
form. 1 his is a great improvement on the Crystals.
The new style allows the dosage to be measured better.
This means greater exactness, better results and—the
Salts go farther.
Australia. Trade Supplies of Krusclien Salts are stocked by H.>
and W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street, Sydney ; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand.—Trade supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
1 airbairn, Wright & Co., Christchurch, Wellington,
Auckland and Dunedin.
NOTE. Kiuschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E.. Griffiths Hughes, Ltd., established 1754, in the
reign of George the Second.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The other day a French boy named Roland
Boteazon, aged 16, won the East Kent professional
tournament, with the record score for the links of 68.
Abe Mitchell (whose assistant and discovery he is)
took 75.
**‘ * *
The Sydney Soccer people have got a three-
year lease of Wentworth Park, though the Rugby
League was after the ground. Both parties to the
transaction are ambitious and both are looking some
way ahead. The Assoc, wants to see soccer recog-
nised as the premier winter sport in 'N. S. Wales,
which it can only become by getting a permanent
hold on a central playing area, and the Trustees
want their ground to develop into a second Sydney
Cricket Ground.
* * * *
A 21ft. restricted-class yacht is being
built by subscription among members of the Queens-
land Yacht Club,, and upon' completion it will be
raffled among the subscribers. Jack Whereat, who
sailed the famous 22-footer Bulletin so often to vic-
tory, is to build the coming champion, and it will
compete in the 21ft. restricted class inter-State
contests on Port Jackson in February next. The
sail area will be nearly 100 ft. in excess of that
borne by Sydney craft of this type.
* * * *
“Chris”: The early settlers at Welling-
ton (M.L.) in the ’forties had their little race
meetings on the now thickly-populated Te Aro flat.
Once there were plenty of neddies, but few first-
class riders, and the best horseman in the settlement
happened at the moment to be in the clink. The
gaol heads were sounded, and, being sports, agreed
to let the crack jockey out for the day provided he
was duly returned that night. He had a series of
wins, and the joyful backers pumped so much beer
into him that by sunset he was down and out. Then
his guarantors lifted a gate off its hinges, heaved
him on to it, and virtuously delivered him back into
the hands of the law according to their bond.
“Billy T.”: Coming down from the hills
to Morwell I had seen him, a replica of St. 1 Peter,
sitting on the small log-bridge Ashing, his floater,
a pickle cork, undisturbed in the clear water where
the shadow of the bridge fell. It looked a likely-
enough place for blackfish, but I never saw the sign
of a fish about the lone fisherman. Again I passed
him with a “Good-day I” getting in reply only a
grunt from the depths of his whiskers. The third
time, being hot and weary, I paused for a drink,
and sat on the logs a while, endeavoring to draw
the fisher into conversation. “I’ve seen you here
often,’’ said I. His Whiskers was not articulate.
“You must be very fond of fish,’’ I added. “Dunno,’’
he replied—“never tasted ’em 1”
* * * #
“15-30”: You can’t play high-class tennis
nowadays without using a racquet bearing the name
? f of the champions. During the tournament
m Melbourne a month or so back the Best People
were armed with the Tilden, a tightly-strung weapon
that allegedly drove perfectly with the minimum of
exertion. But Tilden is not the only one to give
his name to a popular racquet. There is—or was—
a Gerald Patterson, specially built for the heavy
assaults which the burly champion made on the ball.
I am to.d that an O’Hara Wood is talked of —if not
already on the market. There is a yarn to the
enect that a Jap firm asked old-champion Norman
Brookes for his permission to put his name on a
f£ c 2 u !t’ but he refused - However, it is alleged
eSe or other Japs christened an implement
the Norman Brookes” just the same, and did very
well out of it.
* * * *
Howard Joseland is the Gregory of the
A. b. Wales fishing world: trout-fishing, roek-
hopping, angling from beacheß with rod or line, play-
a, br ® am or fighting a kingfish—they all come
alike to him. In Angling in Australia,’’ published
y Art-.m Australia,” fie explains how it is all
done, ihe book deals mostly with trout-fishing on
such famous streams as the Badga, Goodradigbee,
Murrumbidgee and, above all, the Snowy; but it
contains scores of useful tips in connection with
the humbler branches of the sport. An unexpected
feature is a delightful chapter on “Anglers’ Birds.”
those who justify indiscriminate bird-slaughter on
the grounds that birds arc the enemies of fish will
be surprised to find that JoSeland has a certain
sympathy even for the detested shag. The explana-
tion is, of course, that, like most experts who have
investigated the matter, he has found that birds
cion tdo fiftieth part of the damage to fish they
are credited with.
**. # *
• .i? -1 • l n light of his performances
in the Melbourne tennis tournament the other day Nor-
man Brookes is nearer retirement than many admirers
suspect. Certainly his first service is still full of
SP i!"i’ A - be c , sn ’t "ct it over so frequently now,
whilst his second ball, though generally well placed,
has lost a lot of its former devil. But it is in his
ground play that the wonderful old champion has
deteriorated. His inability to time a fast ball
swiped on to his backhand by the burly Patterson
was the principal cause of his defeat with O’Hara
wood in the final of the championship doubles. Pat-
terson and (to a lesser extent) Hawkes hit every
ball hard, with the result that the crowd saw the
once incomparable Brookes weakly skying shots off
the shoulder of his racquet. The time seems at
hand when he can no longer regard himself as a
starter for the Davis Oup. A stronger pair would
be Patterson and O’Hara *Wood, who, on account of
their different methods, should make a very striking
combination.
* * * #
London lawyers earned some big fees
in the brief interval between the Court
decision that a bet paid by cheque could be re-
covered at law and the hastily-passed short Act
which said it shouldn’t be. Most of the big bettors
signed, as a matter of course, a mutual-release deed
covering the past six years, drawn by counsel and
sent out by the leading layers. Trustees and execu-
tors were advised, however, that their duty to the
estate absolutely required their recovering, by action
at law, any bets the deceased had paid by cheque;
and at least one bookmaker, ruined during the year,
announced that he was going to apply the law the
other way round and become a fairly wealthy man
again. Just when the amending Act came along a big
legal subterfuge was being floated. All honest sports-
men were asked to remit in future by; cheque made
payable to “Messrs. Clearing, Ltd.” This new agency
would act for both sides, clear all cheques, and hand
its own cheque to the proper payee. Eminent counsel
advised that this simple trick would make a monkey
of the law, and the Clearing Co. was confidently
expecting a turnover of millions, when the new Act
told it not to bother.
“Hayband” does some special pleading:—
Beyond question there is an element - of cruelty in
coursing. Nevertheless, there isn’t much wrong with
the recent S.A. decision to permit its continuance.
Long observation has convinced me that the hare
either doesn’t object to being chased, or doesn’t
realise the horror of its position. Anyhow, no hare
exerts itself till it has been turned, and not always
then. After a course or two on an enclosure it
Ticrer itself, ' excepi for a lightning instant at
the turns. More than once I have seen a hare handy
F CaPeS tUl ' n a " d .B' all °P down the ground
a ? ain .' ~F ol a , W obvious reason—the post-war
rise in the cost of hares—the animal is given every
chance to save its bacon. No hare is coursed tm
it knows its way to the escapes, nor more than
once a day. Should- local conditions be adverse it
is given a longer ’ start. The cours-
ing season lasts five months, during which a hare is
coursed 10 times at the outside. The other seven
is S *w Sln ell ' fed idleness. The catch, of course
Eventually 0 nU are CVer I ? aveß the enclosure alive!
Eventually all are caught. But, then the hare
isn t acquainted with this fact. ™ Pa 6
(Continued on page 88.)


Macmillan’s
NEW RPOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
SIR VALENTINE CHIROL.
India Old and New. By Sir VALEN-
TINE CHIROL, author of “Indian
Unrest,” “The Egyptian Problem,”
etc. 10s. net.
The Observer:-— “No contemporary writer
on Indian affairs enjoys a repute equal to
that of the veteran publicist who, after his
seventeenth visit to India, has produced, in
‘lndia Old and New,’ a survey of India in
transition which, we may be sure, will have
an important effect on the educated public
at home.”
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
NEW VOLS. ss. each.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
674. The Young Enchanted. A
Romantic Story. By HUGH WAL-
POLE. The chief characters in this
novel are Henry and Millicent,
younger members of the Trenchard
family, which was so fully described
in “The Green Mirror.”
Mr. W. L. Courtney in the Daily Tele-
graph: —“Full of interest. .. .Millie is a fine
creation, a worthy heroine in a book which
is in a sense dedicated to the modern girl.”
673. Vera. By the Author of “Eliza-
beth and Her German Garden,” etc.
ss.
“Perhaps this famous writer’s masterpiece.’’
—Daily Express.
“It is a compelling, unforgettable study.”
— Observer.
Illustrated Pocket Classics.
Re-issues. In Limp Leather.
6s. net each.
By JANE AUSTEN.
With Introductions by AUSTIN
DOBSON.
Pride and Prejudice. Illustrated by
C. E. Brock.
Sense and Sensibility. Illustrated
by Hugh Thomson.
Emma. Illustrated by Hugh Thomson.
Mansfield 'Park. Illustrated by Hugh
Thomson.
Northanger Abbey, and Persuasion,
Illustrated by Hugh Thomson.
By LEWIS CARROLL.
Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.
Illustrated b.y John Tenniel.
Through the Lo oking Glass and
What Alice Found There. Illus-
trated by John Tenniel.
Cranford. By GASKELL. Pre-
face by Anne Thackeray Ritchie, and
100 Illustrations by Hugh Thomson.
Our Village. By MARY RUSSELL
MITFORD. Introduction by Anne
Thackeray Ritchie, and 100 Illustra-
tions by Hugh Thomson.
John Inglesant: A Romance. By
J. 11. SIIORTHOUSE.
The Story of si lied Deer. By the
Hon. J. W. EOE’.TESCUE.
The Vicar of Wakefield. With a
Preface by Austin Dobson. Illus-
trated by Hugh Thomson.
The School for Scandal* arid The
Rivals. With Introduction by A.
Birrell. Illustrated by E. J. Sulli-
van. „ ' ■
I Have Reason to Believe. A Set of
Little Essays. By STEPHEN
PAGET, author of “I Wonder,’ I
Sometimes Think.” etc. ss. net.
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth.
ss. per copy, or 20s. per annum, post
free to any address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR DECEMBER.
THE WASHINGTON CONFERENCE.
The Standpoint of Japan.
The Case of China.
CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PROBLEMS.
THE AFTERMATH OF VICTORY:—
Europe To-day—Upper Silesia —Repara-
tions —An Alternative Policy.
AMERICA AND THE CONFERENCE.
AUSTRALIA:— , , ..
Wages and Prices —Australia and the
South Pacific.
NEW ZEALAND:— .
The Imperial Conference —The Coming
Session —Samoan Administration —A New
Party —The Armour Case.
Also articles from “The United Kingdom,”
“India,” “Canada,” and “South Africa.”
NEW EDITION OF THE
Navy League Map of the World.
Strikingly and clearly lithographed in
colors showing the latest political
boundaries, Mandate Territories, Rail-
ways, Sea Routes, Coaling Stations,
Docks, Cables, etc. Tables give the
principal naval events of British his-
tory of the Great War, distances by
sea" and British Shipping ,Comp..nies.
Size 72 by 63 inches. £2 2s. net,
mounted on cloth rollers and var-
W. & A. K. Johnston, Ltd.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers .
MACMILLANS CO. LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
m&m
'.I
m
yi'l
m
"mi
r i
r
m
4^
C4*
3S£3
j* yv/¥Hv.-twSs *7v«u4’>vAm
SSsSS
*
s*
Jj*'*
SS&V’-AsS
>»«
K
"IT «
l2So«5: -s& * "-£-'
: s>
:&1S
: : :!ri
i>c
<rr/
,i» i:
yn»
ru
i:
<T
5g
"ft
ill# i
32
9©
i'^v
-s^
Gs«xro>
'■SKI
l£2SC3oßz?®!!ffi
COLD
SEAL
Sa
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR YOUR MONEY BACK ,
REMOVE SEAL WITH
DAMP CLOTH
“*» MO CONCOU*^"
Gold Seal
(ONGOLEUM
Beautify all your floors at little expense
Gold Seal Congoleum Art-
Rugs are made in such a
splendid range of color de-
signs that they can be taste-
fully used in any room in the
house!
In many homes, in fact, they are
found in every room in the house,
for they combine several remark-
able features not found in any
other floor covering.
They are not only handsome in
appearance but they are absolutely
sanitary—no dust or germs can get
into their firm, non-absorbent sur-
face.
Unlike carpets, they are easy
to clean. The beautiful patterns
can be kept spotless and fresh
by merely mopping the rug
occasionally.
They are more durable and wear-
resisting than any other printed floor-
covering. They lie flat without any
fastening whatsoever.
Charming in appearance, sturdy in
wear, low in price, Gold Seal Congoleum
Art-Rugs represent the best floor-cover
value on the market.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
At all leading stores
or write
Brown & Dureau Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


A. Saunders’ Floral China
Biscuit Barrel, pure Silver-
plated Mounts, 32/C.
A. Saunders’ Sugar Scuttle and
Scoop, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, daintily engraved,
50/-
A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, engraved “Butterfly” design, 60/-
A. Saunders’ Fruit Salad Dish and Spoon, pure Silver-
plated, cut crystal glass, 50/-.
SEND
FOR
OUR FREE
CHRISTMAS
GIFT
BOOK.
TABLE-APPOINTMENTS.
A. Saunders’ 4-cup Egg Stand and Spoons, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand burnished, 50/-
J.
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, detachable tubes, £lO/10/-
ALL ORDERS
BY POST
WE
SPECIALLY
ATTEND TO
AND POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Break-
fast Cruet, pure Sil-
verplated, A 1 quality-
frame, crystal glass
bottles, 50 / -
A. Saunders’ Hot-water Jug;,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
engraved “Fern” design,
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, pierced design, highly burnished,
£3.
A. Saunders’
Silver-plated,
Salad Bowl and Servers, pure
A 1 quality, cut crystal glass
bowl, £3/id/- "
A.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Electric
Light
A Real Necessity
on the Farm or
Homestead.
A
M
w&x
.
• •
n*y,
YOU must have plenty of good light on
your farm most mornings and every
night throughout the year.
Either the “LALLEY” or “PLIX” Lighting
Sets shown here will provide you with a
constant supply of the cleanest, safest, most
convenient and best artificial light procurable
—an abundance of good light for your house,
outbuildings, grounds and entrances.
In addition to lighting, the “LALLEY” or
PLIX Lighting Plants will furnish power
for all kinds of electrical domestic appliances.
They place the conveniences of modern city
life at your disposal.
Both plants are so simple and perfectly con-
structed that a child can operate either with
perfect ease and safety.
SWITCH
STARTS
LALLEY
LIGHT
“LALLEY
Electric Lighting Plant.
1000-Watt Capacity. 40 to 50
16-c.p. Lights continuously.
Illustrated literature, giving full descriptions of the
“LALLEY” and “PLIX” Machines, will be gladly posted
to you on receipt of your name and address, or we’ll be
pleased to give you an actual demonstration if you can
find it convenient to call at either of our warehouses.
JOHN
ml
JJWJO
S SON-Piy.Ltd
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“PLIX”
Electric Lighting Set.
1250-Watt Capacity. 60 to
16-c.p. Lights continuously.
70


Amusements.
SHINE Y’S CHIEF THEATRES-
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE BOY.
CRITERION:
SIN BA D THE SAILOR.
ROYAL:
MERRIE ENGLAND.
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
UNI O N I’l .C TL K E l' a Ifi ATIt K »
SET THE STANDARD FOR AUSTRALIA.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYCEUM,
STRAND. GLOBE. LYRIC. EMPRESS.
MAJESTIC, GRAND, KING’S CROSS,
NEW OLYMPIA.
Rirpofinn of Union Theatres Ltd*
|j un’s XUEATUES, MKLISOI It Nit"
n Alsu SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
SIR OSWALD STOLL’S glorious British production
in 6 Acts, from the book by A. E. W. MASON.
A STORY OF ENGLAND’S MIGHT.
Prices as usual.
1 C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELIIOUKNJE
ATT It ACTION'S.
THEATRE ROYAL.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
BABES IN THE WOOD.
KING’S THEATRE.
JOHN D. O’HARA in
THE LAUGHTER OF FOOLS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BEN & JOHN FULLER, LTD.. MELBOURNE.
PANTOMIME ATTRACTIONS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE,
BLUEBEARD.
PALACE THEATRE,
THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
Popular Prices. Matinees Daily.
M
A JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP.
AN ENGLISH PRODUCTION BY WELCH.
Matinges daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
jg KIT AN NIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
QN TOUR. DIRECTION LIONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comie Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
Presented by arrangement with J. O. Williamson, Ltd.
Now Touring Tasmania.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Tasmanian Tour:
NATIONAL THEATRE, LAUNCESTON.
Season Commencing SATURDAY, JANUARY 28.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
Legal Notice.
OF CITATION.
To TIMOTHY O’BRIEN formerly of Boulder in the
State of Western Australia, Miner.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued in
the Supreme Court of Western Australia citing you
to aKJear and answer the Petition of Rose Amelia
O’Brien of Boulder praying for a dissolution of
marriage and for the custody of the children of
the marriage on the ground that you on the 6th
November 1918 without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted the said Rose Amelia O’Brien your lawful
wife and without any such cause or excuse left her
continually deserted from that time to the present.
IN DEFAULT of your not appearing you will not
be allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereof. AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
you are within 45 days after the date of this publi-
cation to attend in person or by your solicitor at
the Central Office of the Supreme Court at Perth
in the State of Western Australia and there to
enter an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose.
(1.5.) T. F. DAVIES, Registrar.
BALFOUR, SCOTT and MUIR, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, Boulder, by their Agent, GEORGE
IfORT JOSEPH, of 20 Weld Chambers, St.
tleorge’s Terrace, Perth.
ITo be advertised twice in The Bulletin, a news-
paper published at Sydney, at an interval of one
week. —T.F.D.]
Out-West Watches.
Our Celebrated
Super “Fx & R”
Watches are the
best for Out-West
Districts.
The movements
are J-plate Levers.
They have Bre-
qu e t overcoil
balance springs. ■
They have 15
jewels, with jewel;
ruby rollers. They'
have compensated
and adjusted bal-
ances. They have
screw cases or
jointed cases.
sdf
Cent’s Open Face Oxidised
Steel 15-jewelled Lever
Watch, 84/-
The Screw Cases are practically dust- and
water-proof. They are specially made to stand
Hard Riding and Knocking About. They go
with profound.accuracy.
A wearer wrote us from Goodooga:—“The
watch has kept excellent time, stood hard rid-
ing buckjumping horses, and all sorts of
weather. 1 don’t think a better watch can be
got.”
Fairfax 8 Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures. £3 8 25 Hunter Street.
Cash Only.
fdg
In the far-flung
Outposts of Empire
5^
rm
is just as familiar and as popular
as it is in its native Scotland.
In these days of scarcity it is only by the most careful husbanding
of stocks we can hope to maintain regular (if -^equate). *"™}™ **
nothing will induce us to impair the unvarying quality of RD. Whisky.
7a
r -TV
If
m
1
\
wi»
Dawson
VtClAk SCOTCH
Bunded Whisky
a
A
Of Historic Lineage
and Wor Id-wide
popularity.
Everyone’s favourite
Scotch—everywhere.
PETER DAWSON, LTD.,
82-84 Great Clyde St.,
GLASGOW.
THE PLUM RAZOR
■
m
The Razor that has gained and main-
tained its reputation for over
35 years on its own supreme
merits.
Plum Razor strops.
Highest-grade Materials.
Prepared Leather & Canvas, 10/6, 12/6.
Russia Leather and Shell Hide, 15/6.
Plum Strop Dressing, 1/- per tube.
Shaving Brushes, dependable Quality,
2/6, 4/6, 7/6, 10/6 to 30/-
Shaving Soap Tabs. 6d; Stinks, 1/-,
1/6, 2/-; Cream, 1/6, 2/6.
ALL POST FREE.
PRICES—
Vulcanite Handle ..
White Xylo Handle..
Real Ivory Handle..
Blades, f
guaranteed
or 1 inch, set ready for use, and
and kept in order for two years free.
CRAIG S AITREN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SIDNEY.
•I*'
Hiitt
L NS
wm
For the shop whose needs call for a machine to cut a variety of
spur and bevel gears, clutches,
sprockets, etc., we offer
BROWN & SHARPE
Mo. 13 & 13H Automatic
Gear-Cutting
Machines
These machines are a
favorite in the average
shop because of their
adaptability to such a
large range of work. They
will accommodate spur
and bevel gears up to
24in. in diameter, 6in.
face, which adequately
fills the ordinary de-
mands.
AUSTRALASIAN AGGNTS:
SGRUTTONS LIMITED,
161 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dept. “ G.”
For Sale.
SATURDAYTJANUARY 28,1922,
on the Property,
LORNE, VICTORIA, at 2.30 p.m.
Owing to the recent death of
MR. CHAS. A. GWYNNE.
The Well-known and Valuable
property,
THE GRAND PACIFIC
HOTEL, LORNE, Vic.,
ue auuumtcu
AUCTION on the Property as above.
Also all those splendid BUILDING
SITES owned by the Estate of the late
Henry Gwynne, which have been locked up
for 35 years, and which comprise the best
sites in the Queen of Watering Places,
borne. Owing to the fact that the New
Ocean Road is now practically completed
and is in use the future of Lome is abso-
lutely assured.
Thousands of tourists will be passing
through by this wonderful scenic route, and
a fortune' awaits the enterprising person
who purchases the
Grand Pacific Hotel,
and develops its wonderful potentialities.
The building sites are amongst all the
Gite of Lome, and close to the new mansion
of Mr. Clive Campbell and others.
Possession of the Hotel will be given on
acceptance of title, so that the purchaser
will get almost the full benefit of the
summer season.
Easy Terms Will Be Given.
Fuller particulars on application to
Title Certificates may be inspected at the
office of Harwood & Pincott, Solicitors,
Geelong, Victoria.
Business Announcements.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in tlie British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1920 £1.336.402
Yielding Reversionary Additions co -
Policies of about £2,273,000
Accumulated Funds 16 375 000
Annual Income
Tlie Society Transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S.. General Manager.
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Co., Ltd., 26
Sydney, N.S.W.
all Chemists
Stores.
. Hutchinson &
\ Jamieson St.,
In 3 sizes of
and
dsf
HORUCK'S
MALTED MILKG.
SLOUGH. BUCKS,|
ENG.
dsf
THE FAMOUS ■
COD LIVER> I
I °tmjLSioN |
and Wasting
Disorders j
i
OBTAINABLE
everywhere


FULL FASHIONED 8 MOCK SEAMED
HOLEPROOF SILK HOSE
Is appreciated more when it brings with it freedom from the BOTHER
and DRUDGERY of DARNING.
FOR MEN AS WELL AS WOMEN.
SOLD BY ALL LEADING DRAPERS AND MERCERS.
&
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Boy”
UOYAtr “Merrie England”
Criterion “Sinbad the Sailoi”
halace “The Private Secretary”
hoyts . Moving Pictures
union lueatriss Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
S OYA »r “A Night Out”
Her Majesty’s “Babes in the Wood”
King s “The Laughter of Fools”
1 rincess’s “Bluebeard”
Palace “The Babes in the Wood”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
If one can forget the absurdity of the plot,
which reaches the limit of fatuousness in the
second act, and forgive the liberties which
the librettist has taken with history, ‘‘Merrie
England,” now at the Sydney Royal, will
be genuinely enjoyed. It makes a rich appeal
to eye and ear. Nearly all German’s music
is good, aud some of the airs he has pro-
vided for verses of no particular merit are
memorably dainty. The choruses are finely
sung, MacCunn s solid orchestra is never
found wanting, and if there is nothing ex-
ceptionally brilliant about the of the
principals it is at least respectable. More-
over, Coleman and his assistant scene-
painters have made noble efforts to repro-
duce the charm of the Thames and Windsor
I oldest, and the ladies of the ballet whisk
their white stockings and colored skirts
(something shorter than was the rule in
Elizabethan England) through the mazes
of quaint old dances as if doing so was a
pleasure to them. Sometimes an audience
gets the impression that the tuore or less in-
teresting people behind the footlights are
bored stiff with the stuff they have to “put
over,” and don’t mind if their patrons are
bored also. At the Royal there is a
comfortable feeling that the company ad-
mires “Merrie England” immensely, and is
anxious that the public should admire it as
well.
* * * #
Strella Wilson has a power of singing to
do as Mistress Throckmorton, and gets
through an exacting task with credit. One
of her defects is that when melting softness
is called for it isn’t supplied: she hasn’t yet
mastered the art of making the best use of
a naturally fine voice. Pearl Ladd’s first
entrance as Elizabeth is strikingly effective,
but afterwards her soft voice and amiable
demeanor don’t fit in with conventional
ideas of the stately and commanding Less.
Patti Russell is a sprightly May Queen,
Eryl Walkely a tenderly sentimental Jill-
All-Alone, and two pretty girls, Eileen
Dunn and Daisy Craig, dance refresh-
ingly, Among the men Howett-Worster, a
tall, slim newcomer, sings a fine song, “The
Yeomen of England,” vigorously, and gives
a tolerable impersonation of the grossly-
libelled Essex. Ralph Errolle’s nice, treacly
tenor atones for the damage he does to the
historic conception of Raleigh, and for his
solemn stiffness in the acting department.
Such fuff as there is in the piece is mostly
prpvided by C. A. Workman and Victor
Prince as strolling actors. Jack Ralston,
Charles Mettam, Fred England and Tom
Minogue also contrive to get themselves
noticed with some degree of pleasure.
SjS Sj! ?js #
As The Bulletin’s youngest show-critic
sees a farce that gran’pa laughed at: —
If any of the purse-proud old snobs who made
“The Private Secretary” possible are still alive, they
John D. O'Hara, in
“The Laughter of
Fools," at Melbourne
Royal.
must gnash their teeth
over a post-war Eng-
-land, while their
grandchildren should
be singing hosannas
because a few more
strides have been
taken along the track
to a civilisation
wherein a man is not
necessarily a bounder
because he is a trades-
man, and curates are
rather of the Church
Militant than of the
Church Suffering.
Never once during the
play does “bluff, good-
hearted old Squire
Marsland” coma face
to face with an em-
ployee without remind-
ing him of the duty
of servants to their
masters —and their
masters’ daughters.
The fun is caused by
the two young-bloods,
Douglas Cattermole
and Harry Marsland,
and their unmerciful
baiting of the tailor
who simply can’t
know anything of
decent behavior be-
cause he is a measurer of men, and by the
poor little padre, whose meekness and weakness
make him the butt into which the farce cracks half
its jokes. The other butt is Miss Ashford, a sort
of governess-companion in the Marsland family, who
believes in spiritualism. It doesn’t seem as if the
author had taken the troulle to make him-
self in the least acquainted with that sub-
ject. It was enough that it wasn’t orthodox,
and he plunged gaily in with his slapstick. And
what a set of ninnies the women are: not an opinion
among them; simply a draping about the males!
Of course, the play is laugh-raising; even modernity
laughed on Saturday night, laughed not, perhaps, as
whole-heartedly and unconditionally as its father
laughed, but at the methods of the good players
rather than at the lines or situations, which To-day
finds weak, pointless, and smacking of a snobbery
that nobody is vulgar enough to fet loose about the
family fat.
* * * *
Of the players who weighed in on Saturday night
every one was a winner—or at any rate a second.
Charles Walenn as the goloshed, umbrella-hung
little curate was most chucklesome, especially in the
scene where from the inside of the box he has the last
word with domineering old Cattermole. George
Blunt put in a very good performance as the choleric,
liver-burdened uncle from India. John Fernside and
William Greene were the two nephews with expectations
from rich uncles. Beaumont Collins’s work as the
“DICK WHITTINGTON.” AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Alderman Fite warren (William Stewart)
examining a “property” jewel.
seeker into spiritualism was as good as her uncon-
vincing lines permitted; and Maggie Moore (God
bless her!) held up the traffic for a considerable space
on her appearance as a perfectly polite landlady in
arrears with the rent. Frank Reade, Vivian Edwards,
Gracie Dorran and Fifi Russell were others.
* 3S
“The Boy,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
continues to proclaim in clarion tones that
youth shouldn’t take its stepfathers to sup-
per-dances where cocktails and other seduc-
tions abound.
* * Ss #
The arrival of four baby elephants at
iaronga Park has given new point to Jack
Cannot s zoological ditty at Sydney Cri-
terion. In other respects the panto ripples
along as usual.
** * *
Immaculately tailored, Ella Shields, the
Princess Mary of opposite-sex impersonators,
made her first appearance in Sydney at the
-Tivoli last Saturday. The little lady’s most
lasting impression of Sydney audiences will
probably be of their appetite. She put all
her subtle charm into five “higher vaudeville
classics,” ranging from the quiet humor
(with a note of pathos in it) of “Burlington
Bertie” to the sprightliness of “Archie P. C.”
and the rollicking “King’s Navy.” In the
“Back to Yarrawonga” number the Austra-
lian atmosphere would be better preserved if
there Were a wholesale scrapping of stage-
Americanisms. Altogether the lady’s promised
six weeks’ stay threatens to be quite insuffi-
Another English starshell on the
Tivoli billboard is already-seen-here Bert Gil-
bert. In “A Dark White Horse” he was not
what he was, although his colossal clowning
kept the piece together. These two h°ad-
bners don’t prevent Carrie Lanceley’s Melody
Maids and Barbara James and Jack Thomp-
son and Togo being eagerly sought after;
and for the moment the Tivoli deserves
every patron it can squeeze in.
* sfc * *
“Babes in the Wood,” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, continues to answer all cash re-
quirements, owing mainly to the prevalence
of children. . Perhaps the part that best
pleases the kiddies is the inevitable school-
room scene, which goes with more vim than
at first, and would be funnier from an adult
point of consideration if Naughton and Gold
had a little less to do with it. More in sor-*
row than in anger this paper objects to the
frequency of .Naughton and Go,d, and at
least one of their turns in front of the tab-
leau curtains ought to be ruthlessly up-
rooted. Also Victor Champion, who rules
the orchestra, needs another reminder that
the words of the songs are mostly drowned in
accompaniment. If all the words were as
glaringly inane as the three sets advertised
on the programme the conductor could be
publicly thanked for drowning them, but
.there seems reason to suspect some ditties of
being good Enough to deserve a hearing, and
the orchestra might give the poor girls a
chance.
** * *
“A Night Out,”, bringing Maude Fane back
to notice, will be the new bill at Melbourne
Royal next Saturday (21st).
* * s;s *
Melba’s long series of ss. concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall threaten to come to an
end with a one-and-only matinde on the 27th.
Ihe success of these concerts is a crowning
triumph of the Dame’s career. IVonderful
30 years ago, she is comparatively more won-
derful to-day, and if she were to announce an
all-day-long reception, where she would shake
hands with her idolaters at a dollar a time,
the sale of tickets would have to be con-
tinued into the middle of next week.
* * *
In “Babes in the Wood,” at Melbourne
lalace, Herinie, the Dutchman, is still the
panto’s most voluble character, and Mrs.
Bumble continues to be absent for long
periods, probably ransacking back numbersiof
Tit Bits for a few original japes to
brighten her dialogue.
** * *
“Bluebeard” still rages twice a day at Mel-
bourne Princess’s. The show remains much
as it was on the first night, though the girls
are skipping about with more confidence an<j
one or two of the principals have embel-
lished their parts. For instance, Sister
Mary (Jim Gerald), who used to be reason-
ably ladylike as a seasick passenger, has in-
cluded a bit of business in her undressing act
that isn’t particularly pretty, but gets an up-
roarious welcome,
sis * * *
“The Laughter of Fools” will repeat its
artless tale at Melbourne Royal until Friday
this week, after which it Will be transferred
to the King’s. Time was when there would
have been no call for any transference of so
pifflesome a comedy to another Melbourne
theatre. A fortnight at the Royal would
have exhausted its business possibilities. But
in these days playgoers are mostly unsophis-
ticated, and no story is too thin to keep them
interested, nor any edition of John D. O’Hara
too mawkish to attract their sympathies. The
spectacle of John D. whimpering over the
confession that he cannot attend an auction
sale without making an absurd bid for the
property is really a complete justification of
the contempt in which he is held by his un-
convincing theatrical family. All things
considered the path of popularity is made
very smooth for Frank Freeman and Miss
Kendal, who would pass very well for angels
were it not evident that the dramatist in-
tended them to get married and live happily
ever after.
& * s!c Jjt
When “The Laughter of Fools” has dis-
placed Marie Tempest and Graham Browne
at the K’no’s lon Saturday) they will pro-
ceed to Geelong and Ballarat, playing three
comedies in three nights at each town.
** * #
At. Melbourne Tivoli the ripe, creaky tones
of Rickaby are still putting the audience in a
mood to endure The Follies, which form the
long second section of the show. The man-
agement, with magnificent courage, says the
incidental “The Dance of Death” is the talk
of Melbourne. It may be; but the bulk of
the discourse on the subject is unfit for pub-
lication.
** * *
Clara Kimball Young is again the Mel-
bourne Majestic’s sorceress in “Charge It,”
another drama wherein the dressmaker has
a lot to answer for. There are more heart-
beats in “Sherry,” which holds the mirror
up to one of George Barr McCutcheon’s
Best Sellers. Also Majestic supporters are
increasing their knowledge of old coon melo-
dies through the efforts of Frank Wignall.
“The Pointing Finger” at Hoyt’s lifts Mary
Maclaren from the ruck and eventually lands
her on to a nice man’s millions—'a real
American Hvnle. A. E. W. Mason’s “Broken
Road” provides the ginger for a film from
the Oswald Stoll studio in England. The
yarn deals with the march of Empiah ih
India and the incidental wickedness is pic-
turesouely handled. “Common Clay” is a.t
the Britannia. The Melba is starring “The
Woman God Changed.” who provides trouble
and then bliss for a ’tec on a coral isle.
*# # *
Florence Baverstock at some old shows:—
“Tber book er ther pantermine. All ther words
er ther songs., Sixpince.” Fiddles tuning, consecu-
tive fifths very distinct. (The old-time orchestra
was very audible when it was tuning up.) Gallery
boys calling out “Apples, oranges, nuts, lemonide ”
These were sounds preliminary to the pantomime that
used to thrill us in the years away back in Vic-
toria's reign. Theatre cries and theatre ' catering
are now quite different from the old, homely things
of long ago. - 8
Retrospection of childish days induces the belief
that the old-time “books" were very good. Our
librettists knew their business. Fashions change and
why should we be for ever decrying what is to’ the
“Sinbad the Sailor,”
at Sydney Criterion.
Grade Lavers as
Zobeide.
glorifying 0 f , what
used to be? There is
still smartness and
wit about, and even
musical comedies are
funny at times. But
in the long ago there
was such a verve and
dash in the books of
successful burlesque
and pantomimes that
the literary part of
the entertainment was
anything but negli-
gible. Pantomimes
were more political in
the days of Plancus;
all the wheezes aiid
gags were topical and
local. It seems now,
on looking back, that
our Australian bur-
lesque-writing reflected
the Spirit of the time
in ■ a way which is
supplied now by news-
paper cartoons and
comments. Celebrities
used to be lampooned
on the stage in actual
caricatures'; such
mimicry i 8 now cen-
sored. In thie very
early days Robert
Lowe was satirised in
a Sydney panto, “Who
stole the' donkey? The
man in the white
hat,” was a catch-
phrase. Many years
later perhaps the best
impersonation of a
real individual was that of Julian Thomas, “The
Vagabond,’’ whose habit of wandering about note-
book in hand was caricatured on the Melbourne stage
before the ’eighties. His chief hit was his song, a
parody of the Judge’s song from “Trial by Jury.’’
Memory retains but three lines of this classic by
Garnet Walch:
“And I swallow my grub
In the lowly pub
Where the larrikin oft carouses.”
as a very little girl I was taken to my first panto-
mime, “The Siege of Troy,” by W. H. Akhurst. It
shines through all the intervening sons as % great
and glorious production. It was staged at the
Prince Alfred Hall, Ballarat. These- were some of
the principals: King Priam, old Mr. Stewart; Paris,
Docey Stewart; Helen, Maggie Stewart; Patrocles,
J. R. Greville; Cassandra, H. R. Harwood; and
there was a tiny toddling Cupid in a pair of wings,
a bow and quiver and very little else. It was a
pretty strong cast. Greville’s “Pat,” of course;
was an Irishman who made the original umbrella
joke, afterwards elaborated in “Boccaccio,” in the
“Umbrella trio.” Rain began to fall, and Patrocles
called for his umbrella. Then this dialogue:—
Paris: “Hush, Pat; you forget umbrellas aren’t
invented yet.”
Pat: “Then let’s invent ’em now.”
Paris and Helen sang a duet, “My Dear Girls, She’s
a Pal o’ Mine,” and Cassandra, to the tune of “She
Danced Like a Fairy,” told the tale of an unfortunate
suitor who wooed in vain—■
“For I served him as Ballarat served Duncan
Gillies.
In fact, kicked him out of the House.”
Was H. R. Harwood a really front-rank comedian,
or does he only seem so to us because we knew him
when we were young? He must have been great as
Cassandra. To me, ever since, that pessimistic pro-
phetess has been simply H. R. Harwood in a ferocious
wig and flying draperies shouting forth direful fore-
castings to a house which was rocking and shrieking
with laughter.
In -the old days the comedians used to give hard
knocks to local architecture. Before Federal Parlia-
ment House had arisen there was a gibe at “That
big barn in Bourke-street”:—
“Parliament Houses! There, indeed, ’tis true —
’Tis distance lends enchantment to the view.”
But this was spoken by the Principal Boy in-a later
panto, when “Hosie’s” was celebrated:—
“E’en Hosie builds a palace upon pies.”
Hosie’s is interesting because it was the original
of Parer’s restaurant, and Parer is now a world-
famous name.
In the Diamond Jubilee year Frank Myers wrote
a fine pantomime for the MacMahons at Sydney
Majesty’s (the old theatre). It wa3 Davidson
(Peter) Symmons who press-agented those brothers
into fame. They brought us Ed. E. Rice and “Evan-
geline,” for which John Sandes wrote some smart
topical verses about Donald Wallace and Carbine
and other worthies of the day.
The old pantomime' books dealt liberally in local
color. It may have been garish even gaudy color,
but it was bur color, and we liked it. The actors
of those days either knew much about politics and
other public affairs or they assumed that virtue if
they had it not.


WRITE TO EASSETTER’S
Regarding All Your Agricultural Requirements.
Lassetter’s will Welcome Your Letters.
“QUALITY —WITH ECONOMY
dsf
WG 338 —John Deere New Bantam Plough.
A one-horse plough designed for use in mixed
lands, where solid steel mouldboards, shares
and landslides will scour as well as those made
of the more expensive soft-centre steel.
Crucible Steel Mouldboard, share and land-
Chilled Slip Heel on landslide.
Forged Steel Frog, one piece, very strong.
High Curved Beam of special steel —a strong
beam with lots of clearance.
Malleable Iron Clevis, with ample adjustments.
Steel Handle Clips. Will not break like cast-
m ßest-quality iron handles, strongly braced.
Sizes and Weights.
Size 7in., weight 641 b., Share No. 302.
Price £o/15/-
Size 9in.. weight 841 b., Share No. 303. R
Price , £B/15/ "
Coulter and Wheels extra.
NOT ILLUSTRATED.
No. 13 Plough— Approximate weight, 2061 b
Price £l2/10/-
This tvpe combines great strength with remarkable light-
ness of draught. Owing to the peculiar shape of
boards these ploughs can be drawn easily by tvmor three
horses, but are strong enough for six or eight, The extra
long handles give the holder perfect control. Being made to
cut a deep rather than a wide furrow, they can be regu-
lated to any depth required. The greatest width- of furr 3' v
is 10 inches. It does. not turn the soil over, but loosens it,
leaving the thrash on top so-that it does not intjr fere with
the srraDer when filling. The beam is of the toughest hara-
wood carefidlv selected, 3 i x 8} inches at standard, heavily
ironed on both sides with heavy iron strap underneath
extending from standard to clevis and bolted to. bpth;
Handles heavily braced, stout V-shaped standard, strongly
bolted to beam. Best plough steel in point, landslide,
board and cutter; cutter reversible. Gauge wheel included
in price of plough.
F. LASSETTER 8 CO.,
LIMITED.
George Street. Sydney.
dsf
WG 846—Hoosier Fertilizer Dial Feed Hoe
Drill, Hoosier solid steel frame, wood wheels,
break pin or spring lioes, lever for raising or
applying pressure; pressure need only be
applied when wanted; each ground wheel is a
drive wheel, hence no side draught; chain
drive; no lost motion; quantity of grain or
fertilizer instantly changed while team is in
motion ; fertilizer sown in full view of operator ;
with grass seeder; low hitch prevents neck-
weight and causes machine to run steadily.
Hoosier fertilizing hoe drell, 12 hoes, 7 inches
apart, at £44 Sydney.
When real estate is bought the future is looked
to as well as the present. Buy a Seed Drill in the
saine way.
Buy a HOOSIER.
Bft. Disc, £5O.
F
WG 848 —John Deere Syracuse Three-Section Spring
Tooth Harrows. Either one or two middle sections
of eight teeth each, can be furnished for use with the
Syracuse Fifteen- and Seventeen-tooth Harrows, mak-
ing a three-section harrow of twenty-three or twenty-
five teeth, or four-section harrow of thirty-one or
thirty-three teeth. These sections are connected in
such a manner that they are flexible. This permits
the entire harrow to conform readily to uneven
ground, making good work possible under difficult
conditions. Price t^S3/lu/-
Mi-:'-:
WG 337 —No. 15 Road Plough, with steel
handles. An extra-strong implement, £l7/10/-
WG 341 — Ransomes' Two-Wheel Cultivator —
To cover Oft., £27/5/-; Seed Box for Gram
£B/15/-; Grass Seeder, £3/15/-; Swivel
Wheel, £4/15/- .
To cover Bft., £29/10/-; Gram Box, £B/15/-,
Grass Seeder, £3/15/-; Swivel Wheel, £4/15/-
Ransomes’ Cultivators —
With double wheel forecarriage—To wv^/jq/.
Ditto, to cover Bft £3l/10/-
Without Seed Boxes.
Sole Agents for
Famous John Deere Ploughs
and
Ransomes’ English Ploughs.
THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd.
Telegrams and Cables!
THOMPSON’S,
OASTIiEMAINB,
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLI AMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113.
We Specialise in the Design and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
under guaranteed efficiencies for
V: •
m
. ■ •*
IS
m
>
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
W aterwor Ks
Sewerage
Irrigation
Mining
Dredging, etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries.
agents.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son &
Fenchurch Street.


A MERRY THOUGHT.
CINZANOS
ITALIAN
Sparkling Muscatel,
EXTRA DRY.
Asti-Spumante
and Vermouth.
Sold by all the Leading Hotels and
Civil Service Stores.
agents:
F. LUBRANO & CO., LTD.,
48 Young Street, Sydney.
Hercfr looKing at You"
ABBOTS
LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
Visitors to Sydney will
find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the Hotel Sydney
considerably reduces
the cost of their stay in
the holiday city, while
giving greater freedom
of movement for busi-
ness or sight-seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card
Management: E. T. Oheeseman.
POVERTY
POINT
‘O.K. : The death of Christina Nilsson
leaves only Albani of the remarkable trio of
artists who ruled the English-speaking world
of song ere Melba came to light. Patti,
Nilsson and Albani were all born in the
forties of last century—a Spaniard reared
in America, a Swede, and a Frencli-Canadian
—and all three became naturalised in Eng-
land. For ordinary concert-starring pur-
poses there was practically no difference be-
tween them, and each could command a fee
of £2OO for a Saturday-afternoon concert.
Nilsson was born in ’42, a year before Patti.
She was remarkable for her exceeding blond-
ness, and as Marguerite in “Faust” filled the
bill pictorially better than either of her
rivals. Albani is vaguely stated to have
been born “about 1847,” which would make
her out to be not more than 75 at present.
Probably she is older.
“Billyfitz”: If “Gazer” (B. 12/1/22)
preferk the Italian-made picture to the
“Sinbad the Sailor
at Sydney Criterion.
Jenny Hartley as
Sinbad.
American, then lie
would find delight
in a week-old Age
leader in a family
vault on a wet
Sunday. I have
seen three recent
spaghetti produc-
ductions, and for
sobful bathos and
wearisome p r o-
traction they
should be awarded
an easy first”.
There was not a
glimmering of
humor in any of
them—nothing but
stagnant glo o m.
Even an empty-
headed vamp is
better as heroine
than one tragic
dame I saw wh<?
made four distinct
attempts at sui-
cide, and was only
allowed b y the
producers to cut
short her purpose-
less existence in
the seventh reel.
American films
with all their de-
fects will always
be more accept-
able to the Austra-
lian mind than
Dago melodrama ; as box-office receipts will
prove.
Ihorold Waters”: The other day Jascha
bpivalovsky made his London debut on a
programme of the same importance as those
m which William Murdoch, Una Bourne
and Percy Grainger figure with almost mon-
otonous regularity. He scored a success
about equal to that won by these three at
any of their many appearances. Yet, while
the brand-new Spivalovsky, the budding
Levitski and some other of the going-to-be-
greats are flashed upon us here as full-
blown planets, our own Una, Percy and
W illiam, who are at least secondary stars
to begin with, have to come as mere satel-
lites. Murdoch came with Kirkby Lunn, and
was subsequently bitched on to Clara Butt,
Grainger toured with Crossley, and Una
Bourne is here with Melba. Surely home-
sickness must combine with modesty in their
cases.
“Ex-Englishman”: The revival of “The
Private Secretary” brings back memories.
One day in London in 1885 a particularly
good judge said to me: “Come along to the
Globe. The new farce,there is bging badly
slated by the critics, but, reading between
the lines, I fancy there’s something in it.”
And there was. Adapted very freely from
some German original, now quite forgotten,
it established a type of stage curate for at
least a generation. Beerbolim Tree had
been playing the lead, but had just gone off
to be the revengeful Macari in “Called Back”
—an amazing double w r hick finally , estab-
lished him as a versatile “character” actor;
so little Penley had the part for the long
run, and most successors have imitated him.
But it is a fat part nobody could go wrong
in; I have figured passably' well in it myself
since then. The other players who left most
impression were old W. J. Hill (Harwood
played his parts in Australia) and Maud
Miillett (she died last year). It will be
interesting to see how the revival prospers.
More than one actor has told me that it
would' be hopeless to present, in this age of
athletic and aggressive curates, the old Bath-
bun-and-glass-of-milk type. But I fancy' the
fun is sound enough to keep an audience
from worrying about truth-to-type.
“L.H.P.”: I saw a production of Ivan
Caryll’s “Lily of Leoville” at the London
Comedy Theatre in
1887, with Hay-
den Coffin, Violet
Melnette and
Henry Bracy in
th e lead. Fred
Kaye, here with
the London Gaiety
Co. in 1895, had a
thankless job as
chief comedian,
for the “book” by
Clement Scott and
Alfred Murray
was deadly duli.
Caryll’s score had
a decided leaning
to the fascinating
waltz measure, in
which most of his
chief vocal and
orchestral hits
were secured. Par-
ticularly pleasing
were Coffin’s gay
drinking song and
the waltz-measure
duet for the so-
prano and Bracy
as the soldier
tenor. But “The
Lily” soon with-
ered—the “book”
killed it.
Captain
DONALD MeBEATH,
The Australian
violinist.
“Cremonensis”: Jascha Spivakovsky and
Toscha Seidel —more jawbreakers for the
flappers! These are the Taits’ latest virtu-
oso finds. Jascha is a violinist aged 25, and
Toscha a fiddler of somewhat tenderer years.
I first heard of Spivakovsky from Manches-
ter about two years ago. The musical critic
of the Guardian didn’t use many superlatives
over him, but Jascha made a mild sensation in
London, and he may have done bigger things
since. Seidel I have heard. ITe is a very
fair imitation of Heifetz, but onb- an imita-
tion, and Heifetz himself had many of the
maturing stages to pass through. As a mem-
ber of a public extraordinarily generous in
the matter of concerts, I want to know why
J. and N. Tait don’t give us some of the really
great instrumental artists of the world —
Busoni, Kreisler, Casals, Cortot, Rachmani-
noff, Siloti, Thibaut. It cannot be that they
think the public will not support them, and
if the Firm were willing to put up with
less profits there is no doubt these men
would come to Australia. Then the present
generation of concert-goers would know the
difference between genius and talent, mature
artistry and precocious cleverness. Each of
the pianists mentioned —Busoni, Cortot,
Rachmaninoff and Siloti —-is an individual
and colossal figure in contemporary music.
“E.T.”: “Orb” is right when he says that
“A Message from Mars” was hawked from
manager to manager for 14 years. Every
prominent theatrical boss in England and
America had a look at the ’script and turned
it down, Charles Hawtrey included. But at
last Hawtrey was almost desperate for a
play, so gave the “Message” a second read-
ing. Even then he accepted it only on
the understanding that he was at liberty to
lighten the piece by putting a few comedy
touches into his own part, and making other
alterations. It was largely owing to these
changes that the comedy was a success.
George Titheradge, by the way, was the
original Messenger.
“Peter”: It seems only two or three years
since I saw little Florrie (Floie) Allan
flourishing her baby art with all the aplomb
of a veteran in a kids’ production of “The
Geisha” at Melbourne Princess’s. She has
grown up since, and in the J.C.W. panto of
“The Babes in the Wood” is understudy to
Norah Delaney. It is a pretty quick rise
for a young Australian. , Not long after her
debut in “The Geisha,” Oscar Asche picked
her out from a horde of applicants for the
job of Puck in “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.” Another children’s panto, “The
House that Jack Built,” found her in the
tights of the principal boy, and later on she
was second girl in “Goody Two. Shoes,” an-
other of the Firm’s picturesque annuals.
Since then she has flashed as lead in “Going
Up,” and done good work in “The Bing
Boys on Broadway,” and there seems no
show of a musical character in which her
soubrettish personality couldn't be employed
with great effect^
“Hamfat”: The tendency of the film
people to overdo their ad.-stunts led the
police to stop a fake bridal procession which
was taxi-ing through Sydney to boom the
picture “Happiness if la Mode.” Another
picture was boosted by the circulation of
cards about “the end of the world” being at
hand, and advising people to be ready. The
cards purported to come from “The Society
of Faithful Watchers,” and their mysterious
arrival scared a number of those people likelv
to be affected by such things. One woman
wired to her children to return from their
holiday in the country, so that the family
might be together when the “end” arrived.
A pa 1 son added to the publicity by denounc-
ing the stunt from the pulpit as blasphemous ;
but as he admitted, in passing, that he had a
far larger congregation than usual/he doesn’t
seem to have had much ground for complaint.
“Sugref”: Did anyone else notice that the
last words uttered by Villiers Arnold on the
stage were “Hangs this life by a thread,
no more,” the concluding line of the Cobbler’s
oong m Chu Chin Chow” ?* A few hours
later the thread snapped.
“Nella”: Where are the leading ladies of
yesteryear? What becomes of them? The
yarn goes that a one-time darling of the
gods decided to come back, so she wrote to
George Rignold. then at Sydney Majesty’s *
Dear Mr. Rig-old,—l intend returning to the
stage. Can you find something for me? Anything
will do, from Lady Macbeth down to the 'cloak-
room.
The reply came promptly :
Dear Madame,- —We have one Lady Macbeth in
the theatre already. She is in the cloak-room.
Horace Leaf, a well-known English lec-
turer on occult subjects, has sailed from Eng-
land for an Australian tour. Conan
Doyle, personally recommended it, and thinks
that Leaf, who has a good platform manner
and delivery, will be able to do better than
he did with spook-talks under the Southern
Cross.
“C. Ockney” : Mummers can be amazingly
“touchy” at times. That highly-gifted artist
Ethel Irving brought an action for libel
recently against London Sunday Times for
sornething its critic had said in a seemingly
frivolous mood about her acting in the
Brieux comedy, “The Three Daughters of
Monsieur Dupont.” This was the part par-
ticularly objected to—
The actress saved up all her forces for the third
act and then devastated us.... She became a raging,
frothy epileptic rolling on the floor and biting her
toenails.
After the actress had solemnly assured the
Court that she did not bite her toenails, and
further, in answer to Mr. Justice Darling,
that She was wearing -shoes and stockings, a
consultation took place, at the Judge’s sug-
gestion, between the parties, and honor was
satisfied by the Sunday Times paying the
aggrieved star’s costs.
“Lud” : Apropos Cromwell plays and especi-
ally Irving’s “Charles 1.,” I once witnessed a
particularly excellent performance of the
“Protector” at the Lyceum (London). The
actor was Tom Wenman, father of Charles
of the J.C.W. firm—a very capable “charac-
ter” mummer. Charles, before he took to
“producing,” made various tentative appear-
ances before the footlights, but Dad’s talent
seems to have descended on Charley’s brother
Henry. The latter is well known for his
work in London’s West End, and just now
is scoring at the Aldwych, in the Pinero
musical-comedy, “My Nieces.”
“Marg” : Vaudeville may be mostly inane,
but it meets a want. The Westralian capital
hasn’t known its red-nosed comedian since
the demise of Rickards, but now the Tivoli
circuit is to shed its lustre over Groperland,
and Perth rejoices.
“0.K.”: A London weekly lately repeated
an old story of how Pinero, in his young act-
ing days, once inadvertently captured the
“reception” which had been intended for
Henry Irving in a production of “The Cor-
sican Brothers” at London Lyceum. The
applause hurled at Pinero on account of his
resemblance to Irving was so prodigious that
no enthusiasm was left for the real Maginnis
when he appeared. I fancy I must have
been among the audience on that Irving
first-night in the long ago. Anyhow, I have
more than one recollection of the lean and
hungry-looking Pinero, with his portentous
eyebrows and jerky gait (copied from the
star), receiving a burst of welcome in a
play in which he had to come on before the
chief. He was one of the sereral young dis-
ciples who were inclined to walk and pose
Irvingesquely, but he retired from the stage
ere the habit had disqualified him for a
position in the co. Kyrle Bellew was a
notable mimic of the fashionable tragedian
“DICK WHITTINGTON," AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
“Stiff[?]” (Nat Phillips ) delivers a “horse
and trap" that he sold to “Mo" for a fiver.
ftt that' time, and was shunted on account of
his being too much of an Irving in minia-
ture.- But the man who really blighted his
career in London by . adopting all the Irving
mannerisms—utterance, gait, pose and action
—was Flockton. A good actor “on his own,’’
Flockton lost his individuality in his
mimicry. Nothing was ever said of him ex-
cept that his performance “appeared to have
been modelled on his impressions of a
famous,” etc., and managers ceased to have
any use for a mere impersonator. Flockton
afterwards got to America, and I saw him
playing the nart of Baxter, the detective, in
the first production of “The Silver King” at
Wallnch’s Theatre in New York. .
“T. 0.1.” : The titled Dons referred to by
“Mrs, Lance Rawson” (B. 29/12/’2l) dirt
not arrive in Melbourne until 1860, when
they made their first appearance at the old
Theatre Royal, Lady Don in “The Daughter
of the Regiment” and Sir William as Toodles
in the farce of that name. They passed
On to Sydney and opened there on - April 1.
1861. in "The Daughter of the Regiment”
-and “The Rough Diamond” at the Victoria
Theatre. In burlesque their great hit was
in “Kenilworth,” Lady Don as the Earl of
Leicester and the baronet as Queen Eliza-
beth. Her singing of the Garter Song
always brought down the house. In the
“Toodles” farce Sir William’s appearance
was grotesque, and all the stage furniture
was specially made so that he could walk
over it. He also appeared in Scotch char-
acters. Don was a lieutenant in the sth
Dragoon Guards in 1845, and had been an
extra A.D.C. to the Lord-Lieutenant of Ire-
land. _ Retiring from the army in 1847, he
married the daughter of M. Le Brun, of
Hamburg. I remember the hoardings of
Dublin being embellished in the early ’fifties
with posters announcing the appearance of
Sir William Don at the Theatre Royal.
Emily Saunders, his second wife —the one
Australia kndw —belonged to a theatrical
family connected with the Queen’s Theatre,
Dublin. She had a sister, Charlotte, and a
brother with bow legs whom we irreverent
gallery boys christened “Bandy” Saunders.
They were excellent in burlesque and farce.
Sir William died in Hobart Town on March
19, 1862* and, according to one authority, his
widow had the body embalmed, enclosed in
lead and sent to the family vault in Scot-
land. According to Fred Brewer, Lady Don
took for her second husband a son of John
Hall Wilton, recently mentioned in The
Bulletin, and, according to Wybert Reeve,
she “went down” and died in the hospital
of a Scotch poorhouse.
“Silas”: “Ingomar the Barbarian,” last
produced in Melbourne by Nance O’Neil, was
introduced to an earlier generation by a co.
at the Alexandra, and its bombast was very
coldly received by two small audiences before
its removal was decided on. The actor-
manager had been supported financially by a
well-to-do Hebrew gentleman, a member of
the City Council, who was rather sore over
the money lie had sunk, and berated the pro-
ducer for liis lack of discrimination. “You
pud on ‘Handed,’ und you fail ; you pud on
‘Romeo,’ und you fail,” snorted the indig-
nant city father. “Now you pud on dis
‘lnkomar der Parparian’ and you fail vonce
again. - Ain’dt it aboud time you, discoffer
dot der peoble von’dt stand Shagspeare?”
ALL SHAKSPEARK’S FAULT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“No, no,” said Angus, “ne’er again
v Will _I in Shakspeare show.
The simple people, it is plain,
W herever you may gp .
No patience have with William’s plays '
In these uncouth, degenerate days.
“I went with ‘Hamlet’ through the State—
It is not twelve months since.
Unfortunately ’twas my fate
To have to play the Prince.
I wish that I could have you see
What insult that brought down on me.
“In every town it was the same,
They gibed at Hamlet’s legs;
Of all his acts the men made game,
Assailing him with eggs ;
Tomatoes, too i you’ll understand—
Rich products' of a fertile laud.
“At Nhill they hit me with a spud,
A melon up at Yea
Induced the shedding of much blood ;
And so I dropped the play.
Contempt of Hamlet, sir, I fear,
Is quite irrevocable here!”
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


4M
'wrT^*;
*t i
■ r
M
f
il* ; -
■
■/
m
as**
c
' ■
75
■■
The Wimmera
Reinforced Entirely on B. R.
Inland Freezing Co. Ltd., Murtoa, Victoria.
c. System. John S. Metcalf Co. Ltd., Constructional Engineers.
l‘t, ctuf/raph
shown building
under construct ion.
£
nmiiitliiiMiii
dsf
Made in Australia of Australian Materials
The ease with which the B.R.C. Fabric can be accurately laid in position by the
ordinary workman, the safety with which it can be handled, and the wonderful
strength and security it assures the construction, recommend B.K.C. Concrete
Reinforcements to all builders and architects.
Each new test or exacting trial further proves the advantages and great value
of the B.R.C. Fabric.
Suppliers to:
Melbourne Harbor Trust.
Queensland Public Works Department.
Melbourne City Council.
Footscray City Council.
Richmond City Council.
Newcastle City Council.
Victorian Country Roads Board.
Mosman City Council.
Woollahra City Council.
S.A. Public Works Department
Perth City Council.
Commonwealth Railways.
Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works.
St. Kilda City Council.
Malvern City Council.
Sydney City Council.
Vic. Public Works Department.
W.A. Public Works Department.
North Sydney City Council.
Adelaide Tramway Trust.
Sydney Harbor Trust.
South Melbourne City Council.
Australian Reinforced Concrete Engineering Go. Pty. Ltd.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
Works: Sunshine, Victoria.
Telephone: Central 8861.
rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrnr
nrrrrrrrrrnirEra
dsf
1 wr
Sole Distributing Agents:
VICTORIA: GOLLIN & CO. PTY., LTD., Melbourne.
N. S. WALES: J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD., Sydney.
S. AUSTRALIA: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, LTD.,
Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND:—
JOHN BURNS &
CO., LTD., Auck-
land.
TASMANIA:—
T. TABART, Jun.,
Hobart.
W. AUSTRALIA:—
ELDER, SMITH &
CO., LTD., Perth.
m
_ — „—_
CD
£2
§
111
i cama |
Completed building of
Vimmeru Inland Freezing Co., Ltd.,
(Shown under construction above.)


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redfern, Sydney.
Golclfinder vSoap
LEWIS &WNITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
It
"VALLO”
WEED,SCRUBSTREE KILLER
m
<F ° r the Eradl eation of Noxious Vegetation).
Kilter the a Sl i arket. ed Slb^make^lo^ffalf 68 * a ? d « ?* ost Concentrated
than „nrpe?n“ cTgano,,”' SoIU “ 0n
In Powdcr Form-Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b 10/6* ilk 9/ . tiu 1/*
Postage within the State; lib 9d • iib 1 t ** T / '^ > * 2/-, gib., 1/3*
_ . „ „ ’ ’ ad -- * lb - 6d - extra. Interstate: Üb, 1/2; 41b., Sd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists n . ,v . .
_ * or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VIQTOR LEGGO & CO..
Manufacturers of & Ch™fcMs, Sheep an* Cattte Dtp/
b“ E o^?™v C . E ; B.tn',l 0 i,!;° IUn n s MELBOURNE.
-„ *** BRISBANE, C3S Bliaabeth Street.
. Vtmspondena§ invited.
N.S.W. selection committee has sorted
out the best XI of the season to tackle Victoria at
Sydney next week, and the match will hold the big-
gest interest known in Shield cricket for manv years.
H -V. Collins (captain) lias six of the Australian XI.
and Ivelleway, Love, Wall and fast bowler Scott, who
takes the place of the unavailable Jack Gregorv. The
Victorian XI is under Edgar Mayne, and includes F.
O’Keeffe, who went, over the border recently to take
a position with Carlton. The one conspicuous absentee
will be Park. He is unable to play, and Keating
takes his place.
*- * * *
Roy Park, the miniature Victorian who
rattled up another century for Vic. against N.S.W.
the other day, has put up two fine averages in
inter-State cricket. Against South Aus. he has an
average of 74, having made 968 in 13 innings, his
highest knocks being 228, 152, 134, and 104 twice.
The stronger Ma State combination, has pulled his
aggregate down to 752 for 15 innings, in two of
which he failed to reach double figures. Still his
average is 50, and in four hands he scored 122,
111, 100 and 92.
* * * *
N.S.W.’s win over S. Aus. leaves the
resting-place of the Sheffield Shield still in doubt.
On averages this is how the champion Xl’s stand —
Victoria.
For 1106 for 28 wickets average 39.50
Against 1104 for 40 wickets average 27.60
Margin .. .. 11.90
N. S. Wales.
For 1827 for 54 wickets average 33.83
Against 1810 for 54 wickets average 33.51
Margin . . .. .32
The matches yet to be played are Victoria v. N.S.W.
and South Aus.
P. D. RUN DELL,
of S. Australia,
who made 78
against N.S.W.
in a recent first
innings.
Gordon Mor-
gan, of Glebe,
who batted so
well against S.
Aus., is one of
N.S.WVs most pro-
mising colts. In
four innings in his
first Sheffield-Shield
trial he has scored
177, averaging 59.
His father was a
cricket rep. before
him.
Sydney grade-cricket (eighth round)
attracted some of the returned Test players on Saturday.
Andrews took the ball when Petersham’s regular
bowlers had been exhausted by the batting talent of
Mosman and secured 6 for 65. H. Carter (Waver-
ipy)» in addition to scoring the only century of
the afternoon, was wizard-like behind the sticks.
Oldfield “kept” well for Glebe against Sydney.
Wests ran up the fair score of 227 against Norths.
And then Norths lost Myers without scoring. ’Var-
sity batted feebly on the whole against Randwick:
Rock (50) was the exception. Dowd took 3 for 19.
Marriekville, on the day’s play, were but 6 runs ahead
of Waverley, who lost one wicket. Kermode followed
up his previous success with the ball for Balmain
by going through Paddington (112). His 5 wickets
cost but 19 runs, and he included Barnes, Gentle
and Noble (0) in a “hat trick.” Balmain have
lost McCoy (10) and Wheatley is 33 n.o. Sydney,
whose batting has deteriorated, could collect only 139
against Glebe. Smith’s stubborn 46 n.o. averted
complete disaster. Glebe (4 for 75) have lost Mor-
gan for 41. St. George have nearly caught Manly
and have six wickets in hand. The Villagers shaped
poorly, excepting Newman (65), against Fox (5
for 47). St. George’s ground fielding showed a vast
improvement. Rupe Minnett batted in pre-war style
for 87 (he made it 88). With W. L. Trenerry’s 50
and Smedlev’s 58 n.o. Mosman’s score against Peter-
sham mounted to 334—-the highest of the after-
noon. Curiously enough C. Cumberland (308)
against Gordon put up the second-best score of the
afternoon. Practically every batsman did his bit,
but E. L. Waddy (56) and Whitting (62 n. 0.) were
the stars. Dive (6 for 101) was not well supported
in the field.
* » # •
Six centuries were registered in Mel-
bourne district cricket on Saturday. Two of them
(140 and 133 n. 0.) were knocked up by Moyes and
Davies of Essendon, who unmercifully clouted
Saints’ weak bowling. Essendon’s tally of 377 for
5 wickets for an afternoon’s cricket was almost
equalled by ’Cote’s 374 for 5 against Hawthorn East.
E. V. Carroll, Hartkopf and Yeomans used the tim-
ber for ’Cote (195, 58 and 71 n. 0.). Carroll gave
only one chance and his score included one six and
20 fours. Richmond, who are at the wrong end of
the premiership list, were given some sprinting by
Melbourne, who were captained by Armstrong, the
big fellow demonstrating his lack of form by
retiring for a duck at the end of the innings. How-
ever, Tolhurst (117) and Vaughan (105) made up
for their skipper’s failure, and Melbourne finished
at 320 after the yellow-and-hlacks had tried nine
bowlers against them. North’s 258 against South
was brightened by the enterprise of Bracher, who
carried out his bat for 137. P’ran, without their
captain, Willis, threaten to beat University. So far
the shopkeepers’ reply to ’Varsitv’s 148 is 1 for 45,
and given good weather next Saturday they ought
to make the required century without any difficulty.
P ran’s bowler, Grimmett, who took 7 for 53, is
beginning to call for a place in inter-State cricket.
Roy, meeting ’Wood on their own ground and heavily
reinforced by the international McDonald, scored 191.
* * * *
“J.M.M.’ : Cricket is not always uncer-
tain In a match at Otautau (M.L.) on December
26 between two local teams, Otautau and Gap Road,
the scores were 51 and 51 and 32 and 32 respee-
ttvely. And on December 30, at Christchurch, a
Southland representative team playing a Canterbury
B team made 168 and 168, while four days later
at Pukerau (Southland) the home team made 103
and 103 against an Invercargill side. In these
two eases the opposing teams were denied the
chance to run as true to form as the sides did
at Otautau. In the first case one innings was suffi-
cient lor a win, and in the other the innings was
unfinished when time was called.
# # * *
“Tren”: Dave Smith, who got a trip to
England with S'yd Gregory’s XI, is trying to come
back after seven years’ absence from pennant cricket.
His old club, Richmond (Vie.), has taken him on
as coach—a badly-needed official, as this club has
never gained a place in the first four, and now rarely
wins a match. He should have resumed in the
last round, but neglected to obtain a professional’s
peimit. Years ago Dave was a brilliant, forcing
bat, but he took too many risks for big cricket,
ill 'V for years with Essendon League Foot-
ball Club, and at that game proved a champion.
* * * *
Governor Weigall’s XI had a close match
with the Commercial Travellers’ Club of Adelaide,
it was the usual friendly game, and two of th<>
Commercials retired at about 40, after which Prid-
rnore, a St. Peter’s schoolbov, took 6 for 67—“ st
Winser, b. Pridmore” was the fate of three in
succession. The Governor, Clem Hill and Winser
made only 11 between them; Somerset, A.D.C , was
the only one to make 40 and retire, and 40 were
wanted when the last man went in. Pridmore and
aide Boswell made the runs in a sporting finish.
* * * .
Carpentier was able to achieve the end
of every pug’s desire in his meeting last week with
Cook. There are no doubt several heavyweights in
America capable of accounting for the handsome
Frenchman, and perhaps a middle or two; but he
is an undoubted front-ranker, and class tells in
boxing more perhaps than in any game. Cook,
being a third-rater, though a stone heavier than
Carpentier and half-a-dozen years younger, was vir-
tually doomed from the moment they shaped up.
three rounds and a bit, during which the craftsman
tested the tyro for science, and then—a left to
the chin, a right to the jaw. It was the clean
knockout which brings the boxer the same elation
the batsman feels when he smashes the pavilion-
clock. Cook \vas lucky to get the match on his
record, and it will certainly get him others in
which he may do a lot better.
*_* * •
The most edifying exhibition from every
standpoint at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
was given by an eight-stoner in black pants and a
hoy who might have been 15 or less, who
affected trouserings of a violent blue color Seven-
stun-six gave a beautiful exhibition of clean, fast
boxing, and by the middle of the fourth and last
round had his opponent as good as out. As he
had won every round he deliberately refrained from
administering the death-stroke—-a wonderful example
of restraint in one so young. Followed the event of
the evening between Bill Scroggings, who has had
some luck in preliminaries of late, and Pat Mills a
visiting Anglo-Irishman. Their weights were given
as lOst. They got to it at once on slatheranwhack
lines, both missing one another by feet, except at
close quarters, where Scroggings mostlv belabored
Mills about the back, while Mills retaliated by open-
ing tip William’s eye with his head. A furious
hut dull and unscientific fight went the scheduled
distance, at the end of which Joe Wallis, bathed in
blood and perspiration from his struggles to tear
the men apart, indicated Scroggings as the less de-
plorable of the pair. This page thought Mills won
by a shade. He is a 50 per cent, better boxer
than he appeared in this contest, as he demon-
started when he went under to Sid Godfrey.
* * * '*
Semmens, the Melbourne bantam, went
out of his class at the homegrown Stadium on Satur-
day night to meet the tough Goozeman, from Brother
Jonathan’s country. In the first round he pasted
the stranger’s leathery countenance with light but
elegant lefts, and glided gracefully to his corner.
In the second he was continuing to give an aisthetic
exhibition of the point-fighting which Australian
boxing-promoters love, when the hopelessly inartistic
Yank smote him rudely on the chin. Down went
Semmens, and “out,” said the referee.
* * * *
Les Darcy’s bantam-weight brother Jack
wa s defeated by Hec Tyers, the Bananaland cham-
pion in that class, in Brisbane on Saturday night.
The N.S.W. boy was giving away the equivalent of
perhaps a stone as between welters or heavier. That
a good man can take such liberties and win was
being demonstrated on the same evening in Ballarat
(Vic.) by Harry Stone (9st. 1311 b.), with Jim Dug-
gan (lOst. 121 b.) as his chopping-block. However,
tlie victim has to be a crude customer, and young
Tyers is nothing of the sort. Jack Darcy has his
brother s style and smile, but he still lacks ruggred-
ness.,
* * # *
The Kangaroos lost the football ashes to
England at Manchester last Saturday in the Third
lest. H. Wagstaffe led the winners, who, but for two
men, fielded the Test side they played here in 1920.
Fraser captained the Australians, and Craig was
replaced by_ Carstairs at centre three-quarter. it
was a N.S.W. side ex-
cept for Richards, the
Bananalander, who re-
placed Townsend in
the vanguard. The
conditions favored the
home side, the snow-
covered ground being
heavy underfoot, and
the leather gr e a sy.
Horder never had a
show; the English
tuckers closed up the
game too effectually.
The visitors were with-
out Pearce and Wat-
kins. And that made
a difference. Final
scores: England 6
points (2 tries) ; Aus-
tralia, nil.
H. KALTEN-
BRUN, champion
distance cyclist of
South Africa, and
in the Springbok
team now visiting
Australia.
In the I lying at Rosehill on Saturday
there were a number of acceptors for the well-gilded
A.J.C. Challenge Stakes to be run this week. The
handicapping in both events being practically on
all fours, the proceedings were in the nature of a
rehearsal, though the absence of -Waracre (insulted
with 7st.) leaves a gaping hole in any deduction
from Rosehill to Randwick. Galtee Maid (Bst. 131 b.)
was at the shortest end of the betting at 9 to 2,'
Coolstone (Bst. 131 b.) at 7’s, Tortoise (7st. 91b.)
and Vaccine (7st. 91b.) at B’s, Woodville (Bst. lib.),
Tressady Queen (Bst. 51b.) and Victrola (7st. 21b.t
next. The short story of the proceedings is that it
was Vaccine’s race all the way. Never worse than
fourth and running to the front at the,too of the
straight, he came on in good style and won by a
couple of lengths. Coolstone, badly served at the
start, made up a lot of ground over the last three
furlongs, and was second. Though now eight years
old she gallops as brilliantly as ever with weight
but seems to move off sluggishly. Poppyland, who
was a smart two-year-old, and has since furnished
into a fine looking colt, was third. Woodville was
fifth, and Galtee Maid seventh.
Vaccine, now three years old, is a black son of
Seremond, trained by James harden. Last year he
w °n the Breeders’ Plate, but. had been a disappoint-
ment since until he ran second to Sir Maitland in a
§ix-furlong event a couple of weeks ago. On Satur-
day his pilot claimed the 51b. apprentices’ allow-
an,ce-, Jn the Challenge Stakes he is handicapped at
u ,V*- and lf he can repeat the Rosehill gallop
should be somewhere in the final picture. Whether
he can beat Waracre is another matter. This lightly-
weighted animal, who is trained by Fred Williams,
has shown good form on suburban tracks recently
and _ is much fancied by his connections. Galtee
Maid may do better at Randwick and so may
Poppyland. But the Challenge Stakes, like all short
journeys turns mainly on position at the barrier and
the start. Last year Glenacre, who looked almost a
certainty, was downed by Maltgilla—a 20 to 1 chance.
Some of the clubs are showing a disposition to
encourage amateur race-riding, and the Highweight
( T?" b v, Ke , n Austin on D. Mclnnes’s
Cooltrim gelding Douglas Haig) was a case in
point. But nothing could be more futile than the
idea of giving a 51b. allowance to all amateurs.
Ren Austin, for example, is probably as good as
any pro. of his weight, while there are several en-
thusiastic horsemen capable of paying for a ride
who are not within a stone of him. Per-
haps the most equitable scheme would be to grade
the amateurs, as is done in big polo in England
and handicap them on that basis.
# #
At the Tasmanian Amateur Jockev Club’s
meeting at Elwick on Saturday, T. Lyons won the
Encourage Stakes with one of his own breeding in
Electrolytic, a filly by Piquet—Oakdene. Iff the
Claremont Welter, Midinette, a mare by Varco, who
has 6st„ 71b. in the Hobart Cup, to be run on
the last day of the month, carried Bst. to the front
in the mile. Another aspirant for Cup honors
Ennis, was successful in the Goodwood Handicap
(6i.). It was Beltane, the hurdler, however, who*
put up the best Cup preliminary by annexing the
Amateur Cup (lm.) under Bst. 71b. He had 51b.
above his Hobart Cup impost.
judge was not repented when The e „- tne
The Puvse. S„'„T<M ““ySST.fIi." Z"t
7I ¥l * he . prc ™“ «m choicV, bITO Sit u
‘ s \ f he wninei "’as never much longer than sto 2
apmst. The consistent Lady Pyrexia in a field
of five, was made an equal favorite with Bonnie Wasa
tor the Plate, and romped in three lengths in front
ot Dargimne, with the Eudorus mare, who had shown
excellent form the previous Satmdav six leSs
astern Ruberslaw, another to run well at the pre*
i u »us start, made a good race of it in better company
■" ', rst Di , vl r°u H “ ndi <»P. finished close up
to la rail to and Baby Humphrey. F
* * * *
A somewhat similar happening to the
Albion Park (Q.) demonstration agaList the judge’s
decision for lhe Spinner in the Purse occurred at
victoria Park (Sydney), on Saturday. The 5 4
favorite Beryl Jean was adjudged to have lost the
race by a head to the second favorite, Sequacious, and
a portion of the crowd which hadn’t a thousandth
part of the judge’s opportunities to know the rights
of the matter hooted vigorously. There was one
finish, however, which no one argued about. In the
second division of the 14.2 Maiden the odds-on
favorite, Little Marg, got so far away from her field
in the short five furlongs that she could afford to
practically walk over the last half-furlong.
* * * *
Maoriland Racing Clubs are already con-
sidering the question of decreasing their prize money
to keep pace with the decline of the tote receipts.
The first half of this season has been disastrous.
Thus the Metropolitan Spring Meeting handled
£225,476 compared with £259,076 in 1920 ; M.L,
Cup Meeting showed £271,454 against £340,141;
Wellington, £126,810 against £153,267 ; Wan-
ganui, £72,960 against £101,095. Altogether there
is a shrinkage of over £400,000 at 35 meetings.
* * W •
Frank Beaurepaire took the three-quarter
mile event at the Australian swimming championship
carnival in the Sydney Domain Baths on Saturday.
His time, I7min. 34fsec., established a State record’;
the previous State best was W. Longworth’s 17min.
42sec. in his first race for the title, in 1910. Long-
worth caused a sensation at that time by defeating
Cecil Healy and Beaurepaire, for the one was at
highest and the other had just returned from his
world-beating continental tour. The Victorian won-
der’s collapse was so remarkable that he consulted a
specialist after the meeting and was informed that
his swimming days were over. And here he is, 12
years later, making new records! The hundred went
to H. M. Hay after a great race. The Olympic rep.
only headed S. Beck by the barest of touches in
57 l-ssec., which is equal to the time Healy put
up at Perth when he licked Beaurepaire there in
1908, a record for the event.
* * * *
Miss E. Kearne, off the 39min. mark, last
Saturday won the annual swim through Perth (3
miles) in lhr, 54min. 9sec. F. Thorson (14min.)
was second—lhr. 30min. 50sec. The 17-year-old
State chanipion, E. Jones (scr.), made fastest time:
lhr. 28min. 42sec. Last year the race was over a
five-miles’ course, but the nasty stretch from Apple-
cross to Crawley has been cut out.
* * * *
Seven Sydney deep-keelers faced the
starter last Saturday under the P.A.Y.C. burgee in
the 16J-mile harbor race for the “Jenny” trophy.
Sunbeam (19min.) revelled in the east-sou’-easter
and won from Aoma by 35see. Aoma (17min.), with
Stan Stevens in charge, was overhauling the Crane
barge at the finish, but the distance was too short.
In the 21ft. restricted class event Jimmy Alderton’s
Gumleaf won again. She has now started in four
class events and has scored two wins and two seconds.
Inez is next with four starts, two wins and one
third. No other vessel of the fleet has shared a prize.
When the restricted class boats were being built
there was a rush for Lapthorne sails, for, 'as one
affluent yachtsman asserted, they would mean an
advantage of smin. over a dugout bending. local
diapery. What that view is worth may be gauged
from the fact that Gumleaf and Inez are the only
craft in their division to hoist locally-assembled
canvas.
* * # *
J- T. Laurenson (Waikato), who won
Maoriland singles tennis championship when he beat
I ;‘;,, Bartleet ® —?» fi—L 6—4, was runner-up to
G. Olhvier in 1919. Last year W. Washburn
(America) put him out in the early round. Safety
iu La >' re nson’s strong suit, and he pil d up points
the other way, through the weakness of Bartleet on
the back-hand.
* * * *
The Sundowners’ No. 1 tennis team made
a fine showing in the annual Country ~v. City tennis
match at Sydney on Saturday. Though pitted against
nderson and Norman Peach (Davis Cup reps.),
vrrmT’ -^ ars h a . n d J- Plomle'y, Horace Rice and R.
V. Ihomas (all inter-State players) they fought every
. 0, ’ allf i only went down by 5 rubbers to 4.
Anderson and Peach were at the top of their form.
A. and L. Seiler (Country) downed Rice and Thomas
(6 4, I—6, 6—4) and Marsh and Plomley (6 —1,
6—4), and only lost to Anderson and Peach (6—2,
9 —7).
* * • •
The latest developments in big sculling
are that Dick Arnst has retired (he is 38), and
that Hannan has postponed his challenge to Darcy
Hadfield in order to give Australian champion Jim
Paddon an unhampered cut at the world’s title. De-
posits are in by Paddon, and the race will probably
be rowed on the Wanganui (M.L.).
• « * .
“Nero” : I struck a good example of mix-
ing your religion with your sport when leaving
Moonee Valley on Saturday. Hard by was a blind
beggar singing a hymn. He had reached the straight
and was putting in a great finishing run. The effect
was something like this: “To Thee—Nearer to Thee
will anyone tell me what won the last race?”
• * * .
The 31b. chunk u£ed in bowls would seem
a hard thing to burn, and an impossible to burn
by accident. But that is what happened to one at
Norwood (S.A.) lately. It rolled into the “ditch,”
found there a cigarette-end supposed to be extinct,
and when picked up about one minute later had its
outer crust burnt off. It was made, of course, of
some composition now fashionable for the manufac-
ture of what their users still know by the pet name
of “woods.”
THE STAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Folks rave about the brawny sport, with arms like
iron flails,
Who wields a bat or bowls like mad all day ;
faik-l fineSt * P ° rt J k "°"' ,n this department
She’s barely strong enough to wield a tray.
Some champions tear around in shorts, and some
in jockeys’ silks ;
The swimmer with a skin-tight costume flirts;
The one I bow to only speeds with “breads” and
“teas” and “milks,”
And all yoy ever see her in is skirts.
The pug, for knocking someone out, a handsome
fortune draws,
And does it to the plaudits of the mob ;
The finest battler of the lot performs Without
applause,
And, what is more, she doesn’t earn a bob.
In short, my ideal sportsman is the modern V.A.D.,
Who, though the wounded Digger’s star has set,'
Still works for him where ev’ry girl felt glad and
proud to be
Before it was the fashion to forget.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


BLACK and WHITE
m
xki
mrnsm
( ,
-■* !
■ i ■ !
mmmmm
mm
bHhmuMl
It;vs
,1
■■*•*. i
>
m fWmmm
.
i; • :
-•-
ism?
, ',L «
P
m:
■wAMM i
*
m
tiki'**
i-'i- «<fo-
i
1 MHB
•
iii
.:!
a
P
i*
1
m
:
ill®
pill
■
a
lH
m
Ms
■
■
■
■
i
M
psi
:
I
m
M
m
m
m »
ii
ImBM
SJS
'
X'Ti
@3
§»
*&£?■
';r
. t'?
;h
‘M*
m
JF, f
1
la
V ...
■
i
•‘REAL SCOTCH
THE LARGEST STOCK OF OLD
MATURED MALT SCOTCH WHISKY
IS HELD BY JAMES BUCHANAN & CO.
LTD. AND THEIR SUBSIDIARY COM-
PANIES, WHICH ENABLES THEM TO
MAINTAIN THE HIGH-CLASS QUALITY
AND AGE OF “BLACK & WHITE”
WHISKY


A final offer from Farmer’s Cash Bonus Sale—
All-wool Navy Serge
Medium weight, keenly priced, and also less the Bonus.
•7HI-—All-wool Navy Serge, fine twill, fast dye ; made of the best
Botany yarn. Correct for Summer and Autumn wear, being of
medium weight, yet serviceable. The width is 54 inches.
Special value, yard, 10/6. Then deduct the Cash Bonus,
making the actual price
9/6
Farmer’s Summer Cash Bonus Sale continues for three more days. All orders
will be executed if bearing postmark dated not later than January 21.
Country customers, when ordering, should quote “JRI,” so as to make their
wishes clear. Enclose remittance to benefit by the 10 per cent. Bonus.
Farme r’s, Sydney.
We pay carriage.
Box 497 G.P.O.
jm-
•l
“WATER-
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows Three 25ft.
Alston W indmills on 60ft. Towers,
fitted with lOin. Pumps, pumping
water for the town supply of Donald.
They have been in use for many years,
giving every satisfaction.
manufacture Windmills in all
sizes, from sft. to 25ft. diameter, and
have the largest works in Australia,
devoting its whole attention to wind-
mill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use
through Australasia.
Expert advice and Illustrated Cata-
logue free on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS
PTY. LTD,,
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australis.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
mt* 1 ?' owan ’ °f W.A., Australia’s only
M.I, A.-ess was here all last week and was
in the limelight most of the time. Ordinary
male newsmen ard special skirted inter-
viewers pursued her, and she indicated that
it was possible for even one vigorous-minded
woman to shake up a House of Legislature,
febe made clear, however, that she doesn’t
think I arliament is any place for the flapper.
«ut really, when you come to think of it, if
there s blushing to be done, why should poor
v gran ma have to do it all?
b tank Tudor was 56. Of course he
shouidn t have gone to Rabaul last year. He
wanted a rest, and he didn’t get it —was
worse when he returned than he was when
he went a wav. He knew then that his old
political life was at an end, and the future
was not at all bright for him. His hope was
that some place might be found where he
could earn a modest salary. He married
twice, and left a family still young and not
at all well provided for. No man, especially
no Labor man, could be so long Minister for
Customs as he was without having some
stones cast at him. The slenderness of the
estate he has left, combined with the quiet
life he led, is t'le best evidence of the straight-
ness of the course he followed.
People are not exactly crowding the foot-
paths in front of the town halls with sub-
scriptions for the Princess Mary wedding
gift. A hint has, therefore, now been
thrown out to the Diggers that they are
eligible to heave their bobs into the tar-
paulin.
Mrs, Lauchlan Mackinnon, of Melbourne,
is a daughter of James Law, managing pro-
prietor of the Scotsman, Edinburgh, who
came to the end of the road the other day.
Lauchlan Mackinnon, the Argus knight, was
one of his trainees. One of Law’s long re-
grets -was the missing of a big scoop in ’7l.
Some old retainer at Inverary sent along the
tip that the Marquis of ix>rne was to marry
the Princess Louise, but the writing on a
piece of rough paper and the absence of
signature were considered evidences of a
hoax, and no inquiry was made. The day
after the Scotsman had had its chance the
Morning Post (London) came out with the
official notification ; and the retainer of the
Campbells, to whom the Scotsman was a
sort of Bible supplement, lost faith in the
journal—for a week or two.
Digger Gordon Webber, Labor M.L.A. for
Abbotsford, is honeymooning in the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.). His bride was Maud
Glenister, of St. Kilda. The wedding was a
quiet affair —-the Rev. J. C. Thomas, of the
Church of Christ, called in at the Glenister
home, where the necessary “I wills” were
said. The Vic. Parliamentary Labor party,
which looks upon Webber as one of its
rising hopes, has provided a gift which will
be handed over by Prendergast on the re-
turn of the pair. This is Webber’s second
matrimonial venture; his first wife died
before he went to the war.
The Henry Parker Knight, who recently
transferred from the Westralian capital to
Melbourne, will be called on next month to
hand daughter Marian over to solicitor John
Turnbull—the only remaining son of the
John Turnbull widow, of Toorak. As the
engagement was officially sealed only last
week the bride will have to travel at high
speed to heap up her chiffons in time. She
is a bright little dark-eyed damsel.
Marjorie Clay, a young English visitor
from Coventry, has decided to stay here
and become an Aussie. She is engaged to
Charles Ward, who saw service as a naval
man in the Pacific in the exciting early
times of the war. His dad was Inspector
Michael Ward, famous in the Kelly gang
business, who when he put aside his uni-
form settled down to sheep- and horse-
breeding in N. S. Wales. Marjorie’s sister
Dorothie was married at New Year to an-
other Australian, and a younger sister is
only waiting for the excitement to subside
before announcing that she also has an
Australian bridegroom in view.
About 600 of Melbourne’s social and busi-
ness lights shed their lustre on the at-home
aboard the ex-German boat Ormuz at Port
Melbourne the other night. Acting-manager
Johnston and his English wife (a pictur-
esque figure in grey brocaded swathings)
assisted Commander Coad to extend the hand
of welcome. Two-steppers whirled on the for-
ward deck to the tootling of the ship’s band,
and non-dancers were regaled with music in
the first-saloon parlor, where Vera Carew,
mandolinist Manzoni and others starred. Mrs.
George Chirnside, who is preparing to skip
across the Equator again, sounded a distinc-
tive note in black lace caught on the shoul-
ders with green bead strings, a narrow circ-
let of green leaves banding her grey locks.
Big W. J. T. Clarke wandered round with
daughter Roma Harrison, who sported
startingly short petticoats, and a mass of
pink wreathings on her head. And Henry
Harper inspected the luxurious cabin in
which his wife and daughter will be berthed
on the wet track to Blighty. Himself will
dash off later by way of Uncle Sam’s land.
A line from Mary Laing Meason: —
Miss Edna Armytage, of Toorak, is still in India,
and will be in for the Prince’s visit, and,
incidentally, the racing season. Melbourne's super-
jazzer has had a rose-colored roam through the Pun-
jab, staying mostly with military men’s wives.
George Lambert has just finished a couple
of canvases that should set the artistic wmiid
gaping when they appear in public. The
better of the two is a fine portrait of General
Chauvel. The head is beautifully modelled,
and, apart from the technical adroitness, the
artist has reproduced the personality of the
warrior. Lambert has done almost equally
well in a study of a young woman wearing
an expression of vivacity and satisfaction
perfectly in keeping with her beautiful
clothes —which, by the • way, provide the
artist with his favorite black-and-blue color
scheme.
A word or two from another artist:-
Laszlo’s portrait of Lady Stradbroke is now on
view at the National Gallery, and it is as cold
as most of this popular artist’s products. Technique
and color are the “modern master’s’’ gods. The
color scheme here is yellow and blue against a
neutral background that isn’t at the back. The
usual conventions are all there, though sometimes
hidden by a trick in handling. The head, which
is illustrated out to the last detail, is carried well
in advance of the rest, and thus all hope of unity
is destroyed ; the slender fingers are inches too long
even if long fingers are the fashion. Laszlo, an
Austrian by birth, after wandering around the Euro-
pean Courts settled in London and became the
fashion, at £lOOO or so a portrait. Though a
naturalised British subject, he was interned in 1917
—an affair that caused a lot of strife in artistic
circles.
A woman doctor with some capacity for
administration is to be put in charge of the
State home for waifs at Royal Park. She
will be paid £5OO a year with quarters and
board, and it is honed to stop squabbles
among the staff by assigning each unit a
specific job. In a word, Authority, with a
capital A, is to be set up, and John Molloy’s
successor as secretary of the Department
ought to have a better time than John had.
Public Service Commissioner Morrison,
Mines Sec. Dickson and W. R. Anderson, ex-
Sec. of the Law Department, are to inquire
and decide whether Sergearit-at-Arms Wor-
thington shall remain in the service or be
bowed out as a sequel to the War Bonds
charge in the court where Worthington was
acquitted. Counsel will make a big fight for
the “accused.” ■ ■
T h i s is Stanley
Gibson, a young
Tasmanian viblinist.
who, besides making
appearances on ; the
concert platform in
Melbourne ancl the
Speck, is doing good
work as a teacher.
Also he writes
thoughtful articles
on music in its re-
lation to the mind,
and it goes without
saying that he is
the inventor of a
“system” of study.
Tassy’s ex-G ove r-
no r Si r Francis
New degate is
among his admirers.
and on one occasion he let himself go. to the
extent of saying that the enthusiastic young
fiddler’s performance was “simply delightful.”
Our old Governor, Sir Arthur Stanley,
now chairman of the British Red Cross
Society, recently cabled an urgent appeal to
Australia for help for the famine-stricken
parts of Europe. As a result the Australian
Red Cross is sending £5OOO from the central
fund and Lady Forster is making an appeal
for further coin.
Jack McLaren, prolific novelist and
raconteur, will in March test W. M.
Hughes’s promise that the Commonwealth
passage to London at £5O will equal the
Inchcape voyage at £lBO. McLaren has
another satchel of books ready to dump on
some London publisher’s desk. His hobby
at one time was South Sea islands; now
he intends to make those in the North Sea
his pastime for a while.
Actor Arthur Styan was at Flemington
on New Year’s Day, catching flies and back-
ing winners; he got four of the latter. He
and his handsome wife will sail Smokd-wards
on Feb. 1, on a trip which will mix w'ork
and pleasure.
It was hard for many people who knew
him to realise that Alan Swinton Skinner,
who passed out last week, was 67. In his
youth he was a brilliant scholar and fine
athlete, both at Melbourne Grammar and the
Uni. He followed the law, like his dad, who
was a County Court Judge in Vic.’s early days.
Taking a. special interest in the County Court,
and guided perhaps by some hints from
father, Alan published a work on the prac-
tice of that tribunal, and it was accepted as
an unerring guide. Bro'ther G.L., another
solicitor, is now the only survivor of the
Judge’s five sons.
This is the Rev. N. Claridge Goss, who
has tried his ’prentice hand as a novelist on
a yarn, “Paul Mason,” which deals with his
experiences in push-
ing The Word in the
north of South Aus.
Goss’s “circuit” cov-
ered some thousands
of square miles, and
he often had to travel
60 miles to preach to
a congregation in an
iron tabernacle which
the sun had turned
into a fine imitation
of an oven. In
those droughty days
he would get down
to singlet and pants
and try to soothe his
broiling audience
with vivid pictures
of the Flood. Goss,
who is now stationed
at Brighton, where water is plentiful, is a
native of Auburn, South Australia, and was
educated at Prince Alfred College, where he
captured the coveted Smith History Prize.
After an Arts course in Adelaide he began
to prepare for his future under the late Dr.
Bevan ; then came heavy toil in the vineyard,
and it was his own wish that his faith should
be tested out on the edge of civilsation..
Captain “Paddy” Lewellin, of the P. and
O. Naldera, is an old Melbourne boy—he
used to be a crack athlete of C. of E. Gram-
mar. While he was in port here last time
there visited him a naice young man,
groomed to a Piccadilly perfection, and
breathing protestations of public-school bro-
therly love. lie told Paddy that he was
acting as confidential inquiry agent for
Tatt.’s, and his job was to trace lucky in-
vestors who had overlooked or lost their
tickets. . He said there was £lOOO waiting
for “Skipper's Syndicate,” with the name of
Paddy’s boat as its only address. Every-
thing fitted in, -and the nice young man was
toasted and treated. He expected nothing
more than his “expenses”—about £20 —but
the captain deferred payment of this till they
met at a bank ashore in the morning. That
meeting never came off. The delicate nos-
trils of the immaculate one evidently smelt
a rat and lie didn’t turn up. The same
young man brought dowm his quarry, how-
ever, in another direction. The flag-lieu-
tenant of a warship handed over £l5 and
turned on a jollification over the- supposed
win of a few* hundreds before the “Tatt.’s
agent” melted away.
Inscribed to Mrs. Geoffrey Syme and pub-
lished by McCubbin comes a clever little,
book from Kathleen Watson, the Mrs.
Deardon who is rarely seen in this city
since she followed her clerical husband’s
fortunes to Brisbane. The literary reputa-
tion of the authoress of “Litanies of Life”
loses nothing by “Henriette Says;*” though
hejr poetic style is disguised in foreign
idiom, arid the heroine whom Katli|een Wat-
son talks for has no romantic story to tell.
Henriette married a Billjim in’ France.
What she. thinks of a life “on the land” in
Australia, its charms, drawbacks and pos-
sibilities, is set forth in two dozen short
chapters that run to. 80 pages. You get
interested in what Henriette says, and you
hope that all the French wives brought to
Australia are equally full of sweet ideas.
The Speck Museum authorities propose
starting a Tasmanian Gallery, and Mrs. J.
It.‘ Scott, of Raeburn, Sandy Bay, has given
the idea a fillip by presenting five pictures
by W. C. Piguenit, the Tasmanian painter.
Two are National Park scenes, one is of Mt.
Wellington from Risdon, another an early-
day scene on the Iluon-road, and the fifth is
labelled “Mt.*Kin< r William.”
Some of our daintiest people have been
eating gummy shark, and enjoying it, in
the belief that it was Murray cod. The
restaurant-keepers who served up the fare,
or their cooks, were, they aver, taken in
themselves. Fishermen ' who sent up the
gummy stuff for cutlets argue that it is
“appetising tack,” and there’s really nothing
to growl about. Of course there isn’t—
if one eats shark after ordering it. The
cafe-keeper who was caught by a health in-
spector supplying it when something else
was ordered, may now be able to notice the
point at which he took the wrong turning.
Those school medical-officers who recently
made it appear that a “considerable num-
ber” of children came to school dirty, un-
kempt and unwashed have been snubbed.
When Peacock and Tate, scared by the
prominence given to the indictment, got to
work they found that less than 5 p.c. of
kiddies could fairly be impeached. The two
chiefs had to explain away the previous
day’s statements; and now the Department
has laid it down that documents issued by
its publicity branch must be more carefully
sub-edited.
Rev. P. W. Boreham, of the Armadale
Baptist Church, has been invited to the land
of the Stars and Stripes, to expound his
views on “The Preacher’s Place in Litera-
ture” before the Mercer University, Georgia;
and also to lecture in the principal cities of
the States. Boreham—ominous name for a
preacher!—-is a man of wide culture with a
pleasing style. Before joining the ministry
he won journalistic spurs in London, and he
has published several books. His first church
was in Maoriland, and later he spent several
years as pastor of the Baptist Tabernacle,
Hobart.
Oliver Winter Irving, who nearly lost one
arm a few days ago in a fierce encounter
with a reaper and binder at his Western
District squattage, is now very much more
cheerful about things, although his injuries
will cramp his style on the polo field.
Talk at a recent swell dinner had turned
to the Murray and the river-freighters of
the ’seventies, and the guest of the evening, a
visitor from London and a big man now,
was reminiscent. Another guest gave him
quip for quip, and they were very happy.
“But, look here,” broke out the great man
at last, “there wasn’t a man running steam-
ers in those days that I didn’t know well by
name, but I can’t place you. Wei’e you
afloat or ashore, boat-officer or agent?” The
other reddened and looked uneasily round
the assembly of magnates. “Well, as a
matter of fact, Sir John.” he faltered, “I
was before the mast!” The guest jumped
for the ex-A.B.’s hand. “Splendid, sir,” he
roared, “so was I! What was your boat?”
Adelaide has a few words to say:—
May Foulds, a young S. Aus. singer, who owns a
fine soprano voice, has an engagement with a
’Murkan touring co., and left by the Manuka for
Maoriland last week. She has been for two and a
half years studying at the Albert-street Con. in
Melbourne.
C. R. J. Glover and his wife fed at Government
House with his Ex. and Lady Weigall the other day.
They have just got back after an extended trip
through America and the Cold Country.
Mayor Cohen has put the come-’ither on some hun-
dreds of citizens and their wives to attend an eating
in the Town Hall on January 25—a “send-off” to
Premier Barwell and his wife, who are about to
leave for London.
The “Outback Evangelist,” Philip Lewis, turned
up in Adelaide a few days ago. During 1921 he
tramped 950 miles and visited 228 homes in the
bush, distributing books and Bibles. This peregri-
nating enthusiast gets neither salary nor commission,
but depends for his travelling exes, on what his
congregations drop in the plate.
Arthur S. Mann, Adelaide manager of the Insur-
ance Office of Australia; just appointed manager
in Sydney, had some complimentary oratory hurled
at him at a large gathering presided over by the
chairman of the Marine Underwriters of S.A. the
other afternoon.
A pretty feature of the fairy comic opera, “The
Ugly Duckling,” to be given at the Theatre Royal
in March, in aid of comforts for the Consumptive
Home, will be the ballets by children, who will
represent farmyard chooks and things. His Ex.’s
little daughter Priscilla will appear in a solo dance,
and a crop of pretty Sassiety girls will figure in'a
dress parade. Those who have heard it say the
music, written by Winsloe Hall, of the Con., is very
tuneful.
M illiam Silver, Adelaide’s most cultured pianist,
just back after a 12 months’ tour of England, U.S.A.,
Canada and Germany, says the best orchestras are
to be heard now in America. At Oxford he met an
old; Pupil, Merle Robertson, a former Elder scholar,
who is doing very well. Another touring' Australian
musician saw an unusual thing at a Tetrazzini con-
cert. Amadio, the Melbourne flautist, was accom-
panying the star, and she was so obviously delighted
,T th J 1 ’ 0 il ! troduction t 0 one aria that she turned
the Tetrazzini smile upon him and softly clapped
before going on with her own part of the job.
Harry Butler, our best-known flying-man, has had
aii awful smash near Minlaton, on Yorke’s Peninsula.
He was up with one passenger, testing his engine
after a cleaning, and it stopped when 1400 ft. up.
He tried first to get going again by diving, and
was too low when he started to volplane. When
the nose-crash came he was jambed in the wreckage:
his companion was thrown out with onlv a few
cuts. Butler’s skull and his nose were broken •
but it looks as though he may pull through.
Tle old hatchet in the Anglican Church in South
Aus. has been dug up again. The Bishop discontinued
the proceedings against Canon Wise for practices
alleged to be outside the Anglican fence, but has
now withdrawn the permission formerly given to
one Scholefield to act as curate under the Canon.
As might have been expected of one of whom the
militant canon approves, Scholefield takes it
fighting.


p
o
o
a
RED
%
60
fi
.Mm
The Bargain
Event of the Season
A Multitude of Money Savings
IN MEN’S 8 BOYS’ WEAR
January 20 to February 11
After a lapse of three years—a lapse arising from the world-wide
war conditions, Murdoch’s famous Red Spot Sale makes its welcome
re-appearance.
Everything reduced at least 10 per cent.
Many lines reduced to HALF PRICE.
These few bargains have been selected at random fromthousands.
Send for the Red Spot Catalogue—it costs nothing and will save
you pounds.
Hat Bargains.
Men’s Soft Felt Hats of excellent
quality, shapely styles, brims, in
shades of Stone, Pearl, Drab, Fawn
and Light Grey with Black Bands and
Side Bows, Sizes: to 71-
Special Price 16/6
Less 10 per cent. ... 1/7
Red Spot Price 14/11
Panama Snap.
Murdoch’s City Shape Genuine Pana-
mas, light and cool, fitted with grease-
proof leather. Brims : 2Jin., 2|in. and
2fin. Finished with Black Silk Bands
and Side Bows. All Sizes.
Special Price 25/-
Less 10 per cent. ... 2/6
Red Spot Price
226
Shirt Bargains.
Men’s Golf Shirts. Made by skilled
shirt-designers in Murdoch’s work-
rooms. In strong Cambric of fine
dressy finish. Effective Blue or Black
Stripes on White grounds.
Usually 9/6
Reduced to 6/6
Less 10 per cent. . . ; -/8
Red Spot Price 5/10
Boot Bargains.
Murdoch’s Special Fine Glac§ Black
Box Yearling Derby Boots, welted
soles, and guaranteed all solid leather
throughout; in medium, round and
comfortable-fitting American Raised
Toe shapes. Also in smart straight
last, Balmoral shape.
Usually 27/6
Reduced to 24/6
Less 10 per cent. . . . 2/5
Red Spot Price 22/1
POSTAGE PAID ON ALL SALE GOODS.
Figure out these Savings in
Made-to-Measure Clothing.
.
n
?cr
m
Murdoch’s have been built on the excellence of Tailoring
value and now Red Spot Reductions have enhanced these
values beyond measure. Here is splendid worth:—
A HIGH-GRADE SUIT TAILORED IN
DISTINCTIVE FASHION TO YOUR
INDIVIDUAL MEASURES FROM
PURE AUSTRALIAN WOOLLEN TWEEDS
Usual Price ...i £4 4 0
Less 10 per cent. 8 3
Red Spot Price : £3 15 9
During Sale all Suiting Cloths are subject to 10 per cent,
reduction.
TROUSER BARGAIN.
Special Purchase of Smart Worsted Striped Tweed
specially woven for strength. Trousers from this better-
grade material—
MADE TO YOUR MEASURES.
Special Price r ...... r. T .-«»-.-»■ r.-r.™ 24/6
Less 10 per cent. . ...... .:. 5 2/6
Red Spot Price : 22/-
If Ordering by Post address your letter to Desk R.
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney
•‘The World’s Largest Men's and Boys' Wear Store.
Bathing Costumes.
All-Wool One-Piece Bathing Costumes
in Plain Black Cashmere finish. Light
and durable. Sizes: 32in., 34m., 36m.
Special Price . . .;. . . 10/6
Less 10 per cent. ... l/“
Red Spot Price
96
Boys’ Suit
Bargains.
Boys’ Cotswold Suits. Made from the
strongest of Australian Woollen
Tweeds. Specially sewn for strength.
Plain or Band Knees as desired. Suit
Boys 8 to 17 years old.
Usually .. . ... .?... .! 50/-
Reduced to ........ 36/10
Less 10 per cent. . ... 3/8
Red Spot Price 35/2
Boys’ Shirts.
A special line of Boys’ Strong-wearing
Golf Shirts. Smart reliable quality
Zephyr in neat stripe effects, with
collar to match.
Usually 6/6
Reduced to . . 5/5
Less 10 per cent. -/6
Red Spot Price 4/11
Collar Bargains.
A real snap! Men’s White Soft
Collars in Golf or Peter Pan shapes,
very smart. All Sizes. Usually 1/3.
Special Price ... 3 for 2/-
Less 10 per cent. -/2|
Red Spot Price:
3 for 1192
SEND FOR SALE CATALOGUE


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
QlfflMW
WE PLUS ULTRA
ft
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
dsf
unlightSoap
The whole thing in a nuAshe//.
The Coconut Oil blend
is the secret of
Sunlight Cleansing
dsf
<5»
BEST LAUNDRY SOAP
5\S-
&
m
\\V
$
r
hih
r s
Hti s
brand
O r»
each
shirt.
\| You can be sure of A
J good Shirts when H
y you buy Thistle
Brand. Right in every
detail. Sold by most
clothing stores.
Alexander Stewart & Sons
Ltd.
Makers
Brisbane & Sydney
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Holepref
Hostery
Tirranna shares with Bong Bong the dis-
tinction of being the most important picnic
race-meeting in the State. Its success
depends primarily on a few local people—
Gibsons, Faithfulls, De Laurets, Chisholms,
Dalglishes, and, above all, its secretary,
Wally Gunn —but year by year more and
more city folk swarm up, causing it to look
more like a Government House garden-party
than a rustic' outing. Pat Osborne won the
Cup. He was a notable flat-race rider him-
self before the war, but has since given up
riding horses for owning them. He and his
wife, who was Ruby Madden, of Melbourne,
went over from Bowral with Mrs. Tony
Hordern (a cousin of the Maddens) and
Mrs. Pitt Rivers. There vas onlv one other
Osborne present—the imperishable Jimmy,
whose station, Bowylie, is in the Goulburn
district. George Lambert, who was with
General Ryrie and his wife, moved know-
ingly about looking picturesque. There were
many of the bush houses of bygone days in
which the local squatters entertain their
friends, but they are yielding slowly to tents,
the latter being less picturesque but also less
insectivorous. Knoxes, Bloomfields, Ryries
and Gordons turned up in force at the usual
Matrons’ Ball.
His Ex. is terribly busy. Within the next
few days he is to open the Shoalhaven Show,
visit Goulburn to unveil a soldiers’ memorial,
open the Horticultural Show there, and do
the same arduous labor at Moss Vale and
Bowral. And on Sundays he reads the les-
sons in the local kirk.
Dame Margaret has had Dr. Jarvie Hood
and his sister staying at Hillview.
Official secretary H. C. Budge goes to
Westralia next month, on behalf of his Ex.,
to confer with Governor Newdegate. Mrs.
David must have had Mr. Budge in her
mind’s eye when she said the other day
that always those who had more than
enough to do were the most willing to take
on a little more. Anyway, he has accepted
the hon. secretaryship of the Ben Puller
Education Trust, and the job is no sinecure.
Another Australian girl came home the
other day to be married. She is Mary
Martin, whose dad left Sydney some years
ago to become one of the landed gentry of
Chulmleigh, North Devon, and now is sheriff
of that reckless parish of 8630 acres and
two thousand-odd souls. Whether he uses a
lasso and two horse-pistols after the style
of the moving-picture sheriff this Letter isn’t
sure; if he does his fiery broncho
must prance in circles about the size
of a sixpenny-bit. Mary’s life-choice was
James Kidd, of Capella station, Queensland,
and the gyves were riveted at St. Andrew’s)
the process ornamented with full choral
frills. Archbishop Wright was locksmith-in-
chief, and the only bridesmaid was hi*
daughter Nora, who wore a thistledown frock
built of- layers of the faintest pink georgette
petals with a black lace hat. The pretty,
dark bride stuck to white satin and old lace,
and tied her tulle veil with a white satin
ribbon. The pews were crowded to view the
ceremony—everybody in law and wool had
been invited, from the Adrian Knoxes down,
and including Divorce-Judge Gordon, who
escorted his little wife, she in a biscuit-
shaded outfit. The guests consumed a com-
prehensive Wedding feast at the Australia,'
where Mrs. Martin dressed for the hostess
act in. black lace against a background of
pink and blue hydrangeas.
And then Mrs. Wright went home and
started to pack up the family gaiters for a
flight to Tasmania this week.
The W. P. Martins, the parents of the
bride, are well known in Sydney, where they
had lived for many years until about the
middle of the war. He made his money in
partnership with Harry Austin in the wool-
buying trade. But the hearts of the stout,
smiling couple were ever set oh getting back
to England, and some years ago they bought
the Devonshire place near the village where
joybells were rung in celebration of last
week’s event. Coolangatta, where the young
people are spending the honeymoon, is a
beautiful old place half a dozen miles from
Berry, on the South Coast. The house proper
is owned and occasionallv inhabited by the
Alex. Hays; and in “the cottage,” which is
semi-detached from the house, live Mrs. Hay,
senior, and the unmarried girls. It was
built by David Berry over a century ago.
So quietly that it was supposed the press
would not hear a whisper of it, Dr. Emma
Buckley became Mrs. Samuel Turkington at
St. Philip’s the other afternoon. Dr. Emma,
who is the only woman medical superinten-
dent of a general hospital in Australia —
her charge has been the big North Shore
healing-house—faced Canon Bellingham in
a mole-colored coat and skirt, lit up by a
cherry-trimmed hat of lime color. Dr. Harry
Leaver gave her away, and slim Molly Bow-
den was bridesmaid in white georgette with
black beads and a soft white satin hat. Eric
Hilliard provided the support for the bride-
groom during the ceremony, and for the
bridesmaid during the feast which was
spread at the Macquarie. The wedding
cake, a two-tier affair, had been manufac-
tured by some of the nurses at the hospital
and buttressed with almond-icing by adoring
V.A.’s. When the lady-medico set out on
her life-work she took up nursing; nearly
at the end of her course she developed some
hip trouble, whereupon she readjusted her
bearings and set out for a medical degree.
Pretty Mrs. Samuel and solicitor Guy
Belisario were married quietly at St.
Stephen’s, Phillip-street, on Thursday. The
event had been postponed owing to the death
of the bridegroom’s sister.
Before this letter gets into its pink coat
Muriel Carter will be Mrs. Keith Bain, and
will have cut the wedding-cake in a marquee
like a .fairy hanging-garden with its spill-
ing baskets’ of bloom and flower sunshades.
Dr. Weston Maher has attained at one
swoop a brother-in-law and a partner. Mrs.
Maher’s sister, Nurse Robinson, of the staff
of Omrah, Weston Maher’s hospital in Dar-
linghurst-road, a week ago married Dr.
Walter Perry, until recently superintendent
of the Sydney Hospital. Now the two
names are linked on the brass-plate.
The Flagship draped itself last week as
a sort of joint compliment to Flag-Lieutenant
Bowyer-Smyth and his best-girl, Joan Mc-
Call McGowan; the Ormuz carried the Flag-
Lieutenant away to England, and the party
was a fond farewell by his comrades in but-
tons. Rear-Admiral Dumaresq gave the
young things a dinner-party before the
dance, at which Joan wore a primrose-
colored frock. Pauline McMorran, in black
ninon, Nell Joske, Mollie Bowyer-Smyth,
Val Osborne and a bunch of the Navy were
at the dinner. Nora and Margaret Knox
were among the dancers; Barbara Laidley
wore cherry ribbon loops on her ivory-satin
dress, Mrs.’ Sep Levy gleamed like a coral,
and Helen Laidley was like a summer night
all silver and blue.
At Bournemouth, where an Australian
girl is sheltering from the bitter English
winter, there is a very old lady who says
it is quite untrue that Queen Victoria never
made a joke or saw one. This nice, remi-
niscent old lady was a Court dressmaker,
and w r as in attendance when the then not-
so-very-old Queen was playing decorous
games with the Battenburg youngsters.
“Gran’ma,” said one of them, “you be a
cow and crawl under the table.” “Oh, no,
I couldn’t,” said gran’ma. “Cows don’t get
under tables. Only calves get under tables.”
Annette Maclellan had this photograph
taken, just before she sailed for England, to
let Bulletin readers see what London is
gaining this year in the way of exchange
teachers. Under the Education Board’s
scheme of broaden-
ing youth’s outlook
a picked number of
High-school teachers
are to be sent to
England every year,
and the same num-
ber of English
teachers take their
places in Australian
schools. Annette, who
is one of the modern
language mistresses
at North Sydney
Girls’ High, is a
nerfect whale for
German and French,
having slogged at
the Hun tongue at
the end of her Uni.
course just before
the war. She even pursued it to Berlin under
some system of student exchange, and for
six months taught in one of the German
colleges. Miss Maclellan takes her artist-
mother with her on her travels. May Moore
made the picture.
The Gaelic Society made a good choice
for its first plunge into theatricals when it
decided to present Padraic Pearse’s “The
Singer.” The play is the lyrical expression
of the feeling of young, cultured Ireland
prior to the rebellion of 1916. Of the play-
ers three stand out for beauty of diction—
they had the lines of Sighle and McDara,
and of Maire, McDara’s mother. Though
the rest of the cast ran from bad to worse,
altogether the society left a pleasant memory
of a remarkable literary achievement. One
of the most interested of front-row patrons
was tall Judge Murray, the Papuan Admin-
istrator.
Did Fate ever play a more impish trick
than that of which this gentle mystic, Pad-
raic Pearse, was the victim? The son of a
monumental mason, he worked hard at his
books, and was a master in the Intermediate
College at Rathfarnham when he was swept
into the movement for National Freedom.
Having helped to found the Citizens’ Army,
he of all men was made Commandant-Gen-
eral of the Forces during the rebellion of
1916. and was wounded. Later he was exe-
cuted after trial by court-martial.
The white-haired Royal Society has just
acquired its third secretary. The first was
Professor Liversidge; then for 14 years Gov-
ernment Botanist
Maiden did the
work; now E. C.
Andrews, Govern-
Geologist, has
added it to his
cares. And they
are numerous;
among other things,
he is hon. sec. to
t li e Australasian
Association for
the Advancement of
Science. Born in
Sydney, Mr. An-
drews took honors
in maths, and
geology at the Uni.
and then passed on
to his lifework in
the Mines Depart-.
ment. On the nomination of Prof. David
he led the Coral Reef Expedition to the
South Seas for the great Agassiz, of Har-
vard ; and at the invitation of Dr. G. K.
Gilbert, the famous authority on glacial
action and mountain-making, he went to
Western U.S.A. in 1908 and examined the.
mountains of that region, and the two dis-
cussed their problems together. At home
he is best known for his work in economic
geology—the branch which tries to show
how science can keep the miner’s billy boil-
ing and pay dividends.
Brenda Mocatta, who in pre-war days
threatened to finish high in the list of candi-
dates for the poet laureateship, is linking up
with old Sydney friends. The War, the-
osophy, a walnut grove and an unpublished
novel have variously occupied her time since,
and in the intervals she has been learning
her Australia by living in backblocks town-
ships where dad’s job-—he is a civil engineer
—took him. Brenda reports that Dad has
now given up engineering to nurse the family
selection on the Murray.
Early in the week Dr. Mary Booth called
her ex-service women together to extend a
welcome to Miss Pawley, who is one of the
English teachers loaned to Australia for a
year. Margaret Windeyer made a great
speech of welcome to the newcomer and of
/arewell to Annette Maclellan. Lute
Drummond and Kathleen Ussher were others
at the feast of knowledge.
In company with ladies fair or merely
clever, Marguerite Dale, Sydney’s own
woman playwright, presented tea and muffins
to sister-authoress Elizabeth Baker at the
Repertory Rooms the other day. The guest
presented a quiet, front and a contemplative
eye to the gathering in the somewhat steamy
rooms; and the gathering looked at the guest
and wondered what it felt like to be the
writer of a real London success. Mrs. Dale
was the compleat hostess, and we all have
evidence to prove she’s the perfect mother.
This is not so with all literary matrons. One
writing lady known to us all absent-mindedly
handed out a sheet of blotting-paper to her
young son when he rushed in to tell her he’d
just sucked out the contents of a fountain-
pen.
The Institute of Journalists gathered on
the lawns and verandahs of Vaucluse House
on Saturday night, not by the light of the
moon, for that lady drew a thick veil about
herself, but by the glimmer of electrics hid-
den in sconces till it seemed they must be
candles. The sconces, indeed, had been
chemically treated [ till they resembled the
green of old brass. A mist of rain fell at
intervals, so the übiquitous jazz was turned
on in the and a slogan com-
petition kept all hands busy on the outer
deck. The gentle Dowell O’Reilly couple
walked over from their house across the
way, and Mrs. Holman and the literary
Quinns and Arthur Adams made the grasses
cross themselves in protection from the
phrases thrown at them. But the ordinary
jazzy girl yawned on the boat. She said
she “felt so white-anty—you know, bored all
over.”
Three thousand Boy Scouts, drawn from
all over the State and with contingents
from Vic., Queensland and S.A., assembled
at the Agricultural Ground for inspection
by their Chief Scout, the G.-G. Berib-
boned and with bright troop-colors held
aloft, the lads marched past, with the Scouts’
brass band at the head and much kettle-
drumming and bugle-blowing everywhere.
After witnessing the display of scout craft-
manship, the Government will commission
a legion of these youngsters to make a start
on the North Shore Bridge. But the swift-
ness with which hordes of bare-kneed nip-
pers erected bridges and derricks, and put
out fires and rendered first aid, is going to
get them in trouble the first time they grow
up and get on to a go-slow job. Afterwards
there was a eorroboree, and the Wolf Cubs,
who are the little brothers of the scouts’
gave their Grand Howl, and it sent cold
shivers running down the spines of 250 Girl
Guides.
The person who will most regret the pass-
ing of the old Mint, whose site is to be used
for new Law Offices, is its master, Harry
Arnheim, affectionately known to old mem-
bers of the Union Club as “the Baron.” The
Macquarie-street building has been his
luxurious home for many years, and there
he gave his famous lunches, at the conclu-
sion of which the guests were shown coins
of the realm in the making.
A few lines from London :
Artist ljvelyn Chapman and her devoted parents
are still in ancient Bruges, but expect to return to
London in a week or two. Datillo Rubbo’s former
pupil has made her season’s success with two
exhibits at the Paris Salon—virile paintings of
Bruges. Till the weather got too icy to sketch
outdoors, the Sydney girl kept on adding to her
sheaf of studies in and around this most picturesque
of cities.
Princess Mary is a pleasant, fresh-eomplexioned
girl, a docile daughter, carefully brought up in all
those domestic virtues for which Queen Mary is
noted. For the rest, she is a good-natured, sporting
young woman, with a pair of gentian blue eyes •
and romping with her brothers has helped to knock
any swank off a Royalty who at present is unable
to open any English paper without reading at
least a column of extravagant praise. Her engage-
ment to the vastly wealthy Lord Lascelles, who is
nearing his 40th birthday, has been simmering for
some time. Soon after he returned from the war,
at the end of 1918, he began looking about for a
town house. Chesterfield House presently became his
for a sum that made a perceptible impression on a
million; and ever since 1920 he has been picking
up washsta!nds and bric-a-brac and things. Inci-
dentally, the usually carefully printed Daily
Chronicle, in its joyful appreciation pf an all-
British royal engagement, has inadvertently described
Lord Lascelles as Mary’s finance.
The British Legion, Field-Marshal Haig’s appeal
on behalf of ex-service men of all ranks, absorbs
a possible half-dozen of smaller shows which have
been trying to keep the men out of the workhouse.
Amongst the honorary skirmishers who chase the
unwary Rich for their uttermost coin in’this behalf
is the tireless Sydney-Londoner, Margaret Baxter.
She bustled back from Devonshire to run a little
side-show for the Legion in foggy November, and
had a thousand pounds to hand in as a result.
London’s latest black-out, which lasted four days,
is estimated to have cost the old city a million-
through such things as loss of transport facilities
in a darkness wherein the motor-’bus simply sat
down and cargo steamers flung out anchors off
Gravesend. While it lasted the feeling of oppression
was so great that several ex-service and other citi-
zens collapsed from heart attacks.
Artist Mary Edwards left by the Ormuz
last week for Ceylon to pick up color.
A Brisbane postscript:
The last English mail brought news of the wed-
ding of Muriel Elton, whose mother was Ernestine
White, a Queenslander, and whose papa is Captain
Elton, R.N. The lucky' man Was Captain Darling,
M.C. He and the other one are to live in India.
Died last Friday, Dr. G. Herbert Hopkins, one
of the kindest men that ever hung out a brass
plate. His two sons went away with the A.1.F., and
one of them, Ivo, did not come back.
Another good citizen who passed on last week
was R. K. Miller, manager of the Brisbane office
of the Q. N. Bank. He was manager at Toowoomba
for 10 years, and had been appointed to Brisbane
only about six months ago. A small son arrived
four days before his father died.
The newest engagement is that of Joan Taylor,
youngest daughter of Mrs. Lumley Hill, to Lieut.-
Commander R. Langton Cavaj'e, R.N., son of F. N.
W. Cavaye, of Logan Downs.
One evening last week, in the private chapel at
Dara, Stella 'Beirne, youngest daughter of ithe
T. C. Beirnes, was married to John Hennessy, of
Burwood, Sydney. Archbishop Duhig officiated.
May Beirne and a pretty Hennessy girl bridesmaided,
and J. Flynn and H. Showers looked after the groom.
The wedding breakfast was spread at the Belle Vue,
and the honey is being sipped in Tasmania.
Sylvia Kemp was married the same evening to
Alan Corrie. The bride’s people are well known in
St. George and Sydney; the ’groom is a son of
Alexander Corrie. Kathleen and Doris Kemp were
two decorative bridesmaids, and Harold Selwyn
Smith and Martin Snelling partnered them. The
ceremony was in St. Andrew’s, South Brisbane.
Towoomba —a part of it —is extremely annoyed
with Sir Matthew; though he is summering here he
has left his visitors’ book in Brisbane. Already he
has given a few small dinner-parties, and is be-
lieved to be arranging a dance. Yet (sniff here!)
how can he ask the “right people” if he won’t
give us a chance to call?
Madeline Thurza, youngest daughter of the George
Logans, of Pineview, became the wife of Alfred
Gardner Fryer, of San Francisco, in Sydney one
afternoon last week, and sailed- for California in
the morning.


dsf
WRIST WATCHES
Guaranteed Reliable Timekeepers*
IBet Gold Watch, new square model, high-grade Swiss Lever
movement mounted on Black Moire Silk Band, with Patent Snap,
£2l.
%
m
x
s
Daintv Silver Watch, square-edge model, high-grade" Swiss Lever
movement, mounted on Suede Leather Strap, with Silver Buckle,
£6.
9ct. Gold Watch, high-grade Swiss Lever movement, mounted
on Suede Leather Strap, with Gold Buckle,
£ll 10 0
HARDY BROTHERS LTD
JEWELLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IJ6-H8 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN S MERCANTILE
AGENCY CO. LTD.,
Wool and Produce Brokers,
Fat and Store Stock Salesmen.
The Company begs to announce having purchased the WOOL, PRODLCE and
STOCK business of
THE PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.,
as from 4th January, 1922,
on the terms which are shortly set forth in the advertisement of the Pastoral
Finance Association, Ltd., published in this issue.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO LTD
have all the facilities for successfully handling the newly-acquired WOOL and
PRODUCE business at Pyrmont.
And have adequate facilities also for handling
FAT STOCK at Flemmgton.
ThP general business of the Company will be conducted as heretofore at the
"'Liberal ADVANCES JStU? SW ionsignments.
” 4 Applications” for° < Ad < vances to be addressed to tile Manager of the Company,
38 Bridge Street. . GRAHAM, Manager.
Branch Offices in New South Wales Albury, Dubbo and Scone.
The Pastoral Finance Association Ltd.,
Sydney.
Shareholders and clients of the Association are notified that the Wool,
Produce F and Stock business of the Pastoral Finance Association as from 4th
January, 1922, has been sold to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD.,
On terms which are, shortly, as follows.
£lO,OOO Cash on Execution of the Agreement.
£5,000 on 30th June, 1922
£lO,OOO „ „ » 4923
£lO,OOO „ ~ 4924
£lO,OOO » 1925
"These payments are contingent on not
less than 20,000 bales wool (exclusive of
salvaged wool) being received this season
from growers w 7 ho were clients of P.F.A.
during the last two wool seasons, and not
J less than 40,000 bales being received each
| year from similar sources during the
years ending 30th June, 1923, 1924 and
1925. If the quantities received fall short
of these figures a reduction of ss. per bale
for each bale of shortages to be made in
respective payments. •
If the quantities of wool received from P.F.A. clients exceed -0,000 bales an
the current season and 40,000 bales in the following 3 seasons the Company allow
ss. per bale to the P.F.A. on such excess. . . , . ..- , . ,
The Directors of this Association have by special circular notified its share-
holders and clients of the transaction, and have pointed out the advantages which
will accrue to the Association by the support of shareholders and clients to the
purchasing company. w p. JAQUES, Chairman of Directors.
Pastoral Finance Association, Ltd.
After Your Last Holidays
ssur-ssis ?.!w« V'&qs r li
duce the actual scenes, the faces, the incidents, just as they we e.
Don’t make a mistake this time, take a
Folding Ansco Camera
No. la,
For Roll Films Daylight Loading.
which is designed to
meet holiday require-
ments. It is small
enough to carry with
you always eve r-
ready for the unex-
pected picture.
Kn
It takes pictures 2$ x
4J inches, and beautiful
enlargements to any
desired size may be
made from the clear
sharp negatives.
Prices:
With Rapid Symmetrical Lens, Ilex General Shutter £6/10/-
With F 7.5 Lens, Capax Shutter £7/15/-
You will require an ALBUM in which to nlace your holiday pictures. We have
a large and varied stock to choose from, in all sizes and kinds slip-in and
paste-on, and in various colors and bindings. I rices from 1/- to ~0/-
dsf
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
p
r*
a
** r^K
ffti
■m rm
m ***
Him
hrn\\tm
0
&
.
9
'Royal Cord' 'Nobby' 'Chain' * Usco'
THE. WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.


You Can Become a
Successful Artist.
can learn drawing in
your own home, with Harry
J. Weston—Australia’s famous
commercial artist—as your
teacher.
Drawing is an
inter esting
and profitable
pastime, but
success in art
cannot be
built up on
an unsound
foundation.
THE WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING
thoroughly teaches the
fundamental principles
of drawing, and carries
its students step by
step through every
phase of commercial
art.
So explicit and simple
are the instructions,
and so helpful and
personal Mr. Weston’s
criticisms, that rapid
progress under such
able tuition is certain.
Send three penny
stamps for our booklet
“THERE'S MONEY
IN THE PEN.” It
tells about the possi-
bilities of drawing as
a profession and as a
pastime.
4*^ i
V,'
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
104 Union House, George Street, Sydney.
SHIP BRAND
0
e/° r
delicious
Summer Dishes
Manufacturers
CLIFFORD LOVE & C9IPSYDNEY
S»e Ease i^Wriung
,THE BRUCE”
STEEL
SHELL
* iAH*
PF/MS
and recommended by
.Bruce, Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal,
Schools of Sydney, N.S.W. & manufactured
by the celebrated Penmafers.
JOSEPH GIhLOTT & Sons. Birmingham.
tSo/c/ by a/l Stationers
Mol esale =- Alex .Cowan & Sons, l td
SUCCESS fi LIFE
To succeed in life good spirits and
hopeful thoughts are required. The man
who is despondent or irritable always
fails. Low spirits and irritability or
temper are often caused by a dull, torpid
liver. Wake up y ov.. liver with
Small Pill-
Small
Dose-
Small
Price j
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Lit-
tle Liver Fills
and start the
Hay with a
bright cheerful
face. Both
yourheahhand
business will
benefit. Good
for old and
young—purely
vegetable.
A
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Caile
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain,
In these days we all have
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Off loe-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
dsf
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn. London. W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
SOME DAY YOU’LL BE SORRY
that you cannot box. When you find
yourself facing the bully your size
and strength will not help you—but
SCIENCE will. Don’t envy others
for their coolness and confidence in a
scrap. Be envied yourself. Think
how humiliating it would be to be
beaten by a man smaller than yourself ;
think of the jeers of the onlookers
and the taunts of your pals. When
the day comes it will be too late for
regrets.
LEARN BOXING
BY POST.
Our system is simple, practical and thorough; it
embraces every punch, guard and counter known to
rmgcraft. Ihe Student has personal advice and
supervision just as if he were attending the classes
in Sydney.
Hundreds of enthusiastic students testify their con-
fidence in the Baker Course.
If you want a copy of the interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” just write vour
name and address across this advertisement and mail
it with three stamps to cover postage. The booklet
tells all about the course, and gives many valuable
hints. ■
h
■W*
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
25 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
“Always Reliable.”
The very name
EL E Y
is synonymous with
Cartridges
Obtainable from
all Dealers.
Agent:
ALBERT ADAMS,
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
dsf
That “just-out-of-the-box”
freshness lasts—
Provided you use
Bostock’s
Dry Suede Cleaner
COLORS : White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne, Brown and Nigger Brown.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Sydney.
dsf
the supreme
SUNBEAM
SUN BEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100>900 h.p.
A. South African Owner says : —
• . . After all, spare parts for Sunbeams
are seldom wanted, because they never
seem to wear out.”
Mail for particulars.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR C? I™-
Wolverhampton, England;
EXPORT DEPT.
12 PRINCES STREET
HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address : “ Subeamoco,” London.
...
J
hm
i mi
iiiwmiji
m
u
24 h.p. 6 cyl. SPORTING MODEL.
Sole Agents for New South Wales: WILLIAMS BROS., LTD. 822 George Street, Sydney.
• / / ' •
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of „ hostile character) will be
taicen oj communications insufficiently stamped,
t ame and address must appear on the MSS. No
undertaken re contributions volun-
tanty submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany .
The Lamb: That last-year’s ready-reckoner
story finds its own way to the w.p.b now... .C.0.C.:
Be natural. Get it out of your head that you are
writing- for print. Your covering letter shows what
you can d 0... .Malvern: The facts are against you.
Among the mainland States the greatest natural in-
°f Population is in Queensland, which is
is forth ( PIC !,: the Poorest in Victoria, which
s fmthest from them. And Queensland’s natural
increase is twice as great as Scotland’s Reta
. D .° n * k " ow what Piri Pa Se’s “Junior Record
n M.L was, but will gladly take your word for it
that she was only 13 at the time. .. . A.S.L.: No
hope. Enough has reached us on the Looney-
Shakspeare-De Vere matter to fill at least 20 Bul-
letins Skynder: Certainly not Wattle Bark: A
good enough idea, but rottenly bad workmanship....
R.G.R. : Pleasant little sketch, but that paddock has
been ploughed so often.... D.L. (Oamaruj : Nicely
done, but too slight.... Harvester: So rough we
:™ ke ,°." r reaper-and-binder trying to get the grain
out of it ...Sand: As poor as Sahara Neville D.:
1 here is feeling in it, but this isn’t much of a market
for that line of goods... .H.J.W.: The scientific
restoiation of the Devil wanted brighter handling
R.P. (Bondi) ; No use to us... .H.M. (Glenelg): Not
quite Connie: Most distressing... .Blue Pup-;
Poor and thin as the shadow of Lazarus’s grey dog
••• Not U P -• • -Emer: Dismal wail...!
G.J.H.: The mirth has leaked out of it....J.K.
(Bendigo) :No use... .E.L.P.: They cling to the well-
worked ideas, but they show some skill... .J.F.T.: A
trifle too rugged Picko: Hair-raising verse with a
Kind of tragic humor of ineptitude Omar K.: Take
more care, learn to punctuate, and work, work, work.
.... A.F.M.: Well, the river flows—though it might
flow more grammatically—but what else have you
noticed about it? Cceur-de-Lion: Very tedious and
very hard to read.... Bill W.: Verse not nearly; yarn
mirthless....Resby: Wanted a more lightly-humorous
touch. .. .Rosa A.: Avaunt! You can’t rhyme “pic-
tures and “witches” in this paper.... E.R.: (Syd-
ney) : Dreadful Bruce Lonie: You have the color.
Now read and write, read and write, and get the
skill E.W.L.: “Caravan Roads” is merely chopped
prose. None of the others get very near. ... J.R.P.;
That metre demands rhyme and a reasonable amount
of regularity.... Six and Eight: Afraid it could
have no interest for any human creature. ... Misery:
“Sammy” doesn’t amount to much more than that
your mother employed a lazy boy and sacked him. . . .
Gordon: Nothing there D’R.C.: The yarn is
spoiled in the telling... .C.K.T.: Very lame verse on
a commonplace subject Gladys P.: “Gold” isn't
more than about 3 carat... .W.J.S.: Sketch doesn’t
appeal to us. . . .E.L.: “Evening”' says nothing.
Raymond H.: “The Fiddler” is the best, but all fail
to reach the standard Mervyn: Uneven and com-
monplace. Grow up and do better Nameless:
“The Casual” hasn’t enough in it. .. . W. 8.5.8.:
Bumps dreadfully out of scansion.... IT.B. (Punch-
bowl): Doesn’t get to anything. ...M.R. (Cremorne):
Rubbish... .John-oh: “Resolution” yarn moves
heavily; the other is print-worn J.H. (Deefrid) •
Terrifying.... Oliver B.: “Wheat Carting in the
Mallee” makes a vivid picture:—
Here we are again, rush-o!
Teams, teams one after another.
No time to argue, or smoke-o.
All in the collar, like brothers.
Into the station-yard they land.
Some feel fit, others got the pip ;
After drawing through dust and sand
Some goes to the pub, washes it down with a nip.
Unloading is the next thing to be done—
Helping, lumping, some on the whips;
Some joking, swearing. I think we’ll have one—
Dust still in my throat, and parched lips.
“Well, how did your wheat turn out, Frank?”
«o> bome was all ri £ht, some was rotten.”
iPtu 6 v? u , ave a n * ce little cheque for the bank?”
Ah, that s what you think, it’ll be spent and
forgotten.”
“Why, after all that good crop you had ?”
“Yes, with one take-all and another
It makes one feel not too glad,
And as if you hadn’t got a mother.”
Tas M.: Take a Sunday morning off and run the
lawn-mower over it. (P.S. Also clip the edges.)
5.C.1.W.: Bumps and wallows all over the place.!!!
Quintus: An obvious theme of little interest treated
in bad verse Arundel D.: The verse is not bad,
but the matter is commonplace W.J.T.: Not
nearly T.D. (Landsborough) : Sorry cannot handle
here Drouin: Wants a tonic Joan R.: They
don t get anywhere; and the dawn-morn rhyme
declares the bad condition of your ear.... Hal O. :
Poor stuff.... Ichabod C.: Makes rather a dull
sermon.... H.C.8.: No use D.T.H.: Poor imi-
tation of a not very good model H.L.M.: Don’t
care for it... . Geonna : Some feeling. Though this
is not nearly up, you will probably do better....
Reg.: Ncte that your love eats onions and that
you have taken castor oil. Now please g 0... .P.T.D.:
More puzzle-verse. For heaven’s sake get it out of
your head that to be soulful is to be unintelligible.
. ...L.C.: You’ve come round the corner when the
dog-fights over. ... Dyne: The Abo. gang tore that
to ribbons a few months ago 8.W.: You lose
yourself in a maze of words. .. .R.E.T.: No use for
reprints Y 27 : An amazing jumble... .Ichabod
C ! .: All miss Greenstone: An ancient flavor
about the lot. .. .P.K.H.: Carruthers was twice
N.S.W. Treasurer—for a few months under Reid
and then in his own Ministry. Wade, who had been
his Attorney-General, reconstructed the Cabinet,
made Waddell Treasurer and carried on for three
years longer.... Balaclava: You’ve got a yarn to
tell, but if you told it like that in the hut what
would happen?. .. .0.R.W.: You drive your pen
round three blocks to get to the pub just over the
way L.A.R.: Bright enough, but you preach from
a poor text... . Saaedi: “Code” pipped on the post.
It might have won if you had made it a welter
Lars: Too much skin and bone and too little gravy.
TO AUTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.: Idea weak... .C.C.: No drawing... .A.C.M.:
Some promise, but not printable yet... .E.V.E.:
Too thumb-nailish ; try them bigger L.F.: Feeble
gag and stiff drawing A.E.M.: Very ancient jokes'
. ...D.A.G.: Curious-looking gentleman with the
beer glass going back 8.C.: A long way short
.. . Better sell that Indian ink F. 11.8.:
Nothing in it....M.0.: Some way to go yet....
Neyam : Not up E.A.H.: Misses... .M.L.: All
weak in drawing R.E.0.: No use L.MeC.:
Both w-ell below par W.R.H.: Very wobbly
draftsmanship.


Shinning.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de '
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 24. Spring Street,
4247, «vdne-
-4810.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes-—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, FEBRUARY 8, 1922,
VENTURA.
10,090 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON HAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasoenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £2/18/-
Tlie speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply : —•
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS': MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
Hanking, Public Companies, Arc.
TK ,r
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Paid up, £450,000 ; Reserve Fund, £70,000
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY: Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.;
Ho-\. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 381 Collins Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria-St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,243 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart,
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors: Herbert R. Lysaght, 0.8. E., Chairman,
George J.Sly, LL.D., Frank N. Yauwood, F.O.P.A. ;
George F. Ton man ; lion. F. Jago Smith, M.L.C. ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and. King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir.
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 21 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Faiiiraiiin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,9S8
Preference Shares 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,000
Keserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1.880,275
CHANTS DRAFTS
Britaipyand
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Ireland, and" other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transact; ill other usual Banking
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
business.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQTJIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN COMINEM.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS: —
NIAGARA, 16th FEBRUARY, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 16th MARCH.
EXCURSIONS TO HONOLULU.
“THE PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC.”
A smooth-water trip over placid seas. Allows about 21 days stay at Honolulu.
R.M.S. NIAGARA, FEBRUARY 16.
Return fares: First Class, £75/10/-; Second Class, £5O.
Send for pamphlets and all particulars.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also tie
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 2nd FEBRUARY, 1922.
MARAMA, 2nd MARCH.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STF\M SHIP CO UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. |AhNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MEL BO UR
fdf
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3| TO 4 k WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of- steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000' tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
Only One Clae- Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*Ne\v Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Paul-up Capital
Reserve I'uiul
Reserve Inability
mm
Directors
£5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
liobert h. Enithfiill. Esq., M.D.
The lion. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Tlireadneedie Street, K.C.
.358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London
Agents and C< rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DTTtECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World;
Commonraltb^Sank-BiKtralia
■ HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
n the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3019 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, Ne* Britain. Solomon, and otner Islands of the 1 acffic.
3i% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3°/ Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL. Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor.
Shtnoin*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports ;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd., 10 Bridge
Street.
Howard Smith,
Ltd., 350 George
Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn’s Line,
(il Pitt Street,
Melbourne S.S.
Co., Ltd.,
Clarence and
Barrack Sts.
FOR BRISBANE,
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY, BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— Regular sailings
from Svdney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full narticnlars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
V IDDD, 1 .A7/Mr/A XT A AT A
iViOIIUUV Oil Ii i 1 IqO LIICICdM-Ci.,
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
money, B Nl ’ ppoN yUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackheath Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O S, N Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line, San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
£2700 for lI-
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS’
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£SOOsecond Prize valued£soo
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 2fith. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 19^2.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2—Two or more Post Free.
One Ticket may posdbly win £3700.
Tickets obtainable from N S-W. Bookstall Co..
Hairdressers. Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, rion
Council Chambers, Blackhfath, N.>.W
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.


fdg
Electricity
and a Rhodes Motor
Will drive your machines most efficiently.
—and also most economically. The “Rhodes” Motor
nms smoothly and silently; no heavy fuel Mils; a lower
total to your wages-sheet; minimum of fire risk and an
absence of the smell, grease and dirt usually synonymous
with gas, petrol and other engines.
-^| l 0 Motor is of British manufacture, amply
rated, and complies with the most stringent regula-
tions of the British Board of Trade.
Theii double-ring oiling device assures perfect lubrica-
tion. xhe single-phase motor is of the repulsion induc-
ts oll SE e ’ J an , < ? * t r al ‘ ts U P on full load; this feature makes
the Rhodes Motor particularly valuable for driving,
hoisting machinery and the like.
Write us to-day for illustrated catalogue and full
particulars.
Manufactured by Rhodes Motors, Ltd., Doncaster,
England.
Full Stocks Carried by Sole Agents.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILL
PTY
LTD
Head Office and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 375 George Street.
EXTRUDED
Brass, etc., Bars
for all trades.
Brass, etc.
Rounds
from 3/16in.
Squares
from |in.
Hexagon
from £in-
'M M
tli\
o#
•<4>
• ♦!<>
Bronzes.
High-tension
Bronzes.
Also
Navy Brass,
Muntz Metal,
etc.
A Few Examples of Extruded
Brass, etc., Bars.
Copper Busbar, Copper Stayrods; also Round, Square
Extruded sections effect a very great saving in machining costs.
ROLLED and DRAWN
Coo Der Bars and Rods.
and Flat Copper.
We are Commonwealth and State Government contractors.
Send us your inquiries.
MANUFACTURED BY
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney: and 125 Adelaide
Street, Brisbane; and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne!
Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Darling Buildinsr
Adelaide. Also from Geo. Kent, Ltd., Perth; and Jones & Co'
Clyde Quay, Wellington, N.Z. °*’
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
RACKETS.
Special School Match ...
C.B.B. Special Practice
The Club, concave throat
The Durable, „ „
The Victor „ „
Haymarket
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Extra Special
Spalding’s Tournament .
Spalding’s Continental . .
Spalding’s Gold Medal ...
Ayre’s Champion
Ayre’s Matador ........
Ayre’s S.N.D
. 8/6
17/6
17/6
20/-
25/-
80/-
40/-
70/-
49/6
Wf-
50/-
55/-
87/6
Slazenger’a La Belle ~, 27/6
Slazenger’s Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-
Slazenger's Demon 55/-
Slazenger's Whitebouse 63/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 85/-
Slazeuger’s Doberty $7/(j
Slazenger’s Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s Patterson 95/-
H. C. Lee’s Seneca 55 j m
H. O. Lee’s Spartan ... ............ 70/-
H. C. Lee’s Church 90/*
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on cheaper rackets: N.S.W., 9d.;
other States,
dfdg
RACKET REPAIRS a Specialty*
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Doz.
1/4 15/-
2/7 30/-
Dunlop Regulation Grey .
Dunlop’s Champion, 1921
Each. Doz.
Ayre’s Court 2/2 25/-
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 ........... 2/9 32/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2
SLAZENGER’S Championship, 1922 (airtight tins)
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-, 70/-
Champion (square) Posts, pair 100/-
Tennis Court Markers 37/6
Tennis Tapes 22/6
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers .. .. 2/6, 6/6
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books J/Q
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut, 21ft. coils, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 16/-
ILLUSTRATED
TENNIS PRICE LIST FREE
ON REQUEST »
BOXING
GLOVES
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES.
Set of 4..
C. 8.8., real leather, special value.... 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 13/6, 18/6, 21/-, 23/-
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, 30/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 35/-, 40/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 40/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
Superior, napa leather, hair stuffed .: 8/-
„ Leather „ „ laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Postage 3d.) ' 7/6 each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3ioz. (Postage 6id.), 15/6, 17/6 pair.
THE
PORTABLE
THE
ARMY
u
THE EXPERT/^
PUNCHING BALLS.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, reg. size, for fast work, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
and perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made 45/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for floor and rope for ceiling. -12/6, 15/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
SUNDRIES.
Ball and Socket Swivels 1 /6, 2/6, 5/6 each.
Double-action Swivels 6/6 and 10/6 each.
Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/- each.
SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
1C
L
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE; Edward St., BRISBANE.


Girls! Daintiness is
Greatest Charm.
Your
■ill
H
IS
.If*,, LORRAINE ESMOND
(From a photo).
If you would be dainty you muht
use Plaza Talcum Powder. It
soothes, heals and preserves the
delicacy of the skin and prevents
any odor from perspiration, and if
you wish to appear at your best
when tired and overheated, try a
dash of Plaza Talcum Powder—the
delightful Plaza fragrance will give
you an instant charm, and your
skin will be grateful for its cooling
treatment, for Plaza Talcum Pow-
der keeps you fresh and dainty from
head to toe. In beautiful glass
containers, 1/9.
PLAZA
Talcum PowJer
A True Delight.
After giving the exquisite
Plaza Talcum Powder a
trial, l can honestly say I
have never found its equal.
(Sgd.)
LORRAINE ESMOND,
53 Woolcott Street,
Darlinghurst, N.S.W.
dƒd
dfg
dfg
“Metropolitan Razor”
manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO., at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
c3
e
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
Edison Amberol Records
for January.
dfg
Tn the January records listed below every taste is catered
for, while the unusual high Edison standard is consistently
and Maurice Marechal each contribute a
fine selection to the Royal Purples, while eighteen Blue
Amberols make up a comprehensive list that is certain to
find favor anywhere.
Thp five dance records will be the first favorites, of course,
.K the 6 songs" and the band Sections are also sure of an
enthusiastic reception—amongst them Bells or tokinr
Marv’s” (sung by Lewis James), “In
Raindrop” (sung by Reese Jones) and ‘‘Good-bye (Lady
BUlv—sung 1 by k Elizabeth Spencer and Lewis James).
Humor is also well represented by Aileen Stanley, Cal
Stewart, A 1 Bernard and Ernest Hare.
Mark off those you . fancy—hear them right away.
Royal Purple Records.
L—ln mezzo al mare (On
the sea), Baritone, in
Italian, orch. acc.
Mario Laurenti
29073 —Largo-Sonata in G
Minor. Violoncello,
piano accompaniment
by Robert Gayler.
Maurice Marechal
Blue Amberol Records.
4167-
4173-
4197-
4199-
4200-
4206-
4211-
4212-
4213-
-Four Jacks March. Accordion. Frog . nj ,
-Observing Visitor March, Conway’s Band
-Perfect Day g ig^ 10 Lo,Tchiha “Priscoe”
t and of Sweet Erin Medley.
'«•. vuln ' pl, ”° *“■
- H " U S n JTS^'"-"oS*a
-Biddy. New York Military Band
-Bells of St. Mary’s. Tenor, m-eh. aoc^
srs."*"* “is ■">»“
■noriino' Medley Fox Trot (introducing
“Just Snap Your Fingers at Care”), for
DanC M;fx Fells’ Della Robbia Orchestra
4215 —Ragtime at Pun’kin Centre. Rural Story.
Cal Stewart
4217 Annie, My Own—Fox Trot, for Dancing.
Harry Raderman’s Jazz Orchestra
4218 — Satisfied, Briers, orch. acc.
A 1 Bernard and Ernest Hare
4219 — I’ve Got the Blue for My Kentucky
Home. Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet
4226— Palasteena—Fox Trot, for dancing.
Green Bros.’ Novelty Band
4228—Timbuctoo, orch. acc. A 1 Bernard
4230 — Good-bye—Lady Billy. Soprano and
Tenor, orch. acc. .
Elizabeth Spencer and Lewis James
4231 Caresses —Fox Trot. . .
Lenzberg’s Riverside Orchestra
4233—v She Walks in Her Husband’s Sleep.
Orch. acc. Aileen Stanley
THOMAS A. EDISON,
LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
A Soul’s Gateway.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE spoke of sudden sunsets
That flush the western skies,
And tint with pearl the evening
mists
That on the river rise;
But one there was among us
Who voiced no glowing word, .
And while we talked of wondrous nights
Sat silent and unstirred.
And then we talked of music,
And someone softly played
With skilful touch an old nocturne
By Chopin’s magic made;
The master’s spell breathed on us
Through waves of blended sound.
Yet one sat on, untouched, unmoved,
His soul in dulness bound.
We talked of wives and children,
We spoke of absent friends —
And some had gone with fearless steps
Where the dark river bends.
He, too, had seen and known them,
The living and the dead,
Had felt the warmth of their true hearts,
But not one word he said.
Then somehow in our converse
We spoke of money spent,
Of borrowings and lendings, „
And someone said per cent.
Sudden his eyes were lighted
As to a swift control,
And then we knew what spell might force
The gateway of his soul.
TASMANIA.
O’PHIMERTY.
The Whipping-post
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAIN HURTEES, R.N., had been
a midshipman at Trafalgar, and
until the day of his death, Anno
Domini 1880, never ceased to advertise the
highly creditable fact that he had served
in H.M.S. Euryalus under the gallant Cap-
tain Blackwood upon that memorable occa-
sion. AH along the Macquarie River, in
Dubbo, Wellington, Bathurst and Sydney he
was known, affectionately and with dislike,
as Euryalus Hurtees.
His language was appallingly bad. A
voice like a foghorn boomed and bellowed
to an astonished world his emphatic opinions,
venomous comminations and blasphemous
pleasantries. His geniality, it is said, ex-
pressed itself in salutations of the most ter-
rific sort. “God and sink your ——
soul, George, my dear fellow, how are: you t
was his greeting to a friend s grandfather
who had been a shipmate as far back as
1825. That friend was a mild little _ boy
with corkscrew curls and moral principles
carefully cultivated in him by a most mid-
Victorian mother, and his outraged vutue
prompted him to gasp: "Oh, sir, you
shouldn’t!” Whereupon the dreadful old
man told him cheerfully that he was several
unmentionable things. And all this was
accepted as a matter of course' by the good
little boy’s grandparent, who pinched his
ear and told him not to be rude. Of his long
life of 93 years there are many tales and
legends that, however more or less true
they are, define him as a very remarkable
man. Some of them do him great credit.
Others would make him curse violently it
he knew that they were still told. I erhaps
he does. , ~ ~
This is one of those that the old gentle-
man would rather have had* forgotten.*
In the year 1828 H.M.S. Narcissus, a fine
24-gun frigate, was beating up the coast ot
N. S. Wales against a January nor -easter
that made her passage from Hobart -town
a matter of weeks instead of days, hor a
particular reason her commanding officer de-
sired very vehemently to be in Sydney, bo
impatient of delay was he that he had
neglected to carry out the request of Lieu-
tenant-Governor Arthur, of Van Diemen s
Land, that he should search amongst the
islands at the eastern end of Bass Straits
for a missing schooner, with a convict crew
that was illegally and piratically at large.
That the runaways were sheltering m tne
Straits was subsequently definitely estab-
lished, and the failure of Captain Hurtees
to take such steps as would have ensured
their capture and the recovery of the
schooner led to that unpleasantness which
subsequently brought about his retirement
from the Royal Navy. However, that is
not the story. , ,
Off Twofold Bay James Marlborough, fore-
topman and hard case, fell overboard from
aloft, and had to be rescued aS the ship was
upon the point of going about. It is quite
certain that, had Captain Hurtees been on
deck at the time Marlborough would not
have been permitted to delay the ship in
such a fashion as he did; but Mr. Corns, the
first lieutenant, who was a very considerate
person, deemed it his duty to pick l* l ®, man
up. For this he was severely and profanely
censured by his commanding officer, whilst
the unfortunate Marlborough was awarded
two dozen, which w y ere duly administered on
the following day, the Narcissus being some-
where abeam of Mount Dromedary.
“That will well teach you not to fall
overboard when I am in a hurry,” observed
Captain Hurtees when passing sentence.
“An’ I’ll teach you something one o them
fine days!” gasped the half-drowned sea-
For this he was awarded another dozen.
The reason for the hurry is to be explained
thus. , ...
In a fine house upon the Rocks, that
stood in a charming garden, whence was
available such a view of the blue expanse of
Port Jackson as could not be matched any-
where, lived the lovely and voluptuous Mrs.
Sarah Murgatroyd. widow of the late Major
Murgatroyd, of H.M. 48th Regiment of Foot.
She was a fair-haired, blue-eyed dame with
a fine bust, a lively and fascinating disposi-
tion and an account in the new Bank of
N. S. Wales that was nearly as pretty as
she was.
She loved to hear about the Euryalus, was
profoundly interested in Lord kelson’s stra-
tegy and regarded Captain Blackwood as
having been a seaman and fighting man of
only secondary importance to Captain Hur-
tees. The beautiful frigate which had the
honor and good fortune to be commanded
by that gallant officer she idolised and ideal-
ised. She had composed a long poem, which
had been printed in the Australian
Quarterly Journal— -that erudite and cul-
tured publication conducted by the Rev. C.
P. N. Wilton —under the title of The
Flower of the Sea.” Two verses:—
0 azure Wave, O wafting Wind,
Broad waters of the Main,
Say, is there aught within thy ken
To match her like again—
This lovely flow’r that blooms serene
Upon thy boundless Plain?
Narcissus!
With sails unfurl’d she puts to Sea,
A lovely, gracious thing;
Beauty and Grace embodied as
The bird upon the wing.
Quiet, my Heart! She’ll come again
When Wattles bloom in Spring.
Narcissus!
There were 19 of these stanzas, extolling
the incomparable command of Captain Hur-
tees, his gallant officers and his “hearts ot
oak. 1 " The gratified hero in whose honor
they had been composed caused them to be
read by his clerk upon the quarter-deck, had
them printed, and issued a ukase that if any
man was found without the copy which he
had pleasure in presenting to every indivi-
dual in the ship’s company, he would atone
for his ingratitude by undergoing one dozen
at the gangway. In the Derwent tms pen-
alty had actually been inflicted upon the
graceless Marlborough, who had accentuated
his gracelessness by falling overboard, as has
been seen, and delaying the return ot the
“lovely flow’r” to that position below the
windows of the talented authoress on the
Rocks where its blooming might be noted
with the appreciation it deserved.
But it had come to the ears of Captain
William Hurtees that a poem had been
published in the Quarterly called “When
Frowning Mars” that was nothing but an
appreciation of the Major of Brigade, a
gentleman named Murphy, whom Captain
Hurtees once described as “a _ > '
poker-backed lobster with a squint. And
so that he might fittingly seek occasion to
insult Major Murphy, with the object ot
settling his hash upon the field of honor, he
hurried his ship back to Sydney.
When he dropped his anchor off Sydney
Cove and attended to his correspondence, the
first letter from the shore that he opened
was a scented missive inviting him to dinner
at the house upon the Rocks. It was signed
“Sarah Murphy.”
But “Bloody Bill,” as his seamen were
wont to name him playfully, was not dis-
couraged of Australia by his unhappy aiiau
with the widow Murgatroyd, and when he
resigned his commission in the Royal JNavy
he realised all his worldly goods—which were
not inconsiderable : —and sailed himself to
Sydney in a brig which he purchased at
Hartlepool, loaded with saleable merchan-
dise, and retailed it at some profit upon bis
arrival in these parts. With his own for-
tune and the proceeds of his successful ven-
ture, he established himself upon the land
in the new country west of Bathurst Plains,
and in the year 1836 was the lord of manJ
square miles of rich territory along the Mac-
quarie River, not far from where the town
of Dubbo came to be established.
Euryalus Plains was a very noble hold-
ing, and Captain Hurtees held it very nobly.
A most able man, keenly business-like and
indomitably persevering, he carved out ot
the wilderness an estate which became in
after vears the pride of the West. M hen he
had taken up his country, he did what had
been the ruin of many another squatter be-
fore him—built a fine mansion and laid out
the grounds about it with much taste,
judgment and eccentricity. Many of his
kind went down, owing to the fact that they
started pioneering at the wrong end, but
not so Captain Hurtees. He actually had
a billiard-table at Euryalus Plains before
there was a hoof of stock on the run; but,
all the same, he made money and prospered.
Fifteen miles outside of Dubbo you may
still find the massive old cottage, built ot
stone courses three feet thick, flat-roofed
and erected upon a peculiar mound that
runs along a ridge, so that there is a wide
view of yellow plains and far blue distances.
It is now a woolshed, but over the mam
doorway, above a glassless fanlight, curve
the letters Euryalus, cut deep m the stone,
with the date 1837 below them.
The plan of the old station buildings was
a peculiar one, and it is still possible to
trace the quaint design, which was nothing
more nor less than a representation of the
upper works of a ship of war, not at all
drawn to scale. The flat-topped house was
in the position of the poop, and had u flag-
pole rising from the roof to represent the
mizzen-mast. Thirty yards of stone pavement
did duty as the ship’s deck, with another
flagpole’ in the centre where the mam-mast
would have been. Just abaft of it is a well,
which formerly had a rectangular stone
combing, and was the mam hatch. A low
building, also flat-roofed, with its back wall
running out to a peak like a ship s bows
and surmounted with another flagpole, stood
opposite to the house, aoout 30 yards av ay,
and was the forecastle—where the convict
servants had their quarters. Along either
side of the pavement, between the two build-
ings, ran a wall about five feet high that
was pierced by a line of square ports, and
with its muzzle at each opening used to
be a carved stone gun. Two real carronades
—one of which may still be seen ot the back
of the woolshed—were mounted at the tore-
most ports on either side near the fo c s le.
If vou have read the memoirs of Lieut.-
Colonel Bnstable—“Five Years m New
South Wales” (London: 1843)—you will
remember his description of the approach
to Euryalus Plains. “Just at sunset, he
writes, “as we drove across a wide and
verdant champagne, I was startled m an
extraordinary fashion by beholding, daikly
silhouetted against the brilliance of the
western sky, the outline of a barque-rigged
ship, which appeared to be floating upon the
crest of a long earth-wave, and was so real-
istic in aDp°arance that for the moment I
thought I had taken leave of my senses.... It
is the singular mansion of Captain Yd ham
Hurtees. a very old colonist, Magistrate
of the Territory, and one of its besLknown
landholders and sheep-breeders. He had the
(Continued on next page.)


ft" T?
Ci
a*
as
m
Cl
IN
ss>
C- J
iV *n
G:
r^.
na \Asf?\
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap
should be used in all cases where any skin
trouble exists, in preference to ordinary soaps.
Used in conjunction with Zam-Buk Balm, Zam-
Buk Medicinal Soap will be found an invaluable
“aid” to the Zam-Buk treatment. 1/- per tablet
of all Chemists, or post free from C. E.
Fulford (A/sia), Sydney.
d'/faulted't
Throughout Australia hundreds of accidents are daily reported in
the columns of the newspapers, but the number of mishaps that daily
occur in Australasian homes is a thousand-fold greater and often quite
as serious. Most of these casualties reported in the papers find their
way to a hospital for efficient treatment, but a box of Zam-Buk—with
its wonderful antiseptic properties and unique powers of perfect healing
—virtually orings the hospital to your own home for the prompt treat-
ment of cuts, wounds, burns, scalds, bruises, lacerations and the hundred-
and-one accidents that occur to children and parents.
Again, Zam-Buk’s wonderful power over sores, ringworm, eczema,
ulcers, piles and other irruptive, inflammatory skin troubles is proof of
the outstanding superiority of this balm that has made its name world-
wide.
A pot of Zam-Buk on a handy shelf is next to having a surgery in
your home —therefore keep Zam-Buk always handy.
dfg
Of all Chemists
and, Stores through-
out Australia -at
1/6 and 3/6.
?ufTii 0 serving aboard 11.M.5. Eurya-
iotion iff n Bl ackwood, in the memorable
tafNpuS„ Cape * Ar ? f ? lgar * wheu the immor-
tal -Nelson received, Ins deatli-wonnd \ s
dt an PP exT? e l the station ’ 1,1 did not seem
burst f !l0 dlt ‘ ai ' } '. *> «*e a dart of flame
biard lu what might be termed the star-
°a2 and i ,ow . ot this nautical dwelling and a
evening !,'/!! te ? moke ascend into the still
cannon vf,imi Spllere ’ whilst the boom of a
Lan w? and aci '° ss . tlle Piaia- The gentle-
3Sked h bi« if S drivmg nie immediately
tionarv nnHi h ° rS r ; and £ we remained ‘sta-
at the rnitn" s , trin S of fla gs fluttered out
plained “ am ; mast - • Euryalus Hurtees,’ ex-
a distin“,n-«i i Pani °i’ variably welcomes
fiHnl 4 S o h^ and guest 111 this fashion—by
thfai" nciklno to ? ans , e hlm to heave-to anil
found m if a S i gaal to come aboard’....l
remarkable as his hoStead/’ 1^118 qUite 38
where he spent some days':—- 1
and yxaot reproduction of
lishment Thfbv"!?; flttlngs ’ throughout. the estab-
housfe anrl w dla wing-room is at the back of the
asr»' k* V*"^ 2 ® <S“ *«
stone but .uks enclosing the courtyard are carved
6f hammock-nettings; rainwater
escapes through scuppers; stone guns—there are two
fhoii ne cvcrv e tm PeeP , the Square ports! Z
—as l ’ f ,ithf i“ nß ' ybout , , the house is a reproduction
imrs Kfu Possible—-of shin-board surround-
ings. -Noi is the routine followed of a less nautical
withnm er ‘ v „ h f peopl , e , employed upon the station are,
tlir! mifv t f Ce^ o ' l ;. ° 1( sallors - lam informed that
the only qualification necessary in any applicant for
employment at Euryalus Plains—perhaps I should say,
upon His - Majesty s Ship Euryalus—is that of having
been to sea, preferably in the Royal Navy. The
Superintendent ranks as a First Lieutenant, the Over-
seer is the Boatswain, the Butler the Captain’s
coxswain. And strict naval discipline regulates
every transaction that takes place within the walls
of the establishment—all business 'in the surrounding
vast territory is referred to as being transacted by
landing parties.” Should any man wish to tem-
poiarily absefit himself from the place, he applies for
leave to “go ashore.”....
During my visit, a convict .servant —or member of
the “crew”—was punished for a slight insubordina-
tion, •or becoming drunk—l forget which. The
Police Commissioner from Wellington Valley being
upon his periodic round of the outlying stations, the
usual Court of Petty Sessions had been held, and
this man adjudged to receive fifty lashes. Hands'
were “piped to punishment” by the Boatswain, the
man was triced up to a whipping-post at the ”port”
gangway, and the flogging duly administered by two
gunner’s-mates. The whole affair was conducted
with the utmost seriousness in the presence of Cap-
tain Hurtees, standing upon his ouarter-deck in
front of the house, or poop, with “all hands” paraded
to witness it. Not a smile was observable -on any
countenance, nor any indication that the proceedings
were in any way regarded as incongruous, or out of
keeping with the fact that we were hundreds of
miles from the sea and in the heart of the Australian
bush.
I was curious to know why, when there was such
careful attention to detail in all other respects, the
victim had not been lashed to a grating, instead of
to an ordinary whipping-post. With his characteris-
tic heartiness of expression my bluff and burly host
informed me that it was owing to a “d—d silly police
regulation,” which was so meticulous as to insist
upon spoiling the effect of the punishment inflicted
in such an establishment as his, where his gunner’s-
not possibly be expected to do themselves
™ le ? s . the apparatus to hand was of such a
'•“J* as that to which they had been- accustomed at
PY * Captain Clayton, the Police Commissioner,
w+u t he in sls tence upon U standard whipping-post
thinl.- 6 , that there were some masters who would
f thll l g 01 hanging a man up by his heels to the
T ?" ot a t r . ee ln ofder to receive his punishment,
tnere must be a uniform method of hogging, if it
weie to remain a humane practice—which he, for
one, would be very sorry to see it deteriorate from.
Now the man whom' Colonel Bastable had
seen punished was the same James Marl-
borough whom Captain Hurtees had flogged
m the River Derwent, in Van Diemen’s
Dana, tor mislaying Mrs. Murgatroyd’s
poetic tribute to H.M.S. Narcissus, and, off
the Dromedary, for having been so cursedly
careless as to fall from the main-yard into
the sea when the ship was in a hurry. His
name, however, was not at this time so much
Marlborough as plain Jones, and because he
had filled out from youth to manhood and
grown a heard that very much altered his
appearance, his former captain had not re-
cognised him. Had he done so it is unlikely
that the man would have been punished at
nlmost the only tenderness that
Bloody Bill” ever manifested in his deal-
ings with his fellow-men was a touching
affection for his old shipmates.
“I tole ; ’,im 10 year agone,” said Mr. Marl-
borough to the young fellow he persuaded
to “desert” with him that same night—“l
sez to th’ tyran’, I sez, ‘Ye —— ’ound, I’ll
teach ye something one o’ these ’ere fine
days. ’ An’ so I will!”
And thus James Marlborough became a
bushranger with a fixed purpose.
The year 1842 was one which it was
always painful to Captain Hurtees to recall
to recollection. It if had been possible he
would have had it removed altogether from
the tale of the years of this earth’s existence
and made ’43 follow in the records upon ’4l.
It is said that he expunged every reference
to it from his own log-book.
. I he. moon was high and full on a summer
night in that bitterly memorable year when
bushranger Jimmy Wait-a-Bit and his score
or more of followers and adherents stole
softly up the hillside towards the shipshape
outline of Euryalus House.
“Ain’t there an anchor watch?” sniggered
one of them below his breath.
ghost,” Marlborough whispered back,
ye and Scarce credit it. but the ,
shark he do keep a hanchor watch on th’
roof o’ th’ house he calls th’ fo’c’s’le. But
to-night th’ watch won’t see us. ’Tis all
arranged for, Tom. Just wait a bit!”
Silently they divided, and a partv of a
dozen men stealthily approached the port
and starboard gangways, where short side-
ladders led from the ground to the level of
the stone-flagged “deck.” After a whispered
consultat'on some 18 men tiptoed to the
fo’c’s’le,” whilst Marlborough and half-a-
dozen others invaded the “poop.”
Presently there came upon the silence of
the night such a roaring; bellowing, vibrating
outburst of curses as only one man in all
New South Wales was capable of giving
utterance to. It was terl-ific.
Lights appeared in the “fo’c’s’le,” and the
alarmed “crew” hastily pulled on its pants
so that it might rush to ;he rescue ot the
after-guard. But they were urgently re-
quired to remain where they were, being
assured that no harm would come to them
so long as they remained within doors. The
boatswain-butler made an attempt to escape
through the starboard hawse-hole, but was
tapped on the head with a pistol-butt and
advised not to be a fool. In a few minutes
the whole establishment was completely in
the hands of the bushrangers. H.M.S.
Euryalus had been successfully boarded.
It was a warm night, and Captain
Ilurtees suffered little hardship in being
hauled out into the open in his nightshirt,
but the indignity of being dragged on to his
own quarter-deck in such a costume was
heartbreaking, and he broke all records in
cursing that had ever' been established in
the Seven Seas.
When sheer exhaustion compelled him to
pause, James Marlborough stepped forward,
pulled his forelock, and said :
“Come aboard, sir! Does y’r honor not
remember me?”
He had shaved his beard for the occasion,
and as Captain Ilurtees glared at him,
speechless with rage, he saw, from the sud-
den start he gave, that his former com-
mander had recognised him.
“By God, Marib’ro’,” he bellowed, “what
does this outrage mean?”
“Means we’ve a-took th’ ship, Cap’n—
that’s what it means. Means, also, as how
I’m for to get some o’ my own
back. That’s th’ main meanin’ of it, y’r
honor, in a manner o’ speakin’. Does y’r
honor call to mind th’ po’try th’ widdy
woman up on th’ Ilocks wrote, eh? What
y’r honor had printed at th’ Gazette hofiis
—an’ what y’r honor dished me out a dozen
for a -losm’ of? A pretty pome-, wasn’t it—
oh, a pretty little ditty about a dam’ liugly
little ship! An’ ye’ll call to min’ your
werry humble a-fallin’ from th’ main-yard
down be Twofol’ Bay, now won’t ’ee,
Cap’n ? Do ’ee call to min’ what he said
when you gave him two dozen—what cost
him another dozen for a-sayin’ of? No?
Ah, think again, Cap’n—’twas but 10 year
ago, no more.”
“Now, and ye, Marib’ro’; release
me this instant, you !”
“Presently, Cap’n Hurtees, when the
reck’nin’s been a-squafed. Trice him up, me
lads. There’s bis own whipping-post over
yarnder. Into th’ bilboes with him. He’ll'
find what a good post it is. An’ ’tis meself’s
been promoted actin’-gunner’s-mate for this
occasion only, as th’ theayter bills puts it.
Trice him up. An' gag him. His language
shocks us all.”
In a few seconds Hurtees had been dragged
to the polished red-cedar post, which, highly,
varnished and brass-capped, was one of the
most conspicuous features of the courtyard-
deck. _ .
“Strip him!” commanded James Marl-
borough.
They tore his nightshirt from his back and.
left him gleaming naked in the moonlight.
A dirty handkerchief choked his curses. He
could only gurgle.
“Now, then, Benny, have you got th’
writin’? Step up here, then.”
Mr. Marlborough silently gloated over the
white body of his victim. The bitter hate of
years made the situation pleasing to him—
infinitely pleasing. A young man had
stepped forward from the ranks of the run-
away convicts who crowded round the gang-
way. Some of-them had climbed the main-
mast for a better view. Far away out on
the plain a curlew wailed' iii the still night,
Presently Marlborough spoke again.
“Cap’n,” he said, ' “we’ve got a scholard
amongst us. One what used for to do a bit
o’ writin’ for th’ noosepapers in Lunnon
Town. He’s made up a piece about th’
werry pleasin’ ewents o’ this here fine night,
and it’s goin’ to be posted to th’ ole coun-
try. Read what ye’ve writ, Benny.”
By the light of a lantern the young man
read his paragraph : — 1
News from Botany Bay contains, amongst other
items of interest, an account of a singular proceed-
ing which recently took place in the interior, when
Captain William Hurtees, lately of the Royal Navy,
was the victim of what—-however much we may dis-
approve of the outrage.—can only be regarded as
Poetic Justice. It is necessary to preface oun remarks
by stating that Captain Hurtees is a famous wielder
of the cat-o’-nine-tails, that he conducts-his estate in
New South Wales' on the principles of the most
unrelenting naval discipline, and that corporal pun-
ishments of the most severe description are used
to be inflicted upon.the unfortunate assigned prisoners
employed upon the establishment. Not long since,
a party of individuals, some of whom had suffered
from the severities of the gallant post-captain, called
at his house at night, and inflicted upon him a
severe castigation of the sort that he has been so fond
of ordering for others: It is said that this martinet
displayed the most abject cowardice under punish-
ment, and exhibited himself in the light of a
thorough craven. Up to the present, the perpetra-
tors of this act of rough justice, have not been laid
by the heels. For ourselves, we cannot refrain
from expressing the hope that they -may escape the
consequences of what, after . all, cannot be regarded
as other than a salutary lesson to such as are prone
to abuse.the privileges of power.
“I see ye squirm jest now, Cap’n—when
be come to the part where ye behaved white-
livered. That’s what’s a-goin’ for to make
ye feel it —more’n what I can do wi’ th’
cat.” Mr. Marlborough came up close to
his unfortunate victim, who still gurgled
spasmodically.
“Lookee ye now, Cap’ll,” he said, “I’m
a-goin’ for to be more merciful than what
ye ever was. Ye’ll have your ch’ice. Will
ye have th’ cat —laid on be meself—hi* will
ye go free o’ th’ floggin’ desarve, an’ have
this here writin’ printed m the piper? Take
which ye like—one on ’em ye must have.”
There was a tense silence in the moonlit
yard as Marlborough stood by the naked
man with his wrists in the handcuffs per-
manently fastened to the top of the post.
After a pause, obviously to give the victim
time to consider his choice, the bushranger
unfastened the gag, and took it from Cap-
tain Hurtees’ mouth.
“Well, now—what is it to be, Cap’n?” _
“God — and ye, ye villain,
I’ll take the Hogging!”
There was no mercy In the flagellation in-
flicted by Mr. Marlborough. For which
reason, perhaps, the whipping-post ceased
to be a feature of the scenery on the deck
of that quaint craft, the homestead at Eurya-
lus Plains.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


. T//
WEST! N GH 0 USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency. *
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AOSTRALASIA
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Featherstou Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Mglbourne ; ___ j _
WEST, N. S. WALES
dfg
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches: Stroke of Piston 2>Vz inches;
Weight 021 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats., canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles phr hour.
Special price, packed and delivered tree
on Boat or Bails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
®. § W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers an
Hardware Merer
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
7
It
/
/'/
m
tn
C-I4i
1
Remington “Wetprocf”
Shotgun Cartridges
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over
“NEW CLUB” —with black powder loads.
“REMINGTON”—a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality.
“NITRO CLUB”— known to sportsmen
everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
of superior quality and dependability,
u }.y, ROW”—the cartridge de luxe with a one-
inch brass base and other features making
kinds but only one grade—
AH cartridges loaded at our tactory are now
being treated with the Remington special ex-,
elusive, patented “Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from ram, dampness, or sim-
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which oiten results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Bo* 686, G.P.0., Melbourne
fg
fg
dg
A “SWAN” Pen is more than a con-
venience for busy writers; it is a
necessity. It is the pen which
never needs coaxing, for its reliable feed
ensures a steady flow of ink the instant
the nib touches the paper. Never a scratch,
blot or awkward break in the middle of a
word; just a smooth, easy glide that s
what the “ Swan” Pen means to YOU.
Sold bv Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post free
MABIE, TODD 8 Co., Ltd.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street,
London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
J. A. BURKE 5. Primrose Buildings. 255 a. George St.. SYDNEY.
fg
i
| |l I M 111 M '"’l
I
Hi n| yinMlnnuim
iiimi
nil
• ilfl Mil
LiULLu
3>IVJL
THE PREMIER
& TONIC. JSi
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For 'Minins?, Harvesting. Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed-
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
PERFORATED ZINC.
D, RICHARDSON g SONS PTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic
iwli
PISTON
RING
PIEC
.off-
SPAT
MARK
We announce a New Shipment of
the Wonderful
“INLAND”
One=Piece, Spirally=cut
PISTON RINGS.
Since their introduction on this market these mechanically PERFECT PISTON
RINGS have met with a most wonderful success. .. .
They have been received by layman and expert alike with most applicative
unanimity, the latter considering them the greatest advance in Piston ring
Construction on anything hitherto placed before the public.
LEADING “INLAND” FEATURES are
CONCENTRICALLY TURNED,
HEAT-TREATED & SPIRALLY CUT,
the last-named feature making for an even pressure on the Cylinder Walls.
THE NEW RINGS JUST LANDED ARE STILL FURTHER IMPROVED
by having a “velvet” or roughened finish to the outside surface of the ring,
the theory (and it is quite a sound one) being that a ring so finished laps oi
rubs itself in against the glass-like cylinder walls much more quickly , and to a
better effect than if it had a finished surface.
“INLAND” CONSTRUCTION MEANS
Keeping the Gas in the Combustion Chamber
and
Keeping the Oil down from the Combustion
Chamber,
The result being MORE COMPRESSION, MORE POWER,
GREATER MILEAGE AND LESS CARBON.
INVESTIGATE TO-DAY.
PRICES to 3|in Dia., 6/9 each.
Sizes and over-sizes stocked.
T • J
Swans Limited.
304 PITT STREET.
SYDNEY,
Direct Importers of Inland Rings.


swvmiM « 3
• V.
m
a
• >
«. i,
y
&
\s>
* ■
■
*. V L
H< «
!?„-/ VS>
*■
I i
•:v. :,:•:
W\
y.
m :
I
m
22
I
U
K ..
50
s£f!!2s <l * ,, 2* ,, * ! *** ********** »*****«*»*»***«»
5 £l2 211 **i;*****:*« ••**»•»**«*»»* s »«««* **
tt ****** »»*#« Ita »«*«« 9 »tt«9 ; ****9 « «ttt 5 » Z a* » »
Slf ii Ififilf m *«**»« *** •*.«•;*££; iii S«l*
52** * 9 9 8 «» » jb s * « « ai e) aa k MBM 499 i w m n a> a s « R sk m a a a
* ??***s2 *»:**»» 9 #9l:«9;9'«sjrt**»« ««9’j
%
9
... '■:•
a*-*;,,;
V>/>
/£4££:
if
*J2*****;*«»ss»«*«9» : *« ****** »n ««»« « »*
!■* stl SSSB&* »*:******:M:**;** **■*;»*
«sK*««tt»«*«tt99*sS2S!is««£SS£lS3ii«lS«S
»»..#* s *»*»*'» DavibnnnnstteotavssHKMaicsa*
?*?!!!?*§5»***««*»l*«9«l•«•«««
t.
m
y
551
*»«R*Bt;»*«Ka»**«a»«e)ttos»«*a*ni »9**B**
SB 9 f 9 ft*l*99W 999i91i1H9 KWN99 t lilSK99liiS*
* * r a • *m » m u 9 at u a 959 m n » 9 * » a m * m * a * c« m «
«s
5.
5?
‘iSl
m
■rs>.
%
;
/ >"
1
\ . ~t:- -
i su ’m
//
M
«!
3fl
n\,»«»iij ,iiH
.
■
if I I 11111 LI U" , |
jf
m
m
ills
,i*S
SSS
v«
li®
K
c-i.
H
\\l
1
I
If
s
fN
\\
x\:
K
X''
1
I
S\,\ N v\\V>
\\xxx\\
El
111
X I N
CLEVELAND
\\v\ \
:\\
X
E all know the Pears’ Soap gentleman who
says, “Since using Pears’ Soap 1 have used
no other.” Anyone who has driven a
Cleveland Car will tell you that since using
it he wants to drive a Cleveland and no other.
Cleveland Six-cylinder Light Cars always give
satisfaction, so much so that it is known as the car
with a conscience. It will always take you where
you want to go whether the road be smooth or rough,
and when it is rough the perfect springing of the car
makes travelling still a pleasure. The Cleveland engine
is probably the finest and most flexible engine ever
designed for a light six car, and is absolutely
dependable.
If you are not a Cleveland owner we simply
want you to see it to recognise it as the perfect
light car.
Ring City 2567 and arrange a demonstration.
Marcus Clark # Co. Ltd.
Garage and Showrooms:
147-151 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
