

t a s
>ih Beautiful
RESCHS
AUSTRALIAN
LAGER
DINNER
ALE
£stout
RESCH'S
AUSTRALIAN
LAG E FL
DINNER ALE
C Sb STOUT
DINNER, ALE
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2224.
Thursday, September 28, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCK’S ROOK ARCADE. LTD..
428 George Street, City.
CROUP
S // /
9
A
innimumMiQ»Himt™rmnntiidiiiiAnttiißßuiuHniilitihtiuHiiiiiwumiiiiiiuiiiii
S&SS®'*
lf*
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W.G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
I Bond Street. SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
sss
B
11
m
P
Factory Expenses Reduced
by Mangrovite Leather Belting.
Mangrovite stands the continual strain imposed by
the hardest conditions of manufacture. The special
Mangrovite tanning treatment gives it great resist-
ance to dust, steam, heat or acids, and preserves to
the right degree the flexibility and strength for
which Mangrovite Leather or Raw Hide Belting is
celebrated. Call or write to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
.NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies, Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham k Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH a i I S llt a 1,1 A : John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry dark k Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co.. Ltd., Brisbane.
SHflVINti
CRCRM
THf Mffintfl
COWftltV
AJ'KRSHAViWS
rimnw
*2 -» 3
fSSg
■» ja :2c
w. Ua«
n§s
Will give you a
quicker, cleaner,
more pleasant shave
than you have ever
known.
Be good to your
face to-morrow and
use Mennen’s.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
HUDSON
What the Medical World Says:— The Lancet:
to be as effective bactericidally as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers—
Hudson’s Eumenthoi Co. Ltd., Sydney,
on receipt of 1/G in stamps of any Province
The Red Page
The Need of Truth.
“Facing Realities.” by Esme Wingfleld-
Stratfordj M.A.j D.Sc.
(Hutchinson & Co.)
It appears to be a common opinion that
civilisation is approaching some supreme
crisis, though of what exact nature is not
foretold. Perhaps the prophets display their
wisdom by this reticence, for forecasting the
future of civilisation is sticking a finger in
a very deep pond. The intelligentsia of the
world is without doubt extremely perturbed,
and this accounts for the ever-swelling flood
of '‘social” literature which pours upon the
market. Each writer solemnly foretells a
vague doom, and proffers us the remedy,
much in the same style as the vendor of a
patent medicine blatantly shrieks from a
hoarding: “Have you a backache? Take
Blank’s Pills!” Each author recommends
that remedy which suits his particular brand
of politics. The Red-flaggers prescribe
Sovietism, regardless of the fact, which has
been proved in Russia, that proletarianism
is only autocracy re-named. The Fabians
prescribe nationalisation, the rule of bureau-
cracy. Mr. Cole and the guild craftsmen
offer polite syndicalism; and Mr. Grant
would lead us back to three acres and a cow.
No one of them can see beyond his own nar-
row circle, of political belief, and no one of
them can recognise that his suggested remedy
would fasten on the body politic a condition
as bad as that uhder which we suffer to-day.
The author of the present volume, a former
distinguished lecturer at Cambridge, also
foretells a disaster and proposes a remedy,
but he has this advantage over some of the
other prophets that he is quite explicit as to
what the disaster will be and how it is being
attracted, and he does get down to the root
cure. In addition, he writes in an easy
style, which makes reading him an attrac-
tive occupation. On the other hand, his
wOrk is of unequal quality, the latter chap-
ters suffering from an anaemic tendency, as
though he had fallen out of love with his
subject and sought to finish it off as quickly
as possible. And, indeed, this may well have
been so, for the theory which he advances is
fairly obvious, and the cux - e equally so, and
can be stated quite briefly. It is that civi-
lisation is in proximate danger of extinction,
because it will not, or cannot, face realities.
The modern mind has failed to adapt itself
to the requirements of the machine age. Mat-
ter has overborne mind. We live in the
twentieth century, but we think, if we think
at all, in terms of the eighteenth century.
The remedy, says Dr. Wingfield-Stratford, is
to get back to realities, to face things as they
are, to think in the terms of the twentieth
century in which we live. No doubt this is
a most disappointing sort of remedy. An
eminent author, a scholar and a scientist
arraigns civilisation, sums up the evidence,
passes a verdict of guilty, and a sentence
of—a change of heart! There are no triple
captions and cross-headings in such treat-
ment of vital problems, but, though we may
condemn such anaemia and prefer the
antithetics of a Chesterton, the presumptions
of a Wells, or the epigrams of a
Shaw, the soundness of the argument
is not affected thereby. Dr. Wing-
field-Stratford has hit the nail right
on the head. The basic trouble of the
world to-day is that thinking, according to
Goethe man’s rarest accomplishment, is
demode. Comparatively few people ever take
the trouble or the time to think. It may be
that the world lives so fast that there is
no opportunity. Action comes easier than
thought, and trifling is easier than working.
An undeniable result of the machine age.
has been the eclipse of individualism and the
dulling of intellect. The war has largely
conduced to riveting these fetters more firmly
upon civilisation. To-day practically every
commodity, including thought, is machine
handled. The : press, to take a prominent
example, supplies peptonised opinion for the
masses. Matter, and very poor matter, too,
has been substituted for mind. Principles
have been exchanged for captions: literature
for epigrams. The late Lord Northeliffe,
all said and done, worked as much harm
as William Hohenzollern, for he stultified
the souls of millions. Take any catch-
penny journal and blue-pencil the things that
do not matter, and precious little reading
will be left. The reign of Catch-penny is
the era of triviality, in which the indecencies
of the few overweigh the sufferings and pro-
gress of the many. It is the same with
literature and art. Mountebanks and char-
latans have been successfully imposed upon
the public as thinkers, writers and artists.
What qualification has G. K. Chesterton—
beyond his own conceit —to write a history?
Where does Nevinson or any Cubist touch
line or color? Whence does George
Cole, a Fellow of Magdalen, derive
authority to discourse on the woes of
labor? As literature and art, so have
politics and commerce followed the trend of
the Times and its subsidiaries. The things
that matter are overlaid. We sanctify a
democracy and are ruled by a caucus. New
names are coined to cover old crimes. Our
men of interest are too seldom men of
principle, and too often men of principal
and interest. Like Barabbas, our political
leaders are chosen of the people, but do not
represent the people. In commerce, again,
the reality is singularly different from the
apparent. In a word, the world of to-day is
a fake’—a clever one, but still a fake.
It is run by a comparatively small number of
persons, who, even if they can see aright,
cannot act aright. The machine has got
out of "hand, and they are powerless to stop
it, because of the conflict of interests. It
is true, not only of any one country or State,
but of the world as a whole. It is as plain
here* in Australia, torn by industrial strife
and sectarianism, as it is in England or the
U.S., in Germany or Russia. The end must
be a colossal smash, unless the brake can be
applied in time. There must be, somehow or
other, a return to sanity, otherwise We shall
just footle along to destruction. The writ-
ing on the wall is plain enough.
"Dr. Wingfield-Stratford urges civilisation to
find a new heart. He would have us think
realities instead of trivialities; see things as
they are, and not as they are screened for
us. That is where we approve of our present
author far above other social reformers, with
specific remedies and prescriptions. An age
of peptonised thought seeks after a formula,
but diagnosis must precede cure.
The first essential is truth—to tell it, to
hear it and to see it. If there is a real
widespread recognition of facts, regeneration
will not be difficult. But the world is
peopled by liars—by intent or by indolence
—and truth lies deeper than at' the bottom
of a well. What .thinking man could ever
believe that employers and employed have
really divergent interests to serve? What
person of normal intelligence, if he chooses
to employ it, can imagine that bread and
gelatine pilules constitute a cure for boils?
Is there any sane reason for believing that
democracy is represented in the British Con-
stitution any more than Christianity is in
the Anglican Church? There are dozens,
nay, hundreds, of such common delusions,
fed to the public throughout the world by
machines run under democratic, republican,
agrarian, labor, land, capitalistic and other
auspices. What we are urged to do by the
author is to cut out all this shallow
thought and prepared argument and think
for ourselves. We must abandon “footling,”
the ideal word for present-day life, and pre-
pare for the supreme trial of civilisation, the
battle against extinction, “beside which the
greatest wars* of history will appear as
childish bickerings.” It might have been
expected that the Great War would have
effected that change of spirit, so necessary
for success in this struggle. It would have
been reasonable to anticipate that the sor-
rows, the trials and the terrors of war would
have so changed our hearts that the materi-
alistic world would be leavened with ideal-
ism. There were many who had this
belief and gladly died for it. T. M. Kelly,
the Dublin lawyer, who fell in the Ypres
salient, had it in mind when he wrote:—
We’ll lift the flag of the last crusade,
And fill the ranks of the last brigade;
March on to the fields where the world’s remade,
And the ancient dreams come true.
But for one reason and another the ideal
of the brotherhood of man was stifled before
the Armistice, and materialism of the gross-
est kind w r on an overwhelming victory. No
evidence of this can be more convincing
than a contrast of the present conditions
of those who fought and those who saved—
themselves and their money. Yet, Dr. Wing-
field-Stratford is right in saying that it is
only by the resurgence of idealism that sal-
vation can come. “Ignorance is the foun-
dation of knowledge,” said Socrates, and
civilisation must make it so to-day. Illu-
sion is the cloak of reality, and we live
in an age of illusion. If we are to sur-
vive we must rend the cloak apart and see
what is beneath. The exposure will not be*
pleasant, but it will have to be faced. What
is found good we may keep, and it will be
the better for the keeping, for age improves
that which it does not destroy.
Lord Dunsany’s New Book
The old Spanish hidalgo lay dying, and
these, in brief, were his last words to his
first-born son : “O, eldest son of mine, your
brother is dull and clever, and has not the
ways that women prize—these women be
the arbiters of all things, but why God
knoweth only, for they are vain and vari-
able; therefore, I shall leave him all my
castles and valleys and wealth. But to
you I leave my long, most flexible, ancient
Castilian blade, and what it will not win
for you in the wars, that shall be won foi
you by your mandolin, for you have a way
with it that goes well with the old airs of
Spain.... the sword to the wars, the mando-
lin to the balconies,” and with those words
the delightful old gentleman passed peace-
fully away.
This book (Chronicles of Don Rodri-
quez, G. P. Putnam’s Sons) is neither
brandy for hard heads, nor soft stuff for
soft ones. It is sparkling wine to brighten
merry eyes and make glad the heart of
man. Being literature, that is, work born
of love and quick with the life-blood of . its
author, its quality can no more be dissected
than the charm of a gracious woman, or the
appeal of a beautiful song. A snapshot de-
scription of such a book were an imperti-
nence, yet some of the thoughts that hover
round it as we read may.here be set down.
Rodriquez, the eldest son,"with his man-
dolin on his back and his flexible fortune at
his thigh, sets out for the wars, wherever
they may be, perfectly happy in his youthful
illusion that riches, and love await his sword
and song. He picks up a man-servant—■
Morano—who follows him, and fights for
him, and worships him like a faithful dog.
The period of the story is but vaguely hinted,
yet it seems quite possible that Rodriquez,
tramping along the hot highway, noticed
somewhere in its dust the curious hoof-
marks of a lame horse and an overburdened
ass. If he and Don Quixote ever ’met; it
was the meeting of two very gallant gentle-
men, outvieing one another in high-flown
courtesy, while their servants, munching
their food apart, swore eternal friendship
with full mouths. Not because of any like-
ness would they thus have paired off so
happily, but just because they were so dif-
ferent, and each so entirely himself in all
things, save those great qualities common to
all noble gentlemen and faithful servants.
Before the impulse of this book thought
drives yet a little further beyond Spain’s
great satire, that is also a comedy brimful
of smiles—and tears, but most of all a
tragedy brimful of tears —and smiles. In
England’s two greatest tragedies, the central
figures—Hamlet and Lear —are also over-
whelmed by madness, and we note (some of
us with the honest surprise of sturdy igno-
rance) that the splendid old Spaniard stands
as close to Hamlet and Lear in time, as he
does in immortality. Hamlet was first pub-
lished in 1603. Don Quixote in 1605, Lear
in 1608. So Shakspeare and Cervantes -were
both brooding on their masterpieces at the
same time, and each took madness as his
central theme.'
With this supreme distinction. Hamlet
and Lear are both unlovable men with
strong minds that.are wrecked by the agony
(Continued on page 25.)


a
Lowboys—the Man’s Wardrobe—
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
TALL-BOY, in Oak or Maple, Wax fin-
ished; 4ft. wide, 5 ft. high, 2ft. 3in.
Price - £l9/10 1
Whether you intend to furnish a
house throughout, or merely to
purchase an incidental piece to add
to the comfort and convenience
to your home, consult Anthony
Horderns’.
COMBINATION WARDROBE AND
DRESSING TABLE, in Maple, wax
finished; 4ft. wide, 6ft. 9in. high, and
2ft. deep.
Price ■ £24/10/
The chief reason why you should
invest in a Low-boy is—its conveni-
ence greatly outweighs its cost. The
chief reason why you should make
the investment at Anthony Horderns
is—the value greatly outweighs the
moderation of the prices.
LOW-BOY, in Oak or Maple, wax fin-
ished; 4ft. wide, 4ft. 7in. high, 25£in.
Price - £l9/10/-
Our Reputation stands behind the
goods we sell, and we guarantee
satisfaction with every order en-
trusted to us. We welcome a visit
of inspection to our extensive
Show Rooms.
LOW-BOY, in Oak or Maple, wax fin-
ished; 4ft. wide, 4ft. 7in. high and
2ft. deep. (Drawer above and below
doors.)
Price - £2l/10|
Anthony Horderns’ Furniture is
marked at prices much lower than
the excellence of the quality would
warrant if it were not for the extra-
ordinary capacity for value-giving
possessed by the House of Economy.
TALL-BOY, in Maple, wax finished; 4ft.
wide, 5 ft. Bin. high, Ift. 10in. deep.
Price - £l6/16/-
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


HIGHEST MERIT.
&
r
y
O
r
A
r
r
i
i
«r r;
0
I
%
is
§5
SS
<2?
;\\
U>.
4
Na
=gZ
Pm
o
/*,
y
-* '1
S-i
!>i
«*» T
J?
«ti
's
!ii
|Hfn
I
Ak_U
!!!
r/
ill’
tuu
(L^
c
m,
22
-J)
>v
ua&*
Absolute Safety when Superior Quality is Considered.
A PURITY SELDOM EQUALLED NEVER EXCELLED.
GGITTS
UNSEED OILMEN
Ml
MEGGITT L TO f 7
V PARRAMATTA %
Vide boy on the bag
guarantees quality' 1 '
t
e
HEAD OFFICE ?j6KING ST 6'YTJSrEY(\^afe:Parranmtta)
AGENTS.-
-Messrs. Harrisons. Ramsay Pty., Ltd , 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs^.R.S.
On TAd Oveen Street Brisbane: Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co, Lta., no bait ana ijaunoes
ton; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Rund e
Street, Adelaide.
GGrrfs
UNSEEBOIIMW
°lAe boy on the bog
guarantees quality


PINKETTES
FOR CONSTIPATION
Constipation is dangerous be-
cause it means that poisonous
materials which should have been
expelled from the body are being
retained. The appetite fails, diges-
tion becomes di-ordered and the
breath offensive. Pinkettes, the new
laxative, are a real help in correct-
ing constipation.
They do not aggravate the com-
plaint as strong purgatives do ; and
they do not wear out in their effects.
Taken according to directions they
assist the patient so that the use of
an opening medicine is not a con-
stant necessity.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
EVERYBODY DOTES
Unclelobv’s
V^OATSX
A delightful breakfast food
w.& w. cc
“A disposition for cheapness and not for
excellence of workmanship is the most frequent
and certain cause of the decay and destruction
of arts and manufactures.” — Rnskin.
COLEMAN
Q.tJICK—LITE
LAINT.EHN
No
Torch
is
Needed.
df
It
Lights
with a
Match.
This is the Light for You.
The wonderful Quick-Lite that gives
its 800-candlepower brilliance to lighten
up the darkness. Burns steady in
any storm, and is wind-proof.
The QUICK-LITE LANTERN
Burns Gas Made from Petrol.
One gallon of petrol generates the gas for 48
hours’ lighting, and the twin mantles shed the
radiance free from shadows. No smoke, smell
or greasy wicks, but a perfect little gas plant
ever at your service.
Built for a Lifetime.
Heavy brass fittings, securely riveted and
beautifully nickelled, give Coleman Quick-Lite
a strength that assures many years of brilliant
service.
Price 75/- complete.
From Ironmongers and Stores.
Write Coleman Factory Representative, Box
1083, Melbourne, when dealers are out of stock.
9
%
F7S
BE YOUNG
AGAIN!
Change your
ageing GREY
HAIR to a
deep IV AL-
NUT COLOR.
Simnlv ap-
plied. Assur-
edly harmless
and perma-
nent.
Get a packet to-dav from your
chemist.
gd
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
THE IDEAL EMASCULATOR
Sa=
O
BE YOUR OWN VET.
We can supply you with
a complete outfit of Vet-
erinary Instruments of
the finest design and most
serviceable construction.
For an operation that is truly successful —successful in the
sense of being sure, safe and permanent Denver s Eclipse
Triple Crush Emasculator is ideal. This splendid scientific
instrument deals equally well with every class of stock.
Join the army of wide-awake stock-owners who have gained
satisfaction by using the Eclipse Emasculator for all cas-
trating operations —send to-day for an “Eclipse.
PRICE 60/= Postage 9d o extra.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 George Street, Sydney
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
fg
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U.S. A.
All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Matlno Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with loss fuel. For dependability Install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative:
Fairbanks-Morse Compuny (Australasia) Etil.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney , Australia.
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit. Mich..U.SJL
Cable Address-KERMATH -
'V
to
v
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
.BUY THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
SB
H^iiyuSuSS
ds
Guaranteed &
in order for two years free^
CRAIG &AITKEN,6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNEY,
Hilliers
Chocolates
<Just
lo^chf
Packed in the famous Red Boxes
and mailed to you the day they
are made.
J
B
X
r
a
d:
*
d
Mi
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address
in Australia.
df
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney,
and Cr. George & King Sts.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bacchante.
Grape-rich her ruddy lips, her slim, brown
hands
Bare to the wrists and circled with gold
bands —•
Bracelets of diamonds and emeralds, bright
As eyes of demons in a vampire night.
The violin’s long music stings her ears
With haunted dreams of Thrace. She turns
and hears
Goat-feet upon the grass in revel pass,
Shrugs her soft shoulders, tilts her shining
glass.
A tear like a spilt drop of white wine spills
Unseen upon her breast. The music stiils
Its pulse; and, as she turns her eyes to me,
She smiles and sips her cocktail mockingly.
n.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
Amber Beads.
Afire with life some amber beads 1 spun
On tiny threads of Time from love and
hate,
From morning dew, .noon heat, and setting
.sun,
The stars, fair winds, and sorry games of
Fate.
Then when Youth passed I took a silver
thread,
And strung them with illusions, clear as
day,
And threw them in Life’s sea, or were they
dead
And buried in my heart? I cannot say.
But Joy was lost when they were lost to
me,
Deep in the silver sands where dead hours
play.
They were myself, cast in a crystal sea—
A string of amber beads I threw away.
QUEENSLAND.
RITA MACLEOD.
Homing Eyes.
Your eyes are grey as the old sea,
Where it looks under brows of cloud,
Saying great and sweet things to me,
When no winds are loud.
Oh, the word of your eyes is a great song !
And always, I believe,
It sings of the years that were passion-strong,
In the red heart of Eve.
Always the word of the storm grown still.
And the ship on a quiet sea,
A grey sea and a soft will,
Like the bosom of Galilee.
Deep and grey as the old sea,
And very full of rest;
For the w'andering bird in the heart of me
Has a song for its nest.
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Spring Folly.
Dawn comes mysteriously
Unveiling the glory of Spring ....
A rose flaunts her passion ;
I hear a bird sing.
He rumples his nest-mate,
Breaks into a gay little song....
How dare 1 chide Springtime
For memories a-throng?
Red roses were mellow'
When Folly was queen of my heart;
Now life is well-travelled,
Full-toned is my part.
For age has its passions—
The older the sweeter life gi'ows —
An incredible glory !
A fig for its woe's !
Years haste on in frenzy ;
I brush them aside with a smile
Dear Madcap, I pray you.
Stay with me awhile!
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Witchcraft.
When the white moon shines on lone sands
and waters,
Stealthily comes Fancy with her witch-
eries ;
Lonely stand the pines; as' a sea-king’s
daughters.
By dark necromancy changed to plumed
trees.
AH night long they seem, east and seaward
gazing.
Winds within their humming dirge and
requiem;
Ever more they dream of a sea-king raising
Shining arms, and coming fleet of foot
to them.
Not the swan in flight, north or southward
going.
As it onward passes to Some weedy creek;
Not the winds of night, hither, thither,
blowing
Throuarh the marram grasses, know the
thing they seek.
Ancient was their birth —yea, before the
shining
Of that dawn that greeted in some realm
unknown,
Man, new come to earth; anciently, arms
twining,
Happily they were seated round a sea-
king’s throne.
n.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


Hz
1
"ft
V//
1
M
Y 2
v-V
%
“*0
Z2zi
A
's
ESS
»t ••*..-
New Summer
Suiting's
—at GOWINGS’
It is with keen pleasure that we announce a wonder-
ful display of fabrics for the new Summer Season.
Materials of fine finish and evident good quality are
here, and never before has a more generous
selection been available.
Only tailoring of proved excellence is worthy of
such suitings, and it is such tailoring that Gowing
Bros., fitted by many years’ experience, produce
daily for discriminating men.
£4,41- All-Wool English Tweeds
£5/5/- All-Wool Australian Tweeds
£6/6/- All-Wool West of England Tweeds
£7/7/- All-Wool Worsted-Finish Australian Tweeds
£B/8/- Pure Wool Australian Worsteds
Tropical Weight Suiting's.
All-Wool “Aerpore,” tropical weight, Worsted Suitings,
superb in texture, handsome in appearance, and extremely
light in weight, will fill your requirements in
a Summer Suiting. Available in plain Grey
and Navy.
£.B/81
To those within calling distance we extend a cordial invitation to inspect this
fine display. Country customers have our complete range of patterns at
their disposal if they will request us to send them, free of charge.
Self-measurement forms, together with tape-measure, sent post free on
request.
Your order may be placed in our hands, with the assurance that its comple-
tion will meet with your full satisfaction, or your money will be refunded.
Gowing Bros. Ltd.
486 George Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 George Street & at 454 George Street.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2224.
THUKSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923.
Price 6d.
LITTLE BILLIE’S PRAYER.
"An', O Lord, if you are going to give me another war, send it before the elections And —er —make it important enough for a War Precautions Act.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 George Street, S.vdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
.Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months. £1.65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Oveuseas :12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, las.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
M anager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
reiused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
SOOO words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Betters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be Understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in IJlack and "White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and. adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus; and IF. Daxcson and Sons,
Cannon House, llreams Buildings, Loudon h.C.),
E. T. Hole, llolerth Satire Service, )6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 61 High
Ilolborn, London, W.C.t.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U s.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. 6th Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington. .... ,
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn Sc Co., The Colonial Hook
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong. „
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie afreet,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. ,
Patua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fj.ii. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising- Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, EC). .
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie /street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper ) Throughout the Commonwealth: looz.y
Id. (for single copies'). All British Possessions : j/OZ. s
Hid.; for every additional 2oz^d. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: JOoz., l\d. United States: Ijoz. or
part thereof, 11d. Elsewhere : 2oz. or part thereof, *d.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922.
THE SAME OLD SWINDLE.
Under the N. S. Wales species of proportional
representation there are nine-and-ninety
ways of swindling the electors, and every
one of them is either legal or can be made
so with very little trouble. In Warn-
merawa Ashford, the Independent, has- been
hustled out of his seat in favor of the Labor
man Clark, whom, according to the return-
ing-officer and the permanent head of the
Electoral Department, he defeated by 538
votes. In Sturt; where one of the two Labor
members has died, a certain lloksington
is to get the vacancy because he stood in
the same interest, althought he polled 670
fewer first-preference votes than Chant, the
Industrial Laborite, and was 1110 votes be-
hind Grant when excluded from the count.
One of these legal swindles was sanctioned
by Parliament at the instance of the Elec-
tions and Qualifications Committee, whose
motives, let it be said, were perfectly honest.
The other is to be committed by virtue of
the Casual Vacancies Act, which' was
thought to have expired with the last
Assembly, but which, owing to the sinfully
slipshod manner in which the business of
the country is transacted by the modern
politician, is still operative. Part of the
case against proportional representation is
that it produces a pinched habit of minority
thinking, and atrophies the healthy stimulus
by which political groups are urged to make
themselves national instead of sectional,
majorities instead of minorities. But these
effects, though traceable in the N. S. Wales
Progressives, are not so conspicuous as its
utterly demoralising influence on elected
persons when there are seats to be filled and
party advantages to be gained or retained.
The Casual Vacancies Act provides that
when a member of the N. S. Wales Assembly
drops out, his place is to be taken by the
candidate on the same party ticket who
polled the next highest number of No. 1
votes. If there is no such candidate avail-
able, as happened in Goulburn last year,
the leader of the party in question is em-
powered to nominate anyone he pleases, short
of a lunatic or a gaolbird. Like all other
known methods of what is called “preserv-
ing the proportional principle,” this is a
fraud on the electors, inasmuch as it jockeys
them out of their right to choose their own
member and register their current opinion
of the mob in office. But it is capable of
numerous variations and combinations of
raud, as the Sturt Industrial Laborites
know to their cost. In 1920 this faction—
one of the minorities whose rights were to
have been safeguarded by the imported elec-
toral expedient—ran three candidates,
Hynes, O’Reilly and Brookfield, and the
last-named got in. When the Casual Vacan-
cies Bill was under discussion the Labor
Government was asked how it proposed to
fill a gap left, by an Independent. The reply
was that it would depend on how he had
voted on a censure motion or in some other
critical division—if with the Ministry, the
job would go - to the next available Minis-
terial candidate; if with the Opposition, the
next available Oppositionist would get it.
Brookfield’s case was mentioned by
Loxton, then an Independent. Whereupon
Dooley
Mr. Brookfiei, i) is not an Independent in the same
sense as yqu are. He has a party ; and in the event
of his retiring—which is an unlikely event —there
are two other persons belonging to the same party
as Mr. Brookfield who wpuld be eligible to come
into this House.
The point was raised again by Brookfield
himself. Said Dooley once more:—
In the hon. member’s case a member of the same
party would come in.
Brookfield, who was the Government’s
majority in those days, harshly criticised the
bill, mainly on the score of its “interference
with the rights of the people, who are en-
titled to say who shall represent them,” and
declared for immediate reversion to the
single-electorate system. This dialogue fol-
lowed :
Dooley : I have given notice of such a bill. It is
on the busines3-paper.
Brookfield: The Government has not made any
definite statement of its’ intention to go back io
single electorates.
Dooley : My statement is definite.
Brookfield : Does the Minister "ive me his assur-
ance?
Dooley : Absolutely!
Brookfield: That we shall go back to single elec-
torates ?
Dooley: Absolutely !
On that understanding Brookfield voted for
the measure. But one of the promises
by which his support was obtained has never
been fulfilled, nor has the slightest attempt
been made to fulfil it, from that day to this.
The other was cynically violated before the
man was cold in his grave.
* . * * *
When Brookfield died, the Dooley Gov-
ernment, with Fuller’s approval, brushed
aside the claims of the other Industrial
Labor candidates and gave the seat to
Jabez Wright. It contended that Wright
had polled more No. 1 votes than Hynes or
O’Reilly, which, was true, and that he be-
longed to the same party as the deceased
member, which was false. Now that
Wright has gone aloft, the Fuller Govern-
ment, with Dooley’s concurrence, elevates
Horsington, on the ground that he is the
only remaining official Labor candidate, at
the expense of the Industrial Laborite, who
polled nearly twice as many primary votes.
It is alleged that the Government would pre-
fer to have the ballot-papers recounted, but
is bound by the provisions of an Act which
was thought to be dead, but is still alive and
kicking. Nevertheless, the politicians respon-
sible for this abominable traffic in seats can’t
have it both ways. If Grant is being rightly
rejected it was wrong to eliminate O’Reilly.
If O’Reilly got a square deal Grant is
being jobbed out of a seat to which his title
is clear. But all ways of filling Parliamen-
tary vacancies without reference to the elec-
tors for the time being are more or less
fraudulent. The Fullers are understood to
favor a re-examination of ballot-papers, but
the candidate who survived that process
would, to some extent, be the choice of per-
sons Who have died, got into gaol or left
the district, whereas others recently quali-
fied to vote would have no say. And if a
year or two elapsed between the election and
the recount, the number of these disfran-
chised residents might easily be greater than
the aggregate votes recorded for the candi-
date by the living and the dead, for it is
calculated that 33 per cent, of the N. S.
Wales people change their addresses in the
course of a year. It has been suggested that
Skelton, of Newcastle, should be expelled
for making baseless charges about orphan-
ages. Maybe the charges were ridiculous,
but the point is that if Skelton were shot
out of the House he would have no right of
appeal to his constituents, of whom 25 per
cent, voted for him in an electorate return-
ing five members, and would be succeeded by
a defeated candidate whom the 25 per cent,
conceivably loathe. . Proportional representa-
tion doesn’t provide for such cases. Neither
does it provide for the cases of politicians
who, honestly or dishonestly, go over to the
other side. But in all its ramifications the
thing is a fraud. So long as it remains the
law of the land job will be heaped on job
and ramp on ramp. In haste the swindle
was imposed on an unsuspecting public, and
at leisure they are repenting it.
THE LONG-DISTANCE RAILWAYS
OF N. S. WALES.
Australia’s educational system should
include sufficient political economy to dis-
courage people from voting for every shout-
ing oaf who proposes to make the country
rich by his new discovery about the issue of
unsecured paper money, and who wants
everybody to stop work so that there may
be more employment for everybody else. And
education should further include the compul-
sory acquisition of a skilled occupation of
some kind —the whole of it and not a mere
smattering—by every male citizen. In this
connection it is worth noting that New
South Wales raised somewhere or other,
and spent; somehow or other, £12,337,896
during the year to June 30, 1922, which,
made the debt, quite apart from the State’s
share in the Federal liabilities, £176,674,387.
The previous year’s record was much the
same, and the disastrous average for the
past 10 years has bee_n close on £8,000,000
per annum. During that period, in fact,
New South Wales went on tlie simple policy
of borrowing all it could get and asking for
more. One great reason of all this expendi-
ture was the need to provide coarse and
common toil, or a colorable imitation there-
of, for the vast army of the unskilled, the
tradeless men, the pdd-jobbers and their
odd-job sons. This coolie class, which in a
better-ordered community would be shut
out of the voting list by an education test,
is a double burden on the community or on
that patient burden-bearer, Posterity. Money
is raised to find unproductive jobs as an
excuse for paying it a living wage, and more
money is found to pay foreigners for the
multitudinous goods which our uneducated
coolie should know, but doesn’t know, how
to make. Australia holds a very consistent
world’s record, in proportion to population,
for failure to make the things it needs (that
is, for importing the things it needs), and
also for borrowiiig to save the very-little-
use section from starvation. So, according
to the above definition of what should con-
stitute education, it has a conspicuous place
among the world’s untaught white races, de-
spite the fact that it is hardly possible to
find an Australian who read the pony-
racing news with ease. It is a striking fact,
too, that the more unemployed the State
provides for on loan works the more unem-
ployed there are who are not provided for
at all.
* * * #
New South Wales has done a lot of rail-
way building of late years, to give the nor-
mally unemployed variety of Australian a
reason for drawing his weekly pay. Nothing
has been done in the way of opening new
ports, creating new coastal cities, cutting
out needless distances, establishing now local
markets or shortening the road to old ones.
Even the much-talked-of VVerris Creek-
Binnaway scrap of railway hangs fire, for
no visible reason than that it would estab-
lish a short communication between the
North and the Westi without traffic describ-
ing nine-tenths of a vast and useless circle,
so as to pass through Sydney. This leaves the
Hawkesbury Bridge, which isn’t so young
as it was, still the one frail link between
North and South, and if an enemy cut the
link about five-sixths of Australia’s devel-
oped coal deposits would be isolated on one
side of a big river, and about five-sixths of
its population on the other. But, though
decentralisation hasn’t moved an inch in a
lifetime, save by word of mouth, many
things have taken place during recent years.
For instance, this is the record of one kind
of growth:—
The Non-paying Lines op N.S.W.
Miles of Loss
Bankrupt Line, for Year.
1918 . . 2800 £639,745
1919 . , 2853 654,036
1920 . . 3025 673.645
1921 .. 2971 717,823
1922 . . 3110 853,201
There were 2006 miles of paying or solvent
line as a set-off. The bankrupts consist of
50 separate lines or sections, and 29 of these
are in such a state that a great deal of money
would be saved if they were closed up and
abandoned, even though the interest bill
would remain. When a new railway earns
no interest and only about half its working
expenses, it is plainly much more a pauper-
relief job than a sane investment.
The rulers of the land stick like glue to
their dictum that no new town or city, and
especially no new coastal city, must be born,
and that every port which was deserted and
unused 100 years ago must remain deserted
and unused till the archangel rings the
dinner-bell of Doom. In some cases 300 miles
of carriage, which is much more costly than
it used to be, would be saved if the curse or
excommunication or boycott on some local
inlet like Twofold Bay or Coif’s Harbor were
lifted, and what that would do in the way of
multiplying settlement five- or ten-fold may
be imagined without any strain on the
imagination. Not only is the settler invited
out more and more impossible distances from
the only permissible port by the building of
poor-relief railways, but worse things hap-
pen. The stationary settler finds himself
drifting further away from his market, not
that the miles between him and Sydney are
more, but because the cost of traversing them
is more. The following figures show the
rates on N.S.W. lines (I) for all goods; (2)
for wheat, which has to be carried for almost
nothing to keep up the fiction that grain-
growing for export is Australia’s natural
destiny ; and (3) for wool, which is a sol-
vent industry and a wonderful carrier of
other people’s burdens:—
N.S.W. (jooDs Rates per Ton per 100 Miles.
Wheat, if
moving towards
Average. Svdney onlv. Wool.
1918 . . 7s. 9d. 3s. 4d. ‘ 18s. Id.
1919 .. 7s. lid. 3s. Sd. 18s. 9d.
, 1920 . . Bs. 9d. 4s. sd. 20s. Od,
1921 . . 9s. 2d. 4s. 7d. 245. Od.
1922. .. 11s. 6d. ss. 4d. 275. lOd.
Describing pence as miles the average man,
who was 93 miles from the only big market
and the only place where export and import
(apart from the coal trade) are allowed, in
1916, was 138 miles distant in 1922. The
wheat-grower, who was on the cash average
40 (or 400) miles away in 1918. became 64
(or 640) miles away in 1922. He expects
to be further away. The wool man’s dis-
tance grew from 217 miles to 334. He
expects it to grow more. The building, with
horribly costly loan nioney, of relief railways
that connect with Sydney at one end and
with the Dim Remote at the other, doesn’t
bring many new settlers farther out, but it
drives a lot of old settlers farther in. Fresh
lines beyond the Darling or the Lachlan may
not populate these regions, but they are a
mighty influence in depopulating half-a-
liundred once hopeful towns and a
hundred fertile districts nearer the coast,
which have 50 per cent, added to their
already outrageous distances to pay the loss
on the fresh encumbrances. The N.S.W.
Railway Commissioners frankly admit that
the interest rate on the borrowed money with
which the lines are built is now £5 Is. 3d. per
cent, per annum all round A crooked sys-
tem which has to find a cumulative prefer-
ence dividend of that size has a poor show,
especially when it is constantly taking on
fresh burdens.
THE GRUELLING OF O’GRADY.
There’s a wind comes up around the
Tasmanian coast, past Cape Shank and the
“Prom.,” with a fresh smell in it and a
salt tang to it that makes a man feel when
he is breathing it as if life was going to
last for a thousand years.
It was this wind that got O’Grady.
I knew O’Grady—he came of my own sept
—and he wrote me a letter from Melbourne.
This the Croajingalong mail system—run-
ning according to the old Governor Gipps
time-table —delivered in due course. The
digest of my clansman’s missive was that,
aforetime, lie had done some prospecting for
precious mineral, with indifferent success;
that he had, however, about £lOOO by him,
that, being in middle-life, he had lately mar-
ried, and now he would, as did his fore-
bears, be willing to acquire a holding of
broad acres whereon he might exercise the
agricultural genius of his nation. In my
reply I spoke freely. I had been taught to
be cautious, but I could not use the words
of caution to him, for one of several reasons.
He would not have understood, and he might
have suspected me. I told him that, of my
own conclusions, I could not commend the
country to him. Whereat he came eastward
to see for himself. And the wind off Bass
Strait infecting him with memories of that
Atlantic wind he had smelled aforetime on
the cliffs of Donegal, he overlooked difficul-
ties, distances and disabilities, and found
for himself a stretch of flat land by a little
purling stream that brought him visions of
supreme tilth, home, children, a pleasant old
age and a pious death. Devilish little heed
did he pay either to the rules, regulations,
by-laws, mandates and other instruments of
oppression and suppression in the hands of the
official obstructionists who abide in Melbourne.
It happened that the Irish vote was strong
in the electorate of O’Grady’s friends. Such
Hibernian pressure fell upon the sitting
member that he sat upon the symposiar'chs
in their Office of Obstruction by Parliament
House, so that they suffered the application
for the landed vision in the east to proceed.
Long periods elapsed between each process,
but a disgruntled temperance section, throw-
ing in its lot temporarily with the Hibernian
detachment, the pressure suddenly became
hydraulic. The s.vmposiarchs fought from
the donjon keep, where the records are hid-
den, to the fifth floor, where the Minister’s
room is located ; but the sitting member beat
them on the mat, and O’Grady was called
upon to appear before a Land Board!
The officer presiding had a large stomach
and iron-grey whiskers. He was naturally
outraged at the persistence of O’Grady, a
would-be agriculturist of the East, a priser-
open of locked doors, a fancier of fertile
pockets—altogether a pernicious person and
of improper persuasions. But he swore the
affidavit of the application on O’Grady, and
scornfully ordered him to fill in the blanks.
And all the time, while that satisfied Celt
was painfully but enthusiastically denying
and affirming, according to law, he kept
within him the grand thought. And the
thought singing through his soul was like
this.
“A hundhred acres of good flat by a
smooth-runnin’ wather ! Covered wid unholy
timber ’tis at prisint, but nivir moind that,
Paudheen 1 Nivir moind that! Two
hundhred an’ twinty acres of hillside-—that’ll
be poor but useful for dhr.v cows and nan-
nies, maybe. The thousand pound’ll carry
ye a long way, Paudheen; and there’ll be
boys maybe growin’ up. Oh, ’tis a foine
bit an’ fornint the road : and that counthry
have a future; even a blind man can see
that,- an’’’....The thought that glorified
Paudtirig O’Grady was no more than the
hereditary impulse of his particular breed;
the land-hunger of his clan dispossessed by
invading Sassenachs. Outed for generations
from the joys of fee simple, unsharing with
renegades the privilege of free soccage—with
the wind of Bass Strait behind him and
the dream of re-possession before; sure, the
heart of my clansman was beating a plea-
sant tattoo fornint the ribs of him when he
signed that application.
The president of the Court fondled his
whiskers, rubbed his hands over his melon-
like lower frontage, and gave O’Grady a
feculent, official smile as he informed him
that “the survey would be carried out with
all possible despatch”—meaning, of course,
when further pressure was applied and the
Minister barked at the Top Dogs of the
Department. Which might be a week, a
month or a year—O’Grady’s matter being
not one of favor but of pressure.
If the 'unexpected did not obtain in human
affairs, this life Would be like the marching
of a regiment along a straight, uneventful
swathe of Turkey carpet, laid from the
Orange Gardens of Morning to the Cypress
Groves of Eventide. It would be a hymn
without a discord, and, therefore, monoto-
nous. However, in O’Grady’s case, the un-
expected did happen. An influenza epidemic
put new heart into the undertaking business,
and took the heart out of the Hibernian
section in his friends’ electorate; inasmuch
as the House was adjourned for a day out
of respect for the memory of a sitting mem-
ber. The elect of an ensuing by-election
was a burrower from the opposite camp,
who had graduated in the great Colonial
School of Underground Engineering. The
punch of O’Grady had departed, but the
survey fees had been paid in advance.
One day a most suave, polished and per-
fected centurion of survey entered the story.
He arrived at the green flat by the smooth
water, where trees were tall but destructible,
and a wash of unrecorded Australian ages
spelled large putative crops of potatoes and
maize. He came, armed with cold, geometrical
appliances on tripods, with steel tapes, as
flexible, yet as unbreakable, as the rules of
the parent department, with notebooks and
with axemen. Chuckling inwardly, he
adjusted his theodolite on a convenient level
and fired his first official shell right through
the heart of O’Grady’s dream! With the
deftness of long practice he put his east-
nnd-west line just where it would most
inconveniently bisect the good flat which our


hero’s hereditary instinct had nosed out. By
a malignant contortion of the letter of an
Act, from which his compeers and associates
had’long before eviscerated the spirit, he con-
trived to load the prospective holding with
2SO acres of adjacent waste, on which a
limited number of adventurous goats might
have secured a precarious existence, but a
single Irish-Australian family never. Then,
with the mischievous spirit of his kind, he
advantaged himself of another misconstrued
Act, and surveyed a chain-wide reservation
along that purling stream which was filling
the dreams of o’Gp.ady with reminiscent
music. By 16 angles lie prevented the poor
man access to water, except by issue of a
special annual license from the Overlords of
the Departments for Deportation and Detri-
ment. ’Tis thus, in fact, that Australian
free men are prevented from becoming either
too free or too Australian. It is a fine
system, and must have taken a lot of thought
and some experience to bring it down to the
knife-edges of precision with which it prunes
the ambitions of would-be settlers towards
the hitherward border-lines. ’Tis, perhaps,
the fruits of leaving one party too long in
office, or it may be that the chilly political
consciousness of the South has never been
disturbed by the T.N.T. of that explosive
intelligence which is reduced to expression
and action by the chemistry of more tropical
climates. Be this as it may, when O’Grady,
a daily visitor to the outer doors of official-
ism, received into his hand a plan smelling
of fresh-blown Indian ink, the hair of his
head lifted. Unable to control his just but
homicidal intentions, and coming of a race
to whom meanness and injustice are as a
bolt of red flannel to a Holstein bull, he beat
with his two fists on the inner door of a
Cabinet Minister, demanding entrance and
explanation—and was removed. lie was
allowed to escape with a caution, it not being
diplomatic to encourage that kind of pub-
licity, in view of the fact that a Premier
in the same corridor had once on a time been
smitten in the eye with his own inkstand. His
feet never cooled till he came to me in two
minds, betwixt destruction and inquiry.
Whereat I brought him into a chamber
devoid of weapons, and tendering him
a soothing mixture out of a bottle with a
green label, bade him outpour the reasons
of his sudden coming. For answer he spread
the plan on the table between us and beat
it with an adjacent ruler, whiles the nether
and upper jaws of him made sounds like the
grinding of corn in a mill.
* * * *
Filling him noggins, stoups, stirrup-cups,
pottle-pots and pannikins of refreshment
from various bottles during the day, I so
worked upon the soft inward spots of him
that at last he wept! Well for any of the
gang that they were not by when the salt
tears of him poured out like rain from a
desert sky! There had probably been other
funerals than the burying of O’Grady’s
dream. He slept 10 hours by the clock, and
awoke gentle and fond as a curate’s
kitten. Then it was that I advised him,
not in the Gaelic, because I cannot use it,
but in the familiar male speech that makes
friendships possible between men whose
mothers might be anything from Jewesses
to the Queens o’ Connacht. And the gist
of what I said was that if O’Grady had a
headpiece on him as receptive as an ass’s skull
he would forfeit the survey fees and forego
the dream with the purling stream in it; that
he would intoxicate his soul no further with
the wind of Bass Strait, but, with his new-
wed wife, Eily (that was an O’Connor, of
the O’Connors of Kerry, and a race of
kings), and with the Irish strength of him,
the thousand pounds, and the born land-
hunger of the O’Gradys, he would betake
himself either northward or westward, and
leave the colder lowlands to the depart-
mental hierarchs who owned and ruled them.
Now, ’tis not every hero in real life that
comes to his own even in the last chapter.
And a genuine pleasure ’tis to a writer
to know, as the copy-boy calls for the last
slips, that the real subject of his imaginary
effort, after passing through harrowdng ex-
periences, did enter into a more pleasant
condition, and become an alderman of the
district. O’Grady, accepting my advice, be-
took himself and that mortal fine colleen—
that was sensible in all else saving the belief
that when the man of her choice put his hat
on his head the brains of the world were
covered—to Northern Queensland.
* * * *
As I write these last words it’s more wishful
I am myself for the smell of a fresh-cut paw-
paw than this same salt wind of Bass Strait
—with such a stink of sealing-wax and red
tape spoiling the native perfume of it. ’Twas
to the Atherton Scrub they went. I robbed
Victoria of as fine a pioneer couple as ever
she lost through the departmental adminis-
tration that is destroying her—and that is
saying a good deal.
But I’ll sleep easy on the sin of
it. For Patxdhrtg O’Grady writes to
tell me that he has a beautiful
farm beside a purling stream—a square
block and the water through it—three ele-
gant children, all going to be men, and, may-
be, soldiers; an expectation of more to fol-
low (with the help of God), a rising fortune
of five thousand pounds and a motor-car!
There is a bashful postscript about a seat
in the local municipal council, and some
remarks in Gaelic w'hich I take to mean that
—although not a native-born— O’Grady has
become as good an Australian as any of us.
E. J. BRADY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Issue in Europe.
Thus far Abdul, the conqueror of Demet-
rius, has not answered the question, which
the whole world is asking—whether, that is,
he intends to renew his lost war against the
British Empire. The issue is entirely in his
hands. At the moment a British division,
supported by a British squadron, stands at
Chanak, on the Asiatic side of the Dar-
danelles, prepared to defend the neutral zone
established by the Treaty of Sevres. If the
Turk attacks Chanak there will be war.
The same if he makes a thrust at Constan-
tinople from Ismid, whence a railway runs
to Scutari, on the Asiatic side of the Bos-
phorus. ' Though France and Italy
have troops at Constantinople they have
made it painfully clear, being anxious
about then’ Mahommedan territories, that
they don’t want to fight, there or anywhere
else. The French soldiers who were brigaded
with the British at Chanak have been with-
drawn to Gallipoli. However, their Govern-
ment, and that of Italy, have joined with John
Bull to invite Abdul to a conference at
Venice, undertaking, if he agrees, to secure
him the return of Constantinople and Eastern
Thrace, as far as the Maritza River. He,
for his part, is to give guarantees for the
neutralisation of the Dardanelles, the Bos-
phorus and the Black Sea, and for the pro-
tection of racial and religious minorities in
his European and Asiatic possessions. It re-
mains to be seen what effect so flattering an
invitation will have on the Turk, now that
his tail is up. If Mustapiia Iyemal Pasha
is a statesman, and not a brigand, he will
grasp it with both hands. The danger is
that it will find him with his head swollen
violently by his easy victories over the
Greeks, and that his vanity will be
fed, for its own sinister purposes,
by Russia, now become an Oriental
Power. Meantime, the British Government
has cleared up the obscurity in which its
policy was enveloped by declaring that its
paramount object is to maintain the freedom
of the Dardanelles. This country is not
anxious to fight the Unspeakable in defence
of the new Jewish State, n',or would
it readily expend blood and treasure in
propping up the rather absurd throne of
Feisal in Mesopotamia. But the freedom
of the Straits and the control of the Suez
Canal are of particular importance to Aus-
tralasia : in fact, if they went the Common-
wealth and M.L. would presently follow
them.
The Application of Coueism to the
Business of Art.
Dear Bulletin, —Ten or fifteen years ago
Art languished in this country. It, was not
the fashion to buy Australian paintings or
etchings, or black-and-white work, and many
artists fled to the only place they could hope
to sell their wares—England. A few stal-
warts hung on, and to such purpose that,
they eventually created a market where
none had been before. Nowadays, a Norman
Lindsay etching or an Ellioth Gruner
painting has,only to be shown, as a rule, to
acquire the red badge of purchase. While
picture-buying is booming on this side of the
world it has undergone an unprecedented
slump in England. And it is in accordance
with the immutable laws of supply and de-
mand that our artistic exiles —with the excep-
tion of a favored few, such as Low and
Bateman —should be flocking back to where
the money is good. No local artist objects
to that. But what many of us do object to
is the attitude of some of our returned
brethren. Reduced to plain English it may
be expressed this way :
There is no such thing as Art in Australia. The
idea is farcical. Your best, men have either not
gone abroad, ,or, having gone, have rashly hastened
back to the colonial wilderness before the spell
of Chelsea culture had time to work. It is sheer
effrontery to claim that Lindsay can draw, or
Gruneb paint—that, or boorish ignorance. Ilow-
should they be competent when practically the
whole of their working lives has been spent in a
miserable little community of under five million in-
habitants, most of whom wear the wrong clothes
and speak with an abominable accent ? Let Lind-
say, Gruner and the rest embark immediately for
London in a chastened and humble spirit; let them
there work hard and follow the advice cf the
critics, who, if approached in a lowly manner,
will be found quite ready to help; and, above all,
let them study the Old Masters. After an appren-
ticeship of 10 or 15 years they may be worthy to
return home and begin to earn money, with pen or
brush, as the case may be, in an honest and credit-
able fashion.
Such is the case which is being presented
by most of the Anglo-Australian artists to
local picture-buyers just now with hypnotic
vehemence and iteration. Those interested
have not quite reached the stage of petition-
ing Mr. Hughes to deport all artists barring
the few who have spent at least 10 years
in London: I am not sure that a subscrip-
tion-list has been opened yet to provide funds
for the transhipment to England of the
worst local offenders, as regards quick sales.
But, of a surety, some such movement is
coming. Our homing wanderers from the
studios of Europe are at loggerheads about
many things; but on the necessity of saving
Australian “art!” (ha! ha!) from itself, by
instigating a liegira on the part of Austra-
lia’s “artists” ( God save the mark!) they
are absolutely solid. Certain points always
occur to me in this connection. One knows
that many of the greatest Old Masters either
never travelled at all, or did so for the rea-
son that most of our present-day counsel-
lors have journeyed to Australia —-to get
work. Da Vinci, did not leave Italy til 1 ,
three years before his death, he visited
France: and most of his fevered existence
was spent in little Lombardy. Rubens had
l'eached the height of his fame before his
patron, the Duke of Mantua, sent him to
Rome to execute copies of certain paintings
there. Murillo never left Spain for the
purpose of study, and lived practically all
his life in Seville. Tintoretto stuck to
Venice, unless he got a commission to paint
in Rome or some other city. And so on.
How is it, again, if Art depends on a study
of Old Masters, that some of the most
exquisite achievements of»the human hand
were produced, not only before there were
any Old Masters, but before there was a
World Art? The works of Praxiteles, for
example. And, finally the most prominent
characteristic of much of the work of our
brother-artists who are now flocking back
to the Commonwealth is its lack of resem-
blance to that of the Old Masters. The jatter
were true realists: a portrait by Velasquez
shows a real man, so alive that one might
expect him to step out of his frame and
speak. Australia’s mentors are the new
realists: their figures wear clothes and
colors and assume attitudes that were never
seen on earth or sea—outside a David
Jones’ window employed for the display of
Spring fashions. To sum up, I deny that
where genius, or even exalted talent, exists
an artist needs to move a yard outside
his own country to learn his work. And I
affirm that most of our repatriated artists
have nothing to teach our best men in the
art of painting pictures—though I recognise
fully their pre-eminence at the business of
creating the right atmosphere for the sale of
pictures.—Yours, etc., Sydney Artist.
A Threatened Influx of Dagoes.
V\ hatevkb may be the merits or demerits
of the Italians who are going to Northern
Queensland, as settlers, on their own initia-
tive and at their own expense, there is cer-
tainly no justification for using Australia
as a. dumping-place for assisted Dagoes. The
sentiment is inspired by the circumstance
that the League of Nations has been taking
a kindly interest in the unpeopled state of
the Commonwealth, and has decided that it
is so perilously short of human material
that any variety of even approximately white
foreigner should be thankfully received.
Tories of our own rearing have torn their
hair a thousand times over the emptiness of
all the vast region north and west of a line
drawn from a little above Brisbane to a
little above Perth, and they have wildly
urged that we should save ourselves by let-
ting in a flood of alien immigration, and
perhaps finish up as part of a new senna-
hued empire. It is vaguely and ignorantly
held that Giuseppe Spaghetti, whose aver-
age latitude when he is at home is the same
as that of middle Tasmania or parts of the
south island of Maoriland, is a child of the
tropics and specially built for our North.
And a myth which is 10 times stranger still
prevails in some quarters and is carefully
fostered in others. The Italian was never
a desperate adventurer in wild lands and
on uncharted seas like the Spaniard and the
Portuguese, and he is accustomed to lead
his tidy, well-ordered existence with a rail-
way. at his door and his Parliament and
Cabinet within hail. lie emigrates largely
to the crowded countries around the Medi-
terranean, or to places like Argentina or
the United States, where the pioneer’s job
is about finished. Yet, the theory is advanced
that he is just the man to plant in places
where railways and roads are lacking, and
markets are nil; where ports are not
equipped, and steamers don’t call, and the
blind and stone-deaf Government, which is
the sole, court of appeal, is anything up to
2000 miles away. As a matter of common-
sense, it isn’t necessary to look beyond the
little British Isles for all the population that
Australia wants, and twice as many as it
can accommodate. Britain had less than
0,000,000 people in 1801, and over 34,000,000
110 years later, in 1911. Yet, during the
interval, it poured out emigrants by armies.
In a fairly well-governed country the amount
of increase is chiefly regulated by the room
for increase, and with more elbow-space the
U.K. would doubtless have made a bigger
spurt than it did. It could probably supply
Australia with 25,000,000 people in the next
century, and the local increase should add
plenty more, if this misguided land of
“boundless natural resources” had any at-
tractive places to offer them, whether
North or South —for the Briton acclimatises
easily. But the mainland consists of five
crowded sky-scraper cities and five purposely
and elaborately manufactured wastes. No
new State or new capital has been founded
for 61 years, and hardly a new port has
been equipped for 61 years. Many desolate
little Australian towns have been holding
their centenary celebrations of late to mark
the fact that they are much older than
Chicago (TT.S.A.), which, despite its close
on three-million population, is still short of
the 100-year mark. Many of these centenary
places are decaying, and every one is a mere
appanage of its metropolis, with no soul or
individuality of its own. Settlers don’t
come to towns with no visible future, and
not one Australian town, apart from the over-
grown centralised capitals, has a visible
future at present. New people of our own
race and language are available in millions,
but on the evidence of the old people who
ought to know, there is hardly any spot here
worth coming to except the capitals, where
the unemployed are many and the house-
famine rages. The fact is, Australia has
fertile areas which afford abundant room
for settlement, but its rulers don’t seem to
know what to do with room. The minute
they learn, as soon as new ports begin to
open up new areas, bringing trade to the
dying towns inland, depleting the coastal
cities of their unemployed, causing relief
works and sustenance funds to be unneces-
sary and thereby decreasing taxation —when
those days come there will be no need to
import Dagoes: the best class of Britishers
will start to rush the country of their own
accord.
Tammanyism and Party Government.
Australia is in the grip of a movement
which, if not dealt with soon and firmly, is
going to strangle any trace of democracy
that remains to us after eight years of
Ilughesism. In Federal politics, and in
most of the States, “Tammany Juntas” —to
employ the phrase used by James Catts
in the Representatives last week —have prac-
tically taken the control of government out
of the hands of the electors. The bitterest
complaint of the member for Cook was that
the Electoral Bill —the third reading of
which was carried despite his protests—
makes no provision for the control of selec-
tion ballots. On the Labor side the show is run
virtually by the A.L.P. A modernised blend
of Socrates and Garibaldi might wish to
offer his services to the country in the cause
of intellectual radicalism; without the.im-
primatur of a handful of political nonenti-
ties, sitting in some obscure office in Mel-
bourne or Sydney, he would have as much
chance of election in most Labor constituen-
cies as a block of wood. With the endorse-
ment of the “junta,” on the other hand,
almost any fool or scoundrel can be sure of
a safe passage. The modern Laborite has
got the habit of voting for the party’s
selected candidate; and this convention has
proved the opportunity of those who pull
the strings in their own interests, behind the
scenes. When W. M. Hughes assumed the
leadership of the Conservatives, and labelled
the new formation “Nationalism,” he brought
over, amongst other impedimenta, the insti-
tution which his former enemies, now his
followers, used to reprobate as “Caucus Gov-
ernment.” It was one of the most discredit-
able features of Labor rule, even in the old
days, when force of public opinion kept its
arrogance in check to an extent. But to-
day, with no party disowning it, and with
papers such as the Argus and' S. M. Herald
condoning it —on the ground, apparently,
that two wrongs always make a right, while
the end invariably justifies the means—it
has become a convention. Could there be
a more flagrant negation of right principles
in government than the manner in which
W. M. Hughes pushed himself upon North
Sydney? The constituency had not given
any sign of a desire to have him. So far
as it was articulate at all, it had chosen
Archdale Paekhill. Yet, within a day or
so of Hughes’s decision that Bendigo was
too risky, .Paekhill had been tried and con-
victed in camera, of “lukewarm Protestant-
ism” and “disloyalty to Nationalism,” and
pushed out in order to make room for
Hughes. The desideratum on the Labor
side is usually that the candidate shall sport
the feathers of a different sectarian bird—
green ones instead of orange; but in all
other respects the procedure is the same. And
what it all means is that Australia, unless
it takes drastic action, is going to live per-
manently under a dictatorship ; that it will
only exchange government by Hughes from
the National Club, where two or three irre-
sponsible merchants and solicitors sit in
conclave, for government by someone very
like Hughes from Macdonell House, where
one or two irresponsible ex-working-men sit
in conclave. Parliament showed last week
that it has no wish to see the system abol-
ished; as was, perhaps, natural, seeing that
about 80 per cent, of the members owe their
political lives to it. The party press has
no intention of criticising it in an effective
manner. In fact, uncontrolled pre-selection
—with all its liabilities in the way of faked
ballots, bribery and corruption and sec-
tarianism—has become a recognised part of
the Constitution. In the opinion of many
close observers of political tendencies it
will now only be eliminated by the elimina-
tion of partyism; and, in the opinion of this
paper, partyism is not nearly worth retain-
ing at the price.
A Country Which Can’t Afford to
Strike Attitudes.
Arthur Griffith, an ex-Minister of N. S.
Wales, delivered himself this way in several
of the Sydney papers last week: —
The present military crisis seems to me to afford
a suitable opportunity for the people of Australia
to declare definitely and once for all the posi-
tion they propose to take up with regard to mili-
tary matters outside of their own country. There
is, of course, a good deaL to be said in favor of
the Prime Minister’s attitude, which I take to be
that in every military crisis the whole Empire
should be prepared to act as a single entity; but,
on the other hand, there is, 1 think, a groat deal
more to be said against this attitude, which really
means an Imperial Federation so far as military
affairs are concerned. I am convinced that the
majority of the people of Australia do not desire
Imperial Federation in any form or for any purpose.
He proceeded to cut dialectical straws on
the thesis that “the present struggle appears
to involve only Britain’s trading rights in
the Black Sea.” As if every war did not
involve trading rights somewhere, and as if
the original issue was not invariably lost in
the struggle tor national life which develops
speedily out of all great wars! It is true
that Australians hate the idea of an
Imperial Federation, but so does a private
citizen who has been leading the gay life
hate coming to an arrangement with his
creditors. In this matter Australia has no
option: if it is not prepared to nay the
British piper to-day Asia will be able to call
the tune to-morrow. There was a time when
we might have put ourselves in a position to
logically and self-respectingly assume that
attitude in opposition to anything resemb-
ling Imperial Federation, which is favored in
principle by most Australians. We got
hint after hint, warning after warn-
ing, from Downing-street. A dozen years
ago, wnen rile l'an-German menace first be-
came obvious, the British Government im-
plored us to institute a navy of our own :
the response of an influential section was to
try and evade our obligations by presenting
the R.N. with an unwanted Dreadnought.
When the world-war ended Downing-street
tried by every means short of threats to
induce us to preserve the R.A.N. in fighting
trim. It was even hinted that Britain would
supply us with ships if we would consent to
man and keep them in commission; and by
way of encouragement ' some pp-to-date
destroyers were sent here as a gift. * In vain.
The R.A.N. was allowed to wilt, and for
combative purposes it is now as useless as
it was once formidable. Those who have
assisted to bring about this state of affairs,
while waving flags and proclaiming their
devotion to the Empire on every possible
occasion, are annoyed when it is represented
to them that the status of the Common-
wealth is little different to-day in the eyes
of the clear-sighted nations from the status
of Egypt during the late war, and before it.
The fertile land of the Egyptians, if left
unprotected, is likely to be entered by black
men; our potential invaders are yellow.
Egypt’s peril lies to the south ; ours to the
north. Otherwise the situation is identical,
even to the extent that pre-war and ’war-
time Egypt had its Griffiths— men who
expected their country to be defended, on all
occasions, by the British taxpayer, while
reserving to themselves the right to say
when they would fight, or if they would
fight at all. The over-taxed Britisher may
be a bit of_a fool where the Dominions are
concerned, and there is no doubt he has been
one in the past. But there is every sign,
to-day, that he is waking up to. the realities
of the Empire position. Countries like
Australia and Maoriland retain the protec-
tion of the R.N., lacking which they would
immediately be absorbed by the ' surplus
population of Asia; but only on the clear
understanding that even if they don’t pay
the price of Admiralty in warships they wiil
do it at all times, and no questions asked, in
blood. It is a degrading position, but the
logic and equity of it are inescapable; and
we have the cold comfort of the knowledge
that our meanness has brought it on our-
selves.
e
In Reply to an Immigration Crank.
Dear Bulletin. —Had 1 known ther.e were
such readers of the paper as “X.Y.Z.” I might
have illustrated my writings on immigra-
tion with diagrams to make them fool-proof.
I have never opposed immigration. But I
have consistently declared that we want
factory-hands much more at present, and
small, prosperous new industrial towns to
put them in. than we do cow-and-wheat-
raisers. The proof is that Australia is so
short of the things which factory-hands
make that it has been driven to spend up-
wards of £70,000,000 in one year—largely
borrowed money—that it may drag these


gs
-v*'
1 MR
tB
W ;
vV*
Granose Biscuits are a natural food. They are made from choice-quality wheat,
prepared so that the nutritive elements are presented in a readily digestible form.
Granose Biscuits are ideal for every meal—as tasty toast, with eggs, in the morn-
ing—as comforting, nourishing gruel at night. Granose Biscuits can be digested
in half an hour, and are of immense benefit to people with digestive disorders.
Each biscuit contains 9534 % nutriment—the Proteins, Fats, Carbohydrates and
Salts which are lacking in many other foods.
Packets, 31b. Caddies, 101 b. Boxes.
All Grocers, or Price Lists and Samples from —•
1
308 GEORGE S? SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
df
r&feMMMAia*
goods 12,000 miles from foreign parts. On
the other hand Australia produces far more
butter, cheese, wheat and meat than it can
use, and it has to hunt for precarious mar-
kets for them at the far ends of the earth ;
also, it subsidises the bankrupt wheat in-
dustry bv carrying wheat by rail at less than
half-cost, and the cattle business by paying
a bonus on exports so that folks abroad
may enjoy cheap beef. I want the sort of
immigrants that w T e have sure employment
for on the spot, and I want droves of them.
I am among the few who hold that in the
Northern Territory alone we have room for
millions of settlers. But I do say that
settlers —not only strangers from Britain
who don’t know the climate, but Australians
who do —are going broke on the best of our
lands owing to lack of the scattered young
industrial towns which I advocate to fur-
nish markets, and owing to the needless rail-
way haulage that has to be paid for on ex-
ports and imports (200 or 300 miles in cases)
by reason of the One Big City and Closure-
oi-all-other-ports policy. The last census
showed over one-third of the country munici-
palities in eastern New South Wales and
over two-fifths of the shires to be losing
population through disappointed youngsters
and ruined oldsters clearing out. Many
more showed an infinitesimal increase ; that
is to say, no new people went to them, but
some of the babies stayed. “X.Y.Z.” backs
his view that it is the agricultural immi-
grant that we need with a tale of . a stupid-
looking man he once saw in an office, and
who he was told had been here four years,
and possessed a cow-farm or dairy worth
“close on” £3OOO, and a cottage (probable
value of a cottage on a cow-farm; say,
£250). So, apparently, unless he brought
some money here with him, he had sayed
£330 per annum, partly made by working
at "a job” in “a Sydney suburb.” The name
of the stupid-looking man and the address
of his dairy were not given. From this
anonymous episode “X.Y.Z.” deduces that
Australia, with its handful of overgrown
cities, its monstrous political estates, its
closed ports, and its great stretches of in-
creasing desolation, “is all right for _ anjr
man who likes work better than racing.’
Well, it isn’t the Saturday pony-racing that
made the whole Northern Tableland and the
whole North-western Slope, and all the Cen-
tral Plain show fewer inhabitants in 1921
than in 1911. They don’t race much there
—their trouble is that they have the longest
road to Sydney, and suffer most from the
cost of needless haulage to the great Met-
roctopus.—Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.
Australia’s Remarkable Two-Dot
Mercantile Marine.
Being interrogated the other day, Prime
Minister Hughes declared that he had no
intention of selling the Commonwealth Ship-
ping Line, so that institution will continue
its rather vague and erratic way till further
notice The trouble about the line is that,
like the Royal House of Stuart, it leads
nowhere. It began as an urgent sort of war
expedient, to hump cargo when the old Pri-
vate Enterprise cargo-carriers threatened to
be insufficient. It developed after the war
into a rather unsatisfactory passenger and
mail service, but it didn’t develop enough,
and it shows no sign of developing enough,
to assert the principle that the Common-
wealth proposes to make sea-carriage to and
from this country a public business. It is one
among about 20 international services that
haunt these shores, and not a very conspicu-
ous one at that. It seems to have stuck fast
in the same category as a lot of meaningless
State Government enternrises of the tenth-
rate order which Labor Ministries created
—the State fish-and-beef shop; the State
sawmill; the State pill emporium; the State
quarry and clo’ shop and brickyard, and so
on. if Labor Governments had been more
durable and had preserved their pristine
enthusiasm these might have been sup-
plemented by the lonesome State fruit-
barrow and the midnight State pie-stall. All
these things teach the great lesson that a
Ministry, with the Treasury to charge its
losses against, can paw and maul with a
multitude of petty jobs, and call the pro-
ceeding State Socialism, and thus have a
lot of valuable patronage to dispose of for
the purchase of votes and as a means of pro-
viding for shabby friends. An amazing num-
ber of large and small scandals have gath-
ered round these public enterprises, and
there is often a thick haze of obscurity about
the finances. The handiest, cheapest and
most accessible publication dealing with
public finance is the Federal “Quarterly
Summary of Australian Statistics,” and it
gives information about Hughes’s pet
marine enterprise in this reticent fashion:
Commonwealth Government Steamers, Surplus
Earnings.-
1917- .. £BBO,OOO I 1920-21 .. £137,959
1918- .. 1,015,762 | 1921-22 ..
1919- . . . . |
Apparently the show made a heap of buok-
entry surplus earnings while the war was on,
and the Government was carrying its own
goods at any figure it liked to charge itself
in its own mind. In the years when two
dots take the place of figures there
were, it would seem, no surplus earn-
ings, but what surplus losses there were
is left an open question. The income
and outgo are not shown —only the
excess income when there is one, and a dead
silence when there isn’t. Whether the sur-
plus is what remains after paying interest,
depreciation and the losses on the purchase
and sale of the squadron of wooden ships
which- proved such an unfortunate bargain
is a matter of conjecture. It may be merely
surplus over bare running expenses. It is
uncertain whether there is an accumulated
loss on the whole business, or an accumu-
lated profit. The whole thing is very much
a tale of mystery and imagination, but as
there is a much greater tendency to make a
mystery of failure than of success, the situa-
tion isn’t hopeful. Besides, no one ever heard of
W. M. Hughes making a success of any-
thing except eloquence and political “manage-
ment” of the sort that won the North Syd-
ney war for him. Evidently he fails to
see that the people who own the mysterious
fleet which earns two dots per annum have a
right to any more information about their
property than he chooses to part with. And
though ’ the Auditor-General has unlimited
power to pass comments on the accounts
that are presented to him, he appears very
short of authority to require that accounts
shall be presented.
The Records of Two Banks.
“Wodgil” : The Commonwealth Bank an-
nounced last week that its profits had
dropped from £403,041 in the first half of
192] to £208,932 in the corresponding period
THE STRAP-HANGER.
of 1922. It is explained that the London
balance soared from £8,090,000 on June
30, 1921, to £19,325,000 on June 30, 1922,
and that Avhereas this money used to earn
3 and 4 per cent, the rate has got down to
1§ per cent. What proportion of the
£19,325,000 represented unexpended loan
funds, on which interest is payable to the
public creditor, and how much the Govern-
ment received for the use of them —whether,
in short, the country really profited by these
transactions, is not disclosed. Ordinary de-
posits rose from £26,556,692 to £42,091,309,
but the advances item was almost stationary
—it amounts to a mere £14,459,387. Which
shows how little the “Commonwealth” is doing
towards the development of the country com-
pared with the Bank of Maoriland. With
vastly inferior resources that institution had
£21,700,000 out on March 31, all within
the Dominion. It has been a rock of refuge
in trying times to the Maoriland woolgrower
and dairy-farmer, and a tower of strength
to industry. The Commonwealth Bank, on
the other hand, frowns on rural securities.
It is easier for the average cocky to climb
through the eye of a camel than to get
an overdraft from the Commonwealth Bank.
In other respects, the Maoriland concern is
far more serviceable to the citizens. For
an outlay of £875,000, one-third of the then
capital, the Government secured control of
the bank—it appoints a majority of the
directors —and it has received bonus shares
amounting to £375,000. Deducting the in-
terest payable on the loans issued to provide
the capital, its annual dividend from this
source amounts to £BO,OOO. In addition, it
draws substantial revenues from income- and
land-taxes, neither of which imposts the
Commonwealth Bank pays. It is frequently
alleged in an indefinite way that Denison
Miller has saved Australia millions (the
precise amount is never stated) by his inex-
pensive methods of floating loans. This
assertion being hurled at George Fairbairn
in the Senate, that person replied that the
Commonwealth Bank charged the Govern-
ment the full rate of exchange, whereas the
private banks made a concession to their
big clients. Whether this be so or not, it
is certain that the “Commonwealth” has made
fat profits by operating on the unexpended
loan balances which prodigal Australian
Treasurers have allowed to accumulate. Yet,
considering its earnings from this source, its
exemption from taxes, its enormously greater
assets and the difference in population be-
tween the two countries (Australia, 5i mil-
lions; M.L., 1£ million) its achievement is
decidedly inferior to that of the Bank of
Maoriland. During the same nine years
in which the “Commonwealth” made a profit
of £3,792,726, not a penny of which went
into the revenue, the M.L. institution paid
the Government £1,516,000 in income-tax,
£528.750 in dividends and £126,700 in land-
tax—a total of £2,171.450, exclusive of the
£375,000 in bonus shares. Certainly an im-
pressive example to Australia. When the
next Government comes along (obviously
nothing but vote-catching can be expected
from the present inglorious crowd) the
Commonwealth Bank should be obliged to
pay income- and land-taxes, the proceeds to
go into the sinking fund, in addition to be
relieved of one-man control, the man being
a law unto himself.
What is Australia Doing?
Dear Bulletin, —The warning to sleeping
nations in regard to the new weapon
(B. 7/9/’22). cannot be sounded, too
often. The next war will be fought in the
laboratory as much as on the field ; and
the electrician will wear his crossed swords
as well as the birdman and the chemist.
But the actual war-winner is going to be the
quick thinker who will most readily be able
to nullify the effect of the new terrors in
store. The last mixup proved that the
modern world is ready at any moment to
put the cold steel into the spirit of chivalry.
Frttz showed the way on land and sea and
in the air, and only the nullifiers baulked
him of a decisive win. When he started
his poison gases creeping towards the un-
prepared Canadians he might have been par-
doned for thinking that he had the war in
his pocket. Yet within a few weeks the
British had gas-helmets, and were sending
him over worse fumes than his own. The
long-range gun ended by being as dangerous
to its manipulators, who were spotted by all
sorts of ingenious devices, as to the targets
so often aimed at, so rarely hit. In like
manner, the aeroplane and the submarine
lost much of their effectiveness, except for
the purpose of injuring the morale of civilian
populations. The most deadly-looking wea-
pons came to be the most harmless. Machine-
guns were simply silenced by artillery fire
before an attack towards the end of the
war, and raids became such scientific cer-
tainties that ail the raiding officer had to
look to was to get his men back before the
counter-barrage could get to work. There
was no opposition to meet in the enemy
trench—only men quaking like jellies. So to
prevent raids by infantry, artillery had to
be silenced. And so the game went on.
Always a nullifier; always an effective
counter. The nation that wins the next
war will have to spring something so new
and effective that it will be capable of
delivering a knockout blow at the very be-
ginning of the first round. If the truculent
nation’s secret-service men are in a position
to tell their heads that the threatened coun-
try has a counter, there will be no first
round. Even the most irresponsible of
modern politicians is not going to commit
his country to another struggle of the de-
vastating length of the last. But once it
is known that no nullifier exists —say; to the
unimaginably deadly gases that many coun-
tries are already known to possess—war will
come with a rush and be as quickly over.
In fact, the price of every nation’s life these
days is unwinking vigilance. We wear the
garments and employ the gestures and man-
ners of civilisation ; but, spiritually, we are
back in the Stone Ages, and are governed
by the laws of the jungle.—Yours, O’D.
• 7
“0.K.” : The restoration of Gallipoli to the
Turks is indirectly favored by Frank Bren-
nan, M.P., who appears to have joined the
Quakers by way of justifying his bitter oppo-
sition to Australian participation in the
late war. Talking the other nighty at a
Melbourne meeting, organised by the Society
of Friends to protest against further opera-
tion of the compulsory clauses of the Defence
Act. ungenial Frank said :
We are told that the ©raves of our dead in
Gallipoli must be protected from desecration. I
venture to say there would be nothing more abhor-
rent to those brave men than the thought that an-
other war was to be fought upon their graves.
Therefore, according to Brennan, the wish
of the dead Anzacs is that the Allies will re-
tire from their burial-ground peacefully if
the Turks are prepared to fight for its
restoration to Turkish control. Else-
where in his address to the Quakers
he remarked that all the latest war-
talk was a gigantic game of bluff, and a
promise of Australian help was needed to
enable the Allies to call Turkey’s bluff. Also,
he stated that the threatened outbreak of
another war “proved that the spirit engen-
dered by the late terrible conflict had been
more likely to promote more than to
bring about permanent peace.” This was
hardly consistent with his dictum re the
“bluff,” rather than the sincerity, of Tur-
key’s war-threats, and the promptness of
the Allies in trying to outbluff the bluffers.
Nor did it attempt to explain why the sur-
vivors of the terrible conflict should be
naturally itching for more war, whilst the
boys wfio died in the early heat of it at
Gallipoli should now hold war in abhor-
rence. Biit, then, Frank Brennan is a
professional party politician, and nothing that
he says in one part of an oration is expected
to be quite consistent with the view's he has
expressed in another portion of the same
impassioned say-so. His splendid contempt
for “bluff” is on a par with that of the
secretary of the Australian Labor party, who
gravely announces that “the party will resist
any attempt to force any Australian citizen
to "take up arms against his will.” Why not
protest that the Labor party will never con-
sent to the summary execution of any Aus-
tralian citizen without a trial?
“P’laza” on Spain’s Scottish quarter:—
It was interesting tolearn (B. 31/8/’22) that the
affairs of the Coats millionaires had been investi-
gated by a sub-committee under the British Profiteer-
ing Act ; , but, after all, its investigations could not
have revealed more than half the tale. For instance,
for the past 20 years or more Coats have had huge
works at San Martin, on the outskirts of Barcelona,
in Catalonia. Lured, no doubt, by a paysheet which
showed 3d. an hour as acceptable remuneration for
an unskilled worker, and 7jd. for a skilled hand,
they registered the company in Spain as “Fabra y
Coats/’ and took into the show as senior partner a
full-blooded hidalgo of pleasant manners and keen
commercial insight. Then, at St. Felix, a little hill
town not far off, they started an auxiliary fabrica,
where the raw cotton was handled in preparation
for the spinning. “Gleskie” and Paisley supply
nearly all the necessaries of life for both communi-
ties, ■ including bosses and foremen in the various
branches. Catalan and Caledonian swap tongues and
drinks, spending their bawbees together in Arcadian
harmony, both races being equally implicated in the
turning out of cut-price sewing-cotton. In San Martin,
the larger centre, the management is chiefly in the
hands of North-Country Englishmen, but the heads
of departments and engineers hail from the other
side of the Clyde. The main street has its row of
shops, baker, butcher (“flesher” I should say),
draper, etc., every one of them run by Mac Something
or other. There is a day school for the bairns,
where a Peebleshire dominie wields the taws; and a
Methodist chapel, where a Scotch pastor preaches in
Spanish. The works were founded on a grand scale
and have grown steadily, the avowed intention of the
firm being to supply lands “east of Suez” with the
famous cotton. H.C.L. touched Spain lightly
during the war, merely doubling the cost of imported
commodities and raising wages by about a third.
Small wonder that it has been easy for Fabra y Coats
to dump their wares at 168 per cent, net profit in
India, the East and —there is no reason to doubt —
Australia.


THE DRINK QUESTION.
Now that Summer is upon us, those who want pure water to drink
—which should apply to everyone—will be inquiring about filters.
Fountain or Drip.
The Abbot is the
leading Australian
Filter. It has been
certified to by the
Boards of Health
of all States as
bacteria proof.
Vi'-
Where water is
laid on the Pressure
type is the most
satisfactory.
Bulletin and Price
List on application.
Liberal discount
to storekeepers.
m
ESi
Stop <ofw
msmm
Pressure Filter and Receiver.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, Sole Manufacturers, George Street, CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
In the latest instalment of the serial he
is writing for the House of Heps., J. 11.
Catts observed that it was “almost an im-
possibility for any Labor man in N. S.
Wales to obtain a selection in defiance of
the Macdonell House crowd.” Difficult it
certainly is. Thus, Digger Ted Riley beat
Arthur, one of the A.W.U. bosses, in the
ballot for Cook. Arthur got the ballot upset,
whereupon the youngster beat him again.
Now Macdonell House is demanding a third
go. Considering that they expelled Catts
for denouncing their selection ballots the
Labor heads should have been extra careful
to see that there were no hanky-panky tricks
in his own electorate. But the Australian
Tammany is a clumsy imitation of the
downy old American bird.
Vic. Labor-member Cotter is making
another effort to have voting for the Leg.
Assembly made compulsory, but his measure
looks like being among the left-overs at
Christmas. Laborites haven’t been lucky
with their legislation this session. Jack
Billson’s dav-baking bill was thrown out by
the Assembly, and McNamara’s scheme of
proportional voting met the same fate in the
(Jppah Chambah. Still, what would become
of the shop-window if the Houses, in a fit
of abstraction, passed some of these fancy
proposals?
The Prime Minister’s “comprehensive
scheme of immigration” has grown so power-
fully comprehensive that he now sees his
way to spending £36,000,000 of loan money
on'paying new settlers to come here. What
it will be necessary to pay to induce them to
stay after they are here is another matter.
The Commonwealth has already borrowed
and lent to the States over £30,000,000 fox-
settling (or re-settling) our own ex-soldiers
on the land, and they don’t stick much,
though the debt does. There seems to be
something dreadfully amiss with the man-
agement of a bright, free, empty, healthy
land of “great natural resources” when, in
this crowded world, it can’t get settlers with-
out paying through the nose for them. They
should rather pay heavily to come than be
paid. People aren’t bi-ibed to go to Heaven,
or to the races, or the United States. They
don’t need to be. Australia should be in
the same category.
“Unley”: S.A. has a lively little Country
party, consisting of Mills in the Leg. Council,
and Mclntosh, McMillan, Chapman and
Hawke in the other House. Its leader, Mal-
colm Mclntosh (he is only 34), comes from
Branxholme (Vic.), and used to be a law-
yer’s clerk. But, tiring of pounce and
parchment, he hurled himself on the land at
Pinnaroo (S.A.), became secretary of the
local F. and S. A., and got into Parliament
in 1921 for Albert. When (or if) preferen-
tial voting arrives, he expects to have about
20 followers instead of four. But Hansard
hopes they all won’t be as fluent as Mcln-
tosh, who is the rapidest talker in the House.
Cocks, the N. S. Wales Treasurer, men-
tioned in his Budget speech that the Labor
Government had lost £1,000,000 by guaran-
teeing the farmers 7s. 6d. a bushel for their
3920-21 wheat. That was the pool that the
Dooleys ran, with the assistance of the
A..W.U. According to Bruxner, the Pro-
gressive leader, 114 persons—all good union-
ists, no doubt —were employed on the Gov-
ernment pool staff, and there hasn’t been a
final clean-up yet. Under the voluntary
arrangement the same work has been done
in 1921-22 by 39 persons, and the end of the
job is in sight. And the experience isn’t
confined to N. S. Wales. Throughout Aus-
tralia the wheat has been marketed more
economically and expeditiously by the co-
operative associations than by meddlesome
Governments.
A return laid before Vic. Assembly, at the
instance of Bailey (Port Fairy), shows that
there are still 15 estates of over 20,000 acres
iii the Cabbage Garden. R. S. Falkiner, with
52,879 acres in the Western District, is the
biggest holder, and E. L. Atkinson, J. G.
Robertson, Ben Chaffey, Walter Laidlaw,
L. J. Weatherley, G. N. Buckley and B. M.
S. Manifold also have big portions such as
the meek inherit. The other areas seem to
he family partnership concerns. Bailey’s
object in getting details was to show that
there is still room for closer settlement, if
judicious pressure is applied.
“Gallery” : Proportional representation has
few followers in the Reps. On a vote taken
COST OF LIVING.
"According to the figures issued by the Commonwealth Statistician, the cost of food and groceries
for the whole of Australia for last month shows'an increase of 1.5 per cent.”
THE SMALL ONE: “What, more! Get out! fie already dropped a few bob a week to
keep you quiet.'"
last week only the Country party, Watt,
Atkinson and the three “advanced” Labor-
ites, Scullin, Brennan and Considine, were
for it. The strongest argument in favor
of the system was the immense fiasco
of a Senate with an official Opposition of
two in a House of 36, when the massed vote
at the last election was about 52 per cent.
Nationalist and 48 per cent. Labor. But
politicians of the Blakeley variety were by no
means impressed by this illustration. They
blandly regarded it as full of promise for the
future, when the majority may turn in favor
of their side. Of course P.R. has been a
dreary failure in N. S. Wales. But it
might be useful if restricted to second
Chambers.
An etching from the Gallery: —
If Edmund Jowett wins Bendigo—and lie has
decided to stand for it, after all —the electorate
tliat Hughes is deserting will acquire the most eere-
monious politician in the Commonwealth. Edmund’s
deep obeisance to the chair when leaving or enter-
ing the Reps, has never been approached in mingled
courtliness and humility. His politeness in speech
puts the late Chesterfield into the race-tout class.
Nowadays, Jowett is always overwhelmed with the
delicacy of approaching a question that may prove
distressing to other members. One thing, however,
he will not tolerate, and that is private conversa-
tions when he is talking. When odd knots collect
about the benches and start to tell the latest one
about the bagman and the chorus-girl, or, perhaps,
get immersed in the Einstein theory, Jowett re-
moves the spats from his English, and “trusts” in
icy tones that he “is not disturbing an important
chat.” This sensitiveness to interruption sets mem-
bers recalling with gay humor that Jowett used to
be about the most incorrigible interjector in the
House. But that was before he became obsessed
with the importance of the member for Grampians
and his mission of enlightening the world.
“J.E.”: 1 suppose that, after the mild
attempt that the N. S. Wales New Staters
made to get their freedom from the Sydney
Parliament, and the contemptuous failure
thereof, the movement is back where it has
been any time during the last 60 years—that
is to say, nowhere at all. Premier Fuller
struck various attitudes over the niattdr —
the sort that a shifty politician strikes when
he thinks his opponents top harmless to be
worth serious consideration. One: whs that
the subdivision of big States for closer set-
tlement is a Federal matter, which it isn’t;
the Federal 1 Constitution makes it a State
affair exclusively. Another was that one
overgrown State shouldn’t be subdivided
until all are subdivided, which is the same
as saying that one injured wife shouldn’t
get a divorce unless all injured wives are
divorced simultaneously. Also, Fuller said
that he had no mandate from the people to
grant Separation, whicli is true. It is
equally true that he has no mandate to refuse
it, because he never asked for either. And
by the present look of things he means to
go on ignoring this issue. And the New
Staters, being the gentle creatures they are,
will proceed presumably to relapse into
silence and fall apart. Some time ago .Toel
Moses Gabb, a very inconsiderable person
in the Federal Parliament, wanted some-
thing, and he proceeded to get it single-
handed by the simple process of perpetually
calling the Speaker’s attention to the lack
of a 'quorum. 7 The device was crude yet
effective : but the New Staters a:re too polite
to do anything crude, even to the people
who are robbing them.
Some of these Labor politicians ought to
take a month off and clarify their views
about the referendum. Simultaneously with
Charlton’s profound proposal that the ques-
tion of Australian participation in the latest
trouble with the Turk should be left to the
people to decide, Theodore, of Queensland,
was asked to let the Brisbane electors say
Yea or Nay to the purchase of the local
tramways. He contemptuously refused. In
a word, the people are so intelligent and
high-minded, and so encyclopaedic is their
knowledge of military science, world-politics
and the geography of Asia Minor, that they
are better able than the Executive to deter-
mine whether there should be war or peace,
At the same time, they are too ignorant to
be consulted about the acquisition of a
dingy old street-car system.
Unawed by wowseristic threats Melbourne
City Council, by 18 votes to 8, has decided to
permit “unorganised and non-competitive”
games of cricket and tenuis in Fawkner,
Yarra and Prince’s parks on Sunday after-
noons. The innovation —a revolutionary
one for Melbourne —is on trial for three
months, and as it is necessary to alter the
regulations the State Ministry, as co-partner
in the trusteeship of the parks, will have a
say. But no objection is anticipated from
Lawson and his crowd.
“Gallery” : Watt’s future is being furiously
canvassed in the lobbies. Having severed
himself from the Nationalists he will pre-
sumably stand as a Liberal for Balaclava,
even if the proposed Liberal-Cocky entente
isu’t hatched in the meantime. Watt is
mentioned as leader of the new alliance, and
tiie Age is obviously ready to bless it. If
the thing comes to pass, Hughes will not be
slow to advertise the Freetrade complexion
of the Gumleaf section, and warn Victoria
in his most thrilling manner that the Tariff
is in danger. In N. S. Wales he will point
to the new party as the enemy of the Federal
Capital schema and he will break the news
to the Bananalanders that the same crowd
doesn’t include a sugar subsidy among its
favorite topics. Meanwhile, Watt will have
to reckon with the prospect of Nationalist
opposition in Balaclava. He should easily
win, although lie isn’t quite certain how the
usually pro-Hughes Wimmen’s League may
vote. And hitherto this powerful organisa-
tion has been able to sway elections any
way it likes in the classy suburbs comprising
Watt’s electorate.
No Labor member who opposed Vic. Pre-
mier Lawson’s Jury-squaring Prevention
Bill said anything quite so cutting as Grand
Master Snowball, who sits right behind the
Ministry, and is a lawyer. He called it
hysterical legislation, and declared that con-
cealment of the panel struck at the root of
the jury system. An accused person had the
right of challenge, on giving reasons, in addi-
tion to the peremptory challenge, and he
couldn’t exercise it if lie hadn’t the oppor-
tunity of learning something about the jury-
men. While admitting that squaring went
on to a certain extent, Snowball argued that
the ’tecs should be equal to foiling the efforts
of the friends of crooks. Eggleston, another
lawyer on the Liberal side, maintained that
what was sauce for the accused goose should
be condiment for the Crown gander. He
wouldn’t let either study the menu before-
hand. All the same, the Bill, or something
stronger, is necessary, for the jury-squarer
flourishes like the green upas-tree.
Licensing of estate agents, more particu-
larly the house variety, is proposed by Law-
son and co. in a bill before Vic. Assembly.
The fee proposed is a fiver a year, and one
license will do for a firm. Auctioneers
(who now shell out £25 a year each) are
not to be required to pay anything additional
for their estate-agency adjunct. Whether
the bill, if passed, will make the fraternity
any better or worse than it is now time will
decide. There is no provision in the bill
for generating a conscience, individual or
collective.
On Kemal and Ms capital:—
Oddly enough, the only countries represented at
Kemal Pasha’s capital, Angora, are the neighboring
little republic of Azerbaijan, Afghanistan and Russia.
Lenin’s emissary, an eye-glassed personage who wears
the sheepskin fez favored in those parts, occupies
the second-best mansion in the town —the best houses
the Government —and lends his ear and voice to
most of Kemal’s consultations with his colleagues.
On the authority of a writer in a recent Quarterly
Review, the Turks are not enamored of the Soviet
system, but Kemal treats the ambassador from Mos-
cow with every consideration for the sake of getting
the financial and military backing he requires. The
Afghan representative hangs out in a tw r o-storey mud
villa in a side street, and the tattered flag of his
country floats from an unpainted pole nailed over his
front door. This character is a very busy co-
religionist of Kemal, and no doubt the feelings and
aspirations of Britain’s 70,000,000 Mohammedan
subjects in India duly filter through him. There
is no accredited Hun representative at the little
capital—at least there wasn’t four months back —
and no “Swiss” faces were visible among the General
Staff. Kemal Pasha is about the least Germanophil
of Turkish soldiers. One of the reasons for his
break with Enver Pasha was that fickle conspirator’s
affection for Von Blutwurst. And it pained Kemal’s
Turkish pride to have Liman von Sanders “jack-
booting” his soldiers on Gallipoli.
THE MUCH-TRAVELLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking at Sydney this week, Mr. Hughes
claimed that he was the most-travelled Prime Mini-
ster Australia has ever known.”
Travelled have I, indeed! From mending gamps
And humble jobs at Labor-organising,
And preaching Henry George in shearers’ camps,
The journey in itself would be surprising
To what I’m now. An indispensable
When Europe’s tangled skeins are being unravelled
Bv the wide world’s intelligentsia. Hell!
Just haven’t I travelled!
Travelled! I've stretched my limbs in the Domain
In Sydney Morning Heralds night-apparelled;
In Windsor Castle, silk-pyjama’d lain,
Guest of a king whose line goes back to Harold.
The erstwhile idol of the bowyanged crowd,
Fame in such thumping quantities I’ve snavelled
That Gartered Dukes to grip my hand are proud.
By God ! I’ve travelled.
Travelled! I’ve humped my swag on blistered feet,
With leathery beef for scran and damper gritty;
Fdted and lionised, I’ve sat at meat,
Freeman, new-made, of many a cheering city.
I've pushed my harrow like a coster bloke
Through mud. And now o’er highways smoothly
gravelled
Rolls-Royces whirl my carcase. Holy smoke!
You bet, I’ve travelled!
Travelled! I’ve boxed the compass hard and good,
Much as the “Kimri” Ilryden made historic.
Ovation I have known in Collingwood;
I’ve had to duck to dodge an egg at Warwick.
From Sydney once I streaked to Bendigo
For sanctuary—few there were to cavil —
I’m back, and why you sneer I hardly know.
As dogs must bark, cats purr and roosters crow,
So, chaps, with me ’tis always comma il faut,
My blanky oath 1 to travel.
x.s.w.
PIPARDS.


ALL WELL.
“Dr. Truby Kins, of Maoriland, speaking on Child Welfare at the National Club last week, deplored the fact that many more children die in Australia than in Maoriland.”
AUSTRALIA: “So signs of decrepitude about, this little lot, anyway!”


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin 8 Lyttelton.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety c uae
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (Australia) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S,W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Beard, Watson, Ltd. (Sydney), house
furnishers, etc.: —
r— —Dividends.- To Re- . Re-
Julv, Profits. Prof. 6 p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1912.. £14,737 £956 10 p.c. = £5152 £8,629£27)149
1913.. 11,314 1697 10 „ „ 7214 2,403 29,552
1914.. 146 1800 Nil 27,898
1915.. 1,939 1800 Nil 139 28,037
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs.
6 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord.
1916.. 14,678 1800 3675 Nil \ ,„ q 9
Arrearsof divs.on2nd Prefs. paid, £2974 <S *>' SDO
(15 p.c.)
1917.. 24,551 1800 3675 11,250 7,826 42,092
1918.. 27,656 1800 3675 11,250 10,931 53,023
1919.. 28,027 1800 3675 11,250 11,302 64,325
Transferred to capital, £37,500. .26,825
1920.. 49,905 1800 3675 20,000 24,430 51,255
Co. reconstructed. Pref. divs. lifted a point. Good-
will valued at £67,660, reserves capitalised and
ordinaries given £3l of scrip for every £l6
previously held.
Deficit.
7 p.c. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. £67,660
1921.. 38,236 2100 4200 25,455 6,481 61,179
1922.. 14,236 2100 4200 Nil 7,936 53,243
For five years, when it was trading in rising
markets and was helped by an apparent pros-
perity created by war spendings, this co.,
which runs a high-class house-furnishing
business, had a gorgeous time. During that
period it paid regular 15 p.c. divs. on
ordinaries, and the directors evidently felt
so confident about the future that they put
through a reconstruction which almost
doubled shareholders’ scrip interests, all
reserves being capitalised in the process and
goodwill for £67,0(10 being introduced into
the balance-sheet. The Bulletin, having
had no illusions as to the nature of the pros-
perity of the war years, questioned whether
the co. would continue to do so well.
The profits disclosed when values were mov-
ing up now prove to have been not all they
seemed, and for the past 12 months the
ordinaries get no div. After providing for
the prefs’. divs., the profit remaining gave
only slightly more than 2 p.c. on ordinary
capital. The co. has developed a very fine
business, but, though turnover in quantity has
been maintained, earnings have been affected
by the reduced margin of profit consequent
on lowered prices and “by reason of the
desirableness of bringing all stocks to replace-
ment values.” Had the directors been less
hasty in capitalising reserves the past year’s
profits need not have been called upon to
carry the burden of falling values: only two
years ago the co. held £32,500 in a reserve
fund and £13,000 in a contingency reserve,
but the directors overlooked the contingencies
for which they had been making provision,
and that and all other reserves were con-
verted into scrip. Assuming the co. had
funds with which to pay a div.—the cash posi-
tion was not clear, because “bank balances
and cash” were parcelled with book debts in
the published accounts—any distribution ex-
ceeding 4 p.c. would have absorbed all
reserves and profits and put the P. and L.
account on the wrong side of the balance-
sheet.
If the absence of a div. for the past year
will represent the full measure of losses sus-
tained in getting back to normal, Beard,
Watson’s will have done very well. And old
shareholders cannot complain: they have
eaten their cake—in five years divs. returned
to them more than three-quarters of their
capital. On the other hand, of course, there
were three years, after the collapse of the
premises, which were afterwards purchased,
when no divs. were paid. The question for
the future is whether the business can be
made to justify the capitalisation of two
years ago. That reconstruction puts a
strain on the management; to Day ordinaries
8 p.c. it is given the task of earning 15| p.c.
on old capital and 8 p.c. on the little" new
capital raised in the reconstruction. The
share-register is now made up of £30,000 of
7 p.c. Ist prefs., £52,500 of 8 p.c. 2nd prefs.,
and £375,007 of ordinaries. Other balance-
sheet figures and comparisons over a num-
ber of years are as follows: —
1914. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Capital. . . . £117.066 £232,500 £453,191 £463,978
Liabilities . . 93,363 115,761 100,095 71,730
Leaseholds and
freeholds . . 15,484 87,250 111.000 109,750
Stock.. .. 140,930 148,213 241,533 114,512
Book debts . . 56,634 126,049 131,743 217,071
Machine ry,
plant, etc... 11,722 14,528 26,804 33,720
Cash, etc. .. 15,057 46,214 9,630 10,561
No less than £143,470 of funds are tied up
in properties, machinery, plant, and other
equipment. The co. is comfortable, though;
liabilities at the latest balance were smaller
than for many years. Stock, book debts and
cash exceeded all liabilities, including mort-
gages, by £270,414. Incidentally, that meant
excellent security for both classes of prefs.
As for the ordinaries, after payment of the
pref. divs., £53,243 of their £375,007 of scrip
was represented by goodwill.
Ciiables Davis, Ltd., hardware mer-
chants, of Hobart (goodwill. £lO,OOO, is not
reckoned an asset in the table) :
Dividends and Towards
August, Profit. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1912. . £14,505 8 p.c. = £11,340 £3165 £8,840
1913.. 12,267 8 „ „ 11,340 927 7,913
1914.. 8,760 6 „ „ 8,505 255 7,658
1915.. 9,689 6 „ „ 8,505 1184 6,474
1916.. 10,015 6 „ ~ 8,505 1510 4,964
1917.. 10,163 6 ~ „ 8,505 1658 3,306
1918.. 11,536 7$ „ „ 10,631 905 2,401
1919.. 10,759 74 „ „ 10,732 27 2^374
Reserves.
1920.. 15,804 8 „ „ 11,610 4194 1,820
1921.. 11,014 8 „ „ 11,610 1,224
1922.. 11,794 8 „ „ 11,610 184 1,408
This old concern—it began in a small ’way
in the ’forties, and the public has been in-
terested only since 11)11—shows no marks
of the crash in hardware values. The 8
p.c. paid in 1920 has continued through the
period of slump, though reserves have been
tapped for £4OO-odd to do it. The directors
do not explain how they escaped losses. But
the published accounts show that the book
value of stocks at the height of the boom
was not much larger than in other years;
and that means either that book values were
kept low, or that the co. was carrying smaller
stocks. Stock and other balance-sheet nlove-
ments since the iirst year of the public co.
have been as follows:
1912. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities .. .. £6,508 £26,231 £18,044 £9,811
Premises . .. 22,825 34,781 38,018 38,070
Leases, plant,.etc. 3,435 7,292 9,120 8,885
Stocks .. .. 76,959 79,124 87,957 81,728
Hook debts .. .. 20,859 32,946 24,384 26,480
Cash and investments 19,925 16,232 1,245 3,011
The directors’ report does not disclose
whether the £81,728 of stock on hand at
.Tune 30 was included at replacement value:
the accounts merely state that the figures
give stock on hand “at cost and valuation, as
certified to by the managing-director.”
The co. has not given fat returns to share-
holders, and average profits for the past
three years have been smaller than 10 years
ago. Nevertheless, provided stock values
are all they should be, Charles Davis, Ltd.,
is a comfortable business. When it took
over from the old proprietor, £lO,OOO was
paid for goodwill; but that nowadays is cov--
ered by reserves, and the whole of the paid
capital of £135,000 is represented by tangible
assets. At June 30 liabilities were smaller
than for some years, and though the manage-
ment evidently had to arrange with the bank
for divs. the co.’s position was comfortable.
Including the div. with liabilities, the co.
at .Tune 30 showed surplus liquid assets
amounting to almost £89.800.
The Mutual Store, Ltd.- (Melbourne) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
July, £ £ £ £ £
191.3.. 17,451 10 p.c. ==' 12,500 1500 3451 29,011
1914.. 18,077 10 ,y ~ 12,500 1500' 4077 33,088:
1915.. 14,442 10 „ „ 12,500 1942 35,030
1916, .15,732 10 „ „ 12,500 1242 1990 37,020
1917.. 16.539 10 „ „ 12,500 2000 2039 39,059
1918.. 20,006 10 •„ ~ 12,500 5000 2506 41,565
Transferred to capital, £12,500.. 29,065
PrefS, Writ-
fS p.c.)' Ordinaries, ten Off.
1919. .21,562 £417 10 p.c. =£13,125 £2Bll ( Q 1
Taxation reserve.. .. 3000 ] 4
Assets written up, £lO,OOO .. 41,274
Transferred to capital, £27,500 . . 13,774
1920. .28,530 2000 124 p.c. = 17,706 3000 19,598
1921.. 22,497 2000 10 „ „ 18.756 1000 20,339
1922.. 27.553.2000 10 „ „ 18,756 2500 24,636
The Mutual Store has just completed its
50th year. That fact may explain why
accounts have shown no marks of the
difficulties the rag-trade has experienced since
prices crashed. At the 1921 balance profits
ample to pay 10 p.c. were disclosed, and for
the past 12 months net earnings disclosed
were only £977 smaller than the record
figures of two years ago. Meanwhile, there
has been no writing-off of reserves to counter-
balance stock depreciation ; the co. was either
very lucky or full allowance for a crash in
values had been made in the boom years.
The £27,553 net profit disclosed was £6BOO
in excess of dividend requirements, and
£2500 of the surplus has. been used to write
down a building-extension and new plant
and fittings account to £4OOO. The balance-
sheet position has been considerably strength-
ened in this way in the past, £14,311 having
been struck off in recent years. A feature
of the Mutual Store is that its business has
so expanded that the value of stock held at
July 31 last was nearly as large as at the
height of the boom. Here are balance-sheet
comparisons since early in the war:—
1915 1990 1991 1999
Liabilities .. £59,330 £84~692 £93,772
Property . . 103,625 103,625 106,000 106,000
Plant, etc. . . 12,107 24,750 23,600 29,600
Stock.. .. 79,545 142,518 133,844 ' 140,104
Book debts . . 28,222 50.899 55,867 58,870
Cash . . .. 2,111 18,503 10,658 9.270
Rook debts, protected by a reserve for doubt-
ful accounts, are larger than at any other
time, and as cash has been needed for build-
ing extensions liabilities have also grown.
But the eo.’s position is very snug; at July
31 there was a surplus of stocks, book debts
and cash over liabilities (including £40,000
mortgage on property) of £114,472. Inci-
dentally, the Mutual Store is one of the
few cos. which adheres to the old-fashioned
policy of giving the investor the maximum
amount of information concerning its affairs.
The published accounts disclose gross profits
and detail outgoings, and the balance-sheets
show various assets protected by reserves
for depreciation, etc. Paid capital is £212,559,
in £25,000 of 8 p.c. prefs. and £187,559 of
ordinaries. Included with the latter is
£30,000 of scrip issued against profits
accumulated, so divs. give something more
than 10 p.c. to old holders. Goodwill does
not figure among the assets, so, notwith-
standing the reserve capitalisation, every £1
ordinary share, after payment of the recent
div., was supported by tangible assets written
down to 225. 7d.
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
Written
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1911 .. £150,092 £120,000 £10,168 £lll,OOO
1912 .. 269,773 210,000 10,985 159,788
1913 .. 337,712 230,000 11,507 155,993
1914 .. 323,847 280,000 11,158 188,682
1915 . . 231,373 30,000 18,636 371,419
1916 .. 386,979 210,000 17,294 531,204
1917 .. 492,540 240,000 32,245 751,499
1918 . . 334,976 240,000 65,005 781,470
Co. reconstructed—
Special div., £60,000 .. .. 721,470
Returned to shareholders, £68,832 .. 652,638
Plant written up, £340,805 .. 993,443
Transferred to capital, £705,000 .. 288,443
Other writings-up and adjustments
making reserves . . . . .. 390,091
Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
1919 ... £344,113 15 p.c. =£ 120,000 £614,204
1920 .. 2,766 Nil 616,970
Loss.
1921 .. 48,551 Nil 568,419
Profit.
1922 . . 274,389 Nil 842,808
That statement of profits needs qualifying:
the £274,.’{50 is the increase of reserves dur-
ing the 12 months, as shown in this compari-
son :
1920. 1921. 1922.
Special reserve .. £377,587 £311,034 £286,742
General reserve .. 15,619 33,927 37,509
Debenture reserve .. 64,262 79,051 94,370
P. &L. balance .. 64,113 7,411 167,425
Total .. .. £621,581 £431,423 £586,046
Depreciation reserve 81,789 136,996 194,362
New plant reserve .. 13,600 62,400
£610,970 £668,419 £842,808
Profits are credited with additions to the
depreciation fund, and reserves include the
total of that fund : but the extent to which
the accumulation is a genuine reserve can-
not be ascertained. The directors claim
a nfet profit of £235,747, after setting aside
£88,074 for depreciation of plant; but meafi-
time there were unexplained additions to
general reserves amounting to £3582, arid
£1986 addition to the debenture sinking fund.
The directors also transferred £24,202 from
a “special” reserve to the depreciation fund.
In view of the battle which has proceeded
for some years on the questions: of Wages arid
working conditions, such a good profit calls
for explanation. On no other occasion has a
Broken Hill co. given more detail about its
earnings. The South’s accounts show clearly
that comparatively only a small amount of
profit came from handling crudes, though,
after working only one shift underground dur-
ing the first half of the year, an improve-
ment in the price of lead to £25 per ton
induced the management to increase the out-
put to 4000 tons crudes per week. More
than one-half of the working profit came
from the treatment of old slime dumps:—
Value of product .. ..£210,624
Cost of treatment, etc. .. 64,379
Working profit .. .. ..£152,245
Crudes —
.Value of product . . . . £372,476
Extraction, treatment and de-
velopment . . .. . . 287,810
Working profit .. . . . . 84,666
Add Surplus realised on old metal stocks. . 54,752
Gross profit . . .. .. .. £291,663
Add Interest from investments . . . . 32,366
£324,029
Office exes., depreciation, debenture inter-
est, etc.. . . . . . . . . 88,282
Net profit as per accounts.. ..£235,747
The treatment of the huge slime dumps made
the figures from work on crudes look better
than they really were, for the operations on
the slimes were debited with £35,000 of over-
head charges which, under normal conditions,
would have been carried by crude-ore produc-
tion. The selective flotation plant treated
141,440 tons slimes and produced 24,911 tons
concentrates assaying 44.1 p.c. lead (11,033
tons), 31oz. silver (774,8790 z.) and 16.3 p.c.
zinc (40S1 tons), the residue containing
only 4.4 p.c. lead, 2oz. silver and 12.6 p.c.
zinc. At the beginning of August there were
still 60,000 tons of treatable slime in the
eastern dumps and 135,000 tons more in the
western dumps. Working at full capacity
there is sufficient of this old material to last
until towards the end of next year.
Increased tonnages of crudes raised effected
a big improvement in working costs. In
1919 164,500 tons were raised, in 1921 37,007
tons, and last year 164,955 tons, and costs in
three departments compared as follows: —
1919. 1921. 1922.
Extraction . . 245. 7.1 d. 365. 6.1 d. 225. 11.3 d.
Development . . 3s. 5.8 d. 10.6 d. 3s. 6.0 d.
Treatment .. 9s. 5.3 d. 13s. 10.3 d. Bs. 5.6 d.
375. sls. 3d. 345. 10.9 d.
Each ton of concentrates last year cost £9
16s. 3d., against £l3 12s. 6d. in 1921, and
£9 18s. 2d. in 1919, when output was slightly
smaller. The co.’s greatest handicap is
that, under existing conditions, it can-
not handle tonnages which will assist a
further reduction of costs. Under the Ed-
munds award, which limits underground
hours to per week, the South can dig
out only 40(30 tons instead of 6500 tons it
won in pre-war days. The Edmunds award,
however, was to come up for review when
the Technical Commission had completed
its work. The final report, issued a month
or two ago, was almost entirely favorable to
the cos. Last week N. S. Wales Mines-
Minister Fitzpatrick announced that a bill
is being drafted covering the recommenda-
tions of the Commission, and the cos. are
hopeful that the way will soon be clear to
readjust working hours.
The South paid no divs. during the period
covered by the accounts, so the liquid sur-
plus improved as follows :
Assets other than mine 1919. 1921. 1922.
and plant . . . . £984,326 £783,662 £1,063,652
Liabilities . . . . 240,826 207,561 198,687
Excess assets . . £743,600 £676,101 £864,965
A considerable portion of the liquid assets
comprises shares in other cos., and until
April the management was utilising cash
from production to extinguish an overdraft
—at one stage it amounted to £70,000 —
which had been arranged to assist a resump-
tion of mining operations. The cash posi-
tion had so improved by August that the
first div. for three years, a 10 p.c., absorb-
ing £BO,OOO, was distributed, and a similar
div. is to be paid early in November.
After providing cover for £126,100 of
debentures, the South had the whole
of its paid capital represented by the
surplus of investments, cash, etc., over and
above all liabilities. Some of the assets
included as liquid are interests in cos. whose
scrip values depend on metal markets and
other cr-factors. Among them are the fol-
lowing £1 shares: Associated Smelters,
200,000; Electrolytic Zinc (ordinaries),
150,000; British-Australian Lead Manufac-
tures, 20,000. All are shown at their face
value, but in to-day’s markets are probably
worth a good deal more. In addition to
those investments, War Loan, stores and
stocks of metals, conservatively valued, the
South owned a , very fine plant with a book
value of £720,209 (but against which can
be set the £194,362 depreciation reserve)
and a mine which is still a big affair.
General-manager W. E. Wainwright esti-
mates ore reserves, “available for exploita-
tion,” at 31 million tons; but there are con-
siderable bodies known to exist which are
not included in that estimate. Govern-
ment Geologist E. C. Andrews, in his compre-
hensive survey, “expects a further 1,000,000
to 2,000,000 tons.” Under normal conditions
that assures the South a further long lease
of life; but what profits those tonnages will
give is another matter.
* * * w
Antox, Ltd. —Eighteen months ago a co.
was formed in Sydney to test a process for
producing pigments from antimony-oxide.
Supplies were drawn from the famous gold-
antimony mines at Costerfield (Vic.), and
the mine-owners were so impressed with re-
sults that they decided to join forces with
the pigment-manufacturers. Contracts have
been signed, and a prospectus of Antox,
Ltd., has been issued. It is proposed
to combine the two businesses and secure
additional capital to erect smelting works
at Costerfield, and to manufacture pigment.
Nominal capital is £175,000 in £1 ordinaries,
but divs. on 80,000 of the shares are de-
ferred for the first three years until the
“A” shares have received 10 p.c. in any
year. The public is offered 40,000 of these
preferential shares. The full prospectus is
a lengthy document, and is most comprehen-
sive. Complete reports on processes, mines,
etc., are tendered by experts and figurings
checked by reputable accountants.
The feature of the float is the pro-
posal to manufacture non-poisonous pig-
ments to compete with white-lead and
other mediums which have been the
subjects of international attention in
recent years. The Geneva Convention
of 1921 recommended that white-lead should
not be used for interior painting after
November, 1927, and if that recommenda-
tion is put into force it will affect approxi-
mately four-fifths of the world’s painting.
Analysts and others report that the Antox
Co.’s product is an entirely satisfactory, non-
poisonous substitute for white-lead. The pre-
sent Antox Co. is to get 15,000 of the de-
ferred shares for assets and processes, and
the Costerfield Mining Co. 25,000 “A” shares,
65,000 “B” shares, and £lO,OOO cash (alto-


R. G. WATKINS (& CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL. CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write us for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
GOVERNMENT
m
i
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4% INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3£ % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
Scientific Glassware, Crucibles; Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * * *
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from; 30 per cent, to
45 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps , uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams k Co., Ltd,, Sole Agents, Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [3
Another contributed opinion regarding the intrinsic
worth of Pioneer Wood Pipe is from a municipal
engineer. “Had I known of this five years ago,” he
Said, “it would have saved me hundreds of pounds.”
Pioneer Wood Pipe is far lower in first cost than
metal pipe, has a permanently superior capacity, and
remarkable durability. Write to the Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove; Sydney,
for their free 68-page book. — Advt.
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City— Advt.
* « * *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43 : to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
■roods. — Advt.
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated bv Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydp°v.— Advt.
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire. Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Li\e stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc.. Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
gether £100,000) for mines, machinery, etc.,
which Vic. Government Field-geologist H.
S. Whitelaw values at £104,940. Mr. White-
law further estimates proved ore reserves and
tailings to be worth £298,320, and reports
that quantities and quality assure at least
10 years’ supplies. The Costerfield antimony
mines are notable for the gold content,
averaging 2h>z. per ton concentrate. The
old owners have for many years successfully
extracted the gold by a special process which
will be passed over to the new co. Coster-
field concentrates cost £l5 per ton, but the
yellow metal reduces the cost of the anti-
mony content to £5, and gives antimony
oxide (83.3 p.c.) for £22 ss. 7d. per ton.
The promoters estimate the cokt of produc-
ing and marketing pigment (ground in oil)
at £39 3s. 2d. per ton, giving a profit of
£lB 16s. lOd. with the selling price at £5B.
On a turnover of 3240 tons p.a. they antici-
pate a profit exceeding £61,000, before pro-
viding for depreciation, taxes and directors’
fees.
» * * *
What is it that prompts Prime Min-
ister Hughes to perpetuate the Austra-
lian Metals Exchange? It was understood
some time ago that it was to be abolished,
but the other day the Sydney committee
was re-elected. The Exchange was essen-
tially a war-precaution move, but as such
it is questionable whether it was of the
slightest utility: metals could* not go to
enemies because ships were not available to
carry them. To call it an “exchange” was
an absurd misnomer. It is generally re-
garded as an incubus on industry and an
annoyance to genuine producers. Not one
of the Sydney committee is directly asso-
ciated with metal-production. Mining-men
in all sections have protested against it, and
State Governments have asked for its dis-
solution. To all these representations W.
M. Hughes has turned a deaf ear.
The premium on 391,8380 z. standard gold
sold by the Australian Gold Producers’ Asso-
ciation for the half-year ended June 30 last
was 6s. Bd. per oz. (7s. 3.27 d. fine), which
represented a distribution to members of
£130,612 after deducting all realisation
charges, and £2646 for administration ex-
penses and retaining £22,670 for adjust-
ments and contingencies. The sum of
£16,381 retained during the previous half-
year has also been distributed. The total
amount of premium paid to members on
gold exported and sold by the association
since its formation early in 1919 is
£3,406,856, the average premium per oz. fine
having gradually declined from £ll.os. Bkl. in
the six months ended December 31, 1920, to
7s. 3d. for the past half-year. The average
gross price quoted in London for August was
£4 12s. 4d. per oz. of fine gold, as compared
with an average price during 1920 of £.5
12s. 6d., and a peak price of £6 2s. 4d. in
November, 1920. It is doubtful whether the
premiums of £3,400,000 covered the higher
working costs, but there can be no doubt
that without them gold-mining in Australia
would have become an extinct industry.
•* * * *
Martin Freney, of the Freney Oil Co., has
arrived in Perth with a sample of the core
from 122 ft. in the M't. Wynne borehole, and
has submitted it to Dr. Simpson, State
Mineralogist, for analysis. Ilumors that oil
had been struck in the Nor’-West were appa-
rently founded on the fact that Mt. Wynnj
bore had disclosed asphaltum or bitumen.
Geologists agree that, although a flow of oil
has not yet been struck, the recent disclo-
sure in the bore is evidence that the real
thing should not be far away.
* * * *
Mayor Lathlain, of Perth, has already
sunk a lot of cash in Bremer Bay, and he
is still not downhearted. Capt. de Ilaut-
pick was called in, and he is very confident
of striking oil at Bremer Bay and coal near
Albany. It is now intended to put down
a bore at Bremer Bay to a depth of 800 ft.,
and to prospect for coal in due course.
* * * *
Attempts are still being made in Mel-
bourne to form a co. to test the Narrows,
near Gladstone, for This pro-
position was reported on by K. R. Moure,
and the prospectus was commented on by
the “Wild Cat” recently. It is stated offici-
ally that a geological and drilling staff will
be sent to Gladstone as soon as practicable.
If the attempt is made to locate oil there
it is to be hoped that the field will be given
a genuine chance by having the detailed
structure worked out as a basis for trial
bores. It is not enough for any geologist
to take a few dips and then start drilling.
The area must be classed as a moderately
probable petroliferous basin, as it is of
tertiary age, with oil-shales, clay-shales and
sands rich in organic material and gently
folded. A couple of bores put down in un-
suitable positions may damn the field for
ever. Detailed geological work, which has
not yet been dopg and which should include
a structural contour map of the basin, ought
to precede anv boring.
* * * *
Old Edna May managers Hartrick and
Williams are busy securing Westralian
options for Melbourne. On Hartrick’s advice
Melbourne bought the North Fingall right
out, and he has just completed an inspection
of James’s show, 60 miles from North .Fin-
gall, for a Melbourne syndicate. Williams
breaks new ground by inspecting the recent
Mount Singleton find, well out in the bush
in the southern portion of the Yalgoo field.
Williams states that the find is a promising
one, as gold can be obtained on the surface
for a distance of a mile or so. Melbourne
is being invited to provide the cash neces-
sary to prove the value of the find.
The Golden Promise lease, near Coolgar-
die, which has been taken up by Adelaide, is
giving numerous assays up to 6oz. from its
sulphide lode. Outside the Golden Mile the
West does not put much trust in assay
results from sulphides, possibly because
of the' disappointments which followed the
opening-up such sulphide lodes as the White
Hope.
* * ‘ *
A year ago prospector Bowie took up the
abandoned Turn of the Tide lease, at Meeka-
tharra, which had been worked to water
level, and he has just had treated 7 tons
from below that point for a yield of 28oz.
per ton.
* # * *
The steady decline in returns from Ben-
digo Amalgamated mines is shown in these
figures
Tons. Gold. Average.
1920- . . 95,438 48,1690 z. lO.Oldwt.
1921- .. 94,203 80.6310 z. 6.sodwt.
The last return covered. 13 months. The
average fortnightly outputs were: 1920-21,
3979 . tons; 1921-22, 3360 tons. The last
three fortnightly returns have been: 2553
tons, 8500 z., average 5.95dwt.; 2588 tons,
6170 z., average 4.76dwt. ; 2225 tons, 6170 z.,
average 5.54dwt. —a general average of
5.42dwt. As, according to the official
report, working costs are over 30s. per
ton, there is a serious loss on operations.
The position seems to be that not one of
the co.’s mines is now a paying proposition,
and only one—~Hercules : —indicates any pros-
pect of becoming so on present developments.
Morning Star, Woods Point (Vic.), had
a heavy setback in the share market last
week on the announcement that thy miners
were on strike against award wages, and
that the declaration of a div. had been de-
ferred pending the resumption of work.
Since the co. entered the div. list in April
five distributions of Is. each have been de-
clared, and but for the trouble at the mine
another would have been payable this week.
The average monthly return for six months
past has been about 16500 z. from 1100 tons.
The co. runs a good second to Bendigo Blue.
North Ajax (Vic.) has paid three divs.
from stone going under Bdwt., and that is
good work in these days of low gold-premium
and high operating costs. But manager
Hansen knows his mine. Nearly all the
ore has come from McMillan’s reef at No. 8,
where he has quartz 40ft. wide to draw upon.
As it is patchy stuff, culling has to be done,
so his costs are all the more creditable. Evi-
dently he has some good stuff for divs., and
with the rest he can keep the mine on the
go. Prospecting No. 5, a black slate gives
a hint that if a flat make appears something
nice should be garnered. The middle reef
at No. 6 pans out at sdwt., Han-
sen’s hope of better stone having
been dispelled by a slide in the rise
at. No. 7 bringing the grade down. The
average on the way up from the No. 7 sill
was 6dwt., and to have lost the odd dwt. was
bad luck. However, things have taken a
turn for the better on McMillan’s reef at
No. 7. A poverty-cursed lode-track has
changed into a big make of sdwt. dirt. North
Ajax divs. have just covered the capital of
£23,839, but £150,000 of gold has had to
come from the battery to provide them. The
mine stands in the books at £3300 and plant
at £5201, but wages have gobbled up £88,500,
fuel £19,000 and mine supplies £21,500.
North Biplane, groping - in the diorite
dyke near Harrietville (Vic.), has the good
word that for a length of 400 ft. payable
stone awaits the pick. The width of the
dyke is from 15 to 23 feet, so if costeening
can be lived up to, all in the North Biplane
should be golden. The nigger in the wood-
pile is that, so far, dykes as such have not
paid in Victoria ; the, quartz floors and veins
in the diorite are the profit-givers. Manager
Carter admits this when he says that where
the reef intercepts the dyke high values may
naturally be .looked for. This reef has been
traced on Sulphur Hill, and the co. is tun-
nelling to pick it up at 200 ft. So far
North Biplane is a prospecting go, and suffi-
cient work has not been done to justify talk
of the mine having “a great future.”
* * * *
New Blue, Bendigo, had an improved yield
last week: 675 tons, yielding 3850 z., or a
shade under ll|dwt. per ton. A Is. div.
was declared, the second this month. Dur-
ing the current year the co. has distributed
95., totalling £20,250. A fortnight ago The
Bulletin reported that payable stone had
been struck on a rise over the 1600 ft. level
at 16ft. up, or some distance lower than such
a development was expected. It is now
reported that rich stone is showing in the
rise at 35ft., almost at the exact point at
which it was predicted it would be found.
This indicates remarkable regularity within
irregularity, and absolute accuracy in sur-
vey work. The discovery gives assurance
of a longer period of prosperity.
A Bendigo mine which shows promise of
re-establishing itself is the Ulster, on the
southern end of the Garden Gully line. A
reef of large dimensions is being driven on
south at 1600 ft., and steadily improving
prospects inspire the. hope that the payable
proportion will soon be reached. There is
a large block of unworked ground at this
point. For many years Ulster was a regular
dividend-payer. From the Ulster to the old
Great Southern Garden Gully there is a long-
stretch of practically untried ground, immedi-
ately opposite the productive Blue mines,
and if there be any foundation for the
assumed law of parallelism of ore bodies and
payable sections, this is an area which ought
to be thoroughly prospected.
* » * *
Bendigo managers and their project :
The Mine Managers’ Association of Bendigo con-
sists of a body of men who are nothing if not prac-
tical. They combine, with the experience which
makes them the best miners in Australia, a helpful
knowledge of geology. and surveying and other
sciences. The old school of managers, who “never
had no lamin’,” but who were tigers to work and
to get their men to do likewise, and who were in-
tensely resourceful in making use of primitive appli-
ances, no longer exists. The latter-day , men, if.
they recommend particular lines of prospecting
work, have to advance sound technical reasons for
their advice. Their association, started as a sort
of mutual-improvement school, has become a mining
development organisation. In conjunction with
Government officials they have given' consideration to
projects for testing practically new ground “possessed
of favorable chances of success,” and as the result
of these conferences they have become lessees Of
three areas: (1) Lightning Hill, Eaglehawk, on a
continuation of the Hustlers Reef systems; (2)
Frederick the Great Reef, Sebastian, north of Eagle-
hawk; and (3) the Christmas Reef line, east of the
township of Kangaroo Flat.
As to No. 1, between the most northerly workings
on the Hustlers line and Lightning Hill, there is a
length of three or four miles of untried ground,
which has remained so because there have been no
outcroppings of lodes. Lightning Hill itself has
been rich in patches, but it has not been systemati-
cally tested at depth. The location of the Colliran
crosscourse in this area would be interesting. This
is a most remarkable geological feature: it crosses
all the main-reef formations at California Gully; it
is sinuous, but its general trend is obliquely across
the strike. Wherever it has bisected a main forma-
tion there has been an enrichment in gold—in some
instances the bonanzas of the field have been associ-
ated with it.
Frederick the Great was one of the most productive
mines on the field. Here, again, there is a gap of
several miles to Connect up with the Eaglehawk
reefs. The Christmas Reef line was extensively
worked near the surface in the early days. As the
first two areas must embrace some of the principal
anti-clinal formations, it follows that any payable
discovery on them would be of momentous conse-
quence as affecting the further development of the
field off the Sections which have been “well and
truly tried.”
The basis of the Managers’ Association project is
that the Government shall grant substantial assistance
to local cos. which may be formed to test these
areas, and on the imprimatur of such a body and
the official geologists the Government ought not to
hesitate to make the requisite grants. Bendigo is
entitled to this aid, as hitherto it has been so self-
reliant that not more than a tenth of the money
spent by the Mines Department has been allotted to
■the field or has been sought for. It must not be
assumed that these three areas represent the limit
of the Association's fancies ; they have been acquired
because they have been available. There are others
which they would like to get hold of, but the “watch-
ing and waiting” shepherd is in possession for the
time being.
Carpathia tin (N.S.W.) made a loss of
£1167 during the half-year ended July 31,
increasing the debit balance to £3554. Re-
ceipts from tin totalled £748. Working ex-
penses amounted to £865, other expenses
£5lB, and Federal income-tax £137. What
an anomaly it is that a co. which has been
working at a minimum for two years, and
then at a heavy loss owing to the low price
of metal and high costs, should be called upon
to pay £137 Federal income-tax ! Taxation
officials must have very elastic ideas as to
what constitutes profit. The report states that
all the tailings at Ardlethan worth treating-
have been disposed of. The co. is doing a
little development work which should be
helpful when conditions permit a resump-
tion of productive operations.
Bonnee Tin, at Walwa, near Albury
(N.S.W.), reports the discovery of “the
main shoot of ore showing very rich tin.”
This is a Svdney-owned co. which has been
operating on a large decomposed granitic
formation carrying a low percentage of. tin.
It is supposed to have a mountain of easily
crushed material, which is being nibbled at
by a mouse in the form of a small Hunting-
don mill. Run in this way it is a hopeless
proposition as a profit-earner. On reports,
there ought to be half-a-dozen six-feet mills
at work.
* * * *
After a couple of preliminary runs with
the crushing and concentrating plant at Mt.
Cobalt, Cloncurry (Q.), during which 75 tons
were _ treated, operations were suspended,
principally for adjustments; but the long
dry spell in the Cloncurry district has left
the co. short of water, and until this is
replenished operations will be restricted. The
mainshaft has been continued to 125 ft., and
levels are being driven north and south at
120 ft. Indications for the persistence of
the ore still look highly promising.
The Billy Hughes, floated early in 1921
by Cairns sharebroker Arthur H. Clarke,
is reaching an interesting stage. After test-
ing various properties it was decided to con-
centrate attention for a time on the Fred-
erick lease, where prospects of large bodies
of medium-grade payable ore were bright.
In _the eastern drive, 40ft. in from a depth
of 50ft., sft. of gold-bearing ore is showing
up. The present face assays 2oz. 4dwt.
over a width of 4ft., and alongside is a
foot of rubbly. formation assaying an ounce.
This drive is now being continued, and to
date 40-odd tons have been raised. The ore
going underfoot is heavily mineralised, and
giving promise of values being maintained
at depth. The shaft is now down 73ft., and
at 60ft. passed through a reef 2ft. wide
worth ,‘lOdwt. The shaft is to be continued
to 100 ft., and a drive will then be.put in
to crosscut this reef. A 10-head battery has
been erected, with Wilfly tables, and lately
another complete 10-head battery has been
purchased, together with a boiler powerful
enough to drive 20-head. Within a short
period the boiler should be installed, and the
first 10-head of stampers in going order.


THE CHARITY BALL.
Silks that shimmer —and rags that cling!
Eyes that sparkle —and hearts that ache!
But the cause is excellent. That's the thing.
Can’t you see it’s for charity’s sake?
Can’t you see it’s a charity hop?
Mincing madam and giddy blade,
Giggling flapper and elderly fop,
Met in the merriest masquerade.
Why are you frowning, my wowser friend?
At the carnal pleasures our hunt ton take?
The capers they cut and the cash they spend?
Come, don’t be a nark, man! Think of the end!
Charity’s sake —just charity’s sake.
Glitter and glimmer and gay attire,
Delicatessen and revel and rout — ■
What is it costing? Why inquire?
Something ’ll go to the down-and-out,
The haggard widow, the starving kid,
In the dingy room up the rotting stair.
Did you think them out of it? God forbid!
That’s why these butterfly folk are there.
What will their divvy be? Heaven knows!
A tithe at most, but make no mistake,
They’re met to lighten our weak ones’ woes,
These simpering belles and ogling beaux,
For charity’s sake —sweet charity’s sake.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


2
77
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House,
Sydney.
Olderfleet. Collins Street.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High
W.A.-H. Little £r Co., 851
Melbourne.
St.. Christchurch
Hay St., Perth
“The drink of good taste.”
Delightful with dinner!
Satisfying with supper!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
flOtH
J
0
<
h
J
Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Le\y is a well-
known French chef, whose engine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
William Cook, said to have been a grand-
nephew of Captain Cook, died the other day
at Auckland (M.L.), aged 97.
The new Governor of the Indian provinces
of Agra and Oudh, Sir William Marris, calls
Maoriland his birthplace and Wanganui
College his Alma Mater. He left Cambridge
with a senior-wrangler’s halo about his head,
joined the Indian
Civil Service, and
in nine years was
TJnder-Sec. to the
Government. I n
1906 he was lent
to the Transvaal,
and, among other
things, was Civil
Service Commis-
sioner there for a
while. Returning
to India, he was
the man behind the
Coronation Durbar
of 1912, was later
made Home Secre-
tary and Reforms
Commissioner, and
last year got the
job of Governor of
Assam.
GIBSON YOUNG,
conductor and
organiser of Mel-
bourne’s com-
munity singing.
Charles Gregory Wade, of the N. S.
Wales Supreme Court, had a seizure last
week, and died on Tuesday. At Oxford he
was one of the finest athletes of his day;
and the old University has never turned out
a greater Rugby footballer. Returning to
Sydney, he commenced practice at the Bar,
and was eventually appointed Crown Prose-
cutor. It is doubtful if Australia has ever
known a better. He had the judicial mind
in its most exalted form, and was as careful
always of the rights of the man in the dock
as the latter’s own counsel. As Premier
his heavy and downright manner handi-
capped him —that and his unswerving recti-
tude. He could not play tricks, or show
points, or go otherwise than dead straight.
Though a big man, of powerful physique, his
health was not good, and he was glad to
get out of the stress and strain of active
politics and away to London, where he pro-
ceeded as Agent-General in 1917. He
came back to his Judgeship in 1920, and
in that capacity proved a sound lawyer and
a hard-worker, while he brought to his new
job the same Olympian absence of bias that
had distinguished him in his prosecuting
days. It used to be said in Fhillip-street
years ago that the ideal barrister-politician
would be one possessing Wade’s character
and Wise’s cleverness; but, actually, Wade
was probably the more far-visioned of the
two. His social legislation, and his fiercely-
opposed liquor- and betting-bills were years
before their time in many respects. He was
a devoted family-man, and had been about
at social functions with his wife and mar-
ried daughters within a few days of the end.
“Dido”: One of Marcus Clarke’s most
persistent creditors was the keeper of a
Melbourne shooting-gallery. The normal
charge was only threepence a shot, but
Clarke spent hours at the gallery, firing at
all kinds of objects. He had an odd pen-
chant for shooting at articles like eggs and
clay pipes, held by the confiding owner of
the establishment, who put up his prices in
accordance with the risk he ran. Clarke
owed the gallery £l6 when he died.
“T. 0.1.” : Lord Clifford of Chudleigh (Co.
Devon), now visiting Sydney, was, prior to
succeeding to the title and estates, sheep-
farming in Maori-
land and later in
Tasmania. In ad-
dition to his Eng-
lish title he is a
Count of the Holy
R, om a n Empire,
and is descended
from that first
Baro n Clifford
who, as Lord High
Chancellor of Eng-
land, resigned his
post on the passing
of the Test Act to
the exclusion of
R.C.’s from office.
The first baron was
a friend of the
poet Dryden.
JAS. R.
COLLINS , Sec.
of the Common-
wealth Treasury.
“Lexite” : Peter Board, who is leaving his
job as Director of Education in N. S. Wales,
though due for early retirement, is a product
of the State-school system, and climbed from
the teaching ranks. Becoming Director when
the job was small, he turned it into a big one,
and during the last few years he has been
recognised as the foremost educationist in
N.S.W. But he is a man who believes that
life was made to be lived. Nothing would
keep him from getting away on Friday after-
noon to the mountains; and when the story
of a kid who had passed high exams, at an
extraordinarily early age was brought to
him. he commented: “Poor youngster, he
ought to be sent out to play for a year or
two!” Labor Ministers let him develop his
schemes for general education, and an ina-
bility to get on as well with the present
Cabinet is probably a factor in his having-
asked to be allowed to retire a bit ahead of
time.
“Cobber’s” memory :—•
The driving inspiration of Henry Lawson's earliest
verse was the Republician sentiment he imbibed in
early manhood. This sentiment itself was perhaps
largely a reaction against the over-effusive “loyalty"’
of the ’eighties and the flood of flapdoodle over such
incidents as Queen Victoria’s Golden Jubilee. Lawson,
the ardent youngster with a soul embittered by hard-
ship and on fire with discontent against existing
institutions, naturally took to verse to express him-
self. His first published bit of rhyme—there had
been a couple of rejections before —wa9 accepted in
July, 1887, and Lawson was overjoyed. He had to
wait till October, however, for its publication.
Lawson’s next poetical efforts were “The Army of
the Rear” and “The Wreck of the Derry Castle”
—submitted in a batch. He called at the office
early one morning, thrust them into the hands of a
charwoman, and fled.
“IT.P.”: .Tabez Wright was certainly a
rough diamond, but he was more of a scholar
than one of his Broken Hill constituents
thought. When at the Barrier I was trying
to persuade a Cousin .Tack miner to allow
his son to go to the High School, pointing
out the benefits of a good schooling. “Ed’ea-
tion!” replied the Cornishman. “What’s th
good of ed’eation? There’s .Taby Wright,
been a Mayor, ain’t ’e? Member of Parlia-
ment, ain’t ’e? Well, son, ’e don’t know
‘A’ from the blanky track of a duck!”
Recently-dead David .Tones was connected
with the Bischoff Company at Waratah
(Tas.), from the time Philosopher Smith dis-
covered it, in 1871, until a couple of years
ago. He was one of the party which ex-
plored the far West Coast of the Speck under
Surveyor-General Sprent, and was district
surveyor at Waratah for many years.
“Schnorrer”: Sydney Jewry welcomed a
new minister, the Rev. A. L. Falk, the other
day. He is to relieve the ministers who
have hitherto assisted Rabbi Cohen, the
Revs. Phillipstein and Wolinski, both of
whom are getting old and are shortly to be
retired on pensions. Wolinksi is the father
of the Australian artist. Most of the Jew-
ish ministers in Australia are getting on in
years. One of the Melbourne congregations
lost its pastor when Rabbi Dr. Abrahams
(one of the best Talmudists in the world)
retired, and has engaged the Rev. I. Brodie,
who is to leave England as soon as he gets
his Rabbinical diploma. The Rev. Fried-
lander, of Brisbane, is also to retire early
next year, and Brisbane Jewry is now look-
ing for a new shepherd. The Chief Rabbi,
Dr. Hertz, has the nomination (at the re-
quest of the congregations, and subject to
their decision) in each case.
Dr. Lowther Clarke, killed in a motor
accident at Peterborough (S.A.), had just
left school when his father came to Aus-
tralia as Archbishop of Melbourne in 1902.
He got his first appointment at the hospi-
tal at Kyneton (Vic*.), afterwards practised
on the Westralian goldfields, and had been
at Peterborough since 1911, except for the
four years he spent on active service.
He filled all sorts of local offices, in-
cluding that of churchwarden, steward of
the Jockey Club and Mayor, and the more
he became known the more he was liked
and respected. The widow is a daughter
of Bishop Anderson, of Riverina (N.S.W.).
“Blackbov” : Include Benjamin Benjamin,
knight, and sometime Mayor of Melbourne,
among those of the Chosen Race to wear the
bunny-skins in an Australian capital. An
Irish priest, by the way, in seconding a
vote of thanks to him for presiding at a
meeting, astonished the audience into tumul-
tuous applause by congratulating “Benjy”
upon the “thoroughly Christian manner” in
which his mayoral duties were invariably
performed. “Benjy” took the pill with a
good-natured smile.
“T. 0.1..” takes a backward glance:—
Apropos the little old cottage in Bent-street,
Sydney (B. 14/9/’22). The genesis of the family
that has inhabited it goes back to the 1790’5, when
Francis Oox established himself as a whitesmith
at the waterside, now Circular Quay. He had three
daughters, one of whom became Mrs. W. C. Went-
worth, another Mrs. Bloodsworth (at whose inn in
Sussex-street Francis Cox died in 1836), and a third,
Mrs. Richard Hill, now said to be 100 years old.
Mrs. Cox died in the old cottage in 1847. Dan
Cooper, first baronet, married a Hill; and W. M.
Cooper, third baronet, behaved similarly. Richard
Hill, he who married the third Cox daughter, sat in
one House or the other of the N.S.W. Parliament
from 1868 until 1895. He was 85 when he passed
out.
A. F. E. Norton, grazier, of Walcha,
whose will has just been proved- at £20,595,
was a son of Edward Norton, grandson of an
old-time solicitor, James Norton, of Elswick,
and great-grandson of John Norton, of
Leatherhead and Hastings, England. John
(no relation of the progenitor of Truth)
came to Australia in 1819, and settled on the
Nepean at Norton’s Basin.
“Lexite” : The most notable absentee from
the Eight Hours gathering this year will be
“Jimmy” McGowen, who had not missed a
single procession for 35 years. Even when
Premier he fell in with the Boilermakers’
Union, and did the course to its weary and
crowded end.
“T. 0.1.”: Mrs. Ebenezer Dewar, whose
large estate has gone mainly to charities,
was a daughter of John Benson, who for
many years carried on a pawnbroking busi-
ness adjoining the old Barley Mow Inn in
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. The Benson
shop of the Macquarie era still stands (or
did two months ago). A son who succeeded
to the business was a well-known amateur
magician under the name of Benson Lee.
Mrs. Dewar’s husband was originally a
builder, but an accident on the mountains
made him give up that calling, and he, too,
started pawnbroking in Castlereagh-street
on a spot covered now by Mark Foy’s big
warehouse.
William Chisholm, who, at 81, died the
other day at Ballarat (Vic.), had lived there
since 1852. He was one of the oldest mine
managers in the district, and for some years
bossed the famous Glenfine South mine.
“Bert X Dig.” : I was spelling to-day right
on the remains of the old bush pub. where
McGuiniss McGee got his name. The spot
was originally a part of Jedburgh run
(C.Q.), belonging to J. A. Henderson, and
is now a Government reservation. There
were five of us mustering, and because of
the old associations of the pub ruin, Pater-
son’s “On the Outer Barcoo” was recited
by a half-cast abo., who followed up with
some of Henry Lawson’s verse. He was in
the middle of one of “Benno’s” when the
mail blew along, and I received mv Bul-
r.ETiN of 7/9/’22, which give us the first
news of Lawson’s death. I told the boys,
and five hats were swept off spontaneously,
while from the darky came: “By cripes, boss,
that one plurry good Australian.” Inciden-
tally, the half-caste is called Archibald Bul-
letin Hopkins; but, on account of his various
attempts at verse, the boys know him as
Bellerive.”
Pay Pay”: When Archbishop Sheehan
arrives in Sydney next month he will assist
to establish a new record, for then no less
than four archbishops will be part and
parcel of the Har-
bor city’s human
furniture. There
will be, on the R.C.
side. Dr. Cattaneo
at North Sydney.
Dr. Kelly at St.
Mary’s, and Dr.
Sheehan, most
likely at St. Bene-
dict’s ; whilst Dr.
Wright will attend
to the spiritual in-
tere s t s of the
Anglicans fro m
Darling Point. Out-
side Home there is
probably no city
or province with
an equal weight of
archiepiscopal ton-
nage.
THEODORE
BEGG S, re-elected
M.L.G., Victoria.
“Petronius”: Brice Frederick Bunny (B.
14/9/’22). the old-time Melbourne barrister,
did not use a glass eye; at least, if he did
it wasn’t visible, for he wore a black shade
over the socket, and, though I knew him
well I never caught a glimpse of any arti-
ficial optic. In the ’seventies and ’eighties
Bunny was Vic. Commissioner of Titles, and
lived in St. Ivilda.
“Centurion” on a nobleman with a proper
sense of his dignity : —■
In the argument over the Abercorn peerage (B.
14/9/’22) both parties are right. The dukedom
only dates from 1868, but the earldom began in
Charles ll.’s time. The pure merino of the family
however, was probably the first Marquis, who took
a seat in Heaven in 1818. According to a contem-
porary diarist, “the Owld Marquis” was something
more than God in Ulster. He married a cousin, of
the House of Hamilton, but first obtained for her the
titular rank of an earl’s daughter, to bring her some-
what nearer his level. He never went 'out shooting
without his blue ribbon of the order of St. Patrick,
and the maid who forgot to don white kid giloves
when making his bed was sacked, if detected. After
a year or two of this, the Marchioness decided to
hop it with someone less exalted. Half-an-hour
before she was to meet her lover’s post-chaise, the
groom of the chambers brought her a note on a
salver. The Marquis presented his compliments and
added that, having heard of her intentions, he had
ordered for her a carriage and four, “as it should
never be said that the Marchioness of Abercorn left
her husband’s roof in a hired chaise.”
S.A. Labor party has elected as its presi-
dent Ivneebone, of the Adelaide Herald. By
birth and early training, a Wallaroo copper-
miner, he drifted to Coolgardie in the early
days of the W.A. goldfields, and from the
mechanical staff of the old Miner stepped
on to the Inky Way. When Adelaide started
a Labor daily in 1910 he joined it, soon be-
came editor, and has been there ever since,
except for three years in the High Commis-
sioner’s office in London.
From a Sassenach friend: —
Tighe Ryan, who died suddenly last week, after
exactly a quarter of a century as editor of Sydney
Catholic Press, was a priest in all but ordination.
And, as is often the case in Australia, he was even
more Irishman than priest. Though extremely com-
bative he was physically frail, so that he had to
do all his fighting with tongue or pen. Whatever
side happened to be losing, either at home or
abroad, was good enough for Ryan. He would
support it with his gentle, derisive voice and Irish
accent in any company—but preferably amongst
those who make a habit of being on winning sides.
His favorite sport was leg-pulling—an art in which
his remarkable capacity for keeping an unsmiling
countenance gave him a great advantage—and there
were times, especially during the conscription
campaigns and the height of the Sinn Fein
row,- when his friends feared it would cause
him to be physically assaulted. Though
he bitterly resented attacks •on Roman Catho-
licism, or on institutions run by nuns (all
his sisters were nuns), he was proud of the fait
that he had never written or spoken disparagingly
of any Protestant religion. In this connection the
only people to whom his paper took serious excep-
tion were what it called “shoneen Catholics.”
Orangemen he classed with politicians, as persons
whose activities had no relation to religion. He
could take any amount of jokes at his own ex-
pense ; and, what is more, at the the expense of the
paper he had built up. One of his favorite yarns re-
lated to a Federal Judge, who, innocent of the part
played by the office shears in the editing of the
Press, said: “I always buy your paper, Mr. Ryan.
It is the only Australian journal, so far as I know,
that gets regular weekly contributions from such
writers as Belloc, Chesterton and Massingham.”
Tighe Ryan died, as he would have wished, at St.
Vincent’s Hospital, being confessed by a priest in his
intervals of consciousness.
POETS’ CORNERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Why should we not have in Australia a Poets’
Corner, emulating the one in Westminster Abbey....
not tombs of our bards, but busts?” —Correspondent
in Daily Telegraph.
’Tis true we have no coign for dead Apollos,
No storied shrine within an abbey grey,
Where passing feet may wear the stone in hollows
O’er bards who swept the lyre and passed away ;
No spot where, in surroundings ceremonial,
Rapt worshippers tears from their cheeks may dash
And have a “Rare Ben Jonson” testimonial
Engraved for ninepenie (cash).
No nook is there for sons of song departed
Who gave us music sweet in measure good.
Does the omission show us flinty-hearted ?
Should it be rectified? Perhaps it should.
Meanwhile there always stands —put that to credit —
Hard by where prose and poesy shoulders rub,
And linos, hum, and solemn seigneurs edit,
A poets’ corner-pub.
Builders of lofty rhymes we storm its portals
With modern Hippocrene our clay to wet,
Wo deathless quick, we embryo immortals
Who have no use for harps or haloes yet.
Here’s where our laureates cluster —devil doubt ’em !
Foregathering gregarious in scenes
With nothing that’s funereal about ’em —
Unless it’s dead marines.
Here shall you find the Austral Muses’ suitors
Packed close with morn immediate concern
For fluid, in receptacles like pewters,
Than dust and ashe3 in memorial urn.
No tombs —except, perhaps, to hurry payment,
A placard telling Bung has buried Trust;
No busts —or not, at least, the sort that Gray meant
By “animated bust.”
Brothers, there being as yet no Poets’ Corner
Where, in the light that painted windows throw
On dim sarcophagus, the sombre mourner
May muse upon the fame of us below ;
There being no earthly hope of a Pantheon
When out our names the Moving Finger rubs,
At least upraise, with me, a grateful paean
For poet’s corner-pubs!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


■
m
rnrnm
,*<•****
piiiiiiilj
9JU&U** iffy
to djvzil
CUutxaiUoi


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Every dear little Flower-
sweetly proclaims the charm of its fragrant life and
beauty in the daintiest way imaginable in Lepit s
exquisite Perfumes.
In fairness to one s own good taste, or as a gift to a
friend, nothing is more acceptable than Perfumes such
as these—the pure, natural extracts of the flowers.
Trv the alluring “Fior Di Notte” (Night’s Flowers) Rose D Italia,
Ninfea (Lily ot the Water), or “Chevalier du.Boi (Knight of the
King). Ask to be shown the many other varieties, and also the Lepit
Toilet Soaps and Cremes.
AT ALL GOOD PHARMACIES AND PERFUMIERS.
LEPIT
Perfumes
GATTINO & CO. LTD.
Australian Repressntat ves,
3941 York Street,
Sydney.
LEPIT
From the Fairest
Blooms of Italy.
HAWA||
THt YEAR ROUND PLAYCROUNO
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land ot
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic region..
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Box 241 G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
m
SOCIETY
GRALIC
SPECIAL [?]ESERVE
[?] Whissky.
“Topee”: When is a man drunk 7 Dropped
from a Sydney tram the other day in com-
pany with a gentleman whom I had sus-
pected all along of being blithered. He tore
up his ticket with meticulous care, and
then tried to deposit the fragments in the
bundy clock.
“G.P.’s” pronouncement: —■
It is time chemists were debarred from supplying,
without a doctor’s prescription, tabloids of thyroid
gland, or other animal substances used in medicine,
even in small doses,
such as half a grain.
The latest fad of
fashionable dames who
have a horror of ap-
proaching embonpoint
is to swallow these
pellets by the hundred,
under the delusion
that they are an un-
failing flesh-divester.
As for the more potent
drugs, there are indi-
cations that we require
*a Dangerous Drugs
Act, similar to the
one in the U.lv. There
all prescriptions con-
taining morphia,
cocaine, etc., are im-
pounded by the chem-
ist, and renewal means
another visit to the
doctor. The chemist’s
purchases and sales
must agree, and there
are several penalties
for discrepancy of a
fraction of a grain.
This rigid rule might
be hard on cases cf
cancer or obstinate
facial neuralgia in the
poor, but, on the
whole, the nation’s
healtli would be bene-
fited. I noticed a medi-
cal crank in a recent
high-class English re-
view, pleading for
heroin (a derivative of
morphia) for. poor
man’s asthma, an d
saying that a large
class of people would
either die or go insane
if morphia were with-
held from them. I
believe, on the other
hand, that there is
too much resort to
morphia by doctors, and as for cocaine, the way
asthmatics rush an American quack remedy
used as a spray (a guinea an ounce
was charged during the war) is a shocking com-
mentary on professional knowledge and competence,
I contend that few asthmatics require morphia or
cocaine'--most ot them want surgical treatment
directed to the nose, and no drugs at all.
“Dido”: I noticed at our
picnic to Ballarat that Clifton
declined to go on the lake in
the absurd little puffing-billies
that take excursionists out on
the broad waters of Wendoree.
I had remarked his stern re-
fusal to go with us in the yacht
in St. Kilda a few days earlier.
Now I questioned Fowler.
“Fact is,” said Fowler, “Clif-
ton has a morbid aversion to
deep waters almost akin to hy-
drophobia. It is due to the fact
that he was induced to marry
by reason of his wife saving
him when he fell overboard
from a boat at Williamstown.”
“And is his wife dead?” I
asked. “No,” Fowler replied,
“divorced!”
“Fax” : No Melbourne suburb
is a greater sufferer from postal-
service cruelty than Canter-
bury. A letter addressed “Can-
terbury, Melbourne” (the Mel-
bourne being writ large), has
several bright chances of going
astray, apart from the general
risk of being lost or stolen.
Maoriland gets many of the
missives intended for Canter-
bury, Melbourne, in which case
it is likely to be weeks before
the mistake is rectified, but a
good few of the ill-fated com-
munications go as far as Eng-
land, where Canterbury Cath-
edral lives, and then' the delay
in correct delivery ranges from
three months to the crack of
Doom. Sufferers have almost
ceased to complain. They grow
philosophical. Nobody expects
anything to come of a grievance
lodged against G.P.O. letter-sorters, whose
votes and interest are earnestly desired by
the Government.
“Digger’s Batman”: There are still 5200
war-gratuity bonds unclaimed, 1700 being
the property of , living ex-soldiers —at least,
they were still living when the Defence De-
partment lost sight of them. The rest of
the bonds are due to deceased soldiers’ de-
pendants. In one case, at least, the benefi-
ciary is standing on his dignity. He sent
a letter notifying a change of address, but
his bond was sent to the post office men-
tioned in his original letter.
me letter, so they sa he told me; “and
I’ve told them straight that I’m not going
to tell them what they ought to know
aLeady. It’s up to the cows to find that
letter.”
A MASTER PROBLEM.
“ Ah , it must be very hard to lose one's wife!"
“Very hard , indeed; generally impossible."
“Kobbi”: Historic Jimbour, the Q’bmd
property which has passed into the hands of
one Whippell, of Brisbane, at a figure not
mentioned, digs its roots well down into our
early times. Jimbour and the name Bell
were; for half-a-century, almost synonymous.
The estate, which was selected at a time
when only paupers talked in acres —that is, in
the ’forties —had an area originally of 22
miles by 15 miles. Thomas Bell was the
first of the clan, and his son, Joshua Peter,
one-time Lieutenant-Governor of Queens-
land, and President of Bananaland Legisla-
tive Council, conceived the idea of building
a palatial residence there in keeping with
the familv bank-balance. It cost £30,000.
Joey Bell,' Joshua’s grandson, who used to re-
present the near-by town of Dalby, carried
on the family’s swag until the Government of
the day got the idea of carving the place up
for small farms, and the country residence
was left with a mere, speck of under 0000
acres of freehold.
* * * *
“Lexite” : Stories of epic mills for modern
Helens are heard at times in the Sydney
Divorce Court; but the latest had unusually
valorous features. It concerned not one
combat, but a series, on the part of the hus-
band for the retention of his life-partner.
The first time he caught a tertium quid at
his insidious work, the latter had the
nerve to suggest that they should battle
for the fair—“best man to collar the
stake.” The husband agreed, and showed
himself so much the handier performer with
his fists that the interloper had to be car-
ried off the field —or, rather, out of the back
yard. The idea of having someone to fight
for her appears to have intrigued the errant
wife, for she brought along more lovers, and
the knightly combats near the woodheap be-
came the sensation of the neighborhood.
Pour successive gallants were belted out
by the man in possession, but when his eyes
fell on the 6ft. 4in. of solid muscle and
thick ear upon which his wife’s roving fancy
had finally lighted he gave it best, and
made a bee-line for the family lawyer. It
was a case clearly of divorce or death, and
who shall blame the game fellow in that he
elected to live?
jr * * *
Perth note, penned before the five-weeks’
hold-up of newspaper presses terminated:—
The linotypers’ strike has caused much loss and
a paralysis of many activities. Auctioneering and
land-agency have been about settled, and
Rouses of entertainment have wilted. Melba,
D’Alvarez, Wirths’ Circus and the Royal Comic Opera
Co. are among the sufferers. Two small make-
shift dailies have appeared, and sell like hot
cakes. The Kalgooulie Miner, with a fine cable
service, is only a day off, but as some damnark has
ordained that no more of these may be sent to
Perth than before the strike, a Miner owner is
much sought after just now. Bill-posting and
delivery of dodgers are in vogue to an extraordinary
degree, and sandwich-men are in demand and in com-
mission. Some business houses have a budget of
news garnered from the Eastern dailies wired each
day, and this is pasted in shop windows. Owing
to absence of trustworthy news in the early stages
all kinds of alarming rumors gained currency. The
most popular was to the effect that Ger-
many and France were at war. Valera and Rory
O’Connor were assassinated several times, and the
German mark reached 100,000 to the quid.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.” disinters more ancient history:—
Apropos the mutiny on the Lady Shore when bound
for Australia a century and a quarter ago (B.
14/9/’22). The officer in charge of the women
convicts and some of the men was a subaltern of
the N. S. Wales Corps, Ensign William Minchin,
aged about 22, who had his wife with him. They
were placed in the long boat with purser Black
and others. Major Semple, the “notorious swindler
of the day,” did not join the mutineers, though
they offered to make him their leader. Minchin
reached England safely, and again sailed to join his
corps. He was the lieutenant who arrested Bligh
in 1808, was police-magistrate in Sydney, and had
a grant of land on the Western-road, still known
as Minchinbury—where the champagne comes from.
His only daughter married Henry Howe'y, a pioneer
of Melbourne, who, with his family, was lost on a
v oyage from Sydney to Melbourne in the late’thirties.
“Yer de Gris”: During a recent sitting,
the library adjoining the courthouse at
Darwin might easily have been mistaken for
the greenroom of a theatrical company in
poor circumstances, or a training college for
quick-change artists. The town sports but
two barristers, and each was to be seen
alternately rushing into court, bewigged and
begowned as herebeforeinafter prescribed by
law, and then, having said his say,' dis-
appearing through an inner door like a rabbit
going to earth. It was noticed that, though
both were appearing in the case, they were
at no time in court simultaneously. The
explanation, after all, was simple. No. 1 had
left his legal raiment at home. No. 2, with
fine professional generosity, was sharing the
indispensable duds with his learned brother.
Consequently, while one lawyer robed in the
library and hurried into court to address
the Bench, the other, being legally naked,
kept his ear at the keyhole to hear what his
opponent was saying till his own turn came.
A Darwin resident who is well up in the
Scriptures said that it reminded him of the
wise virgin, who brought the overcoat, giving
away cloak and wig also, in order to be
smitten and turn the other cheek, thus ful-
filling the law and the profits.
“Silas”: I have discovered a new art —
that of carving with the axe. There is a
doorpost to a hut at Brookside (Vic.), some
previous occupant of which has carved from
top to bottom with a sharp axe blade. The log
is a good-sized, clean-grained piece of fiddle-
back, and the artist has covered it with
whorls and gum-leaves and gargoyles, as
,laps carve walking-sticks —all coarsely
done, yet with such spirit and verisimilitude
OUT OF TRAINING.
“Why didn't you say ‘thank you' for that
box of chocolates Mrs. Brown gave you
to-day?"
“I expect it's 'cause I don't get things
given to me often enough to practise."
that the log deserves a place in any museum.
It is true that almost every tool much
handled by man evolves an art, and it was
to be expected that the wood-cutter would
become a wood-carver in due time.
(Continued on page IS.)
THE QUAKING ISLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The postmaster at Tokaanu has telegraphed to
the secretary of the Post Office stating that since
early on Sunday morning over 103 eartnquakes have
been felt at Tokaanu. Last night the position eased
somewhat, and only about five ‘shakes’ took place.
The residents are not at all perturbed, and state
that past, experiences have been similar.” — Welling-
ton (M.L.) item.
Did ever you hear of the Shaking Isles,
The rickety-rockety Quaking Isles?
They rest, ’tis said,
On a burning bed
Beneath the ocean’s heave and roar.
An island pair with a shifting shore.
They lift by night and they dip by day,
And rock your roof in a joking way;
'l’hey jolt you up and they jolt you down,
And send a shock through the dozing town —
These shivery, quivery,
Shake-your-livery,
Aching, quaking, breaking Isles!
Did ever you hear of the Heaving Isles,
The “Bid good-bye for we’re leaving’’ Isles?
They rose one day
To the sunlight gay ;
But tied just now to an anchor-chain,
They tug and tug to get free again.
And no one knows when he draws the clothes
At night o’er his head and his wint’ry toes
If morn again will see him alive,
Or dipping down in a daring dive
With the shiver}', quivery
Shake-your-livery,
Jolting, volte-ing, bolting Isles.
Did ever you hear of the Leaping Isles,
The “Do you in while you’re sleeping Isles” ?
They lie in wait
At the Southern Gate;
And when they’re manned with a spanking crew
They’ll drift away to a possie new ;
And no one knows if they’ll e’er come back
And throw their blaze on the olden track,
Or drop plumb down to the whence-they-came—
NO NEED TO TRAVEL.
S HE: "The doctor tells me I need a change of climate."
H E: “ You’ll get it. The barometer's falling."
Be drenched in sea or consumed in flame —
These jiggety-joggety,
Rickety-rockety,
Doubling, troubling, bubbling Isles;
These burning, turning,
Deep-sea churning,
Aching, quaking, breaking Isles!
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


TAILORING
SUMMER SUITINGS
for the
CUP.
Note—Eight Points of Leviathan Tailoring
r— Have Them in Your Race Suit=7,
1. Snugly-fitting collar.
2. Perfect-fitting shoulder.
3. Smartly-shaped lapel.
4. Non-creasable fronts.
5. Defined waist.
6. Symmetrically-shaped hip.
7. Non-baggy knees.
8. Perfect fit guaranteed.
QUALITY SUITS
Men! The Leviathan can suit you. These materials have not been
sold at this low price since 1914. An immense stock of New All-Wool
English and Scotch imported suitings—bought during a heavy drop
in the markets —enables us to offer
them at this price. TO ORDER
£,7)17(6
Best Worsted Suitings
Just in time for your Cup suit comes this special offer. These
English and Scotch Worsteds are the best the world produces, in
newest Glen Checks of browns and greys, with smart pencil lines in
contrasting colors. Also the famous Wedgwood
Blues and Clerical Greys. A suit tailored in these
materials will give you a reputation for smartness
and good taste. TO ORDER
£10(10
Special Self-measurement Form and Chart,
including Tape, sent Free on Application.
Order by Post.
We Pay Carriage .
gs
Pty.
Ltd.
Corner Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
N
x X
<
yf'
X
m
i
-"Sf*
(x
I
OUR
GUARANTEE
The Leviathan Pty., Ltd.,
Guarantee absolute satis-
faction to the purchaser,
who has the option of re-
turning any goods that
are not considered in strict
accordance with the de-
scription. Provided they
are immediately returned
in good condition the
money will be refunded
in full.
s +*
O'
jS 1 V> ~S
* /> •••''-
•••>'
<s* </ 0 N 4 V ••


Further Price Reductions
In the Well-known and Reliable
ELGIN LEVERS
at STEWART DAWSON’S.
The Famous “ELGIN” Watch has
been before the Public for years, and the
name itself is synonymous with dependa-
bility.
■I
Prices from £4 4s.
In Ten-Year Gold- Filled
Hunting Cases - - - - £4 4
In Twenty-Year Gold-Filled
Hunting Cases - - - - £6 0
In Twentyfive-Year Gold-
Filled Hunting Cases - - £7 0
Also in 9ct. Gold - - - - - £ll 10
And in Sterling Silver Cases £4 10
0
0
0
0
0
STEWART DAWSON & CO. (N.S.W.) Ltd.,
185-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET;
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER; SYDNEY.
“Norbell”: How the word “Digger” is
mishandled and soiled with ignoble use!
Advertisements in the Sydney trams now
urge smokers to sample a new brand of pipe
because it is “Made by French Diggers.”
Has any human being ever heard of an
Aussie poiluY
EXACTLY.
HIM: “That’s like that funny story about
the actress.”
SHIM: “What teas that?”
HIM: “Ha! Oh! Cm! I’ve forgotten!”
SHIM: “You mean you've suddenly remem-
bered.”
“Topee”: My tramniy friend spoke, in
bitterness of spirit, as his more or less
empty juggernaut rattled through space:—
“Me sister-’n-law has been three weeks embroidering
a garter. Told the missis that it would be Christ-
mas before she finished the pair. ‘No pair,’ she says ;
‘she only wants one for the tram!’ ” I asked him why
women always rushed the smokers. “Oh, smokers
are mostly in front, and they think they dodge the
dust, for one thing; but mostly because the men
don’t take much notice what they’ve got on, while
the women lamp one another as soon as they get on
board. If they feel they ain’t up to the mark
as regards clobber they take the smoker;
but if they’ve got on their new creeper-
sheen, they get in with the other Toms fast
enough.” Asked to suggest a remedy, he shook his
head. “There ain’t any hope for the blokes till the
Commissioners fit up the non-sinokers with mirrors.
F-e-e-z!”
“Lux”: Officialdom is nothing if not thor-
ough. A friend of mine, after nine years of
casual employment by the Victorian Rail-
way Dept., applied for a permanent job.
THE EXPLANATION.
“I think Joan has such a pensive look lately.”
“ You're wrong. That's her expensive look. She hasn’t hacked a winner for weeks.”
After going through an examination in a
number of irrelevant subjects, including the
answering of such questions as the true
compass direction of Bagdad from Baar,
and whether Nero was a competent violin-
ist, or merely a musician in the kerbstone
class, he received the following offi-
cial notification : “In respect to your appli-
cation for permanent employment, please
note that your application has had due con-
sideration, and lias been rejected for the
following reason : That you have not been
selected.”
•* *• * *
Two Melbourne lads got the shock of
their young lives the other Sunday. In a
fine spirit of adventure they had walked
100 yards into a big storm-water drain that
outlets on Brighton beach. There they dis-
covered a cross drain wrapped in darkness,
and before turning to the right they struck
some matches. The next discovery was
interesting: a tall man had seemingly
gone into that dark cross-road for a
nap. The boys struck some more matches,
and tlwn they did the fastest 100 yards that
has ever been put up in a drain-pipe; for
they did the distance on the wings of horror.
Also, they returned to light with the most
ashen ohe'eks on record. The lengthy recum-
bent form had been dead more than two
months. Those boys have no wish for further
explorations on Sunday. Any broker’s clerk
who goes to great trouble to hide himself
before committing suicide can have his quiet
seclusion all to himself, as far as they are
concerned. They wouldn’t follow an ice-
cream cart up another drain.
“Moralist”: Here’s a bathing romance—
without a woman in it. During the sum-
mer of 1915. a Yank, who had been im-
ported by the B.H.P. to show the local
talent how to make steel, got into difficul-
ties in the surf at Newcastle. Finally, lie
was hauled out in a thoroughly-saturated
condition by a strange youth. When the pair
had got some of the ocean out of their
systems, the grateful Yank spluttered : “Say,
you come right over to the works. I’ll get
you a jarb.” The rescuer, a newsboy and
race-book vendor, gladly seized the chance
of improving his status in the industrial
world. To-day he is an expert at the big
plant drawing £3O a week.
* * * *
“Ding Bbat”: Those deaf telegraphists
whom “Senejos” found could work their
tickers without inconvenience (B. 17/8/’22)
are no marvels. Anyone with middle ear-
deafness can hear over telephones, etc.
Again, these men may have no structural
defects, hut merely a sluggish, nerve-trans-
mission from ear-drum to brain. The range
of tone from a telegraph-sounder, which is
limited and reiteratory, wears a track, as
it were, and so minimises the subconscious
effort of comprehension. The constant, un-
varying neutral vibration has a pernicious
effect, however, and that is why telegraphists
are so often neurotic. The statistics quoted
by “Senejos” are slightly underproof, for
the speed required by the Telegraph Depart-
ment is 20, 25 and 30 words per minute,
according to rating. The difference may not
sound very great, but more jimjams result
from a few years of high-speed telegraphy
than are to be found in a tankard of wood
alcohol. The Wheatstone automatic trans-
mitter carves out a mere 200 words per
minute between Sydney and Melbourne, but
it can get spare nerve parts. The Murray
Multiplex, which is now being given a
flutter, averages only 4U words per
minute to the channel, yet, by multiplying
eight channels to the line, breaks the record
with an aggregate of 320 words per minute.
The day of manual telegraphy is nearly
done, and a good job too, for it is an in-
human business.
“X2X”: The hard-heartedness described
by “Vulangi” as a characteristic of the
Hindu (B. 31/8/’22), is not peculiar to
that race, but is an attribute of all primitive
people. I have seen a crowd of New Guinea
natives unconcernedly watching an intimate
friend drown in a lagoon—or he would have
drowned if I hadn’t pulled him out. The
native races of New Britain and New Ireland
are even lower in the scale when help or
sympathy are demanded. A Pacific Islander
who has lost a near relation will howl his
head off with grief for a couple of hours
after the event, and then forget all about
it, so that a day or two afterwards it has
passed from his memory that he ever owned
such a relation. The lower one goes down
the scale, the stronger do such purely basic
emotions as self-preservation, anger and lust
appear. “Vulangi’s” nigger was more con-
cerned with his own interests than those of
the lady who had been carved up by her
husband. The explanation of his case was
not that he had been forced into flinty indif-
ference by centuries of oppression, but that
he was not sufficiently developed, on the
imaginative side, to have evolved those
humanitarian qualities which am prominent
in the Caucasian races.
“Dido” : In Melbourne the clergy are tak-
ing much credit for having outed the tote,
and it is true that the Church is deserving
of whatever encomiums the occasion demands.
It speaks volumes for the never-ending
pusillanimity of elected persons that the
clerics succeeded in their perverse aim, in
preferring the living, mortal, meaty sinner
to the automaton that does no wrong by
design or with malice aforethought. In
accepting the sinner McShortodds, who may
fry in Gehenna’s furnaces eternally, and
repudiating the tote, which has no soul to
be egregionsly damned, the cloth displays a
kind of malice one does not associate with
the message of mercy. But, after all, it is
the vacillating and timorous M.P. whose
time-serving disposition and poltroonery are
responsible for the failure of the last attempt
to establish the tote in Victoria. These
gentry invariably mistake the voice of the
parson for the utterances of God and of the
people, and their horror of opposing the
Church, springing-from a foolish fear of
consequences at election time, permits of
the clerics holding and exercising a power
in the political field that is denied them
elsewhere, even in their own churches, where
they are weakest. It is an invidious thing
that the clergyman who preaches on Sun-
day to a beggarly array of empty pews, and
whose influence is almost nil in every other
walk of-life, can intimidate politicians into
direct opposition to the avowed will of the
vast and powerful majority. The loud
noise of the brazen band is still as effective
as it was when it levelled the walls of
Jericho.
* * * •
“Yardley”: Edward 111. issued an edict
commanding that all legal proceedings in the
royal Courts should be
conducted in English,
but the intervening 560
years have apparently
been all too short for the
legal fraternity to get
rid of the hybrid jargon
of the Normans or the
dog-Latin of Bumbledom.
I wonder what propor-
tion of people can make
head or tail of the words
addressed to the Court
when they seek protection
of the Crown, or are
arraigned to answer an
accusation by it. The
mainstay of justice is
that every prisoner, every
plaintiff, every defendant
and. every witness shall
accurately and fully un-
derstand the trial in
which he is interested.
llow many do? Either
both Bench and Bar
should be compelled to
use the King’s English,
or the walls of every
court should be inscribed
with six-inch letters pub-
lishing interpretations of
all the extracts from dead
languages likely to be
wedged into a case. “You
shall be hanged by the
neck until you are defid”
is good enough as an in-
timation to a prisoner
that his life is demanded,
but in most proceedings
a whole rigmarole of poly-
glots is trotted out to
mystify the public and en-
rich the profession. A generation ago the
educated widened the gulf between them-
selves and the illiterate, wherever possible,
by ostentatious parades of Latin and Greek.
The publication of cheap books of quota-
tions killed that form of intellectual snob-
bery. Only the Law sticks to the old fool-
ishness ; and the fact that the posture: is
a matter of business rather than of pride
and vainglory makes it no more endurable.
* * * *
“W.P.D.”: “Ex-Jackeroo” (B. 31/8/’22)
is hardly fair in stating that in 1918, when
Italian recruiting-officers arrived at Innis-
fail, the Italians there and at Mou-
rilyan fled to the scrub to avoid military
service. The truth is that in 1918 Dr.
Fiaschi, of Sydney, was deputejd by the
Italian Government to visit the Northern
sugar areas, in order to find out whether ainy
Italian settlers there would go on active
service. A few —half-a-dozen, maybe—got
frightened and bolted, but the great majority
certainly did not. I don’t think that Dr.
Fiaschi had any power to compel the men to
go to the war. It is also worth remember-
THE LOST COMMISSION.
“Could you paint a portrait of my wife?”
“I could.—and a speaking likeness at that.”
“Then, don’t do it.”
ing that Italy was not fighting Germany,
and did not even declare war against Austria
out of any particular love for the Allies, but
because Austria seemed to be getting the
worst of the fighting against Russia, and
Italian Ministers thought it a good chance
for recovering the Trentino.
HE LINE OF DEMARCATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Footscray Council has refused the Sunshine Pipe
JJand permission to practice in the local reserve on
Sundays. Councillor Somebody said he feared it
was intended to create a Continental Sunday in
r ootscray. He was not a wowser, but he felt that
a line must be drawn somewhere.” —Melbourne press.
Jhe man who’s “not a wowser,” and whose views
are just as “broad”
As is proper and consistent with devotion to the
Lord ;
Who thinks himself a devil whilst behaving like a
lamb,
And mutters “Botheration!” if his fingers get a
jamb ;
i'o him the Scawtish Sabbaths much too sad and
solemn seem,
M hilst a Continental Sunday is the opposite extreme;
He’s a friend to all the virtues, but no special friend
of mine,
Is the man who’s not a wowser, but has got to
draw the line.
You behold him in the pulpit, on the platform or
the street;
In any shop or office he’s a man you often meet;
You may chance to hear him talking, at a soda-
fountain bar,
Of the worldly pleasure-seekers who are apt to “go
too far” ;
And even in a playhouse where the Bard is being
played,
You find him facing danger, looking pale, yet undis-
mayed ;
There’s a stiffness in his whiskers, which you know
to be a sign
Of the man who’s not a wowser, but has got to draw
the line.
Oh, the picture-shows are vetoed on the so-called Day
of Rest,
When the sins of well-fed sinners are by Litany
confess’t;
And pubs are closed and concerts are prohibited
because
We might be always happy were we never made to
pause;
We get no Melbourne paper, and the Institutes are
shut,
Where Cood books sleep neglected with their drowsy
leaves uncut;
For the light of Due Restriction in this wicked
world must shine,
Says the man who’s not a wowser, but has got to
draw the line.
The little moral difference ’twixt Tweedle-dum and
-dee
Is something I have looked for, but have ever failed
to see ;
The bigots and “broad-minded,” who have scruples
on the brain,
I try to choose between ’em, and I always try in
vain.
In their daily ways and habits, as they cruise about
the Nile,
Does the alligator vary from the tearful crocodile?
Like as fragrant honeysuckle to the clihging sweet
woodbine
Is the plain, unvarnished Wowser to the Man who
draws the line.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


EKar*_-<
SWfcS?
„•. at ... x
■
, V
■
'
■ \
H ~r
I s !
saw
r
y*ak
‘iONOfcO WAMHOyH,
■
ir
v
' % &
■V *
&
•S 5
?} ~*
.s;
s' x. a
S$
■' :■"
lnM4:
M
*'%
%
s;
SwIKKK
®Ssf fc
SMS
, - ' .* }Mv7r
. ”’ A'S-, J
K3S$
r,:?
■
>.'V*
*•
&
•;„ ••
■mfi
W
Wf' t Eg
v :,-
m
,
mmmi
itM.
mm
. ■
s> A
m
a.! ■ i
• .
r-Zri<B***#X* ■ *<■«*»* ■->'.■■-
m
m
mm.
%
’ • ’
M'S
Ste
&mws.
• • i
" * •
/CMM./v- , / / w .^-,
&&UX3S#*
-ii^
Steals.
£'iSWI
SI
M
■
,»as«
ws
WSWtaJT-; - . tax
ssm
taCSS
\ ‘ .'*< t ' \ Z%»
j •■ . v
HNP,
ss
.*S» I 'V*',,;--,;4
■
, f/We/KMU +~#OSS-o/'7
; V-V W^
§ll
ME
■
IS
- f v- • ''
"to
ia


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-06 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
King George IV
I\IIW JR WHISKY
M,
The TOP NOTCH scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
ALEXANDER & SON^LTQ
BRISBANE & SYDNEY
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“G. Ron”: Tell “Tom Sand” (B. 7/9/’22)
that red and grey kangaroos are about as likely to
mate as a frog is to have a litter of kittens. The
bucks and does he saw flirting on the plains west o’
Darling were of the same species. The red ’roo’s
missus is almost invariably a slate-blue merging
into a bricky-red along the centre of the back and
at the flanks, and often white about the waistcoat
and belly. The old man is always a terra-cotta red
HIS HANDICAP.
ASYLUM WARDER: “He has an impediment in his speech."
VISITOR: “I thought that they were all dumb here?"
WARDER: “Yes; hut he’s lost one of his fingers."
This species is found on open plains interspersed with
scrub and never, unless driven there, in thick bush
or hilly country. On the other hand, the grey fellow
invariably haunts the dense —preferably heavily tim-
bered—bush. Red ’roos and their blue mates are
much more heavily built in the fore-quarters, have
blunter and heavier snouts, bigger jaws and more
ungainly heads than the bush greys. The latter have
heads more like wallabies’ in shape. Incidentally,
they have a much darker flesh and are more timid
than the brick-colored plain dwellers. There are
many other points of fundamental difference. It is
among the reds that the freak white is sometimes
found.
• « « •
“Saaedi”: While “Pick” (B. 7/9/’22) is
fairly right in saying foxes are lacking in stamina,
he speaks through his old shako when he asserts
that any stockhorse can wheel Reynard off a wire-
fence. I’ll back brer’ fox to beat “Pick” on any
horse in a four-furlong flutter for a wire-fence, and
that not through pace, but by clever side-stepping.
Reynard is the original Artful Dodger, and, when
chased, will watch his pursuer closely, twisting this
way and that, at angles too sharp for a horse
travelling at top speed to emulate. Again, “Pick’s’
insinuation that our undesirable immigrant is a com-
plete coward is rather refuted by the scars exhibited
by many old dog-foxes.
* * * *
“The Stranger”: An Irish setter, owned by
C. Peterson, Waikonaiti (M.L.), and a recent prize-
winner at Dunedin Show, the other day gave birth to
a litter of 16. Nine months previously she showed
her contempt of the race suicide crowd by giving
birth to 13, making a total of 29 within a year.
This is surely a maternity record of the first mag-
nitude.
* * » *
“The Overlander”: A few years ago, on
Warenda station, near Boulia (N.-W.Q.), Schofield’s
team of seven fought a bush-flre all one night, and
in the morning, when the weather grew stormy and
the wind started to blow in a choppy kind of hurri-
cane, they abandoned the fight. On their road back
lightning set fire to the grass pretty well all round
them. The wind made it impossible to burn the
grass away from them, and the only way of escape
seemed to be through the flames. A waggonette with
four horses attached and four men aboard made a
dash. The animals swerved, then stuck up, and amid
the screaming of horses and men the whole outfit
perished in a miniature Hades. Reardon, who was
on horseback, spurred his colt at the flames. The
colt propped ; the man died in the Boulia hospital
about a week later. Charley Con'y, the second
mounted man,'put whip and spur to his neddy and,
facing the inferno like a charger of yore, the game
old prad struggled through, the flames to the burnt
ground beyond. Corry lost his hair and beard, and
the nag his mane and tail; but they lived. The
third mounted man took a different route, and got
through unscathed.
* # # #
“W.D.G.”: Is this anywhere near a
record? A friend of mine Shot 66 kangaroos at a
tank on Packsaddle station (N.S.W.) one night last
summer, using a single-barrel shotgun. 11c reckoned
he “might ’a’ done better if the flamin’ skeeters
hadn’t been so bad.”
* » * *
“F.H.R.”: Queer accidents, is it? A man
in New England (N.S.W.) fell forward from the seat
of his plough, and the horses not only killed him,
but practically buried him on the spot. In Vic.
some years back, a man,
in climbing over a newly-
strained wire-fence, slipped
with his foot between the
two top wires. His body
fell forward, and, his foot
catching, he was suspended,
head downwards, until he
died. Arid, of course, you
remember the boundary-
rider who stood on the
saddle and put his arm in
a hollow tree-limb after a
young parrot? The horse
shifted, the arm stuck fast,
and after enduring untold
agony the man got out
his pocket-knife and hacked
the arm off at the joint,
only to die from loss of
blood. These are facts —
all appeared in the press
at the time of their hap-
pening.
“Black Apple”: Re
the bower-bird’s color pre-
dilections (B. 31/8/’22).
Last Spring a couple of
satin bower-birds built a
playhouse in the park not
a quarter of a mile from
the Wingham (N.S.W.)
post office. Blue seemed
to be their favorite color.
There were lots of pieces
,of blue glass and red-
and-blue parrots’ feathers
around the entrances, also
red berries ; but no brown
of any sort. The bower
ran nearly north and south.
It was visited by hundreds
of people, and there was a
well-defined track around
it made by sightseers. This
year the birds have built
a new one, and I am now
experimenting with their
fancy play-toys.
“Ned Kelly”: Has any Abo. ever come
across a Chow swaggie? I did, in the Broome
(W.A.) district, some years back. The average
Chow', when shifting camp, carries his belongings in
two baskets hanging from a pole across his shoul-
ders, or in a bundle in his arms, but this one had
Matilda —and she was no lightweight—properly
rolled, and swung in the correct mariner. Also, he
was carrying a nosebag and leading Little Billy.
He was making for Darwin.
“Snell”: There are terrors greater than
death. Gill was a very despondent man. Selina
Meeks, whom he had been courting, died when it
seemed that Peter’s suit was successful, and then
his bees would not prosper, his fruit would not
ripen, he contracted neuritis, and his dog was killed
in a trap. Poor Gill’s troubles were too great to
be borne, and all Beeville predicted his early
STOUT WORK.
“ 'E dusn’t tell me Jackie's gon’ an' won the Married Miners' race."
"Iss you; 'e won it bootifully; 'e won it by a tummy's length."
demise. Peter himself was of much the same opinion.
It was Long heard Peter Gill’s yell, and Long saw
him come floundering out of the river and run up
the bank, where he fell in abject terror. When Long
joined Peter he was panting on the ground. “A
snake!” he said. “A big brute of a tiger-snake
across a bit of wood afloat in the water.” “But
what were you doin in the river?” Long demanded.
“I was committin’ suicide,” Gill explained. Cleopa-
tra’s death, 1 contend, is the most unnatural thing in
history or fiction.
“Put”: It looks as though “C.L.N.’s”
cattle that get the slacker habit on dried pear (B.
17/8/’22) are a breed unknown in this district
(Miles, Q.). But I think, if he watches a little
more closely, he'll find it’s the fruit that causes
their downfall. The pear falls to the ground and
ferments, and once a beast starts licking that up
even “Pussyfoot” couldn’t lead him back to the
straight and narrow path.
* * * •
“Aristide”: “Ack F. P.’s” par. (B.
</9/’22) recalls a novel sport (!) that 1 was intro-
duced to last summer. A car fitted with a powerful
spotlight, and carrying a party with shotguns, sets
out along a country road on a dark night. The spot-
light is worked to and fro across the road, and when
a rabbit or hare is located it is fixed on him.
Bunny becomes so dazed, that be either stays (stock
still or runs towards the car, making an easy target
for the shooters. One party—three guns and a driver
—accounted for 29 hares and about 30 rabbits in
three hours. The sport will lie short-lived however,
as several cockies along the route received trousers-
full of shot, and, curiously enough, they are making
quite a noise about it.
* * * *
“ J.H.C.” : Re “M.F.’s” thousands of mut-
ton-birds always in Macquarie Harbor, Tas. (B.
31/8/’22). I lived for 20 years in and around the
harbor and on the “wet” coast of Tassy, and never
saw mutton-birds in any number outside a barrel
further south than Cape Grim. “H.V.E.” (same
date) is nearer the mark in naming the Northern
Pacific as the other home of “Mutt.” Many times
I’ve been on the islands and have been crossing the
straits when the birds were arriving. They always
came in cloud-like formation from the north, not
south or west, as would be the case if “M.F.” was
correct. Lord knows what “M.F.” did see, but I’ll
eat all the mutton-birds he can got at Macquarie
Harbor, and I love ’em like a kid does castor-oil.
* * ■* *
“Ack Pip Beer”: “Ey Emma Ey” (B.
7/9/’22) apparently hasn’t used a heliograph much
in Australia. I also juggled one through the Sinai-
Palestine campaign, and for 12 months have been
teaching the young idea the mysteries of it on
Saturday afternoons. There’s no comparison be-
tween helio-working over there, where you’ve always
got good sun, clear sky and easy lay of the country,
and in Australia, where the sun, though apparently
strong, is not as good for this work. Apart from
obstructions in the matter of trees, etc., it’s 10
times harder to do any effective work here because
the slightest cloud will block the light altogether,
and seldom does the sun stay out long enough to do
much work. Incompetence is, of course, the cause
of 99 per cent, bad working; but, all the same, the
helio is too indefinite a means of communication to
be of much use. Regarding distances, they used a
helio from Cairo to Australia Hill, about 90 miles
as the crow flies, in 1916.
* * * *
“0.Y.D.”: Some little time ago, while I
was burning off, about
6.30 a.m., my two
dogs—a kangaroo slut,
Gyp, and a fox-terrier,
Simmie—set out after
a kangaroo-rat. I took
no notice beyond that
1 thought it was the
end of the rat. At
breakfast - time Gy p
came up the steps into
the dining-room, whin-
ing piteously. I put
her down-stairs, but in
a few minutes she was
back again, kicking
up a deuce of a row.
Missing the little dog,
I said to my com-
panion that it looked
as though Simmie was
in trouble, and that
Gyp was trying to tell
us, so we followed her.
She led us downstairs,
jumping about franti-
cally the while, then
out the back gate,
turned sharply to Jthe
right, carried on tr>r
about 100yds., then an-
other turn. Keeping
just ahead, she led us
into the front paddock,
and, apparently know-
ing that we could not
now misunderstand her,
she made a bee-line
for a hollow log about
half-a-mile away. We
followed, and, with
much barking, Gyp
told us the little chap
was in the log. So he
was, and he couldn't
get out, till we cut a
hole and freed him.
Don’t tell me dogs can't think after this.
“Cartot” on a bovine scandal:—<
Some months ago a farmer in one of the Rivcrina
districts of Vic. noticed that a young heifer was
unmistakably in calf, though he was positive that
at no time in her life had she ever been in the
vicinity of a bull—there was not a bull anywhere in
the district. About three months afterwards the
heifer was delivered of an immature, badly-fornied
calf, which was born dead. The local explanation
is that in some undiscovered manner the heifer wax
visited by a bull; but I’m inclined to think, in
view of what I know of the matter, that it is one
of the very few recorded cases of parthenogenesis
(conception without the aid of the male) in One
of the higher animals. Among the lower animals
this is comparatively common, but higher up only
two or three cases are known, one of them being a
horse and another a cow. It is also stated that a
parthenogenistic conception once occurred in a., Ger-
man woman, but this instance is regarded with some
suspicion by scientists. The biological explanation
is that, before the birth of- the unusual females, some
male cells are incorporated in them, and when the
subjects, at the age of puberty, throw off ova, one
THE VALOR OF LOVE.
NEW ACQUAINTANCE: “Whose thcr wall-
eyed ole tart with thcr hard dial.
Ginger?"
GINGER: “That's my tart's mother."
NEW ACQUAINTANCE: “Blime! Borne coves
do take risks!"
of these ova is fertilised by a spermatozoon from the
foreign cells. In the few cases on record none of
tlie animals gave birth to full-time, or perfectly-
formed offspring, and in two of them the latter were
hermaphroditic.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE DRIVER’S TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The coach was full as we jogged along
The dusty uphill track.
We passed the time with a snatch of song,
Or yarns they tell out back.
And the driver told the tallest tales
Of rain and drought and snow,
Of the hard-up times, and clearing sales
’Way back at Omeo.
Then he told the tale of old Macßride,
Crashed by a falling tree,
Helpless a mile up the mountain, side,
With a log across his knee;
But he knew the coach would pass that day
Along the road below,
And he must get down to the track some way,
Or perish in the snow.
So he took his axe and swung it high
(The driver winked at me),
And drove the blade right through his thigh
A foot above the knee.
lie crawled a mile down the mountain steep,
To meet the coach below,
And climbed on board, and was sound asleep
When they got to Omeo.
“Macßride asleep!” ’Twas a city toff
Doubted the tale and said,
“If old Macßride had his leg cut off,
He surely would be dead,
For such loss of blood would be no joke;
That should be understood”
“And so should this” (’twas the driver spoke),
“The leg was made of wood! ”
VXCTOIIIA.
E. F. MURNANE.


STONEWALL SHOES
Delectable Shoes are These.
Dressy men, who take pride in possessing smart footwear for
special occasion oir work-a-day, will find in this, No. 105,
just that measure of excellence that their minds would picture
as being desirable. The construction and finish are “STONE-
WALL,” the shape smart, yet comfortable, the joint fitting
being much easier than its appearance suggests.
High-grade Selected Black Box Calf, light welted leather
soles. Best soft leather linings. Stocked in sizes and half-sizes.
Price, 42/-
In Quality Tan, 45/-
With Stonehide Soles, 2/6 extra, which give 1 00% more wear.
Same quality and style in Men’s Shoes, leather welt soles,
Black, 37/6; Tan, 39/6.
Postage 1/-; Interstate, 1/6.
Wire or Write for a Pair by V.P. post to
JACKSONS, LTD., SYDNEY.
Our Full Address is
clacJtActtb
413-5 PITT 5T<; 99 LIVERPOOL ST
(OPP. PEOPLE’S PALACE) (OPP CENTRAL COUftTI
580-2 PITT ST.: 198-200 GEORGE. ST,
-‘THONV hORDCRNS') ( NEAR NOCK *
SYDNEY.
105
42 A
c
Ask for Our New Up-to-date
Catalogue. We will Post it
Free on Request.
1
Sold on Eeasy Terms.
Catalogues Free.
PALING’S
“VICTOR”
PIANOS and
“VICTOR”
PLAYER
PIANOS.
We have been selling the Victor
Pianos for'the past 40 years, and
there are thousands in use in all
parts of Australia.
You will be wise to buy
A PIAtyO WITH A RECORD.
Branches at
BRISBANE
TOOWOOMBA
5
I
a
*
338 George St.
SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE
LISMORE
ROCKHAMPTON.


□
W///,
m
m
#
w
YA
S 6
;rQ
%>
//
PURE COCONUT
OIL BLEND
?////«
V*
mmmr .lilii#
%
m
rs?s
When You
ask. for
Lager-
■% Abbots
The Beer
without
a Rival”
*-*92.
“Jimmy ’Possum”: I have never been able
exactly to follow the flight of a bullet with the
eye (B. 24/8/’22), but I’ve seen bullets in action
on at least two. occasions. The first was fired by
myself from a .32 Winchester at a piece of melon-
skin in the fork' of a low tree. I distinctly saw
the missile pass just above the target. The second
time I was watching a bear being shot with a mili-
tary rifle, when I saw the bullet, which looked like
a silver shaft about six feet long, pass through the
animal just below the shoulder. Many old shooters
will tell you that they have seen a bullet strike the
quarry at some time or other.
* # * *
“Jim Carew”: Will “Ragar” (B. 7/9/’22)
oblige by sending along the name of the firm who
made his billy-can that won’t rust? I want to buy
one. I have been making tea in billies for many
years now, and have always found that these cans
rust, when not in use, just as quickly as any other.
* * * *
“Lofty”: While mustering on a Gulf
station some years back I rode on to a niggers’ camp
and saw a mob of nippers splashing about in a
lagoon that I knew to bj infested with alligators.
I. spoke to an old lubra of the risk they ran. “Baal,
him wantem now, boss,” was the casual rejoinder of
the old lady. “He bin catchem one pheller dis
mornin’.”
* * * •
“P.L.L.”: To a practical miner, “Weiry’s”
par. (B. 24/8/’22) reads like one of AEsop’s fables.
In firing a round- of machine holes, ,we always use
a lighted half-plug of “gelly” on the end of a
stick, to spit with. Again, in dry ground, I have
seen countless charges burn instead of explode. The
conflagration is caused by inserting the detonator too
deeply—the heat from the burning fuse ignites the
fracteur itself before the fire reaches the fulminate
COLD COMFORT.
“My chief trouble, doctor, is with my breathing.”
“We’ll soon put a stop to that, my man.”
of mercury. In no case will a charge, explode
when once set fire to in this manner. To my mind,
the lurking danger is the racking headache often
contracted by accidentally allowing the hands to
come into contact with the forehead, immediately
after handling the stuff. The feeling of dementia
thus acquired is much worse than the after-effects
of any out-back whisky—and I’ve experienced both.
*>* » •
“Bitter Bark”: Tell “Centurion” (B.
31/8/’22) that as a youngster I broke a groundlark’s
leg with a catapult, but after a chase I lost tin-
bird in some long grass. About a fortnight later I
noticed a lark with a curiously thick leg in the same
locality. After I had bowled it over I found that
it was very likely the same bird. The leg had been
neatly plastered with fresh cow manure, which had
hardened, thus holding the broken bones in position.
BRANNIGAN THE WINNER.
“Oh, Mrs. Cassidy, I ’ad sich a scare in the night! I was awakened by ’caring a loud
crashing noise. I went to get under the bed, and the first thing I saw was a
man’s legs sticjin’ out.”
"You don’t say, Airs. Brannigan! And it was the burglar, I suppose?”
“No, my dear. It teas me 'usband. ’E ’ad ’card the noise, too!”
“Saavdi”: A state of intense excitement
prevailed in our district. A well-known identity
had gone mad, and, with ’allegedly homicidal inten-
tions, had taken to the bush. Galloping to warn
district residents of the prowling maniac, I saw' a
man sleeping under a wilga-tree, : with his head on
his'-swag, and a company of flies roosting on his
placid face. I leapt from my horse, and shook the
sleeper vigorously, shouting: “Hey, wake up, there’s
a lunatic at large about here.” The recumbent?
bloke opened one eye, and, staring into my excited
countenance, murmured: “One? There’s dozens.’b
Then he dozed off again, and the flustered flies rev
assembled in force.
* * * *
“Toma Hauk” : The bitterest note of con-
tempt I ever heard was struck by Old Tom, who used
to work at Arrawatta station, near Inverell (N.S.W.).
Tom was always companioned by a little black sheep-
dog, of which he was inordinately proud, and one
night, in course of a row in a pub in town,
a shearer rapped out: “You’re a
blankard, and your dog’s a blankard.”
Torn"'said with deadly calm: “Am I?
Well, you’re a blankard, and-—and
you haven’t got no blanky dog!”
* * *
“Derf Commor”: Sharks
will attack any human, of any color,
when hungry. But their preference for
the white man would be easily under-
stood if any of the Abo. experts who
have recently been airing their views
would experiment a little. Some years
ago I got a white mate and an abo.
to come swimming with me in Upstart
Bay (N.Q.). While they were on top
I went ' to the bottom, and, opening
my eyes, looked up. The white’s
body was a gleam of moving silver
that would tempt any shark ; but the
black's was just a dull, smoky smudge.
“Jim Carew” (B. 10/8/’22) is all
wrong when he says a school of sharks
will never interfere with a swimmer.
A few months back, at Townsville
(N.Q.), an elderly man jumped off
a dredge for a swim. Immediately a
dozen sharks’ fins appeared. There was
an ominous stain on the water, and the man was
seen no more. Sharks are like dynamite—the only
certainty about them is the uncertainty of them.
“Simon II.”: Re the presumed response
of male moths to aerial vibrations (B. 7/9/’22), I
made a small paper megaphone once in N.Q. and
amused myself at the camp fire producing weird
sounds for the benefit of a couple of kids. Mosqui-
toes were giving us a lively time in spite of the
smoke, and, I tried to imitate their buzzing through
the megaphone. Evidently I succeeded, for while
one . 'articular sound was sustained the skeeters
formed a -rise cloud round the bell of the trumpet,
and the; kids were entertained for the rest of the
evening dashing flaming branches among them. The
insects rolled up in massed formation every time the
buzz was produced and dispersed when it stopped.
“Hum”: As if to give point to the Abo.
discussion that has been going on about the vitality
of country women, a farmer’s wife in the King
Country (M.L.), the other day, rose with the rest
at cow-time, 4 a.m., but retired to the house at
5 a.m., and after adding another little potential
milker to the family she landed back at the yard
at 6:80 a.m. in her capacity as a - spanker of kine!
* * * *
“Bill R.” : The bloke who told “Ned Kelly”
(B. 7/9/122) that a horse may temporarily ■ lose the
use of his'legs when ridden into water after being
stung by nettles, gave the dinkum oil. To test it,
let Edward give himself- a few flaps on the bare
-arm, with a broad-leafed nettle, and afterwards
immerse-the arm in c-old water. The paralysing
effect may be experienced hours, or even days after
according to the virulence of the nettle at the time.
It is more venomous in wet weather than in dry, and
is doubly severe in spring or early summer, when
growing healthily.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Saw a curious bet won at
Yam, and the idea may enable some mad “Aborigi-
nality” specialist to pick up an easy quid or two.
“Roughy” Bligh bet Thomson that he would dare
to face the latter’s much-boosted bull-terrier in
Thompson’s own yard, and would come out without
a bite, and, more, without the dog venturing an
attack. Thomson knew Nero, his dog, a venomous
brute, and backed him to bite to the extent of three
pounds. Then we all advanced to Thomson’s back
gate, all bar Thomson, who kept out of the gang,
fearing that his presence might induce Nero to
temper justice with mercy. The back gate was
opened. Nero came out of his den with a hideous,
bull-terrier’s scowl, and moved quietly but resolutely
towards the intruder. Very smartly Bligh dropped,
went down on his hands, elevated his heels in the
air, and went across the yard, walking on his
palms. The dog backed away with a startled whine.
Bligh followed him up, and the bull-terrier brushed
his tail:against the fence, crouching away from the
inexplicable object, making all the time faint and<
futile noises suggestive of his perplexity and distress.
When Bligh advanced towards him again, Nero re-
treated into his kennel, complaining fretfully. Then
Bligh walked out, still reversed. Outside the gate
he dropped to his feet and resumed the normal, and
Nero, fully recovered and resenting the deception,
came at him with a yowl of fury, but the gate inter-
vened, and Bligh had won. His assurance is that
you can always work this trick on a dog once.
* * * *
“Pinnacle”: W. H. Stewart (“Night
Prowlers,” B. 17/8/’22) is in,error when he describes
the kangaroo “thumping” with the tail. The ’roo
gives his alarm-signal with his hind foot. Jumping
high, he flips one leg off the other on to the ground,
with a similar action to the schoolboy’s finger
“click” to attract attention. Both greys, reds and
blues use the same signal.
» * » •
“Ragar”: “Verde Gris’s” toothpick-mak-
ing adze-artist (B. 7/9/’22) has a rival in an old
sailor I met working as a bush-carpenter in N.Q. I
took no particular notice of his skill with the tool
until he had to sharpen his No. 538 Framer’s pencil,
to which he put a point that I couldn’t have bet-
tered with a penknife. Another adze adept—also a
ship’s carpenter, by the way—used to cut his plug
tobacco with the tool. He told me once that lie
could cut it quicker and finer with the adze than
with his knife, the latter never being sharp enough.
* * * .
1 kimon II.” : "Lytron’s” story of the man
who drove some miles with a dead snake to find out
if it was poisonous, after it had bitten his young-
ster (B. 7/9/’22), had a parallel in N.Q. A cocky’s
place caught fire while the family was busy at the
far end of the cultivation. Mr. Cocky rushed home,
and, without hesitation, dashed into the burning build-
ing and salved,- in three successive efforts, a set of
flat-irons, a camp-oven, a set of wedges and a crow-
bar. The flames beat him back at the fourth
attempt, and the Family Bible and other treasures
were lost for ever.
* * * *
“Lofty”: Queer accidents? ’Struth, yes.
We had opened a case of gelignite, and left it un-
covered. The chooks got to it and devoured some.
A bit later the cook was breaking some eggs to
put into a brownie when one exploded and nearly
blew both his hands off.
**. » *
‘■Ragar”: Luggers are often sunk to clear
them of cockroaches, as mentioned by “Sandgroper”
(B. 21/9/’22) ; but the trouble is that sea-water
does not destroy the hundreds of eggs which the
insects leave sticking to the woodwork; and after
the craft has been on the surface again for awhile
the eggs hatch out. You can’t keep on sinking her.
The best plan is, as I have advised before, to set
the condensed-milk tins where the brutes can get in
them, and then leave them to wipe themselves
out. A quarter of an inch of the sticky stuff left
at the bottom of a tin is all that is necessary.
’Roaches can’t pass it by, and the first lot in get
gorged, and finally covered with the sweet mess. The
others that follow can’t get past the gentlemen in.
side, so, as the latter are well smeared with the
milk they start in on them. In the morning all
that’s, left is a fearsome mess of milk and dismem-
bered cockroaches.
.* . * * *
“310” considers some maggots :—•
“Te W.” (B. 17/8/’22) confuses three very dif-
ferent beasties. The “rat-tailed maggots” found
in his bull’s stomach are doubtless the adult form
of the common Trematode Amphistome, certainly not
the larvae of a bot-fly. The former is not an im-
portant disease of cattle, and never causes the death
of its host. The bot-fly (warble-fly) of cattle
has not yet been found breeding in Australia,
although it was supposed to have been found in
some imported cattle held in quarantine in Vic. It
will be a calamity for the cattle business if it ever
becomes established here. The habits of the horse-
bot and the eattle-bot differ in that, while the former
clusters on the mucous membrane of the stomach,
duodenum or in the rectum, to which it attaches
itself until mature by means of two powerful, curved
and retractile mandibles, the latter traverses the
muscular tissues- until it reaches the sub-cutaneous
tissues of the back or flanks, where it rests for a
period. The horse-bot, of which there are two in-
troduced species in Australia, passes out of its host
in the faeces, burrows a few inches into the soil and
transforms into a pupa, from which the fly emerges
a few months later. On the other hand, the eattle-
bot or warble burrows through the skin of the host
and falls to the ground, to complete its life-cycle
as above. The “rat-tailed maggot” seen by “Te
W.” in outhouses and hollow trees is the larva of
one of the Syrphid flies (“bee-fly” or “drone-fly”),
and is never a parasite of stock, although it occurs
accidentally in man and animals through drinking
from stagnant pools and drains. The “rat-tail” is
the breathing tube, corresponding to the siphon-tube
of the mosquito larva —a very different structure
from the breathing apparatus of the bot.,
AN EFFICIENT DISGUISE.
“Did any confidence-men get on to you in
Sydney?”
“No Hanky fear; I was too cunnin’. I got
this flash rigout like the Sydney fel-
lers wear, walked round the street-
like this, chest out, smoking, one
hand in me pocket, never askin’ the
way nowhere. I reckon I passed off
for a Sydney bloke —a clerk out o’ some
orfice.”
SAPPHIRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hear the melody mount upward
On the breeze,
From the living jewels’ sparkle
In the trees.
Sure, some bits of broken sky
In the branches flit and fly—
What are these?
See the flashing mites of music,
To and fro,
In the emerald of grasses
Come and go;
While the grey of fences hoary
Glows in fluttering, fitful glory,
High and low.
Now the wattle binds their beauty
In its gold,
But the lure of shining shackles
Cannot hold
Little wanton lovers singing
Of the summer they are bringing—
Tidings told.
Swift, they leave the scented shelter,
Here and there,
Up and down all helter-skelter, '
Everywhere,
Gemming wilds, and ways of men;
Sweet is each sky-dowered wren,
Past compare.
N.B.W.
E. BEAUFILS LAMB.


hfrt
m
n
m
i
i
lie*'
B
DP
o
r
m
S
v
✓2
V.
1
Add New Life
to Your Battery
Before you buy a new battery, let us
make sure it is necessary. Every day
batteries are discarded that we could eco-
nomically put into condition to give much
longer service.
No matter what make of battery is in
your car, we are equipped to repair it skil-
fully and at reasonable cost. It will be
made to last as long as possible, until you
are ready to replace it with an Exide
the long-life battery.
Invest a few minutes in a call.
dfg
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
QUEENSLAND Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEW SOUTH WALES Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
VICTORIA Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queers Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA. . Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND. .... Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
Mine
Owners
.
*
m
sr:
Iron
and
Steel
Masters
Jetty at Whyalla, S.A., where ore is loaded for
Newcastle ly means of Conveyor Belt.
Manufacturers of
PIG IRON (various grades),
STEEL INGOTS,
BILLETS and BLOOMS,
RAILS and FISHPLATES,
BULB and PLAIN ANGLES,
ROUNDS, FLATS & SQUARES
BEAMS and TEES,
CHANNELS, WIRE RODS, etc.
and
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA,
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON: 3 Great Winchester Street.
SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell Street.
ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street.
Head Office:
EQUITABLE BUILDING - - - MELBOURNE
I'IQ-b
1
Z 2
_Zl\
-U'r
X
•Cr~ >
fl* -
What Does Efficient Power Transmission
Mean in Your Factory?
It means more power actually delivered to your machinery for less cost.
It means economy in operation—fewer breakdowns and a smaller repair bill.
For this reason
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
has been specified for important and difficult drives in the largest mining and
industrial plants in Australia. The illustration shows the largest belt
drive in the Southern Hemisphere —in the Rod Mill at the Broken Hill
Proprietary Company’s Steelworks, Newcastle, New South Wales, for which
one 48-inch and three 34-inch Pioneer Leather Belts were specified.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
Distributing Agents throughout the Commonwealth:
VICTORIA: J. & It. E. Madder, 409 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey, Fry & Co., Edward Street, Brisbane; Burns, Philp &
Co., Ltd., Townsville.
S. AUSTRALIA: John McKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
W. Australia: Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
THE SUNSHINE REAPER & BINDER.
Oft. and
Bft. cut.
#
\
. *
-■ -- ,311
huohvm c kay
SfjJ
n
«g
t-.'US
u
m
i I
V‘ v ■
m
m i
5;
*3
V/'rMlfc '^jPj
■ I
Isi
IWI
M
rWPsBi
I'lmw®, . \.* . .». v v wH ' < ;. ..saflfcta?. mm.-
ss §
> 9
m \
W t
vV:
**■. -.',
-■" ' ■ ,/■ * . :
•r« r*< :f-’. «• .- r .-j.- ... .•;. V
ftibai
!. HUS! IMBIRI ii iS!S( i, H
■j**
sms. m
fejk .f ?fciv
ISP' i« Js»
■
KWKF.: P»
Sts
Made in Australia for Australian conditions by
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD. , Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:—
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
607 Collins Street West, MELBOURNE.
102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
36 Pier Street, PERTH.
Cr. York & St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON


of torturing emotions—horror, rage, hatred,
revenge. No glimmer of humor can lighten
the black gloom of their tragedies: in each
of them we see divine reason torn to pieces
by the unleashed hounds of emotion. But in
character Don Quixote is the exact reverse of
I “® se two: he is the gentlest and most lov-
able of men, with a weak mind that passes
inevitably from long brooding on fantastic
chivalry to belief in the present reality of
a chivalrous world. His mind is not torn
to pieces by the hounds of ungovernable
emotion ; there is never any conflict between
bis self and his reason to bring about the
destruction of both. On the contrary. With
the failure of his mind his dear self grows
greater. He is no longer content merely
to read about fighting giants and enduring
all things for love of his lady. He must
really fight, • lie must really suffer, and he
does— most intolerably, yet always with the
serene patience and courage, not of a mad-
man, but of an unspotted and beautiful soul.
\\e leave him with the less reluctance be-
cause we are gladly returning to Rodriquez
aiK * Morano still wandering northward
through Don Quixote’s Spain, happy in their
quixotic dreams.
Rodriquez is also a shingle short. Youth,
at its best, is always short of a shingle to
let in the glimpses it loves of sky and stars.
I. he sword to the wars, the mandolin to
the balconies.” Away lie goes, swinging
alonpf the hot highway northward, over wide
plains spangled with anemones, and through
the king-haunted forest of Shadow Valley,
which is an unexplored corner of that great-
of al > foists—the Forest of Morgraunt.
\\ lien he lingers there is always good reason
tor his delay. His arrest by the Civil
Duard. Ins glimpse of Seraphina on the bal-
cony, and his mandolin’s passionate outcry
against going any further, his duel with
that other young spark, without doubt the
most unexpected and delightful duel in fie-
tion, with its noble courtesy and deathly
rapier-play and calamitous ' interludes of
base-born courage and greasy iron and blind-
folded eye and discarded shoe and inglorious
bloodshed. Away and away, until one morn-
ing lie sees the low line of rose-tinted clouds
whiten to everlasting snow—the I'yrennees
wnr<r —^ le beginning of the
The flow of the story is unpleasantly in-
tenupted by the intrusion of the magician’s
home, and the impossible magic of the iour-
ney into the heart of the sun. That journey
is a. great vision, but the book would be
better without it.
No justice can be done here to Morano,
whose happy tail-wagging when praised, and
pricked ears and low growls when danger
threatens, and keen scent for bones buried
by other mongrels along the hungry road
are all so very human that we cease to be
astonished when he lights fires, and —alas'
gets drunk.
Concerning a Famous Skull
All doubts of the authenticity of the great-
est anthropological “find” of modern days,
the skull of Sir Thomas Browne—the famous
Norwich physician who wrote “Religio
Medici, “Urn-Burial,” “Christian Morals”
and heaps of other classical prose, whom
some people took for a Christian, and others
tor a heathen—have been set at rest by an
announcement from Professors Keith and
i earson, that drawings, tracings and mea-
surements of the skull will shortly appear in
Biometrica” ; and a treat is promised lovers
?. Browne by the publication of a monograph
limited to 100 copies at a guinea, which will
nave reproductions of portraits and engrav-
ings of him, accompanied by plates of vari-
ous regions of the skull, to illustrate the
pictures. It is satisfactory to know that the
skull has been reburied in Norwich—l trust
m the church of St. Peter Mancroft, from
which was snatched by a sacrilegious
hand 80 years ago. The man who did the
?i eec^T placed in a glass case in
the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, where
it evidently remained without attracting anv
particular attention until it happily fell
into the hands of Professor Keith. By
examination and measurement of the skull
and its fossae, and by comparing the measure-
ments obtained with those of an average
skull, Professor Keith will be able to fur-
nish _ information which is totally lacking
in biographies concerning Browne’s person-
ality, memory, fecundity of thought and ex-
pression and aptitude, beyond any man of his
time, m acquiring languages, both ancient
and modern. In the linguistic line the ency-
clopaedic Johnson was a pigmy to him. Un-
like Johnson he was parsimonious of speech.
Sir Thomas Browne appears to have had a
premonition that he would some day have
his skull dragged into the light of dav for
study and measurement, and I don’t think
he really would have objected to it, so great
an original investigator was he himself. He
says somewhere: “Handsome-formed skulls
give some analogy to fleshy resemblance. . ..
Physiognomy outlives ourselves, and ends not
in our graves.” Here is a sentence applic-
able to the man who desecrated his grave:
“To be knav’d out of our graves, to have our
skulls made drinking-bowls, and our bones
turned into pipes to delight and sport our
enemies, are tragical abominations escaped
in burning burials.”
Very little is known of Browne’s early
years, and his biographies are lacking in in-
terest because of the Scarcity of material
Samuel Johnson’s is about the best, but lie
misses some of the finer points on account of
his ignorance of medicine. For instance he
does not state that Browne was the dis-
coverer of the substance we noiv call adi-
pocere. He was bound to hit on this dis-
covery, since he was the only man in
England who was everlastingly pottering
about mounds and graveyards on the lookout
for Roman coins or urns containing bones
or ashes. His description of adipocerc is
classical. It is far easier-to describe what
Browne wasn’t than what he was. Physi-
cian, botanist, horticulturist (John Evelyn
often consulted him), numismatist, ornitho-
logist, antiquary, classical scholar, astrono-
mer, prose-writer, linguist (he understood six
languages, and the patois of several pro-
vinces) were a few of the accomplishments
of this extraordinary genius.
He had a famous son, too, a chip of the
old block in classical lore, who became phy-
sician to Charles 11., and also to Bart’s Hos-
pital, from which institution he received £52
per annum and a gold noble, and had "to
write 6000 prescriptions. He became presi-
dent of the Royal College of Physicians of
England, and had some distinguished patients,
including the Duke of Richmond and Ix>rd
Bruce. Strange to say, he attended that
graceless scamp Rochester in his last illness
at W oodstock. Had the son written as volu-
minously as the father, we might have had
the history of the last illness of that wild
blade. The father was much occupied in
Norwich in issuing certificates that such-and-
such a person was suffering from scrofula
(King’s Evil), and sent deserving cases up
to Whitehall to be "touched” by the King.
He speaks of 02,000 persons who were
“touched” during the reign of Charles 11.
COrioup to state, Browne believed in witch-
craft, and was instrumental in getting two
persons hanged as witches —the very last exe-
cutions to take place in England for that
practice. It is also strange that, notwith-
standing his immense astronomical know-
ledge, he firmly believed that the earth was
fixed, and that the sun revolved round it.
Ilis writings have delighted generations, and
many have endeavored to imitate his style
with small success—if Charles Lamb, who
was steeped in Browne’s philosophy from his
youth, be excepted. Johnson has been accused
of copying him, but on what grounds it is
difficult to see. The lexicographer wrote of
his style : “It is vigorous but rugged ; it is
learned but pedantic; it is deep but obscure;
it strikes but it does not please;
it commands but it does not allure;
his tropes are harsh and uncouth.” In
short, his writings lacked the clarity of ex-
pression which characterised tin* best Eliza-
bethan writers. Yet some of his phrases are
happy, and stick in the memory: “Every
man’s own reason is his best Oedipus”; “I
am in England everywhere, and under any
meridian”; “I take my circle to be above
360”; “There is a nearer way to Ilea veil
than Homer’s chain,” and hundreds of
others, lie was a most pronounced woman-
hater in his “Religio Medici” days, when he
was 30, and wished that the race might be
propagated like trees. lie repented of his
misogyny in time, lived happily with a wife
for 41 years, and had 10 children. In read-
ing Lamb one is puzzled at times, so deep
are the sources from which he drew his allu-
sions, but Browne has often unplumbable
depths. He cannot be read cursorily. He
requires deep study, and is well worth it.
MACQUARIE STREET.
Literature and the Universities
There is an extraordinary notion current
among the uneducated and the academic
that some relation subsists between litera-
ture and a university training, that, in some
vague way, an Arts course tends to produce
literary artists. While it is obvious that
this must have been so in days when univer-
sity men were almost the only members of
the community able to read and write, it is
at any rate not difficult, to-day, to stab this
generalisation with the facts. English
writers provide an excellent opportunity to
do this.
It is difficult to prepare a list that would
please all tastes, but probably few would deny
that the outstanding English writers living to-
day are Galsworthy, Belloc, Bridges, Gilbert
Murray, Arnold Bennett, Chesterton, Con-
rad, Ue la Mare, Cunningham Graham,
Hardy, Kipling, Masefield, G. Moore, Shaw
and Wells. Of these 15 only five are pro-
ducts of universities —the first four of
Oxford, and Bennett of London. There are
certainly more important names among the
remaining 10.
Of the universities Oxford has the best
record. Besides those mentioned above she
has thrown out Max Beerbohm, essayist;
John Buchan, Anthony Hope, Compton Mac-
kenzie, novelists: Quiller-Couch, novelist,
critic and professor; Clutton-Brock, critic;
Aldous Huxley, short-story writer; A. E.
Housman, Newbolt and Noyes, poets.
Cambridge is responsible for a much less
imposing list: E. F. Benson, Cannan, E. M.
Forster, Hugh Walpole, lan Hay, W. J.
Locke, novelists; A. C. Benson, essayist;
Edward Carpenter and Lowes Dickenson,
philosophers and popular sociologists;
Brooke, Squire and Sassoon, poets. In order
to give Cambridge as imposing a list as pos-
sible it has been necessary to include several
minor novelists, and Rupert Brooke, who is
alive only in a sense other than that here
implied.
As to the other universities, Lascelles
Abercrombie came out of Manchester,
Richard le Gallienne from Liverpool, Ford
Madox Hueffer from London, William
Archer, Barrie, Algernon Blackwood and
Conan Doyle from Edinburgh.
Besides the 10 mentioned, among those
who have not “done” university courses are
to be found Granville Barker, Beresford,
W. L. George, Gosse, Stephen Graham,
Maurice Hewlett, “John Trevena,” Henry
Arthur Jones, Pinero, D. H. Lawrence,
Oliver Onions and Arthur Symons.
In short, the case is complete. The univer-
sities play scarcely any part to-day in the
development of literary talent. Even when
a writer of unusual force has had a univer-
sity training, it is noticeable that it has had
little effect upon him. Galsworthy, it is
certain, would have thought, felt and writ-
ten exactly as he has, if he had never. seen
the inside of Oxford. The same may be said
of A. E. Housman and Noyes, and, with less
certainty, of Belloc; though, without
Oxford, it is true, Beerbohm, Aldous Huxley,
Bridges, Compton Mackenzie and Quiller-
C6uch would, no doubt, have been very dif-
ferent, and, quite probably, less capable
writers. Arnold Bennett had far too much
of the Five Towns in him for any University
to have had'.any effect. Only of Cambridge
can it be said that she has. left unmistakable
marks on the writers she has produced, and
this is probably because she has not pro-
duced, in this generation, many men of
much literary merit.
The spread of popular education in the
last 50 years has produced not only a new
public, but also, out of that public, new
writers to cater to it. That this has been
possible is due to one important fact. The
technique of literature is acquired in a man-
ner different from that of any other art. It
is impossible to produce a sonata without
long, specialised training. The painter, the
etcher, the sculptor, the actor, the dancer,
the musical executant, have all to pass
through arduous apprenticeships, aiming at
complete control of certain bodily move-
ments, as a part of the necessary technique
and such apprenticeships tie them down’
otten for many years, to one place, to
schools, to teachers and to rigid bodily dis-
cipline. The technique of literature makes
no such difficult demands. It does not necessi-
tate a technical school (on the contrary, it
is better off without one) ; it does not call
ror a teacher; it depends for its effects only
on the training (almost necessarily, self-
traming) of the mutable mind rather than
ot the stubborn body. Such freedom from
purely nhvsical restraints has released
literature from the schools, and allowed it
to blossom in the most unlikely places, so
tliat it is open to men of almost all profes-
sions 1 hen, again, the appeal of literature
wider than is that of most of the other
110 loss than to prac-
t se the aits, calls for at least some training
while the appreciation of literary work, or
at least the demand for it, is muon more
widely distributed. So there is every induce-
ment for the talented amateur to try his
nand, and, as we have seen, when lie does,
ie frequently disproves, once more, the idea
tliat the universities are incubators of
literary genius.
JOHN SMITH.
The Inky Way
thl n \^J &Ce °*. the °PP° s *t*on of the Sun Pictorial
’ Z SU "* aslde . its prejudices" is
lls accompaniments of current news
?rvin?'fll >h ? i 5.1' 1 'll'istrations. Deputy-Governor
Bill PlSn leCt T Ur K er °" Socrates "»<* St. Paul, and
nresei i >•’ . e ] x ' L . abo . r State Minister, Senator and
..‘l 1 1 'cmdent of tlie Liberal-Conservative N F
ue e herdo ( l toother in the one column. The Robert-
■" ?h, ° r eurmarkintr sheep screamed for atten-
lion in the same issue.
Wav'fnr'ti! !ar f I<i ( ulol' 1ol ', n ? s ’ who ,oaves the Tas. Inky
tion pl r Bhortha,l< ! branch of the Federal Arbitra-
ge wil? hi 'n* 8 . president of the local A.J.A. ; but
i,,,)' 11 l>e Lest remembered by the Speck’s ink-
slingeisns their union treasurer, for in all (he time
failed r 7n < I. 1 !V \ or the district not one member
Hilt I to pay his dues. Juct, persistence and a
n«s and V u" n “ r r S ' e i\ as ?? ts in the d " >K busi-
liini’ “V HH ’ brought all these qualities with
linn a dozen years ago from Yorksheer.
C oot . I lie oldest V ictorian newspaper is the
Geelong Advertiser. When, in 1840, .John Pascoe
I'awkner imported a new press and a new font
o type for the Pout Phillip Patriot, he sent the
discarded press and surplus type to Geelong, .lames
7 n J va r, e< lt ,? r n lls well as Printer on Fawktier’s
behalf of the Geelong venture, its first number
appearing on 21st September, 1840. It has lone
outlived all its contemporaries, and for many years
lias been published as a daily.
“Thorold”: I wonder how many copies of Henrv Law-
son s first queer little book of sketches and verse,
punted with an alarming array of “literals” by bis
mother, are still extant. Although few of Lawson's best
things aie in it, I prize that most among my small
collection of first editions. When the more preten-
tious In the Days when the World was Wide” was
on the stocks, Lawson, in a fit of characteristic
blues, offered me Ins share of the prospective profit
*°r ,r- . • J - Brad Y w 'as with us, and we had
difficulty in persuading Henry not to assign his
rights to the first-comer.
“0.K.”: Lawson’s sustained weakness in ortho-
graphy was a feminine failing, methinks. I re-
member J. F. Archibald’s .first mention to me of the
rugged young fellow who had sent in some strikingly
good verse. “It wanted a lot of straightening up,
, T"’n said Archibald, “awful spelling, you
know- But why did Lawson continue to spell
badly? Men of vastly inferior intellect learn to
spell accurately, if good spelling is expected of them.
Dawson cared no more about his orthography I
suppose, than ’Enry Parkes cared about his aspirates
He had too much intellect and egotism to worry
o\er such a trifle. And, withal, there was something
in him of the girl who “can’t be bothered!”
"!P” or 'S ans r, : I” “The Press and the General
fetalt, Seville Lytton mentions a photographer
named Wilkinson with the Australians in France. He
means, of course. Captain G. H. Wilkins, M.C., now
exploring somewhere in the South Polar regions.
Lytton describes these particular photographs as
superb, and all who have seen the photographic
exhibitions held by the Australian War Museum
will endorse the opinion. Admittedly, Wilkins was
not the only photographer with the A.1.F., but those
Australian pictures of the last offensive on the
Western Front were practically all his. Of C. E.
W. Bean, Australia’s chief war-historian, the same
author writes: “He would watch a battle from a
shell-hole with his notebook in hand, and would
describe the special features of each fight like an
impressionist painter.”
“Morehead”: It is not often that a great publish-
ing house gets shot for libel, but Charles Scribner’s
Sons °f New York, have just (lone it with “Where
the Strange Trails Go Down,” bv one E. Alexander
Dowell. He criticised, amongst much else, the
administration of the British North Borneo Company,
and the 8.N.8. has now secuied an injunction against
Scribners restraining them from further publishing
and circulating copies of the work. Scribners havS
had also to pay costs and publish a world-wide
apology.
Keen cultured London can be oddly igno-
lant where Australia is concerned. F’rinstance, W. B.
i eats, in hjs “More Memories,” in London Mebcuky,
writes thus: “Sir Charles Gavan Duffy arrived He
was a white-haired old man who had written the
standai d history of Young Ireland, had emigrated to
Australia, been the first Australian Federalist, and
later I lime Minister,” etc. And “Elijah True,” in
John o London's Weekly', must think that we change
our Governor-General once every 20 years. He savs:
\ lscount Novar, who recently returned from Aus-
tralia, where he was its first Governor-General as a
f ederated State, has been asked to write his impres-
sions of down south.’ ”
.. “'J’he Printer”: Lawson’s regretted departure makes
the calling of a parade of Bulletin scribes a matter
of interest. In the course of 42 years in the office
I have had something to do with the setting-up of
copy by the following:- 1
Hcniy. Kendall, Henry Halloran, George Essex
n ~ Cargill, Barcroft H. Boake, John Far-
rell, Ihomas Bracken, Yjctor Daley, Louis Bec-ke,
Ernest laveno, Harry Morant, W. 11. Traill, Francis
Myers, I rice Waning,” Harold Grey, Julian
Ihomas ( The Vagabond”), “Rolf Boldrewood,”
Bertram Stevens, J. F. Donovan, “Banjo” Paterson,
\y. H. Ogilvie, Steele Rudd, Brunton Stenhens, J. 11.
M. Abbott, 11. J. Cassidy, Cripps Clark, K. S.
Emerson, Louis Esson, E. S. Sorenson, Henry
Metclier, E. J. Brady, Edmund Fisher, Hubert
Church, Albert Dorrington, A. H. Adams, Randolph
Bedford, Arthur A. D. Bayldon, Dowell O’Reilly, C.
J. Dennis, Hugh McCrae, J. le Gay Brereton, E.
Dyson, Rod. Quinn, Alex. Montgomery, Ethel Turner,
Ina M. Wildman, Dulcie Deamer, Dorothea Mackellar,
Louis Mack and Conor O’Brien. And I had nearly
forgotten the noblest Roman of them all—Janie's
Edmond 1
The list be doubled or trebled, bv the
way, by adding the names of famous statesmen,
barristers and doctors whose copy lias gone into The
Bulletin letter-box during the past half-century.
“M.D.”: A few months back half-a-dozen English
best-sellers were given a dressing-down by The
Satubday Review, which expressed an opinion that
they were unfit for publication, and recommended the
publishers to burn several of them. In due time
the delinquents reached Australia, and were immedi-
ately rushed. But the rushers were disappointed :
there were no naughty bits. They had been sub-
jected to a process of deodorisation. Say, page
250 of “The Painted Lady” was likely to offend our
susceptibilities—well, it was removed, and an en-
tirely innocent page 250, expressly written by the
author, substituted. Nobody was a Yvliit the wiser,
and I think the scheme has much to recommend it.
“Cheiron”: Just as Australian artists, actors,
actresses, jockeys and boxers Lstc] are lured from our
shores to the smoke of England, so the Speck
loses its hold on its best and most ambitious Inky
Wayfarers because it can't provide enough encour-
agement in the way of scope and remuneration.
From the Mebcuby Tom Dunbabin seceded to become
a sub-editor of the Melbourne Aroits, afterwards
transferring to a Sydney daily. Before becoming
a Rhodes Scholar he was educated in Hobart. George
Dixon, leader-writer, political and stage critic, and
interviewer of great personages for the Melbourne
Herald spent the first 21 of his 26 years in the
island State. While reporting for the Meecury he
was winning distinction at the local University.
Another Tasmanian of repute is Len Reynolds, illus-
trator and caricaturist. He learnt his art under that
hue pen and brush master, Dechaineux, the Belgian
principal of the Hobart Tech.
“p_> : The cable which last week announced the
death of 1 rederick W. Dickinson, chief editor of
Reuters, will have brought sorrow to many pressmen.
Ills existence centred round the tiny room on the
second floor in Old Jewry, where there was only
just space for a roll-top desk, a huge codebook and
himself. If two people called on him one had to
stand He owed his association with Reuter’s to
schooldays with the last of the Barons of that ilk
Herbert, who shot himself after his wife’s death in
191.), Every Reuter man visiting London had two
treats in store for him. The first was lunch with
the Chief at the Savage Club or at Simpson’s:
the second was lunoh with the Baron at the City
Liberal Club. Each was well worth while. F.W.D.
was . a judge of good food, and accompanied
it. with wise sayings and shrewd observations of
men and matters. The Baron was a poor eater but
a wonderful conversationalist, with a ' marvellous
memory and an extraordinary knowledge of this
world and the next. Both, and rightly, regarded
the news agency as the pa niche of Reuter’s, but
r.W.D. held the banking and advertising depart-
ments and other side-lines in wholesome contempt
though they might be very necessary evils as the
news agency showed but a meagre profit. Dickinson
was due to retire on pension in 1916, but, after
the re-organisation, was persuaded to stay on.
“How's your luck, Dick?”
Well, I haven't none much good so far, Tom. I suppose that means good-
bye to the new suit I promised myself."
I don t see why it should when David Jones' are selling an all-wool English
tweed sac suit for 75/-. I was in their store the other day and
bought one—this is it I’m wearing."
“ That's good enough for me, Tom; I’ll go there, too. Thanks for the tip"


-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
Nbrolird
The cost of a home or any other class
of building constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite’’ improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
I Vrite for Free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
T- -
CORRECT
WEIGHTS
for your
RABBIT
skins, and accurate
counts for all other
skins.
Top Market
Values.
Prompt Returns.
That is what
owners secure who
consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm are expert, painstaking and atten-
tive. Hence the excellent results, they
obtain for senders:
VITAMITE! VITAMITE!!
You Ask, What is Vitamite?
We Answer the Question.
IT is a Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria, \?hieli, when
placed in the soil, increases by millions, supply-
ing the much-needed Nitrogen to plant life.
When the great American national increased-food-
production stunt was in full force, one of the. Dire-
ctors, A. S. Gould, F.R.H.S., publicly' staked his
reputation on VITAMITE, and woii all along the line.
For the increased production of all plant life it
stands absolutely alone for Flowers, Vegetables,
Fruit and Wheat. Give it a trial; if it doesn’t do
what we say, money returned.
A trial packet, with full directions, capable of
inoculating 10,000 seedlings, post free, 2/6.
THE AUSTRALIAN VITAMITE CO.,
192-94 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
“M.L.”
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street. Adelaide.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulln Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD..
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
Wy v qj
Lime.Pol'asFi &Soda
ujifh emulsifying & flavoring
Ingredient's
50/<
of
7S
sG
Liver 0
Cod
x>
RicbcS'
est
The manufacture of this famous medicine is not
surrounded by closely-guarded secrets.
As the diagram shows, HYPOL contains 50 per cent, of Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural Oil endowed with nutritive and healing
qualities that no mysterious formula can equal.
With the added Hypophosphites, and pleasant flavouring, a most
enticing and strength-giving Emulsion is produced.
HYPOL is a famous remedy for Chest Complaints, and
a great restorative in all cases of sickness.
Those of delicate constitution should commence
to-day to take HYPOL.
Made by FELTON. GRIM WADE & Co. Prop Ud. Melb.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
REGISTERED
IRA OE MARK
Guaranteed
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO., Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
Ss>
gajL,
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
5O York Street, Sydney
Skandia
msk
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ack F. C.”: “The Traveller” (B.
31/8/’22) refers to Krupp railway metals at
Hamilton (Vie.). In 1920 I drove up to
Nooriooptna railway station (S. Aus.).
There were a number of blond men loading
tnijcks at the platform, when I asked my
way to Angastown. Not one could speak
English, and they stopped their chatter in
German at the sight of my companion, in
uniform. We walked along the platform
and crossed to a motorist standing by a stack
of rails. The rails were all branded with
the name of “Big Bertha’s” husband. My
companion also had a piece of Krupp steel
in his possession—lodged below his heart.
When Australia, after having permitted
the export of wattle for cultivation, failed
to foster the development of the wattle-bark
industry, Natal planters must have been
pleased indeed. For years past we have
been importing large shipments of our
native-tree product. It has been asserted
that it would not be worth while to go in for
the business in a big way here, but the
details of a recent shipment gave some idea
of its value :
560 bags of wattle-bark, 987evvt., value £425 145.;
duty paid, £l4B 2s. Cd. 270 bags of wattle-bark
dust, 464 cwt., yalue £168.; duty paid, £69 13s. 6d.
On large consignments the Commonwealth
certainly benefits by a substantial addition
to revenue, but the big wads (last year’s
amounted to £60,000) which go to South
Africa have been deliberately thrown away
by Australia.
* * * *
“FY7” : First the telephone and then the
motor-car cut into the bush distances. Now
it’s wireless. When the eclipse-observing
party got to Goondiwindi, in S.-W. Queens-
land, they found there, before them, a self-
trained wireless expert in B. Shaw. Shaw
owns a motor-garage and repair-shop at
Goondiwindi, and has built practically all
his own gear. More than that, he has spread
the taste for wireless among the outlying-
stations, and most of these are now equipped
with wireless sets built in Goondiwindi.
With the coming of the wireless telephone,
the necessity for learning the Morse code—
which some people can’t assimilate —will
vanish, and the once-quiet “Out West” will
become another Babel.
x- -;t . - * *
“0.K.”; Chemists, wholesale and retail,
must be backing up the Hughes Government
manfully in its orgie of profiteering. A
popular mild tonic is a preparation of iron
and quinine in small .tabloid form, imported
to this country from London. Whether
"Preference to Britain” counts in patent
medicines I. cannot say, but I do know that,
owing to the Federal Government’s extor-
tionate levy on the goods, and the chemists’
since-the-war notions of a fair profit, a bo?
of tabloids labelled 2s. 9d. in London is
sold in Melbourne for ss. over the counter.
And in some suburbs the price is six-
pence more. In what proportions is the
extra 2s. 3d. shared among Government,
warehouseman and shop? In exactly . the
same proportion, I suppose, as the extra four
shillings charged on the Bs. 6d. bottle of
stuff which has been indelibly labelled'4s. 6d.
at the port of shipment.
- “Herodot”: Re standardised houses in
pre-war days, the Germans had the
business down to a fine point. Every
official building in their colonial possessions
was standardised, and the parts all num-
bered. A new one could always be obtained
from the factory in Germany by cabling the
number. Near Rabdul were a couple of
three-roomed bungalows without a nail or
a screw in them, the parts all dove-tailing
into each other with mathematical
.exactness. When they arrived a -set of
simple plans enabled them to be erected in
a: day or so, the greater part of the work
being done by unskilled nigger labor. Aus-
tralia has had standardised houses for years
past, a Sydney firm making and supplying
two-, three- and foui’-roomed cottages. These,
however, are intricate compared with the
German ones, and it requires a gang of men
and a fortnight’s time to put them up.
“Skyrider” ; “Kirk” (B. 24/8/’22) derides
my statement that walnut-trees will bear
plentifully in five years, and suggests a
couple of decades as the- figure—working,
apparently, on a Tasmanian basis. I don’t
know about the Speck, but do know that
there are scores of five-year-old walnut-trees
in Goulburn (N.S.W.) in full bearing—one
transplanted only four years ago. All the
Goulburn walnuts are seedlings, and bear a
nut fully equal to any raised in California,
and I have tasted both varieties. Even Gov-
ernment experts don’t know everything, and
the Tasmanian official had probably never
heard of New South Wales.
* * * *
_“Jim G.”: The item of “Dunederra” (B.
27/7./’22) has evoked much discussion in
our Adelaide quarries re boring and shoot-
ing. “Dunederra” states that one hole in
Kandos (N.S.W.) was 160 ft. deep, and five
others each 90ft. deep, all 6in. in dia. These
holes give a total bore of 610 ft. x 6in. dia.,
which equals 119.77 cub. ft. A total quan-
tity of 20 tons of gelignite is said to
have been used in the charges, but on my
reckoning not more than 71 tons of gelig-
nite could be got into the space, even if
the holes* were charged right up to the sur-
face. No mention is made as to whether the
holes were bulled, but at so great a depth
I presume they were not. It was also stated
that 20 tons of gelignite were used to dis-
lodge 30,000 tons of limestone; that works
out at l*lb. of explosives to each ton of
metal. Provided the holes were planned
right 34 tons of gelignite should have made
a job of 30,000 tons of limestone. Twenty
tons should displace approximately 160.000
tons; lib. of explosives should have dis-
placed at least four tons of metal. As to
the blast of 30,000 tons being an Australian
record, that is by no means so. At the
B. H. F. Co.’s ironstone quarry at Iron
Knob. I have seen 35;000 tons displaced
with half-a-ton of lig-dyn. Powder-monkey’s
name, Dick Stockton; ganger, Harry Lugg.
And there was no 630 ft. of boring in that
lot. Five holes, of 20ft. each, bulled and
fired by bnH-m-y. I enter this as the Aus-
tralian record.


ft 99
Cheer up! I felt morse than that
V
2s
<r+zs
t-v;
me
m
ai
jr
ft
SSSf
Sort ft**
V 4
&
yrS
Sail
■■■■•<
» f
w 3
v-v'-
n
*vt£v
%
SOS
I
Vi
■N*T3
tVW.
m
■9LK+*
m
m
saa
D? Morse’s
A
§
FOR
TH&
TjVHR
Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE
REMEDY FOR THE ERADICATION
OF WORMS IN CHILDREN AND
ADULTS.
Worms, by their movements and the
interruption they offer to the contents
of the bowels, generally occasion pain
and uneasiness in the abdomen, some-
times spasmodic, sometimes gnawing
or biting, and not infrequently of a
vague, indescribable character, and yet
very distressing. Sympathetic with
this is a sensation of itching at the anus
and af the nostrils, producing a disposi-
tion to scratch the fundament and pick
the nose, which is characteristic of this
affection. The bowels are often dis-
colored, sometimes constipated or
stopped, and sometimes relaxed, with
occasional bloody discharges, as in
dysentery. The discharge is sometimes
in shreds or flakes, which are not in-
frequently mistaken for fragments of
partially digested food. It is not un-
common for portions of undigested food
to pass with the discharges. The
appetite is exceedingly variable, in
some cases natural, in others deficient,
craving or depraved; one condition not
infrequently alternating with another.
The abdomen is often hard, swollen
and tympanetic; the breath heavy or
foetid; the tongue furred, with disagree-
able taste, and a copious flow of saliva.
Swelling of the upper lip, bleeding of
the nostrils and disposition to grind
the teeth during sleep, are other char-
acteristic symptoms. The effects, how-
ever, often extend beyond the ali-
mentary canal, and various derange-
ments of health are experienced in con-
sequence either of the direct irritation
of the worms or of the disordered
digestion which they occasion. Among
the most common of these are nervous
affections, such as fretfulness, irrita-
tion of temper, wakefulness or disposi-
tion to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep,
sudden starting out of sleep as if from
fright, dizziness, spasmodic movements
of the eyelids, dilated pupils, perverted
vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not
infrequent in children, and symptoms
strongly resembling “Water on the
Brain’’ have been ascribed to worms and
have ceased on their expulsion.
Unfortunately, many mothers fail to
recognise the fact that their little ones
are suffering intense pain and distress,
and are practically irresponsible for
the outbursts of temper, restlessness
and peevishness, and until some more
serious symptoms appear nothing is
done to alleviate the distress. The
symptoms of this disease are somewhat
variable, but generally they are so char-
acteristic that no mother need have
any doubts. The best proof of worms
is worms, and if the general conduct
of the child is such as to give the
slightest suspicion, an examination of
the stools (evacuation from the bowels)
will afford ample proof.
A child who is affected with Thread
Worms will often appear to the eye to
be in an indifferent state of health. It
becomes peevish and irritable in its
temper, and complains of itching of the
nose, whilst the same symptoms may be
very prominent indeed in the lower part
of the bowel. Another point to which the
attention of mothers should be specially
directed is that the child is apt to start
in its sleep, its repose being in this
way of a disturbed nature. Note also
that many children who are in the habit
of wetting their beds do so by reason
of the irritation which these Worms
produce in the body, the irritation ex-
tending to the bladder and causing it
involuntarily to part with its contents.
In every heap of decaying matter
there is always to be found a nest of
worms. They breed and multiply in
impure matter. And so it is in the
human system. The accumulation of
partially-digested food in the intestines,
which becomes putrid when the bowels
are constipated, induces the presence
of worms. A few doses of Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, followed
by a dose or two of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, will disturb them in their
nest, and drive them out of the system.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal pre-
paration, compounded on a scientific
principle for the eradication of worms
which infest the intestines. They con-
tain specific properties which destroy
the worms, but cause no injury to the
stomach or bowels, and do not weaken
the system. The pellets are prepared
in the form of a confection or lolly,
have no disagreeable taste or smell, but,
on the contrary, inspire children to take
them as they would an ordinary sweet.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores,
or direct from the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Syd-
ney, N.S.W.; and Farish Street, Welling-
ton, N.Z. Price 3/6 per packet (6
packets 20/-), post free.
If writing please mention The Bul-
letin.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness: of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con- ■
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxative!.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines—
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlains Tablets as occasion may
requ’re. There is nothing better. They
are . '.d and gentle in their action and
pleas. to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
r
>-e
U.
-V
*r
it'cmss
N
a
A
;3?<o
5=j J
$5
SS
m
S*
m
S£3*.
S 3
*£/
•Vlranny" Chamberlain
(CovvnifiHreP)
sdf
FRIEND in need is a friend indeed.
The friend who tells you how to
avoid Coughs, Colds and Influenza is
the best kind of friend. Tell your
coughing, sneezing friend to take
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COVGH REMEDY
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets sre 'invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
Lifting Magnets
The Last Word in
Handling Metals.
IF you are concerned with the handling of sheets,
pig, pipe, bar, scrap, cased nails, or machine
parts, or single pieces of any dimensions, you are
well advised to investigate the lifting magnet. We
illustrate the “Igranic” Large Capacity Unit Type
Magnet, which can be built up in units to suit any
crane or working condition. Thoroughly water-
tight and practically indestructible. Each magnet
is complete with suspension links or chains.
Type F. D.
Ferranti
Alternating
Current
Watt Hour
House Service
Meter.
142300?
«VtS MR HSuM.
4000
KILOWATT HOURS
1000 TOO W
©® © ©
M aSM'.rr mot? n-
ARRANTI U-
.uj-IWOOO i »NO.
Famous for Reliability —
FERRANTI
Meters & Transformers.
AS agents for Ferranti, Ltd., Hollinwood, Lan-
cashire, England, we offer a full range of the
deservedly famous Ferranti products, including:
Continuous Current House Service Ampere
Hour Meters, Alternating; Current Watt Hour
Meters, Overload Time Limit Relays for
Alternating Current, Moving Iron Ammeters
and Voltmeters, Induction Indicating Watt
Meters, Power Factor Indicators, Synchro-
scopes, Instrument Transformers, Oil Im-
mersed Static Transformers, etc.
Illustrated matter, detailing any of the above lines, or our new 128-page general engineering
catalogue, forwarded post free. Write nearest address.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth,
“Lexite”: Joseph Kelly, a farmer at Mait-
land (S.A.), and his wife recently celebrated
the 50th anniversary of their union. And
the chief guest was a hale and hearty old
lady of 96, the husband’s mother.
W. Yin son Lee in protest:— .
“Anglo-Indian’s” outburst against me (B.; 24/S/’J2)
is uncalled for. Of course the' reporter Jnade a-’ mis-
take in referring to the recent Chinese seamens
strike as having occurred at Shanghai: the world
knows that the scene of the trouble was Hong Kong.
The shooting episode, however, is not so well known.
The soldiers who attempted to stem the tide of un-
armed Chinese strikers and others leaving that colony
by shooting them down were, I believe, Punjabis
under British officers, and the outrage took place at
Shatin in British Kowloon territory. The Hong
Kong Government admitted itself to be in the wrong
by compensating the wounded and the dependants
of those killed. “Anglo-Indian’s” sweeping asser-
tion that Dr. Sun Yat Sen and his party, the lvuo
Min Tang, are “mostly scoundrels” is an echo of
the cry against that patriot by his enemies. Sun’s
platform, “China , for the Chinese,” will probably
seem to Australians a fair proposition, but to many
others it is offensive, simply because they regard
China, with its rich'’natural resources, as a country
for exploitation! Are Sun and the Kuo Min iang
“mostly scoundrels” because they are striving io
defend their native,land from exploitation by aggres-
sive foreigners? Are they “scoundrels because they
have suppressed the opium traffic in Canton, thereby
depriving India and the British Hong Kong Govern-
ment Opium Monopoly of a profitable market in the
nernicious drug? And if these are not their sole
olfences, will “Anglo-Indian” say what crimes they
have committed?
“Azac”: Prior to July last the price of
Nauru-Ocean Island phosphate was 7os. to
80S per ton. Contracts at that price ex-
pired on 30th June last and from that on,
the delivered price of the phosphate
fertiliser manufacturers was reduced to not
more than 555. Ud. per ton” in the eastern
States of Australia, and a tew bob dearer to
VV Australia. The Commissioners got the
manufacturers to agree to pass the reduc-
tion on to the farmers and other purchasers
and as a safeguard had a clause to that
effect inserted in the new contracts. As
one ton of phosphate makes up into nearly
two tons of superphosphate the reduction
should at least amount to 11s. per ton in N
8 Wales, Victoria and Queensland. Ut
course, the old, old tale of there being big
stocks of the dearer phosphate on hand when
the reduction came about enabled the maj
rity of fertiliser manufacturers to keep the
nrice of superphosphate up to the old level,
pocketing’ the lie. Which should h.v«j gon<t o
the farmer. No one would suggest that city
seedsmen would bend to such a Practice.
They have no need to trouble about such
trifles, seeing that they are now selling -lb.
packets of superphosphate for 1- • • •
works out at £2O per ton, whereas it can be
purchased from the manufacturers at about
£6 10s. per ton.
“Bouragi”: I can’t agree with “Sand-
groper” (B. 7/9/’22) that white men cannot
work as divers in deep tropical waters. There
were plenty of white men using the dress
for a living at Thursday Island years ago.
In later days, in Papua, a good deal of div-
ing was done by white men, Japs being the
an unknown quantity there—indeed, I fancy
thev still are. The Jap ousted the white
San ft the“ island b, r&on of his greater
reliability—from the point of view
owner who wanted punctual starts and. steady
work. The brown man took yeais to con-
solidate his position but now has a mon-
opoly of the job, which is not one for a real
white man, anywhy.
“O’D.”: It should be an offence in Aus-
tralia, or anywhere else, to describe a home
or a sanatorium, or any other institution, a
one for “incurables.” Yet, all over the Com-
monwealth, there are institutions so labelled
Up in the central district of Queensland the
Westwood sanatorium, which deals witu
tubercular cases, pins its faith on attracting
its patients with a hope of cure. The supe
intendent, Dr. D. P. O’Brien, sums the
matter up well in his annual report, which
was tabled in the Queensland Assembly the
other day. “I have a_gain to urge patients
he states, “to come for treatment while the
disease is in a curable stage. Nearly halt
the number admitted last year were in the
third stage, in which a portion of the lung
has been destroyed and cannot be replaced.
All those who came in the first or second
stage have been cured, or are on the road to
a cure.” To urge sufferers to come to places
where they can be cured is surely better than
advertising the existence of refuges Yi ie , ie
they needn’t expect to be. Hope should be
held out, however small.
“Yardley”: The Mahometan certainly
drinks when he gets the chance, as noted
by “P.0.W.” (B. 24/8/’22), but some of him
is more ashamed of it tha.n a Jew is of eat-
ing pork. We ship’s apprentices proved
both facts, many a time in Calcutta, where
it was our boyish pleasure to get a couple
of believers into the half-deck-house, to-
gether, and offer both a wet from the brandy-
bottle. What followed was always much
the same. First there would be a few
words of courteous forgiveness for an unwit-
ting affront upon religious susceptibilities:
and then one of our guests would sud-
denly remember a pressing duty at the
far end of the ship. The other would
immediately (with the Islamic equivalent of
a wink) intimate his readiness to drink to our
very good health. Barely would that Phari-
see have wiped his lips when the other would
reappear, eager to emphasise in the infidel's
way his hope that we might make a record
home nassage. His friend, whose thirst had
been q'uenched, would at this stage tactfully
edge off, and the brandy-bottle would be
brought out again.
There is a proposal to acquire an area of
land at the “One. Mile,” Grenfell, where
Henry Lawson was born, and erect a
memorial on it. When Lawson’s father
settled there the area was known as Emu
Creek, and the goldfield as “The Weddin” —
the hills bearing the latter name being handy.
In December, 1866, J. P. Grenfell, Crown
Lands Commissioner, was fatallv wounded
by a masked bushranger at Narromine.
About that time officials of the Lands De-
partment were naming new settlements, and
Grenfell’s name was immediately given to
the Emu Creek dialings. The naming of
the townshin and the birth of Henry Lawsor
happened about the same time.


gs
for
Economical Transportation
m
I
<*»
i "-S4F>i7?' in
<
f WS
,m -m
-M*'
pi*
”»
!
The
Product of
Experience.
Why Chevrolet is Becoming
the Woriel’s Most Popular Car
Public favor changes when reasons for a change
are obvious. Public opinion as to the most
popular car of the future is changing.
Users of low-priced motor transportation are
demanding completely equipped automobiles,
modern in every respect, with nothing left to buy
but the name-plate. The New Superior Chevrolet
is FULLY EQUIPPED, including modern 3-
speed and reverse sliding gear transmission,
standard service and emergency hand-brakes,
electric starter, demountable rims, water and oil
pumps and speedometer.
In addition to completeness, buyers insist on
genuine economy in four important essentials.
They demand low petrol consumption, low oil
consumption, low repair costs, long tyre life.
Over thirty miles to each gallon of petrol is not
uncommon for a New Superior Chevrolet. It
excels in oil economy as well. Its light weight
assures high tyre mileage. Repair costs are
long life under hard conditions.
These are a few of the reasons why public favor
is increasing toward the Chevrolet—why it is
becoming the favorite low-priced car of the
world. Chevrolet distribution is practically
universal. Cars can be bought from dealers
located in every Australian town of importance.
You owe it to yourself to examine the New
Superior Chevrolet, the car which has established
new standards.
“Some day you’ll own a Chevrolet.
You can obtain full particulars from and arrange
demonstrations with any Chevrolet Distributor. The
name of the nearest local dealer will be supplied on
application.
CHEVROLET
FOR. ECONOMICAL TRANSPORTATION
DISTRIBUTORS FOR CHEVROLET:—
New South Wales .... John McGrath, Ltd., 200 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria & Riverina. S.A. Cheney Motors Pty. Ltd., 22 Flinders St., Melbourne
Queensland ...... Howard Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide St., Brisbane.
South Australia . . . May’s Motor Works Ltd., East Victoria Square, Adelaide.
West Australia .... Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd., 900 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., 53 Cameron St., Launceston.
New Zealand Dominion Motors, Ltd., 65 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
GENERAL MOTORS EXPORT COMPANY, SYDNEY.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4*4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
df
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
" THEY COME AS A BOON * A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVEBLEY PEN,
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT Of
%
C=»
£3
FITTINGS
A BOON TO THE
COUNTRY LADY.
Such is the B.S.A. Fittings Bicycle.
A pleasant, reliable and economical
means of travel, which is of
practical value in the country. The
various little journeys in the course
of a day are transformed from a
tedious duty to an enjoyable
excerise, on a convenient and ever-
ready B.S.A.
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
All B.S.A. parts are guaranteed
interchangeable. This means the
elimination of aIL unnecessary
waste of time should you lose or
damage any part of your bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK
POST FREE ON REQUEST.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
A
BALL BEARINGS
IN DRILLS
SKI 1 -.
SKF
SKF
SKF
raise the efficiency and relia-
bility of high-speed drills to the
highest standard.
That is why the leading drill-
makers incorporate them in all
models.
Elimination of friction, and
the self-alignment quality are
but two of the many reasons
for SKF Efficiency.
Let us tell you more about
them. Let us show you how
you can lower production costs
yet increase production. Write
us for illustrated literature.
Gardner, Waern 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd.,
Head Office: 384 City Rd., S. Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders St., Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
BERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone (W.A.)
i.imitee. Kmr Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Ltd.
EAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77
Street. 8.8.-
York
22/12.
A
The 14-h.p.
4-cylinder
SUNBEAM
4-seater
Touring
Model.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROS., LTD.,
255-259 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
THE AUTOCAR INDUS-
TRIES PTY., LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO.,
LTD.,
376-378 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
“The feel of Quality”
That indefinable feeling which is particularly
noticeable in the latest six-cylinder Sunbeam
Models, as evidenced by the following opinions
of “Men who know” :
The Autocar: —“There is no doubt that the six-
eylinder SUNBEAM car is a distinct advance on the
previous model, good as that was. The flexibility of the
engine is as remarkable as its silence of running, and
although the car is decidedly fast, it behaves with the
utmost docility.”
The Motor: —“The side valve six-cylinder SUNBEAM,
of which we gave our impressions about 12 months ago,
was undoubtedly a good car, but the present overhead
valve model is far and away superior to it. Than this
there could, perhaps, be very little higher praise.
THE SUPREME
Sunbeam
'"'-rHK SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.. Wolverhampton, England.
Export Pep., tt ritINCES STREET,
Ann ATFW YORK
9
tllh®
'"""SSSSSSSSSSSX
"SSSSS.
r/S/SSSS/sssss/ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss^jsrf
'/// //-//
"///%%*■ y/s//////s/sss'sssssss/%sss*/P^
y/y. /sj s/s/s'-
%, X W/SSS"
It
pj VS/////////,
!\
-8
r<7-
i®
w
4-y
ONOTO
INK
Best
for all
Pens
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
52-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)*
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/., Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1 /-.
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE,
T
BOOK OF SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights . 1/6
FUNKIEST FOUR
FARC E S, in one
book 27-
Contents —Ici on Parle
Francais, April Fools,
Who. is Who ? Who'?
to Win Him? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
“Bagman”: It’s no use waiting for some-
one to die if you want a job at Many Peaks
(Q.), because no one ever dies. The other
Saturday, for the first time in dog’s ages, the
local hearse was given an airing. It was
used to carry a gang of navvies to and from
the pubs.
The soucli-west corner of Bourke and Rus-
sell streets, Melbourne, on which a six-floor
building is being erected, was at one time
the property of Stuart Alexander Donaldson,
first Premier of N. S. Wales, and father of the
Brisbane ecclesiastic, who is now 95th Bishop
of Salisbury. Donaldson bought the half-
acre at a sale held in. - Sydney, Sept., 13,
1838, for £152. At the same sale Dr. Black
(Penrith) bought his famous s.-e. corner,
Collins and Swanstdn streets, for £167 4s.
Forty-six other lots went to Sydney buyers,
many well-known present-day names appear-
ing in the list.
“O. Blin” : An anecdote of Bernard Shaw,
related by Frank Harvey, reminds me of
gentle Bernard’s satire when trying out a
new hand for the lead in “The Devil’s Dis-
ciple.” The actor was stalwart and well
recommended, and the Superman, usually a
tyrant at rehearsals, heard him silently to
the finish. The silence, however, only
meant dissdnt, and, when the novice came
forward aching for compliments, the gleam
in the great man’s.'eye ought to have warned
him that something was breVing. How-
ever, the mummer handed himself a forest of
bouquets, /and concluded _ by - saying 'that,
since so admirable a disciple would require
a stage name, hfe would be glad If Shaw
would suggest one. “Certainly,” said Shaw,
“what about Judas Iscariot 7”
Dear 11., —What about this as < an
example of departmentalism in action? In
December last my firm entered into a con-
tract with a soldier-settler to build a house
on his block. The house was completed, and
the Department notified to that effect on Ist
February. Part of the cost was paid by the
settler, leaving a balance of £4OO due from
the Department. An account and request
for payment was sent to the Department,
and after considerable correspondence and
personal interviews, both with the local
branch and head office, it was ascertained
that the settler must sign security docu-
ments. At our request he travelled about 30
miles to the local branch office, completed
the documents and posted them to head office
on 6th June. As payment was not forth-
coming, further letters were written to all
concerned, but without result. The matter
was then taken up with the Under-Secre-
tary, and we are now informed by him that
“until necessary security documents are com-
pleted payment cannot be considered.” After
seven months’ continuous correspondence we
are, therefore, exactly where we started. In
the meantime circumlocution has already
cost us over £l6 in interest, and we are con-
siderably handicapped in our business for
lack of ready cash. When signing the con-
tract the settler remarked that he had been
three years getting the building authorised,
and hoped we would not be that long getting
our money.—Yours, etc., Butty.
“Thorold” I want cheap sugar, but it’s
nonsense for the jam men to saddle Govern-
ment control with all the blame because jam
exports have gone down to pre-war level.
On their own showing, they were able to send
more than seven times the quantity away in
1919- and four times the quantity in
1920- that they despatched last year.
Anyone who was in the Tommy army for
the Big Stunt, and lived in Blighty for a
couple of years subsequently, knows that
some of Australia’s jam-perpetrators queered
their own pitch for years to come by send-
ing to the 5,000,000 British warriors in the
first instance, and the housewives of London,
Manchester and Brummagem later on, stuff
so shoddy that the consumers are firmly con-
vinced that, whatever Australians can do, they
certainly cannot make jam. Many Australians
in those parts tried to be patriotic, but one
trial of some of the mush put it right out of
court. The A.I.F. got quite different con-
serves, or they would have mutinied. Even
if the Government were now to give the jam-
concocters sugar at a farthing a lb., they
could not expect to capture any more of
Britain’s market than they have got until
this generation forgets the dirty trick they
played on it.
“Calorie” explains : —•
There is no mystery about the “56Jin.” or “stand-
ard gauge whose origin apparently has “Henry
Horsecollar” baffled. When Stephenson got his great
idea he was employed in a colliery. The coal was
conveyed off the premises in trucks which ran on
rough wooden rails. He measured the “gauge”
and found it was generally 4ft. B.sin. He adopted
this measurement for his locomotive, doubtless with
the idea of using some of the-coal trucks for his
rolling-stock. As the railway ' system grew the
majority of engineers followed his lead, though some
lines were built to any old gauge the designer
thought fit. Brunei was one of those who launched
out in a new direction. He built a line for the
Great Western Railway, having a gauge of 7ft.
Things became so confusing and annoying that in
1845 a Parliamentary Committee was appointed to
inquire into the whole question. Although the
adherents of the 7ft. gauge were able to prove the
superiority of their locomotives in speed and
economy, the 4ft. Bjin. gauge won, owing to the
preponderance of lines built to it. As a sop to the
feelings of the broad-gaugers it was decided to fix
sft. 3in. for the Irish railways, a cheap concession,
there being only 65 miles of track in all Erin at the
time.
“Pro” : “Lip’s” ruminations upon the osten-
sible callings that find their way into the
electoral rolls (B. 7/9/’22) recall the case
of two Pommy jackeroos who made appli-
cation to the relieving postmaster at Come-
by-Chance for enrolment. They had not yet
shed their native superciliousness, and the
officer was a sour person whose beer had
turned to gall within him. In brief, the
proceedings were not cordial. “Occupation,
please?” asked the postmaster. “Experi-
ence,” was the bored reply. “That’s a pro-
cess,” objected the other. “What work do
you do?” “Dammit, my good fellow, don’t
you knoAv what colonial experience is?”
“Orright, blarst yuh,” grunted officialdom,
and the claims were filled in. A couple of
months later, after the rolls had been pub-
lished, an indignant Percy and an exasper-
ated Claude returned in search of the
blighter who had had the infernal insolence
to label them “farm laborers.” But the tem-
porary bird had flown.


ft
. .
Ifc
li
pallia
W' Bps
«
I
V
’ . *? "\m
IH
sat
’ m
■
m
$ \
gp®
Good Business
The instructions I got on shaving cream
By V. K. Cassady, 8.5., M.S., Chief Chemist
The makers of Palmolive de-
cided to use their soothing oils
in a shaving cream. And they
gave me these instructions :
“The men u)e go to are all using
other shaving soaps. Most of them
are satisfied some are wedded to
them.
“ You must create a superlative
soap , conspicuously supreme. Other-
wise we shall never tell men anything
about it. * *
We asked 1000 men
Our first step was to ask 1000
men what they most desired in
a shaving soap.
Then we set out to meet their
requirements better than others
had done.
We are soap experts—that is
our business. We have studied
soap for decades.
We have won millions of
women—won the topmost place
in toilet soaps—by creation of
Palmolive.
Now with those same oils—
palm and olive—it was for us to
make a shaving cream as popular
with men.
Tried 130 times
We worked 18 months on the
problem. We made up 130 for-
mulas, and we tried them out on
every sort of beard.
We knew soap chemistry. We
had the oils which had held
supreme place for 3000 years.
We had made the finest facial
soap that women ever knew.
But we fell down 130 times
before we satisfied ourselves on
a shaving soap for you. You
are one we tried to please. Now
we ask you, as a fair return, to
give this soap a test.
Go back to what you now use
if we have nothing better. But
find out what we’ve done. If
you have something you want
tested, we’ll do the same for you.
SfeZ 5
mgs*.
-- :~V
&■
H
St®;
Enjoy
Ten Shaves
FREE"
••/ -X
Just send the coupon
and we will send a trial
tube. See our conception
of what a shaving soap
should be. See if it is not
better than any soap you
know.
The Four Things
Most Desired
Men wanted ample lather.
We make soap which multi-
plies itself in lather 250 times.
A tiny bit—only one-half inch
—suffices for a shave.
Men wanted quick results.
Within one minute, with this
soap, the beard absorbs 15%
of water. And that makes the
toughest beard cut like wax.
Men wanted lasting lather.
The lather of Palmolive
Shaving Cream maintains its
creamy fullness for ten minutes
on the face.
Men wanted nice after effects.
Here the palm and olive blend
soothes all irritation. No
lotion is required. The skin
is left in soft and velvety
condition.
Those are the results that
you want. Let us prove that
we’ve attained them. Send
this coupon for our ten-shave
tube.
10 Shaves FREE
Simply insert your name and
address and mail to
The Palmolive Company
(Australasia) Limited
Broughton House
181 Clarence St., Sydney
N.S.W.


gsd
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, rustic stand,
£7/10/-
Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Cut Crystal Glass Bowl,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Baking Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
£3/10/-
SEND FOR
LATEST
CATALOGUE
IT’S
FREE.
TABLE
APPOINTMENTS
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Gadroon
design, hand burnished; Sugar and Cream gilt-lined, £l5.
Others, £6/10/-. £7/10/-, £lO.
f .H
|ggßo]lopiS
A. Saunders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, detachable dishes, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
WE POST
ALL
ORDERS
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished, \yithout
engraving, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Cheese Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand engraved.
In three sizes, £3, £4, £5.
s#r.
Hi M
■;=s
V
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £3/10/-
Huptnobfl*
Hupmobile
How many miles to the gallon of petrol?—of oil?
What tyre mileage? What repair cost per month? —
These are pertinent questions which we invite you to
ask of owners of all makes of motor cars, before buy«
ing a Hupmobile.
m
I. PHIZACKERI.EY, 169-71 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park. Svdney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-20 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY. LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tasmania.
S. N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z. »
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
P-6


Amusement*
SY l> N K Y’S CIII E F TIIISAT It B S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’. LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
CAIRO.
CRITERION:
AMBROSE APPLEJOHN’S ADVEN-
TURE.
ROYAL . THE PEEP SHOW.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSLEAKEAN
I’HOD LOT lONS
THEATRE ROYAL, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.,
to 29th September.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
7
Your petrol bill
will be high er!
OF course, whoever
heard of a saddle—
a comfort giving device
—saving petrol ?
Why the very object of it is to
make you really comfortable and
eager to go further —and it is in
proportion as it enables you to do
so that it is a success as a saddle.
So then, your petrol, oil and tyre
bill will be higher naturally, be--
cause you will go farther when your
machine is fitted with the luxurious
BROOKS
CANTILEVER SADDLE
A postcard will bring you a
beautifully illustrated catalogue
J. B. BROOKS &- Co., Ltd.
Criterion Works, Birmingham, Eng.
Agents in Australia ; —
SCOTT &- HOLLADAY, Ltd.,
31a, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Amusement*.
TOWN HALL. SYDNEY.
* Direction E. J. GRAVESTOCK.
GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS OF THE YEAR.
ROSIN A BUCKMAN,
THE WORLD-FAMOUS PRIMA DONNA.
MAURICE D’OISLY,
THE POPULAR ENGLISH TENOR.
ADELINA LEON, 'Cellist.
PERCY KAHN, Accompanist.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE MERRY WIDOW.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS BENNISON in
THE GREAT LOVER.
! X<;\S THEATRE, M E L It O U It N L
EMELIE POLINT and FRANK HARVEY in
THE LIE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
D A LACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Proprietors: HEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
TWENTY-FIFTH WEEK OX SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.”
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
MatineSs Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o’clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
pAREWELI CONCERTS, MELBOURNE,
SEPTEMBER 28, 29.
FAREWELL CONCERTS, SYDNEY,
OCTOBER 2,3, 5, 7.
PAUL ALTHOUSE
and
ARTHUR MIDDLETON.
DAME NELLIE MELBA says:—
“Don’t miss Althouse and Middleton, two great
artists. I heard them in Melbourne, and am confident
NO GREATER SINGERS EXIST IN THE WORLD.”
(Adelaide Register, Sept. 5, 1922.)
Legal Notice.
yN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
TO FLORENCE BISHOP (otherwise known as
Florence Neilsen) of Wellington New Zealand and
last heard of in Sydney New South Wales.
WHEREAS a petition has been made to the
Supreme Court of Queensland by JAMES NEILSEN
praying for a grant of Letters of Administration of
the lands and goods of Edward Anton Neilsen
deceased who died in France on the first day of
October 1918 intestate AND it appearing that you
went through the form of marriage with the said
deceased at Wellington New Zealand on the four-
teenth day of February 1917 NOW therefore take
notice that within fourteen days after the date of
the publication hereof you are to appear in our
said Court and there to make answer to the said
Petition which may be inspected by you at • the
office of the Registrar of the Supreme Court at Bris-
bane Queensland AND also take notice that in
default of your appearance our said Court will pro-
ceed to grant Letters of Administration of the lands
and goods of the said Edward Anton Neilsen to the
said James Neilsen.
DATED at Brisbane in the State of Queensland
this day of September, 1922.
F. S. KENNEDY,
Deputy Registrar of the Supreme Court.
P. L. Cardew and Simpson, Solicitors for James
Neilsen, Ipswich.
By their Agents: Mannish and Macrossan, Solicitors,
Brisbane.
Amusements.
HOYT’S THEATRES, M EI.HOU RN E.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s R.rjdge).
WAITING FOR DAWN,
A STORY’ OF MAGNIFICENT ADVENTURE.
Also, .
ARE YOU LEGALLY MARRIED?
Prices as usual. '
|y|A.)ESTIC THEATRE, ME I, HO URN E.
GREAT SHOW WEEK ATTRACTION.
THE BEAUTIFUL CORINNE GRIFFITH
in
ISLAND WIVES.
Matinges daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Legal Notice.
tN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND,
-L NELSON DISTRICT. IN DIVORCE.
TO LAURENCE JANE STADE the wife of Frank
Edward Stade of Motueka in New Zealand carrier.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of New Zealand at Nelson
citing you to appear and answer the Petition of
Frank Edward Stade of Motueka carrier wherein
he prays for a dissolution of his marriage with you
on the ground of desertion and such Citation inti-
mates that in default of your so doing the Court
will proceed to hear the said Petition and to. pro-
nounce sentence therein notwithstanding your
absence NOW THEREFOR?. TAKE NOTICE that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within thirty-seven
(37) days after the date of this publication to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the Supremo
Court Office at Nelson and there to enter an appear-
ance without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition will be
supplied to you on your applying for the sifme at
the Supreme Court Office at Nelson.
Dated this eighteenth day of September 1922.
F. MITCHELL, Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to her the foregoing advertise-
ment.
Charles John Harley is the Solicitor for the
Petitioner whose address for service iB at the offices
of Messieurs Adams and Harley in Hardy Street in
the City of Nelson in the Dominion of New Zealand.
MONARCH
ALL HOTELS and
TOBACCONISTS
6
D
EACH
‘•in
ACTUAL Size
Post paid to any address.
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing :
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 b George Street, SYDNEY.
Distributors for CLUB REIL CIGAR FACTORY.
ft
/MM
A
«t
A * 4'
■I
*
H
hH
m
K*^
******
f
fc
I
ft
H
£
LI
j
•• •
The Whole World of Music
Yours, if you own a
Rexonola.
Is yours a home without music? Are your
musical pleasures gained only from concerts
or visits to your more fortunate friends? Have
you not often listened to some song or melody
that you longed to recall and hear again?
With a Rexonola you make your own musical
programme—hear your favorite music as
often as you wish—bring the world’s greatest
musicians into your own home.
The voices of the living artists and the music
of all musical instruments are faithfully repro-
duced, tone-perfected by the patented
Rexonola Reflector Sound Chamber.
Choose your model Rexonola to-day.
REXONOLA NUMBER 4—A
liandsom e and inexpensive
cabinet model. Size 41 x 104
x 17 inches. Working parts
are similar in construction to
Number 8 model, giving a tone
of magnificent volume and
richness. In Oak, Golden or
Mission Finish, £l9.
REXONOLA NUMBER 15—A
splendid model for the small room
or flat. Size 18 x 14 x 81
inches. Double Spring, Swiss
Worm-drive Motor, plays about 3
records with one winding.
Rexonola Nickel Grand Sound
Box. The price is £6/7/6.
REXONOLA NUMBER
B—A high-grade talking
machine. Size 20 x 1 6 x
1 4i inches. Strongly con-
structed in imported Oak,
Golden or Mission finish.
Possesses the exclusive
Rexonola Patented Reflec-
tor Sound Chamber, and
a Double-spring Swiss
Worm-drive Motor, play-
ing three records with one
winding. Price, £ll/10/-
REXONOLA NUMBER 18—A
popular small table model.
Size 15 x 11 x 71 inches.
Strongly constructed and well
finished, and having a silent-
running Swiss Motor. Mission
or Light finish, £3/7/6.
The reason for the perfection of Rexonola
tone is the Patented Reflector Sound Chamber
—the secret of the correct “Tone • Eocus.”
The essential portions of Rexonola construc-
tion are shown on the diagram: (I,') Sound
Box. (2) Tone Arm, (3) Turntable, (4)
Motor Chamber, (5) Sound Chamber, (6)
The Patent Reflector feature _ for correctly
“focussing” the tone. •
Rexonolas —Table Models priced from £3/7/6 to £l9, Cabinet
Models from £l9 to £45, and Period Models from £5O to £62/10/-,
are sold by hundreds of talking-machine stores throughout Austral-
asia. If there is no Rexonola dealer near you, write direct for illus-
trated hooklet, “A New World of Music in Your Home” to
Jackson & MacDonald
454 Kent Street, Sydney.


Cambric and Zephyr Shirts
LIGHT AND COOL, YET DURABLE.
Peapes quote for Summer wear two lines of Shirts that will
launder perfectly and give excellent service.
Cambric Shirts, various blue and black stripes
grounds. Finished with soft double cuffs, and
detachable soft Peter Pan collar to match
Zephyr Shirts, various blue and black stripes
fancy corded grounds. Finished with soft
double or stiff cuffs
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size of collar usually worn.
on white
IX/6
on white
12/6
3
n
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New Catalogue.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN &t CO. PTY. LTD.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOW'S FOH COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Cairo’’
Criterion “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure”
Royal “The Peep Show”
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall .... Rosina Buekman & Maurice D’Oisly
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Merry Widow’"
Royal “The Great Lover”
Palace , "Spangles”
King's “The Lie ’
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Though an air of theatrical convention-
ality clings to Vance Palmer’s “Happy
Family,” presented by the Pioneer Players
at Melbourne Temperance Hall last week,
the unemphasised types of Wayback life have
mostly an appealing reality about them. The
stagiest of the crowd is a squatter’s son who
marries the daughter of it mail-contractor
against whom the boy’s august parent has
nursed a cold and featureless feud. The
sheep-baron has a sort of flinty veracity
until he forgets bis animosities under the
warming influence of whisky and tobacco,
but he is striking by comparison with the
curious police-sergeant, who, however, wois
apparently suffering from the disorderly
conduct of a false stomach, which slipped
upward on Thursday, and produced a pouter-
pigeon effect. But the other characters are
pretty convincing, and none of them ever
runs to the farcical extremes of the quaint
menagerie in “On Our Selection.” The daft
and faraway Steve, who is simply tolerated
for the sake of his accordion at bush darnces
and other diversions, is pathetically truth-
ful, whilst affording a dire prophecy of
what he might have become if he had been
travestied in the Steele Rudd manner.
Though immaterial to the plot* Steve attains
histrionic importance through the skilful
handling of Alan Murray, who poetises the
character’s oddity into a wistful pitifulness,
discernible in his lightest comic relief. Alan
Murray’s acting is very good, though it pro-
bably derides the author’s intention regard-
ing 'Steve’s real place in the play. C. H.
Row presents the frigid front required for
squatter Bentley, but in the last act his
natural bonhomie and friendliness burst
through the thick crust of his family pride.
Leo Burke, as his son, Cob, is the manly
subject of Norali Bandy’s thoughts, Norah
being represented as a. bush enchantress by
the winsome Hilda Bull. Charles Doherty
(l J at Landy) sounds a bit raw in his tones
of protest, and seems to feel the responsi-
bility of his whiskers, but doubtless some
of his crudities will be trimmed down in
further rehearsals. MrS. Landy owes her
bustling vehemence to Eileen O’Keefe, who
would be justified in taking a higher note
of domestic imperiousness to her rather feck-
less husband. The other daughter, Etty,
played by Alice Crowther, is inferior in cat-
craft to ’ her sister aforesaid, but her open
style chimes in beautifully with the brisk
manner of Dave Watson, the bloke who has
stormed her girlish affections. Frank Keon’s
vocal stamina keeps Dave to the front, and
Irene Appleton, ,T. O’Connell, T. Kanake
and Frank Rollett behave themselves in
the smaller parts. The scenery also deserves
PRESTON AND PERRIN AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
a word of approval. In fact, the show all
round is a great improvement on previous
productions.
This being Show Week in Melbourne the
.theatres mostly take all they can hold and
wish they were bigger. At the King’s *a
vigilant management has stuck to “The Lie”
by night, whilst giving matinge revivals of
“My Lady’s Dress,” which will get another
airing on Saturday afternoon. At the Royal
the trouble with “The Great Lover” is to
keep any sort of audience in full sympathy
with the men, women and circumstances of
an exotic world. At Melbourne Palace the
next two matinees of “Spangles” are to-day
(Thursday) and Saturday. During this
week “Spangles,” in its fifth month, is to
beat the Melbourne record. Ada Reeve was
out of the bill lately, for a day or so,
but the present festival finds her going
stronger than ever as regards the ruminative
landowner who wished his old woman had
been built on . Venusian lines. Ri-too-rol-li-
looral.
** * *
Gladys Moncriefif. by the way, has been
out of the bill at Melbourne Her Majesty’s,
and Kitty Reidy has played the Merry
Widow in her stead. The understudy
possesses a nice young voice, with the sort
of enunciation that compares not unfavor-
ably with the flulfy dictum of Gladys afore-
said. Looking very pretty in beauteous rai-
ment, and having a winsome smile among
her other essentials, Kitty Reidy probably
sent a few thousand people away with the
impression that they bad been looking at the
other lady whose name remained in the
advertisement.
** * *
One of the latest turns at Melbourne
Tivoli is Carne and Kellaway, who dance
and mum better than they sing or dialogue.
The lady partner specialises on her toe-tops,
after which she and the other fellow con-
spire to nut a touch of new humor into the
old Apache danse
acrobatique, o r
whatever they call
it. The cou r t
ca rd s of the
Tivqli pack are, as
before, tall and
comely Ethel Tlook.
with her pianist
and her baritone,
who is most useful
in the “Keys of
Heaven” duet.
Also Gene Gerrard
continues to out-
rage the laws of
Pussyfoot by ap-
pearing to advant-
age as a newly-
married drunk.
*
Melbourne Town
Hall has lost
D’Alvarez and re-
covered Althouse
and Middleton for
two more concerts.
To-night (Thurs-
day) and to-mor-
row the sociable
tenor and baritone
from America will
Hugh Bteyne in “The
Merry Widow,” at
Her Majesty's
Melbourne
execute the audience’s orders for encores.
* # * *
A Melbourne ttbte :—■
The strong- painting- of W. B. Mclnnes calls lot
admiring notice in the annual line-up of the Austra-
lian Art Association at the Fine Aft Society,
Mclnnes has three efforts, the largest Of which is
“Geoffrey,” a study of a family circle given a con-
spicuous pictorial emphasis by a brilliant side-light
which misses the poor old grandma sitting in the
background. Two other studies, “Patricia” and
“Malcolm and Gyp,” are noticeable for the sartte
somewhat mannered accentuation of the children’s
figures at the expense of the rest of the 'canvas-, but
there is a compensating vitality in the nippers and
a striking simplicity in their pose and dress. Leslie
Wilkie’s “Pink Tulle*’ suffers heavily by comparison
with Mclnnes’s work. His lady is graceful, but
over-ansemic. Bernard Hall hangs a typical nude
expressing the attitude of sensUous languor which this
artist has patented for publication-. His portrait of
Norman Peebles charts the Vivid points of a cranium
recalling that of J, M. Barrie-, whilst A. C'olcjuhoun’s
best frame contains a lady Who has an uncertain
expression about the eyes. Jim McDonald, who
draws splendidly in charcoal, supplies in “Self Por-
trait” a revelation of a noble soul. A design for a
mural decoration depicting big, purposeful Diggers
in the varied routine of war, bears the signature of
H. S. Power, and the same paintef is also responsible
for two snapshots of kiddies on shaggy ponies.
Miss Cumbrae-Stewart, and Miss Dora Wilson, the
two industrious pastellists, are gradually getting
back to Nature. In “Toilette” Miss Cumbrae-Stewart
boldly throws back a pretty kimono to reveal an
appealingly girlish torso. Miss Wilson does like-
wise, only more so, in the engaging “Chinese Coat.”
Penleigh Boyd has a vast map of Sydney Harbor,
and tourist views of the same overpainted subject
are furnished by James Jackson and Clewin Harcourt.
“Dancing Wavelets,” by Norman Maegeorge, is almost
Oriental in its effusiveness, and Knox’s Sunny land-
scapes would be worth a million immigrants if they
were reproduced in posters and plastered about Eng-
land. “In the Bush” and “Blue and Gold, Yarra-
glen,” are effective subjects from the brush of Louis
MeCubbin. A. J. Eldershaw, who contributes a
dozen water-colors, is nowhere sparkling, and J,
MacNally’s vague atmospheric symphonies are only
charming in moderation. Thea Proctor sends a well-
drawn “Pink Dress” in pencil and wash, but Mrs.
Rix Nicholas is not at the top of her form in her
portrait of Emelie Polini. The most important of
H. B. Harrison’s panels is a smart sketch of a young
man in glasses. J. J. Collins is the author Of a
“Silver Morning,” whereof the chief feature is a
steely-blue shadow gushing from a lone tree over the
foreground. Of the picturesque fancies by M.
Napier Waller in rusty-red tones, the one entitled
“Virgil” has been bought for the National Gallery.
The same institution has disclosed a belated regard
for Australian talent by also purchasing Melnnes s
“Malcolm and Gyp.”
* * *
Corinne Griffith is the prevailing goddess
at Melbourne Majestic this week. As the
desirable Eve of “Island Wives,” she needs
all the resources of an ingenious film-fakir
to provide with escapes from sultry
situations. One of the American yarns of
Edna Ferber, translated into movie fiction as
“The Gay Old Dog,” is the Majesties other
appeal to the simple. Hoyt’s are thrilling
the cockies who have come to town with the
Jules Verne yarn entitled “Waiting for
Dawn.” “High Heels,” with Gladys Walton
advertising the footwear, is the _ appetiser
to the big dish, “Are You Legally Married?
at the Lyceum. The latter tale, based on
the different divorce laws in the U.S.A.,
would probably prove more piquant to a
Yankee audience. Hebe Daniels’s fatal
beauty is the cause of the current trouble at
the Melba in the explosive romance, “North
of the Ilio Grande.” A tropical shower of
silver shows the strong public regard for
“Madame X” at the Britannia.
ef: sfc *
Last week Adelaide Repertory Theatre
showed ItvidOlf Besier’s “Don” —so called by
his best-girl, Ann, because he was a true
Quixote. Lie showed it by bringing home
to her and his mother a Mrs. Thompsett,
whom he had rescued from a worthy but
detested . husband. Ann liad a typical
stage-colonel father and a witty, modern
mother. (Ray Walsh and Etlielwyn Robin
got the last ounce out of the humor of these
two; and Beryl Alford did her best work also
as Don’s foolish but lovable mother.) Comes
Thompsett in pursuit. Me proves to be
uncouth, a religious fanatic, but. deeply earn-
est and commanding respect, Thomas Nave
realised him perfectly, and Claude
Saunders, as Don, met him always with a
half-smile, which may or may not be what
the author intended, but is a quite allowable
reading of the character; he is a great find
for the Repertory as another “ieading juven-
ile.” Mrs. Thompsett proves to be more
than half in love with Don, Who does not
care for her in the least; and, finding this
out, she jpst goes back with her husband —
an Uhlikely ehdihg; blit the only one to
avoid tragedy. Thelma Bahlflerstone de-
picted the hysterical woman. Well ; and Gwen
Hone, as Anh,. dealt cleverly with the diffi-
cult “bUsihess” bf having continuously to
sit still and hear other people arguing abotit
her happiness.
** & &
W. S. Percy has succeeded the departing
Frith at Adelaide Royal in an extra week
of “A Night Out.” He rose to the occasion
well, and Maude Fane (whb seems to be
getting slilnhieH is bei owh chaimiing self;
At the Victoria Hail, now cbmpeting as a
handy, small theatre (previously much
needed), Lawrence Campbell has had good
hblises foi* a series of elocution evenings.
Ail evening given to the Sentimental Bloke
Was much enjoyed. At the King’s amateurs
in competition have been shbwing D’Arcy
Kehvay how he ought to play his most recent
part. The Majestic has a good variety
hill, which has a far better chance in that
central location —possibly the best in thb
city. A line picture is “Disraeli,” at West’s,
with a spirited attempt by George Arliss td
reproduce the mid-Victorian atmosphere.
At Wondergraph, William Hart is so bad g
man that he has to keep “Travelling On,”
no one town being big enough to htild him;
also Bebe Daniels has patented a neW and
engaging ffifck bf ringing up casual numbers
on the ’phone and flirting with any male
voice that happens to reply. The Grand
relies mainly on stoush, Conway Tearle as
“The Referee.” And the York is clearing
the decks for “The Three Musketeers,” with
Douglas Fairbanks improving on Dumas.
“Cairo” is well into its smashing stride
at Her JVJajesty’s, Sydney. Nightly the gor-
geous panorama of Oriental magnificence
unfolds itself, street scene and desert, glit-
tering palace and ruined temple, sultan and
beggar-maid, dingy pilgrims and voluptuous
dancing-girls—and, over all, the mad, bois-
terous whirl the huge bulk of Oscar Asche
as Ali Shar, the Strong Man from Persia,
standing out like a bulging moon in a
starry heaven.
“Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure” still
bolds the boards at Sydney Criterion. Its
appeal is in the sudden intrusion of mad
melodrama and rollicking burlesque into a
quiet Cornish country-house, and playgoers
would be hard to please who desired more
effective acting of the_ lighter kind than
Lawrence Gtossmith, Diana Wilson and the
rest of this clever company supply.
& *!: *
“The Peep Show” keeps its freshness at
the Theatre Royal, Sydney. It suggests one
of those cocktails compounded by skilled bar-
tenders out of a multitude of drinks which
should be imbibed while it fizzes.
, If Rosina Buckman, now appearing at
Sydney Town Hall, were an Ameri-
can on a return tour to her home-
land, there wouldn’t be a drum in
the U.S.A. large enough to beat in
her honor. Her singing of the Santuzza’s
aria from “Cavalleria,” the other night, was
"THE PEEP
SHOW” AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
George (Dan Booker) arrives in Scotland.
a hfeartropener, and would bo a passport to
any operatic 1 Stage of the world. Her intona-
tion and..enunciation al’6 jhst about perfec-
tion'; and when a dramatic passage calls tor
fol-ce she. hands oUt the Sincere thing UU-
accpnipanied by the shiminy-sbaking and
the python-like contortions that We are often
called upon to regard as the real thing,
Maurice D'Oisly sittgs sweetly and With a
fipished charm, and in the dtlots with his
wife is at his best. Pianist Percy Kahn and
’cellist Adelina Leon tnadC Up a group at
Once arresting and impressive. Four extra
concerts, by request* have been tacked on
to the original tour.
* * =1
Charles - Wheeler’s exhibition at Horderns’
Gallery is somewhat marred by his tendency
to exaggerate color in greys, and none of, his
pictures escape the resultant suggestion of
prettiness. Where it is least noticeable and
where, also, be has given eqhal attention to
the three elements, form, tone and coldrj. us
in “Chaff-cutting” and ‘‘Feeding-time,” lie
achieves a degree of illtision seldom met with
in work by men with bigger local reputa-
tions. Flis horse studies reveal his strength
as a draughtsman, and “Ready for the
Mill,” “At Sherbrooke” and a few hioi*e leave
no doubt as to his facility:
# w *
P. it: (jfozier’s exhibition at , GayfiClt!
Shaw’s Gallhry suffers frdm a sinlildr Color-
ful prettiness; and odd, irrelevant tints hr
too dark spots oCchtring in nearly, all his
work leave the imptession of good music
played bn an instrument which has not been
tuned. He is a realist, but in spite of his
very evident abilities, his loose method of
painting, most noticeable iff his skieS, makes
it nowhere possible to forget the paint in
contemplation Of a phasfe Of NdttiVe,
Visitors to thd N.S.W; Manufacturers
exhibition in the Royal Agricultural
Show Ground, which starts oh Odtobei 1 7<
Will be able to view the finest collection. qf
war-trophies ever gathered together in this
State. A Vocal and instrumental musical
competition has been arranged for substan-
tial cash prizes. At night free open-air
cinema shows will be given, and for those
whose taste is for higher art, a show of
paintings by Australia’s leading artists will
be an attractive feature.-
* >y * *
At Sydney Tivoli. Wee Georgie Wood had
so endeared himself to the public that he has
difficulty in starting his turn because of the
tumult, and later finds it hard to get off and
give the next man a show, because of the
riot. Leyland Hodgson, late of the Tivoli
Follies, is back at the old address with the
dancing twins, May and June Henry. Other
agreeable newcomers are Hunter and Bobs,
eccentric tumblers; Clemo and Brady,
dancers and jugglers: Keeley and Aldous,
patter merchants; and the Brackens.
In “The Ordeal,” at Sydney Lyceum,
Agnes Ayres meets and defeats a heap of
unmerited trouble. The extra at this house
is “The Fortune of Christina McNab.”
Douglas Fairbanks is at the Rialto in “The
Mollycoddle.” liarold Lloyd is in “Get Out
and Get Under” at the Empress. Tom Mix
has villainy on the run at Hoyt’s. Rudolph
Valentino opens up his second week at the
Crystal Palace in the best flicker-show in
town, “The Four Horsemen of the Apoca-
lypse.” And “Over the Hill” and “Little
Lord Fauntlero.v” are sobbing bitterly at
the Globe and Strand respectively.


QUEENSLAND SUGAR IS EXCHANGED FOR SOUTHERN GOODS
i
r
*wm
m
*
»
iJR
«* f I
m .rik
lr->- -
lIHm
m
S'.S. WYREEMA, from MELBOURNE, discharging southern goods at CAIRNS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
m
m
*.***
9
Mi
i
KSplllMP
iiii
.
IpWBiP
; . v
■
■
■
I
■
ft
*
Another large steamer simultaneously loading sugar for southern refineries at the same wharf.
THUS PROMOTING RECIPROCAL PROSPERITY THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH


CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: IARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
MIQ
“VALLO”
WEED, SCRUB STREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
II
“VAJjLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Powder Form —Mimes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561b., 70/-; 151b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State: lib., 9d.; Jib. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; lib., Sd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches —SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Fax” : The late Mrs. Rickards, tall and
slim, was a well-known figure on the vau-
deville stage in Melbourne and Sydney what
time her husband was paving the way for
his subsequent venture as a full-sized theatri-
cal manager. When she appeared in “Bric-
a-Brac” and “Ma-in-Law,” under her pro-
fessional name of Kate Leete, her principal
colleagues, apart from the boss, were Nellie
Wilson, the Cremars, Ada Delroy, James
Bell, Ada Juneen and Monsieur Provo, of
whom sprightly Ada Delroy and Provo, the
juggler, were features of the first Rickards
hills after ’Arry became his own lessee. By
that time Kate Leete had retired behind the
scenes. Seeing that she first came to Aus-
tralia with her husband’s “Bric-ft-Brac” co.
in 1886, one may suppose that Mrs. Rick-
ards was older than she looked at the time
she started on her last trip to England.
“Abbot Park”: Thorold Waters (B.
14/9/’22) is getting close to the ridiculous
when lie asserts that Edward Lloyd’s voice
was “thin and reedy, eventually developing
into the pretty lyrical tenor heard in Aus-
tralia.” It was more than a pretty lyrical
A. Howett-Worster as Danilo. and Jack
Cannot a as Popoff. in “'The Merry
Widow," at Her Majesty's, Melbourne.
tenor when I heard it in “Lend Me Your Aid”
and “Oh ! ’Tis a Glorious Sight to See.” Also,
the suggestion that Lloyd had no time for
Wagner 'because he amassed £BO,OOO by
warbling Stephen Adams’s songs is not con-
vincing. For example, Santley must have
made a fortune from royalties on maudlin
rubbish, but his reputation was made outside
that department. He originated the name-
part in the English production of “The
Flying Dutchman.”
“Wodgil”: Westralia has been consider-
able astonished to find the once-glacial
Melba grown playful. When in Perth she
enlivened a theatrical “carnival” by im-
printing a kittenish salute on the corru-
gated countenance of Tommy Coombe, the
promoter; Coombe is interested in the pit-
chers and has developed a turn for philan-
thropy. Fired by the example of Ben Fuller
he endowed a few scholarships, . but,
although the advertising has been effusive, he
is still waiting for the reward that Ben got.
There is an idea the Dame’s kiss will accel-
erate his admission to the illustrious Order
of the Empire.
"E.T.”: In the Regent’s Park scene of
Geo. R. Sims’s best-known play, “The Lights
o’ London,” a homeless dosser is awakened
from his sleep on a bench by a policeman.
The “beat’s” part is a small one, but the
exit speech always provokes a laugh. As
the wreck shuffles off through the gateway
he raises his hand with a lordly air and calls
out, “Hi, hansom !” The line is a gag, in-
terpolated one night during Wilson Barrett’s
first production of the drama at London
Princess’s. When the mummer asked Sims’s
permission to keep it in, the author replied:
“By all means, my boy. I never object to a
gag when it’s a good one.” The guilty actor
was Ambrose Manning, who came to Aus-
tralia with Barrett, lie has visited us two
or three times since.
“Peter” : Beverley Sitgreaves, who is do-
ing Giulia Sabattini in “The Great Lover”
at Melbourne Royal, first appeared in the
character, with Leo Ditrichstein as the
Lover, at the Longacre. Theatre, New York,
in 1915. She repeated the prima donna’s
rages during 1916-17. and was imported for
the same character in the London produc-
tions at the Duke of York’s, 1919, and
Shaftesbury, 1920. It is now taking longer
for dramatic successes to reach Australia.
Two recent shows at the King’s, “My Lady’s
Dress” and “The Lie,” have both passed
their eighth birthdays. Beverley, by the way,
hails from Charleston, South Carolina, and
made her d6but at Noo Yoiek in 1887.
“8.R.C.”: Bert Bailey will launch Den-
nis’s dramatic version of “The Sentimental
Bloke” at the King’s Theatre, Melbourne, on
October 7. The
casting has proved
troublesome, but
Dennis and Bailey
think that Walter
Cornock, one of the
Fuller humorists,
will be just the
man for the name
part. Eileen Alex-
ander, who is prac-
tically new to the
stage, and whom
Bailey regards as
a “find,” will be
his Doreen, and
the interpolated
pa r t of Ginger
Mick has been enr-
m a rk e d for Tal
Ordell, a tall ordeal
in sundry William- |
son shows, but a
surprisingly funny
Dave in the movie
of “On Our Selec-
tion.” Among the
other roles the
most prominent
will be Edwin
Lester as Uncle
Jim. Much of the
scenery is coming
from the Colemans,
and Hal Gye has
posters.
"The Peep Show,” at
Sydney Royal.
Mona Magnet in a
minstrel-show number:
designed some of the
“Philm Up”: Picture showmen, for all
their protestations that the goods they exhibit
never do any harm to young or old, are cham-
pion offenders against good taste. They have
just sneaked the repellent Arbuckle hack to
their screens—“after a long banishment,” as
their announcements disingenuously put it.
They give him the Christian name of Roscoe
now, but nothing can disguise the lumbering
decadent.
“E.T.”: One of the catchiest old melodies
revived in “The Peep Show” at Sydney Royal
is “Daisy,” or “A Bicycle Made for Two.”
It is easy to understand its vogue HO years
ago, when it was whistled and bfarrel-
organed all over London and Australia.
The writer of “Daisy” recently passed out
in Fogtown, aged 00, Ole wrote under
the name of Harry Dacre, but was really
Frank Dean, and he ran a song-shop of his
own in London for a quarter of a century.
“Snell”: He was manager, leading artist,
and sole proprietor, chief ticket clerk,
spruiker, and before-the-house representa-
tive of a small dramatic company doing the
outer suburbs, playing in town and ' shire
halls, and he confided to me in the intervals
between inviting three small boys with a
scurvy fox-terrier and a little girl with a rag
doll to roll up, tumble up and seize the few
remaining opportunities of seeing Samson’s
Celebrated Plavers in that most stirring of
all dramas, “TJncle Tom’s Cabin.” “Yes,
siree, and you can print it if you like, I’m
goin’ to empty their city houses. Now,
watch me. What have I got ag'in ’em?
Hark you, and mark you: Two years ago I
had a grip with the Firm. The best actor,
sir, the finest artist, sir, in their sorry com-
pany, and they fired me for incompetence —
for incompetence, if you can believe me.
I’ll empty their fine city theatres. I’ll
show them.” I went inside. There were
nine people in the shilling seats, and the bill-
sticker and his family dead-heading it alone
in the 2s. chairs.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Austin Mereton,
sometime of journalistic Sydney, has pro-
duced a half-guinea biography of H. B. and
Lawrence Irving. He had previously written
the best life of their more famous father.
Sir Henry made an unhappy marriage, and
the two boys were brought up by the sepa-
rated mother, seldom seeing dad until they
were well advanced in their teens. H.B.
studied for the Bar, and was called, but
never practised. Lawrence was intended for
the diplomatic service, and spent some time
in the British Embassy at St. Petersburg,
where he learnt the Russian language, an
accomplishment that afterwards enabled him
to translate some Russian plays into Eng-
lish, his father producing two of them at tne
Lyceum. Both had years of struggle and
failure before they made their mark on the
stage. And then an unkindly fate carried
them off in the forties. .
“T.P.0.”: The late Kate Rickards never
cut much ice as an actress, but she was a
business woman of vision and resource.
Harry Rickards, having made a success at
Sydney’s old King-street Opera House
( always regarded as a white elephant by
theatrical managers), was loath to leave the
place. But Kate’s counsels prevailed, and
the larger Garrick (renamed the Tivoli) was
secured, with the result that the fortunes of
the family were placed on .very sound foun-
dations. Harry began to import people like
Chas. Godfrey, Chirgwin and Alice Leamar,
the business spread to Melbourne, and in
time the Tivoli circuit became the most pro-
fitable theatrical business in Australia.
Strange that Mrs. Rickards should have died
aboard the very boat that brou*ght all that
remained of her dead Harry to Australia.
“Stargazer”: I resent the assumption that
Australian drama, before it gets a look in,
should be as excellent a literary product as
the plays being produced by more or less
successful in London to-day, or
even up to the standard of New York
dramatic joinery and fitting. Good plays
have come in most countries by a process
of evolution. It needed a lot of blundering
craftsmen to lead up to Shakspeare via Mar-
lowe, and if the ascending scale has not been
maintained it is largely true that excellence
in dramatic movements is the outcome of
much incompetence and hard if indifferent
effort. Australians have as much right to pro-
duce their own bad plays as have the play-
boys of other countries, and more right to
make bad plays for Australian consumption
than Americans or Englishmen have to make
them for us. Until there is some fair and
reasonable toleration for the poor play made
on the Australian premises there will be
small likelihood of our fair-to-middling play
forthcoming, and far less opportunity of the
really good thing attaining publicity. You
must walk before you run, but who will put
the Aussie dramatist on his feet?
“T.W.”: Australian baritone Stanley
Newman is now in the cast of “The Beggar’s
Opera,” still drawing London’s fashionables
to the outer darkness of suburban Hammer-
smith. Newman made good vocally in the
Smoke, and also in Smuts’s country, finally
wedding well. Ranalow, who has starred
all along as Macheath, toured these parts
one time in concert work.
“Lud”: Tallis, I see, has acquired the
dramatic rights of “If Winter Comes.”
Quick work considering that the play was
only being tried on the dog in the middle of
August. It must have hit the public taste
as much as the novel. Anyhow, it is sure
to be a skilful adaptation, the job having
been undertaken by Basil McDonald Hast-
ings, whose first play, “The New Sin,” in
which three-acter no female character
appears, marked him out as a coming man.
“F.L.H.” ; Old baritone Santley, who has
just joined the Celestial choir, composed
some music iii his time. I heard a Berceuse
of his played at one of Tcherek’s orchestral
concerts 20 years ago. Santley also put to-
gether some calling himself “Ralph
Betterton” on the title page. He sang one
or two of those when he toured Australia
in 1889, but I don’t think anyone wants to
hear them now. In his books scarcely any
modern vocalist is mentioned: only his
youthful contemporaries are spoken of. About
1870 he played the part of Vanderdecken at
the first production of “The Flying Dutch-
man” in England, but in after years stated
that he would not leave his fireside to hear
that opera again. Parts like Valentine in
“Faust,” which was enlarged to suit him,
and Danny Mann in “The Lily of Killar-
ney,” were what he liked.
“T.W.”: Would-be highbrows of some
Australian conservatoriums will be shocked
to hear that London’s biggest factory of
the kind, the Royal College over by the
Albert Hall, has stepped down from its lofty
perch and put up prizes for extemporisations
on the piano for the movies. Candidates
were placed in front of a reel called “A
Spring Idyll,” in.which two pairs of lovers,
a dog and a wild bull provided a story rang-
ing from the almost tragic to the wildly
farcical. After seeing it through once, each
had his turn at faking appropriate piano
noises while the film was in progress, and
one of them was so deft that he developed a
sort of Wagnerian leitmotiv for each
character, including the bull.
“Santander”: “O.lv.’s” reference to Sarah
Bernhardt (B. 14/9/’22) recalls Shaw’s
pungent criticism of the lady when he first
saw her in “Magda.” The fact that Duse
was impersonating Sudermann’s heroine at
a neighboring theatre offered him a profitable
Louis J. Seymour,
light comedian at
Sydney Tivoli.
field for compari-
son. Sarah was
dressed up as if
she had everywhere
to go. Her face
was like an oil-
painting, and her
mannerisms were
all that the pontiffs
of criticism had
long accepted as
“art.” The Italian,
on the other hand,
was just plain
Eleonora 1) us e.
She was unpig
mented and looked
homely beside the
Frenchwoman, but
in Shaw’s view
scored heavily at
Sarah’s expense by
a superior men-
tal concentration.
When the Italian
Magda encountered
her old lover in
her parents’ house
s h e—t o Shaw’s
astonishment
—actually blushed.
This phenomenon
he records in
his “Dramatic
Opinions and
Essays,” and to him it made Sarah’s stagey
posturings absolutely trivial.
An old concert-goer’s growl:—
► Popular taste, as expressed in concert-halls, is
strangely uncritical and capricious. Melbourne Town
Hall was recently tenanted by Rosina Buckman
and Maurice D’Oisly three nights a * Meek, and by
Althouse and Middleton on other three nights. The
entertainment, what there was of it, was good
enough in both cases, but there wasn’t much. Be-
tween 8.10 or 8.15, when the concert began, and
10 p.m. or so, when it ended, a terrible lot of time
was wasted in demands for encores. The audience
spent almost as much time in banging its hands
together to keep them warm as in listening to the
performers. Compared with a cOmic-opera show a
concert is slow musical entertainment, and com-
pared with a grand opera it is absurdly thin. Vet
audiences make a great pretence of enjoying an
exceptional treat; •
My recollections of concerts in the past set me
smiling at the concerts we have come to. Think of
Phil Newbury’s “shilling pops,” given when his
beautiful tenor voice yvas in its prime, four and
twenty years ago! Phil would appear three times
(plus encores) ere concluding with the Miserere
scene from “Trovatore,” his wife, Madame Spada,
being soprano support. The late W. G. Barker wa;
the basso, and less important considerations were a
baritone, a contralto, a lady violinist, a party ot
bellringers and an organ solo by the late W. E.
Nott, I recalled these “pops” when I heard Rosina
Buckman and her husband conclude a concert with
the same Miserere scene, the only other soloisl
being a lady 'cellist, who eked out the programnu
with three numbers. Newbury was a much finei
tenor than D’Oisly is, and the difference betweei
Madame Spada and Rosina Buckman would hardli
square accounts as regards this particular duet
Nor are comparisons favorable to the show given b;
Althouse and Middleton, though the combination i
pleasing. Neither voice is richly melodious. Th
basso declaims in an interesting, magnetic manner
but old David Bispham, here nine years ago, couh
beat him at that, whilst in the matter of singing
pure and beautiful, Middleton is not in the sam
•class as Peter Dawson, or even MacEachern, bet
of whom have been “turns” at the Tivoli. Althouse
a conventional operatic tenor of the Italian school, ca
be excused from comparison with Newbury (wh
was never an actor), but he at once recalls to min
the more mellifluous Capelli, delightful in a doze
grand-opera productions before the Italian compan
disbanded, leaving him and poor Balboni to appea
at picture-shows. I like Althouse in the passionat
tenor aria from “Pagliaeci,” but recollections (
Balboni doing likewise, in the ordinary course c
an opera double-bill, prevent me from getting enthi
siastic. Truly, concerts of late are meagre entei
tainments. Melba, w'hen she made her first retirr
to Australia, must have thought people wanted nun
variety for their guineas and half-guineas than st
gave them on recurring visits, for she brought wit
her. a French baritone, a Russian tenor and a ne
flautist—not as trusty as Lemmone —as well as
pianist. The Dame talks about the community beiri
musically starved. Well, it certainly doesn’t gi
too much to eat in a concert-hall where no orchesti
is provided.
THE MEAT EXPERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“She lovely!” said the stage-hand gruff,
To whom I spake of Mabel Lunder.
“She knows her bizness well enough."
And then he stared, as though in wonder.
I praised her figure and her face,
Her haunting smile, so truly sweet,
Her modest afr and easy grace—
The stage-hand said, “She’s not my meat.”
He shocked me with his coarse retort,
This cynic, sick of scenic glitter,
Who had a nagging wife —the sort
That makes a lawful husband bitter.
He slowly paced across the stage,
Whilst measuring full fifty feet,
Then muttered “That’s about ’er age:
And anyhow she’s not my meat.”
The. stage-hand was a caustic churl,
Who loved his beer and did his duty
A solo dance or ballet whirl
Aroused in him no sense of beauty.
1 mentioned Tottie Tynmouth’s eyes,
And Lizzie Trewlove’s ankles neat:
He never varied his replies,
His comment still was “Not my meat."
Does glamor blind us to the truth,
Concerning these attractive mummers ?
Does make-up lend an air of youth,
To wrinkled nymphs of fifty summers ?
When Mabel passed me by to-day,
A vision in the crowded street,
I seemed to hear the stage-hand say—
“ She lovely ! Well, she’s not my meat.”
I do rejoice that I am yet
A trustful, open-hearted person,
Beholding in the playhouse pet
A dainty theme to write a verse on,
I’d rather love all mummer queens,
And think them nice enough to eat,
Than be a bloke behind the scenes,
Forever growling—-“ Not my meat.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


■
hi
mm
'
Dinner or Dress Rings
Masterpieces of the Creative Art of the
Ring Craftsman.
We take precedence for originality of design, and
make rings that express the individuality of the
wearer.
In the smart long: shape, as shown on left hand, we offer a
magnificent ring, with three large Diamonds in centre, and
twelve smaller ones, for £4B.
the fancy Diamond shape, as on right hand, is a special
bargain at £l4/10/-
Long oval Marquise, similar to top ring in side group, with
three large beautiful Diamonds in centre, and smaller
Diamonds round, £2l.
Second ring in group, with long panel centre and fancy sides,
set with eight diamonds of finest lustre and whiteness,
rru- , • • £lB/15/-
I bird ring- is solid platinum, with three large Diamonds of
great beauty in centre, and four in each side. Very hand-
some, and special value at £35,
The fourth ring has three large diamonds in; centre, and the
fancy border and hand are studded with smaller ones,
£32/10/-
YOUR INSPECTION IS INVITED, OR WE WILL SEND
CATALOGUE POST FREE ON REQUEST.
WE RETURN YOUR MONEY IE YOU ARE NOT
SATISFIED.
ANGUS & COOTE, LTD.,
Sydney’s Leading Jewellers,
“On the Great White Way,”
496 to 502 George Street, SYDNEY
TEXACO
MOTOR
here
The Responsibility of
Lubricating Your Motor.
Do you leave it to chance or to choice?
Do you buy “motor oil” or Texaco?
Consider the requirements.
Cylinder walls, exposed to tremendously
HIGH TEMPERATURES, should be thor-
oughly and continually coated with a film of
oil having the highest possible lubricating
value. It means more power and longer life
to your motor.
In the crank-case, your motor-oil—the
same oil that goes to the cylinders and
pistons—-must efficiently lubricate AND
COOL the bearings.
Texaco Motor Oil takes care of all those
features. IT IS WORTHY OF THE RE-
SPONSIBILITY.
Texaco Motor Oil does not break down
under the heat of the engine. It does not
deposit hard carbon. It preserves its
efficient friction-reducing cushion between
all moving parts—high temperature or low
—at all speeds.
CHOOSE thfe right oil, and insist upon it
—Texaco Motor Oil.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEMCO
o
A
I
•• -I ■
lea
888888
iMilll
Si
111
M9i
mm
188
iBi
laa
■a w
■■ IB
fl*r
loan
Ml IN
BIA 188
aaaa mg
■■Sanaa
■ai aaaa
■ai tub
■ai bSb
88l 188
■Bl -
>Bl
■Si BB
■i>
■■l 5
sa
fit
!5S "Si!
BBL iBB
■aa. aaa
■BBI BIS
■BBBUBaaa
■bbbbbbbb
aaimfivißß
■ai tar ibbl
88l V IBB!
88l 188
IBBBBBBt
18888881
iaai aai
ibbc .aai
aaaaoßi
»8888B r
■ar—'
1881
1881
■■a
fBBBBBBt
IBSBBBai
IBBPFBBI
IBBW»«
IBBSBw
FBDBI
mmm. 'lo*l
■bb~jbb<
•aaeaagi
HAND BELT DRIVE SPRAY RAMS WINDMILL
THERE’S A “BILLABONG” FOR MOST AGRICULTURAL, PASTORAL & MINING PURPOSES
THE “BILIABONG” CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
is designed for raising large quantities of water
for irrigation and other purposes. It is speci-
ally adapted to meet the demand for a medium-
priced pump to be operated by kerosene or
petrol engines, or other belt power, and has an
extended spindle for use with electric motors.
Its efficiency reaches 75 per cent. —by indepen-
dent test.
We can supply the “Billabong” Centrifugal in
all sizes from lin. to Bin., in cast-iron or gun-
metal as required. Suction
and discharge are readily
adjustable to any angle.
to
“BILLABONG” Hydraulic Ram
A self-acting pumper: no hand-,
wind- or engine-power required.
All that is needed is a fall or
head of water from creek or dam
to work the pump. Capacities de-
pend on local conditions. Men-
tion the fall, height and dis-
tance to which water is to be
delivered, and quantity re-
quired per day, when writing.
“BILLABONG” DOUBLE-ACTING
PISTON PUMP
combines ample power and large
capacity in a most compact form.
This Pump may be operated by
engine- or other belt-power. Suction
may be taken from either side, and
delivery in four different directions.
Sizes range from 2-Jin. to Gin. diam.
barrel. Capacities up to 5875 imp.
gals, per hour. We also lit this Pump
up as an effective Sheep-spraying
Outfit.
“BILLABONG” LOW-DOWN DOUBLE-
ACTING FORCE PUMP
is a very durable and power-
ful hand-pump, suitable for
all general pumping pur-
poses. It is of solid con-
struction. large capacity,
and has no complicated
parts. Fitted with double-
cupped leathers, polished
Steel Piston-Rod and Brass
Packing-glands. Capacity up
to 1680 imp. gals, per hour.
Total lift and force, 50ft.
fg
Send Particulars for Present Favorable Prices.
JOHN DANKS & SON PTY., LTD., 324-30 Pitt St., Sydney; 391-403 Bourke St., Melbourne.
II
52
SIS?
as
B. &
gJJSiSB!!!?!
■a
is
iarssss£'
“
>*SSSI
Si>.B3SSBSs
teas
esasr
•■■s'
•■'
atf
•fl
S@QS«*
assess*
bbo|«
saciesa"
■css«
888}
BSSS jiS
iSSSSSSIIF
issssss;
"•58889'
■sai
*■■■«
•SB!
JBajs
•■■■'
■eaf
ißßflf
■
■
a


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special li i
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
sdf
“The
Stockman
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side —a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
1811
FINNEY, ISLES ®. CO. LTD.
BRISBANE.
Hie ERASMIC
SHAVING STICK.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTING
NEEDS
There was some capital racing at Roselnll
(N.S.W.) on Saturday, and the historic Hawkesbury
club must have shown a fine profit. Nor did Moses
Mcßook suffer any harm. Certainly four favorites
lolled home, but Moses took no risks with two of
them, and in the llfur. Spring Handicap, for which
four of the 19 starters were backed for big money,
he got a skinner. The steed that came to his rescue
was Wren’s six-year-old Comedy King—Nellie 11.
stallion, Liberty Loan. An uncertain brute, he had
run so wretchedly a week before that no one, except
a shrewd Sydney trainer, gave him a chance. The
trainer supported him to the extent of a fiver on the
tote and got back .£348 15s. at odds of (58:| to 1
the ring price was 33 to 1. Hut lie wouldn’t have
collected Ids £3Bl Ids. if Paganini had been ridden
with more judgment. The boy on Wootton’s geld-
ing tried to win all the way, and cut out such a
fast pace (the race was run in the course-record
time of 2min. 20sec.) that his mount, after settling
Syce Knight, had nothing left in him when tackled
by the outsider in the last hundred yards. The un-
backed Honey Bee was a good fourth, arid David,
who doesn’t shine in a big field, was also well up.
But the favorite, Prince Sandy, and the well-fancied
Sea Risk made a poor show.
Tressady Queen, who rarely runs two races alike,
gave her followers some of their money back by
winning the six-furlong Flying Handicap, at 5 to 1,
from the mysterious Grey Abbey and Peterson’s horse,
The Epicure, who likes them longer than three-
quarters-of-a-mile. Popaway cut up so badly that,
for the time being, he and The Bulletin part com-
pany. This good-looking animal has gone off since
tlie winter —or perhaps it is that lie hasn’t come on.
Cliffdale led all the way in the Hawkesbury Guineas
IVO WHITTON,
amateur golf
champion.
and shook off, first Theory and then Rivoli with e„se.
His price in a field of seven was 6 to 4 on. It was
liberal compared with the evens offered about Soorak
in the Three-vear-old Handicap, for the Woorak colt
carried fist. 81b., was bad at the barrier and had 14
horses to beat. However, Pike jumped him out
smartly from the barrier, and, riding 1 him a beauti-
ful race got him home a length ahead of the fast-
finishing Comptroller, who passed Rummi in the last
few strides. Soorak ran the nine furlongs in lmlii.
51-jsec. and was easing up at the finish. Cliff-
dale. with 201 b. less to carry, got over his mile in
lmin. 39ifSec.
Good performances both, and neither colt will Lack
for backers in the Derby at Randwick on Saturday.
But this page doesn’t see how either is going to
beat Caserta. That fine son of Comedy King moves
like a machine, and is a stayer all over. Barring-
accidents he will be galloping faster over the last
furlong than any of the other 11, but the same can-
not he confidently predicted of either the Sydney-
trained . brown or the Newcastle chestnut. Their
stamina is clouded with a doubt. Sir Andrew and
Tressayr will help to make a race of it, but The
Bulletin selects Caserta to win from Soorak and
Cliff dale.
For the Epsom four horses stand out on
recent form —Rostrum (Bst. 121 b.), Gilrav (B>t.
81b.), Local Irish (7st. 51b.) and Fleuriste (7st.
21b.). All have done satisfactory preparations, and
each would get at least 71b. more if the handi-
capper had to do his job over again. That, at least,
can’t be said of any other horse in the race. Along
with this lot the commentator will include Dunwil
(Bst. 71b.), because of his game second to Beaufort!
in last year's Epsom (Wish Wynne and Julia Grey,
the third and fourth horses, have performed splen-
dily since), and because his excellent race at Rose-
hill on September 16 showed that he is in form.
The Cooltrim chestnut is more at home at Randwick
than at any other course, and is well up to weight.
Whatever the weather he is worthy of a tote ticket,
and he will be finishing on when most of the .others
are stopping. But in “weather-fine-going-good con-
ditions this section prefers Loyal Irish to anything
else. decent four-year-old with a modest weight
is always dangerous in the Epsom, and the Irish
gentleman has won in good company up to a mile
and three furlongs. His speed out of the barrier
will assure him of a good position, and his light
burden and good trim (lie hasn’t been overtasked,
as he was in 1921) will stand to him over the last
bit. All things considered, the M.L. chestnut seems
the most reasonable bet. Still, he doesn’t care
for heavy going.
The Metropolitan looks much harder to pick.
Purser is well in witli Bst. 51b., but lie has been so
unlucky in big races that one hesitates about recom-
mending him. Certainly the Victorian has had a
sounder preparation than most of the Randwick can-
didatfes. Setting aside his llosehill running (it
appears that lie was galloped on), it is doubtful
whether Prince Sandy, for instance, has done suffi-
cient long work to fit him for a severe 13 furlongs.
The same applies to Bitalli (7st. 41b.), Furious
(9st.) and Even Song (7st. 41b.), although their
trainers may be presumed to know what they are
about. A horse that ought to see out every inch
of the journey is Cupidon, and a good four-year-old
who was a Derby winner in a respectable year is
not out of it with Bst. 121 b. Two other well-
conditioned horses are Greg (7st. 121 b.) and Punch
(6st. 121 b.). If the ground is a bit soft Greg will
be very dangerous. But the writer has a kindly
feeling for Punch, who beat Molyneux convincingly
at Warwick Farm, has been running on in all his
races (he was very badly ridden in one or two), and
has a pull in the weights. He expects to see Punch,
Cupidon and Greg figure in the finish, and likes them
in that order.
The w.f.a. races will be uncommonly interesting.
If the 12-furlong Spring Stakes is soundly run David
may beat both Gloaming and Beauford, inasmuch as
he is a true stayer and the others are not. But
he will have no chance with the fliers in the 10-
furlong Craven Plate, for which Gloaming will
carry The Bulletin’s confidence. As for the hau-
dicappers, Duke Napoli, Even Song, Absurdum
and Sandwyne may pick up races during the meet-
ing. In fact, if the Duke shapes well on the first
day he will be entitled to consideration in the
Metrop., seeing that he has only 6st. 121 b.
* * * »
That good horse Stare added to his Caul-
field Cup admirers by the style in which he won the
10-furlong Aspcndale Park Cup with 9st. 31b. up.
Second favorite at 5 to 2 (Salatis had the call in
the betting), he was badly interfered with early, but
came from a long way back and cut down the out-
sider Llewellyn, with Tangalooma third. Salatis
finished feebly.
* * *. *
“O.Iv.”: On figures from 1895 onwards
the odds against a three-year-old winning Melbourne
Cup are 5 to 4, whilst in the case of the Caulfield
Cup the odds are 7 to 2. The Metropolitan is hardly
ever captured by a young one. Six of the 12 young-
sters who won the Melbourne Cup in those 27 years
were Derby winners also, and several non-winners
have been placed in Derby and Cup. From 1910
to 1914 was the longest stretch of time when Derby
horses did nothing in the Melbourne Cup. Within
the last three years the three-year-olds have provided
two wins and two seconds in the Cup, three of the
four having previously been placed in a Derby.
Artilleryman and Richmond Main had the unique
d’stinotion of being the leading pair in both Derbies
end the Cup. All things considered, it seems advis-
able to wait for the first two days of the A.J.C.
Spring meeting before backing anything very hard
for‘the Cups.
At Sydney Sports Ground on Saturday
the Queensland Rugby Leaguers proved too good for
the Ma State’s best available XIII. The scores, 25
(5 tries 5 g'oals) to 9 (3 tries), accurately refhat
the Northerners’ superiority on the day'. In the
first spasm Frauenfelder, their custodian, caught
superbly and punted powerfully; Claude O’Donnell
snared the leather cleverly in the downs; Potter,
Bennett and Stanley, big, lusty forwards, were rarely
idle, and Connell worked the scrum like a trades-
man. Nothing finer lias been seen in League Rugger
for years than the straight running, clever handling
and heady backing-up of the Bananalanders and a
very sporting crowd yelled its delight. At “lemons”
the board showed 12 points to 3 in the visitors’ favor.
After the change-over, although N. S. Wales had a
strong wind behind them, and their heavier pack
should have been advantaged by the deluge that
came down, they could make no impression on the
men from the North. Blinkhorn never had a chance
against Patou, the Maroon back. Paton grassed the
famous Kangaroo hard and often. It was Queens-
land’s first victory over the Ma Staters since the incep-
tion of Northern Union Rugger here in 1908. They
lost 22 matches in succession.
“Lip” : Oscar Quinlivan. one of the two
country players in the N.S.W.-Queensland Rugby
League match, comes from a family with Rugby foot-
ball in its blood. For 20 years the name of Quin-
livan has been connected with the game on the Man-
ning River (N.S.W.)- Some years ago, Cundle,
Oscar’s home team, contained four of the name—his
father and three uncles. For 10 consecutive years
this team collected the district premiership medals.
After heating individual, teams they would take on and
wallop a “rest” combination. On one occasion they
toured the Northern Rivers with equal success.
Arthur Quinlivan, an uncle of the N.S.W. rep., was,
in Rngb.v Union days, a flying three-quarter, and
represented Combined Country several times.
Soccer and the Australian game are both
gaining strength in Sydney at the expense of Rugby
League. There was a crowd of 10,000 at the match
between St. Kilda (Vie.) and North Adelaide —quite
as large as that which saw the Queensland Rugby
Leaguers defeat N. S. Wales. St. Kilda were a
far bigger team than the Adelaide men, and they
always held the advantage in high-marking and pass-
ing. At the end they had 14 goals 19 behinds (103
points) to North Adelaide’s 6 goals 14 behinds (50
points), Moyes kicking six of their goals and
McNamara four. During the interval McNamara
“placed” a ball 76yds.
This is Robert
Alexander Wrig h t,
Mayor of Wellington,
M.L., and M.P. for one
of the local seats,
who recently made
history by refusing
to give a civic re-
ception to the Austra-
lian League team now
touring the Shivery
isles. “Raw” Wright’s
excuse was that it was
“contrary to prece-
dent” for mayors to
don the rabbit-skins in
honor of pros. Happily
this old-world hauteur
was not evinced in
Auckland, w here
Jimmy Gunson is
nrayor. Wright is a
printer by trade, but
it is doubtful if his
holy horror of the stig.
ma attaching to pro-
fessionalism would
cause him to turn
down a bit of job-
printing, supposing the
Leaguers wanted any.
If Vic. League football grows any more
popular the M. C. Ground will have to be enlarged.
On Saturday over 04,000 persons squeezed into it to
watch the collision of Carlton and Essendon in the
first semi-final. Part of the fence gave way to
pressure, and some of them spread into the playing-
area. As in most finals the ’bailers were too keel
and excited to give a skilful exhibition, and there
was much fumbling. The Old Blues averaged
6ft. lOin. in length and 12st. 21b. in mass, while
the ’Dons averaged oft. 9in. tall and list. 61b.
heavy. The game showed that undue fondness for
weight doesn’t pay. The Blues battled hard and held
a nine-point lead to within 15 minutes of the close,
but they tired, and in those last minutes Essendon
stormed at the goal, gaining point after point, and,
finally, even as the timekeepers were feeling for the
bell, the goal that gave them a five-point victory—-
’Don, 39 points; Carlton, 34. At North Melbourne
about 16,000 viewed a scuffle that looked at first like a
farce, but presently ended in the hardest struggle of
the Ass. season. It was the “grand” final, between
Footscray and Port Melbourne. At lemon-time Port
had 60 points to ’Scray’s 37 ; but in the last term
the Tricolors had it all their own way, and were only
two points behind when the bell rang. Then Port
breathed again—and departed to order the pennant
and refreshments all round.
«■ * * *
“Winkle”: With ordinary luck Colling-
wood should carry off this year’s Melbourne premier-
ship—but you never can tell. In 1900 it was odds
on Essendon when they met Melbourne in the final.
And even when the Fuchsias led at “lemons” Essen-
don attacked so strongly and continually that the
spectators still thought their victory sure. In that
last quarter they certainly had enough opportunities
to win half-a-dozen matches, but from . eight shots
managed only seven behinds. What looked like the
winning goal was kicked fairly between the posts,
only to be blown into play again by the strong wind.
At last George Stuckey, their captain and most
reliable player, marked within five yards of goal,
turned coolly (no one was near him), took deliberate
aim, and kicked-—another behind. He had mistaken
the posts 1 Then the bell rang, and Melbourne had
won the premiership by two points. In 1909 Carl-
ton looked certain to win from South Melbourne, and
so carry off the pennant for the fourth consecutive
year; but their luck w 7 as out, for, early in the
game, Gotz and Bacqure, two of their champions,
were crippled. They struggled on, however, and
when “Silver” Caine, the longest punt-kick that
ever played the Australian game, booted the best
goal of his career from 60 yards at a difficult angle,
they only wanted another sixer to win. Then
Caine got another chance. This time he snapped up
the ball and dashed straight at the unguarded goal.
When in the dead centre, and but a yard from the
posts, with no opponent within yards of him, he
let fly—and missed. South won the premiership by
two points.
* * * *
The latest football dispute in Adelaide,
though fiercely argued, ended in the only v-av pos-
sible on a question of fact. The Eeague just
accepted the central umpire’s statement that he had
whistled the ball back before the vitally important
goal was kicked for Port Adelaide against West
Torrens. It was' Port’s bad luck —combined with
leaving their run too late, both on the season and on
that day—that this goal should have been the one
thing needed to win the game, and that this game
was needed to put them in the final four. It is
the first season for many years that they have not
been in the finals; last year they were premiers. The
Magarey medal, given to the most brilliant player
in Adelaide, on the accumulated votes of umpires all
through the season, goes to Bobby Barnes, of West
Adelaide, a popular little nugget of a. follower who
did great work when S.A. beat Victoria at the Oval.
He learned - the game at Broken Hill, and won a
similar trophy there. Vic Richardson, the inter-
state cricket captain, was a good second in the
voting for brilliancy in the past season.
“Snow” : Several N.S.W. cricketers have
changed over for the 1922-23 season. Charlie Kelle-
way has forsaken Glebe, and will play for Gordon.
Dashing Johnny Taylor leaves the latter club to join
up with rni. Rex Norman, rep. footballer, transfers
from Paddington to Waverley. His fast left-hand
bowling should greatly help the attack of Bill Ives,
Hendry and co. Andy Ratcliffe, Balmain’s finished
keeper and fine bat, leaves his old club to take the field
with Paddington. The matches with Victoria will be
uncommonly interesting this year, and there will be
a visit from McLaren’s amateurs by way of variety.
kiting back to his best form, Ivo Whit-
toa (\ic.) won the amateur golf championship at
Rose Bay (N.S.W.). In the recent inter-State
match McLelland (N.S.W.) beat him easily, and
the title looked good for McLelland when he put
up a Rose Bay course record by doing nine holes
i? " hitton played more consistent golf
than the Cornstalk, and in the end he beat Mac by
oup and 2to play. It was Ivo’s first success in
the amateur tourney, although he was open champion
in 191:, and 1913 and holds the Victorian and
Queensland titles.
‘‘Tally IIo”: It didn’t surprise Speck
golfers that Bob Nettlefold and his son put up the
‘ ° ° ‘ 5 card which carried off the handicap four-
somes at Bose Ba\ (N.S.W.). Robert has a private
practising-ground at Brown’s River (T.), and has
been instrumental in floating a new company with the
idea ot providing the best holiday links in Aus-
..a,t, *hat seaside resort. In addition to the
ettlefold pair and Eustace and Peter Headlaw, the
bpeck has a coming crack in Bob Morriss. He is
only a boy yet, but chases the Heudlaws closelv in
championship events.
* * * *
<( J- Beasley ought to be among the
‘honorable mentions,” if he doesn’t achieve a greater
reward, in the big Warrnambool event next month.
On Saturday lie appeared in the Cycle Traders’ 9u-
mile run from Essendon (Vic.) to Gisborne and lack,
and, though he was unplaced, he cut out the fastest
time, 4hr. 24min. 55sec., which was 12min. better
than that of the winner, J. De Cure (Fitzroy), who
beat 11. Cahill (Bendigo) by a few inches. The
third man was It. Johnson (Prahran), who was very
closely pushed by J. A. Tebbs (Malvern). The four
leaders bunched up soon after leaving Gisborne, and
they kept together like a family reunion right up to
the finishing post.
+ * # i
The GO amateurs who started in the Goul-
burn-Sydney bike race had a sorry trip. They pushed
off in beautiful weather, but before the trouble was
over they were pelted with hail, and what had once
resembled roads became slush and waterholcs. Still
there was a rousing finish, A. C. Flood (Marrickville),
30 min., winning by half-a-dozen yards in 7hr. 51min.
40sec. from E. E. Nielsen, 50min. In the circum-
stances E. Kerz (scratch) put up a fine effort by
plugging into fourth place in 7hr. 30min. 35sec.
* * * *
OysteropQulos had some cause for jubila-
tion in Melbourne on Saturday, when one of his
countrymen, Jack Lewis, won the 25-mile walk in
the good time of 4hr. 12min. 19sec. The Greek
was nowhere very evident in the first half of the
trek, and seemed to be out for a pleasant stroll,
but he kept up a good pace, and when the front
men dropped out, mostly spent from over-exertion
in the first few miles, Lewis, Harrison, the English
walker, and W. Murray, the Vie. champion, who
holds the record for the journey, practically had
the race to themselves. Lewis took charge at about
the twelfth mile, and was soon lengthening the day-
light between him and Murray. Eventually he lapped
the Victorian crack, and was nearly a mile to the
good when he reached the tape. Harrison came in
7inin. afterwards, Murray was about 2smin. further
behind, whilst E. Drayton, who was second last
year, was about llmin. away, fourth. Lewis’s com-
patriots collected him at the finish and kissed him
furiously. They couldn’t have been more enthusiastic
if he had beaten the entire Turkish army.
Carpontier has fallen from his pedestal.
He was knocked out in six rounds last week by
Battling Siki, a 12st. 61b. Senegalese, who has never
done anything great. Worst of all, Georges was
hooted by the fickle Parisian crowd as he lay bleed-
ing on the floor, with the grinning nigger standing
over him. The referee lent a touch of humor to
the tragedy by declaring Carpentier the winner on
the ground that Siki had tripped him. This decision
was reversed by the judges, of whom there were three.
It is doubtful if Carpentier was ever half as good
as the European critics proclaimed him. He owed
a lot of his vogue to the matchmaking genius of
his manager, Desehamps, who handled him with the
greatest judgment and never let him go against a
dangerous customer, except in the affair with Demp-
sey, when the big purse was the attraction, and in
the contest which has ended so disastrously.
The wretched showing of Daniels, the
Welsh “champion,” and the eleventh-hour retirement
of Bill Scroggins, who was billed to meet Charlie
Evans, thinned the crowd at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night, but those who went saw better fistic
entertainment than had been witnessed at Rush-
cutter’s Bay for some time. Les Reynolds was sub-
stituted for Scroggins' against Evans, and no stop-
gap ever fought more spiritedly or showed greater
endurance. The bout went the limit (15 rounds),
and Evans just earned the decision he got. He has
the fine, upstanding style of the old English school,
and his fast punching won him a slight margin of
points in many exciting exchanges. The contest
between Vic King and Lou Young ended in the sixth
round. King was the aggressor throughout, and was
leading on points when he accidentally butted Young
over the left eye, causing the gore to flow so pro-
fusely that Young said he couldn’t continue. In
went the wipe.
• * * *
Spargo, vyho talks,of challenging Kilbane
for the world’s featherweight championship, had no
trouble in retaining his Australian title at Mel-
bourne on Saturday. He Stopped Bill Grime in 10
rounds. However, the Sydney youth is entitled
to have it said that he gave away 41b. and took
Mcßride’s place at short notice.
• • * *
Port Jackson was white with sailing craft
of all descriptions on Saturday; when the open-boat
season was begun. The 18-footer handicap, under the
Sydney Sailing Club’s burgee, attracted an entry of
21 boats, and a crowd which almost swamped the
club steamers, Kulgoa, Kaikai and Lady Chelmsford.
The winner turned up in H. C. Press (30see.), which
was faultlessly handled by Geo. Press and was fol-
lowed home by Moyana (llmin,), Desdemona (3nnn.),
Britannia (Seri), Arline (30sec.) and Mascotte
(scr.), all of which shared in the £4O prize-money.
It was an. inspiriting finish, 43sec. only separating
the first and sixth, boats.
The Murray is alive with big cod in the
upper reaches, and some monsters are coming to
hand. The record was a veteran of 1231 b
at Swan Reach (Vic.)—till last week. Then one
came to scale at Cobdogla (S.A.), which was 4ft.
lOJin. in length, 4ft. girth, and weighed 1281 b.
GALL FROM SENEGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Carpentier’s tragic defeat is agitating the whole
of France.” — Cable.
No lion it was that trod the lilies down ;
Wells, Beckett, Cook—he whacked them one and all.
When (woe!) there came to tarnish his renown,
And seize with ham-like hands his laurel crown,
A nig. from Senegal.
From crowded cafes crackle curses grim,
On dusty boulevards the teardrops fall.
France never had an idol like to him,
This gladiator debonair ai d slim,
Until there butted in, his light to dim,
A nig. from Senegal,
They bore Adonis bleeding from the ring,
And in his place upon t'he pedestal
Observe —O gall! O bitter, tragic thing
To overtake a land where Love is king
And Beauty sets a nation worshipping!
With blubber lips and woolly locks that cling
Around a head shaped like a ball of string,
A nig. front Senegal!
N.S.W.
PIPAUDS.


VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
N2
MB
,11/
Quality
and
Value
/
Mi
V&W. tWA
iWA
m
■
*’■
rttZTaiv
11
T
1
Unqualified Excellence!
This is the final verdict of hun-
dreds of men when talking about
their 333 in the famous red
packet. One will say “ They are
irresistible,” another, “They are
just perfect,” and yet another,
“ The quality is there, down to
the last inch.”
The reasons for these golden
opinions are : —
Finest quality matured Tobacco
Leaf.
Always free from sand and dust.
Manufactured by experts in
the World’s greatest high-class
Cigarette factory.
Get your packet to-day.
20/Sr F6
Made in London by*
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd.
In
the Famous RED Packet


Conveniently situated in Market Street
The Men’s Boot Shop
at "The Store for Men.”
The new location of Men’s Footwear, in the Market
Street shop, is one of those made in con-
formity with the Store’s consideration of patrons
convenience. Entrance is made either direct from
the Market Street footway, or from main building.
Trunks arid Rugs are now on ground floor, Market Street, in the
section recently occupied by Footwear, and through which access may
also be gained to the Men’s Boot Shop.
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY.
An Alston Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water for
Household, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to lifflit winds, stronger or
more durable, lower in cost, or easier and cheaper to erect and
maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Fitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubn-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes,
from Oft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the
largest works in Australia, devoting its whole
attention to windmill construction.
Expert advise and Illustrated Catalogue
free on application.
Alston Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS Pty. Ltd.
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
i
ggg
■7
Mmk
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
The Earl and Countess spent the greater
part of last week touring in the Lower
Murray district, giving attention chiefly to
Swan Hill, where the hat was going round
for a hospital jubilee effort. Angus, from
the Ministry, and Old, of the Cocky party,
who is district member, joined in the wel-
come crowing. Lieut.-Governor Irvine was
deputy rubber-stamp for his Ex. while he
was impressing the rural folk.
The wedding of Nesta Clarke and Sidney
Sturt last week was an intensely frocky
affair. But not more than 40 people were
asked to drop into Winmarleigh for cham-
pagne and cake after the ceremony, whereas
when iher sisters Roma and Vanda wedded
the guest-lists ran into hundreds. Ihe
bride's willowy slimness was encased in
white satin marocain, with orange flowers
dropping adown the side-front draperies,
and the bridal veiling floated over a wreath-
let of blossom, which burst into bunches over
the ears. A sheaf of lilies reposed on one
arm, and round her neck hung the parental
gift—a string of pearls. .Joan h inlay
bridesmaided in fluttering blue georgette
edged with silver, and flew a head veil, also
blue-edged, from a crown of blue and silver
leaves. Big AV. ,T. T. Clarke his
daughter to her ’groom, and Gordon Sturt
saw his brother through the awful ordeal.
Mrs. Eric Harrison presided over the cake-
cutting at Winmarleigh, but Col. Harrison
scratched for the event, to be at his post m
the barracks in case the call to arms came
through! Mrs. Clarke, sister Wilma and
brother Trevor, who is now at Cambridge,
sent coo-ees of love and good wishes by
cable. A. M. Robinson, the bridegroom’s
partner in the Lane, and .Tim Mahony had
a feverishly busy time at the church ushei-
ing the invited guests into the decorated
front pews. The new Mrs. Sturt changed
into grey tailorings with peacock-tinted
leaves rioting on her hat brim for the honey-
moon jaunt to Sydney. Among the I orty
was Mrs. Bob Knox, just back from abroad,
with her head tucked into a floral toque
that suggested a water-lily pond in full
bloom.
The Pioneer Players never have to hire
a front-of-the-house staff. Volunteers of the
most cultured description are always scramb-
ling furiously for the most menial jobs. For
instance, one of the Pioneer dramatists,
whose first effort was staged a few weeks
back, was the doorkeeper at the performance
of Vance Palmer’s “Happy Family,” at the
Temperance Hall, last week. The chief
usher, thinly disguised in a seraphic smile, is
a notable poet with a wide circle of admirers,
and the programmes were dealt out by a
siren whose art work is known all over the
Commonwealth. Everybody does his or her
little bit for the movement. Nothing is too
trivial; nothing too lowly. It is beautiful
to see this spirit of mutual help and sup-
port; but one wonders whether it begins at
home. If one of these married geniuses were
asked bv the missus to wash the baby, cl-
one of the queenly usherettes were invited
by mother to do a bit of plain scrubbing
what, one may ask, would the answer be?
Melbourne Age has more fictioneers on
its staff than any other daily in the Com-
monwealth. Probably the most prolific
novelist we possess is an Age man, Roy
Bridges, who has recently learnt that one of
his latest efforts, “Rogues’ Haven/’ is to
be issued simultaneously in New York and
London. Meantime, another tale of early
Tasmania called “Green Butterflies” has
been secured by an English publisher, and
will presumably appear later in an Ameri-
can overcoat. Bridges has written over a
lozen yarns; two or three of them for the
NT.S.W. -Bookstall Co. E. M. Webb,. one
of Bridges’s colleagues, is another spinner
of romances; and, incredible though it may
seem, George Cockerill, the author of the
gyme organ’s portentous leaders, once knew
a light and gladsome mood in which he per-
petrated a dashing story. Ralph Simmonds,
who recently left the Age for the Herald,
has a bent for fiction, and wrote lots of it
when living in England.
Early last week Mr. Fred A.vdon, of the
Tivoli.' had his painful first experience of
the wonders of wireless. First came the
warning that his sister. Mrs. Rickards, was
suffering greatly from the heat on her
voyage from London, then the news that she
died of heart failure when the boat was two
days out from Aden, and was buried at sea.
He was assured that his reply would reach
his daughter, Olive, the same day. She had
been her aunt’s companion, and had shared
the care of her with a trained nurse on the
boat. In England the invalid, who suffered
from heart-complaint, was for six months
in a medical home at Eastbourne.
The Robert Best dame hostessed a young
people’s dance at her Canterbury home on
Friday night, when the eldest girl, Margot,
budded attractively in blush pink under white
net and silver embroideries, with a floral
wreath in her curly locks. The matron her-
self was handsomely gowned in black-jetted
chiffonery, and made an excellent foil to
her golden-haired flapper daughter Phyllis,
who fluttered delicately in sea green. The
jazzing happened in a big marquee built
round an ivy-clad tree-fern, and the cheerful
little deb. saw to it that no wallflowers
dulled the ballscape. Just a little hand-
ful of the Best lady’s own friends had
been asked in to enjoy the fun, including
Dame Mary Hughes, who topped satin-
brocaded draperies with a coronet of gold
leaves. Norman Brookes was brought along
by his authoress wife, who danced in blue
and silver brocade. Mrs. George Langridge,
who trailed becoming' yellow draperies, had
crowned her head with blue leaves. Camber-
well’s mayoress, Mrs. Bellmaine, and Mrs.
Fred Kcrouse, both sported black veilings.
No one enjoyed the frivol more than
“father,” for that downy lawyer-politician
seems to have made a special study of the
latest trots —with an eye, perhaps, to legal
possibilities.
A Bananaland visitor tells that once in
the cane country she happened to inquire the
age of a Kanaka woman whom her friends
were mourning. “I dunno,” said the hefty
nig. to whom she put the question. “I t’inkit
young Mary—him only havum one picca-
ninny.” That test, applied to some of our
hard-faced flat-dwellers would leave them
very youthful indeed, wouldn’t it V
Hughes will miss his motor trips to
Bendigo, in the course of which he used
to stop at the little town of Woodend
for a meal at the pub, followed by a game of
billiards. If there was a Minister or a
member of Parliament in the party, he chal-
lenged him ; if not, then his secretary or a
local Nationalist was taken on. No one
ever seemed to beat him. Not even an
Inman would have the nerve to do it —
unless Innl an happened to be a Labor-
ite without expectations *of any sort
of Government job. William’s trium-
phant grin and the flourish of his cue when
he made the winning shot were things to be
remembered. Then he would rush for his
car and order the driver to go like blither-
ing blazes, while a spare car travelled close
behind in case the main vehicle 'broke down,
and so lost the nation some of its occu-
pant’s sacred time.
This' is a Broothorn picture of music-
teacher Ada Casey, who is the aunt of
Wilma Berkeley, and
has labored long
with the idea of
securing public re-
cognition of the voice
upon which she has
built such hopes.
Only their intimates
know the real story
of her striving, and
they are as glad for
her sake as for that
of Wilma now the
prospect of a big
success is opening
before the girl. The
aunt accompanies the
niece to London,
whither she goes
under a special
scholarship for two
years’ tuition from
the donor, Nellie Rowe. Miss Casey comes
of a famllv that has music in its bones, and
her mother, who taught for years in Bendigo,
was a pupil of the famous Anna Bishop.
The Ambrose Pratts’ only girl, Laloa, was
married to her Bill Bundey last week. The
wedding, which tried to be a small and in-
formal party, was one of the events of the
season —both bride and bridegroom being
tremendous favorites. The ceremony was
at Scots’ Kirk,. with Seawteh Dr. Marshall
burring out the fateful words in his saft
speech. Kaloa, who is a slender little bru-
nette with big Spanish black eyes, was
gowned in the simplest of white frocks—a
clingy, draped expensiveness of crepe de
Chine that was untrimmed in any way.
But she had attached at the shoulders as
a wedding train a fairy princess sort of
cloak made of ivory satin and lined with
shadowy leaves cut from cloth of gold. In
addition, she wore her mother’s bridal veil
and sported a posy of wonderful orchids.
Barbara and Pat Love —two Cupids—carried
the ends of the train, and two bridesmaids,
Onie Woinarski and Madge Tivey. glittered
in sheath frocks draped out _of cloth-of-
gold. with Grecian gold bands in their hair
and tawny pansies in their hands. W hile
the young woman’s father was conducting
his daughter to the altar, her mother came
along with a cousin, Mackennal, who is
brother of the sculptor, Bertram. Mrs.
Pratt’s gown was of heavy black charmeuse,
belted with steel-bead embroidery and an
effective cap of jet with jetted ear-rings sup-
plied the necessary head-dress for the kiik
ceremony. A reception at Menzies’ was fol-
lowed by a jolly dinner-party, set in the
seclusion of the eastern room. The bride-
groom is from Adelaide, and is the son of
the George Bundeys of S. Aus. He had a
batch of old Digger pals along to dinner,
among them Major McColl, who faces the
altar himself in November with Miss Wilson.
Her brother, Lieut. Wilson, cam, 1 along from
Queenscliff. Lieut. Eather, also of the
Queenscliff reserves, was there, too, and the
Bells, the Balls, the Neils and the Westleys.
Mr. and Mrs. Tivey made the trip from
Bananaland just for the wedding, and gazed
proudly at their clever ’Varsity offspring,
Madge, as she did her bridesmaiding. The
newly-weds made for Sydney next day to
catch the boat for America, and had a rous-
ing send-off at the train.
Seeing Thos. Brentnal on the golf-links
(he is a trustee of the Royal Melbourne
G.C.), no one ignorant of his long career
in other fields would
suspect the springy
veteran of being 75.
To the fact that he
has .golfed for nearly
half-a-century sincd
he learnt the game at
Musselburgh, in Scot-
land, the original of
this photo attributes
most of his youth-
fulness, the rest
beijig due tJo long
and persistent prac-
tice on the violin.
None of it can pos-
sibly be due to his
sedentary work as
an accountant. Mel-
bourne in general
knows Brentnal as
the “Musical Accountant,” but he is presi-
dent of the Australasian Corporation of Public
Accountants, fills sundry positions connected
with figures, and delivers annual addresses
to the brethren in choice English. As
president, or vice-president, of the British
Music Society and Melbourne Music Club,
he is an honored identity where arts and
literature are concerned. He has always
been a music enthusiast, and though not so
closely tied to his hobby as when he acted
as church organist, he never relaxes his
attentions to his beloved violin. His library
of fiddle music is one of the largest in Aus-
tralia.
What a comfort a really unimpassive, un-
excitable man is about the place these neu-
rotic days! A woman remarked to her
gardener that we were lucky to have
had a cloudless day for the eclipse. “What
eclipse?” he asked. “What!” she cried,
“didn’t vou notice that the sun was eclipsed
this afternoon? Why, all the papers have
been raving about it for months.” He be-
came thoughtful for a few seconds, and then
he said: “Damitall, now, I did think it was
a dull sort of an afternoon.”
Hilda Aiken, the Sydney pianist, who
left a decade ago to join the late Eva Mylott
as her accompanist in America, proposes to
visit Australia early next year. She spent
her last leave from the famous Merrill
School, New York, in Paris, studying sing-
ing under Waldemar Bernardi, an Italian
graduate of the Petrograd Conservatoire,
and a gentleman of some musical tonnage.
Miss Aiken’s dad, in years gone by, was
manager of Aarons’s Hotel in the Harbor
City.
Marcus Clarke’s son may be found
in a Collins-street office, where he acts
as Registrar of Births, Marriages and
Deaths for Melbourne East. A sup-
plementary plate indicates that this
is also the registered office of “The Term
of His Natural Life Co., Ltd.” (pictures).
Shortly after the death of Marcus Clarke,
his widow was appointed by the Govern-
ment as Registrar, and she held the posi-
tion until a few years ago, when the son
succeeded her. Mrs. Clarke was the daugh-
ter of John Dunn, who was known as the
“Prince of Comedians,” and she herself w 7 as
an actress of no mean ability.
The death of Hattie Howe, in Adelaide,
means a big loss to S. Australia. She was
the daughter of the late .Tames Howe,
M.L.C., and a woman of vivid personality,
whose good deeds were legion. She was a
great reader, and had a valuable library,
which she willed to a Melbourne chum. Her
eldest brother, Max How r e, is a prominent
Mines Department official in Westralia; one
sister is married to lawyer Tippett in S.
Aus.; and another is the wife of one of
the big family of Seppelt brothers who re-
cently absorbed the Irvine wine-making busi-
ness. Another sister is one of the moving
spirits in Shakspearean study in Adelaide.
Ok the passing of Hattie the old Howe
home. Mambray. St. Peters, Adelaide, was
g o l,3_ a lovely old place, whose gardens were
a wmnder, even in Adelaide’s floral suburbia.
That talented damsel, Ermyntrude Avery,
a star pupil of Goll’s, is breaking new ground
with a series of story concerts for little
folk. She starts at the Hawthorn Civic Hall
on the afternoon of Oct. 5, w T hen she will
talk about Mozart’s childhood, and illustrate
her remarks with some of his music. On
Oct. 12 she will deal with Schumann, and
at a later date with Chopin. The Brighton
and Malvern kiddies will hear her at different
dates in the same month. Ermyntrude, by
the way, is a daughter of the popular presi-
dent of the Home Beading Union.
A trio well known to the older generation
of Australians, and themselves getting on in
years, turned up at one of the parties given
by the Joe Cooks, in London, recently. They
were Lord Dick Nevill (who walks with
the aid of a crutch, the result of a bad
break in Canada, when he was with the
Duke of Connaught), Sir Edward (“Better-
not Wally”) Wallington and Sir H. H.
Share. Wallington, who will soon count his
seventieth milestone, is private sec. to
Queen Mary. Share, who was gent, help to
Bawson when he was Governor of N. ► •
Wales, and to G.-G. Northcote, was knighted
a couple of years ago. He married Alfreda,
eldest daughter of the late Bear-Admiral
Walter Bridges, of Trawalla.
Max J. Martin, whom London critics are
now calling an artist who counts, on the
strength of his Boyal Academy picture,
“Portrait Group,” had a rough climb. Lie
was born in Fitzroy (Vic.), and was a
laborer at Macßobertson’s confectionery
works there, when the art-germ got him. In
1913 he shipped for London with 50 bob in
his pocket. Frequently he slept on the
Thames Embankment, and bad health duln t
make things more pleasant for him. nut
it proved lucky in the long run, because,
refused for the army, he tramped through
England, and at last made enough to set up
a studio by painting inn signs.
Vance Palmer, whose four-act comedy of
the cattle-country, “A Happy Family, will
,be produced shortly by the Pioneer 1 layers,
t'has hitherto been better known as a short-story
'writer and novelist than as a dramatist.
Though a Bananalander of the third genera-
tion, he has followed the Inky Way in Lon-
don and New York, winning the special
praise of such a sound critic as A. B. Urage,
of the New Age, before he was 21. He has
had sketches on the London music-halls, his
“Burglar and the Baby” being quite a popu-
lar success. His one-act play, ‘The Pri-
soner,” has been produced in Melbourne. lie-
cently he arranged for the stage Henry
Lawson’s short story, “Telling Mrs. Laker. 1
thought everybody had forgotten that story,
said Henry, who seemed pleased with the
and added, “but you boys rernembei
everything.” Stage versions of Lawson have
so far been nothing but crude parodies; but
Palmer and the Pioneer Players are the men
to preserve something of the true Law son
atmosphere.
An Adelaide postscript:—
Lucie Gillespie, a niece by marriage of the late
C. 0. Kingston, is looking up old friends here, after
a 22-years’ absence. Her voice took her London-
wards to study, and after four years at the Royal
College of Music, and something added for work with
special masters, she decided on oratorio as her foite,
and has been singing in the provinces and London
ever since. Coleridge Taylor booked her for some
of his concerts at Queen’s Hall, and wrote a couple
of songs especially for her.
The Kidman knight has gone a-tripping to America.
His wife and son Walter sailed with him, and his
daughter Mrs. S. H. Ayers. The Gerald Walenns
are packing, too—but they’ve till November to do it.
in, and it’s England they’re booked for. It will
be a hasty trip, as he is due back in March for the
beginning of the Conservatorium’s ’23 year.
Eeach Thomas, who was lunched by local pressmen
the other day, tells us we’re too modest. He found
a place somewhere where the roads were paved with
marble and pigs were fed on peaches, but so little
do we brag of our assets that he’d never suspected
these things till he stumbled across them, so to
speak. So far as the roads go, we don’t suspect
ourselves of it either, in this State. Thomas fore-
casts an ultimate population of 60,000,00-0 for us, and
is going to do what he can to send some of it
along.
Elliot Giles, second of the Clement Giles sons,
is here for as long a trip as his school vacation
allows him. He was on the literary staff of the
Register before he took to pedagoguing at the Mel-
bourne Grammar School.
Ex-Ex. Weigall has been made a Deputy-Lieutenant
for Lincolnshire, the county where his own beautiful
home is in England. At the moment, he is busy
farming, much cheered by good rains, bright pros-
pects, and his loved cattle doing themselves and
him proud at all the shows.
The Hackett dame has chosen the Benevolent and
Strangers’ Friend Society, the Limbless Soldiers'
Association and a convalescent home for children as
the charities to benefit by the two performances of
the “Ugly Duckling,” and the show is billed for the
Theatre Royal on October 5 and 6.
Heysen’s show established a record, both for sales
and visitors. The former totted up to somewhere
about £4OO0 —most of the red seals went on in
the first two or three days—and the latter were so
frequent that it was a practical impossibility to strike
a quiet time to browse among the pictures by one-
self.


'///".
m
wmi f/Tf mWfmm ; • m
s;.. / .»&•• Zy, v/''. ~„ 'flmm
'o'/y
m
V / ■'/.
m.
il
1
-A, A. ;v;
4L
«
Cl
m.
w
The New Packard Single Six
The Ideal Light Car
"Its power on the bills, swift get away, and low petrol and oil consumption are surpris-
ing”—a contributed opinion which adds another tribute to Packard excellence.
This superb car, which is silent and free from vibration, has the structural
strength and ability to travel at sustained high speed over average roads. It is,
humanly speaking, free from those weaknesses which require continual repairs.
The Packard expresses the last word in elegance of appearance and line sym-
metry. No wonder, then, that it is at present the pet topic of motoring dis-
cussion and the object of general admiration and approval.
Retail sales of the single six during the first few weeks after its advent, have
proved beyond the shadow of doubt its supreme and obvious value.
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell Street,
Melbourne
IRA. L. & A. G BERK
Distributors : 261-263-265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
The Universal Motors Pty.
Petrie’s Bight, Brisbane
Eyes & Crowle Ltd.
75 Pirie Street,
Adelaide
A
sam'
.!v.ycv-.-=»
PACKARD
ASK. THE MAM WHO OWNS ONE
OW.V^\X\\\NX^\VaS^N^Nsas ) aaa&^N^^VCyVvVvVyVN W -^^
N\\\v\\\\m\\\\\\v\v^^^^
as* v .
*U-‘ :.*' < . ss\!
mi


CIMRIIS
tIEIDSIECIfi
Vintage 1911
(mm
NE PLUS ULTRA
<r>7.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT £ GSMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A largre and
varied selec-
tion of Gold
and Silver
Presentation
Watches.
Fully
Jewelled and
Guaranteed.
Fashionable Wristlet Watches
The Company has a comprehensive selection of high-grade
Watches in the newest ideas, including designs in Platinum,
White Gold, Enamel and Silver, etc., at reasonable rates.
1 Set. Gold highest-grade Wristlet Watch, £lB/10/-
Also in Silver, £l2.
Fine Enamel
W ork and
Repairs to
Jewellery and
Watches, etc.,
carried out
b y Skilled
Artisans.
Designs and
prices will
be forwarded
on applica-
tion.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO. LTD.
Jewellers, Gem Merchants,
Goldsmiths & Silversmiths.
54 HUNTER STREET STONED
Special dis-
counts allow-
ed to Presen-
tation Com-
mittees.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
The sardine-tin was a cabin-de-luxe for
space compared to the Wentworth the other
night, when Sydney’s Best clothed itself in
impel - and frivolled for the benefit of St.
Luke’s. Even when the two suppers divided
up the dancers —the first to those on the
right-hand side of Mrs. Maclurcan, the second
to those on her left —the jazzing couples
were so tightly wedged that it was a case of
shuffle and push and then reshuffle. But
even charity dances have their compensa-
tions. The supper, which was the gift of
Mrs. Maclurcan, was real food and not the
sandwych-and-trifle lightning-sketch of the
ordinary after-dinner dance. The paper
garbing was a riot of color, and universal —
even th e waiter chap who brought your
whisky did the deed behind an autumn-
tinted' apron. The costumes ranged from
the night-mareish to the sublimated, and
were of every age and clime. It seemed im-
possible that some of the sets, like Mrs.
David Cohen’s prize-winning Early Vic-
torian and Mrs. Tony Hordern’s white Wat-
teau set, could have I teen evolved from rolls
of paper. Gwen Marks was a dashing
papier-mfiche Carmen, and the Mayoral lady
contrived even a paper plume to go around
a colossal paper Gainsborough hat. One up-
to-date lady went as the eclipse, and the
Bligh and Beale girls arranged a hollyhock
set, which won the prize for the best home-
made garments'. Evelyn Brunton’s Blue-
Birds’ got a clap in the march past; and a
set of Superstitions warred steadily with
and against fate. Helen Laidley was Colum-
bine to Pat Levy’s Harlequin. Mrs. Vincent
McAuTey was irresistible as a crinkly
Dolly Varden. The Wades came with
their twin daughters, who were, amongst
the parasoled, hooped Early Victorians. The
Spencer Bruntons, Macarthur offshoots,
Mrs. Royston Davey. the Knox lady and
everyone who is on the comprehensive com-
mittee-list of St. Luke’s, helped to make the
night clamorous and swell the funds.
Judge Backhouse and secretary Mona Daley
irradiated Crown-street with their smiles
(and Heaven knows that dreary street can
d~ with a lot of cheering up) the other day,
when G.-G. Forster’s lady tucked up her
sleeves, and with a workmanlike silver
trowel well and truly laid the foundation-
stone of the new wing at the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, which same is to be
known as the Prince of Wales’s wing. On
the platform were Mrs. Tony Hordern, Mrs.
Waley, the Donald Esplin couple (he
chucked in the plans for the new wing as a
donation to the cause), Mrs. Sly and Matron
Clark.
One bit of Sydney that has consistently
reeked of oil-paints, tobacco-smoke and art
jargon is Beaumont Chambers, in King-street.
More than 20 years ago it was a Bohemian
centre, where men played at Life with all
the gay seriousness of children. The old
Brush Club held its meetings there, and
among those who have splashed paint under
its roof at various times are Julian Ashton,
A. H. Fullwood, George Lambert, Arthur
Streeton, Sid Long, Joe Wolinski and Alice
Muskett. Wolinski was the first to unpack
his kit in the old chambers 35 years ago,
and, though he was away for some time, he,
like Fullwood, has a studio up on the top
floor now, and still manages to find room to
brandish a brush amid an astonishing col-
lection of curios, old swords, china, boomer-
angs, foils, pipes and painting paraphernalia.
A group of sisters of the fountain-pen
helped the Royal Hospital for Women on
its way by luring battalions of their idle
friends into Mayoress McElhone’s rooms at
the Town Hall the other afternoon and serv-
ing them a mixed diet of bridge, music and
tea. Not only the reception-rooms, but the
corridor and the balcony surged with femi-
ninity. A hardy male occasionally clove his
way through the crowd, and, reaching a van-
tage spot in a remote corner, took a savage
delight in watching the next man dive for
cover Two of them were American Consul
Moseiy and Captain Lubrano. Oscar Asehe
was the lion of the party ; but behaved m
such a lamb-like manner that every writing-
girl in Sydney now curses the fate that in
early youth lured hey to the inkpot instead
of to the grease-paint. Little did Oscar
reck, when he cooed like any sucking dove,
of the hectic mass of poetesses’ hearts that
were flung palpitating beneath his well-sliod
feet. (One girl swears she reduced 2|lb.
in two days trying to make “Asche” rhyme
to something more sympathetic than “mash,
“cash,” “hash” or “bash.”) Gladys Mason,
“Cairo’s” leading lady, hawked flowers in
the cause in an unostentatious manner, a
soft white frock, and a black hat that carried
an intriguing valance of Spanish lace. Oscar
bought her first basket for £5: but. hardly
taking time off to utter a thanksgiving, the
half-Australian girl (her mother hails from
near Wagga) worked busily on till the party
was emptying itself into the street. The
other flower-girls who were merely pen-and-
ink workers, wore yellow aprons and
muslin caps in conjunction with Spring
frock in Music was poured out by such
stars as Howard Vernon’s little widow, Essie
Ackland, Tom Williams, Goodie Reeve, the
Fossati couple, Clifford Lathlean and
Charlie Phillips, and Charlie Bryant sup-
plied lightning sketches in a Pluto-like
manner.
Mrs. J. C. Williamson motored through
to Melbourne last week, stopping mid-way
to pick up Tootles, who was with the Horse-
falls at Yab Tree station, near Gundagai.
The star item at the St. Margaret’s Hos-
pital matinde was Oscar Asche’s Brutus in
the quarrel scene from “Julius Ca?sar.” The
magnificent voice lit a flame of enthusiasm
in the packed rows that had been sated to
hypercriticism by a long series of really fine
turns. The other great showman of the
afternoon was Bill Holman, surrounded by
the winners of the Sunday Times baby
competition. Not only did the great W.H.
present the youthful beauties with their
cheques and certificates, but he chucked in
a kiss. Well, well, Lilian Alma and Jac-
queline Sonia and so on, life is ever thus;
the bitter and the sweet go always hand in
hand.
The party on the Blue Funnel liner Nestor
was the gay flutter of Friday night; and
the Oceanic wharf looked as though it was
undergoing some faery visitation as the
luxurious vessel showed up all golden glow
and gay bunting. Within the awnings the
decks were something like a forest glade, in
which the 50 young fir-trees from Queensland
took their stand very gallantly among enor-
mous, innumerable palms. Tiny electric-
bulbs and quaint lanterns filtered a suffi-
ciency of shadow to make little heavens for
sittei's-out, Capt. R. D. Owen and Ernest
Watt were the shepherds of the evening, see-
ing that everyone was merry and bright, and
keeping the wolf from the door with a strong
barricade of food and drink. The people
who are at every dance turned up again
with lots more added, and everybody who
could tear away from other functions in
time came on. The women seemed to have
brought up the frock reserves of the season.
Mrs. Ernest Watt was inside a most subtle
arrangement of Satin, dull blue in tone and
weighted with silver fringe, and she added
up-to-the-minute crinkly silver-grey stock-
ings, and the latest thing in beaded bags
from Paris. Mrs. Vivers walked in some-
thing that looked like a length of velvety
black night, embellished with a spray of
moonbeams (the kind that Farmer’s keep
locked away for their very expensive cus-
tomers). Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s silver-embossed
magnificence might have belonged to a Priest-
ess of Isis, while her daughter Beatrice
struck simplicity’s note in blue net. The
Tony Hordern lady wrapped herself in royal
blue’; and Mrs. Sidney Sturt wore some-
thing that Roy de Mestre might describe as
a gavotte in cream and gold. The A. J.
Bradys were there, Moira contrasting her
peach-blossom coloring with grey velvet and
georgette. Dr. Blackburn brought his wife
and tile Wilfrid Fairfaxes, the Commodore
Edwards couple, Pauline McMorran (very
smart in black), Bettine Brown, from Mel-
bourne, quiet-eyed John Longstaff, and the
flamboyant Lambert helped to make up the
party.
I tere’s a May Moore picture of Lute
Drummond taken in a spell-o from last
week’s rehearsals for
her six stories of the
opera. She plays
all the accompani-
ments at these re-
hearsals, which,
with her suggestions
and coaching, re-
solve themselves into
complete lessons in
the art of singing
opera. On Satur-
day the versatile
girl told the three
stories of “II Trit-
tieo” to a big Con-
servatorium audi-
ence, while her
soprano sister, Jean ;
the Countess Lalli
and N. Mallison
burst at intervals
into arias, illustrative of the story-tellers
theme. There will be five more of
these operatic Saturday nights, and on each
of them Lute will sit at the piano weaving
the romance and music of the great com-
posers into the starry mantle Australia
should wrap about her own shoulders, ror
it is her ultimate aim to have opera by Aus-
tralians brought through the length and
breadth of the land. Melba thinks so much
of the scheme that she has offered to buy
250 shares in any company that is formed.
Lute herself turns to her beloved Italy early
next year.
Cripps Clark, of Brisbane Grove, Goul-
burn, otherwise Bulletin readers’ old friend
“Two Seas,” isn’t nearly as rollicking a
young thing as his nautical name suggests.
His only daughter, Geraldine, proved that she
was grown up the other day by engaging her-
self to Charlie Handcock Studdert, of Spring
Ponds, Bungonia, and nephew of medico and
sheep-grower Burkitt, of Goulburn.
Tighe Ryan, who passed in his last copy
on Tuesday of last w r eek and was lying dead
in St. Vincent’s Hospital 24 hours later, was
one of the best-known and least-seen of Syd-
ney editors. He was a tall, spare man, a
hue -writer and a liner raconteur, and- tor
the past decade he had lived at 1 omeroj,
which is the Macleay-street rival of ‘ o 2 in
the matter of comfort and the permanent
digging-in of its residents. Under a mer-
ingue-like layer of cynicism, Ryan’s nature
was a* soft as cream, and his sudden death
cast a positive pall over Pomeroy, where the
entire staff used to spoil him shamefully.
Here’s a May Moore picture of Alfred Hill,
who has composed more opera than all the
other Australian
writers of music put
together. He is really
a Maorilapder, and
much of the inspira-
tion for his early
works was drawn
from that wildly
beautiful and roman-
tic country. • His
world-famous song,
“Waiata Poi!” is
altogether Maori in
character, as is his
melodious “ H i n-
emoa.” Rosina Buck-
man was connected
1 with one of his early
successes, “A Moor-
ish Maid,” in Maori-
lan d. His latest
big operatic work,
“Auster,” was performed a week or
two ago in the Town Hall, and proved
that the facile pen had lost none of
its pristine melodic charm, but had gained
in breadth and strength. Alfred has now
taken the ex-State Orchestra under Ins
baton, and Australia will be given a chance
to see how this storm-tossed body will shape
under a home-grown conductor.
The R.C. world of Sydney turned
up at the Playhouse the other night to see
daughter or niece or grandchild giving flesh-
and-blood tableaux of artistic masterpieces,
mostly by R.A.’s now dead. The two Lane
Mullens 'girls, with their sister Mrs. Ber-
tram Norris, were mainly responsible for the
structure of the scheme, and Gregan
McMahon ;.nd Rock Phillips saw that the
foundations were secure. Little Desmond
Hughes, as the Royalist youngster sur-
rounded by roughneck Roundheads demand-
ing “When did you last see your father?”
brought down the house ; but the female star
was tiny Dahlas McMurdo, in her ankle-
length Kate Greenaway frock, taking the
“Harpsichord Lesson.” Melanie' Collins as
“Lady Hamilton at the Spinning-wheel” was
another delight. Lady Forster and
Dame Margaret were among the applause-
bringers, aide Captain Lawrence and Miss
Henderson completing their party. The
Mayoral approval was vested in Mrs. McEl-
hone. Monica Scully and Mr. Gard dispensed
monologues and songs from the nethermost
end of the hall in between the masterpieces.
The imported Theosophical lecturer, Miss
Clara Codd, is an interesting and convincing
speaker. Garbed in a straight-hanging vel-
vet robe of sable hue, with round neck and
cowl collar, wide sleeves and deep white
lawn cuffs and leather ceinture, she has thr
appearance of a lady abbess of mediaeval
times. With her softly-waved, greying hair
rolled over her classically low brow and
small fine ears, she startlingly resembles pic-
tures of Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
At the Soldiers’ Club the other afternoon
Lady Forster presented Rose Scott with her
own portrait, painted by John Longstaff.
The pie .ure is a testimonial from Miss
Scott’s admirers, who have in this way
happily recorded their appreciation of her
splendid work in the Cause of Woman.
One of the very newest engagements dis-
creetly announced at the Paper Ball is that
of Kathleen Hoskins —youngest bud on the
Elizabeth Bay Charles Hoskins’ family-tree
—to Edward Mackey, till lately of H.M.A.S.
Sydney.
The steamship companies’ officials cleared
the decks of the Moore Park Palais for their
annual hornpipe, and in the way of acces-
sories and Spring millinery transformed that
bleak and frigid barn even to the point of
cosiness. The various house flags hobnobbed
aloft, palms and carpets and flowers were
flung about- with abandon, and sitting-out
places had been chosen with discretion.
There were little side buffets where a con-
stant stream of refreshments was on tap,
but this section of the affair culminated in
a supper that would have gained honorable
mention as an alderman’s banquet. The
toast-list thereat contained two items only:
The King, and secretary J. T. Sheehan. About
700 guests cavorted about the floor, and the
frocking was keyed to that rich, smart note
that bespeaks real money and many cargoes.
The Rennells, who have been transferred
from the management of the Bank of N. Z.
in Fiji to Auckland, passed through Sydney-
last week, collecting congratulatory meals
en route.
The Cranbrook fair started at mid-day on
Saturday and had a good run before the
hailstorm tried to ruin it. Mrs. Alex-
ander Gordon and her co-workers, could
afford to toss their heads at the elements,
for, ere the first peal of thunder, the takings
of the beautifully-stocked stalls had aero-
planed ’way up to £9OB. And there’s yet to
be added the cash from the sale of antiques,
the tennis tournament and the dance at
Mrs.' Tony Hordern’s next week. It looks
as though something like £2OOO is going to
find its way to the school treasury.
Dame Margaret called a rally at Govern-
ment House last week to launch an appeal
for the Rawson Institute. A sum of £25,000
is needed to place this Sydney home for
merchant seamen in a position to cope with
its large numbers of callers off deep-sea jour-
neys. A fashionably strong committee has
been formed to carry out the money-raising
scheme, of which Mrs. James Burns and
Rose Merivale are secretaries. Dame Mar-
garet added a rider that she hoped the objec-
tive would be gained by direct giving.
Mayor McElhone called his first meeting
to see about the Lawson memorial for the after-
noon of the eclipse. That may have been
the reason why, apart from those on the
platform, the vestibule looked like the de-
serted village. Rose Scott shone through
the murky gloom, and Leader-of-the-Oppo-
sition Dooley turned a morning face to-
wards the half-empty pews. Mrs. Lawson,
with a slender son and Bertha, was a figure
of sympathetic interest in her mourning. A
committee was appointed, and Deputy-Town
Clerk Layton handled proceedings with that
cool suavity which proclaims that, though
all the heavenly bodies forget their place,
he is a pole-star in the course of civic
evolution.
Beulah Bolton had a busy time the other
day taking delivery of books and magazines
for her beloved Bush Book Club. The total
numbered close on 1000, and of these a
Dickens set and some litres of Kipling were
handed over by vice-reine Forster, and her
State ex. Dame Margaret, who dropped in
to flatten their afternoon thirst with the
committee. The 8.8. C. (that sounds a
decade or two before the Ptolemies) is a pet
of both vice-regal ladies, and they never miss
a chance of giving this plucky Backblocks
lending library a Government House push.
St. Stephen’s Hall, Phillip-street, sported
flowers and streamers one afternoon last
week, when large numbers of old students
from the Croydon Presbyterian Ladies’ Col-
lege foregathered to farewell Miss Wallis,
the only matron the college has so far known.
Sandwiched in between the songs and tea
was the presentation of a cheque of such
handsome figure that the gentle receiver had
her breath literally taken away.
The day of the eclipse became more or less
a day of rest. Every worker in shop or
office came into town with a strip of smoked
glass, and by 3 o’clock the kerbs were lined
with girls and boys, heads of departments
and first-year apprentices gazing in fascinated
fashion up aloft. Martin-place and every
flat roof became black with sky-searchers;
and at 3.30, when the pulse of the city was
at racing-speed and one remembered Sodom
and .Gomorrah and Biblical warnings about
cleansing by fire, a startling figure leaped,
as it were, from nothingness into the public
eye in King-street. It was tiny; it was
crimson clad; it held one arm aloft. A
girl gasped, then giggled hysterically—the
arresting figure was a red-upholstered bell-
boy !
Incidentally, the sale of smoked glasses
brought in a neat sum for different charities
—St. Margaret’s Hospital for Women netted
something like £4OO. And now the economi-
cal housewife is saving the plates for the
next eclipse. She’s the same lady who has
her ice-chest stocked up for half the week
as the result of Saturday’s hailstorm. And
there are those who say we are an extrava-
gant people!
There’s an impresario wasted in school-
master Anderson, of St. John’s Parish
School, Darlinghurst. Every year, under his
direction, the youngsters put on a musical
play .which has a run ot four or-five nights,
and while it lasts it’s quite the thrill of that
cosmopolitan suburb. It was under his
baton that Dorothy Brunton and Cecil Brad-
ley made their first public appearnace, and
Clarice Coles was another of the school’s
prima donnas. “The Enchanted Princess”
walked the boards this year in aid of the
school funds, and proved, if possible, more
popular than her predecessors.


s
HARDY BROS. LTD.
Jewellers.
Exclusive Designs in
GEM BROOCHES
Ruby and Diamond Bar Brooch,
£25.
Sapphire and Diamond Bow
Brooch,
£5O.
Sapphire and Diamond Fancy
Brooch,
£65.
Gems of finest qual-'
ity, Pure Platinum
Settings, and work-
manship of the high-
est order combine
in making Hardy
Brothers’ Jewellery
distinctive in charac-
ter.
Illustrated Catalogues
are posted free on applica-
tion, and selections of
goods are sent on approval
to any address in the
Commonwealth.
Five per cent, discount
allowed on all cash purchases.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cT? Sih/ersmitns
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St..
BRISBANE.
LONDON.
298 Collins St,
MELBOURNE.
BY
m
o\N7£
BY
Z*tH <&
N
U//S)
m
DEVELOPING
* PRINTING
FEATURES
Same Day Service
Z’ SPEED, QUALITY,
PERMANENCE.
y
WHEN LEAVING ORDERS WITH YOUR LOCAL DEALER
INSIST THAT ALL PRINTS BEAR OUR IMPRESS.
U BY J
WHICH CARRIES OUR
GUARANTEE
£td
tfAe 2%c*uoe foi
&OVtl -Saui&laA
L BY £
\%Nc£/
386 GEORGE STREET - SYDNEY
New Branch :
Katoomba Street, KATOOMBA
BY
1
iTiTMfiffii!
Mil
i'fl
r
m i i
o
e
Make it for yourself on
IK, NEW EDISON
“ The Phonograph with a Soul ”
V
lOLINS differ subtly
in tone! Use this dif-
ference to test the
New Edison Realism
in a rather surprising experi-
ment.
There is an “Ave Maria” Re-
Creation, played by Albert
Spalding, with his Guarne-
rius. This famous violin has
a brilliant, singing tone.
There is a second ‘‘Ave
Maria” Re-Creation, played
by Carl Flesch, with his
genuine Stradivarius. This
violin is rich, mellow and
profound in tone.
We invite you to compare
these two Re-Creations —
tone for tone. If the New
Edison makes clear the dis-
tinction between the singing
Guarnerius and the mellow
Stradivarius, you know it
has that true and perfect
realism which you have a
right to demand for yourself
and your children. The test
will be gladly arranged if
you will but request it of us.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED,
364-72 Kent Street, SYDNEY.


-€T» feK
Give Cuticura The Care
Of Your Hair
Nothing like shampoos with Cuti-
cura Soap and hot water, preceded
by touches of Cuticura Ointment to
spots of dandruff and itching, to
keep the scalp and hair healthy.
They are ideal for all toilet uses, as
is also Cuticura Talcum for per-
fuming.
Soapla.,Ointment Is. and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W.”
Ipnr Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
LEARN TO DRAW!
fin.
3
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
The
above is
the title
of our book-
-1 e t, which
tells about
the possibilities
o f Drawing—
both as a profes-
sion and as a pas-
time. It describes
in detail the Draw-
ing Course by
HARRY J. WES-
TO N, Australia’s
famous artist. It
explains the differ-
ence between learn-
ing to COPY and
to DRAW. It points
out the pitfalls to
be avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear, con-
cise language what
the Weston Course
is, and why Weston
tuition is the most
successful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal .School of Drawing,
165 Union House, George Street. SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
£/7ie £Per/ec7;
©ggllSß IPASITB
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST.- BEST.
SOLD BY ALL STATIONERS
le saie
■Alex Cowan ©Sons, to
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
\
\ t
W‘
\
\
rst^n
CANT GET
WARM
WATER
USE
COLD —
WITH A
New
Improved
ene
sapety razor
11l
THE STORM KING
LANTERN.
350 Candle*
power.
Burns Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/-
Also Table Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— Lux Light
Co., 495 Collins Street Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.,
•where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
BECOME A “DARK HORSE.”
Learn the art of Boxing from
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, and
be ready to hold your own
against the bully and the tough.
The points of ringcraft are
easily mastered by our simple
series of illustrated
POSTAL LESSONS.
In all parts of Australia successful pupils
have quickly learned the hits, moves and-
counters that make a scientific boxer. Each
lesson is based on “Snowy” Baker s personal
experience in the ring.
Write your name and address across this
advertisement, enclose three stamps tor
postage, and we will forward “Snowy”
Baker’s booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about the course and
gives examples of the lessons.
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,"
AND BROTHERS,
181 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
"W
l
Vv
W
ase
SHOE PASTE.
Made for perfect service. Preserves the leather as well as j
polishes, and is generally accepted as “The Standard of
Quality.’’
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown and Nigger Brown.
6d. per tin.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., Box 01, Haymttrket.
NEWS-WRITING PAYS
The DE BOURDE COURSE IN JOURNAL-
ISM quickly and thoroughly equips you for
a reporter’s billet or an editor’s chair. It
also shows you how to construct stories; and
how to sell them when finished. We Usk all
who possess undeveloped literary talent, Or
those to whom rejected MSS, tell their own
tale, to Write for GUr prospectus now, 'to
introduce our courses to Australian “new”
writers, we are enrolling FORTY ONLY for
our 10-guinea Standard Course (which in-
cludes Free-lance work and Newspaper Office
Routine) AT AN INCLUSIVE FEE OF FIVE
GUINEAS. Address applications to: The
Secretary. De Bourde College of Journalism,
P.O. Box 1378, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide* S.A,
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
m
:M er Vi Bating
J K
■WT
gs
XPuhe
kXwjoen&ed
I
flakes Love
and— Babied i
v Cakes
1 9
ktive om it
3
MEMORIAL PLAQUE CASES.
CLOSED.
FOLDING CASE FOR MEMORIAL
PLAQUE) covered with Black Morocco
Leather- lined with Purple Silk, measuring
6in. square.
OPETfT.
The Case stands easily and cannot
Made with Sterling Silver front
With Electroplated front
Stands 5$ inches high.
fall over.
37/6 net
17/6 net
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD., 25 and 25 Hunter Street.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will b «
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
O. Bill: We would sooner print your sen-
timents than your poetry, William: “You give no
encouragement whatever to beginners, no matter how
meritorious their efforts may be. When Australians
have made a name in America, Britain and Australia
then, and not till then, does it enter your dulled
brain that their efforts are worth publishing"....
Cornstalk: Unacceptable Norman C.: You died
to be revenged on the lady, and now it is her turn
to die and yours to live. Do you make this dying
business a regular habit, or is it only an occasional
pastime? Stella G.: Well, that’s cheerful, any-
how. Your sinning was a needed lesson for your
soul. Keep on and it will learn a lot....K.B. (Five
Dock) : verse for a girl of 13, but it is
all built-up of well-used commonplaces S.V.J.:
We have made a special note of the fact that Spring
and Summer “bring to ripeness fruitful crops, by
which men live.” M.D. (Malvern): A bit too
extravagant. .. .Aristide: In that setting it only
makes a dull story.... H.E.W.: A male person pray-
ing for baby hands on his breast is an unsatisfying
spectacle.... Bowral: No good... .Sylvia S.: Tune-
less I.G.W.: Not up Norman R.: Try it else-
where. .. .A. St. L. : The lines you are so mysteri-
ous about are a mutilation of Gordon’s best-known
quatrain. . . .Lance Jack: “Mr. Brush” might have a
chance with a crisper handling of the finish... .Jack
H.: That reading problem is an endless one. The
views are merely personal ones at best; and nobody
who reads to any purpose will follow a set system.
R.T. (Paddington): They don’t strike us
Sucre: Not enough in “Cling”.... E.W.: (Fast Mal-
vern): “The Land ’ is too thin.... Tere: The “Tree”
falls down on a last false rhyme Aspiration:
You can rhyme “subtle” with “coal-scuttle" if you
like, but we decline to have it with “wattle’ ....
Matthew F.: Certainly, turn to the pick and shovel,
unless you can do better than that... .M.E.E.: You
are capable of writing a tremendous lot about nothing.
John R.: With either ending the mouth of the
basket has the same hungry gape E.N. (Sea
Lake) : You write, “I sat me down.” Why drag in
the “me” ?... .E.E.H.: Not up L.G.D.: There
ought to be something coming to you when you
“cross into the abyss of Eternity” for verse like
that Flicker: “Gift” fails Wilson A.: A re-
hash of an old story J.E.R.: Too slight... .J.G.
(South Brisbane): Write English.. .R.D.C.: Nothing
worth while Auto: Not enough in it L.L.
(Burwood) : They miss A.M. (Queensland) : Your
“night-walk on the lea” won’t do here. ... Eurome-
dah: Nothing in it Ellice L.: It merely says
that the sun will rise some time after it has set. . .
W.F.H.: A string of commonplaces J.R.D.: Your
grammar is dreadful. .. .G.L.T.: Not for us....
G.F.B.: Moves tediously Corpuscle: As you say,
it will answer as a song of Spring—in fact it might
answer as a song of almost anything: —
On verdant fields soft breezes gently ripple;
Amber sun his kindly warmth distends. Of
Kind, in countless millions, buds release their
Leaflet treasures. Forests and plantations,
Waving growth and meadow—Superb display!
Each ewe mother knows her lambkin, sportful
Where the wattle blooms. Rejoicing offer
Praise from eucalypti throned, choristers
Philharmonic —bovine low and horses neigh—
Amphibians croak while crickets chirp, but—
Reptile sibilant sounds intrude... .Sunset’s
Penumbra coruscates the distant trees.
... .M.G.W.: Mysterious yarn that gets to nothing.
. .. .M.A.M.B.: None Of them any use to us. .. .Haka:
Can’t find the mirth in it... .A.R.D.: A jumble of
commonplace and insanity. .. .H.E.'L.J.: It is only a
thin descriptive article. More force and originality
Were needed to carry it....E.R. (Paddington): Very
rugged verse. .. .S.V.J.: Commonplace ideas in
bumpy metre. .. .G.B.L.: “Canberra” verse misses. ...
Harry M.: The verdict is Guilty. . . .R.C.M.A.: Doesn’t
get near. . . .A.C. (East Melbourne): A miracle of
emptiness... .Ethel W.: Note that you have struck a
place on the coast where the waves lap at night....
Garboard Strake: Not up. .. . J.V.C.: The old common-
places, where there is any meaning at all... .Tom L.:
Says the obvious thing, and says it weakly... .Victor
C.: No interest. .. .Ishmael: No, .as you say, it
couldn’t be much worse... .R.R.: The “Madcap” has
bright spots, but is not in our style... .F.M.Q.: ToO
rugged... .R.D.C.: The basket gets it: V.K.T.:
Nearly, but you let the verse fall down too often
Nimshi: “Patches” is too slight Bellerive: It’s an
appealing little ditty : —
A friend of mine had a hollow tooth,
Which did throb and sorely ache.
He paced he’s room at midnight gloom,
And kept he’s wife awake.
: . Aspro’s were of know avail,
' He moaned and paced about.
Prepared to pay he went next day,
And had the old stump out.
He paid the price quite willingly,
For ease and comfort sake.
But pain is proof, a second tooth
Did fiercely start to ache.
S.E.B.: If any pars, used, advise accountant of
date, page and column, and payment will be for-
warded .... A.R.C.: You don’t contrive to give the state-
ments any interest Constance M.: A good distance
off, but shows a hint of originality. Don’t follow the
well-worn themes.... D.C. (Adelaide): “The Rejected
Lover” is an old subject and it falls down a little in
places Tom Hah: Poorly done and not worth
doing Harley Q.: All too weak.,.. J.D.G.: Trite
little bit of lumpy rhyme R.McR.: The “brown-
eyed lady” you adore shouldn’t play that hide-and-
seek game on a false rhyme A.F.R.: If you want
copy returned enclose stamps G.E.L.W.: The
article is poorly written and does not make more
than general assertions L.P.P.: That dog-fight’s
over; try something else.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Stape: So you got 97 p.c. in your drawing exam. ?
Life is full of surprises, isn’t it?....R.H.: A long
way short W.R.: Weak gag C.M.L.: No drafts-
manship there. .. .C.J.C.: The worst of the week
A.E.K.: Drawing not up, and joke weak High:
Two heads grinning at each other are a glut on the
market just now....J.P.: We’ve seen that sketch
before —and it hasn’t improved in the interval....
G.B.: Drawing very weak yet... .T.H.D.: Nowhere
near publication standard... .L.G.: Not worth it....
L.C.F.: Silhouette covers a multitude of artistic sins.
.S.C.: Lady with curvature of the spine has no
hope. . . .C.WvM.: May use one or two. . .-G.H.:
Appalling. . . . J..F,: That is no joke W.H.T.: Fails
in drawing.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving -all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, OCTOBER 18.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt tmd Bridge Streets, SYDNEY
Telephone: City 2282.
T H * North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST ANI) MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m.-
passenger clue in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m ’
S.S. BURRINGBAIt SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m. :passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
the speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on tiie
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
™, A c£.S£ FICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, JHILP
& CO., LTD.
Hanking. Public Companies. &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. ... ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,009 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE,
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £1 523 000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13;269)793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman ; George
F. roDMAN: Duncan Carson; H. A. Russell;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: , C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin"
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott. =
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Clue/ Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager.: M. B, Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager,: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadiieedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at . Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds £47,000,000
Annual Income £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping:, ete.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LAR GEST- NEWEST’ FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BEIWEEN ALSIRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER, 11 a .m.
MAKURA, 23rd NOVEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
mailing’s to San Francisco, via Wellington (N l).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tile Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palis, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 12th OCTOBER, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply
STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
UNTON STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET! MELBOURNE.
4
*
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3| TO 4± WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England; From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co.; Melbourne.
George Wilis and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC ....’ 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THE.MISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
'SOI'HOCLES 12,500 tons
*DIOGENES 12,500 tons
*Npyv Sfpfimnrc
First- and Third-class Passengers carried,
full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., bn application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WA LES.
Paid-up Capital
Ileserve Fund
Ueserve Liability
Directors ;
£5,640,700
3,600,000
5,640,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Bucldand, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black', M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. ' General Manager': Oscar Lines.
®® ce "George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street E C
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. 1 ° uon-
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
df
JBank of ßustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £1,000.
3% Interest on Amounts over £1,000 up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Governor.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sydney daily, 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Shlnnin*.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports:
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MAOKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Brisbane, Maekay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Burns=Philp Tours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TRAVEL ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, EUROPE,
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, also SPECIAL
ROUND EASTERN TOURS and ROUND WORLD
TOURS,
Apply our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
Burns-Philp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart ParkerLiM l
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa fortnightly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp ami Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address
“IROQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS TOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd!
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
LOOK OUT FOR A
SUBSTANTIAL IMPORT FIRM
to undertake the monopoly in Australasia of
a new patented
STROPPING MACHINE
for
Gillette Safety-razor Blades,
A New Patented Potatoes and
Vegetable Peeler.
Both articles being very solid, practical
and cheap, are sold in Europe and the U.S.A.
with much success.
Apply to —
Handel MY “PIANEET,”
W. de Zwygerlaan, 28 The Hague,
HOLLAND.


An Smiles-Why?
Why all smiles ? Because
they are a Kruschen
family—healthy, wealthy
and Kruschen wise.
If you came down to this
happy breakfast table you
would see mother putting
the Kruschen crystals into
each cup as she poured out
tea —just enough to cover
a sixpence, that’s all (half
the quantity in the child-
ren’s cups). But what a
lot that little daily dose
does!
Father, sitting most of
the day in the office, gets
little fresh air and insuf-
ficient exercise. Mother,
with hungry mouths to
feed, children to clothe
and a household to man-
age, has a hundred daily
cares, and in these days
you will know what
anxieties she must have to
make ends meet.
Yet father smiles and
mother is happy, and the
children have rosy cheeks;
they know no depression,
no headaches, no lassi-
tude. They sleep well and
wake refreshed.
All smiles —why ?
Because of that little
daily dose of Kruschen.
Kruschen Salts are like no
other depurative, because
while they cleanse the sys-
tem, they also possess
tonic properties which
maintain the tone of the
organs during the cleans-
ing process.
Kruschen Salts cleanse
the system of impurities
by making the eliminating
organs perform their func-
tions actively as Nature
intended; clear, refreshed
blood circulates all over
the body, bringing tingl-
ing life to every fibre of
the system. Thus the ill-
effects of insufficient exer-
cise and lack of open air
are counteracted; the ills
caused by anxiety, worry
and overwork are ban-
ished. You are healthy,
and feel it.
Tasteless in Tea
Cocoa or Milk. Just
enough to cover a six-
pence for Mother and
Father, and half the
quantity for the children.
i&^djts
Good Health for a Farthing a day
The dose of a sixpenceful taken
every morning is found in practice:
just the right amount for a mostj
invigorating daily tonic. The medici-
nal dose for persons suffering from
pains of rheumatism and gout, or
habitual constipation, with inactive
liver, etc., is half to one teaspoonful
in a tumbler of hot water before
breakfast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen Salts:
they cost you less than a farthing a
a day for eager, strenuous health.
Get a bottle to-day.
Australia —Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
Australia wGrear, 119 to 123 York Street; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand. —
Co.,
Trade supplies stocked by Fairbairn, Wright and
Christchurch, Auckland. Wellington and Dunedin.
N.S.GO
SPORTINC RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
gsd
“.4 marvel at the price."
HI. Steven's Little Scout Single-
shot Itille. 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2Alb
(Postage—N.S.W., ri 3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26
fg
"Simple and extra strong in coiwtr«c*io».”
UlO Winchester Single-shot Kille, 1904 Model, to r -
short or long rim lire cartridges. 2iin. heavy roun see .
SIS? Sl.oyed Up.
Which will net tarnish; weight, about 41b. • jj;
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
J.
and rifled with the
Weight about 31b.
IJIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Ri£%. designed
for 00 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fme
The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and 1
exceed in °dr simple. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/G; other Slates, 2/8.)
sdf
Remarlcably accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot. 20in. round taperecf barrel, take down, weight 6}lb., muzzle velocity,
2Sooft. seconds, may lie used up to 350 yards without changing fro ™
point blank adjustments of sights: soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (<0
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 120Gft. pounds; freight
paid
£l2/10/-
Ovvin" to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
g
«Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
o Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Wo?iel ic s"ot. 201 n. ro^ ul si S e ‘sUde handles 22
straigUt * r, R- r cartridges-: weight, abontjjlb.,
short, lons
tfreiaht paid,
&c>
sdf
“A cheap and reliable weapon.”
no Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, 8.F.,
, hnrrel °Oin.. chambered for long rifle cait
case-iiarclenetl frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights: weight. 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
tm
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on
838. Remington Automatic Ham
Rifle Model 16A. 22 calibre, take-down action, lengtn
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight of lb.
T7'orlif- nnid.
the marled. |
merless |
of barrel --1
£.9
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
gs
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 189‘-
Motlei 25/20-, 32-, 3S-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
imlf magazine, 24in. barrel; weiglit, about 71b.
With Hound Darrel
Freight paid,
„ Freight pflid.
With Octagon Ban el
in n Winchester Repeating Carbines, Model.
»?/20 s' 38 or 44-calllire. central fire. lull or licit mag .<«
ST loan'd barrel, weight about Sill. ....Fvnsbt paid.
£B/10/-
£9
£7/1 5
WE REPAIR GUNS and
RIFLES.
M
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St. r BRISBANE.


Do You Enjoy
What You Eat?
9
ct
v-vc* - ■
Do you enjoy what you eat? If you don’t your food does not do
you much good. 7 here is no way to maintain the health and
strength of mind and body except by nourishment. There is no
way to nourish the body except through the stomach. The stomach
must be kept healthy, pure and sweet, or the strength will go down
and disease will result. Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are the
remedy that everyone should take when there is anything wrong
with the stomach.
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are the only digestant or combination of
digestants that will digest ALL classes of food. When you take Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules everything you eat tastes good, and every bit
of nutriment that it contains is assimilated and appropriated by the blood
and tissues. Did you ever hear of a man or woman being sick or weak
who could eat heartily, and who enjoyed their meals? Every man, woman
or child who is sick, puny or weak can soon eat heartily and enjoy every
meal if they use Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
Eat all the good wholesome food you want, then take one or two Dr.
Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules and you will see the difference. It doesn’t
cost you much to prove it, then you can eat all you want, whatever you
want, and if you use these tabules you can look the whole world in the
fhce with a beaming eye, and you will have a cheerful spirit, pleasant face,
vigorous body and clear mind and memory, and everything will lo\ok and
taste delicious to you. That’s real living. Get a tin of Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules to-day and start at once.
gv&HEUiows
'
EEHIiBuKii
n
.
i*i mu •••him mi iii mu uus£f\
XLEEWm
mm > PURE FOODS
iMiiiedtWWTffi==nWßsiTl lU.IBI lIWHTHI 'MB
ss3nS=fiiiiti3iiii
I
i 4..
VW*--
REX HAM
PATE
the Sandwich
Spread of the
Age !
Summed up in brief:—“Rex” Ham Pate
is the “good luck” sandwich spread
which reduces lunch preparing worries
to a minimum.
REX HAM PATE is made from the
finest “Rex” Hams—cooked to retain
all their delicious flavor and mildness-
then minced fine and seasoned with pure
wholesome spices.
It can be served in dozens of ways by
interlaying the slices of bread with sliced
egg, tomato, cucumber, olives, lettuce
leaves, etc. Give it a trial. Many new
ways of serving will suggest'themselves
to you.
Sold in handy sized solderless hygienic
tins by all Grocers.
Insist on getting “Rex” brand.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 289
Worth While.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IF friendship be a tuneless string
On which the blind alone can play,
And love a foolish wind of Spring
That in the Summer dies away ;
If man be but a warmer clod,
Which only lives that it may die,
And space and time and truth and God
The facets of a well-cut lie,
I still should hold this morning’s smile
As well worth while.
But if the grasp of hand in hand
Be part of an eternal thought,
And love the gold within the sand
That toiling ages slowly wrought;
If man be higher than his dreams
And life a song but yet lialf-sung,
And God, through faith-awakened gleams,
A Brother glorious and young—
Ah, yet this morning’s silver smile
Is well worth while!
Between the knowledge and the doubt
A stream of faith runs blithely on.
I watch the eddies turn about
To pass where other floods have - gone;
Yet, weighing fact and fancy well,
In reason’s balance duly set,
I watch the beam and cannot tell
The gain of all my thinking yet. .. .
But truth, unvanquished, holds a smile
Well worth my while.
And one large chance appeals to me
As the grand gamble of the soul.
If, as it sometimes seems to be,
Blind |uck is master of the whole,
Our search a thousand veils behind
To find a purpose and a plan
May make the Universal Mind
And lift creation up to man.
Life then were comedy—its smile
Made well worth while.
The dust of Homer lightly lifts
The greener blade to happier Spring,
Or through a mountain valley sifts
To help an ancient stream to sing;
But Homer, to the beat of drums,
Goes marching with a living throng
To battle with the thought that comes
Out of the years nll-mankind-strong—
A simple thought to raise a smile,
But still worth while.
On, Science, to the splendid fight!
On, Faith ! Bring up your angels fast!
Lift up the bannered books in light!
The present and the striving past >
Are one in earth’s last' patriot zeal
To storm the stronghold of the foe.
At last, at last, strong Truth shall reel,
Give, up the ; ke.vs—and we shall know!
Ah, well! I hold this morning’s smile
Was well worth while.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
Acqua Tofana.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
B Y the great, high quartz-flows of Nigger
Creek —quartz reefs 20 feet th'ck and
painted green with maps of Ireland
by the leaching of copper carbonate, which
had fooled many people into a belief in them
as copper shows —a very big, very tall man
with a Norseman’s face and fair hair, and
a dark little man, all nerves and liver, pulled
up their buggy and freed the horses of the
gear. The beauty of the night was begin-
ning in a sunset of melting gold ; the wine-
like air invited the more that the flies were
going out of business for 10 hours, and the
big man gulped it like water.
Water is the trouble at Nigger Creek
—a. long, crooked bed of sand with one
waterhole fouled by horses, horned cattle
and camels for almost all the year. In
the wet season it runs a banker, and runs
to waste; and for six months of the year
it has that taste of camel which some men
describe as being a solution of chaff-bags
with some of the jute left in, and others as
the taste of Stockholm tar. But if its origin
be known, the fixing of similes for the taste
does not matter a row of pins.
Dicksee, the fair man —known from his
immense height and size sometimes as “Tiny”
and at others as “Fairy”—led the horses to
the waterhole in the creek. He was followed
by Givens, the dark, little man, with nerves
and an ever-present liver, carrying the
blackened billy, the collapsed water-bag and
the soap and towels.
The horses drank deeply of the mysterious
water, and then washed their months in it.
“Hold up ! You unmannerly beast!” said
Tiny Dicksee to the offsider. “It isn’t
enough to drink it —you must blobber in it
like a camel who never attended the eti-
quette class.”
“I got the water-bag and the billy full
before they did it, Tiny,” said the livery
man. “Let’s have a wash now.”
“It looks too dirty to wash in.” replied
Dicksee. “I don’t mind dirt, but this is
dirty dirt. I’ve drunk out of the; hide of a
dead bullock, and I’ve drunk out of a meat-
extract well with two dead wallabies and
the feathers of an eagle in it, but there’s an
uncanny stink about these eamel-li oles. Any-
how, here goes for a wash; and the billy
will boil all the eau-de-Cologne oiut of the
water.”
He hobbled the horses and turned them
out on the long and withering gTass, and
washed at the upper end of the hole, pour-
ing the water from the bag over bonds and
head, and wining himself so that he; streaked
the towel.
“By the Lord Henry,” he said, “Chat towel
smells fierce now—all the concentrated
essences of a stable and a super phosphate
works!” \
“It’s all right, Tiny. You bring the bag
and I’ll take the billy back.”
He had already started uo' the creek to
their camp by the buggy wheels, and Tiny
slowly. refilled the water-bag from the pan-
nikin. avoiding as far as possible the gi’easy
patches on the water, and att jmpting at
every second dip of the pannikin the possi-
Zi • i °* midmg a clear section of liquid in
tins heavy solution of organic matter. Then
he followed (livens to the camp, where the
nre already shone cheerfully through the
dusk ; and by the fierce burning of the dead
gid>a the billy boiled before the bier man
had spread out on top of the tuclser-box the
bread, the tea, the condensed milk, the
onions and the tin of sheep-tongues which
made the meal.
“c*P^’ s - foiling,” said the livery man.
“fekim it. before you put the tea in.”
“All right,” replied Givens, impatiently,
and regarding the operation, even while he
followed instructions, as the fad of a hyper-
sensitive man.
Rut the big man, even when, being full
and his pipe drawing well, he was helping to
“wash up” the iron plates with the dregs of
the billy, could not be kept Oft tin* subject of
water-clear water, cool water, water from a
galvanised-iron roof in a dust-proof, insect-
proof tank, water running over granite,
sweet water dammed by porphyry rock, water
direct from Heaven and never meeting a
camel on the way.
"You know, Bob, there must be some good
water about here.”
"Why?”
"W hen we came through there was
an old German woman, a teamster’s wife,
camped in the old smelter office. She’s there
now —l see the light.”
“Well.—what then?”
"If there were no other water here and
those people wore camped here permanently
as they are, you’d think they’d protect a
bit of the hole in the creek. And they don’t.
There’s camel-tracks and horse-tracks, cattle-
tracks and dingo-tracks all round it.”
“What’s the matter with that? Some of
these people are as dirty as camels.”
"Maybe. But there’s no tracks of any
human around there to-day but ours. They
must have a tank there, too, with all that
iron.”
“You can bet it’s dry—there’s been no-
body there for a month since the last assayer
left.”
“We’ll go up and see, anyhow—are you
on?”
The dark man assented impatiently.
“You’d never be satisfied until I did, any-
way, Tiny. I’ll go.”
They went through the dusty grasses to
the light in the old smelter office —said smel-
ter having been cold for many a month.
Even the assay office, used to determine
casual parcels of copper-ore for shipment,
had not been in use for weeks.
Tiny carried the billy and Givens the
water-bag, and as they advanced into the
circle of light thrown through the open door-
way from a hurricane-lamp, a dog rose,
barked at them, reconnoitred them from the
rear, and decided that they were probable
friends, and, in any event, useless as food.
“Der tog von’t bidte,” said a voice from
within. “Come in. fellers.”
Tiny’s bulk excluded Givens from the sight
within, where a very thin German lady
stood behind a table in suspension of the
act of cutting a piece of steaming, livid,
beef-brisket with a sheath-knife. Three sun-
beaten children, almost as spare as herself,
sat, one at either end and one with his back:
to the door. A large dish of potatoes and
one of boiled onions flanked the beef on
either side, and a pannikin of mustard stood
by a steaming billy-can.
“Wouldt you ligke some meadt?” she in-
quired hospitably, and Tiny, with his hat in
his hand, thanked her and replied: "No,
thank you, madame. But if you could let
ns have some water we would be grateful.”
■ All the hospitableness left the thin lady
at that; her eyes hardened, and she said
almost sulkily; “Der vater is in der greek.”
"I know, but that’s bad. Haven’t you
any tank water here?”
“No. Ye don’t haf some —in der greek it
vos.”
"Thank you. Good night.”
“Gut nidte. meester.”
Tiny backed. They walked out of the
circle of the light, but the dog had been
satisfied of their bona fides and came no
more to ask questions with his nose.
“Told you so. Tiny.”
“Told me nothing! Walk over here. The
frontal attack failed. We’ll attack on the
flank.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Didn’t you see she was lying? I don’t
blame her—she wanted it for herself and
the kids. She’s waiting here for her old
man to come back, and the water in the
tank may be gone by then.”
“Oh ! How do you know there was any
water in the tank? How do you know there’s
any tank ?”
“Because the tea in the billy on the table
wasn’t made with creek water. Why, it
looked like tea, and ours looked like soup
and tasted like seven devils. Another thing,
I don’t know anything about mining,
but” ■
“Nor me.”
“Shut up a minute —but these mining
chaps must use water, arid tanks don’t dry
as quick as that. It’s a cert. She’s got a
tank of it somewhere, and we’ll find it.”
“She’ll be suspicious of it to-night.”
“We’ll go-look-for-see at daylight. And
I want a drink now, but that creek water’s
too much like salts and senna for my taste.
It reminds me of my poor old mother on
medicine-days.”
“Well! We’ll make more tea and have a
hunt for that tank o’ yours before sun-up.”
They made the tea, and drank it; and the
big man spooned the remainder of the con-
densed milk from the tin—to get the taste
of the cheering cup out of his mouth, he
said.
With the change of wind that comes at
the first streak of daylight, Tiny Dicksee’
aroused his mate, and, with hilly and water-
bag, they approached the house. Its door
was open, but the interior was dark ; walk- .
ing close to the corner of the house they
made out its sign:
Manager’s Office.
They rounded the building. There had b°-°n
a tank there, as the roof-spouting and the
wooden base testified.
“There you see, Tiny.”
“Look at the other iron place back there:
it has spouting too. Let’s look-for-see.” _ _
In the growing dawn they approached the
smaller building. It was labelled “Assay
Office.” and, behind it, its 400-gallon tank
still stood upon its platform.
(Continued on next page.)


\T.
I
0
a
€5
Make Zam-Buk a Daily Need
SMEARING A CUT, Bruise, Burn, .Scald or Scratch
over with Zam-Buk means that pain is soothed
away, that the injured skin is instantly pro-
tected against germ attack, and that natural
healing is hastened.
Even wounds that have taken “bad
ways,’’ and the most obstinate
cases of Eczema, Ulcers, Piles
and Ringworm are most
successfully treated
by the Zam-Buk
method, which
saves worry
and ex-
pense.
*
Si
*
1.. I
mi
V
Zam-Buk
is needed in
every home,
o wing to its
unique herbal com-
position and great
purity Zam-Buk has a heal-
ing power which no ordinary
ointment can possess. In addi-
tion to special emollient qualities,
Zam-Buk also has very powerful but
highly-refined antiseptic and germicidal
properties, and is the perfect remedv for
Spring Skin Troubles.
1/0 and 3/6 per box
everywhere.
SPRING BOILS & SORES,
Mr. A. Laport, 27 Pyrmont Street, Syd-
ney, writes:—“l suffered great pain through a
rapid succession of boils. No sooner would I get
rid of one crop of these than another would appear. I
tried poulticing and other methods of treatment, but
never could find a cure until I tried Zam-Buk.
“Zam-Buk brought almost instant relief. It brought the
boils quickly to a head, after which the cores and bad matter all
came away. Further dressings of the balm healed up the cavities
rapidly, and all trace of the troublesome boils disappeared.”
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap
should be used in all cases where any skin
trouble exists, in preference to ordinary soaps.
Used in conjunction with Zam-Buk Balm, Zam-
Buk Medicinal Soap will be found most sooth-
ing, and is an invaluable “aid” to the Zam-Buk
treatment. l/~ per tablet of all Chemists, or
post free from C. E. Fulford (A/sia), /m
Sydney.
■■•ißißaq|nia3Ci»3lß^lftl!lß!l!||
I i
o
asm
mnnmiiiaiimmii
*
mi
n
D
“Empty,” said the doubting Robert.
“Empty! With the tap padlocked? No
rear.”
He struck the tank and the sound proved
it to be three-quarters full.
“I’ll break the lock. Where’s a bit of
steel?”
“The old woman might hear you.”
“No chance, she’s asleep, dreaming of ail
the water in the Rhine. Here’s the head of
an old pick.”
He used the rusty instrument carefully;
leverage might destroy the tap and lose all
the water, and so he had to strike carefully-
aimed blows at the lock itself. At last the
lock opened ; he lifted the hinged key of the
tap and turned it, and water as clear as if
it came from granite ran into the billy.
“You drink first,” said the big man. “I’ll
fill the bag.”
Givens tilted the billy-can, and drank
deep, lie took the can from his mouth for
breathing space, when suddenly the accursed
dog came around the corner of the house,
followed by the thin German lady.
She shrieked as she saw the broken tap,
the water running into the bag and the billy-
can in Givens’s hands.
“Just a drink,” said Tiny Dicksee apolo-
getically and feeling as mean as if he had
been arrested in the act of robbing a blind
man.
“Hu! You gootman ! It is not der vaS’ser
—‘it is der poisons.”
“What?”
“Poison?” said Givens, his face becoming
a dirty green.
"Poisons! It Is der vasser of der assays.”
“The assay-office tank?’
“Yah! I)er assays tank —der poisons.”
“O my Gor'd!” groaned Givens, “I’m
gone.”
“Gome on,” shouted tin' big man. “No
time. Hurry up. Gome and take an emetic.”
“When? Where?”
“The mustard on the table.”
The old woman shrieked again, but Tiny
Dicksee did. not heed her. Still clinging to
the Water-bag. he took Givens bv the shoul-
der and raced him down to the old man-
agers office. Not noticing the highly-
interested dog at his heels and the wonder-
ing and just-awakened children, he seized
the.. pannikin of mustard, emptied it into
another pannikin and made a very nauseous
drink of it by adding the stale tea from the
billy of oyer-nigl:t. This mixture the groan-
ing Givens swallowed, and being then raced
down to the buggy, clung to the wheels and
promptly' ejected a great deal with all the
manifestations of extreme seasickness.
“Hold' to the wheel, for the love of the
archangel,” said Tiny Dicksee, snatching up
the briylles. “I’ll get the horses, and we’ll
drive like hell to the hospital.”
He thrashed the horses along the track
for /three miles, and then at the foot of a
rise he saw a bullock-waggon drawn across
it, and had perforce to pull up. cursing the
carrier Who obstructed the road.
A long, thin, sandy-haired man without a
button to his shirt, so that his sleeves
flapped, and he was sun-burned to the wing-
ribs, rolled from his blankets and under the
waggon and said, “Xous is in a ’urry, any-
way.”
“My mate’s poisoned—l’m driving him to
the hospital.”
"Fifteen mile away—well if lie’s bad he’ll
die before he gets there! Snakebite? I got
some p’mangnit er potash.”
“No—poisoned water!”
“I never heard o’ none about here. Sure,
he ain’t been eaten poison-bush?”
“For God’s sake, don’t ask damned silly
questions! Show us a way across this
creek now that you’ve blocked it. My mate
might die.”
"Did he poison the water liisself?”
“No —if you want to know, you time-
waster —it was in that tank at the assay
office at Nigger Creek.”
“Where the ole German woman is?”
“Yes; she says it was poison water for
the assayer.”
“Well by cripes, that’s good—that’s good !”
“What are you laughing at? It’s life and
death.”
“Yes—her life! Why? Well! No wonder,
she keeps goin’ there where a man ’ud
starve. Why! That water’s rain-water.
Assayers er got to ’ave it pure. I heard
’em talkin’ when I used to cart limestone to
that little kettle they called a smelter.”
“She sold us, then?”
“Sold yer! D’yer blame her? With them
kids?”
“I don’t,” said Tiny Dicksee. “And we’ve
had our revenge.”
“How’s that?”
“I gave all the mustard she had to my
mate for an emetic.”
“Ho! Ho! Be cripes, that’s good.”
The liver subject groaned, and reached
for the water-bag.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Pennington Peebles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rn he case of Pennington Peebles lias its
pathetic side. As an author he had
scant merit, but there was evidence of
superior ambition in the three books which
failed to bequeath a single quotation for
the enjoyment of posterity. He was a bald,
rather hapless little man, perpetually in-
gratiating himself with people who shrank
from, his humility, but he was never dashed,
as others might have been by such affronts.
His tales, “The Naiad of Northcote,” “Phil-
lipa’s Folly” and “The Laird of the. You-
Yangs,” were written in a vein of light
humor that seemed pretentious to those of
his intimates who had seen his ears from
the back. He had remarkable ears that
seemed to dim by their obtrusiveness the
rest of his personality; yet he easily endured
Nature’s inattentions,' because, as he often
said, Shaw was no Apollo, and Verlaine all
his life was a simian curiosity.
No; his physical discrepancies never
troubled him. nor was it the rebuffs he re-
eeived in his social life that drove him to
the seclusion which cut him off • from the
small things he loved during the height of
his neglect as an author. It was a blow
when he first dropped out of my life, and
his disappearance worried me with its mys-
tery and portent until it slid out of my
memory altogether to make room for more
impressive events. Then, one day, he be-
came a vivid recollection through the receipt
of a note which asked me to come and see
him. The address he gave was a cottage in
the country, and I hurried up expecting
all manner of calamities. On the contrary,
I found him a pink and pudgy orchardist
owning several acres of fruit-trees and a
wife and baby.
That night he told me his story.
"You can’t guess,” he said, “why I came
here ?”
“No,” I answered as I caught a curious
gleam in his faded eyes.
"I left home,” he said dramatically, ‘ and
got married to escape my vanity None
of you ever guessed the corrosive egotism
that was masked through hard practice by
an almost fatuous modesty of speech and
behavior. I was vainer than any actor,
fonder than any politician of blinding lime-
light, and I yearned with an ardor that
almost overthrew my outward pose for the
few crumbs of compliment that fall from
reviewers’ tables. As you know, the reviews
I had were contemptuous, flippant or frankly
hostile, and the few pals who gave me a
‘yandid opinion’ strove to temper their hol-
low praise with faint damnation. Yet.
with all my failure to arouse .attention, I
persisted in the' hope of learning something
to my artistic credit. And it was while brood-
ing on this that I took to the queerest vice
that ever beset a shrinking author. I
started haunting Benmington’s Library, in
the miserable hope that I would some day
hear a subscriber ask for one of my books.
In this pastime I spent hours and hours
with a beating heart. At last my habits
began, to be noticed, .suspected. And so I
would pick up the . nearest volume on one
of the sales bookstands and buy it under
the pretence that. I had been looking for it
all the time. In this way— — But come in
here.”
He got up and opened the door of a room
that was stacked with literature in all its
loveliness and banality, all its poetry and
pride—great novels, belles lettres, . essays,
history, criticism and all the rest of it.
“You see that?” said Pennington holding
the lamp high. “That is the price I paid
for my craving. Some days I would
get desperate and stalk out _ of the shop
with an edition de luxe that cost two weeks’
wages, but as my literary pile grew and
grew, that insatiable hunger for recognition
drew me on to greater and greater insani-
ties. One afternoon I came away with a
medical encyclopaedia that remains to-day—
like most of the, rest—still undisturbed in
its paper overcoat. Then I went in for
literature in bulk. I had parcels made of
Georgian poetry, Kipling in half-morocco,
with a choice lot of Sainte-Beuve thrown in
—and my indulgence, began to consume the
whole of my working day. How far I would
have gone God only knows, but one morn-
ing when I was about to give up my
vigil and buy a great green edition of Flau-
bert, I heard the librarian propose ‘The
Naiad of Northcote’ to a truculent dowager.
My heart beat The veins sang
with my leaping blood as I waited —it seemed
an eternity—for a consummate elation.
Then she said—l shall never forget her. tone
—“I don’t want any of that rubbish, thank
you’!” .
"Believe me, I was so stricken and en-
raged that I banged down the set of Flaubert
and went out with a cheap "Life of Marie
Corelli” instead. But that experience finished
me. Indeed, I was ill for a week. Then
I recovered slowdy, threw up the writing
game, and here I am, more obscure than
ever, but happy and healthy in a solitude
that nothing will ever allure me from.”
I went home next day satisfied that he
had vanquished his obsession. Six months
later I encountered him in a city - street.
He was furtive and shamefaced, and car-
ried a suspicious-looking pareel under his
arm. '
"What! Pennington !” I said astonished.
"Yes,” he answered tragically, "I’m at it
again. I got off another yarn—paid to get
it published out of the last strawberry crop,
and I’ve just finished a six weeks’ spell at
Beamington’s waiting for the word that
means so much.”
“Never heard your book mentioned, I sup-
pose?” I hazarded.
.“Yes, it was mentioned by the librarian
td a lady to-day.”
“Well’*—— ' - $1"
For answer the tears came to his eyes,
and he opened the parcel and showed me
the volume.
It was the “Authorised Life of Charles
Oarvice.”
C. R. BRADISH.
After Four Years.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0 God ! that I could forget
The things that I have seen.
The face of my pal at the fend of. his Quest,
A smile on his lies and a feeble jest ;
The torture of Hell in his eyes as he
Clutched at the earth in his agony;
O God ! that I could forget
The things that I have heard.. .
The dreadful shrieks of a mail in pain
Till a merciful bullet shattered his brain.
The droning hum of a shell o’erhead,
A crash, "Lie down!” and the whine of lead.
O God ! that I could forget
The things that I have felt.
The ghastly touch of a dead man’s face,
As we crawled at night in a fearsome place,
The quivering thrill of the bayonet thrust—
It must drink its fill to assuage its lust.
0 God! that I could forget
The things that I have done.
I can never forget the men I killed,
I can never forget the blood I spilled.
I would that Death would end for me,
Each haunting, brooding memory.
VICTORIA.
BAINBRIDGE.


m
jsSSk' ■:
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Featherston Street, Wellington,
Victorian Office-98 Queen Street. Melbourne,
D WEST, N. S. WALES
dfg
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Minins, .Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Rpad Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
I). RICHARDSON 8 SONS PXY. LTD.,Foot«ray,Vic.
sdf
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
mAgneto type.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 234 inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
D. § W. Chandler
Ironmongers and
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Rejmtenatitig
Sates Representative!!
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Lt 4
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
There is nothing more beautiful than the
beauty of perfect health—and no surer or
less expensive way to its attainment than by the
daily use of ENO’s “Fruit Salt.” It purifies the
blood, regulates the digestive functions, and
cleanses the system with gentle yet persistent
thoroughness, veritably washing away undesir-
able waste matter which goes to make a “ bad
complexion.” Ask your chemist for a bottle of
ENO’S
FRUIT SALT
Worth
a
Quine a
a
7}ox.
For Your Stomach
The stomach is the largest organ in the
body and has important work to do.
It does it well, most of the time, so long
as you give it proper food and do not
over-load it. But sometimes it gets tired,
and a sick headache, biliousness, indigest-
ion, acidity and other symptoms warn
you that it is out of order and needs
help. Then it is time to take
BEKHANS
PILLS
The Safe
Family
Remedy
C-EC >9
Nr
Nr,'*
ASKS
They give welcome aid to the stomach, for
they help the flow of gastric juice, increase the
activity of the digestive organs, carry off the
fermenting food, regulate the bile and cleanse
the system of the disturbing elements.
Beecham’s Pills are the safe family remedy
for the stomach, liver and bowels. They act
promptly and are a great help to the digestion.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Eng.
Sold in boxes, labelled 10|d., ls-l|d and 2s-9d.
( original English prices.)
It
C-14-
H
W///////OA
///
Aft
: VA
3*
Remington “Wetproof”
Shotgun Cartridges
Are supplied under four trademarked brands
known the world over.
“NEW CLUB”—with black powder load 3.
“REMINGTON”—a moderate priced
smokeless cartridge of excellent quality.
“NITRO CLUB”—known to sportsmen
everywhere as a smokeless powder cartridge
of superior quality and dependability.
“ARROW”—the cartridge de luxe with a one-'
inch brass base and other features making
it the highest type.
There are four types or kinds but only one grade—?
the HIGHEST. *
All cartridges loaded at our lactory are now
being treated with the Remington special e:
elusive, patented “Wetproof” process which
prevents damage from rain, dampness, or sim-
ilar conditions frequently met in the field and
deterioration which often results in warm damp
climates from storage of ordinary cartridges.
now
ch* 1
id
ip
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, C.P.0., Melbourne
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two A hnutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
t° The Manages.
lopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
5^
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office?: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
. V N
■rrx
Do you know of any better Motor Vehicles than those turned
out by these firms?
Rolls Royce, Napier & Son, Rudge Whitworth,
Crossley Motor Co., Clement Talbot, B.S.A. Limited,
Wolseley Motor Co., Douglas Bros., Sunbeam Motor Co.
Daimler Limited,
Don’t you think their choice in the matter of Piston Rings
ought to be guidance enough for you? Well, then,
WHEN BUYING PISTON RINGS
just consider that all these Manufacturers of Highest-Grade
Motor-Cars, and all the other First-class English Motor Manu-
facturers as well, use
BRICO PISTON RINGS.
Brico Piston Rings are BRITISH MADE, in a magnificently-
equipped factory which turns out a larger number of Piston
Rings than does any other factory in the United Kingdom.
PRICES OF BRICO PISTON RINGS.
Up to and including 2fin. dia. (70 M/M) 2/6 each
Up to and including 4in. dia. (101.5 M/M 3/- each
Up to and including sfin. dia. (149 M/M) 4/6 each
Swans, Limited, 304 Pitt St., Sydney.
DISTRIBUTORS OF BRICO PISTON RINGS.


Born 1820-
■ Still going Strong 1
E
;
ww>
m
m
\
1
\
= *
T
SK*
000
>0
m
1
HISTORICAL SPIRIT SERIES NO***
CHARLES I’s Bedroom.
•‘THE SARACEN'S HEAD." South-
well : —One of the finest remaining ex-
amples of the Old English Inn, with
ancient timbering and coaching yard .
Charles I slept here immediately prior to
his defeat and capture by the Roundheads,
Johnnie Walker: “ T am glad to note, your Majesty, that you
have regained your head.”
&a? ' l /' :r ■ r ■4.**
Shade of King Charles: 4 ( Like you, Johnnie Walker, my reputation has
improved with age.”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., Scotch Whisky Distillers, Kilmarnock, Scotland.
