

sdfsdfsd
fs
SOLD
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA
mi.
Eau de
Cologne
(k.
nEAU PE COLOGNE
m.
Uu * Catofor | l*On ~
CIOCKIUGASSf MM7ll* %
Mr wiiinj
«cr3i> <&■
BLAU & G, 181 Clarence St. Sud
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2221.
Thursday, September 7, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
&
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSACHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
jtoURNVELE Cocoa
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE—“The
SATISFIES
Standard of Quality.”
'mUmSSm
j|"J! p
LONGER WEAR and PULLING POWER
MANGROVITE LEATHER BELTING
is celebrated for the powerful grip with which it
holds the pulleys. It operates successfully ’midst
clouds of dust, acid fumes or steam, and stands up
to hard usage, continually taking the punishment of
main chives and the side-slapping of shifters. Man-
grovite Belting saves power on the hardest drive.
>V rite or call to-day.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDQWICI, Managing' Director,
4.9 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies 00., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Her ham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel k Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Genuine
French
Briar
M
R
C
100
years
old.
8
Bank on
satisfaction
—choose a Marcee.
The pipe illustrated above is a MARCEE-DE-LUXE —
made from century-old French Briar, specially hardened
and seasoned, fitted with vulcanite mouthpiece and
neatly finished 15/-
The pipe shown below is a MARCEE—one of the
famous GBD family—made from genuine French Briar
Root, guaranteed over 100 years old, beautifully marked
and fitted with silver mount 10 /-
All Tobacconists and Stores.
If you cannot obtain these pipes locally, send remittance
to Box 502 G.P.0., Sydney, and your order will receive
prompt attention.
df
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)'
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1 /., Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /.,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for .de-
monstrations.
lIOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1 /..
Write for list of bur Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £si Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
T
ii&j
ft?
BOOK OP SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights 1/6
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARCES, in one
-book 2/-
Contents—lci on Parle
Francais, April Fools,
Who is Who ? Who’s
to Win Him? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW. TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage...
• 1/6
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Being- destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a. sweet, healthy condition.
The -Lancet (London) ‘states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a Tsacterieide in the mouth. This result is
likely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bac-
terieidally as is creosote.”
16 a Tin.
m
'Jp
A. Tlie Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe oi one
of the Lungs.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
. Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
Women in Song.
“A Book of Women’s Verse,” Edited, with, a
Prefatory Essay, by J. C. Squire.
(Oxford Press.)
The making of general anthologies of
verse is an unsatisfactory task. Palgrave,
assisted by Tennyson, produced a “Golden
Treasury,” which was of enormous value in
directing the general reader towards much
that is choicest in the lyrical work of our
English poets; and Quiller-Coucli, in “The
Oxford Book of. Verse,” picked up a few rich
flowers that older eyes had missed, and sup-
plemented them with a selection of more recent
work. Both these are very beautiful books
—each in ifs way a whole library of fine
song—but the later one reveals manv of the
deficiencies of' the older volume, while its
omissions cannot but challenge the taste of
the selector. The truth is that to fairly
represent a long series of writers in a way
satisfactory to all critical readers is
beyond the power of man. The de-
cision as to which writer shall be repre-
sented by one poem and which by a dozen
is made the more arbitrary by the‘plain fact
that 00 per cent, of the work of one writer
is better than the very best of another; yet
the compiler feels that the inferior person
should get a look in because lie is the out-
standing man of a dull period or the out-
standing exponent of a method. Thus, in
“The Oxford Book of Verse,” much space
is given to the old ballad; and a pretty
rugged ancPhcayily-moving old ballad it often
is, despite its interest for the literary his-
torian. On the other hand, American writ-
ers are all but ignored by Quiller-Couch;
.vet it seems quite insane to' assert that there
have not been at least a hundred poems writ-
ten in America which surpass in thought,
skill, passion, human appeal and even
literary interest the very best of the anony-
mous ballads of the later Middle Ages. Among
the very few American examples chosen by
the Oxford anthologist Bret Harte’s “What
the Bullet Sang” is included, together with
one example from Longfellow, while Lowell’s
“To a Dandelion,” the really outstandin x,
poem of a man and a period, is ignored.
Goldsmith’s “When Lovely Woman Stoops
to Folly” is hallowed by old association;
but is it reasonable to believe that its two
rather trite stanzas are worthier of a place
than all that Whittier, Bryant, Holmes and
Lowell wrote? Yet Quiller-Couch did gather
up a great many exquisite modern poems
and present them for the first time to read-
ers who had previously not heard the
authors’ names. An anthologist is a person
to be thanked for generous labor, while
his selection is never to be taken too seri-
ously as the ultimate best.
That the two great anthologies mentioned
have the most assured place in the library
of the future, though not free from natural
defects, fixes, to some extent, the shape and
purpose of all anthologies. Their editors
aim in their selection at a certain self-expres-
sion of taste rather than at ultimate per-
fection ; and the collection of poems made
has just the value of the selector’s judgment
and no more. J. C. Squire tells us that his
“Book of Women’s Verse” occupied his
leisure hours for seven years; and though
the prefatory essay is of unusual interest as
a contribution to literary history, the book
itself scarcely seems to justify the long
period given to its compilation. ' Nearly half
the volume is devoted to work written before
1820 ; and though some of the older pieces
are inserted “merely as curiosities” —and as
curiosities keep the reader from better fare
—some of them are far too dull to be even
curious. Take this bright example by Anne
Bradstreet (1612-1672) :—■
This Book by Any yet unread,
I leave for you when I anr dead,
That, being gone, here you may finu
What was ydur liveing mother's mind.
; Make use of what I leave in Love
And God shall blesse you from above.
Observe that the woman who wrote that was
a 'contemporary of Milton and can still get
it’ printed in the day of “Bellerive”—as a
curiosity. t
Coming to modern times there is, as
might be expected, the usual exaggeration of
the value of the work of Emily Bronte. This
has become so much a fashion that it
amounts to a kind of literary religion. Emily
Bronte wrote two or three pieces of verse
that are striking, and a good many more that
are readable ; but the plain truth, which must
be evident to every perfectly honest reader, is
that sbe had not very much to say nor very
much skill in saying it. There is a hint of
passion in her writing and a certain sim-
plicity and directness, and she fully deserves
a place among the women poets of her
day: but to claim more for . her is to
invite the ridicule of future readers no
longer under the spell of the essayists of the
hour. Yet so completely is this anthologist
caught by the Bronte fiction thxit he drags in
Charlotte and Anne also—-not as curiosities,
but as serious poets.
But. as is right, Elizabeth Barrett Brown-
ing holds the centre of the stage. Slovenly,
profuse, over-purposeful, Mrs. Browning still
wears well. The years are not beating her
down, but rather giving her work a juster
value. She was alive; she thought deeplv
and well; she sang with a great variety of
tunes and a great throbbing sympathy. Yet
it is a trifle hard on her that “To Flush, Mv
Dog,” tender and full of feeling as some of
it is, should get five full pages out of the
20 devoted to selections from her work.
Among the writers of to-day Alice Meyriell
has chief place, but the choice of her verses
would form but a poor introduction to her
work. Fortunately, she needs no advertise-
ment; her public is suprisingly large for a
singer of such delicately-wrought song.
On the whole, the anthology will leave the
reader a little puzzled as to the plan of
selection. The word “curiosity,” which the
editor himself uses, appears to strike the
keynote. “It is just possible that this idea
is also at the back of modern English taste
in verse, and may explain much in the
literary magazines which was formerly
oblcure to Australians. Has the palate of
the critic of verse become so staled with the
bounty of the feast that the curious alone is
looked for? It is not so with the taste of
the reader. Keats and Milton never had a
bigger audience than they have to-day ; but
would Keats see his “Grecian Urn” included
in the new anthologies if he had written it
last year? It is a question well worth con-
sidering.
“A Book of Women’s Terse” is published
by the Oxford Press, and belongs, to the
series which began with the magnificent
“Book of English Verse,” and includes the
poof and hopelessly inadequate “Book of
Australian Verse.” The editor declares in
his preface that it is the first attempt of the
kind that can be “taken seriously”, which
lias been made for a hundred years. Some-
thing of the same sort might be said with
equal sincerity by the next compiler. It all
depends on the force of the word “seriously.”
“J’ Accuse!”
La Mystification des Peuples allies, by
Andre Cheradame (Herissey), is anti-
Boohe propaganda from the hand of one
whose soul is in his art. It is a gigantic
brief for the prosecution—there are 440
pages of it —in which no point calculated to
tell against the cringing villain in the dock
is missed ; and the whole is buttressed wth
about 40 maps, letters, etc., which either
sheet home guilt directly, or shatter defences
advanced by counsel for the accused. The
early part of the book is a recapitulation of
the oft-told story of Germany’s scheme for
the subjugation of Europe along the Ilam-
burg-Bagdad route. Characteristically, Chera-
dame dates this plot as far back as 1805—
on the strength of an anonymous brochure
which appeared in that year, entitled “La
Grande Allemagne et l’Europe ccntrale
en 1050.” The path to Bagdad is
effectually closed now, and the type of
reader who has no taste for raking amongst
dead bones will turn a little impatiently
from this aspect of the anti-German case.
It is when the author reaches the present
and begins to set forth the frightful handi-
caps under which his great country is
struggling (nine-tenths of them due to the
temporarily shorn Samson on the other side
of the Bhine) that one begins to understand,
and sympathise with, the almost hysterical
hatred which breathes from every line he
writes. The burden of his warning, a note
which he strikes over and over again, is
that Germany is winning the peace and pre-
paring for the destruction of France in the
fields of commerce and finance.
Hugo Stinnes est le Napoleon economique. Ce
quo Ludendorft' n’a pu obtenir avec dcs movens
militaires—la domination pangermaniste du monde—
Stinnes y arrivera par des moyens economique.
The quotation is from Le Matin, and the
author’s comment on it is: “Rien n’est plus
exact; Hugo Stinnes, c’est le pangermanisme
fait homme.”
llow is Stinnes able to achieve his sin-
ister triumphs? Why is it that, already.
German-made goods are beating all other
imports in the United Kingdom, while they
are even gaining an entry into the most anti-
Gc. .nan of the Dominions? Cheradame has
a ready answer—the power of the Jew.
Judaism to him is what Catholicism is to a
Belfast tradesman reared in the L.O.L. faith.
He dreams of men with curved noses and
pendulous lips, and awakes applauding a
pogrom. Just as no true Orangeman can ber
lieve that a Romanist is capable of being
unreservedly “loyal,” so Cheradame is un-
able to imagine a rich Jew who, in his heart,
is opposed to pan-Germanism. As in the
case of the Orangeman, some of his argu-.
ments are of the feeblest—the very dregs of
the sour wine of racial and religious bigotry.
Lloyd George, he says, reigns but does not
govern : certain German Jew families exer-
cise a predominating influence over him :
L’etroite solidarity qui lie M. Lloyd George'
:! la haute finance juive s’etablit aisement par 1’
etude des personnalites fle quelques-uns dcs eom-
pagnons influents qui constituent son entourage
liabituCe.
And he names, presumably as horrible ex-
amples, Sir Philip Sassoon, Lord Reading,
Lord Montague, Sir Herbert Samuel and Sir
Arthur (sie% Mond! The Sassoons are half-
Asiatic, half-French; and all the eligible
members of the family served against Ger-
many in one capacity or another. If ever
Jews were English then Lord Reading (the
son of a London merchant), Lord Montague
(brother of the second Baron Swaythling)
and Sir Herbert Samuel, whose family has
inhabited England for generations, are Eng-
lish. Sir Alfred Mond, who was born and
educated in England, where his father came
from Switzerland three-quarters of a century
ago, may be a Germanophile, but he has
never given the slightest sign of it. The
effect of these unsupported, if not baseless,
charges, hurled against people whose careers
are well known throughout the Empire, is
to create a feeling of doubt where allega-
tions are made in respect of undocumented
matters. For example, that the Russian Bol-
shevik Army at the end of last year con-
sisted of two and a half million first-line
troops, with five millions serving in compul-
sory training battalions, arm'ed and muni-
tioned by England and Germany, and offi-
cered in the higher departments by promi-
nent German soldiers travelling under Rus-
sian names—Von der Goltz-Ssttschinkoff;
Von Altmann-Litvinoff, Von Kleist-Danis-
choff and so on. Trotsky is said to have
remarked to Professor Philippe Jenneret, and
there is no suggestion that he was either
mad or drunk at the time:—
Rien ne nous sera plus facile que de lever 5 mil-
lions d’hommes pour envahir et l’Europe
occidentale. Notre alliance avec les Allemands leur
fournira les inoyens d’une revanche immediate.
Junkers et pangermaniste's eux-memes combattroi.t
avec enthousiasme dans nos ratigs contre l’Angleterre
et la France.
So, there yon are! These are the things
which the late Allies of France do not know
—about which they are mystified. But with-
out such doubtful evidence it is easy to see
th<fr appalling problem which faces the French
as nationals. Take the population figures
alone. France lost in the war (exclusive
of colonial troops) 1.365.000 men out of a
population of 38 millions—nearly four men
per cent, of the total population. Germany
lost 1,822,000 out of a population of 68 mil-
lions—or three men per cent, of the popula-
tion. In France, the birth-rate is declining:
in Germany it is increasing. The French
(Continued on page 25.)


CatjjQ^jtocdeffisfije
Incomparable Value in Sports Wear
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
First in quality, first in service, first in value. The items
that comprise this list will prove striking—yet they are
only typical of the values offering throughout the depart-
ments. Scan this list, and then inspect the goods, and
compare prices and quality—the result will show you the
way to substantial savings on your purchases.
Men’s Cricket or Tennis Shirts
WITH COLLAR AND POCKET ATTACHED.
In White Mercerised Twill —
Prices 5/9, 8/6, 9/6
In White Matt —
Prices 6/6, 7/6, 8/6
In White Mercerised Drill—
Price 9/6
In Cream All-Wool Flannel—
Price
25/-
MEN’S WHITE AERTEX COMTEX SHIRTS, a
combination shirt and knickers —excellent for tennis
wear.
Price
16/6
Men’s Cream Sweaters
MEN'S CREAM CASHMERE ALL-WOOL SPORTS SWEATERS,
Club-colored, V-neck, unshrinkable.
Sizes S. Men’s Men’s. O.S. Men’s.
Prices... 15/6 16/- 17/3
MEN’S CREAM CASHMERE ALL-WOOL SWEATERS, Ri
Collars, Britannia Diamond Front.
Sizes S. Men’s Men’s. O.S. Men’s.
Prices. . . 21/6 22/- 24/6
MEN’S CREAM COAT SWEATERS, Knitted All-Wool, V-neck.
Sizes...... S. Men’s Men’s. O.S. Men’s.
Prices... 18/6 18/6 19/6
Superior Quality:
31/6
32/6
36/
Men’s All-Wool Cream
Cashmere Half-Hose
Plain. Price 4/3
With Fancy clox. Price 6/6
Ribbed. Price 6/6
Ribbed, with Fancy clox. Price 7/6
M
ph
• B
X.
rr.
op
The “Hordernia” Sports Suit
MEN’S ALL-WOOL SPORTS SUIT. Coats
have patch pockets. Trousers are designed
with side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms. In
neat dark Grey effects.
Price
... 65/-
tee
I
7*
N
%
Men’s Sporting and
Outing Trousers
Made with loops for straps. These trousers are smartly
and faultlessly cut, and possess loops for belt, side
straps, side and hip pockets, cuff bottoms.
In Write Drill.
Prices 14/6, 15/6
In Cream Cotton Gabardine.
Price 18/6
In Cream Wool Gabardine
Price 39/6
Cream Serge.
Price 37/6
Drab Crash.
Price 16/6
Drab Tussore
Price 16/6
Men’s Belts
The Springbok Sporting Belt, with spiral spring and
elastic at side. Gives with every movement of the body.
In Grey and Tan Suede Leather.
Price 5/11 each
MEN’S PATENT BUCKLE BELTS, in Grey or Tan
Suede and Leather, lin. wide.
Prices . . . 2/9, 3/6, 3/11, 4/6 each
Men’s Tennis Coats
MEN’S TENNIS COATS, with cord edges, and patch pockets,
in Navy Flannel
Price 29/6
Men’s Sporting Footwear
MEN’S WHITE CANVAS CRICKET BOOTS, stout
sewn soles.
Price 21/- pair
MEN’S BEST QUALITY WHITE CANVAS CRICKET
BOOTS, stout welted soles, cap and strap, leather
lined.
Price 28/6 pair
MEN’S FINE GRADE WHITE CANVAS TENNIS
OR BOWLING SHOES, stout red rubber soles.
Price 16/9 pair
In Better Grade, with buck cap and straps.
Price 21/- pair
Also in Tan Calf.
Price 27/6 pair
MEN’S BEST-GRADE STOUT WHITE CANVAS
TENNIS OR BOWLING SHOES buck cap and
strap, stout red rubber soles.
Price 21/- pair
Carriage Paid on Men’s Wear in N.S.W.,
and to the nearest Port on Interstate Orders.
ANTHONY HORDERN 6 Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


;
' m
\ \
mm
L
, %
• - '=.. ..•
I / x *1
All out-of-doors
invites
your KODAK.
Now that Spring is here, a hundred
interests will call you out-of-doors. But
you will lose half the fun unless you carry
an Autographic Kodak with you every-
where and make a picture of each
incident that appeals to you.
There are Autographic Kodaks ranging
in price from 47/6 (the Vest Pocket
Kodak), and Autographic Brownies from
52/6 (the No. 2 Folding Brownie). Any
Kodak dealer or branch will show you
the various models.
The No. 1A Autographic Kodak
Junior is a thoroughly reliable
camera of high efficiency. It is thin
and compact—specially designed to
fill the needs of the amateur at a
low cost. Fitted with the Autographic
feature —for good pictures x 4J
inches. Price, 92/-
The No. 3 Autographic Kodak has
that compactness that makes Kodaks
such handy “travelling companions”
—and in addition those mechanical
refinements which the discriminating-
amateur expects in an efficient instru-
ment. For the popular x 4i
inches (quarter-plate) size, with U.l{.
Lens. Price, £7/14/6 ; or with
Kodak Anastigmat f/7.7 lens,
£9/1/6.
The new, complete Kodak Catalogue is sent post free to any address (except
hew Zealand) for 6d. to cover postage .
Of all Kodak dealers , and
Kodak (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.,
corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Look at this for a Programme!
2-054067 Chi nii frena—“Lucia
di Lammermoor” (Sex-
tette)
Caruso, Galli-Curci, Egener,
Joumet, De Luca and Bada
054129 O soave fanciulla—
“Boheme”
Melba and Caruso
052224 Celeste Aida (“Aida”)
Caruso
2-053130 Dov’e l’lndiana bruna?
“Lakme.” Galli-Curci
052355 Ave, Signor (Prologo),
“Mefistofele.”
Chaliapine
2-052184 Largo al factotum,
“Barber of Seville.”
Buffo
2-07982 On Wings of Song
(Violin).
Heifetz
05652 Prelude in G minor, Op.
23, No. 5 (Piano).
Rachmaninoff
D. 1812 Overture, Op. 49
—part I. and 11.
The Royal Albert Hall
Orchestra
E. Waiata Poi (Maori
Love Song).
Riosina Buckman
Lightly, Lightly, “Mon-
sieur Beaucaire.”
Rosina Buckman and
Fraser Gauge
E. 61 Two Eyes of Grey
There is a Flower that
Bloometh
John Harrison (Tenor)
E. 73 Drake Goes West
A Chip of the Old Block
Robert Radford (Bass)
D. 402 Stop Yer Tickling, Jock
The Lass of Killie-
crankie
Sir Harry Lauder
D. 549 Rhapsody No. 2, part I.
and 11. (Liszt).
Baekhaus (Piano)
C. 423 Bedouin Love Song
Asleep in the Deep
Peter Dawson . (Baritone)
C. 245 Mazutka and Valse Bal-
let, “Coppelia”
Bohemian Girl
The Band of the
Coldstream Guards
8.815 Hawaiian Hula Medley
Pua Carnation
Hawaiian Guitar Duets
8.1027 Balloons and Kisses—
Jazz One-Step
In a Pagoda
„ Mayfair Orchestra
8.1204 That Dream-time in
June-time
The Naughty Princess
—Waltz
De Groot and The
Piccadilly Orchestra
“His Master’s Voice”
alone makes such a pro-
gramme possible, for only
with “His Master’s Voice”
Records on an “His
Master’s Voice” Instru-
ment do you get the subtle
shades of color and tone
which mean pre-eminence.
On His Master s Voice ’ you hear
precisely what each artist heard
and approved as his or her own
work. Any other combination must
necessarily be less than the best.
Write for Instrument Catalogues, Record Lists, and name of nearest dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Gramophone,”
Reg. Trade-mark.
“His Master’s Voice,”
Reg. Trade-mark.
jgZrnmm m&B
4*
SB
fsk
YS


PINKETTES
FOR BILIOUSNESS
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Or. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IF lOC HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BCI ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
X
THE RIDING BOOT
EXPERIENCED
STOCKMEN
ARE WEARING—
THE FAMOUS
WALLABY
EMPEROR
Constructed on a
comfortable - fitting
last, from genuine
Wallaby Hide, and
finished with stan-
dard-screwed soles,
elastic sides —
strong and service-
able.
23/6
PAIR.
MAIL TO DESK “5.8.”
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE,
Townsville. Toowoomba.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A,
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
3
m
BE YOUNG
AGAIN!
Change your
ageing GREY
HAIR to a
deep W AL-
NUT COLOIJ.
Simply ap-
plied. Assur-
edly harmless
and perma-
nent.
A
3
n
Get a packet to-day from vonr
chemist.
MEXICAN
O .VI ( 0
3
S 3?
aste:
i)
sd
At All
Chemists.
An Australian product of
charming fragrance; an
antiseptic of proved
worth.
Use “Eudenta”
iu the interests
of hygiene.
NJWa,
□MV
*
§
$
H
o
30P
Put Back the Oil as You Polish.
Good footwear demands a polish which pre
serves as well as shines.
SHOE POLISH
helps to replace the natural oil of the leather.
Makes shoes last longer and look bettei.
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown Price (id. per tin.
INCREASE YOUR INCOME.
Take up a course at STOTT’S TO-DAY.
The cost is small; the PROFIT is great.
Thousands of our students are earning MORE MONEY.
Among our courses of study are the following:—
TECHNICAL:
Civil Engineering,
Electrical Engineering,
Mechanical and Steam Engineering,
Mechanical Draughtmanship,
Surveying,
Shire Engineering,
Architectural Draughtsmanship,
“Wireless" Telegraphy,
Building Construction,
Motor Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL:
Accountancy,
Bookkeeping,
Commercial Law,
Journalism,
Story Writing,
Salesmanship,
Advertising,
Shorthand,
Typewriting,
Commercial Art.
AGRICULTURAL: Bee Culture, Dairy Farming, Soils and Ensilage, Orchard Management,
lnstructors Coach for all Public Examinations
Every person has the opportunity to devote some time each week to a course of profitable
study. Send to-day for our Booklet, “Careers.” _____
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
(Backed by 37 years’ practical experience),
70 Pitt Street, Sydney. 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Queen Street, Brisbane
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Egotism.
No more I roam the skies with plashy tread,
And spurn the stars to silver round my
feet,
Or hear the heaven’s high chorusing, and
greet
The sun as brother. No more do I shed
My fears to romp with the tremendous dead,
Nor hear a burning diapason’s beat
Throb through the dusk; nor kiss the
silver-fleet
And maiden moon, white vestal garmented.
My faith has faded as a dreadful dream
Pales in the glare of noonday to a shade,
Or songs of summer lands, that float
unmade,
Flee on fast wing when thunder mutters by ;
Life seems an atom swirling in a beam,
I weary of the all-eternal “I.”
MAORIUAND.
QUENTIN POPE.
Sydney.
The moon lies like a splendid golden flower
Upon the breast of Night’s magnificence:
Clear, silver tongues chime out the passing
hour,
Then a deep octave, vibrant and intense.
The mammoth liners, with their ebon spars
And masts, are silhouetted ’gainst the
faint
Blue ether, strewn with scintillating stars,
A scene of beauty words may never paint.
The gods of Joy and Laughter are supreme.
With Music and its sweet companion
Song,
Surely a night in Venice —or a dream —
The boats, slim gondolas that glide along,
And, yonder castellated turrets piled,
Some old Dogana, where high carnival
Once reigned, and charming, dark-eyed
beauties smiled.
And this smooth harbor the famed Grand
Canal.
Or moonlit palaces, those distant domes
With fretted porticos, behind which hide
The priceless archives, in thick, vellumed
tomes,
With dates "and names inscribed, of van-
ished pride.
But this is night, and morning tells the
truth.
These are emporiums which with com-
merce teem ;
Their tomes are ledgers, and still, guileless
youth
Moves to the lilting of Love’s old, sweet
, theme.
See fairy barques in Nature’s mirror limned,
Passing each other with their rainbow
signs,
And, girdling parks and gardens, gleam un-
dimmed.
Long loops of jewelled lights, in endless
lines. •
Secluded mansions and white villas nest,
Oh, fair dream city.... Empress of the
free....
In bowers of emerald, by the winds caressed.
And the blue magic of the enchanting sea.
BKIBIE ISLAND.
E. COUNGEAU.
Waiting
A pricking finger ’neath the blind to find a
rainbow on the floor,
You met the mirror’s oval face and made a
dazzle of the place, ,
Oh, light of morning, sweeping night with
golden besoms from your door!
You carried in your arms the breath of
grape bloom from some brown hillside,
And stole the honey ere the bee could
reive the flower’s modesty,
Oh, wind of morning, till the world smelled
sweeter than a bride!
You made a choir of minor notes, till God
leaned from the dome of blue
And trailed a hand across the hills. The
wattle ran in blossom rills
Between His fingers round the nests, O birds
of morning, built for you !
And thus I cried “My love will come with
dew upon his feet to find
The answer to the fount of dreams in
foaming of the wattle streams
That eddy into sunny pools and fling their
yellow spray behind.”
The morn wore on into the noon. All lan-
guorous was the heavy vine.
Among the grapes a glistening snake
flicked with its tongue the leaves
awake
Until he seemed a Borgia stocked with poison
for the wine!
And underneath the hushing boughs the pert
cicada’s song was done;
The breeze dipped in and out the reeds,
down where the grey mosquito breeds.
And Summer bared her russet breast unto
the amorous sun.
The day crept on to afternoon and fainted
in her mellow heart.
The violet shadows on the ridge slipped off
to make a lilac bridge
Across the plain—and then I saw the arrows
of the evening dart.
The birds began their morris dance along
the lemon of the cope,
And leapt the sun upon the hill to make his
funeral pyre ; and still
I crouched among the trellised vines and
caught the flying skirts of Hope.
How cold does twilight make the world!
When life is grey then love should
come
And strike a fire with his lips... So Night
among the grasses slips
And wing to wing, their dancing done, the
birds are drifting home.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
WHAT GRANDMOTHER MISSED.
GRANDFATHER : “Well, when I was a young man I gave your dear grannie everything
I could, hut she never had the good things you girls have."
CHOURUS OF GRANDCHILDREN : “Oh, hut, grandfather, there were no HILLIER’S CHOCO-
LATES then!”


This Machine Makes
Ledger Posting Over
75% Automatic
Burroughs holds its commanding position In the
sale of ledger posting and statement machines because
it? gives the business man so many automatic features
in return for*his investment.
Each of these features eliminates a certain amount
of huinan labour —saving time and therefore money.
Each eliminates one more chance for human error —
-preventing a direct loss of money due to the error, or
an indirect loss through the time spent in finding and
correcting it.
And the more bookkeeping becomes automatic, the
more easily and cheaply can you secure your daily
figure information.
Let us show you a Burroughs machine that will
handle your particular work in the easiest and most
economical way.
Sole Importers of Burroughs Machines
IRA L. & A. C. BERK
Chal&s House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers,
Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
A Burroughs saves
time and money on
your bookkeeping be-
cause it —
Automatically
prints the correct date where you
want it with each posting.
Automatically
prints ciphers and punctuation —a
remarkable saving considering the
fact that about 25 per cent of all
commercial figuring is ciphers.
Automatically
adds debits and subtracts credits.
Automatically
extends the new balance with each
porting —giving positive proof of
correct posting every day.
Automatically
selects proper columns for all en-
tries without attention on. the part
of the operator.
Automatically
designates totals, sub-totals, sub-
tractions, credit balances, over-
drafts and closed accounts —sym-
bols that appear on carbons as well
as originals.
Automatically
non-adds folios and other descrip-
tive numbers. Repeats folios and
descriptive characters, if desired.
Automatically
shuts off the motor when not in
use, thus preventing possible waste
of current
Besides these automatic
features, the Burroughs
has —
full keyboard, descriptive keys,
electric drive and many other
features that save time and atten-
tion on the part of the operator.
The combination of these and the
automatic features enables the
Burroughs Automatic Bookkeeping
Machine to pay for itself in a short
time in timesaving alone.
You will want to look into the
matter of mechanical ledger post-
ing, A post card or a telephone
call, will put us at your service,
without obligation on your part.
44
i Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for TransncUsion by Post as a p p
Von. 43. —No. 2221.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1922.
Price 6d.
FED UP.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
I’i'inted and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Svdnpv. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal., applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending _ MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon Mouse, Breams Buildings, London li.C.Jj;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,’* 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Netv York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn Co., The Colonial Book
and Neivs Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore .—John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva: Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon <£• Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, ECS.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : —Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid. : for every additional 20z., Id, United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: )oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, ,1922.
THE PROSTITUTION OF CHARITY.
Bast week someone chanced to mention that
a big N. S. Wales town intended to run a
carnival “in the interests of charity.” The
civic fathers vehemently repelled the sug-
gestion : fearful that the rumor would dis-
credit their scheme, they explained that the
proposed festival had “nothing whatever to
do with charity,” but was “solely in the in-
terests of the town.” They could hardly have
been more annoyed if the charge had been
one of proposing to organise a burglary. For
months the Sydney Daily Mail has been
indicating irregularities in connection with
the administration of the Red Cross and
Nurses’ Home funds. Immense sums sub-
scribed by a trusting public to various
objects are alleged to have been here to-
day, in a manner of speaking, and gone to-
morrow ; in fact, in some eases a good deal
of the cash would seem to have vanished
inexplicably before nightfall. Throughout
this blizzard of accusation and reprobation
the Fuller Government remained as wood-
enly silent as a card-sharper’s accomplice in
that trying moment when the aces are being
removed from his principal’s sleeve. The
Warriors’ Fund was next attacked by the
same plain-spoken sheet. And still the" Gov-
ernment saw nothing, smelt nothing—no-
thing at all. The creditors of the fund were
not quite so imperceptive, however, and on
Thursday last they decided to put through
the Bankruptcy Court a concern which appa-
rently has long been on the financial rocks.
The Government was willing enough, during
all this time, that ex-Chaplain Richmond
should relieve it of the necessity of providing
for destitute Diggers; but as to how the
work was done, and as to who dropped money
in the process, it took not the slightest in-
terest. Public opinion in N. S. Wales is
now—despite a genteel silence on the part of
the two senior Sydney morning papers—in
a heated state; and the fever has not been
allayed by some official figures which were
quoted in the Assembly a few nights ago:—
Mayor’s Distress Relief Fund (Paddington). Ex-
penses, *-291; handed to charity, £5O 16s.
bt. John s Ambulance (Coogee). Expenses. £8666:
handed to charity, £1163.
Goulburn Centenary Celebration. Expenses, £3552 ;
handed to chanty, £ll 9s.
Scouts’ Memoria l Hall (Rushcutter’s Bay). Ex-
penses, £811; handed to charity, £lO.
Its robbery !” cried an M.L.A. passionately
after.the last of these truly horrible examples
ot misdirected altruism had been quoted.
As a matter of fact, of course, the legis-
lator s comment was unjust to a number of
people, who would no more practise robbery
in a conscious manner than they would
engage in a murder. But there are many
lawful activities which in their effects may
be as disastrous as crimes—notably careless-
ness with the money of others, and a habit
or rushing to the helm of complicated finan-
cial enterprises with no knowledge of the
difficult science of steering cash, on the
battleship scale, along a straight course. A
study of almost any big public charity
reveals, or strongly suggests, a certain
amount of crude thieving; and the only
wonder is, in view of the aloof attitude of
Governments, such as Puller’s, that the
practice is not both universal and chronic.
But most of the damage is done by reason
of a vague idea on the part of many who
make a hobby of being charitable, in a spec-
tacular _ manner, that publicly-subscribed
money is anybody’s money. What could be
more preposterous, on the economic side, than
the average ball got up in the interests of
a good cause? The promoters are drawn
practically always from a little handful of
energetic ladies, who are by no means un-
mindful of the uses of advertisement for the
advancement of their families’ ambitions,
social, commercial or political. The adver-
tisement having been secured, the next aim
is to make the entertainment as enjoyable
as possible for its patrons, who are their
friends. Theoretically, this policy is beyond
criticism. An elaborate supper and free
drinks for all are insisted on by the pro-
moters of the ball in aid of the Surry Hills
orphans, not, as the base might imagine,
because considerations of pleasure come first
and the interests of the orphans a long way
afterwards, but because niggardliness is cal-
culated to dry up the springs of charity,
and so, perhaps, affect the success of the
next ball —that on behalf of the Woolloo-
mooloo waifs. Unfortunately, no chari-
table festivity can serve both Surry and
Bellevue Hills. And so we get the final
statement of accounts, which usually runs
something like this:—
Expenses (hire of hall and orchestra; decorations;
caterer’s bill; wine merchant’s bill; cigar merchant’s
bill; organisers’ salaries, etc., etc.), £lOBl 10s. 4d.
Surplus available for orphans, £9 3s. 2d.
There are many other ways of being philan-
thropic on lines that will ensure mention
in the press. Some organise immense
gambles; others, like ex-Ohapiain Kicnt
mond, with the best of intentions but
no business capacity or even experience, set
out bravely to found and manage institu-
tions; while yet another section, with plenty
of business capacity and the worst of in-
tentions, shoulder into the charitable game
as they might into a pony-racing ramp. A
number of results have accrued from this
system—all calamitous to the cause of real
charity. Some years ago those affluent folk
who jump at any excuse to avoid helping the
unfortunate, used to point to the imposts of
the federal Labor Government in justifica-
tion of their refusals to give donations to
struggling hospitals. The evasion was so
feeble that few had the hardihood to persist
in it in face of argument. To-day, the
shirkers have the best of excuses: they claim
that most of the concerns which depend for
solvency on public subscriptions are insol-
vent, despite the provision of heroic amounts
by the altruistic rich. And, even the
genuinely charitable have become disheart-
ened at the spectacle of hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds being frittered away, or
used to support a number of shady adven-
tures in comparative idleness, or exploited
to secure titles and decorations, or impu-
dently diverted from their original intention.
Whenever, in the past, criticism has been
levelled at the px-inciple which imposes at
least half the upkeep of our public hospitals
on the generosity of the citizens, or at the
clumsy paraphernalia by which the cash is
raked in, the answer has been given that it
would be morally wrong to deprive the
people of these opportunities to exercise the
holy and salutary virtue of charity. At the
best the arrangement is illogical and inequit-
able. If it is right that the people should
be offered the chance to provide any of the
maintenance-expenses of the hospitals, it is
right that they should be asked to assume
responsibility for the whole. Under such
conditions they might be expected to step
forward with contributions a deal more
readily than they are ever likely to do with
the knowledge that, at the worst, the
Treasury will keep 50 per cent, of every
public hospital’s beds in commission. Under
the existing arrangement an undue advan-
tage is given to the mean-spirited capitalist
who will give nothing to the State unless it
is taxed out of him ; an unjustifiable burden
is put on those whose consciences will not
permit them to see the needy without
adequate opportunities for medical relief;
an avenue is left open for unlimited postur-
ing and plain swindling in the name of
philanthropy, and, most of the hospitals are
going from bad to worse in the financial
sense. Many are compelled, accordingly, to
concentrate so resolutely on mendicancy that
they have almost ceased to think about effici-
ency. If the community could only get out
of its head a convention which belongs
rightly to the Age of Faith—to the period
when long bread-lines at the refectory doors
of monasteries and convents were familiar
features of the British landscape—it would
be realised that to undertake to keep sick-
ness away from the poor by public doles is
as much an anachronism, and as little likely
to succeed, as a reversion to the 12th-century
method of coping with the unemployment
problem. Few, believe, nowadays, that the
succoring of the ill and poverty-stricken is
the path to Heaven; and there are less ex-
pensive ways of getting to Government
House —a truth to which the exiguous bank
balance of such an establishment as the
Sydney Hospital testifies all too well. Hav-
ing got away from the attitude towards sick-
ness which prevailed amongst the most pious
of the medievalists, the citizen’s mind would
be in a receptive condition to accept the
thesis that, in a modern State, health ought
to be as much a public service as (say •
transport. Many rich inhabitants of N. S.
YY ales, even in Sydney, never use a city or
suburban tram. But they do not object to
being taxed for the upkeep of unremunera-
tive tramway extensions, if only because
they realise that, without trams, the work-
ing classes would be hampered in their
movements, and the employing classes pro-
portionately prejudiced. If it were sug-
gested that N.S.W.’s railway system should
be financed, in part, by a Government sub-
sidy, in part by the exertions of young-
women wielding collection-boxes and elderly
ones with a gift for organising dances, the
proposer of the change would rightly be
condemned as a lunatic. And lunacy is the
just word to apply to the waste of human
efficiency and human life —representing, on
a capitalised basis, a colossal sum every year
—which the nation sacrifices so that a few
privileged folks may play that discredited
old game-charity for fun. It is an un-
scientific method of maintaining an essen-
tial public service under the best imagin-
able auspices ; but, in view of recent develop-
ments in N. S. Wales, the Fuller Adminis-
tration can only continue to endorse the sys-
tem at the risk of being adjudged particeps
cri minis.
SOCIALISATION IN PRACTICE.
Pok 30 .years the Labor economic policy, of
which that great Tory-democrat Hughes is
the sole remaining exemplar, was to nation-
alise industries, with money borrowed from
the beastly capitalist, that the workers
might “secure the full results” of their exer-
tions. After bloating the establishment, dis-
ordering the finances and l corrupting the
politics of every State that has seriously
tried it, the policy was renounced last year
by the Brisbane Labor Congress. Not be-
cause it has saddled Australia with a dismal
collection of bankrupt concerns and intro-
duced sinister forms of political influence,
but because its old advocates, Hughes
excepted, discovered that it was in process
of subjecting the proletariat to a species of
slavery more hateful than even the pluto-
crat could devise. That was remarked re-
cently by the Sydney Worker. Industries
are in future to be socialised, not nation-
alised that is, if a party once Australian
but now more or less under the influence of
Moscow ever regains power. The left wing
of “the movement,” which predominates at
trade-union conferences, wants to do the
whole job in one act (“take and hold” is
the phrase) by “revolutionary industrial
and political” means, a Ited Army being
understood. More cautious (being scared
of the moderate voter), the politicals pro-
pose to enter the Bolshevist paradise by “the
constitutional utilisation of political and in-
dustrial machinery.” Their idea is that the
money for acquiring industries should still
be obtained from the loamsome capitalist,
who is mostly a foreigner. They take it for
granted that he would ignore (1) the
danger of his security being destroyed by
the triumph of the take-and-hold gentry,
and (2) the multitude of safe investments
available in non-communist countries, and
lend with enthusiasm at a low rate, being a
philanthropic as well as an idiotic brute.
It is also part of the scheme that the debt,
interest and loss should each be a charge
on the community, as in the case of
Hughes’s ships and Theodore’s cattle-
runs. But when a business is socialised it
is to be controlled, not as at present by a
Government responsible to Parliament, and
hence to the people, but by a board of
workers, or fluent parasites on the workers.
These boards, on which no taxpayer who is
outside the clique may hope to sit, are to be
subordinate to a general economic council com-
posed of such persons as Garden, of the
Sydney Labor Council, Walsh, of the Sea-
men’s Union, Willis, the coal-miners’ sec-
retary, and other imported agitators. But.
the general economic council will be subor-
dinate to no one, not even Parliament. So
that this may be understood, it is labelled in
advance “supreme.”
A good idea of what the new dispensation
means can be got by considering the case of
the N.S.W. Government trawlers. That
industry, in its last malodorous phase, on
which a Royal Commissioner reported severely
last week, is an almost perfect example of
Bolshevism with the lid on. Nationalised
by the Holman Government, it was run
according to the socialisation theory while
Dooley was in oflice, except that there was
no supreme economic council. For a hectic
20 months or so the workers were in full
control. They secured the full results of
their labor, and a lot more. Hours were
short, wages high and overtime lavish.
When a trawler returned to port every
employee, in addition to the contents of his
pay envelope, received five of the choicest
fish in the catch. All of them were good
unionists, and during the general election it
was remarked that every second man seemed
to be a Labor candidate or a speaker for
Labor candidates. The new Laborism had
no more enthusiastic advocate than Summer-
greene, the manager. His view of his re-
sponsibilities was such that when a Sydney
Labor alderman protested that the stench
from one of the State fish-shops was annoy-
ing the tenants of a property in which he
was interested, Summergreene denounced
him, as an offender against party discipline,
to the A.L.P. executive. Democratic to the
finger-tips, he issued instructions that all
the fish that wasn’t smoked should be sold
with the innards undisturbed, it being be-
neath the dignity of a class-conscious pro-
letariat to clean fish. In the matter of the
coal agreement which the Commissioner has
been investigating, Summergreene had the
advice and assistance of Payne, the Minis-
ter’s secretary, a temporary employee like
himself. Prominent in the negotiations was
John Bligh Suitor, a gentleman who was
rewarded for his conversion from the capi-
talist faith (he manages a big electric co.)
by being made a Labor Leg. Councillor.
Suttor is a nephew of one Bullough, a
Balmain photographer, who owns nearly all
the shares in the Whitmore Australasian
Sales Co. This is the company that,
although unknown in the trade, and having
neither an office nor tangible assets, landed
the contract for the supply of coal to the
trawlers. Without reference to the Stores
Supplies Committee or the Minister or the
Crown Solicitor, without stipulating for a
deposit or a coal test or a fall in the price
if the cost of production declined (the con-
tractor was to get the benefit of all increases),
SUMme kg ree x e and Payne arranged with
it to supply 250 tons a week for five years,
whether- the Government wanted coal or not.
The price agreed upon was 2s. 3d. per ton
less than the management had been paying
for a superior article, and “about 6s. per
ton less (the Commissioner comes in here)
than coal of a similar or better duality could
have been obtained for had ordinary busi-
ness methods been applied.” As soon as the
Whitmore crowd landed the contract, which
is expected to involve the country is a
wholly unnecessary loss of £lB,OOO, they
passed it on to the agents for the Tyldesley
coal company for a consideration of
2s. 9d. per ton. The agents’ commission
from their principal amounts to Is. 6d. per
ton. Merely for introducing the business a
consulting engineer named Newby became
entitled to Is. 3d. a ton —Is. from the agents
and 3d. from the Whitmore Co. Yet there
were three expensive lawyers in the Ministry
to protect the public from just such idiosyn-
crasies of Big Business.
In the course of the inquiry it came out
that Payne, who is no longer in the service
of his suffering country, had arranged to
sell 750 shares in a company which bore his
name to the magnanimous Bullough.
Summergreene, for Ms part, excited
curiosity, and a certain reluctant admira-
tion, by his uncommon thrift. Prom July 1,
1920, to June 30, 1922, his income from
salary and rent amounted to £1854. He
estimated his household expenses during the
same period at £5 a week, or £520 alto-
gether, in addition to which there were rates
(£32), school fees, hospital expenses and
doctors’ bills. Nevertheless, his bank
balance and that of his wife increased by
£1471. Between October, 1917, and July,
1920 (the date of his appointment), nothing
at all was banked, but in his first fruitful
twelve months as manager of the trawlers he
deposited £576 out of the £BOO he received
in salary. In explanation of these seeming
miracles the gentleman said that when the
war was raging he kept parcels of paper
money in the house lest the Government
should confiscate it. The habit persisted
after the war, and on one occasion he had
£5OO under the carpet—a man named Kelly
saw it there. No longer afraid of confisca-
tion he carried his hoard to the bank in two
moieties, and the apparently inexplicable
balance was thus explained. The Com-
missioner’s comment on this narrative is
that “it seems incredible.” His observa-
tions on the coal contract were so hostile to
Summergreene that the Public Service
Board recommended that worthy’s dismissal,
which sentence was carried out within 24
hours. The Government was moved to
ratify it by the fact that, under his manage-
ment, the trawlers achieved a deficit in
1921-22 of £33,000 (the accumulated losses
on a capital outlay of £195,000 are £149,000),
and if he hadn’t “economised” by letting the
insurance run out, it would have been con-
siderably more. In short, the owner of the
carpet-cache was as unthrifty in his public
capacity as he was thrifty in his private
affairs. The whole thing is a glowing ad-
vertisement for the policy of employing the
whole resources of the country to buy up
industries and put them under the control
of privileged cliques. Evil as are the results
of nationalising things like trawlers and
cattle-stations, wooden ships and implement
works, Parliament hasn’t altogether surren-
dered its authority, and there is a way of
dealing with unfaithful or incapable ser-
vants. But under “socialisation” there
would be no check on the ignorance or malice
or rapacity of individuals on boards of
workers or the supreme economic council.
Thev would be in a position to hide £5OOO
or £50,000 under the carpet if they felt that
way.
ASIA’S QUIVERFUL.
The American woman who recently went to
Japan to initiate the gentle geisha into the
mysteries of birth-control did not get suffi-
cient credit for her courage and common-
sense. Instead, she was generally derided
in Western countries as a rather indecent
fanatic. The Japanese Government, how-
ever, did not under-rate the danger to the
Imperialist cause of her proposed propa-
ganda, and, as is the way with Governments,
took the necessary steps to give her the
widest publicity possible by at first refusing
her admission and then allowing her in on
the understanding that she might talk about
anything she liked except what she had come
to talk about. The result was that public
attention was focussed on' the lady, and her
doctrine became the chief topic of the news-
papers and the teashops, both in Japan and
her more populous neighbor, China.
That birth-control is a reform which is
much overdue in Asia has been obvious for
quite a long time. Megasthenes (306-298
8.c.). remarked that girls in his time w r ere
married in India at the age of seven. In
India one finds the social concepts of the
antheap and the beehive. The British Gov-
ernment in 1891 succeeded in raising the
age of consent to the modest altitude of 12
years, but the frightful threats of Paitin-
ashi, reinforced by the sanctions of religious
faith, are more potent than all the thunders
of the British Raj.
In China a boy becomes an adult at the
age of 16. His marriage is frequently
arranged for him before he is born. He is
betrothed in babyhood, and at the earliest
opportunity discharges the sacred function
of providing men-children to worship at the
ancestral shrine. Any time after puberty
is a suitable age for marriage. Chinese boys
in Western schools often ask for a holiday
to attend their own weddings, afterwards re-
suming their studies. Having done his best
to over-populate this world, the Chinese
father is expected to create a housing pro-
blem in the next. If the boy dies before
marriage, and his affianced bride refuses to


accept the state of perpetual widowhood
which is expected of her, the boy’s parents
proceed to find him a bride to propagate
ghostly sons for him amidst the shades. She
must "have died unmarried and be of suit-
able age and family, and if she has been
already buried her body is exhumed and
re-buried beside that of her deceased spouse.
Nothing is so disgraceful as being childless,
and in a country where population is forever
overstepping the narrow margin of subsis-
tence some of the most prominent features
of the landscape are the huge advertisements
of a Japanese patent medicine, which pro-
mises boundless progeny to the user and
guarantees them all boys.
In China the innumerable multitude of
the present spends £6,000,000 publicly and
£24,000,000 privately every year in the wor-
ship of the even more innumerable multitude
of the past. Ancestor-worship is the basis of
religion, and filial obedience the corner-stone
of morals. The chief reason for reproducing
the living is that they may insure the com-
fort and convenience of the dead. The
father’s only insurance against the torments
and cold neglect of Hell is in leaving behind
him a sufficiency of offspring to propitiate the
gods on his behalf. If you want proof of
the devotion and persistence this strange
ideal calls forth in its devotees, ask your
vegetable John a few intimate questions with
regard to his domestic economy. Do it nicely,
because he is a gentleman, and meeting you
in a like spirit he will not take offence.
My rickshaw coolie in Penang had a wife
and four children in Canton whom he had
seen four times in the 21 years he had been
trotting between the shafts in the British
settlement, and during that time he had sup-
ported his distant household with monthly
allotments of every cent he earned above his
food and lodging.
Out of every thousand Chinese children
horn in Hongkong only 72 survive the first
two years of life. Despite this amazing mor-
tality, the annual increase of population for
the whole country is reckoned to be four
millions. In Japan, which inherits its social
psychology from China, the annual increase
is over 750,000. If' you want to find the
explanation of this riddle, of a huge infant
mortality coupled with a general increase,
ask any woman of Asia the same intimate
questions which you have asked your veget-
able John. She will probably tell you that
she has had 12 children, five living and seven
dead in babyhood. The survivors are so
sturdy that nothing would kill them—not
even the Dalis of half-cooked rice which are
thrust into their infant mouths.
I once saw four men using all their
strength to restrain a Chinese mother from
joining her drowned son in the muddy
waters of the Whangpu. Her grief was sin-
cere, if somewhat indecorous. Screaming at
the top of her voice, in her endeavors to
escape her captors, she took quick little
jumps, her crumpled feet leaving the
ground and returning thereto together.
There was no doubt about her sin-
cerity. No mother is fonder of her offspring
than the Chinese, but along with great pri-
vate and official regard for the sacredness of
individual life goes the most complete public
indifference to the welfare of the mass. Very
few people know that in December, 1920,
one of the greatest cataclysms in history
occurred in China. It was a period of seis-
mic activity all over the globe, but while the
minor shakes in other countries received
plenty of attention, the great ’quake in Kan-
su almost escaped notice. A natural disturb-
ance in China is bound to tread on a good
many toes, wherever it occurs, but luckily
Kansu is the most thinly-peopled of all the
Chinese provinces. Nevertheless, when, as
the Chinese phrased it, the “mountains be-
gan to walk’’ in this comparatively unpopu-
lated region, they trod on the toes of over
100,000 people, and wholly or partially
destroyed 10 cities and numerous villages.
The official figures were 200,000 killed, but
the Government is always optimistic about
these national blood-lettings. Kansu is con-
nected with the metropolis by telegraph, and
one of the incidents of the disaster was the
Chinese telegraphist’s heroic action in send-
ing an account of what was happening while
his office was moving along on the crest of
an avalanche of earth at the rate of several
miles an hour. Ignorance does not explain
the public apathy. The general indifference
to these occurrences is due to the fact that
they are more or less consciously recognised
to be not calamities, but blessings. They are
the only present solution of China’s most
urgent problem, how to relieve the frightful
pressure of the population upon the means
of subsistence. Emigration provides very
little relief. Ten millions emigrated from
Kuangtung and Fukien provinces between
1870 and 1910, and there are three millions
in Siam, and a few more millions in other
parts of the Pacific. From the point of
view of the countries concerned, this Celes-
tial influx has the appearance of an inva-
sion, and measures are taken everywhere to
stem it, but in China itself, where a hundred
million Chinese mothers, inspired by a stern
sense of duty, are grimly engaged in making
up the wastage, the effect is scarcely noticed.
Chinese history has been very little dis-
turbed by foreign wars, but it has been
periodically punctuated by enormous inter-
nal cataclysms. One of these, at the begin-
ning of the nineteenth century, reduced the
population by 45 millions! but by 1849 the
Chinese mother had nobly made up the lee-
way. Bjy 1862 it had been again reduced by
the Tailing rebellion by over 100 millions.
Nothing daunted, the Chinese mother set
once more to work, and by 1913 had brought
it to what most authorities consider is the
highest point in its history. From whence
the next corrective is to come remains un-
certain. The present civil war, owing to the
introduction of long-range guns and Western
humanitarian concepts, provides only a
minor palliative. The Yangtse and the
Yellow rivers may be relied upon to over-
step their banks at some not distant date,
and comb a couple of provinces. There are
always the-perennial factors of Manchurian
plague, and. famine, but the effectiveness of
these is being largely reduced by Western
science, railways and methods of relief. All
over the country Christian medical missions
are teaching the native how to preserve the
lives of the decrepit and the mentally defici-
ent, but they are doing nothing to show the
native the folly and wickedness of bringing
more children into the world than he can
afford to feed, “Better add a measure than
a mouth,” is a Chinese maxim more honored
in the breach than the observance.
Saturn, who swallowed his children as
fast as they were born, was the first male
person to practice birth-control. In Hiera-
polis, young men, carried aw r ay by the effects
of drink and devotion, used to sacrifice their
manhood to the goddess Astarte, but they
probably regretted it when they woke up
next morning. An African tribe nearly ex-
terminated itself in the process of observ-
ing a religious ritual which compelled the
tribesmen to sacrifice all their children to
the tribal deity. These, however, are only
aberrations of a fundamental assumption of
primitive religion, which is that the exercise
of humanity’s reproductive functions stimu-
lates the recuperative powers of Nature and
guarantees the crops; and while such
notions retain their validity phallic emblems
are likely to be more prevalent in Asia than
the implements advocated by Aiarie Stopes.
In Java, where 40 millions fight for foothold
and the right to live on an island not much
bigger than Tasmania, I have stumbled upon
lingams in the ricefields, but I never came
across “Wise Parenthood” translated into
Kawi in the bookshops. Java is a striking
example of how the Malthusian principle
operates. Under native rule the population
was always hungry and never rose above
10 millions, but when the Dutch, in their
own interests, established security and
stimulated production, the Javanese mother
replied by increasing her family to the limits
of the increasing food-supply, and the popu-
lation in a hundred years has quadrupled,
but remains as hungry as ever. The Asiatic
mother will continue to create a problem for
the Asiatic statesman, and he will continue
to try to solve it, along the line of least
resistance, by devising schemes of Imperial-
ist expansion, until this human propensity is
modified. Because it attacked the cause of
the trouble instead of playing with the
effects, the crusade of the American apostle
of birth-control was not half so fantastic as
the Washington Conference.
FENG-SHUT.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Boxing the Compass.
From 1901 to 1917 W. M. Hughes was
M.11.R. for West Sydney, than which there
is no more radical electorate in the Com-
monwealth. In 1917, West Sydriey having
grown unhealthy, he moved on to Bendigo,
a typical “moderate” constituency, oscillat-
ing between a mild Laborism and Liberalism
of the Deakin brand. Bendigo having also
become difficult, the Priminister is minded
to set out on liis travels again, and with
brutal disregard for the feelings of Arch-
dale Parkhill, who has established a prior
claim to the Nationalist nomination, his
friends are trying to make the world safe
for autocracy in North Sydney. If the
plot succeeds Hughes will have boxed the
political compass in five years, or, at most,
six, for North Sydney is as out-and-out con-
servative as West Sydney is out-and-out
radical, although only a strip of water lies
between. Billy is evidently the lineal de-
scendant of that hero of the Restoration who
was “stiff in opinions, always in the wrong,
everything by starts and nothing long.” It
is alleged that the necessities of “National-
ism” demand that the Priminister shall have
a safe seat. But if “Nationalism” is really
a principle and not merely a fraudulent
intrigue, its author shouldn’t hesitate to put
his own fortune to the touch. Alfred
Deakin didn’t go looking for soft things
when Ballarat became unsafe for Liberalism
in 1910. Neither did Edmund Barton
when Federalism was at stake in N. S.
Wales; on the contrary, he challenged the
arch-enemy of Federation in his own con-
stituency. and the cause lost nothing by feis
defeat. But the traditions of leadership in
which Deakin and Barton were nourished
have vanished from the public life of Aus-
tralia. It is the fashion nowadays to desert
a policy immediately it becomes unpopular,
and to' run away from a constituency the
moment it looks risky. Yet the oracle can
be so worked, particularly if the forcible-
feeble sort of oratory is practised, that the
runner-away gets credit, in certain - quarters,
for courage.
Again the Marriage Laws.
From an officiating minister: —
Dr. Wright, Anglican Archbishop of Sydney, ex-
pressed alarm recently at the large number of cases
coming before the divorce courts of N. S. Wales, and
voiced the view that if contracting parties to mar-
riage were required, as in Victoria, to give three
days’ notice of their intention, much of the evil
deplored would be obviated. Now, in the first
place, the vast majority of those who figure in
the divorce courts are not the people whose mar-
riages can in any sense be designated “hasty.”
They are those whose arrangements have been made
long beforehand, and who have looked forward to
the usual display at cathedral or church. Nor does
it follow that the so-called “hasty” marriages are
anything of the sort. The fact that the officiating
minister has not been notified days before is no
evidence of haste. That the three days’ proviso in
Victoria is a farce every minister in that State
knows. It is no preventive of hasty marriages, and
its existence does not lessen the congestion in the
divorce courts, which is as great in the southern
State as in N. S. Wales. The absurdity of the three
days’ embargo in preventing people marrying quickly
is palpable in the fact that any J.P. is empowered
to grant the necessary permit to anyone making
application; and no applicant would be at a loss
to show plausible grounds for urgency.
Another Anglican ecclesiastic protested at
about the same time against :the State doing
anything to “secularise marriage,” which, presum-
ably, means doing anything to lessen the im-
portance of the ecclesiastic in the matter.
The protest is reactionary, and is on wrong lines.
A former Attorney-General expressed to the writer
his intention to amend the Marriage Act, and in
the right direction. The suggestion was that the
required “deqlaration” of age, domicile, etc., should
be made before a civil functionary, who, on
being satisfied, from data available, as to ban a fides ,
would issue a warrant to be presented to the offi-
ciating minister. This points the way. The pre-
sent agitations over “Ne Temere” decrees, “three
days’ notice,” “re-marriage,” and so forth, can have
but one-effect, and that is to hasten the hour when
the State, as such, will recognise but one form of
marriage, and that the civil one. This is con-
sistent, logical and democratic. Church and State
are distinct entities, and must function as such. Nor
should the churches have anything to fear from
this separation, other than a lessening of income.
Religion itself —-the one thing that ought to matter
with the clergymen—would be the gainer, as it would
then be sought by those who believed in it, and
not used as a matter of convention.
In Italy no priest or minister can officiate at
the marriage ceremony. It is performed by the
Provost in the Municipal Chambers in the district
where the parties reside, and in a room open to the
public. If, subsequently, the parties contracting
wish to repair to the church to receive its imprimatur
upon the union—which, perhaps, the majority do —
they can do so, but of this the State takes no
cognisance. Rightly, registration of marriage should
be as easy and as costless as registration of birth
or death. The claim that easy marriages are respon-
sible for the plethora of divorces is absolutely
groundless. It is not easy marriage that is
responsible, but easy morals. Many of the
so-called marriages—and amongst the most fash-
ionable —are no marriages at all. They are
social arrangements, and taKe on more the color of
concubinage than matrimony. Marriage is just as
sacred or secular as the dispositions of those enter,
ing it. No altar, or church ficlat, can make a mar-
riage of social convenience sacred, and no marriage
is secular, though performed by a civil registrar,
where the hearts of the contracting ones beat true
in loyalty and love.
Around no question does so much cant gather as
around this of marriage. Yet the position is clear-
cut. In the eyes of the State marriage is a civil
contract. Then, let the State discharge it. In
the eyes of the Churches, marriage is more than a
civil contract. It is a sacrament, a sacred obliga-
tion, and merits a religious recognition and approval.
Then let the Churches give it, where desired, and
without fee or reward, and so demonstrate that in
the matter their motives are purely disinterested.
The New Weapon.
Senator Bakiiap touched on a matter of
urgent importance a few days ago, when
he asked the Minister for Defence what was
being done in the matter of investigating
poison gases. The meaning of the answer
he got was that nothing whatever is being
done in this direction. Yet every other
civilised country, which is in the least dan-
ger of foreign attack, has its military re-
search laboratories where its best scientific
brains are hard at work feverishly learning
all there is to be known about the next toxic
gases. Even the United States, which first
proposed the abolition of gas in warfare,
and was I’esponsible for the introduction of
its prohibition by treaty, has been making
enormous strides here —on the very thin plea
that it is necessary to know something about
things like Lewisite in case some dishonorable
country disregards its treaty obligations. If
the hints and statements that are going the
rounds in scientific circles are any indica-
tion, the U.S. has done well to be fore-
armed, and the next war is going to be
truly ghastly in its effects. Since the
Armistice was signed, there have been dis-
covered new gases that are as far ahead of
mustard and “delayed-action” gas as
they were ahead of chlorine. It is
stated that one of these new compounds
is nearly a thousand times more toxic than
mustard gas, and that it can be safely com-
pressed 500 times, which means that the
ordinary soldier can carry a supply of it
and use it against the enemy in much the
same way that a rifle and bullets were used
in the last war. Moreover, the recent ad-
vances in aerial navigation will enable a
State to make war on another many thou-
sands of miles away. Thus a fleet of aero-
planes might be despatched to harry an
Australian coastal city or town from a base
that would be too far distant to be affected
by any naval unit. Politicians the world
over are agreed that the scene of the
next big conflict will be the Pacific,
and are even discussing it with that
cheerful disregard of the Washington
Agreement which is born of the know-
ledge in the world’s chancelleries that
a nation adheres to its treaties for only so
long as it is convenient for it to do so.
Yet, as above mentioned, the Commonwealth
Government has made no preparations at
all against the gas peril. The British War
Office has about a hundred chemists and
physicists at work investigating poison gases
and the means of combating them, and
apparently this country proposes to pole on
these people for information and help, oblivi-
ous of the facts that wars have a habit of
coming suddenly, and that it is impossible to
cable formulae and instructions for prepar-
ing such things as gases. At the present
moment there is no university, technical
institution or private laboratory where re-
search is being conducted in connection with
military gases or chemical warfare, and the
state of mind of the majority of Australian
chemists is that of the period of 1915 to
1918, most of the compounds of which
period are now hopelessly obsolete. The
creation of a laboratory in which a small
technical staff might carry out research
work, and at the same time keep abreast
of the progress made in England, would cost
a comparatively negligible sum, or the
Bureau of Science and Industry, already in
existence, might be afforded the facilities
.necessary for this work. Even the forma-
tion of a scientific committee, to keep in
touch with the War Office experts, or the
periodical despatch of a chemical mission
to England would be of benefit. The nation
that does not know all about poison gas
when the next war comes will have lost the
war before it has been given a chance to
fight.
•
An Idiot’s Paradise.
In pursuit of the lazy line of least resistance
there is a scheme to reduce the fares on the
Sydney trams, and thus make the way to the
racecourse and the “pictures” a little easier
for the denizens of the bloated metropolis.
The line of least resistance was discovered
by the nation of the Putitoffs, who lived,
aforetime, in the land of Letterslide, and
Australia inherited from them* The argu-
ment is that the metropolitan trams, built
wholly with borrowed money, which is still
owing, showed a surplus of £106,000 for the
year to June, 1921. and rather less for the
year to June, 1922, over working expenses
and interest. But the Newcastle and Broken
Hill trams, and the railways, which make
up the rest of the system, didn’t show a pro-
fit. In fact, the whole mortgaged outfit
shows a loss, and the loss is so chronic that
it should be taken seriously. The system
being all one should be viewed as a whole,
and as a whole there is no money for reduc-
tion of charges, unless reduction is likely to
bring more business on lines where there is
room for more business, and the Sydney
trams are not enterprises of that sort. They
are so overworked and over-patronised, de-
spite the size of the fares, that they are a
chronic public danger, and if reduced fares
will make them more overcrowded than they
are, and make the already overfed metropo-
lis more Gargantuan than it is, then reduc-
tion is a thing to be avoided. If any money
is available for reducing anything it should
go towards paying off the capital—
that is to say, it should go to-
wards diminishing the debt—on the
hideously over-capitalised system. Many of
the so-called “permanent and reproductive”
railway works are less reproductive than a
leper-station, for they pay no interest on
their cost, and require a bigger subsidy to
make up the loss on working expenses than
the leper-home does. To keep them in the
books as assets at their full cost, instead of
admitting the loss and paying it off, is the
sort of finance that lands people of the
Horatio Bottomley type in gaol. One of
these days, and probably not many
days ahead, a sudden development in air
navigation will make the railway a back
number, save, perhaps, for local or omnibus
traffic. Then private railway companies will
simply tell their shareholders that their
money is lost, and end the matter. Solvent
and thickly-peopled States, where the State
railway debt is only a few pounds per in-
habitant, will pay it off and remark that it
is the luck of the game. But places like
Australia, with £SO per head of debt sunk
in mostly dead enterprises, will not be in a
position to adopt that attitude. The differ-
ence between a statesman and a politician
is mainly that the former looks forward to
the trouble that is obviously ahead, and
makes his plans accordingly: while the
latter lives in the present, and for votes. The
transport system of N. S. Wales has been
exploited by politicians for generations.
* *
Government by Proxy.
In Queensland, where the last lone Labor
Government abides, the Parliamentary re-
ports are increasingly composed of items
like the following:—
The Premier, Mr. Theodore, moved that the
Estimates, amounting to £12,779,214, should be
adopted era bloc.
After a debate lasting 13 seconds the gag was
applied. A division was challenged, and when the
House was about to divide the Premier said he would
vote as proxy for Messrs. McCormack, Gillies,
Coyne and Gilday.
The motion for the adoption of the Estimates was
carried by 36 to 34.
The Premier introduced an American Loan Bill
for £29,400,729 4s. 2d. He announced that the
money would be expended in the construction of an
underground railway from Goondiwindi to Thursday
Island to absorb the unemployed.
The bill was passed through all its stages without
debate, the closure being set in motion whenever a
member of the Opposition looked like speaking. There
were 30 Oppositionists present and 19 Ministerialists,
but the Premier had 17 proxies.
It is a great idea, this revival of proxy vot-
ing. As great in its way as those other
achievements of Queensland Laborism
—‘Yankee loans, retrospective land rentg,
the Golden Casket and Liberty Fair gambles,
the addition of 4000 employees to the Rail-
way Department (annual deficit, If mil-
lions) in war-time, and Government cattle-
runs (losses unspecified, but admittedly
immense), on which the average consump-
tion of beef per employee is three pounds a
meal. The proxy vote was an ancient device
of British Toryism, and was thought to be
as dead as Caesar’s cat. It was reserved
for the new Tories, who masquerade as
Laborites, to disinter it from its mouldy tomb
and apply it to purposes of which the old
Tories never dreamed. In the hands of men
drunk with power its possibilities are infinite.
Saving the skin of a Government which
cannot muster a majority on the floor of the
House is only a beginning. The next thing
will be to suspend the operation of the Tri-
ennial Act and prolong the life of Parlia-
ment (as was suggested bv the engaging
McGiRR, in N. S. Wales) by the same
means. In fact, there is no limit, to
the political crimes that may be committed
in the name of democracy by an unscrupu-
lous Government armed with a sufficient
number of proxies, unless the people take a
hand in the game. And the. attitude of the
people suggests that they don’t care a dump.
<j>
The Pursuit of Small Game.
This is the last session of the present
Federal Parliament, and the Prime Minister
is as firm as a rock about getting work done.
Gibraltar is blanc-mange by comparison. In
the matter of bustling along the line of least
resistance at a great pace the programme is
strictly characteristic. It includes:—
Some small reductions of taxation.
A putting-down of Parliamentary salaries,
which trouble would have been saved if they hadn’t
been so recently put up.
Reduction of the import duties on galvanised-iron,
wire-netting and tractors, and the payment of a
bonus to local makers instead. This is the differ-
ence between Tweedledum and Tweedledee, except
that Tweedledum meant revenue, while Tweedledee
implies expenditure. Still it looks like work.
The putting of the Commonwealth shipping line,
which is quite uncontrollable, under the control of
a separate Board, which, not being a law-making
body, will have less control than the present manage-
ment.
A bonus on exported beef, to get the Queensland
sattle industry, ruined by the State Government’s
acts of confiscation, off the rocks. There is no
guarantee that the Theodore Government won’t give
the screw another turn and annex the bonus so far
as Queensland is concerned, and Queensland is the
only State that is much concerned.
A uniform railway-gauge scheme, which is not to
operate until one or more States ask for it. This is
to include the completion by the Commonwealth
of the N.S.W. North Coast line and its extension
to Brisbane. It is understood that Queensland and
N.S.W., which own more than half the votes in the
House of Representatives will feel good to the
Prime Minister over this business.
The Hughes programme does not include:
Anything about changing the 677 miles of
narrow-gauge line which the Commonwealth itself
owns to the uniform 56iin. measurement that so much
fuss is fussed about. There are only 13 Federal


T h i Farmers’* Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.of A ustralia
Limited
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL - - - £ 100,000.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmens Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
votes along this section (six in the Senate and
seven in the Representatives), which may explain
things.
Anything about finishing the Commonwealth’s
own North Coast railway, for which it received
lavish payment in the shape of a land-grant many
years ago.
A casual remark or two about abolishing the
baby bonus, which was established to increase the
birth-rate, and is obviously £700,000 per year
wasted, as the birth-rate has diminished ever since.
Some word as to the Federal Coal Control, which
is a meddlesome old ghost left over from the
iar-back days when there was war and War
Precautions had a meaning. Regarded as a safe-
guard against an Austrian landing at Coff’s Harbor,
the Coal Control is out of date.
Assurance that the Government will ask for an
amendment of the Constitution, giving the Common-
wealth power to subdivide the big States for closer
settlement. Thereby it would define its own posi-
tion on the most. urgent question of the day, and
even the most slinlding Government that ever crept
under a table with its caudal apparatus between its
legs should have some position, if only a theoretical
one. By doing this it would give the people a
chance to express their opinion, which such State
Ministries as exist in Queensland and N.S.W. have
no intention of doing.
Many other important omissions could be
enumerated, but these few are sufficient to
introduce the subject. But the Hughes
combine is an irritable hunter of minor
game, a cantankerous and pernickety pur-
suer of small things, because they seem safer
than large ones, and too much concerned
about its own safety to win battles.
- •
Two Sorts of Italians.
“Hengist” : “W.P.D.’s” championship of
North Italians (B. 24/8/’22) as ideal
settlers for North Queensland —“superior in
intelligence and physique to the majority of
English or Irish agricultural workers, and
vastly more temperate and thrifty”—would
be more relevant if he had begun by estab-
lishing that these immigrants, or even the
great bulk of them, are Lombards, Pied-
montese and the like. If there is any proof
it ought to be easy enough to present. I
have heard the same assumption made
before now, but it didn’t stand the test of
examination. There were many hundreds of
Italians, as well as Austrians and Slavs, on
the W.A. goldfields 20 years ago; for the
matter of that, there are numbers there
still. They were employed largely as
miners—some companies and managers were
supposed to have a special liking for them,
for various reasons—and much more largely
(in proportion to Britishers, that is) on
the wood-lines. Anti-Dago feeling, in con-
sequence, frequently ran high. One got used to
being told, by way of correction, that these
Italians were not Neapolitans or Sicilians,
but sturdy toilers from the north of Italy,
a very different stock. Some of them, doubt-
less, were. But talks with them personally,
and especially with one or two who acted
as interpreters for their countrymen in
court cases, almost always showed that the
majority were nothing of the sort. Anyhow,
the Lombards and Venetians among them
didn’t apparently do much leavening, or
levelling-up, with the mass, either, for the
aliens’ ideas of sanitation, as many a gold-
fields health inspector found out, were Very
little more advanced than those of a poultry-
yard or a hutch of ferrets. Sobriety may be con-
ceded them, as to all wine-drinking nations,
but in no greater degree than to the Greek
or the Portuguese. One would like to see
the birth-certificates of some of Queens-
land’s new settlers before trying to estimate
how much of the blood of Dante and Gali-
leo. not to mention Mazzini and Garibaldi.
is coursing through their veins. Doubtless
“Piedmont, Lombardy and Venetia were
highly civilised when the inhabitants of the
British Isles were savages.” But so. for
the matter of that, was Greece; and Egypt
ante-dated it. Would anyone—even Bar-
well —use as an argument for developing
the Northern Territory by Asiatic labor the
consideration that the Chinese were study-
ing astronomy when our own ancestors were
smearing their hides with woad, or that the
Hindus had learned the art of dining in
costly magnificence when contemporaneous
Celts and Saxons were hunting for their
tucker with waddies, and, when it eluded
them, filling up their inside chinks with
acorns ?
The Territory’s War Record.
Here it is, in brief, according to figures
compiled by Or. Finniss, of Darwin.
Out of a population of 3128, 238 en-
listed —one in 13. Of those who went to
the Front 52 were killed —more than one-
fifth. The Territory, officially, got no
credit for a proportion of enlistments to
population doubtfully excelled in any part
of Australia. The men were only accepted
provisionally at Darwin; they had to be
sworn in at Ennogera. where they went to
swell the Queensland figures. Nevertheless,
many of them were Territory-born, and some
had never been outside it till their enlist-
ment. As for their health and physique, it
is noteworthy that not a single man pro-
visionally accepted in Darwin was after-
wards rejected by a doctor, nor did any of
them break down under training. The money
collected for war funds in the Territory
amounted altogether to £21,375. Two-thirds
of this was collected for the Red Cross
Society; other funds were the Pine Creek
and District Patriotic League, the Australia
Day Fund, the Public Service Patriotic
Fund, the Battleplane Fund and the Monu-
ment Fund. The amount represented an
average of £6 15s. per head. At each Con-
scription Referendum the ayes were in a
majority in the Territory. Appraising it
on its war record, is there any State of the
Commonwealth, or any part of any State,
that can claim a more virile and patriotic
population than this persistently maligned
and sadly misgoverned region? And per-
sons like Barwell are still heard contend-
ing that it can only be developed by the
discolored alien, because white men cannot
be expected to keep fit, work hard and pre-
serve their self-respect there!
“Standard” Gauge.
Dear Bulletin, —When the matter of a uni-
form Australian size in railways comes up—
and it never comes anywhere else —there is
much talk about the necessity to adopt the
freak English gauge, with the odd half-inch
attachment, because it is “standard.” In
THE DISILLUSIONED ADMIRER.
'Mr. J. S. Garden, secretary of N.S.W. Labor Council, has left Sydney for Moscow.”
“ But—but you aren’t a bit like the picture you sent me.”
fact, the space between rails is
spoken of with bated breath as if it was a
sacrament or a valued friend who had passed
away. I presume, though I don’t know,
that it began its odd career through some
bunglesome ass making a mistake with his
measurements, otherwise the fragment at the
tail-end is difficult to account for. Engineers
recommend the “standard” gauge now in their
sleep as a matter of habit, the same as some
doctors recommend food. As a vehicle with
parallel wheels must have a gauge, the same
as a cow with parallel legs, I presume ,the
4ft. one is as good as any other unless
another one is better. Countries with land
frontiers find a “standard” gauge handy, so
that they can buy each other’s rolling-stock
ready-made in time of peace, and steal it in
time of war, but to a big island under one
Government, like Australia, or to a small
one like Tasmania, the regulation distance
between rails in England is as much a matter
of indifference as the legal distance between
icebergs in Greenland. (Said distance, lam
informed, is two whales’ lengths.) Con-
formity with Old World freaks and notions
certainly facilitates the hasty importation of
slop-built vehicles, but then w r e should make
our own. It might also help an invader who
might bring locomotives here if ours had all
fled inland, but that is a doubtful gain. Cey-
lon has s*ft. lines, and that is the standard
in India, Portugal and Spain. Ireland, like
Victoria and part of South Australia, is on a
sft. basis. (It was an Irish engineer who
beguiled N.S.W. into adopting the sJft.
idea, whereupon that State bullied Victoria
and South Australia into following suit, and
then left them. But for that early intru-
sion of Irish politics into our affairs Ireland
would be a very lonesome locomotive spec-
tacle.) Australia has almost as much rail-
way of the sft. 3in. gauge as of the 4ft. Bin.-
decimal-5 sort, and as far as N.S.W. and
ATctoria are concerned the broad gauge was
nearly £2OOO per mile the cheaper, as well
as giving greater comfort and the possi-
bility of greater speed. It is customary to
explain away the high cost of N.S.W.’s rail-
way-building by allusions to the lumpy char-
acter of the scenery, but the explanation is
not quite sufficient. Thus the average cost
of Victoria’s sft. 3in. lines is £13,832 per
mile, and the construction and equipment of
the dead-level scrap from Blacktown to
Richmond (N.S.W.) —dating back to the
cheap-labor days of 1864, and in trouble
ever since—runs as high as that. And if
the Federal Government gets a chance to
carry out its fell purpose of widening the
three bits of track between Perth and
Brisbane (Perth-Kalgoorlie, Port Augusta-
Terowie, and Kyogle-Brisbane) and narrow-
ing the stretch from Terowie to Albury,
all at a cost of £21,000,000 on top of the oid
cost, as proposed, this country will possess
a long streak of “standard” gauge railway,
the debt on which should surprise the
habitable globe.—Yours, etc., Henry Horse-
collar.
• a
“Aristide” in rebuttal :-
I read “L.S.C.G.’s” justification of Repat. (B.
24/8/’22), but failed to find anything convincing in
it save an understandable desire on his part to
retain his job as a repatriatmnist. I don’t doubt
that work has been found for 98.83 per cent, of
those applying for it, and I will admit that the
statement reads well. However, when one knows
that only a third of this number have found steady
employment, it extracts a lot of the milk from the
cocoanut, so to speak. The remaining two-thirds
have been sent to stop-gap jobs, such as loan rail-
ways, etc., which cut out in a few months, leaving
the men employed precisely where they were before
—that is to say, unemployed. It is well known that
the vocational training scheme, on which the Dept,
prides itself, has proved a ghastly failure. Over 7 0
per cent, of the trainees have reverted to the casual
labor market.
“L.5.C.G.,” as is usual with officials, talks airily
of 44 millions, as if this colossal sum were a mere
bagatelle ; but in these days of stern economic pres-
sure a young country like Australia cannot afford to
scatter so much money without very tangible returns.
Subtracting the 29 millions allocated for war pen-
sions, the taxpayer has a right to expect some sort
of show in increased production for the remaining
15 millions —and there has been little or none. As
regards the cutting down of the staff from 6000 to
1123, “L.S.C.G.” would have us believe that the
1123 now retained are efficient workers. If the
Department were a business concern one might
credit it, but this is a Government department, and
that is to say an institution where the dud with a
pull is kept on at the expense of the efficient
worker who lacks a pull. To sum up: The essence
of all repatriation schemes is to turn the soldier
into a productive citizen, and this our Repat. has
failed notably to do.
•
Dear B., —The proposition to be overthrown
is the one commonly made by your “Henry
Horsecollar,” likewise by his relative,
“Clifford Snook” —namely, that immigra-
tion is vanity, and there is no more land for
British settlers to go on without the risk of
ruin. Is this legend not based largely on
a sometimes half-unconscious notion that the
land is all right, but that Britain isn’t
capable of sending the right people to work
it? The other day, while in a solicitor’s
waiting-room, I passed the time of day with
the occupant of the next chair. He struck
me as a doltish customer; anyhow the con-
versation languished. After a few minutes
I succeeded him. “Notice that chap going
out?” asked the lawyer. “Yes,” I said. “A
pommy—and I should say an oaf.” It was
the wrong gambit, but it drew the story.
The man had come from England four years
ago. First he worked on a dairy-farm, and
saved his money. After a few months he
came to a Sydney suburb to work at a job
and to buy a cow —incidentally, he saved
money. Next week he is sailing to England
to marry the girl who has waited for him.
He has a cottage free of debt and has sold a
half interest in the dairy he built up for
close on £5OO. I am inclined to think —
despite all “11. Horsecollar’s” pessimism
—'that Percy Hunter can bring to Aus-
tralia just as many men like this as he can
find ship-room for. They are there all right,
and if the other sort are lured to these shores
the fault is probably not with Britain, but
with Hunter. And, anyhow, Australia is
all right for any man who likes work better
than racing.—Yours, X.Y.Z.
“Macquarie Street” on the dangers of
amateur astronomy:—
There are indications that Australians will
be eclipse mad for the next three weeks. Already
solemn warnings in the press as to the danger of
blindness from viewing the solar phenomena with
unprotected, or imperfectly protected, eyes, are
beginning to appear. They are always the pre-
liminary symptoms of astronomical enthusiasm.
A great deal of nonsense is written at such times,
and a great amount of misapprehension exists also
as to the precise nature of the lesion in eclipse
blindness, its situation and extent. Many believe
that a great part of the retina can be rendered
insensitive to light by this affection, and are only
too eager to exploit their theories, which adds to the
general confusion. I was referred to the B.M.J. as
an authority on the subject, but on looking up the
matter, instead of finding an imposing array of
clearly recognisable cases of eclipse blindness, I
found but two, both of them in women ; so that the
eclipse in England last year cannot be said to have
had very disastrous effects on the nation’s eyes.
There are other diseases which present similar symp-
toms, such as pyorrhffia and ethmoiditis, wherefore
unless there were overwhelming evidence one would
be chary in certifying that the blindness was due to
the eclipse. Still, if silly people will go fooling
around during an eclipse with a piece of improperly
prepared glass, and will persist in gazing at the
sun for half-an-hour, instead of half-a-minute, there
is no telling what harm might accrue to the deb-
ate and highly-specialised cells in the region of
acute vision, technically known as the macula.
Few people have the slightest idea of the func-
tions or extent of the macular region, and will be
surprised to learn that we depend for acute vision
upon an area 7.5 mm. broad, by 3.7 mm. high
(note the millimetres). One would think that its
almost microscopic size would protect this region
from injury or disease, but the contrary is the fact
-—it is the most vulnerable region of the eyeground.
That is why workers at Sheffield, who are exposed
to intense artificial light, have to wear protective
goggles.
Pathologists agree that eclipse blindness is caused
by the chemically active ultra-violet rays of the
sun and not by its heat. Heat would be intercepted
by the aqueous humor, lens, etc., but the ultra-
violet rays are capable of damaging the cells of
the macula. The cardinal symptom of eclipse blind-
ness, and electric light blindness, is a loss of central
vision, the peripheral portions of the eyeground
remaining entirely unaffected.
The eye-doctor would state in his notes that his
patient was suffering from a central scotoma, and
the patient’s vision would vary according to the
density of this scotoma. One can easily build up a
picture of the gloomy future that would await a
sufferer if this blindness did not clear up; but,
fortunately, most cases do clear up, either partially,
or wholly. At any rate, all risks may be avoided
by viewing the eclipse through an over-exposed
photographic plate; that is safer than a bit of
smoked glass, which is apt to be smudged by care-
less fingers.


A very Serviceable Hat
22/6.
This is one of the Felts that Peapes
include under their own “Warrigal”
trade-mark because of its superior
quality and perfect finish.
It is in three colors: Grey. Steel or
Slate, and has a smooth finish.
The crown is medium in size, the un-
bound brim is 2|in. wide, while the
2in. band has bow at side
Peapes guarantee this hat to give
excellent wear.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-11 George St., Sydney.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New Catalogue,
now on the printing-press.
I
■-X
325
rm
HP!
THE STANDARDISED
SEDAN.
PRICE COMPLETE,
£5OO.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Terms arranged.
The SEDAN
Whatever the weather may be.
When the wind and dust blow, or the
rain falls, you can easily adjust the
windows, converting the OVERLAND
4-door Sedan into a storm-tight closed
car.
Whatever the roads may be.
The wonderful Triplex Springs absorb
jolts and prevent the usual rough rid-
ing.
Comfort for passengers, perfection and
long life for the car.
Women are especially enthusiastic over
the beautiful interior of the OVER-
LAND SEDAN, its many conveniences,
and ease of handling.
GARRATTS LIMITED
AND REDUCED,
173-75 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
On seeing the revised redistribution ot
Federal seats, Yic. Treasurer McPherson
said that, as the Deakin of his dreams had
been rubbed out, he would not be a candidate
for any Reps. seat. He will stick to Haw-
thorn "and continue to mind the purse for
the State. Fellow Cabineteers are gratified,
not only because Mac is the one Australian
Treasurer who has achieved a reputation,
but because he is a firm buffer between them
and sturdy beggars of the roads-and-bridges
variety.
Queensland Nationalist party’s stock has
revived a bit lately. The persons who inter-
viewed Theodore with (as he alleges) intent
to bring about a disreputable political com-
bination, were associated with the Country
faction, and no Nationalist had any finger in
the pie. For which reason the Nationals
now pose as political purists, and thank the
Lord often and loudly that they are not as
other men are.
“Kasper”: Hobart pressmen, and others
w>bose peculiar ideas of pleasure take them
to the Assembly, lament the political de-
cease of J. T. li. Whitsitt. Though an
undependable Independent when the division-
bell rang, he could always be relied upon
to enliven a dreary debate. Incidentally,
he was a doughty opponent of Cold Tea. A
cheerful interjection at the expense of G. G.
Pullen, who was fathering a Local Option
Bill, is still occasionally quoted. Why
should women be denied the local option
franchise?” demanded Pullen. “They endure
all the suffering which drink causes.” "But
they don’t get the bad heads in the morning,
said Whitsitt.
P.y 18 votes to 8 Vic. Tippah Chambali car-
ried Kendel’s motion declaring that members
should be paid £2OO a year each. Cocky and
Labor members united with a sufficient num-
ber of Liberals to make up the majority,
and against them were Ministers Robinson,
F. Clarke and Merritt, millionaire Angliss,
squatters Russell Clarke and Beggs, Smith
of the city, and unofficial Leader Cohen. A
message was sent to the Assembly asking it
to concur. The Government won’t take up
the motion, but a Liberal member will, and
it looks as if it will command a majority.
For 10 years Council members were paid
£3OO a year, but they have been unsalaried
for 42 years.
Put it to the credit of Loughlin, Mutch
and Lazzarini, M’s.L.A., that they are try-
ing to rid the N. S. Wales Labor party of
its Tammany taint. Since they set forth,
with a bucket of Condy’s in one hand and
their political existence in the other, two
more A.L.P. selection-ballots have been can-
celled for “grave irregularities,” yet the Tam-
many crowd insists that the demand for an
inquiry is a foul libel on an unspotted organ,
isation, and talks of expelling the dauntless
three. Practically all the opposition is
coming from the A.W.U. Of course, the
general investigation for which the reformers
are asking couldn’t help taking in some of
those mysterious A.W.U. ballots, on which
Brookfield used to hold forth with such
wealth of shtire before the crazy Bolshevist
shot him.
“Xox”: Last week the House of Reps,
witnessed the spectacle of P.M.G. Poynton
arguing loudly with the Speaker because he
had been spoken to for interjecting. Poyn-
ton, like Joe Cook on a previous occasion,
evidently considers that he is above the forms
of the House, seeing that he is a prominent
member of the party who provided the
Speaker with his job. It is a rather un-
happy position for Johnson, and it will
probably become worse, for his somewhat
frail health makes him reluctant to assert
his authority. The same thing applies to
his understudy. Chanter, who is losing his
grip through old age.
THE INFANT TERRIBLE.
Since 1010 or thereabouts a fussy little
Westralian named Ivessell, who was Pre-
mier’s sec. in Scaddan’s time and Newton
Moore’s offsider when that fat sham-fight
warrior was Agent-General, has been trying
to get an inquiry into his grievanoe against
the latter. Kessell alleges, among other
things, that he did the work and Moore drew
the salary—two salaries, in fact, for Moore,
while A.-G., was A.I.F. Commandant in
Britain, although he never smelt powder—
and that he was repaid with the sack. A
motion for an inquiry was carried in the
Assembly last week, at the instance of Lionel
Carter, Digger member for Leederville.
Premier Mitchell tried to prevent the read-
ing of Kessell’s affidavit, and talked as if it
were monstrous that a celebrity like the
Tory member for North Islington (Moore’s
present job), should be compelled to answer
the charges of an obscure stenographer. But
the House was decidedly against him, so the
inquisitor will get to work.
Premier Hayes has discovered that Tas-
mania’s public debt of £21,000,000 is a lot
less than the island’s assets would fetch if
put up for sale to the highest bidder, and
argues that there is nothing in the financial
situation to cause an outbreak of pessimism.
This is equivalent to declaring that so long
as a business can keep the bailiffs off the
premises it is quite as prosperous as is good
for it. The truth is that the interest on the
Speck’s debt of £lOO for every man, woman
and infant on the register already eats up
more than half the revenue, and more than
twice the earnings of the railways, the
hydro-electric department and other public
services, which would comprise the catalogue
if the auction sale happened. Add to this
the fact that the increase of population is
almost imperceptible, and there isn’t much
to warrant Hayes’s eruption into ecstasies of
optimism.
“Gallery”: Hector Lamond has become
chief apologist for the Repatriation Depart-
ment, and finds it a nerve-wracking job. The
other night he pitched into the Cockies and
Laborites for daring to make party capital
out of a mere matter of administration. It was
a valiant effort to put the best face on a bad
business, but Lamond weakened the effect
of his speech by an irrelevant snort at the
Melbourne press. Lamond dislikes Mel-
bourne, but simply loathes the morning
papers. They are against the Federal
capital; worse still, they have taken up the
cases of soldiers who have been the victims
of his department’s inertia. Wherefore he
asked bitterly why tuppence is still charged
for the old pennorth of pabulum when news-
print is much below its wartime price. It
had nothing whatever to do with the repatri-
ation bungle, and Lamond doesn’t employ
rod herrings in awkward situations with the
skill of his master, Hughes. '
After wrestling for months with the pro-
blem of the vanishing apprentice a Vic.
conference has recommended the appoint-
ment of a permanent commission to control
apprenticeship, together with committees in
the various trades. To save time it handed
in a draft bill, and Peacock, Minister for
Education and Labor, has promised not to
pigeon-hole the subject, as was done twice
before when similar proposals were per-
mitted. It was a trifle disheartening to Pea-
cock to see two of his high-placed officers
<M. M. Murphy, Secretary for Labor, and
I >ouald Clark, Chief Inspector of Tech.
Schools) differ from the other 10 confer-
ences in separate minority reports, but he
seems as determined to put through some
legislation as he was 27 years ago to pass
the Factories Act.
Dr. Stan. Argyle lifted the debate on the
Charities Bill in Vic. Assembly to a high
plane. For once there were full benches
and empty precincts; in fact, the House for
a couple of hours recalled pre-Federation
days, when there were in it bigger men than
now. Argyle wants public hospitals kept
for those who are below the State income-
tax rate (£2OO a year). For the middle
classes he would have an insurance scheme,
providing for fees to be paid with the income-
tax. He objects to the third degree being
put on struggling people in public hospitals
to separate them from their last sixpence.
As an outcome of Argyle’s speech, an unoffi-
cial committee of all parties is to knock the
bill into shape. The doc. had been disap-
pointing some of his friends lately by his
flirtations with suburban L.O.L. coteries, but
his big effort in the House suggests that
there is no necessity for him to court cheap
popularity in order to hold his seat.
“Matrix”: Agricultural schools are part
of Theodore’s plan to ensnare the Queens-
land cocky’s vote. The burr in the seed-bag
is that Dad Rudd has to contribute 33£ per
cent, towards the cost of the seminary in
which Dave and Dan are to learn the frills
of hi« trade, whereas high schools for the
city youth are a charge on the whole of the
taxpayers. If Dad objects to paying his
third, a local authority is empowered to tax
it out of him. It’s a fine scheme —for the
city youth.
From the Federal Gallery:—
In the renovated scheme of Vic. Federal seats
Grampians is omitted, and Jowett will soon be in
the position of a man without a constituency. When
the plan was going through the Reps, he was drily
advised by Watt to have a cut at Bendigo, William
Alexander having persuaded himself that William
Morris intends scurrying to a dug-out in Sydney.
North Sydney seems to be the favorite funk-hole, but
it was alleged in the lobbies at the week-end that
the P.M. could have Wentworth or Parkes for the
asking. Marr, M.H.R. for Parkes, has denied the
rumor which associated him with a cushy perch on
the Amalgamated Wireless Board, but there is no
question that Wally Marks would hand over Went-
worth to show his admiration for his chief. Mean-
time, the threatened vacancy in Bendigo has brought
a swarm of reporters clustering about Vic. Premier
Lawson, who, it was announced some time ago.
would certainly stand for Bendigo if Hughes deserted
it. The oyster, however, is a voluble beast compared
with the burly State Premier. He is booked to go
to England on behalf of the State at the end of the
year, but his colleagues say that, should an elec-
tion he staged before he can get away, he will have
a try for Federal honors. The possibility of Lawson
entering the Reps, has revived hopes of restoring
(1) Victoria’s strength in Federal politics and (2)
the old Liberal party.
“Thor”: The perfect “blood” arrived in
Melbourne from Piccadilly a while ago, bleat,
monocle and all, and in due course drifted
round to the Federal offices with an introduc-
tion to the Priminister. “Ai fancy you have
a chappie heal) named Hughes,” lie drawled
to one of the five myrmidons whose
awful fate it is to be wherever Billy is. “He’s
Praim Minister or something laike that,
don’tcherknow. Ai think Ai maight be able
to help him a bit. Fancy somehow Ai met
him somewhere. Little blaightah with a
vacant kaind of expression, what?” The
flabbergasted Fifth Secretary only recovered
from the sacrilege to see the monocled one
lounge into Hughes’s room and presently
emerge arm-in-arm with the potentate. He’s
now' Trade Commissioner for Timbuctoo.
N. S. Wales Assembly note
There doesn’t seem to be much doubt that Fuller
will go to London as Agent-General eventually, if
only to escape his alleged supporters, in the Ministry
and out of it. The “Yellow” wing, led by Ley,
spends much of it time assuring deluded Orangemen
that the Government will do all sorts of imprac-
ticable things to annoy the Catholics. As National-
ism depends much more for financial support on
wealthy R.C.’s (people like Tom Hughes, the Daltons,
the Lane Mullenses, the Tooheys, etc.) than it
does on the militant Orange crowd, which is mostly
composed of indigent traders, who .are lavish in anti-
Papal threats alone, the Premier is continually
driven to repudiate in the Assembly something that
Ley, or one of the others who are manoeuvring to
oust him, has promised elsewhere. Which is not
Cabinet government as England, where it came
from, understands the term, or anything like it.
Minister for Education Bruntnell has lost the party
thousands of votes by the reimposition of High School
fees alone; and, whether right or wrong in this
issue, he has certainly made an ass of himself and
lost his party .a further solid mass of support by
attempting to Prussianise the teachers into silence
on the matter. Outside the Ministry lurk men like
Weaver, maddened that they aren’t in it, and ready
at any opportunity to put the stiletto into the back
of the man who overlooked them. And Fuller knows
that, if ho placates Weaver with a job, a number
of others will at once adopt the dissatisfied bravo
role for what is to be got out of it. The Dooley-
ites were passionately loyal to their chief by com-
parison with the Nationalists, whose point of view
is that the few, such as H. V. Jaques, who refrain
from putting the boot into Fuller, deserve to be
overlooked when anything worth while is going.
By way of purifying the rolls, the Queens-
land Electoral Department is publishing
lists of “persons who appear to he dead.”
First on one list was John Adamson, Sena-
tor. Considering the way a Queensland loco-
motive treated poor Adamson’s earthly and
corruptible tenement, “appears to be dead”
rather under-states the case.
THE DECLINING DASHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Methinks the Billy Star is low,
Fast slipping from the sky,
Where, not so very long ago,
It twinkled bright and high.
I’ve little love for Billy Hughes:
He’s not the darling of my Muse —
Too tricky, vain and rash;
Complacently I greet the news
That Hughes has done his dash.
He talked galore, when war was on,
Of what the world should do:
Yes, then his star of fortune shone—
He was the Lord-knows-Who.
Skites perish in their pride of talk,
As tulips wither on the stalk,
As torch-lights lose their flash;
Bill was a Bonaparte of chalk,
But now he’s done his dash.
What things he promised in the past
When bidding for our vote!
I wonder does he gaze aghast
At all the rot he wrote?
Has William recollections dim
Of how he crawled to poor Billjim,
And offered ready cash?
Time’s put the soldiers wise to him;
Methinks he’s done his dash.
What came of all his loud pretence
Of righting this and that?
Buch sklte, to men of commonsense.
Means “forking through yer ’at.”
On government which did no good
(But helped to raise the price of food)
He squandered countless cash.
How dictatorial his mood!
I’m glad he’s done his dash.
His party’s not a brilliant crowd:
The Labor push is weak;
By caucus rule we’re not allowed
A better lot to seek;
Yet some will surely come to light
To run the show, and run it right,
Where William made a hash.
No matter, now, who wins the fight
If Bill has done his dash.
I vote for anyone who stands
For Truth in politics:
Who has no dirt upon his hands,
Nor skill in party tricks:
Who does not feign to “play the game*’
In cloaking roguery from shame,
But lets it come to smash:
Who offers no excuses lame,
Such as “The others did the same” ;
Who glories not in empty fame,
Like Bill, who’s done his dash —•
His dam’-and-blast-it dash.
VICTORIA.
S. T.


After staskinp the OArtho out*
Of our leaf we s£f out to see
the sights
Hhe fust sipWs toe saw VJere
f . ones
d our
Sartorial .sinoiUrfty of Wal&s, we,
Submer£e<a our Identify ir\ slouch hdT
i!:i fc . And 2S belter spiVv
Ancl.Oß. \
'amt \
n^Ture. 1
V|
PelizMed -id f.Vvd hooj the "KEEP to the L£ft*‘ resubifi ori
® hfr? solved the traffic problem
your Telephone System— Wow!
"Whit ujrovjO number must 1
-for to g£T Oty yfloaii
, . _
Who Sa>ys yet* 2sre ndl' 2s rsastTorw •
Imparto' Soendfp c J}i s(oi/ey]J
\?eer ta-
A lotoet- reistVv/e '
density M-l-
» bat the <
KICK is *ll
•fhei'e 1
Vfeiit to (ooaee for swim - Our Maom|an|/ '
v&mr\t> created a -found
ourselves tVie, onW pebble/ on the be*-»' obli<?ini?
frrfotWcP tAe> AOSTftAU/s>rss dp not© C 5
to b<>itine fr\ the winter they
•merely “Thevwseite-s*
fA&vuoloile, \\mAb
,T*'ken a f lajf ( Ji
liM'6 busy
po j\hA o[\r cow®
home/ r 4 J
I the bid
o f 'tloirvC., tied To
our om
•front door Knoir.
A MAORILANDER’S FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF SYDNEY.


z
<
2 id
o
kM
— i
mm
tgSu.
Ms ,
/ o /
/ a. !
The COSMOS Electric Fires are Sound
in Construction and Economically
Efficient in Operation—TßY ONE!
icKers
CO- LTD
ELECTRICAL
21 Elizabeth St.,Melbourne; 213 Clarence St., Sydney
And at Macquarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
a?
'
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatin*
Dynamite
Safety 'use
Detonators
Cartridges
A RECORD OF CONTINUED PROGRESS.
TRUST FUNDS, 1905
£5,758.000
TRUST FUNDS, 1915
£11,890,000.
TRUST FUNDS, 1922
£20,399,000.
INCREASE FOR THE YEAR 1922, £1,960,000.
There is no better evidence of the Confidence in which
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
is held by the Public than the growth of the Trust Funds committed to its care, as
illustrated above.
The Company is Empowered under Special Act of Parliament to act as
EXECUTOR UNDER WILLS : TRUSTEE : ATTORNEY, etc.
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Manager.
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide),
pastoral finance and woolbroking people: —
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Oft', serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1910.. 59,521 10 p.c.= 29,991 29,530 214,182
1911.. 73,784 10 „,, 30,000 43,784 257,966
1912.. 60,969 10 „ ~31,661 29,308 287,274
1913.. 79,206 10 „ ~35,000 —• 44,206 331,480
1914.. 76,716 10 „ ~ 35,000 30,000 11,716 343,196
1915.. 68,282 10 „„ 40,000 28,282 371,478
1916. .102,037 10 „ ~40,000 62,037 433,515
1917. 10 „„ 43,334 62,499 496,014
1918. .112,102 12 „„ 65,334 46,768 542,782
Internal reserves disclosed, £90,000 .. 632,782
Reserves capitalised, £120,000 .. 512,782
1919. .104,149 10p.c.= 72,000 32,149 544,931
Premiums on new shares .. £27,280 572,211
1920. .143,975 12Jp.c.=101,790 (
Provident Fund, £lO.OOO J 32 ’ 185 604 - 3!)6
1921. .104,561 10 p.c.= 87,720 1 „ flll r , 19 „ 7
Provident Fund, £lO.OOO f 6 ’ 841
1922. . 123,772 10 p.c.= 87,720 ( 9fi 63 - 9g9
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ) 26,052
Elder-Smith’s latest earnings also reflect the
recovery of the wool trade: they were only
£9OOO short of the record profits disclosed
for 1920. But there were reasons for doubt-
ing whether the management was bringing to
light the full extent of its harvestings in the
boom period. The rapid growth of profits
shown in the introductory table must also
be taken into account with the additional
capital introduced. Oyer the past 15 years
the co. has expanded in this way:—
Paid Gross
Capital. Profits. Expenses.
1907 .. £230,000 £127,052 £67,878
1910 .. 300,000 144,260 84,738
1915 .. 400,000 172,386 102,438
1918 .. 690,000 318,179 196,077
1919 .. 720,000* 348,783 244,634
1920 .. 877.200* 462,451 318,476
1921 .. 877,200* 448,070 343,509
1922 . . 877,200* 453,520 329,748
‘includes £l2o,uuu of reserves capitalised.
Besides the £477,200 of new capital got in
since 1915, profit-earning is also assisted by
£285,811 more accumulated profit, giving
together more than a quarter-million of
additional funds. But these funds are not
turning in profits on the scale of those of pre-
war years. Average funds between 1910-15
gave an annual return of approximately 11
p.c. p.a.; last year average funds of 14 mil-
lion earned 8 p.c. net. Expenses now cut
much deeper into income: in 1915 they took
not quite £OO of every £lOO of gross profit,
interest and other receipts; last year £73-
odd was so absorbed. The profit remaining
after payment of 10 p.c. divs. was large in
other years, but that rate is still maintained
with a smaller margin of surplus. It is a
very handsome return to old shareholders
who participated in a transfer of reserves a
few years ago and who also get 10 p.c. on
new shares subscribed at par.
Since the shrinkage of values, fewer funds
have been required for financing customers
and merchandise stocks, and Elder-Smith’s
holding of public securities and cash has ex-
panded considerably. The movements are
shown in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
£ £ £ £
Deposits, etc. 1,636,756 2,201,305 1,875,074 1,885,526
Other lia-
bilities . . 55,998 65,587 74,536 20,664
Property pre-
mises, plant,
etc. . . 139,984 278,598 316,079 333,551
Government
stock & cash 674,468 1,456,515 849,039 1,099,862
Advances,
etc. .. 1,646,959 2,016,536 2,376,006 2,028,170
Other assets 22,821 62,630 56,432 136,449
At the latest balance all except £649,215 of
total liabilities of £1,906,190 was covered by
Government securities, deposits, cash, etc.
After payment of the final div. the co. showed
assets with a book value of £lO 7s. to repre-
sent each of the 146,200 £lO shares paid
to £6.
• * * *
The Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney) :
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. (10 p.c.) Off. serves. Reserves.
1915 ..£14.290 £5,000 £9,290 £113,351
1916 . . 13,381 5,000 £2500 5,881 119,232
1917 . . 16,316 5,000 2261 9,055 128,287
1918 .. 15,619 5,000 3047 7,572 135,859
1919 . . 20,644 7,500 13,144 149,003
Reserves capitalised, £15,000 ~ 134,003
Provident fund, £5OOO . . •• 129,003
1920 . . 20,564 8,753 615 11,196 140,199
Reserves capitalised, £lO,OOO .. 130,199
(124 P-c.)
1921 . 24,495 12,250 2530 9,715 139,914
1922 .. 24,007 12,500 3141 8,366 148,280
The profits given in the table for each year
are larger than those claimed by the man-
agement. The difference an this occasion
is £1625, which w ? as the net addition to the
“commission reserved account,” into which
portion of the first, or corpus, commission is
regularly laid aside. This charge, ranging
from 1 p.c. to 2\ p.c. of the gross value of an
estate, and usually spread over several years,
is the commission levied when a trust is put
into the co.’s care, but most managements do
not take credit for the full amount at once
and set aside portion in a contin-
gency reserve, which is drawn upon
as circumstances warrant. There is
now £53,121 to credit of this reserve.
The amount shown as written off from the
past year’s profits is large, but it mirrors the
prosperity of the co. The £3141 includes
£I<XX) set aside for an officers’ provident
fund, £lOOO for an officers’ fidelity insurance
reserve, £lOOO written off premises and £l4l
allowed for depreciation of furniture, reducing
that asset to a round thousand. Since April,
1916, when the co.’s premises were com-
pleted, property has been written down from
just under £120,000 to £113,000.
After writing off £3141, profits remaining
totalled £20,866, giving a 20 p.c. return on
the paid capital of £lOO,OOO, no less than
£25,000 of which is capitalised profit. That
very handsome return is to some extent due
to the £148,000 of visible reserves assisting
capital. To help earn divs. for £lOO,OOO the
Perpetual at June 30 had £113,000 in
premises, £63,235 in War Loan, £37,827 out
on mortgage, etc., and £38,500 on fixed de-
posit, those assets and £5OOO-odd of till money
and book debts also being the formidable pro-
tection to clients against any loss of principal
which might be incurred by carelessness or
worse. The quarter-million or so of
revenue-earning assets need earn only
4 p.c. net to give 10 p.c. on paid capital. In
addition there are the profits from a very
rapidly-growing executor and trustee busi-
ness ; the Perpetual is the largest trustee co.
in Australasia, the value of estates at June
30 exceeding 20,4 millions. In 1012 estates
tinder administration had not reached the 10
millions mark, so in 10 years the Perpetual
has more than doubled the business which had
taken 25 years to get. This shows how
rapidly the figures have expanded :
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. ponses. Income.
1911 ..£8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1916 .. 12,604,680 37,818 28,328 74.9
1921 .. 18,432,417 77,404 55,261 71.4
1922 . . 20,399,460 84,213 61,830 73.6
Appreciated values no doubt account for a
good deal of the growth; but altered condi-
tions have also assisted. Taxation compli-
cations have made trustee work more difficult,
and cos. like the Perpetual, with staffs of
experts in all branches of the business, are
gradually displacing the old-fashioned private
trustee. In numerous instances private
trustees have found the work of administering
their dead friends’ money so onerous that
they are voluntarily passing the job on to the
trustee cos.
Hume Pipe 00. (Australia), Ltd. (the
deficit of £110,827 with which the co. began
was made up of patent rights £lOO,OOO, pre-
liminary exes. £3327, and underwriters’ com-
mission £7500) :
Towards
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£110,827
Surplus assets transferred £11,978 98,849
Profit prior to incorporation 1,362 97,487
1921. . £19,986 5 p.c. = £12,094 7,892 89,595
Additional goodwill items, £1214 . . 90,809
Vendors’ adjustment, £Bl4 . . 91,623
1922.. 48,788 8 p.c. = 28,800 19,988 71,635
In its first year this co. was busily engaged
laying down new works at several centres
and developing its organisation. Conse-
quently the first accounts were no guide to
possibilities. During the past year the
Hume steel-concrete pipe was in demand,
and when the books were made up at June
30 profits equal to 134 p.c. on the paid capi-
tal of £360,000 showed up after setting aside
£7500 for taxation. So when the 8 p.c. had
been paid shareholders the co.’s position had
been strengthened by almost £20,000 by the
year’s operations, and the amount of capital
represented by intangible assets has been re-
duced to £71,635 in place of the £98,849
with which it began. Altogether £110,827
was paid in shares and cash for goodwill,
underwriting and preliminary exes., but
against that was credited £11,978, the excess
value of tangible assets over and above the
amount asked by the vendors. The position
as to patent rights is claimed to have been
strengthened during the past year by numerous
improvements and additional patents which
have cost the co. £1213. So far £lO,OOO
has been written off this account, and the
directors “are of opinion that the additional
patents, together with the large amount of
technical information gained in the course
of practical work, and through the medium
of the test laboratory, have very favorably
affected the value of its patents.” Pre-
sumably another co. will also benefit: the
world’s rights are in the hands of an Eng-
lish concern, in which the Australian co.
has a £46,825 share interest. No doubt
portion of that interest also consists of good-
will, so the amount of capital represented
by intangibles may be larger than the £71,635
shown by the introductory table. There’s
also almost a quarter of a million in works
and plant, and their actual worth, as that
of goodwill, depends on the volume of profit-
able contracts offering. With the Hume
Pipe Co. it is not so much the security of
capital that counts, but what the assets
necessary for the patented processes can
earn. Last year’s performances, taken into
consideration with the general depression and
the decline of values, suggest that the co.
is engaged in a highly-profitable business.
And if it continues to have a good run like
that experienced last year, it should not be
long before the backing for capital is
strengthened. >
Balance-sheet figures have been as fol-
lows :
1921. 1922.
Paid capital .. .. £322,515 £360,000
Liabilities .. . . 117,395 121,013
Freeholds and leaseholds 38,838 38,429
Plant, etc. . . .. 92,478 155,665
Stocks 80,187 72,306
Uncompleted work .. 39,132 39,656
Book debts .. .. 47,771 59,762
Cash, etc. •• .. 17,178 26,537
Shares in other cos. . . 46,825 46,825
During the year the co. prospected the possi-
bilities of an extension to Malaya and the
Straits Settlements, and they are consid-
ered so “immense” that an co.
is being formed to operate there. The
English concern also comes into this float,
but on what terms has not been disclosed.
The co. is to be called the Singapore Hume
Pipe Co., Ltd., and is to be registered in
Melbourne. Shareholders of the Australian
co. were offered 40,000 £1 shares; but the
issue, which closed last week, was under-
written by broker Clifford, of Hobart, who
is also a director of the Australian co. This
was done to make a certainty of the float,
and get the plant, which has already been
manufactured, into operation on contracts
in hand without delay. The local concern
gets £5OOO cash and 10,000 fully-paids, in
consideration for negotiating the license
from the English co., for securing first con-
tracts and for making its technical staff
available.
* « * *
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses :
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £4,039
1913.. £3,425 Nil £3425 614
Further preliminary exes., £247 861
Reserves.
1914.. 1,898 Nil 1898 1,037
1915.. 4,188 Nil 4188 5,226
1916.. 6,904 8 p.f. =£3076 3828 9,053
1917.. 3,965 8 „ „ 3099 866 9,919
1918.. 3,284 8 „ „ 3099 185 10,104
Premiums on new shares . . 458 10,562
1919.. 4,219 10 p.c. = 4039 180 10,742
Premiums on ne\V shares . . 2822 13,564
1920.. 9,123 10 p.c. = 4843 4280 17,844
Premiums on new shares .. 3166 21,010
1921.. 13,010 10 p.c. = 5408 7602 28,612
Premiums on new shares .. 7491 36,103
1922.. 7,130 10 p.c. = 7088 42 36,145
Though values declined during the year the
Federal Mutual’s business expanded, gross
premium income having' shown an increase
of 22 p.c. on the previous figures. r ihe co.
has been in business only 10 years, and has
made splendid progress in policy-writing.
Meantime, considerable new capital lias been
attracted at a substantial premium : £16,118
subscribed during the past 12 months brought
in £7491 of share premiums. This shows how
the Federal Mutual has grown: —
Paid Gross Paid Gross
Capital. Premiums. Capital. Premiums.
1913.. £35,776 £15,252 I 1920. . £48,431 £83,261
1917 . 38.737 49,628 | 1921. . 54,762 121,834
1919.. 40,387 67,174 | 1922. . 70,880 148,888
The co. has developed so rapidly that funds
have not kept pace with the volume of busi-
ness captured. Consequently, paid capital
and reserves, after payment of the latest div.
represented only 119 p.c. of the year s net
premium income. Funds 1 h times the. size
of net premium income are generally aimed
at, so the Federal Mutual offers opportuni-
ties for further share subscriptions. Last
year was by no means normal for insurance
cos. throughout the world,, and this one, like
most others, shows losses heavier than at
any time for some years. The Federal
Mutual’s underwriting experience for the
past eight years has been as follows: —
Net Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1915.. £25,520 £13,303 £9,636 52.1 p.c. 37.8 p.c.
1916.. 32,303 14,981 12.292 46.4 „ 38.1 „
1917.. 35,356 17,942 15,508 50.7 „ 43.9 „
1918.. 44,029 25,724 16,661 58.4 „ 37.8 „
1919.. 45,372 27,180 15,647 59.9 „ 34.5 „
1920.. 54,882 29,719 18,556 54.1 ~ 33.8 „
1921.. 81,501 44,211 26,633 54.2 „ 32.7 „
1922.. 90,202 49,031 36,677 54.3 „ 40.6 „
The underwriting surplus last year was only
5 1 p.c. of net premiums, compared with 13.1
p.c. for 1921. Had that year’s favorable
experience been maintained, the surplus
would have been double that shown in the
latest accounts. As it was, the £7130 was
just sufficient to give the usual 10 p.c. div.
Under ordinary circumstances the manage-
ment would probably not have paid a div.
which left only a trifle for reserves; but on
this occasion it was helped by £7491 of
share premiums —£361 more than the unde
writing surplus—which has all. gone into a
premium reserve, increasing that fu d
£36,077 and making the customary 40 p.c.
reserve for unexpired risks. . t
The co. has not only done very well in
attracting a large business; it has also
been soundly established and deveioped The
“organisation and extension of business
accounts, which usually figure so promi-
nently in the balance-sheets of young
have never found a place in this co. s books.
From the beginning all formation aI ?<J «
pansion costs have been charged directly
against revenue. Consequently, the whole
the paid capital and reserves are represented
by tangible assets. At June 30 the balance-
sheet total was £117,699 made up as fol-
lows: Public securities, fixed deposits and
cash, £54,162; mortgages, etc., £20,203; pro-
ncrtv £12,212; book debts, agency balances,
etc £23156; office and field equipment,
£7916. During the year premises were pur-
chased in Brisbane.
* » * *
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd., wool, hide, skin
and tallow merchants (Sydney) :—■
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves Reserves.
1918 £27 181 8 p.c. = £20,800 £8,381 £6,381
1919' 44 357 8 „ 20,800 23,557 29,938
i 920:: lw 23 :: ,: 76:900 iowoi
1921.. 81?367 Nil 70,336
1922.. 66,132 12J p.c, = 50,000 16,132 86,468
This co. made a splendid, recovery from the
troubles of the slump period. After making
provision for depreciation and taxes, the
past year’s net profits gave a return of lb*
pc on the £400,000 of paid capital. Inci
dentally, £105,000 of that capital represents
new funds contributed by shareholders in
the years when markets were booming, and
£85)000 is capitalised profit. So, notwith-
standing the absence of a div. for the 19-1
financial vear, shareholders who have held
scrip since the co. amalgamated two old
businesses in 1917 have done magnificently,
the latest div. and bonus give a return of
14 p.c* on capital not provided out of pro-
fits. When the loss of £31,367 was shown
for 19421. the market outlook for pastoral
produce had brightened, and as conservative
values had been placed on stocks, the direc-
tors confidently anticipated a return of pro-
fitablc operations. Those anticipations
proved well founded. But in addition to the
market recovery, Wilcox Mofflin s has also
widened its operations, particularly in YYest-
ralia, where the co. is now very active in
wool. Consequent on the expansion of in-
terests, the co. apparently finds full use for
all the new funds raised in the boom years.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows how its funds are employed; —
1918. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Paid capital.. £260,000 £350,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities .. 206,140 261,041 203,915 93,115
Fixed assets 257,009 290,031 299,935 299,83 a
Stocks . . 185,913 227,601 191,411 207,456
Book debts .. 51 624 264,845 179,618 103,402
clash .. 561 3,172 13,439 6,871
Fixed assets are shown less a reserve for
repairs and renewals (£28,699), and include
an unspecified amount of goodwill. Inci-
dentally, the concealment of the extent of
this intangible asset is also responsible for
the reserves of £80,468 shown in the intio-
ductory table being treated as “nominal.
A feature of the latest accounts is the
shrinkage of amounts owing; at June 30
overdraft, deposits and sundry creditors
stood in the books for £llO,OOO less than
12 months previously. At the latest balance
the co. had less than 4s. of outside debts
for every £1 of its own funds; four years
ago it was working on 15s. 6d. of.
money for every £1 of its own capital ano
reserves. The co. has thus been made much
more snug. The boom markets gave it a
big lift, and the 1921 losses took only a trifle
of the earlier harvestings. Including the
£35.000 capitalised, Wilcox Mofflin s in four
years has been strengthened by £lls,OOO-
odd of surplus profits.
„ * * *
From London; Until payable oil is struck
there is no money here for Westralian or
Northern Territory oil ventures. Yarns
about Lionel Robinson and friends coming
in are all moonshine. A man from Australia
recently tried and failed to sell them inter-
ests, and his efforts to induce the Great
Boulder and other cos. which have made
money out of Westralian gold-digging to
take Kimberley options were also futile. As
for the Standard, Persian and other big oil
corporations, they prefer to play the wait-
ing game. They know that if oil is found in
the nor’-west of Australia it can’t be cast
in ingots like gold and taken under escort
to the bank, or transported like wool and
wheat to the nearest port. They also know
that it would cost millions to Provide equip-
ment, lay pipe-lines, buy oil-tankers, erect
refineries, and compete against them. With-
out the aid of one of the big trusts the Aus-
tralian oil-finder would be helpless. Do
speculators realise this?


Accidents Happen.
When or where yours will occur is impossible
to say.
BUT
You Can be Prepared for Yours
By taking out
One of the Special Policies
Offered by
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
Assurance Company Ltd.
Head Office: “London House,”
97 Elizabeth St., MELBOURNE.
Branches: ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Esq.,
Governing Director.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND,
BRITAIN,
etc.
The “W EEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. _ WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
New Zealand.. 4jd,
1/6
(spjOA\ Oo ‘-/SI I
ranunuiui) -pg /
Canada .. 2/4 1/2
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
j "d. (minimum
' 11/8,20 words)
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru. West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mar be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
281 George Street, Sydney. Tel. Citv 1346
(3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St. Melbourne.
Tel. Central 2084
J. MTT.W alf n. Manager in the Pacific
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydiometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Etd., O Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.— Ai>vt.
* * * #
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam" pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
4° P er cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydnev,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
Its greater durability and cleanliness would be
sufficient to put Pioneer AVood Pipe in a class apart
as a water conduit, without the additional advan-
tages of lightness in handling and simplicity to
install. That progressive engineers appreciate these
features is demonstrated by the largely increasing
sales. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove.*
A -. L. B'Oue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney Petroleum Development. Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
. „ —Advt.
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & I-lassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt,
I am a cash purchaser, Government Stocks, Deben-
"a r Loan Bonds, Inscribed Stock, Shares,
Mmmg Trading Companies, Bawras, Wheat Scrip
and other marketable or negotiable securities. Corres-
pondence invited. Telegraphic address, “Scriptum.”
Bank References. AVilliam J. Lees, 105 Pitt Street,
bydney.— Advt.
*
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.lison & Co.. 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen Equit-
able. Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’ ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* * * *
Simon-Caisves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling ami benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants; superphosphate plants;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * » „
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
4G-b.h.p Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
•^ th " r LfPlastner and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(Last). — Advt.
w
3 O OIV
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
&
DT
Swift & Company Australasian Agrentß. 26'30 Clarenre
St., Sydney,
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
u
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
Although operations are now being carried
out at the Roma bore to ascertain if there
is a flow of oil at the 2815 ft. stratum, the
last Analysis of the viscous oil-like sample
sent down does not appear too promising.
Besides the water and ash in the. sample it
showed 20.3 p.c. of organic matter and 13.1
p.c. of bitumen. This makes it look as if
the sample may be derived from an oil-shale
seam which has been subjected to a pretty
high temperature, and not to an oil which
has migrated and been subjected to rock-
filtration. Blasting operations in the bore
are under way to open it out at 2815 ft., and
the water is to be cemented off, but appear-
ances do not look so promising now for this
particular level.
“W’gabba”: “Talpa’s” remarks (B.
3/8/’22) concerning the issue of oil-pros-
pecting licenses issued by the Common-
wealth and Westralian Governments, em-
phasises the lack of supervision as applied
to oil-prospecting bores. In Queensland/
anyone may put down a bore and
leave it in any manner. And consider
how r Queensland has encouraged the oil-pros-
pector. Last year a Brisbane syndicate
applied for prospecting licenses in the Roma
district —Injune Creek way, and many
miles from the site of the Roma bore. They
had enough cold cash behind them to guar-
antee several bores to a respectable depth,
say 4000 ft. each. But they were politely
told that enormous areas around Roma were
not available for Private Enterprise. Scent-
ing a possible oil-pool at Roma, the Min-
istry decided that no prospecting could go
on within miles of it. Therefore the tax-
payer will have to foot all the cash for
oil-prospecting there, which is admittedly
the most speculative form of mining. A
judicious administration, based on Ameri-
can oil experience, would at least have
marked off several areas within the large
State preserve where the public would have
had a chance to locate oil, and, if success-
ful, pay up in terms of royalties, and, if
unsuccessful, would have provided essential
geological data for further State prospecting.
♦ * • *
Freney boring .progress at Mt. Wynne has
been so slow as to raise the question whether
the most suitable plant has been acquired.
The co. has started a second drill-—a small
one, capable of boring to about 700 ft. : —at
Price’s Creek, where good oil indications
were obtained last year. The Okes-Durack,
once it starts boring, should be often heard
from. This co.’s boring outfit promises to
record the most efficient duty of all plants
that will this year be operating in the
nor’-west.
* * * # ,
Mararoa (W.A.) has had its hopes dashed
by a report from Dr. 11. Basedow. The co.
is interested in an area in the Northern
Territory, but Dr. Basedow has “discovered
nothing to suggest the discovery of oil.” Fur-
ther, there is nothing in the geological forma-
tion to indicate gold, copper or rare minerals.
* * # ♦
The vigorous prospecting policy encour-
aged by Westralian Mines Department is
beginning to bear fruit. Promising finds
have been made at Bulong, Meekatharra, Mt.
Gibson and Pi Ibarra. Prior to the Depart-
ment taking a hand, prospecting in West-
ralia had almost ceased.
Westralian Mines Department has agreed
to finance a developmental scheme at Ives
Reward, provided the advance is expended on
extensions of north and south drives at the
120 ft. level, and on sinking a winze from
120 ft. level to 200 ft. The 120 ft. level has
been the mine’s weak spot. The latest official
report stated that the north drive at the
120 ft. level had “intersected a vein lin. wide
assaying 120 z.; face of drive assays 18dwt.
over 4ft.” The report is not clear as to
whether the rich vein is included in the
width of 4ft. The point is important, as
12oz. over lin. is equal to sdwt. over 48in.
even if all except the lin. is valueless.
• « * •
Tributors in Kanowna Red Hill were told
by the directors that they could get out at
the end of this year, but things have gone
so badly with the men that they have fired
in notice that they intend to drop out almost
at once. If the Red Hill is not good enough
for tributors, is it worth while for the co.
to bother longer with a show that at its best
is only a small party’s claim? A 2oz. crush-
ing in March paid well, but a lOdwt. return
landed the tributors in a loss, as probably
did the July return. The August clean-up
went over the oz. and should pay, but
the reef is so small and the profits so trifling
even when the men are working for them-
selves without a trace of go-slow, that there
does not appear to be anything to bother
about at Kanowna. Nor has there been
anything for the last 15 years.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s present expenditure of
£BOO a month is more than met by earnings
from re-treatment operations. Since April
the monthly profit has averaged £7OO. and,
provided the gold premium does not decline
further, the management hopes to main-
tain this surplus. At the annual meeting
held in London, on July 25, chairman G. P.
Doolette said that, owing to high costs
the _ profitable resumption of mining and
milling operations could not yet be enter-
tained.
* * * *
Oroya Links hopes to do well out of the
Kalgurli deal. Although the property was
purchased on the basis of the value of the
plant alone, the co. expects to make a profit
of £l5OO per month from the treatment of
abandoned ore during the, remainder of the
year, and to locate large quantities of lode
stuff suitable for tributing. Apart from other
mines, more or less derelict, and plant, the
co. on June 30 had cash and share assets
valued at £136,468, of which £Bl,OOO was
Government securities.
* * * *
Lake View and Star (W.A.) for the year
ended Feb. 28, made a profit of £5541, but
£20,788 was brought in from other years. A
6i p.c. div. took £12,500 early in the year.
After paying taxes, etc., the balance ’ was
£10,423, but owing to “heavy expenditure
required for mill reorganisation during the
current year” there was no final div.
Great Fingall (W.A.) at its latest balance
had these assets: Cash, £10,000; shares in
other cos., £13,618; stores, £1705; unsold
plant, £5774; and sundry debtors, £561. The
only liabilities were £2660 of unclaimed divs.
and £197 due to sundry creditors. The
realisation of assets continues.
South Kalgurli’s revenue for year ended
March 31 was £172,066, and out of this
shareholders received £31,250 (2s. 6d. per
share). Ljc/uid assets amounted to £79,000,
and this and the extractable value of ore in
sight makes the co.’s position very comfort-
able.
Ingliston - Consols, Meekatharra (W.A.)
for July put thro,ugh 1908 tons for £3104!
But working and developmental expenses
took £B3 more than that. There is very little
for shareholders in Westralia nowadays
unless at least lOdwt. per ton can be won
from a regular monthly tonnage running
into four figures
*****
Adelaide has taken a six months’ working
option over the Golden Promise lease, 12
miles south of Bulla Bulling, near Cool-
gardie. Purchase price is £12,000.
* * * *
Muriel Tank goldfield (N.S.W.) has a
Progress Association. It is annoyed because
“such a promising field receives so little
encouragement,” and mystified at “very un-
favorable reports in the various newspapers.”
Ihe truth is that the field is suffering from
the effects of newspaper sensationalism and
the exaggerated reports of amateur “ex-
perts.” One had the temerity to assert that
it was superior to Wyalong at the same
stage. If he didn’t know he ought to have
known that “at the same stage” more than
50 leases were carting rich ore from Wya-
long over 40 miles of the worst road in the
►State. So far there has not been a consign-
ment of ore from Muriel Tank, but a truck-
load is to be despatched shortly, and rumor
has it that it will give a high result. If so,
it is to be hoped that it will be a representa-
tive and not a picked sample. Another
‘authority” had the sublime audacity to
proclaim that the field would outrival Ben-
digo. The local association may rely on it
that there will be no cause for complaint if
battery tests anything like support their
sauguineness. Recent events in the specu-
lative world have shown that Sydney has
plenty of money available for any reason-
able gold-mining “prospect.”
* * * jf
Isaac Johns, who has been prospecting for
(JN.S.W.) on the supposed continuation of
the once famous Mountain Maid lode, is re-
ported to have struck a very rich shoot of ore.
Ike is a hustler of the old school of genu-
ine prospectors.
* * * *
Minerals Separation, founded by Bellot to
exploit some of the flotation sub-processes,
did not do well last year owing to the dul-
ness of base metal mining outside the U.S.
There the co. has a pup which does well on
royalties from various flotation devices, and
a bit also came from Broken Hill through
the Australian connection. But the co.
slipped £24,000 during the year. Meantime,
though, it was wmrking on the problem of
applying flotation to the removal of detri-
mentals from coal and also to reducing
moisture in coal. If that can be done a
splendid metallurgical fuel should result
Minerals Separation is also handling gold
residues in Transvaal, and is whooping over
a new process for the reduction of refractorv
ores. Vague reference was made to this
matter last year, when it was announced
that the Board was out to pick up deposits
of hitherto unbeatable materials. Continu-
ous work is stated to have been very satis-
factory.
•** • »
Bendigo Amalgamated is supposed to have
a good chance of discovering a “major” for-
mation of a payable nature in the ’Monu-
ment Hill mine, on the Deborah line. A
rise is being put up from the bottom level
which, at a height of 100 ft., will cut through
three separate ore bodies, and indications
are that they will be pierced in pay-shoot
zones. About half-a-mile to the south the
Deborah is doing extensive prospecting work
with encouraging results.
New Blue Consolidated (Bendigo) last
week won 2970 z. from 592 tons, the lowest
average for many months, but still highly
payable. The debris from a big fall having
been removed, work can be resumed in the
regular faces, and returns will show an
improvement. The co.’s financial position
having been stabilised, official advice is that
the payment of divs. will be resumed, if not
this week, not later than next week. An
important mine-development has taken place,
lhe workings from which recent good crush-
ings have been won are located in a lode
and a massive body of side spurs at a start-
ing-point 800 ft. south of the mainshaft. A
crosscut put in at 300 ft. south of the shaft
has intersected the same run of spurs carry-
mg payable values. This may represent an
additional length of 500 ft. of workable
ground, besides which the co. has still to
drive some hundreds of feet to reach the
south boundary. This discovery will enable
the co. to increase its output, as two
sets of stopes can be worked and hauling be
carried on from two shafts simultaneously,
h urther satisfactory developments are ex-
pected from prospecting work at a lower
level. It seems as though the long-deserted
derelict is out to build up another Bendigo
record.
* * » *
The diamond drill as a locator of gold
has been very delusive at Bendigo. Over
30 years ago a bore was put down at the
Golden Gully mine, and it brought up a
core studded with gold. Shaft-sinking and
driving were rushed to reach the spot; the
vein was intersected, but as far as driven
on was destitute of gold. Recently the
B A. G. Co., in drilling at 620 ft. in the
Alliance shaft, passed through a mineral
vein, the core from which assayed over Boz.
per ton. The vein was then tapped by a
crosscut, and the best assay from it was
2dwt.
# * # »
Maldon (Vic.) looks to Mt. Tarrangower
to yield a lot of wealth. Old Oswald carried
a shaft down on the North claim, but only did
a bit of prospecting at 280 ft. Even in his
day of cheap work he did not go very far, for
the 51dwt. stuff he mined gave no return to
him. Better gold is now coming from the
old Oswald’s mine, out of which the Oswald
family has raised 15 tons of gold and spent
a good part of the profits right royally.
Reefs at Maldon have a knack of turning up
in the most unlikely spots, and one. Boisley
while sinking a cellar at the back of his
shack, provides it with another lode. Pegs
were put in, and a shaft is going down in
an adjoining street to see if the lode is good
and true. A lot of other claims have been
taken up, but so far the new find is too
narrow and not sufficiently developed to be
classed as a save for Maldon.
Mount Quamby, a Bendigo-owned show
out in the Cloncurry (Q.) wilderness, has
had a trial crushing of about 100 tons, which
has yielded half-an-ounce to the ton over
plates. Value of bullion is not stated, but
it will be a rarity for N.Q. if it approaches
standard. Official report states that the
return is “payable,” but what degree of pay-
ableness is recognised—that which just
covers expenses or that which gives a fair
margin of profit? The co. has a big deposit
which can be mined from open-cuts, and if
water and plant were at command to treat
large quantities it ought to have a prosper-
ous career. Work now being done may be
regarded as legitimate bulk sampling. A
succession of results equal to that from the
first run must mean more capital expenditure
on water conservation'and treatment plant.
* * * *
Development work in the Sardine North,
at Kangaroo Hills (Q.), makes prospects
look in and out, hut some good ore is being
got, and the lenses are coming a bit quicker.
II the price of tin concentrates continues to
improve the outlook would be fairly good,
as only 10 p.c. ore or over now goes to the
battery, and there is a large amount of lower
values available. Considering its proximity
to the Sardine and the manner in which the
ore occurs in isolated bunches, and which
take some picking up, the North Sardine can
be reckoned to have a very fair chance.
The State Battery at Kidston (Q.) has
collared most of the business of the field, as
it has a more up-to-date concentrating plant
than the others. Considering the high costs
these days, the grade of ore being mined on
the field is surprising. The bigger shows
for some time past have been working on
ore running from 7s. to 9s. per ton. About
1200 tons are being treated monthly from the
Oaks field, and with the smaller parcels
thrown in, which may average anything up
to £7 or £8 a ton, the whole output only
runs to roughly 15s. a ton. Mountain King
has the biggest tonnage these days—about
450 tons monthly. The battery got going
again after a couple of weeks’ spell, due to
?r U lhfng te charge S . the m “ erS ° vet **">
For a year Mt. Mudlo, KilkivaiT (O ■
has been getting ready for the rise in the
cooper market, but that seems a , .
ever. The last few mon?hs“work has Ln
devoted to securing a water sunnlv - D
co. has had hard luck after S; n? e
tempted to spend a lot of money orf treat 1
ment plant on the strength of the'high pr£s
of a couple of years ago. 8 p lws
. The reported gold find at Brookfield to 1
is nothing to make a stir about so far A
couple of reefs have been located,
bigger than 2ft., but for the most part men
are hanging on to claims waiting for their
neighbors to get a move on. Assays from
Sn t l a Ju Sa,( L to run from 3oz. to 4oz.°a
ton, but the acid test will be the batioPT.
returns from the crushing to be sent £
Gympie at the expense of a benevolent Go?
ernnient. The reefs are in Brisbane schists
and there is no evidence of the plumbago
beds of the Gympie field, which were cited
as prima facie evidence that the new field
was going to turn out a good ’un. a
* * * *
-^ as move< 3 its prospectors from
around Port Davey to Cox’s Bight, more to-
wards the west coast. A hunt for tin has
unearthed some traces of alluvial but
nothing to set the Derwent on fire, in the
porphyritic and granite range, a bit inland
a lot of lode tin formations are being tested
The sampled cheer the eye. but Hobart has
been bitten so often over lode tin-mining
that it is not thrilled by the finds. B
* *
*
Tin Bentong made a profit of £4432 last
year. The dredge dealt with 915 000 P „h
yd., against 800,000 in 1921, but the or >V
tons oxide won was only 0] tons more,“'the
grade of wash having dropped from a pound
to .o_ol b. And, though more metal was
won, receipts fell off, the price obtained for
the product having fallen to £B7 4s a ton
compared with £139 13s. for the previous
year, and the value of the wash having
dropped from 10.34 d. a yd. to f>.B4d. But there
were compensations: rice was cheaper, labor
less costly and stores less expensive; so costs
were got down from 6dd. to 4.48 d. a vd
, h e co. closed its books with £16,500 ‘in
hand, which it intends to put into a pro
perty alongside where it is now dredging.


A CAPITAL QUESTION.
THE SAFETY SPECIALIST: “The cat’s me— and the Lord help Melbourne if it has to come down this side."


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
Won its favor through
its flavor.”
K.B.
LAGER
Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co.. Ltd.. Kent Brewery, Sydney.
§
e
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-piione is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years’
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all lead ing Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear -phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens i'or the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free 1) ooldets fully explaining our
FREE TRIALi OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernar rl’s Buildings,
387 Geofgr* Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
J. Lang Campbell, K.C., who gets a
N.S.W. puisne Judgeship through the pass-
ing of Pring, has just completed his 36th
year at the Bar, and has been wearing silk
since 1910. Pring was the senior puisne
Judge; Campbell will be the junior. As the
Bench will now be constituted he will loom
as the Chief Justice to come unless the
Government of three years hence, when the
present C.J. reaches the allotted legal span,
selects a man at the Bar. This convention has
fallen into abeyance of late, and there .is
certainly no “silk” with so many qualifi-
cations for the highest legal honor as Camp-
bell possesses. He is a good, perhaps a
great, lawyer; he has presence, dignity and
a strong personality; and both he and his
wife have plenty of money—a consideration
in a job which includes periodical acting-
Governorships.
Lord Clifford of Chudleigh, who arrived in
Adelaide, from Westralia the other day was
sheep-farming in Maoriland from 1875 till
1890, and after that, till 1916, Avas in busi-
ness in Tasmania. Then, through the death
of his brother, he succeeded to the title and
Avent to England. He is now touring the
Commonwealth with an idea of forming
branches of the “Evolution Society of Great
. Britain,” of which he is president. The
object of the society is to “present the dif-
ferent sciences to the public in a. popular form,
rather than in a technical manner.” Clif-
ford is an authority on certain branches of
scientific research, and has three books to his
credit, “The Portal of Evolution,” “The
Theology of Creation,” and “The Evolution
of Civilisation.” He is said to have been
“instrumental in establishing what was
probably the first woollen mill in Austral-
asia—the thing was erected in New Zealand
in 1882.”
H. M. Ilyndman, leader of the British
Socialists, who was supposed to be pretty
wealthy, surprised everybody by leaving
only £237 when he died. He spent some
time in the Melbourne of the ’seventies,
wrote leading articles for the Argus, and
became a member of the Melbourne Club.
The story goes that he first suggested, that
Marcus Clarke should write a novel based
on old-time convict records, upon which
Clarke produced “His Natural Life.”
Considine, the gentle Bolshevik of the
Federal Parliament, these days combines
poultry-farming with politics, and if the re-
distribution scheme goes through he is likely
to find the chooks the more profitable, for
it is said that Brother Blakeley is to get his
job. Considine spent the first four years
of hi 6 life in Ireland, lived once in Toorak,
and has twice been gaoled for political
offences.
“Dido”: Melba will tell you that the most
impudent letter she ever received came to
hand a month or so ago, and Avas signed by
the simple secretary of a country sports
club, having its haunts not far from the
songstress’s Lilydale home. The missive was
to say that the club was in rather
low Avater, and in order to raise funds
was about to give a Saturday-night’s enter-
tainment, admission one shilling, one-and-six
and two shillings, children in arms pro-
hibited. The writer went on to say: “We
have an excellent array of talent for the
evening, but there is still room for another
turn, and taking your consent for granted,
I have ventured to put you down for a reci-
tation. —Yours, etc.”
August 29 was the 87th anniversary of
John Pascoe Fawkner’s first encampment
upon the site of Melbourne; he lived the
remainder of life in the metropolitan area,
dying in South-street, CollingAvood, on Sep-
tember 4, 1869. No memorial exists for the
man Avho founded Melbourne; even his grave
in the general cemetery is said to be in a
neglected condition.
“Morehead”: There have been nine Pre-
sidents of the N.S.W. Legislative Council —
Stephen, Plunkett, Burton, Wentworth, Mur-
ray, Hay, Lackey, Suttor and Flowers.
Flowers, Avho has held the job since 1915,
is the only one still alive. He, so far, shares
with Plunkett and Wentworth the distinc-
tion of having escaped a title. Hay (19
years) lasted longest on the job, with Suttor
(17 years) as runner-up.
Walter Raleigh, the brilliant man of
letters, lately dead in London —just before
the publication of his history of “The War
in the Air” —had a lifelong struggle with
the name that humorless parents had im-
posed on him. After he earned a knight-
hood, things were worse. There are
two versions of what the New York
Customs-officer said in reply to his innocent
statement, “I am Sir Walter Raleigh”: (1)
“Is that so? * How did you leave Queen
Elizabeth?” (2) “Pleased to meet you. I’m
Christopher Columbus.”
“ J.D.’s” memory :
The first thing Henry Lawson ever wrote for pub-
lication (a poem) appeared in The Bulletin in
Archibald’s day; the last he was to see in print (a
yarn) saw the light in these pages a few weeks back.
He had the artist’s interest in his work —an interest
which in nowise subsided with the receipt
of the money for it. Latterly, there were
only two people whom he could bear to
see touch what he had written —S. H. Prior and
David Wright. As the former has been touring
Europe for some
months, while Wright
spends most of his
time in Springwood,
poor Henry had some
shadowed hours be-
fore the end came.
His often beautiful
prose was written in
the heavy hand of a
working-man; the
MSS. was full of in-
terpolations ; he punc-
tuated according to a
system of his own,
and was a poor speller.
So alterations had to
be made before his
stories could be sent
to the comps, and
each mark caused him
anguish.
Until early middle-
age Lawson was a
remarkably handsome
man —over six feet
high, straight and
spare, with striking
features, lambent
brown eyes and a
magnificent head. His
notorious weakness
may have had some-
thing to do with his
sudden break-up,
which culminated, last
year, in a paralytic
stroke, but another
explanation may be
that the hardships of
his early days affected
a none too robust con-
stitution, and that his
morbid temperament
did the rest. He
never drank much, as
hard drinkers under-
stand the term; but
very little upset him.
He had the queer,
wild humor of a cer-
tain type of bush-
dweller—a n antic
jocosity alternating
with the tremendous
dignity of a Spanish
h i d a 1 g o—a n d a
vein of womanish sentimentality, particularly marked
in his last story and in one that he wished to
appear in the coming Christmas Bulletin. He
read the proofs of this, by the way, in the office only
a few days ago.
A strange, rough man, with many afflictions and
few graces, but lovable for his laugh, his handshake,
and for something that you knew was there, even
though’ it never appeared. Both intellectually and
spiritually there was more in Lawson than he was
ever able to give to the world.
The Commonwealth Health Department
has appointed Dr. R. W. Cilento to conduct
research work in connection with the policy
of keeping Australia white. He left Adel-
aide for Queensland the other day, and the
CommonAvealth Institute of Tropical Re-
search will be his headquarters. The doctor
is the son of R. A. Cilento, Traffic Inspector
of the S. Aus. railways.
Mrs. E. G. Brown, who lived at Tumut
(N.S.W.) all her 86 years, went out last
week. Her husband, the late Edward George
Brown, was a stock auctioneer and pastoral
agent, and represented Tumut in the Leg.
Assembly, 1866-72, and again 1891-94. In
the ’94 general election he was ousted by
Travers Jones, who sat in five successive
Parliaments.
In the wool-tops case J. L. Campbell,
K.C. (now Mr. Justice Campbell), addressed
for the defence in a continuous speech Avhich
lasted eight days! An Australian long-
distance record?
From M.L.: The Masons of these isles
have chosen Jellicoe as their next Grand
Master. He should have undergone the
order of installation at Christchurch by the
time this screed reaches Australia. The little
sailor is the first Governor since Ranfurly
who has made himself popular enough to be
offered the honor.
“8.R.C.” views an uninvited guest:—
“Pussyfoot” Johnson, who alighted in Melbourne
last week, is a goggled, stoutish character, with more
nose than should be allowable on a Cold Tea coun-
tenance. As a speaker he is the amiable and credu-
lous zealot who interlards his alleged facts with
funny stories used deftly as analogies or trotted
forth as comic relief when bis discourse is running
fiat. A houseful of people, many of them with their
collars back to front and their reasoning faculties
in the same position, heard the reformer at the
Athenaeum last Friday. “Pussyfoot” warmed local
sentiment by wearing a button and sprig of bloom
in sympathy with the Wattle Day celebration, and
his professed love of Australia, which he had mainly
seen from a raihvay car, brought him in loads of
cheers. He has the showman’s instincts well
developed, but all the fanatic’s recklessness of state-
ment as Avell. Someone must have been putting
something in his milk when he declared that he had
seen more drunken men in Kalgoorlie in one morn-
ing than in all America in five months. If “Pussy” is
the result of Prohibition, I say, quite honestly, give
me drink 1
HENRY LAWSON.
1867—1922.
May Moore photo.
“Lexite”: The death of Lawson brought
the end of an old cobber—Walter J. Hegarty,
of the Sydney Daily Mail, paragraphist,
occasional light versifier and nature student.
He was one of the lesser lights in the galaxy
of freelance stars of 20 years ago. With
Rod Quinn, Mahony and others he was in
the old days concerned in a North Sydney
print, Avhich, though rather erratic as a
newspaper, had considerable literary merit.
Hegarty had been in failing health for 10
years, and when he heard the news of Law-
son’s death he got a paralytic stroke and
died in hospital shortly after. He was 55,
but looked much older.
11. E. Kater, of the N.S.W. Sleepy House,
who will be 81 on the 20th. was bor.n at
Bungarabie. His father, Henry Herman
Kater, settled in N. S. Wales in 1839, hav-
ing chartered the ship Euphrates, by which
he brought hither a cargo of thoroughbred
horses and cattle. The cattle were after-
Avards sold to W. H. Suttor, of Brucedale.
H. E. Kater started as a bank clerk, and
? r as , once stuck up by a bushranger on the
ivluagee-road, while bringing a large number
ol used banknotes to Sydney for destruc-
tion. These days he has many big com-
mercial interests. He married a daughter
at o f 1 Forster, one-time Premier of
i’ j , ales> an< i a grand-daughter of Blax-
land, the explorer. Appointed to the Leg.
Council in 1889, he is one of its three oldest
members.
A. B. Piddington, K.C., who is 60 on the
9th, was born in Bathurst (N.S.W.), his
father being an archdeacon there at the time.
tvj'j-'’ le famil y went to Tamworth, where
Piddington, sen., came into some notoriety
through a letter to G. It. Dibbs when a can-
didate for that constituency. The “Damn
Chicago” man invited the cleric to attend
his meeting, but the arch-d. replied that he
had a fine turkey for dinner, and that would
suit him better. The K.C., who is a Sydney
Grammar School and ’Varsity boy, after a
visit to Europe, had five years as Lecturer
in English Literature at Sydney Uni., and was
examiner in German, French, History and
English. For the Bar he became associate
to Windeyer, and was called in 1890. He
represented Tamworth in the N. S. Wales
Assembly, 1895-98, and took an active part
in the Federation fight. In 1913 he was
given the job of Justice of the High Court,
but resigned for private reasons, and later
was appointed Chief Commissioner of the
Interstate Commission. He married a
daughter of the late Canon O’Reilly, of
Trinity Church, Sydney.
“The Deacon”: Gone out to pneumonia, in
his late fifties, S. J. Hamblin, the stipe mag-
istrate of Bathurst (N.S.W.). Graduating
from a railway clerkship, he learnt most of
his law at Penrith, under J. Iv. Gleeve,
P.M., whose son Marwood, now P.M. at
Grafton, was at the time imbibing his know-
ledge at the same fount. The late beak
was a fine wicketkeeper, and good sport
generally—-a fact which he proved by marry-
ing a widow with 12 children. One smile-
some feature of that union was that, whereas
the lady’s late husband, Bob Campbell, of
Bangalow, was a Knight of St. Gregory,
Hamblin was a Grand Master of the Goat
Riders.
The State Savings Bank of S. Aus.
has lost three of its trustees in as
many years—E. T. Smith, McDonald, and
now W. G. Coombs. Born in Adelaide in
1855, Coombs made insurance his business,
but he had time to be chairman of the Adel-
aide Hospital Board for many years, and a
prominent supporter of football.
Unless some political happening intervenes
Premier Lawson (Vic.) will start for Lon-
don in December to give a fillip to immigra-
tion, and assist in the conversion of
£6,000,000 falling due next year. This will
be his first oversea tour. Lawson is the
senior State Premier, and has only to say
the word to bring back a knighthood; but
he still has Radical leanings, in spite of the
political conpany he keeps, and may. prefer
to remain plain “mister” while urging the
claims of Treasurer McPherson to a sirship.
McPherson, who ranks next on the list of
Ministers, will hold the reins in Lawson’s
absence.
H. O. Townsend, who has just gone up
from the Postal Department, in Melbourne,
to be New Guinea’s Treasurer for a couple
of years, is the young man who at the end
of his A.I.F. career was staff-captain and
secretary to General Birdwood. Birdie
wanted him to take up soldiering perma-
nently in India, but the Commonwealth
objected to its public servants being pinched.
He is a younger brother of the youthful-
looking A. R. Townsend, who left film-
censoring to take up the much-discussed
Oldershaw’s job of controlling sugar, and on
whom the Federal Public Accounts Commit-
tee has had to rely for most of the unravel-
ling of the newest Hughesian tangle.
“Randolph Rentless”: Arthur Vernon, who
has lost his position on the N.S.W. State
Repatriation Board, represented union
interests, and as he did his Avork conscien-
tiously the only reason for his disappear-
ance is, apparently, that a place had to be
found for Colonel Wisden (his successor),
whose Avork on the Soldiers’ Gratuity Board
was finished. Vernon was secretary of the
United Laborers’ Union, stood at least once
for Parliament, and is credited with the bril-
liancy : “These things are the last straw that
gives the camel the hump.”
“Chancery Lane”: If Barron Field, the
Ma State’s" second Supreme Court Judge,
wasn’t enamored of his job, as stated by
“D.P.J.” (B. 31/8/’22), neither were Costs
and his client enamored of him. Sent by
the Imperial to supersede Judge
Bent, removed at Macquarie’s request, one
of Field’s first decisions was to allow a
plaintiff’s conviction for felony many years
previously in England to be a bar to civil
action. Ex-convicts formed a large majo-
rity of the young community, and they were
so enraged at the helpless position in which
the decision placed them that they promptly
initiated a movement to have Field removed.
Governor Brisbane backed them in des-
patches, and in a little while Field was
packing his port.
H.L.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He trod the plains in golden noontide’s glow,
Through tangled undevways at eve he strayed.
Life’s gladness and its gloom were his to know,
The light and dark, the glory and the woe,
The sunshine and the shade;
To know —and cut the knowledge, clear and . deep,
As master hands before in many a clime
Pinioned the flying day for men to keep,
In words that linger or in lines that leap
Adown the aisles of Time
One mo\ r ed, nor judged, along the crowded slum,
AA r here loneliest tracks are tramped was one beside
To give them speech that else for us were dumb—
Still, where they came and went, they go and come;
He passes, they abide,
Abide, as immortelles that may not fade,
When, ’mid the green and gold of flower and tree,
The curtain fall’n, the earthly drama played,
That tired and wasted frame to rest is laid
Beside the shining sea.
N.S.W.
A. H.


2$
K
SH
m
d
Is
'A?
T
&
-4
V
€
**vl
/I
*1
“Havelock” is a
good pal on the
links.
He brings con-
solation when
the game is
going badly and
adds to the
satisfaction of
the well played
shot.
Australia’s National Smoke
FLAKE CUT—DARK OR AROMATIC. ALSO IN PLUG FORM.
SPECIAL MIXTURE 2oz. Airtight Tins—MlLD. MEDIUM, and FULL STRENGTH.
<*9
m
m.
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR*


"J
* -m
CHWEPPES
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Schweppes’ No. 1 Competition
doses on September 30. Competi-
tors require to send in five labels
removed from bottles.
FIRST PRIZE, £25.
25 Prizes of £1 each.
Schweppes Essences, like their Mineral
Waters and Fruits Juice Cordials, are the
standard of comparison.
J, ■
f. S
■
i:■' j "
•: C A N. '<a\ \i> A
See CANADA cn route
BREAK YOUR, JOURNEY
to th OLD LAND
Magnificent Mountain Scenery
The Prairies—the "Granary of the Empire”
Great Lakes—Bustling Cities
Land. Forest and Mine Development
AUSTRALIA
Canadian National Railuiaus
Operate through all-steel, solid vestibule trains from Coast to
Coast. Unexcelled Sleeping and Dining Car Service
Passengers booked by all Steamship Lines
linking with “the National Way.”
For descriptive literature, fares and full information, apply to
tv <-> r,?' CANADIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS’ representatives:—
A TaTT'il.£^- rg< L Street ’ Sydney > N-S-W. 0. S. BINNS, 59 Market Street. Melbourne, Yic.
*• <3eneral Agent, Passenger Department, 251 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
GF.ORGE E. BUNTING, General Traffic Agent, 5 & 6 Ferry Building, Auckland. N.Z.
SOCIETY
GAELIC
SPLOAL [?] SVE
[?]
“U.P.” : In his remarks at the close of the
Bickford case, Justice Poole emphasised the
hardship to the jury, as well as litigants, of
HER STEADY JOB.
“How long will it take you to complete your
trousseau, dearest?”
“The rest of my life, I hope, darling.”
such long-drawn-out proceedings. In this
instance, jurymen were taken away from
their businesses for two months and had to
bear a heavy loss. Poole thought it was
worth consideration by lawmakers whether
juries who served for weeks at a time
should not be specially eomnensated. The
men on the panel only get 12s. 6d. a day,
and if they can’t earn more than that out-
side they haven’t brains enough for the court
job. It seems to be a case of the more the
lawyer makes the more the juryman loses.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Being on a country motor
run, and my friend, the owner, having pulled
up to change a wheel. I entered into conver-
sation with a quaint old chap breaking stones
on a heap by the roadside. Presently, paus-
ing to wipe his
brow, he nodded to
a gang of navvies
at work on a line
at a little distance.
“Must be fond of
hard work to tackle
a job like that,”
said he. I laughed.
“What about your-
self?” I said.
“Cracking blu e-
metal is not exactly
a parlor game, is
it?” “There’s
where you’re mis-
to o lc,” said the
lapidary hastily.
“The professiop is
a game.” “The
profession?” I
queried. He nodded.
“Meanin’ diamond-
cuttin.’,” he said. I
recognised this as
a euphemism for
stone-breaking, and
let him go on.
“And a popular
game, too. Ain’t
it just like this
here golf the swells
play. I use a
hammer where the
golfer uses a stick,
and 1 hit this stone
where he strikes a
foolish, useless
ball. Look at
croquet, too.
Where’s the differ-
ence ’tween that
and stone-knap-
pin’, exceptin’ that
knappin’s a dam’
site more sensible?
Cricket’s much the
same sort of sport
as this, too. The
only difference is
that it takes only
one man to play my;
game, and it needs
u whole crowd to play cricket. An’ then there’s
polo. That’s just stone-breakin’ on horse-
back, and it' the stones would on’y run
about, wouldn’t this game ue as popular as
hockey?” I turned away, leaving the old
fellow playing his game for all he was
worth.
* * * *
“Wallaroo”: How’s this for the casual
stakes? Recently at Pillaga (famous in N.
S. Wales for its scrub) a wedding was being
solemnised, when the bridegroom discovered
that he had left the ring in his bedroom
at the hotel. The ceremony was held up
while he left hurriedly to repair his forget-
fulness. As he didn’t return a search
party was despatched. It located the miss-
ing man in company with three others, play-
ing euchre for drinks in the pub parlor !
* * * *
“H.H.”: Michael Collins obeyed an old
and much admired convention when he
asked, in his last moments, that his slayers
should be forgiven. Such requests are less
altruistic than they may seem
at a surface glance. Smith,
mortally wounded, has nothing
to gain by the hanging of his
assassin, Brown. He won’t be
there to see it, or even to hear
of it. On the other hand, he
might possibly lose something
in the shadowy Next Globe by
being vindictive. But Thomp-
son, who is still in rude health
and wants to remain there, and
who strongly suspects that his
turn will come next, takes a
different view, and pursues the
bloodstained Brown at top
speed. The obvious fact is
that, if everybody forgave
Brown as a pious exercise, that
miscreant might take it as a
license to desolate cities, and
possibly the entire human race. “Mind you
boil Brown to death” —such a dying speech
would be reprobated by the Churches: yet
there would be a great deal in its favor
from the standpoint of Law and Order.
* * * *
“U.S.” in bitterness of spirit:—
The publicity agents who are attending to the
press side of “Pussyfoot” Johnson’s prohibition cam-
paign in Australia had the effrontery to assert, some
weeks ago, that he had acquired his title as a result
of “heroic anti-booze work amongst wild Indians.”
The truth is the only risk he ever took in his life
was in London, and then he didn’t know there was
any danger till it was too late. In the midst of a
students’ rag an ill-aimed stone hit him in the eve.
His name really comes, of course, from the sort of
suave and oily stunts he is working here. F’rinstance ■
Adelaide. —Mr. W. E. (Pussyfoot) Johnson said, in
an interview, that he had not the slightest intention
of advocating prohibition in Australia. He quite
appreciated the fact that Australia should choose on
this issue without outside interference. It would be
impertinent and bad taste on his part to interfere.
All he intended to do in Australia was, as a patriotic
FEMININE ECONOMY.
“That tenner I gave you teas to last a month, and you’ve spent it
in less than a week.”
“Yes, darling. The way prices arc jumping [ think I must have
saved at least five pounds by spending it right away.”
American, to defend his native land against the
aspersions cast on it by the Australian liquor inter-
ests.
And again:—
Melbourne.—Mr. W. E. (Pussyfoot) Johnson said
to-day to an interviewer: “I am no wowser. I like
the stage; and before racing became demoralised in
America I used to be an interested and frequent
attendant of race meetings. Other forms of athletic
sport, like baseball, X enjoyed very much. X don’t
want to spoil any sport just because I don’t like the
drink traffic,” he added.
There you have the disingenuous carpet-slipper stuff
by which he has won his claim to fame. If “pussy-
footism” ever follows “wowserism” into Webster the
meaning attached will be “to gain a hearing under
false pretences, or by misrepresentations.” Casuistry
is an art at which this peripatetic Chadband could
show any Jesuit points.
* * * *
“0.K.” on sauce l’eserved for the goose:—
One of the several privileges granted to sister
Susie by man-made law is a tacit permission to be
bi-sexual in her raiment. She may mix with men
under any circumstances as one of themselves, where-
as any disguised bloke who apes feminity abroad
goes in danger of being run in. In Melbourne last
week Marion Edwards, an old-established male imper-
sonator, appeared in sac suit, cropped hair and a
manly stride, at the District Court, as complainant
in a vehicle collision case. Defendant was excused
on account of Marion having been on the wrong side
of the road, and she, seemingly, was excused her
male attire. Years ago the Law protested feebly
against Marion’s false pretences in the clothing way,
but she brushed the objection aside and now wears
pants with impunity. Her case marks another
interesting distinction between the sexes. A woman
may partially or wholly ape the clothed aspect of a
man without fear of prosecution ; also, she may air
large expanses of nude neck and shoulders, bare arms,
and thinly stockinged legs in a public vehicle. But
if she found herself sitting opposite a man completely
camouflaged in a long skirt or dressed as his real
self in knee-breeches, pale silk stockings and upper
garments that displayed a generous V of flesh, back
and front, the lady would desire the conductor to
stop the tram. The fancv-dressed stranger would be
called indecent.
* * « •
“Yardley”: Touching that chai-ge of “old-
fashioned absolutism” launched against the
Papacy, by “Clifford Snook” (B. 17/8/’22)
and his bright idea that the Papacy should
democratise itself by going in for a Parlia-
ment. The Papacy had a Parliament when Clif-
ford’s ancestors wore woad, and the body meets
when any matter of urgency has to be de-
cided. Thus, in 1870, the leading dignitaries
of the Church were summoned in solemn
conclave to make an authoritative pronounce-
ment respecting Papal infallibility. A czar
would not have asked fox - the sanction of an
Ecumenical Council. Many Romanists re-
nounced the Papal authority over the infalli-
bility question, and formed an autonomous
sect under Professor Dollinger, of Munich ;
and at about the same time P&re Hyacintho
(Charles Loyson) married and became an
independent pastor supported by his congre-
gation. Which instances of rule “of the
people by. the people for the people” make
little promise of the concord forecasted in
Cliffords Great White Czar” article. In
nufngraph letter to Pere Hyacinthe, Pius
IX. informed the Swiss complainant that the
t apal ( ouncil was unanimous in choice •
that, even admitting every priest could not
Jive his life unspotted from the world, the
lapse of a fraction of the great body of clergy
is the lesser of two gigantic evils; and, that,
therefore, he refused to exercise his prerogative
to rescind the edict by which a former pope
lmd imposed celibacy on the Catholic clergy.
Pius IX. held the opinion of the Papal
Council to be complete justification for
declining to exercise the powers conferred
upon his high estate. Actually, the Pope did
what “Clifford Snook” recommends —he acted
in accordance with the advice of Synod.
Father Clarke, still on the alert:—
The anonymous ecclesiastical history expert, “Clif-
ford Snook,” asserts (B. 17/8/’22) that the Church
at Constantinople was the parent of the Roman
Church. But as I pointed out (B. 24/8/’22) Con-
stantinople (Byzantium) w'as only a very humble
bishopric, subject to the Metropolitan See of Her-
aclea, and therefore incapable of being a “parent
church to any church. When Constantine trans-
ferred the seat of Empire there, the Roman Church
had been in existence for three centuries. Now', that
is the difficulty which “Clifford Snook” is up against,
and how does ho attempt to meet it? By inflicting
upon us (B. 3il/8/’22) 75 lines of irrelevant
camouflage about a “Nazarene Peter” or “angry
Paul,” ignorant “gospellers,” a “Roman Catholic
branch Church,” and a mysterious Greek Exarch of
Ravenna who ruled (without anyone knowing any-
thing about it) the “Italian Church.” It is all
interesting, if only because it is all so novel, but it
absolutely fails to prove how a parent church can
be 300 years posterior to its offspring. I venture,
therefore, to suggest to our new Eusebius (the
father of a new ecclesiastical history) a tip well
worth having. Let him solve his self-created problem
by the aid of Theosophy. “Bishop” Leadbeater’s
doctrine of reincarnation is what is needed to save
the situation. Once this is established there is
nothing to prevent a son from being the parent of
his father.
* * * *
From an Adelaide newspaper-man :
The Bickford divorce suit deals yet another blow
at the principle of trial by jury. Here was a hus-
band making charges against A, B, F and H. Wb**n
all the evidence the aggrieved one could produce had
been given the defence asked the Judge to say that
there was practically nothing against A and F. He did
so as regards F, but ruled that there was just enough
against A to go to a jury. Weeks later, when all
the separate defences had been heard, he summed up
rather damagingly against B and H, and, if any-
thing, in favor of A. On which the jury found a
verdict against A alone. It happened that in this
TACT.
HER: “ And you love my voice still. "
HIM: “Yes, dearest, quite still!”
ease the small body of trained observers sometimes
suggested as substitute for a jury was present, in the
oM™subus°iltor«t through ° n
01 Its Puoiie inteiest, and the lawyers who also had
to sit it out though each of them (for the defence)
might be interested in only one co-re. And I say
confidently that their verdict would have exonerated
i Also ’ one fi,lds the typical man-in-the-street (who
has ln almost every ease read all the verbatim evi-
dence) suggesting cheerfully that the jury, thinking
that they must make someone the scapegoat passed
over B and H as local men and popular, and’dealt it
out to the less-known and distinctly less popular A
( Continued on page 18.)
THE DEAD POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Henry is dead. Australia has not heard
In her short years a word that moved her so.
Dead ! And the tufted wattles lightly blow
On mild September airs; nor any bird
Has ceased its singing for the head laid low;
Nor have the quiet skies one tear to shed
Over the grave of him who loved them well.
Only his dust is mightier, being dead;
And the long days have a long tale to tell.
Made of this sky, this dust, this yellow sun
That sprinkles gold through every living tree,
This gentle air that stirs the grass and sea
Was he whose hands are still, whose work is done,
Whose fame cries down the dim eternity.
Dead! But the great years shall not write him so,
Whate’er be graven on the stone above—
The dust is laid that the clean wind may blow
Through the broad highway of a nation’s love.
Large love shall be his portion. Each worn page
That is forever of himself a part—
Each phrase that lays soft hands upon the heart—
These shall have tears for tribute, age by age;
And while pale scholars wonder at the art
That scorning art makes clear the master hand,
Strong, simple men shall feel their pulses glow
With great desire and deeply understand
His human magic of the long ago.
And if great kings of laughter shall arise
To reign upon the thrones of royal mirth,
And shake the merry sides of this old earth
Till the lean heart of its own misery dies,
By regal kinship they shall know his worth
And call him to the dais where they sit,
Joy over joy, that all the world may bless
The wanderer of old whose humor lit
A lamp of gladness in our wilderness.
Let it be so. He found Australia’s heart
And played upon it as the west wind sings
When the tall trees at morning are the strings.
A thousand living echoes round him start,
Each with a tender sympathy for wings....
Yet what is this to me? His lifted hand
Greets me no more upon the common way—
Friend of my dreams, your ship is at the land;
The dark and storm are over. It is . day.
r.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


m
m
i
I
m
m
S 3?
Wsk
wz*
is&;
■--/
m
%
lUs
as
m
m
%
m
wm
■
H
=%
■v
n
%
i
f
s.
1
—3Er
25
=X
KfSB
m
VI
X
=£&
S
1
m
%
m
7Z
m
1
m.
m
-
m
IMPERIAL RESERVE
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD.
JWEIB OURNB, AU STOALIA.
> ' •
m


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
<3
King George IV
wiKnmM,¥
The TOP-NOTCHSceteh
“For Ever Best/’
STAS
LA6ER
TOOHEY'S.
A bargain in rabbit-traps has bean engag-
ing the attention of S.A. Supreme Court.
The agent of a city house offered them to a
Murray Bridge man at half-a-crown a dozen,
and the latter promptly took a quid’s worth.
The firm, on hearing of it, said that this was
absurd; that any sensible man would know
they were half-a-crown each, and that the buyer
had no right to take advantage of a mistake.
He said merely that he had bought in all
good faith, and was entitled to what he had
paid for. The local Bench found for him,
and on appeal the Supreme Court did like-
wise. Caveat emptor! However - , as the
higher Court added that the winner could
pay his own costs, the deal is not likely to
have profited him much. The Law is
not always such an ass as it looks.
REDUCTION ON TAKING A
QUANTITY.
“This is the second time you have been
charged with exceeding the speed-limit,
and the fine will he increased. Next
time it will he heavier still.”
“Excuse me, y'r Honor, could I take out a
season-ticket!”
“Sol M.’s” cheery item : —•
“Struth! Whatjer talkin’ about? I’m no trades-
man!” Sometimes—very often, in fact —the pre-
liminary garnishment is “Cripes” in place of
“ ’Struth,” and it may even be “Gosh,” but Ihe
result is the same. It is the remark which, by its
frequency and hopelessness, embitters the life of every
man who is employed, by official or unofficial philan-
thropy, in hunting up employment for returned
soldiers, or for civilians who didn’t return because
they forgot to go away. The revival of Australian
industry and prosperity is grievously hampered by
the appalling super-abundance of the man who is
almost as justly proud of not having acquired any-
skilled occupation as he might be of never having
learned to read and write. As a rule, the applicant
for work, being asked what he can undertake, cheer-
fully replies: “Anything.” There is no reason to
suppose that he is other than sincere in the state-
ment. Then begins the reading of the long list of
aching voids in the industrial world —the list of
demands for which there is no corresponding supply,
wherefore the progress of the country is held up,
and the revival of industry postponed indefinitely.
It seldom gets beyond the' third or fourth item.
Then the plaintiff in the case, looking as surprised as
if the earth had opened at his feet, and probably as
angered as if an enemy had opened it on purpose,
breaks in with the remark quoted above, prefaced
by “ ’Struth,” or “Cripes,” or, in extreme cases,
“Gosh.” In any big Australian city at present
the man who wants 20 capable bricklayers is apt to
find that he has to possess his soul in patience, there
being only one available, and he an imported sample.
On the other hand, the individual who allows nis
need for three laborers to leak out is lucky if he
is not promptly trodden underfoot by 300. The
superfluous laborer—and every man who is nothing
but a laborer is superfluous—is two men wasted.
He is one man less to make things which the
community requires, wherefore there are huge im-
portations from more civilised countries, and, as the
community can’frypay for nearly all of these, a good
quantity come out , t of loans, and are charged up to
the baby. And he is one man more threatening that
serious trouble may arise unless loan jobs are in-
rented to explain away his existence. He supplies
the criminal element of the community because of
his purposeless youth ; and the potential revolutionary
element because of his lack of any visible future.
Two causes are mainly responsible for his existence.
One is the limitation of apprenticeship to prevent
the youth becoming a tradesman. The other is the
systematic forcing up of the pay of the unskilled
(on paper, anyhow) so close to the level of the
skilled that it hardly seems worth while to be a
tradesman.; If there were nothing save the utili-
tarian or economic aspect of the matter to be con-
sidered, the execution of at least 25 per cent, of the
Australian laboring class would probably have been
recommended long ago.
* * * *
“Dunederra”: Re “Prof’s” (B. 24/8/’22)
sex-detectors. Tell him to get an ordinary
sewing needle and thread it; then let him
take half-a-dozen eggs, and test each sepa-
rately by holding it, round end up, in one
hand, a.nd, holding the needle point down-
wards by the cotton (point to be quarter of
an inch from the end of the egg) in the
other. In some cases the needle will swing
round and round, and in others it will swing
backwards and forwards. In the case of an
infertile egg it will remain as stationary as
his hand will allow. I’m not going to say
that this will determine sex, but I will guar-
antee that the needle will not swing at all
over any other object than an egg. Amongst
a number of poultry people this is considered
a sure way of determining sex, the circular
swing denoting female, the straight one male.
“Kewpie” : The M.L. Native Land Court
has had a problem presented to it by a
Maori who claimed a large hold-
ing in a block of 40,000 acres which
w.a&fbeing partitioned. The whole
proceedings were hung up by the
dusky claimant, who could not be
brought to understand the priority
of communal over personal rights.
Eventually the Judge commenced
examining the noisy chief upon his
title to the land. Then it was dis-
covered that, 12 generations pre-
viously, witness’s 10-times great-
grandfather had been crossing the
Tararuas on foot, when he had
seen a “gh° st -” Petitioner claimed
the land by way of compensation for the
mental anguish suffered by his ancestor on
that occasion!
* * * *
“Rus”: “Billy T.” erred (B. 27/7/’22) in
saying that the men of Clunes took no part
m keeping the Chow strike-breakers out.
When the directors of the mine (who
included Premier Francis and Peter
Lalor, of Stockade fame) decided to bring
Chinese from/pteswick and Ballarat, about
500 miners, with, whom were a few women,
armed with prek-handles, battens and clubs
assembled. A rope was run around a shed
erected to house the strike-breakers, and it
was pulled down v The miners, headed by
the town band, hud accompanied by the
Mayor, _ then marcjhed to the Creswick-road
and waited. Hearing the cries of the hostile
crowd, the directors decided to enter by the
Ballarat-road. But the miners anticipated
the move, and the S invaders were met with
showers of stones. They fled incontinently,
and that was the end of Chow strike-break-
ing. Withers’s “History of Ballarat” is my
authority.
* * * *
“Lexite’s” note:—
A Sydney woman has just got her second divorce
from the Same husband. Her first venture lasted five
years ; but within a year the discarded husband was
again a wooer; and the second union lasted 15
years. About the same time as Judge Gordon was
slipping the knife through this knot, a parson in
Newtown was putting a couple through who had
been divorced in 1899. Their dream had lasted but
two years, when the husband strayed and the
Divorce Court was told about it. Both parties re-
married. The woman became a real widow a year
ago; six months later, her first husband was con-
victed, on the petition of his second wife, of commit-
ting adultery with his first one. Say it slowly,
with the right accent on the possessive pronouns;
and you can worry it out.
* * * *
“Lip”; The officers of a certain A.I.F.
mess in the field were unexpectedly visited
by an English General. None of them were
drinkers, but the Major kept a bottle of
whisky for special occasions, and this was
presently produced. The great man helped
himself liberally. With a nod to his hosts
he took a generous draught. Instantly his
face contorted, and he spat copiously. “My
God!” he cried, “what is it?” As a matter
of fact it was mostly methylated spirit. The
Major’s batman, knowing his boss’s abste-
mious ways, had been in the habit of shout-
mg for himself and his friends from the
sacred bottle, hiding his peculations by
means of water and an occasional levy on
other batmen who had access to bottles. An
RUBBING IT IN.
“The dressmaker says that something soft and simple suits me best”
“What's she want to insult me for?”
influx of friends having left him with an
extra large deficiency to make up, and tri-
bute from his colleagues not being available,
he had remembered hearing somewhere that
methylated spirit was alcohol. A supply
from the tin which the cook kept for his
Primus restored the Plimsoll mark in the
bottle to normal, and a layer of issue rum
had somewhat deadened the spirity reek. It
was this concoction that the wearer of the
Crossed Swords had sampled.
“Kip”: I don’t happen to know what
Hannibal’s troops looked like after they
had crossed the Alps, or, for that matter,
Napoleon’s soldiers on their retreat from
Moscow; but certainly the battery which
passed one day through our village in a
Somme rest area was the most dishevelled-
looking turnout I’d ever cast eyes on. Hard-
caked mud was hanging like so many icicles
from the horses’ coats ; no two of the drivers
or gunners were dressed alike; some had
rabbit-skins over their tunics, some wore tin
hats, some Hun caps, one or two no head-
gear at all; from their appearance very few
had touched a razor for a week. On a huge
pile of miscellaneous baggage stacked on a
G.S. waggon rumbling along at the rear of
the column, a monkey—evidently the bat-
tery’s mascot—frisked about on a long chain
to make the picture complete. As the last
vehicle turned the corner into the square,
the inebriated Digger standing beside me at
the estaminet door spat contemptuously on
the cobble-stones. “A washout, that
zoo!” he growled. “About 500 horses
and only one monk. !”
* * * *
, “P.”: A railway friend of mine vouches
for the following. He was on duty one
night at a country station when a man ap-
proached and asked if men were allowed in
the ladies’ waiting-room. He was
told there was a general waiting-
room where men could stay, and
that he had no right to enter the
ladies’ compartment. “Oh. it’s not
me,” he replied, “but there’s a
bloke down there with a woman,
and they’ve been kissing and cud-
dling for the last half-hour.” “How
do you know V” asked the officer.
“ ’Cos I’ve been watching them,”
was the stolid assurance. “Do
you know them?” “I don’t know the
cove too well,” admitted the complainant,
“but I know the woman all right. She’s
my wife.”
“The Rumpus”: The amount of gunplay
in American books sickens me, and as an
antidote I like to think of my one-time mate,
Old Bill. He came back one evening from
Kalgoorlie at dusk, loaded with sundry
drinks and a brand-new revolver. Across
the entrance of his tent lay a
burly stranger, dead drunk. Old Bill
kicked the log-like figure, and ordered
it out of the way. He received a grunt in
reply. He applied his foot harder, but drew
T° re thaa another grunt from the
.c mjent mass. Old Bill got an inspiration,
lie drew his revolver, and, assisted bv a flar-
lng match, brought the weapon within an
inch of the other’s face. “Now, get up and
clear out! he boomed, “or I’ll put a bullet
through your head.” At this point the drunk
blinked and muttered: “Be’ me ’lone—don’t
want any dam’ Yankee tricks here. Goo’-
ni. So Bill had to climb over him, after
all, as he went in and out of his tent.
“Coot” : The bell used on the Melbourne
Cricket Ground to notify footballers of the
end of a quarter bears the inscrip-
tion “Lysander, 1525.” It is nearly
a hundred years since it was cast
for the ship of that name, which, after
many voyages, terminated her career as an
ignoble prison hulk in Hobson’s Bay. When
the vessel was broken up the bell was in-
stalled at Pentridge Stockade. Subsequently
it was given to the Coburg Volunteer Fire
Brigade, and was used for alarum purposes,
until the Metropolitan Fire Brigade absorbed
all the volunteers and made the old firebells
superfluous. After this tke bell lay unused
in the Fire Brigade’s lumber-room until re-
cently the Board presented it to the M.C.C.
“Gnarek” on war decorations :—•
It might be well if, before the next war, military
decorations are divided into those gained in the
actual smoke of battle and those bestowed on
“base” fire-eaters. During the late stoush the award of
a D.S.O. to a divisional A.P.M. was the occasion for
the officers of the “Dirty Battalion” to hold a
solemn service in an advanced lI.Q. mess and burn
their own well-earned ribbons in the flames of a
“rum ration.” The bravest soldier I knew only
received the peace-time decoration of the old
EXPERIENCE TEACHES.
FIRST MARRIED WOMAN: “What is your
ideal of a man?”
SECOND DITTO: “ Practically any unmarried
one.”
Reg’lars (an M.S.M.), after being twice recom-
mended for the highest valor honor. Mean-
while a sergeant baker at Rouen was issued with a
D.C.M. for facing the fire of a bread-oven for a
month or two. One of the D.C.M.’s for the Dardan-
elles event, by the way, was given to a sergeant-clerk
who checked records in a snug office at Alexandria
during the whole of the episode. The inventor of the
0.8. E. relieved the situation late in the day, but
there is still time to revise things for future heroes.
NOBLESSE OBLIGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In speaking on the platform at Miss Clarice
Coles’s farewell concert Premier Fuller said that he
thought the A.N.A. was fulfilling a national duty
in forwarding her interests; he hoped he might be
on the same platform to receive her on her return.”
Press notice.
It was Premier Fuller’s Cabinet that refused to
aid the State Orchestra.
Mankind seeks many forms of happiness ;
Misers seek gold and lovers seek a kiss ;
To chase a referee, or buy a dress,
In such-like ways it is that we find bliss.
But there is none so safe from all distress,
So pure and holy and benign as this—
A politician’s joy in taking credit
For noble action when his mouth has said it.
“What matter if the orchestra then dies?
Worthier matters should be our concern ;
We have to show we can economise,
And, unlike Labor, have no cash to burn.
Music’s sole dividends are in the skies
And for the auditor show no return....
But, oh, Miss X., in aiding you, the nation
Does but its duty to your reputation.
“I hope that I may here receive you back
(For I’ll be still in office if that’s so)
And welcome you. We’ve given them the sack ;
Don t worry ; all the while I said, you know,
Australia’s sense of duty must not slack.
The orchestra’s adrift; well, let it go.
For I’m still here, and ever will I say
The same high, noble words, the same high way.”
s.s.w.
PANURGE.


cy&u,
Citroen Wins Scottish Cup
41*112 Ton Miles Per Gallon.
No. of Telegram 147.
Sent.
To
By
Handed in at
3.20 p.m.
iiivv- ~
Glasgow.
34
4.21 p.m.
Office Stamp.
Acton
Jane 23
. *22
GASTONORGE, ACT., LONDON
(GASTON, Ltd., LONDON).
Scottish Light Car Trial C. 47-11.4-h.p. CITROEN has been awarded the SCOTTISH
CUP for Best Fuel Consumption per ton mile over all competition vehicles irrespec-
tive of class. (Signed) SMITH
(Secretary, Royal Scottish Automobile Club).
QUEENSLAND.
Websters Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA.
Co-operative Motors Ltd., Hobart.
AGENTS—
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Maughan-Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
Factory Representatives:
W. A. Crowle, Ltd.,
Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Clifton Hill, Victoria.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
Gilberts, Ltd.,
47 King Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND.
N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc.,
Christchurch.
Leyland Motors Ltd., Wellington.
®<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<^
%
A
r-
£~~.
f.
itroßn
>
A
CITROEN
0
dP
nl
SJ
A*
Mr
>v',
*
0
■y,
Ti
§> ma®,


Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Hilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTDt
BRISBANE & SYDNEY
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN h CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Ybred”: My entry for the Endurance
Stakes. About 10 years ago an old tin-miner on
the Cascade River (N.-E. Tas.) was working a claim
by himself, and one day, while in his tail-race, a
large boulder slipped in and pinned him down with
its weight on his legs from the knees to the ankles,
his feet being in the water in the race. In this
position he remained for six days and six nights,
in the middle of June, and was then-rescued by two
miners who happened along. They carried him on
a hastily constructed bush stretcher for nine miles
over very rough country to the nearest township.
The old chap is, I believe, still alive, though minus
one foot and a few toes on the other foot, which
had to be taken off on account of being frost-bitten.
“Al”: Re “Ben Ziiie” on human draught-
horses (B. 10/8/’22). I knew a teamster at Narrabri
(N.S.W.), in the table-top waggon days, who
accepted a substantial bet that he couldn’t raise
the rear of his unladen waggon from the groumd.
He got on his back under the axle, and with his
legs as levers lifted the rear wheels a millimetre
or two from the ground. He died two or three
weeks later —won his bet and a single ticket to
Paradise at the same time.
* * * *
“K. Sited”: Reverting to sharks and
colored men (B. 6/7/’22): Once at Giza 1 saw a
crowd of youngsters swimming around our ketch,
while what seemed to be a school of sharks were
finning alongside—arid there were no casualties.
Later there was a sudden rush of swimmers for
shore, and, turning to a boy alongside, I asked the
reason. “Him feller s’ark bin clear out,” replied
the boy; “new feller kai-kai s'ark come one-time,
tearem belly.” Evidently the killer or man-eater
shark is also an outlaw and feared by his own
species.
# * * *
“J.D.Q.”: The person told me. lie was
hitching a pair in a Bananaland bush town, and the
bridegroom found great difficulty in getting the ring
down on the bride’s finger. The tense silence dur-
ing the struggle was shattered at last by the hoarse
whisper of the best man: “Spit on it, Bill-—spit on
it.”
* * * *
“Gregor”: There is little doubt that
Malays did introduce the dingo, as “H.V.E.” sug-
gests (B. 3/8/’22), but they did it many hundreds
of years before Matthew Flinders visited those parts.
The way the dingo, after two or three generations
spent in captivity, reverts to a type that is practi-
cally a variety of domestic canine, suggests that the
animal’s forebears were tame. There is one possi-
bility, so far overlooked by Abo. biologists—that,
when the original ancestor of the dingo was intro-
duced, he found here another indigenous canine, per-
haps the same variety from which the domesticated
dog of Europe is descended, and that by interbreed-
ing the present-day animal was produced. This
would explain a number of dingo features that have
puzzled naturalists ; and the theory is borne out by
the fact, that,.geologists, and others have come across
at different places in Australia the fossil remains of
a small dog-like animal which, as far as can be
judged, was very similar in osteological structure to
the canine of Europe. So, there is a chance that the
dingo is neither indigenous nor the direct descendant
of Malayan dogs, but the product of the crossing of
the original inhabitant and the Malayan. The fact
that in strata extending back a good distance into
the geological history of Australia there is no sign
of the warrigal having been a contemporary of the
fossilised dog-like animal, suggesting that he was
not then in the country, is additional support for
the idea.
“Rus”: A busy sow at Hotspur (Vic.)
has put up a record that will take some beating.
In 12 months she has given birth to 44 piglets.
These were in litters of 12, 14 and 18 respectively.
“Sandgroper” : I can get “C. Coral” (B.
20/7/’22) a sure tip for getting rid of surplus
cockroaches and rats on his lugger. Let him clear
the craft of everything floatable, then sink her in
a couple of fathoms, floating her again at low tide.
I know one lugger that has been treated this way
two or three times, on each occasion with satisfac-
tory results.
* * * #
“Ver De Gris”: In somebody’s paddock
in N. Queensland I came across a bunch of whiskers
which, from a distance, seemed to be operating on
itself for ingrowing toenails. It turned out to be
the station bush-carpenter Shaping rail-ends for a
stockyard with an adze. You know how they do it
—one foot set within an eighth of an inch of the
spot where the sharp edge hits the wood. Half-way
through a stroke this chap looked up at me out of
his ambush of hair, and I got ready to jump down
and help him to pick up his severed toes, but the
blow fell true as a paper-guillotine. We boiled a
billy together, and I passed him some pretty cheap
flattery on his dexterity as an adze-artist. Judging
by the complacent movements of his antennoe, I
thought he was swallowing it. As I climbed on my
mare I said I' hoped to see him on my way back in
a day or two. “No ’ope,” he said. “Goin* up the
Gulf way after t’-morrer—got a better contrack up
among the sandalwoods.” “Cutting joss-sticks, eh?”
A slot in the whiskers gleamed as he poked his toe
into No-man’s land again. “No —toothpicks,” he
grunted.
* * * *
“Mack”: We were sitting round the camp-
fire, and Cook was skiting about the whispering
gallery in St. Paul’s when old George chipped in.
“Man,” he said, “that’s nothing. Why, down on
my place, on the Abercrombie, before I turn in
at night I go outside and yell as loud as I can,
‘Time to get up, George,’ and eight hours later
the echo gets back and wakes me up.”
MAKING IT CLEAR.
NEW PARSON: “What sort of a choir have they got in the church here?”
BILL: “Oh, a coupler two-tooths, ’n’ all the rest’s broken-mouthed.”
“Sandgroper” : There has been something
of a howl in Melbourne because the Repat. Depart-
ment refused to finance returned soldiers for a pearl-
diving stunt at Thursday Island ; but for once the
Department is right. Some years back pearlers
experimented with seven white divers at Broome
(W.A.), and, as far as I can remember, five were
given 6ft. of earth and a white cross, and the other
two were incapacitated for life w’ith paralysis.
Asiatics seem to be the only people who can stand
the deep-sea diving ih tropical waters.
“Pem”: Re “Ben Zine’s” record weight-
carrying (B. 10/8/’22). One Cubby, Australian
abo., between 14 and 15 stone (certainly an outsize
in Binghis), at Walgett (N.S.W.), in pre-railway
days, unloaded by hirftself a big consignment of
fencing-wire from a Darling River barge. He did
not worry about a 44-hour week, but incessantly
tramped to and fro between lighter and dump site,
with six rolls of wire (about 6001 b.), suspended
from his shoulders, each shoreward trip. Cubby
finished up at Wee Waa (N.S.W.) by cutting his
throat, and while his life’s blood ebbed he picked
up a couple of hefty men who struggled with him,
and, with one tucked beneath each arm, made for
the wood-pile, intent on a double execution. He
collapsed before he reached the pile.
THE FORGED RECEIPT.
“Look ’ere, boss , you bin owe it me one
phella bottle o’ rum. Baal you pay
plurry long time now.”
“Dammit, Jacky, you got the three bottles
I promised you. There’s your own three
notches what you cut in the stick.”
“Baal this one phella notch belongin’ o’ me.
I bin tinkit some plurry phella. bin
forge my plurry signature.”
“Bio” : Re the mijjtial call of “Ragar’s”
wattle-moth (B. 10/8/’22) which probably duplicates
that of the Emperor of Europe. The experiments
of Fabre show the attraction to be some kind of
emanantion from the female —not the female herself,
for if “Ragar” had placed his moth iri another
glass-covered box, on the arrival of the wooere, they
would still have gone to the first box, followed it
wherever placed, flying over and disregarding the
lady. To our perception there is no odor in this
emanation ; and its lure may extend scores of miles
against a head wind. Drenching the box with the
most powerful scents does not affect its power. A
theory of wireless signalling seems best to fit the
facts ; yet this assumes that the love vibrations once
set up continue of themselves for many hours. Moths
possess “sectaceous” antennae, furnished with lateral
processes, making them comb-like. (A miniature
aerial installation.) A ship’s officer reports that
when the wireless was transmitting off the coast of
S. America clouds of moths came over the sea to
the ship—and disappeared when the sending stopped.
Have other wireless operators had that experience?
* * * *
“Ivilmore”: The other day I saw a strange
bullock with a big sheet of paper adhering to his
ribs. He was a working bullock, absolutely done-
up, and when I got close enough I read on the
paper:—
This old bullock is too weak to travel. Mr.
Finder, do not turn him out. He will do you no
harm, and a little grass will do him some good.
This old bullock is called “Ned,” and has not been
extra well-fed. If you find him you will see I’ve
done right by not taking him. I leave him instead
to rest. I’ve used all my golden syrup to stick this
little note on. (Signed) Bill the Stag Conductor.
* * * *
“Mirza”: “Wessel” (B. 10/8/’22) can’t
see that the admitted fact that parrots do not breed
in captivity precludes his suggested avocation of
breeding the rare, costly and beautiful Alexandra
parrot. I should be surprised, but I’m not; for in
a somewhat mottled career I’ve met people who
actually believed in Freetrade, prohibition and the
divine right of Billy Hughes. As an inducement to
“Wessel,” I’ll give him 3s. 6d. if he can produce
the as yet unknown kangarooster obtained by mating
the common domestic choolc with the male ’too. At
a bob a time we ought to make a fortune exhibiting
it. Of course it’s scientifically impossible, but such
a trifle needn’t deter such an optimist as “Wessel.”
“Azrim” : “Hecke” inquires (B. 17/8/’22)
how the black snake {Pseudechis porphyriacus) elab-
orates its venom. In reptiles the poison is
generated in glands corresponding to the human
salivary glands and is a real secretion, not an excre-
tion. There are slight chemical differences between
the venoms of different species, but always the dope
is a viscid fluid varying in color, when viewed
against a white surface by transmitted light, from
pale amber to a dark yellow. Black-snake venom
causes death usually by thrombosis-—intra-vascular
coagulation.
(Continued on page 22.)
A TALL-TIMBER LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A teacher at a recent conference stated that the
teachers in the bush districts were stagnating owing
to lack of facilities for enlightened thought and
discussion.”— M.L. neivspaper cutting.
When they drag you from the city
With its brainy atmosphere
To a schoolhouse in the timber,
Life’s as flat as last night’s beer ;
But it’s not the lack of culture
That gets your mind a-fog—
It’s the everlasting worship
Of the joss they call the Log.
There’ll be logs for you at breakfast
When they tell of trees gone by ;
You'll have them, too, at dinner
As the chips begin to fly ;
And once more when in weariness
You sit you down to tea—
And the logs that seem to get them now
Will soon, I fear, get me.
The logs they snaked by crosscuts
Till the goose-saw showed a crack:
The logs that jacked the loco
Till the benchman got the sack;
The logs the busbies couldn’t touch
Till the slabbies worked a trick.
And just plastered ’em with sawdust
Till they were ten-foot thick.
The logs that must be cutting
’Most a million (super) feet:
The logs that pushed the tailer
Out the door into the creek ;
The logs that didn’t have a slab,
And those that had ’em, too;
And the ones they had to jack on end •
Before they would go through.
THE ANCHORITE.
“What a nice, quiet boy your friend is!”
“Yes. ’e’s a regular woman-hater. Bill is.
I’ve never seen him. with more than one
girl in any port we’ve visited.”
The logs with hearts full ten feet,
And some (maybe) p’raps more;
The logs whose only use was
To make a one-piece floor ;
The logs that smashed the hauler
’Nd wound the driver round the drum;
The logs that licked creation —
And the ones they made of rum.
I don’t know much of timber,
And less about a saw —-
A new-born babe can beat me
When it comes to Bushland lore.
Still, I like the Bushland people,
And I seem to manage well;
But if I hear of Logs again
I’ll see my job in H —l.
MAORILAND.
BULLET.


ASK YOUR BOOKSELLER
to show you
The Bookstall Series
of Australian Novels
The Best Australian Fiction at
One Shilling per Volume.
150 NOVELS by Australia’s
Foremost Authors.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE IN THE
COMMONWEALTH AND NEW ZEALAND.
Descriptive Catalogue obtainable free from Publishers.
JUST PUBLISHED —
“THE BLACK OPAL,” by “Jack North.”
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney,
ON
STAND
/ft
Q'O
RF.Sf
kco
TE
»w.u.i** T ° ,f .
coS
TE
Texaco Roofing is Suited
to Every Farm Need.
Texaco Roofing comes in four weights.
For all farm purposes —residences, barns,
out-houses —there is Texaco Roofing most
suitable.
And it is all Texaco Roofing. Into ever)'
fibre of Texaco Roofing strength is built,
The quality is uniformly the highest.
All Texaco Roofing is waterproof, wind-
proof, sunproof, verminproof and fire-
resisting.
There are no holes, however small, to pei*
mit leaking. Ao places lor heat or cold
to enter.
Texaco Roofing won’t crack, warp, peel
or blister.
Its initial cost is low.
It comes in rolls of convenient size, com-
plete with cement, nails and printed instruc-
tions. It can be easily laid by unskilled
labor.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
Head Office : Sydney.
Branches throughout Australasia.
o
£.
K»
7
¥
tUZu
X)
x;
V
“Music, the very spirit of the dance,
that seems to lift and carry
you along.”
DANCE MUSIC
as played by roll on our
ARTISTIC
PLAYER PIANOS
is a joy to those who indulge in Dancing.
Perfect in Time and Rhythm, you will thoroughly
enjoy a one-step, jazz, fox-trot or waltz.
We are always pleased to show intending buyers our Stock of Pianos and Player
Pianos. Catalogues are free for the asking.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
a
i
338 George St.
.
Lismore
Rockhampton
Newcastle


iimiimiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiii
ROOFING FLOORING DAMPCOURSE
The Paraffine Companies, Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
i
111
S*Ji
HN
I
4&98
T
BG
1'
Um
LAGER.
THE BEER WITHOUTXT^VAL^
"Tom Sand”: If “Winchester” (B.
13/7/’22) still contends that red and grey kangaroos
don’t mate, let him hump his bluey across the
plains west of the Darling (N.S.W.), and he will see
many a red buck with two or three grey wives, each
rearing a red and brown joey. Should incertitude
still afflict his brain, tell him to plod on to Centen-
nial Park at Broken Hill, where he will see a red
doe, associated with a grey buck, bringing up a
sprightly youngster wearing- a greyish-red overcoat.
* * » *
“Ey Emma Ey” flashes his little say:—•
Tell “Cleveland” (B. 10/8/’22) that trouble with
the heliograph is generally caused by incompetent
operating. Many messages are hashed up by the align,
ment of the instrument being too high, which makes
a dash read like two dots, turning a “T” into an
“I,” or an “M” into an “H.” If there are clouds
about, arid the sender’s light goes off, the receiver
knows that the sun is behind the clouds, or else the
sender has allowed his spot to wander off the vane.
As for wrongly thimdng a message is ended, why not
use a finishing sign like that used in army signalling,
i.e., “V.E.,” which is answered by “R.D.,” indicat-
ing that the message has been received correctly?
Regarding the mirrors being out of adjustment when
the sun comes from behind a cloud, this can be
rectified in about two seconds by traversing and
depressing or elevating the simplex mirror until the
spot comes into position again. There are not enough
clouds in our sunny land to make the use of the
helio impracticable, and given two men of ordinary
intelligence the instrument would be most valuable
out back. I juggled a helio through the Sinai and
Palestine campaigns, and SO miles between stations
was nothing uncommon; and messages have been
sent up to 80 miles (using an Sin. mirror) in the
hill country of India.
* * * #
“Prospector” (W.A.) : Sid Berry’s claim
had proved a duffer, and as Sam the storekeeper
refused him further tick, Sid, saying he’d settle up
“when he got a chanst,” lit out for a neighboring
field. Some weeks later Sam wanted a driver for
his donkey-team, which hauled his goods from the
railway 100 miles off, and, as he knew Sid had once
been a teamster, he wrote offering him the job, at
the same time pointing out that it meant the chance,
mentioned by Sid, of squaring the ledger. Back
came the reply: “Don’t think I can manage the job.
Live donkeys and a dead horse don’t work well to-
gether.”
“Lytron”: You can’t beat these bush
people for prompt action in emergencies. In the
Nhill (Vic.) district the seven-year-old son of a cocky
EMPHATIC.
CORONER: “Did the deceased speak after you arrived ?”
CONSTABLE: “Not a wurrd, yer ’Anner; it was the most pro-
found soilence that iver Oi listened to.”
was bitten by a snake while playing in a paddock. He
managed to kill the reptile and carried it home to
show' his parents. On finding that the youngster had
been bitten, Mr. Cocky promptly tied a ligature and
made the boy lie down. He then caught and har-
nessed a horse, slung the snake’s corpse into the
buggy and galloped some miles into Nhill —to see
if the wriggler was poisonous!
“T.O I.”: The jackass part of the kooka-
burra s name is a corruption of the French jacasseur,
ft chatterer, from the verb jacasser, to chatter. The
bird was so christened by some members of La
Perouse s expedition, who were much amused by his
jabbering or chattering.
* * * *
"Ragar”: A friend of mine out in W.Q.
made a dam against the time rain might come
again. The country was
powder-dry, and remained
so for two years after the
dam had been completed ;
and after rain did fall,
deluging the whole coun-
try, he found the dam
fully stocked with yabbies
as lively as the best of
them. As they could not
have come by any water-
way, were they there all
along, asleep somewhere
below the surface ? I
have found yabbies while
digging for water in long-
dry billabongs and creeks,
where they must have been
asleep for years, if it’s
water they require to wake
’em up. Along the bore-
drains the water seems to
bring them out in thou-
sands. As they’re quite
good eating they suggest
a new industry, and the
export of dried and bottled
yabbies may yet give Aus-
tralia another boost.
* *
“Pick”: The bush
linguist contrives some
fanciful synonyms for the
common terms of hard
yakker. Shifting dirt with
a shovel is “swinging the
banjo,” stone-breaking is
“napping the diamonds”
and fleece-rolling is “don-
ning the apron.” Accord-
ing to the cut a shearer
either “tomahawks” or
“pinks” his sheep, the
cook’s assistant “offsides”
and the potato-digger is a
“toad-grubber.” The pros-
pector “gully rakes,” the
rabbiter “yawns his sets”
and the wattle-bark
stripper “shames the
brush.” Milking is “teat-
pulling, digging out thistles is “magpie-ing,”
and when a squatter applies for a gang of “emu-
bobbers” he wants men to pick up the sticks and
bark littering his paddocks.
* „ *
Pick”: For stamina and endurance the
fox, compared with the
dingo, is a weakling. Any
stockhorse has speed
enough to wheel either
from the wire fences, and
on the stone-strewn plains
of Gunningrah and Bibben-
luke (N.S.AV.) I’ve seen
riders gallop upon the
fugitive or cripple him
with whip-handle or stirrup-
iron. Reynard usually
caves in after a gruelling
over two or three miles.
Gasping pitifully, he sud-
denly crouches and submits
whimperingly to his
waddying without further
resistance. But the dingo
is unbeatable. With bleed-
ing paws and foam-drip-
ping, lolling tongue, he
staggers on, with never a
yelp, and when overhauled
will fight back with bale-
ful viciousness. To eventu-
ally run him down means
to sadly rack the sound-
ness of an honest stock-
horse.
“Azac”: Let me put
in a word for the work
of the quail in keeping
down insect pests. The
best that most people are
able to say about this
bird is that it is “good
sport” or “good eating.”
But those are its failings.
Both the stubble and the
painted quail have a lik-
ing for a variety of insects
which should make them
the farmer’s best friends.
For a good hearty meal
they mix a few grass or
weed seeds, or even wheat
grains with army worms,
Rutherglen bugs, potato beetles, wire-worms, cut-
worms and grasshoppers, not to mention numerous
beetles, ants and other pests. The King quail
(Excalfactoria australis), however, has no insectivo-
rous habits, and they are almost wholly totally
missing in the red-backed quail (Turnix maculosa)
of Queensland, which is mainly a seed- and fruit-
eater.
“G.P.L.F.”: ‘-Bill R ” (B. 17/8/’22) is
away up the pole concerning' Mrs. Jimmy Governor
being a quadroon. “Sir Spen” was correct in saying
she was white. There’s not the shadow of a dark
streak in her or her forebears. Her father and
mother lived just out from Home Rule (N.S.W.), and
the latter was an educated woman and an accom-
plished pianist. I was one of the party who organ-
ised a benefit concert for her and her children at
SPURNING THE SUGGESTION.
"Say, ole man, I think we’re just about as ‘shot’ as one ’notlier
“You may he. Pers’n’ly, I’m — I'm not so drunk as either o’ us.”
Gulgong, at which Mrs. Governor’s mother played
and sang. Later, at the scene of the Breelong
tragedy, I was “doing” the case for a Sydney daily
and had an interview with Madam Jimmy, who
explained that the reason of her tying up with the
abo. was that he acted the Good Samaritan and
purchased food for the family when they were liter-
ally starving. Giles Shaw, one of Sydney’s S.M.’s,
can verify my statement as to her whiteness. He
conducted the inquest on the bodies of the Breelong
victims.
* * *
“Ned Kelly”; Near Cobargo (N.S.W.)
lecently I got a buster and a bad ducking through
my horse suddenly losing the use of his legs In
crossing a knee-deep creek. I had been mustering
“poddies” in the hills, and had several times ridden
through beds of stinging nettles, but the horse had
taken no notice of them. The man I was with said
a horse will often go in the legs, as mine did, if
taken into water after being ridden through nettles,
and I’m wondering if it’s so.
*
“Toby C.”: You can’t always tell. I
knew a chap down on Monaro who could handle the
most notorious outlaw in horseflesh, but you couldn't
coax him ito a 10-acre paddock with a mob of
milking cows. Another first-class rough-rider—who
bashed policemen as a side-line—lived in daily dread
of dogs, even the little woolly dogs in the back
street bluffed him. Again, a chap who hawked tea
on the north-west coast of the Speck, and looked the
pait of the hawker even to the “Brummagem” he
wore, was known all along the coast as “Gertie.” A
day came when he invited all-comers to a friendly
“chop,” and cleaned up £5O in one day among the
axemen.
W.S.W.”: Re the use of the heliograph
out back (B. 13/7/’22). On Marion Downs (Q.)
cattle-station there are, during the present droughty
conditions, several camps running, and D. King (late
captain A.1.F.) and D. Mclnnes are in separate
camps about eight miles apart. They signal to each
other regularly by means of the helio-., and thus save
much riding and time.
* * * *
Bill R.” : TV hen Phil O’Mara ran the beer
pump at Jugiong, on the ’Bidgee (N.S.W.), one of
bis prized possessions was a three-legged dog. The
mong. had had a fore-leg crushed off by a waggon
wheel when three weeks old; and thereafter his
remaining prop grew underwards until it appeared to
sprout from the centre of his brisket. He used to
go hunting with us, and could give a rabbit or
kangaroo-rat the flutter of its life in a straight run.
Ragar”: What is it that prevents a
billycan, in which tea has been brewed, from rust-
ing? Last year I used one for seven months,
making tea in it at least five times every day. On
my return to the city I hung it up in an outhouse,
ai. while hunting up my old camp kit yesterday I
oun it as good as ever, without a sign' of rust on
i , inside or out. Th e shed is far from weather-
pioo , and the garden tools get coated with rust
it fo . ICft l!lere ‘ liu t a ki iifr the billy along with
- atilda again next month. Is there some oil in the
tea that preserves the metal?
* * * *
Saaedi ; Recent Abo. pars, concerning
Binghi s exclusive brand of logic reminds me. 1 once
had a flash young Binghi breaking in horses for me,
and one morning remonstrated with him for mount-
ing an unbroken colt on the wrong side. The nig.
showed a gleam of teeth in a superior smile. “That
all right, boss,” he said condescendingly; “this phirry
’oss dunno it’s the wrong side yet.”
* * * *
"Lass”: I can assure “L.E.0.” (B.
17/8/ 22) that it is a fairly simple matter to poison
erows with strychnine. Two men here in the Bourke
(N.S.W.) district were laying butter baits recently
for foxes, and jam baits for bunnies. Strychnine
was the medium in each case, and they slaughtered
more crows than foxes or rabbits. The butter baits
were put down just before sunset, and were picked
up at daylight.
“Jim Carew”; I recently helped to cut
out a bees’ nest from a tree at Sackville, Hawkesburv
River (N.S.W.), and the good supply of honey we
got was colored a light blue. The others are
using their share, but I’m a bit doubtful. Can any
Abo. explain the unusual coloring?
* * * *
“Ack F. C.”: Travelling by car from
Koorlong (Vic.) to Renmark on a recent very dark
night I suddenly found that two emus were racing
alongside. I accelerated, but so did the birds, and
then I noticed that they were closing in on the front
of the car as if attracted by the headlight. Twice
1 swerved quickly to save hitting one of them, but
the third time I skidded and crashed into him.
Since then I have noticed that a car light has a
deadly fascination for all our wild animals, and
have seen bunny sit bewildered right in the track
until he was too late to dodge. What is the explana-
tion?
* * * *
“Wild Oat”: “Jim Carew” (B. 20/7/’22)
says nearly all Australian snakes dig their own bur-
rows. How does he know? I find they generally camp
in old stump-holes, warrens or hollow timber. Cer-
tainly some burrows seem as if they were tailor-
made, but on the matter being probed with a mattock
they invariably prove otherwise. I might add that
during the recent floods in these parts (Richmond,
N.S.W.) the waters drove all brands of wrigglers to
the higher levels, but I failed to notice any rep-
tilian shaft-sinkers among them.
“Profundus” his lecture
“Pro” (B. 20/7/’22) errs in supposing his bones
to be fossilised, whereas they are really calcified.
Fossils are found embedded in solid stone, and their
formation, through vast ages, is due to exceptionally
slow decomposition in sedimentary deposits, such as
the muddy bottoms of lagoons mentioned by “FY7”
(B. 17/8/’22). But petrified or loose specimens are
due to quick decomposition and impregnation by
mineral solutions. The limestone (carbonate of
lime) dissolved in rain or surface water, owing to
the presence of carbonic acid, impregnates the bone,
which is mainly sulphate of lime and cartilage. The
carbonates attack and displace the sulphates, and
simultaneously the decaying organic matter neutral-
ises the carbonic acid in the water, causing it to
precipitate sediment in its place, and thus in time
the whole of the organic lime and humus of the bone
is replaced by the deposit, called calcsinter, which
retains the original form ; and this process, some-
what erroneously styled petrification, has been known
to take place, under favorable conditions, in a few
years. The marble graining which “Pro” emphasises
is caused by chalybeate, sulphide of iron in solu-
tion, which probably comes down from other deposits
when the stream which runs through Borenore
PRETTY MEAN.
“ ’E’s mean, ain’t he?”
"Mean! He’s that mean lie wouldn’t let
your dog have a drink at his mirage.”
Caves (fs.S.W.) is in flood, and this also is precipi-
tated by reaction of the carbonates, giving vellow
and reddish streaks in the resulting compound. In
the absence of iron the result is pure white and
very like a bleached bone. Good examples of these
have been found in great quantities in the sand-
dunes at Barranjoey (N.S.W.), and the probability-
ot their recent origin is accepted because the Port
Stephens and Manly tribes are known to have had a
big scrap there in early settlement days.
AUGUST—SEPTEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sarsaparilla time is here.
August, the girl of the glad little year,
Goes out in a bonnet of pink and white —
Boronia, heath and snow-blossom light.
Over and over the gullies she shakes
Wattle as yellow as grandmamma’s cakes.
•September is waiting to chase her away
With orchid and lily and bough of wild may.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


X .
9
m
%»
&
;
K
'•\
H
.
Mos£, tl
1
W
.i ”
'V «
• i "j
W i • If
v
*AA
: ■ • ”' < '■&
K
m
• '’ - »
wmmmm
:
■ illSili
*■* . - '” -* i
;
II
ft". Afe
mmm m
mmm
, |fe ?
>A- ■■;•
iSISSISS
11 ; 1
-
:
»
v ,'/* L / fb y , \
A:«I3
-
A
■fS-Ss
11 | , i
A fS||
_ \ rc jfipjH i
|hv v\?,& ->. a ■ , ?'■%'?
\
\
f *■ A J*' * |
:», -■ ' ? i
’> A . :
". • A
■ ' . •> .. . : \ >' • ;Va, , . • ,f r v
o
|i/jOTORING has its advantages and attractions
all the year round, but “blossom time” is a
period when motorists begin to take a keener
interest in their outings, and look forward to
country trips. The lure of the bush in Spring time
appeals to most motorists—who are to be envied
their opportunities of enjoying the blossom season
in the fullest measure. Untrammelled by train or
boat, masters of pace and distance, motorists can
partake of the gifts of the bush with ease and
comfort. So fill up the tanks, pump up the
tyres, and away to the blossoms—to health and
happiness. To make your trips doubly enjoy-
able, use tyres that will carry you anywhere
free of trouble. Select dependable “Railroad”
DUNLOP TYR
they are noted for their staunchness, their
ability to withstand continual hard driving, their
great mileage, and their low running cost.
It’s best to take no risks —fit “Dunlops” and
thereby enjoy to the full—the pleasures of
motoring. Any garage can supply your require-
ments. List mailed on application.
DUNLOP
RUBBER
CO. . . .
ALL STATES
—AND N. Z.


OAuvj
9 yi
M
m
m
yi
fit.
£
m
r
1/
3
MUIHHU
POWERS
OF NATURE
Man has never produced
y a power equal to the pent-up '
forces of Nature. Shell Motor
Spirit distills direct from Natures
hands free from all impurities,
and as it needs no artificial
aids it retains all its
natural power.
JAe Spipit
tAe{/4pp
ddtjpj^
SHELL
MOTOR SPIRIT
fs
□
LU
0
x
c
JILJj
ft C
n
m
Dodge Brothers dedicated themselves, from the very first, to
the production of a car which should rise superior to all
external conditions, and be, in effect, and in fact, a law unto
itself. They were convinced that they should produce a car
so sound in value, so saving and so satisfactory to the
individual owner, that no outside influence could shake its hold
upon the public.
That Dodge Brothers succeeded is evidenced by the fact that
Dodge Brothers Motor Car is more strongly and soundly
entrenched in the good-will of the world at this moment than
ever in its history.
Dodge Brothers Motor Car is in demand because Dodge
Brothers Motor Car meets a definite economic need and
satisfies a human craving for honest and substantial value
The petrol consumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
r
j
sa
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Just Charming
By “PHLOX/
A CAREER is all right, Audrey, as
far as it goes; but I don’t think
it is sufficient to satisfy the aver-
age woman’s heart.”
"I suppose, Aunt, that’s why you gave
up your medical practice and married Uncle
Edward.”
‘A es. I was getting on in years when I
married. I had begun to feel that want of
companionship with someone I could really
call my own—someone who was more to me
than a friend.”
“Those are my sentiments, Aunt. I feel
I have a more interesting career than most
women with a lectureship at the University
and my research work in archaeology, but
there’s something wanting.”
“And that something, my dear Audrey, is
a husband. I’ve been through the same thing
myself, and I know —it’s the same old story,
old yet ever new. I loved my profession as
you love yours, but alone it was unsatisfy-
ing.”
“Yes, Aunt. I realised that when I saw
Nita Anderson’s radiantly happy face as she
announced her engagement to be married;
then I realised that even a career does not
compensate for a life of single blessedness.
You remember that jolly girl who passed so
brilliantly in Arts! She’s going to marry
Professor Butler.”
“And I think, Audrey, it’s about time
you looked around for a husband. You’re
not cut out for an old maid, though of late
you’ve acquired one or two little prim ways,
and the average man does like a little bit of
fluffiness about a woman.”
"What do you mean?”
"I mean that you want to take more pains
with your general appearance ; fluff out your
hair a bit, and so on.”
“But I don’t happen to have fluffy hair.”
“Then you’ve got to fluff it; also to im-
prove your skin; in fact, where Nature has
been deficient, supply the deficiency with
art. That’s what I do. But I promised
to meet Uncle at 6 o’clock, and it’s nearly
that now—l must be going. Good-bye,
Audrey, and think over what I’ve told you.”
Audrey Johnson was thinking over what
her practical aunt had suggested when she
was interrupted by someone wrapping on her
study door.”
“Come in,” she called.
Professor Livingstone’s pretty wife
entered. She had come to ask Miss Johnson
to join in a send-off to Nita Anderson.
After this had been satisfactorily arranged
they talked of all kinds of things.
Audrey had often noticed what pretty,
fluffy hair Mrs. Livingstone hud, and how
beautifully she dressed it. Why not ask
her for some hints on hairdressing?
Mrs. Livingstone felt quite flattered at be-
ing asked for advice by clever Miss Johnson.
"So much depends,” she told her, “on the
way the hair - is shampooed as to whether
the hairdressing will be a success. Per-
sonally, I always use Stallax,” said Mrs.
Livingstone, "and I find it makes the hair
beautifully glossy, fluffy and easy to dress.”
“And that’s just what I want,” replied
Miss Johnson.
"Do you ever use a hair tonic?”
“No, I’m afraid I’ve never given much
thought to my appearance, but I intend to
turn over a new leaf in that respect.”
“I can give you a recipe for a simple,
home-made tonic. You buy a package of
boranium from the chemist, mix it with
a quarter of a pint of bay lum, anu rub into
the scalp occasionally.
“Do you know,” went on bright little
Mrs. Livingstone, “a little while ago I was
getting quite grey, and I happened to hear
a woman in a chemist’s shop ask for two
ounces of concentrate of tammalite and three
ounces of bay rum to mix with it. She
then turned to her friend and said that there
was nothing like it for restoring grey hair to
its original color. I thereupon ordered the
same, and now I haven’t the sign of a grey
hair.”
“I’m glad to know of that, too, for I’m
continually pulling grey hairs out of my
head.”
“tfut, Miss Johnson, when you begin to
look after your hair you must also look
after your skin, and I find that there’s
nothing like mercolized wax for keeping the
skin soft, clear and free from blemishes.”
“My aunt was telling me that I badly need
a skin food, but she didn’t tell me what to
use.”
“All the well-preserved women I know
seem to use mercolized wax. It contains
oxygen, and removes the old worn-out skin
so imperceptibly and painlessly that you
don’t know the process is going on until
some fine day one of your friends will re-
mark, ‘I don’t know what you’ve been doing
to your skin, but it’s like a baby’s.’ ”
“Then, that’s certainly the cream for me.”
“Well, if you care to come round to my
place when you have time ,1 will show you
a pretty way of dressing your hair, -jelieve
me, my husband always keeps me up to the
mark, and is delighted to hear people whis-
per as we pass, ‘Look! isn’t she just charm-
ing?’ ”
Bicrolium Jelly for whitening the hands
—all chemists. — Advt.


Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY-
' FI
= 'v
COUGHS
COLDS
3
CHOVP
LUNG
T2OUBUS
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
working-man is refusing to work hard or for
low wages, a phenomenon which Chgradame
attributes to German-Jew propaganda, but
which may be due merely to the fact that
the F'rench, having won the war, do not
consider that they should pay for it in hard
labor. The Germans of ail classes are toil-
ing desperately. Pan-Germanism, says the
author of “La Mystification des Peuples
allies”; dread of starvation, or even, in
some cases, a desire to make amends, sug-
gest less prejudiced observers. Anyhow, the
net result is that German trade is advancing
to the detriment of the trade of the country
Germany has wronged. And Germany is
avoiding its liabilities. It is claimed, in this
book, that if the Boche cannot be persuaded,
or forced, to pay up within a year or so
France will have to suspend payment of its
war pensions and the interest on its foreign
debts. If it is so—and here the evidence is
highly convincing—what measures can be
too drastic to bring the recalcitrant debtor
up to the scratch? The answer of the
author is a resounding “None!”; and most
Australians who read his book will be dis-
posed to agree with him.
G.K.C. and the Church
A recent cable which mentioned that Ches-
terton had officially joined the Church of
Rome merely produced in most people a
feeling of mild surprise that he had not
done it long ago. His brother Cecil, killed
during the war, was a Catholic; so is
Hilaire Belloc, his boon-companion. The
paper with which their names have been
especially associated, The New Witness
(it started life as The Eye Witness) is
more than tinged with Catholicism, and its
pages have always been popular with such
Catholic writers as Katherine Tynan and
the Meynells. There are few Catholic insti-
tutions which have not Chesterton’s books
on their shelves, and one rarely meets a
Catholic who has read at all who does not
know his writings.
But it is precisely his bent to Catholicism
that has made of G.K.C. the greatest
(I6baclc in contemporary letters. The
subtlety and spiritual insight which he pos-
sesses, his amazing intellectual alertness, his
force and charm, have all been harnessed
to the rigid limits of the dogmas of the
Church. His book on Ireland (like all his
social and economic writings) lures us with
elaborate care to the conclusion that the
only solution of our industrial problems
lies' in the “Encyclical. Letter” of Pope Leo
XIII. on the subject—the solution propa-
gated by the Chesterbelloc school as Distri-
butivism. His book, “The Superstition of
Divorce,” which contains the most ex-
quisitely-idealistic picture of the family in
modern literature (an ideal so high, as Shaw
pointed out, that it would need a community
of saints to live up to it), is a piece of what
appears to be careful and. dispassionate rea-
soning, but turns out to be fierce propaganda
in favor of the orthodox Catholic, view of the
irrevocability of the marriage tie. His play,
“Magic” (performed recently in Sydney by
the Repertory Society), throws all its deli-
cacy, all its wit, all its freshness and drama-
tic unconventionality into the effort to
assert the Catholic attitude towards spirit-
ualism —that “spirits” do exist as indepen-
dent entities, but that they are “evil.” His
views on European politics, too, are always
determined by his religious bias —for
example, his championing of the Poles de-
spite the Imperialistic chauvinism that has
ranked them with France (since the war)
as one of the most idiotically reactionary
peoples in Europe. Ilis recent pronounce-
ments on psycho-analysis, in a London jour-
nal, were made from the same standpoint.
His last book (“Eugenics and Other Evils”)
again and again soils its magnificent sanity
and hot indignation at injustice with
Romanist dogmatisms.
This vitiating spirit inspires all his writ-
ing. He cannot touch any subject whatever
in a spirit of scientific detachment. His
conclusions are fixed before he begins, and
they are always the conclusions of the ortho-
dox Catholic.
Of course, G.K.C. has the virtues of his
defects. Whatever may determine his sym-
pathies, there are few living men who could
defend them so ably. He does not “discuss”
superficially; his every experience seems like
a direct dealing with his God. He has lav-
ished throughout his books a deeper appre-
ciation of democracy and a finer sense of the
mysterious divinity of the common man than
any living writer. He has-a fierce scorn for
“ail men governing” and for the essential
economic injustices of our time. He has a
rollicking enthusiasm for ceremonies and
pageantry which, if universal, would trans-
form our drab civilisation to a perpetual
carnival. He expresses such a naive wonder
at common things as almost to justify the
gibe that has been thrown at him that he
has never grown up.
But perhaps the finest thing about him
is a sense of the mysterious wonder of a
human personality. The man ivho has de-
scribed marriage as “one dizzy toppling
equilibrium crashing into another” can be
forgiven adherence to dogmas however rigid,
and a faith however inelastic.
S. N. ROBINOVITZ.
Literary Taste
Recently W. L. George desisted long
enough from his attack upon everything
British to break a lance with Arnold Ben-
nett. The subject of the encounter was
the public peddling of the handbook to Par-
nassus and the adjacent paddocks, which
the gentleman from the Five Towns en-
titled “Literary Taste.” In this book Ben-
nett is in his best “Come, let us reason to-
gether” mood. Such a wealth of adverb,
adjective and noun! Such an easy-flowing
sequence of sentences, penned with that
characteristic magazine-writer’s lightness of
touch, all proving at length how fine a thine
is an appreciation of English literature, all
urging the multitude to conscientious study
of the recognised classics (a list of which is
provided), and all bidding them hope that
they might one day be able more easilv to
look into the recesses of the mind of" the
superior Mr. Bennett. The method is beau-
tifully simple. Bennett starts off obligingly
to tell us “why a classic is a classic.” A
classic, he says, is a work which has given
and continues to give pleasure. If we are
unable to appreciate a book that has sur-
vived the passage of the centuries, the fault
is in us and not in it.
“There it is,” he cries: “it’s a classic, and
that’s the end of it. If you don’t like it.
very well, you need never pride yourself
upon possessing literary taste again.” And
then he proceeds to retail to the ambitious
reader a list of two or three hundred
volumes, many of which are positively penal.
Bennett’s list of reading for the literary
aspirant commences with —what? The
“Ecclesiastical History” of the Venerable
Bede, the dimmest and most moth-eaten his-
torian of all our chroniclers! And then
he goes on to give us the “Autobiography
of Lord Herbert of Cherbury,” Reynold’s
“Discourses,” Berkeley’s “Principles of
Human Understanding,” and the “Voyage
of the Beagle.” To me the Vener-
able Bede makes no appeal. There
may be unfortunates at our universi-
ties who are forced to read him; there
may be scholars to whom he is a piquant
personality by reason of bis very remoteness.
It is their view that has rescued him from
the dusty top shelf, that has dragged him
through unwilling editions and made him a
classic; but to me he is as dead as the dodo.
At the risk of appearing altogether uncul-
tured and unworthy to enter the Bennett
temple, I must confess that there are a
great number of classics which Ido not
wish to read. They comprise Landor (prose)
and Cowper (poetry), Greene’s impossible
plays, Walt Whitman’s forcible drivel,
Plume, Huxley, Gibbon (and most his-
torians), Ralph Emerson, Carlyle, George
Herbert. Donne (when he turned religious).
Sir Walter Scott, Meredith, Macaulay and
Ilenry James.
It is true that I possess many of these
books, just as I possess some unnecessary
pictures and superfluous suits. Some of them
I bought because they were fair to look
upon, some because I thought that I really
ought to have them, and others because I
wanted to spend money. But to ask me to
read them is surely unreasonable. They may
be classics, but they do not suit my taste.
If, after a suitable term of fasting and
repentance, I reach the mood in which I
can read the “Little Flowers of St. Francis,
I may receive a certain amount of pleasure.
But I know that T shall receive infinitely
more from Conrad’s “Rescue” or De la Mare s
“Poems” without all that unnecessary trouble.
We have only a certain amount of time to
read, just as we have only a certain amount
of money to spend : and we should put it
to that which will give us the greatest
retui’n.
QUETIN POPE.
Literary Confessions
Ibsen’s “He is greatest who stands most
alone” is countered (spiritually, if not
chronologically) by Lord Bacon’s observa-
tion that the complete solitary is either
“a beast or a god.” The evidence would
seem to be in favor of the astute earl, for
the greatest individualists have had over-
whelming impulses to express their thoughts,
their inmost convictions, their very vanities
and crimes to a world equally eager to re-
ceive them. As most of these things fre-
quently touch the prejudices of their (often
famous) contemporaries, the urge is diverted
into curious forms. Hence the_ tendency to
leave “journals” and “confessions” to be
published years ahead when, presumably,
those most likely to be offended will, in Ross-
etti’s phrase, “have the earth upon their
eyes.”
A few years ago the De Musset letters
were published, and the eager eyes of the
literary scandal-mongers and “students of
human nature” scanned the pages for what
was to be found. The other day, in accord-
ance with the will of Edmond, the De Don-
court journal came before the French
Government censor, and was hastily put out
of sight of the populace, in the French
National Library’s “secret archives.” It was
found “to be too full of scandalous anecdotes
concerning well-known living people,” and
“contains much fiction in addition to inde-
cency and libel.” All of which will whet
the appetites of the curious still more.
James Huneker says that Bernard Shaw
is writing his autobiography, with direc-
tions that it is to be left l in the
British Museum for half-a-eentury be-
fore it is seen by the vulgar. One can
imagine, in a dim that if lie tells what
he really thinks about his contemporaries
it will be a book worth seeing, and an added
reason for the common desire for longevity!
Wilde left, as everyone knows, a similar
“confession,” or whatever it is (“De Pro-
fundis” forms part of it), but the necessi-
ties of various legal actions, in which
Lord Alfred Douglas has been involved, have
caused most, if not all, of it to be read in
court.
Frank Harris, the enfant terrible of
modern letters, has announced his autobio-
graphy, adding that he purposes telling the
absolute truth. As he has met nearly everyone
worth meeting of his generation and ours,
and has an abnormally keen eye. this should
stir up a few bees’ nests. If he carries
out his declared intention and does tell the
actual truth, as he knows it, he will betray
more courage than most literary men pos-
sess. The expedient of throwing the con-
fessional into posterity is an easy way out,
but Harris scorns it; he w r ill burst the
bomb where he stands.
George Moore did something very similar
in “Hail and Farewell.” In fact, he did
two things. He not only justified in the
confessional sections the remark that “some
men kiss and tell, Mr. Moore tells but does
not kiss”; he also provided us with scan-
dalous full-length caricatures of his con-
temporaries of the Irish “Renaissance.”
H. G. Wells, too, in “Boon,” gave us a
private view of his real feelings about many
of his friends and enemies, and his neat malice
must have caused a squirm or a writhe here
and there. It is a difficult matter to forget
the conversation between George Moore and
Henry James, or the exclusion of A. R.
Orage from the meeting of the literary
1i0n5....
These we have seen, or may see (if we live
long enough) ; but what of the others?
Many of us would forego a good deal to
read a confession and frank commentary
on his times by Max Beerbohm (illustrated
by the author) or by G. K. Chesterton, or
by A. R. Orage, or by—but enough !
J. S.
A Satchel of Books
Woodland Creatures, by Frances Pitt (Geo. Allen
and Unwin, Ltd.). A series of chatty studies of
birds and animals of the English countryside by a
keen and sympathetic observer, who has already
achieved some success with her “Wild Creatures of
Garden and Hedgerow.” The book, which is in no
v>ay technical, makes a special appeal to English
noonle, but is of interest to nature-lovers everywhere.
Some excellent photographs add much to its value.
A Soul’s Comedy, by George Stevenson (John
Lane). The somewhat ‘ sloppily-told story of two
young Anglican clerics. Apparently they supply
the “soul” between them, and such “comedy” as
there is concerns their respective attitudes towards
Rome (1) at the beginning of the book, and (2) at
the end thereof. A bishop or two and a few lesser
church dignitaries, including monks, skirmish
around in the background.
Tarrant of Tin Spout, by Henry Oyen (Hodder
and Stoughton, London), is a work of fiction con-
taining most of the ingredients wherewith a Yankee
him picture thrills impressionable youth. There is
a hard-as-nails, resourceful hero who cows “bad
men” and circumvents a malevolent speculator and
cuts out the latter with his girl, as one realises is
inevitable from the start. The most interesting
feature of the book is that the scene is laid on a
Texan oilfield. Are ’Murkan “oilmen” going to dis-
possess the cowboy of his fictional vogue, even as
the cowboy displaced Bret Harte’s gold-digger?
The Wee Dog and Other Essays, by Alan D. Mickle
(Jervis Manton). Some of the essays have appeared
in The Bulletin and some in the Australasian ;
others are published for the first time. They are all
thoughtful and thought-provoking, as befits a writer
whose mind has an introspective cast. There is
much that is interesting about Youth and Beauty.
There is an ingenious parallel between Fitzgerald’s
translation of the “Rubaiyat” and Dennis’s “Mooch
of Life.” But the style sometimes descends to flat-
ness, and with some of the author’s judgments most
readers will violently disagree. Conrad, for instance,
is described as “temperamentally Russian.” No one
would resent this more than the self-reliant Pole.
Whitman is dismissed, most unjustly, as “the great-
est hoax ever perpetrated on the literary world.”
What poet of our time has expressed the Great War
as Whitman expressed his country’s Civil War?
Wood Cuts (Art in Australia, Ltd.). A collec-
tion of about a score of small prints from blockß cut
by Lionel Lindsay, who, with the true restlessness
of the Lindsays, finds he simply has to express some-
thing with boxwood and graver. (It’s only a matter
of time and one of the family will startle Sydney
with a framed masterpiece in colored wools.) In
these cuts Lionel, by artistically directing a consider-
able amount of manual dexterity, has evolved some
promising results. This is notably the case where
he has used the “white line” and exploited the vital
juxtaposition of glowing blacks and whites. Ho is
least happy in some of his human figures—mainly
through careless draughtsmanship—but the general
level of his ’prentice achievement is commendably
high, and the volume makes an interesting addition
to the growing list of Australian art publications.
The Critic and the Drama, by George Jean Nathan
(Knopf). The diverting author of “Comedians All,”
“Mr. Georg**! Jean Nathan Presents.” and other striking
volumes on the theatre appears in this book as
a pungent essayist, with many fresh and piercing
comments on the profession he follows so ably. Few
of the show-reviewers on the lower planes of criti-
cisin will agree at once with his argument, but
if they have any ear for English that combines stark
wisdom with delightful effrontery they will he
wheedled into some sort of agreement by his style,
Nathan, as critic and writer, owes his present un-
challenged position to the ingenuity with which he
avoids the print-worn commonplaces of duller men.
You may search his critiques on American plays
for a decade and you will never find him masking
his opinion in the faded adjectives, “charming” and
“convincing.” He always has a rich, new phrase
concealed about him, and he uses it as effectively as
the gtar nian of the o j d battalion did a Mills bomb.
„ . ~. Memorable, by Sir James Denham
/-Hutchinson) This is a volume of gossip about
notabilities written bv a man who has a positive
j for the j llept a 'nd futile. Apparently, he has
f , ost of hi ‘ i on „ life hobnobbing with the
Great an( j ] a pping up the alleged wisdom that fell
f rom their lips. Tf his record is reliable, then the
English ruling classes are duller than one had sus-
pected, and personages of the calibre of Gladstone,
Beaconsfleld and Swinburne had theii ''lose seasons
of «>lann imbecility. foUowing little tale of
Edward VII. gives a fair idea of Denhams quality,
“I may give another instance from my own know-
ledge of King Edward’s love of accuracy and eagle
eye for anything that was wrong.
of mine was page of honor to Queen Victoria, ana
whilst awaiting her Majesty sappearance or a "
ing-room, King Edward then Prince of Wales, noticed
that the boy had omitted the correct adjustment of
the shoulder-knot, and turning to him said: Tell
them at home to look after you more carefully.’ ’
are over 300 pages of distressing stuff like that,
Every schoolboy and many under-graduates know
the value of the rhyme for memorising purposes, r.
r. Barlee, barrister-at-law of Sydney, has carried the
idea out of the examination arena in his Legal Jingles
a nd Case Law Verses (Dymock’s), but with the same
object in view. In the most ingenious fashion the
learned author manages often in four lines, never in
more than a dozen, to state a legal principle and
indicate at least one leading case in support
There is something ha g
ances from Ruinous 1 remises .
“As a stranger perchance you an lnjuiy taae
From a building that’s out of repair,
in some cases (two only) the landlord you malic
‘Ante-up’—not the tenant. Beware
whom you sue, you should look up to see that you re
right ,
(It’s in 9 Commou Bench) the case Todd against
Flight.”
p or Browning-like compression of a tremendous state-
m(,nt j ri t<-» a few words “Immoral Contracts’* will take
a j ot 0 f beating:—
“Immoral Contracts
Pearce v Brooks
t, .1. rvmrr
1 j u an g er i oo i {S ”
„ on entitled
mere are pieniy inm ** Tinwlt.Jnort of the
Case Law Verses, Legal o^Uie
book consists of long
quaint and well-injme .
Confessions of a Well-Meaning Woman * by Stephen
McKenna (Cassell, via Dyinock’s). Leutves from the
dj ar y 0 f i, a( |y Ann Spenworth, veteran/string-puller
a „d spo iler of true-love matches, tier henpecked
husband is a company director; her <eub a 1915-18
staff-officer of the sort that never came under fire
except by accident. In mad revolt against domestic
tyranny the husband “leaves the rails,” as a coarse
relative expresses it. Lady Ann calls* on the lady:
“She was lying on the sofa in a kitmono and noth-
j„g e ] se ; a lovely animal, with perfect skin, a great
mane of copper-hair and golden-browm eyes. I wisli
I could describe her room to you : lingerie, gloves,
handkerchiefs, the finest silk stockitngs and every-
thing thrown about on floor and stain? like so much
waste paper. And I in rags, that honestly 1 am
ashamed for my maid to see.... I had to tell her
rt ‘ ay were. - - .
OH B° y Bay ® lt; will 1)0 '! sa "'
and I could see that she was exhaimted by the rare
exertion of thinking. Fntu you have heard your
husband described as Old Boy by a half-
naked chorus-girl who is slowly bleeding him to
death, you have not realised how highly your self-
restraint may be tested.
Not all the confessions (there are a dozen altogether)
are up to that standard. But they are mostly
peopled with flesh-and-blood characters delineated
with a sly humor; and the episode of Lady Ann
and the Other Person can be read again and again.


df
CORRECT
WEIGHTS
for your
RABBIT
skins, and accurate
counts for all other
skins.
Top Market
Values.
Prompt Returns!
That is what
owners secure who
consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm are expert, painstaking -and atten-
tive. Hence the excellent results they
obtain for senders.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
MADE BY R. & J. DICK, LTD.
THE RUST-PROOF BRIGHT METAL
PUATING of the inside and outside
surfaces considerably increases the life
of BARRY Steel Split Pulley, render-
ing: it absolutely immune from rust
and corrosion.
There are no rivets in a BARRY Pulley to
work loose or shear under strain. The tubulat
reinforcement inside the rim preserves the
exact shape of the pulley under heavy loads.
This also ensures true running under all
conditions.
Write for Free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
1
• I».
Wj
I'.l,
i|J
IP
Ml
1
1
H
1 a
ll I a
NATURES
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no per-
fumes truer to nature than
7ENOBIA
Zenobia Lily of the Valley—is as charm-
ing as the tender appeal of the living
flowers.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Bios-
som —a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to-nature.
The original perfume of
the name.
Zeno b i a Night-scented
Stock—as sweet as the
perfume of an old-world
garden—a great favorite.
Manufactured only by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents tor New Zea-
land (Wholesale only) :
Newson & Co., Ltd.,
P.O. Box 1162, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydney.
t
SI
35
<s
£
& J <3 iM'l&lPo®
FULLEK-lEHIGH
PULVERIZED FUEL-FIRING SYSTEMS
are Far Beyond Experimental Stages.
COMMERCIAL-SIZED UNITS NOW BEING INSTALLED IN
AUSTRALIA FOR:—
Australian Portland Cement Co., Geelong.
Electricity Commissioners, Newport, Victoria.
Wallaroo & Moonta Mining & Smelting Co., South Australia.
National Portland Cement, Limited, Tasmania.
Victorian Railways.
TV e can you» a Plant in operation.
Send for particulars to
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LIMITED,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, PERTH, BRISBANE,
AUSTRALASIAN ENGINEERS FULLER LEHIGH CO.,
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. [1
9
%
:
Send your Inquiries to the
Wholesale, Distributors —
The Lawrence and
Hanson Electrical
Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Newcastle, Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Well-
ington (N.Z.), Auckland,
Christchurch, New Ply-
mouth.
/
“Metropolitan Razor”
Manufactured throughout
by CHRISTOPHER
JOHNSON & CO.j at their
Western Works, Sheffield.
For quick and easy shav-
ing use this famous
Razor, which is of the
finest quality and has a
world-wide reputation.
,e.G‘ ST^
CJ
Price 10/6 of all stores. If unable to procure send postal note to their
representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Street, Sydney.
THE PERFECT MILK
VI
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
Judge by the Milk in the T;n
Your Grocer Stocks It!
Skandia
' ■•
-Aft
'm&
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole A grants for Australasia and South Soa Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
"Lou”: The Queensland Labor Govern-
ment does its bit of profiteering, too. One
ot its waitresses at the Bundaberg railway
refreshment-rooms knocked me back a shill-
a billy of tea. And, while I argued
"’!? b. 0 , 1 '- <>ne of her fellow-slaves butted in
with If - twas meld charge yer one-and-six.”
Spanker”: An ancient joke in city busi-
ness houses is to send the new office-bov to
another fitrm for its day-book. The ioke
failed miserably the other day when, much
to A he J ok<3rs sur P ri se, the lad marched back
with the book under his arm. The boy at
the other firm’s counter was also a new-
and had got it for hirrf.
. Tariff reciprocity with New Zealand
has given the timber business in the Speck
a nasty knock. , The West Coast, which has
to meet direct competition from the New
white pine, has suffered particularly.
whvv, t cTi. n u ll s , at Macquarie Harbor, on
which Strahan largely depends now that
mining is up against it, have been closed.
, he picturesque business of rafting pine
logs down the Gordon, and other rivers, is
likely to be suspended indefinitely unless
some movie-man gets wise to it.
r uF'” : ca , m . < r like a gleam of sunlight to
lighten the daily routine. Our office had
turned down the claim of a cocky for the
loss of a turkey consigned to our care. This
was his letter of acknowledgment:
SI have to thank you for your letter re loss of tur-
y, and I have to tender the family’s deep appre-
:tion of your kindly condolence in our sad bereave-
int - H?d we received earlier advice of the demise
or our friend we would have arranged for one of the
family to be present at the funeral. Would it be
askmg too much of you to have a railing erected
around the grave and a photo sent?” erected
■■* * * *
Arbitration Courts had a busy time regu-
lating wages during 1921—1200 changes
were recorded m the Commonwealth The
persons affected totalled 732,265, and the
net amount of increases per week, after
allowing for the few instances where de-
creases were made, was £185,655, or an aver-
age increase of about ss. Id per week for
th °se who came under the awards. Strikes
m 1921 did not result in such serious losses
as the two previous years, the estimated loss
in wages being £757,028. The amount sac-
nficed in earnings during 1919 was esti-
mated at £3,901,936, and in 1920 £1,223 716
However there were 624 stop-work disputes
during .1921 which is enough to block the
industries of any country.
* * * *
“ Wilfrido”: A curious case came be-
ioie an M.L. Beak recently, when the
i™-™ 1 ' ,M, IF’Hti was charged under
I he Municipal Corporations Act, 1920,” with
having acted as mayor while incapacitated
from holding office by reason of being inter-
ested m a contract. The facts were simply
that when he resigned his position as
borough solicitor a sum of £37 was due to
him from the municipality, and was paid
after he became mayor. The Audit Depart-
ment, which at the present nloment is mak-
ing up for its record of inactivity in big
things by stirring up much dust over trivial
technicalities, ordered an inquiry. The magis-
trate, after chewing over the authorities,
came to the conclusion that the defendant
was concerned in the contract, and ruled
that the election was therefore null and void.
Senojo”: V ictoria’s miniature experi-
ment in the shires of Nunawading and Boo-
roondarra doesn’t encourage the idea that
prohibition prohibits. The week-end pil-
grimage to the nearest Bung-over-the-border
has rapidly become an established institu-
tion. Saturday-afternoon trains travelling
towards the arid area are full of citizens
freighting their own supplies. Sometimes they
use that conventional protector of suburban
respectability, the handbag, but more often
they hump triangular-ended parcels with the
telltale bulges that indicate three or five
bottles. I have been a regular traveller on
this line on Saturday afternoons (gather
what inference you may), and such a parcel
has come to connote a ticket to a station
m the dry” area. Grocers, with wine
licenses, will have to build a stable for per-
ambulators if the present rush is sustained
and it is claimed that there are already more
handbags in Nunawading and Booroondarra
than in any other two shires in the Com-
monwealth.
* * * *
“W.P.D.”: “Country Ped” (B. 17/8/’22)
is hardly fair to our newly-born cotton in-
dustry in comparing it—so far as child labor
is concerned —with dairying. Cows must be
milked twice a day, in all weathers all the
year round, and the morning operation takes
place when 95 per cent, of the folk who
dont depend on supplying milk for a living
are fast asleep abed. Cotton-picking is only
a seasonal occupation. Boys and girls
from 13 or 14 up to 18 find the work
easy and agreeable; and they soon
acquire dexterity enough to earn 15s. or
more a day without undue fatigue. Of
course, if the cotton-growing industry gets
fairly established, the A.W.U. will doubtless
take a hand, and the industry may be made
impossible unless self-picking crops are
grown. At present, however, there is no-
thing to prevent the farmers’ youngsters
from doing their bit in bringing success to
what may some day be a great Australian
enterprise.
* * Jf
“Dingo”: I apply for an injunction to
restrain “Tiberius” (B. 29/6/’22) from
proceeding further in the matter of pre-
serving eggs after the manner of the Chinese
Thousands of gross of these dainties found
their way into France during the war as
food for the Chinese Labor Corps. They
looked forbidding enough in the shell but
we really didn’t get to know them inti-
mately until a Boche airman dropped a
bomb on the Chinese ration dump. “Tib-
erius” can take my word for it that the
result was worse than a gas attack or
a wheat pool. Incidentally, the eggs, to-
gether with a variety of other delicacies
imported at vast expense from Southern
China, were regarded with distinct disfavor
by the coolies, all of whom came from the
North. The War Office was evidently not
aware that north and south are as far
apart m China as they are in the Distress-
ful Country, and tons of the “ration, Chi-
nese, special.” were dumped into the Channel
as worthless.


Don’t Neglect a Cold
“I think Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery by far the best remedy
I have ever come across for colds.
Its lightning effects on a cold are
little short of marvellous.”
Miss MAUDE FANE.
It’s Dangerous
There’s danger in a cold. The cold you get may be a timely
warning of something more dangerous to follow. Some people
catch cold easily; no sooner one cold banished than they have got
another one. That’s dangerous. A cold lowers the vitality and
weakens the whole body. It starts with watery eyes, sore-all-over
feeling, and, perhaps, runs into bronchitis or pneumonia. So
prepare for trouble before it troubles you,
A few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery taken when a
cold is coming on are generally all that is needed to soothe the
fever and correct the bodily discomfort of a severe cold. It is
well to continue taking New Discovery for a day or two, even
after the attack seems averted, for its soothing influence on the
mucous membrane renders it less liable to a second attack.
. 'ft •:
“Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is
the only remedy that does me any
good when I have a cough or cold,
or when my throat feels sore or
strained. It is an excellent
remedy.”
Miss LIZETTE PARKES.
Dr. Sheldon’s
New
Discovery
*e
s- 1
TRADE
MARK
▼ T
DISCOVERY
For e
(OUGHS
AND
Colds
DOSE. ONE TEASPOONFUL
FIVE OR SIX TIMES A DAY.
THIS MAYBE INCREASED TO
DOUBLE THE QUANTITY FOR
ADULTS IF NECESSARY THE
LAST DOSE BEFORE RETIR-
ING TO PREVENT COUGHING
AND THUS ENSURING A
GOOD NIGHT S SLEEP.
Prepared Bv
131-135 CLARENCE STREET
131-135 CLARENCE STREE
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Stops Coughs
Banishes
Colds.
Small
Size,
1/9
Large
Size,
31-
“I have used Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery with excellent results.
It is a remedy in a thousand, and
I am sure that everyone who tries
it will think likewise.”
Miss SARA ALLGOOD.
A Dose in Time
Saves Nine.
You will never prove this old proverb truer than when you
take a cold in hand early. A cold in the first stages can be quickly
relieved with a dose or two of a good remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, but a neglected cold soon becomes obstinate and
harder to treat. Get in early. Always keep a bottle of Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery in the house and take a dose at the first
sign of a cold.
“Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is
not only pleasant to take —it is
effective when taken, and does its
work in a most tenacious man-
ner. I owe my freedom from
colds to its invaluable Aid.”
31iss GKACIE DORAN.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery


rtacuj
he largest selling;
quality pencil in.
the world
ENUS
PENCILS
A
///
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Stop that
husky cough!
The man with a husky cough is a
nuisance to himself and his neigh-
bours. In nine cases out of ten it can
be cured by a few Evans Pastilles.
These kill the germs that lurk in the
husky throat, and are the best remedy
known to medical science. Sore
throats and colds quickly yield to
treatment,
EVANS*
Pastilles
Be wise in time and buy a box to-day.
Of all Chemist*.
sd
Made by Evans Sons Lescher
& Webb Ltd., London.
<pa
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
m
,
■
;
Seas
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrs.
Made in various
sizes and styles
from up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
makingtea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built for Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected ; with ordinary care will
last a lifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary; Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
59 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
/
T
A Mighty Good
“Night Cap”
is Wolfe’s Schnapps with
Hot Water, Lemon and
Sugar. You just can’t help
liking it for this mixture
makes the most Comfort-
ing and Enticing Winter
night Beverage ever pro-
pounded by the Bene-
ficence of Nature and
the Art of Man.
f
Aromatic
r 'Vi
V. 5
OTESTr
a
Sckiedam
PLUMBERS
BRASS WORK
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Medium
Country
Melbourne
Sydney
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Adelaide J
Bib Cocks, Hose Cocks, Gully Bibs, Stop
Cocks, Shower Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
. Ferrules, Path Cocks, etc.,
TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS
ALDERDICE, Warrnambool
Just dead at Toraug (Vic.), aged 89, the
widow of John Phelan, one of the 13 pri-
soners tried and acquitted in connection
with the Eureka Stockade insurrection.
“Billy T”; It was on the way to a big
Vic. hill-climbing contest that Bell’s chauf-
feur miscalculated to the extent of hitting
the rotten wooden abutments of a pile
bridge at Peafield, going clean through and
landing his car, with Bell in it, bottom up
in eight feet of creek-water. Instantly a
swarm of female spectators gathered round
the overturned car, and as Smith, the chauf-
feur, sprinted up the bank, saving his own
life with marked determination, he was
eagerly and angrily commanded to get back
and fish his. boss out of the unpleasant en-
tanglement in which he was seen to be in-
volved. But Smith continued to climb the
bank, and finally seated himself on the grass.
“What about your master?” screamed an
excited woman. “Can’t you save him?”
“Oh, dam’ ’im /” Smith replied. “I’ll get the
run, anyway.”
After having been at a very low ebb for
several years the molybdenite market made a
spurt recently, and in a couple of weeks
improved £2O per ton. At the end of July
the metal was worth only 275. 6d. per unit,
compared with 100 s. paid in wa»-time; the
latest Metal Exchange quotation was 375. 6d.
But nothing under 50s. will suit the average
producer. The Standard, at Everton (Vic.),
has, however, made a fresh start with a
guaranteed market for 10 tons per month.
“P ”•' Sir Basil Zaharoff is one of the
world’s mystery-men. He is credited with
being the secret power of European politics.
He was presumably born somewhere, and,
as a matter of fact “Who’s Who” once de-
scribed him as a Greek, naturalised in France
(1920 edition). However, in the next issue
this item of information was left out. He
is a G.C.B. and a G.8.E., a D.C.L. of
Oxford, and a Grand Cross of the Legion of
Honor, all distinctions granted for founding
university chairs, one of aviation at the
Imperial College of Science, a ditto of Avia-
tion at Paris and Petrograd, a Marshal Foch
French Literature Chair at Oxford, and a
Field-Marshal Haig Chair of English Litera-
ture at Paris. Bought and paid for, so to
speak. But his benefactions do not resolve
the intriguing problem of who this septua-
genarian that rules Europe is. It is certain
that at one time he was very close to Lloyd
George; he is reputed to be the man behind
Vickers; also, in the past, to have been pri-
vate banker to the Greek royal family—and
they needed one! About a year ago he was
stated to have made enormous sums out of
the war, and at that time he was alleged to
understand the inner workings of the mark
exchange.
“T.R.H.” is insistent:—
In spite of “Cheshire Cheese’s” statement (B.
3/8/’22) that I am “preposterously astray” in say-
ing that Asquith “made a fortune at the Bar,” the
fact remains that he did. No barrister, in thoso
days—or even now —could afford to enter Parliament
without money, and lots of it. An English constitu-
ency costs at least £lOOO a year to “nurse.” Most
barrister-members of the House of Commons spend
the daytime in the law courts and the nights in the
House—i-where, by the way, little serious business is
done before the dinner adjournment. “Cheshire
Cheese” is singularly unfortunate in citing the late
Sir William Harcourt as another barrister whose
Parliamentary career precluded him from making a
fortune. Harcourt’s income from the Bar while an
M.P. and a barrister was estimated at £60,000 a
year. He made so much money at the Bar that his
private secretary—“ Lulu” Harcourt, afterwards
Lord Harcourt —never did any but Parliamentary
work in his life. Of course, Harcourt could have
“gone to the top of the Bar” had he not aimed at
the Premiership instead of following the usual
course of the most successful barrister in the House
and becoming Solicitor-General, then Attorney-Gen-
eral and then either Lord Chancellor or Lord Chief
Justice.
“Bullwhanger”: There are some queer
characters among the coasters that trade out
of Australian ports. One old packet that
tramps south' of Sydney carries a crew of six
—‘skipper, engineer, bos’n, deckhand and two
stokers. She ; has no dining-saloon and no
galley, each man bringing his own tucker and
boiling his billy in the stokehold whenever
he feels like a snack. The bunker hatch is
just forward of the “bridge,” and when the
coal-loading, process is over the skipper gets
a generotis..proportion blown back at him as
he navigates his curious craft. The owners
aren’t fussy as to what trade their property
undertakes —limber, coal, road-metal, oil,
sleepers, all are shifted as required. In this
way they draw occasional blanks—as when
the vessel recently loaded a consignment of
cement for a Board of Works job, and struck
a southerly when well out. The cargo got
wet, and Heaven only knows how they got
it out of her, but they did, and she sur-
vived. I saw her only last week unloading
roadrmetal ; in. Sydney.
“Lip” flips over the leaves of one of the
Government’s best-known publications:—
The electoral roll is much more than a dry-as-dust
register of people entitled to vote. It is frequently
a sort of “poor man’s directory” for impecunious
business men; and, .to Mrs. Inquisitive, a “Who’s
Who” from which she can glean information concern-
ing her neighbors: what Mrs. Next-door’s husband
“does”; whether Mrs. Opposite’s Christian name is
really Gertrude or simply Sarah Jane; and whether
Mrs. Mulligan has taken her “husband’s”
name yet. But the information the roll gives as to a
person s occupation is sometimes ambiguous; the
designation “civil servant” may embrace anyone in
Government employ, from a cleaner to an Under-
secretary. On going through rolls, from time to
tiipe, I have suspected electors of swank in giving to
guileless John Hops incorrect particulars of the
method by which they earned a crust. I now know that
it is not always the elector’s fault. The other day 1
was in Mrs. Johnny Allsorts’ little corner shop when
a J. Hop arrived to collebt material for electoral lists.
He got particulars about the lady, then sought details
anent her husband. At Johnny’s “occupation” Mrs.
A. baulked. The officer became elucidatory. “What
calling does he follow? Is he a clerk—a laborer?”
asked J. Hop. “No.” “Does he help you here?”
That gave Mrs. A. an idea. “You see,” she said,
“we’re agents for advertisements for the Flutter”
(an ad. sheet that drops uninvited over the garden
fence each morning), “and he looks after them. He
writes them out, and fixes them up for the people.”
That was good enough for the man in blue. “Writes
for papers, does he?” he said; “then he’ll be a
journalist.” So, for electoral purposes, the State
regards Johnny Allsorts as a member of the Fourth
Estate ;• and in the eyes of Mrs. Inquisitive he, the
Fairfaxes and the Mackinnons, all belong to’ the
same union.


WOOL*
Hill
■‘The New Edison” is made in Edison’s own
factory, its quality guarded with zealous
attention by the great inventor. Do you
know of any other machine that is backed
by its inventor?
—not listening
but singing
No doubt, in talking-machine advertisements,
you have often seen photographs of great
singers listening to their records.
But this illustration (reproduced from an
actual photograph) depicts something entirely
different. Here you see Madame Stella Power
not listening, but singing —singing in direct
comparison with Edison s Re-Creation of her
wonderful voice by his remarkable invention,
<IS» NEW
EDISON
This is the acid-test which demonstrates that Edison has
produced an entirely new and momentous development in
music—a wonderful instrument that re-creates music so
perfectly that the keenest critics could not detect the Re-
Creation from the original.
Would you not prefer such an instrument for your home ■
an instrument which re-creates all forms of music, and brings
to your home the living personality of great artists?
If so, investigate it to-day—a few minutes of inquiry now
may bring a new pleasure into many years of your life.
Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 364-72 Kent Street, Sydney.
%
If
S ; :•<*
NONE HUT EDISON WILL
SUBMIT TO THIS TEST.
Do you know of any talking - machine manufac-
turer who has invited great artists to sing
publicly in direct comparison with his
talking-machine reproduction of their voices,
and has defied- trained ears to distinguish a
difference f There is no such oase on record.
fs
INEXHAUSTIBLE flash lamp
THE HANDILITE is a new Magneto Flash
Lamp, made in England by the GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is particularly suitable as a source of
illumination in any emergency, as it requires
no refills, is always in working order, and
GENERATES ITS OWN LIGHT by a simple
operation of the lever.
Indispensable to the DOCTOR, MOTORIST,
SQUATTER and BOUNDARY-RIDER.
The First Cost is the Only Expense.
Price 35/-
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Store-
keepers, or direct from
Available
in any
Emergency
m
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY LIMITED,
NEW SOUTH WALES, except Newcastle District—MAGNET HOUSE, 154-56 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE—London Bank Chambers, Scott and Bolton Streets.
VICTORIA—Magnet House, 590 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MAGNET HOUSE, 203-07 Murray Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND —Norman Bell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
NEW ZEALAND—MAGNET HOUSE, 8 Willeston Street, WELLINGTON; 238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
TASMANlA—Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone Co., Ltd., HOBART; J. A. Semple & Co., LAUNCESTON.
FlJl—Morris Hedstrom Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
lIALF-HOURLV STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
434 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
WOVEN
NAMES
A Few Stitches &They're on
For Marking Linen
They’re Unrivalled
For the Home, Traveller or School Outfit.
Any Name woven into a Fine Cambric
Tape in Fast Color.
Prices: 12dz, 7/6. 6dz, 54 3dz,3/6
Sold by All Best Drapers.
J. & J. CASH PTY. LTD.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond, Melbourne
Write for Style Boole.
4 , V\\ ij \{ \
r \
■ 1
\
RIDE A
BICYCLE
BUILT OF
BSA
FITTINGS
It will serve you as a reliable and
ever-ready servant for many years
and will cost practically nothing in
upkeep during that time.
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH
Handbook post free
k
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
df
7
/
ftsS
1
1
A
*
i *4.
Lubricating
Australia’s Industries
The development and improvement in imple*
ments and machinery during the past ten
years have aided the farmer immeasurably in secur*
ing bigger yields from each acre of ground.
Farm implements and machinery mean farm prosperity.
The most important single factor in keeping such equipment
•t its highest efficiency is scientific lubrication.
During the past 25 years the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Limited has
worked hand in hand with the inventor, the manufacturer, and the farmer in
raising the the standard of lubrication, so that the mechanical operations on the
farm could be accomplished smoothly, efficiently, and with a minimum of repairs
•nd depreciation.
Inventors and manufacturers generously acknowledge the help given by
this Company in solving their lubricating problems.
Farmers accept the name of the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. on •
package as an assurance of correct lubrication.
The work muit go on.
Ask your storekeeper
for free booklet,
" Petroleum on
Vif 1
Vacuum Oil Co<
lb« Farm.”
Lubricating Oils
A grade for each type of service
MSA
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PC U»~H
re:
sJ
o
o
D
ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE —Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital .. £5,000,000
Capital paid up .. £2,713,138
Reserve Fund Account 1,603,566
Reserve Liability to
Shareholders .. 1,255,998
Total .. £5,572,702
Directors : —SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Total Assets, 31st March, 1922 —£33,195,076.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 134 branches.
N. S. WAXES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 26 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq.;
E. H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 43 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—-Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 31 branches.
TASMANlA—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Hobart (temporary
premises), and Launceston.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
“Norbell”: This tragi-comie cry in the
night was voiced in the “View Mat.” column
of the S.M.H. the other day. I’m not sure
if it is semi-pathetic, partly maudlin, or
wholly an optical illusion. Love is blind,
anyhow
Gentleman (Blind), of middle-age. Poet and Musi-
cian, with means, wishes to correspond with Young
Woman, with a view to Matrimony. Widow with
children not objected to. Apply to No. 7082 Herald.
“Unley”: While waiting for the Unley
car the other afternoon, I was in the vicin-
ity of a crowd of newspaper-sellers waiting
outside the Register office for their Even-
ing Journals, and the lads were telling
of the doughty deeds of their acquaintances
on the sporting field and by the ringside.
One diminutive citizen, who was sucking a
quarter-inch butt, submitted his champion.
“There’s a bloke who gets ’is beer over there
at the Imperial—l saw ’im spit from one
side of Grenfell-street to th’ other.”
There died recently, at Killara, in her
79th year, Airs. Harriet Album Way, wife
of Cecil Way and last surviving daughter of
Frederick Wright Unwin, a London solici-
tor who came to Sydney in the late ’twenties
and established himself in good practice in
Terry’s Buildings, Pitt-street. He built
Wanstead, on Cook’s River, where Airs. Way
was born. Unwin invested his fortune in
the Australasian Sugar Company (whose
works were then at Canterbury—now a
bacon factory), and it is understood that the
money was lost. In the inid-’forties Unwin
let or sold Wanstead to William Fanning, of
Fanning, Griffiths and Co., Hunter-street,
and it was there in 1848 that T. H Huxlev,
then assistant-surgeon of H.M.S. Rattle-
snake, met his wife-to-be, who was a sister
of Mrs. Fanning.
“C.U.L.”: The late Arthur Griffith’s
ceaseless propagandist activities left him
scant time for book-making. The only fin-
ished specimens of his style (which was con-
fessedly imitative of John Mitchel’s) are
found in his preface to the last edition ot
Mitchel s “Gaol Journal,” and in the vol-
ume “Thomas Davis, Thinker and Teacher,”
the latter consisting of short commentaries
on long glowing passages from the famous
loung Irelander. Griffith’s mind was a veri-
table storehouse of classified facts, and he
wrote with a vigor, directness and felicity
nardly found elsewhere among political
journalists of his day. Like Belloc, he had
the tricks of the split infinitive and inverted
clause. As .journalist, and generous patron
and sponsor of nascent genius—contribu-
tors to Young Ireland, a generation ago,
included Yeats, “M.” Sean Bullock, Alice
Milhgan and a host of minor celebrities—
Griffith will be gratefully remembered when
his political career is as completely for-
gotten as Curran’s or Isaac Butt’s.
ryF ’Li A rece nt cable states that Alc-
Intosh, Tymms and McCloughry will be the
next to attempt a wor!d flight with a specially
bunt airly twin-float seaplane and a 600-
m', Iloyce Condor engine. The route
will be westward, America to be crossed by
the chain of the Great Lakes. The Mc-
Cloughry mentioned is Captain Edgar J.
the younger of two Adelaide brothers who
did great work as fliers during the war
Edgar is 25 years old—he enlisted when he
was to and from the air destroyed 14
enemy machines and four balloons. He also
showed an utter disregard for danger when
attacking ground targets.” After the war
he went to Trinity College, Cambridge, to
continue. his studies in engineering, com-
menced in Adelaide, and secured his B A
he got a billet with Armstrong,'
Whitworth and Co., Newcastle-on-Tyne
Major Wilfred, the elder brother, after serv-
ing through the war, went with the armv of
°^ Cl iL a^c? n J° ie and is now engaged
at the Staff College. R.A.F., Andover, Eng-
nvc®? lengthen his title with
•U.S.U., D.F.C. (and bar), while Wilfred
cames D S. O M.C., D.F.C. Their father
is J. McCloughry, a North Adelaide draper.
Tin Hat”: Either sublime optimism or
colossal stupidity marked the methods of a
3 u- f , op ? rat< i rs who tried t 0 sell a 450 z.
„old brick in Melbourne the other week.
Adventurers m this line mostly seek to dis-
fotk hnf”fw g ? ods In simple-looking country
k, but these two submitted the imposture to
a professional gold-buyer, who found it to
be brass m as few minutes as it took the acid
to bite through the gilt veneer. Two dis-
gusted persons were hustled off to clink
before they could look for a genuine mug.
An O. Henryish yarn from Melbourne:—
Dodds is a commercial artist, doing fairly ill a t
the game. He had a small room over a shop in a
stunted building in Little Collins-street. At the
other end of the passage was another room. This was
occupied by a girl of about 22, apparently a hard-
worked, hard-pressed, sicklv creature, of whom he
had occasional fleeting glances in the course of six
eeks. Then, one day, when Dodds was locking
his door the girl called him. She was gaunt
and pale. “I haven’t been able to go to
work,” she pleaded, “I wonder if you could give me
a little for this.” She offered him a ring. It was
a peculiar ring, with an extraordinary black opal
like a star, and two diamonds. “Well,” said Dodds,,
“the fact is I am worse off than you are. I
haven’t even a ring. But if you like I will pawn
this for you ; I’ll be back in a few minutes.” “Oji,
do, do. I shall be so grateful. I simply cannot get
along without a little money.” Dodds pawned the
ring for three pounds, and returned with the monev.
The girl was quite tearful in her gratitude, and
after being assured he could be of no further assist-
ance, Dodds went about his business. Next day he
saw in the Age ‘‘Missing Friends” column an adver-
tisement appealing for information concerning Mona
Alberts, missing from her home for three months.
The description of Mona answered to that of the
girl. The advertisement added: “She will
probably be wearing a peculiar diamond and
opal ring, the opal i» which shines like a star.”
Dodds wired to the advertisers in Ballarat that night:
“Found daughter. 111. Come at once.” There was
an immediate reply, and Dodds met the father and
mother at the train. The ring was redeemed and
identified on the way, and five minutes later Dodds
presented the father and mother to the sick girl,
satisfied that he had done a foolish, wayward crea-
ture the best possible turn. The girl in the room
was not Mona Alberts. The complication set up by
the ring called for explanation. The girl,
in a flood of tears, provided the elucidation!
The ring belonged to a workmate in a Prahran
factory. This workmate was unearthed by the
anxious parents, and proved to be the long-lost
daughter. The other, confronted by sickness and dire
necessity, had taken the opal and diamond ring from
her friend’s purse. Dodds got £5 reward. He
married on it. He married the girl in the room.


llilfii ~
■r:
mp a
fM|Hi£iK, -
* ■ . v;-v: i - Xi
■
.
~/. -H
,
■
VCSe# f ''\ \JMBBfIIBIBBMBB
&/'. •••
gggg&p&s w ■<■?
" /;■... S ■'.
mmmmm
5&£E m£
.
'
mmlmmm
' : .
I":::::-.,.-
••■■
■ v •, 0
■
/MM
' sS
Ilillli
:■
ftSsS
SSi
: :< ■ < x .
«o<>' -X^WiN^vgi
nm-M
■: ■:■< ■' :■■••
VPs^o; : i
a
V-:: '
v;: v .
SS
K4SS? 8® * it
, ib
H
■
":k :
■H. >,■ .....
< :> ;'
:,.< v-'
: v
- 3-,-
-«M
■
.’.......
r\
Jr •<>?: ffira&sxra
. v $■ i ;
: bbb%s#bM%?sbbbi,&bb&'b
.
<S
s:
mm
M
> v lr «»nri^Vv-U n , 4® i ,;i ;?ls
.« V> s.y : ?> I;i; 1 411
v -Mf
■ Iv *•St'.oß-X'Xvft--'.
I
mSmM
I
‘V<
a
•••S V •
m
mm
I’ , ,<V H •'> KWv'b W ’< ,
/ JX ’/V S' *'
~ ■ -
«ss
I
H
«SBS«f
>
m
M\ / * ~ "A:
r -. ,-,5.' :' . : :.;. . • ‘ ■ ..»■ -
.• ‘ ■
V ‘f-:;.
:i
SvX
Jk~ :
V.
~.-k?*
mmm
I UN
•!...vi.
..'. ..,..
';;.
*w.,S
ift. 'mum ki>
m
S;:'V- :vx
.
o
.
» » I
// -
IS'
■
'
j;<rK
I:-.:?
n
,:4 ;" :>
r
r ' '
■ V vt^
V:
’x :• •- : •
/ ti
\ ■*'
II
i'S
r :
m§
S 3 H:
.S v
-S
u
-■'
'Vi;/
. ■ ■ •
Twrrwfmw
;• ',;i!
1
v ,
i ■„■ v
,v : .
m
V.
■
.
SiS;
mm
i <4 &
!
- s '
■
; : 3
f - i
I I Kiiii*
:
II
i < i
: I
Vi X-
i
3 I
M\
j
I! ill
i m
in
n§
s -
, f . ';
o
.' ■
m
m
M
i.«
■
gs^-
HH
s
11
1
vv: J i
.
mai
n
■
ililSl
■
•' *
■■■ v i- ■;
m
£ HH
e
mpanicmsfiiv of
is never-enairuf.
ing the first month of possession does one explore
the uttermost depths of a player-instrument’s capacity
for good fellowship. Nor yet in the second or third months.
Great indeed is the pleasure of those early days of ownership—but sensuous
rather than intellectual. True intellectual enjoyment comes a little later —when
one’s use of the various controls has become instinctive. Then it is that the wonder
ful, never-ending power of the player as an entertainer is experienced to the full.
The "New Beale Player-Piano combines in one instrument more of those proved
devices for interpretive control than have hitherto been obtainable.
Printed matter post free.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
Sydney
BEALE
9K AND 1
COMPANY
Head Office and Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.
Annandale
BRANCHES— N.S. W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
‘ Tasmania ; Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide. IV.A.: J. A.Thomson
Co. Ltd., Perth and Fremantle.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street (Opp. Pike Bros.), Brisbane.
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rochampton, Townsville, Mackay.


Saunders’ finest-quality, double-cut Diamond
Cluster Expanding Bracelet, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut
Diamond King,
LSet. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ fine-
quality, double-cut
Diamond Ring
IBct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Ring,
Millgrain Setting,
18rt. Gold, £25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
doulle-cut
Diamond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A- Saunders’ finest-quality, double-cut Dia-
mond Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding; Watch Wristlet, set
4 double-cut Diamonds, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £l7/10/-
DISTINCTIVE DIAMOND
JEWELLERY DESICNS.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin, 15et. Gold,
£25.
Smaller Dia-
mond, £2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet, set
8 double-cut Diamonds, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £2O.
WA
m
m
MSI
A. Saunders' Gent.’s Hunting Keyless
High-grade Presentation Lever Watch,
compensation balance, 9ct. Gold, £l5.
Extra-jewelled, £2O, £25.
18ct. Gold, £3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Scarf
Pin. 15ot. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond
Cluster Neck-
let, 15ct. Gold,
Let Us Send You Our Catalogue.
We Pay Postage on All Orders.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ fine, double-cut Diamond Bracelet, 15ct.
0°l (l > £3O. Larger Diamonds, £4O, £5O
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch.
l£>ct. Gold, £o.
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
King, ISct. Gold,
£25.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Single-
stone Diamond
Ring, JBet. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut
Diamond King,
18ct. Gold, £lO
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding double-cut, Diamond-
set Watch AVristlet, full-jewelled lever movement,
compensation balance, £25. Larger Diamonds, £3O.
Vacuum Cup Tyres (Non-Skid).
The “Extras” you get in Duplex Tread Construction
make them Matchless in Long, Lowest-Cost Service.
feRRKS
$
1
EXTRA!—The GREATER
THICKNESS of the regular
Vacuum Cup Tread, as com-
pared with ORDINARY tyres,
giving greater mileage.
EXTRA!—More plies of the
highest-quality fabric obtain-
able, giving additional mileage
still.
EXTRA! —The tread of hun-
dreds of sturdy, non-skid
Vacuum Cups, in addition to
the regular extra-heavy tread,
adding further to the already
unusual mileage service.
EXTRA,!—The GUARAN-
TEED non-skid qualities of
the Vacuum Cup Tread on
wet, slippery pavements, the
famous GRIP-HOLD-LETGO
principle of suction, producing
“The Sound of Safety!”
Yet Vacuum Cup Tyres, with
all these “EXTRAS,” cost no
more (service considered) than
ordinary makes of tyres. THE
SAFETY COSTS YOU
NOTHING!
Write for our latest price
schedule. It will agreeably
surprise you.
F. Lassetter & Co. Limited
Sole Agents in N. S. Wales,
George Street, Sydney.


Sv 1» N E Y’S CHI E F TIIEAT K E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: D’ALVAREZ.
CRITERION:
AMBROSE APPLEJOHN’S ADVEN-
TURE.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
The ALLAN WILKIE SHAIiSPEAItEAN
PRODUCTIONS
THEATRE ROYAL, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.,
16th to 29th SEPTEMBER.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE MERRY WIDOW.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS BENNISON in
THE GREAT LOVER.
K
INCUS I'll EAT Kl
M E I. It O U It N I!
EMELIE POLINT and FRANK HARVEY in
THE LIE.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
PALACE THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: HEN & J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
TWENTY-SECOND WEEK ON SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best,.’’
REMEMBER THE LIMBLESS SOLDIERS’
MATINEE, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15.
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.’’
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
Matine6s Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan's.
Direction .. E. J. GRAVESTOCK.
pE■APPKA R A N C E O F
ROSIN A RICKMAN,
THE WORLD-FAMOUS PRIMA DONNA;
also
MAURICE D’OISLY,
THE POPULAR ENGLISH TENOR.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 19, 21, 23, 26.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
CONWAY TEARLE in
THE REFEREE.
MARIE PREVOST in
THE DANGEROUS LITTLE DEMON.
Prices as usual.
A.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE PRODIGAL JUDGE,
A SCREEN MASTERPIECE.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
TIIKAT It IS, JIIiLIJOIIKNK.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
jy| IiIAS.V THEATRE, MICLHOUKN E.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD and SKLZNICK.
NOW TOURING QUEENSLAND.
Direction THEO BOASE & JOSEPH SCALES.
Sir Benjamin & Mr. John Puller’s Great Moral Drama,
ONE LAW FOR BOTH.
Interpreted by a Powerful Dramatic Company.
For Sale.
Steam Bucket Dredge.
Spotted-gum pontoons, 130 x 32 x
7, ladder 80ft., buckets 7 feet, loco-
type boiler, 5 3h.p., 1301 b. pressure;
20-h.p. engine.
PRICE, £5OOO,
f.o.b. Greymouth, N.Z.
RICHARD WILD,
Hokitika, N.Z.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
£1,000,000-
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes ol
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Tlie “United” in an Australian Institution.
BAUTIN HAIGH. General Manager.
HAWAII
gf Ig THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND g |
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct, to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
-i
TURF
BIG
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
THE CIGARETTE FOR
THE “BIG” MAN.
The man who takes a cigarette from a ‘ Turf ’
box pauses to admire—for here are Big,
Handsome Cigarettes, splendidly made and
fragrant with golden strands of the choicest
cigarette tobacco that America produces, the
unrivalled Old Belt and Eastern Carolina Leaf.
You will admit the quality and taste as soon
as ever you try a ‘Turf’ Virginia, and the
distinctive flavour and softness remains right
to the end of your smoke.
‘Turf’ Virginia are 20 for Two Shillings and
represent the highest achievement possible in
Virginia Cigarettes.
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL TOBACCONISTS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA.
Made by
Alex.Boguslavsky
LIMITED,
55, Piccadilly,
London, W.,
Engl and.
fSDNmiHS 1
OMJ.
JO^
nm mi
liiiii
'PITOWWI
%
I
nTTTTrn
¥/.
iTTTmTT
jg§j)
mum nm
gr
iminim
Miiiuum
muMimiTi m
immmimw
Zf/i
///A
mrrrm
m
Uegral Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To LOUISA FLORENCE JONES late
of Devonport in Tasmania wife of William
Edward Jones of Smithton in Tasmania
aforesaid laborer AND TO FREDERICK
TEMPLAR also late of Devonport aforesaid.
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Tasmania citing
you to appear and answer the Petition of
the said William Edward Jones wherein he
prays for a dissolution of his marriage
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
within thirty days after the seventh day of
September One Thousand Nine hundred and
Twenty-two the last date fixed for the publi-
cation hereof you are to appear in our said
Court then and there to make answer to
the said Petition which may be inspected
and a copy thereof obtained by you upon
application at the Office of the Registrar of
the Supreme Court at Hobart in Tasmania
AND ALSO TAKE NOTICE that in default
of your appearing to answer the said Peti-
tion as aforesaid our said Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charge proved in
due course of law and to pronounce
sentence therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE NOTICE that for
the purpose aforesaid you are within Thirty
Days from the said seventh day of September
One Thousand Nine hundred and Twenty-
two to attend in person or by your Solicitor
at the Registry of our said Court in Mac-
quarie Street Hobart in Tasmania and enter
an Appearance in a book provided for that
purpose Your appearance to the Citation
must give an address at some place within
five miles of the office of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania at Hobart at which address
proceedings and notices for you may be left.
Dated at Hobart in Tasmania this Eigh-
teenth day of August One Thousand Nine
Hundred and Twenty-two.
(Sgd.) W. O. WISE,
Registrar of the Supreme Court.
JOHN HENDERSON HENRY, of Rooke
Street, Devonport, in Tasmania, Proctor for
the Petitioner.
Business Notice.
Monarch
3WP
WM
“Everything Ends in Smoke'
Let the “Smoke” be
a Good One!
Monarch Cigars have a full
Havana filler of selected leaf
of high quality, chosen with
the greatest care and entirely
hand made.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d. each.
Special sampling cabinet con-
taining 10 cigars, 0/-; 2f >,
12/G; 50, 2S/9; 100,
407-
Post paid to any address in
the Commonwealth.
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney
Distributors for Club Roll
Cigar Factory.
The Cigar
for Quality
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “ Mattamac
Stormproof you will find this Label. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac’’ Stormproof. Reluse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac.'
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
11
11
sdf
sd
fs
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21 \oz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight' Mattamac’ Stormproof
The “ Mattamac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ” Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof habric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it. Made in five shades.
19 o z.
FOLDS
INTO
THIS
SIZE
m
Mat
■SB"
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Draw ngs
from actual Photographs, and are, conse -
quently, truthful representations of the Feather-
weight “ Mattamac" Stormproof, Which
folds up to pocket size.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 2l\oz. weight; without
Belt, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN'S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19oz. weight; with Belt,
MADE IN ENGLAND...SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM.
If vour regular Dealer does not yet stock “ M attamac ” Stormproofs, do not take something
else. Write to us. We will send you, post free, the “Mattamac” Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to seU
“Mattamac" Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply booklets
Free to Dealers.) . _ _ .
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” UOATS for Australasia,
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor), AD22O, PITT ST., SYDNEY.^NLS.W.
ffi
r i
m
\\
Sole Manufacturers of
“Mattamac” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET.
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) @
Th* “ MATTAMAC " TRADE MARKS are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenchurch
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney. '


SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHTUB.
Reduced
Spoons
and
Forks.
“Fx & R” Quality.
Table Spoons and Forks, and Soup Spoons, 647-
Dessert Spoons and Forks 54/-
Teaspoons 24/-
per doz. net.
per doz. net.
per doz. net.
Prices have fallen, we are pleased to advertise. Abnormal costs of production are
over, and prices are gradually becoming more reasonable.
“Fx & R” Spoons and Forks we are now able to oifer at a considerable reduction.
The high standard of quality is the same —it is only the price that has altered.
They are practically heavy sheaths of silver covering the hard white base.
They engrave like solid silver.
They all bear the “Fx & R” brand, which is always a guarantee of best quality
at lowest price.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figure*.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
Hoist in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's D’Alvarez
Criterion “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure”
Royal “The Peep Show”
Hoit’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Merry Widow”
Royal “The Great Lover”
Palace •Spangles"
King's “The Lie”
Majestic Aloving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
The scene from Bemberg’s “Elaine,”
crudely staged at Melbourne Majesty’s for
Melbas farewell appearance last Saturday
afternoon, went a long way to explain why
the French opera has never been produced
in this country in its entirety. Dame Nellie’s
part made no great demands upon ner voice,
also it enabled l>pr to look surprisingly
young and to exhibit artistic restraint in
operatic drama dealing with a death scene.
But as a musical entertainment the scene
lacked distinction, and as a final chance for
many people to hear Melba for the first time
on any stage, this bit of “Elaine,” preceded
by the low-spirited bedroom scene from
“Otello,” was not the success that orthodox
press criticism would make out. The beauti-
ful color in her voice tones is fading, of
course; the picture of a bereaved prima
donna discussing bad news with an aged
father (Haigh Jackson) disguised as a sort
of Ancient Druid, and singing pretty flat,
was depressing, and a chorus of half-a-dozen
young woman in the attire of 15th-century
court pages or what not, was truly amateurish.
The charming section of the matinee, from
a popular point of hearing, consisted of two
melodious love duets by Rosina Buckman
and Maurice D’Oisly, in modern evening
raiment. They sang the close-of-a-wedding
day scene from the first act of “Madame
Butterfly,” followed by the episode of Mimi’s
easy surrender to her suitor at the close
of the first act of “Boh&me.” The Eng-
lish words were clearly enunciated, especi-
ally by the tenor; they got every ounce of
sugar out of the Puccini melodies, and the
blending of the voices was capital.
* * *
The melodramatic emphasis on betrayed
trust and innocence, and the supreme fascina-
tion of an illicit baby fastened on to Elinor
Shale by her unvirtuous sister Lucy, should
make “The Lie” alluring to the multitude
at Melbourne King’s. At the start a caller’s
casual tongue sets Lucy’s scandal in motion,
but an unhappy misunderstanding by Elinor’s
young man creates the situation which Lucy’s
glib lie regarding the parentage of the infant
turns to her own disgraceful profit. Thus
Elinor is left bereft of both character and
best boy, until a chance word by the original
chatterer, Noll Dibdin, exposes Lucy’s base
imposture and brings about a finish which
converts an angel into a virago demanding
satisfaction from her faithless sister.
* * * *
Emelie Polini, who appears as Elinor, isn’t
vocally equipped for revengeful noises in the
upper register. Her natty little tones shine
best in small talk. Miss Polini is physically
diminished b.v_the tall Maoriland girl, who
has rapidly shed her angularities and sobs
becomingly in the last chapter, though her
opening in Act 1 is a trifle bloodless, and she
cannot always fit a pose to a situation call-
ing for polite attention or restraint. The
management had originally proposed Claude
Flemming for the job of Geirild Forster. He
fell ill, and Arthur Greenaway, as his substi-
tute, provides a graceful souvenir of a jeune
premier with a tender method in the close-
ups with Emelie Polini. Compared to some
of his previous chances, Frank Harvey, as
Noll Dibdin, who eventually marries Elinor
and promises to be a father to Lucy’s cast-off
nipper, has but a super’s interest in events.
Still he scores in his manly straight-out
speeches, demonstrating only a tendency to
gabble in his first remarks in the second act.
G. Kay Souper has fine opportunities as a
three-bottle baronet with a cellarful of
opiates for his financial misery, but his act-
ing flags in numerous instances. His voice
doesn’t sound true to his mulberry com-
plexion, though he is, hearty enough in action
after swallowing a row of lagers at the Shale
Arms. Maurice Dudley is the unpaid butler
who is steadfastly coloring his nose in emu-
lation of his master, and Eily Maly on is
crammed into an immaterial • role in which
her talent hasn’t a chance to flourish. The
remaining members of the cast are Katie
Towers, Lorraine Esmond and Master Oscar
Singleton, the last-named prattling as
Lucy’s offspring in a distressingly schooled
manner and a smart sailor suit.
5!: * *
“The Merry Widow,” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, is so much stronger in music
and story than some recent J.O.W. produc-
tions of the same type that its revival
last Saturday was a delight. Moreover,
this revival, judged as a whole, is equal to
the best performance of the Opera that
Melbourne has seen, if it is not actually a
record-breaker. Gladys Moncrielf, to be
sure, is not Merry, nor is her waltzing with
Worster an example of poetry in motion, but
her warble beats all its predecessors for purity
a,nd sweetness, her frocks and slim-figure
effect are but slightly .handicapped by a Maid-
of-the-Mountain gait, and there is always
something Sirenic in her sombre smile. After
all, the Widow is rather a troubled than a
cheery character. She is always pushing her
lips close to those of a young man who nettles
her vanity and is supposed to smell vio-
lently of drink. liowett-Worster, as the
avowed enemy of Pussyfoot and the shaky
hope of Marsovian solvency, attunes his
forced frivolity to the Moncrieff keynote.
He opens poorly in his drunken encounter
with Nisch, who has summoned him from
the society of Lo-Lo and Co., but thereafter
he plays his part with forcible consistency,
as a chagrined Prince Danilo, rather than a
giddy goat. Danilo has good bearing, sin-
cerity, and a fine, 'cultured baritone voice.
Cannot makes a full-flavored Popoff, rugged
but tuneful; Steyne is passably grotesque as
the ancient official who weeps on Popoff’s
capacious chest; and Gee, as Nisch, almost
hides his familiar farcical identity under an
admirable make-up. Only in the last scene
does he lapse for a moment into Geeism. The
combination of lienee Maxwell and young
Herbert Browne as the “guilty pair” is
interesting. The lady, distinctly less plump
and effusive than she was a while ago, is a
very decorative Natalie, and whilst her
tremolo singing is strong but not very sweet,
the throaty tenor of Browne is sweet and
sympathetic, though not strong. Browne is
a quiet little Jolidon, with too much youth
in his favor, but he offers pleasing sugges-
tions of the part of a love-sick swain lured
on by a married lady. Gracie Lavers, Maie
Baird and others have a little to do ; the six
female friends of Danilo explain his devotion
to Maxim’s Restaurant, and the rest of the
chorus pays for the dressing, and is worthy
of Champion’s orchestra.
***>!=
At Melbourne Town Hall the solos and
duets of Rosina Buckmau and Maurice
D’Oisly fell sweetly on the large, listening
ear of a responsive populace three nights
last week, and are still doing it. On two
other nights the joint and several efforts of
Althouse and Middleton, who are less sweet
but even more friendly-like, were assisted as
usual by an uncannily competent accom-
panist. On Friday, however, the two
American artists had to repulse an onrush
of audience with the apology that sore
throats would not permit of them singing
Wagner, or any other music, in the manner
expected of them. A matinee, early this
week, was promised in atonement.
* * * *
Ada Reeve’s matinee at Melbourne Palace,
on account of the Limbless Soldiers’ Asso.,
is fixed for Friday of next week. Her
“Spangles” company will be only part of the
show, for the J.C.W. and Tait forces, like-
wise the Tivoli and Fuller vaudevilles, will
contribute to the cause that Ada Reeve has
at heart. Meanwhile “Spangles” is rolling
along easily towards Agricultural Show
week, and has probably got the distant Cup
crowds in its line of vision. By the way,
AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
The finale of an argument between Raynor
and Roy: “There'll be some flowers
arriving at your house in the morning
and you won't smell ’em!”
limbless soldiers are to benefit by a Dickens
Pageant Play at the Playhouse, from the
9th to 12th instants.
*!* »'■»
“The Great Lover” comes to Melbourne
Royal on Saturday, bringing Louis Bennison
back to the boards, where he originally
appeared as a cowboy gawk, and introduc-
ing Miss Sitgreaves. Meanwhile, the sun is
setting rather ingloriously on “Parlor, Bed-
room and Bath,” where impropriety has
failed to make much headway against the
forces of farcical triviality and stodgy dia-
logue. The idea of a lamb-like citizen being
bounced by circumstances into the position
of a wildly indiscreet caresser was more
humorously exploited in “The Pink Lady”
some years ago.
* * *
Some Melbourne flicker notes:—
“The Invisible Fear” is keeping Anita Stewart’s
face working at Melbourne Majestic this week.
She acquired a load on her mind after bashing a
bad man who had assailed her honah when she was
“THE PEEP
SHOW,” AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Geo. Willoughby as Micawber.
taking shelter from a stonn in a lonely lodge.
“Where Men are Men,” the follow-on, opens the
eyes of the present generation to the frisky life of
early California. At Hoyt’s Marie Prevost is a
Dangerous Little Demon.” “The Referee,” also
on the same menu, pictures the M.C. of a Yankee
stoush emporium, who defies the -national conventions
to the extent of refusing a heavy bribe. “The
Road to London” is ligb+er fare, and Bryant Wash-
burn is the concentrated essence of its romance and
frivolity. Tom Mix, aeroplaning in the Grand
Canyon of Arizona at the Melba, is the (cheapest
shudder on tap at the moment. The question,
“Where Is My Wandering Boy To-night?” is being
answered with a salvo of corks at the Britannia.
* -t # *
From a Melbourne critic:—
Max Meldrum’s exhibition at the Melbourne
Athenamm, which is striking in all departments, im-
presses one greatly in the still-life work. Take his
“Withered Gum Leaves,” a subject colorfully dis-
pleasing to the academical school, and you will find
the same sincere painting and close observation that
he discloses in his larger canvases. “Reflections” is
another fine example. The brass bottle in the fore-
ground and the delicate lilac chrysanthemums behind
will afford students a lesson in tone relationship.
Meldrum’s landscapes strike the casual passer-by as
rather wintry essays in monotony, but in many of
them he proves that, whatever a scene’s drawbacks
in conventional interest, it has been worth the
artist’s time. “Distant Trees” (No. 32) and “Gum
Butts” (No. 45) serve to illustrate profoundly the
truths he teaches; but, despite the merit of the
achievement in smaller studies elsewhere, one cannot
avoid the suspicion, as in “The Two Trees,” for
instance, of a challenging dreariness and triviality.
The artist’s unassuming force as a portrait-painter
is noticeable in his big study of his two daughters.
The canvas has an engaging simplicity, and the
modelling of the hands and faces is excellent. The
picture of Bernard O’Dowd presents the poet with
a healthy complexion, and is a very good likeness.
“The Serious Sitter,” representing a small flaxen-
haired child, is a little masterpiece, but “A Russian
Lady” seems a trifle florid and hard. Meldrum inci-
dentally includes an early view of a little girl and
two or three taking pencil sketches of babies.
** * *
Adelaide lias a fancy for getting leading
players to speak more than is set down for
them. It tried hard to wring a speech from
Workman when the Gilbert and Sullivan
co. farewelled with “Merrie England.”
A feature of the season was the
steady advance of Victor Prince as
comedian. Next night Louis Bennison came
in to the Royal with “The Great Lover,”
and so warm was his reception in that Babel
of foreign tongues that at the end he had to
make a speech in acknowledgment. So did
Thurston, at the Majestic, opening the new
season of variety there. So did Leslie
Adrienne, at the King’s, beginning what
looks like being a strong season of melo-
drama. Pictures are distinctly watery. In
Hurley’s “Pearls and Savages,” coral and
pearl-diving figure largely. At the Grand is
a periscope thriller, “The Submarine Eye,”
with a strong underwater scene. “The Love
Flower” at the York also seems to take the
camera into the ocean depths ; and Valentino,
at Wondergraph, does some terrific fighting
on the deck and at the masthead of the
Lady Letty. At West’s there is also fight-
ing, but in the snow—“ The Iron Trail,’’ a
romance of Alaska.
** * *
“Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure,” as un-
folded at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night, by Laurence Grossmith and
company, is good, wholesome fooling.
Ambrose, smitten by a sudden yearn-
ing for romance in the midst of a. life of
cut-to-pattern respectability, gets enough of
it packed into four hours in his country
house on the Cornish coast to satisfy the
most exacting. A glittering Russian
danseuse, pursued by a grim Bolshevik
avenger, waltzes precipitately into his ken,
followed by a Zoroastrian person with a
comely wife, who also insists on fainting in
the staid bachelor’s arms. All the intruders
develop into burglars and their accomplices
with more or less rapidity. The second act,
where Ambrose dreams a throw-back dream
to the days of a pirate ancestor, is gratify-
ingly full of cutlasses and rum and “yo-ho-
ho” and wild deeds with a Portuguese lady
upon the Spanish Main. It is altogether a
cheerful burlesque, that rushes along like
a mountain brook.
Laurence Grossmith, as Ambrose, received
and earned stacks of appreciation. His
acting is good and easy, his quiet by-play
even better. Diana Wilson, as Anna
Valeska, is a voluptuous, broken-Englished
adventuress, and, later on, a scrumptious
bit of pirate’s booty. Mildred Cottell plays
her parts—some of the perfoiuners have a
bewildering number of them —with spirited
adaptability. Doris Kendal, as Am-
brose’s cousin, and Adelaide Gunn, as his
aunt, have only one rSle apiece; each filled
it capably. Ashton Jarry is three sorts of
a villain with flwir and unction. The stag-
ing of this pleasant show, which is not
inaptly called an Arabian Night story, also
deserves a kindly word.
ijc s»c i]:
Allan Wilkie has been giving Shakspeare
lovers a menu full of variety at Sydney
Palace. “Twelfth Night,” “Hamlet” and
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” have already
chased each other through the zodiac; the
“Merchant of Venice” and “Othello” follow.
The boisterous fun of the first piece showed
the company at its best; Allan Wilkie’s
Malvolio was a masterly character-study,
while Hilda Dorrington and Lorna Forbes,
as Viola and Olivia, displayed plenty of
charm and power. A really scholarly Hamlet
gave telling evidence of the leading actor’s
versatility, and his supports were just as
capable. The “Midsummer Night”* had just
as full justice done it. Deftly served Shaks-
pearean fare is, like O. Henry’s “Georgia
Stew,” a compound of all "ood things.
ijc sfl sjc 5jC
Oscar Asche’s stupendous “Cairo” is cast-
ing its purple shadows before at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, where “A Night Out”
had its final outing on Wednesday. To stage
a show with a sufficiency of imposing mag-
nificence to make people gasp for breath and
pinch themselves to see if they are awake
naturally requires more than ordinary pre-
paration. “Cairo” will be unveiled, as it
were, on Saturday week, as staggering in
its immensity and gorgeous in its concep-
tion as an Arabian Nights city rising from
the earth at the bid of an Oriental genie.
The latest Sydney Tivoli acquisition is
Louis J. Seymour, who unlooses some brand-
new gags. Wee Georgie Wood’s .new sketch,
“Thicker Than Water” contains overmuch
sob stuff; but the fun he puts into his Wee
Macgregor sketch evens things up. Rose
Lee Ivy,. the “Californian operatic comedi-
enne,” sings tunefully of love, Ford cars,
butterflies and the like, and Madeline Rossi-
ter is as fascinating as ever.
❖* * *
“The Peep Show” goes along its glitter-
ing way at Sydney Royal. Eye hath not
seen or ear heard anything quite like it
before, and the boom thereof suggests a Big
Ben vibrating.
* t- * *
“Over the Hill,” at the Globe, is a desolat-
ing story of the desertion of poor old Ma by
an ungrateful family, whose only decent
member is a reprobate of other years. A far
bigger attraction than the somewhat maudlin
star feature is Nellie Stewart, who appears
in a spoken prologue by Frank Morton. An
attempt to answer the conundrum, “Why
Girls Leave Home?” is being made at the
Crystal Palace. The Lyceum offers Mary
Minter as “The Little Clown,” and Hoyt’s
is screening “The Trap.”
“Whitebait”: Percy Marmont, who was
out here in “London Pride,” “Fair and
Warmer” and other plays, is getting among
the front-rankers as a picture actor. If my
memory serves me, he faced the bio-camera
in Australia as the hero of “The Monk and
the Woman.” Since his return to America
and England he has done much good work,
and his reputation is such that he was
selected to head the cast for a film adapta-
tion of “If Winter Gomes,” Britain’s
best-seller.


For Discriminating Smokers.
CIGARETTES
Number
Virginia
The Famous Red Pacßet.
High-Class
Cigarettes
at a
Moderate
Price.
•ar
aS5\
for lid
for
“THE CONNOISSEUR
Sole Proprietors: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON,
Britain’s Greatest Hig[li.—Class Cigarette Manufacturers*


J
h
&
f
u
m
v
ft
«
w
''''w/s/Jy/fi?'
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONTde PJET£
7*3- Ca.stlere<a<3h St. Sydney.
Phone City 9325.
Capiidl 5.300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
Genera/ Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete T). and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
139 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Norbell”: “Fax’s” comments fB
31/8/’22) on the Teutonic dots over the “o”
in Australian Marie Lohr’s name remind me
that the first time Marie’s name ever
appeared on a theatrical programme was at
a testimonial matinee tendered to George
Rignold, at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Tues-
day, September 10. 1895. This was Marie’s
contribution :
Little Marie Lohr in her Exhibition of Club
Swinging (d la Mrs. Brough).
Mrs. Brough had just been appearing in
“The Amazons.” The objectionable diaeresis
was not disfiguring Marie’s name on that
occasion.
“K. 0.” : “O.K.’s” references to the operatic
career of the late Elise Wiedermann (B.
10/8/’22) are quite unwarranted. The fact
Harold Elvins, Mel-
bourne's well-known
pianist-accompanist.
is that the lady
appeared in every
German theatre of
note, with a visit
to Covent Garden
thrown in. Be-
fore her departure
for Australia she
refused a contract,
the proceeds o f
which would have
made even “O.lv.’s”
mouth water, and
ca me to marry
Pinschoff and live
in a rented house
in Windsor. The'
comment “she was
not th a t sort”
shows that the
critic did not know
the character he
seeks to disparage.
I don’t think 99
per cent, of the
1000-odd students
who passed through
her capable
had anything but
love and respect for
their teacher.
“Snell”: I met him again the other day,
after many years, a very venerable darky,
but it only seems yesterday that he was one
of our spry colored comedians. He com-
plained that his present job, shovelling
oyster-shells and making himself generally
useful at a big “steak-a-da-oyst” joint in
the city was rather odoriferous. “There’s
no chance of gettin’ back at the game,” said
he. "I ain’t worth a dump on a corner
now, even if they had corners, which they
ain’t. My on’y hope is in the serious
drammer, and there the openin’s limited for
a gentleman of color.” "What, could you do
in the legitimate line?” I asked him. “Well,”
he replied, "so fur as I kin see, me chances
is limited to Uncle Tom and Othello.” He
goes on shovelling oyster-shells into a barrel
in the meantime.
"Abbot Park”: Was “T.W.” having a joke
when he said that William Parkinson de-
scribed Edward Lloyd as “nothing more than
a counter tenor” (B. 24/8/’22) ? Lloyd a
counter tenor! After he had surpassed his
contemporaries in ballads and ,excerpts from
opera, he could declaim Wagner in a style
that made Teutonic audiences in London
shout for joy. When I heard him during
his Australian tour in 1903 the high A and
B-fiat were great notes. Perhaps Parkinson
was having the joke.
"T.P.”: Last year a Bulletin scribe
belted the medical students of the period
for upsetting a performance of “Macbeth” by
Genevieve Ward’s company in the Royal,
Melbourne. Now, I was there that night,
and I never enjoyed a show more in my
life. The mods, packed the gallery, and their
entr’acte concert was capital. While the
curtain was up you could have heard an
acid drop, except once, when Macbeth’s re-
mark, "Throw r physic to the dogs,” evoked
an anguished interjection from a sawbones
with a deep bass voice : “Oh. Mac! Mac !
PHIL SMITH , who has joined the list of
actor-managers, and is trying Maoriland
with his first show, “The Maid of the
Mountains.”
And we’ve engaged the whole bloomin’ gal-
lery !” Even the tragedian grinned. I cut
out the Poverty Point par. and posted it
to “Miss Genevieve Ward, Tragedienne, Lon-
don.” _As the lady had recently appeared
in a big charity performance, I was sure
it would reach her. But back the letter
came from the marvellous British postal
authorities with the endorsement: “Address
not known.”
“Thorold Waters”: Elizabeth Parkina,
who toured these parts a dozen years back
with a small, sweet voice and a concert
party of her own, died a few weeks ago in
her American homeland. This soprano was
the first singer heard by Amy Castles in
Mathilde Marchesi’s studio, and her voice
at that time was so great and goi'geous that
Amy wept and wanted to come home be-
cause she had never imagined there w T ere such
wonderful organs this side of the celestial
choir. Marchesi thinned it to a ghost of
its former self, and Parkina climbed no
higher than secondary parts such as Musetta
to Melba’s Mimi. Eventually she de-
veloped a malignant throat trouble, and
faded altogether from view. Melba was her
staunch friend to the end.
“Orb”: John F. Sheridan (B. 31/8/’22)
came to Australia in 1884 under engagement
to Williamson, Garner and Musgrove. He
opened in Melbourne at the Theatre Royal
on April 12 of that year. Pete Hughes,
long a manager for the Firm, was Johnny’s
agent: he had been dresser to the little man
in Manchester up till then. Johnny was
fond of telling of his successes as Lurcher
in “Dorothy,” Gaspard, the miser, in “Les
Cloches de Corneville,” Captain Crosstree
in “Black-eyed Susan” and Blueskin in
“Little Jack Sheppard.” “The Widow?” he
said. “I’m sick of it! It made me, did it?
Well, don’t you forget that I made her!”
“Norbell”: In his preliminary “Oyez!”
concerning "The Beggar’s Opera,”' the Firm’s
publicity man stars the imported harpsichord
as being the first of the species seen in these
parts. Also he says, ‘‘the instrument used
by Nellie Stewart in ‘Sweet Nell of Old
Drury’was a spinet.” It wasn’t. Nellie Stewart
used to charm King Charles Harcourt Beatty
on neither harpsichord nor spinet, neither
virginal nor psaltery, but on a special instru-
ment invented and devised by the ingenious
George Musgrove, and manufactured under
his experienced eye. For stage purposes it
was much more effective than the spinet
or harpsichord, both of which are apt to
betray symptons of senility and to be
arthritic in the joints. The effect gained by
Muzzy’s contraption was an exact imitation
of a dinkum old-timer, only more so. This
instrument used to be one of Nellie Stewart’s
most cherished possessions, but the last I
saw of it was when it was stowed away with
a mountain of bygone props in one of the
Firm’s extensive arsenals.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: An unsuccessful theat-
rical manager, who went bankrupt last week
to avoid the harsh consequences of judg-
ments under the Master and Servants Act,
claimed that it is the unwritten law of the
profession that if touring players don’t get
their money after the first fortnight they
“know their position, and if they stay oil
they take their chance with the manage-
ment.” There is something in that. An
actor I know declares that, except for a
short term with the Firm, he has never, in
a stage experience of 25 years, been paid in
tiill. Another—George Kensington—boasts
that he is the only mummer in Australia who
ever received full salary from one manager,
now in England. A once-famous Australian
actor, with a habit of going bankrupt, used
to put the members of his family on the
salary-list, as well as himself. When the
break-up came the fact that the missus and
the progeny were big creditors helped so
much that his estate was quite considerable
when he went aloft.
“Blaekfriars”: Potted Shakspeare and
other classics are the newest film-develop-
ment. Sybil Thorndyke, Ethel Irving and
I hyllis Neilson-Terry have been doing a
series of one-reel extracts of the more in-
tense bits from ‘‘The Merchant of Venice,”
“£» Dame aux Camelias” and “Hunchback of
Notre Dame.” Come to think of it, the
bard would have had to modify himself a
lot in order to be a good scenario-writer, as
understood in Los Angeles. One can barely
see a devotee like Allan Wilkie scrambling
through the part of Dick Three and cutting
out all the soliloquies to suit the exigencies
of the pitchers.
“Beeswax”: One doubts whether the Mel-
bourne Pioneer Players have improved their
chances of public support by leaving the
Playhouse for the Temperance Hall. Though
somewhat remote, the I’lavhouse is compara-
tively comfortable beside the Russell-street
hall, which has the premier disadvantage to
old people of having to be climbed to by a
fiight' of stone steps: Moreover, there are at
least. one other hall and sundry meeting-
rooms in the same building, and echoes of
the disturbances therein, not to mention the
squawk of motor-horns outside, make hear-
ing difficult to back-seaters. The other night
I only caught snatches of “John Blake” in
the chinks of silence when a conversazione
below had stilled down temporarily to get
its breath. But the hall itself is acousti-
cally bad —at least, bad for the gentle con-
versational tones which most of the Pioneers
adopt on the stage. The young actors and
actorines should be advised to speak up
and let the tvhole house into their secrets.
“T. 0.1.”: An eccentric tragedian was
Walter Montgomery, Sydney’s first King
John (B. 31/8/’22). Before leaving Aus-
tralia he made a will, one copy of which
he left with Tom Pavey, the solicitor (Tom
was named his Australian executor), and
another was sent to his English executors.
Montgomery committed suicide in September,
1871, a few days after his “marriage” to
a lady who, it transpired, had already
acquired a husband. To John Forsythe the
actor left a sapphire ring and a diamond-
and-ruby ring, the latter having been given
him on board the Galatea by the Duke of
Edinburgh. To the duke he gave a watch-
chain, manufactured for him by George
Crisp, the jeweller, of Queen-street, Mel-
bourne. _ Certain sums of money borrowed
from him in Melbourne by friends he de-
sired his executor to gather in, and any one
who wanted to buy mementoes of him might
do so by giving the market price of the
articles, the proceeds to be added to his
personal estate. There is a tradition that
the duke promptly claimed the gold chain.
He was just the sort of duke that would.
“Deadhead”: The scenery in Stewart
Macky’s “John Blake,” at Melbourne Tem-
perance Hall, struck a Bulletin critic as a
“pretence” that was “rather painful” (B.
17/8/’22). I thought it an interesting
change from the monotonous sets of most
repertory productions. A couple of young
artists were given a chance to show what
they could do in the matter of designing, and
they responded with gusto. But they happen
to be of opposing schools, and the contrast
is rather startling. The first act has a. scene
of Sydney Harbor, full of vivid blues and
shimmering sunlight. In the second act the
disciple of Meldrum takes control, and a
large, gloomy Norfolk pine, the full height
of the backcloth, throws its shadow over the
stage, the tones being as subdued as those
of a wet day in Melbourne. John Blake’s
Sydney home, by the way, looks a little
for an ordinary captain in the
army. Was he a profiteer of the rum-selling
corps, or did our pioneers of 1523 live more
elaborately than we do now?
“Stargazer”: I noticed that the old gent,
next me at the smoke social was very in-
terested in Tello, who sat on the other side
of him. The old gent, was a Shakspearean
enthusiast, and had brought up the ques-
tion of the identity
of the author of
Hamlet.. Was the
play written by
Shakspeare or some
other person of
the name, or words
to that effect?
Tello contributed a
little, a very little,
to the conversa-
tion, and presently
arose and fled in
quest of more con-
genial company. “I
believe that gentle-
man stands very
high in his profes-
sion,” said the old
gent. to me.
“Among the lofti-
est,” I replied.
“Strange,” said the
venerable and
learned cit., “how
little interest these
actors show in the
hard, and what a
small amount of
knowledge they
have concerning
h i m.” “Strange,
indeed,” said I.
“But Tello is
not a Shakspearean
actor, though his
flights are among
the highest—-he is
“The Lie," at Mel-
bourne King's.
Frank Harvey as Noll
Dibdin.
a circus acrobat, and a ground and lofty
tumbler.”
“Beamish”: The published statement that
Rosina Buckman made her first appearance
in Melbourne in 1912 ignores the modest
debut which I have already referred, to (B.
31/8/’22), and overlooks another season,
anterior to the year aforesaid, when she
warbled in the Vic. capital under the Ship-
man management. At that time she was in
a company with Philip Newbury and Lily
Delany, and her star item was the Garden
scene from “Faust,” with Newbury playing
the tempter in a dress-suity style. Rosina
and Newburv were not so plump then. I
have grave doubts whether they could now
do the same scene together without shaking
the stage to its foundations.
“Pitt Streeter”: “Ambrose Applejohn’s
Adventure,” now being shown at Sydney Cri-
terion, is known on American boards as
simply—and, to my mind, preferably—“ Ca-
ptain Applejack.” The author himself, Walter
Hackett, is a citizen of the U.S.A., but has
made London his home for years. He has
had various pieces played on the West End
boards. One of them, the queer and uncon-
vincing “Invisible Foe,” was acquired by the
Taits and played here with Emelie Polini as
its heroine. It didn’t evoke much interest.
“E.T.”: George Titheradge once got ruffled
at Dot Boucicault’s persistent corrections of
his conception of a Pinero character during
a tedious rehearsal. After about the 20fb
interruption, George retired up-stage. “Irri-
tating chap. Dot,” he growled to a fellow-
mummer, who had also suffered. “My word,
you’re right!” responded the other.’ “But
the worst of it,” Tith. went on, “is that the
aggravating little blighter is always right!”
“Peter”: Bill Anderson, long lessee of
Melbourne King’s, is determined that Foots-
cray won’t be melodramatically starved. He
has taken a lease of the local Trocadero, and
is staging the old bloodstains at popular
prices. What is more interesting is that
Eugenie Duggan is lending her fruity voice
and plump presence to the enterprise.
Eugenie is to play leads, and her daughter
Mary Anderson, is on the salary list foe
ingenue parts. Perhaps Ned Duggan will
also be called on to give the heavy dads due
weight and deportment.
“T.W.”: Rosina Buckman’s tenor and
husband, who supplies the accompaniments
for some -of her songs, was addicted to the
piano before he found the voice. The Smoke
regarded him as a rising caresser of the
keys, when someone accused him of
a tenor. D’Oisly altered his mode of life
to the more profitable one, aUd within a
year was engaged in small parts at Covent
Garden. And the small parts led to the
big parts.
OPEN-AIR OPERA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘A lone English thrush, which came from nobody
knows .where, sings entrancingly at daylight every
morning to a mixed audience from a kauri-tree in
Sydney Botanical Gardens.”
The careless milk-o cocks his ears
At that pellucid strain;
To pull his rattling chariot up,
For half a mo’ he’s fain.
And share the music with the chap
Who bunks in the Domain.
No queue is there, no early door,
No box for the elite.
The doc who strolls at break of day
Down from Macquarie-street,
Has nothing on the cop who walks
The early-morning beat.
A penitently homing drunk
Stops short and hiccoughs “Hush!”
I'll bet some rolling years have fled
Since first he heard a thrush,
But all his attitude conveys
It makes Verbrugghen mush.
A cove arrives from Miller’s Point,
Whose lurk is lumping coal ;
A hard-faced pressman halts to hear
The lonely mavis troll;
For each, ’tis clear, the melody
Soaks down into the soul.
The circle widens to admit
A nursegirl with a pram ;
One patron bears a string of rats,
And one a loin of lamb ;
And one there is whom Sherlock Holme*
Might guess conducts a tram.
How clear and sweet the notes I could
Not tell you if 1 tried.
Perchance recalling Wordsworth’s bird
That sang in far Oheapside,
A burly bottle-merchant seeks
A tell-tale tear to hide.
Where Melba trills, or D’Alvarez,
Let gilded fashion crush.
And audiences roar a< claim,
And cultured critics gush ;
T envy not. I'd rather be
With those around the kauri-tree
Where pipes the lonely thrush.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Exquisite and Exclusive
Jewellery.
aesaaEazzza
tXTRA-QUALITY
DIAMOND A SAPPHIRE WATCH
I, PLATINUM
DIAMOND, SAPPHIRE & FROSTED
crystal brooch-set in platinum
jf^O
Diamond ft sapphire
RINO-SET IK PLATINUM
£ 75
fg
PtAUL.DIAMOND & SAPPHint
6ROOCX - SET IN PLATINUM
£ 45
DIAMOND t) SAPPHIRE
PINO-SBT IN PLATINUM
£9O
DIAMOND A SAPPHIRE PtNDANT
9CT IN platinum
£l5O
Drummonds* Jewellery is exclusive in character and
possesses the quiet elegance that marks high quality.
Illustrated Ring or Watch Catalogue
sent Post Free to any address.
®Hm. Brummontr & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
sdf
I
The Universal Pencil
IT H ETHER in the pocket of pro-
* V fessional, business, or club man,
or tucked away in a handbag, Ever-
sharp is the best sort of pencil be-
cause it is always sharp—yet never
needs sharpening. More than that.
Eversharp lends the distinction of a
pleasing piece of jewellery.
Eversharp may be bought in gold,
gold-filled, silver or silver-plated
styles. Some are equipped with
pocket clips—some with chain rings.
Each Eversharp is equipped with
an eraser protected by the cap.
For .Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
EVERSHARP
K .
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO A RE. Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
®s>
win
i
w,
&
WIZARD
MANTLES
Do you use Wizard
Mantles ? They are
made of a specially
compounded vegetable
fibre, which gives a
maximum intensity of
light, and not of ordin-
ary silk, cotjetrorramie
materials. They also
last much longer and
do not cause burner
trouble. It is quite im-
portant to use them.
They bear the Wizard
trade mark and are
only obtainable from
the Wizard Lighting
Company.
ONE day about 2V2 years ago, a farmer who lives far
out-back in the never-never bought a
WIZARD LIGHTING PLANT
from a Wizard Salesman. It comprised an installation of four artistic pen-
dent gas lamps-—one for each room and one for the verandah. At night
when these lamps were lighted the whole family was entranced with the
effect. It was a superb light,
A SOFT WHITE PENETRATING LIGHT
that reached to the furthest corners of the rooms-—a light like the sun
itself, that made reading a delight and enabled the children to study without
knowing the meaning of eyestrain. Wizard Gas lights with a match, and
is extinguished by the turning of a valve, just like ordinary coal gas. Now
most of the neighbours have Wizard Plants too and also a
Wizard Gas Ring for Light Cooking
an absolutely priceless convenience in the country home. A
Wizard Gas Ring will boil a kettle in a few moments and
is clean and safe as well as speedy.
When writing for literature state as nearly as possible actual
requirements so that we can give definite information.
WIZARD LIGHTING COMPANY
HEAD OFFICE: 55 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
187 a FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE
CORINDA, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE
JAMES STREET, TOOWOOMBA
[Exclusive Territories available to Live Salesmen]
WIZARD GAS RING


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: IJURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
CADET 297/230 Cal. RIFLES
Fitted with NEW B.S.A. BARRELS. We still
have a limited number of these noted Sporting
Rifles. Tested, Sighted and GUARANTEED
ACCURATE UP TO 500 YARDS. Complete
with CLEANING ROD AND SIGHT PRO-
TECTOR.
RIFLES, 55/-. Cartridges 6/6 100.
B.S.A. .22 CAL. BOLT ACTION RIFLE, 24in.
BARREL. Take-down. For accuracy and ease,
95 /-
F.N BROWNING AUTOMATIC RIFLE, .22
calibre. Fires 8 LONG RIFLE CARTRIDGES,
95/-
Same as above, to fire 11 ordinary Short, 80/-
FAMOUS BROWNING AUTOMATIC PISTOLS,
32 Cal. and 25 Cal. A home necessity,
£5/10/-, £5.
ROSS .303 MAGAZINE RIFLE. The cheapest
.303 obtainable, £6/10/-
Gun and Rifle Repairs done on the Premises.
Work Guaranteed.^
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
English Watches
gsd
Are now
Procurable
from all
Jewellers
Foremost throughout the Empire for
over 60 3'ears.
If your Jeweller should not have them
apply to Box 4%0, G.P.0., Sydney
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
SPROTING
NEEDS
First acceptances fell due on Monday for
the Epsom and Metrop. and the two Cups. When
the weights were de-
clared this commenta-
tor named Popaway
(Bst. 51b.) and Sir
Maitland (Bst. 61b.)
as a likely Epsom pair,
and still considers
them dangerous. The
same with Prince
Sandy (7st. 61b.) and
Bitalli (7sc. 41b.) in
the Metropolitan. For
the Cup double no-
thing reads better on
paper than Heir Appa-
rent, a good four-
year-old with a mod-
erate weight (Bst.),
and Keneppil (7st.
111 b.). The handi-
capper took a risk
with Keneppil, a sea-
soned horse, nearly in
the W.f.a. class, and
if he continues to
stand up to his work
as satisfactorily as he
has done up to the
present, he will run
a great two miles on
November 7.
S. P. CASEY,
trainer of Roisel.
The four Maoriland horses that started at
Moorefield (N.S.W.) on Saturday gave that country
a striking advertisement. W. G. Stead’s Absurdum,
a shapely four-year-old bay gelding by Absurd—■
Holyrood, began it by clearing out with the six-
furlong Flying Handicap from a field which included
Earl Palm and Tressady Queen (favorite at 3’s).
Absurdum was backed for a poultice at s’s and 4’s,
and made light of his 9st. He has Bst. 41b. in the
Epsom, and although his M.L. record suggests that
six furlongs is his pet distance, the dash of Carbine
blood he got from his dam ought to help him over
the Randwick mile. Another representative of the
Stead stable, the five-year-old Demosthenes—Lily-
white mare Truthful, finished fast in the 10-furlong
Moorefield Handicap, but the imported Son of Erin
(3’s) beat her to the post by a length. There was
a lot of crowding in this race, and Sandwyne, as
well as Truthful, suffered. Another Maorilander to
run second was the three-year-old gelding, The Shag,
favorite for a six-furlong youngsters’ race, but there
was always daylight between him and the outsider
Rummi, an unsexed .son of Beragoon—Royal Pet,
trained by Kelso. However, the aged Molyneux
(Danube —Perle d’Or) completed the M.L. record of
two wins and two seconds in four starts by donkey-
licking a field of platers in the Carlton Mile, in
which he carried lOst. 21b. and was quoted at 9 to 2.
Along with the runaway victory of Loyal Irish
at Rosehill, on August 12, these performances sug-
gest that M.L. form is rather better at the moment
than that of Australian horses, up to 10 furlongs, at
any rate. Which inclines one to the belief that
Gloaming will beat Beauferd when (or if) they meet
in the nine-furlong w.f.a. Chelmsford Stakes (each
has 9st. 81b.), at Randwick next Saturday.
This page has a notion that one of the great fliers
will crack up before the winning-post is reached, and
that it won’t be Gloaming. The theory is that
Greenwood’s gelding is capable of pacing it with
Mackay’s from the start —a thing no Australian
nae has done since Beauford burst into prominence—
and will have more stomach for a fight over the
last bit. However, barring another of those exasper-
ating accidents which prevented Gloaming from
measuring strides with the Australian cracks in
1920 and 1921, it should be a great race. Interest-
ing, also, will be the meeting of Rostrum (9st.
31b.), Dunwil (Bst. 101 b.), Absurdum (Bst. 91b.),
Popaway (Bst. 81b.), Loyal Irish (Bst. lib.), Inia’s Boy
(7st. 131 b.), Duke Isinglass (7st. 101b.)j Even Song
(7st. 81b.), and Fleuriste (7st. 71b.) in the seven-
furlong Tramway Handicap. On the ground that he
is well forward and relishes the Randwick straight,
one would as soon have Dunwil as anything, outsider
though he is sure to be. For the 10-furlong Spring
Handicap Wirraway (9st. lib.), Truthful (Bst. 31b.)
and Sea Risk (6st. 111 b.) read well, and if Purser’s
brother is reserved for the mile Welter, in which
he has Bst. 111 b., he should be a pretty good thing.
There is no more promising second-rater in sight.
* * 4 *
Eurythmic’s win at Caulfield last Satur-
day—his third annual victory in the Memsie Stakes
was a satisfactory blow to the silly rumor that
the freak horse had somehow gone to pieces. But
it proved nothing, except that he could easily give
101 b. to Purser, who is the same age as himself,
and was the only animal heavily backed against
him in a field of mostly-unready ones. Eurythmic
was probably a good bit above himself, for he kicked
out very lustily at the barrier. Sister Olive had
done her dash some distance from the finish, and
seems to want more work almost as badly as Harvest
King and Tangalooma. Stare ran promisingly,
whilst Shillinglee, the handsome imported horse
from Scobie’s stable, left his Cup chance as much
as ever in the dark by starting at 50’s and finishing
last.
Heir Apparent, a Comedy King horse that fetched
3300 guineas at auction after he had unexpectedly
tea ten Harvest King last November, got back some
of the purchase money by Winning the Heatherlie
Handicap (9 furlongs), a recognised guide to Cup
form. However, it was nothing much of a win, for
the three-year-old Whittier, receiving only six
pounds, was half-a-head away. Significant features
of this race were another disappointing performance
by The Cypher, and another bad get-away by Bassi,
who must be a very forlorn hope for any future
race if it is going to be 2 to 1 on her getting left
at the barrier.
More people than the books were glad to see
“Rawdon” Syme’s mare Tamesa score her third
successive win, but the books had nearly all the
rejoicing to themselves when The Tyrant, trained
by Bradfield for Stuart Brunton, pulled off the last
event of the Caulfield day. The Tyrant is a son
of Polycrates, and last year, as a three-year-old, he
promised to do well up to a mile. In the mile
Welter aforesaid he took a lot of punishment in
the right spirit, and should win again shortly.
In Adelaide lately a full-blooded Hindoo
collected a £37 tote dividend (for second place)
—on Black Rogue! The horse was backed for only
£lB, and probably most of that was stake money;
the public thought so little of the unkindly-named
one that the half-crown tote, which is run as a
separate pool, paid nearly 100 to 1.
* * * *
Perth (W.A) punters have been cursing
the local newspaper strike. In the ante-post betting
Easingwoid was a hot favorite for the Kalgoorlie
Cup. On the day of the race, when there was no
chance of getting at the truth, some nefarious emis-
sary of Mo spread a report that the Eaton Lad horse
had been scratched. There was an immediate rush
to lay off and get on something else, and some
highly inflammable things were said when the news
came from the fields that Easingwoid had won by
a street. The scratching yarn was as good as a
Government grant to the industry of Mcßook.
Why is the ancient practice continued of
cabling results of such Enelish races as the Great
Ebor Handicap, worth £l5OO all told? Time was
when the sporting importance of that north country
event- was considerable, and the amount of Austra-
lian interest in it was comparatively large, because
the proportion of ex-English racegoers in this coun-
try was much greater than now. But to-day not
one man in 10,000 has ever heard of the Great
Ebor, save in an annual cablegram, nor does he
want to hear of it any more.
* * * *
“U.P.” : Oscar Asche is still a devotee of
coursing. At Adelaide, in 1913, he purchased S.A.’s
best greyhound, Ena’s Delight, winner of the Oaks
at Plympton and the Waterloo Cup at Angas Plains-.
Running in England under the name of Once Aus-
tralia she won the Waterloo Plate, and her Owner
refused a thousand guineas for her. But apart from
that success Asche has had little luck, although he
calculates that the game has cost him £43,000 dur-
ing the last 10 years. At one time Oscar’s
Gloucestershire kennels contained 80 dogs, but
about 12 months ago the ’flu cleaned up half of
them. He talks of securing the best dog in Aus-
tralia to run for him in the English Waterloo Cup
next February.
On Friday the Yanks got a good leg-in for
the Davis Cup by registering wins against both
. Anderson and Patterson. Anderson, faced by the
midget Johnston, crumpled up like a novice, winning
six games only in the three sets. Patterson made
a better fight of it against Tilden, but though he
carried the first go to .7-5, and dragged the American
to 10-8 before surrendering the second, he failed
badly in the vital third, having the practically un-
precedented 6-0 registered against him. Tilden
must have played superlative tennis. Things were
looking gloomy when Patterson and O’Hara Wood
came out to play Tilden and Richards, who had
beaten them three Sets to one in the U.S. national
doubles. But Wood once more rose to the occa-
sion. His work at the net was magnificent, and
with Patterson serving as he never served before,
the pair soon had the Americans going. They took
the first set at 6-4, and in the second the Yanks
didn’t win a game. In the third Tilden’s resolute
play—the youngster had crumpled up—won three
games for the Republic, but the match was over in
54 minutes, and a crowd of 10,000 cheered the victors
in the most sportsmanlike way. In recognition of
his fine skill and courage. O’Hara Wood was chosen
to meet Tilden in the deciding singles. But just
when all Australia was waiting for the verdict, rain
caused a postponement of the play.
« * # *
“15-30”: Johnston’s defeat of Anderson
at New York will probably long stand as a record
of rapid success for a Davis Cup final. Anderson
was knocked out in 36 minutes, and the tally of
his “outs” and other errors shows that he must
have played the worst game of his career. The
temperamental effect of Patterson’s less severe
downfall at the hands of Tilden can’t be held to
account for Anderson's poor showing, and, with all
due readiness to recognise the performance of the
little Californian, one must still assume that there
was something seriously amiss with the Australian,
for ordinarily there would not be the difference
between his game and Johnston’s that the figures
5”7“ 6 3) suggest. In Melbourne Johnston
tailed to do anything with his lightning drive when
playing with Tilden against Brookes and O’Hara
Wood. In singles he lost two out of three sets in
an exhibition match against Patterson, and just a
few months before he received the father of a hiding
Wimbledon from J. C. Parke, the comparatively
middle-aged Irishman, whose celebrated running
drive was the cause of his victory over Norman
Brookes for the Davis Cup final in Melbourne in
1912. In 1920 Parke was only a temporary come-
back, with the added disability of a bad arm
received at the war, yet he outplayed the Califor-
nian in every department of the game. Allowing
for Johnston’s improvement since, he can’t be tre-
mendously superior to Anderson, who, as a less
experienced match-player, triumphed over the “in-
vincible” Tilden at Chicago last year. Yet there
are the figures, and they say emphatically that John-
ston toyed with the tall Cornstalk as if he were a
beginner.
* * * *
With but two more games to be played
to finish the first round of Vic. League football, the
situation is that Collingwood, Essendon, Carlton and
Fitzroy will constitute the final four, while the
minor premiership, with its double .change for the
pennant, lies between 'Wbbd ahd ’Don; that will
be settled when the pair meet bh the last Saturday
of the round, ’Roy encountered ’Wood on Saturday
in a fast and Willing go before 30,000 spectators.
’Wbod got going at biide, being faster, surer and
more .systematic, and in the first quarter piled up
30 points to 6. Thereafter the Maroons toiled hope-
lessly in the rear. They toiled valiantly, but the
Maggies never lost their grip nor allowed the others
to get within 12 points of their score. At the end
they owned 79 points to ’Roy’s 62. Richmond,
hoping to displace Carlton, outed South Melbourne
by 86 to 64, but Carlton were taking no risks, and
pounded Geelong horribly, by 111 points to 76.
Essendon kept their place by licking St. Kilda —
63 points to 55—but the win was not as convincing
as might be. There seems to be a weak spot about
the Same Old.
The Ass., getting in early, worked off its first
semi-final at North Melbourne, while 10,000 bar-
rackers roared and raved. The contestants were
alleged to be Port and ’Town ; the latter last sea-
son’s premiers, but they had little say in the argu-
ment, Port dominating the play and slaughtering
’Town with 92 points to 51.
“Winkle”: Though punching and elbowing
are prevalent in Melbourne football, offenders are
seldom reported, and even when the governing body
is notified of a misdemeanor of this kind, the culprit
generally escapes with a light punishment. Still, the
80,000 people who saw Harry Saunders, the Colling-
wood fullback, after slight provocation, send Dun-
can, of Carlton, to sleep for five minutes with a
beautiful left hook, were bewildered when he was
ordered to stand down for but six engagements, when
by precedent, he should have gone out for at leaßt
a year. The Law, surprised also, took a hand, and
fined him £5. Though some deterrent of this kind
was needed, it is, perhaps, unfortunate that Saunders
was chosen as an example. He has a long and
honorable record, and the man he hit, Duncan, has
a quickness of temper that is a distress to himself
and a continual annoyance to opposing players.
* * «■ *
“Trenwink”: My entry for the long-
service-footballer competition will automatically
close it. Old Bill Jameson has played for Lakes
Entrance, Gippsland, for 27 years, and he isn’t
done yet.
*'* 4 4
In the concluding round of Sydney Rugby
League matches Glebe beat Edsterfi Suburbs, and
thereby qualified fqr the right to play North Sydney
for the premiership; by 21 (9 tries 3 gbals) td
12 (2 tries 3 goals). The garde waS rehiarkable
for faulty handling, and fob a Widespread rumor
that some of the losers didn’t want to win, in virtue
of which a large section' of the crowd lustily counted
the team out-. Burge, Bert Gray; Benson and Staple;
toil were Glebe’s best men, Burge contributing 2
tries. East were rarely in the picture, Rigney being
the only back to play up to form. They were robbed
of the ball in the downs with monotonous frequency,
and when it did go to them, Lewis, their half, didn’t
know what tb do with it. In the other clashes
South Sydney trimmed Varsity by .19 (.5 tries 2
goals) to 13 (3 tries 2 goals), Balmain and Newtown
played a draw; ll (3 tries 1 goal) apiece, and Western
Suburbs walloped St. George by 18 (4 tries 3 goals)
to 2 (1 goal). South Sydney, Glebe, North and
Eastern Suburbs will contest the semi-finals of the
City Gup competition.
“Lexite’s Deputy”: I don’t know what the
Sydney Rugby League thought of recent remarks in
The Bulletin about glaring reversals of form in
the premiership competition. But \.hat the public
thought was abundantly evidenced on Saturday, when
a big proportion of the crowd at the Glebe-Eastern
Suburbs match left the ground before the depressing
exhibition was finished, first counting-out the losing
side and advising the referee to send them off the
field. I have met good judges who maintain that
East were honest triers. All the same, football is a
game that should be above suspicion, and Rugby
League football is not. Leaving the betting cancer
out of the argument, the be-all and end-all of it
seems to be the gate. It will be hard to revive the
old confidence in a game which is so obviously
slipping. Rugby League has seen its best days.
* 4 * *
Interest in the revival of road-racing in
Victoria received a further fillip on Saturday when
the Barnet Glass people staged a run from Bendigo
to North Essendon, for which 113 bikists faced the
pistol. The distance of approximately 95 miles was
covered in a trifle over five hours by the first half-
dozen, the best time (shr. 2min. 26sec.) being regis-
tered by a scratch man, J. J. Beasley, who, after
capturing the limit men about Woodend, took the
lead and finally won a ding-dong finish by four
lengths from E. Bainbridge, who had a start of
six minutes. L. C. Stevens, another scratch-
marker, pedalled home third, a minute behind
Beasley, after riding an excellent race. Both Stevens
and Beasley are now highly regarded for the Dunlop
Co.’s much bigger test of speed and stamina from
Warrnambool to Melbourne a few weeks hence.
Harry Collins, the industriously boomed
Newcastle (N.S.W.) lightweight, whipped Hunefeld,
the American, at the Sydney Stadium on Saturday
night. But it took him 20 rounds to do it, and
the slow-moving Yank, whose only assets are his
toughness, and nis punch, was never onc-e off his
feet. Collins owns a good left hand, and the veterans
of the profession like
the way he fights back
after being heavily
thumped. But to be
a champion, a boxer
must be able to knock
his man out. and there
is no evidence that
Collins possesses the
gift in either fist.
HARRY
COLLINS, of
Newcastle who
cleverly outpointed
Hunefeld last
Saturday.
A striking sample of Australian manhood,
in more senses than one, is J. Brancourt, who has
punched his way to the amateur heavyweight cham-
pionship of N. S. Wales. Born at Bankstown,
and 23 years old, he is 6ft. lOin. (3in. taller
than Jess Willard), and goes to scale at 17st.
31b. None of his opponents had a chance with him
in the tourney. They couldn’t get past his long-
left, which was thrust out whenever he saw the
other fellow coming, and was charged with powder.
Brancourt is not as heavy as Dunkhorst, the 20st.
“freight train,” whom Bob Fitzsimmons, an list.
61b. man, knocked cold in two rounds, but he would
only need to let drive with the left occasionally
and wrap the right round his jaw, as Peter Jackson
used to do sometimes, and Bob Turner always, to
whip Lloyd, Cook and the rest of the third-raters
who claim the professional heavyweight title. He
intends challenging those persons presently. Next
to the bouts in which Brancourt iigured, the mo6t
interesting duel was that between the bantams
T. C. Boyton and T. Blair, the former winning
after a fast, clever go. C. Hapner won the feather-
weight title, E. Thompson the lightweight, E. J.
Williams the Welter, and J. Brennan the middle-
weight. Among the wrestlers, E. A. Pitt scored
a doublet-middle and heavyweight divisions.
* * * *
“Biibav”: Three of us were out skiff-
sailing in Sydney in a Southerly. One of the crew
was a Bananalander and as green as a starboard
light. As the blow increased the lad from the
North, who couldn’t swim a stroke, anxiously
inquired, between scoops of the bailer, the depth of
water under the keel. “Couldn't say offhand, said
the preoccupied Bloke at the tiller. “Well,” the
other persisted, “you can soon find out. Shove an
oar down and see. ’
* * 4 4
A sterling performance was that of H. L.
Sheaves (South Sydney) in winning the N.SAV. 10-
miles championship for the third time. Most oi
the peds. who had competed in the five-miles cross-
country. fade on the previous Saturday lined up at
A Scot, but Sheaves romped away from the field at
four fiiiles, and no one had a Chance with hiffi after*
wards. He completed the journey in 54miii. ‘lsec.
32seC. better than the Australian record, 24 8-SseC.
faster than his own time last year, and 57 4*ssec.
better than his is2d figures. A. Gainsfofd (St.
George), a youth Unknown before this year, Was
second, and M. J. Mackenzie (fiVe-mile champion)
third. Of the St. Stephen’s (Vie.) Harriers, J. E.
Bell (6), F. W. Page (8), T. Vines (0), M. V. Boyd
(12), W. Stanfield (15), and Worthington (20)
finished, but Botany again beat thehl on poihtsi
Ernie Austen (St. George).won the seven-miles walb
ing championship fi-orii W. Pitt (fifiSt Sydney) and
E. N. Smith (Botafiy) in 66min. s§4sfec.
* * Mr *
Thd hthletic pride Of Icing’s School
(N.S.W.) is N. R. BurnSj who won the IOOydS,
(in 10 3-ssec.), the 220 (in 28 3-iOsec.), the 440
(in 54see.), and the 120yds. hurdles (in I.7sec.), at
the annual school sports, besides coming third in the
high jump and the 880yds. Burns got a place i.tl
both sprints at the G.P.S. sports last year, and is
expected to do better at the Coining meeting. But
what an exhausting programme for a youngster!
M. B. Smith won the haif-miie in 2min. llsec., and
was second to D. M. Onslow oVer the mile in 4min.
52sec.
The levelling up of the nations in ath-
letic sports was tremendously shown in the recent
British championships. A West Indian took thd
sprints, a Scotchman the mile, and an Australian,
Kent Hughes, the hurdles. But a Frenchman won
the high jump, a Norwegian the long jump, an
Italian the walk, and a Finlander the four miles and
the steeplechase. As for the minor events —hammer,
weight, pole, javelin, discus, hop-step-and-jump—
Norway, Sweden, Finland and Esthonia scooped the
lot.
“Winkle”: The Warrnambool-Melbourne
road race, to be revived on October 14, will rank
once more, not only as the biggest cycling event in
the Commonwealth, but also as the most richly-
endowed road race in the world, for the prizes are
valued at over £5OO. It reached the height of its
popularity in 1909. when 548 entered, 312 started,
286 finished, and W. E. Knaggs (off 41min.) won.
I. R. Munro’s (off 3min.) time, 7hr. 12min. 51sec.,
has never been beaten. It is four minutes faster
than the train takes to travel over the 165 miles,
and 27min. 19sec. faster than the previous best for
the race, made in 1907, by T. Larcombe. Only
twice has the “Dunlop” been won from scratch —
by J. Carpenter in 1896 (the only year pacing was
permitted), and by J. Amst (M.L.) in 1903.
BALLADE OF THE A.J.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft as a sucker sighs the Spring;
Green as a mug the grasses grow;
And down to Pitt-street wends a string
Of optimists with greed a-glow.
The bursting blooms that sweetly blow
Bid Care avaunt and banish Trouble;
Let caution with the winter go.
It’s time to pick the big Spring Double.
Gleeful the lay the lambkins sing.
The dinkum stuff at last they know;
The magic oils that back can bring
Cash vanished with the last year’s snow.
’Tis true that time and time eno’
The racing road is rough as rubble;
But it’s our turn at last, and lo!
We’re off to pick the big Spring Double.
But fair and fine, sweet fancies wing
About the couch of Ikey Mo ;
He dreams a larger diamond ring;
A brand new car for Frisky Flo.
For punters flutter to and fro ;
Their wisdom is but froth and bubble ;
It’s killing time for Ike, and so
He’s out to lay the big Spring Double.
Envo?.
So let us mutter “Cheerio!”
While beauteous belles in every pub’ll
Advise us where to place our dough,
And land at last the great Spring Double.
fI.S.W.
J. B.


STROPPING ?
I carry it
in my Head
o
1
§
§
m
m
STANDARD SET (No. I)
contains heavily silver-plated,
self-stropping razor, / 2 tested
"Valet’ blades and genuine
“Valet" strop, complete in
durable case lined O7\ fi
oelvet and satin , “ * / v
I AM a self-sufficient sort of a razor, 1
know exactly what a man needs in order
to get a smooth, perfect shave every morn-
ing, and I am designed to do the whole job,
not just a part of it.
Easily the most important part of a shave is the operation
that goes before-and after. The stropping and the cleaning.
My way is to do my own stropping. I carry a device
in my head which strops my blade accurately and quickly.
You should see me run up and down a strop. You don’t
have to worrv about “touch or knack. You don t need
any separate stropping machine.
There is no need to detach my blade even for cleaning.
A rinse in water and a rub along my strop is sufficient
to leave the edge of my blade keen for the next shave.
good
Ask for me at any
“ VALET and my surname
the razor that sharpens itself.
razor shop—-my name is
‘AUTOSTROP”
IS
I would like to make your acquaintance 1
“VALET
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD.,
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of the Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng,
The coord ‘'Valet’' on Razors,
BE PREPARED TO MEET THE BULLY!
You should learn “how” to box —
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector. No
man knows the day or the hour when
he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he
will have to defe.nd himself against
some bully or ruffian.
WE TEACH BOXING BY MAIL
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The boxing instructions are very thorough—
you’ll find them most interesting, and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under our
coaching. The lessons provide an enjoyable pastime,
and are cramful of health-giving relaxation and
exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to us, and we will send you bv
return mail the interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about the
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps for
postage.
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS.
171 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
KYNOCH
AMMUNITION
•22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
- '
ALL BRITISH
Your
Tailoring Wants
for Show-Week
Wear.
Your Suit or Costume, to
be “LINCOLN-STUART”
TAILORED TO YOUR
ORDER, in the faultless
manner you desire, finished
and delivered you in time
for SHOW-WEEK WEAR,
should be put in hand AT
ONCE.
Last-minute ordering
means “rush work” and in-
volves a risk of disappoint-
ment—so —Post your order
without more delay.
Your Suit
£4115i
To
Order
Here’s an offer that means COMPLETE SUIT
SATISFACTION and POUNDS SAVED. ALL-WOOL
ENGLISH AND AUSTRALIAN TWEEDS are the
textures provided—every yard of CERTIFIED
WORTH, and in weight, weave and coloring
admirably suited to the Show-goers’ needs. Per-
fect-fitting, permanently-shapely garments are
assured. Patterns are Post Free.
Your Costume
To Order
£ 616/ -
In Rich ALL-WOOL, INDIGO-DYED NAVY TWILL,
definitely guaranteed against lading, and to eive
staunchest service. Genuinely Lincoln-Stuart lailor-
made to Order, in captivating Spring Styles, with
Coats Silk-lined, and daintily trimmed. From 8- to
10-guinea Value for 6 guineas.
Krilk^^
flfv? 'Fw*'
kv
SWWi
ik^irr!
/S
**•
v
ft
<ss
>\V
7
nr.
POST YOUR
ORDER
TO-DAY—
WE
GUARANTEE
COMPLETE
SATISFACTION.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
“Mail Order Specialists,”
244-54 FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
PTY.
LTD.,


"The Four Winds” Cigarettes
—can be smoked in any breeze.
The ultimate test of a cigarette is the
character of its devotees. " The Four
Winds ” Cigarettes claim a discriminating
clientele—that this patronage is rapidly ex-
tending is further tribute
to the quality. Appreciative
men discover in them a very
distinctive Virginian flavour
and fragrance that satisfies.
255, 35.; 50s, 65.; 100 s, 11/6.
V*
si <
Carriage paid
Box 497, G.P.O
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
"The Store for Men.”
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTI.ES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
Melba dealt fairly with the rival couples
ol concert singers, though her natural prefer-
ence was for the Buckman lady, who had been
her Musetta in “Boh&me” and Martha in
r aust before the younger singer ever saw
Europe. On the Monday night last week
the bame and her little party sat right under
the platform to hear Altliouse and Middle-
ton, and next evening she was there again
to shed her smile upon Rosina. Each night
she specially desired certain encore num-
bers, and thus it was that attention was
drawn to the presence of vocal royalty.
Unobtrusive in dark walking rig, hat and
rur coat, Dame Nellie, when you come to
think of it, was rather a satire on such as
air evening dress at a Town Hall concert on
a cold night. It is still done in a few
c^ se . s the seven-and-sixpenny maximum
affairs, but the clothing of Melba seemed to
cry aloud “Why do it?” When the rick-
etty old cane chair costs a guinea to be sat
on, the case is different, of course. One
suits one’s frock to the prices, and the man
follows suit. You must wear the guinea
stamp in a 21s. sea-chair or balcony seat,
lie it never so comfortless. Costly warb-
ling, like very expensive feeding, seems to
demand _ something of gala trappings.
Everything should be on a harmonious cash
basis.
Norman Armytages’ youngest hope,
Neville, has become engaged to Mrs. Hunter
Eandale s only daughter, Joyce, whose
brother, Bobby, married young Neville’s
cousin, Jean Fairbairn. Inter-marriage
seems to be a habit in the family, as Mrs.
Eandale and a sister married brothers, while
another Noyes sister tied up with a Eandale
cousin, Hunter Paterson. By the way, some
misguided relative sent Mrs. Jean Fairbairn
Landale’s photo along to the ’Erald beauty
competition. It tied for a place with the
chosen 30, but got no further, the Society
beauty promptly scratching for the event.
St. Ivilda has just elected Councillor Grey
as its civic head. There is now quite lively
betting about how the Grey mayor will run.
“The Punctured Leg” is the latest Mel-
bourne movie melodrama. The tale goes
that “two Melbourne girls” were in the semi-
darkness of a Bourke-street picture theatre,
when one of them grew drowsy after she
had experienced a strange, stinging sensation
m the place where the silk stocking goes.
A stranger of the perfidious sex offered to
take the drowsy damsel to her home in his
motor-car, but she and her wideawake friend
went to the nearest chemist. The apothe-
cary discovered a puncture in the lady’s leg,
and said it was the third case of the kind
that had lately come into his shop. Then
he administered an antidote, and the punc-
tured lass reached home without the assist-
ance of the bad, bad man with the motor
Melbourne Herald published this story, and
invited full information for the police, who
had heard nothing about the leg, the punc-
ture or the antidote. It has an impressive
sound, but . A hypodermic-syringe needle
wants a nasty push into even a bare leg, and,
if there is a cashmere, or, worse still, a silk
stocking to be punctured, before the natural
woman is arrived at, the push must surely
be something more than a “stinging sensa-
tion.” It isn’t done in an instant, and
could you have your leg treated like that
and not know someone was doing it? One
way and another you get an impression that
the ‘two Melbourne girls” dreamed about
their legs, or else deliberately pulled the
Herald’s.
Melbourne Music Club extended a glad
hand to Rosina Buckman and her hus-
band, at the Lyceum Club, the other
night. Rosina dimpled cheerily in a sump-
tuous coating of white bunny-skins, which
hid a triumph of beaded apricot chiffonery,
and accentuated a too-massive head-dressing
effect. Hon sec. Muriel Campbell ushered
in the star guests, and vice-president Tom
Brentnall spoke the welcome piece. In this
he paid tribute to certain Aussie artists who
had struck fame across seas, but was re-
minded he had overlooked several local
stars from his list, including Una
Bourne. You have to be careful when you
are throwing compliments. Lilian Stott
warbled a quintette of sad songs by Fiona
MacLeod, attractively set to music by Fritz
Hart. Doris H addon gave a subdued ren-
dering of the same little composer’s lilting
English folk-song, “Near London Town.”
The committee set a nice standard of party
manners by introducing to the guests every-
one who had not yet met them.
Mrs. Fred Osborne’s one ewe lamb,
Mildred, has sent word from London that
she has booked a matrimonial date with
Alaistair Gordon Davidson, of the R.N.
Needless to say, he is Scottish, ye ken.
Her father, Col. Osborne, is a brother
of the late Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn. Talk-
ing of approaching matrimonies, the Herbert
Sai'goods’ eldest hope, Denis, is calling for
congratulations on his engagement to Mrs.
Jimmy Graham’s younger girl, Peggie.
Remember Tony Paanaaker, that curly-
haired Adonis from Rotterdam, who was the
adored of the swellest dames, and had the
run of Melbourne drawing-rooms? Well, he
has married a girl from Philadelphia,
U.S.A., the pampered daughter of a million-
aire. The two are living now in Paris, and
send a coo-ee occasionally to Melbourne
friends.
Natalie Dawson gave a charming at-home
at the Austral Salon a few days ago. Hav-
ing gathered some good artists, she turned
on music with the tea. Vera Patterson
sang with a harp accompaniment by Miss
Vears, while the hostess played the piano;
Katherine and Gertrude Healy were a
Voice and a Violin; and Stella Richards
told some funny stories (yes, women have,
them, too) in a most enviable frock. Mrs.
Croker, Dr. and Mrs. Ross Soden, Mrs. R.
S. Whiting and Mrs. Heffernan were among
the guests—a well-gowned crowd that
applauded with the naicest gloves imagin-
able.
Beauty is not always only skin-deep—
sometimes it is a veritable mine. Instance
Victoria’s beauty, Mrs. Tyrrell. The £lOO
prize is a bagatelle to the money that is
rolling towards her. She has engagements
to appear at picture-theatres, not only in
Melbourne, but in the big country centres
as well, and for one week they will pan out
at hundreds of pounds. The lady’s spouse
is nowadays being introduced to the public
as “The Beauty’s Husband”—but he was in
the limelight before that. Ilis mother
coached and brought out two small Tyrrells
as dancers, and he was one of them. They
appeared here on several occasions, and then
went to America, where they had a run of
vaudeville turns that lasted five years.
Tyrrell and his Beauty wife are now doing
a dance turn at various shows, and will pro-
bably develop it into a steady job.
Only with her prettily-whitening hair does
good-looking Muriel Matters, who has
drifted back to Australia as chief apostle
of the Montessori system, show any sign of
her intensive activities in several spheres.
She went to Britain as a reciter, but in a
year or two became involved in the suffra-
gette whirlwind. Some of the most humor-
ous feminine aggressions of that time, includ-
ing a balloon journey round Big Ben with a
megaphone, to harangue the House of Com-
mons, lie to her credit. Unlike the still
strident Pankhursts, she, as Mrs. Porter,
lias made the gentle art of motherhood and
child psychology her later hobby, and is going
to give Montessori courses in our chief
cities.
Here is clever Dorothea Mac Masters,
who recently gave piano recitals at the
Assembly Hall.
Dorothea contracted
a habit of honor-
winning when she
earned a gold medal
its an 11-year-old.
She is one of the
bright products of
the ’Varsity Con.
There she studied
under Goll, Alfred
Johnston, and
Scharf (the Ger-
man instructor who
faded out of the
Melbourne musical
world during the
war) ; but it was
li e r mother, a
teacher of some
note, who laid the
instructionary foun-
dations. Dorothea was born in Shepparton,
and was reared in the Speck, her late father,
Milner Mac Master, having been for a time
on the Hobart Mercury staff. After the
youthful Victorian pianiste secured the
whole 100 marks in the Trinity College
exams, the examiner, St. George, sent her
an autograph photo endorsed, “With con-
gratulations to my first senior century.”
Rev. Arthur Garnsey, Warden of St.
Paul’s, Sydney ’Varsity, had the honor of
being the first to be tied in wedlock by the
Bishop of Tasmania, since the latter’s acqui-
sition of the gaiters. Mrs. Ann Stafford
Srnairl, widowed some years ago, and a
daughter of Stafford Bird, M.L.C., made
the usual vows on the little island of
Bruny on August 28. The lady has been
an honorary Florence Nightingale in a dis-
trict which knows no medical man, and there
are genuine wails at her departure. In
addition to the presence of the aged dad, a
further political flavor was lent to the. pro-
ceedings by M.L.A. Reid, who helped the
’groom along, and Rachel Robinson, the Vic.
Nat. organiser.
The widow of John Sharp, a lady of 91
summers, trundled out to the Presbyterian
Church at Abbotsford one recent Sawbath, to
help in the 50th-anniversary celebrations.
She had laid the foundation-stone of the
kirk half-a-century ago, and has been a main-
stay of the place ever since. Mrs. Sharp is
a wonderful old lady, and carries her years
amazingly. Her big, white stone house in
Jolimont-square defies the awful onrush of
hashhouses and flatteries in that region, just
as the plump horses of her smart carriage
snort with daily scorn at the buzzing crowd
of motors round the swagger Cliveden flats
opposite. She can’t “fash” those modern
motors; also, in her young days, the neigh-
boring Clarkes, of Cliveden, would never
have tolerated flats. Old John Sharp has
been dead these 20 years, but a squad of
sons carry on his big timber business. The
ancient lady has a fine counting of grand-
children, but there is only one grandson—
young John* son of the Scot Sharps.
This is a Ruskin photo of Fred Chamber-
lain, St. Hilda’s live civic wire, who com-
pletes a quarter-century with the local
council this week.
For nine of these 25
years he has been
Town Clerk. As a
civic functionary
Chamberlain has
particular tact and
organising talent,
and as a decorative
artist few equals.
Visitors, seeing wlmt
he could do in the
way of Town Hall
ball beautification,
have remarked that
he could earn many
more dollars as an
artist in America
than by town-clerk-
ing in the land he
loves. He was an
English product, but in 1881 his parents
brought him as a small child and planted
him in St. Kilda, where he has rooted firmly.
The local All Saints’ Grammar School claims
him as a past star pupil.
The engagement is announced of Capt.
Devine, of Geelong, and Lulu Fitzgerald,
whose people run the Continental Hotel at
Sorrento. All Melbourne knows her, and
is firing congratulations at the lucky man.
She ran the Savoy in Melbourne for many
j'ears before that jolly old caf6 was turned
into a fish-foodery. Old Savoyites, by the
way, feel repressed and prim when they
view the precise rows of fish tables in their
old haunt nowadays. Moreover, the new-
comers have bricked up the delightful open
fireplace that was wont to blaze with honest-
to-goodness wood logs in the lounge. The
sipping of sherry or cocktails and toasting
of small slippers before that fire used to be
a real pre-dinner ceremony at the Savoy.
Melba has been surprised at the number of
her pupils who keep springing up, mush-
room-like, and inviting public appreciation
in all directions. The assumption is that not
a few of these are obtaining attention under
false pretences. In one Vic. town the diva
was visiting friends and noticed that among
the singers at an advertised local concert
was Miss Sapho Smith, “a pupil of Melba’s.”
Melba went to the concert on the strict Q.T.,
and when her alleged pupil had sung very
badly she interviewed the girl, “Were you
really my pupil?” she asked. “Yes, I
w r as.” “I do not remember you, my
dear. Was it at the Conservatorium?”
“No, I was a private pupil.” “But
I have not had any private pupils.” “Oh,
yes, you have. You didn’t know it, but you
had.” “I don’t understand you,” said Mad-
ame, with asperity. “I was housemaid at a
hotel you stayed at in Melbourne, and when
you was practising I took lessons outside,
doing the stairs.”
A cheque for £330 will flutter into the
Women’s Hospital money-box as an outcome
of Thursday’s cafe chantant at the Oriental.
Miss Mcßae lent the hostel for the event,
and supplied the afternoon tea and the
assistance of a staff always ready to double
their duties for any charitable cause under
her generalship. There were bridge and
poker in the dining-room, a miniature bazaar
in tha winter garden, and concert and tea
in the lounge. Dame Mary Hughes and
Gaud Mayoress Swanson, assisted by pre-
sentation posies, sat at the committee table
with Mrs. .Tames Alston, Mrs. Hoskens, Mrs.
George Langridge and Mrs. J. J. Brenan. Mrs.
Ben Hoare, headed a table lower down. One
wretched male, who won the 15-guinea
nightie, hurriedly hurled it back on to the
fancy stall, where it found a buyer at £2O.
Mrs. Russell Gabb. Mrs. Barry Thompson.
Mrs. Robins and Miss E. Ball, who ran the
affair, are trying not to appear unduly elated
at the fine financial results.
Gwen Watt, who knows more about rid-
ing and dancing than any damsel in this
city, is turning her talents to account as an
instructress in both accomplishments. Gwen
could gallop round the tan in her mother’s
famous riding school long before sh,e could
lisp her ABC, and she and a girl pal are
now going to teach private pupils how to trot
correctly either on a dance floor or on a gee-
gee.
Our tall Railway Commissioner, Harold
Clapp, who has a fine house in Toorak, takes
a smart neddy out for a blow in the region
of Glen Iris every morning before breakfast.
He is rather proud of his horsemanship, and
nothing bores him more than a jocular in-
quiry as to whether he has ever fallen off.
The yam goes that he was set upon by an
inquisitive dowager at a recent dinner-party
and asked bluntly if he had yet equalled the
record of Brassey or Billy Hughes. At the
time Clapp was suffering a salvo from the
press for the gross loitering of some of his
trains. “Madam,” he said sadly, “My horse
is the only thing that can keep my name out
of the papers.”
R. G. Fincham, who was suddenly called
aloft while presiding at a Sassafras Progress
Association meeting, retired on pension from
the job of Melbourne manager of the
National Bank three years ago. He was
then only 63, and slippered ease had no
charm for him. He became a force in the
Fern tree Gully district, and he had so many
friends in high places that he had only to
say what was wanted for the locality to get
it. His father, George Randall Fincham, of
Ballarat, was in the State Assembly from
1874 till 1885. His widow, two sons and
four daughters survive him. One son sleeps
in France.
Mrs. Shipman, the business-like little lady
who travels with her impresario hubby, is
looking forward to a real home rest for some
months in California. Her dad lives there
in the country, and she will spend the
winter with him.
Young Guillaume, son of the Broken Hill
Proprietary Delprat, recently won a scholar-
ship in physiological chemistry at the Uni-
versity of California, for which there were
over 400 candidates irurn every faculty. lie
left Australia some years ago to study medi-
cine in California, and soon passed an exam-
ination which admitted him to one of the best
research laboratories in the U.S.A., a job on
the teaching staff of the ’Varsity following.
Although still a mere youth, and only in
his fourth year in medicine, he has written
theses which have been published in leading
scientific journals on both sides of the
Atlantic.
Charles Butler, eldest son of a Hobart
leval light, is engaged to ex-Governor Allar-
dyce’s younger chick, Keva. Her mother, a
daughter of the late Molesworth-Greene,
passed out in the West Indies a few months
before Allardyce took the Speck’s guber-
natorial job. He handed the Tassy officials
the surprise of their young lives when he
stepped ashore with a brand-new wife on
his arm.
A coo-ee from Adelaide:—
The Town Hall was packed for the Glee Club's
complimentary concert to Helene Taylor, who had
pride of place in the programme and was backed
by Maude Puddy, Gordon Janies, James Anderson
and Fred Stone, as well as by the Club. The collec-
tion taken at the Community Singers’ second birth-
day meeting was added to the trust fund, and Edward
Reeves is arranging another benefit for Helene, who
has won a three years’ scholarship given by the
R.A.M. and R.C.M., London, but can’t use it with-
out funds to help her through. By the way, Merle
Robertson, who won the Elder Scholarship in ’l6
and has been in England and on the Continent ever
since, is on her way back. She has some fine notices
from English and Continental critics tucked away in
her luggage.
H. S. Power writes to friends here that he is to
get £lOOO for the mural decorations of the Mel-
bourne Public Library and Gallery.
Returned trippers include the Wallace Sandfords,
who have been in the East; and the Cravens, who
have put in most of their time in England and
France.
Miss Birdie Dean is off on the Ulysses to London,
where she will stay with her niece, Mrs. Dudley
Ryder. The Arthur Lungleys and their daughter
have booked berths for the next trip of the same
ship, and the Eustace Grundys and Guy Makins have
also booked for early in the year.
From England comes news that Sister Mabel Dow,
who once ran a hospital here, has specialised in
X-ray work and stepped into a good billet in a
Cumberland hospital. She was in the Mons retreat,
and her work in those tragic days won her a “men-
tion.”
The other niglit there was a ball for the Girls’
Club at the Osborne Hall, run by a committee of
two dozen or so, that included Mrs. Arthur Water-
house, Mrs. Arthur Cudmore, Mrs. W. G. Duncan,
Mrs. Dudley Turner, Mrs. Clive Milne, Nan Mitchell,
Angel Symon, Margaret Naylor, Joyce Harrold, Fay
Good and Phyllis Bray, of the younger set. Society
turned up in force, the decorations were a dream,
the supper likewise, and the result a healthy cheque.
Two old identities passed out this week—Mrs. W.
R. Boothby, whose husband was Sheriff' long years
ago, and W. H. Brooks, of Barton Yale. He came
to S. Aus. 58 years ago, and in the ’seventies mar-
ried* the widow of Edmund Bowman, thereby con-
necting himself with a huge clan of S. Aus. pas-
toralists. Mrs. A. J. Murray and Mrs. Melville
Jay are both his step-daughters. His only daughter,
Maud, left on a trip to England a few weeks ago.
Also gone west after a double-pneumonia relapse,
Dr. John Stewart, a Scottish medico, who had been
here for eight years or so, and who served under
Haig as a civil surgeon in the South African war.


r s
■«
1
■ > *> ' i
m*
I
•, !
Ho/lERy
ffolepraof
Hosiery
The Most Important Detail
of Dress To-day.
You can wear beautiful hosiery every day as well as on dress occasions, without
increasing your hosiery expense, if you buy Holeproof.
For back of Holeproof’s exquisite beauty is a fine spun strength that withstands
long wear and repeated launderings. Reasonable prices enhance the satisfaction
that this famous brand of hosiery gives.
Offered in PURE SILK, SILK-FACED, ART SILK and LUSTERIZED LISLE.
Sold by LEADING STORES Everywhere.
Wholesale and indent through WALTER CATHRO PTY., LTD.,
SO York Street, Sydney; 326 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 18 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.


Under
Royal
Warrant
gs
To H.M.
Kin 6
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
champagne
Qttrieslleidsietfc
Reims
r?
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydnay.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life,
N-B-—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Alfred Hill’s opera, “Auster,” brought
musical Sydney to the Town Hall like Spring
sunshine brings out the busy ant. Students
and teachers were everywhere; and here
and there velvet tains and bobbed heads
were punctuated by sleekly-dressed coiffures ;
and woollen scarves rubbed elbows with the
peltry of the cultured rich. Young com-
posers leavened the audience; Itamsay
Pennycuick and Roy Agnew occupied front
pews, and De Cairos Rego and Esther Kahn
were other applause-makers. The librettist,
Mrs. Coungeau, reminiscent of a small, smooth
bird, thrilled and smiled over a bouquet of
violets and lilies of the valley, diminutive
like herself; while Alfred’s wife bound her
dark locks with a bright riband, and other-
wise was wrapped about in pride and a
brocaded cloak. Blue badges blazed furi-
ously on every side as though it were the
Easter show, but the wearers were merely
members of the Apollo Club. That society
put the stiffening into the male chorus, while
the Con. Choir added its mite to the united
song. The libretto, which is rich in fancy
and imagery, contains many charming lyrics ;
and the whole conception is so poetically
spectacular that this Letter cannot see it
being produced by the present generation of
theatrical managers. Hill’s pen has never
scored so big a work. The music is dramatic,
vivid, full of melody, and always in the
grand manner. The prelude to the first act
will be particularly popular in Australia, as
it is full of sea and sky and open air. After
a storm of applause that died down only
to break out afresh, the composer, who
had energetically batoned his forces to suc-
cess, took the count, leading the libret-
tist forward for her share. Then there was
a wild scurry to the back, a volcanic erup-
tion of congratulations, and after that the
principals, Alfred, half the Apollo Club and
George Portus took possession of the Mac-
quarie, and frightened that respectable hos-
telry with the roll they put into the “Jolly
Good fellow” business. Mrs. Goossens-
Viceroy and Ila Turnbull, who had sung
the parts of Auster and her handmaid,
Camoola, had to rush for ferries, so they
missed the kick in the fruit-cup; but the
well-groomed Clifford Lathlean, who had
been the artistic vocal success of the even-
ing as Gnomus, smoked innumerable cigar-
ettes and bridged the chasm between the
spot where a performer’s dinner never is, and
lunch, by a wafery sandwich or two. Ver-
brugghen’s little lady turned up to the
party; and gave Henry’s last postal address
as Rothesay. Neville Mayman was among
the speechmakers, and Con. Registrar Sal-
mon and his wife were entangled in the wild
revels.
Prince Obolensky has left Viekers-Maxims,
and is doing much better for himself with
Valdimoff’s new Russian Balalaika Orches-
tra. He sang the other night with this
orchestra at a reception given by Princess
Mary at Chesterfield House. Meanwhile his
wife is running a shop in Paris, where she
sells all kinds of Russian embroideries and
handicraft stuff. Dr. Herbert Moran and
his wife ran into them both there the other
day.
On the last night of “The Sheik” in the
city the little woman in the shabby black
outfit and rusty gloves came early to the
ticket window. “This’ll be me last four-
and-fourpence worth for a while, dearie,”
she sighed to the jade-earringed goddess in
the box. “Seen you here quite a lot,
haven’t I?” said the good-natured Olympian.
“A hundred times counting to-night,” said
the rusty one, scooping up her ticket
hungrily. The jade-earrings hung paralysed
for a moment. “Here, wait a minute,” inut-
the goddess in a muffled voice;
•George,” to the boy in front, “call the
manager.” When the potentate arrived the
goddess pointed an excited finger at the
patron. “To-night makes her century.”
The house manager looked at the little
woman. Visions of a wonderful publicity
par. burned in his brain. “Tell me.
Madam,” said he, “what has brought you so
often to this house !” The rusty one ‘looked
at him in amazement: “Why,” she said “I
guess the thrill’s worth the ‘4s. 4d. Every
time Valentino faces the girl with that cruel
smile of his, me singlet runs up me spine
like a roller-blind!” There was a cold
westerly blowing, but the manager mopped a
fevered brow. “Give her back her money,’’
he said to the jaded goddess. "It’s up to
us to shout the thrill to-night.”
The Society of Artists’ Show, which they
claim is the best ever, is to be opened to-
morrow afternoon by G.-G. Forster, and
all will then be free to rush in and
buy the pictures, among which the artists
during the past week, in the intervals of
hanging, have been throwing hand-springs
and warbling arias quite like the studio
gents in "Boh&me.” Lambert’s portrait of
Mrs. Ernest Watt, painted in a mediaeval
Italian way (the lady wears a frock cut
square at the throat, and of the blue of the
Madonna’s cloak), ha.s a commanding posi-
tion in the long gallery. Leason is best
represented by a small, chubby daughter, who
looks like a rose-pink woolly teddy-bear about
the body and a square-faced baby gipsy
about the headpiece. Howard Hinton
has loaned two of his gems—“ Summer Noon,”
a shining bit of Hawkesbury landscape,
painted by Streeton a quarter of a century
ago, and Norman Lindsay’s eastern water-
color, “The Merchant of Robes.”
Lambert’s group includes, in addition to
the oil portrait of Mrs. Ernest Watt, one
ot Miss Collins, daughter of the Vic. State
parliamentary draughtsman. Among his
pencil studies are portraits of Marcia Allan
the Courtney Uix flapper, Mrs. Leahy, and
Miss Wilson, daughter of David Wilson, of
Sydney. Longstaff hangs a portrait of Eve
Gray, the Evening News beauty, and Nor-
man Carter has a portrait of the fascinating
Irench wife of a Digger. Woman in the
abstract and little else—is represented by
Norman Lindsay, Tristan and Isolde being
the central figures in a composition inspired
by Wagner. Another work is labelled simply
‘To Hugh McCrae.”
The latest R.N. man of Sydney’s acquaint-
ance to be compulsorily retired from the ser-
vice is Captain “Chumpy” Watson. He
made his first appearance in these parts at
a small dance given by the Dudleys when,
with a fellow-lieutenant, he dashed into the
ballroom, appropriately made-up, and gave
an imitation of an Arab dervish. Later, he
brought the Melbourne here as a captain,
and his round, red face was a familiar fea-
ture of most gatherings. He goes out on
i»OU per annum, so is in no immediate
danger of want. Claude Cumberlege, another
°£ jettisoned brigade, is considering an
offer that Las been made to him by Loro
Dunraven to take charge of his new steam-
yacht Sona at a handsome salary. Lord
Dunraven, now an octogenarian, was Eng-
land’s foremost yachtsman in his day, and
made several assaults on the America ’ Cup.
Here you have Mrs. Coungeau, who wrote
the libretto of Alfred Hill’s opera, “Auster.”
She hails from Bana.naland, where she lives
on Bribie Island (and that was originally
settled by Austra-
lia’s last convict).
Only within the last
four years has the
little lady dipped
her pen into her
dreams of that East
where she spent most
of her girlhood, and
of the Australia to
which she and her
husband came years
ago, just after their
marriage in Bucha-
rest. The libretto of
“Auster” has been
built from Mrs.Coun-
geau’a long poem,
“Princess Mona.”
Canon Howard, of
Adelaide, who came
from England to South Australia to head-
master the Church of England Grammar
School in the City of Culture, is her elder
brother.
Toowoomba (Q.) has been indistinguish-
able of late from Ascot, Goodwood and
similar places in England where the frivol-
ous rich arrive annually for a short period,
and rent the homes of the humbler all-the-
year-round residents. In brief, the town has
had a polo week. The Tony Horderns and
Dudley Gibsons, who motored up from Syd-
ney, had the utmost difficulty in finding any-
where to sleep, and for a time were faced
with the intolerable possibility of having to
camp under a motor-car, or some similar
improvisation. The Bells, of Coochin Coo-
chin. took a local doctor’s house and filled it
with a cheerful party, which included Mrs.
Pitt Rivers. By the way. the country polo
players consider that Tony Ilordern' is in
the centaur class by comparison with young
Onslow, who is the latest recruit to the
remarkable Sydney team. Many of the
backblockers now admit that, until they saw
his game, they never knew there was' any-
about pol °- He is a son of
tne M.L.C., and retired from an English
regiment the other day to look after an
orchard at Camden.
Molly Levy Lazarus and her husband were
nearly killed while motoring near London
a day or so before the last mail left. He
was at the wheel and drove the car into and
over a hedge. With them, amongst others,
was Dr. ScLlink, the Macquarie-street
specialist, who has been in Europe for some
months studying and amusing himself.
Next October the Royal Australian His-
torical Society intends to repeat the exhibi-
tion of old-time relies, documents and pic-
tures that served to supply such a long-felt
want in 1920. The show that year was by
way of being an experiment, and the Art
Gallery Room m the Education Building, was
only chartered for a week, but the attend-
ance of the public in that short time was not
tar below the 5000 mark. This year the
society has reserved the hall for three weeks,
and hopes to gather together a much larger
collection of old Australian things than was
possible two years ago. The joint hon. secs,
are C. H. Bertie and K. R. Cramp, whose
address is the R.A.11. Society’s Rooms, Edu-
cation Building, Sydney. They are implor-
ing all who possess anything of an Australian
historical interest to lend their treasures—
swearing by the bones of Phillip, Macquarie,
• C- Wentworth, Ben Hall and other
notables of the past that every care will be
taken to ensure the preservation and safe
return of anything that may be entrusted
to them. As the room is practically fire-
proof, and a night-watchman is to guard it
during the three weeks, possible lenders need
have little fear of parting with their heir-
looms for that brief period.
Woolloomooloo welcomed a stream of un-
usual visitors one afternoon last week, when
the annual meeting of the Day Nursery
Assoc, was held at the Dowling-street
branch. Mayoress McElhone, an enthusiast
in the matter of day nurseries, presided* and
the children’s medicine-man, Dr. Clubbe,
urged the necessity for still more of these
homes, for more garden spaces, and for wide
verandahs to every man’s home. There
were the equivalent of loud cheers when he
2rw? the credit balance of over
iUOO was to be used to open another nurserv
at Paddington.
The girls and boys of the Commonwealth
Dank staff shut their ledgers with a bang
early one afternoon last week, and a few
hours later turned up at the Wentworth.
Colored caps and balloons, changing lights
and all the carnival background that Sydney
has become accustomed to blazed with a
subtle sort of added radiance. Knight
Denison Miller and his lady looked in on the
party and brought along a grey-clad daugh-
Gladys Laycock is another woman artist
to have gained recognition from the National
Gallery this season, the trustees having
bought her miniature, “The Kiss.”
The Reverend Mrs. McPherson, from
America, is our latest self-appointed saviour
and she s after us with a tank—not the
kind the Diggers are used to—but a swimming
tank where the lads and lasses are to be
dipped right under. The Pitt-street flapper
is already asking: “Will the baptism be con-
tinental, and can each convert display her
individuality in the cut of her bathing-suit ?”
■*; ussy comes to make us dry; and the
lady with the gorse-and-heather name is all
? or yaking us wet What about splitting
it 50-50 and sticking to the tried old 6
o clock clbsing!
To help the Australian babies who have not
been placed” by the Stork with the same
discernment and worldly wisdom as in their
own cases, the children of Sydney’s rich flut-
tered into a fancy-dress party on the first
day of Spring. The big ballroom at the
Wentworth buzzed and hummed with chatter
like a busy hive, and diminutive pierrots
and powder-puffs, cornflowers and forget-
me-nots jazzed gaily through an afternoon
radiant with colored balloons. Mrs. C. E.
W j tei u®’ wl l? se own Pretty chick Naomi was
a dashing Beaucaire, gave the prize for the
balloon handicap. All entrants had one of
the gay bubbles tied to the right wrist, and
the laddie whose balloon remained whole at
the end of the dance carried off the stakes.
Violets as large as heartsease, and fragrant
masses op hyacinths, had come from Mrs.
Hunter White at Mudgee, and were traded
in the interests of the big Paddington baby
institution. Mrs. Toohey was escorted by
her grandson Jack; and Mrs. Tom Dixson
shepherded a tableful of youth. Mrs.
Brown Craig was mainly responsible for the
success of the frivol.
Went west last week, from Wyana, Rel-
wyn-street, Wollstonecraft, Clara Anne, wife
of Robert Nall,. who was for over 30 years
on the literary staff of the Daily Tele-
graph. Her children are Percy Nall, a mis-
sionary in India; Rowland Nall, dentist, of
Artarmon; Mrs. Percy French; and Miss
Dorothy Nall, elocutionist, who recently
toured India.
Rene Rich, Vost-Janssen’s brilliant pupil,
will get her bow and fiddle into action in
the Town Hall on Tuesday, in a programme
that includes the Beethoven-Auer “Turkish
March” and “Chorus of Dervishes.” The
fluffy-haired 14-year-old is something of a
wonqer, and has already acquired a list of
sub-ht Jes, such as the female Kubelik and
Heifetz.
T -Si 16 Club, which has adopted the
Dittle Citizens’ Kindergarten and made itself
responsible for the upkeep of this particular
plot ot child-culture, is launching a Powder
and 1 atch ball on its behalf next Tuesday
at the Wentworth. Ruby Rich, the eloquent
Miss Preston-Stanley and Mrs. John Mackav
are the high-lights of this departure from
the sterner side of the feminist movement.
f° r £391 was handed by Mayor-
ess McElhone to the Reverend Mother of the
Mater Misericordiae Hospital as the result
of the dance held at the Wentworth in the
beginning of the month.
Herewith a Romney photo of Ida
Gough, one of Sydney’s most experi-
enced and versatile amateur actresses.
A keen “V ag a-
bond” since the
birth of the eo.,
she lias played lead-
ing parts in all their
productions, special-
ly in g in comedy
roles of the society
type such as Oscar
Wilde loved to
create. Ida is now
one of the lights of
Gregan McMahon’s
Repertory Players,
and did outstanding
work as Mrs. Victor
Jessop in “Second-
ary Considerations,”
and Mrs. Baines in
“M aj o r Barbara.”
Her bread-and-butter
... . game of life is
teaching the piano. Evidently she has a
way witn her at this, too, for her pupils
regularly pluck prizes at eisteddfods, and
scholarships at the Conservatorium. Also
every year the Children’s Hospital benefits
by a considerable cheque as a result of her
pupils annual concert.
Sydney Art Gallery has just signed a
cheque for “The Last of the Season,” a
charming piece of work by Melbourne girl
Miss Bale, whose show in the New Art
Salon has attracted connoisseur and buyer
alike. It is an exquisite study of three white
flowers in a vase alongside a red jar. There
is a suggestion of the Dutch influence in
the picture, though Miss Bale, like Hilder
is one of the fortunate people who have not
had to leave Australia to learn how to paint.
One of the most touching scenes in con-
nection with Fireman Billy Brown’s funeral
was the incident of the little crippled news-
boy who after attending the service at the
h ire Headquarters, walked alongside his dead
pals body from the station to Waverlev
Cemetery The youngster, who is just enter-
ing his teens, was quite overcome at the
thought ot parting from liis Digger pal who
had been so interested in him, and always
made him welcome at the station whenever
he looked in.
The writing-women of Sydney are putting
their push behind the £50,000 objective of
the Royal Hospital for Women campaign.
Un the 10th they leave the plain print of
everyday and ruffle gaily into a bridge and
Spring-flower afternoon in the good cause.
Gaud Mayoress McElhone is lending her
rooms at the Town Hall for the flutter, and
providing the food and drinks as well; so
that all gate money will go to the fund.
A postscript from Brisbane:—•
The flowers that blow decorated the vice-
regal supper-table at the Toowoomba military ball.
Iceland poppies, roped with gold ribbons, were
cheek-by-jowl with the famous Toowoomba violet s ,
pink japonicas and sweet pea. Lady Digby wore
pink and gold, and Mrs. Godsall black satin with
Oriental ’broideries. Mrs. Pitt Rivers was all gold,
and Doctor McDonnell’s wife was in grey brocade
with a Spanish comb in her hair. Mary Grant, of
Bowenville, one of Prince Ted’s favorite partners,
was also among the jazzers.
All the Exes, were at the polo match in the after-
noon. Dr. and Mrs. Aeneas McDonnell housed the
G.-G. and Lady Forster, Governor Nathan and Lord
Digby for polo week.
The G.-G.’s party has been furiously "doing”
Bananaland. The Diggers gave them a party in
Dalby after his Ex. had handed out war medals
and, incidentally, laid the foundation of the new
Anglican church, at which Gaiters Lefanu and Canon
Davies were in the foreground. The polo people
tea-ed vice-royalty at Toowoomba on 29th, and
Sept. 1 saw all the Governors and suites back in
Brisbane.
Blossomings 0 f purple and gold framed the Cath-
olic soldiers’ memorial-school ball in the South-side
City Hall. Theodore and Mrs. E. G. received his Ex.
—“no trap door” was guaranteed. Major Foa, a
vice-regal guest, als o came forth ; and the electricity
jazzed under N. B. Harper’s novel lighting scheme.
The G.-G. and Governor Davidson have a date
with the North Coast line early in September.
The Eves of the National Council of Women the
other day met at the Y.W.C.A. rooms, which had
been Edenised with peach blossoms and fern. Mrs.
Edward Bage, of Melbourne, was among the talkers,
and there was apparently no serpent present, pos-
sibly because no Adams were admitted.
The engagement of a well-known South-side soli-
citor and the brainy widow of a Brisbane (and one-
time Hobart) architect is one of the topics 0 f the
hour. Her daughter was recently married in Sydney.
The bridegroom-elect is a widower with a grown
family.


y.
v
si
S'
«•
r
aoOd
&
c*
ATO
a*
'Z>
o
“I Can’t Imagine Taking a Pie
From a Tin” —
ventured nne woman to her friend, quite recently.
They were discussing the subject of
REX Camp Pie
Of course that is a mistake a woman will only make
once. She’ll find many a pleased user to tell her that
there’s no pastry or crust about “Rex’* Camp Pie.
It Is composed of the choicest meats —compounded,
seasoned, cooked and packed with a firm jelly sur-
rounding It.
You serve It cold —right from the tin, with any kind
of salad.
It is the Ideal “Cold Tea" and may be sliced thin
for sandwich making.
Try it once —that’s all we ask. You’ll always have
it in your pantry. All Grocers sell it.
FOQGITT JONES LTD.
F.j. 190
it
S
§
m
v-'&y'oA*;*;
:V? ■>
m
I
V for
CONSISTENCY Op
CUJAUTY”
R. A. SHOW—I 922.
AWARDED
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for HOCK
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CHABLIS
CHAMPION GOLD MEDAL for CLARET
14 FIRSTS, 2 SECONDS,
4 THIRDS
Against All Australian Competition.
ft/till Mas
lihfirfntrt
%
unmniiHiifi mj
ym
a: ; SS hhto
il life
r
i
r
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors—poiished with Johnson's Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson's Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
Taste —Liquid Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson's Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer haj Johnson's
Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


Cuticnra Is Wonderful
For Your Hair
On retiring rub spots of dandruff and
itching with Cuticura Ointment. Next
morning shampoo with Cuticura Soap
and hot water. This cleanses the scalp
of dandruff and promotes hair health.
Soapls.,Ointmentls.and2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
R. Town* & Co , Sydney, N.S.W.”
«W 'Cuticura Soap shave* without mug.
BECOME AN ARTIST!
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
fc-
You can
soon mas-
ter the
lnain prin-
ciples of
drawing if
you take up the
lessons of the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE.
Simple lessons
from the very rudi-
ments of art right
on to its higher
branches have
been prepared by
Australia’s master
cartoonist and
poster designer, Mr.
Harry J. Weston,
who PERSONALLY
CRITICISES each
student’s work.
The course is fas-
cinating and cuts
out drudgery, giv-
ing a thorough
grounding in a pro-
fession which leads
to highly-paid posi-
tions.
SEND FOR THE
BOOKLET,
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” in which
Mr. Weston tells
all about the
course and
gives examples
of the lessons.
Just forward your name and address, with three
stamps for postage.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
160 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
SHIP BRAND
CORN FLOUR
for Delicious Cookery
7 NO SUBSTITUTE CAN REALLY 7
TAKE ITS PLACE
Sold Everywhere
manufactured by
Lovte 0 Co. Ltd. Sydney
RIP VAN WINKLE HIMSEI' ir - WAS
NO FURTHER 'BEHIND THE
TIMES THAN THE MAN WHO
DOESN’T OWN A
Neva
Improved
meite
CAwm/' Oa*t/\b
The Famous “B-4” Marine Motor: £llO
and up, according to equipment.
Four cylinders—-four cycle—lo to 20 h.p.—600
to 1200 revolutions. Uses Kerosene or Benzine.
Write for Catalogue.
Invincible Motor Construction Co. Ltd.,
35 Pitt Street, Sydney, Australia.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
5*
The Genuine "KEMP
SADDLE.
Many inferior, low-grade saddles are being offered
to the public as Kemp saddles. The genuine
Kemp is made only by us, and bears a name-
plate with the word ' “Kemp” and our name
under the staple. It is one of the high-grade
saddles building up our great saddle reputation,
and will give many years of satisfactory service.
It has all the ease and comfort of the best park
saddles, but the shape and position of the pads
give greater security for rough riding. The
fittings are folded Kemp pattern girth, bevelled
leathers and solid nickel stirrups.
The“KEMP"
£l4/5/-
Freight Paid to
any N S W. Rail-
way Station for
Cash with Order.
WRI'l’E FOR Our fine
sAOdlery catalogue
HORSEHAIR
COVERED WITH PELT
Posted
WE ARE
POLO
SPECIALISTS
Walther & Stevenson Ltd.
Saddlers, 395 George Street, Sydney.
FRESH AIR —NATURAL LICHT.
No Leaks
No Bother
df
Malley’s
Patent
SKYLIGHTS
(Made in Australia).
MAI, LEY’S SKYLIGHTS give a wonderful
ail-the-.Vear-round service. Installed at small
cost, they permit the light and air to stream
into your rooms, or entire buildings; are
easily regulated to suit weather conditions,
and CAN BE INSTALLED ON ANY TYPE
OF ROOF, No danger of leaks, or bother if
you install MALLEY’S SKYLIGHTS.
FILL IN COUPON, and we shall be glad to
send you full particulars of Skylights for
Woolsheds, Dairies, Barns, Factories, Veran-
dahs, Kitchens*—or for any roof,
MALLEYS LTD., Sydney.
Pletise send Me particulars bf Slcyliffhts for.
NAME
ADDRESS fe. 7/§/’22
c ypGxlleifcf jCj&
66LlVCt*p00l Sit, Comer/Cent issf,
a. few steps from George St.
Science gives proof of the
Nutriment in
Everyone must have nutriment to maintain health
and strength, and the energy to live a useful life.
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
A Medical Scientist recently demonstrated that the
nutritious elements in Cod Liver Oil are consider-
ably greater than in a food so rick in fat as butter.
This discovery reveals the secret of the phenomenal
success and popularity of HYPOL, which contains
50% of the finest Cod Liver Oil from the Norwegian
Fisheries, but blended so skilfully with the hypo-
phosphites of lime, potash and soda, and so en-
ticingly flavoured, that it is just as pleasant to take
as it is wholesome.
Doctors recommend HYPOL largely lor the following
Complaints, and it never fails: —
Coughs
Colds
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Anaemia
Debility
Influenza
Nerve*
Measles
Rickets
Loss of Weight
Whooping Cough
There’s some distinction and originality about HYPOL.
Substitutes are “not as good ”
INSIST ON GETTING HYPOL. SOLD EVERYWHERE
,
Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne.
A
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will b*
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
R.C.: But “sect” is not derived from
“secure'’ (to cut off). According to Webster it
entered the language via “secta,” through “sequi,”
and the meaning is not “something cut off,” but
“a following,” “a religion.” Therefore Catholicism
is as much a sect as Methodism, and your argu-
ment fails... .Austral: Impossible to acknowledge
pars in this column. If they don’t appear, you can
guess their fate.... C.M.W.: Sckoolboyish stuff, but
probably no worse than any other beginner’s....
G.E.: Contributions must be cut out and sent to
Bulletin accountant... .Const.: Sorry we don’t keep
sparkling repartees on hand for the confounding of
supercilious new-comers... . Picko: Pure doggerel. ...
Waldina: Laborious effort to get something out of
nothing. .. .Koi-lvoi: Verse very bad. Yarn has too
little in it. .. .1.F.J.: The idea is startling, but
the working-out is uninteresting. Why not make it
a parable of what is actually happening?... .Alice
A.: No use... . J.C.8.: Gets to nothing,.. .C.E.T.:
Try to get some idea what verse is before you
start to tumble words at random on paper. ...
Eunice T.: Dreary statement... .Rue: “Ambition”
is shocking verse; “Storm” a patchwork of common-
place.... Gee Bung: Pars are not referred to in this
column; so the “it” must be the sketch, though it
is impossible to trace it now. ... F.V.C,! “Action”
hasn’t a glimmer of mirth... .Alice J,! It fluttered
to the basket... .J.A.N.: You’re fat too superior,
and your spelling is rotten.... Cuthbert: It limps...
Bellerive: “The Demented Urainp” has the quality
of horror
Ruined by speculations,
He’d lost he’s honest name,
And drifted from the city—
In misery and shame.
Bearded and demented —
He wandered on the track,
With a small and tattered blqgy
Hanging loose upon he’s back.
While riding to a station
One bright and sunny day,
The body of the rover
A stockman did survey.
Guided' to destruction by
A blank, demented brain,
For want of food and water
He’d perished on a plain.
. ...P.H.C.: Not enough there... .W.J>£), 1 “The
Seeker” doesn’t make a yarn.... R,F.S.: “Choice”
misses. The metre is a trifle halting and the thought
is rather slight.. ..Hunter C.: Both too thin....
F.0.G.: Not up,,, . Rivetina : “The Count” must go
back...Q.P,: What’s the use of writing about people
who don't matter?... .Joe D.: It’s a lovely thing,
.... Swansea: It saves a lot of effort to have Cniy
two rhymes to the stanza and use the same ones
each time... .S.E.F.: The view is reasonable, but
not specially interesting. .. .J.P.S.: Poor stuff....
Roki: That subject has been written to death....
A.E.C.: You don’t seem to know much about Aus-
tralian writers,,. .J.H.A.R.: Not up. .. . J.K.8.:
Grow ,ye the roses! embracing the trust
The Almighty has given to mortals or dust.
All right; we’ll try and grow them, but don’t bump
us in that violent way.... Ethel W.: False rhymes
from the start.... Scribo: “Waggons o’erftlled with
hay sublime” is over the odds even for 10 years old.
....Corpuscle: Doift know what “The Heathen
Awakes” means, but it sounds tremendous
Nebula outposts review these planets
Orbit marching: Twinkling stars incessant
Vigils keep: Firmaments galaxies their
Splendors wane, when central Orb's far-reaching
Beams ascend in silver grey, heralding
The solar spectrum-—now fan-like shaped by
The sun’s white rays, in every color blending.
Transmuted through the morning air. Mild
Tones increase in density; pervade in
Panoply, towards the space na’creous
But tinsel sheaths the azure dome, while purple
Cloud, bright with light, is flanked by silver loom.
.... Frank D.: The mere fact that the sun rises is
not worth staffing... .L.L.L.: Not for us.... Do-
rmant: Yes, verse printed in this column is paid for,
but it’s no use trying to write badly to get in.
“Bellerive’s” are rare and inimitable... .D.D. (Bui-
wood) : Nothing in them. .. . A.F.S.: Doesn’t strike
us... .D.E.R.: You call it “good rough verse.”
Rough, yes; good, no. ... Whisper: “I w'ill hie me
away to the sunny south.” Why not say something
honest? The warmer part of this country is north,
as you who live in Queensland must know. . . . J.F.K.:
Heavy verse of no quality.... Breton: An old sub-
ject poorly handled. .. .R.F.S.: Pretty, but doesn’t
quite say what ypu intend it to.. , .G.8.L.: They
don’t strike us as either bright or original....
Mary C-: All you do is to tell the. .sea to keep
breaking. .. .Chuck: The -opening is certainly un-
usual :
I modestly beg by this essay to draw’
Subjective ethics and expose a fault
In man’s conception of the moral law
Which is as extern as the stairy vault,
Dartle: It seems insane... .Bullet: What have
the “Fairies” done to deserve such fustian?.,.,
E.M.E.: You won’t rhyme “brawn’’ and “shorn” in
this paper Matthew F.: Aw ful Kat: Away,
wild splodges of raging ink !... . Union Jack: Sorrow-
ful waste of words... .Cornstalk: Sing out, bold
heart:—
I know you once sang beautiful,
You sang low’ and you sang high.
I’ve my doubts about your singing now’,
For twenty years have since gone by.
His “sarcastic tone” disheartened her,
But, when her weakness was overcome,
She sang the highest note she knew,
Like the sound of a busted drum.
Her husband looked like a demon,
Like a demon in terrible pain.
This roof was put on yesterday,
But, by God, it stood the strain.
F.E.F.: Idea not new... . W.W.L.: Can’t swal-
low- the hen-egg that fell from a tree and didn’t
crack. .. . J.W.A.M.: Try some more. . . .D.A.O’D.:
You have the hide to condemn his verse, which is
always good, and at the same time enclose two
samples of your own, which don’t scan, and in one
of which you try to rhyme “yonder” with “thunder.”
Villers: A good yarn ;it was told in Caesar’s army
during the first campaign in Gaul Pilon: This
paper has no use for any party, as such, and never
had. Policies, not parties, is its watchword. At
present it looks with a certain amount of hope
towards the Country programmes, Federal and State.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.: Not worth it... .P.L.M.: Drawing not up....
J. 8.: Misses. .. .K.P.: If the aim of art is to con-
ceal art, then you’ve succeeded brilliantly... .M. 3.:
Why is the teacher standing on the desk instead of
the f100r?... .J.A.R.: Looks like a jigsaw puzzle....
Blakey: Too scratchy.... It. M.: Very anaemic gag.
. ...H.J.: Faint pancil marks useless.... E.W.: Try
drawing Australian youngsters... .L.D.': 0ut....
C.W.M.: Neither strikes us.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-. Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
Tty way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 13.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Bunking:. Public Companies, Jtc.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up . . . . . . 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,069 4 a
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. YV.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; YV. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. lIAYMKN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT YY ELLS.
HEAD OFFICIO - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throng bout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WOULD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922. . £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; H. A. Russell ;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South YVales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Cliiel Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Everv description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Coiner GEORGE ami WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. •• •• £529,988
Preference Shares.. •• 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
Britain and
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji. Samoa, Great
Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts s
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
11 other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund ..
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625.000
650,000
£1,275,000
. 625,000
£1,900,000
Hfad Office : ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 93 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
4 • if . | Established
Australian Mutual
87 H pitt Providcivt Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income • •
£1,551,188
£2,629,000
£47,000.000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assarance Business.
H. W. APPERLY. F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Can&d ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS :
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United Stntes can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Fails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, I.2th OCTOBER, II a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 9th NOVEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding Uie above services apply— ,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
mm
.j
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 3i TO 4i WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to — '
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
Burns-Philp Tours.
Passages booked to LONDON, EUROPE, AMERICA,
AFRICA, CHINA, JAPAN, INDIA, etc.
SPECIAL ROUND EASTERN TOURS arranged,
leaving Sydney and calling at JAVA, SINGAPORE, thence to
CHINA, JAPAN, and returning via HONGKONG, MANILA,
BORNEO, etc., or vice versa.
FIRST-CLASS THROUGHOUT, £l4G'/10/-
BURNS-PHILP LINE to Java and Singapore.
Through Bookings to INDIA, BURMA, etc., by this
Route.
Apply for further information to
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
.•>l.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
raid'lip Capital
ltes'erve Fund
Keserve Inability
Directors ;
£5,640,700
3,600,000
5,640,700
£14,881,400
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C. _ ....
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq,
The Hon. Reginald J. RlaeK, M.L.C.
Auditors'- S E Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office— George Street. Sydney. London Office — 29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
3GO Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Ae-en'ts and Correspondents throughout the world.
S Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up .. £3,000,00(1
Reserve Fund .. £'1,160,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,460,000
V-”
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.1..C.,
, Deputy Chairman.
Hon. J. W. Macarthuv Onslow,
M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:'
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales anti Queensland.
London Branch: 18 liircliin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers —The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
and agents and correspondents throughout the world
A1 1 AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(id weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
nf Australians in Europe and at hoine.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices 51 High Holborn. London. W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
For Sale.
A MODERN HOME AT LINDFIELD. North Shore
Heights, Sydney, N.S.W. Lindfield is the suburb
of beautiful homes amidst ideal surroundings. Won-
derful natural scenery, great parks and reserves,
delightful air. Close to the city—improved train
services—modern conveniences. Advertiser has a
newly-finished bungalow, complete with every facility
for home comfort. This can be purchased direct to
advantage. No agents com. —no delay. Immediate
possession.
Apply to Mrs. A. 11. EATON. P. 0., Lindfield.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Pol-
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Qeraldt
and North-West Ports).
Wed., I Mcllwraith,
Sept. 13 McEaeharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
—— I Howard Smith
I Ltd. & Reduced,
I ,°>so George St.
Tues., j Melbourne 5.3.
Sept. 10 Co.. Clarence and
1 Barrack Sts.
! Howard Smith
j Ltd. & Reduced.
I 350 George St.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma). MACK AY, BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
7 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
•Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Maekay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Huddart Parkei L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—-Regular sailings
[roni Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
>iini vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli*
cation. _ . . „ . ,
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa fortnightly. Between Melbourne and
Launcfeston as per daily papers.
For Tull particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE S.S. SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
This fast anti favorite steamer is fitted with wire-
less and with every modern convenience for the
comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 24
days, and from Sydney only 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdoil&ld,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYItON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circnmstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.tn. ;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including: —
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon On Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on -the
coast.
For further particulars apply: —
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAN D, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MOriLlliy CJcAH i ii£o UIEICIH.CI.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
money, B NIppoN yUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackliealth Collieries, Utd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Utd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Utd.
agents for
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Htiddart. Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourns
Agents for Messageries Maritime* Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


N 93;
N° > I
N° I
■
m
N -
<3 X
The Choice
of Australia’s
Leading Mills
It is in Australia’s most progressive
mills, where correct tension, accurate
cutting and a lasting edge are para-
mount necessities, that first choice is
invariably given to
“An Eagle on a Globe”
Circular Saws.
'•tc ON ►
them ourselves in Australia—cut them from blanks of
Sheffield’s best Double Extra Crucible Cast Steel, the finest steel pro-
duced for the work. The keen competitive price of these high quality
saws is a worth-while feature to every saw user. Fifteen standard
patterns of teeth. Any size hole or gauge. Sizes from 4in. upwards,
bend your order and ask for “Book of Saws” and “Balfour’s Hints on
Steel,” post free.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road., Kalgoorlie. Paul &
Cray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; R. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
mm I
5680
a
m
R
S)
u-7 *✓->
r Shaves with incomparable ease and
smoothness, not a mower, but—
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, fin. or fin., set ready for use and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Plum Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere.
Country visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and most efficient
service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon in
Sydney.
m ww7mW'-% i | ;i ag,
I®
■
EXTRUDED
Metal Sections
Quality and Accuracy Guaranteed
XjIXTRUDED Brass, etc., sections easily replace castings. No
tbi mac “ in i n £- More economical. Cost about the same as rough castings.
™^™ i Sr ee< L turnin S an d screwing rods in BRASS, BRONZE, MUNTZ
METAB, NAVAL BRASS, etc., from 3-16 inches upwards.
30 tons Extruded Brass and Rolled Copper Rods and
Bars in stock for prompt delivery to all Australian ports.
IMPORTANT
Special Sections for subsidiary trades, including Gasfitters’ Accessories,
Electrical T lttmgs, ind Screen Sections, Panel Mouldings, Turbine Blades,
Stair 1 reads, Curb Sections, Glazing and Casement Bar Sections, Hinge Bar
Sections, Escapement Wheels, Ratchet Pinions, etc.
This Australian Industry should have your practical support.
iPlease send us your enquiries.
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
manufacturers,
O’Rio rdan Street, Alexandria, New South Wales.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY), UTD., Sydney, Newcastle and Brisbane;
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., Melbourne, Adelaide & Hobart
PERTH: GEO. KENT, LTD.
WEL LINGTON, N.Z.: JONES & CO., LTD.
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
sd
‘4 marvel at the price.”
I*l. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
snot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
_barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2ilb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26
fser
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for --
short or long rim lire cartridges. 21in. heavy rouDd steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight: length of rifle
over all. 37iin.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid.
55/-
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
fse
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
. ... exceedingly simple. The barrel is round. 18in. long, bored
ana rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
2 51-
Wi
Remarkably accurate and hard hit tine.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapereef barrel, take down, weight 6Jlb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight
paid
£l2/10/-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
rgs
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sslb. ..
Freight paid,
£6
“A cheap and reliable weapon.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage —N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
open
45/-
MMM
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marlcet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
Inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sillt
Freight paid,
£.9
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
erg
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 18»2
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model.
25/20-, S 2-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about sJlb ...Freight paid,
£B/10/-
£9
;£7/15/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Delightful Miss Madge Elliott
is a Rexona Girl.
V
MISS
MADGE EIJJOTT
(from a photo.)
Miss Madge Elliott is one of the most
beautiful of the bevy of famous Rexona
Girls. Why not be a Rexona Girl, too? To
be a Rexona Girl is to use only Rexona and
Rexona Soap, which ensure that clear, fresh
skin and beautiful hair which go so far to
give any girl that natural charm and beauty
which is her rightful heritage.
“Add me to your Rexona Club,
please. If anyone deserves election
I do, for I use nothing but Rexona
Soap for my bath, my complexion
and my hair. If I knock myself in
hurrying on or off the stage, or get
a little stiff, I use Rexona. It is
worth its weight in gold in one’s
medicine chest. Please notify me
when elected.
“I am yours sincerely,
“(Sgd.) MADGE ELLIOTT.”
Rexona Soap—Unequalled
for the SKin and Hair.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap will do more to improve your
skin than you ever thought a soap could do. It is medicated on
the same principle as the famous Rexona Ointment. Thus it is
able to exert the hygienic
effects of Rexona upon
the skin with every cleans-
ing operation. Prevents
roughness, beautifies com-
plexions, soothes tender
skins, protects from infec-
tion and disease, unex-
celled for shampooing,
purifies the scalp, removes
dandruff, and brings
health to the hair.
Rexona Soap, 1/- per Tablet.
m
m
mm
mi
if
£?
m
m
I
m
a
tOILET
I
FACIAL
SKI
m
m
MEDICATED SOAP
X
m
m
m
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Castlemame)
Prop. Ltd.
T elegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castkmaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
ENQUIRIES INVITED
. for
ANY MACHINERY PROPOSITION
such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
FORGINGS OF ALL KINDS.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
E. Hinks & Co- Etd.
ADELAIDE:
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Jjtd.
PERTH:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
The Rainbow’s End.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
\y OW foams the river of wattle in golden
i \! flood,
-i- l And the yellow sun with laughter
tops the hill;
Riot of hope is singing in all men’s blouu;
The wind comes whispering strange, sweet
things to the will.
Yesterday bent the rainbow over the steep,
And slantwise an arrow of light flew
tipped with gold,
Striking a dream to the heart of the flowers
asleep,
Telling them all the joy that a day may
hold.
Yesterday sang my heart at the turn of
the year,
Under the grace of a sky that had wealth
to spend.
Never before had I felt that I stood so near
The gift of magic hid at the rainbow’s end.
I will dig down, deep down in the midst of
the spring,
Down through the music of birds and the
scented air,
Till I find the golden song that was left to
sing
By the blower of reeds who lost it
unaware.
Never, oh, never, on steep or mountain or
glen
Could he find the one refrain that was
life to hear,
The exquisite thing to lie in the hearts of
men, . ,
Holding the honey of morning, the kiss
of the year.
Rut the rainbow pointed the place in a
hollow of green,
A hundred steps from my door where the
fern droops low ;
Gold of all seeking is there, where the grey
stems lean,
For the wind has whispered all day to tell
me so.
There is the Burning Bush and the Holy
Grail,
The Bethel pillow of stone and the Delphic
voice, ,
The true Shekinah behind the purple veil,
And the great quiet of trumpets that cried,
“Rejoice!’’
I will dig down, deep down to the heart of
the spring; .
For all that ever I wasted or missed is
there,
Turned to a golden song that a man may
sing
Where the river of wattle foams in the
morning air.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Duel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HIS curious incident in the somewhat
chequered early career of the late
Lieutenant-Colonel Patrick Calder,
C. 8., who, it will be remembered by those
who are versed in the history of British
India before the Mutiny, died very gallantly
in 1846, on the battlefield of Sobraon, took
place in those unregenerate days when he
was doing garrison-duty with his regiment
at Sydney, during the reign of Governor
Macquarie.
The story was properly and discreetly
hushed up at the time, for reasons that its
telling will render obvious, and, so far as
its present narrator is aware, this is the
first occasion when it has ever been set
down in writing, to say nothing of appear-
ing in the publicity of type. It may safely
be told now, since Patrick Calder, his friend
Mr. Pilkington, his bitter enemy Captain
Penruddock, li.N., and Prince Otto von
Hamel have all been dead for at least two
generations—but it would have been, to put
it mildly, somewhat dangerous to have pub-
lished it in Sydney for at least a score of
years after its happening. Mr. George Howe,
of The Gazette, would rather have been
sent to the Coal River than have served it
up as an item of news in his eminently right-
thinking columns. Governor Macquarie
would have been outraged. Lord Bathurst
would have been scandalised. The Hano-
verian succession might have been jeopar-
dised. It Would Not have Done —in
capital letters.
H.M.S. Penelope, commanded by that able
sailor, promiscuous rake and disagreeable
boor, Captain Arthur Penruddock, R.N.,
had, as it were, blown into Port Jackson
more or less by chance. She was bound for
the Bay of Islands when, after passing
through Bass Straits, south-easterly gales
had driven her up the coast of New South
Wales. A certain Hanoverian princeling,
closely related to his Royal Higljjuess the
Prince Regent, and so, of course, to his
Majesty King George the Third, had become
afflicted in London with a sort of melan-
cholia that the doctors declared might only
be cured by the interest of travel and the
physical stimulus of a long sea voyage. His
unhappy condition was partly accountable
for by the fact that a weak stomach, and an
indifferent liver, and a constitution debili-
tated by many youthful excesses had not
been proof against the hard living which was
characteristic of the vicious circle in which
be moved when he came to reside at the
Court of Saint James. The friends of. his
cousin, the Prince of Wales, were a little
too strenuous for him. And, furthermore, the
lamentable affair of Polly Lennox, of Drury-
lane Theatre, upon whom he had squandered
time, trouble, money and maudlin Teutonic
affection, only to see her become the mis-
tress of his gentlemanly cousin George, had
also been too much for him. An hereditary
and acquired taste for alcohol seemed to
offer refuge, but extra indulgence had only
induced him to make a feeble and ridiculous
attempt upon the life of the Prince Regent
—which was strenuously concealed—and
what was to be done with him became an
exceedingly momentous question at Court.
A very difficult problem, indeed.
But the tactful George P. solved it.
“Demme,” he said, the Old Man”—he
meant his kingly and demented parent —
“has been not so silly this last s’ennight, and
must needs get wind of the affair. He and
Otto's grandfather were young fellows to-
gether, and very friendly. So he says we
must do our best for the fat fool. So does
’'oily. Well, he can’t stay here. I’ve had
enough of him. Demme, yes. The doctors
say a long voyage might _cure him of his
madness. Moreover, he might drink himself
to death while he’s takin’ it. So we’ll send
him a trip to Botany Bay, or to New Zea-
land —where those Maori fellows eat people.
Curse my wig, he ought to be transported to
Botany Bay in any case-—only we can’t do
it, demme. We’ll send him explorin’ in a
man-o’-war —plenty to spare, now Boney’s
at St. Helena. So that’s settled. Get into
communication with the Admiralty,” he in-
structed his private secretary—“they’ll
arrange for a ship. A frigate should do. So
much for Cousin Otto, the ungrateful
So the tall spars and trim rigging of the
Penelope, her shapely black hull with its
line of white-painted ports, and the presence
aboard of German royalty graced Sydney
Cove for a few weeks in the autumn of 1817.
A little to the annoyance, in the first in-
stance, of his Excellency the Governor-—but
afterwards to his gratification—her distin-
guished passenger had refused the proffered
hospitality of Government House.
“Ach, no,” he had grunted, when Mac-
quarie invited him personally to take up his
residence ashore, “I vill remain in der shib.
I haf nod der inglination to mingle mine-
selluf mid der schweinhund gonvigts you haf
here. I vill gome ashore, ia—bud I don’d
like to sday mid der gaol-birds in der gaol-
birds’ down. Zo. Be bleased nod to drouble
mid me, Herr Gofernor. lam fery veil vere
I am.”
After she had made his acquaintance, this
was also the sentiment of Mrs. Macquarie.
He had been already drunk when he came to
dine, and it was necessary for two of the
guard to carry him down to Captain Pen-
ruddock’s gig when the time came for his
departure. He had not nice manners, and
spat freely upon the carpet of her drawing-
room whilst drinking tea therein after
dinner. His conversation was interlarded
with oaths, his laughter at his own weak
witticisms discordantly offensive. So was
his appearance—and his smell. A fat red
face that glistened with perspiration, and
had little leering pig’s eyes set in it beneath
a low and retreating forehead, a round and
protuberant paunch, bandy legs, immense
feet that seemed to trip him perpetually as
he shuffled about, and a disgusting habit of
belching at table were not attributes that
recommended him personally to the refined
Scots lady who was his hostess.
“Let us be thankful, my dear Lachlan,”
she remarked at the close of that painful
first experience. “Let us congratulate our-
selves that he did not accept our invitation.
Oh, what a person!”
“My dear,” responded her husband sol-
emnly, “we must not forget his position. The
—ah—blood-royal, my dear Elizabeth. But
I am not sorry he is stopping aboard the
Penelope. He is hardly genteel —hardly.”
In the Mess of the 40th, where, in the
nature of things, l\e had likewise been bidden
to dine, the popularity of the Prince was not
remarkable either. Thither, also, in the
company of Captain Penruddock, he had re-
paired in a condition of muddled argumen-
tativeness and stupid self-assertion, whose
inspiration was primarily derived from Hol-
lands schnapps. He had been emphatic in
that Teutonic contempt for all things not
Teutonic that has so endeared his race at all
times to other peoples. In a blatant voice
that was as disagreeable as his appearance,
he had been pleased to express his scorn for
the British army. The occasion was some
chance mention of the late great battle in
Flanders, and an ensuing discussion of the
Duke of Wellington’s tactics during the fate-
ful three days that had culminated in the
overthrow of Napoleon.
“Ach !”—he cleared his throat, and spat
beside the chair of Colonel Molle —“I dell
you, shentlemen, your Duge is nod a gread
gommander. He haf losd der baddle bud for
Brince Blucher. And your army— pouf! Der
Brussians id is who safe der baddle. I dell
you! You haf nod an army. ’Dis bud a
rabble.”
This pleasant information had been re-
ceived by the table in polite silence. Mr.
Pilkington, the young and exquisite Deputy-
Assistant-Commissary-General, who was
Ensign Calder’s guest, whispered to that
gentleman—■
“The fellow’th dwunk, Pathy—but he’d be
worthe thober.”
It remained for the tactful commander of
li.M.S. Penelope—whose severest condemna-
tion of a seaman was to call him “a b —-y
soldier,” and who had enough of the toady in
him to consider it his duty to back up his
ill-mannered charge—to cap this tactful ex-
pression of opinion, after a fashion peculiarly
his own. He was on the Colonel’s left, oppo.
site the Prince, and leered delightedly in that;
disgusted officer’s face, as he guffawed his
approval of these sentiments.
“Haw, haw!” —he banged his fist upon
the table—“By gad, his Highness is right.
’Twas not the Duke’s fault we won. ’Twas
Blucher saved the day. Can’t ever quite rely
on soldiers, by gad!”
Hastily, Colonel Molle stood up, and led
the way into the ante-room —where he and
the adjutant, the outraged and disgusted Bill
Blake, had the sole entertaining of this
for the rest of the evening.
“Gentlemen,” said Molle to his fuming and
cursing brother-officers, when the guests had
departed, “we must take no notice. Please
to understand that, on no account must anv
of you seek onnortunity of calling out either
of them. I hope,” he murmured to Captain
Blake, as they went out together—“l trust
that I may meet both Captain Penruddock
and this low fellow in Europe, on some future
occasion.”
“By God, sir—yes!” Blake agreed bitterly.
* * * *
“So,” said Mr. Calder to his friend Mr.
Pilkington, as they sat upon Anson’s Point
the following afternoon, with Mrs. Mac-
quarie’s newly-cut stone chair behind them,
and all the sunlit glory of Port Jackson
sparkling in front, “the old fool won’t
let us put him in his place. Damnable, I
call it —utterly damnable. Here’s this fel-
low comes to the mess half-seas-over, and
(Continued on n&ct page.)


Are You Worried with a Bad Back ?
vayPiCrura'
pjiuii telisaSf-on
m
£
-'VN
Is a dull, constant backache spoiling your life? Do sharp
pains stab you at every sudden move? Are you so tired
and down-hearted it seems you just can’t keep going?
Don t be discouraged! You wouldn’t feel so badly
without a cause; and more than likely the cause is weak
kidneys. Not any organic kidney trouble, perhaps, but
a slowing-up of the kidneys and the resulting accumula-
tion of poisons that well kidneys would have filtered off.
Is it any wonder then, you feel so run-down, nervous and
depressed? That you are subject to frequent headaches,
dizzy spells and annoying bladder irregularities? Then,
why not give the weakened kidneys the help they need?
Why wait for some serious kidney trouble? Use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s have helped thousands.
They should help you. Ask your neighbor!
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE.
Mrs. ,T. Maxwell, 17 Hansard Street, Waterloo, Sydney, says:—“lt
gives me great pleasure to say a few words in favor of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, this remedy having completely cured me of a bad attack of
kidney disorder some two years ago. I suffered dreadfully for some time,
and was often so bad with backache that I was obliged to lie up. I could
get nothing to give me ease from the constant pain, day or night, and it
was fast taking all the life and energy out of me. The kidney secretions
were affected, being thick and cloudy, with a red sediment, and there was
puffiness under the. eyes, this, I knew, being a sign of dropsy. Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills acted splendidly, giving me relief in a few days, and,
as I continued taking the pills my health rapidly improved, three bottles
making a perfect cure.”
Six years later Mrs. Maxwell confirms her previous statement, and
says:—“l have had no return of kidney trouble since Doan’s Pills cured
me eight years ago. I have great faith in this medicine, and always keep
a bottle in the house.”
Mr. Henry Francis, 2 Oxford Street, Burwood, Sydney, says:—
'“Eighteen months ago I commenced to feel off color. A slight scalding
of the secretions began and gradually grew worse until they were intensely
painful, and I could not retain them. A pain then ci'ept up my back and I
suffered torture. I went into the hospital and was treated there for nine
weeks, and although I came out a little relieved I was still in pain, and a
week later was as bad as when I went in. By accident I came across a
pamphlet about Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and after reading it I
resolved to give this remedy a trial, so sent for some at once. The first
bottle did not seem to do me much good, but I persevered, and while taking
the second bottle I got a little ease, and four bottles completely cured me.”
Twenty years later, Mrs. Francis says:—“My husband has great
faith in Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and always keeps them by him.
This medicine cured him many years ago, and it always acts beneficially
whenever he has occasion to take it.”
esrg
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 2/9 per bottle, at
all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
actually tells us to our faces we’re no dam’
use. An’ that stinkin’ bargee Penruddock
has the impudence to rub his insult in.
Nobody must kick the German pig, because
he s a prince, an’ nobody must pull Captain
Penruddock’s nose because he’s got him in
tow. I don t like the C.O.—but 111 admit
he s a good soldier, and has the honor of the
regiment at heartwalk
Yeth, Patwick murmured his polite
• \,Li DOlDt WhlC
Colonel Molle hath impwethed upon you
Personally, more than onth, ithn’t it, my
dear fellow.
He smiled with good-humored malice, as
JfonTwh'en the T
, wben the commanding oftcer of the
46th had intimated to Ensign Calder, with
bi tterne ? s - , tbat the good
name of the Lacedemonians’ would be in
infinitely less peril did he cease to encumber
A* is on record that H.M.
US nu ; k ? m VT US
to a certain C.O. having once lectured them
as to the steadiness of the Lacedemonians in
battle, whilst they stood at attention under a
galling musketry fire. Mr. Calder kicked up
a tuft of grass savagely, and spat disgustedly
between his feet.
“Dammit, Brummell,” he grumbled “my
rows with old Molly have nothing to do with
this business. Can’t you be serious? ’Tis
all verv well for a civilian liko vnn ro lano-n
haven’t been snewed over i>v thi« follow”
an
inflection of pain in Mr. Pilkington’s tone.
“How coarthly you ecthpweth yourthelf!
’Tithiltwue that I don’t thuffter from the—-ah—-
dithguthting—ah— outpouringth of hith low
Highneth— not being a tholdier. But I
atthure you that, ath a member of one of
the more intellectual bwancheth of hith
Majethty’th thervith, I am capable of ap-
pwethiating your dithtweth, and that of your
bwother offitherth. And that I wethent it,
by gad ! Dear me, yeth. You mutht not
thuppose that my finer feelingth have not
been very theverely outwaged. ’Pon mv
honor ’tith tho! Dweadfully outwaged.”
“Well—can’t you think of some way of
teaching this hog—and that—tarpaulin—a
lesson? ’Tis as much as our commissions
are worth for any of us to do what ought to
be done. There was me, and Johnny Mason,
and Gilbert Honeydew, and old Tom Rigne.v
the Quartermaster, and Walter Moors, and
George Fitzgerald, and Will Horniman sat
up till 4 o’clock this morning in my quarters,
a-tryin’ to think out a plan. Confound it—
the only possible thing was Gilbert’s idea
that we might bribe some of the soldiers to
lie in wait for ’em down by the Cove, some
dark night, an’ pitch ’em in the harbor! But,
damn it all, you can’t trust soldiers—some of
’em’d be bound to give it away when they got
drunk.” ’ *
Mr. Pilkington sniggered delicately.
“Er—wathn’t that wfflat Captain Penrud-
dock thaid, Pathy, dear? ‘ Can't ever quite
wely on thdldierthby gad!”
‘‘Oh, liell!” cursed Mr. Calder furiously,
nsing to his feet, with a gesture of despair
and facing his friend angrily. “ ’Tis unkind
of you, Brum—l take it very unkindly,
Curse my bones, you’ve no more sympathy
for your friends than a d—d crocodile! You
make me sick. Come—let’s get back to the
town. ’Tis no use looking to you for help.
Seems to me you’d laugh at an insult to
your mother.”
He swung on his heel aud strode back
along the new road. With a look of com-
miseration and concern, Mr. Pilkington
ed after him, elegantly swinging' his
tasselled malacca and fumbling his silk-
ribboned eyeglass with the fingers of the
other hand
“Not tho fatht, my dear Pathy—pway,
not t ho f at ht.” He caught up with the
fuming subaltern. “I have a thceme Will
‘ VOU not leave to ma . I will wedwess the
wongs at the wegiment—if you will allow
me ” y
“ You! How?” Mr. Calder turned and
looked at him anxiously. “What will you
do’” ‘ y
“I will fight the pwinthe—and I will
chbthtithe thith fellow Penwuddock,” he
announced calmly,
01 , -vr,.' , .. ,
bVhtenm.rft entreaties for en-
' o a f o l° hl ! plan °Y' a “P aign : Mr -
L/ie“ g e a portentous air of
e ‘ i ,
v * I<saVe l 4 to me ’ fellow,
T.Jh dfthcweH^r’T ßr^ii COn:hdenth . “ m - v
thu ro f n L,,, i ,l he ‘T
p ujt ttldt hath been plathed upon the gal-
r«v, d. not
embaWath my good intentionth by nmnifetht-
Z ‘ two-'Methoma be,beech
pIJSS d tlme ‘
T , , y wc v pathientli.
rni e “ b S hte n m ent was to come quickly,
* wa “^ e( i across the scrubby valley
, th ® Domain, and up the gentle
? l0 P e to» crest of the lull, and were turn-
in& lnt <> close by the
M° r J : w n c ,7' n 8: bhe Hospital—where the
, State larliament conducts its dis-
order,y house in these days—when they
S, ai . ne ta^ e to face with bis Royal Highness
K rl ? ce , 0 von Hamel accompanied by
A ba , unpleasant son of Neptune, Captain
Aithur I enruddock, R.N.
r - Calder saluted stiffly, and would have
Passed scowling across the muddv street,
when lie was astounded, delighted and a little
terrified by the sudden and amazing activi-
ties of his companion. Mr. Pilkington, very
deliberately and not ungracefully, came to
a standstill- before the tubby figure of the
Prince.* Quizzingly, he raised his tortoise-
sbell-rimmed eyeglass, and stared frowningly
at the tall beaver tophat which that scion
of Hanover was wearing. After a moment
or two ot critical inspection, during which
Prince Otto goggled at him in bewildered
anger, he very delicately smashed it down
® ver tbat gentleman’s watery eyes with the
hand that held the cane,
‘I do not like the thtyle of your head-
dweth, thir,” he murmured gently.
“Ach—Gott in Himmel!” squealed the
German—“Benroddog—Gabdain ! What dis
is?”
“Ath for you, thir,” observed Mr. Pilking-
ton, dropping his eyeglass and stepping for-
ward, as he planted his gloved fist in the
countenance of Captain Penruddock, “I do
not like your fathe !”
To-day the top end of Darling Harbor,
above the bridge, has wharves and ware-
houses along its shores, but in 1817 it was
only a rush-grown marsh at the head of
Cockle Bay, round which the road twisted
westward to Parramatta and the Hawkes-
bury. Between the ooze and the highway
was dry land, overgrown with scrub, and
here and there a little open space Jay be-
tween the stunted trees.
In one of these, at the hour of sunrise,
Mr. Pilkington and his second. Ensign
Calder, together with the bluff and burly
Dr. Hastings, met by appointment his Royal
Highness, Prince Otto von Hamel, and his
second Captain Penruddock, R.N. Neces-
sarily, the affair was very private and secret.
Private Michael Muldoon, Mr. Calder’s ser-
vant, held the horses of the two young gentle-
men and the doctor—the Prince and Pen-
ruddock had come round from the Penelope
by boat. But 14 officers of the ,46th Regi-
ment of Foot hid themselves in the surround-
ing scrub, and silently contemplated with
vast contentment what they hoped might be
the closing scene in the career of Prince
Otto von Hamel, the w T ell-disliked cousin of
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales.
Captain Penruddock, a case of pistols in
his right hand and a pair of foils beneath
the other arm, was angrily expostulating
with Mr. Calder. His face was red and
wrathful, and not without certain traces of
nervous anxiety.
“D—n my eyes, sir, I’ve, never heard of
such a thing! You can’t be serious, surely?”
“Yes, quite serious, sir,” responded Mr.
Calder with cold dignity. “My friend, being
the challenged party, has the choice of wea-
pons. He is, as you are aware, an officer
of the Civil Establishment in this colony,
and has no knowledge whatever of the use
of swords or fix-earms. So, as I have already
had the honor to inform you, he has decided
upon axes, as being weapons, properly em-
ployed, of a sufficiently dangerous chai’acter
to —er —ensure himself or his opponent some
termination to this meeting, which will be
satisfactory to —fer—to the survivor.”
" ’Twist my guts, Mr. Calder; but whoever
heard of such savagery? Damme, ’tis be-
yond all reason. Axes are not weapons.”
“Indeed, Captain Penruddock, I have been
informed that boarding-axes are in use in
the Navy.”
“Oh, dammit, so they are! But I’m
hanged if I’ll consent to such a business.
Look here”—he sank his voice—“for the love
of Christ persuade that young dandy over
there to offer an apology. Not to me, of
course—to the Prince. ’Tis a devilish awk-
ward situation, sir. If anything happens
to the Prince ’tis I who will pay for it. Get
him to say he’s sorry. Mind, he’s got to
meet me to-morrow—but that’s nothing. ’Tis
this infernal royalty aspect makes it dan-
gerous.”
Haughtily, Mr. Calder shook his head.
Two long-handled axes lay upon the grass at
his feet. He pointed to them with the toe
of his riding-boot.
“Take your choice, sir. There is no alter-
native—unless”—raising his voice as he
glanced in the direction of the scowling
Prince Otto—“unless your principal desires
to be branded as a poltroon for declining an
encounter which he has asked for.”
Whatever else they may have been, and
are, German princes have not often been lack-
ing in personal courage, and this pot-bellied
specimen of his class was no exception. i 0
do him justice.
"Zay nodings, Benruddog,” he growled gut-
turally and savagely. “I would mit dis Bil-
gingdon fight if id vot cannons we use at
den baces. Ja —mein Gott —I vill gill der
schwemhund. Himmel —his blood will I hat
before he knows nodings! Broceed.”
He waddled forward and picked up an
axe. Then, with a bellow of wrath, he rushed
at the unready Mr. Pilkington, whirled the
formidable weapon above his head, and aimed
a furious blow at the startled countenance
of his opponent. Loud cries came from the
surrounding scrub, and red coats began to
add color to the sylvan scene, as the officers
of the 46th started in alarm from their hid-
ing-place behind trees and bushes. The joke
of the duel offered to miscarry.
But Mr. Pilkington, who, having been the
pet pupil of that ornament of the prize-run,
Mr. Isaac Simmons, better known as the Til-
bury Trifle, was quick upon his feet, ducked
and dodged, and straightway fled into the
bush, the berserk German, possessed by the
furor Teutonicus, howling harsh revilements
after his flying figure. Captain Penruddock
rushed upon Mr. Calder, the others ran in
and formed a ring about them, and bets were
freely offered and accepted as to the result
of what promised to be as pretty a bout
with the bare knuckles as had been seen in
Sydney. And into the midst of the hulla-
baloo rode Governor Macquarie, with his
aide-de-camp, Major Antill, having diverted
his early morning ride to Parramatta to
examine the situation of a grant of land
which he was about to have surveyed at
the head of Cockle Bay, and was designed
for that exemplary servant of the State, Mr.
Arthur Moorefield Pilkington, who was ap-
pointed to meet him here this morning. Mr.
Pilkington walked at the Governor’s stirrup,
calm, collected and genially explanatory.
“Tith but a little divertion, your Ecthel-
lenthy, for the benefit of hith Woyal Higk-
neth. He hath dethired to witneth the good
old Englith fathion of thettling a dithpute,
and our two fwiendth here—who are devoted
to one another, of courthe —have kindly vol-
unteered a demonthtwation. Gentlemen!"
he raised his voice as he drew the attention
of the excited gathering to Macquarie's
presence, '‘hith Ecthellenthy! I think, my
dear Penruddock—and you, Mr. Calder —wo
may conclude the ecthibition. Hith Higli-
neth theemth to be a little overcome.”
The fat princeling twisted on the turf in
the convulsive spasms of an epileptic fit,
from which, however, he soon recovered.
“Ah,” murmured his Excellency doubt-
fully, as he rode away through the bush, “I
fear, my dear Antill, that there is more in
this than meets the eye. Young Calder, you
know. Some infernal devilment, I’ll be
bound.”
Henry Antill laughed.
“I think the credit must belong to our
Beau Brmnmell, sir,” he said, as they broke
Into a canter.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


W* ;
' g
' S Mi'-w
m&m
• h>-
'
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agente-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Fentiiereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—BB Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Refrigerating 8 Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines it probably
their ECONOMY IN GUNNlNG—which it pertinent to the times
-their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relfed upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 vears ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
*n initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
& SINCLAIR LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at
Perth;
Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Auckland, N,Z.
“Better than Tatts.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.
" The-truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind. "
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4-000
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States>
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more, Post Free
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5/*
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at <£4ooo.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative effort
Ticke scan be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in New outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from—
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec .
Cadzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba.
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. . Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing- infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
y Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
s * zes of all Chemists
RNV and Stores.
asp
•CtfL ‘
HORLICKS
malted milk o
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENO.
m
rs ttHtf
****
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed-
sS
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
3ELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ycagaaem.
Reajjfftton,
Repeating Rifles
These rifles represent an advanced thought
in rifle construction. They provide the
shooter with five cartridges ready for in-
stant service, one at a time or successively,
with astounding rapidity.
They have a solid breech and many other
points of superiority which make their use a pleasure
and provide every means for safe shooting.
Rerninftpn,
for Shooting Right
your dealer to show you Remington rifles. If he does
not stock them he can obtain
them for you. They are
made in calibers 25, 30, 32,
35. Catalogues post free
upon request. J
ser
cnrnT
c-s
D D.
ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.1’.0., Melbourne
TAKE
%
r^arm\
s
mm
r
r
a>
THE WORLDS
FOREMOST-
gs&JIEDICINE
m
'l/jy
If you examine
the iridium
tipped nib.
Examine a Waterman’s Ideal
14-ct. gold nib under a magnify-
ing glass. Its manufacture in-
volves over 70 distinct operations.
The specially selected hard Iridium placed
at the tip by highly skilled workmen not
only ensures smooth writing but eliminates
wear. With ordinary care the nib will
last a lifetime.
ansGdeaDrountainPen
J
gs
Three Types: Self-Filling, Safety and Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN Ltd., Corttcr London, Eng.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON, 105, Clarence St., Sydney.
Sick Headache
§ Biliousness
These troublesome complaints are generally due
to a sluggish liver, and are most frequently
experienced by those who lead a sedentary life.
A teaspoonful of ENO’s “Fruit Salt” in a
glass of cold water will prove soothing and
refreshing, and by eliminating harmful waste
matter soon restores normality and natural buoy-
a icy. For your health’s sake ask your chemist for
FRUIT SALT
tales Refr,sent:ilives i
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE (s' Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
Sail
t’Z 1 .
m
R. G. WATKINS ®, CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


B/*
Still gomg
Born 1820
ong
te!=n
* -"X/
&
vm.
=>^
If
*r.
..
1*
1
fuu,
»-V
m
w
V&'t
mf
4
*y
I fit!
V*
a
&>
m
ti
m
m'r
if
■ft
I
if
hR'
, T, v' - ' IVV v " > - sv-
\Vl» ' ll a«h-' ' v
hfn
; \
■“$ < .
£*
fr-
is
ssS
ST
V
Mm
m
/
m
zrz3
ZA
22
The “ Angel," Henley-on-Thames.
For several hundred years a
familiar haunt of Thames boat-
men and fishermen.
Shade of Izaak Walton: “Yes, Johnnie Walker, what
I said about fishing equally applies to you. After
tedious study a rest to the mind, a cheerer of spirits, a
diverter of sadness, a calmer of unquiet thoughts,
a moderator of passions, a procurer of contentedness.”
JO H N WALKER & SONS,
LTD.,
Scotch Whisky
Distillers. Kilmarnock, Scotland
