

'in«
!!!!!!!}!(!!!!
!!!!!',,! Mil!
UUILMII) in
nj n i ii
Nun
m
Mil !
iili;
111 n 111
iiiiiii
m
;
HM*
Ujm*: u
4m
m
A! Mr
r
ni :ni
Illl'l
6&BMS*
Mi
mW\
l! Ilf III"
It it
111 Hi
h!'. ; i'
il 5 HB
Jrf ”
m
Wm
nV’'" 1 *
i n i * 11
m!*!
ii* *1
l "l l lll„ll
z 3
(ifiKiia
i *' r +‘ m
m
w
m
.. I ‘ -•
■
J
£
ten'
JJr <>
Guiding and
Conserving Power
ki Every Industry.
Industrial Controllers direct the work of a count-
less number and great variety of Alternating and Direct
Current Motor-driven Machines in plants throughout
Australia.
They permit flexibility and exactness of mechanical
operations or control, which increase Machines’ Produc-
tion, Plants’ Efficiency, safeguard Operators, protect
Motors, Machines and Work.
They make possible the control of many machines in
scattered locations from one central point, by one
operation, releasing several attendants for other industrial
needs.
In starting, stopping, reversing and other operations
of the most ponderous machines, or the most delicate
devices, (||) Industrial Controllers are giving unfailing
service to every industry.
Australian General Q ]td.
X „ ,I [ a7fla House, Mazda House,
Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY. Cr. Queen & little Collins Streets, MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE, Q. —The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, ltd.,
TASMANIA—OIiver & Oliver, HOBART
ADEIAIDE. S.A.—Charles Atkins & Co., ltd., 88-90 Currie Street
PERTH, W.A.—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), ltd.,
The Bulletin
Vol 43.—N0. 2234.
Thursday, December 7, 1922.
Price 6d.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Ported free to any address.
DYMOCIv’S ROOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
A
MARGROVITE(
MANCROVITE’S SUPERB RECORDS
In a large refrigerating chamber a lOin. Mangrovite Raw-Hide
Belt, made endless at our factory, is driving- a compressor
from a 50-h.p. Electric Motor. This is a “Lenix Drive,” and
has constantly run 24 hours per day since installed in -Tune,
1919, and has NEVER BEEN TAKEN UP OR REPAIRED.
A belt such as this will cut down your costs and increase your
profits. Be sure you obtain Mangrovite. Write or call to-day.,
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing: Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid and Sons, Ltd., Adelaide!
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Prankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND: P. F. Mann, 5 Bedford Row, Christchurch.
onDisordars of
the JBlooa. l
Sties Refresenttllvei !
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Lid
CHINA HOUSE, SYDNEY
Nettle rash, prickly heat, pimples, sallow or
unhealthy complexion, and similar skin troubles,
are due to impurities in the blood-stream pro-
duced by irregular or ineffective elimination of
waste products irom the large intestine. The
daily use of ENO’s ‘Fruit Salt’ cleanses the blood
in a perfectly natural manner and thus promotes
a clear, healthy skin. You should never be
without ENO—-your chemist or storekeeper sells
%
FRUIT SALT
« n
THE SPECIAL
FORD PLUG
is the finest plug made for
the Ford engine for which
it is expressly designed.
Excessive lubrication will not impair its efficiency.
Cleaning is made easy by the 2-piece construction,
and the hexagon fits the standard Ford spanner.
&~in. taper gas thread - Model AF3
Metric thread - Model PF3
Packed in sealed bronze metal boxes.
\JOS&§
Varied currencies and duties make
it impossible to advertise fixed .
selling Prices. Full particulars
and prices can readily be obtained
from zvholesale impor t ers,
dealers and garages everywhere.
LODGE PLUGS
LTD.
RUGBY. ENGLAND.
NOTE. The best results are
obtained with the spark-gap
set to 'o2in. with magneto
ignition and 'o3in. with coil
ignition. The Lodge Gap
Gauge makes the setting easy.
U'?.
n
V;
.
Do you OH! the roads ,
Or GO the roads ?
is the first thing necessary to
'“''the true enjoyment of even the shortest
cycle ride. It makes all the difference
between pleasure and disappointment. Fit
your machine with a comfortable
BROOKS
SADDLE.
The new Brooks Book is now ready.
Have you sent for a copy?
J, B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Works. Birmingham, England.
Jtgents in ,/luslralia :
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, LTD., 31a. Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
FCT\
5m
4 .
V
JX
Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/-
E
KILLS FLIES
The Red Page
Despised Genius.
“young Boswell. Chapters on James Boswell.,
the Biographer, based largely on New
Material,” by Chauneey Brewster Tinker.
M P. Putnam’s Sons, New York. Our copi/ from
Angus <£• Hobertson.)
There ave some eminent men to whose
memories posterity refuses to do justice,
and the greatest of these is James Boswell.
The opinion commonly held of him is that
he was an ass, a snob and a mean-spirited
bore, willing to put up with any insult pro-
vided he was able to force himself upon those
he wished to know. So he was when- seen
reflected in the Johnsonian mirror, near
which he chose to spend so many years of
his life. And so would Garrick, Walpole,
Goldsmith, Fanny Burney, or any of the
others have appeared had they associated
as freely, or half as freely, with the lexi-
cographer. Taine —who was so fully alive
to Johnson’s epileptic ill-temper and bad
manners, that in the half-dozen pages which
he devotes to this great figure in his “His-
tory of English Literature” he can speak of
nothing but his boorish ness —has not one
word of praise for Boswell. Yet Macaulay
wrote of him :
Homer is not more decidedly the first of heroic
poets, Shakspeare is not more decidedly the first of
dramatists, Demosthenes is not more decidedly the
first of orators than Boswell is the first of bio-
graphers. He has no second, lie has outdistanced
all his competitors so decidedly that 'it is not worth
while to place them. Eclipse is first, and the rest
nowhere.
What maimer of man was this whom one
great student of our literature puts far
above Trevelyan, and another, equally
great, considers less worthy of notice
than Aken.side or Young—names as dead to-
day as that of the meanest Grub-street hack
of their period? If the right definition of a
snob is “one who meanly admires mean
things,” then Boswell was nothing of the
sort. As the son of Lord Auchinleck, the
great-grandson of the Countess of Kincar-
dine, and the heir to a rich estate, he could
have walked straight into the world of
fashion when lie first came to London. He
had no desire to do so. It was intellect and
not position that lie worshipped. Thus we
find him going out of his way to become
friendly with the outcast Wilkes, with. Paoli,
and with Rousseau and Voltaire, both of
whom were anathema to respectable English
people. The best proof, perhaps, that Bos-
well was not the contemptible creature lie is
usually represented to have been lies in the
fact that all these men liked him. The bril-
liant London rake, the cynic who, when
asked by George 111. if he was a Freemason,
answered, “I never was anything, sir” ; the
Be Valera of 18th-century Corsica; the
dreamy recluse of Geneva; the ferocious
French wit before whose pen kings trembled
—all were glad to see James Boswell, and
sorry when lie left them. He must have
been well dowered with that indefinable
quality we call “charm.” He was extra-
ordinarily appreciative. Fanny Burney, even
in the first Hush of her annoyance at the
appearance of the “Life of Johnson,” could not
help remarking on the writer’s “good nature,”
which “there is no resisting.” I’epvs him-
self was not more in love with life, or
more interested in every detail of what
went on around him; and that cannot be
said of any negligible person. Add to these
delightful traits the mentality which pro-
duced the greatest of works in one of the
most important departments of literature,
and it becomes obvious that Johnson, Paoli,
Wilkes and the rest were right about Bos-
well, and his detractors, contemporary and
otherwise, wrong. Ilis chief weakness was
London- —a not uncommon failing. In every
generation men are to be found who, with
sufficient money to go anywhere or do any-
thing, ask no more than to be allowed to
snend 12 months of every year in London.
Boswell was one of them. London ruined
him financially, and the example of those
with whom lie foregathered there had pro-
bably as much to do with making him the
drunkard he became in later life as a
natural inclination for the bottle. But, in
any event, he would have remained in Lon-
don for the appointed time. He was like
one of those astonishing insects whom
nature forces to immolate themselves on the
altar of procreation. A certain style- of
life was essential for the immense work he
had to do, and it could only be lived between
Hyde Park and Cornhill.
Au interesting chapter in this book deals
with the way lie made his notes. It must
have occurred to many who have read the
“Life,” or parts of it, as wonderful that so
many conversations should have been repro-
duced that were obviously letter perfect. It
is hard to imagine one with the social quali-
ties of Boswell setting down pages of ques-
tion and answer at the time the remarks
were made even if he had been able to
write shorthand; and as a matter of fact he
wrote a laborious longhand. A marvellous
memory, made more efficient by long prac-
tice, is the explanation. He seems to have
carried about with him everywhere a note-
book and a commonplace book. Into the
first went, every night, bald details of his
hero, such as dates and epochs in his life’,
while the second was filled with anecdotes
about him, or having Some relation to him,
and wise sayings and so forth, capable of being
introduced info the “Life” as occasion offered.
Most of these books have, of course, been
destroyed. They are the last things a bio-
grapher thinks of keening when they have
served their purpose. However, a couple have
survived, and the author of “Young Bos-
well” presents a page of one in facsimile. It
is a conversation with Dr. Barnard, Dean of
Derry, and is quaintly characteristic:—
The Dean told me at the dinner of the Eoyal
Academicians, April 22, 1776. that he had a very
great respect for Johnson. “I love him,” said he;
“but he does not love me.” And he complained of
his rough, harsh manners, saying that when ha
shouted he showed la’s teeth at the earner of his mouth
like a dog who is going to bite. He said: “Johnson
is right ninety-nine times out of a hundred. I
think with him.” “But you do not feel with him,”
said I. “No.” said the Dean. “In short, he is not
a gentleman.”
Boswell, with that Olympian impartiality
which was part of his strange character,
wrote down the fatuous judgment. But one
doubts .not that he smiled tolerantly while
doing so. To the Dr. Barnards of this world
there is but one criticism to be applied to a
Socrates, a Shakspeare, a Napoleon, a Cecil
Rhodes or a Lloyd George—“clever, of
course; but not a gentleman.” The Boswells
are big enough to know better.
Thomas Hardy at Home
At the one and only street-crossing in
Dorchester stands a policeman to direct the
traffic —or want of traffic —and I addressed
him, saying, “Do you know a Mr. Thomas
Hardy who lives near here? He writes
books.”
“Mr. ’Ardy, sir?” said he. “Of course I
knows Mr. ’Ardy. Why, that’s ’im walking
up the street. You jest go up and speak to
’im, sir. ’E won’t mind. ’E’s a kind gentle-
man, is Mr. ’Ardy.”
“Thanks,” I said. “I’ve got a letter of
introduction to him.”
I looked and saw a little, grey, sturdy,
brisk man walking wery quickly, till he
turned into a booksnop, and, allowing a
decent interval to elapse, I went to his house
with my letter. It was on a quiet country
road, about a mile out of the town, and the
rain was beating and the wind blowing furi-
ously. Mrs. Hardy, a very pretty, dark-
eyed woman, approaching that delightful
age when youth is beginning to lose its illu-
sions but not its charm, opened the door
herself, apologising for the servant problem,
and showed me into the drawing-room, where
I noticed at once two drawings from “Tess” ;
these, she explained, were a present from the
artist, the late Sir Hubert Herkomer, and
showed Tess gay and stately, as she had
beeii before the pitiful tragedy that over-
whelmed her. There was a typewriter click-
ing in tlie next room, and a savage westerly
beating the windows, and a big dog like one
of our sheepdogs* scratching at the garden
door. The typewriter went on clicking furi-
ously for a quarter of an hour, while Mrs.
Hardy admitted the dog ; 10 tried to en-
courage the fire, and explained that Mr.
Hardy would never write any more novels,
because lie thought that he was better as a
poet than a novelist; whatever fame might
accrue to him would come because of his
poetry, not from his prose.
“Why,” she said at length, “I do believe
Mr. Hardy has forgotten all about you. He
gets so absorbed in his work !” And jump-
ing up from her knees she ran out of the
room.
The typewriter stopped in full click, and
in a moment there burst into the room, with
an extraordinary impression of energy, a
rather short, grey, well-built man in a grey
sac suit, who bundled us into chairs, and at
once began talking rapidly and keenly about
everything under the sun, from Australian
literature to astronomy. There seemed to be
nothing he. did not know ; nothing in which
he was not interested. The author of “Two
on a Tower” knew all about the stars seen
in Sydney, and was interested, but not sur-
prised, to hear that Orion stood on his head
with us: but he did seem diffidently sur-
prised to hear that the cult of Hardy-worship
was quite as vigorous in Sydney as in Lon-
don or New York.
“So many Americans bring letters to me,”
he said; “they are delightfully kind,” and
turned the subject from himself.
It was hard to believe that this incredibly
vigorous, active ffian was really 82 years of
age and the author of so much profoundly
pessimistic philosophy, but it was easy to see
why his poetry, even the most recent, seemed
so youthful and alive. The man may count
his years as 82; his mind seems to reckon
them by no more than 30. If I had been
asked to estimate his age without knowing it
I should have said that he was a prema-
turely grey man of not a day beyond 50; but
that his intellect had never reached even
middle age. And it is my trade to guess
people’s' ages, In his latest preface he ex-
plains that his so-called pessimism is really
optimism, for you cannot describe human
nature without seeing its troubles as well as
its happiness. But he says it better than I
can, and if you want to know Hardy’s mind
you should read it in his latest book of
lyrics.
An architect by profession—some people
have even thought that his plots are too
architectural, as if a plot can ever be too
well thought out! —.Hardy designed his own
house when he decided to take up literature
for a living; and an exceedingly well-built
and comfortable house it seems to be.
Tennyson lived for many years behind a high
wall protected by broken glass lest the herd
should creep oyer and disturb his solitude;
but Hardy, less misanthropic, is content to
live behind a screen of trees shading his
quiet house and an ordinary wall. He has
a large signed portrait of Galsworthy,
whom he clearly looks upon as his literary
successor, aftd he was much interested when
I told him of a R.P. article entitled “Hardy
and Galsworthy,” which I once perpetrated.
Mrs. Hardy quite agreed that “Tess of the
D’Urbervilles,” though his most popular book,
was not his best; her own inclination seemed
to favor “A Pair of Blue Eyes”; but, after
all, it is hard to rank the Himalayas. I
rather shrank from tackling Mr. Hardy him-
self on the question. As all his novels,
bitter-sweet, appear .to have come straight
from his heart, it seemed indelicate to ask
about his own preference, but I rather fancy
that poor Tess herself has edged her gentle
way into his love, as she has done with every-
body else.
When we were leaving, after an hour of
tea and talk by the fireside, lie became
anxious lest my car should have 'been stolen
-—you could not see it from the house—and
insisted on dashing out. hatless and coatless
into the rain to see for himself that it still
survived. And the last we saw of him was
a grey figure waving a genial hand as it
leant shelterless against the vale.
I seem to have done Hardy an injustice
in insisting on his extraordinary vigor and
alertness; his face is really the most refined
in the world, and his mouth the most deli-
cate. No portrait of him quite does him
justice, any more than you can play a Bee-
thoven symphony on the piano. His face is
that of a true poet, and I am not sure that
he is wrong in estimating his poetry as
(Continued on page 3.)


Let a Gift of Cigars, Cigarettes or a Pipe
say “MERRY XMAS” for You.
A box of cigars, a hundred choice cigarettes, or a pipe is
a man’s ideal Xmas Gift, especially when the donor
is discriminating, and chooses such quality gifts as are
here displayed.
HXl47.—Triumph Virginia Cigarettes.
HXl63. —State Express, No. 333 Virginia
Cigarettes.
Packets of . . 20 50 100
Price 1/6 3/9 7/6
In Cabinet of 150. Price 12/-
Smokers’ Stands, with Ash Tray, Safety-
match Holder and Cigar Rest, for Smoke-
room or Verandah.
In Oak or Maple. Price: 25/-, 33/6
Jacobean. Price, 36/-
Brass. Price: 27/6, 32/6, 35/-
HXI6O. Marcovitch
Con Amore Amber
scented Cigarettes.
Pkts. of—
-10 25 50
Price 2/9 6/9 13/3
HX9O.—T r i u m p h
Tobacco—
2oz. 4oz. 11b.
Dark.l/1 2/2 8/8
Bright 1/3 2/6 10/-
HXI23. —La Rosa
Filipina Manila Cigars.
Perlas. Box of 25.
Price 8/6
HXI24.— H a v a n a
Cigars, Cabanas P er-
fectos. Finos. Box of
25. Price 30/-
*M*V) ww ' u '
\\S6W\N
- vVV^V
1111
HXI47
HX 160
HX9O
HX 123
HX 193
l
HX 163
igigigigisigigigi
HXIIS
HX273
£2
r mix
HX 124
HX9S
HXI94
HXI96
HXlls.— Setos Amber
Cigarettes. Packet of
10, Price 2/6; of 25,
Price 6/3.
HX273. Baccalice
Cigarette Tube in Case.
Silver mounted.
Price 7/6
Gold, Price ... 10/6
HX9s. —Lambert and
Butler’s Waverley Mix-
ture—
2oz. 4oz. 11b.
Price . .2/2 4/3 16/6
HXl94. —Briar Pipes
with Triumph Vulcan-
ite Mouthpiece and
Silver Band. Price 8/6
Triumph de Luxe—
Price 10/6
Comoy’s. Price 14/6
Barlings. Price 18/6
Folding Rubber Pouches —
Buckskin Covered, plain.
Price: Round, 6/-; Square, 6/3
With Silver Shield—
Price 77-
Square, with Silver Shield—
Price 7/6
Kangaroo Leather Covered.
Price: Round, 6/-; Square, 6/3
With Silver Shield—
Price: Round, 7/3; Square, 7/9
Antelope Skin. Plain.
Price:
Round, 10/9; Square, 11/6
With Silver Shield —
Round, 12/6; Square, 13/-
With Gold Shield-
Round 22/9
Square 20/-, 237-
Beaver Calf. Plain.
Price:
Round, 15/-; Square, 13/6
With Silver Shield—
Round, 14/6; Square, 157-
Seal Leather. Plain
Price:
Round, 12/3; Square, 13/-
With Silver Shield—
Round, 13/9; Square, 14/3
HXl93. Briar Pipes, with Tri-
umph Vulcanite Mouthpiece
and Silver Band. Price. . 8/6
Triumph de Luxe—
Price.... 10/6
Comoy’s. Price. ... 13/6
Barlings. Price. ... 18/6
Tray Tobacco Pouches. Velvet
Calf or Morocco.
Plain 17/6
With Silver Shield . . 19/6
Wallet Pouch.
Morocco 8/9
Velvet Calf 10/-
Russian 12/-
“Hordernian” Wallet Pouch.
In Brown Suede . . . 8/-, 8/6
Morocco 12/-
With Silver Shield . . 12/-
Wallet Tobacco Pouch.
Beaver Calf, with Gold But-
ton. Size 5. Price .... 20/-
Suede, with Gold Button and
Gold Corners. Size 4.
Price
18/6
HXl96.— Briar Pipes with Tri-
umph Vulcanite Mouthpiece
and Silver Band. Price. . 8/6
Triumph de Luxe—
Price 10/6
Comoy’s. Price. . . . 13/6
Barlings. Price. . . . 18/6
Air-tight Jars.
size, Price 8/6
11b. size. Price 10/6
A variety of other designs to
select from—
Price: 11/6, 12/-, 14/6 to 30/-
Plated Cigarette Case, Plain or
Engraved.
Price: 3/9, 7/-, 8/-, 9/-,
10/6, 11/6, 14/-, 16/6
Sterling Silver Cigarette Cases.
Plain. Price: 48/-, 50/-, 65/-
Engine-turned—
Price .... 54/-, 56/-, 60/-
CIGARS, CIGARETTES AND PIPES—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET.
Cigars in Small Boxes, suitable
for Presents.
Maronias, in packets of 5
Price 2/9
House of Lords, No. 3. Pkts.
of 5. Price 3/6
Amigas. Box of 10. Price 2/9
Becano. Box of 10. Price 3/9
Rosa Filipina Media Regalia.
Box of 10. Price 4/6
Rosa Filipina. Perlas. Box
of 10. Price 5/-
Rosa Filipina. Redanos. Box
of 10. Price 5/6
Rosa Filipina. Perfectos. Box
of 10. Price 6/-
Rosa Filipina. Grand Royal.
Box of 10. Price 6/6
Rosa Filipina. Invincibles.
Box of 10. Price 9/6
Company General, Camelias.
Box of 10. Price 5/6
Cremavana. Box of 10.
Price. .... 5/9
Monopole Magnums. Box of
10. Price 5/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440


n
MV
Electric
1M Made
m
For
Cool
Comfort
Alwws
FRESHNESS.
WHAT TERRORS HAVE
THE SULTRIEST DAYS
IF COOLING BREEZES BLOW
ENERGY.
CONTENTMENT.
ers
ELECTRICAL
CO.. LTn
AUSTRALIAN OFFICES:
84 William Street, Melbourne. 213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
23 William Street, Perth. Howard Smith Chambers, Newcastle.
And at Vickers House, Wellington, New Zealand.
SUPPLY DEPARTMENTS:
21 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. 213 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And at Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Agents: ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane.


The New Sweater
with Club Colors
22/6
Something entirely new and smart in sports clothing—an all-
wool cream sweater that has colors in the form of stripes woven
around the neck and waist. Made with “V” neck and obtain-
able with any combination of club or school colors. A comfort-
giving and serviceable garment. Price 22/6
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
for Service
Opp G. P. O.
SYDNEY
•Tel.
f City 6336
[ (Auto,) 86971
greater than his novels. “What comes from
the heart touches the heart,” as Beethoven
said. One might make out a good case for
comparison between the poet-novelist and the
poet-musician. He has at last found his real
audience —an audience of educated and sym-
pathetic people, who recognise that he knows
far more about women than women know
about themsbhves.
C. McD.
The Shattered Lamp
Everybody knows that all our greater
literary forms were cheated by the artists
of antiquity; but it is not, perhaps, so
readily admitted that by the side of their
great and lasting vehicles our modern modes
and innovations are merely trivial. In
verse they made the epic, the drama, the
elegy, ode, pastoral-idyll and other varieties
of lyric. Beside these creations we can put
a few deft rhyme-shuffles in French and
Italian lyric, a few experiments in metre,
English blank verse, the British ballad —but
what else? Our creative range in verse
forms is so limited that literary amateurs
consider it not beneath them to dispute the
question whether Edward Lear was or was
not the inventor of the Cockney “Limerick.”
And when a professor of literature solemnly
tells us that “Chaucer dropped a line, and
Spenser added one” to the orthodox Ottava
rima of Boccaccio, one is scarcely aware that
he is chronicling small been As for the crea-
tion of prose forms, which are essentially
unchanged from Heraclitus to Hardy, this
stands also to the credit of the ancients.
They are the world’s original masters in
philosophy, history, biography, criticism, the
moral essay, oratory and the prose romance
—or novel; for in what literary essential,
except the realism of the modern example,
does “The Golden Ass” of Apuleius differ
from “The Adventures of Sylvia Scarlett”?
So far as verse-architecture is concerned,
it may be that creative ingenuity would soon
have become stultified in any case; for the
forms and combinations of verse are but
few. But of prose there is, strictly, no per-
fect form. Not Bacon, nor Cowley, nor
Lamb, nor Alice Meynell can reach, even
in the brief span of the essay, the ultimate
perfection of “La Belle Dame Sans Merci,”
or the “Ode to the West Wind” or those
imperishable verses on a Grecian urn.
Nevertheless, prose, with all its apparent
freedom as a medium, is fixed and unalter-
able in its habit: we can neither add to nor
subtract from it; whereas, verse, for all its
elaborate and strictly accountable mechan-
ism of accent, foot, rhythm-recurrence,
rhyme-period and what not, becomes a
newly-fashioned thing in the hands of each
authentic poet. Poetry is the language of
revolution, prose of tradition. The one is
unique, like the life of a flame, a w r ave;
the other sedately follows a mode, supports
itself with a thousand hoary formulas, in-
sists at every turn upon classic precedence.
Indeed, where prose departs from its recog-
nised and traditional manner, as in certain
jocular-grotesque passages of the Browning
Love-letters —a trivial instance, but the
only one I am at the moment able to recall
—the mind is perturbed by a sense of incon-
gruity, as it never is by a grotesquerie of
expression in verse. Take Browning’s lyric,
“Tokay,” as a case in point.
Anyhow, modern inventiveness, whether
in prose or verse, is more concerned with
mode or manner of expression than with
creation of form. Given the pattern, we are
still capable of embroidering it; given a
theme, we can color it with emotions which
would have been actually beyond the range
of Tagan experience. Certainly realism, our
latest contribution to the many modes (or
moods) of literature, is a thing that would
have astonished the artists of antiquity.
There was, for example, no Browning—
“ Old Hippety-hop o’ the accents,” Ezra
Pound affectionately salutes him—among
those intensely curious-minded and original-
brained Greeks. If there had been, the
Areopagites would probably have sentenced
him to death and ordered the public burn-
ing of his MSS. That, I imagine, is the
sort of treatment they would have meted out
to a realist. He would have gone the way
of Socrates, or would at least, like Euripides,
have been forced by persistent ridicule to
leave Athens for ever. But although they
were the keenest possible critics of poetic
and dramatic values, the Greek democracy
had nevertheless a healthier stomach than
ours. It is true, they supped full of horrors,
like the shuddering patrons of the Grand Guig-
nol; but, whereas it is a fact that a present-
day audience sits in unashamed anticipation
of “the horrors” at the Grand Guignol
1 neither audience nor spectacle having, in
fact, any other raison d'etre), I should be
much surprised to learn that it was a mere
taste for horrors that attracted the crowd
to the Attic theatre of the fifth century.
Their “attitude” to the drama was so
different from ours that they are to be de-
scribed as having sought, in the dream-world
of tragic myth, the aesthetic satisfaction of
contemplating an interpretation of life in
poetic symbols of pain and enigma. One
does not care to probe the shock-absorbing
psychology of the Grand Guignol audience,
much less compare it with those tragedy-
loving audiences of the Greek democracy.
But Grand-Guignolism is, perhaps, the
last refuge and reduction to absurdity of our
modern philo-photographic mania for seeing
things “as they are.” It is realism in its
last horrible throes, the dregs of modern
drama, the failure and flat refusal of the
spectator to collaborate with the artist in
the work of the theatre. , This exploiting of
horror for horror’s sake has, of course, no
literary or dramatic significance; but it is
not without significance as indicating a pos-
sible collapse of critical gumption on the
part of the public. For nowadays we do not
merely tolerate realism, we insist upon it;
an unrealistic modern novel is barely con-
ceivable ; most of us would at any rate de-
cide that it was unreadable. We insist that
art be no longer animated by the herdfc
ideals that gave to tragic nfyth its cathartic
and tonic virtue. The artist is not expected
to transcend the limitations of average ex-
perience ; his sufficient “function” is rather
to keep his imaginative activities well with-
in the confines of a dreary literalism. So. in
the name of art, you get a parade of grubby
facts, clouds of chatter, oceans of sex-interest
banality, streams of psycho-analysis, a care-
ful (but we usually call it “brilliant”) sur-
vey of the morass of commonplace experi-
ence, a sketchy reproduction of the surface
shows of contemporary life; and you close
your book- —or rise from your seat in the
theatre —with a sense of psychological loss
and depression. To this pass we have come
by inevitable stages. Conceiving themselves
as called upon to vary the content rather
than the form, our poets, falling from experi-
ment to experiment, have succeeded at
length in discarding form, and are content to
spill and slop and lose their moods in a
misty evaporation of vers Hire. A manly
reticence in the handling of certain themes
in fiction is jeered at, by a class of modern
poseurs, as mere hypocrisy. And the makers
of the Grand Guignol shows do their utmost,
in their anxiety to please a public that wants
the real thing in realism, to turn tragedy
into a sort of animated Chamber of Horrors.
It is a far cry from Grand Guignol to the
Brownings; but the greater of those two
poets was certainly the realist of his day.
He was unaware of it, however, for the fol-
lowing exchanges in their correspondence
show that he, no less than Elizabeth Barrett,
regarded realism as a problematic and ques-
tionable thing. A poem by “Orion” Horne
is under discussion, and Miss Barrett asks:
“Tell me if you like altogether ‘Ben Cap-
stan’ and if you consider the sailor-idiom to
be lawful in poetry, because I do not, in-
deed.” Browning replies: “The sailor lan-
guage. is good in its way; but as wrongly
used in Art as real clay and mud would be,
if one plastered them in the foreground of a
landscape in order to attain to so much
truth ; at all events, the true thing to endea-
vor is the making of a golden color which
shall do every good in the power of the dirty
brown.” And Miss Barrett concludes:
“How right you are about ‘Ben Capstan’
and the illustration by the yellow clay.
That is precisely what I meant—said with
more precision that I could say it. Art
without an ideal is neither nature nor art.
The question involves the whole difference
between Madame Tussaud and Phidias.”
Now, a good lyric is the rhythmic record of
an emotional disturbance, and so far as this
order of verse is concerned it is no exaggera-
tion to say that the form is of greater sig-
nificance than the content. The songs of
Shakspeare, Herrick and Burns have only
the slightest intellectual substance: “Winter
is cold, but not so cold as Man’s ingrati-
tude” ; “You, my mistress, are as frail and
fleeting a thing as this flower”; “My Mary
is dead, and I am very sad.” A prdcis of
the intellectual (and even the emotional)
content of “Kubla Khan” would make inept
reading; yet, according to Swinburne, this
is the most wonderful poem in the world.
The “fundamental brainwork,” then, which
gives a lyric its immortality is revealed not
so much in the thing said as in the superb
form of its expression. It is fashionable to
assume that this age-hardened truth is
merely an academic convention. “The thing
to do is to smash these damned set forms”
—such is the substance of many recent
manifestos. We need to bear in mind, how-
ever, that “When the lamp is shattered, the
light in the dust lies dead.” But surely the
flame of literature will survive the prevail-
ing iconoclasm and the whole epoch of which
it forms so diverting, but let us hope so
transient, a feature?
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
The Imported Serial
If a man grows onions or makes boots, his
grateful country recognises his value and
protects him from outside competition. If
a writer produces the raw materials of fic-
tion, he not only has to compete with out-
siders, but his products collide with a form
of dumping which keeps their market value
far below world’s parity. Australian writers
and readers are submerged beneath a flood of
imported newspaper fiction, which, having
brought fair value overseas, is dumped here
for what it will fetch. Most people do not
know that the imported serial story they see
in their weekly paper is obtainable by the
proprietors for about £7. No local writer
could sell his wares for that and make a
living, or a fraction of one.
This sort of thing has driven out of the coun-
try many a potential novelist who might other-
wise have been circulating widely amongst
an appreciative public. It would not be so bad
if the Australian could collect even £7 for
his story. More often he cannot sell it at
all, simply because the imported stuff has
got such a hold and its distribution is so
well organised. For every serial the weekly
newspaper wants there are dozens available
at rubbish rates, and the Australian clamor-
ing on the doorstep becomes a horrible super-
fluity. The Arbitration Court has laid it
down that every published line written by
a journalist is worth twopence at least. The
job has to be _ done by Australians. The
writer of fiction, however, is in com-
petition with the world, and if he raises the
dust about starvation rates, the kindly
newspaper proprietor turns him adrift. If
the author were paid at the lowest rate
accorded to journalists, he would receive over
£lOO for his serial.
The average price paid by those few news-
papers which use Australian serials is £25,
and if a writer places one serial a year he is
lucky. If the Australian writer were able to
syndicate his story in each State in the
same manner as , the importing firms, the
most he would be able to make out of it
would be slightly under £5O, and about £3O
of that would have to go to the printer for
setting it up. The remedy for this dis-
heartening state of affairs is protection, but
the author, being a person who influences no
votes, cannot get the ear of the politician.
The Australian Authors’ Association tried to
get a duty on this imported serial stuff. It
approached the Customs Department and
put up an excellent case. The department
wrote to a large number of newspaper pro-
prietors asking them what they thought
about it. With one exception there was a
scream of protest. The excention was The
Bulletin. The case for and against having
been prepared, the authors went to the
Minister of Customs and asked very nicely
for what they wanted, but the scream of the
newspapers had penetrated his ear and there
was nothing doing. Australia has a law
which protects manufacturers against the
dumped products of other countries. If an
article is imported into this country at a
price below that ruling in its country of
origin, or below the fair market value in‘that
country, it is subjected to a dumping duty
which brings the price up to normal. This
imported serial stuff is dumped matter. It
provides the cruellest form of dumping that
ever hit would-be producers. If the poli-
tician would arise to advocate protection for
Australian authors, I would resume the
practice of voting. As it is I can’t see any-
body worth voting for much.
LEFT HAND.
A Satchel of Books
Testament, by G. P. Robinson (Duckworth and
Co.), is the story of a drug-fiend who was not saved
from himself by the influence of the usual good
woman. Gordon Sumner knows that his case is
hopeless when he marries Marion, and as a nurse
it is astonishing that she didn’t recognise his trouble
before 1 t was too late. The story is interesting
for its pictures of the moneyed underworld of Lon-
don, and it contains some dramatic moments—not-
ably the free fight, in which Marion’s admirer, Jimmy
is killed beside the husband whom he has supplanted
in her affections. Mr. Robinson tries to set down
men and women as he sees them, rather than as
convention demands that they should be presented;
and there is nothing mealy-mouthed about the lan-
guage in which his characters and their activities
are described. But his style lacks distinction, and
his yarn peters out disappointingly at the finish.
William J. Locke has done much better work than
The Tale of Triona (John Lane) in his time. Yet
the picture he draws of the beautiful heiress, Olivia,
and her brilliant, useless friends in London has all
his old charm and skill. As a matter of fact, the
treatment is admirable throughout; it is in the
denouement of the story that this veteran writer
appears to weaken a little. Olivia falls in love with
a typical Locke hero in the person of Alexis Triona,
who has done all sorts of romantic and reckless things
in Russia, and who has written the book of the
year about his adventures. Actually, he bears the
abominable name of Briggs, and is an unmitigated
liar, having derived the inspiration for his stories
from the diary of a dead Russian named Krilov. Yet
though he has done none of the things he says he
has, he is a brave man, and, as Briggs, of the
Armored Car Column, possesses a fighting record
of a meritorious nature. But that does not justify
his tremendous deception, and he knows it. Pro-
claiming, with characteristic vehemence, that he is
fallen—“like Lucifer”; and that his soul is “in
Hell, aching and burning and shrieking for her,” and
that he will “live in Hell for the rest of his life,”
he bolts to Poland, where there is a war on. Mr.
Locke is left with the problem of bringing the
affair to a happy and convincing conclusion, and
if he doesn’t do the one he certainly does the other.
None of his admirers is ever sent dejected away at
the end of the usual 300-and-odd pages.
Star Dust, by Fannie Hurst (Harper and Brothers,
New York). Another novel about one of those trying
American girls who, having wedded a physically and
mentally repulsive wooer, discovers that marriage is
a failure and sets out to dodge its obligations. The
subsidiary characters are drawn with a sure and
humorous torfch, more especially Lilly’s fat, loquacious
and futile mother, and Albert, the husband, who
even as his newly-made home crashes about his ears
clings, as a first consideration, to the resolve to
remain “respectable” and keep the neighbors from
knowing the whole truth. In middle-age Lilly
falls in love, only to be cut out by her daughter,
who, as an artist, is what the mother had once
dreamt, of being. It is. nne of .the several ironic
tragedies that are liable to happen to such women,
and to that extent, at least, the book winds up on a
sincere note.
When Winter Comes to Main Street, by Grant
Overton (George H. Doran, New York), is a collec-
tion of sketches —with nine photographs—of celebri-
ties and near-celebrities in the writing-trade. Arnold
Bennett, Irvin Cobb, Mary Roberts Rinehart, Stewart
\ h . lte ~ a ll are handled with an admiring geniality
which is a tribute, anyhow, to the author’s good
nature. Hear him on Somerset Maugham:—
“Now, I don’t know where to begin. Probably I
shall not know where to leave off either. That is
\py usual misfortune, to write a chapter at both
ends. It is a fatal thing, like the doubly-consuming
candle. I am tempted to because so many people
think of W. Somerset Maugham as the author of
‘The Moon and Sixpence.’ The day will come, how-
ever, when people will think of him as the man
who wrote ‘Of Human Bondage.'
“This novel does not need praise. All it needs, like
the grand work it is, is attention; and that it in-
creasingly gets.”
There you have Mr. Overton in his habit as he lives
—amiable, indiscriminating, a prattler, everybody’s
warm admirer.
The sixth number of the interesting little
Australian Museum Magazine maintains the standard
of previous issues. Its main articles—all well
illustrated—are “How Savages Use Sea Shells,” “A
Collecting. Trip on a Trawler,” “Stick and Leaf
Insects,” “Bird Notes,” “The Magnificent Spider”
and a brief history of the Australian Museum. The
popular cast of the nature articles is a notable
feature of this magazine, which certainly deserves to
climb in circulation.
Captain Blood, by Rafael Sabatini (Hutchinson).
Blood, a sentimental soldier of fortune, who carries
the Odes of Horace next his heart, is transported to
the West Indies for alleged participation in the Mon-
mouth Rebellion. Breaking away from his confine-
ment, he starts a profitable career as a buccaneer
on the Spanish Main, but always plays the scoundrel
with a deep and often Quixotic chivalry that keeps
him sweet and wholesome epough to win the wilting
heroine in the last chapter. The yarn is full of
fine fighting and audacious seamanship, Blood per-
forming incredible, and always successful, manoeuvres
in getting out of the tightest places. He is, indeed,
a fascinating character, and the author shows
great pluck and resource in rehabilitating him in the
eyes of the squeamish reader. Sabatini has, in the
case of the pirate Morgan, an actual historical pre-
cedent for making Blood Governor of Jamaica.
11. G. Hawker, Airman:. His Life and Work, by
Muriel Hawker (Hutchinson). In this volume
Hawker’s widow tells of his achievements in simple
language. Reading again the full story of his attempt
to cross the Atlantic, one marvels at his tenacity
and daring. For weeks he had been delayed by bad
weather, and there was never any certainty that the
conditions would be suitable to enable his companion,
Grieve, to make the necessary navigation observa-
tions, but Hawker set off one day into the murk of
a Newfoundland afternoon, and only engine trouble,
1000 miles out, compelled him to drop into the
ocean handy enough to the Danish tramp steamer
Mary to be fished out and returned home. It was
an extraordinary effort of courage and endurance.
Grieve, who contributes his quota of thrills to the
narrative, mentions that the cloud masses were so
thick that it was impossible to find the position six
or seven hours after starting, and it was only by
a lucky chance that he discovered that the wind-
drift had taken them 100 miles southward of their
course. The fact that the unexpected climbing to
avoid the clouds had already seriously reduced the
petrol supply made the situation perilous, but Hawker
decided to hold on, though an abnormally hot radia-
tor, apparently suffering from some obstruction that
could not be dealt with, was already adding to his
anxieties. The radiator beat them in the end, but
the cause of the overheating was never revealed, be-
cause the plane was wrecked by the heavy seas. It
transpires that Hawker was the victim of air-sick-
ness through the continuous buffeting of half a gale,
and at one stage, when he had stopped the engine
to cool the radiator, it refused to start again until
they had dropped to within a few feet of the ocean.
Several of the airman’s lessert exploits are detailed
by his wife, who, incidentally, says that he was so
preoccupied by his job that she made arrangements
to remind him of his wedding-day in case he might
forget it. Another interesting point for airmen is
that he was responsible for the tabloid Sopwith
biplane, which was subsequently adopted by the
British Government as the model for the famous
fighting scouts in the war.


*
K*
'P
K
STORAGE
V ■ ■ BATTERY
tOLA^
It is easy to get into an argu-
ment about the merits of this
or that battery feature —but
there's no disputing the fact
that the Willard Threaded
Rubber Battery was selected
as standard original equip-
ment by 200 builders of cars
and trucks. Be sure you get
the same dependable battery
—a genuine Willard. Look
for the name.
igaasl i M
'IMW' TUB zr
STORAGE
BATTERY
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.


m
as
t
$ 1
«■
SS?
The Ideal Gift for a Man
There’s nothing he’ll
appreciate more than
'The New
Improved^
Gillette
SAFETY
RAZOR
Bostonian Model
Complete with one dozen blades, in handsome plated case
OBTAINABLE 30/- EVERYWHERE
The New Improved Gillette is the finest shaving instru-
ment yet evolved. It makes each blade last for from
twenty to thirty more shaves than with the original Gillette.
The Gillette Safety Razor Co. of Canada Ltd
MONTREAL, CANADA
Wholesale Distributors : S. HOFFNUNG 8C CO. LTD.
SYDNEY :: BRISBANE :: ADELAIDE
MADE IN
CANADA
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVBR


Quality and Uniformity in Linseed Oils.
&
rr
B
‘Ctr
«
&
GUARANTEED
Absolutely Pure 8 Thoroughly Matured
• "" .1. ■ i < ■
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA
by
P&GGITTS
PNSEEDOIIMQH
/AEGGITT LT
PARRAMATTA
e
HEAD OFFICE 36 KING ST SYim:Y(W)As:Parramata)
M
:GGirrs
IMSKDIHUM
m
ttEGGITT L 1
\ PARRAMATTA
o?ie boy on the bag
guarantees quality ”
AGENTS — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S. lux ion
& Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage c 6 Co., Ltd., Hobart and Laun-
ceston; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Pei'th; Messrs. Clarksons, Ltd.,
Rundle Street, Adelaide.
%( VAe boy on the Jbaq
guarantees quality


ir r '!(
L v sr H'')
Us> S'
h.
v
Cuticura Beautifies
Your Complexion
The daily use of the Soap cleanses
and purifies the pores of the skin,
thus preventing blackheads and
pimples. The Ointment soothes and
heals any irritation or roughness.
They are excellent for the toilet as
is also Cuticura Talcum for powder-
ing and perfuming the skin.
Soapls.,Ointmentls.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: *‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W."
S@s> Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Red and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
:
V&rdleys
T 016 (Encjli^B
Lavender Soap
The chosen Soap of the Lady
of Fashion, and one of the
daintiest items of her toilet.
Made of extra fine materials and
luxuriously perfumed, it clears
and refines the skin and en-
hances the beauty of the com-
plexion.
Large tablet 2/-. Three in Box 5/9.
Sold by the lest Chemists and Stores.
YARDLEY & CO., LTD.,
8, New Bond Street, London, W. 1.
0
Greet Youth
Once More!
Become
Young again
by transform-
ing your
GREY HAIR
to a youth-
ful WALNUT
SHADE!
Easily and permanently obtain-
able by using Dr. Allen’s Mexi-
can Walnut Stain! Quite Harm-
less to the Skin—Waterproof !
All Chemists.
n
MEXICAN |
, WAINUT STAIN I
RUPTURED PERSONS!
JOIN IN SPORTS
AND PLEASURES
Because you are ruptured is no reason why you should
Participation in the sports and pleasures
of those in perfect health ! All that is necessary is
tor you to wear a Denver Elastic Truss, the wonder-
tul scientific appliance that gives perfect safety, com-
fort and freedom of movement.
Prices: Single, 27/6; Double, 37/6.
Postage Extra.
Send for our Free Truss Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal Belts and
Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOYS! BUILD A NEW MASTERPIECE EVERY DAY WITH
-MECCANO
ENGINEERING FOR BOYS
towe? e S nfnnin^ 6 Splei ? did transporter bridge the next, then a wonderful
repeatinga model g e evator and so y° u on every day for a year without once
The reason wh y y°u can do such extraordinary
strkS l 13 r eve f y par } is a real engineering piece-pulleys, gears,
P ’ ds> oouphngs and cranks, all perfectly designed and accurately made.
, , " ® BETWEEN 5 AND 70 is the correct age to start Meccano. The
youngest boy can begin to build the moment he gets his Outfit home.
M A big I'lustrated Book of Instructions goes with
each Outfit, making everything perfectly clear. No study is necessary to build even
the most intricate working model.
MECCANO
FREE TO BOYS
A Splendid New Meccano Book.—This beautiful new book tells boys how
to enjoy every minute of their leisure hours. It is beautifully illustrated
and explains in a simple way the joys of Meccano.
a re ® Copy.—Just send us a postcard giving your name and
full address. Put No. 2 after your name for reference. When you receive
the booklet show it to your chums and get them to send for copies too.
MECCANO PRICES.
No. 0 Outfit 7/6
No. 1 „ 12/6
No. a „ 23/-
No. 3 Outfit .. 33/-
No. i „ .. 60/-
No. 3 „ .. 80/-
No. S Outfit (wood) 128/’
No. 6 „ „ 210/-
N 0.7 „ „ 840/-
Grand £250 Prize
Competition.
This contest brings golden
opportunities to brainy in-
ventive boys.
Write us for pa:ticulars or
ask your dealer for an entry
form.
8« » *
mes
211 i
I BUILT IT
MYSELF!
Travelling
Gantry
Crane,
THE MSCCANO DEPOT, 379, KENT ST., SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 1832.
3
MCNNE
fj t.
hi
i v.
n^rren
£22
eoRATca.
OLCUM POWOOB
th* ht nmn
I know what
soothes and
smooths and
makes me comfy,
keeps me cool
and clean.
FOR MIN^
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
All
Sizes
3 to 40 H. P.
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
_ All Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Reduced
Prices
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F.O B. Detroit
Mich.. U.S. A.
Kermath Matine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability Install a Kermath.
Exclusive Factory Representative
Fairbanks-Morse Company (Australasia) Ltd.,
25-27 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australia.
math* a
Kermath Manufacturing Co., Detroit, Mich..U.SA,
Cable Address -KERMATH
VARIOUSE VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Life! Little Wife.
The skies are wailing outside
And the little wife weeps within.
The pomegranate glows with raindrops,
The willows are drenched and thin;
Love has forsaken the rose-porch
And the heart he was nesting in.
The rose botvs under its weight of tears,
The little wife broods on the sixty years.
A mound of earth in the garden,
Freshly turned by the spade.
A boy just tw r enty, a bridegroom,
Whose laughter was undismayed.
A fall from the saddle, then silence,
And a slim brown bed is made.
“ We'll live sixty years and love ,” he said.
And one is living, and one is dead.
N.S.W.
CORALIE STANLEY McKELLAB.
The Rose Branch.
There were two wedded lovers once in old
Auvergne
Whom Death, in kindly mood, plucked on
a day.
And sweet with youth, the twain were
laid away
Where Spring made honeyed riot at a road-
way’s turn.
But nightly o’er the road, ’twixt grave and
grave, there grew
A glowing branch of roses thick with
thorn
That barred the way and would not be
down torn
Till dust and passionate dust the one strait
pallet knew.
’Tis said that ever one is loved and one the
lover! ■ y>
Think you, had we been they at the road’s
turn.
Which heart toward the other would so
yearn ?
And from whose wistful dust be wrought
that rosy cover?
N.S.W.
NINA MURDOCH.
Knowledge.
Oh, I have learned, from year to year,
That lies are as a sounding brass
.Self-interest clashes, in the fear
His satyr feet sound as they pass!
And I have proved that anguish dies.
Beneath Time’s anaesthetic fade
Love’s self, and all his, brood of lies
That lure us —till our debt is paid.
Life’s bitter fleetness I have learnt.
The littleness that still is—me.
Yet, veils Experience has burnt,
Reveal sublime Infinity.
Oh, I have learned; the while I’ve known
That Knowledge were well lost for this —
Gold wattle scent on warm wind- blown,
The Summer’s young moon, and Love’s
kiss I
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
Faith.
There is a hidden kingdom in my mind
That none may know—a haunted, quiet
place
Down which my wildest dreams in peace
may pace
And all their visioned treasure haply find.
Wisdom, who walks that way, is still as
blind
As when she led some long-forgotten race;
But I, when there I meet her face to face,
Fear not the dead nor hold grey death un-
kind.
I feel some immortality of thought
That breathes e’en in a mortal such as I.
I touch some boundless shore where
secretly - , '
The God Who made my foolish heart from
nought
Hears how it strives for hope ambition-
high,
And broods in majesty, remembering me.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Romance.
Keep green the grave of old Romance,
Though dead, long dead, these many years,
Where roses rot in tawny heaps.
The scented dusk forever keeps
A memory of tears—
A bitter sweet—a poignant pain
That evermore abides with you—-
A dream of her who, unafraid,
Half-yielding to your passion’s fire,
Gave scarlet lips to. your desire
That flamed to fulness in that hour
God’s promises came true.
Keep green the grave of dear Romance,
Who once in golden garments dressed
Slipped from your arms that could not hold,
And vanished as the sunset gold,
Dies out in some dull west.
But still at times, when dreams are kind,
Once more you feel, with pulse a-race,
A heart close beating to your own,
The tight’ning clasp of clinging hands,
The long slow kisses love demands,
The smothering sweep of scented hair
Across your burning face.
Keep green the grave of fair Romance.
On some new day you shall behold
Her Easter-Day flush overhead,
A miracle of rose and red,
A dawn of flame and gold.
And standing on the mound of bloom
Of poppies fire and roses red,
Heaped high and piled above her grave,
Romance shall stand and welcome you
With ecstasy and love anew,
While somewhere in your dingy town
A tolling bell proclaims you dead.
N.S.W.
A. A. EVANS.


BARNET GLASS
NEW BAR-TREAD
BOOMERANG TYRES
m
Ift
1 H
Wm k
-
‘
• :
m
m
wim
Wm,
a
m
iT,
■ I
» A
A’ h ■, i ■ -
/
Q ‘R&vtuitiorn
to- MeioUiU*'
k IN MILEAGE & ECONOMY
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C? LTP
ALL STATES & NEW ZEALAND
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43. —No. 2234.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1922.
Pkice 6d.
HIS QUALIFICATION.
“The electors were told that the country party was like a servant applying for a first situation without a reference. Every servant had to have a first situation and
it might be better to obtain a first situatio without a refererence than to have been in several situations without being able to obtain a reference.”—J. G. Latham,’ K.C.
THE JOB-SEEKEK: “Take me, Boss. I know I’ve lorst me character as a driver. But look at the experience it’s given me.”


The Commonwealth Electoral Law.
Any prose matter in this paper which refers to the
coming Federal elections has been written, after dis-
cussion, to express the views of The Bulletin, by
John Dailey, James Edmond and J. E. Webb, all of
214 George-street, Sydney. The verse is by A. Hay-
ward, 214 George-street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office : Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly.
J. months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 8 months, 'is.
do ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS: 12 months, £ I 10s. ; 6
months, 155.; 8 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to- the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
lhe contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
Ihe Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
MOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under \chich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and
Sons, Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London
E.C.lj; E. T. Hole, Idolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet
Street, London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51
High Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Durban;
and others,
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A .—-Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co\, 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s, sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn and Co., The Colonial
Booh and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, Hong
Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Bailee Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port, Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London.- —Gordon and Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludgate Circus, E.C.4.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: ioz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: )oz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
ffie s&idle£z/7i,
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1922.
ON THE URGENT NEED FOR LIGHT.
There is a keen appreciation in Nationalist
circles that the factor which is queering the
whole party pitch is the Prime Minister’s
mysteriously acquired £25,000. At a recent
meeting in a Sydney suburb an elector who
asked a question on the subject was ordered
by the strongly Nationalist chairman to “re-
frain from being offensive or get outside,”
and a lady who, at another meeting, put a
similar question, was met with the counter
(“delivered simultaneously by all the gentle-
men on the platform,” according to one
paper) that the time for questions had ex-
pired. While at the big Melbourne meeting
on Friday night inquirers were emptied
out wholesale by the police. These
tactics had, anyhow, the merit of
blanketing discussion on the main issue. Not
so some of the other evasions which have
been resorted to by well-meaning Hughesites.
A soldier candidate in the Nationalist in-
terest had the nerve to argue, the other night,
that his leader’s gift stood on a moral foot-
ing, in all respects, with the gift made by a
grateful country to Lord Haig “for services
no more valuable to the Empire than those
of our grand little friend.” The crowd is
reported to have cheered. But if there was
a soldier in it he must have spotted the fal-
lacy; and the task should not be beyond the
capacity of most people who are not soldiers.
The commonly-held impression—intensified
every day the Prime Minister remains
silent as to the source of his fortune —is that
the cash was found by a handful of pluto-
crats whom he is in a position, by virtue
of his office, to heln. In that case there is
no analogy whatever between the cases of
Prime Minister Hughes and General Haig.
If Haig had suddenly acquired £25,000 after
he became Commander-in-Chief, and while
the fighting was in progress; if it had been
largely provided by a few Wealthy and ambi-
tious colonels and brigadiers whose names
were revealed to the recipient of their
generosity, but not to the public; and if,
finally, certain agents, acting in Haig’s in-
terests, had tried to create an impression that
the money had been subscribed, not by a few
field-officers eager for promotion and the
accompanying emoluments, but by the rank
and file of the army—only in those circum-
stances would the two incidents be fairly
comparable. Of course, nothing even re-
motely resembling this could have happened
iu the Imperial Army. There are regula-
tions forbidding such practices in every army
which has a regard for its honor —the reasons
being too obvious to be worth stating.
* * * *
One of the closest analogies that can be
drawn-assuming always that the Common-
wealth’s growing suspicions on the subject
of the £25,000 are well founded —has to do
with mail-ship life. Everyone who has
travelled on a passenger steamer knows the
moneyed tourist who buys the stewards
with profiteer’s tips before the journey
starts. The effect is to make men who are
employed to attend to the needs of all the
passengers alike tpe bond-slaves of the man
with most money and least sense of decency.
In this matter of the £25,000 Mr. Hughes
may be likened to the steward; the chief
subscribers to his fund are the globe-trot-
ting profiteers, and the rest of us are the
passengers who rifig in vain, and fail other-
wise to secure services which supposedly
were included in the passage-money. There
is perhaps an even closer parallel. Early
in the history of Federation the Par-
liament passed a Secret Commissions
Act—and it is an interesting example
of the vicissitudes of Life and Time
that Mr. W. M. Hughes should have
been, in those days, one of the keenest advo-
cates of the measpre. The object was to
check a form of dishonesty which had grown
into a scandal. If Brown had something
to sell which Smith was in a position to buy
for Jones, Brown persuaded Smith to buy
the largest possible quantity of the stuff at
the highest possible price. ;Smitii then drew
a commission from Brown in addition to his
wages from Jones —a commission which was
paid for with Jones’s money, though Jones
naturally was unaware of the fact. The
past tense is not altogether in place here
despite the Secret Commissions Act,
this form of swindle is rampant everywhere
still. In private life the practice of giving
secret commissions, like that of squaring
juries, is extremely hard to stop. But unless
all our theories regarding government have
gone back, ethically speaking, to those which
prevailed in England under Walpole, or in
New Aork under “Boss” it should
not be impossible to prevent secret commis-
sion-giving in public life. Or, anyhow,
secret commission-giving on the grand scale.
What the taxpayers want first to comprehend
is that they are the people who not only pay
their politicians’ commission-money, but, in
addition, the profits earned by the anonymous
parties who provide the commission-money.
It would not be practicable for a politician
to conceal the acceptance of a money-gift of
sinister dimensions in the way a dishonest
cook might hide from her mistress a £lO tip
give x n o- b iU grocer or butcher. Such a sum
as £20,000, for example, could no more be
concealed in transit where the recipient was
a Cabinet Minister than a circus. Secrecy
is only possible in respect of its source. And
even this would be rendered impracticable if
the nation made up its collective mind that
such secrecy was undesirable.
* * * #
At present there is what looks like a deli-
berate conspiracy of silence in face of what
looks like a deliberate conspiracy against
honest government and tlje rights of the
people. If Mr. Hughes }ias been paid a
large sum of money by a limited set of capi-
talists, it means that they expect something
from him. That is the only conclusion to
be drawn by rational people, seeing that
one of the first maxims of business
insists on invested capital always show-
ing a return. And yet not a single
Nationalist newspaper has called on the
leader of Nationalism to drop discussing
comparative irrelevancies, such as the
sugar agreement, the Bolshevisation of
Lanor and the inexperience of Earle Page,
and devote his talents to dispelling the popu-
lar suspicion that he-—the one-time assailant
of the Trusts —is himself in the pay of
Trusts. Not a solitary Nationalist candi-
date has offered a satisfactory explanation
of the source of his chief’s fortune; though
one has said that “the poor are largely
represented on the list,” and another that
“most of the cash was given by ex-soldiers,
Australian and Imperial.” And National-
ist speakers, almost without exception, on
having it put to them, in a pointed manner,
that generalities are out of place and iden-
tities are the goods required, have grown as
stagily indignant as counsel for the defence
in a difficult Quarter Sessions matter. The
position is crystal-clear. If the butler of
one of our multitudinous Governors was
found to have accepted £lOO from a wine
and spirit firm which had dealings with Gov-
ernment House, and if the terms of the
butler’s job enabled him to influence the pur-
chase of liquor by the family, then a case
would ipso facto have been created call-
ins? for explanation. And, assuming the
butler was an honest member of his class, he
would be the first to demand the right of
being heard in his defence, and he would be
backed up in that demand by every true
friend he happened to possess. But it would
be useless for him, if he wished to be
accepted as a faithful servant, to adopt an
attitude of haughty reserve; to refer in
rounded periods, when carpeted before his
master, to the unimpeachable manner in
which he has had the silver attended to in
the past ; and to get the second footman,
the upper housemaid and the buttons to go
about suggesting, on the one hand that the
£lOO had been subscribed by the poorer em-
ployees of the wine and spirit firm, and on
the other that the Governor and his wife or
anybody else who demanded more detailed
information w r ere oafish and scurrilous folks
who deserved to be thrown into the street.
Mr. Hughes is the Commonwealth’s butler.
It is ridiculous for him to ignore the injuri-
ous conclusions which are being drawn from
his £25,000 gift ; and which can only be
proved baseless m one way. If the money
is, in effect, a secret commission, it should
either be paid back or Mr. Hughes should
get out of public life. If it does not par-
take of the nature of a secret commission—
and Tiie Bulletin, which had a high re-
gard for W. M. Hughes in the pre-war days,
when he was fighting the cause of the poor
against the Trusts; of Australia against the
anti-Defenceites, sincerely hopes that is so—
—then Mr. Hughes should take his fol-
lowers and the country into his confidence,
and explain exactly what sort of gift it was.
To comply will be to put Nationalism before
the country as a party, which, with all its
faults, is untainted by any suggestion of
financial irregularity: to refrain must be to
supply a lead in the field of boodling to
every political crook and Tammany-minded
business-man in Australia.
BUYING RUIN AT A GREAT PRICE.
In the closing days of the session the N. S.
Wales Government issued the news (by no
means new news, but old like unto the eter-
nal hills) that it proposes to leave no stone
unturned and no beetle undisturbed beneath
the stone, in order to promote the settlement
of small farmers on the land. To this end
it proposes to complete the network of un-
finished railways, which is also in the natural
order of things. The lazy incapable’s remedy
for every ill is tq add to the wilderness of
non-paying lines which are nominally “State,”
but of which the State’s people really ' own
not one stick or spike. They supply well-
paid employment for electors, chronic stri-
kers and other problematic folk whom Min-
istries don’t know how otherwise to deal
with. Any fool with access to the loan
market, and a general readiness to promise
any rate of interest, can build them just
as he could build pyramids. They are apt
to be an eternal drain on the public purse
after completion, which pyramids, having no
running expenses, aren’t, but they have a
plausible pretence of serving a “develop-
mental” purpose, which pyramids haven’t.
The position grows continuously worse, for
unparalleled borrowing in a bad market and
on an overstrained, if not blighted, credit
has raised the cumulative preference divi-
dend that the system tries to earn to £5 Is.
3d. per cent., which is a practical impossi-
bility. _ When 200 miles of hopelessly bank-
rupt line have 100 worse miles added on in
the blessed name of progress, rates go up
all round to meet the bigger loss. So old
people leave, their preoarjous margin of
profit being eaten away, instead of new
people arriving, and the “development” is of
the backsliding description. The arrival of
fresh lines of the sort that have prevailed
since railway-building became mere pauper-
ism and vote-seeking and jobbery, is the com-
ing of a fresh tax-gatherer, and people don’t
rush to meet tax-gatherers. Small men tend
to sell out to bigger men, and wheat-men
to sheep-men, who seem to have more stay-
ing power. The tragic land-settlement jest
was exemplified in N. S. Wales by the con-
struction of about 1400 miles of new rail-
way between censuses, and the accompanying
brisk depopulation of 54 country shires and
49 country municipalities, or much more
than one-third of the total. The Turk may
have done a little better in Moab, where one
can stand amid the ruins of a single big
town on a hill, and count the ruins of eight
others between him and the sky-rim; but,
then, the Turk has been longer on the job,
and Time works wonders.
* * * .
The Fuller Government was darkly sus-
pected of economy and financial reform when
it attained office, but its £10,000,000 worth
or so of loan proposals put it very much in
the old Storey-Dooley category. " The plea
advanced is that unfinished works, however
regrettable and unpromising, must be com-
pleted so that they may earn something. The
other side of the case is that, at June 30,
N. S. Wales possessed 29 railways, or sec-
tions of railway (as compared with 24 a year
earlier), measuring miles, which not
only should never have been built from any
financial point of view, but which it would
have paid to abandon when quarter done,
half done, three-parts done, wholly done, or
in any other possible stage of completion. It
follows that it would pay, financially, to
abandon them now, so that the loss on work-
ing expenses would be saved, though not that
on interest. They vary in length from two
up to 110 miles, and though they go back
30 years they also include the bulk of the
recent efforts made since “opening up the
land for settlement” regardless of cost
became the stock-in-trade of the Dooleys
and their roaring tribe. The indirect value
which they don’t possess in the wav of pro-
moting settlement can be gauged by the
census and the map, and their future pros-
pects are indicated by the fact that there
were five more of these utterly hopeless dere-
licts in 1922 than in 1921, and that, despite
a manful pushing-up of rates, 20 were more
derelict in 1922 than in 1921.
* * * *
The first column of figures shows the total
loss for the year on each deadbeat, and the
second the loss which could be saved by clos-
ing the melancholy show :
Loss on
Working
Total Expenses
Loss. alone.
Yanco-Griffith .. .. £3,012 £59
Cobar-O.S.A. Mines .. 1,715 101
Wagga-Humula .. .. 18,046 240
Matakana-Mount Hope .. 2,183 240
Tottenham-The Mines .. 1,336 397
Culcairn-Holbrook .. 4,768 513
Raleigh-Coff’s Harbor . . 12,795 949
Galong-Boorowa .. . . 7,756 960
Moree-Mungundi .. . . 21,269 996
Burren Junction-Pokataroo 8,095 1,100
Byrock-Brewarrina .. 9,793 1,361
Burren Junction-Walgett. . 11,613 1,513
The Rock-Oaklands . . 17,502 1,369
Koorawatha-Grenfell .. 8,455 1,876
Nevertire-Warren . . 4,973 2,387
Nimmitabel-Bombala . . 18,971 2.430
Humula-Tumbarumba . . 23,449 2,661
Fassifern-Toronto .. .. 4.576 2,691
Troy-Merrygoen .. . . 18,094 2,796
Culcairn-Corowa .. .. 16,346 2,892
Lidcombe-Regent s Park . 5,’284 3,’034
•• •• 13,991 3662
uraboon-Coolah .. .. 11,953 3,781
Ta^rawf^» Hay " * ’ 4,218
Menindie-Broken Hm ' ’ 28*435 o’itl
Kiama-Nowra .. 26*811 7’2l*
Clyde-Carlingford . . !! 10, *655 7’,405
Demondrille-Blayney .. 1391708 771552
There are 21 other sections, making 3110
miles of unpayable line out of the N S
Wales total of 5116 miles, that lose heavilv’
the complete loss for the yelr bling
£1,005,462, and the average loss per
mile per year. One prize bankrupt has
to be supported by the taxpayer to the extent
of £2365 per mile per year. But the other
21 sections haven’t yet 'reached the point at
which money would be saved by closing them
(for they still pay working expenses) • they
are only fast getting there. * 1
•'*’**
The fact that a great cash saving could
be made by closing 1105 miles of mortgaged
railway until some genius discovers how°to
make them earn expenses and only lose the
terrible interest bill, suggests that another
big saving could be made by stopping con-
struction on most of the 650 miles or so
now in hand. The saving that could be
made by the closure of even 1105 miles
H t a } ow of duile a dec ? at reduction of
Height charges on the remainder of the sys-
J} 16 other hand, if another stack
• , or the sort that require to be pauper-
lsed to the extent of f 323 per mil U/sd.
per yard) every year is added to the pen-
sion list by the completion of all sorts of
half-finished jobs, there must be andther most
lndece ° t increase in charges, and increases
rSufu I'’ 1 '’ the struggle
CO ursp P thoro l adb « at « being endless. Of
of th. svs m S.nnM thr T fi£ths
„f e L 11 0 i ’ Bnd “? re
allv to a lar-er mmnWtv of ln O erpetU "
Xdful 1 £ K < d “f-, iher ® a [ e
th %™ te of cSck-braineJ
exactly a^blas^ed^’wilderne^f* 8^ l isn’t
a /diacent ■ ICert3lU
; t J * 1S amaz '
subdivision of estates seems to
railwavs° ao^hv P thp ty siforfesf th u re th ®
route to tL<> nooriat ® boFtesfc and cheapest
welFenninnod no>-t thft° tn P ° rt ’ \? d m IS a
W6II 6QUippcd poit, thclt to a, COnsidGl’clblp GX-
a “T,* l , h renaeac y
1 " e fr °™ ~S ydney' . . u
f. the ith . u * s ° that lts best chance
° f - ° ting freight . hes “ fi shmg from the carriage
windows ° n one ® lde , a a d in the hope that produce
v d ° W o , the roadles ® hlllside on the other.
iot *° a T° ld by agll , e , dod^m S an y & ood Port beside
payable c,ty sh . ould ar i se there - all
y S a f” d - As these wa^ide
J I* t oneTS" 1 i n g6r ° f progress
18 J lslble > but °ne can never tell.
■ T ° , carry the hne alon S wltb loan money till it
’ S , r !!°, lo ” g and thin that t he far-end population can’t
,‘"w £2?* " th ,he °“ Bls cu ’ ■'»»
Th „ . . . .
„ f Th « to flt ” sh dat Nowhere, but almost in sight
° ood mbe mis Ted preference> the Joke bemg to °
n „
0R(1E 1 uller s railway projects are just
ime-the rest, and George Fuller’s views on
subdividing N. S. Wales and letting the out-
P°rts manage theii* own concerns are
exactly like those of the other old stodgers.
no change is anticipated save for the
w orse.
A SUGGESTION FOR AN ACADEMY
OF LETTERS.
Ihe question of State acknowledgment of
literary effort has more than once been
brought up in Australia, but up to the pre-
sent nothing worth mention has been done.
The painter sells a portion of his output to
public institutions; the musician has the
( onseryatorium ; but for the writer there is
only the chance recognition by the public
through the medium of the press or the local
bookseller. It is true that the Common-
wealth bestows a little alms on a few in-
digent writers and their relatives; but this
thin stream of charity has up to the present
been alrpost entirely spent on persons who
have no claim whatever on the community
as producers of anything of permanent
value, lhere was, of course, the single ex-
ception of Henry Lawson ; but the gratuity
oftered to him was so small and unworthy
of the outstanding service of the man to his
country that it only serves to show how
utterly blind to the relative sizes of things
our h ederal politicians are. No statesman
has yet arisen in the Federal sphere who, by
sheer human merit, is worthy to have his
name set beside that of Lawson. Yet a
pension of a few shillings a day, thrown to
him as an alms, was the best reward his
country could offer, or ever will, to men of
genius while tasteless and almost illiterate
are the arbiters of such matters.
When this question_was last brought up
some person remotely connected with litera-
ture made the broad assertion that “State
assistance meant the death of literary effort.”
On what he based his statement it would be
hard to discover; but it afforded a nice
onening for side-stepping on the part of
those in authority, and there the
matter has since rested. But does
State assistance dwarf, much less slay,
literary effort? The greatest literature
of the ancient world —that of Athens-
had a full measure of such support; the
greatest literature of Rome was produced
under the direct patronage of the Emperor
himself. The literature of the Hellenistic
cimes was supported by the rulers of Alex-
andria ; Longinus wrote his treatise “On
the Sublime” at the court of Zenobia. The
Middle Ages and the age which immediately
followed often substituted the patronage of
great churchmen or nobles for that of the
State itself; but. in Envland, Chaucer,
Gower, Wyatt, Surrey and Spenser were
all close to the Governments of the day, and
obtained stimulus or aid from them. In
Ireland the Ollambh, or writing man, was a
direct part of local government, holding an
established place by law and regarded as
next in rank to the king himself. Nor has
the British Government ever quite lost sight
of the need of assistance to literature. The
poet-laureateship is a comparatively small
matter; but from Ben Jonson’s day down
to our own time literarv pensions have been
voted to men of outstanding merit and to


CHRISTMAS NUMBER,
tiue on Saturday next, put up something
of a record this year. The entire issue sold
out before it was printed, over a week
ago, and fresh orders have been coming
in at the rate of hundreds daily, ever
since. There is a wonderful mixture of
drama, pathos and humor in the stories
by Henry Lawson, Abbott, Randolph
Bedford and the rest; while amongst
the poets are such artists as David
Wright, Hugh McCrae and Leon Gellert,
And the price is sixpence!
some with little merit of any kind., So the
claim that State assistance is an injury to
literature is simply based on want oi know-
ledge and possibly some sort of prejudice
against modern/jState enterprise.
But the experience of other countries and
other ages is not much guide to a solution of
Australian problems. It is our literary ex-
pression of ourselves that gives us our first
claim to nationhood; and the work of our
ablest pens is a far bigger asset through the
years than our wool and beef, our railways
and our mines. According to Sir Robert
Giffen, the wealth of a new country is re-
made every five years. Money values are
in continual ebb and flow ; our mines become
worked out; our railways are replaced by
other modes of transport; our cities are
re-built; only the written wold in the hearts
of the people gives us character and continu-
ity through all the future. Yet the makers
of that word are in difficulties from the.
moment they grasp a pen. All the words of
other and larger countries are in direct com*
netition with theirs—not a fair competition ;
for the other voices are subsidised by bigger
populations of readers, and by a louder
applause from overseas. Thus very much
Australian verse is better than the best cur-
rent verse of England and America; but it
is almost impossible to get an Australian
crowd to believe that. The greater noise
from famous magazines and newspapers in
other continents throws discredit on any
local claim. The London Times says it 1
And it goes at that, without regard to the
fact that the London Times has said some
very foolish things and has often praised as
good Australian work that which we all
know to be too cheap and poor for serious
consideration. Verse has a small market in
Australia ; and therefore we have a big out-
put. Many varieties of prose writing have
no market at all, or a market so narrow
that only a few ever have a chance to exploit
it. We have hardly any essayists, because
nobody will buy essays in any quantity un-
less they are woodenl.v enough written to
suit a daily paper. The Australian novel
must go overseas to get a hearing; though
a little fiction of the cheaper sort is pub-
lished here for the cheapest market. In the
short story we have done well, and far more
than held our own. So the claim that State
assistance is required is no idle one. A few
literary prizes, which would make the best
works produced independent of immediately
successful sales; a few literary pensions, not
given as alms, but as a recognition of real
work —these and the public notice and honor
gained by such awards would go far to turn
the tide and allow Australia’s full voice to
be heard.
There are, of course, difficulties in the way
of making such awards. They could not be
made by the Ministry of the day, nor by a
set of newspaper editors, nor by University
professors, nor by the general public. There
would not be the smallest guarantee that
any of these groups of people would recog-
nise the worthiest work when they saw it.
But the writers could be judged by their
own peers. Let a dozen prominent writers
in New South Wales —writers of creative
work, not critics, or mere journalists—be
selected by the Government to form the
nucleus of a State academy, and let each per-
son to whom they awarded a State prize be
added automatically to their number. In this
way we could create a governing body of
letters in New South Wales whose decisions
would command full respect. If three or
four prizes were given annually there would
be a constant influx of new blood ; and no
dead hand of the past could be laid upon the
working present. Within four or five years
the original members Would be' outvoted by
the new prize-winners; and more and more
a career of literature would be open to the
youth of the State, because the rank and
title of academician would mean respect for
a writer’s pen, both at home and abroad.
Nothing could be simpler than such a
scheme, nor more effective: and what would
be its cost? It is safe to say that a couple
of thousand pounds thus expended annually
would give a larger return than anv other
State investment of any kind. The Govern-
ment that founded the Academy would still
be remembered with praise when the dust
lay thick upon all the utlim- and all their
works. It is safe to say that the thing to
be longest remembered of Henry Parties is
that he befriended Kendall. What of the
statesman who has vision enough to lay a
literary foundation for all the future?
D. M. W.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Shot at Dawn.”
Nothing could be more hypocritical and illo-
gical than the protest from Britain and else-
where against the shooting of the Greek
ex-Ministers last week. It was a crime, and
a revolting one; but it in no way differed
in principle from crimes which were com-
mitted as a matter of course in all the allied
armies during the World War. It is true
that those who were shot during the war
were mostly privates, and never by any
chance persons of exalted rank. But it was
a recollection of that very discrepancy, no
doubt, which hardened the hearts of the
Greek Government when mercy was sought
for Gounaris and his colleagues. The most
hideous infamies were practised in every
army but the A.I.F. on men of humble rank,
and when all was said and done, the only
justification was Custom. It was pointed
out that these bloody things always had been
done to preserve discipline, and that discip-
line could not be maintained without them.
One of the few fine things begun by the egre-
gious Horatio Bottomley— but left unfin-
ished as a result of pressure from G.H.Q. —
was a campaign against capital punishment
for so-calied cowardice. Bottomley starred
in his paper the case of a boy-subaltern, who
got lost, or lost his head, in the midst of
a “general shoot,” and failed to reach his
place in the line as ordered. He had not
run away: he had just wandered about in
paralysed bewilderment. This youngster
went to his shameful fate like a hero; yet
even those who admitted it —the Generals
and their off-siders safely ensconced 15 miles
from the seat of danger—continued to repeat
the formula that such offenders had to yield
up their lives in every case to discourage the
others. If there can be degrees in revolt-
ing deeds of this description it may be said
that the French in some respects out-did the
British, in their adherence to the evil old
superstition that morale may be achieved by
slaughter. The unspeakable punishment in-
flicted on the French battalions which re-
treated before the first German gas-attack
is a case in point. And always in the Brit-
ish armies, and nearly always in those of
France, it was only the lowly who suffered.
The injustice of this was obvious to every
private soldier with sufficient intelligence to
understand that a commission did not neces-
sarily confer courage; and many of them
must have known, too, that in a sense
it was illegal. As far back as the
middle of the 18th century the Eng-
lish recognised that an officer of high rank
who failed was at least as deserving of death
as a private, n.c.o. or subaltern. Previously
to the Seven Years’ War the other system—
the one under which the World War was
fought—had been in operation. Admiral
Byng, that typical home-service specialist
and cold-footer, was the first —and virtually
the last —of the victims of the Articles of
War, as revised by the Government to admit
of the highest being executed, equally with
the lowest, for war-mistakes*. They shot
Byng in 1757, where in 1917 and 1918 they
withdrew his prototypes from their Ships or
the field, as the case might be, to safe home
jobs, carrying promotion and titles, With-
out any doubt, it was the remembrance of
these things in the hearts of the Greek repub-
licans that brought about the doom of the
ex-Ministers last week. It shocks us to
read of it; but if ever there was an evil
thing out of which §;ood promised to come
this should be that thing. Who are the most
Unrepentant militarists afflicting the world
to-day? In almost every case they are
politicians who have all to gain and nothing
to fear from war, rind officers of high rank
who are in the same position. And who are
the anti-militarists? Without exception,
practically, they are working people—mem-
bers of the class who get paid a starvation
wage for fighting; whose jobs are given to
others while they are overseas; whose
pensions are cut down when wars end 5
and who, while AVarS last, are shot
by their own mates should their nerves
fail them. If there is any virtue in the
theory that the shooting of subalterns and
other ranks for cowardice makes their com-
rades more courageous, and that the prac-
tice is justifiable on that ground, it is clear
that the shooting of Cabinet Ministers must
make politicians more wary, both as regards
initiating wars and conducting them after
thev have begun. And, if that is so, who
shall deny that Gounaris and his friends
died in a good cause, or that others, who
err as they did, ought to be similarly pun-
ished ?
“Misguided Enthusiasts.”
It is now 12 months since the people who
call themselves Civic Reformers ousted the
Labor crowd from the control of Sydney
City Council. Before the job could be done
they had to spend a mint of money in
cleansing the municipal rolls, which were
stiff with the names of fly-by-night lodgers
and others who had no right to be there,
and in organising vigilance committees to
prevent impersonation. Even so, scores of
unauthorised persons voted early and often,
presumably for the Tammany gang. Several,
caught in the act, were prosecuted and sen-
tenced to terms of imprisonment. Three
were council employees. One of the wit-
nesses for the prosecution was Alderman
Courtenay, a Civic Reformer, so-called. Last
week, in a rush of maudlin sentiment to the
head, this extraordinary person proposed
that when the three ruffians had served their
sentences the Town Clerk should be requested
to reinstate them. Watering the Council
Chamber with his tears, he said that had
he known the Judge would impose such pun-
ishment (six months apiece), the proceed-
ings, for his part, would have been dropped,
“Think, gen’lemen,” he sniffed, “of their
pore wives and children,” as if the criminal
law should be abolished because the inno-
cent suffer with the guilty. “When Holman
Was Attorney-General lie refused to prosecute
in cases of impersonation, on the ground
that the men were only misguided enthusi-
asts.” Whereupon there were interjections:
Lord Mayor McElhone : The more shame to Hoe-
Man, if that is so.
Aid. McElhone : Although we spent thousands in
purifying the rolls, there were over 200 impersonators
in the Fitzrov Ward. I only wish we could have
caught that lot, too.
Aid. Bridge: Things were even worse in Denison
Ward, and we only managed to spot one or two.
Nicholls, another Reformer, announced
that he was in favor of re-emplojdng the mis-
guided enthusiasts, “because they were tools
for others in power.” Mallett, likewise it
“Reformer,” was of the same mind as Court-
enay. Allen Taylor’s passion for civic
purity didn’t prevent his being away when
the division whs taken. On the absent list
also were two hardly less distinguished pro-
fessors of the Reform faith, Thompson and
WaLker. Eight Labor aldermen being on
hand (and there was never any doubt as to
What they would do), Courtenay’s motion
waS carried by the odd vote: 11 for re-
engagement ; 10 against. Which, inciden-
tally, makes it easy to understand why
McEliione’s valiant attempts to clean up
tlie City of Misrule have been so ineffectual.
But why stop at giving the victims of oppres-
sion their jobs back? What’s wrong with
ihstrticting the Lord Mayor to entertain
them at a civic reception and pay them unioh
Wages for the time spent in durance vile?
The effect could hardly be more baneftii
than that of the course which the
Town Clerk has been directed to follow.
Sydney is becoming as notorious for cronk
voting as for its frenzied pony-gambling. In
the course of a few months lialf-a-dozeh
Labor ballots have been ruled out on the
score of wholesale rottenness; and it is a
fair assumption that 10 times the impersona-
tion that goes on at these nefarious ballots
is practised at the subsequent elections, the
incentives and the opportunities being many
times greater. Hardly any offence is more
dangerous to democracy or more difficult
to sheet home. And only a soft-headed sen-
timentalist would invite sympathy for the
perpetrator on the ground that he sinned in
ignorance or was “led away by designing
men,” since everyone with sufficient intelli-
gence to read and mark a ballot-paper knows
how heinous the thing is. In the case
under review the gravity of the crime against
honest citizens was increased by the cul-
prits being servants of the institution con-
cerned. Yet the snivelling Courtenay de-
clares that he wouldn’t have lifted a finger
against them if he had known they would
get six months. Unless his resolution is re-
scinded the trio of Tammany toughs will
be restored to the service of the ratepayers
as a sign of the Council’s contrition for hav-
ing resorted to the criminal law against
corrupt electoral practices, and as a warning
to others to make a welter of it next time.
Of such shoddy stuff are some Civic “Re-
formers” made.
o
Rank Humbug.
Mr. Hughes spoke with contempt of the Country
party. The Country party, he said, had nominated
only 28 candidates for the House of Representatives,
in which there were 75 seats. It couldn’t set a
majority, and, therefore, it shouldn’t be considered.
Oniy by returning the Nationalist party could they
get stable government. —Monotonous item in the
Ministerial press.
To which it may be replied that Hughes
himself was a member of a Labor Govern-
ment which controlled 21 votes in the House
of Reps. That was in 1904. Four years
later, having increased its strength by a
whole six members, his crowd took office
again and hung on for six months. That
was the occasion when, in Deakin’s immor-
tal phrase, lie bad to be “dragged, scream-
ing, from the tart-shop.” Deakin himself
led two Ministries which could have been
outvoted at almost any stage of their exist-
ence by 2 to 1. The Reid-McLean Govern-
ment had no majority. In fact, the Com-
monwealth was run for eight years by one
of three minority parties (and that not
always the strongest) with infinitely more
judgment, prudence and public spirit than
the Nationalists have shown. And there
was, of course, the priceless Hughes Admin-
istration of 1916-17, in which there were
more generals than privates, like a Central
American army. The Country party is the
growth of one Parliament. It is nearly as
strong absolutely, and quite as strong rela-
tively, as was Labor at the end of its first
Parliament. To maintain that the electors
should turn it down because it can’t yet
reach a position which no party enjoyed
during the first nine years of the Common-
wealth. and which took the Labor party fouv
general elections to attain, is the argument,
not of the broadminded Socialist that Hughes
proclaimed himself no longer than a year
ago, but of a benighted Tory. Coming from
a man who rejoiced in being a Laborite when
Labor was a weak third party, and whose
greed for office in those days made him ridi-
culous, it is the rankest humbug. Unlike
the A.L.P., the Cookies are not forbidden by
their constitution to form alliances with
other groups. Since 1917 their Westralian
organisation has been associated with the
State Liberals in a Government which has
survived two general elections and looks like
becoming a fixture. During the present cam-
paign they are working in with the enthusi-
astic young Victorians known until recently
as the Australian Legion, and now as the
Progressive Liberals. And when Hughes-
ism falls there will be nothing to prevent
their joining with men like Watt and Prat-
ten in forming a useful Government, a Gov-
ernment that will resolutely grapple with
the tasks (shamefully neglected by the
Nationalists for the ruinous policy of buy-
ing support with concessions) of paying off
some of the unproductive war debt and re-
forming the seven insane taxation systems
that are strangling industry. No apprehen-
sion need be felt as regards the Senate. Many
of the present members would welcome such
an arrangement, and several devoted Huglies-
eliers will be missing when the numbers
go ui).
VJ,
The Woman in Greerii
The Prime Minister concluded an extensive inter-
state election tour on Thursday night with a rally
of Nationalists in Melbourne Town Hall. When
everything waS going smoothly a woman in a vivid
green jacket seated in the gallery shrilly shouted:
‘What about that twenty-five thousand ?’ thus Creat-
ing a deafening uproar. ’ — Sydney Telegiupll;
It has been said that if there had beeii lio
Austrian Empire it would have been lleCes-
sary to invent one: and similarly with the
female in the vivid green jacket. She ia ti
standing feature of the anti-Labor land-
scape every time a general election arrives,
Catts and his Majority Laborites are de-
pending on her to split the working-class
vote; and that others, with a good deal more
money than this recently-organised and
numerically-feeble party, have hopes iii the
same direction may be deduced from the
circumstance that oh Friday last the Catt.s-
ites were able to afford a full-page advt. in
the paper whose Melbourne correspondent
had a few hours earlier identified the lady
in green. The Nationalists rely on her to
provide the only possible answer to their
leader’s more recent career. And in N. S.
Wales, where she has worked overtime since
John Storey died and the Dooleys set out
to transform the Assembly into a sort of
Hibernian benefit society, a number of poli-
ticians owe their arrival in public life en-
tirely to her good offices. For example W.
Skelton and Dr. Fallon. The fact that
Dr. Fallon calls himself a Democrat is as
immaterial as that Mr. Skelton should de-
scribe himself as a Laborite: they are re-
spectively M’s.L.A. for Catholicism and Pro-
testantism. They are complementary of each
other; they thrive mutually on the sectarian
issue, and they are the only people to whom
it does any real good. At present the Skel-
tonites are talking of introducing legislation
against the Ne Temere decree to N. S. Wales.
Half-a-century ago, in Germany, Bismarck
began a similar campaign, and in 1873 the
“May Laws” were passed. Never was mili-
tant clericalism presented with a greater
stroke of luck. Half-a-dozen Prussian bis-
hops went cheerfully to prison; others were
dismissed from their bishoprics; and many
priests were disciplined. As a direct result
the Centre (Catholic) party in the Reich-
stag increased from 03 to 91; the six Catho-
lic newspapers became 103; and the Papacy
got a firmer hold on the country than it had
enjoyed at any time since the Age of Faith.
The anti-clerical legislation quickly fell into
abeyance, and soon little signs remained of
the movement save the Centre party, ever
growing in strength and threatening eventually
to make stable government impossible. In
1881 five more Centrists won seats, and, five
years later, laws were passed which virtually
ended Kulturkampf—which is German for
the article that politicians of the Skelton
stamp are striving to impose on N. S. Wales.
In short, sectarianism in politics does not even
possess the justification that it gives results.
All it does is to build up a wall of spiritual
protest against which the waters of State
beat in vain. And, in the process the Legis-
lature fills up with people like Skelton and
Fallon —good men according to their lights,
no doubt, but utterly useless in a deliberative
Assembly where more urgent subjects have
to be discussed than State v. denominational
education on the one hand, and the need
for the inspection of convents on the other.
The Woman in Green is unquestionably a
handy little body to have about the premises
in the case of individual anti-Rome consti-
tuencies, such as North Sydney or New-
castle. and she is of the utmost service in
splitting the Labor vote everywhere. But the
invariable and inevitable effect of calling
on her for aid is to fill our Parliaments with
persons who represent no one but priests and
parsons of the extremist type.
«
The Triumph of Commonsense.
Tiie value of the work done by the Victorian
Licenses Reduction Board, that sanest and
most successful of all attempts to strike the
happy medium between compulsory drought
and the go-as-you-please grog-shop, was im-
pressively recognised last week. By 53 votes
to 8 the Assembly agreed to the second
reading of a bill designed, among other
things, to suspend local-option polls for
seven years, and to make the Board wholly
responsible for the abolition of superfluous
pubs. In the 20 years that preceded the
establishment of the Board in 1907, 217
hotels were closed under a modified system
of local option. When the Board entered
upon its duties there were 3523 hotels in
Victoria, a large proportion of them un-
savory boozing dens. Within 10 years, by
virtue of a provision that there should be no
more than four pubs for the first 1000
inhabitants of any licensing district, and one
for each'' subsequent 500, it had wiped out
1054, compensation to the extent of £540,851
being paid out of a fund provided by the
liquor people themselves. In 1916 the use-
ful tribunal was authorised to close up to
The Labor Lucifer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Prime Minister refers to the Labor party
exactly as Satan might be expected to talk of those
who kicked him out of the regions of light and cast
him into the pit of darkness... .Lucieer has fallen.”
—Australian Worker.
His were the golden crown and shimmering
wings,
That painters make the hosts celestial
wear.
He smote upon a harp with vibrant strings,
A strikingly melodious affair —
A figurative way of putting things,
The Worker’s, you may say. I’m with
you there.
But from the metaphor there may be gleaned
Who’s the ideal Fiend.
Angel of other days—or rather arch-
Angei, with Michael and with Gabriel
Co-equal (once again let me remark
I find the image forced) —headlong he fell
From Heaven’s radiant realms into the dark
Arid yawningly offensive pit of Hell,
There to revolve revenge and mischief stir,
Another Lucifer!
Pro-Piute (that’s YVorherese), who was of
yore
So super-acrimoniously “anti” ;
Pride of Potts Point, by wnom docksiders
swore
Of old and shearers cheered in many a
shanty—-
How will you draw him? (I’ve a preference
for
The fiends of “Ingoldsby” . to those of
Dante).
In with the hoofs and horns, and never fail
To indicate the tail!
Together all, ere the high noon appeared,
You drove afield (a crib from Milton,
that),
Together contumeliously jeered
And gibed, and allegorically spat
Invective savage and opprobrium weird
At all the brutal myrmidons of Fat —
And now this Jump Jim Crow, this Oily
Gammon
Walks arm-in-arm with Mammon.
The biting tongue, the energy volcanic,
The rancor and the Machiavellian “nous”
That once stampeded plutocrats in panic
When HugiieS arose (hiss out the “s”) to
rouse
Were never so deplorably Satanic
As when he turned upon Macdonell House
Ilis battery of damns and blasts —and phrases
Like “blanky blithering blazes.”
Hark! Did you hear that burst of maledic-
tion.
That brimstone bellow, that sulphureous
shout?
Thus, freed from all celestial restriction,
Apollyon expressed himself, no doubt.
When, tiring of the mutiny and friction
He’d caused, the white-robed angels bumped
him out-
Hear him, the Devil who our party split,
And with ejection instant paid for it,
Blaspheming from the Pit.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL -
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS
ASSETS EXCEED - - - -
£500,000
£300,000
£1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch)®
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
Full Time, Part Time
SELBY P. WOOD. J.P., Governing Director.
- - _ - AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
one-fourth of the licensed houses in any dis-
trict —to act, in short, as if the reduction
issue had been carried throughout the State.
Under this power 306 more pubs—nearly all
dingy drinkeries in congested neighborhoods
—were obliterated, the compensation
amounting to £206,525. Then the prohibition
gentry got to work. In deference to this
section it had very unwisely been provided
that after the Board had functioned for 10
years (the time was extended in consequence
of the war) local-option polls should beheld
at intervals of three years. The first poll
took place in October, 1920. It resulted in
continuance being carried in 143 districts —
many of them localities which had received
special attention from the Board —reduction
in 71 districts, “a number of which had
always contained less than the statutory
number of licenses,” and total aridity in two
thickly-populated Melbourne boroughs, Nun-
awading and Boroondara. In Boroondara
there were seven hotels; in Nunawading
only three. All were incontinently abolished,
with no visible benefit to the cause of tem-
perance, but with great material profit to the
local bottle-gatherers. One of these mer-
chants of dead-marines drives about in his
motor-car. In the ordinary course of events
another capricious and uninstructed vote,
which would probably be attended with
equally farcical results, would have to
be taken next year. To prevent this
piece of folly and enable the Board
to continue as a reforming agency
working on a reasoned plan, the Lawson
Government proposed that the poll should be
made a septennial affair, commencing in
.1929. Another consideration is that Vic-
toria is anxious to build up a tourist trade,
and there is no chance of inducing the
hotel-keeping class to improve its properties
and provide better accommodation for the
travelling public so long as the triennial
absurdity obtains. The bill had a quick
passage through the people’s Chamber, where
the truce was extended to eight years instead
of seven, and a State-wide poll (a three-
fifths majority being necessary to carry pro-
hibition) was substituted for the vote by
districts. In the main it is a healthy
revolt against a hectoring fanaticism.
It expresses the thoughts of the aver-
age Victorian about the pestilent busybodies
who would plague him with questions which
he is satisfied to leave to the experts, and
impose on him a cloistered and sheltered vir-
tue for which he has no bent.
The Tragedy of Greece.
“Solomon Malaprop” on the woes of that
place which we call “the Near East” —pos-
sibly because it is remote and north-west:—
There has long - been a doubt as to who won the
war, but the fact that somebody lost it is develop-
ing into a certainty. A new sign is that the usurp-
ing Government of fezzed barbarians at Angora, in
Asia Minor, now thinks itself strong enough to order
all Christians to leave the country. The obvious
purpose is to wipe out Christianity in the land
where Christianity was born (its birthplace was
Antioch) and extinguish Greek influence in a coun-
try that was Greek and subject to Greek culture
2000 years before the Turk darkened the horizon.
The larger purpose is that which Abdul Hamid
always had before his crooked vision—the extinction
of Christianity through all the Empire. When (or
if) the present contract reaches completion, the
Greeks are likely to be a much diminished folk,
and of the very ancient Armenian race little save
scattered foreign communities will remain.
Greece, to add to its complications, has started a
revolutionary Greece faced evontis in the
year of destiny, 1914 —the year when the ’bus it
had awaited for four centuries came along and
passed at a smart trot —with a king whose irre-
sponsibility and unaccountableness suggested the
ape, and with a hard-faced, squared-faced, square-
headed queen who was the Kaiser’s sister. It further
possessed a statesman who might have been an-
other Napoleon if allowed to run the show, or
another Cavour, Colbert or Sully, if backed by
the same sort of master they had. As it was, he
achieved little except the habit of being in exile and
a brilliant reputation for patriotism.
The will-’o-the-wisp king and the square-headed
queen did everything to ruin and betray their sworn
ally, Serbia, save declare war on the Allies. They
let slip the chance of snatching Constantinople, and
presenting to the world the accomplished fact of
a restored Roman-Greek Empire, lest the Kaiser’s
Mohammedan partner in crime should be annoyed.
When they could have sold their aid to the Entente
at a vast price, they gave their surreptitious assist-
ance to Hohenzollernism gratis. The blunder was
partly and belatedly repaired when the royal pair
were chased into banishment, and Alexander ruled
in his father’s stead; but the biggest opportunity
was gone, and it was an odd wheel that the new
man caught, not a whole ’bus. Then, the habit of
absurdity having taken root in the family, Alex-
ander died through being bitten in the stomach by
a poor relation. It was an unusual kind of end.
Even the case of Jezebel the Great was no parallel;
she was bitten by animals after, not before, death.
The Greek people, with incredible, fatuity, brought
back Constantine and his wife, and the Allies, with
staggering inconsequence, let them come.
The army was then running a brisk war with the
new Turkish authority. The restored monarehs, fear-
ful of losing their jobs again, hastened to weed out
high officers who had supported the Venizelos pro-
Allies policy, and replace them with royalists. The
idea was to make sure of the army, but Kemal, after
sizing up the calibre of the new officers, made sure of
the army in another fashion: he knocked it out in
. one round. He was so inflated with his success that
he declared his terms to be the surrender of all Greek
troops, arms, positions, munitions and territory in
Asia, the return of much old Turkish land in Europe,
and an indemnity of £200,000,000. In fact, he
opened his mouth so wide that it hasn’t been even
approximately shut since.
So King Constantine and his wife fled on their
travels once more. The Greek army—such of it as
had dodged Kemal —set up a belated revolt and
arrested the new sovereign, George, in his more or
less commodious palace. If it had been quicker off
the mark it might have got Constantine instead.
Then the Revolution set up a court-martial, and
executed one of Constantine’s generals, his Prime
Minister and a few subordinate portfolio-holders.
That was all very well in its way, but it would have
been more to the point if the revolutionaries had
done something, or even made preparations to do
something, to the colored bandit who threatens the
life of their native land. Greece will apparently
need all its brain and man power during the coming
months.
o
Heai* the Other Side.
Dr. Gordon Bray, of Sydney, appeared be-
fore the Registrar in Bankruptcy last
month, and the S. M. lleraed, in the course
of its report of the proceedings, printed
this:—
Examined by Mr. W. Harrington Palmer, official
assignee, Hr. Bray said that, at the er.d of 1918
MUM’S THE WORD.
THE MAN IN THE STREET (for the umpteenth time) : “Say, who did give you that —
THE SIDEKICKERS ( interrupting ): “Tut, tut! Why disturb the harmony with an in-
sulting question ?”
or the beginning' of 1919, his wife petitioned for a
divorce On the ground of adultery, and named several
women—three at first. The solicitor for Mrs. Bkay
said that if he signed an agreement, allowing £l5
a week alimony, and paying his costs of £3OO, he
vvould withdraw. the names of two of the women.
Eventually, he signed that agreement on the advice
of his solicitors, but against his will. After he
signed the agreement, two names were taken out. A
fresh petition was then served.
There were no developments, though the
public had a right to expect some,
and on Friday last Dr. Bray went
into the box again and repeated his
former evidence, laying emphasis on the
fact that a number of interested parties had
kept “urging him to come round and sign
the agreement.” The situation, as pre-
sented to the official assignee, contains three
main possibilities:—
(1) Dr. Bray, in swearing that “on the advice of
his solicitors, but against his wi11.... he signed the
agreement and the £3OO was paid, and two names
were taken out of his wife’s petition,” was in error.
(2) He was telling the truth, and the women
named were guilty.
(3) He was telling the truth, and the women were
innocent.
The last thing The Bulletin wants to do
is to kick a man when he is down ; but the
fact remains that Dr. Bray is a bankrupt
and is to that extent discredited, and that
he admittedly has an animus against both
firms of attorneys mentioned by him in his
evidence. On the other hand, as above men-
tioned, no attempt seems to have been made,
so far, to controvert his statements. Mean-
while, his allegations are capable of proof
or they are not. If the former he should
not merely be given a chance to prove them,
he should be forced to undertake the task.
Assuming they are incapable of proof, he
deserves to be punished, if not by the law,
then at the hands of his profession. Other-
wise, any bankrupt, with a grudge against
a_ legal firm which has had dealings with
him, and sufficient education and intelli-
gence to know how to vent his spleen to
effective purpose, may go into a witness-
box, aim a series of charges and them
broadcasted all over the country. It was
never more desirable than it is now that the
public should have confidence in the courts
and in the courts’ officers. And if doctors
who get into financial difficulties are to be
allowed —free, not only of all risk, but even
of challenge or contradiction —to say what
they please of some of the most prominent
of those officers, then the practice is going
to have a disastrous effect on the community
which, for various good and sufficient rea-
sons, is already without much respect for
the meaner class of attorney. It needs no
great acumen or legal knowledge to appre-
ciate that if what Dr. Bray alleges, or any-
thing like it, goes on amongst the best class
of solicitors, no man or woman in the State
is safe. Assume, in the first place, that
these ladies whose names, he says, were
withdrawn from his wife’s petition were
guilty. In that case the Court should surely
have had a say in the matter. If guilty
parties to a divorce suit can be bought out
in this way, by rich relatives, with the con-
nivance of solicitors on both sides, then the
rule of law is near its end, and that of
hard cash is at hand. In the other alter-
native, the ladies were innocent, and so
should never have been brought into the
suit. If that is so, it was an outrage that
their parents should have been required to
find £3OO to get them dismissed from it.
And what the precedent means, should it
be allowed to go unassailed, is that other
petitioners, and other attorneys, will be en-
couraged to join other innocent folks as co-
respondents in the hope of collecting large
sums from the latter or their relations. Dr.
Bray is no fool, and like those whom he
has assailed, he is a chartered servant of
the public. He must have known what he
was doing when he levelled the charges he
did against men who, in the place where
he levelled them, had no right of reply. And
his accusations have been given the fullest
publicity throughout Australia as well as in
N. S. Wales. It now remains for the aspersed
firms to have their say in an equally
public manner. Apart altogether from the
question of the individuals concerned, neither
the medical profession, the legal profession
nor the community can afford to leave the
affair where it stands.
“J.H.” (London) : I was at the Aldwych
Club recently, listening to “an after-lunch
talk to business men” by Sir Napier Bur-
nett, one of the really big men in the Eng-
lish medical world. His theme was the need
for an annual “health survey”—a thing
already in existence in English elementary
schools, and lying at the root of the whole
of the modern theory of preventive medicine.
There are obvious dangers, of course. We
should, for example, have to be very sure of
our doctor, and there is no apparent reason
why the average healthy man should be sub-
jected to annual overhnulings. Yet Sir
Napier Burnett cited some amazing
figures. In America, where the “Life Ex-
tension Movement” —started by Taft, in
1914 —’has been attracting a steadily increas-
ing public, notably among the big industrial
corporations, banks and insurance com-
panies, some remarkable results have been
obtained. Thus, in a series of 4000 consecu-
tive X-ray jaw examinations no less than 62
oer cent, of the cases showed root infection,
one of the prime causes of heart and kidney
disease and apoplexy. Among a hundred
Government postal employees, chosen at
random and similarly “vetted,” were found
20 of pulmonary consumption in an early
stage of infection. Most striking of all was
a reduction in the mortality rates of a big
insurance company of 28 per cent., due to
the application of the “health survey” prin-
ciple to 6000 of its policy-holders. This
enabled the company to pay a 200 per cent,
dividend. The Institute responsible for the
“vetting” pays no dividends. The surplus
left after paying medical salaries and over-
head charges is divided among three Univer-
sities, all devoted to the study of the one
subject—preventive medicine. The late J. D.
Fitzgerald, M.L.C., would have lost no
time in probing the merits of this unique
experiment in applied public health. Isn’t
it worth the serious attention of Australia?
A financier’s note:—■
In the recent very salutary Bulletin remarks rela-
tive to the necessity for the appointment of a board
of governors at the Commonwealth Bank, the possible
effect of one-man control was unremarked in two
important directions. The persistent employment
by the present governor of one firm of architects,
who are granted the privilege of offices in the cham-
bers of the head office at Sydney, may be extended as
regards (1) the staff of the Bank, and (2) the
granting of overdrafts. In plain language, the oppor-
tunities for the exercise of nepotism are unbounded.
Under the Act constituting the Bank, the Federal
Auditor-General audits the accounts, but he has no
right to comment on the size of the advances made.
In the Bank of N.S.W. recently there was a loss
through an indiscreet advance, which had far-reach-
ing results, one of which was the penalising of an
officer—to encourage the others. It is a radically
wrong principle of banking that one man should
have power to grant large advances and be his own
sole critic in the event of a loss.
Dear Bulletin, — Your correspondent
Op.” (B. 16/11/’22) utters a warning
against a new Australian enterprise, viz.,
cotton growing, being made “too attractive
to the grower.” The present price of
American middling in Liverpool is 14.01 d.
The price realised by nearly 2000 bales of
Queensland cotton this year was from 2.75 d. to
3d. above middling American. That puts the
value of Australian ginned cotton at 16.76 d.
Liverpool. The Australian cotton, however,
is a mixed variety, and is not so valuable as
the cotton we have grown this year from pure
seed. This was valued at 3.50 d. to 4d. above
middling American. When this cotton
(Durango) is generally grown, Australian
cotton should be worth, at an estimate based
on to-day’s prices, 17.50 d. to 18d. Liverpool.
The present cost of production will be sub-
stantially reduced as the industry gets on
its feet; freight, for instance, is l|d. per lb.
—an absolutely high figure. The seed will
be of value, as the oil industry is developed.
The American Cotton Growers’ Association
have just issued a carefully-calculated cost
of production statement. They put the cost
of production of American middling at
24.50 cents, or Is. They urge that nothing
less than 30 cents New Orleans will really
pay the American grower now that the boil
weevil takes a third of his crop. On the other
hand, Crompton Wood, one of Britain’s
biggest cotton buyers, estimates the Aus-
tralian cost of production at 18 cents, allow-
ing for wages being paid for everything, and
proportionately lower where the settler does
his own work. So that if the price of
cotton should substantially fall, the Austra-
lian should be in a better position to meet
it. We have no fear about the success of
the industry, and are backing our opinion
b.v_an additional expenditure on plant of
£250,000 this year. There are 10,500 settlers
growing cotton in Queensland alone at the
present time; and over 1500 in N. S. Wales.
—Yours, etc.. Crawford Vaughan.


,9
R
iff
H
■M
rf;i iiciiww WPS : |, :ILf t =; | 'i|g^ • \
'IB
B
m
•m
MN
m
KWH
SI
Al'ii
Wt
m
ssi:
Ift
N&irrt n*"’.!
Comfort -Enjoyment—Convenience
You will find a happy combination of all three at “The Australia.” Architec-
ture and material equipment, managerial organisation and specialisation of
staff —in these and more—no detail is overlooked that might add to the
pleasure of the traveller.
Our Guests are reminded that they have the privilege of Dancing, without
charge, any evening in the beautiful Banquet Hall, to the fascinating music
of “The Australia 4,” admittedly the finest Jazz Band in the Southern
Hemisphere.
—after all, there's only ONE ‘ Australia .’ ”
he
PREMIER HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH,
SYDNEY.
Features of “The Australia”
include Stenographic Bureau,
Turkish Baths, Ladies’ and
Gentlemen’s Manicure and
Hairdressing Rooms. Bars and
Billiard Room, Flower Stall,
Sweet and Book Stalls,
Theatre-booking Office, Motor-
hire Office and Safe Deposit.
The Turkish Baths are open to
the Public from 7 a.m. to 6
p.m. daily, except Sunday. A
single visit is 7/6; a course
of twelve visits is £4.
RATES.
Single Room, with Breakfast,
from 12/6; Double Room,
with Breakfast, from 26/-.
Rooms with Private Bath and
Toilet, with Breakfast: Single,
25/-; Double, from 32/- per
day. Suites de Luxe, rates on
application.
POLITIOCAL
POINTS
Such gleams of humor as fitfully brighten
the dull routine of modern election cam-
paigns are mostly contributed by A Voice.
Hughes was protesting, at Wangaratta
(Vic.), that his Government had to buy
Java sugar on a soaring market because a
cyclone had whirled away most of the
Queensland crop. “We can’t help cyclones,”
he said. “I’m a bit of a cyclone myself.”
“No; you’re a buster,” interposed A Voice-
Another candidate, who heard the U.S. call-
ing in 1915, was dilating on the amount of
American money he had been the means
of introducing into this war-worn Common-
wealth. Said A Voice, with shattering em-
phasis : “You know a lot more about dollars
than francs.”
Sydney, the city where all the new popu-
lation that N.S.W. acquires is deposited,
along with such old population as can be
stolen from the country towns, needs a new
water main, to cost £711,000—not to cure
its water-famine, but to shunt the trouble
along for another year or so. Then it will
want another main and another resexvoir,
a place built on thinly-disguised sand being
a great drinker. Yet a new city might be
founded beside a nice fresh river for
£711,000, instead of dragging rivers to the
people of the old one.
“Bildad” writes:—
Possibly the arrogant and largely-imported Bolshe
viks who run the seamen’s organisation have overdone
things with their order, issued several times a year,
that the men shall come ashore and do a starve over
some point akin to that which caused the war
between the Big Endians and the Little Endians.
The men can’t help noticing that the union bosses
don’t come ashore themselves, being habitually there,
and that their pay doesn’t stop. In Maoriland the
coastal service is being kept up in defiance of the
union. And when the Makura, with the ban thick
upon her, dug up a new crew in Sydney and got off
on her lawful occasions, people began to ponder.
It seems it isn’t wholly impossible for the good ship
Tubb to strike out a line for herself and set up a
new precedent.
The weakness of the Cold Tea party in
Vic. Assembly was revealed when Lawson’s
Liquor Bill, providing for license or no-
license polls every seven years, was put to
the vote. There were 53 ayes and 8 noes.
A better tactician than Greenwood, the high
priest of the Prohibition League, would have
contented himself with registering his oppo-
sition on the voices, but he would have a
division and tvas followed by Groves,
McDonald, McGregor, McLachlan, Smith,
Snowball and West. They are all Gnashers
except McLachlan. He is an Independent.
Speaking in a Westralian hamlet recently
Pearce, of the £B5OO trip, boasted that the
Country party’s Perth newspaper had ap-
plauded his Government for the postal and
telephone facilities given to waybacks. Browse,
M.H.R., who chanced to be in the audience,
explained that the article in question had
been pushed into the paper while the editor
was away ill, and be presumed that it would
be charged up as an advt. Later in the piece
Browse was quoting from “The One Party
that is Making Converts” (B. 19/10/’22).
“Was the editor sick when that got in?” he
was asked. "Yes,” chipped in another in-
terrupter. “Sick of Billy Hughes.”
Barwell, of S.A., has dropped his Indus-
trial Bill. The stupid measure was not
thrown out, but the House amended it till the
father disowned his child. Gunn, leader of
the Labor Opposition, lost by only 20 to 19
an amendment to bring all Government ser-
vants under Barwell’s conciliation boards.
When he submitted another amendment, to
include daily-paid men, tramway employees
and savings bank clerks, three Liberals went
over to his side, and he carried it by 22 to
17. Barwell took a night to think it over,
and then dropped the bill, remarking that he
was “deeply disappointed.” So is South
Oss deeply "disappointed—in Barwell-
“Mujik”: If Bill Massey again captures
a majority at the Maoriland elections this
week, and omits to expire before trying to
repeat the performance, the long-distance
record of Richard Seddon may be jeopardised.
Seddon hung on through 13 picturesque
years—from 1893 until 1906. Massey
bowled Ward out in 1912, and has thus
been at the same address for 10 years. The
next election will be due in 1925, so Old
Bill’s chances of at least running a dead-
heat with his disembodied competitor are
fairly good. He is now 66, with a great
natural good humor embittered by the pri-
vate woe of never in all those long years
THE NEEDLESS QUESTION.
“What can I do for you, sir?”
“A beard-trim, dammit.”
having been able to get a pair of pants to
fit fore and aft. Architecturally William’s
lumbar aspect is reminiscent of a wheel-
barrow.
“Gallery”: The Nationalists are alleged
to have great hopes of beating the Farmers
for Indi (Vic.) with Donald Mackinnon.
But Mackinnon plainly lacks enthusiasm for
the leader he professes to support. Ques-
tioned about the famous £25,000, he declared
that the acceptance of a large cash gift was
a matter of taste, and that, in his opinion,
Hughes had made a mistake. Himself a man
of the highest probity, who is easily able to
answer where all his own coin came from,
Donald gets embarrassed when tackled about
Billy’s “testimonial,” and the fact that he is
a stranger to the electorate isn’t helping
him a bit. Since Isaacs left for the High
Court Bench Indi has changed its member
at every election. However. Cook, who is
a stolid dairy-farmer, looks like smashing the
precedent this time.
“Wodgil”: No N. S. Wales Senate candi-
date, Gnash or Labor, is getting better meet-
ings than Abbott, the New-Stater from Glen
Innes. Abbott’s wildest admirers have never
accused him of being an orator, but he
puts the case for the Country party and
New States in homely Australian speech,
which lingers pleasantly in the memory when
the correct nullities of Millen and Thomas
are forgotten. Though 45 on August 4,
1914, and M.11.R. for New England, Abbott
didn’t lose a day in joining up. His com-
mission as major in the sth Light Horse is
dated Sept,, 1914, and on the other side he
commanded the 12th L.H. and the 10th.
Thousands of Diggers who have hitherto
voted for Millen, of war-service homes cele-
brity, will give their number ones to the
little Brig.
“0.K.”: Barrister George Maxwell has
evidently briefed himself for the defence of
Hughes, and is loyally endeavoring to earn
the retaining-fee. But Maxwell’s eulogies of
his chief are rather ridiculous. For in-
stance :
It is said he is headstrong. So would you be, if
you were as able as Mr. Hughes.
What nonsense is this! The ablest men are
not headstrong. Wisdom forbids sudden
political action on impulse or cocksureness
born of personal vanity. Again:—
I hope he will be returned at the head of the
party—a wiser man in the future than in the past.
He is learning by experience.
The last sentence is peculiarly rich, con-
sidering that the pupil is in his 59th year,
has sat in Parliament since July, 1894, and
has been Prime Minister since October, 1915.
It is surely unreasonable to expect the coun-
try to keep on paying for his political educa-
tion in the hope that some day he will
acquire wisdom. Wisdom and the man who
bought the wooden ships and who admits
having sunk £3OOO of his £25,000 in buying
Badak shares at a boom price! She "will
never have a nodding acquaintance with him.
It is reported in Melbourne without offi-
cial contradiction that the small suburban
Green firm, whose deals in joinery with the
war-service homes imbeciles baffled the Public
Accounts Committee, has been awarded
£90,000 as compensation for the cancella-
tion of its contract. The Auditor-General
recently noted that an advance of £25,000
“without interest” had been made to the
Green crowd “towards enabling it to meet
claims by creditors.” Whether the £25,000
was included in the award of £90,000, or
ranks as an additional benefaction, is not
explained. The idea seems to be that the
taxpayers are sufficiently complimented by
being permitted to find the wherewithal for
these triumphs of Nationalism without being
entitled to details. Two newspapers, Mel-
bourne Age and Sydney Telegraph, have
been placed under the ban for reporting the
expensive arbitration proceedings (they are
computed to have cost between £BOOO and
£4000) relative to the claim of one Driver,
a Vic. sawmiller, for £192,000. Meantime,
the cheering news has leaked out that the
Government is allowing Driver £l5OO a
months until his business has been decided.
During the debate on the Licensing Bill
in Vic. Assembly, Alec Peacock, Minister for
Education, and Ted Hogan, President of the
Political Labor Council, found themselves
in agreement as to the smallness of the
glasses in which beer is now served. Quizzed
by Beardmore, Alec admitted that he was
speaking from experience and from the
depths of his disappointment. Hogan, the
tallest man in the State Parliament, averred
that the glasses were so tiny that you
hardly knew whether you should drink the
contents or wash your eye. And yet Hogan
stoutly maintains that he is coldly indiffer-
ent to beer. When he goes home for the
week-end he slakes his thirst with tea.
“0.K.”: Coldham, standing as “National”
candidate for the re-arranged Ballarat (Vic.)
electorate, would probably be a dead bird
for the contest if he were talking Labor.
Very like his late father (well known at
the Vic. Bar in bygone years as a frequent
junior to Purves), Coldham has the voice
and personality to do the trick. Looks well,
speaks well, introduces the “good-sport”
touch into his genial appeal, and frankly
admits that in most parts of the country can-
didates have trouble in getting more than
two men and a dog to listen to them. But
the objection to Coldham is the objection
common to party-machine candidates. He
avoids reference to the unpopularity of the
party leader and the Government in general.
He takes the stand of one who would dis-
agree with most things done by Hughes. He
affects to scorn the idea of supporting a
“one-man Ministry”—nevertheless, he isn’t
game to bid for votes as an anti-Hughesite
Nationalist. Coldham is the sort that will
help to shift Hughes if lie be elected, yet
he asks for support as a follower of Hughes’s
Government. lie would vote for a reduction
in Federal members’ salaries if returned as
a representative of the party whose leader
proposed the salary grab. The inconsistency
of a professedly manly and consistent Cold-
ham is an example of the bad effects of
machine politics.
“0.K.”: Why is this coming election
alluded to in headlines as “The Federal
Fight.” There’s no character of “fight”
about political electioneering. It is a Scheme,
a Skite or a Competition—but not a Fight
in the sporting sense of the term. “Federal
Fiddledee” would be a more descriptive
heading.
When A. B. Piddington licked George
Dibbs for the Tamwortli seat in the New
South Wales Parliament, he was thought to
be up against a far stiller proposition
than that which he is facing in North
Sydney to-day. Dibbs was 100 per cent,
more popular than Hughes has ever been in
any constituency; but the Reid Government
had gone to the country on its land- and
income-tax proposals, and the right of the
Legislative Council to deal with money bills,
and Dibbs fell. Since those days Piddington
has gone far, in the public estimation, as a
scholar, a Senator of the University, a K.C.,
and an eminent constitutionalist. And
Hughes has retrogressed proportionately.
A Yankee syndicate proposes to water and
“develop” (there is no getting away from
that word) 500,000 acres in the neighborhood
of liillston, on the Lachlan (N.S.W.), at a
cost of £2,000,000 or more, and to sow it
with Yankee and Canadian settlers. Cer-
tainly Yankee and Canadian taxpayers, being
white, are far better than no new taxpayers at
all, and the local policy seems incapable of get-
ting any save city dwellers. The new proposi-
tion doesn’t look hopeless, for irrigation
has been a gold-mine in some places,
though not at Yanco, which is in the same
part of the world as liillston. The owners
won’t pay double and treble wages to secure
their employees’ votes. The money invested
won’t demand dividends till something is
earned, whereas one curse of the loan racket
is that the cumulative preference dividend is
swallowing money gaily before the first spade
is put in the ground, and an impossible dead
horse is accumulated before earning begins.
And if the show fails, the loss will be pa d
off by the shareholders in the wind-
ing-up court, and the business respect-
ably buried and forgotten, as all dead
horses should be. If Public Loan Enter-
prise had either sense or honesty it
would do the same. Thus a concern like the
Blacktown-Richmond railway, which began to
demonstrate its non-success in 1864, would
have had its capital, or the unproductive part
of it, paid off out of revenue —not “written
off” by shifting the debt to some other page
of the ledger—instead of being the immortal
pensioner it is. A difficult point is that the
irrigation settlements which have proved veri-
table gold-mines mostly have cities springing
up beside them to provide a market. Now
in Australia anyone who attempts to spring
on the people any city save Brisbane, Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Adelaide or Perth is very
like a Greek ex-Minister —an individual to
be shot on sight. But the Yankee specu-
lator may not know of this idiosyncrasy.
The Commonwealth Electoral Act.
The addresses of the artists whose pictures deal
with the coming Federal election in this issue are,
respectively, Percy Leason, 214 George-street, Syd-
ney ; and Tom Glover, 268 Flinders-street, Melbourne.
WORDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Labor objective of 1922 is in suhbtance and
essence the same as that of 1905. The wording
may be different, but the meaning is the same.” —
Senator Gardiner, Premier Theodore and others.
The programme of Labor, these strenuous days,
Is flavored and garnished with Communist phrase,
But you mustn’t imagine, from aught that it says,
We’ve altered our old-time perspective.
We’re sticklers for law, as we always have been,
As loyal as when Fisher pervaded the scene.
What you say matters little beside what you mean
When you’re framing a Labor object!'/..
’Twas in Brisbane, last year, that in conclave we met
Our aims upon paper succinctly to set.
The barney was lurid and loud, you may bet,
And woolly and wild the invective
Ere the platform, re-tinkered, went out from the shop
But the red-ragger faction, w'orse luck, were on top
And we had willy-nilly to give them a sop
In the words of the Labor objective.
The “socialisation of industry ’ plank
Smells, people are saying, uncommonly rank.
AVell, we fought it for all we were worth, to be frank,
Though our efforts were quite ineffective.
We couldn’t prevent it being carried, but still
Your minds with relief it should certainly fill
When we tell you: To us it’s just meaningless frill
Tacked on to the Labor objective.
It’s quite a mistake the effusion to read
In the tones of a parson intoning the Greed.
To view it that way we’d be sorry indeed —
At least at a season elective.
We stick to each line whereby votes may be got,
But to take at face value this Bolshevist rot,
When you have our assurance that we don’t, is not
Fair play with the Labor objective.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


The largest and most important mining, industrial and manufacturing
plants throughout Australia use
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
—sufficient evidence of its efficiency and reliability during the past sixty-
four years.
Manufactured only by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY,
Pioneer Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
Interstate Agents —
VICTORIA: J. & R. E.
Madder Pty., Ltd., 409
Eonsdale Street, Mel-
bourne.
QUEENSLAND: Iloe.v, Fry
& Co., Edward Street,
Brisbane;
liurns. Philp & Co.,
Ltd., Townsville.
%
m-
-82
S. AUSTRALIA: Jolin
McKell, T i in p s o n
Street, Port Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA: Horace
Suniin e r s, Howard
Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles
Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Hadfield System of Steel Manufacture is the cumula-
tive result of over 40 years’ research and practical experience
in the Largest Steel Foundry in the World.
The Hadfield System has now been established in our
works by picked men from Sheffield, and we are now pro-
ducing Steel Castings and Forgings of the same High Quality
that has made the world-wide reputation of Hadfields, Ltd.,
Sheffield. * * * *
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Soci-
ety (Ltd.) :—■
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1910 . £177,678 £40,810 £53,658 £83,110 £669,717
1911 .. 189,794 31,236 52,071 100,487 770,204
1912 .. 203,467 32,286 63,938 107,243 883,447
1913 . . 224,252 33,752 75,588 114,912 998,359
1914 . . 242,979 36,281 71,858 134,840 1,133,199
191fi .. 269,696 37,747 95,302 136,647 1,269,846
1916 .. 298,962 41,098 120,583 137,281 1,407,127
1917 . . 325,647 50,506 160,589 114,552 1,521.679
1918 . . 355,583 65,653 159,812 140,118 1,661,797
1919 405,959 69,792 163,669 172,498 1,834,295
1920 , , 407,483 82,479 134,572 250,432 2,084,727
1921 .. 556,669 102,501 162,066 292,102 2,376,829
1922 . . 661,114 119,104 176,085 355,935 2,732,754
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1910 . . £166,333 £59,359 £40,129 £55,845 £354,271
1911 .. 170,358 61,002 50,537 58,819 413.090
1912 .. 194,650 71,308 56.505 60,837 479,927
1913 .. 234,465 84,420 104,245 45,800 525,727
Taken over from Accident Dept... 338 526,065
1914 .. 273,216 105,227 104,846 63,143 589,208
1915 .. 306,949 111,375 89,567 106,007 695,215
1916 . . 366,880 129,745 89,896 147,239 842,454
1917 .. 445,882 157,779 115,708 172,395 1,014,849
1918 .. 535,667 186,986 133,761 214,920 1,229,769
1919 .. 626,610 213,718 142,307 270,585 1,500,354
1920 .. 733,004 252,254 135,509 345,241 1,845,595
1921 .. 805.852 303,240 141,291 421,321 2,266,916
1922 .. 991,568 343,108 159,501 488,959 2,755,875
The T. and G. continues to expand in great
style. When general-manager J. McK.
Henry died live years ago, after having re-
suscitated the old society, he left a big and
sound business for his successor. Since
then, life assurance has been booming, and
general-manager Thompson has been so
active that he has more than doubled the
business left him by his old chief. For 1921
more than 3-1 millions of assurances were
written in the Ordinary department and
£3,849,5(58 in the Industrial branch. These
records were eclipsed during the past 12
months: Ordinary, £3,901,010; Industrial,
£4,199,541. So rapidly has the T. and G.
grown that the latest lay-by in the Ordinary
branch exceeded the total income of that
department for 1918. Additions to Indus-
trial funds last year exceeded that branch’s
1917 income, by £43,000. A comparison of
total funds over two five-year periods further
illustrates the society’s expansion: 1912.
£1,363,374; 1917, £2,536.528; 1922,
£5,488,629. Funds at the latest balance
were slightly more than four times those of
1912. Put another way, during the past 10
years the T. and G. has quadrupled the funds
it held after it had been in business 36
years.
The speeding-up has been the more credit-
able, too, because, as Mr. Thompson put it,
‘‘these results have been achieved at a mod-
erate rate of expense.” Selling life-policies
is much the same as other classes of sales-
manship: a big turnover is generally pos-
sible if you are prepared to incur any old
cost. That is the principle on which some
of the young Life offices have been operat-
ing so that their promoters might make
some sort of show to justify their floats.
There is no other business in which the win-
ning of customers demands such close atten-
tion to costs, for only a small proportion
of premiums received over a number of
years can legitimately be spent on canvas-
sers and office and other exes.; the whole
of the balance of premiums will sooner or
later be required for fulfilling policy obliga-
tions, and, if the office is to continue to
operate successfully in competition with old-
established concerns, to pay bonuses, too.
Last year the T. and G.’s premiums from
new Ordinary assurances represented almost
one-fourth of total premium income. Here is
a comparison of costs for the two depart-
ments over many years :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept., Ordinary. Industrial.
1905 . . £2l 1 1 p.c. £52 18 2 p.c.
1910 . . 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „
1914 .. 14 18 8 „ 38 10 3 „
1915 . . 13 9 11 „ 36 5 8 „
1916 .. 13 14 11 „ 35 7 3 „
1917 . . 15 10 2 „ 35 7 9 „
1918 . . 15 13 0 „ 34 18 1 „
1919 . . 17 3 10 „ 34 2 2 „
1920 .. 17 12 10 „ 34 8 3 „
1921 .. 18 8 3 „ 35 0 5 „
1922 . . 18 510 „ 34 12 1 „
Obviously the new business was not over-
expensive. An exact division of costs is
not possible, but on the assumption that 7
p.c. is a fair charge for old business, then
£125,243 of first premiums cost approxi-
mately £91,900, or less than 74 p.c. That
is a much cheaper rate for new business
than is disclosed by applying the same for-
mula to most offices. Incidentally, the all-in
cost shown in the table, compared with a
dozen years ago, tells how the T. and G. has
improved as a Life underwriter. The table
also shows how much heavier are costs in
the Industrial branch compared with ordi-
nary outgoings, though the T. and G.’s In-
dustrial expense rate has shown big improve-
ments since pre-war days. A saving of £3
ISs. on present Industrial income means
£39.000 more which is available for storing
for the day when policies mature and for
bonuses.
Last year claims in both departments
were lighter than in any year since the
war:—
Ordinary.
Premium Claims.
Income. Claims. Ratio.
1914 .. £ 193,696 £71,858 37 p.c.
1917 .. 254,258 160.589 63 „
1918 .. 276,195 159,812 58 ,
1919 . . 317,680 163,669 51.5„
1920 . . 365,611 134,572 36.8„
1921 . . 437,793 162,066 37.0„
1922 .. 514,432 176,085 34.2„
Industrial.
1914 .. £247,431 £104,846 42 p.c.
1917 . . 400,611 115,708 29 ,
1918 .. 479,692 133,761 28
1919 . . 557,673 142,307 25.5,.
1920 . . 646,017 135,509 21 ,
1921 . . 756,285 141,291 18.7,
1922 . . 857,208 159,501 18.6„
The vast volumes of new business which
have rejuvenated the old society have also
been important factors influencing claim
ratios. The 19,667 new Ordinary policies
issued last year averaged almost £2OO of
assurances per policy. The pre-war average
was about £l2O.
Actuary H. M. Jackson’s latest investiga-
tion fully substantiates the soundness of
the T. and G. which is suggested by the
various tables above. Estimating liabilities
on an “exceptionally conservative basis”—
the rate of future interest-earning, for
instance, is assumed at 3 p.c. for
whole-life and endowment assurances, 31
p.c. for endowments and all Indus-
trial policies—his valuation showed that
Ordinary funds of £2,732,754 were £102.951
in excess of requirements, and that £54,201
of the £2,755,875 of Industrial reserves was
not required. Each department is contribut-
ing another £6OOO to a staff pension fund.
YV hole-life Ordinary policy-holders get
bonuses ranging from 38s. p.c. (one year in
force) to 625. p.c. (20 years)—an all-round
Is. increase on last year’s distributions—-
and endowment assurance policy-holders 28s.
to 525. In the Industrial branch participat-
mg policies over five years and up to 10
years in force receive reversionary bonuses
equivalent to 10 weeks’ premiums, and poli-
cies more than 10 years old 20 weeks’ pre-
miums.
The distribution of these good bonuses
during a period of very active new-business
writing, taken into consideration with the
conservative policy valuations, is a fine
achievement. It has to some extent been
made possible by the improved earnings from
investments:—
Interest Earnings p.c. op Average Funds.
? 949 " £ f J 2 6p ' c - 1918 •• £4 19 9 p.c.
1914 . . 412 6 „ 1919 .. 5 2 7
1915 . . 4 13 0 „ 1920 . . 5 4 0
1916 .. 414 7 „ 1921 ..567’
1917 . . 417 6 „ 1922 . . 5 7 0
Funds are now producing 14s. p.c. more than
in 1915, and on their present volume that
means about £38,500 more each year, and not
tar short of one-fourth of last year’s actu-
arial surplus. That improvement has also
been accompanied by the following change
in investments:—
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
... P-c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
1 üblic Securities . . 34.9 64.4 72 0 75 0
43.0 23.2 17.1 14^6
Freeholds .. i 6.3 9.8 8.5 8.0
Cash and Sundries . . 5.8 2.6 2.4 2.4
No less than three-fourths of the balance-
sheet total of £5,843,580 is in Government
and municipal securities.
* * * *
The Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance Ltd. (Melbourne) :
„ , . Bonus to Re-
oept., 1 ronts. Dividends. Policy-holders, serves.
191 j. . £9.699 10 p.c. =£2372 £4,311 £3 016
June,
1916.. 6,727 10 ~ „ 2625 2,438 4 680
191/.. 23.506 10 „ „ 3000 13,397 1i'789
1918.. 21.917 10 „ 3000 16,475 14 231
1949 • • 21,118 10 „ „ 3237 : 5,557 16,555
1920.. 28,/62 10 ~ „ 3920 18,835 22,562
j 921. . 40.326 10 ~ „ 4382 24,099 34,407
1922.. 45,357 10 „ „ 4382 26,681 48,701
Add Unexpired risks reserve, £51,649 100,350
Each year’s profits are shown after provid-
ing for unexpired risks. This reserve now
amounts to £51,649, and as it. represents
45.1 p.c. of last year’s net premiums profits
claimed by the management have been con-
servative. The figures also do not take into
account the substantial subsidies paid each
year to the parent Chamber of Manufac-
tures, which also holds 33,030 of the 43,820
fl fully-paids. Besides its regular 10 p.c. on
scrip, the Chamber last year received £5977
direct under its agreement with the insur-
ance office. The underwriting surplus for
the 12 months was £45,310, investments
turned in £10,191. making a total surplus
of £55,502. _ The profit shown in the
table is arrived at after deducting the
£5977 • subsidy and £4I6S reserved for
unexpired risks. Including the provi-
sion for unexpired risks reserves now
exceed £lOO,OOO, or not far short of total
claims for the past two years. That is only
part of a remarkable performance. These
reserves have accumulated in eight years
after paying good divs., voting £24,174 to
the of Manufactures and rebating
£127,670 of premiums. For the past two
years premium allowances have been as fol-
lows : Workers’ compensation, 30 p.c.;
marine, 15 p.c., in addition to 15 p.c. discount
previously allowed; motor-car, 10 p.c.;
public risk, plate-glass, fidelity, personal
accident, sickness and boiler-explosion, 20 p.c.
Very low costs have been mostly respon-
sible for this achievement; Vic. manufac-
turers are evidently loyal to their insurance
co., and place their business with it at a
minimum of expense. Notwithstanding the
industrial depression, £177,053 of gross pre-
miums were collected last year compared
with £164.482 for 1921. lie-insurances
totalled £62,622, giving a net premium in-
come of £114,431. Expenses, including de-
preciation, amounted to £11,037, and less
than 9J p.c. of net premiums. That was
prior to paying taxes, which called for no
less than £3144, or almost 2f p.c. of pre-
mium income. Consequently, last year’s costs
were the highest in the co.’s career, though
they were still approximately only one-third
of the expense rate of other offices. Claims took
£4400 more last year, but the loss-rate was
normal and a couple of points below the
experience of two and three years ago. The
co.’s underwriting record has been as fol-
lows
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1915. . £31,907 £6,027 £3,400 18.9 p.c. 10.6 p.c.
1917.. 43,182 14,497 3,444 33.6 „ 8.0 „
1918.. 55,011 21,310 6,603 38.8 „ 12.0 „
1919.. 69,053 34,921 7,593 50.6 „ 11.0 „
1920.. 86,468 43,283 9,044 50.0 „ 10.4 „
1921.. 110,262 50,544 11,214 45.8 „ 10.1 „
1922.. 114,431 54,940 14,181 48.0 „ 12.4 „
A feature of recent operations has been the
activity of a massage department, established
in 1921. During the past 12 months 3810
treatments have been given 124 patients,
and the management reports that “many em-
ployees, with apparent permanent injuries,
have been enabled to return to their former
occupation as a result of the treatment re-
ceived.”
Additions and alterations to freehold pre-
mises last year increased the book value of
property and equipment from £66,191 to
£73,010. All other assets are Government
and trustee securities: £76,259 in State and
Federal loans, £30.000 of other investments,
and £25,882 of cash and book debts.
«• * # *
The Union Building Society (Mel-
bourne) :
Net Added to Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1911 .. £3629 7 p.c.= £2517 £lll2 £5,320
1912 .. 4317 75,, „ 2975 1342 6.662
1913 .. 4714 71 „ „ 3130 1584 8,246
1914 .. 4686 75,, „ 3323 1363 9,609
1915 .. 5037 7A ~ „ 3480 1557 11.166
1916 .. 5235 8 „ „ 3821 1414 12,580
1917 .. 5228 8 „ „ 3936 1292 13,872
1918 .. 5435 8 „ „ 3976 1459 15,331
1919 .. 5346 8 ~ „ 3994 1352 16,683
1920 .. 5782 8 „ „ 3997 1785 18,468
1921 . . 5705 8 „ „ 4000 1705 20.173
1922 .. 5767 8 ~ „ 4000 1767 21,940
After having slightly curtailed its loan busi-
ness in the doubtful years, this building
society has been hitting out again. The
£50,840 advanced last year was a record,
and absorbed all repayments, and, with ex-
ception of a few pounds of till-money, the
whole of the liquid assets held at the 1921
balance. The management also went out-
side for additional funds. The principal
balance-sheet figures have moved as follows:
Assets.
Deposits, Loans, , ——- A — A
July, Overdrafts, etc. Mortgages. Liquid Assets.
1911 ... £46,239 £93,158 £2l
1912 .. 63,490 115,148 36
1913 .. 54,565 110,290 10
1914 .. 65,735 126,544 10
1915 .. 62,731 127,568 10
1916 .. 56,228 124,250 10
1917 . . 50.554 120,816 920
1918 .. 52,113 124,324 1610
1919 . . 61,913 137,157 10
1920 . . 58,142 139,439 1454
1921 . . 54.942 138,359 2921
1922 . . 65,660 155,152 10
Liabilities are still £75 less than in 1914,
but lendings are up £28.(500, accumulated
profits and additional capital having financed
the extra loans. The directors are still not
over-confident about the future, and addi-
tional safeguards have been provided :
Applications for loans were very numerous, and
careful selection was made. In view of a possible
decline in building values in the future, and the
cost of new buildings being in many cases excessive,
and often poorly finished, the Board decided that if
buildings were completed in an unworkmanlike
manner, a proportionate reduction of loan be in-
sisted on.
If everything goes well shareholders can
reasonably hope for something more than the
S p.c. which has been paid regularly for
seven years. There has always been a sub-
stantial margin of surplus profit, and since
1915 £10,774 —more than one-fifth of per-
manent capital—has been stored up. The
restriction of the div. rate has, therefore,
considerably strengthened the society and
improved div. prospects. Provided there is
no sudden disturbance of property values
the society’s position should continue com-
fortable, though working costs, and parti-
cularly inevitable heavy taxation, are likely
to restrict earnings. There are £155,152 of
loans “all live,’’ the directors report—fur-
niture with a nominal value of £lOO and £lO
cash to protect £65,660 of outside liabilities
—or total assets with a book value of 475.
3d. to protect every £1 borrowed by the co.
*
S. Bennett, Ltd., of the Evening News
and other newspapers (Sydney) :
Nominal
n . * To Re- Re-
uct., Net Profit. Dividends. serves, serves
1920.. £28,785 8 p.c. = £12,000 )
Preliminary exes, written off 2,451 i £12,718 £7 442
Staff Provident Fund . . 1,616
1921.. 17,317 8 p.c. = 12,000 ( r
Staff Fund . . . . . . 500 ( 1.817 12,259
1922.. 16,201 7 p.c. = 10,588 I
Scan Fund . . . . . . 400 j 8,213 17,472
Premiums on new shares . . 12,500 29,972
The Evening News and associated news-
papers have been controlled by a public co.
only four years: for half-a-century prior to
that the business had been close-held by
the Bennett family. The conversion into a
public co. was undertaken to comply with
instructions in the will of its founder, and
until recently there was no disturbance
of old interests. For 40 years the
News had been Sydney’s leading evening
paper; then the Sun rose from the ashes of
the old Star and soon outpaced its competi-
Two years ago Sydney’s big retailers
decided to become interested in the News,
and during the past ]2 months 100,000 new
shares were subscribed, and the enterprise
was entirely re-organised. In view of the
reduction in price of the daily to a penny
and of the heavy expenditure on staff, adver-
tising, etc., necessary to effect a revival,"
the co. did very well to give shareholders 7
p.c. for the 12 months. Profits stated by
the table are smaller than those claimed by
the accounts, the amounts appropriated for
taxation in the directors’ report having been
deducted. Besides paying 7 p.c., writing
down paper stocks to latest replacement cost
and maintaining plant and machinery in
“first-class order,” the directors have set
aside £5OOO for replacement of plant. Editor
Knox and his staff have expanded circula-
tion beyond the capacity of the printing-
presses, so orders have been placed for addi-
tional machines.
So far only 6d. per share (£2500) has
been called up on the 100,000 new £1
shares, leaving £97,500 callable. But 2s. 6d.
per share (£12,500) premium was also re-
ceived. from the issue. The co. is, there-
fore, in a comfortable position to pay for
additions to equipment. Considerable funds
may also presently be required for build-
ings ; the 50 years’ lease of the present pre-
mises has only a few years to run, and the
co. will probably soon seek a permanent
home of its own. Paid capital is now
£152,500, and there are reserves of £29,972.
made up of £4OOO in a general reserve fund.
£12,500 of share premiums, £13,000 set aside
for plant replacement, and £473 P. and L.
balance. Portion of the capital was issued
for goodwill, but how much is not visible
from the published accounts: “plant, mach-
inery, freehold property, goodwill, newspaper
establishment, etc.,” are in one bundle with
a balance-sheet value of £139,550.
* * * *
Australian Button Industry, Ltd- —
This co. is being formed to convert Austra-
lian pearl-shell into buttons for the local
market, the whole of the supplies so far hav-
ing been imported. The promoters estimate
that at least 45 million pearl-buttons are
required each year, and they propose to
install two machines capable of producing
400 gross per day. Arrangements have been
made with a Westralian pearl-buyer for
regular supplies of shell at market rates,
and from turning out cheaper lines the pro-
moters estimate a gross profit of £16,800 at
a working cost of £4500, and giving a net
profit of £12,300. They also estimate that
the plant reouired can be purchased and
erected for £5OOO. Nominal capital is £20,000,
in 40,000 10s. shares, of which 24,000 are
offered for subscription, 7000 are to be
issued as fully-paid to the vendors, and 9000
are to be held in reserve. If the promoters’
figurings are correct there appear to be good
prospects for the industry, but the prospectus
does not disclose what the vendors are offer-
ing to justify them asking 22 p.c. of the pro-
posed share issue.


Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Scales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-rqills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., O'Connell Street,. Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request.—Advt.
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world’s best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Win.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
Every year water shortage embarrasses Sydney sub-
urbs. Pioneer Wood Pipe supplies an economical
means of surniounting the difficulty. Throughout
the world wood pipe is used to convey water supply
over arid deserts, rocky mountains and swampy
marshland, and it has never failed to give a full
supply at a cost far below conveyance by metal
pipe. This conduit is made to suit all requirements.
Write for 68-page book to the Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, Petroleum Development, Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
Scientific and Commercial Agencies throughout the
World.— Advt.
« * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street. Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * • *
IDEAS —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Copdison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* * * •
Arthur Leplastrier & Co. Pty., Ltd., Circular
Quay, Sydney, and Collins House, Melbourne, sup-
ply : “Robey” Steam Engines, “National” Gas and
Oil Engines, “Foden” Steam Waggons, “Multimix”
Concrete Mixers and Concrete Machinery, Conveying
and Earth-handling Machinery, Road-making Plants,
etc. — Advt.
* A% ’ #
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being snown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.—Advt.
* w ■* *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydn“v.— Advt.
A Light
General-Utility
STEAM SHOVEL
for
Contractors’ Use
Adapted for
Road Grading, Ditching,
Back Filling, Cellar Dig-
ging, Side-hill Excavating,
and Unloading Cars.
AS USED AT CANBERRA.
TiEAVKB VfiX&Pk
i-m
'S /i\ N
KEYSTONE 14-TON TRACTION EXC/VATOR. SELF-PROPELLING.
Made by
Keystone Driller Co.,
Makers of their well-
known Portable Oil and
Water Well - Drilling
Machines.
Forty years’ experience in
the making of Portable
Well-Drillers and Gear is
a guarantee of the effici-
ency of their machines.
Comprehensive Catalogues on
request.
GutHridge Limited, Australasian Agents for Keystone Driller Co., lO George Street, Camperdown, Sydney,
Primp Minister Hughes, in his electioneer-
imr eimnaign has again been posing as the
great metel-seller of the Commonwealth who
had saved the base-metal industry of Aus-
trali-i from destruction. “One of the most
imnortant acts of the National Government
during the war was its control of metals,”
<vivs the Prime Minister. The Bulletin
•iffrpes that the act was very important and
equally disastrous. Precisely how disastrous
can in some cases, be measured in hard
cash If Hughes “saved” the base-metal in-
dustry from destruction, will he please say
where he put it for safety? At the moment
it’s mostly a corpse. Despite to-day’s high
nrices for lead, zinc and silver, only a few
of the Broken Hill mines, and two or three
in Tasmania, are working. All the small
mines are down and out. Of the host of
copper properties, big, medium and small,
there are only three working to-day, and
all are losing money. Some were out of
action before the temporary slump arrived;
others have just simply snuffed out after
making repeated application to the State
Governments to save them from Federal
interference
. . . . •
, r tt u a,.* rwernment
Mr. Hughes says that the Government
con trol of the industry proved of incalcul-
able benefit, for no less than
was paid out during this period. Because
he sold a urge quantity of metal, My
Hughes thinks he must have sold it well.
Th.* (acts are that the greater proportion
of our base metals were sold at undo maiket
rates. It requires no genius to sell metal
have W kn'rthe Wm',"iliSfto'T'ff-a-week
haae lent the liime Minlstei a to a eea
clerk to show him how average prices are
obtained. “Leave it to me, demanded the
Prime Minister, and the 1917 copper pro-
duction was sold at £l2O per ton, whereas
fiin ~,, # m . rbo year was £lB4 8s
the average pnce toi the ) car tvas 110-l o .
lOd. On the 35,000-odd tons exported by
Australia that year the copper producers
lost, through the Prime Minister’s interfer-
ence £490,000 Later he compelled the for-
mati’on of the Copper Producers’ Association,
which was merely a blind for absolute con-
trol by Hughes. As a result, Australia’s
production of electrolytic copper in 1918
was sold at £lOB per ton f.o.b. Sydney, in
face of the fact that the metal was selling
in London at the time at £123 per ton.
During the period it rose to £135 per ton,
and averaged during the year £l2B ss. lOd.
Allowing that it cost the odd £3 ss. lOd.
to deliver Australian copper in London,
Hughes’s sale at £lOB was £l7 per ton under
the market. On the 27,000-odd tons shipped
that year this Napoleonic salesman lost for
the copper producers of Australia £459,000.
Thus, in the two years, by stupid salesman-
ship, the Australian copper-mine owners re-
ceived £949,000 less than their product was
worth, and would have realised had Hughes
not interfered. In his election speeches
Mr. Hughes makes no proud boast of the
strangled copper industry. Possibly he real-
ises that the thing is loaded. He may re-
member that at the time copper Avas selling
in London at £135 per ton, Port Kembla was
paying the small producers on a basis of
only £l2O per ton. The small producers
kicked, and Hughes forced Kembla for a
period to buy the ores at the full market
rate for copper, despite the fact that he
had sold the resultant copper at approxi-
mately £l5 per ton under that market price,
■ • • • • •
The experiences of the copper producer
Avere no worse than those of the lead and
silver miners, and the molybdenite and wol-
fram getters. Each mining section, backed
by the State Governments and Mines De-
partments, assailed the Nationalist Govern-
ment repeatedly during the war, mainly be-
cause that Government compelled the pro-
ducers to accept prices for their metals
which were below market-level. The
Prime Minister, in his election speeches,
takes great credit for the establishment of
the zinc works at Risdon (Tas.), and for
cutting out what he calls German control,
The works at Risdon were under way long
before Hughes came on the metal horizon,
They are there not because of anything
Hughes did, but as the direct result of the
enterprise of the Speck Government in de-
veloping hydro-electric power. The Prime
Minister may presently claim that as a re-
suit of his metal policy, Cadbury’s are mak-
ing chocolates at the same spot.
• • • • • •
Mr. Hughes also takes great credit for
having sold to the British Government Aus-
tralia’s zinc concentrates production for
some years ahead. As Great Britain is very
dissatisfied with the loss it is making on
the deal, Hughes asks his electors to believe
that he must be a very clever metal sales-
man. It may be that shortly there will be
an investigation in England into all the
circumstances surrounding the making of
that zinc contract, and if all the facts are
laid bare, “clever” Avill not be the only adjec-
tive that will be applied to some of its fea-
tures It may look like clever salesmanship
to sell a man something he does not want,
and something he cannot get rid of except
at a huge loss but it’s mighty bad busi-
ness Hughes, ’with his strong' pretensions
to Imperialism may be actually proud of
the fact that he has saddled Great Britain
with a bad bargain. From his speeches it
looks as if he is, but in view of the fact that
the time may come when it will be revealed
that none of London’s metal authorities
was consulted when England was handed
that zinc “brick,” it might be wise for the
Prime Minister to remain silent on the
subject. When the real facts are known,
Hughes’s. claim to having removed all the
German influence from our metal industry
is both a joke and a tragedy. As a matter
of fact the Germans never did control Aus-
tralian metals, and Hughes knows it, but he
still thinks some political capital may be
made out of the tale. The Germans came
in and bought our metals in open competi-
tion with the rest of the world the same as
they did our wool and wheat and apples,
Metals, unlike pastoral and agricultural pro-
ducts, permit of term contracts. These con-
tracts were made in open competition, and
when war broke out all those contracts were
automatically suspended. The Germans had
no more control of our metals than they had
of our sausages Hoover a result of
Hughes’s restrictions, the sale of oui metals
overseas is now being forced into the hands
of a concern known as the British Metals
Q orporat j on> By the last mail from Lon-
(lon 1 came news ' 0 f w kat the Daily Mail
describes as “ T he Gl . eat Brass Mystery.”
a p pe ars that the British Government,
th I jf h th Disposa i Board, sold 150,000
, to tb , British Metal Corpora-
gw gj.fc Id. SrtS, whteh ™
below the market price.” Says
G Ar . TT * Sentember 7-
?■» of the BrittS. Me.,l Cnjorjti™ with
h P ; sposa ] B oart ] all q its subsequent dealings with
British metal merchants and brokers await a full
explanation, which several members of Parliament
intend to demand when Parliament meets. One
of the statements regarding this matter, which seems
to throw some light on the exports to Germany, was
ma(Je Pv Ml ._ p aul Bass, a metal broker ot Mark-
]ane_ q r _ Bass has stated, and other merchants and
brokers have agreed with him, that wishing to buy
British brass scrap for C'zecho-Slovakia, he Avas
referred by the British Metal Corporation to the
Metall-Gesellschaft of Frankfort,
8o the particular German metal co. which
Mr. Hughes thought he had strangled for
all time has bobbed up again. The present
position is that Germany can no longer buy
metals in Australia direct—as it does wool,
meat, wheat and so on. Those metals must
first pass through the hands of somebody
in London, who, having taken a rake oft,
will sell them only to the Particular Ger-
man that is chosen by the British Metals
Corporation.
* , . „ , tha
A year or two ago a hie destioyed the
Sons of Gwalia mill CW.A ) iand caused a
complete stoppage of operations both above
and below ground. Later on the co began
to re-treat accumulated tailings, but, like
some other big mineowners stubbornly re-
fused to resume mining and milling until
wages and high costs came: down. Now,
when the gold premiuni is only a few sh -
lings above pai, th ® l .?
error of its aa ays, and to install a
new 20-head battery and resume unc ei
ground work.
*. . * _ * ,
Opposition-leader Collier recently declared
in the Westralian Assembly that news of
important deep-level finds at Ivalgooi lie
were being kept dark by the managements
of the mines concerned. In one case, at
any rate, Collier is right. Some months ago
a fall of earth at 1200 ft. in one mine dis-
closed a new make of ore which assayed well,
and which has since given good
results. Yet so far not a line officially has
been given out to the papers,
* * * *
Westralia’s lead-mining industry is m a
bad Avay. If the ores could be smelted abroad,
say, by Belgium, the producers would get
about £4 per ton of lead more than if smelted
in the State. But that would mean closing
down the Fremantle smelters, the throwing
of a number of men out of work and an
industrial blow to Fremantle. The pro-
ducers don’t Avant to see such a calamity,
but as they are idle because they cannot
squeeze a profit they suggest that the Fed-
eral Government should help them and the
local smelter by giving a bonus,
* * * *
The boomed, busted and almost forgotten
“South End” at Kalgoorlie has again got
into print. This time excuses are offered
for “unavoidable delay” in publishing drill-
ing progress reports, and in order to cheer
U p despondent shareholders something is said
about an ore channel 70ft. wide. That’s
one story; here is another. Every big Lon-
don co. operating on the field has at some
time or another during the past 20 years
satisfied itself as to the worthlessness of
the “South End.” Yet 12 months ago colored
plans showing several “ore channels,” tellu-
ride and otherwise,, running through dozens
of leases, were exhibited to Sydney and Mel-
bourne investors.
* *. * ,
Two ventures which came to grief at
Hampton Plains—Hunter s Pernatty and
White Hope Gift—have appealed to share-
holders to pay calls in order to raise money
for new options. Both cos. were weakly
financed from the start, both blindly grabbed
options at Hampton Plains, and both let
shareholders down in respect to anticipa-
tions.
« * * •
New Langi Logan, Ararat (Vic.), has
screwed a grant of £3500 from Treasurer
McPherson. It is allowed on a £l-for-£l
basis, and as there are still plenty of live
shares in the co., it will use up the cash.
McPherson has imposed 6 p.c. interest, so
that the State gets almost bank terms for
assisting a co. that has sunk more than
£200,000 into the Langi Logan gutter in try-
ing to prove it to contain a mine. The latest
trouble was the discovery of a big island
below the junction of the Cathcart with the
Langi gutter. Now the old river bed is
again on an even bottom on which the gold
should have lodged when swept out by the
torrent swirling past the island hump.
New Langi is on its last run, and if gold
is not abundant in the wash ahead the show
may as well throw in the towel.
• # * *
As no parallel reef was seen to the east,
Oswald’s, Maldon (Vic.), came back to
800 ft. on the Spur reef, and had the luck to
pick up a 2ft- formation. This has been
stoped for 125 ft. up to 30ft., and, being a
new make, gives the old claim a fresh run.
Stone from it and from the Spur reef has
given a profit of £5472 and provided 2s.
in divs. Work at 900 ft. so far has proved a
blank, and the 1000 ft. level will now be
cleaned up to sec if any fresh shoots of gold
can be sorted out there.
* * * *
Tin mining at Herberton (N.Q-) is re_
sponding to the increase in the price of con-
centrates. Eaton’s New Bradlaugh is re-
ported to be looking well, and early this
month cleaned up 80 tons for 25 tons con-
centrates. The Rainbow has hit a nice
body of ore at the bottom of No. 1 winze,
70ft. in from the tunnel level, and has driven
into it for 20ft. Fifty tons raised are esti-
mated to go 15 p.c. The Wild Irishman
is mainly on prospecting work at the 320 ft.
level, and is getting out a little high-grade
ore during the process. The 120 ft. level has
been cleaned out, and is being driven west
in the hope of picking up the payable shoot
that was formerly worked between 220 ft.
and 320 ft.
* * * *
Ipswich (Q.) colliery proprietors are
doing very little bunkering business these
days—in fact, the figures have fallen roughly
50 p.e. during the last few years—and Pre-
mier Theodore was approached for a rebate
to induce shipping cos. to take coal at Bris-
bane. The Premier held out small hope to
the deputation, as such action was likely
to be regarded as unconstitutional by the
Commonwealth Government. Where the bun-
kering is done is a matter of business, and
the crux of the difficulty is apparently the
inferior quality of much of the Ipswich coal,
as well as its friability. There is not much
doubt that the superior grades of Newcastle
fuel are much more in favor, but a lower
rate for the inferior article and cleaning it
bv washing might revive bunkering.
" * * * *
Cap’n Miles has wrung another 2s. per
share refund of capital out of Deebook. In-
cluding premiums of £15,985 raked in when
London was on the feed, share contributions
work out at £114,100. Deducting the mine
(£49,690), and a balance of £64,420 has
had to be made up. Of this £20,714 has
come from assets realisations, so a shade
over £43,700 has still to be provided. The
chief asset is £14,722 due from the Taiping
float, which took over the dredge. Its low
yields and a poor tin-market have made pay-
ments slow, but with prices more promising
the monthly dribs ought to roll in again.
Another asset is 15,000 shares in Ronpibon
Extended, entered at £24,450 in Deebook’s
ledger because the dredge given for the in-
terest stands at that figure in the accounts.
So far the Extended has kept its end up.
From 722,000 c. yd. last year 264;] tons
oxide was won, an average of 13oz. Cash
proceeds were only £B9 Bs. 7d. a ton, with
the result that the profit was only Bs. 5(1. a
ton. Costs were screwed down from 13d. to
7.83 d. a yd., and if they can be kept at
that level there are chances of a further
flow of mild profits.
New Guinea Option Syndicate laid a New
Guinea sluicing show before the Badak
board, and for its work it now nibbles
£17,500 in paid-up shares in the Badak
Ajura, which has been floated to work this
mine. Syndicate holders get 100 paids for
every share held, and as only £1730 has been
furnished by them in £lO shares they are on
a good wicket should the Ajura come up to
inspecting-engineer Booth’s report.
* * » *
Mt. Bischoff Extended (Tas.), like the big
show next door, shut down when tin
slumped, and having a fair wad of liquid
assets, could afford to wait for better times.
Its debts work out at about £l7OO, against
wh’ch stand stores and metal stocks, £4655.
and debentures, etc., £5212. It is doubtful
whether a resumption of mining would be
warranted with costs at present level until
the metal recovers to £2OO a ton. With nar-
row, low-grade shoots of ore to call upon,
working costs must be high.
Dome Rock Copper Mine (S. Aus.), situ-
ated on Bimbowrie sheep-run, not far from
the railway to Broken Hill, appears to offer
possibilities. High-grade copper ore has
been proved to exist near the surface over
a long stretch of country. No outcrop of
note is showing, the indication that led to
the discovery being some copper-stained
stones from a rabbit-warren. Sq far, the
public has not been invited to the party, the
show being financed by a group of wealthy
squatters and wool-men. The question of
values going down has yet to be worked out.
As a surface show, it is said to be better than
Wallaroo or Moonta was—but that doesn’t
mean much with copper. About 50 tons
of ore sent to the smelters averaged over 30
p.c. copper.
# * * #
S. Aus. Department of Mines has four
drills searching out the State’s lignite de-
posits. The Clinton field has 21 million tons
to its credit, and two drills working. As the
St. Vincent’s Gulf laps this field, whose
seams go down 37Gft., water will be the chief
mining problem. Wallaroo will take its coal.
The Moorlands field has 54 million tons and
one drill. A main shaft is in coal at 57ft., and
600 tons are at grass. The electrification
of the Mt. Lofty Range railway, on the
Adelaide-Melbourne route, and cheap power
for the Murray River irrigation settlements
give promise of a future for this field. Noar-
lunga, 22 miles from Adelaide, has one drill
which is on its first hole. A report from
Professor Bone, of the Imperial College of
Science, London, dealing with South Aus-
tralian lignites, is now on the water, and
will reach Adelaide with the Christmas mail.
Tailem Bend and Murray Coal Co. (Moor-
lands) and the S. Aus. Government each
pay half the cost of this report.
*• * * #
The continuous decline in the value of
gold consequent on advances in the London-
New York rate of exchange, will have a seri-
ous effect on many of the larger gold-mines,
more particularly those in Westralia. The
latest quotation was £4 12s. per oz. (fine),
or only 7s, per oz. over the old fixed rate.
This means a decline of nearly £1 per oz.
during the year.


“Hand me that Dictionary!” was the
request of Tennyson Smith, the Yankee
prohibition advocate, when asked to state his
views on the New Liquor Bill, which was
subsequently passed, to the delight of the
trade and the chagrin of the prohibs.
British officers of the Indian Army, who
have come to Victoria to go farming under
the new Immigration scheme, are reported
In the press as saying that Australian men
are not good dressers. The Bond-street
touch is absent from our
clothes; we have no
Poole to make our
trousers, and our coats
are “silnply awful.” C~\
Obliges. )
All Hie SAMe, u%ev\ Strawberry
locoed , (Mr officer |v*vv\i£r<i>>v»ts m&y
tlie IJ>orsp Street tc?ucln, of oAticU
tViev 50 t>i'^wc( ; slteta+Vy ou\
of 6 V
I fou) AAel bourne Sui-jer:-
' X VA/onder uj<?u(et tUey wiwt
i-f I Keej> rwy cwt^
Speaking at Caulfield, Willie
Watt, m answer to an interjec-
tion that he would be Prime
Minister some d*y, replied: “I
hope not; I am not looking for
that job.”
%t \A/Is£ WATTHOUiSP'
" Tiwe was X
Wr-eM to b<Ay At Ji
tViAt I'noor,
I Kwaiw it ’A wS/w/lm
is out JBi Wff a n
jv of resell M l 1/fWimujd
The /
'l&t+effr'!
~Toaa
6L°^EK
l-\ugk<2.s I
<0 <2O O'" I'NO't' i*o <%o X
is the
LtKe- |joyc4 C^eoig>e'
"to "the. cKucK
O'"
cle verne s>&
VioU myself immortal V
Regulations at Melbourne’s
bathing beaches insist that sun-
bathers shall keep their bodies
covered.
“Gooseberries are twopence a
pound. Railways Commissioner
Clap is issuing attractive posters to
boost fruit consumption and relieve
the glut-”—Press par.
( Complaint is made o( an
~ epidemic of thefts of jardi- ■
nieres from Melbourne ceme-
teries, and strong action
is demanded against
Ae desecrators. .
"W f)ull£tms' off 15 boy', ouccu**»biV>o 'to
+Vie hft<sre -fruit btfiAdbt- sc*v\c of
tuff-eosy gooseberries g. 'Proved the
‘wrtVj d\ bnglrY 'fose -for tVie posters.
P-C4i "H*• ■
lEmily /ce»«Aokt t* Hie ‘ Mo+foers
+Ke -j-i'utT industry by iM£\Km so vye
JA''S sow,<2ujUere, !
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


English Boots again available at Peapes’
For some' years prices have precluded the importa-
tion of English Footwear, but during a recent visit
to London the managing director of Peapes’ made a
large purchase of very high quality English leathers.
These have been made into Boots of service and dis-
tinction by the best English makers, and are now
on display at Peapes’.
Among them is one of Tan Super Willow Calf with
whole golosh, close welt, neatly perforated cap and
linen lining.
It is built on a smart extended last.
Peapes offer excellent value —all sizes, 5 to 10, at
65/-
PEAPES PAT POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New Catalogue.
An Entrancing Delight
uplifting and refreshing to the senses, persuading brightness and enjovment to
replace dullness or mind-fatigue by the sheer joy of their rare and ‘exquisite
purity.
LEPIT
PERFUMES and
FACE POWDERS
ITALY’S BEST.
It would indeed be a singular taste that could not find its desire amongst the abundant variety
of Lepit’s enchanting perfumes. More than 25 to select from, including Rose D’ltalLa, Acqua
Colonia “Lepit” (a rare creation of Eau-de-Cologne), Olea Fragrans, Ninfea (Lily of the Water),
Lavanda, Fior di Notte (Night’s Flowers).
Each “Lepit” extract has its accompanying Face Powder, of like fragrance, packed in
dainty original boxes.
Try a Perfume and a Face Powder together.
From all Good Pharmacies and Stores.
GATTINO & CO. LTD., Sole Australian Representatives,
39-41 York Street, Sydney.
sfd
FOR THE OCCASION.
“That girl in the bathing-costume is Mrs. Gaylec.”
“My, that's the first time I’ve seen her fully dressed."
“Ruru”: Is the following true story
eligible for The Bulletin’s queer accident
eompetition? A bewhiskered King Country
(MX.) inhabitant recently endeavored to
propel himself west per medium of a mix-
ture of strychnine crystals and water, but
the only result was a slight indisposition.
The John Hops found, on combing out his
beer strainer, that practically all the crystals
had been sieved, and only pure wowsers’ joy
had got through the hedge.
* * * *
“Dido”: A business-like artist has been
responsible for a number of private sales of
paintings, in Melbourne, of late. His method
is simple. Having obtained access to the
happy home, he is invited to cast an expert
eye at the host’s collection, and say without
reserve what he thinks of it. Then com-
mences a weeding out, Brush explaining that
this one is a daub, and that one a tragedy,
that the third is the worst work of an utter
ass, and the fourth unworthy of shelter in a
decent home. So one Australian painter
after another is condemned to the outer
darkness, the man in judgment meanwhile
insinuating how much more desirable cer-
tain pictures of his own would be in the
vacant places. But sometimes the host is
obtuse, as in the case of an obese business
man who was visited a few days ago. On this
occasion condemnation was richly deserved,
the collection being the worst gathering of
painted junk ever got together under one
roof. “Ah, very, well,” said the proprietor
of the framed tripe. “I’ll take your advice,
Brush. I’ll sell the whole damned lot, and
put the money into Old Masters.”
* * •’*’ *
“Uramao”: Norsewood (M.L.) has just
celebrated its jubilee. It was settled by a
shipment of emigrants from Norway, Den-
mark and Sweden, who sailed from Christiana
in the ship Hoveling on May 30, 1872, and
arrived at Napier on September 12 of the
same year. The hardy Norsemen set about
clearing the “70-mile Bush” in the Ilawkes
Bay province. A hundred of the pioneers'
descendants went to the Great War and 26
were killed. The district is stiff with such
names as Wiig, Johansen, Gruizepky and
Guedbrandsen.
* * ¥■ *
“Wilfrido”: In the law courts one fre-
quently hears counsel ask the same question
twice, qualifying it on the second occasion
with “Do you swear that?” This sort of
thing must , make the man in the box think
that swearing-in is merely legal frill, for the
response, ‘.‘Yes, I take my oath to it,” is both
naive and frequent. Recently, in a M.L.
court, I heard a variant. A cocky who was
being cross-examined as to the presence of
certain posts on a farm at a particular time
came out with, “Look here, I’ll bet you one
hundred quid to a bob that there wasn’t one
on the place.” The Bench, after recover-
ing from the shock, reminded the voluble
one that he was in a court of justice, not a
tobacconist’s parlor. But a little later he
came again. After extracting from witness
that he had listened to a conversation, Mr.
Costs commented sneerfully, “You stood there
drinking it all in, I suppose?” “Dickin on
that,” was the reply, “there wasn’t a drop of
liquor near the place.”
“Tauwarra” returns to an un-
finished argument:—
“Centurion” (K. 26/10/'22) sniffs at
my figures regarding the diffusion of
education in Australia compared with
Georgia (U.S.A.), so 1 turn to the
unchallengeable Knibbs for more am-
munition. At the 1911 census, out
of 800,139 children in the Common-
wealth between the ages of 5 and 15,
86,273 were illiterate. Therefore, accept-
ing “Centurion’s” assumption that the
5.4 percentage for Georgia has been struck
on a school-age basis, and seeing that the
corresponding rate for Australia, accord-
ing to Knibbs, is 10.7 per cent., I suggest
that “Centurion” has no more knowledge
ol the allegedly “well-known conditions
prevailing among the mean white popu-
lation of some of the Southern States”
than I have of the winner of next year’s
Melbourne Cup. “Centurion,” in his
reference to “mean whites,” unconsciously
makes use of one of the stock arguments
of the bat-eyed advocates of a Black Aus-
tralia, who claim that the white race
quickly deteriorates when transplanted to
the tropics. The “mean white” is to be
seen at his best (or worst), not in South-
ern U.S.A., but in the British West
Indies, and his alleged “meanness” (%•'-,
such physical deterioration as has
occurred) is almost entirely due to un-
favorable economic conditions. Neverthe-
less, the John Foster Frasers of this
world find less to say in disparagement
of the “mean white” than was the ease
prior to 1914. With all his failings he
has remained white under conditions
which would have speedily demoralised
his city-bred critics, and even “mean
white" citizens are to be referred to the
piebald nondescripts who form the bulk
of the “spigotty” Central American re-
publics.
“Blaekfriars”: As to the immigrationists’
assertion that it is impossible for T.B. imini-
grants to reach Australia under their scheme,
and the contention of “Phthisis” (B.
16/11/’22) that cases in the early stages
cannot be dropped on by present methods,
NO CUBIST.
“Only a foolish woman angles for compliments."
"Yes; a wise one relies on curves!"
some pretty strong reports have been filed
in Australia House during the past 18 months
regarding consumptives who had to be landed
in Capetown to die after completing the short
half of their sea journey. The South Afri-
can Government, which has instituted about
the most drastic anti-T.B. port regulations in
the world, has uttered bitter remarks to Wil-
liam Hughes about being made a cemetery
for the people, mostly girls, who somehow slip
through the inspection net at British em-
barkation points. But shell-shock men have
also landed in Australia, probably in hun-
dreds, and there seems to be little check on
these asylum-possibilities beyond their own
signed declaration that they are free from
known maladies. On the boat by which I
returned from Blighty not long back, three
shell-shock subjects began either to throw the
ship’s fittings and crew and passengers about
or to try suicide, as soon as a combination
of deck flirtation and the bar-steward’s min-
istrations had got in their work.
* # * #
“F. Coy”: I can recall an early attempt
to “stabilise” the rate of exchange which in-
flicted some hardship on Australians. When
the First A.N. and M.E.F. landed in Rabaul
in September, 1915, the heads did not have
enough money to provide a few months’ pay
for 1500 men. Having collared the enemy
Treasury, however, they had lots of German
paper to play.with. It was then solemnly de-
creed that one mark equalled one shilling, and
we were paid mostly in this German money
until we started to print our own currency.
But though we got a mark for a shilling, the
heathen Chinee flatly declined to give a shil-
ling’s worth of either goods or labor
for a mark. The boys dealt with China-
town for all manner of clothes, wash-
ing, a mild gamble now and then and other
unmentionable commodities, and invariably
got a rate of exchange equivalent to 24
marks to the pound sterling; thus, for our
pay in German money we only got about
16 to 17 shillings in the pound. Questions
that still occur to me from time to time are
(1) Who made the profit? (2) Have we
any chance of being repaid the money out of
which the Government and not the Chows
swindled us?
* * * *
“Old Union Official” blows the gaff:—
It amuses me when I hear politicians, and the
protagonists of causes, lost or otherwise, talking
about having received “hundreds of letters con-
gratulating me on my attitude” —or utterance. 1
have campaigned, too, and I know that out of a
thousand (or possibly ten thousand people) who
may approve of some remark or cause, not more than
one will take the trouble to write and say so. It is
the people who don’t approve who do the writing.
At one time, for a very necessary cause, I sent out
10,000 circulars; and for the next month I was
telling the papers daily about the letters I had
received, and giving them exceipts. But, although
a number of adherents resulted from the broad-
casted appeal, there were actually only three letters
that contained anything but the enrolment money.
One person wrote to communicate his view that T
was a. cadging blighter, and another merely sent an
envelope containing the torn-up fragments of my
appeal. The third was from a forgotten creditor,
who said that, having discovered my address, lie
would be glad of an immediate settlement of the
account (enclosed). As my three letters became, in
an offhand way, “about 3000,’’ l am in a position to
make a fair deduction off these “hundreds of letters
of appreciation.”
*:•**#
“Centurion”: Somebody complained in
The Bulletin not long ago of the inane
artificiality of AV. ' \Y. Jacobs’ stories.
Yet the yarn told to a coroner’s jury in Tas-
mania the other day has its counterpart,
save for the tragic eliding, in half-a-dozen of
Jacobs’ waterside sketches. A Jacobean
master mariner was engaged to a girl, but
THE LECLET WATCH.
“ Surely, Hcnry you feel no interest in THAT
horrid creature? ”
"Of course not, my dear. I — er —-merely
glanced at the time.”
her mother objected. Thereupon lie per-
suaded two friends to invade the old lady’s
house and tie her in a chair. At the right
moment he was to rush in, rescue her from
the ruffians and thereby prove himself a
thoroughly desirable prospective son-in-law.
Unfortunately the old lady wrecked the
ingenious scheme by dying, so medical evi-
dence asserted, of shock and fright. It seems,
to have been the one contingency that the
plotters failed to take into account —possibly
because it was so unlike the ending of a
Jacobs comic story.
(Continued on page ID.)
THE VAMPIRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fancies differ, so they tell us;
Some tor alcohol are zealous,
Some make drugs a special feature,
Cows prefer to chew the cud ;
But I know one with a relish
For a beverage that’s hellish —
She’s a gentle little creature
With an awful taste for “Blud!”
Well you’d know it if you heard her
With a rich and juicy murder,
Lapping up the awful details
As a drunkard laps up rum ;
Let the deed be ne’er so crimson
O'er the gory page she skims on,
And she amplifies and retails
All the horrors as they come.
But this taste has consequences
Very harmful to the senses,
Worse than Prohibition whisky
it plays hookey with the nerves;
Soon, each shadow holds a savage
Bent on homicidal ravage.
Like a racer slim and frisky
At each sudden sound she swerves!
When the weary sun is setting
And most wives are dinner getting,
She’s imbibing: “Save me! save me!”
Shrieked the woman from the floor
As the murderer crept closer
And he. .. .“Ohhli!... .Oh, it's the grocer!
Heavens ! what a fright you gave me
Coming knocking at the door!”
Let her babies fight and tumble,
Let her hungry husband grumble,
Let the dinner burn to ashes,
She’s oblivious of all!
But at night her sins like chickens
Roost at home and raise the dickens—
Thieves are at the window sashes!
Thugs tip-toeing down the hall!
Reading by a waning candle:
“There was blood upon the handle”....
As a nightcap, she lies shrinking,
Quaking, trembling in the bed;
And her husband. .. .ah, poor fellow!
Lack of rest has turned him yellow,
But he’s thinking, oh, he’s thinking
How lie’ll sleep when he is dead !
VICTOItU.
SYD. C.


Editor .•'* TWe elections vurll be on us
Soon You migV>t w/ork op * ViuworouS
politioa.l pag fa V
Cartoonist : ” RijKta '• °
Cartoonist ; Have you any ideas ?''
Editor ! “ fyawn) er- T>o ?
pd *. v Look tfiat.
gfet something new out. the
Country Farty s speeches . y/
twenty *r> in ota. s)
Ed : " Se.t anything tke-re ? "
* E v ( yawn) nothing */
Ed ; Try ~H>e L&boir Parly
( After an V,ourJ
E,d t Find anything ?'•
C i' Er What did you say ? "
Fd : ” Any new Labor ld«.a& ? "
C : Oh .' ——- at* - yes Yot ye+ I
Mlnutas latar)
Ed; v i'll Ibro •Vfjavra .
■Migxbt be »t?le to
t<z r hal/* anTiour)
- .« v ' J XL- 7 *
C . Discovered anyttiingf <■
Ed • yVo Must be vevy
drowsy wc-all>o.r. 11
v Try Billy's se»j3<z.«jcK<*s7
(Five Yrnn tiles I acV«.r)
Ed Any tbing; tb ere, ? "
(No Answer)
(Or* <z. Woor- IjSk't'e.r^)
Ed 1 * HAVE YOU FOUND ANYTHING?! "
(no inawer }
E.<J : WaK« Him op please, And
tall Vim h>a- r»z<zd not cotn/Vna,
bimsel/ to politics tbis. week 1
THE SPREAD OF APATHY.
Party leaders are complaining that the electors have never displayed such apathy as during the present Federal elections, and that the spirit is to be found
in the most unexpected quarters.


THE HENRY LAWSON
MEMORIAL.
We have received the following;—
Town Hall, Sydney,
3/11/1922.
The Editor “The Bulletin,’’ Sydney.
Dear Sir, —At the last meeting of the
Executive Committee of the Henry Law-
son Memorial Fund it was decided that
the memorial should take the form of a
statue, and if sufficient funds are avail-
able also to provide a scholarship at the
Sydney University.
It was resolved that the Lord Mayor
should open a fund, that the press be
asked to open their columns for sub-
scriptions, and that “The Bulletin” be
asked to open a special “Bulletin” Henry
Lawson Fund, owing to that paper’s
association with Henry Lawson’s work,
and its unique circulation.
In pursuance of this resolution, the
Lord Mayor desires me to ask if you can
see your way to open a subscription
list in your columns. The Lord Mayor
feels that your help in this direction
will materially assist the fund, and will
be highly appreciated by the Executive
Committee.
Yours faithfully,
\V. G. LAYTON,
Joint hon. sec. Henry Lawson Memorial
Fund.
Contributions should be addressed to The
Bulletin Office, Sydney, and endorsed
“Henry Lawson Memorial.”
THE HENRY LAWSON FUND
SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
Amount already acknowledged ... £129 4 G
H. D. Mclntosh, Sydney .. 5 5 0
Sir Arthur Rickard, Sydney .. 5 5 0
A. Richardson, St. George, Q’land.. 10 0
W. Orbiston, Willoughby .. ~ 10 6
Morgan Stephens, Armidale.. .. 10 0
£l4l 15 0
Stewart Dawson’s
in 10-Year Gold-Filled Hunting Case.
15 Jewels, f-Plate Nickel Movement.
GUARANTEED
to be Scientifically and Soundly Constructed, and
to Keep Accurate Time.
Stewart Dawson & Co.
ESTABLISHED 1871. NS W - LTD -
\
&
tit
Defiance Lever
Special Price : 65-
For Reliability and Value this Watch is Unequalled.
POSTAGE FREE.
Two Sydney Establishments s
412 GEORGE STREET, STRAND CORNER.
185-87 PITT STREET, NEAR KING STREET.
“Larrapinta”: “The Pariah” speaks with
contempt (B. 23/11/’22) of the “.22 pea-
shooters” used by the gunmen of Melbourne.
But a firearm with a small bore isn’t neces-
sarily innocuous. I have a French revolver,
taken from a Parisian apache, which carries
500 yards, and the copper-cased bullet, driven
from a two-inch cartridge by a heavy charge
of smokeless powder, is about the last thing
I’d like to have in my frame. The weapon
is even smaller than the ordinary .22 calibre,
but any gunman who knew his job could
give the coroner work with it.
* * # *
“Leo Lear” on the rude forefathers of Port-
land (Vic.) :
For historical interest no “Back to” function
in Vic., past or .coining, can equal that held in
Portland in November. The 19tli inst. was the
FEET OF CLAY.
MRS GUSHHE : “There's the Professor: Em sure, he's going to
say something intellectual.”
THE PROFRSSR : "Could you keep one down, laddie?”
88th anniversary of the landing in Portland Bay
of Edward Henty, the State’s first permanent settler.
The most interesting figure at the “Baek-to” week
was William Henty, son of Stephen, Edward’s
brother, who landed in Portland in ’36. A monument
was unveiled on the spot where the Hentys turned the
first plough sod in the State, and a tableau was
staged on the beach depicting the original landing in
1834. The monument is dedicated to three other
historical personages as well as the Henty brothers
—Lieut. James Grant, who discovered the bay in
December, 1800; Major Mitchell, who overlanded
to Portland in 1836; and Captain William Dutton,
whaler, who landed in Portland in July, 1829, and
built a hut there. “Back to Portlanders” are mov-
ing in the matter of restoring the old whaler’s grave
in Narrawong cemetery. One other event during the
week moved the old home-comers. William Poland,
sometime gardener to Edward Henty, passed over,
aged 98.
“Harold H.”: A Redfern (Sydney) kid,
sent upon a message, “scaled” a tram
while on his way, slipped and fell under
its wheels. One of his arms was
nearly severed. As he lay on the ground,
awaiting the lifting-jacks, he spotted a
mate in the crowd. Him he enlightened and
directed thus: “Joe, I was on me way to get
some milk. The money’s in the can —will
you go and get it and take it ’ome? And tell
Mum I ain’t too bad.” The men who
charged ashore at Gallipoli and stuck it out
in Flanders were built from kids like that.
* * * *
“Exul”: The miscreant who has been jab-
bing Sydney women with some sharp instru-
ment is undoubtedly a “little sadist.” Every
doctor has met this class of lunatic, and
all policemen, lawyers and magistrates
should know of his tendencies, though
few do. The chief danger of such
individuals being at large lies in the fact
that from “little sadists” they are likely to
develop into “great sadists” — i.e., homicides.
A penknife is generally the weapon used in
these street attacks. Most sadists are here-
ditary degenerates and irresponsible.
« # * *
Adelaide University has found generous
benefactors in the late Peter Waite and his
wife. Subject to life interests, the latest
of which has just terminated, the deceased
pastoralist gave his Urrbrae estate (134
acres just outside the city), half to be a
public park under University control, the
other half (with the house) for agricultural
research. A little later he added Claremont
and Netherby, comprising another 165 acres.
Then, realising that all this suburban land,
to be worked and not sold, would be a sort
of white elephant for the University, he
threw in £60,000 worth of Elder, Smith and
Co. shares as an endowment. The Govern-
ment agreed that all these gifts should be
free of legacy duty.
• * * *
“Mujik” puts it statistically: —
Between Bonar Law and Walpole there stretch 200
years. In that time Britain has had 37 Prime Min-
isters. Between them they led 53 Administrations.
One was four times P.M. ; two kissed hands thrice.
The average tenure of office as Prime Minister has
been five and a half years
—but seven led the Gov-
ernment between them for
over 100 years. Twelve
lasted barely 12 years. Of
the 37 five were Scottish,
three Irish, one Welsh, one
Canadian, one a Jew, and
26 were Englishmen. The
average age for first becom-
ing Prime Minister was 50,
and for last holding the
job 59. One, however, was
P.M. at 24 ; another not
until he was 70. Most of
the line held office of some
sort for prolonged periods.
Newcastle, for instance,
was a Minister for 46
years; Palmerston for 47.
The average length of life
among British Prime Min-
isters has been 70 years.
A hundred years ago it was
•aid that only one man
had ever led the House of
Commons after 60. In the
last 60 years four have
done so when over 70, and
two of these were over 80.
Twenty-five of the 37 were
sons of peers, 18 of them
being heirs to a peerage.
All except four were born
in easy or affluent circum-
stances. All but three
married. Most married
women of their own class,
though Walpole’s second
venture makes a very
abrupt exception. Nine
of those who married died
without issue. Thirteen
only have descendants liv-
ing in the direct male
line. A fair number
drank heavily. A few
were gross eaters. Not
more than three were
habitual philanderers. The
putative father of one
Prime Minister was cer-
tainly not the responsible part}'. In 1792 19 past
or future Prime Minister were living. The lives of
three of these overlapped so as to cover 215 years
and touch the reigns of 11 British sovereigns.
“Machete”: “Centurion” (B. 28/9/’22)
wrote of the first Marquis of Abercorn as “a
nobleman with a proper sense of his dig-
nity.” I would like to enter Lord Orford
against him for the Dignity Stakes. In 1824
the Norwich Bible Society wrote asking
him to be their president. This is the
answer the secretary received :
Sir, —I am surprised and annoyed by the contents
of your letter —surprised because my well-known
character should have exempted me from such an
application, and annoyed because it compels me to
have even thtis communication with you. I have
long been addicted to the gaming table. I have
lately taken to the turf. I frequently blaspheme.
But I have never distributed religious tracts. All
this was well known to you and your society, not-
withstanding which you think me a fit person to be
your president. God forgive your hypocrisy.
As an example of hauteur, justifiable in its
incidence and unimpeachable as to phrasing,
I fancy that letter weighs in well.
“Howitzer”: At Merris, in Belgium, in
1916, my mate Darky became involved in a
private war of his
own with a Bel-
gian family. It
arose out of the
villagers’ practice
of making their
butter in a churn
operated by a large
treadmill on the
outside of the
house. The first
of these contri-
vances we saw in
action made Darky
inquisitive about
the motive power,
and when liis in-
vest i-Rations
showed him a large
dog going for his
life up endless
stairs, lie became
possessed, as a dog-
lover, with a true
S.P.O.A. f u r y,
which is a good
deal worse than the
berserk variety.
Grabbing an axe,
he bashed in the
wall of the prison
that held the tor-
tured mong. After
this events moved
with great rapid-
ity, and I still
carry a memory of
Darky alternately
engaged in warding
off the attacks of
the entire family,
male and female,
and calling t o
Ponto to come out.
And what disheart-
ened him more than
all the kicks and
scratches and shrill
abuse was that
Ponto declined to
be saved. He just
stuck to his job as if it wasn’t torture at all.
* # * »
“Pat Bushie”: Let me give another side
to “Adsum’s” comedy of seeking legal redress
(B. 23/11/’22) . Recently a man was charged
before the police magistrate at Oessnock
(N.S.W.) with riotous behavior, and was given
seven days without the option. He appealed,
and the case was heard at East Maitland
Quarter Sessions, when the Judge altered
the punishment to a fine of £3 with £3 3s.
costs, and also ordered the defendant to find
sureties that he would be of good behavior for
12 months, in default, six months hard labor.
As the surety was not forthcoming the en-
deavor to get out of a week’s imprisonment
has resulted in the appellant being landed
in the jug for six months.
* # * *
“Dingo”: Re the Pigott forgery referred
to by “John Smith” (B. 23/11/’22). The
Times is still victimised occasionally by
spurious signatures. During the war a poem
purporting to be a “call to arms” and bear-
ing Kipling’s name occupied a place of
honor near the leader, only to be hotly re-
pudiated by the poet a few days later. Writ-
ing from memory, I should say that the tech-
nique was superior to “Bellerive’s,” but the
work lacked his fire and realism. Experts,
however, said that the signature on the MS.
was a work of art. As far as I know the
culprit was never brought to book.
AN IMMENSE SUCCESS.
B. STORMER : “How did your divorce go?”
FLO FOOTLIGHTS : “Splendidly. There was a
full house every day.”
“Larrapinta”: The small black stones
found on the Nullarbor Plain are mentioned
in a par. about Australian gems (B.
23/11/’22). These so-called “obsidian
bombs” differ from meteorites, which are
nearly pure iron, in that they are of vol-
canic glass, which is thrown out by earthly
volcanoes as well as celestial spheres. They
fall all over the world, but are usually picked
ENCOURACEMENT.
“I want to know inhere I stand in your affections?”
“Won't you sit down?”
up in sand deserts. They arrive in a molten
or plastic state, and the soft sand breaks
their fall; encountering a hard surface they
splash like a raindrop. I picked up three
of them west of Pt. Augusta (S.A.). Binglii
calls them “emu eyes.”
OVER THE PAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sometimes read the daily press,
And try to keep my thinking straight;
Though hard it is, I must confess,
To follow Blather at his gait.
I read the contradictory things—
They’re mostly headed “Politics,”
And unto all of them there clings
Suggestion of a juggler’s tricks.
They may be right, the whole darned lot,
For all I know or aught I care.
My thoughts are with the men forgot;
Thank God no Party tripe was there!
The cobbers that I used to know,
They grin beyond the printer’s ink,
And politicians mouth and go,
And Memory looks up to wink.
’Tis good to get away from all
This bickering a little while,
And stand with men who heard man’s call
And went —and left a misty smile
To hang around old Mem’ry’s nooks —
A smile that mocks the paltry lies
Of party parasites and crooks —■
The dead men’s smile that never dies.
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“Won its favor through its flavor.”
K. B.
LAGER
.
Better—because it’s Tooth’s!
Serviceable!
We should
sai| so
f
Whi| don't
uouwear a
He
IS
SHIRT?
mm
Hat»
BRISBANE
AMD
SYDNEY
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Lexite”: Herbert Edwards, the aged
cleric who charged Snow’s Ltd. with
assault and wrongful arrest in Sydney the
other day, doesn’t look the 80 he claims to
be. And yet he appeared very little younger
20 years ago. Be-
sides his faculty
for writing dog-
gerel (some of it
was quoted in
court), he has the
knack of cutting
portrait silhouettes
out of paper, and
carries a pair of
scissors for the
purpose. His wiry
figure can be seen
almost daily in
George or Pitt
streets, and any old
thing that happens
is his business.
Away back in the
dim and clouded
past he was the
pastor of a Banana-
land Anglican
church.
The late
ALEK SASS.
Another North Queensland pioneer,
Richard Davies, of Rocky Springs (Q.),
went over the ridge the other day. He
landed in Victoria at 17, joined the Mel-
bourne Mounted Police Cadets, and rode one
of the leaders in the team that set out from
Melbourne with the gun that was going to
blow the Eureka Stoekaders to smithereens.
A few years later he helped Burke, the
explorer, to choose his horses, and was in
charge of the expedition depot at Royal
Park. When he resigned Davies went over-
land from Victoria to Bowen (Q.), and did
considerable stock dealing. He was known
on all the old goldfields—the Cape, Gilbert
and Etheridge, and, later, the Palmer and
the Towers. Eventually he secured the
Rocky Springs holding, and had his home
there for 40 years. He was 86 at the end.
“FY7”: In an article in an English paper
Geo. Lansbury, of the Herald, London’s
Labor daily (which accepted subsidies some
time ago from Lenin’s Government), has
been saying things about Queensland. He
worked on a farm near Ipswich for some
time, and it appears that he could put up
with meat, “invariably crawling with mag-
gots,” and such minor matters as lack of
washing water; but the horrors that eventu-
ally unnerved him, and drove him back to
the peace and security of Lunnon were the
“serpents” and the “howling of the jack-
asses.”
“The Traveller”: A nephew of Peter
Lalor (B. 23/11/’22) is a rolling-stock in-
spector in the Vic. railway service. He is
as mild a mannered little gentleman as ever
a most orthodox ancestor could have wished
for, and, on appearances, couldn’t “revolute”
worth a halfpenny. His father, Peter’s
brother, was underground manager at the
New Australasia mine at Creswick, where
the big tragedy by flooding happened in
1882. It is said that had the u.g. boss’s
advice been followed there would have been
no disaster.
“Lip”; Parson G. Kennedy Tucker, who
is fathering the Trois Arbres Memorial
Hall scheme at Adamstown (N.S.W.), put
in a while with the A.I.F. After a few
months as an orderly in a base hospital, lie
stepped up to a captain-chaplain’s job with
the 2nd Casualty
Clearing Station,
which, for most of
its time, occup’ed
a reclaimed cow-
paddock at Trois
Arbres, on the
Ploegsteert - B a il-
leul-road. Tucker’s
words of spiritual
comfort probably
lasted longer than
those of any other
padre. Owing to
an impediment in
his speech he min-
istered by means of
a printed booklet,
“A Few Words
from the C. of E.
Padre.”
JAMES A. ROBB,
Canadian Minister
for Trade, who is
now in Australia
on a boosting
mission.
“Roma”: T. A. Spencer, who arrived in
Roma (Q.) in 1865 with his father, the
late parson Charles Spencer, has just sold
his auctioneering business, received a public
send-off, and intends taking his family for
an extended tour. He started off from
scratch in Roma, and now, at 63, is reputed
to sit behind a six-figure fortune. He has
been Mayor and president of most of the
local bodies at different times, and was
M.L.A. for a term. Spencer has always been
a noted practical joker; but sometimes his
victims got even with him. He was once
in a hotel when a burly western drover
slouched in and said “Hello, Edwards, how
did you get into'Charleville with the cattle?”
“All right,” said T.A. solemnly. Then the
drover suddenly became deadly serious.
“Look here, Edwards,” he said, “you picked
on me that night at Augathella when you
knew I was sick,” and with that he made a
vicious swing at Spencer’s chin. T.A.
ducked. “Here, hold on,” he grinned. “I’m
not Edwards. I’m T. A. Spencer. I was
only joking.” Seeing the drover was doubt-
ful, - he turned to a local bank manager and
said, “If you don’t believe me, ask this
gentleman here.” “Well,” said the banker,
“this puts me in an awkward position—l’ve
always known you as Edwards.” There was
nothing for it but to bolt, and two seconds
later local residents, were mystified at see-
ing their Member of Parliament doing even
time down the street ahead of a horribly
profane drover.
“0.K.”: The late Alek Sass would have
developed into a much better draughtsman
but for his capture of a permanent billet on
Melbourne Punch when he should still have
been laboriously studying black-and-white
art. His earliest work for The Bul-
letin promised greater advancement in
figure-drawing than he ever achieved. His
job on Punch came to him too soon and
arrested his progress. A humorist with a
“soul,” Sass never needed to work hard
enough to become a finished caricaturist. The
artist was capable of conceptions which the
craftsman failed to honor, Sass being the
antithesis of his contemporary, the late Alf
Vincent, in whom the craftsman far ex-
ceeded the artist.
The late W. H. Croker pulled more poli-
tical strings outside the charmed circle of
Vic. politics than his two former partners
—Gillott and Snowden —ever did within it.
When Bent was in power (1904-09) Croker
had no end of influence with him. Gillott
, was Chief Secretary under Bent, and is
credited with having said that he was the
visible and, Croker the invisible member of
the old legal firm in the Cabinet. Croker
was Bent’s legal adviser when the Royal
Commission appointed by the Murray-Watt
Government sat on Bent and exonerated him
on the main issues. To the last he was a
committeeman of the V.R.C.
“Thorold”: Alice Meynell, the English
poetess, who died last week, was sister-in-
law of Philip Mennell, who owned the
British-Austbalasian. He and his
brother Wilfrid (reader for Methuen’s, head
serang of Burns and Oates, the R.C. pub-
lishers, and the discoverer of Francis Thomp-
son), had an amicable difference about the
spelling of their surname, but I believe
Philip’s motive was to keep the sort of name
you spell one way and pronounce another
from being dragged in the mire of commerce.
He did not live to see young Francis Meynell
accepting Bolshie money to finance London’s
Labor Herald. Alice Meynell’s sister was
Lady Hutler, who painted, amongst other
well-known things, “The Roll Call.”
Waterloo (Sydney) lost, by resignation,
two long-distance Bumbles just before the
municipal elections on Saturday. Aldermen
Powell and Lenton had then had respectively
21 and 15 years’ unbroken service in the
suburb that is rapidly becoming a little manu-
facturing town on its own account.
“El Verdugo” : I’d have given a good deal
to see the Bananaland Public Service cele-
brating the appointment of Tom Ferry to
the Under-Secretaryship of the Chief Sec.’s
Department, in succession to the late P. J.
McDermott. There were quite a number
who felt they had that important job in their
pockets; but, as often happens nowadays,
Theodore knew better. Ferry’s rise in the
service is entirely due to the Premier’s per-
sonal influence. He was, before the end
of 1919, an obscure junior police-magistrate
in N.Q., but some minor services to a
harassed Ministry in connection with the
State stations informed Theodore of his tem-
peramental fitness for the job of Price Fix-
ing Commissioner, and, as he joins to his
ability in that direction a facility for mak-
ing Ministerial friends, his latest lift isn’t an
overwhelming surprise. But there are four
or five others who are finding that; it needs
a pound or so of profanity to make it diges-
tible. /
Passed out, Edward Quinn, for many
years owner of Tarella station, Wilcannia
(N.S.W,), and from 1882 till 1887 M.L.A. for
Wentworth. On his retirement he nominated
J. P. Abbott, who was elected. That is how
Abbott came to call his fine house overlook-
ing Middle Harbor Tarella.
“C. Coral”: The new Bishop of Carpen-
taria, ex-Bush Brother Stephen Davis, has
just been doing the rounds of the island por-
tion of his 650,000-square-mile diocese. The
regulation gaiters, hat and so on are left at
home on these trips, but the Torres Strait
islanders gave him a great reception all the
same. Apart from the spiritual side of
things, he is keen on the natives’ welfare,
and, like his predecessor, is a strong bar-
racker for home development of the islands
and the encouragement of local industries.
Another Justice Isaacs has bobbed up in
Australia, At the meeting of the Vic. Execu-
tive Council the other day, an Adelaide resi-
dent of that name was appointed a J.P. for
the State, so that he may sign documents in
South Australia.
John Hindmarsh, who died recently at
Dannevirke (M.L.), was named after his
grandfather, Rear-Admiral Sir John Hind-
marsh, first Governor and Commander-in-
Chief of South Australia. John left S.
Aus. for M.L. as a young man of 20, and
eventually became managing-director of the
firm of H. G. Robjohns, of Hawkes Bay.
He was 65, and left a widow, four sons
and nine daughters. Another grandson of
the same celebrity died at Pokolbin (N.S.W.)
on Sunday, in the person of Lionel Viney
Hindmarsh Stephen. The old Admiral was
a middy on 11.M.5. Victory at Trafalgar, and
was at one time Governor of Heligoland.
J. E. Carruthers, the clerical elder brother
of Joseph of the Million Farms, has pub-
lished a book, “Fifty Years in the Ministry.”
He has served his church—the Methodist—
in most of the principal circuits in N. S.
Wales, and as president of the General Con-
ference visited the islands and Maoriland as
part of his job. He comes abreast of his
75th milestone on January 26, but looks about
50 or less.
“Yoyang”: An exhibit at the Historical
Show held by the R.A.H.S. in Sydney was a
portrait of Michael Dwyer; also the powder-
horn which he brought out with him in 1806
in the Tillicherry. Dwyer was born in
1770, in the Wicklow Mountains. After
the ’9B rebellion a price of £lOOO was set
on his head, and lie surrendered. With his
young wife he was sent to N.S.W. He
was High Constable for 11 years, under
Governor Macquarie, and received a grant of
100 acres from Governor King _about the
Georges River. He died in 1825, and was
buried at the old Sandhills Cemetery, his
remains being later removed to Waverley,
where, with those of many other patriots,
they rest under the splendid national monu-
ment erected at the ’9B centenary. His
family settled in the Goulburn district, and
a grandson was the popular priest, Father
John Dwyer.
“Harold Hardupp”: The sea, which likes
playing coincidences, screened a drama the
other Saturday, in which foul* members of
one family on three different vessels, were
implicated. The Seagull reached New-
castle from Port Stephens to report
that it had seen the Williams in diffi-
culties ; and the
tug Champion went
to the rescue. It
found the Williams
sunk close to the
shore, with all
hands safe. The
masters of the Sea-
gull and Williams
are twin brothers,
of the name of
Boyd, the master of
the Champion is
another brother,
and a fourth Boyd,
a son of the skip-
per, was on board
the Williams.
The late
W. H. CROKER.
who was well
"known in Mel-
bourne legal and
sporting circles,
and a member of
the V.R.C.
committed .
G. M. Slate, who died the other day, after
covering the allotted span, was an American
dentist who came to Sydney 45 years ago
on a visit, and stayed for good. He kept
a small string of racehorses at Kogarah, his
greatest success on the turf being with Per-
seus, a horse which he sold a couple of years
ago to a Westralian sportsman. Slate was
a great personal friend of the Dacres, who
suicided in Macquarie-street years ago.
“P.A.”: Winston Churchill, having been
kicked out of Dundee, will be able to retire
to the very comfortable property of Chart-
well, which he recently purchased from the
Colquhoun family. It is a largish place, a
little way out of Westerham, Kent, and runs
to a score of bedrooms and half-a-dozen or
so reception-rooms. For many years Chur-
chill was poor, and he married a girl without
money. They lived in Warwick-square,
near Victoria Station, a middle-class neigh-
borhood with one foot in Pimlico, as it were,
and the other just out. Latterly he has made
fantastic sums as a journalist; his specula-
tions have been successful (as they should
have been considering the sources of informa-
tion available to him), and it is likely that
he will never want again for the sort of
Polls Royce in which lie was seen constantly
in London during the war.
“Xox” : Many Diggers will feel sorry for
Lieut.-Col. Kelly, V.C., D. 5.0., C.M.G., who
was lately summoned in England for a £45
gas-bill which he admitted be was too poor
to meet Kelly captured the Cross in 1918,
but the decoration was recommended in the
S’African War, and he should have had it on
Gallipoli, where his reckless habit of bombing
Abdul from the ends of saps earned him
the title of “Kelly the Bomber.” He was cap-
tain and adjutant to a territorial battalion
at the time. In France the brass-hats
frowned on a man of his rank conducting
exploring parties into No Man’s Land, and
the quick-tempered warrior was not slow to
resent their attitude. To-day, too knocked
about to work, Kelly struggles along on an
inadequate pension—and he has a wife to
support.
Old John Verran, a former Premier of
S.A., has left Moonta mines, after over
half-a-century, and is going to live in Adel-
aide. He has a son in the Assembly, but was
himself dropped overboard at the last general
election. But he says he’s no back number,
and in accepting a purse from a crowd of
Moonta admirers, told them he found it
“quite impossible to sit down and remain
idle.”
W. J. Mcßride, just retiring from S.A.
Education Department at the age-limit, has
done his regular job for 43 years, but has
made a strong side-line of music. He helped
build up the yearly schools demonstration
which has grown into the “Thousand Voices
■Concert,” a fixture that crowds the Exhi-
bition Building in Adelaide every year.
ELLGY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The death is announced of Denat, a famous chej
of other days.”—Age.
He sipped the vermouth in his glass,
Musing the while, then said:
“Though well I know that all must pass,
I mourn for Denat dead.”
Few heard the old Bohemian,
For life was whirling fast,
A neat frock-coated, quaint old man,
A dandy of the past.
“That Sole Colbert, that sweet pressed duck,
Those entries, that champagne!
The young bloods now have no such luck,
They’ll seek the chej in vain.
“Bah! Only tradesmen cook and carve
in cafes of to-day ;
Though one may not exactly starve,
That’s all that one dare say.
“When I was young, the days were gold,
The nights were nights of joy ;
Good fellows met, good tales were told.
Where is our old Savoy ?
“Where is that squatter, rare old sport,
Who livened Melbourne up
With revels of the royal sort,
Before each Melbourne Cup!
“The Cup is not the race I knew.
Maybe I’m so withdrawn
Into the past, I scarcely view
Your ladies on the lawn.
“For I remember, ah, too well,
Our Mimi’s form and face;
Her dance, what art! and Gabrielle,
Greek, classic, nymph of grace.
“Into the night, a frail leaf whirled,
Has Mimi gone her way.
Gabrielle’s in a better world,
Or half-world, let us say.
“Those were the merry times,” said he
“Before the Puritan
Bourgeois respectability
Killed life Bohemian.”
He raised his glass again, then said:
“Life has its destined end.
My world has gone. Denat is dead,
Hail and farewell, old friend.”
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON.


Australia’s Greatest Wheat Store
Protected by
ADAMAX ROOFING
MS
m
fA
Hi
m
ss
w
»
*1
1 ■
•A
1 ; 1
ii,
y>
M
m
11 ■
■
M
mm
'• V
m
mm
■
I
:
, wm
■I
m i
i
•••
■
■
Hi
H•'
HUll
H
*s4:-
■
Hi
B
.. 11 ■
m
»,s
1
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT WHEAT SILO, GLEBE ISLAND, SYDNEY. Photo by uuton Kent
Capacity 3,000,000 bushels; 14,000 square yards of “Adamax” Roofing used on this structure, embracing: Main Storage Roofs- Interspace
Skillions; Cupola Roofs; Elevator; Dust House; Track Sheds; and Drying House Roofs.—H. Teesdale Smith, Sydney, Contractor.
THE GLEBE SILOS are 214 feet high. ADAMAX is the highest quality.
ADAMAX is used on the highest buildings. ADAMAX is used on high-class structures.
HE reason for the widespread popularity of ADAMAX is its unfailing resistance to
weather and time, which is obvious to all on consideration of its special composition.
T
ADAMAX
ROOFING,
Dampcourse, Felt,
Building Paper,
&Cf
ESPECIALLY FOR
Wm Adams & Co Lid.
SOLE AGENTS IN
AUSTRALIA
Adamax is made from highest-quality Long-Fibred Woollen Felt, which
is thoroughly saturated with pure Mineral Asphaltum. No tar, soap or other
adulterants are used in Adamax.
All round Australia from Wyndham in N.-W. Australia to Port Darwin
in Northern Territory, Brisbane, Sydney, Hobart, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Albany, Fremantle and Perth, Adamax is extensively used, and after many
years has proved to be THE roofing with unusually good qualities for with-
standing extremes of the Australian climate.
Adamax has been used on the following, with most satisfactory results —
Jj6 Miles Roof Covering, Wentworth Park, Sydney, for Imperial Wool.
19 Miles, Imperial Wool Stores, Fremantle, W.A.
11+,000 Sq. Yds. West Australian Government Freezing Works, Wyndliam.
1f.1i,000 Sq. Yds. South Australian Wheat Board.
Ifooo Sq. Yds. Nock & Kirby, Ltd., Sydney.
Laverton Aviation Depot, Victoria.
Commonwealth Government Dockyard, Cockatoo Island, Sydney, etc.
Samples and all particulars from the Sole Agents for Australasia.
William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE:
52 1 Collins Street.
AND AT
BRISBANE:
Corner Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH:
33-35 King Street.
ADELAIDE:
Waymouth & Morphett Streets.
LAUNCESTON:
33 Cameron Street.
NEWCASTLE
Watt Street.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine and Accident.
AGENTS WANTED.
Head Office: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Branch: 360-66 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland Branch: Federal Mutual
Chambers, Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Branch: 36 Grenfell
Street, Adelaide.
Newcastle Branch: 6 Bolton Street.
King George IV
v M' WHISKY
66
THE TOP NOTCH"scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
Hotel Carlyon’s,
Esplanade,
St. Kilda.
Special arrangements can be made for
Room and Breakfast or Inclusive Tariff.
Dine Here and Dance in Our
Famous Ballroom.
Hotel guests are invited to
make free use of Ballroom.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
STRANGE BUT TRUE.
“How did the dahlia-seeds turn out, sir?”
"Splendid! In fact, darn’ well wonderful! They took
first prize in the carnations.”
“A.N.G.” : On Oct. 7, at Healesville (Vic.),
a 14-hand pony mare, Black Judy, died at the age of
42 years. Think of Old Jack (Carbine), how he lost
and won a Melbourne Cup, and how his sons and
daughters and their sons and daughters have done
their dash in the same race, and have since gone
west—and then reflect that Judy was born before
Carbine! Nor is this the complete record, for to-day
at grass in Healesville, Judy’s foal, Ginger Puss,
has passed her 36th milestone and is still kicking.
If this isn’t a record for Horsetralia will someone
say why?
* * * *
“Parama”: The lubra who asked for the
parings of his finger-nails may have had intentions,
honorable or otherwise, towards “Rumpus” (B.
5/10/’22). The acquisition of a few hairs, nail-
payings, a drop of blood or a fragment of skin is
greatly desired by most colored people when they
wijsh to work either good or ill towards the person
from whom the fragments have come. Similar
“magic” is even practised still among the more
ignorant classes in Europe. It is a common belief
of native girls in New Guinea that by wearing a few
hairs of a man woven into their scanty garment
they will create in him a desire for them. The cus-
tom among- many South Sea Islanders of knocking
out the tooth of the bride is allied to this. The
husband keeps the tooth, and thereby has control
over his wife even when away from her. Some believe
that hair woven into a string and worn always
closely around the body becomes transfused with the
very essence of the wearer. Mothers of girls of mar-
riageable age take the hair from their daughters and
make these hair-strings. The girl values her hair-
string above all else, and a man who steals one has
the girl body and soul as his own. A girl believes
that if she can touch the lips of the man she loves
with her hair-string while he is asleep, or get some-
one else to do it for her, that man will leave any
other woman, even a newly-married bride, for her.
Nail parings and teeth are used generally with the
idea of absorbing the strength and cunning of then-
original owner, though they are also used to destroy
the latter by burning them in the heart of a speci-
ally made fire. Owing to those practices, by the
way, black brother is so. very careful about burning
or burying everything of the sort. His obliteration
of all traces of spittle and other excreta is due to
the same fear of magic, and this has done much to
keep his surroundings clean in the past. Unfortu-
nately the teachings of the missionaries have done
much harm in this direction, as the “Christian ’ vil-
lages plainly show. There are exceptions, of course,
but with the fear of magic removed the black does
not see why he should trouble to be any moi e care-
ful than the village dogs.
* * * *
“Aragun”: “Pat Bushie’s” hungry bul-
locky (B. 16/11/’22) must have been first cousin
to a sleeper-cutter who blew into Walker’s Hotel,
South Grafton (N.S.W.), for dinner. The axeman
listened with sleepy interest to the waitress’s
chanty: “Cornedbeefroastbeefboiledmuttonbakedduck-
pickledporkstewedgibletsandfish,” then drawled; “Aw,
box ’em all together, miss, if yer don’t mind.”
“Pro” : The city bushman sometimes knows
his way around a horse —“Murranji” (B. 19/10/’22)
notwithstanding. The other day I saw a well-known
suburban (Sydney) equestrian dismount at a tram-
stop, unsaddle, and let his mount free in the busy
street. Boarding the next tram, he whistled up the
prad, which followed its rider in the juggernaut, just
like a pack-horse, except, that it kept at his near-
side knee. Then he shooed it home alone at the
proper cross-road.
* * * *
“Bullswool” : I have seen a witch burned.
She was a young mountain-ash that
was felled for timbering in the mine.
As she fell she struck another tree,
and the butt, jumping back, crushed
the life out of Old Bill, the axeman.
After lying for a while she was
snigged, and on the way down from
the hill she got away and rolled over
the two horses. Then, as they were
sending her down the shaft she slipped
out of the ropes and squashed one of
the men against the side. She was
put into place, but as they were wedg-
ing her up she split, and one end
sprang out and caught the Dago on
the back. The men now refused to
use her, so she was sent out to the
dump. As they took her off the truck
she again rolled and crushed the
shovel’s foot. That was the last
straw; the superstitions of the men
being thoroughly aroused, they all
took time off to make a stake for the
witch, and the shovel- limped up and
applied the first match. After she had
been well and truly reduced to ashes,
the men went quietly back to work.
* * *
“S. MeC.”: As we entered old
Bill stood at the bar, abreast of a
pint, pensively contemplating the ceil-
ing. “ ’Sa case in point ’gainst rel’-
tivity an’ the law er gravitation, I
reckon,” he said, as he proceeded with
the upending of the. pint. Thinking
he meant the beer, and seeing the
high angle that the bottom eventu-
ally assumed, 1 failed to see the point
Then I thought he might have meant
his ziff, which maintained a .strict
parallel with the side of the pint in
spite of the angle. “What is, Bill?”
I inquisitively let myself ask. “The
fly dirt on the ceilin’,” he answered,
surveying that phenomenon again.
“O’N.”: I have found this an infallibl*
cure for a reluctant buggy-horse ; so it’s a tip worth
passing on: Put a surcingle on, then pass a stirrup-
leather between his forelegs and through the collar
and surcingle; hitch taut, get aboard and give the
word to start. The tractable horse of the pair will
immediately move, thus jerking the unwilling one's
pole-strap, whereat, for some reason or other, he will
bound forward. Thereafter nothing will induce him
to lag behind. I can’t account for the phenomenon,
but I think some effect is obtained through the col-
lar pinching the horse on the wither. Obviously
only one of the pair would need to be a jib.
* * * *
“W.G.” : “No,” said Bill, as he laid down
The Bulletin, “the emu and the turkey-hen ain't
the only brainless cows. Out on the Paroo one long-
drought we had a mob of young cattle watering from
wooden troughs at a well in the bed of the river.
Then it rained like blazes, the river came down a
banker and washed the troughs from their moorings.
I went down to have a look, and, blime, if there
wasn’t the whole mob swimming after the floating
troughs trying to get a drink out of ’em!”
“Morob”: Up where
the Markham River takes
its rise, in New Guinea,
there is a race of natives
who protect their bodies
during fights with wooden
armor, this being the sole
instance on record among
the Pacific peoples in which
such a device is used. The
armor consists of breast
and back plates, protective
strips for the arms and
legs, and sometimes a sort
of helmet made out of
intertwined twigs, a slit
being left to see through.
The back and chest plates
are made of large pieces
of bark, heavily reinforced
with diagonally-placed bat-
tens of wood, and are slung
on a braces-like arrange-
ment which goes over the
shoulders and around the
waist. The plates are tough
enough to resist a spear or
an arrow, but are still
sufficiently light to allow
freedom of action in a
fight. An interesting ethno-
logical question is raised
as to where these niggers
got the armor idea. Their
neighbors—who have noth-
ing in common with them —haven’t even made an
aternpt to copy it from them.
* * • •
“Ned Kelly”: The wombat looks after his
own comfort more than any other Australian animal.
When he has sunk his burrow as far as he intends
going, he tunnels upward a couple of feet, and then
scoops out a big sleeping berth for himself. Thif
he lines snugly with thick layers of soft grass, and
during cold weather occupies it almost continually.
Smaller animals know of this luxuriousness of the
’bat, and consequently his burrow is nearly always
full of uninvited guests.
• * * *
“F.W.8.”: There was another “Trotting
Cob” besides the notorious lady of that name (B.
23/11/’22). On the road from Deniliquin to Hay
(N.S.W.), between Wanganella and Booroorban, is (or
was) a lignum swamp known as “The Black
Swamp,” which 40 or 50 years ago was a favorite
camping-ground for drovers. It often happened that
while a mob of cattle were quietly camped in the
small hours a grey horse, ridden by a headless
horseman, would suddenly appear, stampede the
cattle and scare seven years’ growth out of the stock-
men. This horse was known as “The Trotting Cob.”
The explanation of the apparition, I believe, was
that a well-known cattle duffer adopted this method
of stampeding the cattle so that in the confusion he
would be able to get away with a few stragglers.
Some verses on this “Trotting- Cob” were written by
“Thatcher,” but I can’t recall them just now. When
I last was in that locality, about 30 years ago, the
roadside hostelry, at which Cobb and Co.’s coaches
changed horses, was known as “The Trotting Cob.”
“Bax” : Re that old human draught-horse of
the Darling River (N.S.W.) known as Black Andy
(B. 19/10/’22). I was working with him on the
same river barge at Wileannia when he carried a
half-ton of galvanised-iron from the deck of the barge
to the top of the bank. I often saw him carry six
coils of fencing-wire (6cwt.) ashore. Andy was a
very fair shearer. I barbered with him at many
sheds on the river, and in southern Queensland. lie
w-eighed 18st. and stood sft. llin. His real name
was Andrew Stepney ; he was a native of Adelaide,
his father being a half-caste American negro and his
mother a white woman. He had one sister —a fine
cut of a woman, and very strong.
A FEMALE MONOPOLY.
“Not smokin’ note, deah boy?”
“No. Bally effeminate habit, don’t you
think?”
"Eddyson” : “You simply wouldn’t believe the
trouble I had to get that man off the drink,” said Airs,
Sutton, shaking an imperious forefinger at her sullen
A NEW VARIETY.
"I saw a man-eating-shark yesterday.”
“ That's nothing. I saw a man eating few-
fish.”
“But they’re not ferocious.”
“This chap was. The Dago had sold him
the jewfish as snapper.”
husband, “but I did get him off, and I dragged him
into the township and made him sign the pledge.”
“Yes, in me own blood,” Sutton chipped in. “Well,
he was teetotal for a matter of 11 months,” the
housefrau continued, “and .then one evening a lot
of shingle-cutters from up ;Black Cat brought him
home that drunk he couldn’t see out of his eyes, and
didn’t know himself from Robinson Caruso the way
he sang. Of course I was furious, and went for my
potstick. Then the lads explained that John had
been bit in two places by a snake, and they had to
All him up with whisky and gin and bitters (he’s
mighty partial to gin and bitters) in order to save
his life. Of course I could say nothing to that, so I
took John in, and nursed him well. And ever since
you don't know the straits I’ve bin put to with that
man.” “What,” I asked, “to keep him off the
drink?” “No,” said the good wife, “to keep him
away from the snakes!”
* * # *
“Hellish Reef”: “Macte’s” blackboy (B.
9/11/’22) and his first train reminds me of our
little son of Ham, who accompanied his boss from
Valla Lavella (Solomon Islands) to Sydney. When
our ship was berthing at Pinkenba the Brisbane
train rushed in. Little Ebenezer stared at it for a
minute, then gasped: “What name this feller,
master? He schooner b’long bush?”
* * * #
“Jim Caiew”: “Ragar” (B. 16/11/’22)
is astray when he says that a kookaburra depends
almost entirely on his keen sight for his food. Jack’s
sense of smell and hearing are both well developed.
A friend of mine, near Mittagong (N.S.W.), has
six allegedly tame kookaburras in a wire-netting
yard, and recently, to settle the exact point “Ragar”
mentions, we buried all their morning meal in
different parts of the yard. We were barely out
of the enclosure before the jacks were poking about,
and they soon unearthed and ate the meat. Again,
times out of number I’ve seen a jackass destroy the
nests of smaller bush birds and eat the young. As
these nests are usually of the covered-in variety, Jack
is unable to see the young birds; and as there isn’t
sufficient smell to guide him to them, then —unless
he simply tackles any old nest he happens to see
on the offchance —the only possible way he can
locate his meal is by hearing the youngsters
squeak,
* * * *
“Jimmy Possum”: “Caesar's” instance (B.
26/10/’22) of a ’possum-pelt fortune being lost
reminds me of a case on the North Coast (Q.) last
trapping season. A snarer, who had been busy
throughout the close season, upon hearing that the
Government had decided not to open the trapping
season for native-bears and opossums during 1922,
offered his bundle for a tenner to a shire coun-
cillor, who wanted some skins to make a rug. The
councillor jibbed at the price. The following week
the season was declared open for two months, and
shortly after the snarer swapped his swag for close
on £250.
(Continued on page 2 1f.)
THE SILENT HOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is the silent hour
When day and night are linking
Soft hands of gloom and light ;
So conscious seem the trees,
Unstirred by bird or breeze,
That in my heart 1 ask —
What is the forest thinking?
Far off a campfire burns,
Its thin, blue smoke upwreathing
Upon the stirless air.
Outlined against the west
The gumtrees stand at rest:
Green leaf to list’ning leaf —
What secrets are they breathing?
I have in mind a time
Long gone, when woodmen walking
At twilight down dim ways —
Arched branches overhead —
Knew what the blossoms said,
Breeze-kissed and odorous,
And heard the tall trees talking
Then something, gone from earth,
Held man in secret union
With bird and bud and flower,
And made his heart a part
Of Nature’s mighty heart,
And bound him close to her
In hushed and strange communion.
More ghostly grows the scene.
And colder, stiller, damper
The haunted twilight air.
Day dies with blur and blot,
1 fear —I know not what —
How good the ruddy fire
Of yonder lonely camper.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Standard Speedometer,
£4/10/-
A
No. 139.—Searchlight, £2/12/6.
Ford Speedometer,
£4/5/-
Motor-cycle
Signal, £l/17/6.
OVER
SEVEN MILLION MOTORISTS
NOW USE
MOTOR NECESSITIES.
THEY ARE WORLD-WIDE
FAVORITES.
Vacuum Sys
tem, £5.
No. 163.—Electric Warning Signal,
£ 2/S/-
i
No. 179.—Searchlight, £l/15/-
No. 114.—Hand-operated
Warning Signal, £l/17/6
For sale by leading Wholesale and Retail Accessory Dealers throughout Australia, or
direct from the following Interstate Service Stations:—
Bennett & Wood Ltd., Sydney; Berry & Roche
Pty. Ltd., Melbourne; Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; Martin,
Wilson Bros., Ltd., Brisbane; Arthur Christian, Perth.


t»fO
Hgyqs looKind at You’* 1
ABBOTS
i LAGER
The Beer
without a Rival
BREWED FROM
PURE MALT
AND HOPS ONLY
f'-Wr/n.i.t \
m
% ;?<///(, u
i 'Ml
a
m
"'"""""""sZZZ?.
Vs/
P
"* " ///////y
* *
flliii
v/s/s/s/"-
% V/////////S/,
1
zw. \ZS,J
3855
IS®
CHRISTMAS
GIFTS
EP©m
ONOTO
INK
Best
for all
Pens
y*i£i*w SafotL
“jimmy ’Possum” : The wallaby is just as
stupid as the emu in charging- into wire netting
(“Jim Domino” B. 12/10/’22)i I hake known’ them
disable themselves and even break their necks by
taking repeated headers into netting only 3ft. high.
In scrubby localities in Bananaland the sons of
cockies open the fences around the cultivation pad-
docks in the evening, and then go round a few
hours after dark with the dogs, having first closed
the openings. The trapped animals make for the
places where they entered, and finding the holes
closed dash into the fence. If the dogs don’t catch
them then they will charge the fence elsewhere, and
so on until they are caught or break their necks.
Although wallabies never seem to think of jumping
over wire netting, however low, they will go over
a 4ft. Gin. paling fence without being pushed.
“Bullswool”: It was 5.30 a.m., and the
harvesters were tramping along the road to the new
paddock when they met Cocky in his cart, and one
of them hailed him cheerily with “Hullo, boss —fine
morning.” Cocky spat with precision. “Yairs —:
what’s left of it,” he said.
>*• * * *
“S.S.”: I agree with “Bareoo” (B.
IG/11/’22) re lights preventing camping cattle from
stampeding, but this is effective only in the very
Far North. (Why a parallel or two of latitude should
make the difference I don’t know, but as a drover
of 41 years I can vouch for it.) On wide, open
camp ground we drove in stakes (we carried ’em
on the tucker-cart) at intervals and hung hurricane
lamps on them. I remember only one stampede with
this precaution. We were taking 1780 bullocks from
Werimalda to Werimallala, and intended camping
at our usual ground, but the boss’s brother, a regu-
lar know-all, was in charge, and insisted on pushing
on to Charlotte Springs—no place to camp either for
man or beast, as it had a reputation, and cattle-
men would go miles round to avoid it. VYe got to
the Springs about dusk, and from the first the cattle
were restless, so we prepared for a night of it.
About 9 o’clock it became chilly, then a blue mist
rose in the near distance, and a little later you
could have sworn that someone had lighted big flaming
fires a few hundred yards off. Suddenly there
came that peculiar roaring rumble which precedes
a break, and in an instant all was mad fury, with
cattle bellowing and stampeding in all directions.
It took us the best part of a week to get squarely
on the road again. The reason ,of the mysterious
“fires”? Dunno myself. All far-out Gulf drovers
steer clear of Charlotte Springs, and they’ve got
various yarns to account for its eeriness. One is
that a woman, while being brought under protest by
her husband to live away back in the Gulf country
set herself on fire in the night while the camp slept
at the Springs. But to return —coming further.
south, lights in the cattle-camp are unheard of.
Cattle will mostly camp quietly with drovers who
understand their work, though I’ve known the brutes
to make a mad rush for nothing at all. The
ONE FOR HTS NOB.
“During the hot weather in Sydney water had to
be delivered to many of the residents in buckets.”
—News item.
“How do you like ’aving water brought to
yer, missus?”
“ We’re used to it. You’ve been doing it for
years.”
best stockmen while on night-watch whistle or sing
—it seems to be a powerful soother to the cattle.
One young jackeroo who was with me a year ago,
coming down from Geraldton to Jimbour, set the
mob going by starting “Tipperary” at the top of
his voice. The suddenness alarmed them —that and
the general appearance and behavior of the singer,
who was new to the work. Cattle do know experi-
enced men.
* * * *
“Ando”: “H.V.E.” (B. 26/10/’*>2) errs
when he writes that F. C. Morse found some painted-
snipe “in a swamp formed by the overflow of an
artesian bore near Cobbarah (N.5.W.).” The said
township is near the head of one of the Darling's
tributaries in its upper course, anil is abso-
lutely remote from the artesian zone, which
is situated on the N.-W. plains. Morse did
meet with painted-snipe recently, but they
were in the vicinity of the Gwydir’s water-
courses and not far from its holding. Also,
painted-snipe are not exactly* rare, as Morse
saw no fewer than 100 on the occasion re-
ferred to. It is also a moot point whether
or not the painted-snipe is a true snipe at all.
INCONSIDERATE TO THE LAST.
"You say that this is the person who knocked you down with his motor. Could you
swear to the man?”
“I did —but he didn’t stop to hear me.”
“Birre Gurra”: I entered the pub just
in time to see the finish of what had evidently been
a glorious scrap between two of the natives. When
the vanquished had been borne out I shouted the
victor a drink and inquired the cause of the celebra-
tions. “Oh, it was nothin’, mate,” he informed me,
“only 1 just got word I won the Golden Casket, and
that blanky cow reckoned it was a flamin’ fluke.”
* * * *
“O’N”: Yeulba Creek (Q.) put up an
entry for the Queer Accident Stakes a few weeks
ago. A selector there killed a tiger-snake with
the customary wallop on its head, but as he did
so some of the snake's poison splashed abroad, and
a drop entered the man's eye. Violent pain ensued,
and he just succeeded in reaching his home, a mile
away, before collapsing. There was not a doctor
available, but a lengthy application of Condy's
crystals in solution revived him.
* * * *
"W.1).G.”: How easy it is to be mis-
understood. A travelling manager, visiting a station
in W. Queensland, found only the cook at home, all
hands being away on their annual spree. He retired
early, and an hour or so later roared for the cook to
bring him a stick and a light, as there was a snake
under his bed. The cool; listened for a while, then
called out soothingly: “All right, all right—l’ll
bring you a pannikin of soup in a minute 1”
* * * *
“First Up”: A valuable mare of mine lost
her sight, and I could never find out why ; but since
reading “Gippo’s” par. (B. 19/10/’22) I am inclined
to put it down to overstrain. She was a perfectly
healthy animal, but a few weeks before she went
blind I had put her to an almost impossible pull. I
was carting a load of spuds into Ivorumburra (Vic.)
with four horses and a waggon, and in the fading
light I ran into a gate-post at the station yard.
Taking the mare out I hooked her on to the rear axle
and asked her to shift the waggon back, up a Blight
incline, far enough to get a clear run through. She
did it —but anybody knowing the state of the Gipps-
land roads before metal was used will know’ what it
meant. She is still blind, running in a small pad-
dock by herself, and I haven’t the heart to destroy
her.
“Hilly T.”: Wills had taken his family
into the country to enjoy the magic of Spring in the
wattle country. Wills, and Mrs. Wills, and the
three little Willses, and the Wills dog, Clarence,
just wandered in the bush from their headquarters at
a Gippsland farmhouse, and watched Nature spi’ead
her tail, and were happy. One afternoon the party
were picnicking down by the creek, where the
bracken was thick and brown, and the blossoming
wattle cast scent and shade, and Daddy Wills, on
his back on the grass, was entertaining the baby,
playing with the terrier, seizing Clarence, and throw-
ing him high in the air, when a shot rang out, and
the dog fell dead, with a charge of duck shot
through his head. The family were gazing in con-
sternation at their slaughtered pet, when a man
came plunging through the undergrowth. He was a
large man of the species Ziff, and he carried a gun
under his arm. “Well, I’m jolly well blowed!” he
said. “I thought he was a wallaby jumping in the
ferns.” Then noticing the black looks of the family,
he continued: “But I’ll give yer another dog.” He
whistled, and presented Tige to Wills. Tige W’as
as big as a pony, he was nine kinds of dog rolled
in one, a bumble-footed, blundering lubber of a
dog who would have wanted half a cow’ at each
meal, so Wills refused him with scorn. “What if
it had been one of the children I was tossing up ?”
said he bitterly. “Oh, that’s all right, mister,”
responded the man with the gun, “I got eight kids.”
“D. Jay”: I’d bet “Sandgroper” (B.
7/9/’22) a fiver, if I had one, that he never saw
a lugger sunk to clear it of cockroaches, near Thurs-
day Island, at all events. Even the niggers who
used to do it with their cutters have found that
it doesn't pay. I’ve been living in a lugger for
the last seven years, and have tried most of the
advertised remedies, as well as those suggested by
Abo. friends. “Ragar’s” condensed milk (B.
28/9/’22) might be a success if administered with
a spoon. The only specific I know is cyanide; but
we have the same growl against boats as the cockies
have over rabbits on Crown lands. Clear your ship,
and the next dirty lugger who anchors alongside
fills you up again.
* * # •
“P.5.2E.”: Re “King Kurrajong’s” (B.
2/11/’22) inquiry about “The Coo-eeing Woman.”
An old resident of the Burrowa (N.S.W.) district
tells me that this lady’s special haunt was the
vicinity of a teamsters’ camping-ground on the
bank of a creek on the road between Burrowa and
Goulburn. In the late ’fifties my informant camped
there with a bullock team, and about midnight he
was awakened by agitated coo-eeing in an obviously
feminine voice. It was a very bright, moonlit night,
and as the teamster listened his blankets were
flicked from his bunk by an unseen hand. He swears
to this day that he had nothing stronger than cold
tea in his outfit, and that his blankets were flicked
from his bunk three times. On the last occasion he
got up and dressed, and as the coo-eeing could still
be heard at intervals, he decided to make a search,
and started off in the direction of the sounds. After
tramping a couple of miles the voice could be heard
coming from back towards his camp. One of the
then old hands subsequently told him that the place
had for years been haunted by the spirit of a woman
who had been thrown from a vehicle and killed on
the very spot where he had camped.
* * * *
“Dune”: There was recently killed at
Rydal (N.S.W.), a 3ft. black snake which was post-
mortemed. Inside there was another black wriggler,
stone dead measuring 21 inches. He was lying
head first in his cannibalistic brother. Another one,
killed in the same district, on being opened contained
four wrigglers about 4in. long and very much alive,
and also four eggs about haif-an-inch in diameter,
each containing a minute but fully-developed
wriggler apparently swimming about inside.
* * * *
“Murkah”: Environment, and the man in
charge are the determining factors of a dog’s useful-
ness or othenvise. Except for a purely physical
characteristic, as, say, the speed of the greyhound,
breeding matters but little. A good man will turn
a dog into any kind of dog he wants. I know’ a case
w’here a drover became possessed of a finely-bred
hound. Out of sheer curiosity, as he told me, he
turned him into the best sheep-dog of his collection.
“Simply won’t look at a hare,” he added. In my
opinion there is no such thing as mental heredity.
The greyhound is among the oldest of dog types.
A marble statue 2500 years old shows the same
rangy flier of to-day. Even this age-long heredity
does not invariably impel the greyhound to chase
the first hare it sees. That super-flier, Beauty Spot,
had to be educated, with an older dog, to course.
The most intellectual dogs of my acquaintance were
mainly mongrels. The breeding of the only three
dogs I have known that learnt to lead a trapper to
his traps, in proper sequence, was undecipherable. I
saw £2O refused for one of them.
* * * *
“Treb Nosliw”: Tell “W.D.G.” (B.
19/10/’22) that Cubby, the human draught-horse
who was about Brewarrina (N.S.W.) in 189 G and
worked for W. N. Willis on his Tarrion selection,
was an Australian abo. Black Andy, who is credited
with supporting a half-ton ease of iron that was
lowered on to his baok before the wharves were
built in Bourke, was of American negro descent.
* * * *
"King Kurrajong”: Presence of mind?
Cliff Lawler, one of the Alpine cattlemen near Bright
(Vic.), had his stock-horse fall from under him on
the mountain-side. His stirrup-iron was flattened
on his boot, and as the horse began to struggle to
its feet he realised he would be dragged. In a flash
he had reached up and jerked the leather from its
socket on the saddle —a prompt little bit of work
that more than likely saved his life.
# * * #
"George Rich”: Re “W. Blister” (B.
2/11/’22) on bullet penetration. Years ago I saw
an outlaw Westralian abo, Mindum, brought in from
the bush after he had been shot in the back in a duel
with Trooper Wall. Though the doctor, at Albany,
probed hard he could find no trace of the revolver
bullet, and he came to the conclusion that it had
come out by the same route as it entered. Mindum
got three years, but escaped from Rottnest in a boat,
with two other nigs., early in the stretch, and now,
in his declining years, lie is a guest of the Govern-
ment at the native settlement near Katanning. In
earlier times, Trooper Hogan, one of an escort, shot
an escaping nigger in the forehead at short range.
The bullet penetrated the skin, then, travelling
round to the base of the skull, came out at the
back of the abo.’s head. If the shock gave the nig.
a headache it didn’t stop him from gaining a short
term of liberty in the bush.
* * * *
“O’D.”: A post-mortem on a carpet-
snake near Charleville (Q.) disclosed that the crawler
had been dining on a fox-cub. At Motley, in the
Toowoomba district, a raid on the lair of foxes in
a hollow log showed that they had been partaking
of poultry and carpet-snake. Will the snake experts
please stand up and say whether or not Reynard
sucks snake eggs —or what started the war?
* * * *
A round with some thumps in it: —
“H.W.S.”: When “Pinnacle” (B. 28/9/’22) said
I was wrong about the kangaroo giving warning
with his tail, and declared it was done by flicking
one foot off another on to the ground, I inquired
of all the bushmen I knew, and they laughed at
“P.’s” idea. If he ever startles a 'roo at night
on a sandy patch and goes back in the morning
and has a look at the tracks, the thing will be
plain enough for a Pommy bushman to understand.
However, in “Night Prowler’s” there was a mistake
—the Australian tiger is called a tawny black-
spotted creature. It should have been black-striped.
J am willing to share the blame with the comp and
the typist.
“Pinnacle”: “M.E.S.” (B. 9/11/’22) is barking
up the wrong tree in chiding me for telling “H.W.S.”
that the 'roo thumps with his feet and not with
his tail. If he has lived in the bush as long as
he claims he should have noticed that the ’roo’s
rear appendage is for balancing when hopping, or to
act as a tripod with his legs to sit on. Certainly
the ’roos here (Charleville, W.Q.) do thump, as 1
described (B. 28/9/’22), and most bushmen and
kangaroo-shooters know it.
“Sandys” : “Pinnacle” is right. Like the ornery
rabbit, the 'roo gives his alarm with his hind leg.
A PREPOSTEROUS NOTION.
“Ve could—ah- —do you the some coat vid
an extra heavy silk lining for another
tiro guineas.”
“ Gripes, yer don’t think I intend to wear
the dam’ thing inside out!”
I was once within six yards of an old man before
he saw me, and ere he departed he hastily gave the
signal to the mob by thumping his leg a hard
whack on the ground—and in half a tick not a
’roo could be seen. Perhaps in his hurry he forgot
he had a tail, and used his leg by mistake; but,
anyway, he’s not the only one I’ve seen do it.
“The Pariah”: Although, when taking bush photos,
I have seen wallabies give their warning thump
with their feet, I’m prepared to believe “M.E.S.”
when he says that kangaroos thump with their tails.
But rabbits, when alarmed, give warning thumps, too
—and how the devil they can thump with their
tails is a thumping mystery.
DECEMBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heat-white upon her thin and fevered hand
Widowed December leans a skinny cheek
And where stark Summer sucks the muddy
Views the parched earth as brown as Egypt’s sand.
Harsh kookaburras pass her in a band.
Peewits above the blossomed tea-tree shriek;
And, subtly silent, from hot knoll and peak
Death glides with venomed fang across the land.
November dies of thirst at her dry breast . . . .
She sees, through blight-red eyes, an insect cloud,
Malaria-laden, sweep like singing silk
From swamp and pond into the bone-strewn west ;
And, as they vanish Dusk lets down her shroud —
A storm of snowy gum-flowers white as milk.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


SEASONABLE GIFTS.
_—AN INCOMPARABLE STOCK.—-
32
X
Diamond and Platinum .Wristlet Watch,
*B2 10 0
Diamond Octagon
Cluster Ring,
mounted in
Platinum,
£6l 10 0
All
GOODS ARE
< OF THE
HIGHEST
QUALITY
AND
MOUNTED
BY
SKILLED
ARTISANS.
l'jct. Gold Links , in
Case, £2 7 6.
Other designs
£2 0 0 to £l5 0 0
Fancy Single-stone
Diamond Ring
mounted in
Platinum,
£155 0 0
'ZrotG^b-*
ISct. Gold Wristlet Watch,
£lB 10 0
Also in Silver, £l2 0 0 .
9c t. Gold Vesta Match
Box, £3 15 0.
15ct. Gold, £G 5 G.
Silver, 11s. 6d.
Diamond Two-stone
Ring, mounted in
Platinum, ■
£145 0 0
GOODS FOR-
WARDED .
ON
APPROVAL
TO ANY
ADDRESS
IN THE
COMMON-
WEALTH.
18ct. and Blood-
stone Signet Ring,
£3 10 0
Lady’s from
£1 /2 6
WILLIAM FARMER &C° L TD
Jewellers, Gem Merchants,Silversmiths.
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY.
LA|M illfWi'U
£
-a
rfc
}v
ve*a
tip
<(*
- '-affir A Cr:~
TEXACO FARM PRODUCTS
The wise farmer specifies Texaco Power Kerosene as fuel for his farm
tractor and other internal-combustion engines.
Because of its uniform high standard of quality.
Because it vaporises quickly and thoroughly.
Because it gives him more power with less consumption.
In short, because of its superiority as a motor fuel.
Use Texaco Farm Lubricants for your farm tractor and other farm
equipment.
The real operating efficiency of this machinery is seriously limited if you
• are not using a quality oil for your lubrication.
Texaco Tractor Oil, Texaco Harvester Oil, Texaco Separator Oil, Texaco
Farm Oil for general use on a variety of your machinery. Texaco
Thuban Compound and Texaco Crater Compound respectively for enclosed
and open gears lubrication. Texaco Axle Grease, etc.
Texaco Farm Lubricants give you perfect lubrication and reduce your
operating expenses.
Ask your nearest dealer
The TEXAS COMPANY
. (Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEX/ACO
n
A
YC
EStab 1742
white Horse
fl * 1 SCOTCH WHISKY
By Appointment.
HH
Hi
m
i
ss seat
m,
i# .*
a
m
F
a
UN
I
■
.«*
M
B ■
M
I
: M
a v '.■■•.
Ifl ■* I i» '
ImMMai
i
■
Hi
2ga«g|gi^lg^
. ■■■
HEART TONIC. DIGESTIVE. NON-GOUTY.
In olden times it was believed that the Name “White Horse” must of
necessity bring luck. Hence the luck of the Horse Shoe. It was on
account of this belief, as well as from the fact that the famous Blend of
Whisky originated in the White Horse Inn at Edinburgh, that the name was
given to the Whisky which now occupies a foremost place in the market.
MACKIE & CO., DISTILLERS, Ltd., ,Glasgow, London and Island of Islay.


Charles
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
draw
tit PIUS ULTRA
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT ft COMPANY I.IMITED. Sydney.
jet the
LAFAYE
We emphasise this particularly, because Lafaye Pearls
have not escaped the penalty of success —they have been
freely substituted.
Lafaye Pearls are so perfect in the fine tonings, richness,
sheen and beauty that they are identical in appearance
with the real gem.
FROM £2/2/- FOR 16in. NECKLET.
Longer necklet at proportionately higher prices.
OUR SPECIAL OFFER.
Send us £2/2/-, and we shall despatch a Lafaye Neck-
let, which you may compare with the natural pearls.
If you are then dissatisfied in any way, return our
Necklet within 7 days, and your money will be refunded.
Remember we are Pearl Specialists, and sell nothing
but Pearls, and do not deal In Pearls as a side-line.
“LAFAYE,” Scientific Pearl Authority,
“First Promenade,”City House, 164 Pitt St., Sydney.
2nd Floor, Block Arcade. Co lins St., Melbourne.
Late of “Tecla” —7 Old Bond Street, London.
(S.P.R.M.)
Savon, Parfum, Poudre
V
WtTQ
is;
Aa.
'V A / //
At/f/fOf jl j l
\/f.>?L. i A ; iuii
n
C. V- /
J?
What makes her such an
Enchanting Pearl?
Why? Don’t you know?
An ERASMIC Girl!
a WOMANS
There was a quaint little break-up last
week in the ballroom at Government House
by the miniature music pupils of those clever
sisters Lottie and Irene Edwards. You see
Daphne and Diana Davidson are among the
youngsters whose hands are being made
acquainted with the piano-keyboard by these
teachers. One delighted lady murmured,
“Such soft playing! See, they haven’t been
taught the use of the pedal.” But as most
of the infants were only about ‘2i feet
in measurement —as for instance, the" small
Claude Campana, who solemnly fingered a
masterpiece named “Leap Fx - og”—to pedal
and play would have been something in the
nature of a star acrobatic feat. Helen
Smith, a budding Carreno in white muslin,
played a “Nocturne” with a dreamy wistful-
ness. of touch: and his Ex. rippled with
gratification when Daphne and Diana got
through their duet with honors. Little Anne
Gordon, as demure as though her habitual
residence was a stained-glass window, sang
in a low sweet voice of water-lilies. In the
forefront of the tumult sat Dame Margaret
surrounded by the admiring mothers and
fathers of the other kiddies on the platform,
among whom were the Campanas, Mrs. Tom
Hixson, the Justice Gordon couple, the
fragile-looking Mrs. Lawrence Grossmith,
Mrs. Brown-Craig and the Allard couple.
Mrs. Joyce, who was Belle Rankin before
she married her Melbourne medico, is put-
ting up at the Queen’s Club while she is in
town. A few weeks ago her sister Mary,
wife of Dr. Scott, of Newcastle, died sud-
denly, leaving a quiverful of young sons and
daughters, and Mrs. Joyce is over on the sad
mission of helping to straighten out the
domestic tangle for her brother-in-law.
The Barlow girls, Helen and Kitty, have
opened a Christmas show of exquisitely-
worked undies and hankies in Room 1,
Floor 6, Callaghan House, George-street.
There is a mass of what looks like
the breaking surf at Bondi, but is really
foamy georgette and sheer linen ti'ifles,
fashioned and embroidered by the wonder
hands of Helen. The attractive-looking girl
learned her stitcliei-y in a Brussels convent,
and has been at last encouraged by the de-
mand upon her work to turn it to wider
commercial value.
Even after Sydney had dispei'sed itself on
Saturday—some thousands to tennis, moi-e
thousands to see “Slip” Carr win the Dunn
Shield, still more thousands to the beaches —
thex’e was a whole Conservatorium-full left
over to listen to Mozart’s “Requiem,” as
performed by the State Orchestra and the
Con. Choir. Livingstone Mote conducted.
The sopranos, as usual, had it all their own
way, and although that way was excellent,
the listeners would have liked to hear occa-
sionally from the male voices. The big work
went bi’illiantly, and was often impressive
in the operatic manner. That it lacked reli-
gious atmosphere was perhaps as much the
fault of the surroundings as anything else.
Dulcie Huxtable, Will Dallison, Ila Turn-
bull and Clifford Lathlean rose to the calls
of their solo parts, Alfred Hill conducted
the Beethoven “Egmont Overture” and the
Grieg “Concerto” which formed the prelim-
inary canter on the progi-amme, and let
Lawrence Godfrey Smith collect quite 30
seconds’ length of applause.
Adelina Leon, who was one of those hung
up over the shipping strike, has been har-
boring herself and her ’cello at the home of
hex; friend, Mrs. Charlie Pfeiffer, at Darling
Point. Adelina, besides producing a won-
derful tone from her instrument, is rather a
stunning stage-dresser, She has her concert
do’ specially made in Loudon —Louis XIV.
effects to suit the ’cello!
Mrs. Fotheringhame, one-time proprietor
of Young Australia, and at present con-
nected with the Ladies’ Sphere, has been
elected a Life Governor of the Benevolent
Society of N. S. Wales, Some time ago the
pen-women of Sydney arranged an after-
noon party to help the Royal Hospital for
Women, and Mrs. Fotheringhame was the
capable president of the committee.
Mollie Willoughby, who for the past three
years has trained youthful Sydneyites in the
gentle art of jazzing, chose last week to
become Mrs. Ezra Noi’tdn. The knot-tying
took place at St. James’s, as was meet, see-
ing that the ’groom is the only son and heir
of the late John Norton, of Truth. John
was a High Churchman of an extreme brand ;
so much so that he would occasionally begin
one of his polysyllabic leading articles with
some such intimation as, “Written on the
Feast of St. Cecilia, Virgin and Martyr.”
Young Norton takes an active interest in
the family papers—the Sportsman, which is
edited by A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson, is the
other—and he is a keen motorist and surfer.
The Women’s Handicrafts Christmas
show doesn’t flaunt any sign of suffering
owing to the fire that ravaged the depot
about a month ago. This is mainly because
so many of the workers were then busy on
their displays, and had their pretty fancies
still in their own homes. The show,
which was visited on the opening day
by Dame Margaret, the Cullen lady,
and most of the 300 to whom cards were
issued, is, if anything, better than ever
before. The raffia, pottery and baby cloth-
ing sections are particularly marked by
exquisite examples of the various crafts.
Ada Reeve was entertained at the Town
Hall on Thursday afternoon. She twinkled
under a grass-green bonnet that carried an
intriguing henna feather, and wore a tailor-
made built on the long coat lines. She looked
as cool and sparkling as hock off the ice,
though the afternoon was hot, to put it
mildly. Her daughter, Goodie, was there,
and so was the pretty Drayson child, in
Quakerish grey. Diana Wilson brought her
slim and languorous beauty, and Mrs. Law-
rence Grossmith decorated a corner of the
room with a Grecian profile. Mrs. Hugh D. Me.
Intosh, who has just been given a splendifer-
ous new limousine by her husband for a pre-
Christmas present, wore a dress all soft
whiteness, and Kathleen Hillyard and Doris
Kendal were other attractions of the party,
which happened amid masses of purple irises
and rambler-roses.
The Mosman Musical Society had seven
Smu ked r, „ hlouses for its production of
The Belle of New York.” Not a little
t u tke T cre< for this must go to
Johnny Wallace, who was called into
actmn as producer at a fortnight’s notice,
Hu having laid its hand on Rock Phillips,
who had the job at the beginning. Another
cheer goes to Jimmy Arcus, who conducted
the orchestra, and made of it a sort of help-
ing-hand mission to those who walked the
boards. Arcus is a notable manipulator of
the hrench horn, and has played in con-
junction with Kubelik, Paderewski and Car-
refio. Dorrie Ward was the Belle, and Eric
Howell the hypocritical Bronson.
This is a May
Moore picture of
Pixie O. Harris,
illustrator of Maud
Renner Liston’s
“Cinderella’s Party.”
She is 18 years
young, and first ex-
hibited at the age of
14 in the Cardiff
Art Society’s Ex-
hibition—the South
Wales town being
her native place. A
taste for art is here-
ditary with this
pretty, fair-haired
girl. Her father is
Ceorge F. Harris,
the portrait-painter,
who has exhibited
frequently at the
Royal Academy in London, and who, since
his arrival in Sydney, has done some fine
portraits—notably one of Herbert Maitland,
surgeon and sportsman.
The Royal Packet Navigation Co.
swaddled its new steamer Tasman in bunt-
ing and palms the other afternoon, when
Captain Kroef spread buns and tea on the
fo’c’s’le or the binnacle or wherever they
do these things, and refreshed therewith
many of Sydney’s Dutch potentates, their
wives and daughters. There was a band,
and a handful of enthusiasts fluttered slowly
to jazz music in the heat of the afternoon.
The Tasman is a pleasant, friendly little
craft, that looks as though it could turn
on heaps of comfort. The decks are thickly
furnished with long bamboo and sea-grass
lounges, and they say a trip to Java in her
can convert the most hardened bachelor girl
to a belief in Romance. Mr. and Mrs. Prouk
assisted the captain in the amiabilities ; and
the guests, who included the good-looking
Teppema couple, Mr. Dowdell, the Playousts
and Stallmans, were mostly of the Shipping
and Trade-with-the-East brotherhood.
St. Luke’s Hospital was able to announce,
the other afternoon, that half the
£20,000 appeal launched last year is already
in the treasury. The Darling'hurst Anglican
institution has had a wonderfully successful
run from the start, and the mortgage is now
down to a paltry £5OO.
Winifred Jenner sang a group of unusual
songs at the Conservatorium last week. Pier
aim was to help the fund for establishing a
city clubroom for members of the Country
Women’s Association. A large audience
applauded her efforts, and those of Roy
Agnew, at the piano, and Gladstone Bell,
behind the ’cello.
Vivienne McMillan, who before she joined
the Department .belonged to Bourke, left
the Customs the other day, after four years’
service in the Warehousing and Statistical
branches, and took away w r ith her from the
general public doing business at the “House”
a silver tea-service, and from the staff
enough household silver and stainless cut-
lery to furnish two houses. It all happened
because she was about to marry Albert V.
Langker, who, besides being a B.A. and
LL.B., is the general secretary of the Aus-
tralian Public Service Clerical Association.
Mayoress McElhone staged a party last
week in honor of Mrs. J. R. Charlton, who
j S / eavln S Sydney for a once-over of the
delights of Europe. Mrs. Charlton was one
of the most consistent war-workers during
the long months that stretched between the
farst pyjama-making rally in 1914 and the
Armistice.
Lloyd Rees, who departs for London early
nex t year, and is now holding a farewell
exhibition of paint-
ings and drawings
at the New Art
Salon, opposite The
Bulletin office, is
one of the younger
men who have come
on during the last
few years. He was
born 27 years ago in
Bananaland, the
State that has pro-
duced Harold Par-
ker, the sculptor,
Hilder, Bessie Gib-
son and little
Daphne Mayo, who
carried off the Land-
seer prize for sculp-
ture at the Royal
Academy schools,
and is now compet-
ing for the Prix de Rome. While in Bris-
bane Rees drew the capital all over. First,
a series of sketches for postcards, then a
commission for a set of drawings of St.
Brigid’s Church, and then a series of pen-
drawings of the most picturesque mansions.
He is represented in the Brisbane Gallery
by two drawings, and in the Sydney Gai-
lery by three. Latterly he has been paint-
ing landscapes in the placid atmosphere of
Parramatta. A fascinating set of his pen-
and pencil-drawings of Sydney University
has just been issued in book form by Smith
and Julius. There are 27 sketches in all,
and they show not only his admirable tech-
nique in architectural work, but also his
unerring instinct for poetical values in the
play of light and shade upon piled-up stone.
_ About IGOO Girl Guides took part in the
big rally at the Showground on Saturday.
There were exhibitions of signalling,
stretcher-drill, first aid, dairying, and butter-
and soap-making, to a whirling whistling
accompaniment from kliaki-clad brother
Scouts. Thirty-two girls from Ryde did
some artistic folk dancing in fancy cos-
tumes; others showed all they knew about
horsemanship. The 2nd Dulwich Hillites
raised a special laugh, as well as admiration,
by their demonstration of the welfare of
young babies and children. Incidentally,
the “babies” were celluloid dolls, and when
being bathed absolutely refused to lie in the
bottom of the tubs. The Burwood Guides
did a remarkable trade with fruit-salads, ice-
creams and home-made sweets, and the North
Shore company supplied afternoon tea to
hundreds of thirsty throats. The Davidsons
and the Cullens were present. Both were
in Guide uniforms, and her Ex. “took the
salute.”
Mary Edwards has opened a show in De
Groot’s rooms, Phillip-street, and she has
given it an intriguing title—“An Eastern
Medley.” Her studies are mostly of Cin-
galee children. The kiddies are delightful,
and the artist has broken new ground by
dipping her brush in humor. The result is
evident in such studies as “The Thoughtful
One,” a young person in a red-checked blouse
and a violent-hued skirt, who looks ready
for any mischief that can boil up under her
fuzzy thatch. Another vivid youngster asks,
“Any Snakes to Charm?” Perhaps the most
beautiful thing in the show is “Youth,”
though “A Back and a Feather” is a delight.
No picture in this little show soars above
12 guineas.
James Whiteside McCay (brother of
Adam, of the Sunday Times, and Del, of the
Sun) is the only Australian General with
a daughter who is a nun. Margaret McCay,
who has the brains that go with this re-
markable family, took her degree at Mel-
bourne University before taking the veil. She
has been at Rose. Bay Convent for the past
three months, and the chief reason for her
father’s recent trip to Sydney was that he
might visit her.
“Scrubland Songs” is the name Esther
Messent, of Adelaide, lias given a slim book-
let of unassuming rhymes, with black-and-
white illustrations. It is published by the
Hassell Press, of Adelaide.
Visiting Sydney are the John Browns, of
the West Coast of Maoriland. He is known
from Auckland to the Bluff as the general
manager of the Westport Coal Mines. It
was the coal from these mines that stoked
the Sydney when she dealt out stoush to
the Emden. The engineers on that occasion
got 29§ knots out of the Sydney, whose
highest speed had previously been 25 knots.
That famous episode of the Calliope, stoked
with Westport coal, steaming out of Apia
harbor in the teeth of a raging gale, is an-
other bit of history tucked into the company’s
records. That was before John Brown’s
day. but, man and boy, he’s been in coal all
his life.
The Westmead lads —even the drummer
boys—have found a fly in their ointment.
The Home is too far from the movies, and
the only thing to be done about it is to treat
themselves to a cinema machine for Christ-
mas, Mrs. Green, of North Sydney, is ex-
tending them a helping hand on the 9th by
lending her house and gardens for a bridge
party and tennis tournament.
On behalf of the Dame Margaret appeal
for the Rawson Institute, one of the big
new ferry steamers will take a moonlight
iaunt around the harbor on the 13th n.ght of
December. The use of the boat and Dixie-
land for a jazz flutter after the trip have
been donated by the Sydney Ferries Co., and
their State Exes, have promised to be pre-
sent in the body. If you’re thinking of going
along, tickets can be had at Paling’s, the
Australia and the campaign rooms in
Hosking-place.
Solicitor D. L. Aitken’s brace of good-
looking daughters—Dr. Adele, who has been
doing eyework at Sydney Hospital, and
Miss Lucille, hon. secretary to the ’Varsity
Women’s Association —will leave on a Euro-
pean tour in March. The young doc. will do
post-graduate ophthalmic study abroad.
Myrtle Thorne sends a cheerio from the
Continent, where she and a groun of Nellie
Rowe’s pupils are spending a ’busmaA’s
vacation with their teacher at Sevres, study-
ing all the time. Paris and Versailles in
their autumn dress have captured the Syd-
ney girl’s heart, and London has been trans-
formed from something more than a wilder-
ness of drab streets for her by the kindliness
of May Brahe and Ada Crossley.
Bert Royle, J.C.W.’s Maoriland manager,
was married in the windy capital recently to
a Mrs. Goodson. Billy Russell, who is run-
ning the Nellie Bramley Dramatic Co.
through the Shaky Isles, was stage-manager
for the occasion. A goodly number of theat-
rical folk showered confetti and blessings on
the couple.
Into a Pitt-street picture-theatre the other
night there came a young gent., his “lady
friend” and half-a-pound of caramels. Quar-
ter of an hour later the lady interrupted
the spooning by slipping suddenly to the
floor and fumbling about on all fours.
“What’s the matter?” asked Romeo, “what
have you lost?” “I’ve lost a caramel,”
replied Juliet, on her knees. “Never mind,
I’ll buy you some more.” “But I must find
this one!” she whispered urgently. “Why
that one?” demanded Romeo. “Because my
false teeth are stuck to it!” moaned Juliet.
A Brisbane postcript:—
Various exalted personages accompanied his Ex.
of Queensland to the opening of St. Martin’s War
Memorial Hospital, by G.-G. Lord Forster, and the
vestments of .archbishops, bishops and mere military
men outshone the glory of Solomon. Rank and
Fashion looked on appreciatively as the G.-G. opened
the hospital door with a key of that gold which
opens most doors.
On Saturday a vice-regal party and many of the
Select sped to New Farm Park to view Henley-on-
Brisbane, when some hundreds of boats, gaily
bedecked, took the waters on the river reach and
champagne on deck. Incidentally, the G.-G. decorated
Tom Bond, D. 5.0., with the Volunteer’s medal
in the grounds of Government House; and a
luncheon party, including such political contrasts
as Premier Theodore and Col. Cameron, made merry
with Governor Nathan as host.
One of our best dressers, pianist Gladys Frost,
gathered in an ivory necklet and brooch from her
admiring pupils at her recital in the Albert Hall,
which overflowed with music-lovers.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson will Christmas in Melbourne
with her mother, Mrs Palmer, who was one of the
tuneful Carandinis. Five generations of silvery
sopranos run in this family.
The Wattle League arose and poured tea for
Lady Rutledge, who is over from Melbourne, among
a blaze of yellow coreopsis in the Botanic Gardens
kiosk the other day.
Parting’s sweet sorrow has been prolonged for
Mrs. Muntz Adams (who goes to Melbourne shortly),
by a number of teas and farewell functions gener-
ally.
Mrs. William Collins, who, according to social
■columns in the daily papers, lives mostly on mail
trains, arrived from the South, and put up at Len-
non’s before proceeding to Nindooimbah.
Born in Curragh Chase, Limerick, in 1836, Mrs.
Guinane, who passed out the other day at Nundah,
remembered the potato famine in Ireland, which
began in ’46 and lasted for two years. In a settle-
ment composed of German refugees from the Pala-
tinate and soldiers of Cromwell’s army who left
descendants there, the interesting old lady did her
first toddle. In the 18th century her grandfather
was rector of the parish, and she had a store of
Geltic legends. At one time she lived in the Towns-
ville district.


HARDY BROS LTD.
c Jewellers.
Gifts for Men.
Sterling Silver Cigarette Box.
H x bh inches,
£lO 10 0
Ebony-backed Hair Brush, fine
quality bristles,
£3 12 0 pair.
Lapis Lazuli set in
18ct. Gold Signet Ring,
£9 « 0
15ct. Gold and white
enamelled, Links, in case,
£5 5 0
Silver-handled
Shaving Brush,
with best-
quality bristles,
£2 18 O
15ct. Gold
Collar Stud,
12/ -
tUct. Gold and blue
enamelled Links, in case s
£4 10 0
A splendid variety of most useful and appropriate
presents for men is included in the Company s
Christmas Displays.
A new illustrated Catalogue is forwarded on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
oJecvetlars <&> Silversmi£/is.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-U8 Queen St. f
BRISBANE.
LONDON,
298 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE
Youngsters on Their Holidays
II
i
Li
i
can be pleasantly and profit-
ably employed with a
Box Ensign Camera
FOR ROLL FlLMS—Daylight-loading
Although inexpensive, it ia
exceptionally well made, and
even a child cannot fail to get
bright, sharp pictures with it.
No. Size of Picture. Price. Postage.
21A 21 x2£ 11/3 9d.
218 2£ x3£ 14/6 1/-
21 2-1 x4l 19/6 1/3
FOR YOUR OWN HOLIDAYS
6333
get a
“Folding Ensign”
For Roll Films —
Daylight-loading.
A sturdily-built British Camera.
Compact, Perfect and Very
Efficient.
Size of Single. R.R. Post-
No. Picture. Lens. Lens. age.
lIP
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street, Sydney.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
144 Queen Street, Auckland.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
16 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
New Branch:
Katoomba Street,
Katoomba. N.S.W.
The SUNSHINE HEADER HARVESTER
or REAPER THRASHER.
wm
" ***
THE GREAT GRAIN GETTER
Gets the best possible result in standing crops or in fallen crops.
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works,
BRISBANE. SYDNEY, MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE.


Summer Hats
at 'The Store for Men. ”
The paramount consideration in hat satisfaction is comfort,
w !ch depends on the shape, and on the quality of the felt.
Although extremely inexpensive, this Australian soft felt hat
is o armers high quality. Pure fur-felt, in light grey and
slate, with cut or bound edge. Price 17/6
Farmer’s : Sydney.
Carriage Paid. Box 497, G.P.O.
Chateau Napier,
Leading
Mountain Resort,
Leura, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Central Heating System
Throughout.
BALLROOM, BILLIARD-
ROOM, TENNIS COURT,
GARAGES.
All products from Napier Farm.
Tel. 121 Katoomba.
oA la ‘Heine des Fleurs
Established 1774
L.T. PIVER, Paris
COMPLEXION POWDERS
de Luxe
Supplied in all Shades and Odours. These Face Pow-
ders are made in France by a Firm Established 150 Years;
they are of exquisite fragrance, perfectly adherent, and
will suit your skin; the name is the guarantee of quality.
Exquisite Perfumes created by the
House of L. T. PIVER :
Le Trefle, Azurea, Floramye, Safranor, Pompeia,
Esperts, Mismelis, Gerbera, etc., etc.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
171
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
pro[?]
Phones Cent 1533,11609.
. Tlje vice-regal Forsters—she a pleasing
vision in silvery white—handed out the
annual awards in a monster tent on Mel-
bourne Grammar speech-night. “Lofty”
Franklin released the annual report, in a
rich voice reminiscent of Alexander Watson.
Against a heavy back scene of school coun-
cillors and the teaching staff, his Ex. was
greeted with howls of applause when he
unfolded himself to talk, and the Anglican
Archbish. afterwards threw in a few cheery
words. The dear old school councillors at
the back beamed approval, and General Grim-
wade was picked out as president to voice
the thanksgiving ode to the G.-G. and Lady
I orster. The latter did her bit by handing
out the silver sports cups.
The annual sports the previous afternoon,
on the Grammar oval, attracted the usual
crowd of old and young boys and their
womenfolk. There were afternoon-tea par-
ties in school and tent, and the headmaster
staged his in his parlors. “Plevna” Ryan,
just back from a stay with son Colonel
Rupert, on the Rhine, was among the spec-
tators of the events.
A two-days’ garden fete at Brighton
brought in much money for the Broad-
meadows Foundling Home. Lady Forster
opened the affair and asked for details about
the benefit, whereupon Mrs. Benjamin H'oare
arose and told her Ex. just what wonderful
work is being done at Broadmeadows by the
Little Sisters of St. Joseph, and that the
appeal was to help their work by installing
adequate water- and lighting-plants. Lady
burster promised to go out and see the place ;
then rustled off in her pale-grey pleated frock
and had tea with the garden-party stall-
holders. Captain Lawrence followed with the
lady’s cloak, and looked relieved to find that
there were at least three men in the tea
assemblage. Mayor Satchwell, of Brighton
and his wife were boss-organisers of the fete!
Incidentally, it now looks as if the Broad-
meadows Foundling Home will rake in
slightly over £12,000 when the efforts in the
city and suburbs are completed. The appeal
was for £lO,OOO, and although the Women’s
Hospital chipped in and there were herrings
drawn across the trail, persistence and tiie
popularity of many of the organisers won.
lhe Button Day, which did not open too pro-
misingly realised £4OOO or thereabouts before
the finish—that is to say, about a third of
the total.
The elegant W. H. Croker, who died
the other day, was one of an odd
collection of celebrities who lunched at
a certain pub for many years—among
them E. G. Fitzgibbon, David Syine,
Andrew Rowan, and tramwayman Sprigg,
whose long, streaming whiskers still foam
astern when he takes the air in a high wind
Cfoker was the brightest talker of the party,
but the suggestion of corsets about his con-
tours was always the subject of sly jokes.
Gne day he astonished his pals by sporting
a new sap suit of undistinguished cut, which
robbed him of his wonderful curves. The
table stared in mock horror, and perhaps
b itzgibbon expressed the thought of all when
j lc l sai J : “Wv God, Ofoker, why have you
left off your stays? Surely you know it
unsexes you.”
Lord Digby, who has been on the sick list
and has been spending some dull days in a
private hospital, hopes to be recovered in
time to welcome his 22-year-old s’ster,
venetia, who arrives next week in the Oster-
ley. After a fly round this city she will re-
pack her chiffons for a world trip with her
brother, who is handing over his aiguillettes
to a member of the Dunleath family at the
,°| . the year. Toorak wore a smile of
thankfulness when it learned that the new
vice-regal help is unattached and in the
n Hi n si * ter i n ' l ? w , by the way, Lady
Joan Mulholland, who is ono of the particu-
lar friends of Princess Mary, has just re-
married.
After drawing a pension for between 10 and
• y eai l s > Harrington Wade, who used to be
of .Y l c. Government shorthand-writing
staff—which has nothing to do with llan-
sabd—faded out the other day. He and
Lincolne, who succeeded him as - head of the
team, were expert Guerneyites. Wade was
a son of a Congregational pulpiteer, and
he married Anne McEacharn, daughter of a
Scotchbytenan meenister.
The Archbish. and Mrs. Harrington Lees
held a garden reception at Bishopcourt the
other afternoon. Mere man was poorly repre-
sented, even by the section which wears its
collars hind-to-fore. Most of our Nicest
matrons blew in with apologies for their
male halves, who were unexpectedly anchored
to their office tables that day, or had been
suddenly called to see a man about a dog.
The hostess wore a brown lid and
fawn frock, and the Countess, who came
with her lord, sported her white embroi-
dered georgette tunic over black velvet under
the übiquitous wide-brimmed hat. The Billy
Hughes dame walked in brown; Mrs. Donald
McKinnon topped black hangings with
mauve and blue head effects, and the Edward
Miller dame sailed round in black encrusted
wifh silver, with a black plume flying from
her mainmast.
Western Districters valiantly tried to look
surprised when young Don Payne and the
Steve Baileys’ pretty daughter announced
their engagement. Love may be blind ; not
so the lookers-on. Payne, who owns an M.C.,
feeds his flocks about 100 miles away from
the Baileys’ ancestral sheep acreage, Tarrin-
allum.
Walter Howard Smith, of St. Kilda
(Vic.), who died last St. Patrick’s Day,
left an estate sworn at £365,888. It goes
mainly to his widow and children, but in a
codicil he left 10,000 preference shares in
Howard Smith, Ltd., to his niece, Beat-
rice, daughter of Bruce Smith, ex-M.11.R.
The fortunes of the Howard Smiths began
in the mid-’fifties in a small paddle steamer
running between Melbourne and Geelong.
For the seventh time the Wirth brothers
generously lent their great circus show for
the soldiers’ children’s Christmas party, and
a crowd of 5000, including the usual convoy
of one grown-up to every three kids, feasted
on the thrills of the arena, reinforced by
liberal helpings of ice-cream and bath-buns,
handed out by the union committee. The
Forster lady, in her brown garden-party frock,
was boxed in a special pen with her brace
of Pitt Rivers grandsons and the elder Digby
infant, whose mother blew in later. The
vice-regal lady had been previously welcomed
by the Wirth brothers, the Bridges dame,
Mrs. Sellheim and the hon. sec., Musther, and
had been handed the usual bunch of vegeta-
tion by a Wirth niece, Jessie Wiseman. The
Chauvel lady, who sat in the vice-regal pen
as the Union president, fluttered attractively
in blue silkiness with a dinky little grey hat.
Dame Mary Hughes was there, of course, as
the wife of the soldiers’ allegedly best friend.
General Coxen’s two just-out girleens, Ella
find Bobbie, helped to deliver ice-creams. Mrs.
Reggie Shuter, the former hon. sec., was
there, also the Glasgow lady, Mrs. Geoff Syme
and lots more of the best-dressers. Mrs.
George Wirth looked simply stunning in pink-
embroidered georgette, with a brown hat
athwart her little head.
Ivy Scorer, here pictured by Monteath, is
one Of our front-rank elocutionists. Her
recital before a packed house at the Melba
Hall a while ago proved it. She is Austra-
lian born, but culti-
vated her voice at
the Curry School of
Expression in Bos-
ton, after which she
made some success-
ful appearances in
the U.S. She has also
won a championship
in the Tasmanian
competitions, and
just at the outbreak
9f war she was the
judge’s favorite at
the South-street (Bal-
larat 1 contest. This
.year her students
are figuring promi-
nently in the prize-
lists, and one of
them lifted the
, . , , , .iunior first at Bal-
larat a few weeks back. For herself, she is
developing. her art in an unconventional
way, and is not limited by a highbrow ex-
clusiveness in her search for material She
handles Shakspeare, Browning and Tenny-
son with confident familiarity, but she has
orten thrilled her audiences with Mary
Turner’s protest to the ancient Gilder in
that very telling scene in “Within the Law.”
The late Tim Littleton, the much-
mourned orderly to the Vic. Premier, used
at• the yarn that when Jack Murray was
Minister for Lands a new whose
leg had been pulled by older hands, walked
into his room, saluted in military style, and
announced in a loud voice, “His Worship the
Mayor of Footscray, sir.” Murray fell back
in his chair as if in a swoon, and the mes-
senger rushed over and asked him if he was
i 1 1: .. Not exactly,” replied the Minister
faintly, but you should have broken it more
gentiy that his Mightiness was approaching.”
llien he sat up and said, “Show the old cove
in. lo the amazement of the attendant
Murray was next heard from addressing the
visitor as Bill.”
At St. Colomb’s, Hawthorn, on Saturday
young Roy Norgrove Clutterbuck handed
his sister Fillide over to Norval Dane. The
bride, might have passed for Hans Andersen’s
alluring little Snow Maiden, as she drifted
up the aisle trailing cool white chiffon with
bugled effects. . The tulle bridal veil was
hitched to her silky locks by a halo of orange
flowers, and billowed trainwise in the rear,
weighted by a mammoth silver rose, and with
one arm she hugged a sheaf of white blos-
soms. . Jean Smith, in rose-tinted draperies,
and pmk leaves binding her brow, and Madge
Macdonald, in white lace, with her head and
waist circled with mauve, bridesmaided
picturesquely behind armsfull of blue del-
phiniums. Two pals, Grand and Homfray,
saw Norval through the ordeal, while his
proud parents and sister beamed approval
Irom the front starboard pew. After the
ceremony the bride’s mother, in black satin,
hostessed a cake-cutting at her Toorak place.
»he was aided by her other daughter, Lola,
who, still pale and shorn of her lengthy
locks after a critical illness, fluttered in
white. The newly-weds slipped off on a
Ballarat honeymoon, and the guests carried
on with music and dance.
“Dad” Kendell, M.L.C., one-time Honorary
Minister in Premier Lawson’s team, who
passed out a few weeks ago, left £11,634 to
his widow and big family. When the
Council members get that £2OO a year they
ought to put up a monument to Kendell. He
was the chief champion of the screw cause.
The Countess’s Bauble Ball produced £640
for the Girl Guides movement, as well as
gieat exhilaration for Sassiety in general.
Herewith a Lafayette presentment of Mrs.
Harold Clapp, the brainy wife of the Vic-
torian Bailway Commissioner, who staged
her musical play, “Lucille of Bond-street,’-’
at the recent big matinee show at Her
, •iiestv’s. and is now preparing to repeat
the effort for the
(South Yarra end of
the Alfred Hospital
Auxiliary movement.
Mrs. Clapp was a
Bananaland girl,
Vivienne Noel, daugh-
ter of the late Judge
Noel, and is a niece
of Mrs. Alf Cornish,
one of the most tal-
ented amateur act-
resses this city has
known. A lengthy
residence in the U.S.
has imhued her with
the American
woman’s predilection
for “culture”; and
if she doesn’t event-
ually achieve the
Herculean feat of
Toorak, where she and her hus-
band have acquired a house, it will be the
suburb s fault, not hers.
A, r ® t- «V lda ’, s , “ ayoral Pair, Councillor and
Tiofi f ßur “ ett > bave bagged the local Town
Hall for Dec. 20, when they will hold their
Christmas Old Folks At Home for St Kilda
veterans who have passed their 60th mile-
stone. Any old folk who were left out when
Sm eHv'fU ° nS handed rolmd can
lemedy the oversight by mentioning the mat-
ter to the Town Clerk.
T? J bia is , W °m«i’s Week in Melbourne.
Fach day has been earmarked for a talk on
some section of women’s work. The affair
was organised by Mrs. James Booth, who
has just been appointed president of the
new Women Citizens’ Movement, and what
money comes out of the confabs will go to
mLu J° meD S H 0 Appeal Fund. To
Monday was allotted ‘ Woman in the Home”
—which suggests washing-day. Tuesday’s
discussions raged round “Women in Poli-
tics, and the two women candidates for
d;a «nm en f’n A - ISS D 4 ey and Mrs - Glencross,
;~ d t\t ? „ ta H uns \ Wednesday saw “Women
m Music thrashed out. Thursday’s little
P, ss ff 11 “Women in Arts and
Hafts and I rid ay goes to “Women in
Hiocution. Saturday reverts to politics and
civic affairs, and Sunday discusses “Women
G hur ch- The last subject has nothing
whatever to do with women’s Sunday-go-to-
meeting hats and gowns. The programme
missed out the fascinating theme of feminine
same bUt WIU get talked about all the
John Marmo, who handed in his checks
|‘ e ot i l ® l ' da -Y> was the J. Hop who had to
serve Vic. Ministers McPherson and Barnes
ltl lu P AA7 es 1 of blue P a P er when the Powlett
North Woolamai Collieries Co. was sued for
wages by miners, and an interpleader issue
arose owmg to the State, which had a lien on
the assets in respect of an advance, taking
nnt?i e M?Pu Marmo was very uncomfortable
until McPherson and Barnes asked him if he
had brought handcuffs and whether they
would get six months. A few years a°o
Marmo tackled a lunatic who was threaten
mg t° polish off a whole household, and got
health° C k in^"a k° U * : which undermined his
They get the charity money all sorts of
ways. Mrs. A. V. Greenwood £ave a glrden-
fete at her home in Ringwood the other day
to which all the young men and women of
the district came along in gipsy dress, and
the local store was cleared out of all its
stock of vivid-hued silks. They had a gor-
geous time, and the Yooralla Kindergarten
is gloating over a cheque for £lOO or so in
consequence.
Edith Harrhy, just back from a trip to
England, gave a recital last week at Anzac
House. She played the accompaniments of
songs written by herself, the singers being
Jack Brownlee, Guy Moore, Pauline Bind-
ley and Gladys MacDowell. Violet Reid was
to have appeared, but was ill, and at the last
moment Pauline Bindley took her place in
a duet with Guy Moore. Gladys MacDowell
was also indisposed, and had to cut out
some of her numbers. Still, the perform-
ance was a success, and many of the songs
met with enthusiastic approval. This is
the first time Anzac House has’ been used
for concert work, and the dining-room proved
a fine auditorium. Diggers and nurses from
the hostels crowded the balconies, and
Society rolled up to fill the main hall.
Stella Power has been having successes at
the London Promenade Concerts—functions
which are so crowded usually that the
singers have scarcely room to get full chest
expansion for their top notes. It is some-
thing to sing to such a vast audience, even
if one is not the only pebble on the packed
programme.
One of our ultra-fashionable young fel-
lows, who has often proclaimed that the
two things he most avoids in this world are
“common yellow soap and second-class car-
riages,” was advised by his doctor, owing
to a rapid increase in avoirdupois, to join
a team of harriers. The first day out he
ran through thick slush all the afternoon,
and returned to the club-house looking like
a Maoriland angel-child fresh risen from
a bath of volcanic mud. Locked in the
shower-room he could only find a tiny piece
of yellow soap, which, rub as much as he
might, refused to yield the smallest lather.
His neck and arms were sore as a result
of his difficult toilet, and matters didn’t
improve when Jones, the sprinter from
Footscray, poked his head through the cur-
tains and asked him if he’d seen “a bit uv
cheese on the window?” “You can’t beat
a bit uv cheese,” Jones confided, “after a
run like we ’ad this evenin’.”
A line or two from Adelaide:—
The Hunt Club struck a perfect clay for its second
meeting', at Cheltenham, with enough sun to tempt
feminine racegoers into their flimsiest fripperies
and enough breeze to keep the thermometer at a
decently low level. Mrs. H. P. McLachlan, just back
from England, was in navy, as was Mrs. Whitmore
Carr. Mrs. Roy Hill was in cream lace, and Mrs.
Allan MacFai'lane in embroidered lawn of the same
shade, and both wore black hats. Mrs. George
Braund and Mrs. Longbottom sported smart black
and white, Mrs. Fenner dull Egyptian red, and her
daughter palest yellow organdie. Half the crowd
dined at the South in the evening, and went on to
the “Merry Widow” afterwards.
Maud Priest, who is bound for England in Decem-
ber, with a sketching tour of Devonshire and Corn-
wall as one of her objectives, is giving a good-bye
exhibition before sailing. Latterly she has been
devoting herself mostly to seascapes and landscapes,
and this exhibition shows a far bigger proportion of
water-colors than her last,' two years ago.
Our new Exes, put in part of early October with
the Weigalls in Lincolnshire, and they also found
time to see something of the Galways and the Bosan-
quets before coming to pitch their tents among us
for five years. ,So they should have picked up a
useful tip or two.
Gone west, Lieut.-Col. Coghill, who gave up teach-
ing for soldiering when war broke out and after-
wards went back to tea hing. For a time he and
his wife were co-principals of the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College at East Adelaide.
Helene Taylor and the Walenns sailed by the
Bendigo, • after a farewell to the former by her com-
mittee at the Y.W.C.A. rooms. One of the last
shows staged for her benefit was an American tea,
in which Mrs. Wordsworth James was prime mover.
There you could buy anything from a pot of jam
to a pair of shoes, and the proceeds added an eider-
down, a leather cushion case, a travelling rug and
ar *ivr l^ CaSe young singer’s impedimenta.
Motor accidents a re part of our daily life these
times. The latest victim is Mrs. S. Talbot Smith,
who was trying to negotiate the maelstrom at the
intersection of King William and Currie streets,
when a car knocked her down. Result, a broken
leg, which was set at the Adelaide Hospital before
the sufferer was moved on to a private institution.
The Conservatorium turned on a fine special con-
cert for the Starving Children Fund. Merle Robert-
son, Norah Kyffin Thomas, Sylvia Whitington, Maude
Puddy, Hilda Gill, William Silver, Harold Parsons,
eoige Pearce and Harold Wylde were among the
performers; also the ’Varsity choral class, the
students orchestra and the ladies’ part-singing
class. If any Australian youngsters are hungry at
Christmas you can comfort them by telling them
that the proceeds of the concert, which should be
considerable, are earmarked for Poland.
Superstition received a nasty jar at Port Adelaide
the other day. An officer of the Tangistan, in har-
bor, found a horsehoe in the road, and duly threw
it over his left shoulder for luck. It went through
a plate-glass window, and cost him £25.


Vi&Mii&ihi-..
..'.'.V
V-
o
<a
Z.Q
O O
XCt
I
uiCu
CC
<
Men, Try a Rexona Shave.
You’ll Enjoy It.
In half-a~minute Rexona Shaving Soap softens the
beard, and the lather will remain on the face with all
its softness for twelve minutes; but Rexona shavers do
not require this, for Rexona Shaving Soap makes the
beard so soft that a Rexona shave really takes not more
than two minutes. .
A Rexona shave is a luxuriant yet an economical
shave, for the lather is over 150 times as great as the
Soap used, and a 1/6 triangular stick is sufficient to last
the average man at least 150 shaves, which makes over
eight shaves for a penny. Then, too, consider how much
easier Rexona Shaving Soap makes the beard on the
razor, and how soft, smooth and antiseptic it leaves the
skin, and protects it from all weather conditions. Being
an antiseptic Medicated Soap, it has a tendency to
quickly heal any cut you may have the misfortune to get,
and if troubled with pimples or blotches of any kind, will
daily tend to improve them.
Men! Try Rexona, the new triangular Shaving
—we can promise you a new satisfaction.
Rexona Shaving Soap
The Triangular Stick
Is Sold Everywhere at 1/6


,
. ■ - .-<*■■
-
M!
■mMm
.... ,
mM
'■X** t
\ -- -;t‘ x »S XC '•?>: I v. ; .. MSmmWi
sMII x 'XV'" %" <^;''< <s x 1 \'' -'" v _
■ ■
mm m mmsm
-
fe-4fi^B
A ,, fja raa, l
y *M*Zd WmSiLsi - >v
:S
-- • • : "-
.... , ■ v ... - . '
k.
■M
A
t
ps*?
\M
m
m
£ 1
■
m
hm
Sill
» S
\ ■*'. N>n •;•■' ■ • 4 t
isflliSSllSl
,i
. ■
■ifii
-
~
HbmSIB
Six
.
«i» -ft
- .. if
K
1811
SI
m
i
.
1
:
Hi
: . : '■ll I I ; . | Is StllSll ■'.
Mgßi
r.i”
“Some day you'll
own a Chevrolet
Above: Chevrolet Touring Cur;
Standard Australian Body.
To the right: Chevrolet Single-
seater j Special Australian Body.
I CHEVROLET
w
For Economical Transport
in Country and City Alike
The balanced construction of the Chevrolet and
its valve-in-head engine make it equal to all trans-
portation needs at all times, at least expense for
petrol, tyres and general upkeep.
It is completely equipped, and has a handsome
appearance, suggesting, in turn, performance and
dependability. »
For the country man, under the handicap of poor
travelling conditions for the city salesman, depend-
ent upon service—the Chevrolet affords the utmost
return on the investment.
FOR. ECONOMICAL TRANSPORTATION
New South Wales:
John McGrath, Ltd.,
200 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria and Riverina:
S. A. Cheney Motors Pty., Ltd.,
22 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia:
Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd.,
900 Hay Street, Perth.
Tasmania:
Beasley’s Garage Pty., Ltd.,
S-12 Patterson St., Launceston.
South Australia:
Mays Motor Works, Ltd.,
East Victoi’ia Square, Adelaide.
Queensland:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Dealers in practically
every town of any
importance.
New Zealand:
Dominion Motors, Ltd.,
G 5 Courtney Place, Wellington.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS PHILP A CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH'S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
Put Up Your Hands
and use them as though you had to defend yourself. See how abso-
lutely lost and helpless you are through lack of Boxing Instruction.
Could you hold your own in a rough-and-tumble, or would you get
the worst of it ?
LEARN BOXING BY POST
and secure the scientific knowledge that will protect you from
the bully and the thug.
This simple, interesting system of instruction teaches you all
the points of the fascinating art in a series of easily-graded
lessons, which anyone can master.
Just cut this advertisement out, write your name and
address across it, and send it in with three stamps
for postage, and you will receive a copy of the
interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your
Home,” which tells all about the methods used,
terms, etc. It’s worth while —act to-day.
REG, L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,’*
225 Municipal Buildings,
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The most interesting performer at Moore-
field (N.S.W.) was Oranian. Produced in the second
division of the Flying Welter, the handsome son of
Seremond —Mallaig was backed for a poultice at s’s
and beat The Bedouin and Cooban with his mouth
open in lmin. 16|sec. for the six furlongs. Slow
time in ordinary circumstances, but the track was
pretty dead, and the winner was never at his top.
Oranian has Bst. in the mile Villiers Stakes, to be
run at Randwick on December 23, and 7st. lllb.
HARRY GORDON, who wants to fight
Semmens for the bantamweight belt.
in the 13-furlong Summer Cup. A mile and five
furlongs may be a trifle far for him, yet—he hasn’t
had much galloping over a distance —but, if reserved
for the Villiers, he will take no end of beating.
Others well handicapped for the mile race are Erasmus
(9st.), Etive (Bst. 91b.), Duke Isinglass (7st. 101 b.),
Barosca (7st. 41b.), and Master Cagou (7st. 21b.) 1
and for the Summer Cup Cymric (Bst. 31b.), Prince
Cox (7st. 121 b.), Prince Sandy (7st. 101 b.), Glen
Branter (7st. 51b.) and Master Cagou (7st. 21b.).
But one or two of that lot may be kept for later
Melbourne and Sydney engagements.
*** * .
“Penn” : The s.p. men don’t have all the
luck. A big com. was placed on a couple of ponies
at a meeting some distance from Melbourne, and
two of the home-and-dry brigade left hurriedly by
car to take advantage of the market. A puncture
delayed them, and a wrong turning carried them
several miles in the opposite direction, so that they
arrived just in time to see the first “leg” posted
a winner at 5 to 2. They unloaded on the second,
which was just pipped on the post. In effect, they
were (a) caught on one horse, (b) square on the
other, having given their profits to otner bookie.s,
and (c) stung for a good-sized car fare. I still
remember the shave I got next morning.
* * * •
“0.1 v.” : J. J. Miller died last week. Had
there been no Miller’s sweeps TattersaU’s might
never have been. In one year Miller had, I think,
11 fully-subscribed sweeps on the Melbourne Cup. But
the Law stepped in, and he philosophically accepted
his quietus. Long after he had done with con-
sultations, Miller turned out from his Melbourne
printing office the useful sporting publications which
helped to keep his early bookmaking memory green.
Not many living racegoers have betted with the
lean, wiry little man who in his time had been
gold-digger, hotelkeeper, bookmaker, horse-owner,
printer, sweepster, shire-councillor and sport in
general. But everybody knew his name, and those
who knew him personally in his blind old-age
respected him as a fund of reminiscence, a brainy
citizen and a plucky bearer of affliction. The death
of son J.A. (who made a fortune by his capable
management of West’s pictures) dealt a severe blow
to the sightless old man. Yet he lived to be 91.
* * * •;
The totalisator was on its good behavior
at the last Port Adelaide meeting, and handed out
dividends of £34, £43 and £76. In cases like
this the half-crown totes in the Derby stand and
on the flat commonly give a still better return, pre-
sumably because even a nag with no seeming chance
at all has an owner in the big stand who feels
bound to put something on him. At any rate, the
£43 became £64 on the flat, and the Derby machine
paid at the rate of over 100 to 1 in the £76 case.
• • * •
A plucky bit of batting by Dwyer (85
n. 0.) and Hooker (32) enabled Mosman to inflict
on Waverley their first defeat. Last year’s N.S.W.
premiers had made 225, and when Dwyer and Hooker
became associated Mosman wanted 58 to win with
two wickets in hand. It looked long odds against
them, but batting with rare confidence the pair
knocked off the runs and were rewarded with the
heartiest burst of cheering ever heard on the Mos-
man ground. Mosman were runners-up in 1921 and
may go one better this year. They play brisk and
entertaining cricket, but their best men are persist-
ently ignored by the selectors. Against Sydney’s
411 Balmain made the fine score of 472 for five
wickets. Three colts —W. Tytherleigh (120), Sid
Thomas (115 not out) and R. Andrews (102 not
out) —were chiefly responsible for the win. Glebe
were also in scoring mood against Uni., Warren
Bardsley (134) and L. Gwynne (104) adding 190
for the fourth wicket and enabling their side to
register 44 more than the students’ 346. For the
losers, S. G. Webb, a new bowler who used to go to
the High School, took 5 wickets for 48. In the
other matches Marrickville (202 and 6 for 79) beat
St. George (191 and 88) ; Gordon (7 for 396)
settled Central Cumberland (221 and 4 for 219);
Paddington (293 and 3 for 65) defeated Western
Suburbs (278) ; North Sydney (121 and 2 for 184)
got an outright win over Petersham (71 and 7 for
230), and Manly (289) were too good for Randwick
(254 and 1 for 195). For Paddington the veteran
M. A. Noble got 6 for 64. Balmain (14 points)
now lead from Gordon, Waverley and North Sydney
(13 each), Sydney, Marrickville and Mosman (12
each), and Central Cumberland and Manly (11 each).
* * * *
A N.S.W, XI, containing seven of the
team that accounted for Maclaren’s side, was con-
siderably surprised at Brisbane on Saturday, when
they crashed before a Queensland team for 140.
Macartney (46), Hendry (30) and Asher (18 not
out) were the only three who shaped respectably
against R. Barstow, a slow bowler who took 6
wickets for 45, and the rising left-hander P. Horni-
brook, who got 3 for 40. The Bananalanders replied
with 134, their best man being W. Rowe (52), who
had the bad luck to > be run out when set. C.
Thompson (28) and R. Oxenham (23) were the others
to get double figures, and most of the destruction
was wrought by Mailey (6 for 45), and Sid Everett
(3 for 34). N.S.W. got 200 in the second attempt.
Hendry collected 45, Asher 41, Collins 30 and Scanes
20. Homibrook (4 for 50), Oxenham (3 for 14),
and Barstow (2 for 86), got the wickets. Homi-
brook bowled so beautifully that Collins, himself a
left-hander, said, “There goes the finest southpaw in
the Commonwealth.” Rain put an end to the pro-
ceedings when Queensland wanted 184 to win, with
nine wickets in hand.
* * * *
“Snow”: Veteran Charlie Bannerman
spends his Saturdays watching the juniors at Moore
Park (N.S.W.), in the hope of finding another Ker-
mode. Kermode it was who jumped from that
class of cricket into the N.S.W. team in one bound.
Left-hander W. J. Whitty also came from the
juniors, while Charlie Turner, Tom McKibbin and
old Bill Howell were recruited from the country.
The present condition of N.S.W. bowling is lament-
able. There is no one in sight to replace Jack
Gregory, and Kelleway is not the wonderful length
bowler that he was. More attention will have to
be paid to the juniors, and greater encouragement
given to promising country players.
* * * #
In Melbourne on Saturday the Melbourne
team dished Collingwood by 119 runs. Ransford’s
XI rested content with 3 for 378, and the best that
’Wood could hope for was a draw. But Ryder failed
early for 7, and none of the others played with any
confidence, bar the valiant Brown, who smacked the
tame bowling for 143. The state of the bowling
department in the M.C.C. can be gauged from the
fact that Sandford, who is not : ordinarily entrusted
with the ball, got 4 for 63, whilst Ransford outed
2 for 17. North Melbourne beat St. Kilda’s 253
with three Wickets to spare, Mathers making 76
n. 0., whilst praeher and W. Caddy managed 51
and 48. University, who finished the previous week
with 5 for 209, added only 57 for the next five
wickets, but still their score was too heavy for
Essendon, who saved a draw with 8 for 125. Edgar
Mayne was ’Don’s best man, with 41, whilst Free-
mantle gathered in another six wickets, and Craig,
the students’ wicket-keep, stumped three and caught
another. Richmond were lucky to register a draw
against Soutli Melbourne, who had declared with
7 for 306, Allison increasing his knock to 147 n.o.
The bell saved Richmond when they had 221 for 8,
of which Clem Sindrey made 74 and Rush 40. Carl-
ton finished up 36 behind ’Roy’s 205. Carlton showed
a painful respect for the ’Roy bowlers, of whom
Liddicut was most potent, with 6 for 55. As ex-
pected, P’ran were unable to dodge a defeat by
Northcote. ’Cote gave a fairly lively display, and,
in fact, only two failed to reach double figures.
Burley batted well for 59, Yeomans and E. V. Car-
roll yielded 51 and 40, and three more ran into the
twenties At 6.30 the victors had lost eight sticks,
A pv th l shop k ee Pfs astern, it must be
toi P ian, howevei, that then stai slow-bowler,
nimmett, was hit on the knee and had to be car-
lea neid.
~,, * TT „ „ ’ _ . * , * ,
b .L.H. : Percy Lewis, who passed out
at Melbourne, the other day, began his cricket career
as a lad of 14 by scoring the highest in each innings
for Ballarat against Lord Harris’s team. That was
in 1878. In later years he played with Richmond
and East Melbourne, and soon became a first-flighter.
His first inter-State game w T as against N.S.W. in
1889 ; he failed with the bat, but unexpectedly
secured the best bowling average with 3 for 13.
Subsequent matches proved Percy a high-class man
behind the sticks, and I recall him playing a great
innings against S.A. on a wet Melbourne wicket,
His misfortune was to be contemporary with Jack
Blackham.
H. D. SWAN, manager of Maclaren's M.C.C.
team, ruminating on shipping strikes.
“Tarago”: It was during a painful spasm
in Victoria's seeorul innings against the Englishmen,
'the batsmen had no enterprise, and a gloom had
settled over the ground. My Yorkshire friend
nudged me. “Coom away,” he said. “Oi’d loike
tew ’ave a luk at summat loiveler than this.” “So
would I,” I answered; “but where shall we go?”
“Oh,” he replied, “we go op Eastern ’lll an’ ’ave
a luk at th’ Government egg-lavin’ coompetition.”
• * * *
“Tren”: Like the other States, Victoria
has but few bowlers of class this year, but likely
young batsmen are plentiful. One quite out of the
ordinary is Bill Irvine, son of Chief Justice Irvine,
who plays for University. In the first match of Ine
season against St. Kilda, he saved his team from an
utter debacle by top-scoring wdth 37. Next match,
against Northcote, he fell to the Hartkopf-Halfpenny
trap for 17. Then, against the strong Melbourne XI,
while his colleagues were only good for 55 between
them, he made 72 not out, and managed to win an
exciting match for his side by 4 runs. Against Essen-
don his score of 80 gave him an aggregate for four
hands of 206, and an average of 68. The bigger
the crisis the more confidently he bats. He has all
the strokes, too, but is particularly good on the late
cut. In the field he is first-class. Almost every
Saturday the Chief Justice is among the spectators,
and though he is not very boisterous over his son’s
successes he thaws considerably.
* * * *
“Past Grammar”: Les C’ubitt, captain of
the last Kangaroo League footballers, has gone to
Ilong Kong with a couple of M.L. representatives to
collect and coach the Chinese who are to tour Aus-
tralia and M.L. next football season. Rugby Union
of a certain quality is played by some of' the so-
called modern Chinese Universities. Cubitt is to
convert these gentry to the League code, and teach
them to play it well enough to put up a good
showing in N.S.W., Queensland, and a district of the
North Island of M.L. When one remembers the ghastly
showing made under similar conditions by the
League’s Maoris, one wonders where the professional
body’s one time reputation for level-headedness has
gone. Still, the public has a short memory, and
the Chows may draw at least one good gate.
* * * *
“Slip” Carr, the fastest runner Australia
has produced for years, won both his races in the Dunn
Shield contests at Sydney. The 100 yards was a gift
for him in lOsee., and he also recorded even time
in winning his heat. In the 440yds., however, the
East Sydney man just struggled home from Tom
McNamara and W. H. Hutton, in 50 3-ssec.; but the
quarter-mile is not his best distance. E. H.
Scott (South Sydney) landed the 120yds. hurdles
in 16sec., H. S. Grandmange (Botany) took the
mile run in 4min. 38 3-ssec., and Ernie Austen (St.
George) was first through the tape in the three-mile
walk in 24min. 20sec. At the end of the day East
Sydney and Uni. were level, with 11 points; so the
destination of the Shield is still doubtful.
* * * #
“Winkle”: Curious how athletic prowess
runs in families. Just before the war Russell Wat-
son, a crack middle-distance runner, placed his name
on the record-books by winning the Victorian half-
mile championship in lmin. 56 3-lOsee., which is
still a world’s record for a grass track. In 1914
he won the Australasian half-mile championship,
beating, among other good men, Jim Power, the
American, and A. W. Dormer, the Maorilander. He
was then offered a big inducement to join up with a
noted Yankee club, but he remained in Melbourne,
dropped athletics and settled down to a business
life, though he still plays cricket with St. Kilda.
Recently his 15-year-old brother Alf annexed five
events at the Ivanhoe Grammar School sports, and,
competing with the pick of the associated Grammar
Schools, the kid won the 100yds. on a sodden track
in 11 l-ssec. and the 220yds. in 25 l-ssec. In
three or four years the youngster should be winning
championships for Victoria.
In the skirt department of Vic. tennis
championships Esna Boyd, the short, stocky girl who
won the singles last year, was again too good for
Mrs. Lister. Conscious that she 'was looking
a perfect picture, the dame offered a tame resistance
to the hard-hitting and resourceful Esna, who won two
straight sets rather easily. The final between the
schoolgirls, Miss Mclver and Miss Toyne, was much
more strenuous. Both girls slammed the ball hard
off backhand and forehand, and the superiority of
Miss Toyne, who won at 6 —4, 6—l, was exhibited
in a stronger first service and a habit of varying
her length, which some older players would do well
to emulate. But the backhand of both was a treat
to watch. Apparently they had been well coached
in the way to hold the racquet to get the utmost
pace with the least exertion. Ben Dunlop, last year’s
schoolboy champion, butchered the opposition, a
moon-faced youth by the name of Hacge, by 12
games to 2. Ben is too good for the schoolboy
class. He promises to be as brilliant as young
Mclnnes, who, though scarcely more than a lad, ran
into the semi-finals of the Vic. singles, in which he
was walloped by Patterson.
* * * *
“15.30” : Followers of tennis are beginning
to believe that young Jack Hawkes has developed
sufficient stamina for a five-set match against the
best in the world. After capturing the third set
from Patterson in the final of the Vic. championship,
he was going strong enough in the fourth to warrant
the conclusion that, if the figures had been reversed,
the fifth chapter would still have found him full of
fight. Ilawkes has much improved in the last 12
months. He drives harder, places with greater judg-
ment, and sometimes shows a Brookes-like talent for
putting the ball in the most difficult places, while
his serve, though always robbed of pace by its
powerful spin, is difficult to play for outright
winners. Hawkes’s weakness, however, is that he
is inclined to use up his energy in baseline duels,
whereas, if he had more confidence in his service,
he would follow up to the net and intercept a lot of
balls on the volley, a department of the game that
he has been prone to neglect. This is not to say
that he is a poor volleyer, but still he is not com-
fortable in the “in-fighting” of tennis, and a man
who has Davis Cup aspirations ought to be able to
put up a good struggle from any part of the court.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Another lot of tennis “cham-
pionships” was begun in Sydney on the new White
City courts last week. The modern craze for the
Sissies’ game is not confined to Australia, but this
“championship” business, which necessitates hun-
dreds of ablebodied men and women being with-
drawn from toil for long periods, is overdone.
I learn that the most thrilling feature of the
latest collection of “championships” was a Titanic
struggle between Norman Peach (N.S.W.) and R. J.
Wertheim (Vic.). This contest of giants lasted
three hours, and S. M. Herald lays stress on “the
pluck and determination” shown by the Homeric
pair, and the “distress” to which the3 r were reduced
by their protracted efforts. Interesting, doubt-
less, to the weird people who rave over the spec-
tacle of perspiring Johnnies and Gerties smacking
a rubber ball over a net, but melancholy to those
who believe that what Australia needs, above all
other things, at this crisis in the fate of the nations,
is Work. As I write the “championships” are still
raging, and threaten to last a fortnight.
• * * •
“F. Clinton” : Sport has its profiteers, as
well as trade. Owners of tennis-courts are charging
extortionate rentals for chip courts, which are fre-
quently deficient in conveniences and have insuffi-
cient room on the base and side lines, with the
added disability of extending lengthwise in an east-
west direction that is absolutely the worst possible.
The land on which these courts are laid is generally
useless for building purposes, mainly because it is
too low. But the owners demand the rent of a
suburban cottage for a hunk of smooth clay never
more than 100 ft. by 50ft., which is utterly useless
for tennis when wet. You pay more nowadays for
the hire of an alleged tennis-court than you do for
that of a cricket-pitch. But the opportunity is there,
and the profiteer avails himself of it.
* * * *
Some slick times are being recorded by
Sydney swimmers. In a back-stroke race on Satur-
day-—his first of the season —Sid Beck cut out
50yds. in 31 2-ssec —4-ssec. better than Keith Kirk-
land’s best for the continent. But as Beck didn’t
swim in the regulation costume, his feat will not
find a place in the book. Mrs. Wigney (nee Fevyer)
swam 50yds. free style, in 29 3-ssec. —1 l-ssec.
better than Lily Robertson’s State championship
time. “Boy” Charlton, who has been impressing
the critics by his efforts over a distance, showed
that he is also a classy sprinter, by cutting out
50yds. in 26 l-ssec., and C. Stuart, another 15-year-
old, won'a 50yds. race at the Spit in 26sec. flat. Sydney
doesn’t lack for championship material, but a coach
is needed to rub off the rough corners.
At Fortitude Valley (Q.), last week, Joe
Soussari swam 440yds. breast-stroke in 6min. 27
l-ssec., an Australian record. Soussari, who is 20
years old, is a Finn by birth, but has been in Aus-
tralia for eight years. He is a fisherman, residing at
Maroochydore, and learned to swim only three years
ago.
-» * » *
“Machete”: When the 21-foot restricted
class of yachts came into beihg on Sydney harbor
last year it was the fashion, begad, to get your
sails made in England. The Governor-General, who
had fathered the rating, got the cloths for his
Corella from some Cowes maker, and several of the
local yachtocracy had to follow suit, the idea being
that sails for an English design could not possibly
be made by a mere Australian. But, somehow, none
of the imported sails pushed their wearers into
dazzling prominence. This year, a craft named
Nettle, clad in rags made in Sydney by an Aus-
tralian named Jones, has won four races out of six
starts. There seems to be a moral somewhere.
# ■» * *
Nobody died of excitement at the Grime-
Ramies scrap in Sydney. Grime got the decision,
but did not cover himself with glory. He won by
making Ramies do practically all the fighting, by
clinching like a limpet whenever the opportunity
offered, and by having the better of the sparring at
other times. Ramies lost because he was content
to box Grime for 13 rounds; in boxing for points
the Australian was superior. Ramies showed far
better fbrm against Spargo and Sullivan than he
showed against Grime. But it takes two to make a
fight.
THE LATEST QUARANTINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N.S.W. Government will quarantine the
recently-raided Sydney betting-shops until it is
satisfied that the offenders have either vacated the
premises, or given up their evil ways.”
Hang out the yellow flag
Over the office whither punters tore
To plank their dollars upon Gladstone Bag
Or back Periphrasis at 9 to 4 !
High let it float upon the outer wall
And from the window, while a cross you scrawl
And “God Ha’ Mercy on Us 1 ” on the door.
Fouler than plague or flu’
Here was a pestilence that raged unchecked.
The atmosphere still reeks of 5 to 2,
Dead birds and things too rotten to dissect.
A hundred charwomen who sweep and scrub
And sprinkle COndy’s Fluid by the tub
Will have their work cut out to disinfect.
Bring sulphur by the sack!
The stench of gambling still pollutes the air.
Think of the wagers that were booked in black-
And-white by Mo in that luxurious chair,
The doubles and the trebles and what not
That made the layer weekly bless his lot
And thinned the miserable backer’s hair.
And when you fumigate,
Mind and devote attention to the ’phone.
The microbes and the germs that lie in wait
In the interstices of that alone
Might make a nigger shudder. Oh, my hat!
Think of the bets that have been booked through that
And the infection over it that’s flown 1
Hang out the yellow flag!
And keep it flying till the place is sweet.
Our noble zeal shall never fade or sag
Until we have the indoor bookie beat.
Or, if his sinful odds he needs must lay,
He’ll have to take his betting books away
And ply his calling further down the street.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines:—
this gas may originate from decaying food. in.
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and .take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
ZOOM
p*
in b
a nd
■J t '*
CLtf-
(ac' u
pC GO>-
SI
tu'"
ci
CV\N
YW
b'N
*.\r
&
&
<3
Chamberlains
WHEN the liver and bowels do not
act life is a failure. Chamber-
lain’s Tablets wake these
drowsy organs like the sun wakes
the earth and the whole body laughs.
They relieve Stomach Trouble —Indi-
gestion. Biliousness and Constipation.
If you wish fo try before you buy, send
your address and twopence for postage to
Chamberlain's Ltd., 520 Riley St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of tlra stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
ifc
W 6
“SPEEDING UP.”
The speeds of line shafts have, in recent years, been
very much increased, with a tendency to increase
still more.
In such circumstances “safe” reliability of pulleys
is an absolute essential.
SKF
SPLIT PULLEYS
may safely be run at speeds far in excess of those at
which the best belts are effective for transmission
of power.
The unique construction, the remarkable service
given, and the economy secured by SKF Split Belt
Pulleys call for inquiry by every engineer in charge
of power-transmission plant. f
hull particulars promptly supplied on request to
Gardner,
Waern & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.,
rrEA J, > rv?X^ l i' 1 ' : :jSI Cit - V 1! oad, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
SHOW ROOM: 369 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
Distributing Centres also at:—
_ . SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
C T\ e l Street - BRISBANE ' 329 Adelaide Street.
TTnninT U^ eh ? nn & Johnstone (W.A.), Ltd., 37 King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis. Ltd. LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York Street.
S.P.-9.
THE INKY WAY.
‘ “S.T.S.”: An offering for a sectarian’s common-
place book
“Every party loses in strength what it gains in
size, and gains in size only at the cost ot losing
Strength. Christians were not altogether true Chris-
tians after they numbered more than 12.”— Emile
Faquet.
Eric Baunie, recently made editor of the Timaru
(M.L.) Herald, is a veteran of 23. He began writ-
ing at 16, and since then has been editor of a small
country paper, a reporter on the New Zealand
Herald (Auckland) and the Dominion (Wellington),
and musical and dramatic critic of the Christchurch
Son. He is the eldest son of the late F. E. Baume,
K.C., of Auckland, and is known to Bulletin
readers through occasional vivid short stories.
Irwin Cox, who died recently, was, until three
years ago, the proprietor of three moneymakers,
The Field, The Queen and The Law Times.
He disposed of them on account of old.
age, having passed the allotted span by 10
years. His father, the late Sergeant E. W. Cox,
founded the Field group of papers, and on the dis-
solution of the Honorable Society of Serjeants of the
Law in 1877, bought all its property. The dining-
hall was re-erected at Moat Mount, the Cox home,
stained-glass windows and all ; and the shields of
the Serjeants from the earliest days adorn the walls.
“Oxide”: While .J. E. Davidson, managing director
of the new Adelaide daily, was managing the Barrier
Miner during the strike, he was the centre of a fair-
sized mystery, and, incidentally, did a lot towards
making the strikers dissatisfied with their leaders.
Writing anonymously, he ran a column in his paper
devoted exclusively to union matters, in which he
shoyved an uncanny knowledge of what went on behind
the scenes at the Trades Hall. In this way he
brought to light several shady transactions by some
of the W.I.U. heads. Hillites were a long time find-
ing out who wrote the column, but how lie got his
information is still puzzling them.
Edison Marshall, the winner of the 0. Henry
memorial prize, with “The Heart of Little Shikara,”
has written another story' of the wilds, “The Sky
Line of Spruce.” Unlike many writers of pioneer
stories, Marshall does the trick from heredity and
from experience. His grandfather was one of Un-
original forty-niners, and his father was born and
bred in a frontier cabin in Illinois. He himself was
born at Rensellaer, Indiana, and educated at the Uni-
versity of Oregon. He lias lived with hobos from
Louisiana to Alaska, and what goes into his books is
what has happened to himself, even down to the
experience of being hugged by a grizzly.
“Thor”: Why does “Rae-akiaki” (B. 16/11/’22)
nominate a mere babe for the Journalistic Long-
service (one-capacity) Stakes? Chief-sub. Stephens,
of Melb. Age, has been in that chair for 30 years
or more; Paddy Bennett has been State Parlia-
mentary roundsman, and Tom Kelynack police rounds-
man for Melb. Herald for three decades; Geo. Mul-
cliinock has edited the same city’s Weekly Times
almost as long; Tom Courtney lias been chief leader-
writer to Sydney D.T. for more than a generation ;
and Gerald Marr Thompson, music and dramatic
critic of S. M. Herald, went to that whole-time job
when Austin Brereton left it in the early ’nineties.
“Trafalgar” : J. IT. M. Abbott’s survey of the first
Bulletin scarcely does justice to John Haynes—
who, whatever errors may be alleged against him,
was the real progenitor of The Bulletin. In 1880
Archibald was only a clever youngster, newly arrived
in Sydney, with the status of a reporter writing for
the Evening News. Haynes was well known as a
journalist of ability and experience; in the full vigor
of manhood. The evidence is in two or three sen-
tences of the introductory leading’ article, entitled
“A Matter of Public Concern”: —
“The aim of the proprietors is to establish a
journal which cannot be beaten —excellent in the
illustrations which embellish its pages, and unsur-
passed in the vigor, freshness and geniality of its
literary contributions... .With our first issue begins
a new departure in journalism. We give to the
public what is dictated by the result of 26 years’
experience in the colonial press.”
The “twenty years’ experience” was, of course,
Haynes’s experience; Archibald, at that epoch,
hadn’t 20 months’ experience in regular journalistic
work.
“Wilfrido”: “Nimshi” (B. 9/11/’22) sets out to
be funny and succeeds only in being vulgar. M.v
reason for not dealing separatim with his objections
to Conrad was that these amounted only to a con-
fessed inability on his part to stomach the Pole’s
writings. “Nimshi’s” indigestion, he says, was due to
their heaviness and obscurity—faults I do not attempt
to deny; but what I cavil at is the legitimacy of
his conclusion that we who can perceive the beauty
and strength of Conrad, even in such verbiage as
lie sometimes inflicts upon us, are talking so much
“blither.” Where would criticism be if everyone
adopted “Nimshi’s” attitude? I did not deride
either Phillpotts or Blackmore; indeed, I agree
with him when he asserts that Blackmore s
reputation rests securely on “Lorna Dooue” alone.
This is precisely my point, for Conrad’s reputation
rests not upon one work, but upon a dozen. As
for Pliillpotts, while I do not doubt “Nimshi’s’
perfect understanding of that writer’s country yokels,
I do say that, after considering the respective merits
of Phillpotts and Conrad, an intelligent tribunal
would; not hesitate to give judgment in favor of
the latter. Even though I am an intense admirer
of this foreigner, and even assuming that in every
tidal wave of enthusiasm there is a backwash of
insincerity—that does not entitle “Nimshi” to con-
clude that I blindly devour big reputations, or that
I am lacking in literary discrimination. Evidently
lie believes that criticism is purely a matter of
personal outlook —a view carried to extremes by
Douglas Goldring in his “Outburst on Gissing.’
1 prefer the saner viewpoint of Robert Lynd,
who savs; “The good critic does a great deal
more than deliver judgments on books ana
authors. He may at times play the part of
defending counsel rather than that of the judge.
There are occasions on which he makes no attempt
to hide the warmth of his feelings. He cannot an-
nounce a masterpiece as though a summary of pros
and cons, expressed what it meant to him.”
APOTHEOSIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ho ! little creatures who write,
Chasing a ’bus that you miss,
Say, can your fancy in flight
Clear a tremendous abyss?
Can you swallow a yarn that, 1 wis,
Credulity’s gape somewhat tore?
There are some who’ve attained unto this:
Editors ask them for more!
Yea, their effusions invite,
Welcome them, never dismiss
Their stuff with an indigo bite
From the keen, editorial kris;
Think of it, Sonny and Cis,
And the fate of your fancies deplore,
Yours sometimes are taken, but. Ls!
Editors ask them for more!
Yes, editors’ promises plight!
Cheer them with “Encore!” and “Bis!”
Oh, what a dream of delight!
No, you’ve not heard me amiss;
They have been fated to kiss
Fortune’s mellifluous core,
And though critics may gabble and hits
Editors ask them for more!
Envoy.
Yes, yes, fellow-dwellers in Dis,
There is a dele< table shore,
Where the blessed, with exquisite bliss,
Hear editors ask them for more!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Advertisement.
THE BETTER ’OLE
fo
tl i
y
opn
flit "T
S
05?;
m
r
r
&
f
M£Th
(Vis
■*"• V
r
VO
V'
V
\ r O
A
4^
s:
The
Better
p
’Ole.
f^Ai
IMPORTED AGITATOR: “But you’re not goin’ to leave us, comrade?”
AUSTRALIAN WORKER: “Yes, I’ve kept you long enough, and now I’m going to where I can get a
Fair Deal, Honest Government and Loyal British Citizenship!”
Only One Issue at this Election.
There is only one issue at this election.
All the personal issues and minor questions which have been
raised are merely red herrings drawn across the electoral path.
The electors have one choice only. They have to choose
between the Sovietists, the Revolutionary Communists and
Council of Action on the one hand, and the National Party, which
has behind it a record of great achievement in the interests of every
section of the community, and stands for stable government,
prudent finance and a fair deal for every class. There is no middle
course.
DO NOT BE MISLED BY THE CAMPAIGN OF
CALUMNY AND MISREPRESENTATION WHICH IS BEING
CONDUCTED AGAINST THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT.
The Labor Party is relying on a tissue of falsehoods.
The National Party is relying on its magnificent record of
things done and its programme of progressive development for
the future.
In the difficult years of the war and the period which followed
it, the National Government ruled Australia with dignity, loyalty
and success, and supported the Diggers in keeping Australia’s
name high amongst the nations of the world.
The National Government has reduced taxation this year by
£3,000,000. The Income Tax rates have been reduced by 10
per cent. Nearly 200,000 persons who formerly paid income-tax
have been exempted altogether. The allowance for children has
been raised from £26 to £4O, and the Entertainments Tax has
been abolished on prices under 1/-.
The primary producers have been assisted in selling their
produce, and in financing the great co-operative organisations
under their own control, and Australian manufacturing industries
have been amply protected.
The best test of increased prosperity is the deposits in the t
Savings Banks. These have increased since the National Govern-
ment has been in power from £98,000,000 to £163,000,000, and
the number of depositors has grown from 2,421,000 to 3,345,346.
The revolutionary Communists, who are the only alternative
to the National Party, propose to repudiate interest on War Loans.
There were 778,605 applicants for War and Peace Loans under
£5OO, and subscribers to War Savings Certificates numbered
1,117,573. Their next plan will be to repudiate interest on
deposits in the Savings Banks.
PROTECT YO UR SAVINGS.
For Safety First Vote Nationalist
and No
VOTE FOR THE
National Senate Three:
OR IN THE ORDER YOU PREFER.
‘ - Authorised by Archdale Parkhill, 25 York Street, Sydney,


An “Alston” Windmill Plant
will assure a Plentiful Supply of Water for
Housed: Id, Stock and Garden.
No other windmill is so sensitive to light winds, stronger or
more durable, lower in cost, or easier and cheaper to erect and
maintain.
Their reliability is proverbial. Pitted with
Machine-cut Gears, Ball Bearings, Auto-Lubri-
cation and Storm-proof Regulators. All work-
ing parts enclosed in a Dust-proof Case, and
run in oil.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes,
from sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the
largest works in Australia, devoting its whole
attention to windmill construction.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue
free on application.
“Alston” Windmills
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS PTY. LTD., Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
WE MAKE
GOLD
ARMLETS
LADIES’ GOLD ARMLETS, 37/6 to 50/-
In Heavier Weights, in 15ct., 60/- to £5/5/-
In every size and shape we make Gold Armlets. We make them, also, set with jewels. Some
with a birth-stone; some with a luck-stone.
Every latest design, and all the new ideas we make. We do more. We make them well, and
with an exquisite finish, and designed to last a lifetime of every-hour wear, and yet at low prices.
They are fashionable —very. Why not?
They are lovely under semi-transparencies on a shapely arm.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Julius Csesar”
Criterion “The Silver t ox”
Royal “The Arcadians”
Fuller’s New “Spangles”
Hoyt's Moving riciuies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mary”
Royal “The Peep Show”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
A revival of “The Arcadians” is enabling
the jaded bookmaker to “fleet the time care-
lessly” at Sydney Royal. In the 13 years
that have elapsed since the first production
at London Shaftesbury, a lot of the bloom
has been rubbed off the humor which seemed
so fruity in those placid pre-war days, but
the music still has power to charm. The
Sombra of the Sydney revival, which differs
from the original in that a horse is thought-
fully provided for Simplicitas in the Ash-
wood racecourse scene, is Kathlyn Hilliard,
from “The Peep Show” co. Kathlyn is a
well-nourished advertisement for the Arca-
dian regimen of fruit and water, and her
serviceable soprano is fully equal to the com-
poser’s requirements. Gracie Lavers, as
Eileen Cavanagh, makes a pathetic mouthful of
the brogue, but in other respects she is streets
ahead of the lady who introduced the part
to Australia. Miss Lavers has dash and
diablerie, and when she has assimilated the
great truths embodied in Hamlet’s advice
to the players, she will be quite first-class.
Dan Agar works hard —sometimes too hard
—for the laughs he gets as Simplicitas
Smith ; and a lot of people find George Gee’s
Peter Doody, with (in spots) its sincere
flattery of Lester, amusing. Perhaps it is,
but Gee does his silly aliss stuff a heap
better. Others in the picture are Millie
Engler, Clarrie Hardwicke, Thelma Bur-
ness, Howett Worster, William Valentine,
Harry St. Hilliard and Hugh Steyne.
** * *
“Spangles,” which began its glittering
career at Fuller’s Theatre, Sydney, on
Saturday night, looks like being the
winner in Sydney that it was in
Melbourne. It’s fresh, brisk, piquant,
varied, frolicsome, and rattles alluringly
along for three lively hours with never a
dull minute. The show is a mad whirl of
humor and melody and shapely limbs in de-
lightful costumes, and quaint scenes and
dainty colors. It calls itself a musical go-
as-you-please. There are 19 “Spangles,” or
turns, each complete in itself and in its de-
tachment from every other item; and most
of them are pleasing enough to make a man
forget his income-tax, if he pays or owes
any, and a woman her wrinkles, if she sus-
pects the existence of the same.
* * * •
Ada Reeve, of course, is the dominating
personality and the radiant light of a re-
markably clever cluster of entertainers. She
got a great reception, and it was her due.
Her seductive archness in “Beware of
Madame,” and the broad comedy of her
“Liza,” in “Piccadilly Circus, are admirable.
Gus McNaughton is a comedian gifted and
practised enough to keep any house diverted.
Nora O’Malley has winsomeness for the
eye and sweetness for the ear, and Nella
Duval makes a really fetching soubrette.
Pianist HENRY PENN.
„ , - , _, r ., ,
Saranovas dancing, and Frank Wilson’s
playing are both meritorious, and Jess Sweet,
Harry Gould and Alec Hardisty all show
talent. ‘A Aalentine,” with the belles in
crinoline, and “A Fruit Salad” are be-
witching pictures, and the humor of “A
Telephone Exchange,” “Rockville” and
“Toyland” is rich and boisterous.
One of the most interesting triple bills
that the Sydney Repertory Society has pre-
sented was given on Monday night at the
Playhouse. The first play—“ For Love of
Appin,” by Alan E. Mulgan—comes from
Maoriland, and while the writer makes his
characters (who assemble in a N. S. Wales
farm kitchen) talk yearningly of Scotland
and the Slope of Appin, at least one Maori-
lander in the audience glimpsed the wind-torn
gorse and hedged roads of the North Island,
and heard the sullen roar of the Waikato or
its twin as it tore along in turbulence to
the sea. Apparently, on the stage, the
same “atmosphere” serves for both N.B. and
M.L. Vincent Doyle, as the home-sick
Angus Buchan, who carries to his new life
a hatred of the landlord class that had
evicted the Buchans from their farm
to make room for deer, was excellent. Mrs.
Cam Marina, as his wife, gave a clever im-
personation of the assisted immigrant from
Whitechapel, glorying in the freedom of
the wider land. That she occasionally over-
did the Cockney accent was a small thing.
Ellis Loughton, as Mr. Stringer, and Eric
Howell, as the Stranger, completed a sound
cast. D. H. Souter’s “Good Losers” has
already appeared in The Bulletin. Beat-
rice Tildesley played the part of Marie, the
hopeless T.B. subject, who sends for her
lover, Jannifield, to tell him that she is
giving herself to another—one to whom “she
will be true unto death !” The misery of the
girl was well portrayed, and nothing could
have been better than the puzzled wretched-
ness of 11. S. Herbert as the lover. The
Sutro play, “The Bracelet,” which was
already well
known to most of
the audience, gave
Gregan McMahon,
Albert Collins and
Mrs. Su 11 o r a
chance for some
admirable work.
** * *
“Cairo” finishes
its 12 weeks’ run
to-morrow night at
II e r Majesty’s,
Sydney, and in 24
hours Oscar Asche
will have thrown
aside the trappings
of a peripatetic
Persian wrestler
an d transformed
himself into the
more or less noble
Roman who deli-
vers the oration
over Julius Caesar’s
body, which settles
the hash of that
ruler’s high-minded
assassins. Oscar
Antony’s bulk
should make Cas-
sius look leaner and
hungrier than ever,
and his words be
more heavily
charged with
“The Peep Show,” at
Melbourne Royal.
J. H. Wakefield as a
member of the brave
crowd who say good-
bye to their wives.
Hybla honey than those of any previous actor
who has undertaken the rble in these parts.
* Sfc Sj! *
At Sydney Cri., the silken hose, emblematic
of naughtiness, are due shortly to be moth-
bricked once more—or in, plainer language,
“The Silver Fox” has but another week to
go.
»!« * * *
Lee White and Clay Smith finish their
season at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday night.
Amongst those who will mitigate the agony
when they depart are May Sherrard, a buxom
lass who bounds across the stage and sings
catchy songs about bonnets, harps, bandy
legs and Bondi Beach ; Herbert La Martine
and Miss Teddy Sherry, who do some whirl-
wind staircase dancing; and Leonard Nelson,
who is billed as the “Australian comedian.”
Also, there is one Bertini, who toys with a
violin in a pleasing manner.
*#*..*.
Dorothy Dalton is enticing the multitude
to Sydney Lyceum as “The Woman Who
Walked Alone,” and here also Tom Moore
may be observed as a fireman who rescues
nightied flappers from the flames. The
Haymarket and Rialto exploit respectively
Charlotte Bronte’s “Jane Eyre” and
Elinor Glynn’s “Beyond the Rocks” —the
latter with Rudolph Valentino to make it
even more luscious. Hoyt’s features Tom
Mix and Dick Talmadge, who is reputed to
be Doug. Fairbanks’ most serious rival.
Dorothy Dalton is at the Globe in “The
Fool’s Paradise”; “Orphans of the Storm”
is getting ready to move from the Strand ;
and Charlie Chaplin still haunts the Crystal
Palace.
S: * - * *
“Mary,” at Melbourne Her Majesty’s, is
still providing the spectacle of a stately mil-
lionairess pursued with commercial intent
by a spry little Frenchman who seems to
be in several places at once. The Gaul’s
perpetual emotion keeps him in a state of
awful activity, and good judges reckon that
he covers two Marathons before the per-
formance is over. The same might almost
be said of the extra gents who hop and leap
in unwonted excitement, and at one stage
suggest that they have unanimously dis-
covered a murder and are rushing for the
police. It would be humane on the part of
the management to imprison them in an ice-
chest between their exits and their entrances
these hot nights. Certainly if they aren t
carefully watched they will ooze away in per-
spiration, and their remains will have to
be collected with a ladle.
$ «J» ip ip
“The Peep Show” continues to make heroic
efforts to entertain the crowd at Melbourne
Royal. Probably the most agreeable “Peep”
is the parade of old-tinie warblers, in airs
that were bellowed en niflsse in the past, but
this item, like the neighborly disturbance in
which George Willoughby is a ruffled card-
player complaining in an undertone of divert-
ing pathos, doesn’t compensate for the yawn-
ing vacuums in the rest of the programme.
Many “Peeps” are of slender vocal or humor-
ous interest, and one of them mystifies by
presenting a bony Prince Charlie after a
slightly plumper lad had posed as the
Jacobite in a previous scene.
* * * *
These are the last nights of “The Senti-
mental Bloke” at Melbourne King’s, and pre-
sumably the redecorated vestibules of the stalls
and circle can be taken as signs of prepara-
tion for the advent of “The Forty Thieves”
on December 23. But so far the change is
not exhilarating. The paperhangers have
covered the walls with a gloomy design, and
the obliteration of the rosy goddesses who
smiled from the ceiling of the D.C. foyer,
coupled with the deadening of effects else-
where, now makes the place eminently suit-
able for a Methody tea-meeting.
* * * *
A fairly pleasing octet calling themselves
the “Monks of St. Bernard” and warbling
in scenes of Alpine solitude, are the latest
to evoke wonder and admiration among the
uncritical at Melbourne Tivoli. But Gene
Gerrard is more to the audience’s taste, and
the reappearance of that humorist as the
“Zoo-Keeper” on Saturday was accorded a
vehement vote of thanks, Eddie and Decima
McLean continue to race the music in swirl-
ing dances, and Burr and Hope remain the
“Perfect Lovers,” advertising their bliss in
song and chatter. For the rest, there are
Billy Maloney, Cahill and Brooke, Edna
Davis, and the wondrous Colleano, whose
somersaulting is so good that he is suspected
of having graduated from the same college
as W. M. Hughes.
* * * *
“What’s Wrong with the Women?” is the
plaintive question asked at Melbourne Majes-
tic this week, and all that the present com-
mentator can answer is that they generally
overact. One is not so much affected by
screen stars grimacing in the follow-on, “No
Defence,” wherein there is the corpse of a
bashed blackmailer to be explained
away. Hoyt’s are boosting “Fool’s
Paradise,” recently shown at another
Melbourne theatre, and Owen Moore
is also on the same bill to prove in
a serio-comic manner that “Love is an
Awful Thing.” Gladys Walton, as “Second-
Hand Rose,” demonstrating simple senti-
ments in a second-hand plot, is doing a week
at the Lyceum. Ethel Clayton, forlorn and
beautiful, is being hypnotically tranced into
weird beliefs in “For the Defence” at the
Melba. “The Sea Lion” roars for a while
at the Britannia, but, under the influence
of two pleading eyeballs, he soon begins to
bleat like a lamb.
* * *
The offspring of the late Walter Withers
are giving another little show at Melbourne
Athenaeum. Meynell is mostly addicted to
small landscapes reporting a good deal of
dull weather around Elfham, but in “Early
Morning” and “An Afternoon in Winter” he
covers a larger area of canvas and reveals
some appreciation of tone and proportion.
Margery Withers’s landscapes seem the de-
pressed and furtive expressions of a morbid
soul, but she evidently feels a flair for por-
traiture of which she hangs a dozen or more
examples. A study of a Belgian miss, with a
downcast golden head, has some sweet color.
Some of Nancy Withers’s portraits must
have impaired any ties of friendship that
existed between her and her models, but her
landscapes are more cheerful, and a still
life, entitled “The Bowl,” takes the eye.
* * * *
Owing to practical difficulties Melbourne’s
Pioneer Players have had to put off their
new bill of short plays till next year. They
hope, in their next season, to stage a variety
of work from different States, that is, if
they can get hold of anything like a theatre.
Next year, as the Athenaeum and Play-
house will be remodelled and used for other
purposes, all the amateur societies of Mel-
bourne will have a lively time house-
hunting.
$ Jj! $
The Adelaide heat wave has played into
the hands of a Williamsonian open-air ven-
ture —Hugh Huxham’s Serenaders, in the
Exhibition Garden. Claude Dampier is
appearing in a diversified variety show at
the Majestic. In pictures, “Dream Street
at the York is an unusual thing, with its
suggestion of the supernatural . urging
towards right or wrong. At West’s is Alice
Calhoun in a very Yankee drama of
woman’s wits v. police organisation. Won-
“SPANGLES,” AT FULLERS’
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
A dancing grocer of the Co-operative Store
(Harry Could).
dergraph has a big riding-and-sliootiug yarn,
“North of the Rio Grande,” and the Par.
gives Betty Compson a chance to star in the
Paris “underworld” in three widely differing
types.
“0.K.,” for the defence: —
One of the faults “Y.Z.” finds with “The Senti-
mental Bloke” (B. 23/11/’22) is, from my point of
view, its central virtue. For Doreen to have been
presented as a typical pickle-foundry worker would
have robbed Dennis’s play of its poetry. In the text,
as in the interpretation, she is idealised. She ex-
plains why Bill is struck dumb by her at their first
meeting, and why Ginger Mick respectfully addresses
her as “Princess.” It may be true that to such a
dainty-mannered, nicely-spoken girl the slang-soaked
Bloke would be almost as impossible as she is impos-
sible to pickle-foundry life. But not quite. He’s the
rough apostle of stoush who worships Doreen, and
worship goes for much with such a girl. Doreen is
idealised, anyhow, and, being so, she is the beautiful
centrepiece in a harmonious production. Most of the
characters are idealised, like many famous ones in
Dickens’s stories. Was there ever a more sparkling
rough diamond than Bill the Bloke, or a more gener-
ous-minded Uncle than the grey-bearded farmer who
succumbs so easily to Doreen’s blandishments, and
gives the young couple a fine start in the country life
they are both longing for? Is the idealised Doreen's
love for the idealised Bloke any more impossible than
the simple-minded, Diekenesque goodness of “Uncle” ?
Again, the artless mother of Doreen —never so artless
as in her direct attempts to capture a second husband
—is idealised. Never was such another mother-in-
law-elect. “You’re on your own, Mar,” cries happy
Bill to the middle-aged matron, after she has left
the room. Bill thought that they were all “on their
own” —Doreen, Uncle and Mar, not to mention
Ginger Mick —and so they are. All idealised. Hence
the charm of the play. Isn’t Ginger, the “poor cow”
who only pretends to be crooked when he is straight
as a die —isn’t he idealised? Wouldn’t he be “out
of the picture” (as “Y.Z.” says of Doreen) if he were
presented in all his native vulgarity? The bonnie
young girl, Doreen’s friend, who thinks wonders of
her Artie —isn’t she idealised? To be in the picture
she must be quite sweet in her young wa/y. All the
good people must be sweet in order that Dennis’s
sweet little play may be harmonious, poetic, eleva-
ting. I’m glad to know that the girl-workers of Mel-
bourne are delighted with “The Sentimental Bloke.”
The ambition to emulate Doreen is ir. ten thousand
factory-girls’ hearts.
Last Saturday Henry Lawson’s son called
on J. G. Lockley, the Sydney librarian, de-
scribed as “one of the poet’s oldest and staun-
chest friends,” and a row ensued, which
ended in police-court proceedings. The son
claimed to have been incensed by an article
written about Henry by Lockley in the Sun.
In a sense the incident was symbolic. There
are several Lawson Memorial Funds, in
addition to The Bulletin one, and they
are all clamoring for attention; but, so far,
they have been largely ignored by the poet’s
friends and by the people who were most in
the limelight on the day of his funeral. _ If
those who claim to have loved or admired
Lawson would keep silence and the peace,
and- devote the time and energy saved to the
task of sending a guinea to one of the funds
designed to perpetuate his memory, they
would be doing him a better service than
they now can in any other way.


“/ saw it in
Murdoch's Catalogue
and- ”
Here you have the first of the long list of
“reasons” why tens of thousands of men (and
women who purchase for their men folk and
boys) shop at Sydney’s Big Mail-order House.
Two facts stand out like monuments —first, all
raw materials are bought direct—all the middle-
men’s profits avoided effect a great saving to the
customer. Second, Murdoch’s unflinchingly
guarantee everything— this is confidence in
quality. You must have perfect satisfaction or you
are at liberty to receive your money back in full.
A few selections at random—
The “Prince
Soft Felt
The smart Prince Shape that has won the hearts of the well-
dressed. In pleasing shades of Fawn, Grey,
Slate, Steel and Drab, with Black Bands and
Self Binding. All Sizes.
Better Quality .... 25/- and 35/-
196
Men’s Suits
Well Tailored Sports Suits, ready for immediate use, in pure
All-Wool Tweed
Three-Garment Tweed Sac Suits
(as illustration), 63/-
63/-
Men’s Shirts
Smart and dressy Cambric Golf Shirts . . .
White Mercerised Tennis Shirts, . 6/11
Famous “Fugiluxe” Golf Shirts, “Just
like silk” ; 17/6
6|6
Swimming
Costumes
Murdoch-made One-piece Costumes for men, of Pure Wool,
in plain Black or Black with colored trimmings
of Red, Royal or White. Sizes 32in. to 36in.
38in. to 44in. 8/11
Men’s Canadian Costumes (as illustra-
tion) 8/11
8/6
Boys’ Suits
Boys’ Bengal Tweed Washing Cotswold Suits. Coat has 4
Patch Pockets, yoke, half-belt vent. Knickers
have 2 Side Pockets and are unlined. Dark
color. Fast dye. Fit boys Bto 10 years.
Fit Boys 5 to 7 13/6
Fit Boys 11 to 14 15/6
14/6
Travelling
Requisites
No. 24.—Strong Fibre Suit Cases, Sturdy Steel Frame, 20in.,
19/6; 22in., 21/-; 24in., 23/-; 26in., 25/-; 28in., 27/-. In
Specially Selected Solid Leather, 42/6 to 65/6. According to
Size.
No. 23.—Solid Leather Kit Bags, 12in., 18/6; 1 4in., 22/6;
18in., 27/6; 20in., 30/-
No. 22.—Solid Leather Strapped Kit Bags, 20in., 40/-; 22in.,
44/-; 24in., 4S/6; 26in„ 52/6.
No. 21.—A11-Wool Travelling Rugs, 25/-. Dust Rugs, 8/6.
THOUSANDS OF MONEY-SAVING VALUES!
Send for this FREE book now. Address your letter to
DESK R.
MURDOCH'S
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney
“The World’s Largest Men's and
Boys' Wear Store.”
23
m
a
XV
m
m
U U
Uifll
m
cin
\^J/
Jti
■m,
1)1
iWH
inti 11
L ?
1 **
V
We Pay
Postage
to all parts
of
Australia,


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now-
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph: “HOCAR,” Sydney.
9
WORLD-FAMED
ATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
The Federal,
Melbourne.
AUSTRALIA’S LARGEST
HOSTELRY.
Rooms only, or Full Board at
option.
First- and Second-class
Dining Rooms.
Cafe open day and night.
For Tariff Card write
THE MANAGER.
Poverty
Point
L.T.PIVER, PARIS
The FACE POWKER
de luxe
“Hambone” : Few film versions of notable
books have glued themselves so tightly to
the written story as “The Four Horsemen
of the Apocalypse.” The fertile Madriaga,
“The Sentimental
Bloke,” at. Melbourne
King’s.
Herbert, Walton as
Artie.
his volatile French
son-in-law, his
stolid G e r m a n
ditto, the mysteri-
ous Russian who
sees the ghastly
riders and the cun-
ning and impecuni-
ous Argenola, are
as vivid to me on
the silver sheet as
Ibanez made them
in his novel. The
flaw comes in the
inevitable and hate-
ful Yankee brag of
winning the war.
In the reel version,
the tide is turned
for the suffering
Allies by two or
three battalions of
“youths from over-
seas,” who march
across the camera’s
eye., Of course,
the youths from
overseas are laden
with the Starsand-
stripes. In the
bright imaginaP >n
of the Yankee producer there were no other
youths from overseas.
“Second Murderer”: As I sat in the
green-room at Sydney Royal, a pretty chorus
girl was giving a clever imitation of a high-
priced imported star then coruscating in
Australia. “Ah!” commented a caustic
“head” who was looking op, “why don’t you
go on the green ( Anglice, the stage) and
act? What’s the use of doing it here where
no one can see you?” Like a flash she hit
back: “And why do you eat tinned aspara-
gus from California when you’ve got better
stuff growing in your back yard?”
“Tren”: There is an old feud between
Arnold Bennett and A. B. Walkley, the
critic (B. 23/11/’22). In the articles Ben-
nett used to write for the New Age, Walkley
was held up to ridicule many times. For
example:—
When an A. B. Walkley yawns in print before the
spectacle of the modern British theatre it really does
not matter.
And, apropos the late St. John Hankin: —-
The mere insolence which he had to tolerate in
the criticisms of Mr. A. B. Walkley were demonstra-
tions of the fact that he was a genuine writer.
That was in 1909, and they have been at it,
spasmodically ever since.
“Sunny Jim”: The Firm’s press-agent
informs me that, whereas “East of Suez” is
a huge success in London and New York,
“Tons of Money,” first staged in London,, is
a dire failure in America. From which I
deduce, with Holmes-like cunning, that the
script of “Suez” is coming to Australia in
George Tallis’s luggage, while that of
“Money” (st.ll a winner in London) landed
with Ward. At all events, hostilities have
begun. Go it, ye cripples!
“G.”: Why gibe at “The Peep Show,”
which is a passable revue, instead of the
usual m u s i c a 1
comedy, especially
the brand that
comes out of the
States? Revue is
a much better
form, allowing for
variety of scene
and character, and
especially for a
running commen-
tary on modern
affairs. “The Peep
Show’,” elaborated
for a huge theatre
like the Hippo-
drome, has nothing
of the lightness
and ele\ erness of
a Cochrane revue
like “London,
Paris and New
York.” Wimperis,
the leading revue
author, can write
e xception ally
pointed dialogue;
while Nelson Keys
is a comedian of
genius, as subtle,
intellectual, versa-
tile and polished
as any actor on
the English stage.
Revue has never
been popular in
Australia, but that
is because revue
depends more or
less on local allu-
sions, and most of
“Spangles,” at
Fullers' Theatre,
Sydney.
Gus McNaughton as a
member of the Pick-
pockets’ Union.
the revues shown . ~
here have for some weird reason been full
of imported allusions.
“Nella”: Lord knows I yearn to see a
good Australian photo-play, and time was
when I wondered why locally-produced suc-
cesses were so few. One of the reasons, I
am now satisfied, is the cast-iron convention
that no good pitcher can be made without
a starred and striped perducer. Slick gents,
with an accent that sounds like the Monroe
doctrine, arrive here utterly ignorant ot
Australia, her history or traditions and con-
ditions, and set out to make a dinkum Aus-
tralian 'picture with all the assurance of their
kind. A cocksure person was directing a
stunt required for an all-Australian film,
when one of the mummers pointed out
that, as he was impersonating a returned
soldier, he would have to wear his badge,
“You take it off right now’,” commanded
Salem P. Doughnut. “I cain’t stand a bar
of them blamed Diggers!” The mummer
took himself off instead.
“Billy T.”: When William Rignold was
appearing in “The Merry Wives,” at Mel-
bourne Royal, coining from the stage after
an act, lumbering in his excess of adipose
tissue and the burden of his “make-up,” he
inadvertently stepped on the foot of Mistress
Ward. “Clumsy, clumsy!” she cried, sitting
down, and nursing the injured member.
“You are not an actor. You—you—you are
a performing bear!” William bowed and
apologised, mopping copious perspiration
from his brow, for the night was bitterly
hot. “Performing bare!” he grumbled.
“Performing bare! I wish to God I were,
madam.”
“Lip”: Only once have I seen an actor
disconcerted by applause. It was during the
progress of a gory bellowdrama on the war-
time programme of the Pavilion, at Wey-
mouth (Eng.). The heroine’s aged father,
having surprised the villain pinching her
marriage-lines or ration-tickets, stopped a
slieath-knife with his ribs, and went out
with a heartrending gurgle. Immediately
there came from the dimness , of the back
stalls cheers, handclaps and a yell of
“Good oh ! Give the old cow another !” The
villain looked startled, but managed to keep
his face straight enough to exit with a little
dignity. Not so the corpse. A loud laugh
announced his return to life, and the lethal
weapon clattered out of his perforated
frame. The curtain came down with a rush.
It didn’t go up again until the management
had persuaded the two Diggers responsible
for the applause to see what was in the bar.
“Orb”: Walter Cornock and Tal Ordell,
The Bloke and Ginger Mick of “The Senti-
mental Bloke” at Melbourne King’s, work
together with the smoothness which comes
of long association. When Charles King
ran his bellow co. at Brisbane Royal, with
a different explosion every Saturday night
for four years—the show only closed down
because there were no more unexploited
shockers in the world —Cornock and Ordell
were prominent malefactors during the
greater part of that long run. Cornock, who
was s.m. part of the time, perpetrated every-
thing, from clean old gentlemen to dirty
dogs; while Ordell did the comics—China-
men, niggers, Cockneys, Jack-tars, Jews
and Gentiles —every variant of the funny
man who frustrates the villain at the end
of Act 3. Both mummers are native-born,
and have worked together in the
pitchers.
"Fred C.”: “T.0.1.’5” memory tricked
him when he wrote (B. 23/11/’22) that the
second fire at Her Majesty’s, Sydney,
occurred during the run of “Brewster’s Mil-
lions.” It happened on Sunday, August 1,
1909, during the second week of “The Flag
Lieutenant.” I was a member of the co.,
and ought to know. “Brewster’s Millions”
was first produced at Sydney Royal on Nov-
ember 2. 1907.
“T. 0.1.”: Theatrical unions are by no
means recent. Sixty-three years ago there
was one in Sydney, of which Richard Stew-
art, father of Nellie, was treasurer, Frank
Varley secretary, and Ned Holloway a pro-
minent member. The combination came
about in this way. Both the Victoria Theatre
and the Prince of Wales’s were under the
lesseeship and management of Charles Poole.
The ghost failed to walk, and the mummc-rs
agreed that until he did no one should en-
gage with Poole. The owner of the Vic.
arranged to let the house to a company of
actors, but the unionists got in first and
barricaded the theatre, so that no perform-
ance could take place. Then Colville, hus-
band of the tragic actress Mary Provost, got
a sub-lease of the Prince of Wales’s Theatre,
ar.d announced a performance of “Camille,”
with Mary in the lead. Colville induced
four unionists, Joe Rayner, Charles
Burford, James Hasker and Newton,
to secede and support him. The others, led
by Ned Holloway and Richard Stewart,
attended the production of “Camille,” and
so interrupted the proceedings that Miss Pro-
vost plaintively appealed for a hearing.
After the show Rayner and Burford had to
be escorted to their homes by police.
“0.K.” speaks:—
The story of Cissie Loftus, charged at a London
police court with being a drug fiend, is perhaps as
pathetic as her counsel stated, though the fact that
a woman has divorced two husbands is not convinc-
ing evidence of anything save her failure to keep
them fond of her. She was the talk of London
town before she had left school, and only two or
three years later she got further advertisement
through taking the place of Ellen Terry as Mar-
guerite, during Irving’s production of an operatic
“Faust” at the Lyceum. Cissie Loftus may have
been born in Australia. Her father, Big Ben
Brown, of “Brown, Newland and Wallace,” was a
notable burnt-cork sketch artist in Australia some 40
years ago. Her mother, Marie Loftus, was a smart
serio-ehronie at the ’alls of the period. The exceed-
ing riskiness of her ditties, and dashing abandon of
her style, may have explained why Cissie was edu-
cated in a convent, and brought up in proper igno-
rance of the giddy things mother sang in the
ordinary way of business.
“T.W.”: The flock of singing birds who
are winging home to Melba, in the hope that
she will see them right to the top branch,
have perhaps failed to consider the position
in regard to earlier compatriots. The Dame
has been Song Empress for 30 years, and in
that time she has taken up a succession of
young singers. But she appears to have a
distinct knack of backing the wrong vocal
pigeons. The most expansive burst was in
favor of a soprano whom she trimmed and
tailored and beauty-parlored as a prelimi-
nary to an almost unprecedented debut, with
royal George and Mary in the front seats.
The young lady was envied by every plod-
ding Australian in England, yet she has
almost vanished. Regina Nagel, Kirby, Stella
Power, Dorothy Murdoch and even a weird
youth with a “double-voice” affliction are
others who have been in the boom with
Nellie for a space. Most of them might
have gone farther if left to push for them-
selves instead of pinning their faith to a
fluctuating affection. You drop from a great
height if Melba drops you. Your fate is
about that of a tomtit’s egg on an asphalt
path. But the Dame has good intentions,
which is more than can be said of othei
Australians successful in a less-exalted w ay.
“Sarc”: “Thor’s” suggestion that there
should be sound-proof chambers, v’ith records
of musical masterpieces, at our public libraries
“THE SILVER FOX,” AT SYDNEY
CRITERION.
Doris Kendal as
Frankie Turner.
(B. 30/11/’22), has as much chance of
life as the proverbial block of ice in
Sheol. Melb. Public Library possesses one
of the finest collection of manuscript music
south of the Line. It includes many works
otherwise unobtainable in Australia. But
to provide against the collection being put to
practical use the authorities have decreed
that no volume is to be removed. Not even
the trustees are exempt from _ this stupid
ordinance. The consequence is that the
splendid collection of music is, to all intents
and purposes, useless. Books can be re-
moved on the order of a trustee; and why
in thunder shouldn’t the same privilege be
extended to music?
“C. Ockney” : My earliest recollection of
the late Chirgwin is of himself and his
brother doing a black-faced turn the
beach at the Sussex watering-place, Last-
bourne. I don’t know of another instance
of a busker rising to eminence in the theatres,
and giving practically the same show on the
boards that he purveyed in the open air.
“Caesar’s Ghost” : The Firm’s lease of the
Sydney Palace is at an end, and, after “The
Sentimental Bloke” season, the place may
undergo the remodelling long promised. It
has seen some theatrical history. Henry
Lee, who brought Rostand’s “Cyrano de
Bergerac” to Australia, found a home in the
little theatre under Bill Anderson’s aus-
pices. Unfortunately for Lee, he struck a
typical Bill Anderson audience, who ex-
pected something new in the blood-and-
thunder line, and whose boisterous remon-
strances moved Lee to wrath. Utterly be-
side himself, the quick-tempered actor
stepped to the footlights and denounced, not
only the audience, but all Australia and all
Australians as well. Followed the worst
theatrical riot that Sydney can remember. It
was so fierce and sustained that the curtain
had to be rung down, and Lee never appeared
in Australia again.
“Beamish”: Stewart Garner, house-
manager for the Carrolls at Melbourne
King’s, where “The Sentimental Bloke” is
finishing a run, has been doffing his mana-
gerial clobber lately in order to yabber as
the demented Chow in the first scene of
Dennis’s play. Garner is an old actor with
one of those deep, sultry baritones which
seem to have been specially invented to lure
stage heroines from home and mother. He
has played many picturesque parts, but pro-
bably the most outstanding of them was his
Pharaoh in “Joseph and His Brethren,”
which the Firm put on at Melbourne Royal.
He had little to do but look impressive, and
this he accomplished without much acting.
It may have been the effect of Pharaoh, or
it may be just the nature of the man, but
ever since an air of distinction has clung to
Garner. He may suggest “a spot” ever so
kindly, but still you feel like being asked to
champagne and turkey with a royal being.
“T.W.”: Puccini, who could afford to
know better, has sold the jazz-time rights of
his opera, “La Tosca.” For some time
chunks of “Madame Butterfly” have been
available in fox-trot form. The stand taken
by the big musical folk is that they are no
more to be blamed for permitting their work
to be garbled than an author is for letting
the movie men exploit his best-sellers.
Chopin, Schubert, Rimsky-Korsakoff and
Greig have all been syncopated by the jazz-
provokers, but you may do what you like
with the dead. They can’t kick. Apropos,
Australia’s Willie Murdoch is able to syn-
copate Debussy with delicious whimsicality,
but he doesn’t do it on the platform.
THE SUBLIME METICULOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Who that on Saturday night witnessed Miss
Yvonne Bouvard in the final scene in the first act
will ever forget the impassioned ring of her voice,
the tragedy of despair written on tier face, and the
wild cry of vengeance which ends her interview with
the callous proprietor of the Emporium?”—Q. theatri-
cal note.
Yvonne! They ask a question, one the Sphinx
Might have propounded ; offering life, or death,
According to the answer ; and, methinks,
I should have trembled, paled and gasped for
breath,
Had it been fired at me as now ’tis asked —
Tensely, imperiously, with searching point,
Defying all evasion ! Overtasked,
I should have fled the fatal Theban joint.
Who could forget that first act’s final scene,
And, not forgetting, falsely swear he did?
Or, put it this way: What impassioned bean,
A trifle sozzled, would attempt to “kid”
Next morning that he’d missed no single word,
Look, gesture, wriggle, bend, stamp, dash or dot
Of and in all your part ? The thought’s absurd ;
So let it be dismissed upon the spot 1
Uneasily, and as with conscious guilt,
I ask myself have I forgotten aught?
The trills, the thrills, the tears, the blood you spilt—
The villain’s blood. Yvonne, when, overwrought,
You stabbed him to the heart, girl, and the blade
Dropped at your feet 1 The house was stricken
dumb
In that dread moment, Yvonne, when you made
Cold meat of callous McEmporium 1
Your face, your voice, your gesture wild to
Heaven —
O God, Yvonne! Can these things be forgot?
But, wait 1 Was all that in Act Two, Scene Seven,
Or have I carelessly missed out a lot?
No matter! This I seem to recollect;
After the second smoke-oh I returned
In time to see the bargain-counter wrecked
And your sad, secret marriage-license burned!
No; let me think....ah, yes; I have it now 1
Eureka ! I remember, in Act Four,
The dazzling ljandeaus shining round your brow —
The dainty tuckstitch stockings that you wore;
What else? My head! I cannot think what else —
I only saw the Vision you expressed,
But that’s like me —on whom girls cast such spells,
That I never can recall in what they’re dressed.
However, Yvonne, here I will admit
That, possibly, I have not borne in mind
Some dressy details which don’t count a bit;
To all except your beauty I am blind.
Hence, when I’m probed in this exhaustive way
About your joy, your anger, your despair,
And final vengeance, I can only say—
I did not see them, for I wasn’t there!
QUEENSLAND.
ALF. RESCO.


FOR EVERY MAN, WOMAN and CHILD
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
fa?
rty.
r (F:
W.
Tr\
W.
P:
pp-
m
YSI
W:
W:
Th.
Yj
W:
P
(T:
(T-
T (x.
r (c)
m
Yb.
7n
(m
rr
n
Who Has Any Writing To Do.
The Remington Portable is a capable, companionable
typewriter, built for the individual use of the man in his
business or profession, the woman in her home, the child
attending school—in fact, for every man, woman and child
who writes.
# The time-saving typewriter, for many years an absolute necessity in the
business office, is now recognised as an equal necessity for all personal writing. It
is as essential in the home as the clock on the mantel—as indispensable, when you
travel, as a shaving kit, or a hairbrush—as helpful in the education of your child
as his teachers or his text books—as important to the field worker as any of the
other tools of his trade.
It was the Remington—the first typewriter—that started the reign of the
writing machine in the business office, and the Remington Portable, with all the
prestige of the Remington name, is now presented as the writing machine for
personal, individual use.
SO SIMPLE YOU CAN OPERATE IT AT SIGHT.
THE BEST CHRISTMAS GIFT. Send Your Order To-day.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW MORE
ABOUT THIS WONDERFUL MACHINE?
Then sign and mail this Coupon TO-DAY—
Please forward illustrated descriptive matter —
“YOUR EVER HANDY HELPER.”
Name
Address
(State whether you desire particulars of our easy terms.)
Dealers, apply for our profitable dealership terms.
Only 19 Guineas.
Terms cam be
Arranged.
For Sale by Branches and Dealers Everywhere.
REMINGTON SALESROOMS:—
New South Wales:
STOTT & HOAREj LTD., Liverpool Street, Sydney.
(Central Showroom), 86 Pitt Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Queensland:
STOTT & HOARE, LTD., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Victoria:
CHARTRES PTY., LTD., Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
REMINGTON AGENCY, LTD., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
siwC
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Packed in the famous Red Boxes
and mailed to you the day they
are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6,
12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post tree to any address
in Australia.
162-166 Pitt St., Sydney ,
and Cr. George 6* King Sts.
o
‘ ‘ What a lovely
Christmas Gift!”
BUY CIGARS for XMAS.
For the man who smokes—
A box of GOOD CIGARS
makes a pleasing and
appreciated gift.
club reil
The Cigar of Generous Size and Weight.
Supreme in Flavor and Aroma.
Box Prices: 10 cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-);
25, 12/- (posted 12/6); 00, 23/- (posted
23/9); 100, 45/- (posted 46/-).
Pocket Tin, 10 cigars, 5/- (posted 5/6).
Round Tin, 50 cigars, 23/- (posted 23/9).
The cigars in tin packings are loose packed—not pressed
—for smokers who prefer a free smoking cigar.
m 3
Special Cabinet, Heavyweight Extra, 25 cigars, 45/- (posted 46/-).
MONARCH —Entirely hand-made
from Choicest Havana Leaf. A Quality Cigar!
Torpedo shape, regular size, in Cabinet Boxes, 10
cigars, 5/6 (posted 6/-); 25, 12/- (posted 12/6);
50, 23/- (posted 23/9); 100, 45/- (posted 46/-).
Special Cabinets—
Extra fina, Heavyweight 10 cigars, 15/6 (posted
16/-).
Extra fina, H.W. Extra, 5 cigars, 9/6 (posted
Monarch and Club Reil Cigars can be purchased
from most good tobacconists and hotels, or
supplied direct from
CRAIG 8 AITKEN,
6548 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Distributors: Club Reil Cigar Factory.
Trade Buyers.—Write us for quotations on these Cigars, alSff General Tobacconists’ Supplies.
GOVERNMENT
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4 /o INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3j //o on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.


i
Hupmobile
WmM
M
Hupmobile
To make a thing mechanically per-
fect is success; but to make a thing
that will approximate perfection
after years of abuse and neglect is
a triumph. Ask Hupmobile own-
ers how their motor cars run after
10,000, 40,000 yes, 100,000
9&L
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney, N.S.W.
JDALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED. 112-120 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
*- - :
-P
■ m
, AUTOTONE
?s*^2s®iEstegsai^*®flß
■ ..'-'rfSh * ■
MAKE A FEATURE
OF MUSIC
THIS
CHRISTMAS.
Buy your family one of
PALING’S
“Autotone” Players
The “Autotone” is noted for its grand
Tone Quality, its perfect player mechan-
ism and artistic case design. Main tubing
is of metal construction.
The Autotone Player Piano is fitted with the popular transposing device, enabling you to accompany songs in any
one of five different keys.
The Automatic Tracking Device eliminates all troubles of rolls not running true. Patent Sustaining pedal, re-roll
and tempo levers, graduating time lever—and a very sensitive phrasing lever; pneumatic soft treble and bass controls,
and a silent play (deletor) button.
If not convenient to pay cash, our easy Time-payment System is at your disposal.
Call in and hear them, or send for our Art Illustrated Player Catalogue.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
338 George St., Sydney.
Rockhampton
Newcastle
Lismore


PLUM
RAZORS
' For the
Xmas Gift
Buy Him
a PLUM.
Always sharp
and keen, the
most useful
Gift you can
bestow on a
man.
Black handle, 12/6;
7-day set, 867-
Post Free.
Xylonite handle,
15/-; 7-day set, 1007-
Post Free.
Ivory handle, 21/-;
7-day set, 1467-
Post Free.
Presentation ease
free with pair of
razors.
Blades Jin.,
Jin., set ready
for use and
guaranteed and
kept in order
for two years
free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN
654 b GEORGES!SYDNEY
For Sale.
FOR IMMEDIATE SALE
—OWNER LEAVING DISTRICT.
Cronulla (Burraneer Bay)
Residence.
ABSOLUTE water frontage. Grounds
two acres. Torrens Title. Buildings
consist of Brick Bungalow, six rooms, exten-
sive verandahs three sides, electric light,
motor garage. Immediate possession. Price,
£2250, below cost. Apply owner, J. WILSON,
“Burranhurst,” Burraneer Bay.
Amusements.
SY l> N K Y’S CIII E F TIIEAT It E 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
JULIUS CA3SAR.
CRITERION:
THE SILVER FOX.
ROYAL: THE ARCADIANS.
FUELERS’ NEW THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Proprietors: BENJAMIN and JOHN FULLER.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
EVENINGS AT 8.
Matinees Monday, Wednesday and Saturday, at 2.
ADA REEVE,
i The World Renowned Comedienne, with Her Own
' Company, including GUS McNAUGHTON, in
SPANGLES,
The Australian Record-making Production.
Box Plan at PALING’S.
TIIE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAX
PRODUCTIONS
NEW ZEALAND TOUR: NORTH ISLAND.
Australasian Representatives: WILSON & SODEN,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.. MELBOURNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MARY.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE PEEP SHOW.
A WHIRLWIND OF DANCE AND MELODY.
H
OYT’S
Til EAT RES, M ECHO II RN K
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
FOOL’S PARADISE.
CECIL B. DE MILLE’S LAVISH PICTURE
PRODUCTION.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES’IIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, DEC. 9.
NORTH WIND’S MALICE,
A GOLDWYN PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
For Sale.
BULLETINS” FOR SALE. From No.
37, October, 1880, to date, without a
reak. About half of them are hound. All
‘ first-class order.
The Bulletin Office, Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, white to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY
(Opp.
Station)*
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
BOOK OF SIMPLE CARD TRICKS That Any-
one Can Do With Ordinary Cards, without
Sleights, 1/6.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/., Fun, Magic and Mystery,
1/-. Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /.,
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE PAINTS.
WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, *c.
CATALOGUES FREE. •
If
FOUR MORE FARCES,
in one book, 27-
Contents —Our First
Performance, My Turn
Next, Area Belle,
Mock Trial for Bread)
of Promise. PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO LEARN VEN-
TRILOQUISM, 17-
Write for list of our
Ventriloquial Heads,
from 12/6 to £5.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage.... 1/6
KiTi’S
CIDER
m
KITZS
Kitz’s Sparkling Cider
A most delicious, refreshing and health-
giving beverage. The British Medical
Gazette says there is no drink more bene-
ficial to human beings than cider.
AGENTS:
N. S. Wales: Caldwell’s Wines, Btd., Sydney.
Tucker & Co., L,td., Sydney.
Queensland: Burns, Phijp & Co., Ltd.
S. Australia: Walkerville Brewery, lAd.,
Adelaide.
West Australia: James Watson & Co., Perth.
Tasmania: Jno. McKenzie & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.
Magnetos
Have Cobalt Steel Magnets.
*5
A
They are four times as power-
ful as Tungsten, and give
efficient starting at a magneto
speed of 50 r.p.ittc
Sole Distributors in Australia -•-*
Smith, Sons & Rees Limited,
100 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
30-32 Wentworth Avenue,
SYDNEY.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
rj
m
ss.
“Koh-i-Noor” HB
is the Writer's degree.
“Thank goodness it’s back,
writing will become a pleasure
again wrote one enthusiast. No
pencil is so silky in touch, or so
long-wearing as is a
'HOW i»f .» »*.■
THE PERFECT PENCIL.
The favourite of everyone who has once
used it. Made from a formula exclusive to
L. &C. Hardtinuth. Entirely free from grit.
In 17 degrees, 6B to 9H.
From all Stationers, Drawing Material Dealers and Stores.
Agent for AUSTRALIA :
Mr. JOHN MACDOUGALL, G.P.O. Box No. 165, SYDNEY.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, - 10. Bothwell Street. - GLASGOW.
Factories—Budweis, Czecho-Slovakia.
n
w
i
/
■V
«e
* Mi
m
'rif/yy/
r S
o
Xv zz
Nowadays youngsters demand Toys that have
“action,” and provide plenty of healthy fun and
exercise. These are some of the wonderful
vr-’ues Nock & Kirby’s are now showing. Order
now. We pack securely for despatch anywhere.
NOCK & KIRBY’S TOY DISPLAY
STANDS UNRIVALLED FOR
VARIETY AND MODERATE PRICES
WOODEN SCOOTERS, nicely painted, strong
rubber tyred wheels . 16/6
Iron wheels, and varnished ...
MOTOR CAR, as above a perfect little model,
nicely padded, fitted with head-light, chain-driven,
wired wheels, rubber tyres, easy running.. £ 5/1.2/d
EXPRESS WAGGONS, strong steel body, wood
floor, steel wheels, swivel front action.
Prices 15/9, 21/-, 24/6
BOYS’ TRICYCLES, strongly made, with spe-
cial rubber tyred wheels. No youngster is
happy without one . No. 1, 35/-; No. 2, 38/6;
No. 3, 45/-.
BOYS’ TRICYCLES, steel tyred, No. 1, 26/6;
No. 2, 29/9; No. 3, 37/6. _
Ah! It’s here at last. The TWO-WHEEL BIKE
for boys, strong, durable, and safe, made with
rubber tyres, easy to ride, 37/6. /
Larger 42 / 6
MOTOR CARS, nice little models to ride in,
fitted with wired rubber tyres and pedals to
propel 6
BOYS’ TROLLEY CARS, made with very strong
steel frame and steel wheels. This toy delights
any boy, 42/6. y • .
Aiso wire wheels, rubber tyres 00/t>
i
Hock*
See our Display
yneptore J
foryZmc'id&resen id. "
188-194 George Street.


Learn to Draw
m
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
Send for
Mr. Harry
J. Weston’s
instructive
and interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen.”
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by i lie Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work are given.
The Weston method
is simplicity itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by a
series' of easy, pro-
gressive lessons
gives you a
thorough grounding
in the basic prin-
ciples of art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
many successful
Weston pupils have
done? You have
the benefit of
Mr. Weston’s
personal advice
on every lesson.
Send three stamps to-day for booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
182 Union House, Ceorge Street, SYDNEY.
Story Writing
FOR
Pleasure and
Profit.
Can You Write a
Short Story?
We can train you to become a suc-
cessful writer. You can find congenial
and lucrative employment as a Journal-
ist, Story Writer or Magazine Contribu-
tor. There are many chances confront-
ing bright men. and women in this field.
Editors cannot get sufficient well writ-
ten Short Stories.
EE A UN THE “TECHNIQUE” in
Story Writing, so that your Stories have
a reasonable chance of acceptance.
Thousands of well-read men and women
could write a short story if they knew
how to arrive at the “climax,” or knew
the theory of “single effect.”
This College is organised to help you.
You will receive individual instruction
from a successful writer and editor.
W’rite for our unique booklet, “Your
Career.” It’s free to all enquirers.
STOTT’S
Technical Correspondence
College
(37 Years’ Practical Experience),
100 Russell Street, Melbourne;
70 Pitt St., Sydney; Queen St., Brisbane.
MUCILINE
£77ie £fiez/ec£
©IFiPBCgB IP&ifIHS
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST.- BEST.
SOLO BY ALL STATIONERS
%!^' e ALEx CbwAN & Sons, L™
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUND
—-F3
Every Month is
Spring in Hawaii.
|k A trip to those romantic isles, at
jk the edge ,of the tropics, means a
pleasant voyage through temperate
seas ; a holiday of rare enjoyment;
gorgeous scenery; ever-activ* volcano
lvilauea; varied outdoor recreation.
Consult nearest tourist or steamship
agency; or write for new illustrated
booklet, to —
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau.
Box 241 G.P.0,, Sydney, N.S.W. ; or
Box 2120 Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S.A.
r
I
w
t
w
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING
Soiled white shoes take on a new look when this quality
cleaner is used. For Canvas, Nubuck and Suede Leathers.
Will not rub off. Price, 6d. per bottle.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD.. Box 91, Haymarkei
Wat£r3jan’s
(Ideal)
Founta&Ben
It makes
you “right”
for life
Three Type* : Self-Filling, Safety and Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, Ltd., Corner London, England.
Australia : HAROLD D. DIXON, 105, Clarence Street, Sydney.
BRASS SHEETS
COPPER SHEETS
COPPER BUBARS
Rods and Square Bars.
Extruded Brass Bars
Round, Square, Flat & Special Trade Sections.
Stampings or Pressings, in Brass, etc.
For Many Trades.
"GrauKine” ANTI-FRICTION METAL
Best Bearing Metal on tlie MarKet.
‘Austral” Chill Cast PHOSPHOR BRONZE
For Bushes.
STANDARD QUALITY AND FINISH.
PROMPT DELIVERY.
MANUFACTURED BY
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney), Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane and Newcastle; (Mel-
bourne) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne, Adelaide and Hobart.
Perth: Geo. Kent., Ltd. Wellington, N.Z.: Jones & Co., Ltd.
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAGUES BROS. PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St, Sydney, N.S.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Xo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. A'o
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
The Wampus: “Merrygoround” is not
without some spirit and humor, but the form kills
it There’s not enough in it to make a sketch, and
too much to compress into a par. . . .Fredk. F.: Some
skill in versification, but the second syllable of “Ally”
cannot be shortened, or “infusion” rhymed with “pro-
fusion.” And what on earth are “maids with form and
purse Elysian”? Try again, and choose some less
jazz-like metre... .Gossie: Admirable sentiments in
atrociously jerky verse. .. .Oosthis: Nothing remark-
able about your “albertross” except the spelling.
. ...J.D.: Ruled out because of too-close typewriting.
... .C.S.Mc.: A couple of variations of old jokes ; others
not up.... W.T.: Thrashed out only a few months
ago. .. .Son-o’-the-Wild: Not up....C.8. (Renmark) :
The “free verse” is nothing at all; the other flutters
toe feebly and rhymes too badly... .W.H.D.: Idiotic.
. ...D.M.C.: Even the fact that you are but 13 is
no excuse... .F.R.S.: I’oor and oft-said stuff....W.N.
(Magill): It staggers. .. .Lilias G.: None up
John A.: Ah old scheme; and you don’t make much
of it. .. .Bernard B.: Hard to see how there can be
much “content” about a sonnet with a different metre
in every line P.8.P.: Misses S.G.F.: See
above.. . .F.C. (Ponsonbv) : An old, old idea Maud
E.: Not in our line... .Julie D.: Gushes mirthlessly.
... . B dlei-ive: An undoubted thriller, in which you
handle the language with rare economy:—
jjj Where the billows beneath
Did leapeth and play.
Upon the ledge of a cliff—
A stranded dog lay.
When at the risk of —
A tragic and ghastly end,
To its rescue a man
Did bravely descend.
Upon a dangling rope—
Up swayed to and fro,
And rescued the dog—-
From the ledge below.
Hauled, up by he’s mates
To the top of the cliff,
He landed he’s prize—
After a perilous trip.
... .Michael C.: It's a wild thing in infuriated metre,
but the- rhymes are better than some we’ve met. . . .A
Bush Bard: Not up.... Arthur M.: Not well enough
done. Also,'“rhythm” is a word of one syllable and
not pronounced “rhyth-um.”. .. .E.A. (Bondi): Futile
ideas in bad verse Alma G.: Very thin....
J. 0.5.: It crashes M.L. (Summer Hill): Not
enough in it... .R.G.11.: That dream business has
been worked to death... .Kevin II.: Horrible verse.
. ...lI.P. (South Melbourne) : None of them arrives.
....Fred A.: Crude stuff M.M. (Dee Why):
The matter is there, but fails in the telling....
Z.V.W.: The “Nurse” ends badly. Also, in
ordinary circumstances, a four-line stanza requires
two pairs of rhymes L.11.P.: Without thought,
metre or rhyme. .. . Eena L.: Nearly as good as
some of the worst O’D.: Weak stuff Arthur
E.: It is very commonplace “surf”. .. . J.M.D.: Im-
possible yarn.... The Overlander: Very rugged....
lal C.: No room for imbecile infants Syd S.:
A “Promice” has a certain sparkle. But when
you ask the question, “Am I sane after all, or ego-
tistically inclined?” we wouldn’t like to hurt your
feelings by, a direct anewei*. V: .E.N, (Queensland):
Please note once more the obvious fact that two
initials are not enough to identify you among 50,000
contributors or so. The sonnet misses. ... V, ara : It’s
hard to find a promise in them. Read some good
verse,-. To imitate is the way of the beginner, but to
imitate rubbish is a sad waste of time.. . .R.T.K.: No
use. . . .R.L.M.: One striking stanza:—
There we hobbled out the horses,
Someone suggested Dandaloo
There they stopped till after Xmas,
I was left to be cook too.
J.A.K.: Bumps ail over the place and says
nothing T.T.R.: Nothing there Wattie: It
struggles bravely, but doesn’t reach the surface. ...
....Michael O.: The performances of cats and poli-
ticians both require better verse. .. .P.W.R.: “The
Nocturne” doesn’t get to anything Julie D.:
Crude verse. .. .T.R.M.: Very commonplace .. .
T.M. (Bankstown) : The “Swallow Tail” doesn’t get
near. .. .K.S.: It is all out of tunc....P.S.
(Toronto): N 0.... J.F.M.: “The Formula” has no
grip. . . .H.H.C.: The fact that you were kicked into
the river for making love to “Bella” in bad verse
is only mildly thrilling E.G.8.: Not up....
Seaaes: Meditation’ is mere commonplace....
T. : It's an extraordinary game if the batsman
•Tittle knows the bowler’s” intention as regards his
wicket Bulga (Blackall) : Bright little thing:—
In these days of advanced science the good horse
slips to the rear,
To make way for motor-car and aeroplane.
For we all bow to Convention, though it’s foolish
on our part,
So we use the motor-cars or shrink in shame.
For if you haven’t got a car, folks say to one
another:
“There’s some poor devil that’s hard up. Thank
God, we’re different, Brother!”
And then again the aeroplane is used to carry
mails,
And passengers who “look down” on a horse.
We all admit they’re handy things (the aeroplanes
I mean).
But although they’re swift I’d sooner have the horse.
For although the wet can stop him where it cannot
stop the ’plane,
You’ll notice folks are often glad to use a horse
again.
For although the rain can stop him yet he never lacks
the “gas,”
Which is indispensable to car and ’plane.
And although maybe he’s not so slick he’ll take
you anywhere,
And is sure to bring you safely home again.
While a motor punctures tyres and it sometimes has
“blow-outs,”
And an aeroplane might break your neck in spite of
all your shouts.
W.C.M,: Bad verse... .M.E.H.: No use....
C.J.W.: “The Three Ships” can’t sail this tide....
J.S.E.: Far too rugged... .L.M. (Merbein): A
grocery order written in middling verse. Away with
you! E.C.S.: Can’t reply by letter! 1 The verse
bumps too hard... .M.H.E.: Most uninteresting dog.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESFON DENTS.
Terrica: Can’t tell till we see it. ...F.H.: Just
scratch-as-sCfatch-can... .Bob : Not a chance. ...
U. : Pointless.... J.V.N.: Did you ever see a post-
card about a dog and a tucker-box ? If you haven’t,
then you’re a < lairvoyant J.M.N.: Drawing below
par... .L.W.: Not up... . D.S.H.: Terrible....
8.C.5.: Not interested in the gentleman. .. .R.H.:
Some promise, but a good way below the mark yet.
. ...H.C.8.: Painfully stiff... .P.H.: Pictures in pale-
blue ink are poison. . ..G.J.: Nowhere near it....
E.G.: Anatomy all wrong. Picture the arms of
the lady on the left minus the draperies N.C.Y.:
Try yo.ur paces on something distinctively Australian.
. ~.E.S.: Drawing not up.


A Saunders’ Single Diamond Bar Brooch
15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ fine Diamond Bow and Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £l2/10/-
A Saunders’ Gent.’s keyless, double-case
jewelled Lever Watch, £2/10/-. Extra
jewelled. £3. Solid Silver Case, £3,
£3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-
i'XH
.‘-V
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement,
£B/10/-. Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
Christmas Gifts.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart secret snap and joint
Bracelet, £3/10/-; Lighter, £3, £2, 30/-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/-; Lighter, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Links, 20/-.
loct. Gold, £2.
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Wristlet, Open-face Lever Watch,
30/-. Extra jewelled, 40/-. Solid Silver, 50/-,
60/-, 70/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Rins», 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Rim;, 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Dot. Solid
£4, £4/10/-;
15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
Gold Curb Albert, £5; Lighter, £3, £3/10/-,
Heavier, £5/10/-, £6 to £l2/10/-
; Lighter, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-;
Heavier, £lO to £2O.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5,
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s open-face keyless
Lever \ non-magnetic patent time spring,
20/-, 30/-. E xtra jewelled, 40/-,
50/-, 60/-. Guaranteed.
A Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold
Expanding Sides and Buckle, £4. Extra jewelled,
£4/10/-, £5. Leather Strap, £3. Silk Strap,
£3/10/-, £4. All guaranteed.
805-815 GEOROE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
Billabong Windmills
mk
mm
WhA
Mb
0
They spin merrily with the
lightest breeze, but a gale
cannot harm them!
THESE pictures are reproduced from photographs, showing
typical “BILLABONG” Windmill Plants under actual working
conditions.
There are some things about the BILLABONG Windmill
that put it quite in a class by itself. Chief among these exclusive
features are the following:—
SPEED REGULA TOR
and GOVERNOR .
This patented device will automatically govern
the speed of the mill l'eliably and evenly in
heavy winds. It minimises the liability. of the
mill being wrecked by sudden,, heavy gales. A simple screw adjustment is pro-
vided for regulating the rate of speed as'required by the local average wind velocity.
PUMP ROD
SWIVEL .
This allows the
mill head to re-
volve freely on
its bed-plate Avithout transmitting any
twisting motion to the pump-rod, thus
obviating unnecessary wear and tear.
PULL-OUT
SWIVEL.
This enables the
pull - out attach-
ment to be fitted
without interfering with the perpen-
dicular alignment of the pump-rod—
thus conserving the full advantage of
the “central lift” principle, on which
the “BILLABONG” is designed.
Improved
GUIDE ROD,
fitted with a
wheel bearing,
upon which it
moves smoothly and noiselessly up
and down, thus minimising friction.
Perfectly
Aligned
BEARINGS ,
lined with anti-
friction metal and
equipped with
ring oilers work-
ing in large-capacity oil-wells.
These, and many ot&er 'features, constitute incon-
testable reasons why you .should decide to purchase a
“BILLABONG” Windmill. Ou* illustrated Booklet “No.
65” explains everything in. detail, and is a valuable help
to the Farmer or Pastpralist in need of a really first-
class pumping plant. Write for your copy TO-DAY!
John DanKs Son Pty. Ltd.
391-4-03 BotirKe Street, Melbourne. 324-S3O Pitt Street, Sydney.


HOMES
BUILT WHOLLY WITH
FFfSTFoYIIrfe
■ **.- i 3 • • -
Cost Less than
Weatherboard Houses
Build your now home —exterior walls, in-
terior walls and ceilings—with Hardie’s
Australian-made “FIBKOLITE” Asbestos
Cement Sheets, and Hoof with “Fibrolite'’
Slates.
“FIBROLFjfSI” improves with age, is fire-
retardant, white-ant proof, unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rust, rot or
corrode. “Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets
are made' in 36 sizes.
Wjijite for Free Catalogue “10.”
JAMES HABDiE & COY. .LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie gSt., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Building's, Wellington, N.Z-
A QUESTION OF SELECTION.
STOCKMEN! Seasons vary.
Yon have taken that risk. Take no more.
Make certain of top market values.
Consign Cattle, Sheep, Lambs
WiNCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Expert Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
IS
THE STORM KING
LANTERN.
350 Candle-
power.
Burns Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/-
Also Table Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— LUX LIGHT
CO., 495 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Awarded the Diploma of Excellence at the
Housing and Health Exhibition, Glasgow.
wmrn
Reduced
£1
in Price.
WE PAY
freight.
300
CANDLE-
POWER.
Liffht it with
Statches.
There are many good reasons for
the popularity of
COLEMAN
Quick-Lite
Foremost is the brilliant white light of 300
candle-power that never fails. The gas if; gener-
ated from petrol, and is the cheapest and best
light for the home. No torch is needed and
there are no dirty wicks to trim. Beautifully
designed and built for lifelong sei‘\fiee with
twin mantles that cast- no shadows.
Reduced Price, 75/-
MAILED OR/ RAILED FREE
ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA.
Every Quick-Lite is Tested and Guaranteed-
The new Quick-Lite asbestos-cbvered screen
completely protects the mantles' from moths '
and insects. .Only 10/- extra.
ORDER NOW, or send for pamphlet to
Coleman Quick-Lite. Company-V.of Australia
895 poll ins Street, Sox 1083) -Melbourne.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS"
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
AGood Name is above riches
Kruse’s
Fmid
Magnesia
Needs no Eulogy
The most enthusiastic advocates of thfs
popular family medicine are those who
have been using it for the past 60 years.
Unfailing in all Stomach Disorders, and tht
surest safeguard against Infantile Ailments.
Cooling in Summer. Reliable Always.
The Genuine Kruse's Is made by FELTON, GRIMWADE A Co. Ply. Ltd., Melbourne
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed.
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY with the new"
SILVERSHEEN POLISH
has a finer appearance than anything previously,
obtainable. Never requires cleaning.
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSON & CO, Sheffield, England,
Celebrated FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY.
„ i;
H°m
**FFie
cK«Q
ViSi-m'sS
Australasian Representatives:—
Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street. Sydney.
m
MARINE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
MOTOR CRUDE OIL WINCHES
STATIONARY CRUDE OIL ENGINES
PORTABLE CRUDE OIL ENGINES
(HORIZONTAL AND VERTICAL)
Most economical, durable, simple
and safest engines of the world.
.
Nelson & Robertson
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Zanthus”: One of the things tried out
in the West, where they take the working-
up of local materials seriously, is the fibre
of the Kingia grass-tree ( Kingia australis).
Both in Perth and in Melbourne it has been
proved hard to beat for the coarse, heavy
brooms used for street-sweeping. Apart
from that, sugar and alcohol can be obtained
from the core of the Kingia, while its sheath-
ing is rich in cellulose and well adapted
for paper-pulp.
“Russ”: In anticipation of an early boom
in wireless in Australia a shipment of
Japanese wireless vacuum tubes, commonly
known as “valves,” is on the water. Hith.r-
to, Yankeeland has been our main supplier.
Incidentally, the life of a Jap. valve, like
that of the Jap. incandescent globes, is very
short, though, while in action, the article
gives excellent service. Probably it is too
much to hope for, but a really good Austra-
lian valve wireless set, at a moderate price,
would sell even better than the TJ.S. instru-
ments.
* * * *
“Trochas”: An old doctor used to say
that if the young doctors read more Greek
they would make fewer wonderful discov-
eries. There may be a moral in this for
some of the discoverers of the value of euca-
lyptus materials for making dyes. In 1814
John Hutchison reported to Governor Mac-
quarie that, as the result of 18 months’ ex-
periments, he was satisfied that the bark of
various gum-trees might be used in dyeing.
He gives details of his processes, and on
his own showing secured excellent results.
* * * *
“L’Fou” on/Strawberry’s” scran:—
Frank Clinton'is airing an exploded fallacy when
lie writes (B. &/11/’22) of prohibition being a
menace to a country’s milk supply. Brewers’ grains,
wet (the cheapest), are nowadays regarded ,as so
insanitary by the Yanks that in most States (in
pre-prohibition days) they were not given to cows
kept for market-milk purposes. At best their value
is only one-quarter that of dried grains. Brewers’
dried grains are less putrefactive, but the cost of
drying must, of course, be added to the cost of
the product. Armour and Co., in New York, at one
time, discontinued killing dairy cattle fattened on
brewers’ refuse because of the many carcases they
struck which had to be condemned for disease.
* * * *
“O’D.” : Brisbane City Council is consid-
ering a proposal to vote £5OOO towards the
cost of celebrating the Brisbane River cen-
tenary next year. No scheme for the keep-
ing up of the birthday has yet been advanced,
but there is a possibility that a lot of heads
will be invited to gather at Brisbane, and
drink to the memory of Oxley (who dis-
covered the stream), agreeing at the same
time that he was a jolly good fellow. The
proposed £5OOO is to be only Brisbane’s
quota of the cost, but it is riot yet too late
for someone to broadcast a brain-wave and
suggest that the money be directed towards
the cost of a second bridge over the river.
* * * *
“Lactic Acid” in bitterness of stomach :
Twice within a week, at different Sydney restau-
rants, I have had served to me butter so rancid as
to be positively noxious. I investigated, saw the
package the butter was delivered in, and obtained
the date of delivery. In each case choicest butter
was ordered, and the brands were those representing
choicest butter. There appears but one remedy, since
we cannot expect frail human nature not to make
money if an avenue for fraud is left open. The
Board of Health administers a Pure Food Act with
ample powers. Let the Board appoint an inspector
who is capable of determining the quality of butter,
and let him be given a free hand to run down these
impostors. I don’t blame the restaurant proprietors
—they trade with what are considered first-class firms,
and they expect honesty. A butter I had served to
me to-day would certainly be calculated to set up
injurious fermentation in the stomachs of any but
the most robust adults.
* * * *
“Ragar”: The Commonwealth is losing
something like £lOO,OOO annually through
hides being ruined by the use of unneces-
sarily large brands. Queensland is the worst
offender in this respect. The Q. brands often
measure as much as 10 inches in height, and
are placed on the shoulder, and sometimes on
both shoulders. The only reason given for
spoiling the bullock’s cover is that it saves
the station-hands the trouble of cutting out
the beasts from the mob to see their brands,
the 10-inch disfigurations being plainly visible
from a distance. It is questionable whether
the idea is economical. It may save the
tired Bananalander a little extra riding and
some eyestrain, but it certainly makes him
rather an expensive luxury to have about
the place.
* * * *
“F. Clinton”: In the vicinity of Ulladulla,
South Coast, N.S.W., is a deposit of silica
which is reputed to be the best in the world
for the manufacture of fire-bricks. It is
being worked by two groups, one of which
has run a jetty out into the sea to ship the
stuff. Another is preparing to ship it at
Ulladulla to works at Port Kembla, where
the stone is crushed and manufactured into
fire-bricks. The deposit is not extensive, but
the heat-resisting qualities are making this
silica uncommonly valuable. .
* * * *
“Ack F. C.”: Far be it from me to popu-
larise a variant of the now-discredited mouse-
in-the-pie trick, but the following is the gos-
pel truth. I recently purchased a packet of
popular fags, and found that one of the
“nails” absolutely refused to draw. Investi-
gation showed that the centre portion con-
tained a piece of pencil. On the spur of
the moment I sat down and wrote a letter
of complaint to the manufacturers. Result,
a neat letter of apology and a box of 50!
gratis.
PEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(3uhs shall not batter down the world,
Nor plague and famine waste the ages ;
But as I read the matter hurled
Abroad on advertising pages
I wonder if, when flags are furled,
Some hand will also furl the draper
And keep his howls for business curled
In small, tight rolls of unread paper.
tf.s.w.
P. O. M.


PETER
#
~ ~ •• j —-t~t ••rTTr”^-;»"Tyrrr^mT
DAWSONS!
J v ,AW.‘ ...>.. ..., V
SCOTCH WHISKY
The brand of historic lineage .
j 4 whisky with a pedigree
as old as the clans .
ShioDed direct from Scotland by
PETER DAWSON, Ltd., 82, Great Clyde St., GLASGOW,
J !’ *
01
- Q T%
-■
Dawson
1 f Sf*fr(*L ' j
xwch WHmtm
a
fr s-i Vt, A l ’' ''
Let Lassetter’s
whisper Something about Xmas
Hampers and Xmas Gifts in Your Ear.
No. 1 Hamper.
Price 27/6.
1 Box Xmas Crackers.
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 Xmas Plum Pudding.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
Yz lb. Sweet Almonds.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
Box Choice Sweets.
Surprise Stocking.
Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
Bottle Xmas Port.
Packet Figs. pv
Weight about 301b.'
No. 2 Hamper.
Price 37/6.
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 lb. Cleaned Currants.
1 pkt. Seeded Raisins.
1 lb. Best Sultanas.
1 Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
1 lb. Mixed Peel. »
1 Bottle Essence.
2 pkts. Mixed Spice.
1 tin Cordial Crystals.
1 tin Delicious Sausage.
1 jar Potted Meat.
1 Globe Fruit Compote.
1 tin Figs.
1 tin Butter Scotch.
1 boy Xmas Crackers.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
}£lb. Jordan Almonds.
Weight about 401 b.
No. 3 Hamper.
Price, 40/-
Australian Xmas Wines.
2 bottles A 1 Port.
2 bottles A 1 Sherry.
2 bottles A 1 Muscat.
2 bottles A 1 Hock.
2 bottles A 1 Burgundy.
2 bottles A 1 Chablis.
Weight about 601 b.
No. 4 Hamper.
Price, 45/-
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 Xmas Pudding.
Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
2 Surprise Stockings.
1 box Xmas Crackers.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
}&lb. Sweet Almonds.
1 tin Figs.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 box Choice Sweets.
1 Globe Fruit Compote.
1 jar Potted Meat.
1 Ox Tongue.
1 box Chocolates.
1 bottle Xmas Port.
Weight about 451 b.
, *• . .Jgg: ■
No. 5 Hamper.
Price, 47/6.
Assorted Xmas Wines and
Cordials.
1 bottle A 1 Port.
1 bottle A 1 Frontignac.
1 bottle A 1 Sherry.
1 bottle Lemon Cordial.
1 bottle Passion Fruit Cordial.
1 bottle Pineapple Cordial.
1 doz. Lager Beer.
1 doz. Dinner Ale.
Weight about 1501 b.
No. 6 Hamper.
Price 55/-
Xmas Ham, “Farmer’s Bal-
* *
A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
Xmas Pudding.
Spray Holly and Mistletoe,
box Xmas Crackers,
bottle Extra Special Port,
bottle Extra Special Sherry.
Weight about 451 b.
No. 7 Hamper.
Price, 70/-
Xmas Wines, Ales and
Cordials.
1 bottle Sparkling Hock.
1 bottle Sparkling Burgundy.
2 bottles Champagne.
1 bottle Xmas Port.
1 bottle A 1 Sherry.
1 bottle A 1 Muscat.
1 bottle Vermouth.
1 doz. Sparkling Cider.
Weight about 1301 b.
No. 9 Hamper.
Price, 84/■
1 Ham, “Farmer’s Ballarat.”
1 A 1 Crown Iced Xmas Cake.
1 lb. Fresh Muscatels.
341 b. Sweet Almonds.
1 tin Figs.
1 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 box Xmas Crackers.
1 Spray Holly and Mistletoe.
2 Surprise Stockings.
1 box Sweets.
1 bottle Tomato Catsup.
2 tins Pates.
2 Jelly Crystals.
2 lb. Mixed Nuts.
1 box Chocolates.
1 tin Ox Tongue.
1 tin Cordial Crystals.
Weight about 561 b.
No. 11 Hamper.
Price, 130/-
Assorted Spirits.
4 bottles Golden Guinea Whisky.
3 bottles Golden Guinea West
India Rum.
3 bottles Exshaw’s French Brandy.
2 bottles Tanqueray Gin.
Weight about 601 b.
Lassetter’s
Book of
Xmas Gifts
and Toys.
Post Free Anywhere.
Welcomed Everywhere.
Just the dainty, useful, practi-
cal Gift you’ll he seeking, at
precisely the price you d like
to pay, will he found within the
magic pages pf this Gift
Book.
It costs you nothing, it will
give you pleasure, help along
your gift-giving, and save you
money into the bargain.
GET ONE.
F. Lassetter Co. Limited,
Georg'e Street, Sydney.


D. O. M.
BENEDICTINE
Ts the GENUINE LIQUEUR with
400 YEARS’ REPUTATION.
The best-known Digestive Tonic, as well as
the most fashionable After-Dinner Liqueur.
appropriate
/ Aside from the necessity of
CONKLIN Pens and Pencils for
everyday writing, there are many
occasions when CONKLINS are
the most appropriate gifts.
For sale by the best '
stationers and jewelers
CONKLIN Crescent Filler Pens
20/- and up
CONKLIN Automatic Pencils
12/6 and up
843.4
HORUCKS
,n MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
In 3 sizes of all Chemists
and Stores.
%
HORLICKS
MALTED MILKG
SLOUGH. BUCKS
ENG.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manager.
ALWAYS ORDER
King of Table Waters!
From the Crystal Springs of N.S.W. The Finest of
Mineral Waters. Rich in Curatives containing
Lime, Soda, Lithia and Magnesia.
BALLARAT MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
PURVEYORS ro VICE, royalty
Discard Cuticle Scissors
Try this modem Cutex way of removing surplus cuticle
Cutting will ruin your cuticle
A FAMOUS skin specialist says: “On
no account trim the cuticle with
scissors. This leaves a raw, bleeding
edge, which tends to cause hangnails
to form, and often makes the rim of
the flesh about the nail become sore
and swollen.”
Cutex completely does away with
cuticle cutting and leaves the skin at
the base of the nail smooth, firm and
unbroken.
The safe way to manicure
In the Cutex package you will find an
orange stick and cotton wool. With a
bit of this cotton wool wrapped around
the stick and dipped in Cutex, gently
work about the nail base, pressing back
the cuticle. Then wash the hands, push-
ing the cuticle back when drying them.
Finish your manicure with one of the
Cutex Polishes—Powder, Cake, Paste
or Liquid.
Cutex manicure sets are in four sizes,
the “Compact,” “The Five Minute,” the
“Travelling,” and the “Boudoir.” They
may be obtained at the leading chem-
ists and stores throughout Australia.
Valdemar Petersen, 379 Kent Street,
Sydney and 382 Flinders Lane, Mel-
bourne, Sole Distributor for Australia.
Manicure Set for l/~
For 1/- we will send you the Cutex
Introductory Set, containing sufficient
Cutex preparations for at least six
manicures. Use the coupon below.
NORTHAM WARREN,
Dept. 8.4,
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Name
Street and Number
Town
Address
NORTHAM WARREN
379 Kent St., Sydney
■flON
1
*
-
ieT
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1858.
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFlCE—Collins Street, Melbourne.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up . . £2,725,000
Reserve Fund Account 1,607,903
Reserve Liability of
Shareholders .. 1,263,000
£5,000,000
Total
£5,595,903
Directors ;—SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairif 0 „.
J. NEWMAN BARKER. Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. 11. M. STRACHtf' ,N, E*
Total Assets, 31st March, 1922—£33,195,076.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES jn
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 137| branches.
N. S. WALES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and <£s branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, a /id 33 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; ’ navies Eso •
E. H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. A. J. Thynne, ’
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King Williar^Street, 1 Adelaide,
*l5 bffliiclicSi
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. Geoyge’tf, Terrace, Perth,
TASMANlA.—Principal Office, Liverpool Street, Piobart
premises), and Launceston. ' - \
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
“Kip” forecasts a new dainty:—
Following Australia’s example of turning a pest
into a profit by commercialising the rabbit, the U.S.
Bureau of Agriculture is devoting its energies
towards popularising as food the grasshoppers which
infest the Philippines; and has supplied the natives
with many recipes, gleaned from Asia and Africa,
for making appetising dishes of these elusive crea-
tures. The Moorish custom is to throw the “hop-
pers” alive into a pan of boiling oil; afterwards
they are dried on the housetops, and then ground
down into a sort of meal. The culinary method
favored by the Filipinos, as a result of Yankee pro-
paganda, consists of parching the game in an earth-
ern casserole; cooked in this fashion, the shrimp-like
taste is more pronounced. Among the many varieties
of grasshoppers there are some which are inedible.
The ordinary common or garden green “hopper” can
be eaten—incidentally, it occurs among those sanc-
tioned by the Talmud, the book of Hebrew laws and
traditions—but, as far as T know, its possibilities are
glimpsed in no Australian cookery-book.
“Splinter”: A court case at Lismore
(N.S.W.), wherein large sums of money
were proved to have gone into a solicitor’s
office and then vanished, makes one wonder
how long it will be before such establish-
ments are periodically audited. In the case
mentioned there were extraordinary revela-
tions regarding the absence of books, and
Ormonde Butler, P.M., voiced the opinion
that it was up to the Law Institute to
arrange for the protection of the public in
some way. If the Law Institute devoted
half as much energy to protecting the finan-
cial interests of the public as it does to
keeping up the fees of its members But
there. Why dream absurd dreams?
. ‘Pips” : Brigadier-General Hanway Cum-
ming, killed after the war by the Sinn
Berners, mentions in his book, “A Brigadier
in France,” a queer story of the retreat from
Mons. At the Forest of Mormal a detach-
ment of 400 Tommies, with their officers,
found themselves cut off, and decided to stay
where they were. For eight months they re-
mained hidden in the forest, which was then
very thick, maintaining their discipline, and
living a .simple, secluded existence. For food
they had the game, whch was abundant, and
such supplies as they could obtain from
friendly villagers. Then the lluns got to
hear of the lost tribe, and a force was sent
which wiped out those who were not taken
prisoners.
“U.P.”: With the re-starting of trade with
Germany, some pessimists predicted that the
country would be inundated with cheap Ger-
man pianos. But lam assured by an
Adelaide importer that a piano costing £BO
the German factory will be laden with a
Lm duty, and by the time it is landed in the
Commonwealth the cost will be approxi-
mately £lO3. The year before “Der Tag”
Australia bought over 12,000 pianos from
Fritz, costing £300,000, while last year two
only got m. In 1921-22, however, the
United States landed in the Commonwealth
over 250 p uprights and a few grands. It is
now estimated that our own factories are
turning out 5000 pianos annually—one big
firm in the Ma State being i responsible for
about 3000 of them each year.
“Te Babarantiko”: Power alcohol (B.
16/11/T2) may, of course, be distilled from
molasses, sweet potatoes, cassava (tapioca)
and other vegetables. Natalite, Ltd., has a
huge expanse of unsurveyed sago swamp a
dozen miles up the Fly River, Papua. A
plant including several vats of about 16,000
gallons capacity each, for distilling power
alcohol, was scheduled to come from France. A
breakwater on one side of the Fly was contem-
plated, and the sago-palm trunks were to be
floated on the current to the treatment
plant. Despite the low cost of the Papuan
labor to be employed, .it was realised that to
compete with established oil-interests the
profit would hinge on the saving of the pence
in production. Natalite, Ltd., some 12
months ago, were looking for a man to search
out a suitable site on the riverbank and put
down concrete foundation for fermenting
vats and sheds, but nothing more has been
heard of its activities.
“Azac,” on native and imported grasses:—
Pick” (B. 23/11/’22) was a bit wide of the
mark when he informed “Werrimee” (B. 2/11/’22)
that the popularity of introduced grasses in the
cow country was due to (1) the greater ease with
which the seed was purchased, and (2) the fact
that the coarseness of our native f grasses made
“gummies” of cows at a rather early age. The
main reason is that native grasses (there are about
200 kinds) are summer growers, while most of the
introduced , forms grow in the late winter and early
spring, so that, with a mixture of native and intro-
duced grasses, the cow cocky has good pastures all
the year round, as well as a variety of feed for his
milkers. It is, therefore, the mixture of native
and introduced grasses that pays, and not the intro-
duced grasses alone. There is another point. In a
suitable climate good soil gives feeding value to
grass, which it would lack if grown on a poor soil.
The English grasses are really more suited to our
coastal climate than our own grasses, which are
mostly natives of the highlands, slopes and plains.
In coastal areas many of the native grasses lack the
fattening properties which they carry on the better
soils of the dry west. That is why the big city
neddies are always sent well inland to be “turned
out.”
ABSOLUTE S
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
■ “A. list of 47 divorce decrees were made absolute
by Mr. Justice Gordon to-day.”— Evening News.
Isabella now is free;
Fetters fall from Tom and Fred;
Ferdinand is full of glee;
Joe on joy and beer is fed ;
Mary Ann her Frank can wed.
Great’s the day—all woe absconds—
Forty-seven busted bonds!
Myrtle, Olive, Ruby, Fay,
Egbert, Owen, Arthur, Jack,
With their sorrows swept away
To their old-time joys turn back—
Dance along the single track,
Kicking up a merry dust.
Forty-seven bonds are bust!
’Tis a day to celebrate!
In the taverns liquors flow ;
Fish-shop owners smile elate
For to them the new-free go
For a merry feast or so;
Gladness pipes upon its lute ;
Joy to-day is absolute!
N.S.W.
D. D.


Shipping.
ORIENjr LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseinite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, DECEMBER 20,
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND HOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON RAY AND TIIE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BBIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO.. LTD.
Bunking, Public Companies, Ac.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Directors— James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G.
W. Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
MEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
With Offices at London, Melbourne, Sydney and 84
Branches in Queensland, also representation through
the leading Banking Institutions covering Austra-
lasia and the World, this Bank offers the fullest
facilities for the transaction of all general banking
business.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922.. £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson ; 11. R. Ltsaght,
O. ; Lieut. -Gol. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. H. WestGott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 148 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairiiairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
ProvidcntSocicty
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,18S
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. •• •• £2,629,000
Accumulated Funds .. .. .. £47,000,000
Annual Income .. •• •• •• £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, ml
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 28th DECEMBER, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 25th JANUARY.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailing's to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAUNGANUI, 11th JANUARY, 1923, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, 15th FEBRUARY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STIC AM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island
and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 31 TO 4i WEEKS
Affording a restful holiday amongst
beautiful scenery and interesting
people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
4tk
/ m
Em
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
% Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
♦DIOGENES 12,500 tons
♦New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
m
*****
Directors:
- - - £5,864,360
- 3,675,000
- 5,864,360
£15,403,720
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
The Hon. Sir Charles It. Mackellar,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
K.C.M.G.,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: A. G. Milson, Esq.; W. H. Palmer, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
374 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughput the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected, Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
•A3NCIAS 301330 CIV3H ■
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAME-S KELL. Sir DENISON MILLER. K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
JENOLAN CAVES TOUR PARTIES
Leave Sjdney daily, 9.25 a.m. (Sunday excepted).
Inclusive Cost: 3 days, £5 55.; 4 days, £6 35.; 5 days, £7 3s.
Programme and Booking at
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
CHALLIS HOUSE (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
Shinning.
I nter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
"Brisbane, Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
tßrisbane, Port Alma, Mackay, Bowen and Towns-
ville.
Burns=Philp Tours
to All Parts of the World.
TOUR AND TRAVEL ADVICE.
For direct Passages to LONDON, EUR''PE,
AMERICA, INDIA, CHINA, JAPAN, also SPECIAL
ROUND EASTERN TOURS and ROUND WORLD
TOURS
Apply our TOURIST TRAFFIC DEPARTMENT.
Btirns-Philp Line to
Java and Singapore.
Passages booked through to India, Burma, Siam,
China, Japan, etc., via Singapore.
For further Information apply,
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Huddart Parkei LIE
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, 'IOWNS-
VILI.E,THURSDAY ISLAND,ZAMBOANGA,MANILA,
Steamer.
AKI MARU
TANGO MARU.
YOSIIINO MARU
Montmy miumss xucica*^...
Tbreusrh Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Fulf particulars of sailing dates, passage
monei, flelS Ni’pPON • KAISHA,
Burns, Philp & Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Rrid< r e Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY" & CO.. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
nterstate Telegraphic address
‘‘Macdonald Hamilton,
UIUSMANE.
Cable address
“lUOQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Mghter Owners.
managing AGENTS EOli
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l-’itzroy Estates, Etri.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd. »
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Go.). Union S.S.-Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji). MaryDorough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktoww-
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
f SCHUTE,
BELL&C
o.
Ltd.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.


DECEMBER 25th
SMS?
The Personal
Gift
He will cherish it and
use it daily. So will she,
for a dainty Eversharp
on a chain or ribbon is
quite the vogue. No
other pencil can be like
Eversharp; it has the ex-
clusive tip in which the
lead cannot slip. Many
beautiful designs. Gold,
silver, and enamel. A
wide range of prices.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U. S. A.
Be sure it’s an
mrmsmßP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia f
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd..
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
Aggregate Balance
Sheet of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
30th September,
1922.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circula-
tion .. .. £565,048 0 0
Deposits, Accrued
Interest and
Rebate ..50,559,270 15 6
■ - -£51,124,318 15 6
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held
for Doubtful Debts, Amount at
Credit of Investments Fluctua-
tion Account, and Amounts Due
to Other Banks). . .. .. 9,248,639 13 4
Paid up Capital:
Be ari n g 6
months' Divi-
dend
£5,000,000 0 0
Bearing 3
months’ divi-
dend
£864,360 0 0
5,864,360 0 0
Reserve Fund 3,600,000 0 0
Profit and Loss. .
£499,046 13 11
Less. Interim Divi-
dend to 30th
June, 1922 ..
£125,000 0 0
374,046 13 11
9,838,406 13 11
£70,211,365 2 9
Contingent Liabilities: —
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra 2,914,382 11 3
£73,125,747 14 0
ASSETS,
Coin, Bullion,
Government
Legal Tender
Notes and
Cash at
Bankers ..£13.111,147 16 6
Notes of other
Banks
Money at short
call in Lon-
don
Short- dated
British Trea-
sury Bills ..
I n vestments—■
British and
Colonial Gov-
ernment secu-
rities..
M u n ic i pal
and other
securities ..
Due by Other
Banks
Bills Receivable
in London
and Remit-
t anc e s in
transit ..
83,824 0 0
1,870,000 0 0
2,325,000 0 0
8,152,684 2 11
554,634 0 0
671,087 13 9
4,788,993 3 0
Advances under Government War
Gratuities Scheme
War Loan Advances (Australia
and New Zealand)
Bills Discounted, and Loans and
Advances to Customers ..
Bank Premises
£31,557,370 16
921,700 0
80,139 19
36,852,154 7
800,000 0
2
0
7
0
0
£70,211,365 2 9
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit as per
Contra 2,914,382 11 3
£73,125,747 14 0
Dk.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1922.
To Interim Dividend for Quarter
ended 30th June, 1922, at 10 per
cent, per annum, paid in terms of
Clause CV. of Deed of Settlement
out of the Half-year’s Profits.. £125,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows —
To Quarter’s Divi-
dend to 30th
September, ,1922,
at the rate of 10
per cent, per an-
num out of the
Half-year’s Profits £146,609 0 0
„ Augmentation of
the Reserve Fund 75,000 0 0
~ Balance carried
forward.. .. 152,437 13 11
374,046 13 11
£499,046 13 11
By Amount from last Account .. £160,132 18 1
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profit
after deducting- Rebate on Current
Bills, Interest on Deposits, paying
Income, Land and Other Taxes
amounting to £140,145 12s. sd.
(making in all £292,130 4s. 4d.
for the year), reducing valuation
of Bank Premises, providing for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, and fluc-
tuations in the value of Invest-
ment Securities, and including re-
coveries from Debts previously
written off as bad .. .. 338,913 15 10
£499,046 13 11
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER, 1922.
Cb.
To Balance .. .. .. .. £3,675,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested
in British Government Securi-
ties, and £500,000 in those
of States where we are repre-
sented —in all, £1,250,000.
The balance is employed in
the business of the Bank.)
£3,675,000 0 0
By Balance
„ Amount
£3,600,000 0 0
from Profit and Loss.. 75,000 0 0
£3.675,000 0 0
By Balance ..
..£3,675,000 0 0
OSCAR LINES, General Manager. S. E. LAIDLEY 1
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant. ALFRED G. MILSON j
Audited } 20th November, 1922.
Auditors.
SPORTING RIFLES
We have an unrivalled selection of Sporting Firearms, and
can supply suitable weapons for all classes of shooting.
We carry the finest range in Australia
iI A marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2,}lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
26
is
“Simple and extra strong in construction. ’
810. Winchester Single-shot Ilille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy roupd steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 37Mn.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
FroifrVtf Pfllfi.
55/-
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles
and Guns without first obtaining a license.
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Rif's, designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim fire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is,round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
Weight about 31b. Fitted with plain V-back sight
(Postage—N.S.W.. 1/G; other States, 2/8.)
25/-
Remarlcahly accurate and hard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
inerless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre, 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 6Mb., muzzle velocity,
2800 ft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight
paid
£.12101-
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
«1S Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model IG-sliot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short? long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about 551 b. _ .
£6
“A cheap and reliable weapon
!>•? Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, 8.8'.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight,
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
45/-
01
m
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine hoids 15 cartridges. Weight s|lb
Freight paid,
£9
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Darrel Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-" 32- 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
2oin. round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid,
£B/10/-
£9
£7/1 5/-
| WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
jyfieJc: Simmons R 4,
Australia’s Greatest Sports Outfitters,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Can You Tell the Cause
of Your Trouble?
Are you sometimes discouraged, and think you’ll never get any better?
Can you tell what is the matter with you, or wh'at makes you sick? Do
you know that about nine-tenths of all sickness is caused by Kidney Trouble?
Have you ever stopped to think that your kidneys may be the cause of your
poor health?
Most people do not realise how much work the kidneys are required to do
every day.
Every drop of blood in the body must pass through and be filtered by the
kidneys thousands of times a day.
How can they do their work well if they are sick?
If your kidneys need treatment, DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS, the Won-
derful Kidney Remedy, will prove to be just the medicine you need.
GIN
PILLS
Wli.l.
HELP YOU
It is no longer necessary for anyone to suffer with Backache, Kidney, Bladder
or. Urinary Troubles, or to contend with Rheumatism or Stiff Joints, for Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills quickly remove all such troubles.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and the Kidneys are most wonderful
for ridding the system of uric acid and driving out all the poisonous impurities.
They are entirely different from all other remedies, and act on the principle of
cleaning out the poisons and removing the cause. No matter how long you have
suffered, how old you are, or what you have used, the very principle of Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache and Kidneys is such that it is practically impos-
sible to take them into the human system without results. They start to work
the minute you take them, and they help you from the first time that you use
them. Small Size, 1/9; Large Size, 2/9.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
for Backache and Kidney Troubles.
r
l
OYWYQft
V
A GOOD
MOVE
Insist on Getting
Rex Luncheon
Cheese !
People like it because of it? taste and delightful
piquancy— because it is perfectly digestible—
easily spread —can be used without butter ■
and for many other reasons which can be found
by buying and trying it to-day.
REX LUNCHEON CHEESE contains all the
valuable digestive properties of perfectly
matured full cream cheese.
Don’t ask for a tin of Luncheon Cheese. Say
“Rex” Brand and get it.
Sold in hygienic tins
by Grocers everywhere.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
fr.J.257
Flight.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JN the morning, under the sun,
The thrushes leap and the swallows
run;
And the diamond sparrow
Is a glittering arrow,
Breast down to the winds that pass
Over the dew-bent grass.
Up the air the engines beat ;
And a man where two clouds meet
Holds his way under the sun,
Running as the swallows run,
With half a league of air between
His morning thought and the world s green.
Flying bird and soaring man,
My little valley lightly span ;
And all the short-breathed winds that pant
Behind their wings from ridge to tree
Laugh at my brother the crawling ant,
And toss a withered leaf at me.
Yet flying bird and soaring man,
You shall finish where you began,
With a worm in the bill or a steering-rod
In a gripping hand, on the earth’s green sod;
While I shall fly with a wing of fire
Beyond the clouds of a dream s desire,
Higher than broomstick witch can rise,
And swifter far than a lamp can shine,
Or saunter slowly across the skies
Where never the yellow balloons of wine
Nor the homing swallow
May dare to follow
Through the moony night and the scented
day—
Away and away
Till I hear in the deep enchanted glen,
Cleft with the stream of my flowing pen,
The great gods talking like quiet men.
In the morning, under the sun,
The grey mists rise and the small clouds
run;
But who with swifter hands shall set
His saddle on an asteroid?
Who mount on Ceres, dewy wet,
With wings of pale-blue ether buoyed,
To gallop through the Milky Way
Or under Saturn’s gleaming bonnet,
Hunting some far elusive ray
Of light to glitter in a sonnet?
Who loop the loop of space and time
To seek the break of larger day—
The day of some tremendous sun
That has a thousand years to run
E’er sunset to its dawn shall rhyme?
And who shall find some deathless light
Beneath a starry-branching tree,
Where, fearless, he may pause to write
All love into one ecstasy?
Flying bird and soaring man,
You shall finish where you began ;
But our dreams shall rise
Like a mist of gold,
Fold over fold,
Till the dreams are the skies
That men live under;
Till the world at its height
Of soaring and wonder
Is at last wing-wise.
N.B.W.
DAVID MckEE WRIGHT.
The Impostor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT the intersection of two busy streets,
in what would have been noon-
day heat but for a sudden decline of
temperature, stood Joshua Clamstone, look-
ing for Sin. Not that his survey of the
accustomed surroundings was specially alert.
There was nothing of the knitted-browed de-
tective about Joshua. He looked merely
casually for Sin, as a man in his position
might be expected to watch the money
market. He was always on the lookout for
human indiscretion of any kind, the peccadil-
loes of fellow-mortals having been his favorite
study from the time, in his late ’teens, when
the shrewd exhortations of a Rechabite
father, and other home influences, had com-
pleted the work of forming his young charac-
ter. Even as the Joshua Clamstone twig
was bent, the tree had grown. The boy,
reared in an atmosphere of good, sound, pay-
able piety, or pretence thereof, had been god-
father to the man. In short, Joshua had
been brought up in the sanctity of what was
then popularly known as a Nonconformist
Conscience, and if he was now the slave of
hypocrisy as well as a martyr to cold feet,
his moral infirmity had escaped his notice.
For the detection of motes in his neighbors’
eyes he carried field-glasses, so to speak, but
the beam in his own optic was imperceptible
to him. Long contemplation of certain shin-
ing sectarian qualities had somehow blinded
Joshua to most things concerning himself,
except his worldly interests, including a
proper appreciation of the fact that unpun-
ishable dishonesty is often the best policy in
business. It had to be strictly unpunish-
able, of course. Twice every Sunday in the
public temple, and every day in the seclusion
of his private “den” at home, where engrav-
ings and prints on the walls dealt with Bibli-
cal subjects, Joshua was wont to thank God
that he was not as many other business men
are, who, in lamentable instances, overstep
the mark. In his den the stern moralist
achieved his boldest flights of unconscious
Pharisaism. By the way, he loved to
apply that savage-sounding term to his own
little room, so different to those he had read
of, where golf sticks, cricket bats, tennis rac-
quets and even boxing gloves were disposed
about the walls and corners, and an odor of
tobacco smoke was as the smell of incense
burned on an altar of profanity. His inspira-
tion to the title “den” had come, perhaps,
from a picture of Daniel ’midst the • lions
which hung above his desk.
Mr. Clamstone was not alone in these
last minutes of the lunclieon-hour. Robert
Ramproad, oldest of friends and closest of
confidants in both the wholesale softgoods
and Christian Endeavor lines of industry,
accosted him cheerfully. Having lunched
frugally at different haunts of Noncon-
formist patronage, they met as kindred
spirits, adequately replenished, and bearing
the same message. The idea that they had
a “message” to deliver was a merciful delu-
sion to both Joshua and Robert, for it
kept them from realising that their main
object in spiritual life was to find Sin, and
talk about it, and deplore its prevalency,
and profit by their discoveries, rather than
to put the evil thing down.
Just then Sin obtruded itself on their
notice in rather a novel form. Sin made
such an irresistible bid for their joint atten-
tion that their return to their respective
warehouses was delayed.
Not far from where they were standing
was a small, narrow right-of-way between
two stone buildings, one of those unaccount-
able gaps in the street which lead to some-
where at the far end, though they have the
appearance to the passer-by of a cul-de-sac.
Hurrying towards the sunless passage,
with cap in hand, came a red-faced man in
the last stage of excitement. Beads of
perspiration trimmed his swarthy brow. His
boisterous haste was infectious, compelling
onlookers to bustle around the fellow as he
flung his cloth cap upon the stony ground,
knelt violently behind his headgear, and
started his harangue, with appropriate
theatrical gesture.
“Look ’ere,” said the wild man. sinking
his voice to a loud, hoarse whisper which
reached the outskirts of the gathering crowd
and carried conviction with it, “Look ’ere!
If there’s any young lads or young women
or shakers or Quakers or bloomin’ parsons
listenin’ to me this minit, let ’em for Gawd’s
sake git away. In the name o’ common
decency I calls on blokes wot says prayers
to make theirselves scarce, and I arsts the
uvver men among yer, if they are men, to
pull any bits o’ boys out o’ this by their silly
young ears, and lead any innercent young
ladies blushing to their muvvers.”
By this time three or four urchins had
been yanked out of the crowd by matured
sons of Belial who wanted the youngsters’
front places, whilst the only innocent girl
thereabouts had tossed her head and giggled
reluctantly onward without waiting for her
purity to be endangered. Also Joshua and
Robert, exchanging glance's of shocked con-
gratulation, had edged near enough to feel
the magnetism of the speaker’s conspira-
torial personality, and hoarse, burning tones.
“Yer wonder wot I’ve got to show yer, and
w’y I should be so ’orrible afraid of the cops
chippin’ in afore I’ve tole me tale. It’s
cards I’ve gut ter show yer, an’ if I was car-
ried orf ter quod wif hevidence of me guilt
thick upon me, Gawd knows wot ther pen-
alty would be. An’ if I was convicted of
contaminatin’ young minds wif me saucy
goods the punishment ’ud be double, or more
than double, therefore I says, ‘No women or
children at this ’ere picnic.’ Mate, jist strain
yer neck a moment, and make sure there’s no
policemen on the blanky offing. Policemen
are poisin to me w’hiles I got these cards
concealed about me person.”
Joshua nudged Robert furtively, w'hisper-
ing that their duty, seemingly, was to stay
and hear the worst this poor abandoned
wretch could say, and be eye-witnesses of
the worst he could do. Robert meanwhile
took observations over the heads of the
assembled throng. His sense of the lec-
turer’s audacious wickedness was hardly so
keen as his anxiety not to be called as wit-
ness in the event of the miscreant’s sudden
arrest for whatever his crime teas.
With a repetition of his appeal to shakers,
Quakers and wowsers in general, re the pro-
priety of gittin’ away for Gawd’s sake, the
hoarse self-accuser at last proceeded to dis-
close the nature of his wares.
“You’ve aw T l yeered about immerality in
the public parks, I suppose; awl of yer is
sinners enough for that —and p’raps there’s
some arming yer as knows a lot more than ’e
ought to about wot’s depicted on these yere
cards, six in a bundle, an’ the packet for
arf-a-crown. I don’t try to excuse meself
for sellin’ the ’ideous monstrosities o’ vice
wot’s shown on these cards. They’re ’ot, I
admit. I’ve got about 15 packets of ’em
left, and I’ll be dam’ glad to clear ’em out
of me pockets for good, before they burns
’oles in ’em. This sellin’ o’ spicy forty-
graphs is a dangerous game, and I practicully
frows meself on the blanky mercy of any
gentleman wot buys a packet or two ter see
wot they’re like. All I arsts o’ me customers
is that they promise not to open the packet
till I’ve done a guy an’ disguised meself in
me sham beard and spectacles. Now, then,
who’s for ‘Larks in the Parks,’ six picters,
’ighly colored, and full of pernishus details?”
As he put his brazen question, with a
rapidity and an intensity of hoarseness that
was not without its effect on Mr. Clamstone
and his friend, a movement of fumbling for
two-and-sixpence swept through the excited
listeners. Five packets changed hands as
soon as one frank, unabashed sinner had set
the lead, the injunction being laid in every
case upon the purchaser that he must walk
quickly away in unconcerned style, and re-
frain from opening his unlawful prize whilst
within coo-ee of the merchant, who could be
arrested for tempting him with it. Another
five or six packets were snapped up. It be-
came clear to Joshua and Robert that if they
were to obtain crushing proof of park im-
moralities, together with alarming evidence
of the traffic in pornographic photos, they
must lose no more time with their half-
crowns.
The packets they secured were almost the
last the man had to offer, and ere these two
most representative citizens in the audience
had carefully stowed their “exhibits” in inner
pockets there was no more audience left.
Exclaiming that he smelt a copper, in which
matter his nose must have deceived him, see-
ing that no copper came to light, the hoarse
vendor of scandalous goods broke up the
meeting suddenly and bade it fade away.
“I’m orf, an’ I advise yer not to think of
injoyin’ the sight of them yum-yums till ther
coast is clear,” was the strenuous whisper of
the departing lawbreaker.
About to make a brisk move towards the
scene of their daily struggle for affluence, the
friends seemed to arrive simultaneously at
the same determination. They would in-
spect their shameful investments together,
keeping one another in countenance during the
painful ordeal. Then, on returning to busi-
ness, they could make up their minds as to
the best ways and means of turning this
strange incident to moral account. Here was
(Continued on next page.)


• .. -V •.
X^fl
y V /
f&Sr-M*'
s?i
%
>;V.> * \v.
>pu*T*;. V.
sjk.
Buk
am
Soothes Pain Grows New Skin.
Nothing- can compare with Zam-Buk for healing, soothing and
antiseptic power. This remarkable herbal balm has superseded
common ointments and made for safety and simplicity in home
treatment of injuries and skin diseases.
Guaranteed free from all animal fats and poisonous minerals,
Zam-Buk is so pure and so highly refined that it is readily absorbed
by the skin. Poison, inflammation and disease are drawn out of
the tissues, pain and irritation are soothed, and new healthy skin
grown. Zam-Buk is proved without equal for eczema, ulcers, piles,
ringworm, poisoned wounds, cuts, burns, pimples, rashes, boils, or
other eruptions. Also splendid to rub in for rheumatism, strains and
muscular pains.
OJ all chemists and stores at j j 6, or jf for large family size.
The Oxygen Face Cream
Keeps Your Skin beautifully Cool and
Fresh after the Most Strenuous Game.
novel oxygen cream has rare
1 tonic and beautifying properties
and it protects the skin against
sunburn, dust and grit.
To preserve the complexion and
counteract the ill-effects of sun and
salt water on the skin after surfing,
a few touches of Ven-Yusa will
work wonders, The application of Yen-
Yusa both before and after tennis, boating,
motoring orpicnieing is the surest
way to preserve your complexion
unharmed.
Ven-Yusa is not only most
cooling and refreshing, but it
counteracts any ex-
eessive perspiration
and keeps the skin
from acquiring that
greasy, shiny appear-
ance.
To be had of all
Chemists in dainty
Opal Jars at 2 or
direct from
C. E. Fulford (Aust.)
Ltd., Sydney.
&
An*
17
the chance to enhance their joint reputation
as working purists who notoriously devoted a
portion of their time to looking for Sin, and
had not been unsuccessful in marking out
roads to reform.
“We ought to investigate this —er —unex-
pected disclosure without further delay, I
suppose?” said Kobert, and the eyes of Joshua
bore eloquent testimony to his assent. Step-
ping back into the right-of-way they promptly
and sternly drew the packets of evidence from
their coat pockets, and each broke the seal as
he turned away from his fuming partner in
crime-detection. In fulfilment of the vendor’s
promise each packet contained six cards, but,
contrary to his solemn assertion, they were
guiltless of obscenity. All the precepts that
had been showered upon Joshua in his school
days stared at him from those 12 cards. The
indignation of himself and Robert boiled at
artless reminders of how Virtue Is Its Own
Reward, and A Stitch in Time Saves Nine.
Their hands shook with anger as they tore
to fragments the cards that had cost them
half-a-crown apiece.
“The impostor, the mp-u-dent impostor!”
exclaimed Joshua.
EDMUND FISHER.
The Doormat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD hinted the night before to the
Little Landlady that I’d heard that
the woman across the back channel
wanted to buy a setting of eggs; so she (the
L.L.) fed the dogs, cats and fowls, and got
me my breakfast in record time, and then
charged the plank over the back channel and
the wire-fence with the eggs in a peggy-bag,
and when I went to the front Previous Con-
victions was haunting the lower verandah
step like a half-forgotten ghost of my boy-
hood days, which keeps coming near and
fading back, to come ever nearer again as
I grow older. And presently I heard a
voice that seemed to come and go from that
past.
“We’re starting now,” said Previous (and
I started, too, for it sounded as if it referred
to the funeral), “me and Dotty. There he
is, behind a tree, as usual.” Previous
pointed along the road that ran at right
angles to ours from in front of my cottage,
away to nothing and llay, as if it were the
destination of the funeral; and I saw, show-
ing from behind a tree, the hat and knees
which, by the way, were all that I had ever
seen of Dotty.
“Do you, well, to be blunt, do you want
any money, Previous?” I asked. “No,” said
Previous in his faded drawl and in nowise
offended. “And, besides, you’ll be wanting
all you’ve got, by the look of things” (I
could see no "look of things”) “by the time
you travel by moonlight, like me and Dotty
are going to do to-night—and like most of
your neighbors do, if all I hear is true.
I save my money, and Dotty don’t know
what it’s good for, so I have to save his
when he earns it. I believe he’s uneasy
about me thinking so much of it and both-
ering about carrying the stuff on the track
with me. I believe he thinks I’m going ratty
over it, and, in fact, he hinted to that effect
once as well as he could. I have to take
care that Dotty don’t thieve it from me and
throw it in the river or somewhere some
night when I ain’t lookin’. But, if Dotty
doesn’t know what money is good for, I
do—it’s good for almost everything except
what they say it’s good for.
“Now, I don’t smoke, and that saves a
lot,” and Previous glanced along the ver-
andah-floor, where were scattered half-smoked
pipefuls of the most expensive tobacco to
be got in Leeton. “And I don’t drink” —here
Previous blinked meaningly at a half-filled
demijohn of beer from Narrandera under the
front-room table, and badly hidden by the
tablecloth. “So I save not only the cost of
the beer, but what the drinking of it costs
—and there is a big difference between the
two. Look there.”
Previous stood up on the step, and I
looked. Dotty had stood up and moved into
the centre of the road, lie had always sat
hunched up, crouched low, and I now saw
that he was a big man. He held his hands,
thumbs joined and palms forward, high and
a little back above his head. Then he brought
them down without appearing to bend his
knees, till his finger-tips touched his toes.
Then he did some sort of a double shuffle,
and so on, the same over again. Next he
swung first orfe arm and then the other in
circles and so on, all over again. Then he
did a trot round, with his fists on his chest,
but never far from the tree.
“What on earth is he doing?” I asked.
“Can’t you see?” said Dotty with a touch
of selfishness. “He’s training for a fight.
Sometimes he does it for an hour every morn-
ing for days together. When he gets at it
in or near townships we pass through, I tell
the local gawks he gathers round him that
lie’s training for a big fight in a new and
natural way with a rough life on a long
straight track ; and some of ’em want to feel
Dotty and take him in and shout for him,
and the big ’uns with beer inside, who fancy
luey can use their hands, try to get the
money put up and have a go with him. Yes,
I could make money on Dotty. I told you
about the ex-senior-sergeant in North Syd-
ney telling me that Dotty was a first-class
amateur boxer, and now I’m always afraid
of him getting one of those flashes of sanity
—you know what I mean” (here Previous
cocked a most felonious eye up at me) “and
taking on one of those big gawks. God help
the man that ruined Dotty’s life—and a big
brute of a blond he was—if Dotty ever meets
him and remembers with the shock of the
sight of him, and goes in for the fight he’s
been training for off and on these six or
seven years. But then,” he reflected, the
reflection of a ruined man himself, “when
you meet those sort of men afterwards they’re
generally so wrecked and done for that
they’re a shock for you instead of you being
a shock for them, and you feel more inclined
to pity the abject lice than to kill ’em. I
meself—but never mind that.
“Never mind Dotty; he’ll have a rest pre-
sently, and, anyway, he wouldn’t surprise
your neighbors if they did see him. They’ve
been too much stupefied by the results of
Royal Commissions and them sort of things
to be surprised at anything—and waitin’ —
waitin’—waitin’. God, how we waited then
—you and me!”
And presently the voice of Previous Con-
victions went on as of old. You couldn’t
call it a drawl—l don’t know what to call
it. I haven’t got a note of music in me —
nor the other thing.
“Do you know what I was talking about
just now?” asked Previous, half-persuasively,
half-dreamily; and I didn’t see the trap.
“Yes, Previous,” I said, “perfectly,” still
a little dazed.
Previous faded into an upright position.
“I didn’t know you was a liar before,
’Arry,” he said, “because I don’t know what
I was talking about myself.” And perhaps
he didn’t. Hypnotism or—what? He had
dropped back naturally into the vernacular;
but this was the first time he had been so
familiar. He was on the second step, and
now he stepped down and went to his swag.
He touched it over onto its side with his
lower leg, unbuckled and cast off the har-
ness and gave the swag a practised touch
with his foot that sent it unrolling to its
full length; and there it lay, a bush or out-
back camp-bed ready made but for the gum-
leaves or mulga branches under it. From
under the little pile of best clothes, spare
shirt and so on; and in the heart of the
swag, the neatly-sewn little canvas
“pocket” containing letters and portraits,
the relics of his ruined life (why do
men carry these things about with them?),
and the whole forming a pillow at night for
the world-tired head. From under his pil-
low Previous dexterously slipped a beauti-
fully clean and neatly-made little rope-yarn
doormat, something less than two feet long
by 18 inches wide, and fully two inches thick
in all. And this accounted for the dumpi-
ness of his swag.
“I made that coming out,” said Previous,
(“You remember when we were ‘on mats’ in
Darlinghurst Gaol? It saved us from goin’
silly.) I used the top wire of fences and
saplings for frames and finished off on the
floors and tables I rigged up in old houses
we camped in. I had a sail-needle and
plenty of twine, and so I made the sail-
needle blood-hot in the charcoal and beat
it out straight and narrower for a mat-
needle. Dotty borrowed all the rope I
wanted and unravelled it, and did most of
the plaiting, lie borrowed a pair of shears
to trim off. He’d been ‘on mats’ himself; you
remember I told you. The best piece of
rope he borrowed was nearly new, from a
shallow well at a pub—at least, I seen the
yardman fishing for it in the bottom of the
well with a piece of clothes-line, and bent
fencing-wire while we was passing, cornin’
away.”
In the centre of the mat were the letters
1.8. (the Little Landlady’s initials) in some
dark-red or brown color. “I’ll tell you about
that some other time—no, I’ll tell you now,”
said Previous. “We don’t know anything
about some other time. There was an old
horse that belonged to a selection back on
the back-track that got his leg smashed by
the limb of a burnt-out tree falling on it
while he was spread out dreaming of the
Cups he didn’t win ; and he had to be killed,
I shot him, in fact, with an old carbine the
selector had, for no one else had the heart
to do it—the old moke had been in the family
so long. So, while they were hiding behind
the house and shed so us not to see the last
kicks of old Geddup, I got a funny fancy,
You know how Mrs. Byrnes was always
ratty on animals—bringing mangy mongrels
and cats in from the street to soap and sul-
phur and feed them? (You used to get
mad about it.) And how she’d interfere
about a jibbing rogue-horse being touched
up, and make the innocent driver jumpin’
mad, too? Well, I dipped a bundle of sail-
twine ii% his horse’s blood, and that’s how
I got the bolor for those letters on that mat.
They won’t wear out till the mat wears out.”
He lifted the mat and came right up the
steps on to the verandah for the first time,
He laid the mat down in front of the door,
reverently, it seemed; and it seemed to me
that lie bowed the shade of an old-fashioned
bow.
“Now,” lie said, “that will pay Mrs.
Byrnes for some of the cigarettes I thieved
from her when she had the refresh-
rnent rooms, an’ help pay her for
her kindness to us half-grown hooli-
gans afterwards.” (Previous had hyp-
notised himself into the fancy that he had
been a mixture of the Artful Dodger and
Fagin in his young days, whereas the Tom
Pinch characters were more in poor little
Previous Gonvictions’s line. Indeed, accord-
ing to the Little Landlady, she had experi-
enced help and kindness, and some real pro-
tection from real larrikins of the old “Push”
Previous had belonged to.)
lie stepped down to the gravel walk, rolled
up his swag and harnessed it to the last
buckle-hole; slung it up and the tucker-bag,
and made a start. I walked with him to
the gate. lie gave me a hand as he might
offer his defensive shoulder, but I felt, for
the first time, a grip that sent a thrill
through me, and a feeling that it was a
hand that could strike out strongly to save
the drowning, lift a bar bully off his feet
and lay him quiet on his back on the floor
of the bar where he deserved to be—a hand
that could guide a man-killer horse through
storm and rough country on a life or death
ride—or a ride for the sake of the Family
Name—as I, the writer, did, ah, many years
ago!
Previous picked up Dotty, who mounted a
swag that seemed ridiculously small consid-
ering his bulk and thieving propensities, and
they went on the long road to the Hay Canal,
across which the red duststorms were still
prevalent, Previous’s swag seeming more like
a swag now that it was lightened of its little
load of reparation and gratitude; and Pre-
vious’s shoulders bearing, I hope, a lighter
load of previous convictions,
The last big duststorm closed behind them
like sidedrawn curtains on a stage, opened
again (as for applause), closed and opened,
and closed yet a third time, a heavy, dull-
red curtain that opened to reveal them no
more that year.
HENRY LAWSON.


BMNI
'mrnmi
a*
jsn
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
(Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BAA 414.
THE WESTIUCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
a
7
f
,L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
I Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of- Piston 2}& inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
D. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
HOTEL
BRISBANE-.
■European Plan.
Charges arejor Room Only
Service a la Carte -
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
Suites deLuxe s with Bath Room attached,
yplephone in even/ Room. - Roof Garden.
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF ROWE’S LIMITED,
PROPRIETORS.
u
.
•T'f
CAILLE “PERFECTION” MARINE ENGINES
(Jn-us
ftWKnOHllwri
DETROIT tA'.thICAK
A Type to Suit Every Hull.
Now’s the time to buy if you want
your Engine this season.
BiG REDUCTION ON
ALL ENGINES.
New shipment of 4-h.p. Engines, com-
plete with Igniter, just arrived.
We have stocks for immediate delivery
at the following reduced prices:—
Neptune Outboard . . £32
5-Speed Outboard . . £43
Liberty Drive Outboard £34
Inboard Motors:
2h.p. £34, 4h.p. £47/10/-, Bh.p. £BO,
2£h.p. £45, 6h.p. £57/10/-, 14h.p. £l5O
WRITE, ’PHONE OR CALL.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands.
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 107-109 Queensbridge Street,
Melbourne; 138 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Cable Address : “BROSBENSON.”
i?
O
S!
<5 cpr
D 9
Remington Automatic
Pistol Cartridges are
now Gil-Proof!
WHEN ordinary cartridges are left in
automatic arms for any length of time,
oil necessary to lubricate the pistol seeps
past the bullet and primer into the cartridge
case and spoils the powder and priming
mixture. Mis-fires result.
Remington Oil-Proof Automatic Pistol
Cartridges, when used in pistols in good
working order, are sure fire always. They
are positively sealed against oil and moisture
—an exclusive Remington feature.
SKI
Remington Arms Company, Inc.
2S Broadway, New York, U. S. A.
D. D. Bryant, Representative, G. P. 0. Box 686. Melbourne'
A Pointed Talk.
Next time you feel ‘out of sorts,’ just ttfKe Beecham’s Pills
and so prevent a seemingly small ailment growing
into a serious trouble. Beecham’s Pills prevent illness.
Many people take them to keep themselves in good
health, and these wise and happy ones hardly
ever know what bad health is. There is no
medicine in the world to compare with
Beecham’s Pills. They are a tried
remedy—the trusted friend of thousands
of families all over the world.
You will soon feel better after
taking them, and you will know
what to resort to in future,
Remember, “ Prevention is
better than cure,” so
always have a box of
Beecham’s Pills handy
and take a dose
when you feel
you need one
BEECHAM’S PILLS
“ WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.”
If any illustration appearing in The
.
luli.etin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager,
will quote you price for it.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 I-ligh Holborn, London. W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Swans’ Extra Air Outfit
is the Leading Device for Admitting Air to the
Motor, either for the purpose of Thinning out the
Mixture or Coasting.
A Swans’ Extra Air Installed.
Engines fitted with this device Show an almost
Incredible Increase in Petrol Economy. In most
cases cars “stretch the gallon” 20-30 /c , and in
some instances Motor Lorries have saved one-
third on their Petrol Bill—all this in addition to
having an efficient Air Brake when Coasting,
reducing appreciably transmission strains and
wear of brake lining.
Prices —Air Cock, Unions and Hose, Complete:
3/Bin. . . 20/-
l/2in 25/-
3/4in. 30/-
Swans Limited,
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR-ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.


wmmm
wii'S'S
v£sssi&:ssSS?
:: • •:• •
ss
«xxxX:X:Xx
fw:-:-S-K
~
HiP
m
m
m
\ \
W
mwm
tr
r---
;■■;> -f :
$\
m
m.
❖x*x*x*x*X
\A.
W+l&
f . -s,
* \
Sr
.v.y.y.v.v.v.w.v.v
:X:X:X:XX'.;.X:X;:X:|:X-X:X
X
\m
:■:
..:::_::iiiiiiii<;;i;);!j j j
f'J
v V \
n
'X'XT. VVi
sSc>
:•••:•:: vXvXvX*:v::vX*::v>
Sf
U
m
®M
V/
sll
V;
> \ N
:Sx : . : :*. : >
is
1
• • /
ice
X:-
m
%
■ x :'
XXiXix-
»:•••:•&■£s
.
MS*
•• >• .
»ra
I ' | I • ' ,
masterpieces:
Si-SxlSi^vS
:'X : :>
:v«:®
