

1
e
**» lgs ipaife^gi
«3 } ;,
IS
m
Ml
ill:
ii*
•uSi.:
s-i
liSmPrW.
Ifi ! \
fiilMrH.aiii# • mmm'm H#
ftllllil Li l:& 4
IP
fgfd
HE G-E Home Light and Power Unit is a portable
rriachine for generating electric current wherever the
service of a Lighting and Power Company is not available. It consists
of a gas engine which uses kerosene as fuel, an electric generator, and a storage
battery. It will supply, at small cost, ample current for lighting house and farm
buildings, for the operation of heating and labour-saving appliances in the home,
dairy and stables, and for driving fractional horse-power motors in connection
with farm machinery and other industrial purposes.
Electric Service for every place—no matter where you live.
Illustrated booklet mailed free.
Australian General Flcctric 0 ltd.
Hone: Citv 3510. 80, 2317 G.P.O.
W„n« = Central 2645. 80x538.G.P.a
AGENTS:
BRISBANE—The Engineering Supply Co. of Aus-
tralfaLtd. (E.S.C. A.) Corner Edward and Charlotte Sts.
TASMANIA -Oliver «£ Oliver, Hobart & Launceston.
I ADELAIDE,-Charles Atkins fie Co. Ltd. 88 Cuttie St.
PERTH—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.) Limited.
" Mazda House,” 894 Hay St.
N.Z.--The i itional Electrical ii Engineei ing Co. Ltd.
Auckland. Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
*>ipn4£
S.Q||np
K -
, %
w
1 .* »■
Vs . j
.y ijiftjrw. f?
Li ■! Wt f:.d«
» A
S.
v? /;
*V'
* r
i ■»* -i*
P litte.
I HIIUI
nil j
I 818 > l,s
X
6 m
3A
«r
Vy §
s>
t'-
&
Ilk
, "> 'wm i m
X
X
m
X
\
\\V-
\ X
\\
, x
X
x\
X X
\\
X
V
xT'xV-
XX,'
•XV
v ,
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2220.
Thursday, August 31, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post a. a Newspaper,


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogu
now ready. Ported free to any address.
' DYMOCIv’S ROOK ARC ADR, LTD.,
428 George Street. City.
m
luiiiiinmmiMiiiiiiiiiiiiminiinimiinimiiiMii
I
e>'»
/' i *
\\ I#////
X
XXxvV
C/ *4kr
X i 1 1;
/®T -XO
/
CROUP
14.
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. Hearne & Co.
" Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
I Bond Street. SYDNEY. '
A Plain
Fact!
NGROYIT
LEATHER
LTI
Reduce Production Coats
Instal MANGROVITE
LEATHER BELTING.
The successful manufacturer watches closely every
avenue that might possibly waste money.
MANGROVITE LEATHER. OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
needs no guarding once it is properly installed. Its celebrated bulldog grip on the pulleys sends
every ounce of power to the machines, and it operates with faultless success under dittiault condi-
tions.
MANGROVITE RELTING LTD.
(Charles Ludowici, Managing Director), 49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies
Co., Ltd. .
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
397 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd.,
AJrtnirln,
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA: Henry dark & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Bria-
bane.
<3
%
' ' ' ■ ' ' ' '' '■ *■ i
\ r ' //SS"""<" ' f
| ONOTO I
| INK f^T
i
I
§
INK
ys////s///s
SS4
% '////""s/ss. Best
| for all
&S
:s
?\
;;
Pens
5555?
'■MM# J'4M/JW
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive fex*ments to act,
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
[7
auj
©8
O :
Hu
a
sate
The Red Page
A Search for a Continent.
“The Discovery of Australia/’ by G. Arnold
Wood.
(Macmillan & Co., Ltd.)
Professor Wood lectures on History at
Sydney University. Many of those who
worked under him recall his teaching as one
ot the best things they got out of their
careers as students. For he had, and has
still, the precious gift of making his lec-
tures pleasurable. With him the study of
history is not a survey of the thoughts and
deeds ot dead men and years, but of living
people who are the same as we are ourselves,
and of years that are no different from those
we live in. "The Discovery of Australia”
is written in this vein. It is the story of
the theory and realisation of a Great South-
ern Continent that extends from three cen-
tunes before the Christian era to the voyages
of Matthew* Flinders. “At length in pro-
gress of talk,” wrote the Greek author Theo-
pompus, about y5O b.c., “Selenus told Midas
of certain islands named Europia, Asia and
Libia, which the Ocean Sea circumscribeth
and compasseth round about; and that witli-
out this world there is a continent or parcel
ot dry land which in greatness is infinite
and immeasurable.” For two thousand years
the long romance of speculation and achieve-
ment that led to the ultimate finding of Aus-
tralia is here traced and criticised, with a
thoroughness of knowledge and uuderstand-
mg that makes the book perhaps the most
notable and valuable of any that are num-
bered m the extensive bibliography of the
subject. No writer lias come to his task
with better equipment than the author, and
no result could have been better than that
which he has given us of his studies and
deductions.
Nineteen hundred years ago the world
of the Greeks and Romans had its southern
limits a good deal north of the Equator.
The latitude of the Canaries was the end
of the West Coast of Africa, Guardafui its
eastern finish. Ceylon, curiously misunder-
stood, was the south-east corner of the
habitable earth. Southward lav a terrible
vague ocean, turbulent and impenetrable,
and beyond it, as unknown and unattain-
able as the back of the moon, lay the Alter
Orbis of a vast island .continent, which
might be- Heaven, Ilell or Fairyland,
“But,” writes Professor Wood, “Claudius
Ptolemy, of Alexandria, knew better. By
his time (a.d. 150 > geographical science
had made a great advance, lie understood
—as none before him, and as none after
him for the. next 1300 years—the import-
ance of making maps by the certain rules
of mathematics and astronomy. In his days,
also, more geographical information had been
accumulated. Seamen had pushed south-
ward down the east coast of Africa, south-
wards even of the Equator. Definite know-
ledge also had been obtained of a ‘Silk-
land’ distant from India, extending far to
the east and far to the north. News also
had been heard, it seems, of lands stretch-
ing down from Asia far to the south-east.
It seems certain that Ptolemy had some
knowledge of the Malay Peninsula. It
seems certain, also, that rumors had reached
him of the long string of Malavsian islands,
lying so close together that they may well
have been described as one continuous land.
Evidently there was far more land than had
been imagined. Much was still unknown;
but when Ptolemy thought he thought in
continents. Against Mela’s “wet theory,”
which supposed the unknown to be Ocean,
he set the “dry theory,” which supposed the
unknown to be land. In his famous map
the circumfluent Ocean Sea disappears.
Eastern Asia extends indefinitely both east-
ward and southward. At about 15° S. Hat.
it takes a: decisive turn to the west, and
runs along that parallel till it meets the
continent of Africa in the same latitude.
Thus the Indian Ocean is made a “Medi-
terranean” sea, wholly enclosed by land, so
that you can reach it neither by rounding
Africa, nor by sailing west from Europe.
And the southern coast of this sea, in about
lat. 15° S'., is a Terra Incognita, Ptolemy’s
way of representing the unknown land of
the southern temperate zone.”
Through the fantastic conceptions of
mediaeval geography, with their quaint
theories of the world as a two-storeyed house,
as a flat surface or as the interior of a globe
—in all of which the unknown fourth con-
tinental area seems to lie—we come to the
beginnings of modern exploration in the
13th century. The age of Roger Bacon saw
the first traces of modernism in thought.
Speculation was giving way to experiment's
in the realities. Men bega#* to trust more
in what they' could prove to be true than
in miracles. A light of reason was begin-
ning to penetrate the fog of superstition
that had enveloped the world for a mil-
lennium. It began to be possible to upset
theories and establish, facts. And so the
voyagers set out on their travels, prepared
for new things that might contradict old
tales, and unafraid of establishing heresies
of knowledge of the earth that would have
to be accepted because they were really not
heresies so much as eternal truths. The glory
of God, the worship of Mammon, the spirit
of adventurous curiosity, love, hatred, van-
ity, jealousy—all the motives that stimu-
late mankind to labor and to risk—drove
them out into unknown seas beyond the
edge of the world. High hopes and low
hopes urged their gropings in the Unknown
—but as a constant quantity in many im-
pulses was the necessity of finding' that
new land of the South, whose existence had
changed from a mythical tradition into a
fixed belief.
From Marco Polo to .Tames Cook, through
fiOO years, the long procession of brave
adventurers marches through the pages of
this book —Venetians. Portuguese, Spaniards,
Hollanders and Englishmen—never disguised
by prejudice, or dealt with other than justly,
according _to both the good and the evil
that lay in national and individual types.
Self-seekers and cowards are as carefully
drawn as enthusiasts and heroes. Their
failures and their successes are impartially
judged and valued in the light of modern
knowledge. Evidence is scrupulously
weighed. The author has his theories, but
he does not guess. With an obvious artistic
love of a good story fie never hesitates to
sacrifice it for the truth. As an example
of this, the pretty legend that Tasman
uamed capes and islands after the daughter
of Anthony Van Diemen, Governor-General
of the Dutch East Indies, is ruined by a
relation of the facts that the latter had no
daughter, and that such places as Cape
Maria Van Diemen and Maria Island bear
the name of his wife. (One is reminded of
honi soit r/iii mal y pchse, but Professor
\vood, although he doesn’t seem to care
much about Tasman personally, is no scan-
dal-monger.)
When he comes to his heroes—who are
always real heroes- —he writes of them de-
lightfully. Quiros is one, and we get to
know him for the first time as the sort of
man he must have been. Consider this: —
In following the story of Quiros we have continu-
in mind the contemporary Spanish picture of
the Knight of the. rueful countenance, with withered
and dusty visage, and with respectful demeanor, who
affirmed that the world stood in need of nothing
so much as Knights Errant, and the revival of
chivalry. But the Knight Errantry of Quiros was
the Knight Errantry of Christ; and the Chivalry
which he revived was the Chivalry of the Holy Ghost.
He. did not discover a continent, but lie achieved
a spiritual exploit. He so dreamed that his dreams
entered into the aims of those, of other times and
other nations, who achieved the work which Spain
had refused.”
And this inimitable apology for the buc-
caneering of Will Dampier:—
That Dampier was a pirate was an accident. The
fact was due not to his character but his times, in
character he was akin not to Morgan and Kidd, but
to Sir Joseph Banks and Charles Darwin. He was
a born naturalist of the most fervent class. The
Somerset farmer’s boy came into the world in 1652
dowered with ’an everlasting curiosity, an insatiable
appetite for new experiences, the thorough instinct
of the scientific student, and an admirable capacity
for describing what he called “observables” in
plain, accurate, vivid English. He had it in liis
bones to be a traveller. His joy would have been
to travel like Banks in the Endeavour, or like
Darwin in the Beagle. But he was born a century
too soon for “voyages of curiosity.” In another
age his determination to travel might have made
him a missionary. He found as much interest in
missions as in other “observables,” and his views
about “virtue” and “the fundamental truths of
Christianity” were as orthodox as those of a bishop.
But, in the late 17 th century, missionary voyages
were not in fashion. Travel somehow he must,' and
the best people to travel with in his days were
pirates. Therefore Dampier became a pirate.
But James Cook is Professor Wood’s great-
est hero in the long search for the “Alter
Orbis” which he brought to a conclusion,
and he gives us a picture of the man that
stands unrivalled :
His greatness appears, as we think, not of one
moment, but of the whole life. Heroism was so
wrought into the texture of character, that lie tells
a heroic story in a. way that makes one imagine it
a inatter-of-coursc affair. We think that the story
lacks interest, when the fact is that it lacks egotism
....Cook, to use Cromwell’s phrase, was a man of
spirit, and his spirit was the spirit of the g'entle-
rnart. In his intercourse with men of high rank and
great wealth he was always courteous, always digni-
fied. not claiming equality but assuming it.
He was their equal and more than their equal,
not because he was a great British naviga tor, but be-
cause he was a British gentleman. And he was a
farmer’s son, self-educated and self-made, and his
pay when he named Port Jackson was five shillings
a day.' As a child cannot be too careful in choosing
his grandfather, so a country cannot be too careful
in choosing its discoverer; and a country with the ~
ideals of New South Wales could have made no more
happy choice.
A groat book, charmingly written. Austral-
asia owes its author a debt of gratitude.
Thirty years he has been teaching Austra-
lians—-but he has never taught them better
or more usefully or wisely than in this latest
and most enduring of his lectures.
Sexualitis
Dr. Brill, author of Fundamental Con-
ceptions of Psycho-analysis (George Allen
and Unwin), is lecturer on Psycho-analysis
at New York University. He states that his
object is to clear up a number of misconcep-
tions concerning the new science. In doing
so he has completely failed to clear up a
•misconception in his own mind concerning
the difference between neurotic and erotic.
He consequently leaves the normal reader
with a deep suspicion of what psycho-
analysis really is. The publishers claim -for
the work that it is better fitted for the
general public than are those of Dr. Brill’s
teacher, Freud. The validity of the state-
ment largely depends on what opinion of
the general public the publishers may have.
Psycho-analysis is really mental analysis,
and, if this volume is a truthful statement
of iti-T fundamental conditions, one can only
agree witn Dean Inge that the psychic
mania in which the world is indulging is a
menace, and the public will do well to leave
it alone. The Freud-Brener system of analy-
sis is known as the “cathartic” method, a
mental purging, an unburdening of the
mind. The patient recounts everything
which he or she can remember of his or her
innermost thoughts and most secret life
from earliest memory to date. Where
memory by itself is insufficient it is aided
by suggestion, and even by hypnotism. The
psychist analyses these . thoughts, dreams,
actions, hallucinations, likes and dislikes, and
diagnoses the mental trouble which formu-
lates the physical ill from which the patient
suffers. It will be clear that immense pov'er
is thus placed in the hands of the psychist,
w r ho, it is well to remember, requires no
medical degree or other certificate of respec-
tability or ability. In passing, this immu-
nity may help to explain the innumerable
reports of misconduct on the part of these
practitioners. The fallacy of what Freud
calls the “talking cure” is that exaggera-
tion and untruth follow truth as twilight
and dusk follow daylight. But, says the
author, these exaggerations and lies are just
as important for analytical purposes as is
the truth. “Every slip of the tongue, or
mistake in writing, or unconscious gesture
or movement has significance.” and in most
cases that significance, to a Freudian analyst,
fas a sexual connection. For example, a
young w T oman suffered rheumatism in her
arm, due to this being the aim which the
young man with whom she walked out,
and who, she hoped, loved her, but was
afraid did not. pressed on leaving her. Rheu-
matism was strangulated emotion according
ing to the psycho-analyst. Of course, such
a diagnosis was rubbish, not even credible
f the lady had suffered from swollen lips.
If biologists allow too little for the emotions
psycho-analysts lay too much stress on them.
(Continued on page 25.)


Catjjoiyfatdtfasfije
Men’s Wear, Combining Quality and Value
»t ANTHONY HORDERNS*
Savei yourself from unnecessary dis-
appointments in your shopping, and
be sure of satisfaction ALWAYS, by
adopting The House of Economy as
your permanent shopping place.
There you can depend on getting
what you want always—and at a
lower price than you are asked to
pay for similar quality elsewhere.
Various representative items of Men’s
Needs are enumerated. The quality in
every instance is irreproachable, and
the extra worth and wear you obtain
will far exceed your expectations.
Excellent Mercery Values.
ST
MEN’S WORKING SHIRTS, finished with
collar and pocket—
In Striped Harvard.
Price 6/9, 97-
In striped and Plain Navy Drill —
Price 9/6
In Black Mercerised. Price . . 7/6
In White Mercerised. Price . . 8/6, 9/6
In White Matt. /<t
Price 7/6, 8/6, 9/6
In White Drill. Price 9/6
MEN’S FLANNEL UNDERSHIRTS.
Full cut and best finish —
In Dark Grey. Price 7/6, 8/6
In Natural. Price 8/6
In Silver Grey. Price 9/6
In Plain Cream. Price .... 9/9, 12/-
MEN’S PYJAMA SUITS.
Made in our own workrooms from reliable
British Fabrics —
In Striped Flannelette.
Price 10/6, 13/6, 16/6
In Striped Crepe. Price 16/6
In Striped Ceylon. Price . . 21/-, 26/6
Distinctive Headwear
/"Til.
s
7
Costs Less
at
’ Anthony
Horderns’
Though prices
are low, quality
is dependable,
and you can
rely on the
service these
Hats will give
you.
MEN’S FUR FELT HATS, with 2 4 l in. Plain
Edge Brims. Colors: Black, Brown, Slate,
Steel, Grey and Fawn. (As illustrated.)
Price 16/6
MEN’S FUR FELT HATS, 24in. Brims, with
narrow binding on edge, flat set. Colors:
Steel, Slate and Grey.
Price 217-
MENS SOFT FUR FELT HATS, Brims
bound wide and well rolled. Colors: Slate,
Steel and Grey.
Price 22/6
ENGLISH FUR FELT HATS, superior
quality, with plain edge Brims, 2|in. wide.
Colors: Slate, Steel, Fawn and Grey.
Price 32/6
Economise in Safety Razors.
Here’s a list of Safety
Razors that will give
Satisfaction far in excess
of the outlay required
for possession of them,
for each one represents
a solendid value.
mm
Valet Auto Strop Safety Razors.
VALET AUTO STROP SAFETY RAZOR, complete
in Leather or Nickel-plated Case, with twelve blades
and Veldt Hide Strop. (As illustrated.)
Price 27/6
VALET AUTO STROP SAFETY RAZOR, complete in
Flat, Nickel-plated Case. Plain or Fancy Design, with
twelve blades and Velvet Hide Strop.
Price 30/-
VALET AUTO STROP SAFETY RAZOR, complete in
Folding Pigskin Case, with twelve blades and Velvet
Hide Strop.
Price 22/6
VALET AUTO STROP COMBINATION SET, in
Leather Case, containing Silver-plated Auto Strop
Safety Razor, Shaving Soap in Nickel-plated Tube,
Badger Hair Shaving Brush in Nickel-plated Tube,
twelve blades and Velvet Hide Strop.
Price 50/-
; ' ; 5
Durham Duplex Domino Safety Razors
DURHAM DUPLEX DOMINO SAFETY RAZOR,
complete in Folding Leather Case, with three double-
edged blades and Nickel-plated Stropping Attachment.
(As illustrated.)
Price 7/6
DURHAM DUPLEX (DU-BARRY) SAFETY
RAZOR, complete in Celluloid Case, with three
double-edged blades.
Price 7/6
DURHAM DUPLEX (BATHROOM SET), Celluloid
Holder, containing Xylonite Handle Durham Duplex
Razor and three double-edged blades.
Price 7/6
Extra blades for Durham Duplex Safety Razors —
Pkt. of three. Pkt. of five.
2/- 3/3
Price
Carriage Paid on Men’s Wear, Footwear and Safety
Razors in N.S.W., and to the nearest port on Interstate
orders.
Men’s Durable Footwear.
MEN’S KIP BLUCHERS, nailed or sprigged
soles, Standard Screwed. (As illustrated).
Price
11/6, 16/9 pair
MEN’S BOX HIDE WATERTIGHT COS-
SACKS. stout Standard Screwed soles.
Prices: 15/9, 17/11, 21/- pr.
MEN’S ELASTIC-SIDE RIDING BOOTS,
light Standard Screwed soles.
Price 15/9 pair
Can also be supplied in Tan.
Price 22/6 pair
MEN’S KIP WATERTIGHT BLUCHERS,
toe and heel plates, nailed soles, Standard
Screwed.
Prices: 14/9, 18/6, 21/- pair
MEN’S TAN MILITARY COSSACKS, Stan-
dard Screwed. Sewn soles.
Prices 18/6, 21/- pair
“Hordernia
Ready-for-
Service
Suits
Range
in
Price
from
59/6
to
105-
\
1
THE “HOItDERNIA” SAC SUIT. Coat lias
two-button front, outside breast pocket, no vent.
Vest has four pockets, medium opening
Trousers possess side or cross and hip pockets,
cuff bottoms.
Obtainable in All-Wool Australian Tweeds,
in neat Grey or Brown effects.
Price 59/6
Other Excellent Values—
-84/-, 95/-, 105/-
A High-Grade SPORTS SUIT for 65-
MEN’S ALL-WOOL SPORTS SUIT. Coats
have patch pockets. Trousers are designed with
side and hip pockets and cuff bottoms. In neat
Dark Grey effects.
Price 65/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.
Telephone: City 9440,


GENUINE,
LINSEED OIL
<1
, * u ■.
These three
a confidence
factors have
absolutely on merit.
99
Australian Made.
GGITTS
PWBDMNBB
DPieboy on the bag
guarantees quality ”
HEAD OFFICE 'AG KING ST
AQENTS.—Messrs Harrisons. Ramsay Pty., fitd.. 666 Bourke Sticet, Melbourne; Messrs. 11. 8. tlxton *£
Co., Lid., Queen Street, Brisbane ;j Messrs. F. W. Heritage if Co., Ltd., Hobart avid Launces-
ton; Messrs. William {Ldams & [Jo., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Rundle
Street, Adelaide.
GGrrrs
UNSEEdoum™
W
fAECGITT L to
PARRAMATTA
_A
, ( yAe boy on the baa
guarantees quality


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
[lie Or. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
I*' YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery Is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Go., Ltd.,
Broughton House. Clarenoe Street, Bydney.
Sole Australian Ascents.
“M.L.”
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
EVERYBODY DOTES
UncleTobv’s
VOATS^y
A delightful breakfast food
3
m
I
A
rr
n
Disp e n s e
with that
GREY
HAIR. Let
it be changed
te a youth-
f u 1 deep
WAL N U T
COLOR,
h a r m 1 essly
and perma-
nently. You’ll
feel young
again. Procurable from all chem-
ists. Get a packet to-dav.
MEXICAN
IWAINUT STAIN!
A Scientific Instrument
DENYER’S “ECLIPSE
TRIPLE CRUSH
EMASCULATOR.
&
Because of its scientific, serviceable construction, Denyer s
“Eclipse” Triple Crush Emaseulator is the friend of the careful
stock-owner. It ensures a safe, successful operation for all stock,
and is so sturdily made, of first-class materials, that it cannot fail
to give efficient service almost for ever.
PRICE 60 - Postag'e 9d/ extra.
Send for our free catalogue of Veterinary Instruments and Appliances.
It’s post free.
DENYER BROS.
The Veterinary House of Australia.
281 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
"THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
'CP
V
3
a
s
-&r.
'rjh-
&
N
<L
■AS
U I
0
pH
p
f
R
nn
Pure
COMDEATSEO
/lakes Lovely, Cakes,
cmJ 15 a kies ilmve on ll
3
f
f
%
m
a
Second only to the “Swan.”
The “Blackbird” is the “SWAN” Pen’s junior
and fully meets the demand for a reliable foun-
tain pen at somewhat below the standard price.
gfd
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND IMPORTERS
Made by the "Swan" Pen People.
Illustrated List Post Free.
MABIE. TODD 8 CO., LTD.
Swan House, 133-135. Oxford Street. London, W.l
Manchester, Paris,
Associate House:
Brussels, Zurich. Sydney. Toronto, and Cape Town.
Mabie. Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Jk
T
'l
J*Z
to
V'
1000 SATISFYING SHAVES
IN ONE
RAZOR
.guy THIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
that shave after shave of satin smooth-
brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
gfd
g
fd
Guaranteed x
in order for two years fre
CRAIG &
m
77171
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Paradise.
Beset by many cares, of griefs no lack,
My heart was weary, and the skies were
dense
With ominous cloud-monsters crowding
black.
“Life holds," I said, “no worthy recom-
pense.
What sense or justice in a place like this
That only feeds the vain, the worldly-
wise !"
But then my baby chuckled to my kiss,
And I myself was safe in Paradise.
N.s.w.
MARY E. SURRIDGE.
Twilit Steamers.
The steamers chime an overtone
Where gloom and gleaming interplay
Within the purple-haunted zone
That lies betwen the dark and day.
O’er singing spar and guttural buoy
Their smoke goes stiaightly overhead;
Each steamer seems a pretty toy
Let down upon a lazy thread.
Like silver gulls the bells take wing;
The wan, wide lanterns stand and stare,
Or fumble at the dusk to fling
White arms across the deepening air.
It is the time when shadows creep
Close on the pacing of the day,
When earth turns heavily to sleep.
And hides her weary face away.
The sky-line lifts from shade to shade;
Lilac and rose, the last light droops ;
And half unseen and half afraid,
The steamers huddle into groups.
Swift on the shoulders of the land
We swing toward the silent place,
To marvel there awhile, and stand
A world’s-Width outward into space.
All through the night the stars peer down.
Insatiate from the infinite;
Yet all things lovely drift and drown
In these dim depths beyond the light:
Till, grouped and graceful, airy spars
Stand tip-toe on a field of grey—
The Dawn sweeps out beyond the stars—
The deep Dark shoals towards the Day.
VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
The Dreamer.
A child I knew- —so oft alone
That solitude a pastime grew—
Her child-songs, all in monotone,
Were mystic chants the sea-wind blew.
Child-brow, enthroning thought too old,
And little heart with loves too few,
Its day-dreams gloom’d by terror cold
That night her shroud o’er sunset drew!
I look to those far, winding ways,
From where old Time’s unceasing wheel
Sweeps past the fleeting glory rays
He grants—e’er night our vision steal—
And wonder if the child’s long dreams
Were Memory’s prophetic ray
From some lost Eden’s forest streams
That lave the feet of Yesterday?
Or were they pillars, bearing high
Illusion’s lighthouse, through the dark
Her torch to flash where passes by
The flotsam from Life’s found’ring
barque?
I only know that wrapped around
With loneliness and dreams she grew,
While thieving years her heart had bound
To break for song that should be-true!
VICTORIA.
M. B. PATON.
Once More.
I will go west for a space once more,
For tired am I of the crowded places,
Where eyes grow weary and hearts grow
sore
With too much looking on drawn, white
faces.
I am grown tired of the stress and strife.
The ills that weary, the cares that fetter
The folk of the cities —men call it life,
But life is surely a something better.
Through street and alley too long I’ve trod,
Too long I’ve hearkened to men outpour-
ing
Their praise of Mammon—that gold is God,
And no God other is worth adoring.
With eyes unseeing they live and die,
All else but wealth and its capture scorn-
ing,
Though roses bloom in the sunset sky,
And violets blow in the skies of morning.
Though deaf they be to the thrush’s tune,
The singing wind and the sounding
breaker,
AH ears, they hearken by night and noon,
The grunts and growls of the money-
maker.
A far flower glows, as it glowed before
Greed came to shadow its bloom and fade
it —
I must go west for a space once more—
To see God’s world as at first He made it.
I shall make friends with the stars again,
And find my soul like a soul forgiven,
And life shall surge through my veins, as
when
It surged long since, like the wine of
Heaven.
I shall grow rich ’neath the power that
flings
Its mantling gold o’er the silent spaces,
Nor think too much of the little things
That men hold great in the market-places.
With space and time, and hollow and height
My soul shall dwell in august communion,
With dawn and sunset and noon and night,
Remote and lonely it shall have union.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


\ummel
<Jc C fy[axt>ake.
M
OST men will realise the value of a Suit
that’s fit to wear on all occasions —correctly
cut, a perfect fit and tailored skilfully and well
from fine materials. Such is an “Austral”
Tailored Suit from Gowing Bros. Ltd.
New Season’s Patterns in the latest weaves are
now available in great variety. These, together
with self-measurement forms, will be posted
gladly on request.
£4/4/-
Neat Grey and Brown Australian Tweeds.
£4/4 1-
£55/
All-Wool Australian and English Tweeds in Donegal
effects.
£5/5/-
£ 6(6/
All-Wool Indigo English Cheviot Serge. Color
guaranteed. Also All-Wool West of England Tweeds.
£66/-
£7/7/
All-Wool Indigo English Fine Twill Serge, and Pure
Wool Worsteds in Plain and Stripe Greys or Blue
Herringbone.
£7/7/
£B/8/
Pure Wool Fine Texture Worsteds. Neat designs in
Greys, Browns and Blues.
£B/8/-
For customers at a distance from
the city the Austral System of
Self-measurement provides the
certainty of perfect-fitting clothes.
Patterns and forms are posted
on request.
A customer who is not fully satis-
fied with his suit to measure needs
simply to return it to us, and his
request for a refund of moneys
paid will be complied with imme-
diately.
WE PAY CARRIAGE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Gowing Bros. Ltd
486 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
Branches at 304 Georg'e Street and 454 Georg'e Street.


The Bulletin
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2220.
THU ItSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1922.
Price 6d.
CIVIL REGISTRAR
A CASE FOR DISQUALIFICATION
AUSTRALIA: "WHAT have Churches to do with legal contracts, anyhow?"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man."
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosiuan, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office cf the
Co., 214 Geortre Street. Svdnei;. V.S.W.. Australia.
Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUnSCRTBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to anv address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months. £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months. Is.
To any address Overseasr 12 months, £1 10K; 6
months, 135.; 3 months, Is. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc'., which should be* crossed, and
all business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted , whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing tilth Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say.
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs.
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Hut
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it trill be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Illaek and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
Inim.orons or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received aie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
CPpies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and (lotch, Ludgute Circus; and IP. Lawson und Sons,
Cannon House, breams buildings, London F.CJi;
E. T. Hole, Uolerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet Street,
London, F..C. ; “The british-Australasian,” it High
Uolborn, London, W.C.I. x
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Jvhmmesbwrrr;'Havana -House, Dur-
ban: and others.
Canada. — U. S. Forsyth and Co., •}}( Hastings
Street, Vancouver, b.C.
V.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Fay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neio York: Brentano's. 3th Avenue
and 27th Street, Now York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle. Washington.
ICoYi’T.;— Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Fort Said, Egypt.
Mono Kono. — brewer and Co., Vedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. b. Perera and Co., 8 baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarni and Port Moresby.
Fl.il. — A. barker. Sera; Ilarry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Sura.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, 15 St. Bride Street,
Ludaate Circus. EC).
U.S.A.— J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper ) : —Throughout the Commonwealth : loot.,
Id. (for single copies'). All British Possessions: )oz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid, United States: !,os. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 31, 1922.
THE QUESTION OF A FEDERAL
MARRIAGE ACT.
It was decided,-last Thursday, in Adelaide,
at a meeting pf the Protestant Convention:
That the question of the Ne Temere decree and Its
operation -within the Commonwealth be made a
national question, and the Federal Government be
urged to pass legislation to prevent its operation.
This move is an offshoot of the politico-sectar-
ian agitation which has been raging in N.
S. Wales on the same issue, the gravamen of
the charge against the decree being the alleged
fact that R.C. priests are inspired by it to
‘Vo about accusing those who have not been
married in an R.C. church of living in adul-
tery,” and their offspring of “being illegiti-
mate.” So desperate is the position claimed
to be in N. S. Wales that T. J. Ley, Minis-
ter for Justice in the Puller Cabinet, pro-
mised some of his constituents, a few days
ago, that a State law against the decree
would be passed at once, while Archdeacon
D’Akcy-Irvine, of Sydney, in the course of
a recent sermon on “Brotherly Love,” or
some such text, announced that “he would
like to see a law passed that would penal-
ise to the extent of £lOO any priest who
would cast doubt on a marriage between
Catholic and Protestant.” Ley, as a solici-
tor, should appreciate a point of which the
Archdeacon —who, by bis writings in the
press, would seem to _be a man of _ but
moderate education —is doubtless igno-
rant, namely, that a legal means already
exists of punishing any priest or other citi-
zen who accuses lawfully-married persons of
living in adultery or possessing illegitimate
children. Odgers (“Libel and Slander”)
puts the position clearly:—
Our present law permits anyone to say, write and
publish what he pleases; but if he make a bad use
of this liberty he must be punished. If he unjustly
attacks an individual, the person defamed may sue
for damages; if, on the other hand, the words be
written or printed, or if treason or immorality be
thereby inculcated, the offender can be tried for the
misdemeanor either by information or indictment.
Honest belief is no defence to the priestly
libels which politicians like Ley, and
parsons like D’Arcy-Irvine, assert are
rife in our midst. For that matter a priest
would be liable to severe punishment, and
would be handed it with the approval, pro-
bably, of most of his flock, who publicly
accused an indisputable pair of adulterers
of being what they were. In such cases, for-
tunately for the peace and good government
of the country, the doctrine of “the greater
the truth the greater the libel” prevails.
Any legislation against the Ne Temere de-
cree would, therefore, be a mere futile dupli-
cation of the ; existing laws against libel and
slander. The measure would, of course,
bring a certain amount of grist to the mills
of a few professional sectarian-mongers, but
it could be no more fruitful of results than
a fresh set of laws against forgery or arson.
Thgt is not to say, however, that the State
marriage laws of Australia are other than
chaotic, divergent and profoundly illogical.
Until 1886 the solemnisation of marriages
was a monopoly of the Established Church
of England. The amendment to the Mar-
riage Act which was passed in that year
allowed Dissenters to be married before civil
registrars. But neither High Church Angli-
cans nor Roman Catholics accepted these
persons as .truly.., -married—they had not
been “sanctified by the_ word of God and
prayer (1 Tim. iv, in any privi-
leged place, such as Parliament, the opinion
was advanced, without hesitation, that a
registry-oflice union was no better than free
love. The attitude towards divorce was
little different from that which had been
general throughout Christendom five centuries
earlier: that is to say, it was the same as
the present-day R.C. attitude. Very influ-
ential people—kings, rich noblemen and the
like—might wangle divorces out of Popes or
ecclesiastical courts, and then have
them legally validated at great financial
cost by special Acts of Parliament;
but the poor were urged to remember
the injunctions “What therefore God hath
joined together let not man put asunder,”
and “If a woman shall put away her hus-
band, and be married to another, she
committeth adultery,” and behave accord-
ingly. The march of education, and
of democratic ideas, ended this state of
affairs about the middle of last century; and
though both High Church Anglicans and
R.C.’s fought the new institution to the last
ditch, the Court for Divorce and Matrimonial
Causes supplanted the Court of Arches;
divorce passed from the hands of ecclesiasti-
cism into those of the Stat'e. The framers
of the Act of 1857 did not labor under the
delusion ...which appears to affect N.S.W.’s
Mr. Ley, namely, that man-made laws are of
any avail to make sincere Christians jet-
tison their convictions. They, therefore,
inserted into their measure a provision which
enabled clergymen to say, in effect, to those
who had been divorced by a lay Court that
they were still married in the sight of God.
In other words, priests and parsons were
permitted to refuse to marry divorced persons.
And, despite the fact that divorce, of late
years, has become the rule rather than the
exception in many of England’s most promi-
nent families, Anglican and R.C. clerics are
still refusing to marry those who, in law,
have every right to be married, and by that
action implying that, though someone else
may be venal enough to perform the cere-
mony, it will, nevertheless, be no marriage.
An odd state of affairs was disclosed, in this
connection, a few weeks ago, when the Earl
of Lanesborough and Mrs. Guy Watkins
(co-re. and respondent respectively in a suit
brought early in the year by the lady’s hus-
band) had to “make a hurried search
throughout London for a clergyman.” One
had promised to hold a “benedictory service,”
but when he found that the press knew of
his intention, he declined to have anything
fo do with the matter.
A Daily Ciironicle representative saw Mrs. Gjjy
Watkins at her flat in Portland-court, She was
greatly distressed at the thought that the Chapel,
Royal service had been prohibited. “All day I have;
been trying to find a clergyman who will consent to
conduct the service, and I arp glad to say that I
have succeeded in discovering one who is willing to
do so. Where it is I am not going to dispose. It
must be kept an absolute secret.” 'O%
* * * * -
This, episode presents an infrequent type
of cleric —one who is ready to do outrage
to his principles provided there is no pub-
licity. But the very fact of his insistence
on secrecy goes to emphasise the fact that-
clericalism is engaged in-a kind
spiraey to bring into contempt both the
Marriage Act of 1836 and the divorce re-
forms which were instituted a couple of de-
cades later. As for those clergymen,iß.C.
and Anglican, who are conscientious oppo-
nents of State marriage and State divorce
there is no hope of bringing them and their
convictions into line with laws which they
consider to be based on paganism; and only
men of the mentality of medheval persecutors
could believe otherwise. These clerics take,,,
their stand on the sacred character and indis- ;
solubility of marriage as churchmen didwhen
the Roman Empire was first Christianised
under Constantine; the politicians main-
tain the attitude they did in .Tustin’s day
when it was adjudged impossible, or, any-
how, impolitic, “to reconcile those who once
came to hate each other, and who, if com-
pelled to live together, frequently attempted
each other’s lives.” What is the way out of
a difficulty which this country is suffering
from equally with Britain? Clearly, no-
thing but hatred, malice and martyrs will
emerge from legislation making it “perjury”
for one who has been married befCre an
uncanonised registrar to declare subse-
quently to a canonised " registrar that he or
she is unmarried. The clear-minded French
were the first of the njodern peoples to see
this. They argued that, in the eyes of the
State, clergymen had no more concern with
marriage than with divorce; and they made
it a disability for a registrar of marriages
to be an ordained minister. A Federal Mar-
riage Act is badly needed at the present
time. And the very first reform the Govern-
ment should introduce is the system which
has worked so well on the European Conti-
nent. That is to say. every marriage should’
first be celebrated before a State Registrar,
who must be a layman, no other form pi
marriage being recognised as valid in the'
Law Courts. If the parties cared to indulge
afterwards in a Church marriage, as is often
done in France, they would be at liberty to
do so; and if they felt like being married a
dozen times subsequently, in their own or
other churches, the State would no more
object than it would interfere in regard to
the menu of the wedding-breakfast. The
State’s interest in the matter would begin
and end with the lay side of a contract de-
signed solely to stabilise society and safe-
guard the material interests of the children.
This change would, incidentally, put an end
here to a fruitful source of sectarian rancor;
and for that reason it will doubtless be hotly
opposed by our loudest trouble-makers,
Orange and R.C. alike.
THE UNDYING SUPERSTITION.
No belief lingers so persistently in Austra-
lian Parliaments as the belief that any town-
bred tyro can “go on the land” and plough
his way to a fortune. The folly of it has
been exposed, with tragic consequences to
thousands, in every section of the Common-
wealth, and in some States over and
over again, but- it seems fated not
to perish. There is such tenacity in the
blastiferous old superstition that, when
things grow slack in the cities, doting old
club-haunting politicians contrive to get a
reputation for statesmanship, and to be ex-
tensively advertised as saviours of the coun-
try, by preaching it for all they are worth.
This ; ancient fallacy is at the root of the
'Million Farms madness in N. S. Wales. To-
gether with what the panegyrists describe as
his “breezy manner,” it forms the political
stock-in-trade of Mitchell, of Westralia.
Worst of all, it was the crazy principle on
which most of the soldier-settlements were
started, although Victoria, to do it justice,
repented qarly and demanded a certificate of
competency, signed by an approved agricul-
turist or the manager of a State farm, be-
fore the Digger vyas granted a block. Vic-
toria, by,, taking this precaution, and by
making good use of its efficient Closer Settle-
ment Board, has become a bright 6 and shin-
ing example to the other States. N. S.
Wales is the Horrible Example, as usual,
although Queensland is pretty bad. With
gay irresponsibility land was promised
to every soldier or sailor, tinker ’ or
tailor**;, in N. S. Wales who could
produce a military discharge. This course
was suggested in the Leg. Council, where
Caruuthers, of the Million Farms, reTgns
supreme, and th% Holmans ; x)f the period
accepted it with enthusiasm. The results
Were’reported on by Wearne, Minister of
Lands, in the Leg. Assembly last week. His
word for them is “disastrous.”
Men without any knowledge of land settlement,
without any experience of country life or conditions,
broken in health, and without any aptitude for such
a calling, were placed on areas of land, with a debt
of thousands of pounds hanging over them. No evi-
deuce of thrift was demanded, and none was given
Without being-called upon to contribute one shilling
towards the capital cost many inexperienced..and un-
suitable men were given possession of holdings. The
percentage of failures will be very considerable,
ft appears, also, that, to accommodate these
hopeless novices, 1401 farmers were bought
out at the boom prices then prevailing, be-
sides. 39 owners of unclassified estates—un-
classified, but, doubtless, productive. And
the idiots responsible for this costly replace-
ment of experience by ignorance are still at
large.
* * * *
On June 30 it was estimated that the
soldier-settlements had cost the Common-
wealth £33.153,000. The Ma State’s share
was £9,826,000, in addition to which the
Dooleys and Fullers have bought estates
to the amount of £1,861,000, or £11.687,000
altogether. For this £11,687,000 7025 sol-
diers, “including those who have vacated
their blocks from failure and other causes,”
have been “settled.” The average, shillings
and pence omitted, is £1663, which would
be a tidy outlay if the job were finished.
In their first fine careless rapture, the Sol-
dier-settlement authorities estimated that
the deed could be done for about £l5OO a
man; indeed, the agreement of January,
1919, provides for the settlement of 23,310
warriors for a total of £35.312,000—£1514
a head. But the lamentable fact is that
Many N. S. Wales Digger-farmers are still
in need of assistance in some shape or form.
This is the position at Batlow, where 36
unhappy warriors are wrestling with an
equal number of “fully-developed holdings”
which cost them nearly £5O an acre to clear.
Close on £lOO,OOO (about £2700 per man)
has been expended at Batlow, and the bill
soars monthly, when the "cultural payments”
■are made. Cfhltural payments are- also
handed -Kentucky—ahqther
fatapus;Mstance;,of administrative lunacy—at
Banksto'wn, pjfflgsvaje, Bendick Murrell,
Maimpru and On the general
outld|k for the novice whose land was
ho'ngfrt in the. boom, and whose struggles
bevan in the slump, the Minister muses as
follows:
In many ; _ eases an inexperienced and unsuitable
settler has oeen placed in possession of a property
■ worth £3OOO, with stock and plant to the value of
£625, or a total of £3625. The debt is equal to
the value of the property i-rin some cases he is
allowed a cultural advance to enable him to live and
work his holding. This is added to his liability, but
does not increase the value of his block correspond-
ingly. Under these conditions he owes more "than
his property is worth. These conditions do not applv
to every settler, but do apply to a large number, and
represent what will be an enormous loss to the
people of the State. For every penny has to be paid
to the Commonwealth by the taxpayers, amongst
whom are many soldiers who have entered into other
walks of life and received no assistance from the
Government.
Again it is remarked that no institution
houses the who sent these trusting
Diggers to their doom.
* ■* . # »
N.S.W.’s contract with the Common-
wealth is for the settlement of 8405 soldiers,
at an aggregate cost of £17.340,000. it has
still £5,653,000 to draw, and 3380 warriors
to find land for (or make bankrupt), and
the chances of a further £5,653,000 -having
to be raised to place these men and relieve
the necessities of the present victims look
excellent.' According to Wearne, many of
the unsatisfied applicants had claims
superior to those of the newchum coekies for
Whom they were brushecj aside. Be this as
it may,.'he is doing away &’ith the military
discharge as evidence of a gift for agriculture,
natural or and, is substituting the
Victorian system. “I will not be a party,”
he says, “to placing unsuitable and inexperi-
enced men on land purchased, possibly, at
great expense, and advancing them £625 for
stock and plant.” This, of course, is merely
obvious commonsense; and the wonder is
that it wasn’t obvious to Wearne’s prede-
cessors. Had the same attitude been adopted
by those persons, instead of surrendering, as
they did, to the superstition that blind
optimism and labor directed without know-
ledge are the only requisites of success in
farming, thousands of Diggers would have
been spared a world of fruitless toil and
misery, nor would millions of money have
been irretrievably wasted, To the extent
that settlers have suffered from the tom-
foolery of past Administrations they are en-
titled to the most generous treatment from
the present crowd. But the rule that
Wearne has laid down needn’t be restricted
to members of the A.I.F. The same test
should be applied to every civilian selector
who asks for Government assistance. It
ought to be made an essential condition of
the Westralian plan for the accommodation
of immigrants, and of Carrutiters’s pro-
posal for unloading them on his Million
Farms. In the light of the soldier-settlement
revelations the Carruthers scheme wears
an aspect of utter lunacy. If “enormous
loss” and “a large percentage of failures”
result from settling 7025 Australians in estab-
lished districts, the dumping of swarms of
strangers on soil of unproved fertility, in a
region of uncertain rainfall, can only end in a
gigantic disaster. Yet Wearne is a colleague
of the man who proposes this madness, and
it is understood to be supported by Fuller,
the Premier.
THE FUTURE OF PROHIBITION.
I.
Prohibition is costing the United States
a sum variously estimated at from
$l,(X)jO,000,000 to $2,000,000,000 a year; it
is corrupting the police almost beyond hope
of cure, and establishing in power a whole
new corps of official bribe-takers and black-
mailers; it is debauching politics; it is mak-
ing for religious hatreds and fanaticism; it
is increasing alcoholism and damaging the
national health. Why, then, do not the
American people abandon it forthwith and
set up some more honest and civilised scheme
of regulation in place of it V
The question comes naturally to the lips
of every foreigner. But the American can-
not answer it simply: he must first enter
upon a long explanation of the peculiar
political traditions and devices of his coun-
try. At the very start there is a constitu-
tional obstacle to consider, and it is one
unheard of in any other land. The national
Constitution, as a practical matter, may be
amended only by a two-thirds vote of both
Houses of Congress, ratified by majority votes
in the Legislatures of three-fourths of the
48 States. The Prohibition Amendment is
now a part of that Constitution. To make
it so required a campaign extending over
75 years—a campaign financed toward the end
by the almost unlimited resources of enor-
mously rich fanatics, and carried on by
demagogues of the utmost skill —a cam-
paign that would have failed, even so, if it
had not been for the orgy of frenzied law-
making brought on by the war. To dispose
of it will take just as much money, and just
as much skill, and perhaps just as much
time.
Prohibition, it must be remembered, was
not the only legislative monster hatched in
those gaudy days of war. In evefy State of
the Union laws got upon the statute-books
that were so -insane that no serious effort to
enforce them has ever been made since.
Patriotism among politicians took the form
of witch-hunting and heretic-burning. Even
in the great. State of New York./whuse urban
population is so largely foreign-born that it
is the most civilised of all tjie American
States, the Legislature seriously tried to dis-
pose of Socialism by proscription, and mem-
bers who were lawfully elected as Socialists
were barred from their seats. The Prohibi-
tionist agitators took shrewd advantage of
this hysteria. At a critical moment they
discovered melodramatically that all of the
brewers in the United States were Germans
and in active correspondence with the Wil-
helmstrasse. The last unwilling Legislatures
promptly succumbed to the news, and Pro-
hibition was the law of the land—greatly to
the astonishment of most of its opponents,
and to the scarcely smaller astonishment of
nine-tenths of its advocates.
As I say, to get rid of it legally will re-
quire long years of hitter combat, and
unlimited sums of money, and demagogic
talents of the first rank.- Two-thirds of the
members of both Houses of Congress must be
dragooned into voting for its repeal, and a
majority of the members of three-fourths of
the State Legislatures. So far there is not
the slightest sign that this will be accom-
plished in our time. The money is lacking;
the skill is lacking; above all (because Pro-
hibition is not enforced) tbC'determination is
lacking. A society opposed to the Prohibi-
tion amendment has been organised and has
300,000 members. But it will need 3,000,000
to give any concern to th# Prohibitionists.
11.
Moreover, this constitutional difficulty,
great as it is, is not the worst obstacle that
the anti-Prohibitionists face. Far more
serious difficulties lie in two facts that
foreign observers always seem to overlook,
the first being the fact that representation
is not strictly proportional in America, and
that the Prohibitionists, in the main, are
far better represented than their opponents,
and the second being the fact that few
American politicians, even when they are
elected as “wets,” can be trusted to stand
up to the fierce onslaught of the Prohibition-
ist gladiators, clerical and lay.
The first difficulty is encountered in both
national and State elections. Members of
the national House of Representatives, true
enough, are elected in proportion to popu-
lation, but members of the Senate are not.
Every State, regardless of its size, has two
Senators. The result is that the relatively
few large and rich States, wherein the chief
cities of the country lie, and sentiment is
heavily against Prohibition, a r e outvoted by
the numerous small and poor States, wherein
Prohibition sentiment is strong. Delaware,
for example, is a miserable little State of
less than a quarter of a million population—
an infertile sand-spit inhabited chiefly by


malarious farmers. Yet the two Senators
from Delaware are the full_ equals, in the
Senate, of the two Senators irom .New xork,
which has more than 10,000,000 people.
Worse, there are five Delawares to every
New York—and that is precisely why the
Prohibitionists found it easy to get their
two-thirds majority in the Senate.
Within the States their advantage is even
greater. Very few of the States that have
large cities —and it is precisely in the large
cities that Prohibition has least support-
give those cities fair representation in the
State Legislatures. In most cases the
number of members allotted to a city is
fixed arbitrarily by law, and these allotments
were commonly made at least a generation
ago. Since then, the population of the cities
has increased very much more than the popu-
lation of the rural sections; in many States,
indeed, the majority of the population is now
urban. But the farmers resolutely refuse
to "rant a reapportionment of representa-
tion” and there is .no constitutional means
of forcing them to do so. The result is that
3000 or 4000 farmers, most of whom are
Prohibitionists, elect a member whose vote is
exactly equal to that of a member elected
by 20,000 or 30,000 city voters, most or
whom are against Prohibition. It was
chiefly because of this fact that the Prohi-
bitionists managed to get Prohibition ratified
by the Legislatures of the larger States.
Every time Prohibition was submitted to a
plebiscite in such States it was overwhelm-
ingly defeated, but in the Legislatures it
won. In the State of Maryland such a
plebiscite preceded the ratification by only a
few months.
111.
There remains the astounding cowardice
of American politicians in the face of Pro-
hibitionist assault. It is due primarily to
two facts: the violence and persistence ot
that assault, and the general breaking-down
of party allegiances. It is very seldom that
a man who stands, say, for Congress m
America is absolutely sure of his election;
it is even rarer, in the preceding primary
election, for him to be sure of his nomina-
tion. The result is almost always deter-
mined by the minority of so-called indepen-
dent voters, whose total vote, though small
in itself, is usually sufficient to insure the
success of the side to which it swings. Even
in the States that are unbreakably faithful
to one or the other of the great parties
this independent vote counts, for in such
States the real contest is not at the general
election but at the preceding primary.
The Prohibitionists made their first great
advance when they organised their adherents
into such an independent bloc. It was only
in a few of the predominantly rural States
that this bloc took on the dignity of a
genuine party, but everywhere, even m the
large cities, it gradually gathered enough
votes to make it formidable. The result was
that all the professional politicians of both
great parties began to flirt with the Anti-
Saloon League. Let us assume that kMiTH,
a Democrat, and Jones, a Republican, were
running against each other, and that the
issue was in doubt. If, now, Smith could
gain the support of the Prohibitionist bloc
he would have enough votes to beat Jones.
Once the advantages of the arrangement had
been made manifest in any State, all the
professional office-seekers of that State began
making overtures to the Prohibitionists.
The consequence is that Prohibition was
finally put into the Constitution by the votes
of members who were not Prohibitionists
themselves, and who, in many cases, were
notorious “wets.” Even to-day a majority
of the Prohibitionists in Congress are
patrons of the Washington bootleggers, and
some of them are habitual drunkards. A
few were actually elected as wets that
is, they pledged themselves to oppose I robi-
bition. But once they got into their seats
thev began to think of their chances of re-
election, two years hence, and the more they
meditated the more they convinced them-
selves that the Prohibitionists, who are very
adroit politicians, would devise a scheme
to beat them. So they allowed themselves
to be converted —and at the next election
the Prohibitionists will reward them by re-
electing them. Such political dishonesty
causes no public rage in the United States.
The average voter assumes, as a matter ot
course, that his representative is. venal, and
nine times out of ten he is right. The
Prohibitionists, despite all their pious cant,
are not averse to such manipulations, ihey
have, in fact, practised them so assiduously
that politics in the Republic is now in so
debased a state that an honest politician is
almost unheard of, and when he appears
the voters commonly set him down as crazy.
iv.
The anti-Prohibitionists, so far, have made
very little progress. A majority of the
voters, at least in the more civilised States,
are clearly with them, but their campaign
lacks practical effectiveness. It is based
too much on appeals to reason, and too
little upon political chicanery. In order
to give it force they . must . proceed . to
the organisation of a solid anti-Prohibition-
ist bloc to match the Prohibitionist bloc,
and they must manipulate its votes bold.y
and without regard to honesty or decency.
Such an enterprise, as I have said, demands
a great deal of money; more important still,
it demands a great deal of practical political
sagacity. As yet, the anti-Prohibitionists
show few signs of raising the money, and
even fewer of developing the sagacity. Their
old allies, the brewers, are giving them little
aid. Home-brewing has developed to such
proportions that most' American brewers
would probably starve, - even if their brew-
eries were reopened. It is thus not likely
that the Eighteenth Amendment will be re-
pealed—at least, for years.
But it is already a dead letter in the
large cities, as the Fourteenth and Fifteenth
Amendments are dead letters in the Black
Belt of the South. Raids upon bootleggers,
smugglers and illicit distillers are . made
every dav, but the trade shows no sign of
diminishing. Thus, a typically American
situation presents itself: a drastic law is
on the books, the bureaucracy makes strenu-
ous efforts to enforce it—and the public con-
nives at its incessant violation. Such laws
are innumerable in the United States. Their
existence is largely responsible for the uni-
versal corruption of the American police,. the
enormous multiplication of useless officials,
the steadily increasing burdens of the tax-
payer, and the progressive degradation of
American politics. No man of any self-
respect cares to stand for Congress, or,
indeed, for any other elective office. If he
declares for Prohibition, everyone, including
even the Prohibitionists, will put him down
a hypocrite; if he declares against Prohibi-
tion the Prohibitionists will denounce him
as a scoundrel. The men who seek office
to-day are chiefly men who are guilty on both
counts.
H. L. MENCKEN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Millionaires and Their Saviours.
The sociologist who, in an epoch that may
not be so far ahead as some people imagine,
stands amid the debris of civilisation and
asks himself what did the damage, will pro-
bably decide that it was the cable-service—
that and the pictorial press. The revolu-
tionary habit on what may be called the
world-scale is only about 130 years old.
Previously to the' great French upheaval
popular uprisings were either mere slave
revolts, or isolated movements by free
burghers who did not dream of involving
foreigners in tlieir troubles. “The French
Revolution was. after all, primarily a Pari-
sian Revolution, and it came about in the
final instance because the city folk could
no longer endure the gross ostentation oi
the privileged classes, side by side with the
spectacle of the starving poor. During the
last century the means of informing one-
half the world of what the other half
is doing have steadily improved, till, nowa-
days, no one is so poor hut that he is in a
position to know the fantastic wealtli of
someone else. The Indian ryot knows as
much, these days, of the French Rothschilds
and their luxuries as the most sophisticated
petty trader in Montmartre knew, at the
end'of the 18th century, of the ways of the
noble revellers at Versailles. For example,
this cable arrived from London a few days
back, and it has no doubt been broadcasted
round the world
The will of the late Daniel Coats, the thread
millionaire, has been sworn at £1,234,000. Including
this amount, the wills of six members of the Coats
family have disposed of £13,638,000. Lord Glen-
tanar left £4,642,000, Peter Coats £2,626,000, J.
Coats jun., £1,964,000,. Sir James Coats
£1,773,000, and Archibald Coats £1,449,000.
The affairs of the Coats firm were investi-
gated. last year, by a sub-committee under the
Profiteering Act, and some startling informa-
tion was obtained —and made public. It is
the comnletest of monopolies. The profits
advanced from £2,600,000 * in 1914 to
£4,900.000 in 1919, the net profit per reel
of cotton sold increasing’ during that time
by 168 per cent. Side by side with such
information, one is liable to find the follow-
ing, which appeared in a Sydney evening
paper a few nights ago
I am a Digger with 1004 days to my credit, dis-
charged medically unfit, shrapnel wound. Married,
two children. Wife to’ be confined within 14 days.
Unemployed for 18 months. Assistance from Repa-
triation Department, nil. Assistance from Red
Cross, 10s. cash and groceries 3s. Pawn tickets
enclosed. I want work, and do not ask for charity.
And, perhaps, underneath, will be a photo-
graph of Mrs. Golebrik, in the priceless
frock and diamonds worn by her to the
charity ball at which —at a total cost of
£7OO os. 6d—£42 10s. Bd. was made avail-
able for the-Ruined Heroes’ Fund. No
rational worker wants a revolution —if only
for the reason that he well knows it
is bis-%£tfvn class which always suffers most
from devolutions. ..Labor leaders, in this
part of the world/have —with a few excep-
tions —been even more hostile to -violence
than the Th*k and file. But the chain of
snnity, as represented by balanced citizens
of the sort, is no stronger than its weakest
link, which, in. this case, is .the endurance
of the miserably poor in face of the spectacle
of the obscenely rich. The chain broke in
Russia as soon as conditions gave the Revolu-
tionists the chance they had been waiting
for; and it will break, elsewhere., if mil-
lionaires continue to be advertised in imme-
diate proximity to men who are starving
chiefly because they fought inter alia" to
make the millionaires’ fortunes safe. What
are the politicians doing about it?
The Nation’s. Bank.
Dear Bulletin, —Your article on the Com-
monwealth Bank was pertinent and timely.
But the half has not been told. Mathews,
or some other inquiring M.H.R., should call
for a statement of -the -amounts paid -by nr
through the Bank to those supremely fortu-
nate Sydney architects, J. and H. G. Kirk-
patrick. The repiy will doubtless be it
always is in tuese matters —that the Minister
has no information, the matter being under
the control of Mr. Denison Miller, but it
is time Parliament refused to submit to these
periodical impertinences. The Bank doesn t
belong to Mr. Denison Miller. it belongs
to the people, and the people are entitled
to know how much has been paid to the
architectural combination to which two ot
Denison Miller s connections are attached,
and whether, seeing that there is a I'ublic
Works Department, in which competent
architects are employed, all or any portion
of the outlay was necessary. The h itzroy
(Vic.) note-printing office, for which plans
and specifications were prepared by the Com-
monwealth architects, adopted by the 1 üblic
Works Committee, and discarded by the
Governor of the Bank, is not the only recent
instance in which the Kirkpatricks have
scored. They are now engaged on the
new bank building in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, the foundation-stone of which was
laid on July 20. I read that on that his-
toric occasion they presented “a beautiful
gold trowel” to the Prime Minister (who,
by the way, has a gorgeous suite of rooms in
the Sydney bank building, for which the Com-
monwealth finds £905 4s. p.a. in rent), and an-
other, presumably equally beautiful, to Mr.
Denison Miller. Gold trowels are expen-
sive presents, but the cost would be a mere
fleabite to the Kirkpatricks, for the con-
tract price of the building is £20<,000. And
if they always get 3| per cent, on the work
they do for the Governor of the Bank (that
was the percentage they demanded, and
apparently got, in respect of the War ser-
vice homes) their cheque will amount to
£7245. There are several things about the
Bank that could do with inquiry. lhe
modern tendency of the management to get
mixed up in controversial matters contrasts
oddly with its apparent unwillingness to
supply information to which the taxpayers
are entitled. There was the published am
uncontradicted statement that Mr. Denison
Miller favored and would assist the Moorc-
street extension scheme, out of which the
Kirkpatricks were to get a commission of
£40,000. There was that railway map, issued
out of the Bank, a document which could be
construed to mean that the bond with S.
Aus. had been broken and that the North-
South line would go via Queensland. And
now the public learns that Mr. Denison
Miller is a supporter of Hughes s pre-
election scheme for the unification of the
railway gauges. ‘‘lt must be done, he is
reported to have said, or words to that
effect. (Did you hear, by the way, that J.
and H. G. Kirkpatrick have undertaken
to draw up plans and specifications of
the navvies’ teuts for <H per cent, of
the actual cost of unification—the esti-
mate is 21 millions? I learn it
on the worst authority.) Waving lus
beautiful gold trowel at the foundation-stone
ceremony the Priminister descanted on the
“phenomenal” things which, he asserts, the
Bank has done for Australia. I fail to cescr.v
them. Considering the magnificent war and
post-war business it has handled since 1914,
and that it pays no taxes, its profits are
nothing to write home about. They are on
the small side compared with those of tax-
paying institutions which haven’t enjoyed
its opportunities and don’t go in to anything
like the same extent for cheap female labor.
In this respect, the Commonwealth has an
unadmirable record. Gf all the banks trad-
ing in Australia it employs the largest pro-
portion of girls. The Sydney branch in par-
ticular swarms with chattering spinsters.
Now that summer is approach’ng, presum-
ably Bank Notes, the monthly magazine
issued free to every employee—it is a gaudy
production printed on glazed paper and
must cost about £l5OO a year to turn out-
will fill up. as usual, with photographs ot
female clerks in bathing costumes. Seem-
ingly, when the editor is stuck for a subject
he runs in a picture of a bank girl showing
her legs. No doubt the legs are lovely of their
kind —although “one damned leg is very
like another,” as the sold'er said—but it is
coming it strong that the public should be
debated with the cost of advertising its
feminine employees’ legs. A nurse
is employed at the Sydney inst tution to
look after these interesting voung women,
and I gather from Bank Notes that they
are being taught eurhythmies. The
clerk who can’t, get work because these
prancing flappers are blocking the way
wouldn’t need to be taueht eurhythmies. He
bad all the eurhythmies he wanted in
France. —Yours, etc., Tuart.
—
Where “The Money Is Good.”
THE South Australian Judge who presided
over the Bickford divorce suit had some blis-
tering comments to make, during his sum-
ming-up, on the way the thing had been
strung out.
Almost everv conceivable defence that it was pos-
sible to raise" had been placed upon the records.
The evidence had been such as to render it neces-
sary to traverse some 12 months of the lives oi
petitioner and respondent. Cross-examination had
been greatly protracted. It could have been much
shortened. It was absolutely devoid of any useful
result commensurate with the time occupied.
So inured are both branches of the profes-
sion, all over Australia, to tfrif sort oc criti-
cism, that it is greeted usually with a
tolerant smile and a suggestion that his
Honor, or whoever else levels it, is either a
fraud or a fool. The convention is fixed.
The first thing that 99 lawyers out of every
hundred do, in a given matter, is to ascer-
tain —where there is doubt on the question—
whether or no the “money is good. ■ If it
is, an arrangement is made to supply the
litigant with an almost unlimited amount ot
“justice”: if it is not, he gets the precise
quantity that he can afford, without going
insolvent. Brown, let us say. has £lO,OOO
per annum, and suspects his wife of miscon-
duct with Smith. The barrister who advises
on evidence decides'-jn the circumstances that,
it will take not less Than 20 witnesses to
sheet home the lady’s guilt. Each of them
is required to give a “proof of his evidence,
each has to be fortified in his allegiance-With
travelling expenses, loss-of-time expenses, and
other small douceurs; and the size of the
army necessitates consultations galore, out
of which both counsel and attorney profit.
And this is merely preliminary to the grand
in court, where, all.
to and tear money out of Brown at top
speed—or, more accurately, at bottom speed,
for this is one of the many cases where the
slower the employees go the more the job
costs. Not only is Brown fleeced, but
those whom he has dragged into his domestic
upheaval, guilty or otherwise, are in the
same box. Technically, the innocent party
to a divorce—a co-re. who has been dis-
charged from the suit, for example—gets
his costs. The practice, however, is widely
different from the theory, and in the hnal
result the suspected one is lucky if he
recovers 50 per cent, of what he has paid
out in defence of his reputation. Imagine,
now, that it is Smith, on £6 per week, who
has decided that his marriage is a failure.
He is every bit as likely to succeed as
Brown. The differences are that, instead of
20 witnesses, he will be advised to rely on
two; and that these two will be put through
by counsel, in chambers,. and subsequently
in court, in double-quick time. The swindle
has been respectabilised by age into a recog-
nised convention, so that no practising law-
yer ever draws attention to it, as he might
to shoplifting or cheating at cards; while
a protest from the Bench, such as Justice
Poole uttered in Adelaide last B riday, is a
rarity. However, the public is watching -
has been doing so for some years now, what
time the scandal has grown steadily more
and more flagrant. A short Act limiting the
maximum amount of fees which any bar-
rister or solicitor could collect from a case
ought to do something in the direction ot
preventing (1) those with a great deal or
money from being rooked as often as they
go to law, and those with very little from
risking ruin, as a result of litigating with
the rich, and (2) the business of the courts
being held up as often as a Marathon suit
(i.e., one where ‘‘the money is good ) comes
on for hearing. But, as with mudslinging
by counsel, the most effective of all remedies
lies with the Judge. If he wants to stop
dilatoriness on the, part of legal profiteers
in his court he can do it; and he will achieve
his aim, not by rebukes delivered after the
damage has been done, but by stern woids,
followed, if necessary, by drastic action, dur-
ing the hearing.
The Case for France.
There is pained surprise in Europe at the
French Prime Minister’s Bar-le-Duc speech,
which, according to London Times, con-
stitutes a thundering and menacing warn-
ing to Germany.” We all reprobate French
militarism. But as the months and years
drag on, with Germany still shy of its re-
parations money, the suspicion grows in
certain quarters that militarism is the only
cure for the situation. France has a bill
to collect from the Hun which few can under-
stand, because it is so hideously unique. It
has been discussed in thousands of chapters
dealing with thousands of war-episodes, but
this extract from llazen’s “Fifty Years of
Europe” is as impressive, for its size, as
any:—•
Then ensued, in March and April, a retreat of the
Germans to the famous “Hindenburg Line. .. ..ine
Germans retired along a hundred-mile front, trom
Arras to the neighborhood of Noyon, evacuating
more than 1000 square miles of French territory
which had formerly contained over 300 towns anil
villages. But, compelled to abandon this territory,
they committed deeds which added a new hideous-
ness to the name of Gerflln. They devastated the
country as ro country in Europe had ever been
devastated before France recovered only a scene
of indescribable desolation. Buildings, public ant!
private, schools and churches, works of art, historical
monuments and priceless historical records weie
ruthlessly destroyed. Private homes were stripped
clean of furniture which was carted away. Wells
were filled with dung, orchards were cut down ; roads
and bridges and railways were blown up. If they
must retire the Germans were resolved to leave a
region, hitherto one of the most fertile in France,
ruined ar.d blasted for years and even for decades
to come. An eye-witness wrote: “With field-gla3scs
I could see far on either side of every road for
miles and miles. Every farm is burned, fields
destroyed, every garden and every bush uprooted,
every tree sawed off close to the bottom. It was a
terrible sight, and seemed almost worse than the
destruction of men.”
That was merely one episode of many.
There was no military necessity or purpose
or excuse for it. It was done after
the game had been quite lost. It was a
purposeful aggravation of the bill
the presentation had become inevitable. This
experience, which no other country went
through to anything like the same extent,
is the matter which has put France in a
war category by itself. Others can show
large enough monetary losses —that is to
say, some of them have lost the money they
owe to Britain, and Britain has lost the
money it owes to the United States, and all
these tremendous whacks of (mostly) paper
may still be owing on Judgment Morning.
But this is no paper invoice. It is one
which the sufferers have to pay in reality
and in full. The case might have been
worse, which is no consolation, for if the
Hun had taken and lost Paris the presump-
tion is that there would be no more Pans,
just as there is no more Poziferes. So there
'is a strenuous desire to collect from the
evildoer, to the mild disgust of nations with
only minor wrongs, which think they see
more money in getting the evildoer on a-
sound commercial basis. And though the
I-lun asserts that he can’t pay, because he
has no money and never had any, there is
a certain reluctance to accept the statement
without a careful audit. Even if it proves
to be one of these cases in which it is im-
possible to get blood out of stones, it is
still feasible to get coal out of . devils, and
the Ruhr Valley being a m'ninv district,
France has a mind to try. Certain people,
mostly vejjy intense bill-collectors themselves,
talk of this business as a nursing of hatred
and a loarding-up of animosity. Of this
order was ex-President Wilson, who went
so far as to frankly forgive Germany for
the injuries it had done to Belgium and
France. But his country hasn't forgiven
any part of the stupendous and impossible
sum which, it says, is owing to it by i s
friends and Allies. . And history, suggests
that it has never quite, .finished grinding its
teeth because British H&jpos h'flrn<ed the
nubile (not the private) btiiidijigs of Wash-
ington, 5 then a village, in the Tittle war of
1818. T
r x J~ The Attest Betrayal.
During the war the Prime Minister tried to
conscribe single men on the ground that those
who hadn’t enlisted owed the same duty to
Australia as those who had. Baulked of con-
scription, be prdpjßed that jthe bachelor who
Mickeen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I plugged Mickeen,” jubilantly boasted the self-
styled murderer of Michael Collins.
His was the faith in darkest hours that
glowed,
When aching eyes strained east for streaks
of grey.
He may not lead along the path he showed,
Who sensed the dawning will not see the
day.
’Tis but another soul —a stay and stall
To guide a people’s steps that might have
been —•
Sobbed out in blood. And, for his epitaph,
A smoking rifle lowered —a boastful laugh—
“/ plugged Mickeen.”
O woeful among nations! Stricken sore,
With shuddering face turned to the rough-
cast wall,
Weep for the last of the strong sons you bore
To fall for you—but not as soldiers fall,
Not i.n fair fight against an open foe.
Drape the drab curtain o’er a grimmer
scene
To hide it from our eyes. Who dealt the
blow?
Men who had died for him a year ago.
They plugged mickeen.
Slain by his own 1 Ah! theirs and yours the
shame (
Who see and yet, condemning not, condone
The devil deeds still wrought in freedom’s
name,
Though freedom came, with him, into her
own. ...
The foes that were beside that bier may bow ;
No hand can wipe your blood-guilt out,
or screen
The brand of CAIN you wear upon the brow,
Rebels and recreants to Ireland now,
Who plugged Mickeen.
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


v!
4
**SS
ASP
fP
® SC *w a « a t«ral foo(l. They are made from choice-quality wheat,
prepared so that the nutritive elements are presented in a readily digestible form.
Biscuits, are ideal for every meal —as tasty toast, with eggs, in the morn-
. „, a .. s „ comforting, nourishing gruel at night. Granose Biscuits can be digested
in nalt an hour, ana are of immense benefit to people with digestive disorders.
US? 1 ** 1 oon tains 95%% nutriment—the Proteins, Fats, Carbohydrates and
Salts which are lacking in many other foods.
Packets, 31b. Caddies, 101 b. Boxes.
All Grocers, or Price Lists and Samples from—
1
*
LA
L
308 GEORGESTSYDNEXMELBOURNE,
skulked at home while his manly fellow-
countrymen were serving in the national
forces should pay for the privilege of saving
ms ignoble hide. That expedient was aban-
doned even more hurriedly than the other.
The blood-red blossoms having faded,
Hughes rants no more about equality of
responsibility and sacrifice. Forgotten is the
noble rage which impelled him to denounce
non-enlisters as “slackers” and “shirkers”
and “scabs on their mates in the trenches.”
It has vanished from his mind as completely
as the memory of his solemn promise to drop
the reins of government if national service
were rejected at the 1917 referendum. A
general election being on the way, great is
the indulgence with which he now regards
the former objects of his aversion, so much
so that in his Ministry’s latest Budget some
r °f them, at least, get a signal mark of favor.
The Commonwealth income-tax was imposed
during the war to meet the interest on war
loans. Owing to the current frenzy of bor-
rowing and waste, combined with the fact
that tax-dodgers are numerous and efficient,
it isn’t yielding the amount required for
interest and an adequate sinking fund, but
such as it is it represents the only attempt
the country is making to pay the expenses
of the war. It is the one impost of which it
can be said that the whole of the net receipts
are devoted to that purpose; all those levied
by the States with the war as an excuse
are frauds. Hitherto, single men of the kind
that feeds the pony-flogging industry fat have
had to contribute something towards the cost
of saving the country. The amount paid (or
owed) by the person earning £2OO p.a. was
£.> 3s. 4d. p.a. But a Government ravenous
for votes and unscrupulously blind to its
former professions of principle has cancelled
the obligations of this class by raising the
exemption from £lO4 to £2OO. Simultane-
ously. it has decided that the taxable bache-
lor shall be subject to the same rates as the
taxable benedict (hitherto there has been
a discrimination in favor of the latterl,
although most single men receiving £2OO p.a.
(and many single women likewise) are better
able to pay taxes than the average married man
on the £4OO-a-year mark. In a democracy
no citizen capable of working for his living
should be exempted from income-tax. The
moral effect of exemptions is bad. since every
concession is followed by a demand for a
fresh concession; also, the exempted class
is encouraged to believe that everything
should be done for it by the State and no-
thing by it for the State. Along with the
right of self-government goes the duty of
paying for it, and no elector who isn’t a
dependant, an invalid or an old-age pensioner
should be relieved of this obligation, even if
it only amounts, in some cases, to a few
shillings or pence. There have been sordid
departures from this principle in Australia,
but nothing more sordid has ever been seen
than the immunity from war taxation granted
by Hughes to single men earning £3 17s.
a week all the year round. In the nature of
things this section must still include many
who remained behind and patronised the
ponies while real Australians were facing
the enemy at Anzac, Pozi&res, Passchen-
daele, Villers-Bretonneux and the Hinden-
burg Line. Yet, it is now decreed for vote-
catching purposes by the very man who
assailed them most bitterly that, so long as
they stay on the £2OO p.a. line, or bring
themselves down to it by judicious idleness,
they needn’t pay a cent for the war of
liberation in. which they refused to fight.
There is no more faith in some Australian
politicians than there is courage in rabbits,
oi- sweetness in Dead Sea fruit.
• : ;
A Victory for 'Gambling.
*‘O.K.”: The Victorian Labor party showed
its discretion, in the bulk, by voting silently
against the democratic totalisator, which
makes no distinction in punters. Prender-
gast, it. is true, was put up to say that,
although he favored the tote principle, he
did not favor this attempt to legalise it, but
had come to the conclusion that it mattered
not whether he lost his money to a. machine
or to a bookmaker. Also, that, “even if he
did vote for : the bill, it was not likely to
go through,” and more contradictory stuff to
the effect that he was going to vote against
it. The general policy of the Labor party,
however,; was Silence. Alleged friends of
the working-man were not game to admit
their opposition to a bill which would harm
bookmakers without enriching John Wren.
Had any further encouragement of pestiferous
pony-racing been contemplated, the Labor
party would have voted solidly for the tote,
on the understanding that proprietors of un-
registered racecourses should pouch not less
than 6 per cent, of the receipts. The idea
of robbing friend Ikey in the interests of
anybody save a pony-course proprietor did
not appeal to the party. As long as there
was an illicit tote in Melbourne, from which
John Wren’s deductions amounted to con-
siderably more than 10 per cent., so long did
the local Labor members, together with a
choice assortment of Federal democrats,
approve of the machine and its “fine,
public-spirited” proprietor. When it is
a matter of putting a lawful tote
under the control of the V.R.C., which
is opposed to pony-racing on sound
sporting principles, the political adherents of
John WREN-ism vote silently against the bill.
They are the veriest Tories of the turf.
They fight for the bookmaker, who supplies
the cream of the betting market to a privi-
leged few “in the know,” and the skim-milk
to small punters who merely follow the
money. Considered as an honest leveller of
odds, the totalisator deserves the support of
every Labor member who ever makes a bet,
and knows how the public is victimised under
present conditions. But the warm support
of Labor is just what a legalised tote does
not get. The strangest thing is that Labor
voters don’t perceive the fallacy of any ex-
cuses their representatives make, and insist
upon getting a promise to vote Tote in the
future. As the matter stands, Victoria
must continue to lag behind other
States in its rScecourse legislation. Denied,
on the one hand, the equitable, economi-
cal betting-machine, whieh gives no credit,
nor offers everyday inducements to embezzle-
ment, Victoria supports on the other hand
the most heavily-taxed body of bookmakers
in the country, who naturally shorten their
odds to pay their extra taxation. All this
time the blither of the parsons, prompted by
bouncing bookmakers, is becoming, as it
were, truly sanctified by repetition. A large
unconcerned section of the populace reads
this blither until it will believe no other.
Listen to Rev. Charles Strong., who wishes
to appear broadminded, and is really old
enough to know better. “It is not through
either pig-headedness or ignorance, or desire
to destroy the enjoyments and recreations of
life, that some of us are so opposed to being
cave- hardened.
“It's all right. He's so used to it that he can't hear the row.”
forced to be partners in a gambling State
business,” says the reverend quibbler. As a
matter of fact he started to be a partner in
the business a year or two ago, when pious
Premier Lawson hit upon the device of
taxing racecourse betting as an amusement,
charging 3d. and Id. per ticket of admission
to the bookie’s gamble. And when Hughes
unblushingJy levied a heavy toll on Tatt.’s
sweep prizes Rev. Strong started to become
.another partner in a Government gambling
business. Indeed, the excuse offered by some
opponents of the Totalisator Bill in tlie Vic.
Legislative Assembly was that it did. not
provide for direct State control. . Also, a
Presbyterian Church spokesman asks: “If
the bookmaker is an evil, and no attempt is
to. be made to abolish him, why should we
support the additional evil of the
tor ?” This mischievous moralist ignores the
point that a tote, run, on the 10 per
cent, deduction system, and paying divs. on
first and second horses, does abolish book-
makers as far as the great body of unprofes-
sional punters are concerned. Given a
machine on the racecourse, they would never
look at another bookmaker for business pur-
poses. • Only racehorse owners,, trainers and
“stable”, connections would have anything
to'do with the licensed books. And because
this is so a number of thinly-disguised Par-
liamentary friends of the bookie fraternity
voted against Mr. Mobley's bill last week.
Of the 100,000 people who will make race-
course bets on Melbourne Cup day. 00.000
would gladly abolish the human layer of odds
if they were given a less rapacious machine
to bet with.
Parliamentary Church Government.
“Clifford Snook” in response:—
Father Clarke, who replies to most people about
most things, objects (B. 24/8/’22) because I took
the view that the despotically-ruled, backward and
dissatisfied temporal estate of the Roman Church
left it enthusiastically to join up with the first
petty Power which offered it Parliamentary Govern-
ment. And when, in so many Catholic countries,
even the Church’s marriage is no longer recognised
or registered (only the civil marriage is booked up),
it looks as if the preference for the Parliamentary
authority as against the non-Parliamentary one was
strong and the latter was losing ground. I know as
well as Father Clarke the passage in Matthew to
which he alludes, though I don’t in the least know
why it is dragged in:—
Thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build
My Church: and the gates of Hell shall not prevail
against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of
the kingdom of Heaven: and whatsoever thou shall
bind on earth shall be bound in Heaven ; and wnat-
soever thou shall loose on earth shall be loosed in
Heaven.
Though three of the Gospellers either didn’t know
of this tremendous pronouncement, or thought it not
of sufficient importance to call for mention, I sup-
pose it is all right. And for 1900 years I have
wondered whether the allusion was to the Church of
the Nazarenes to which Peter belonged; or to the
Early Christian one, which the angry Paul estab-
lished, long after, at Antioch; or to the Greek
Church; or to the Roman Catholic Church; or just
to the Church at large. Also, I have waited with
the same patience for some evidence (evidence —not
dogmatic assertion) that the power thus conferred
became part of Peter’s transmissible estate, passing-
in perpetuity to his son, his next of kin, his heirs,
executors, administrators and assigns, his assignee in
bankruptcy, his official successors, or to anyone
whatever. Or was it, like his apostleship or saint-
ship, or like the gift .of poetry, painting or prophecy
—something that died with the owner? The latter
view requires less assumption, and sticks to the
letter of the statute, so to speak.
There is no reason to get warm under the collar
over the well-known fact that the Roman Catholic
branch Church began to dissent from the universal
Christian Church, with its headquarters at Constan-
tinople, over the image-breaking controversy about
730; or that the spiritual head of the Italian Church
was the .Greek Exarch of Ravenna (made' first the
temporal and then the spiritiial capital of Italy), till
as late ias *52. -.As for Father C lahkr's statement
that previous to something or other 33 Popes had
reigned at Rome, I expect 3300 had reigned there
and. elsewhere. In the. early days every bishop was
a pope (the word, is Greek, of course), though very
few rose to be Patriarch or Exarch. And bishops
were plentiful enough. There was one* at each
comer, the same as a pub. It is written that the
Greek Emperor Phocas (for reasons that are not
explained, though from what is known of the man
they were probably bad) ordered, about 606, that
the bishop of Rome alone should use the title.
However, nobody took much notice, and in Russia
rafts of popes are hopping all over the shop to this
day. The temporal, ruler who thus attempted to
lift Rome out of the spiritual ruck was a military
blackguard from Byzantium, who butchered his pre-
decessor and the predecessor’s family, led a dis-
reputable life, and came to a smudgy end. One
biographer sums him up: “Through his monstrous
vices, tyranny and incapacity, the Empire sank into
utter anarchy.” Still, he gave the See of Rome a
big advertisement, and. set it on the road to great-
ness.
Lines addressed to Michael Collins bv a
Bulletin jingler when the Treatv with
Britain struggled through the Bail Eireanu:
A stirring deed you’re done, Mick
And brighter shines the sun, Mick,
For Erin dear;
But much I fear
1 our woes have just begun, Mick.
Till lately, like Eurvthniic,
You towered above your kith, Mick;
But now old friends
Asperse your ends
And hold your fame a myth, Mick.
Because, as fits the brave, Mick,
To Erin peace you gave, Mick
No peace you’ll find
From slander blind
And hate this side the grave, Mick.
The heavens are wild and black, Mick,
The wolves are on your track, Mick;
Shake hands, old foe,
Before they throw
You bleeding to the pack, Mick.
Last week, the prophecy had a tragic fulfil-
ment. At Bandon, in a miserable skirmish,
tell the one great leader that the Celtic
nation has thrown up since Parnell ; the
only man among the moderns who seemed
to combine a genius for government with
the capacity to ride on the whirlwind and
direct the storm of Irish politics. A
rapparee’s bullet was his reward. In one
of his last speeches Collins finely said:
War, though necessary and noble, for necessary
and noble ends, has terrible effects incidental to it:
not only material ruin, but moral effects when pro-
longed unrighteously ; a tendency to lose balance and
judgment, to forget or misinterpret the real object
of the national struggle, to grow to believe that
strife, even fratricidal strife, is noble in itself. Such
things must cease as soon as freedom is secured or
the nation will perish.
The man who had the wisdom to perceive
these truths had the courage to stake his, life
on them. In asserting them he died. That
will always be remembered to his honor,
whether the people for whom he sacrificed him-
self complete the work that lie began or in-
ertly await the catastrophe which he strove
to avert.
«
"0.K.”: The Women’s party that some
Melbourne political ladies 'are project-
ing will be a miracle of impartiality,
judging from the remarks of Mrs. Lee
.Stekre (Nat. Council of Women) at a meet-
ing of the sisterhood. “A man would have
to become a woman before he could get
properly into his mind the ideas of a woman
and see her viewpoint,” said Mrs. Lee Steere.
Also she protested that “a woman, speaking
on behalf of herself and her children, speaks
from her heart as well as from her head,
whereas a man speaks only from the head,
because he is a theorist.” Apparently the
tact that Eve isn’t Adam does not prevent
her from understanding his viewpoint, neither
does his share in the parentage of Cain and
Abel strike her as mattering at all. As for
his vicious habit of theorising, instead of
talking through his blessed heart —well, it is
due to his natural instinct. He has no
poetry in his hard, masculine soul, no tend-
ency to idealise his girl as she idealises her
boy, no weak susceptibilities whatever. As
in the days when he used to turn his thumb
down to the appeal Of the wounded gladiator
m the arena, whilst every Homan matron (1
don't think) turned it up. he is still incapable
of the broad humanitarianism which attains
its highest development in association with
silk stockings and a pneumonia blouse. All
this being taken for granted, it is amazing
to learn from the fair speaker that “it is
only right that women should be allowed to
participate on an equal level with men- in
framing laws.” How can there be equality
between a mere theorist and n realist whose
wisdom comes from heart and head ?
«
A theory exists that the persecu-
tion, or even the prosecution, of anybody for
a “political offence” is one of the chief ear-
marks of tyranny. The lier-in-wait who
slew Michael Collins, if captured, will cer-
tainly claim to be a political offender, and
so not to be regarded and treated as an
ordinary or hack criminal. In fact; the
matter may be strained to the point at which
the killing, injuring or robbing of any person
in politics by any person outside politics may
be claimed to be political, and therefore
excusable. Yet, in the majority of cases,
the difference between the gaudy politi-
cal homicide and the drab civil one is that
the former does bad things in the hope that
worse will ensue, while the latter does bad
things with no further malignant intention
in the offing. Thus, the revolutionaries here-
abouts, who preach land hope to practise
when they have made more converts) mur-
der, robbery, arsou, terrorism and other hor-
rors, are political, and therefore allegedly
high-class offenders —because they hope to
destroy the self-governing rights of the
majority and reduce the latter to permanent-
slavery. Without that crowning infamy in
view they would be low-grade malefactors.
The killing of Collins, because he repre-
sented the people, and the will of the people,
instead of the will of De Valera and his
gossoons, lifts the offender into a higher cate-
gory in the eyes of the brethren of the Revo-
lution. In the eyes of the rest of the
community, however, it should merely be a
reason to hang him higher.


••• ni
%Brm
xty
Wire Ropes
by GLOVER.
One of the longest-established
Wire Drawers in England.
FAMOUS FOR UNIFORMLY
HIGHEST QUALITY
In Every Description.
LOWEST COMPETITIVE PRICES.
FROM STOCK OR INDENT.
GUTHRIDGE Limited,
10 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney.
WILLIAMS PATENT
RAPID OIL FILTER.
THE ONLY RAPID AND EFFECTIVE
OIL FILTER ON THE MARKET.
5 Gallons Dirty Oil Made Clean in
20 to 30 Minutes.
If unsatisfactory, send it back and we will refund the
money paid us.
ASK FOR BOOKLET.
SOLE MANUFACTURERSj
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED,
10 George Street, Catnperdown, Sydney.
25*
<7
POLITICAL
POINTS
From the Federal Gallery:—
Hughes is suspected of a desire to desert Bendigo
for the hew North Sydney seat. But every time the
subject is paraded in the papers he packs his bag
and hurries off to Quartzopolik to assure the inhabi-
tants, more by suggestion than direct statement, that
a change of electorates would break his heart. No
one is smarter than Hughes in keeping the regard
of his constituents simmering by fervent remarks
about the heartrending sacrifices he is making on
their behalf. However, there is no doubt that if
he had the refusal of North Sydney as well as Ben-
digo, the former would be his choice. The trouble
is that Archdale Parkhill, the Nationalist secretary,
is in the way. A press campaign has been started
to manffiuvre him out of the nomination, but he is
an obstinate person, and may not shift. Hence the
obscurity of the Priminister’s references to Bendigo.
There is nothing in the report that Billy is afraid
of an encounter with Jowett, the squatter-Cocky.
Jowett is not likely to contest Bendigo, and Hughes
wouldn’t be worried if he did.
Speaking in Vic. Assembly on Morley’s
Tote Bill, Bailey, Labor member for Port
Fairy, worked off a quip in the John Gavan
Duffy stile. Prohibitionist Tennyson Smith
had told the Baptist Congress that when he
left the public gallery at the Assembly Mor-
ley and the Devil were advocating the tote.
Bailey declared that he hadn’t noticed any
“stranger” in the House with Morley. The
only person who had supported Morley up
to the time the Frozen Tea leader departed
was Downward, the veteran from Morning-
ton. The House knows its Downward and
smiled copiously.
Doubts as to the political affiliations of
Gregory, M.H.R. for Dampier, have been
revived by his convalescence after a danger-
ous illness. In a recent no-confidence divi-
sion Gregory was paired with the Govern-
ment, but his old colleagues profess to have
his son’s word that it was done without his
knowledge. On the other hand, the National-
ist Whip alleges that Gregory promised last
March to pair for the Government in a.ny
motion moved by the Opposition. But as
Gregory is a pronounced anti-Laborite, he
would vote against Charlton’s crowd in any
case. For that matter, the I armers
aren’t assured of his support, inasmuch as
he was on the verge of a breakaway just
before he became ill. They don’t want to
lose Gregory, who has battled hard both for
the Cockies and his electorate. _ In fact he
stands so well with his constituents that
they would probably return him, whatever he
called himself.
The Tas. Parliament having gone to sleep
for the Spring, the Hayes Government is
safe till November. But its majority is
only three, excluding the Speaker, and two
of the three —Snowden and Newton —were
dropped, after three weeks in office, to make
room for Blyth, of the Country party, and
McPhee, the Denison Nationalist. Men
jettisoned like that are hardly to be re-
garded as “safe.” If they crossed over on
a particular vote the Government would go
out. Should that happen, Ogden will get a
chance of moving for an elective Ministry.
The State Labor Conference turned the pro-
posal down, but three or four Labor mem-
bers are known to be in favor of it, and
Lyons himself might vote for the thing if it
came to a test.
Vic. Assembly is losing its virility. There
was a fine chance for an ambitious man to
make a reputation in one night by a first-
rate speech, either for or against the Tote
Bill, but no such speech was delivered. Mor-
ley was labored and disappointing, and after
him came nobody of greater calibre than
McLachlan, of Gippsland North, who sits on
the Opposition side, but is not now of the
Labor party. A speech that will grip and
impress Parliament needs thought, prepara-
tion and revision, and few are prepared to
concentrate to the extent necessary. Wall-
ington’s motto, “Better Not,” is the guid-
ing principle of too many politicians in re-
spect to worth-while things.
“Federalist” on a couple of stickers: —
The Sydney National Club learnt, the other day,
from Senator Pearce that Watt is “a man of great
ability, a good administrator, and the possessor of
a great personality” —hut that he was unthinkable
as an alternative to Hughes because he had resigned
office. He had not contented himself with threaten-
ing or even promising to resign, as Pearce’s bread-
winner himself has been known to do; he actually
THE SUBTLETY OF THE LITTLE MINISTER.
FIBST ELDER: “ Flirting! Shocking!”
SECOND ELDER: “Yes, and the dom fraud ’all say we drove him to it."
did the indecent thing! Many harsh words have
been spoken of Pearce, but the disability which he
ascribes to Watt has never been charged against
him. He has survived calamity after calamity of
his own creation, and he is with Australia yet
ready, aye ready, to represent it anywhere, anyhow,
anytime, and still manfully determined that only
over his dead body will any man lower his standard
at the Treasury. And his master is even more reso-
lute, if such a thing be possible, about hanging on
to the Prime Ministership.
Garden, the Sydney Labor Council secre-
tary, is labelling bis luggage “Moscow.”
Who foots his travelling exes, isn’t an-
nounced. Presumably the official Bolshies
will be Garden’s hosts, not the starving vic-
tims of sovietism for whom he has been
sending round the hat in Australia.
“Xox” : Federal Ministers don’t show their
chauffeurs much consideration. It seems a
common habit to allow the smallest margin
for catching trains, with the result that the
drivers have to ignore the speed-limit in get-
ting their languid passengers down to the
station. Another idiosyncrasy is to leave
the car at some address, tell the “shover
to wait a few minutes, and then forget all
about him. One man, who was found mind-
ing one of the Ministerial Rolls-Royces in
the courtyard of Federal Parliament House
after 10 "p.m., had been idling there since
half-past seven. The country, as usual, paid
the overtime.
More sidelights on sugar :
One Doherty, a delegate from the Queensland
sugar-planters, handed this parcel of pepper to the
Priminister at the N.S.W. Farmers’ Conference:
In 1918 we were in a very difficult position, for
the Arbitration Court had granted massive increases
of wages. We asked the Prime Minister tor an
increase of £.3 per ton, which would lia\ e bi ought
the price up to £24. Mr. Hughes refused the
request. He aame out with his watch in his hand
and said: “Gentlemen, I will give you one nunute.
As a matter of fact, he gave us three-quarters ot a
minute, and those 45 seconds cost Australia millions
of pounds. He turned our request absolutely down.
Then he went away and paid £4O a ton for black-
grown sugar, because some 25,000 acres ot land in
Queensland went out of cultivation.
And one of the Government’s agents in these trans-
actions was a Melbourne motor-car dealer, one
Davies, who, it was given in evidence before the
Public Accounts Committee last week, collected a
commission of £32,000 as the result of one tiip to
Java. Davies, it seems, was introduced to the Sugar-
Controller by Percy Deane, Hughes’s secretary.
Deane, for his part, admits that Davies brought.
him along a letter soliciting another big order for
sugar (it didn’t come oil this time), and that he
(Deane) made several alterations and additions before
the missive was passed along to the Priminister.
His explanation is that “the matter meant the
saving of many thousands of pounds to the Common-
wealth, and I thought it should receive attention.”
It is hard to' say how many millions Australia has
lost, in ships, sugar, wheat, and so forth, since it
submitted to dictatorial government. But one of
the insufferable features of the dictatorial system is
the sudden emergence into importance of people
like Deane and Shepherd, whose job is to look after
the blotting-paper and type the letters correctly, and
who butt into very much bigger matters with the
authority of Czars and the irresponsibility of —
typists.
A peep at the Queensland Parliament -
It is a rather dingy legislature, and humorless.
One of its personalities is “Bishop” Barnes. Solemn
as .he is, he commands attention, and no one made
a better speech on the Proxy Voting Bill. Vowles,
the C.P. leader, takes himself too seriously. Mac-
gregor is over-fond of quoting Latin. Fry reminds
one of Fitzpatrick (N.S.W.), but lacks his punch.
The most unrural-looking man in the House is Elphin-
stone, but he belongs to the Cocky group. Theo-
dore’s great asset is his control over his tempei. The
Premier is never ruffled, and his musical voice has
been carefully trained. Kirwan’s voice is not musi-
cal, but it drowns the division-bell. Interjections
from the other side move Taylor, the Nationalist
leader, to wrath. He entreats the Premier to “keep
in order that heterogeneous collection of mental defi-
cients sitting behind him.” Then the band begins.
The Labor Opposition in S.A. Assembly
enjoyed itself greatly over the recent no-
confidence debate. It was beaten 25 to 14.
but had the satisfaction of getting Harwell
really angry at the “long and continuous
series of abuse” directed at himself. .Lne
Premier had to withdraw such expressions
as “catalogue of lies,” “pigmies,” “members
so debased as to indulge in such language
and again “lies.” Then he mentioned that
a correspondent of his had called Denny ‘a
snake in the grass,” and that made the fifth
withdrawal. Another was asked for on the
remark, “I am the object of the utmost
hatred and aversion to the Opposition ; but
the Speaker ruled that this is not unparlia-
mentary, and Edwards handsomely mtei-
jected, “I rather like you, myself. J-he
bitterest exchanges were with Denny, who,
like Barwell, is a lawyer. The Premier
says he was received pleasantly everywhere
on his world-tour, and finds the steady
abuse at home rather trying. Several let-
ters received lately have actually threatened
his life.
It is anything but certain that the
amended scheme for distributing Vic. seats
in the Reps, on a 10-town and 10-country
basis will meet with approval. The chances
are that the original 11-town and 9-country
allocation may have to be reverted to. In
any case State Treasurer McPherson may
still be regarded as a likely starter. Any
constituency which contains the city of
Hawthorn and the whole or a bit of Ivew
is a gift for him. In a straight-out contest
for the present Ivooyong he would leave Bob
Best, the present holder, a long way behind
if he cared to challenge Robert. Oldham.
Lang and Lawson have their new' 10-10
boundaries ready for issue. No doubt, they
will tell the House to take it, go back to
the other, or get a new commission to plan
a third.
“0.K.”: Hughes has not strengthened his
autocracy by advertising his loss of £3OOO
on a purchase of Badak shares. To me the
idea of a buyer of Badaks at a high price
being a trustworthy leader in financial mat-
ters is farcical. There were half-a-dozen
good reasons why Prudence should leave
the Badak boom severely alone.. Whereas a
modest investment in a tin-prospecting
scheme thereabouts was a reasonable gamble,
even as a long price about an improving can-
didate for the Cup is reasonable on the chance
of good “hedging,” any purchase of Badak
shares in a boom market on flimsy evidence,
or any hanging on to shares after they had
reached a high figure, indicated a grave
want of balance in the speculator. Hughes,
bv his own showing, is not a level-headed
person, but a credulous gambler. Had he
gone into commercial life instead of party
politics, he must have been a failure. His
commanding position in the Commonwealth
Parliament is a painful reflection on the
capacity of Parliaments elected under rigid
caucus conditions.
“Gallery” : There is no hope of Victoria get-
ting a totalisator while the Lawson Govern
ment is in office. The Cabinet is hopelessly
at variance on the question. Though Law-
son secretly objects to a.ny form of gambling,
he professes to favor the machine without
the bookie. McPhairson adopts a similar
attitude, whereas-Baird, Angus and Peacock
will never give a vote for the tote in any cir-
cumstances. Barnes, Oman and Penning-
ton would establish it at once, and let the
fielders compete with it. Three of the four
Ministers in the Council also broadly sup-
port the same arrangement, but probably,
if the matter came to a vote, they would
begin to hedge and qualify, as the majority of
their colleagues did in the Assembly la,st
week. The whole business was a farce. In
truth, the measure fiever had a chance.
“Swansider”: R. S. Sampson, Westralia’s
new State Secretary (vice Broun, retired for
for health reasons), only became an M.L.A.
last year, and was not previously suspected
of Parliamentary ambitions. Going to
Perth from S.A. 28 years ago, he has built
up a solid business in and out of printers
ink. Enterprise and shrewdness are gener-
ally conceded to him, and there is a vague
idea that it would take an Aberdonian Jew
to get the better of him in a business deal.
Sampson’s constituency counted for more
than his personality when it came to finding
another Agrarian to replace Broun; the
Country party only supports Mitchell in re-
turn for half of the portfolios in his gift.
There has been a lot of grumbling in Perth
about metropolitan and suburban interests
being unrepresented in the Cabinet. Samp-
son is the C.P. member whose electorate
(Swan) is least bucolic and handiest to the
city; hence his rise from the ranks.
JOSEPH’S DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joseph Carruthers stigmatises the critics of his
Million Farms scheme as “the jealous, small-minded,
narrow-visioned section of the community—a pack
of small, yapping dogs.”
Who wanders up and down the world’s wide ways
Finds them beset, in Tennysonian phrase,
By “long-necked geese that ever hiss dispraise.”
The most sagacious, prescient heads, likewise,
That for mankind its choicest boon devise
Move ever ’mid “a swarm of poisonous flies.”
When Galileo sensed the earth was round,
No kudos came his way. Arose no sound
Except the hiss and buzz of scorn profound.
When Isaac Newton gravitation “got,”
It’s more than probable that quite a lot
Of know-all neighbors muttered “Bally rot!”
What though your portion now be gibes and sneers,
Your name, like those of earlier pioneers,
May yet be subject for tumultuous cheers.
May, you’ll observe. I wouldn’t like to go
Nap, or to put my shirt upon it, Jo?;
But still there’s always hope. You never know.
Peering ahead, I see a million chaps,
Cornstalks, who hurl into the air their caps.
What day is it? Your natal one —perhaps!
1 see a million rattling reapers take
Toll from a million holdings. Fact or fake?
That always has me guessing—till I wake.
Box on, brave heart! Disdain the envious tongue
Of sibilating goose or yelping mong. —
Your fame may yet in dithyrambs be sung,
Your form be yet enshrined in marble white
As pater patriae, Joe. Indeed, it migjit.
Who tan disprove it—without second sight?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Yoz.\Y<z
WiH£ 9ocxd- U/<Z
l-n\\ss<2<£ my .
HigWlr.
12*. 30 2»Trvdi ciolm HcZnvy'
" itot~ '
vriHj< Irfm hi> eordaSf
, H ,
-A little cH^f?<jfe:
/\s\zXfi ‘^’^'^‘zlop^r
ivi Wd
"bill
cW<2g U§ OO n stltzAt\'oH^l.
IF THE PROPOSAL IS ADOPTED TO RELIEVE OUR HOUSE SHORTAGE.
“A message from Prague sa ys an attempt is being made to legalise bigamy as a remedy for the housing difficulty Two bills are before
Parliament. One proposes that every male over years of age shall not only be permitted to have a plurality of wives, but be compelled to marry
more tha one woman. The second bill, which has been introduced by a woman deputy, proposes that the State should recognise free love, in order that more
women shuld be able to find a home."-London cable.


Telegraphic and Cable Address:
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 9T Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin 8 Lyttelton.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire•
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
HADFIELDS (Australia) LIMITED
are now making for the
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA
Hadfields’ World-famous
“ERA” and “HECLA” Brands of Steel.
MITCHELL ROAD, ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co.
(N.S.W.) :
Bonus to Added Capital
Not Policy- to Re- and Re-
Profits. holders. Dividends. serves. serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1910.. 1.1,366 7,890* 17$ p.c.= 7,890* 3,574 100,338
1911.. 989.8,491 16 „ „ 8,491 12,007 112,345
1912.. 251.9,294* 15 „„ 9,294* 3,662 1)6,007
1913- 10,359 16J „ „ 10,359 5,566 121,673
1914- 11,840 17 „ ~ 11,840 2,304 123,877
New capita!got in . . £54,859 (
Premiums on .new shares 983 J ’
1915- 13,949 17 p.e. = 13,949 4,148 183,897
New capital . . . . £l2 183,909
1916- 18,985 11 p.c. = 13,985 5,601 189,510
1917- 14,812 10 ~,, 12,600 181,816
New capital .. .. £99 181,915
1918- 14,593 12* p.c.= 15,652 9,232 191,147
1919- 15,243 12*. ~,,15,625 6,455 197,602
New capital .. ..£25,000 222,602
1920- 16,998 12$, p.c.= 18,760 6,721 229,323
New capital .. ..£77,983 307,306
Premiums on new shares 27,408 334,714
1921- 16,413 10 p.e.= 30,287 4,187 338,901
New capital .. . . 127 339,028
Premiums .. . . 85 339,113
1922- 16,957 10 p.c.= 30,305 267 339,370
The Mercantile Mutual is a liighly-respect-
able old Australian fire office. It is also an
office with very extraordinary features,
which would cause some uneasiness were the
highly-respectable character of the manage-
ment not a byword in insurance. For in-
stance, it recently distributed to its
shareholders all except £257 of the year's
underwriting surplus and interest from in-
vestments, though the increase of net
premium income alone called for the reserva-
tion of about £9BOO as cover against unex-
pired risks on that new business. After
payment of the final div. total reserves were
only £36,260, though following the general
practice of underwriters of setting aside an
amount equal to 40 p.c. of net; premiums to
provide for risks which have not run out, the
Merc, at June 30 should have had £96,512
in this contingency reserve. The explana-
tion is that in the past the directors trans-
ferred to capital reserves which at the time
could not be reasonably regarded as the
property of shareholders. Put another way,
after payment of the latest div., anything
up to £60,000 of the paid capital of £303,110
was. liable to be called upon to make good
claims on unexpired risks had policy-writing
then ceased. It is a point the investor in
the Mercantile Mutual shares should not
overlook.
This inflation of capital suggests reckless-
ness; but not only has the.eo. been very
respectable, in some respects it has also been
very conservative. Until a few years ago it
made a specialty of selecting “safe” risks
instead of building up a big business of
average risks. But that policy has been
modified, and the More, nowadays socks also
the milder profits from less select business.
Operations were for many years restricted to
N. S. Wales and Queensland, but business is
now sought in other States and in Maori-
land, and three years agd the co.’s constitu-
tion was overhauled to permit the manage-
ment to dabble in the more risky marine in-
surance. So, notwithstanding slumped values
and depression in trade and industry, pre-
mium figures continue to expand :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38.9 p.c. 41.8 p.c
1900.. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24.4 „ 49.7 „
1905.. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23.8 „ 53.3 „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29.9 „ 48.4 „
1914.. 130,673 48,868 62,007 37.3 „ 47.4 „
1915.. 136,858 50,664 61,458 37.0 ~ 44.9 „
1916.. 143,320 4,6,267 68,841 32.3 „ 48.0 „
1917 . 153,702 70,090 71,709 45.6 ~ 46.6 „
1918.. 164,791 57.066 76,828 34.6 „ 46.6 „
1919.. 169,031 56.135 83,973 33.2 „ 49.7,.
1920.. 194,681 67,212 94,083 34.5 „ 48.3 ~
1921.. 216,774 74,751 105,564 34.5 „ 48.7 „
1922.. 241,281 92,815 116,156 38:5 „ 48.1„
Net premium income has more than doubled
within a dozen years.
To the policy-holder it matters very little
whether protecting funds are in the form of
reserves or of capital. The main concern is
whether they are adequate in volume and
satisfactorily invested. The Mercantile
Mutual has cash and, investments ample to
meet claims double the total losses experi-
enced during the past two years. Funds
represent 140 p.c. of last year’s premium
income, and, though that proportion is not
so large as in some offices, funds should give
ample backing apart from the £101,037
of uncalled capital. Of total assets
of £400,000-odd the building in which the
Mutual Life of New York once swanked,
opposite Sydney G.P.0., and other properties
represent £164,600. There are mortgages
for £25,188, and public securities, deposits,
cash, etc., totalling £218,975. Against the
latter item must be set the £37,280 due to
sundry creditors and the final div. of
£15,155.
* * * *
The Port Jackson and Manly Steam-
ship Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910.. £24,621 10 p.c. =£10,120 £14,501 £26,494
1911.. 43,448 13$ „ „ 14,080 29,368 55,862
Transferred to capital, £52,803.. 3,059
1912.. 43,106 13$ p.c. = 17,601 25,506 28,564
1913 ..45,110 13$ „ „ 21,122 23,988 52,552
Transferred to capital, £52,803 ) ~ ncc
1914.. 73,371 13$ p.c. = 28,162 45,209 )
1915 37,001 13$ „ „ 28,162 8,839 53,797
1916.. 30,245 13$ „ „ 28,162 2,083 55,880
1917.. 25.436 13$ „ „ 28,162 274 56,154
1918 30,168 13$ „ „ 28,162 2,006 58,160
] 919. . 27,752 13$ „ „ 28,162 57,750
1920.. ? 13$ „ „ 28,162 ? ?
Co. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
and also one fully-paid £l6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922.. 24,911 6 „ „ 25,345 2,457
The shareholder of 1920 is now interested
in two cos.: the concern which runs the
Manly ferries and the Port Jackson Invest-
ment and Insurance, which carries the fire,
marine and other risks of the ferry co. The
latter’s performances to date have been as
follows: —•
Port Jackson Investment and Insurance Co., Ltd.:
/ Dividends. —^
Pref. Ordinary Towards
June, Surplus. G p.c. 0 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1921 ..£14,857 £8448 £360 ) £5279 £11,729
Preliminary exes, written off, £770 )
1922 . . 11,572 8448 360 2764 8,965
Owing to the writing-up of assets and divi-
sion of interests, old shareholders hold scrip
with 2; times the face value of that prior
to the reconstruction, and combined divs.
give a 16 p.c. return on the 1920 capital, the
bulk of which was transferred profit.
The ferry co. does not disclose the amounts
which it periodically sets aside for depre-
ciation. In the past those allowances were
very much more than were required to pro-
tect the co. against wasting assets, and
when an independent appraiser was called
in (values were then at their peak, by the
way) he declared that the fleet was worth
more than three times its written-down book
value of £llO.OOO. It would be interesting
to know what the fleet is worth now; though,
as the co. is patriotic enough to give local
shipbuilders its contracts, construction costs
are still very high. For instance, the Bara-
goola, when fully equipped, will have cost
about £75,000, practically one-fourth the
total hook value of all the other
steamers. The extent to which depreciation
allowances affected latest disclosed profits is
not ascertainable from the published
accounts. Probably the lay-by was not so
large as in other years. The period was re-
markable for the very numerous wet week-
ends. and consequent loss of trippers, who
provide the co.’s profit. However, share-
holders get divs. on the same scale as in the
previous year, though disclosed earnings are
£434 short of the amount distributed..
The feature of latest accounts of the ferry
co. was the expansion of the steamers’ account
—at the balance £54,621 had been paid on
account of the Baragoola. But the manage-
ment laid not turned to the co.’s own invest-
ments to find the cash; the surplus of public
securities and cash over sundry creditors
declined only from £38,743 to £31,548 during
the 12 months after adding a couple of thou-
sands to stocks of coal and stores. But, in
addition to sundry creditors, the latest
accounts show £43,250 owing to the insurance
co., that concern assisting the purchase of the
new steamer by transferring that amount to
the parent co. in the form of deposits. The
effect of the fleet-addition is that for the first
time for many years an amount exceeding
paid capital is* now tied up in steamers and
property. After payment of the final div.
the accounts showed an excess of liabilities
over liquid assets of £14,144, and that has
no doubt since been increased considerably
by final payments to the shipyards.
For 1921 the insurance co. received £9378
of premiums; last year £8873. Losses took
only £7OB in 1921 and £BOl in the past 12
months. After meeting management and
other costs (£803) and taxes (£2379). the
co. for the past year showed an underwriting
surplus of £4890. Adding £6682 interest
from investments gives the £11,572 of sur-
plus shown in the table. Of that £BBOB was
distributed in divs. The. co.’s capital is
£146,808, in 140.808 6 p.c. £1 prefs. and
0000 £1 ordinaries; but as £17,008 was
counted as goodwill in the float, after pay-
ment of the final divs. £8965 of capital was
still represented by that intangible asset.
Goodwill in this instance is merely the Privi-
lege of carrying the insurable risks of the
ferry co. And though the old co. did re-
markably well as its own underwriter—that
is evidenced by the £140,000 of assets it had
accumulated in its insurance reserve—-the
risks for which this co. is liable are very for-
midable. Fire, workmen’s compensation and
public-risk are not of much concern. Under the
Navigation regulations the co. would pro-
bably be liable for no more than £12,000 to
the public, even if two steamers collided am)
went to the bottom. But it is carrying full
marine risks, and as a result of such an acci-
dent it would be faced rvith the replacing of
two steamers. That would mean that most,
if not ail, of its paid capital would be swal-
lowed.
Winch combe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products salesmen: —
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £17,893 6 p.c. = £12,345 £5,548 £17,179
1913.. 17,834 6 „ „ 12,345 5,489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 6 „ „ 12.345 8,755 2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 „ „ 12,345 1,474 1,461
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 „ „ 14.403 7,408 5,947
1917.. 22,600 7 „ „ 14,403 8,197 14,144
1918.. 25,168 7 „ ~ 14,403 10,765 24,909
1919.. 26,216 7 „ ~ 14.403 11,813 36,722
1920.. 26,360 7 „ ~ 14,403 11,957 48,679
1921.. 12,174 7 „ „ 14,578 • 46,275
1922.. 32,978 8 „ „ 16,860 16,118 62,393
This is another instance in which too much
importance cannot be placed upon the hand-
some profits disclosed by the latest accounts.
Winehconibe-Carson’s had about .‘>6,600 bales
of wool on hand unsold at the beginning of
its financial year, and this accumulation, as
well as almost every bale of the past season’s
clip, was marketed at improved prices. Mean-
while the co.’s business has shown a “general
all-round expansion both in N. 8. Wales and
Queensland,” and turnover figures have
moved as follows :-
Wool Total
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Turnover.
1909.. 104,676 477,180 9.106
1911.. 101,698 280,456 Bj>34 £2,002,434
1915.. 72,278 301,158 14,158 1,663,207
1919.. 137,167 270,893 9,731 3,954,570
1920.. 137,258 321,140 15,357 4,556,856
1921.. 61,756 264,921 16,523 2.342,496
1922.. 163,530 347,825 25,881 3,797,292
Commissions from larger handlings of live-
stock have to gome extent, off-set the lessened
earnings from lower prices. Net: profits for
the past two years have averaged approxi-
mately £22,.500, equal to slightly more than
lOi p.c. o,n paid capital. And as conditions
have become settled and prospects for at
least the wool business are bright, the bit
extra which the “Wild Cat” 12 months ago
told shareholders they might reasonably hope
for has materialised.
During the war years Winehcombe, Car-
son’s held on to the exceptional profits earned
iu high markets. llow the directors’ policy
of restricting distribution to shareholders
has strengthened the co. is shown by this
comparison
1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities . . £135,602 £461,352 £290,954 £313,244
Freeholds .. 162,146 160,856 157,719 157,719
Advances, etc. 157,189 505,048 339,686 385,961
Investments
and cash .. 16,144 21,396 27,220 21,220
Consignments 12,587 1,554 1,608
Plant, etc. .. 14,176 35,687 29,182 29,368
Only £5OOO of new capital was got in be-
tween the 1915 and 1922, balances, and as
advances against wool and produce, stock
mortgages, liens and sundry debtors have
grown £228,772. liabilities have more than
doubled. The £313,244 of outside debts at
June 30 was made up of £204,517 of sundry
creditors and £108,727 bank overdraft. Net
assets, exclusive of goodwill, expanded from
£216,640 to £282,632 during the seven years,
surplus profits having assisted to the extent
of almost £61,000. When the present co.
took over in 1910 goodwill was valued at
£41,983, but as reserves were also brought
in from the old concern the eo. began with
only £31,729 of its capital represented by
intangibles. Goodwill has now been written
down to £20,000, and meantime £82,393 has
been accumulated in reserves. If the big
asset——advances o.n land, produce, etc. —is
all it should be, every Winehcombe, Carson
£1 share is now supported by almost 265. of
assets. That also means that, in addition
to the bit earned on borrowed money, there
are £l3O of net assets to help divs. for every
£lOO of capital, and that, under normal con-
ditions, the co. should be able to pay 8 p.c.
without, difficulty.
* * * *
The Australian Drug Co., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) :—-
June, Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £3,419 5 p.c. = £3,750 £9,921
1913.. 8,572 10 „ „ 7,500 £1072 10,993
1914.. 8,875 10 „ „ 7,500 1375 12,368
1915.. 8,921 10 „ „ 7,500 1421 13,789
1916.. 9,885 10 „ „ 7,500 2385 16,174
1917.. 9,985 10 „ „ 7,500 2485 18,659
Premiums on new shares.. 170 18,829
1918.. 17,084 10 p.c. = 8,750 8334 27,163
1919.. 12,010 10 „ „ 10,000 2010 29,1.73
1920.. 13.939 10 „ „ 10,000 3939 33,112
1921.. 11,471 10 „ ~ 11,250 221 33,333
1922.. 9,438 10 „ „ 12,500 30,271
Latest profits are smaller than those of any
year since 1915, and there is now £50.000
more capital in the business and £17,000 or
so more accumulated profit. For 1915
slightlv more than 10 p.c. net was earned
on £BB,OOO of capital and reserves ;■ for the
past year only 6 p.c. on £156.800. The
directors give no explanation of the poor
results, but the general depression and steady
decline of prices have, no doubt, been re-
sponsible. In the latest accounts stocks
are included “at cost, but where necessary
reduced to current market price.” Balance-
sheet movements over ten and five years
have been as follows: —
1912. 1917. 1921. 1922.
Capital . • £75,000 £75,000 £125,000 £125,000
liabilities . . 48,582 62,751 58,269 55,187
Fixed assets .. 19,307 18,158 16,024 34,066
Stock .. .. 70,144 75,034 124,693 101,116
Book debts .. 45,450 59,569 73,669 /8,5 -
Cash invest- „ ... „
ments, etc. . . 2,351 11,149 8,466 9,200
Australian Drug took advantage of the war
period to widen its interests, and put a
lot of money into manufacturing exten-
sions. So the steady decline of values lias
affected a much larger business than existed
when the co. was trading in a rising market.
Though the directors have had to draw on
reserves to pay the usual 10 p.c., that rate
of div. is fully justified. The co. was wisely
controlled during the years of abnormal pro-
fits, and there were no cash or share bonuses.
Between 1915-20 £43,750 was passed out to
shareholders in regular 10 p.c. divs., but
meanwhile £19,323 of profit was kept in
the business. So, despite two adverse years,
Australian Drug, after payment of the latest
div., had £121.200 of its £120,000 paid capi-
tal covered by the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities, and in addition showed tree-
hold property, plant and fixtures written
down to £34.06(5. That gave net assets with
a book value of 245. lOd. to represent each
£1 fully-paid.
* « * *
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), which sells
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and sporting
goods:—
Written Towards De*
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, fleit.
1912. .£12,268 10 p.c. = £B,OOO £1132 £3,136 £17,541
1913.. 13,128 10 „„ 9,000 1381 2,747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 „ „ 9,000 1555 2,740 12,054
Added to goodwill, £BBO . . • •
1915.. 15,533 10 p.c. = 9,000 1555 4,968 7,966
Added to goodwill, £738 •• 8 -<O4
1916.. 16,166 10 p.c. = 9,667 2080 4,419 4.285
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO 14,286
1917.. 12,955 8 p.c. 8.800 2215 1,940 12,345
Added to goodwill, £237 •• •• 12.582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.c. - 11,000 2622 3.608 8,9/4
1919.. 17,798 10 „ ~11,000 3942 2.856 6,118
Reserves.
1920.. 32,291 10 „ ~11,000 3084 17,607 11,489
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £30,625 . ■ 19,186
1921.. 27,708 10 p.c. = 13,559 2837 11,372 7,764
1922.. 23,069 10 „ ~ 15,313 2728 5,628 2,136
Profits were not nearly so good as for the
previous two years, but they were still very
handsome. The £20,041 left after providing
for depreciation gave a return of more thaii
I,‘D p.c. on the paid capital of £153,125,
which includes £40,(525 of transferred re-
serves and £20,000-odd issued for goodwill
in the float 11 years ago. Why the co. did
so much better in 1020 and 1021 is not
clear, unless the industrial depression and
curtailment of the spending mania which
followed gratuity bonds and other Govern*
ment lOU’s has created less demand for
smokes and sporting goods. Working exes,
were apparently not to blame. Salaries
and wages last, year took slightly less
than in 1021, but gross profits on trad-
ing declined from £100,509 to £BB,SOS.
Going back 10 years to the first accounts
these changes have taken place in balance-
sheet figures:—■
1912. 1917. 1921. 1922.
liabilities . . £20,179 £31,893 £95,837 £lOB,OBB
Freeholds .. 50,772 85,7/2
Stocks . . - . 57,041 91,267 141,776 122,745
Sundry debtors .. 16,999 17,535 32,776 30,755
Plant! etc. ■■ 16,325 19,770 17,121 14,431
Cash, etc. * • 6,549 5,446 5,847 12,463
Until a few years ago the numerous branches
were in leasehold premises, but the manage-
ment has lately set about acquiring perma-
nent quarters for the business. There is
now £85,772 tied up in freehold properties,
and the premises account will be added to
at an early date when the Sydney headquar-
ters are remodelled and extended. No doubt,
when this work begins the 15s. uncalled on
50.000 shares will be got in. The other
140.625 shares issued are fully-paid to £l.
Liabilities are large, but £40,317 represents
mortgages on freehold properties. Apart
from those fixed debts the co. owed £67.771.
but showed £165.063 in stocks, book debts
and cash. Mick Simmons’s has done so well
that after paying handsome divs. regularly,
converting £40.625 of accumulated profit into
scrip, and though goodwill, including Jeases
and trade-marks, still stands at £22.359, all
except a couple of thousands of the paid capi-
tal of £153,125 is now represented by tan-
gible assets.
* * * *
Henry Berry and Co. (Australasia).
Ltd., from the time the public became in-
terested : —• , . ,
f Dividends. ■, Nominal
Pref. To Re- Re-
A\w„ Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1921. . £40.329 £21,394 5 p.c. =£14,700 £4235 £4,235
1922.. 53,017 21,394 7$ „ ~ 22,050 9573 13,808
Paid capital is £590.640, made up of £125,000
of “A” prefs., £180,640 “B” prefs. and
£294,000 of ordinaries. The public’s interest
is restricted to the prefs., both classes of
which carry a cumulative 7 p.c., but which
can go to a limit of 8 p.c. when the old pro-
prietary interests get 12 p.c. or more. _ For
the two years accounts have been published
the co. has been trading in a falling market
and profits have been affected. Nevertheless,
divs. for the prefs. have been covered twice


R. G. WATKINS <O. CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL CLASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write us for information on Machinery. It will pay you.
GOVERNMENT
g
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4% INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3£ excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
Scientific Glassware, Crucibles, Seales, Thermo-
meters, Hydrometers and all Laboratory requirements
for Metallurgists, Brewers, Analysts, Confectioners,
Sugar-mills, Butter-factories, etc., at Elliott Bros..
Ltd., O'Connell Street, Sydney, manufacturers of
Acids, etc., for all industrial purposes. Quotations,
post free, at request. — Advt.
« * * •
When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.—Advt. [2
* * * *
A conduit without an objection has been found
in Pioneer Wood Pipe. The big disadvantages of
metal pipes, such as rusting and corrosion, with
consequent fouling of the water and speedy destruc-
tion of the pipe, are unknown in wood pipe. Neither
is it affected by frost or electrolysis. Other factors
in favor of wood pipe are its lightness in transport,
simplicity to install, and low cost of upkeep. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road.
Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * # *
A. E. Broue, Mendes’ Chambers, 8a Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. Petroleum Development. Petroleum
Boring and allied industries. Report and Analysis.
—Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Masse!, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
I am a cash purchaser, Government Stocks, Deben-
tures, War Loan Bonds, Inscribed Stock, Shares,
Mining Trading Coinpanies, Bawras, Wheat Scrip
and other marketable or negotiable securities. Corres-
pondence invited. Telegraphic address, “Scriptum.”
Bank References. William J. Lees, 105 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS—Commonwealth and Foreigu Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* f * *
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
* * * •
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
* * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
Try
0
AINSLIE WHISKY
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car, Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Kates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY SETTLED.
AGENTS IN ALL PRINCIPAL COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J.P.. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
over by earnings disclosed. The accounts are
not informative and do not show precisely
what backing there is for capital. They do
show £613,448 of assets to support the
£305,640 of prefs., a cover of more than £2
for every 205., but Henry Berry’s is a hold-
ing co. only, and £390,911 of the assets con-
sists of “shares in subsidiary cos.,” which
may include a considerable amount of good-
will. Other assets are £212,864 passed on
to the subsidiaries as deposits and £9673
balance of cash after payment of final divs.
Even if goodwill figures big in the subsi-
diaries, the prefs. are very strongly sup-
ported.
Mullen’s Harbor Plantations, which is a
reconstruction of the old Papuan Rub-
ber and Trading Co., is sending out S.O.S.
signals. Shareholders have been circularised
and told that funds are “almost exhausted,”
and the “immediate question is, shall we
be able to carry on?” They are being pressed
to take up debentures, and if this “final
appeal” fails the directors declare that
there is “no alternative but to go into
liquidation.” “Should this disastrous event
occur,” the directors add, “the co.’s assets
would be subjected to a forced sale; and
this means, under the conditions at present
prevailing in Papua, that very likely all
moneys paid for shares would be lost.”
At last Badak is out with an account of
recent doings. While the law case against
prospector Orton was in hand the co.
couldn’t get access to dead J. R.
Raleigh’s papers. When it did, two
northern areas recommended for testing
by him were bored, but the check work was
disappointing. Since then the co. has hunted
Arltunga, New Zealand, Tasmania, Western
Australia and New Guinea for a property.
Of the lot the Brookstead alluvial tin show,
near Avoea (Tas.), looked to be promising,
but after spending £5451 on the option and
testing, the owners would not listen to a
proposal to accept 25 p.c. of the net. profits
on the. only approved block of alluvial at
Bailey’s Marsh. So the show goes back to
them. The big tin-bearing formation at the
Penguin was sampled, but tin would have to
fetch £2OO a ton or more to squeeze any-
thing out of it. Lastly, the co. decided to
give R. E. Booth’s recommendation of the
Ajura, in New Guinea, a go. This proposi-
tion includes the ownership of over 700 acres
of alluvial 73 miles inland from Buna Buna.
Out of the flats there the old sluicing bri-
gade bagged good gold. Booth estimates that
the ground is worth Is. a yard, and will cost
4d. to work. So, by shifting 5000 cub. yds.
a week, £14,850 of profit is expected annu-
ally. Badak forms a pup co. of 140,000 £1
shares, hands over 17,500 of them to the
vendors, and promises to pay £lOOO cash out
of profits. There will be no public issue:
the Badak Co. intends to equip the claim
out of its own funds. Meantime, it will
secure all the land nearby; so if Booth’s
figures go right the way will be opened to
another float or two. After all, there may
still be hope for the £3OOO which Wm.
Morris Hughes says he dropped into the
Badak sink.
* * * *
“Bendigonian”: It may be, as suggested
by Tiie Bulletin (24/8/’22), that Mr.
Dyasqn is bitterly disappointed at the non-
fulfilment. of the high hopes on which he
founded the Bendigo Amalgamated Co.: but
there is no surprise locally at the denouement.
It was fully expected in view of the continu-
ous retrogression, and the wonder is that
the co. held out so long. The new proposal,
as far as outlined, is not viewed too favor-
ably, but opinion may alter with modifica-
tions of the scheme. The new cos. indicated
by Mr. Dyason are Constellation, Johnson’s,
Windmill, Carlisle, Hercules and Monument,
called after the most prominent mines either
operating or historically associated with the
areas. On the basis proposed it is question-
able whether more than three cos. could be
formed. The general feeling is that the
apportioning of contributing shares is equit-
able to both sides, but it is asked, “What is
the parent co. offering in return for 60,000
paid-up shares?” Mr. Dyason talks about
the “very considerable special attractions
which each of these proposals has,” which
provokes the pertinent inquiry: “Why is it
that the co., which has over £40,000 cash
assets, does not keep the attractions to it-
self?” It is certainly an over-sanguine ex-
pectation that these cos. can be formed in
two months.
In December chairman Edward Miller an-
ticipated a merry six months for the Morn-
ing Star, Wood’s Point (Vic.). It had then
repaid the Government advance of £lO,OOO
and put by £7500 for plant. He tipped that
monthly divs. should be forthcoming. Divs.
of Is. each were paid for the months
of April, May and June. The Morn-
ing Star won 838loz. from 5646 tons,
which brought in £31,717. Costs totalled
£11.572, so mountain mining took £2 a ton,
while sinking, development and head-office
absorbed the best part of another £1 a ton.
Net profits amounted to £15,308. Miller pre-
dicts “regular distributions,” but with the
proviso “if the mine continues to develop
as at present.” This proviso is inserted be-
cause the mine depends on the level to be
opened up off the new sink. As the co. is
financial, it should scrap such phrases as
"large bodies of payable ore are in sight”
and engage a surveyor to measure up exact
tonnages.
* * * *
While the Morning Star displays a little
brilliance, George Dickenson’s A.I. is not
living up to form. At 1132 ft. gold returns
made the old mine hum. Now the flat
makes in the lower levels at 1252 ft., 1352 ft.
and 1452 ft. give only about sdwt. stone,
which won’t pay. Floors of quartz have
been got, but they are narrow and patchy.
This is not unexpected, as at that depth
the diorite rod: is exceedingly compact, so
it is pure luck to alight upon a decent-
sized formation. The co. dropped £5167 in six
months, but it still has cash to carry on
with. A.I. has lost most of its glory. But
brokers are not weeping; they recall the
bear squeeze, and some of them still mumble
curses whenever the stock is called.
Bendigo A 1 (Vic.) keeps its end up,
although calls are again .needed to help.
After plodding just within the pay mark
the stone in the 1142 ft. north stopes duf-
fered, so the men were pulled out of that
part of the mine. Now a winze has got on
to pay , dirt underfoot, so that when the
fault is reached yields should make up. To
get on to that part of the run of the stone,
operations are also in hand at 1241 ft.; but
generally the outlook at that level is not
bright. To see if outside skill could help, the
Mines Department lent one of its geologists
and calls are being made to see if he
has laid out a track to wealth. The hunt is
after Bowden’s “back,” which yielded a lot
of gold where followed in the Suffolk United,
the adjoining claim.
Golden Hope, Hampton Plains, has had
a parcel of 65 tous milled at Kalgoorlie for
220 z. bullion. Sands assayed sdwt. A profit
of £4O was shown over treatment and trans-
port charges. Mining costs apparently were
not allowed for. At June 30 manager Tom
Greer reckoned 10,000 tons worth 60s. was
a conservative estimate of ore available, so
mine prospects are considered good enough
to warrant the installation of a treatment
plant—that is, if the Westralian Mines De-
partment obliges by assisting with cash.
Sinking of the main shaft is held up by
heavy water. But that may prove a bless-
ing. So far water for treatment purposes
has been limited at Hampton Plains. To
sink another 100 ft. and open up at 200 ft.
a 6d. call was made in June, and another
6d. will be got in this month.
North Fingall’s Discovery shaft, recently
reported as having exposed 4oz. ore, is now
going down on Oft. of lode of low value, but
“indications are favorable.” As the shoot
of rich ore was dipping north out of the
shaft, there seems little doubt that it will
again be met with when driving north from
the shaft. The North Fingall’s trump card
appears to be the extension of the crosscut
from the bottom of the shaft sunk to 300 ft.
by Bewick, Moreing- and Co., and which has
a chance of picking up a continuation of
the Great Fingall lode. In about two months
the unwatering of this shaft and erection
of gear should be completed.
Bake View and Star (W.A.) estimates
ore reserves at quarter-million tons, averaging
275. per ton. In pre-war days that quantity
and grade ore would have been good, but as
working costs on Bake View and Star last
year averaged 335., the reserves under existing
conditions do not appear to offer anything
for shareholders.
* * * #
Perth shareholders in Bass o’ Gowrie con-
tinue to buy scrip at about 6d. with a view
to securing control of the co., now run from
Adelaide, and, later, taking an option over
Brown’s Reward, on which they have set
their hearts. The Reward has put out some
sensational yields. Perth supporters also
continue faithful to the Daisy Queen, which
at the 190 ft. level has 2ft. of ore going
18dwt. The value per ton is all right, but
a width of 2ft. with Daisy Queen condi-
tions is on the thin side. The Queen has
a second lode, but little has been heard of
it recently.
* * * *
Malaya Tin Corporation’s income for its
latest financial year amounted to only £779;
all except a few pounds was a div. from
Ratrut. Exes, totalled £5098, leaving a loss
for the period of £4319. But the M.T.C. did
a lot of skirmishing in search of new mining-
shows with the few thousands spent. The
depressed tin market made a number of
properties in Malaya and Siam available, but
most proved unsatisfactory for existing work-
ing conditions, though four areas are still
under consideration. The Corp. believes
that in the Trengganu property it has picked
up “one of the good things of Malaya”: scout
bores suggest that “not less than 350 acres”
will average over 111 b. To finance this deal
the Corp. offered £lO,OOO of debentures to
shareholders, and so far £4lOO has been sub-
scribed. Gold and tin possibilities in
Eastern Siam and in the Celebes have also
received attention, but nothing warranting a
heavy drain on the cash-box came into view.
Meantime the Corp.’s Siberian interests are
still in the clouds. Bolshieland is still too
unsettled to make mining operatons prac-
ticable.
The returns of the mineral production of
Queensland for the second quarter of 3922
are far from comforting, although they total
£129,844, which is £75,859 in excess of the
corresponding quarter of 1921. The values
dp not include those for coal, gold or pre-
cious stones. The increase is, of course, due
to the resumption at Mt. Morgan, lime-
stone, as flux, and metallic copper being
responsible for over £BO,OOO. This looks all
right on paper, but the copper has all been
produced at a cost greater than the stuff is
worth. For the rest, lead and silver show
decreases of £3264 and £3322 respectively for
the quarter. Tin has kept up, thanks to
Kangaroo Hills and Herberton, the produc-
tion of lode tin having increased from 147
tons to 192 tons. Herberton reported at the
beginning of this month the best price for
tin concentrates for a period of 18 months,
viz., £9O for 70 p.c. tin. Gold showed a
slight increase, due again to Mt. Morgan and
the No. 4 North Phoenix, at Gympie, which
more than balanced the falling-off at Char-
ters Towers.
Silver-lead mining at Indooroopilly, near
Brisbane, has been rather quiet lately, Fin-
ney’s Hill being the only show to continue
operations. Situated so closely to a centre
of population, it was only to be expected
that an enormous amount of spasmodic pros-
pecting would follow, and altogether about
80 leases have been taken out; but most of
them were “wild cats” and have been dropped
or exemptions secured. There have been no
startling developments outside of the ori-
ginal lease, although the Brisbane Silver
Mines Syndicate located payable ore. They
have not had a smooth run: after sending
away 51 tons carrying 50 p.c. lead and 68osc.
silver, the show was closed down, and
has only just been reopened by a new co.
forming to carry on. Finney’s Hill United
continues to send rich ore south for treat-
ment. Four lots, aggregating 145 tons, have
gone forward this year. The first 88 tons
gave 75780 z. silver and 45 tons lead, valued
at £llBl, average £l3 10s. per ton. The
statements for the balance are not yet to
hand. In future the ore is to be handled
locally, and the scheme for a crushing and
concentrating plant to handle 400 tons a
week, which has been in the air for the past
year, will be carried out inside of three
months. Oil-flotation will be adopted, and
will enable the accumulation of seconds and
discards to be run through. To pay for
the plant a new issue of 10,000 £1 shares is
being made.
* * * *
Redbank Colliery, Ipswich (Q.), has its
coal-washing plant running at last. The
essential parts of the plant are a Marcus
screen, single-roll crusher and an improved
Elmore coal-washer. The coal now being
turned out after washing is running from
7 p.c. to 8 p.c. ash, which is a big reduction
on that of the former output, and makes-
the fuel quite respectable. The question of
costs has not been finalised; these will be
worked out on a longer period. The Black-
heath, one of the important collieries in the
same district, has installed an experimental
washing and sizing plant, so the way seems
open for a general purification of Ipswich
fuel.
There have not been many ‘ gleams
for shareholders of Clark’s, Charters Tow-
ers (Q.), in development work during the
past six months. Divs. ceased in September,
1921. No fresh shoots of any note have
been disclosed in the main reef or on the
Hidden Treasure and Moonstone block.
Last month’s crushing of 250 tons yielded
bullion worth £1575, an average of a shade
over £6 a ton, to which must be added some-
thing for sands. Crushing's latterly have
averaged £7 a ton. but in its palmy days
the best went to £2l. Recent values do
not give the co. much cash to play with,
as they come from a small reef carrying
only 6in. to 12in. of ore at a depth of 800 ft.
to 1000 ft.; besides, the cost of searching
for further shoots has been a heavy drain.
* * * •
There is not much to come and go on at
the moment in North Mount Farrell (Tas.).
Ore reserves are estimated by Owen Wil-
liams at 27,000 tons. Of these 5000 tons
are proved at No. 5 level, and 3500 at No.
6. He also has 18,500 tons partially proved
or “probable” at the same level. He
says that his figures are conservative. It
cannot be forgotten, though, that he had
8000 tons of “probable” ore at No. 4, and now
admits that it is advisable to leave the
block out of his calculations for the time
being. So he really has 8500 tons in sight
and 9000 partially developed, with a pro-
blematical balance. In the mine nothing
fresh shows at Nos. 3, 4 and 5 levels. No.
6 has been opening up fairly well to the
north: 9ft. of good milling ore has been
proved for 205 ft. north of the crosscut. This
formation is akin to that worked at No. 5.
South of the crosscut, at 55ft., the shoot is
pitching underfoot, and as the best-grade
material comes from that part of the for-
mation, it is a pity it did not extend farther.
However, there are 300 ft. of backs avail-
able. At June 30, the co. had £5OOO on
deposit, stores worth £4BOB, and there was
£6500 of a balance showing on ore in hand
or in course of settlement. So debts of
£3500 were comfortably covered. The shaft
is to go down another lift, and that will
take a bit of cash.
* • • *
Round Hill South (Tas.) has produced 46
tons concentrates, going 63dwt. gold, 460 z.
silver and 60 p.c. lead per ton. In addition
some high-grade firsts are being won, averag-
ing 170 oz. silver and 60 p.c. lead. This is
the first bulk-sampling since the mine re-
opened, and a regular output will now be
maintained. At the No. 1 shaft level the
rich seam of ore is still showing in the face,
the last assay going 6400 z. silver per ton.
There is also a vein of copper ore which
assays lOOoz. silver. The rest of the lode is
pooi’ at this point, but there is a large body
of rich ore going underfoot in the adit level
80ft. above. The drive which is going south-
east on the course of this lode is coming
under this point, and good developments are
expected. The drives and stopes above the
adit level are producing fair average ore, and
the gold contents of the concentrates are
better than they have previously been.
Hobart investors have backed the mine well,
and, provided tonnages are available, all that
is wanted now to make the show a success
is an increased output


" — Wa.ll a»V<z. *+ it I'll ffai mo, - Just ra.ro <rr>afc><z.»- V7ot “Ka C.O+
tao roocA-> it .
Hoy 11 IXovVt forgot nav( , only li£>ht trir» it •
" CripaS ,1 hop a. f v/o«.t
ruin it •"
" Vt-ro'.ro-irvw* - That's. about right . Wot fob rraucJn A bit mar a. p’raps. £»b<t IS kbit Woody Land's tha. SW.
ytfow a Wit O.V old wood ]iU that /nostinte Av>d tka+k r>o dut h.m abov/«. tbo. loud . SCA .? Tb* /la.«oio’ too blunt , go-t tW wa
Briog -tka.+ V» out J-a.f +W«. light ihtirr ft _ Yx.r rroust nlway.* J*t light iiot<rr /VuYt iV«.«t.S - "Var could «in gso a bit roor'n that - V
] o + -tbau ligbt
PRUNING THE OLD FRUIT TREE.


n
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Latnson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Dakmg House,
Svdney.
Older fleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z. —John Proctor. 200 High St., Christchurch
W A.-H. Little 6- Co., 851 Hay St., Perth
“The drink of good taste.”
Delightful with dinner!
Satisfying with supper!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
LIGHT
Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now-
taken over the management of the .Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. I.3\y is a -well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney,
Registered address, Cable, Radio or
Telegraph : “HOCAR,” Syilney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
“Bilbav”: Running through the list of
shareholders in a big N.S.W. pastoral com-
pany I humped the name, Daryl Bulletin
Blank ; the next on the list was James Archi-
bald Blank.
Lewis Cohen, Adelaide’s little Lord
Mayor, is .not the first of his faith to sit
in a city mayoral chair. In 1855-56-57 such
a position was held by John Lazar, a Syd-
ney theatrical identity, and father of Sam
Lazar, one-time lessee of the Theatre Royal
and Adelphi (or Queen’s) Theatre in Syd-
ney.
Sydney A. Josephson, just dead in Eng-
land, was one of the pair of brothers con-
cerned in the demise of one of Sydney’s most
popular theatres —the York-street Opera
House. They sold it to W. and A. Mc-
Arthur’s, whose warehouse still shows the
galleries of the old show-house, heaped up
with softgoods.
“Nick”: If, as stated by the doctor writing
in The Bulletin of 17/8/’22, Northcliffe
was a teetotaller while on his last world
tour, then he must have broken out on his
visit to Rockhampton (Q.). At a reception
there he thanked the chairman for the “most
excellent lager supplied to him at that func-
tion.” It was Australian lager, too.
“Coot”: Sam Leon, Melbourne’s Crown
Prosecutor, who was recently raised tem-
porarily to the Vic. Bench, will be re-
membered by old Bulletin readers as the
barrister whom the- late Tom Durkin used
to love to depict. Leon’s chief feature is
a huge “Wellington” nose, and it figured in
nearly all the cartoonist’s Court pictures,
together with John Hops in absurdly tall
helmets.
TOM CARLYON, the Melbourne hotel-
owner and jazz-promoter.
“Smike”: Jack McLaren, journalist and
storyteller, wasn’t long in finding a market
for his copy in London. As soon as the
Newnes firm heard of him, it ordered a series
of 4000-word articles, at the rate of four
guineas a thousand, anent the New Guinea
and South Sea subjects on which he is an
authority. At the same time, he was cap-
tured by the Daily Despatch for short
500-word articles at an equally good figure,
and if the tropically-nurtured Australian can
get through the London winter, he is certain
to keep the pot boiling while his serials are
looking for a home. He took the MSS. of
nalt-a-dozen yarns away with him, and
started them on a tour of the publishers as
soon as he landed.
1^ x "k- H. C.”: Australia had a pretty close
with Adam in Charles Lloyd, who died
at Wangaratta (Vic.) a few years back. He
was the eldest son of William Lloyd, of Par-
leus Manor, Klilgraim, Ireland, and was the
holder of a,n English estate as descendant of
the line of Lloyd, of Leighton, Nauteribba,
etc., County Montgomeryshire, Stockton and
Salop (a family of 20 centuries), and was
68th in descent, in an unbroken male line,
from Belinus the Great, King of Britain, as
shown in the archives of the Royal College
of Arms. The paternal arms and crest of
the family contained the record number of
360 quarterings. Lloyd was one of the first
landowners on Oxley Plains, and for years
was engineer for the Shire of Oxley.
Ken Grant, who was laid to rest in Too-
wong (Q.) Cemetery the other day, served as
Home Secretary and Minister for Public
Instruction under Ividston. He was not a
commanding figure, but his urbanity and tact
rendered him very
valuable to the
Ministry. On one
occasion his per-
so n a 1 nopularity
saved Kidston from
a smashing defeat at
Rockhampton, and
left that dour poli-
tician as junior
member, to his in-
tense disgust. Like
Philp, with whom
he was very
friendly, he is more
of a loss than
m any an abler
man.
WALTER LEE,
who
resigned from the
Premiership of
Tasmania, and is
now Treasurer.
Some September birthdays:—
G. D. Delprat, 66, and Kenneth Austin (Sydney),
40, on Ist; ex-Prof. Francis Anderson (Sydney Uni.),
64, on 3rd; Brig.-Gen. C. H. Brand, 0.8., C.M.G.
(N.S.W.), 49, on 4th; Chas. Nuttall, black-and-
white artist, 50, on 6th; J. G, Jenkins (ex-Premier
of S. Aus.), 71, on Bth; A. B. Piddington, 60, on
9 th; naturalist Gregory Mathews (b. Biambil,
N.S.W.), 46, on 10th ; H. W. Potts (formerly Prin-
cipal of Hawkesbury College), 67, on 12th; General
Birdwood, 57, on 13th; Justice Northmore (W.A.),
57, on 14th ; L. H. Sholl (ex-Under Sec. S. Aus.),
78, on 15th; G. A. Gibbs (sec. of Melb. and Metro-
politan Board of Works), 60, on 17th; Justice
McArthur (Vic.), 61, on 18th; Major-Gen. Tivey,
56, on 19tli; medical knight Major-Gen. C. S. Kyan
(Plevna and the Great War), 69, and H. E. Kater,
M.L.C. (Syd.), 81, on 20th; Captain Charley, of Bel-
mont Park, 59, on 21st; Major-Gen. Brudenell
White (b. at St. Arnaud, Vic.), 46, “Ben” Rousevell
(S. Aus.), 80 or thereabouts, and Will Dyson, black-
and-white artist, 42, on 23rd ; Knight Sam Hordern,
46, and violinist Ernest Toy (b. at Bendigo), 42, on
24th; “Billy” Hughes, 58, on 25th; Chief Justice
Murray (S. Aus.), 59, and Josiah Svmon, K.C. (S.
Aus.), 76, on 27th; Colonel J. H. Bisdee (Speck’s
V.C.), 63, on 28th; Dr. J. S. C. Elki[ngton (Q.),
51, artist Rupert Bunny, 58, and Donald Mackinnon
(Vic.), Rupert’s brother-in-law, 63, on 29th; Brig.-
Gen. William Grant, C.M.G., of Bowenville (Q.j,
52, on 30th.
“Gnarek”: “Invalid’s” quotation from the
London Literary Guide (B. 17/8/’22) to
the effect that Charles Bradlaugh died
unaware of even the existence of Bottomley’s
mother is doubtless true. And I don’t need
“T.R.H.’s” assurance, either, that Horatio
traded on, if he didn’t actually set going, the
fable about his paternity. An oft-repeated
phrase of his in pre-war days was “Bradlaugh
—my spiritual father, and more,” which
naturally gave color to the story. But it is
worth adding that, a few months prior to his
prosecution, he instructed his confidant and
secretary, H. J. Houston, to discover evi-
dence of his (Bottomley’s) parentage, and it
was during his liberation on bail that he
visited the graves of his real father and
mother —reputedly for the first time in his
life.
William Harper, who has just gone west,
was not nearly so well known as his late
eldest brother Robert (a prominent figure of
Vic. and Federal politics in other days). He
was chairman of Robert Harper and Co.,
Ltd., starch and coffee manufacturers. In
one of his bad moods in the Vic. Assembly
40-odd years ago David Gaunson dubbed
Robert Harper “Chicory Bob,” and the sobri-
quet stuck. William was 76. He left one
son, the other having fallen in the Big
Scrap.
“.Sir Spen”: Out of fairness to “Billy”
Ross, “T. 0.1.” (B. 17/8/’22) should quote
his authority for saying that there were no
births on board the ship Red Rover during
its 1836 trip, and for suggesting that B.R.
is the son of one of the ‘‘c-ouple of hundred
of free women-immigrants” who came to
Sydney in a ship of the same name in 1832.
There is no question that Ross’s father was
chief officer on board the Red Rover, and
“Billy” claims June 2, 1816, as his birthday.
Anyhow, his wife, aged 17 wffien they were
married at the Church of England, Mait-
land, was pretty well 60 when she died 45
years ago. To set a sum in simple propor-
tion, if “Billy” is now only 90, how old was
he when he was married? *
“Pish Tosh”: Melbourne Herald over-
whelmed its contemporaries with the wealth
of its information on the late Michael Col-
lins. He was represented as a master of dis-
guise who hid behind such a range of “ziffs”
and false stummieks that when he appeared
as himself he was safe from detection. Thus
was he of great service to the Republican
Army in the row with Britain. It was his
habit to drive loads of Black and Tans to
places where he was supposed to be in hid-
ing, and once he was mounted on the engine
of a train carrying a crowd on the same
quest. One night, how r ever, he had a close
shave. (This is a joke, as you will perceive
in a minute.) He w r as sitting in a Dublin
theatre when the cry went up that the sol-
diers were about to raid the premises for
suspects. But Collins was not perturbed.
He whipped out his safety-razor, soap and
patent water-boiler, which he always kept for
such occasions, and took off his moustache in
a trice. What happened afterwards is not
recorded; but the Herald is being published
as usual.
“T. 0.1,”: A propos Macquarie’s Poet
Laureate, Michal Robinson (B. 24/8/’22).
He was a London attorney, who was trans-
ported for sending a threatening letter to
Oldham, K.C. He came in the ship Barwell,
and “from the superiority of his manners and
behavior, ingratiated himself so happily with
the captain and officers as to be allowed a
situation entirely remote and detached from
the convicts, where, in a mess composed of
some passengers, the boatswain, gunner and
steward, he was indulged every dav with a
bottle of wdne and a cover from the
captain’s table.” Judge Advocate Dore,
a passenger by the same ship, imme-
diately on assuming office, gave Robin-
son a job as his secretary and chief
clerk, and, in addition, Governor Hunter
gave him his pardon within 14 days of land-
ing. When this news reached England Old-
ham worked himself into a frenzy, complain-
ing that Robinson would probably return to
London to renew his attack. But the par-
don was local only.
John Lemmon, the new chairman of the
Committee of Public Accounts of Vic.
Assembly, is one of the brainy men of the
State Labor party, moderate and practical.
He is sec. of the Parliamentary party, and
was Minister for Education and Labor in
Elmslie’s 13-days’ Government. Lemmon
has been chief president of the Vic. A.N.A.,
and is now acting-treasurer. One of his
objectives in life is a sound system of
apprenticeship, and he is a factor in the
conference dealing with that subject. Before
taking to politics he was a tailor’s cutter.
“D.P.J.” : The first Judge of the Supreme
Court after the Charter of 1814 was Jeffery
Hart Bent, a brother of Judge-Advocate Ellis
Bent. Prior to 1814 three English attorneys,
who had been transported for serious offences,
had been allowed to practice, and on the
establishment of the Supreme Court, they
petitioned to be allowed to continue. The
motion was dismissed by Judge Bent, but
allowed by the two magistrates acting with
him. On appeal, Macquarie granted the
petition, whereupon Bent took every oppor-
tunity to thwart or offend the Governor. One
Sunday morning he refused to rise with the
rest of the congregation on his Ex.’s entrance
into the church. Although he held office for
three years, Bent never heard a cause, or
delivered a judgment.
“Randolph Rentless”: Yet another Cri-
mean veteran died the other day at New-
town (N.S.W.)—-William Pyatt Goldsmith,
who had scored 83 years before he heard
the call. Four weeks ago one man who had
just passed over was said to have been the
last of the Veterans’ Association in N.S.W.
who had Crimean service, and this suggested
that he was the last of the heroes of the
old war. But, apparently, there are ancient
warriors who know not the Veteran Asso-
ciation. Three others with service 'in the
Crimea have since died in N.S.W.; and yet
another has been reported as living, and
good for some time yet.
S. Aus. Commissioner of Insolvency,
Samuel James Mitchell, is a dapper little
chap with remarkable energy, notwith-
standing his 70 years. He is a native of
Mount Barker (S.A.), was an auctioneer
before he took to law, and practised in Adel-
aide for 20 years, some of the time in part-
nership with Paris Nesbit, K.C., and Rupert
Ingleby. He was a member for the N. Terri-
tory when he became Attoi'ney-Genei’al in
the Peake Cabinet, and in 1909 he got the
i° b °? Government Resident and Judge at
i)ar\\ in, officially transferring the Territory
liom S. Aus. to the Federal Government two
years later, lhe Federal people made him
the nrst Judge of the Supreme Court up
theie, but Mitchell, thinking he should have
the appointment for life, instead of on a
term, packed his bag and left.
Rev. CHARLES PRESCOTT, M.A., head-
master, Newington College, Sydney.
Gnarek” : “Pussyfoot” Johnston sustained
his bit of martyrdom when he left an eye in
London, as long ago as 1918. Truth to tell,
England did not take too kindly to “Pussy-
foot/’ not so much because of his mission, but
as a protest against the Amurkan publicity
methods that were employed in the cam-
paign. Manchester furnished an audience
of a few women only, Glasgow was even less
interested, and in London his meetings were
mostly opportunities for riotous “ragging.”
it was following on the last of these affairs
that the stone was hurled, while the reformer,
seized from his platform, was being paraded
by his captors through the West End. By
way of making what reparation they could,
the regretful medical students persuaded the
newspapers to open a testimonial for their
victim. “Pussyfoot” added more to his
popularity by giving the subscribed amount to
St. Dunstan’s than by all his futile efforts to
make John Bull dry.
“D.P.J.”: One of the notable early Judges
of N.S.W. was Barron Field, who arrived
in Sydney in 1817. He was not enamored
of his judicial job, but deluded himself into
the belief that he was a politician, author
and poet. He published “Geographical
Memoirs of N. S. Wales,” several books of
travel and a volume of poems, turned out
and circulated at his own expense. Field
was at one time a member of Charles Lamb’s
famous coterie of friends, which included.
Wordsworth, Coleridge and Hazlitt, and he
it was to whom Lamb wrote the letter which
lie afterwards included in his “Essays of
Elia” under the title of “Distant Correspon-
dents.” Field was afterwards knighted and
appointed Resident Judge at Malta. Dis-
raeli met him in his travels, and pronounced
him the biggest bore he had ever encountered.
“T. 0.1.”: Melba’s sire, David Mitchell,
was born at Forfar, Scotland, on February
16, 1829. He was the son of a yeoman
farmer, and at 16 years went into the build-
ing trade at Kirrimure, but later sailed from
Dundee for Victoria in the ship Anna. After
“the goldfields” he commenced business in
Melbourne, and subsequently bought the
Victoria Steam Brickworks. He built many
prominent structures in Melbourne, notably
Menzies’ Hotel, Stevenson’s warehouse,
Paterson, Laing and Bruce’s warehouse, the
Scots’ Church, the National Bank, and the
permanent portion of the Melb. International
Exhibition. He owned sei'eral stations, and
was much interested in pastoral pursuits and
breeding thoroughbred cattle. In 1878 he
bought Cave Hill, near Lilydale, on it being
an almost inexhaustible supply of pure lime.
Mitchell married on June 11, 1857, Isabel
A. Dow, daughter of J. F. Dow, and had a
family of five daughters and three sons
living in 1882.
“Tiberias”: Earle Page, M.H.R., arch-
apostle of the New States movement, en-
listed in ’l6, was for a time senior medical
officer on the transport Ballarat, then sur-
geon to No % 3 A.G.H., Abassia, and later
surgeon to No. 4 Australian Army Hospital,
Southall, England. At the Armistice he
was operating surgeon a.nd surgical special-
ist to No. 3 Australian C.C.S., France.
“Wilfrido”: According to Clntha Mac-
kenzie (M.L.’s blind M.P.), nine blinded
M.L. soldiers are poultry-farming, five
are masseurs, two do shorthand and
typing, while one in Southland, besides
working in an office eight hours a day, has
two acres of land where he keeps fowls and
grows vegetables. On Sundays this parti-
cular optimist gives addresses in church.
THE LADY WITH THE LAUGH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sing- a song of simples, of chiffon frocks and sighs,
Of pearly teeth and dimples, and baby-gazing eyes!
The maiden with the ringlets may cut your heart
in half —
But, Lord! she’s not a patch upon the Lady with
the Laugh!
Sing a song- of sadness, of lashes wet with tears,
That tell of mankind’s badness towards the pretty
dears!
Such tricks may to the altar allure the (Jolden Calf—
But nothing like so surely as the Lady with the
Laugh !
Sing- a song of Sometime, and tresses turning grey,
The ever-nearing glum-time when Age will have his
say !
The charms of eyes and ankles haye gone like
autumn chaff,
But, thank the gods, she’s with us still —-the Lady
with the Laugh!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


STONEWALL SHOES
Hie Stonewall
Storm Proof
Boot
A Shooting Boot of Chrome Tan Leather.
Will tame the roughest road on the wettest night
and then come safely home. Nought needst
worry the man who sallies forth by day or night
with feet encased in these Splendid Stonewall
Stormproofs.
No. 226.—Shooters, of Tan Chrome Leather,
fully watertight, 15in. leg, full bellows tongue,
three-decker welted Full “STONEHIDE” Soles.
Wax-stitched seams, top buckles and straps,
greenhide laces, roomy-fitting last. Every inch
selected soft, pliable, tough and stormproof.
Positively the best of wearing boots, yet pliable
and easy on the feet. Bellows tongue same
quality as leg. Full vamp continued under toecap.
Reinforced back or counter. A prime quality aIL
leather boot.
The “STONEHIDE” Sole with which they are
clumped is of picked heavy leather tanned
through and through with a resistance, the
quality of which is not excelled by any known
process.
Sizes
5 to 10.
Price
fd
POSTAGE:—N.S.W., 1/9; Interstate, 3/2.
No. 110.—Black Calf “Stonehide” Welt,
medium or broad, 32/6.
Postage:—N.S.W., 1/3, Interstate, 1/8.
m
i
226
No. 8661.—Finest Black Calf, 42/-;
Tan, 3/- extra.
Postage:—N.S.W., 1/3, Interstate, 1/8.
no
52%
State size, and wire or write for
a pair by V.P. post to
JACKSON’S, LTD., SYDNEY.
ASK FOR CATALOGUE.
c l&cfc&ott&i
42'
MAI L ORDER & MEINS DEPTS
415-5 PITT ST. ; 99 LIVERPOOL ST
lopp peoples Palace) (opp central court)
IQB-200 GEORGE ST.
(NEAR NOCK <5. KIR BVS )
WOMENS & CHILDREN'S DEPT
380-332 PITT ST.
Cop.f*. ANTHONY HORDERNS')
8661


Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Batlis-de-Uuxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Ushers
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Ms
Joy that linger.s .
i_JL
&
o
c^e A RISTOGI7AT o/ Perfumes
For something delightfully different in Perfumes, Face Powders,
Creams, etc., be sure to try the exquisite Lepit Toilet Productions
—“ltaly’s Best”-’—in the following dainty fragi'anees:—
Rose cl’ Italia
(Roses of Italy).
Chevalier du Roi
(Knight of the King).
Fior di Notte
(Night’s Flowers).
Ambra lonic
(Ambrosia from
lonian Isles).
The fragrances are the true extracts of
the flowers.
At all Good ChemitU
and Perfumery Stores.
For Sale.
Steam Bucket Dredge.
Spotted-gum pontoons, 130 x 32 x
/, ladder 80ft., buckets 7 feet, loco-
type boiler, 5 3h.p., 1501 b. pressure;
20-h.p. engine.
PRICE, £5OOO,
f.o.b. Greymouth, N.Z.
RICHARD WILD,
Hokitika, N.Z.
Missing Friends.
Estate of william duncan
DONALD WILLIAMSON, Tasmania.
Whereabouts of JOHN WILLIAMSON and
CHARLES WILLIAMSON, sons of late
.Tames Williamson, Western Austialia.
Information required by Public Trustee,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Society
From an Adelaide man :
The result of the Bickford divorce case came
near to being a brilliant feather in the already
ornate cap of Villeneuve Smith, lv.C. Never before
had guilt been so completely taken for granted by
the public. The joining of four co-respondents was
a spacious gesture which took the popular imagination,
and the know-alls forecasted that the raising of a
defence was the merest formality. Yet, when
the case came to be unfolded, it appeared just as
that of a neglected young wife with a host of friends
who gave her a good time. Harold Bickford, well
known as a judge of racing events in Adelaide, had
married at 40 a girl of 20 working in a Melbourne
office. He preferred the fireside while she preferred
dances. He amiably encouraged her to go to them,
but presently complained that the late hours were
being overdone. One night she came home to find
the door locked ; he says he would have opened it
at once, but she went to live at a hotel, and rela-
tions were strained. It was summer-time, and at
Glenclg. There were dinners and motor-drives. And
then came the filing of the petition. Villeneuve
Smith, for the lady, had a case which depended on
the success of all four co.-res. She gave her evidence
unfalteringly; to her mind they had been merely
“nice boys,” or, alternatively, “dear old men.” One
was dismissed from the suit almost at once; the others
were required to fight the matter to its costly end. All
kinds of forgotten drives and drinks had to be recalled
and accounted for. And, in the end, the jury dis-
agreed about two, but found by nine to three against
General Anti'll on evidence —or, rather, lack of it—
which leads one to the conclusion that the French
“flagrant delit” rule is the only safe one for all-
round use. The trouble with a jury, when a well-
known figure is involved, is that most of the good
men and true do not consider the evidence at all:
they base their conclusions- on what someone said
someone else said to the detriment of the accused
in the dim past. One of Thackeray's characters
advised his nephew to get on to the clubs he wished
to join at once, since, if he waited till he was older,
he would have made enough enemies to be black-
balled. It is the same in the co-re. industry. The
better known the alleged Lothario is the less hope
he has of escaping, eVen though innocent —a sound
reason for a change which has been advocated by
such a sound authority as the late Lord Corell; that
of handing all divorce matters over to Judges sitting
without juries.
* * #
“Lip” : It happened o.n the punt that con-
nected the Egyptian and
Arabian sides of the Suez
Canal at Ferry Post,
shortly before the mob
moved to France. Big Jack,
a Newcastle miner before
he got into khaki, was the
puntman. He had dele-
gated the grafting part
of the business to several
undersized Gyppos, and was
dividing his time between
exhortations to them to
“Bend to it, you lousy
blankards,” and a scrutiny
of a group of Tommy brass-
hats who were his passen-
gers. His study of one face
was so marked that the
owner asked him what was
wrong. Jack only grinned
sheepishly and fumbled with
a small camera slung round
his neck. “Is it my face?”
the officer went on. Jack
looked up. “Ter tell yer the
truth, it is,” he said; “I
was wishin’ me camera
could take pictures in colors,
so’s I could send one o’ you
home to ’em ter show what
the sun over ’ere can do to
a man.” The officer laughed.
“You could tell them, too,
that my face hurts,” he
said. It looked as if it did.
His complexion was that of
a fully-ripe tomato. The
punt pulled in to the shore
and the brass-hats filed off.
“Who’s the little, pink-
faced bloke?” said Jack to a
n.c.o. at the rear of the party. The n.c.o
told him. It was Captain Teddy Windsor,
Prince of Wales.
* * •
“Ex-Jackeroo”: What’s this guff from
“W.P.D.” (B. 27/7/’22) about N.Q. Italians
being “good citizens”? If good citizenship
implies anything it surely implies a willing-
ness to defend the country of which one is
a citizen. How many of “W.P.D.’s” heroes
with the blood of Caesar, Mazzini and Dante
in their veins enlisted in the A.1.F.? Not
their “pidgin,” he will perhaps say. Well,
in 1918, when Italian recruiting officers
arrived at Innisfail, the Italians there and
at Mourilyan took to the scrub and the
Basilisk Ranges at the back, with truly re-
markable unanimity, and were only captured
as hunger drove them in. If this is the
citizenship of the highest type of European,
give me the patriotism of an abo. boy from
my district, who was amongst the first to
join up.
HE HAD A HOPE.
“Do you think I’m too old for a young girl like you?”
“Oh, I don’t know. I was awfully fond of my grandfather when I was a lot younger
than I am note.”
“Min Yip” on the methods of the doctor-
ing union :
“Rollett,” in his paragraph re Herbert Barker (B.
17/8/’22) writes as if the B.M.A. and the British
Medical Council were the same body. Of course
they are not. It was the Council that struck Dr.
Axham’s name off the register of practitioners for
“infamous conduct”; the Association is only con-
cerned with the trades-union part of the profession.
The majority of Australian country practitioners are
guilty of infamous conduct, according to the British
standards, especially for advertising in local sausage-
wraps. Giving anaesthetics for unregistered dentists,
bone-setters, etc., in Britain, carries the penalty of
being struck off the register; so do repeated convic-
tions for drunkenness or disorderly conduct, also get-
ting mixed up in divorce cases (if the lady has been
a patient), in addition to the ordinary criminal
offences that apply to Australian practitioners. Of
course, the fact of not being a member
of the B.M.A. in Australian country dis-
tricts carries few, if any, disadvantages. But
there is real punishment in getting “black-
listed,” which means that no member of the B.M.A.
(or reputable doctor outside of it, for that matter)
will consult, or associate with you .professionally. I
might add that getting struck off the register puts
a medical man in the position of the ordinary quack,
and liable to the same penalties if he attempts to
carry on his profession.
“ Juvinemme” tells of woman’s perfidy:—
There was a long stretch of bush between our
place and the next station, and a rather handsome,
smooth-cheeked down-and-out erected a hut in
it. Some months later oiie of the girls of
the neighborhood got into trouble, and, being
hard-pressed to betray her betrayer, broke
down and indicated the mysterious un-
known. She explained that by his devil-
ish wiles she had been lured away from
the perfectly honorable attentions of
young Friskins, who had hitherto been
the chief suspect. The alleged Lothario
was promptly brought in by a posse of
vengeful neighbors, confronted with the
girl, and asked whether he could supply
any valid reason why he shouldn’t have
his hide scotched off. His protestations
of innocence availed naught. He was
flogged round the cattle-yard, shot in the
pig-trough, rolled in the Scotch thistle,
chased home and cussed at through a
hastily-slammed door for upwards of an
hour. A day or two later one of the
crowd went to see if he was still living,
and found him in bed helpless. He was
groaning, but refused to let the repent-
ant avenger undress him and make him
more comfortable. The Samaritan, now
badly scared, pelted off for a doctor with
whom, and a sheepish mob of avengers,
he finally returned. The medico looked
grave, ordered everyone out, and sent off
for a nurse. The next addition to the population of
the hut was a female baby. At this stage the father
of the other girl tendered a whole-hearted apology
to the mother of the new one.
* * * *
“A. 8.”: They strike some casual defen-
dants in Victorian baekblocks. Brown was
being prosecuted for failing to have his
latest offspring vaccinated. The Court was
sympathetic. After the charge had been
proved His Worship turned to the defendant.
“Have you got anything to say?” “No,”
muttered the disbeliever in Jenner. “Well,
you know the law. We’ll have to fine you.”
“I s’pose so.” “Anyhow, why didn’t you
have the child vaccinated?” “Well, yer see,
the kid was a bit crook, so” The Bench,
scenting a means of escape, sat up and con-
suited. Then it turned again to Brown.
“Well, if you can get a doctor’s certificate
that the child was ill we may be able to fix
the matter up.” “Ilow much were yer goin’
to fine me?” queried Brown. “Ten shil-
lings.” A grin broke through the bored
gloom on the defendant’s face. “Better go
on with the line,” he counselled; “it’ll cost
me fifteen bob the other way.”
“Prof.” : The results of prohibition are as
curious as they are unexpected. When
Maoriland took over the administration of
Samoa, Massey decided to “pussyfoot” the
islands. The result is it is now unsafe for
any white woman to leave her home alone
after dark, the place being infested with
drink-crazed niggers. All over the world the
man who wants liquor will get it, and when
imported supplies are cut off a new local in-
dustry comes into being. In Samoa it has
taken the form of manufacturing booze from
pineapples and bananas. The natives began
by being mildly interested onlookers, but
have now become adepts at the game, and
the rapidity with which the knowledge
passes from one to the other is amazing.
It would be a stiff problem, at this moment,
to wean the coons from these home-made
stimulants, and the task is continually grow-
ing more difficult.
THE NAKED TRUTH.
“You took a devil of a time buttoning mg
dress. Couldn't you find the button-
hole?”
“The button-hole be blowed! I couldn’t find
the dress.”
(Continued on page 18.)
OFFENSIVENESS UNBOUNDED: A SYDNEY
FRAGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Romeo Blankke, who gave his occupation as a pro-
fessional singer and music composer, charging Spike
Blankard, 24, with offensive behavior, told the
Central Police Court magistrate that defendant called
out to him ‘Hullo, love! ’ about three times, and then
came back and made a similar remark. He wanted
an example made of the -defendant, as every time he
walked along the street a certain section of the com-
munity would make remarks such as ‘There’s the
one,’ ‘Pretty Joey,’ and ‘Caruso.’ ”■— Sun.
First Voice ( from a bar) :
Lo ! He walks in loveliness !
While below, around, above,
Floats the popular address :
“It is Joey! Hullo, love!”
Second Voice (/row a tram) :
Mineingly he trips along,
(fheeks and teeth and eyes aglow.
Like the burden of a song,
Gomes the chorus: “Pretty Joe!”
Victim :
How doubly damnable it is that I
Proud, with the pride that erst was Lucifer,
Coldly aloof as Kinchinjunga’s snows,
Who shrink from contact with the common herd,
And yearn to shadow forth an artist’s soul
By means of colored socks and unreaped hair—
How damnable, I say, that, in the street,
I should be courted by vulgarians
To whom I have not e’en been introduced!
Several Voices:
He’s the one!
Police:
Move on, now, boys, or there will trouble be:
This kind of thing is no dam’ good to me.
Third Voice ( location 'uncertain) :
Egbert, is it really you ?
Stop a moment, dearie, do!
Do not blush and shiver so!
Pretty Joey ! Pretty Joe !
Police :
Give over, there, I say. Or, soon or late,
A Pleece-court summons will be someone’s fate.
A CHANCE FOR HIS.
SHE: “I suppose you’re delighted that Browndyke has
sold his picture.”
HE: “Why? It’s rotten!"
SHE: “ That’s just it. It proves that people will still
buy rotten pictures.”
Fourth Voice ( unwarily ) :
How he glitters in the sun 1
He is certainly the one!
Victim :
Now, Constable, I call on you to act!
There the offender stands, a mocking smile
Upon a face he scarce essays to hide.
I give him, as the saying goes, in charge,
And urge upon you that you guard him well.
Away with him, till at the court we meet —
His crime, “Offensive conduct in the street.”
(Lapse of days.)
Bench:
You heard, accused, what the policeman said:
It proves you guilty, to the very hilt,
Let this a lesson be to you, for life,
And to those folks whose ways resemble yours.
Be still! Ido not wish to hear you speak.
Pay twenty shillings fine, or do a week.
(Withdrawal of parties.)
Voices (from the street) :
See how gracefully he goes!
Prettiest of pretty Joes!
Locks of gold, like silk fresh spun,
He’s emphatic’li- the one.
N.S.W.
D. B. J.


g
DVve
SnvHiluto
■ ■■
Ml
J? ‘ «*£!
■’■
M
r..\
■
■ >
S'
; -
...
I
■' ?' v * ini:' /,'Kll.
• ■
■ ■
/r < - . « r v '*,
l
| > '
«w?
; : ■ -
-
£* 'V


Butterfly Hatpins and Brooches,
ranging in price,] 6/6, 21/-
22/6. 25/-
Butterfly Ear Rings, ranging in price,
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 37/6, 40/-
Butterfly Rings,
prices, 16/6,
17/6, 21/-,
25/-, 30/-,
35/-
The New Butterfly Jewellery
VERY FASHIONABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
COMPRISING BROOCHES. RINGS, PENDANTS,
WRISTBANDS, EAR-RINGS, HATPINS, etc.
Made from African Butterflies caught in the wilds of
South Africa. The gaily-colored wings are mounted
under magnifying crystal glass, set in Sterling Silver.
A Very Handsome Selection now on view at our
Two Sydney Establishments. Call and Inspect.
Stewart Dawsok &(o («.«.) Ltd.
Sydney Sstablisment^s :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 4-12 GEORGE ST..
Butterfly Hat
Pin s, 16/6,
21/-, etc.
fdg
Butterfly Wrist-
bands, Black Moire
Silk Bands, choice
designs, from 30/-
Butterfly Pendant.
Price, 45/-
« Camp Horse : Among the speakers at a
send-oft in our village (S.-W. Q.), the
other night, the hit of the evening was made
by a bloke who wound up with, “And,
gentlemen, I can say without fear of con-
tradiction that our guest is one of the
gamest bettors that ever handled a kip.”
Nothing m that? No; only the guest of the
evening was one of our only two .T’s.P. and
the orator is our only John Hop.
* * * .
. Honidig”; Although a Pommy in the
A.I.F. (like Rio,” B. 10/8/’22), I found
ii e discipline of the Diggers
all there when needed. One evening, at
the Imperial Base Camps at Harfleur, the
adjacent lommies fired canteens and the
officers mess, and generally ran amok, on
the ground that they had in some way been
vvronged. I am neither condemning nor
siding with them. All I know is that two
companies of Diggers, issued with 10 rounds
apiece, stood to arms till well into the
night, and effectively quelled the disturbance
under officers not one of whom was known
to them During the next few days all
arms and ammunition from these camps were
sent ood stored in our magazine under our
guards, and this by the orders of a senior
officer who had never handed us many
bouquets. J
* * * *
Eddyson”: The strangest courtship of
my experience happened at Gordon, near Bal-
larat, Vic., some years ago. Our favorite
winter pastime at the time was the raffle—
a sly way of pretending to lie hospitable
and making the guests pay for their own
entertainment. You raffled anything for
which you had no more use for a' great deal
moie than it was worth, and to encourage
investment gave a spread and a dance on
the night of the drawing. It was at Butter-
nut s, and proceedings had opened with a
THE WINNER.
"I hear you’ve got the last of your daughters off.
Who's the happy man?”
“I am.”
polka in a promising way, when Sterner
arrived and took hold. Sterner had not
piayed the game; he came already drunk
and, bemg a big, furious man, none was will-
ing to oppose him. Sterner claimed all the
ladies present, and defied any other man to
dance with them. He half-lulled Coursey for
daring to waitz with his own wife after the
ukase had been delivered. He broke Butter-
nut s clock throwing it at the fiddler. He
swept all the food off the table, shouting
that the only essential food was beer
I hen he threw Butternut out of his own
to U hnvA klSSed +i MrS ' But . ternut > and claimed
to have won the gun without the usual for-
UNSPOKEN INSULTS.
HE: “You know, I can read your innermost thoughts.”
SHE: “No wonder you’ve been bad-tempered all the evening
nullity of throwing dice for it. Sterner then
demanded a polka air, and essayed to dance
with all the women, one after the other. It
was at this stage that Mrs. Berry revolted.
She went into Butternut’s shed, selected a
hickory axe-handle and returned to Sterner.
“My poor man,” she said, “what you want
is a good wife,” saying which she fetched
him a skelp with the handle that
spread him on the floor, all out. When I
next visited Gordon, a fortnight later, Sterner
and the widow Berry were married. The
case is interesting as showing a reversal
of an ancient Australian tribal custom under
the influence of the newer woman.
* * * *
“Mitre Court’s” yarn :
Lord Northcliffe once started a system of financial
rewards for any genius fn the firm’s employ who
might evolve a new idea for boosting one of his
papers. The lad who suggested print-
ing the display bill of the Evening
News on a Union Jack background,
upon some patriotic occasion, did well
for himself, and the alert fellow who
first went for Lever’s Soap in the
Daily Mirror was thought highly
of —till the Monkey-brand people took
£50,000 worth of libel damages out
of Associated Newspapers. So, when
one Sunday afternoon a road-hogging
motorist dashed through the little
village of Markyate, slew an infant,
and didn’t pause to have his number
recorded, one of the talent in the big
Whitefriars-street building suggested
that a reward of £5OO should be
offered in the News for information
that would lead to the discovery of
the miscreant. With great enthusiasm
and startling headlines the ha’penny
howler spread itself over the idea—
and two days later the chauffeur of
one of the boss’s brothers came for-
ward and confessed that he had done
the deed at the wheel of his master’s
car. A few months afterwards, the
body of an obviously murdered girl
was found on the Brighton railway,
and the newsboys were yelling the
fresh mystery in their best style,
when another young gentleman inti-
mated to the lifeguards outside the
Holy of Holies that he had a notion
he would like to submit, if they
would admit him to the Presence.
On being requested by Northcliffe to
state his business he proposed that a
reward should be offered by the Weekly Despatch
for the apprehension of the murderer. The journalistic
Napoleon glared at him in silence for a moment or
two, then, taking up the telephone, rang bis
brother. “I say,” he said, “where were you last
night ?”
“S.E.N.” on road-rules and kerb-customs:
This “keep-to-the-left” stunt for the pavement
may be all sorts of a nuisance, but. at least it’s
consistent with the recognised rule of the road.
In England you walk to the right on the
pavement and drive to the left on the road, therefore
stepping off the former at the risk of being run down
by a vehicle coming up behind you. The Yanks drive
to the right, as most people know, and it is the general
rule on the continent of Europe. But even there
one sometimes encounters variations. For pure
unadulterated excitement let me recommend a car
ride in Italy. They’ve got both rules there, work-
ing at once. In the town you drive to the left; in
the country you cross over and keep to the right, a
practice fruitful of complications when you don’t
know—and few do—where the town ends and the
country begins. If the League of Nations can’t do
anything to stop wars it might be worth its while
to try and stop collisions by ukasing one uniform
rule, by road and pavem.ent, for the whole civilised
world.
“Randolph Rent-
less” : The bloat
of Sydney is to be
celebrated in New-
town this year,
that suburb having
decided that its
diamond jubilee as
a municipality is
an occasion that
calls for flags,
band- and Bumble-
music. As re-
cently as SO years
ago B ii shl a n d
edged right upon
what are now busy
streets. To-day,
Newtown has one
street two miles
long, paved with
wood-blocks and
lined with shops;
it can s u p*p ort
eight picture-shows
and two theatres,
and has 30,000
people within the
municipal boun-
daries. But the
resident population
is doubtfully on
the increase; pri-
vate residences are
coming down,
workships and fac-
tones are going up, and people are being
pushed out, just as they were from the City
of Sydney. Newtown, anyway, isn’t a place
that is merely living upon handling other
people s goods.; it is now the busiest indus-
trial suburb of the Big City.
“Vulangi” on some of the characteristics
of our Indian brethren :—•
Piridi ’ (B. 22/6/’22) need not go to caste for
the origin of the cardiac callosity of the Hindu. It’s
in the breed. I remember a Suva suburb where a
jealous Bunsi Singh fell upon his doll missus with
a knife—no uncommon proceeding for a Suva hus-
band. Leaving her hideously mutilated, he went
out for a stroll till roped in by the police. One
Ramysawmy, a neighbor, appeared in court to bear
witness that he had heard the screams and had looked
into the hut after the departure of the hasty husband
(now listening to the evidence with profound indif-
ference from the dock), and that he had seen the
victim gasping out her life amid groans and blood.
And what did you do then?” asked the beak.
“H°w could I do anything, sahib?” asked Ramy, “1
was on my way to deliver milk in Suva. I am a
pool man, sahib, and must earn my living. I meant
to go back to the hut later, but forgot all about it.”
Anyone who has had much to do with Indians can
adduce such examples of barbarity by the bushel, all
proving that Khan Singh Maharaj is pos-
sessed of an incredible flintiness of heart, and has
not the bowels of a dingo. It is not all his fault.
He has been forced into it by ages of oppression
and the fierce struggle for existence in an overpopu-
lated country where none may trust his neighbor
and where the soil has been overworked since time
was invented.
* * . * *
"Dido”: He had rung the door-bell, and
when the St. Ivilda housewife answered she
found him toying with her beautiful first-
born, who lay kicking in a pram in the
porch. The finger he presented for chew-
ing purposes to the infant’s roseleaf gums
looked as if it had been recently investigating
a corporation tip, and the fond mother was
perhaps a little hasty in shifting her child’s
chariot indoors. Then said the battered
and tattered mendicant, as a preliminary to
an appeal for succor: “Ah, lady, take my
advice, don’t leave a beautiful fat baby like
that about when there are so many hungry
men prowlin’ round.”
* * * *
“Yardley”: The housing problem appears
to worry Australia little. British and Ameri-
can journals are full of advertisements by
firms that specialise in the portable house,
made of iron, wood, cement slabs or what-
not. Every advertiser blazons the boast
that his supplies can be erected by unskilled
labor. Here, in Australia, we have a keen
demand for standard types of dwellings, and
we ought to be alive to the savings resultant
from absence of architects’ fees, builders’
profits, travelling expenses of craftsmen, the
difference between the wages of skilled work-
men compared with those of casual workers,
and the difference between costs of production
by handwork upon the building site, and those
of production by the latest machinery driven
by many hundreds of horse-power. In other
countries a purchaser takes the loadings
from railway trucks, carts the material to
his land, and employs such labor as he can
hire to put the numbered pieces together in
accordance with printed directions and plans.
Moreover, and this is a very big moreover,
every blunder made by a novice is regis-
tered by suppliers of the material so that
other novices may be warned.
* * * *
“Wilfrido”: Not many men receive a war
pension after a lapse of 50 years. Joseph
THE OBSTACLE.
MABEL : "Maudie kept George waiting ten years before she married
him.”
HILDA: “What was the idea?”
MABEL : “Her husband was alive”
Wareham, a West Coast (M.L.) pioneer, -
served for about 35 months as a seaman in
the American Civil War. He joined in 1863,
at Boston, and took part in the blockade at
Pensacola, the capture of New Orleans and
other engagements, in one of which he was
wounded in the shoulder. On his discharge
he came to Melbourne; from there he went
to the Otago goldfields, and in 1878 took up
residence in Dunedin. It was half a cen-
tury after discarding uniform that he met
another veteran of the American Civil War
and learnt that his service entitled him to a
war pension. He took the usual formal steps
to prove his identity, and in due course his
application was approved. Up to the day
of his death, which happened in Wellington
a short time ago, he drew the pension. .
THE AFTERMATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ihe cannon smoke that stained the sky
Passed; the grass again was green
" here dead men lay. No more on high
\\ ar s eagles swum the heavenly scene.
The grain was stirring in the earth,
And industry, still insecure,
Gave men rewards of little worth,
And hunger grinned among the poor.
Passed one, a wan and broken wretch,
In torn and beggarly array
A-down a battle-tortured stretch.
He helped to lose the war, they say.
Another went, more pale and thin;
His feeble trunk he scarcely bore;
Dull-eyed, with cheeks all hollowed in—
He was of those who won the war.
Than this there nothing is more truer
Who wars for honor or for pelf,
And leaves his neighbors riven through,
Inevitably slays himself!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Tailoring.
The Highest Combination of Value
and Style yet Offered to the Public.
Note-Eight Points of Leviathan Tailoring
1. Snugly-fitting collar
2. Perfect-fitting shoulder.
3. Smartly-shaped lapel.
4. Non-creasable fronts.
5. Defined waist.
6. Symmetrically-shaped hip.
7. Non-baggy knees.
8. Perfect fit guaranteed.
New Importation —
NAVY TWILLS
Guaranteed Indigo Dye. All Wool.
These Genuine Super. Indigo Twills a few months
ago were selling at £ 1 0/1 0/- the Suit. Woven in
the Real Super, two-ply Worsted Yarn, ensur-
ing a nice soft finish that will not gloss with wear.
Show Starts September 25
Order Your Show Suit Now.
THE PRICE
TO ORDER
£.711716
Why Leviathan Tailoring
is in the Front Ranh To-day
The linings and trimmings are of the same high
quality as the materials. All Suits are cut and
made in our own Hygienic Workrooms under
personal supervision. There is absolutely
FIRST-CLASS Workmanship in every gar-
ment. Satisfaction is guaranteed.
i
MU
o/jj
'////tr/M
%
Wk~k
V
II
t"
/
Special Self-Measurement Chart
and Tape on Application .
Order by Post. We Pay Carriage.
OUR GUARANTEE.
The Leviathan Pty., Ltd., guarantee absolute satisfaction to the purchaser, who has the
option of returning any goods that are not considered in strict accordance with the
description. Provided they are returned in good condition, the money will be refunded m full.
me leviathan
Cor. Swanston BourKe Sts., Melbourne
Pty.
Ltd.
<\V vV.
0
•X .-V' / A %
cV / <£.«
<2s
v" ~ . '
p & #c^
/ <V


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marin?, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-139 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-66 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
m<»ai\ more
comfort and
stylo. Do not
take a substitute
All Mercers
Makers ■
AlfX 5T£waRT
i’ Sons LTD
fd
BRISBANE
A /Vfl
SYDNEY.
"WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Nerangi”: Re Paddy White’s 200-mile
ride with a dislocated shoulder (B. l/6/’22). Some
years back, Liddie Bartel], a girl not out of her
teens, while mustering cattle on the Gilbert River
(N.Q.), had a fall and broke her leg. She rode
to Charters Towers, 180 miles across rough country,
to the then nearest quack.
* * * *
“Derf Commor”: Ryan was a big trucu-
lent son of Erin, but Burke, his mate, was diminu-
tive and peace-loving. The little chap was always
the butt for the other’s jokes, and if Ryan was ever
annoyed poor Burke suffered. They were sinking
a shaft just outside of the Towers (Q.), and Ryan
was below, when Burke, in landing a bucket of dirt,
accidentally tipped some of the earth down tho shaft.
From the bowels of the earth came a roar: “Sind
that blank bucket down and I’ll come up and
blanky-well kill yer! ” Burke obediently lowered
the bucket, at the same time remarking: “I couldn’t
help it, Mick.” But Ryan wasn’t to be appeased.
(<etting into the bucket he yelled: “Pull me up,
}er blanky cow. I m goin’ ter break yer flamin’ jaw
when I get up. ’ Burke resignedly commenced to
haul; but when the bucket was half-way up he
ceased hauling, put the windlass peg in, and, look-
ing down on the helpless Ryan, quietly remarked:
“While yer climbing up the other half, Mike, I’ll
be gettin’ a bit av a slitart on.”
“Toby c.”: A man can over-do the econ-
omy racket. A chap on our job refused to pay the
near-by Government store a shilling for an article
which he said he could buy in town for Bd., and, as
it was one of the small necessities in camp, he was
compelled to make a flying visit to the village to get
it. He didn t get back to camp for three weeks,
and in addition to losing 18s. Bd. a day for that
period he withdrew his banked savings, £52, slept
in the cells two nights, spent his last eightpence
and returned to camp minus the object of his flying
visit.
* * * *
“E.J.D.”: We’ve got tiger-cats all right,
notwithstanding “FY7” (B. 20/7/’22). I have
trapped them at Goolma, near Miidgee (N.S.W.), and
they can be got there yet. They are mainly a
reddish-brown with yellowish-white on the belly and
odd patches in other parts. One I caught had a
body as big as a large kangaroo-dog, his legs being
twice as thick as those of a dog, though shorte..
I’d hate to see the tyke this fellow got all claws
and teeth into.
* * * *
“H.Q.V.”: Talking of “Fizzei’s” (B.
20/4/’22), Sammy Lynch, who runs the mail from
Alice Springs to Powell’s Creek (N.T.) is worth
quoting. The distance between the two places is
450 miles. He gets a change of horses at Barrow
Creek (173 miles), another aj; Tennant’s Creek (156
miles), and lobs at the Powell 16 days from leaving
the Alice. No; he’s not breaking any records, but
considering that he is doing this all the year round,
dry season or wet (and it makes no mistakes when
it does rain), with the one lot of horses, it wouldn’t
do to break records. He makes eight trips a year,
travelling well over 7000 miles, does his own cook-
ing, pulls water from wells for his horses, has a
black-boy for horse-tailer, and is lucky if he meets
a dozen whites on the journey. He sticks to pack-
horses and runs to time.
* * * *
“Haggis” : That chap working for “Truth”
(B. 3/8/’22) must have kept moving to sred 431
acres in one day with a 15-hoe drill. As he turned
every 28 chains he travelled a shade over 39-J
miles for the day, or, working cocky hours, he left
4J miles of crop-to-be in his rear every hour.
“Cocky Bloke” (B. 3/8/’22) isn’t quite so bad. His
man did only 11 acres a. day with his four-furrow
plough and six mokes. He merely covered 36f miles
for the day, or, roughly, four miles an hour. I
can’t understand men like these having to work
for a crust. Local prices are: Ploughing, 10s. 6d.
an acre; drilling, 3s. an acre. Thus “Cocky Bloke’s”
bloke would earn £5 15s. 6d. and “Truth's” flier
£6 10s. Gd. a day. Three seasons would mean for
each one house plus gas-waggon plus liveried ser-
vants in Toorak.
* * * .
“Jasper”: Re animals seeking human aid
in an emergency (B. 27/7/’22). A draught mare
and foal were browsing near an unprotected well one
midnight, when the foal fell in. A little later one
of the farm-hands was awakened by the mare
neighing and galloping around the house like a
mad thing. The man stood it as long as he
could, then got into his moleskins w'ith
the sworn intention of “stiffenin’ the flamin’ animal.”
But on going out his curiosity was aroused by her
distracted antics, and he tried to approach her.
The mare, having succeeded in getting someone
out, sped back to the well. William followed,
discovered the foal’s predicament, and with the
assistance of his family got the youngster up none
the worse for the adventuie.
“Broome”: When “Parnell” (B. 25/5/’22)
doubts Tom Hanson’s ability to spay 233 cows in
11 hours he doesn't allow for the fact that Tom was
working in his own crush and with shorthorns. As
a icsult of the feat, Tom’s left hand and arm were
swollen and practically out of action for three days.
“Dinny” Honan, who is some authority on “horns”
(and whom “Parnell” quotes as admitting 2-1
minutes as nearly a record for the whole operation
from closing to letting out), at one time employed
Tom Hanson on the same job, and though he was out of
practice for over three years, he got through 205
Herefords in an ordinary day’s work. This was in
1917—and he can still put up a stunt to test the
endurance of the best of ringers. Incidentally,
Hanson broke in 108 prads on Edgar and Biddles'
Thangoo station in January, February and March, the
three hottest months in the year.
“M.F.” : Tell “Expert Too” (B. 20/7/’22),
who wants to know where the old mutton-birds
migrate to, that they don’t migrate at all. My first
trip from N.-W. Tas. to Macquarie Harbor was in
1893, and we met the old birds by the thousand
round Trial Harbor and Macquarie Heads. I have
been round to Macquarie Harbor and back almost
every month in the year, and never made one trip
without meeting them. By the way, they are on
the increase in some parts of the Speck. A small
island on the nor’-west produced only about 14,000
30 years ago, and they are now catching from 40 000
to 60,000 annually there.
“Derf Commor”: How’s this for a ’pos-
cheque? In Gumlu (N.Q.) the other
day I met a N. S. W elshman who had come overland
from the Bathurst district, and finding he had been
misled as regards the money to be made at his job
(fencing) he decided to go back. But before setting
THE CORRUPT RICH.
CLARENCE : "I’m goin' ter sell ’em to the 'ealth blokes, have a go at Micky’s two-
up school, an’ spend ther winniu’s at the Zoo.”
MURIEL: "The poisons arc right. It’s nothin’ but a mud race for wealth and pleasure
wiv you chaps.”
out he thought he’d try his hand at ’possum-snaring,
as there were a couple of months to go before the
season closed. His tally for two months was 1730
’possums, and the price ranged from £8 10s. to £2
6s. a dozen. He averaged £4 12s. a dozen, which
gave him over £660 for two months’ work.
* * * *
“Vi Mac”: They take their Cow seriously
in Moonta (S.A.), as witness this from the local
People’s Weekly (22/7/’22) :
NOTICE.
W. B. Blank wishes to intimate that he has
opened a Rest and Maternity Home for Cows, at
his residence, North Moonta. Plenty of feed ; every
care and attention but no responsibility. Charges':
6s. for first fortnight, 2s. per week thereafter.
“Heeagus”: I’m on the side of “Garie”
(B. 20/7/’22) re the satin bower-bird’s color selec-
tions. I have been experimenting for some weeks
on a bower in the N. Queensland scrub. Red, white,
pink and shiny (tinned) articles which I placed
there were always thrown out. Yellow, brown and
blue playthings were easy favorites. There were
many brown snail-shells and brown nuts littered
HIS BARGAIN.
MUM: “Look at that! A real moleskin-
coat, an’ only thirty-five pounds!”
DAD : “Thirty-five quid! My moleskin pants
only cost eighteen hob!”
about. The doorways of the bower, like those men-
tioned by “Garie,” faced north and south. Inciden-
tally, in one playground, some time ago, I found por-
tion of a human lower jawbone with two very
browned teeth attached —a relic which, presumably,
once formed part of the dining-room furniture of a
nigger.
“Dingo’’: There is nothing new or re-
markable in the castration of colts on their feet as
described by “T. Ash” (B. 10/8/’22). Dozens of
operators have been doing it in Australia for years.
But if “T. Ash" wants a one-man performance in
this line he might note that Harry Watson (who
used to own Tooma, N.S.W.) performs the castration
of cryptorehid horses through the flank, much as a
cow is spayed. I never knew anyone else to suc-
ceed, and the English and Continental textbooks
regard it as an impossible feat.
* * * #
"Wee Bobbie” (Solomons) : A native
pointed out to me one of the flashest fish in the
Pacific the other day. “This fellow look nice, boss,
but, by cvipes, you been touch him you been look
out! No plurry gammon, boss, he catch him man
he die.” He was a little fish measuring not more
than Sin. and used to r come out of a hole in the
coral, pose for a few minutes on a small stone and
then retire. Two fins the shape and color of a
peacock’s tail-feathers grew on his head. A mantle
of fins, fine as silk, reached from behind his head
to his middle- and showed hundreds of colors. Not
satisfied with that, lie had the gayest frills and
flounces underneath the mantle, and his tail was
frilled to perfection also. The Malaita boy who
pointed the fish out to me called it an “Aunty.”
I lorn its reputation and the horror it created in
the Kanakas it should have been Mother-in-law.
“Colub”: A few weeks ago, in a northern
Victorian country town, a youth was bitten by a
snake just above the right ankle, and the reptile
left one of its fangs behind in the
flesh. In order to get the fang out,
the doctor who attended the youth
had to seize it with a pair of forceps,
and give a firm pull. It was found
that at the tip there was a small
arrangement, resembling the barb of
a fish-hook, which, probably, was re-
sponsible for the happening. In spite
of the fact that on the north-eastern
coast of New Guinea there is a snake
which invariably leaves its fangs in
whatever it strikes, this is the first
tinip I have heard of such a case in Australia. The
probabilities are that the hook-arrangement on the
tip of the fang was a malformation.
"\ ulangi” : T don’t know about “Sucre’s”
dog linguist (B. 6/7/’22), but how is this for a
record for the offspring of a pair of ordinary
humans ? On the Dreket'i River, in Fiji, a young-
ster of seven (father German, mother French) spoke
the language of either parent fluently ; to the neigh-
bors he spoke English; and to the labor, a mixed lot
of Fijians and Indians, he jabbered Fijian or Hin-
dustanee as required—a total of five lingoes. In
addition, he could make himself understood by the
Chow storekeepers. I can’t guarantee his correct-
ness in this last case, though Ah Pong assured me
that the kid “him talkee all li’.”
(Continued on page 22.)
THE GREY DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
oil, the grey days, the grey days, and rain among
the trees!
And what will all the birdies do, such nights as
these ?
Even the little reed-bird has not the heart to call,
An’ I’m thinking of the young ones, and wet nests,
and all.
Yesterday the flood-birds flew with harsh, boding
cries,
And all last night the land-frogs held joyful revel-
ries ;
To-da.v broke without a dawn, clouds flew dark and
near,
And now the heavy rain falls, and all the bush is
drear.
Oh, the grey days, the grey days, and clouds flying
dark,
But it is not that I’m caring for, but the little
brown lark,
I know his pretty ground nest, and four nestlings
there,
And now he cannot hunt for food, and how will
they fare ?
Houseless little paddymelon, what becomes of you,
Crouching in the wet scrub all the night through?
And the little tit I loved to watch, busy on his
bough
Had half his little house made, and what will he
do now ?
NAVAL TIGHTNESS.
“What, a dam’ silly uniform ours is! Plenty
of slack over the hoots and none around
the waist!”
Oh, the grey days, the grey days, and skies a leaden
pall! •
But it’s not for old Jack I’m afraid —he doesn’t
care at all;
While all the little wrens hide and cuddle close
together
He sits out on a bare bough, and laughs up at the
weather!
But black days will pass away, the blue will come
again,
And the thirsty little bush flowers be brighter for
the rain,
So I’ll pitch camp and wait content until the
weather breaks—
But I wish the grey days were gone, for their little
sakes.
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES DEVANEY.


BATTER lES
That Extra Measure
and What It Means
More power than you are likely to need; longer
service than you are likely to expect; freedom
from repairs that you are sure to appreciate—these
things make Exide the superior battery for your
car. They mean true economy and the maximum
of satisfaction.
We have an Exide the right size for you; but
perhaps you don’t need a new battery. Let us
have a look and give you an impartial judgment.
Our repair service extends to all makes of
batteries. You can rely on unprejudiced advice,
skilful work, and reasonable prices. Call and see.
BATTERY
SERVICE
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
WEST AUSTRALIA .
NEW ZEALAND
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
Unhehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


W//77
/
$6
m
'M
w.
7/7?
W
y/(
m
IMn
PURL COCONUT
OIL BLEND
7
a*
11111 • 111111111111 • < 11111111Y1
"mu
ABBOTS
LAGER
, 3he Beer
Without a Rival"
3REWED FROM PURE MALT &HO PS ONLY
“Rhi.no”: Re “Battleaxe” (B. 20/4/’22)
on telling venomous from non-venomous snakes. I was
taught at school that only the venomous had the
three large Scales between the eyes, and this seemed
to be borne out by the snakes I saw in N. S. Wales.
But the same rule does not apply here in the
Solomons. I have handled many different varieties
during my seven years here, and though most of them
had the three big scales between the eyes I have
never found one with poison fangs, and though I
have seen several cases of bites from snakes with the
SAFETY FIRST.
“ Doan’t ’ce come down that ladder, boay. I've just took un
’way.”
three big scales, I have never seen a patient show
any signs of poisoning. Incidental!'', has any Abo.
in the Solomons ever come across j venomous land
snake? The natives are afraid of all snakes, but
say that they know of only one or two that are
poisonous.
“Yarrum”: Years ago on Monaro
(N.S.AV.) there were miles of picturesque stone
fences, but lately they have given place to business-
like posts and wire. There are now hardly any of
the stones to be seen, and I asked an ancient inhabi.
`A FACIAL MATTER.
"Mary Pickford! ’Are I seen Mary Pickford! Bloomey, T've
seen ’er till I look like ’er!”
tant what had become of them. He scratched his
head and said: “Jiggered if I can think where they
all got to —they certainly were, not taken away.”
And no one else could throw any light on the matter.
How is it that where there were millions of stones
10 years ago scarcely one can be found to-day?
* * * *
“C.E.H.”: My nomination for “Don’s”
Young Australian stakes (B. 3/8/’22) is Miss Flo
Todd, of Sandgate (Q.), who stands Oft. lin., is
built in proportion, and is only 14 years of age. I
saw her birth certificate at the recent Maryborough
Eisteddfod, in which she competed.
* * * *
Centurion”: “Bioko” on birds and ani-
mals growing amputated
limbs (B. 27/7/’22) moves
me to ask if any Abo.
has come across cases
where wounded birds,
especially snipe, have re-
paired broken legs or
wings. The big English
sporting journals, like the
Field, have frequently
published stories of snipe
and woodcock “splinting”
broken leg- or wing-bones
with their own down
matted together with
blood and mucus, and con-
stantly added to until the
support is strong enough.
Many of these yarns are
thoroughly authenticated,
but in years of miscel-
laneous shooting I never
came across a case.
“H.Y.E.”: Tell “Ex-
pert Too” (B. 20/7/’22)
that the mutton-bird
(short-tailed petr e 1—
Brevicaudus tenuirostris)
is said to migrate to
Alaska and Japan after i's
breeding operations off the
southern coasts otf Aus-
tralia are completed. Yet
it is at various times
seen floating on the water.
The mighty army of nest-
ing birds usually passes
south about October. I
have watched it for hours,
until night fell and
obscured the long strag-
gling line of feathered pil-
grims journeying steadily
towards their Mecca in
Bass Straits—and, inci-
dentally, towards the
mutton-bird merchant's
pot. Even so long ago as
1850 it is recorded that
dried mutton-birds were often brought to Melbourne for
sale. Horace Wheelwright (the “Old Bushman”) noted
more than 100 dozen mutton-birds brought in by one
fishing-boat. The grey and the black-and-white bell
magpie (Strepera), by the way, is often erroneously
styled “mutton-bird.”
lola : Flint, one of Papua’s hard-work-
ing disti ict officers, has just returned from a patrol
through the country north and east of Mt. Yule,
a district which, according to a recent par. of “Bill
Bowyang,” was combed free of wild men many'
years ago by bird, bug
and orchid hunters.
Flint and party had
practically to fight
their way wherever
they went, and at one
of the villages visited
by the American
Boyce party (so scath-
ingly assaulted by
“Bowyang”) the Gov-
ernment party was
attacked with such
violence that one
policeman was killed
and others of the party
were wounded. The
body of the dead
policeman was buried
in an apparently
friendly village not far
from the scene of the
attack, but before the
party had moved from
the district it was dug
up and eaten by the
gentle inhabitants.
“Bert X. Dig.”:
I can beat “Pat
Bushie’s” record (B.
20/7/’22) re woman’s
hardihood. I was
ordered to drive the
missus five miles to
Northam (W.A.) from
an outlying farm, and
deliver her to a mater-
nity-nurse’s place. AVe
had gone a mile-and-
a-half when I had to
help her and a blanket
out and retire. Fifteen
minutes later I helped
her and her daughter
back into the trap and
drove her home again.
She cooked tea for us
that night and never
looked back; and she is now the mother of
nine. Again, the wife of a Russian at Dingo Creek
railway-construction camp (Maekay-St. Lawrence line,
Q.) had a son in the tent at 8 a.m. on Feb. 20,’
1921, and resumed household duties at 10 a.m. the
same day. Hers was the sixth.
* * * *
“Bidgel” : How’s this for a record sugar-
bag (English bees) '/ 1 cut a nest out of a box-tree
on the Moonie (Q.) last Sunday, and tinned 3601 b.
strained honey from it. And there
wasn’t a bee about the place. Where
were they ? No, I know they weren't
at church, because they had obviously
left their collection at home.
“Snell”: I went out shooting
with Allan. Lefroy was our base, and
we sought scrub-hens and wallaby in
the bush, and duck in the shallow
pools behind the sand-dunes down near
the sea on the north coast. Coming
to a big lagoon in the bush we
camped for lunch, and Allan’s dog, a
rough-haired Scotch mixture but a
wonderfully good hunter, went in for
a swim. We heard a shot from the
bush on the other side of the swamp,
and the tyke struggled ashore, rolled
over at his master’s feet and died.
He had been shot in the neck. Allan
in a fury seized on his gun and
started off. Fearing a tragedy, I fol-
lowed to exercise restraining influ-
ence. After a 10-minutes’ tramp we
came upon a great-footed, giant-
handed yob of a fellow astride a
down-bent limb, watching the lagoon
for duck. Allan opened out on him
furiously. “Here, you, what the
devil do you mean by shooting my
dog?” “Yore dorg?” replied the
galoot, “I never shot no dorg.” “You
did, d —n you. You shot my dog in the lagoon.”
“Go orn !” said Bushie amazedly. “Was that a
dorg? It looked more like a man.” Allan did not
urge his case.
“Sa Dina”: “Pro”: (B. 10/8/’22) was
under a delusion when he thought he was digging
the sensitive plant in the ribs. What he ran against
was probably the sensitive briar, a trailing prickly
mimosaceous plant of the genus Morongia, or an
American polypodiaceous fern (Omoclea sensibilis),
the leaves of which when plucked show only a slight
tendency to fold together. Both varieties are plenti-
ful at Lautoka, but the one and only sensitive, plant
is more common to Suva. Its book name is Mimosa
pudica. It has palmate leaves, the divisions of
which are pinnate with many small leaflets. At a
touch the leafstalk droops and the pinnae and leaf-
lets close tightly.
* * * *
“Agricola”: “Klaney” (B. 10/8/’22) asks
it anyone has noticed the effects of kangaroo grass
(Anthistiria australis) on Daisy. That has been
part of my job for years. In 1915 a daughter of
the first squatter on the Mornington Peninsula (Vic.)
asked me why her cows had died, although kangaroo
grass was very plentiful. I told her the grass had
become fibrous and innutritious and a host for fungi,
because of the gradual depletion of the surface soil
o its phosphate of lime. Her father left records
° i °"i " s tock throve on this grass in the
eai } daj s. I have seen stock dying on it, and
especially milch animals. On the Mitra Mitta (Vic.)
dairy-cows did well on it when the fields were
manured with stable and cowshed litter and urine.
* Hamilton we made it good again by dressings
of basic superphosphate. There, Thomas Mitchell
found it magnificent feed in 1836; in 1916 I found
it more fit for rope making. The stuff being indi-
gestible and unwholesome and carrying fungus, Daisy
becomes more or less afflicted with toxaemia, or is
obviously suffering from malnutrition, indicated by
ciipples or being “hidebound.” Like Paspalum
dilatatum, the native product has an extraordinary
power of retaining life in face of adverse conditions
of soil. The grass is O.K.—but the treatment of it
has been rotten.
* * * «
Ragar’ : The black-and-yellow sea-snakes
of Papua and the Torres Strait, mentioned by
Papua (B. 27/7/’22), have also an unpleasant
reputation among the skin-divers for twisting them-
selves around the body and limbs of a man in the
water and, without biting, causing partial paralysis.
I have known “boys” after trochus-shell to come out
of the water because one of them had reported seeing
a striped wriggler below. Only one case of a native
being bitten has come to my knowledge. That nigger
certainly died, but whether from snake-poison, as
“Papua” says, or from the more usual cause of death,
plain funk, I can’t say.
“Cheerio”: “Jim Carew’s” reference to
the kangaroos in the London Zoo (B. 13/7/’22)
reminds me of my first visit to the Durban
(S’ Africa) Zoo in 1915. In a cage little bigger
than a kerosene case there were two droopy, miser-
able, dirty Australian magpies. The box was on
the ground, so 1 got down on my marrow bones and
talked to them. I’ve been called a liar for saying
it, but, nevertheless when I started whistling, and
as soon as they heard their call, they bucked up
and whistled away in reply. I stayed with them
a long time, and when 1 left I felt I was leaving
friends. If I knew as much then as I do now, I
would have visited the boss of that show and
pulled his nose for cruelty to good Australians.
* * * *
“W.A.D.”: The fern-like sensitive plant
growing on the face of the cliffs down Bowral
(N.S.W.) way, spoken of by “Pro” (B. 10/8/’22),
is common on the eastern slopes of the Mountains,
and is in great profusion near Govett’s Leap, Black-
heath. It is not a fern at all, but one of the species
of the sundew ( Drosera ) family, and is commonly
called the forked sundew. It invariably grows in
marshy or damp places, crevices in the cliff-face, etc.
This soil is deficient in nitrogenous matter, and the
plant supplies the deficiency by catching and assimil-
ating insects. It attracts its prey by means of the
little globules of sweet, viscous fluid on the fila-
ments on the inside of the tentacle. The insect gets
caught by the sticky, dew-like liquid, and the
tentacle slowly curls round the hapless prisoner.
DON’T BE SILLY!
GENT (who lias collected on the last race): “Pardon my
asking, hut should I mention this little trans-
action in my income-tax return?"
(It certainly does not grab as “Pro” states, the
movement being almost imperceptible.) When the
assimilation of the softer portions of the insect is
complete the tentacle opens again for business anew.
If “Pro” really did—honest to goodness—see a sun-
dew “grab” an inesct he has unearthed something
new to science.
“10.5”: Queer nesting-places? A pair of
wagtails built a nest on a single No. 8 wire, above
the shearing board in Belltrees (N.S.W.) shed. It
was constructed during shearing operations, while 60
or 70 men were at work on the board. The follow-
ing year two nests were built, each on single wires,
a few P'et apart.
“Malua”: Ages ago in Tutuila (Ameri-
can Samoa) a girl child was left in the village in
charge of an old blind woman, while the rest of the
women went fishing, and it is believed that the
pair fell over a cliff and were drowned. Ever since
the native women make an annual pilgrimage to
the spot and chant their dirges there; and each vear
a turtle and a peculiar kind of fish appear in the
water and remain until the ceremony is over. The
natives believe them to be the reincarnated forms of
the woman and girl. The yearly pilgrimage has
been going on for longer than anyone can remember,
and the turtle and fish always appear.
THE WRECKED ASSEMBLY
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is the man who came to learn
To do the newest dance.
He trod off all our toes in turn ;
Vain was a woman’s glance
Of withering scorn or utter hate.
With features all askew
He started punctually, and straight
He danced until the hour was late,
A man defying every fate,
Who had a job to do.
A large, dark, hairy bloke was he ;
Determined was his jaw,
With no respect that we could see
For rules or for the law.
He grabbed his partner like a bear,
And rubbed off all her paint.
You thought that she would stifle there.
Some saw it through with ’wildered stare, •
But now and then one would prefer
To buckle up and faint.
He danced on, Bernard from the farms,
At a cyclonic rate,
Still bearing in his hairy arms
The form inanimate.
He waltzed like some distracted ox,
Fox-trotted like a mule;
He gave his partners horrid knocks
’Gainst window seats and iron locks.
Like stampers beating in a box
His feet were, as a rule.
His two-step was his fox-trot, and
His waltz was like them both.
Did he uppn your bunion land
You breathed a gentle oath,
Hopped to a seat, and bitterly,
With teardrops almost blind,
You sat and breathed your hate; but he
Would offer no apology.
He didn’t hear, lie didn’t see ;
What's more, he didn’t mind.
This will explain the reason why
Our Yam Assembly came
To grief. A dance we dare not try,
For all of us are lame.
Last night I peeped in at the door;
One dancer capered there.
’Twas Bernard. Round the room he tore,
And while Bern ragged a measure o’er,
Tremendously he beat the floor,
Fox-trotting with a chair!
VICTORIA.
DIDO.


W
If
TZV3.
iiiimimiiiig
L.l .jjJ
mm
fx
V a
H
>)
y
as
*r
o*^
p... v
\
K\
W j *«£
<»>r
i-n
a
w
s^p
iatSk
ggi
T
HIHIimiITK
hull
The New Packard
Single Six
The symbol of perfect ease, perfect achievement and perfect economy.
Its engine is the supreme product of America’s engineering skill and en-
sures maximum power and flexibility with absolute elimination of vibration.
Packard springs are made precisely, and hung scientifically. Their velvety
action over rough roads not only gives the fullest driving comfort but is
an auto-protection against breakage.
The frame is magnificently built, ensuring the perfect alignment of the
chassis and the entire suppression of body squeaks and rattles.
These Packard features combine restful riding with exceptional depend-
ability and distinctive beauty.
‘Before you buy—see the Packard. Test and compare .
Kellow, Falkiner Pty. Ltd.
206 Russell Street,
Melbourne
IRA. L. & A. C BERK
Distributors : 261-263-265 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Eyles 6C Crowie Ltd.
75 Pirie Street,
Adeliade
IF
| s <S?
\\ <s®§KS
sis
«jr
IW3IM
\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\w\\\m\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\^\\\\\^^^^
ASK, THE MAH WHO OWNS ONE
3n
XX\VvVvVCv\\X\\XXXXX\X^X^^^
VWW\\\^\
iS^iSl
uWT
#
is


TE(g “WMfe Hoitss
59
O
iM
From an Old Sampler, A.D. 1420.
ix
c;
*.»
■ .
;M
. •
it.
*w
A
*«&*•
V s **
*r-
'v. '**'**
#-*v
I=s=
?r*"s3»
sp«
&53S
sO
f: fa
223=5^
=sr“*
SC
2*
-£»■
✓L
!”* , ”* ,w, 4tiiim )ww^»
'•
X**#
rfSl
7 s *
%
e#
?3
\ii
sso
A
v.;
v*
;*??-
sSB
p
<L
m
iVS
&*: -*r
*«*>•.s
*»>/-^*v-
*4M* *«
W&y&,
$
C f • j
, *,
SK
*=■ •>
Slhadl. Pa.ss
. krotidh. this World
But Once
ny Good Thing
1 can. do „ or
|li- Any Kindn.ess
l ? Tk*t I Cd.n Show
|f a,uy Hum&n Beind
1-Let me do it Now
"T not defer it
''For I ihA.Il not Pass
this Way
A^aan.
AI>:H2O
fc
W
Colored reproductions (1 6in. x lOf in.) of the above picture, the
property of MACKIE & CO. DISTILLERS, LTD., Glasgow and
London, proprietors of “WHITE HORSE” Whisky, may be
obtained gratis, on application to their New South Wales Agents:
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Sydney.
THE SUNSHINE REAPER and BINDER
6ft. and Bft. Cut.
"1
i .
i \
t I
'
tsat® av p ty
-
/
Made in Australia for Australian conditions by
H. V. McKAY PTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, Svflshilll
BRANCHES:
Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY.
607 Collins Street West, MELBOURNE.
102-105 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
36 Pier Street, PERTH.
Cr. York & St. John Streets, LAUNCESTON


It is ridiculous to suggest that boys collect
stamps, birds’ eggs and so on as an outlet
for sexual emotions. In the same way the
statement that cophrohilic wit is the clever-
est and the most popular is an exaggeration.
Vulgar wit emanates from a vulgar mind,
and the fact that Lincoln’s “best” bons mots
are too indelicate for reproduction simply
emphasises that Lincoln, despite his great
qualities, was essentially vulgar. The wittiest
sayings in history have indeed nothing vul-
gar or indelicate about them. It would be
impossible, even for a psycho-analyst, to find
anything suggestive in Frederick of Prus-
sia’s “Quand je serai la, je serai sans
souci,” which is a pure play of words. It is,
however, in analysing dreams that the hum-
bug of psycho-analysis is most patent. A
dream may represent a suppressed or re-
pressed thought, but it certainly does not
represent a repressed wish, an idea which
is only credible given that the individual
understands the meanings of symbols .of
long bygone ages. As far as we understand
Dr. Brill, and he qualifies and contradicts
himself a good deal, all dreams originate
from sex or other emotions, but generally
from sex emotions. And the analyses of the
dreams! Rarely has such a farrago of non-
sense been printed. All in all, this is not
a book that anyone will profit by reading.
The Big Four
Robert Lansing, one of Woodrow Wilson’s
“advisers” at the Paris Peace Conference,
has no superlatives to spare lor his chief in
The Big Four (Hutchinson and Co., Lon-
don). Wilson he regards as a babe in diplo-
macy, suffered to voice his altruism in the
League of Nations proposal so long as he
supported the interests of the other Big
Three. As a matter of fact, he couldn't
have got the League idea into the Treaty
without some miserable retreats from the
principle of self-determination. But this
was not the only one of his points upon
which the idealist impaled himself. Missing
the chairmanship of the Conference, which,
according to Lansing, he .considered his
right owing to his superiority in status to
the other representatives, he readily assented
to the suggestion of secret diplomacy and
became the most secret of the Four. Where-
as Lloyd George, Clemenceau and Orlando
often consulted their experts and ac-
quired a mass opinion for discussion, Wil-
son might see one authority (and not always
the right one) in a private interview, and
then act only on a recommendation that
accorded generally with his own views. It
is impossible to overlook in this criticism a
feeling that Lansing was a distressed super
aching to have a star part; but, at the same
time, there was ample justification for the
conclusion that the American President
wanted to play a lone hand. And the trouble
was that he hadn’t sufficient trumps to take
a trick. All his showy talk for the little
peoples ended in such ethnographic injus-
tices in altering the map of Europe that in
the Balkan Peninsula alone there is material
for two or three fresh wars.
Of Clemenceau, the Chairman of the Con-
ference, and the same old “Tiger” in his
ruthless fight for French interests, Lansing
speaks with reluctant admiration. The
truculent ancient’s unashamed venom and
caustic wit triumphed over the suavities of
his colleagues, with the result that “he
dominated the Peace Conference and the
Councils at Paris.” “Free debate and actual
voting by the delegates on resolutions pre-
viously agreed upon by the Council of Ten
had no place in the proceedings with M.
Clemenceau in the chair. There was an
occasional attempt at discussion, but—after
listening with a tolerant manner and with
his half-closed eyes turned, towards the ceil-
ing—the old French autocrat would slowly
rise from his chair, glare fiercely about the
room, and ask whether anyone else desired
to speak; and then before another delegate
could collect his wits and get to his feet, he
would snap out the inevitable ‘Adopte.’
That always ended it.” A remarkable man,
Clemenceau, ready for any fight on any
terms, and, in Lansing’s opinion, more astute
even than Lloyd George, whose unruffled
serenity in changing his mind is viewed
with unstinted stupefaction. Lloyd George
was ever the opportunist, ever bandying
brave words to provide the newspapers with
inspiring cross-heads, but shifting from day
to day in accordance with the current of
British opinion. Lansing calls him “a
rough-and-tumble debater,” who, “without
Mr. Balfour’s aid, and without the constant
advice of his subordinates, would, I fear,
have been decidedly outclassed.” Orlando
receives a tribute for his ability as a jurist;
the chapter on Paderewski should keep the
Polish patriot in jam for a year; and there
are many warm words on behalf of General
Louis Botha and his brilliant colleague, Jan
Smuts. But the only reference to W. M.
Hughes records his trying to pose as a large-
lunged plenipotentiary, and being mercilessly
souashed by the aforesaid “Adopte." It is
one of those mentions that are worse than
no mention at all.
Song and Its Substitutes
Into the big waste-paper basket of the ages
has gone an enormous mass of matter which
once seemed real to tens of thousands of
people. Adrian Lawlor’s quotation (R.P.
17/8/’22) from Harold Monro’s “Contem-
porary Poets” raises once more the question
of the worth of the so-called free verse. About
the freedom of much of the stuff published
there can be no doubt; but by what means it
can be brought under any definition of verse
is not so clear. Since people, in their hurry,
ceased to read aloud and practically ceased
to speak in sentences, a doubt as to the value
of forms seems to have arisen in many minds.
This is partly due to the unfortunate literary
use of the word “form.” Verse, being a col-
lection of sounds, has no form, but for lack
of a suitable word in our language to describe
the grouping of sounds and embrace all that
we mean by scansion, rhyme, stanza, ballad,
sonnet, line, foot and a dozen other more or
less technical terms, we have fallen back
upon the use of an expression which suggests
that the verse-maker’s method has something
to do with the arrangement of type on a
printer’s page. If, ignoring the word form,
we decide that verse is rhythmic speech, fall-
ing with a certain regularity from the lips,
and prose a less rhythmic speech, falling
irregularly from the lips, we shall be very
near the truth of things; and with such
definitions all modern free verse is at once
forced to take its place as prose and cease
to masquerade in meaningless capitals.
Such free verse as could not be honestly
printed as prose certainly cannot be honestly
printed as verse; for good verse must obey
tile rules of the same syntax which guides
prose and makes ordinary speech carry its
full meaning to the hearer. The rules
which govern verse, apart from granimar, are
necessarily strict, because they are part of a
natural order. The great thing that the
free-verse advocates miss is that these rules
are not inventions but discoveries. They were
found by long experiment in the heart of
the language itself; and they vary greatly
in different languages. Thus the line of 10
syllables, alternately accented and unac-
cented, is the mqst flexible and perfect
instrument of the singer in English, while
the Greek or Latin hexameter is foreign to
our tongue and can never be successfully
used without overloading the thought with
unnecessary verbiage and the ear with un-
necessary sound. Every one of our so-
called forms which has persisted through a
century or two owes its persistence to no
set of arbitrary rules, but to the plain fact
that it was best for the singer’s purpose.
The idea that lines without rhyme or rhythm
are new, and that the lawless in verse must
succeed because the lawful has ceased to be
attractive, will not bear investigation.
Here is a quotation from a poet—he was
a poet sometimes —who once possessed a
great audience: —
Still a bare, silent, solitary glen,
A fearful silence and a solitude
That made itself be felt;
And steeper now the ascent,
A rugged path, that tired
The straining muscles, toiling slowly up.
At length again a rock
Stretched o’er the narrow vale;
There also had a portal-way been hewn,
But gates of massy iron barred the pass,
Huge, solid, heavy-hinged.
That was written in 18(X), and is one of
hundreds of stanzas in a work which has at
least, the merit of telling some sort of a
tale. But for three lines, which are in
moderate scansion, it is modern free verse;
and it is surely significant that the writer
had the largest public of any man of his
time, a.nd is now more completely dead than
any of the group to which he belonged.
Robert Southey was the greatest breaker
of so-called form in the early nineteenth
century; John Keats the most perfect in his
obedience to it. And Keats said l. ore in a
dozen lines, which were in perfect conformity
to the rules, than Southey in a dozen
volumes, that kicked lightly aside the dis-
co veiies of the past.
Of course, it is reasonable to assume that
new discoveries in method may be made, but
the breaking of all method is not a discovery.
As G. K. Chesterton recently said, the claim
that free verse is a new development of
poetry is about as reasonable as the claim of
a man who lay down in a ditch that he had
originated a new style of architecture.
Within the legitimate field of verse-making
there is very wide scope. Our language is
such that the minor irregularity delicately or
forcefully handled adds much to the charm
of the rhythmic movement; and such irregu-
larity depends entirely on ear and the choice
of words. It is the tendency to produce
gross discords and claim that they are due
to a passionate rush of thought that is to be
deplored. If the thought is really passionate
enough it may break all the rules and yet
preserve the subtle truth of the rhythm; but
it is not likely to do so in every stanza, nor
even once a week. Recently, Mr. Bernard
O’Dowd, addressing the Melbourne Univer-
sity Literary Society, regretted the existence
of an Australian school of criticism which
made you “count the syllables with meticu-
lous accuracy and deadly monotony and
consider originality of thought a vital
blemish.” I have never come across Austra-
lian criticism of that kind ; but I have seen,
again and again, work of the most lamen-
tably clumsy sort, with the crudity of thought
partly hidden by a noisy and obscurei verbiage,
praised for a worth it did not possess. We
are in no danger from a too strict observance
of so-called form, but we are in distinct
danger of losing the essential verse values
in a torrent of easily-written and hardly-
read words, expressing ideas which could be
more clearly and convincingly expressed in
prose. Excellence of thought is frequently
urged as an excuse for bad workmanship, but
those by whom it is urged are seldom among
the appreciators of the finest in poetry.
Coleridge was surely nearer the mark when
he said that it was of the very nature of the
English language that every beautiful thought
clothed itself instinctively in beautiful words.
Despite all practice of versemen to the con-
trary. the poet’s business is with beautiful
thoughts. Beauty may be hard to define,
but that which uplifts the heart and mind
to song is entirely different from that which
urves the scientist to write a treatise or the
philosopher to reason out a theory. Who
that really wants to sing would make a noise
like this?—
The milkman is clattering his cans—
Tin upon tin.
It is five o’clock in the morning;
Five o'clock and the rain falling!
How it splashes!
The mud runs in the gutter.
Tt is hard for the milkman to keep dry;
But I am under a roof.
Tf I were not under a roof I should be in the rain
And wet.
But it is good to be in bed—
Good for me,
Not for the milkman.
Alas, the vast distances !
The last line is put in to look profound.
“Alas, the wheels turning!” would do just
as well. But: —
Oh, my love’s like a red, red rose
That’s newly sprung in June!
Oh, my love’s like the melody
That’s sweetly played in tune!
A man sang that. I think it is beyond ques-
tion that one who has ever felt song must
cleave to song and reject all substitutes.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Par.
My advice to the cub author would be:
“Write paragraphs; attain efficiency in the
literary smallgoods department.” The writ-
ing of paragraphs is the best possible train-
ing for one aspiring to be considerable as a
scribe, for, if it be not true that a man
who can write a good paragraph can write a
good book, it certainly is a fact that the fel-
low who cannot write a good paragraph will
never write a worthy book. I might as well
say the workman who cannot lay bricks will
not build a good wall.
Australians are as partial to paragraphs as
they are to poetry, and all our literary papers
feature the par before all other matter, a fact
which should be a factor influential for great
good in the making of succinct, graceful and
melodious prose writers here. It is neverthe-
less true that I have known on the local
press many writers of monumental columns
who could not for the life of them frame a
good parap’uonh. Not long ago a journalist
of some standing confessed to me that he
had wasted all the leisure that came to him
in three days, trying to round an excellent,
marketable par on a most propitious theme,
and had failed most ignobly. I, knowing his
work, was not surprised. He dealt with por-
tentous facts in a roomy way, and always
needed a page to carry his tale. What vir-
tue he had was extraneous to him ; it was in
what he presented, not in his manner of pre-
senting it. But the man who has learned to
be a good paragraphist makes his column like
an eventful journey, delighting you at every
turn with fine view and breezy incident.
Dip anywhere into the books of a good
paragrapher, and you are never caught at a
loss; it is a continual entertainment with no
intervals. The master paragrapher who has
recently made a captive of my fancy is
Samuel Butler. Not the Butler who wrote
“Hudibras,” of whom, by the way, someone
wrote an epitaph which is an excellent para-
graph even if it is rhymed :
Of all his gains by verse, he could not save
Enough to purchase flannel and a grave.
Reduced to want, he in due time fell sick,
Was fain to die and be interred on tick.
My Samuel is the comparative modern who
was recent enough to have been a sheep-
farmer in Maoriland, author of “The Note-
books,” recently re-issued in handsome guise,
“Erewhon” and many other things philo-
sophical and novel. From his “The Life of
the World to Come” let us take a toothsome
sample. He comments on the fact that he
has no children, being a bachelor: —
I have often told my son that he must begin b.V
finding me a wife to become his mother who shall
satisfy both himself and me. But this is only one
of the many rocks on which we have hitherto split.
We should never have got on together ; I should have
had to cut him off with a shilling either for laugh-
ing at Homer, or for refusing to laugh at him, or
for both, or neither, but still cut him off. So I
settled the matter long ago by turning a deaf ear
to his importunities and sticking to it that I
should not get him at all. Yet his thin ghost visits
me at times, and, though he knows it is no use
pestering me further, he looks at me so wistfully
and reproachfully that I am half inclined to turn
(ail, take my chance about his mother, and ask him
to let me get him after all. But I should show a
clean pair of heels if he said “Yes”.... Besides he
would probably be a girl,
That is an ideal paragraph, humorous, tender,
sly and incisive, with its sting where the
sting should always be —in the tail.
It is only fair to say that, despite his com-
plaint, Sam Butler did not die childless; he
begot George Bernard Shaw, and is still be-
getting, although he has been dead many years.
Shaw in many places confesses Butler to be
his literary papa, and it is true that if Butler
had not been so badly read in his day, Ber-
nard Shaw would never have been so well
read in his. Shaw, too, is a clever para-
grapher. Butler was a maker of para-
graphs in verse. Here is a well-known
stanza inspired by the storing up of the Dis-
cobolus in a loft because, as the bard was
assured, the Greek statues were “vulgar.”
The stanza is from "A Psalm of Montreal” :
Stowed away in a Montreal lumber room
The Discobolus standeth and turneth his face to the
wall :
Dusty, cobweb-covered, maimed and set at naught,
Beauty crieth in an attic and no man regardeth:
O God ! O Montreal!
The Book of Job is one of astounding
paragraphs. Listen to the description of
the man with the carbuncles in his days of
health and prosperity :
I put on righteousness and it clothed me: my
judgment was as a robe and a diadem. I was eyes
to the blind, and feet was I to the lame. I was
a father to the poor, and the cause which I knew
not I searched out. And I brake the jaws of the
wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth.
Nietzsche is a great paragraphist. His
“Human, All Too Human” is a book of mag-
nificent pars. The late Ambrose Bierce
stands as the finest paragraphist America
has made. Ills precious contributions, dis-
covered in the end pages of the Cosmopoli-
tan, set me rummaging for months in the
dusty corners of old bookstalls, seeking tar-
nished and torn back numbers of the maga-
zine.
The many and varied works of Bierce (I
am told they run to 20 vols.) are, in the
main, out of reach in this country, but But-
ler is now to be had for love and money,
and no reader who would be a writer and is
curious to know the worth of the par. can
afford to overlook “The Notebooks,” a publi-
cation in book form of the thousand and one
things Butler jotted down in the course of a
long, busy, productive and wholly unprofitable
life.
EDWARD DYSON.
The inky Way
The Commonwealth reporting department continues
to draw on Adelaide pressmen. Leslie Martin, the
fifth to join in recent years from S.A. Hansard, has
just been farewelled by Speaker Richard Butler,
backed up by Sineoek, Fred Johns, and Cockburn
speaking from the professional side. Martin raises a
fine tenor voice in his leisure moments.
“Kewpie”: The literary “ghost” is always with
us. In Anglo-Saxon countries he is kept well
subdued and no one ever inquires the name of the
author of the Memoirs of General Tracy Tupman or
Beauteous Bobbie Fit/.roy of the wonderful legs.
But in France it is different. Dumas was quite
frank about his employment of “ghosts,” and at
least one of his spectres has walked into to-day.
Auguste Maquet contracted in 1848 to release all
claim on the books in which he had a hand. For
this he was to receive 145,000 francs, but when he
died in 1888 the money had not been handed over.
An action was brought for its recovery; it failed,
as the contract had not been abrogated. French
law extended the rights of authors for a further 30
years from 1888. This, of course, expired in 1908
and the heirs of Maquet have once more tackled
Dumas’ descendants and claimed the lucre. The case
is before the courts of Paris at the present time.
“Fax”: One rather loves to catch a Melbourne
Argus identity tripping. Wrote “Ithuriel” the other
Saturday:—
“Formerly the King’s speech used to be published in
England the day before it was delivered, and in 1756
a spurious speech was published and circulated, to
the great annoyance of the authorities, who caused it
to be burnt by the hangman in Palace Yard. George
111., however, enjoyed the joke, and said that he had
read both speeches carefully, and, so far as he could
understand either, infinitely preferred the spurious
one to his own. Evidently his Majesty was not at
that time suffering from the mental derangement
which afterwards clouded his life.”
Which artless story looks very sick in the fierce light
that beats upon a throne. In 1756 George 11. was
King, and the next George was a youth of 17, who
never read speeches nor dreamed of the cloudy time
coming when his amiable progeny would tie him to
his royal bedpost and offer him drinks from an
evasive bottle.
HE ON THE RIGHT : “So you, like my suit? Well, would you believe it's a ready-made,
all-wool English Tweed, and cost just 75/- at David Jones’?”
THE TALL ONE: “Oh. yes ; but you could hardly expect they would have a size to tit
me if I needed one."
HE IN THE CENTRE: “Well, what about me? I also wear David Jones’ ready-mades, and
if they can fit me, they can surely fit you, too."


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
FI t>r»oflir£
The cost of a home or any other class
of building: constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets and roofed
with “Fibrolite” Slates is considerably
less than a similar building built of
weatherboard and roofed with iron or
tiles.
FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust or
corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes.
Write for free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York &.Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
m
WB'
m
'_TvvO
Wool!
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Even a sheep springs into activity at those words.
Ihey are familiar and linked inseparably together,
pood work, good methods and good sales have made
the firm s name pre-eminent in the wool trade. For
Top Values Consign Wool:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY, Proprietor.
THE QUICK-LITE
LANTERN for anr
Outdoor Job at Night.
No matter what the weather—rain, sleet
or gusty wind—you can absolutely de-
pend on the QUICK-LITE Lantern,
with its 300-candlepower brilliance that
penetrates the blackest night.
No
Torch
is
Needed.
COLEMAN
QUICK —LITE
LiAMXERM
i uni
Easily
Eights
with
Matches.
Gives More Light than 20 Old-
style Oil Lanterns.
Because it makes and burns the gas generated
from ordinary petrol. No soot or greasy
wick; no flicker. Always ready to use, and
is absolutely storm-proof.
Made of Heavy Brass and Nickelled.
PRICE, 75/- EACH.
From Ironmongers and Stores, complete with
two spare mantles; mica globe and metal
reflector.
Write to Coleman Representative, Box 1083,
Melbourne, when dealers are out of stock.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
a-sss
f
□
Nervous disorders are unfortunately too real, and can-
not be put down as mere fad or affectation
Despondency, Lassitude, Sleeplessness, Loss of Appetite and
Consequent Weakness, Inability to Think Coherently, are a
few of the symptoms of Nerve Troubles, and before more
serious developments arise sufferers would be well advised to
try a short course of
The natural tonic elements contained in HYPOL are, in themselvei,
sufficient to benefit the worst case of upset nerves; but, in addition, this
famous preparation contains 50 % of the finest Norwegian Cod Liver Oil,
which is so strongly recommended by Doctors for its flesh-forming,
strength-promoting, and remarkable healing influence
HYPOL is good for sick people of all ages, and
is just as pleasant to take as it is healthful
A bottle costs but 2s. 6d. Get one to-day
Sold Everywhere
Made by FELTON. GRIM WADE & CO. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Western Works, Sheffield,
ENGLAND.
ALL CLASSES OF FINE
SCISSORS.
Nail, Manicure, Cutting-out,
Haircutting, Tailors’ Shears, etc,
<Z>£
W
Hollow-
pointed
Nail Scissors.
ESTABLISHED 1836.
Over 80 years of consistent service
to the public is the record of the
FLAG BRAND
CUTLERY
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
MB
s
4 to 800
H.P.
Sole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON (SL ROBERTSON,
l5-17 Loftns Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“D.F.” : The Speck has not clone too much
in the axe-handle business, though I have
used home-made handles of she-oak there
that would take some beating. But she can
supply grindstones to sharpen all the axes
in Australia. A company working quarries
near Boss has gone into the export trade.
Its biggest stone so far is 7ft. in diameter
and 18in. thick.
* * * *
“H.K.R.”: It is contended (B. 6/7/’22)
that South African wines, in comparison
with South Australian, are “of the crudest.”
I submit that if crudeness here means youth,
the facts are far otherwise. The first'Dutch
Governor of Cape Colony imported and en-
couraged Huguenot vignerons nearly a cen-
tury before Captain Cook visited Australia.
Vines were extensively planted on the slopes
round Table Mountain. In the same place
there are .flourishing to-day oaks so old
that, in 1840, Darwin found they had be-
come acclimatised to the extent of ceasing
to be deciduous.
* * * *
There is evidently an oasis somewhere in
the desert ,of “Dry Ashburtonf!’ (M.L.).
I rom January 3» to December 31, 1921,
17,000 gallons of beer, 2457 gallons of
whisky, and 1527 gallons of assorted strong
drinks were consumed by the populace. In
13 no-license districts 361,707 gallons of fer-
mented and spirituous liquor found a home.
Invercargill held pride of place in this little
lot with 101,450 gallons. Mataura, the
smallest of these dry areas, made a good
showing with 43,848 gallons.
“The Traveller”: Talking of the just-
started Hun trade offensive, I was at
Hamilton (Vic.) railway station the other
day, where a. gang of men was re-laying a
portion of the station-yard rails. I noticed
tliat the metals they were taking up were
branded “Krupp, 1857.” These were being-
replaced by second-hand but perfectly ser-
viceable rails which bore the legend, “Cam-
well, Sheffield, Toughened Steel, 1871.”
There seems to be a commercial moral
somewhere about this episode.
“’Coota”: Bumbles are bumbles the world
over. Bellamy, Hobart’s City Engineer, re-
cently compiled a voluminous report on a
proposed new source for a water supply for
the city. In explaining the scheme, he sa d
that a certain lake had very few streams
supplying it from the catchment area,
whereupon the archbumble of the Water
Committee innocently asked if there weren’t
any streams flowing into it from outside
the catchment area! And Hobart citizens
wonder why they have to go thirsty for
three months every year.
T * * *
“U.P.”: After the Turks had finished
with Palestine there was very little timber
left in the vicinity. A number of Austra-
lian native trees were planted there in 1920
to help make good the loss. Captain G. G.
Masson, late of the 9th Light Horse, and
an old Roseworthy (S. Aus.) College boy,
is now in charge of the Agricultural De-
partment in Palestine, and recently sent to
Adelaide a photograph of a fine lot of
wattles flourishing vigorously in the Holy
Land.
* * * *
“Ship Rock”: Isn’t it about time some
organised effort was made to push Austra-
lian woods suitable for furniture? As yet,
the only timbers used to any extent are red
and white cedar and Queensland maple. I
made a round of Sydney furniture establish-
ments recently to view oak furniture, and in
only one instance, and somewhat apologeti-
cally at that, was silky-oak shown me. Yet
there is no more beautifully-grained wood.
Silky-oak, black-bean, tulip-wood, etc., are all
handsome but sadly neglected timbers. An
association of furniture manufacturers,
formed to thoroughly test land advertise
Australian ornamental woods, would be the
most efficient method of dealing with a
matter of national importance.
* * * *
The Executor and Trustee Company, of
S.A., has turned out of its home in Grenfell-
street, Adelaide, and is housed in a back
street while there goes up on the site a
stately pile which is to over-top even Tatter-
sail’s Club, close by, and the Register build-
ing opposite. A humorous detail is the
meantime position of the Safe Deposit Co.,
housed in the basement of the old place, and
not intended to be disturbed. It carries on
serenely with its priceless contents under-
neath the ruins, and the staircase down to it
is for the present reached through a wood-
and-iron shed much resembling an out-
building of the baser sort.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Some secrets of the
fish trade were given away by a Sydney
hawker, who went bankrupt recently, and
told most of what he knew to the Registrar.
The insolvent used to sell fish on the race-
courses, and mentioned, with engaging can-
dor, that “if you take your boots' off and
tuck your pants up they think you’re a
catcher. The house-to-house vendor is
accustomed to wear seaweed under his
clothes. The heat of the body, acting on the
algse fills the atmosphere with a fine reek
ol the stagnating seashore; a convincing
breath of the briny at dead low tide. The
effect may not be that of a spilt bottle of
eau-de-Cologne, but it is calculated to allay
any doubt about the fish having been “caught
this morning, ladv.”
HIS VANISHED EGG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Egg 2s. a dozen.”— Sussex-street item.
“The time has come,” the Servant said
(A “Civil” bloke was he),
“For eating breakfast eggs in pairs;
I trust that you’ll agree?”
“Distinctly not,” his wife replied ;
“Think of your all-too-weak inside,
And bilious headaches flee.”
“There was a time when eggs were eggs;
But, now they’re not, I beg
That you will be content each morn
To hit but one to leg.
This food you’re welcome to enjoy.
Boiled, poached or fried, my dearest boy.
But eggs remain an egg!”
■N.S.W.
J. STANLEY HUGHES.


/
mm
. i
<«d
V- £
A \ *
X «*•*' ' - ' J
r. I
i**:-7- ”*k" 1
m
, „ s#ls
.
%«
list®
8-B.H.P. “TILLICO” MARINE ENGINE
2 cylinder 1 ,35 in. bore, 6in. stroke, 650 rev. p.m.;
suitable for launches up to 26ft. by about
7ft. 6in. beam, and for auxiliary
boats up to 40ft. long.
1
16-B.H.P. “TILLICO” MARINE
ENGINE.
4 cylinder, 3£in. bore, and 6in. stroke, 600
rev. p.m.; suitable for launches up to 35ft.
by about 9ft. or 10ft. beam, and for auxiliary
boats un to 50ft. long.
C^r
y , c
J
or craft
wiln responsible jobs
THE tireless good working of the motor-launch engine is
responsible for the greater part of the pleasure to be
had from motor-boating. The whole fascination of
the sport increases at every outing, when the power-unit,
instead of being given to whims and irregularities, is unfalter-
ing, quickly responsive and confidence-winning.
Pleasure Craft and Motor Launches running Tourist
Trips, Government Mail Services, etc., or wherever trips
must be strictly to schedule time, day in and day out, need
a power-unit of more than ordinary pedigree, such a$ the
“Tillico” Marine Engine.
TILLICO
MARINE
ENGINES
ARE SUPPLIED TO THE ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVY, WHICH,
AFTER MAKING EXACTING INITIAL TESTS AND PUTTING THE
ENGINES THROUGH YEARS OF HEAVY WORK, SENDS REPEAT
ORDERS FOR THEM TIME AFTER TIME, FOR ITS MOTOR LAUNCHES
It is not alone the strong, unfaltering flow of power from a Tillico
Marine Engine that makes such staunch friends with the launch owner, but
the fact that after years of heavy, gruelling work, buffeting and exposure to
weather, etc., their reliability and power remain undiminished. Down to
the smallest detail, from Gudgeon Pins to Big-end Bearings, and Cylinder
Walls to Lubricating System, each separate part is a treat to the trained
engineer s eye, and bears evidence of skilful design and expert workmanship.
A totally different job from the usual engine of a quantity production.
STANDARD SIZES STOCKED as per illustrations.
NAVY TYPE (Made up to order), 32-8.H.P., 4 Cylinder
“Tillico” Marine Engines are manufactured at our own Foundry and
Engineering Workshops at Alexandria, Sydney, where the famous Tillico
Lathes are made.
■mwh*
s
mm
Foundry and
Engineering
Works,
Alexandria,
Sydney.
Full particulars and information will be
warded on request. If in town call at
rooms and inspect.
gladly for--
our Show-
William Adams & Co Limited
Engine 3 Machinery Manufacturers
175 CLARENCE ST SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, LAUNCESTON, NEWCASTLE.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines—
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are *id and gentle in their action and
pleasi to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and mi;e;y.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
>
c
«C7'
&%•
GS
'S
- . -
§?>
X
■^r
5>S
Q
5=5
$5
■o
S=r
sa
?£?/
At
<o
Cranny Chamberlain
CtOPYWICMTtDj
WHOOPING
COUGH.
JT’S cruel to neglect Whooping Cough.
The result may be permanent
injury to the child. You can stop the
cough—stop the whoop stop the
straining, by giving frequent doses of
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, you may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
p
Exhausting Fan. Standard Reversible
Showing arrangement of bearings.
“INVINCIBLE”
(Australian)
Centrifugal Fans
INVINCIBLE FANS are designed and manu-
factured entirely in Australia. In volumetric
efficiency, construction and durability they equal
the world’s best products.
Invincible Multivane Ventilating Fans,
Exhausting Fans, High-pressure Blowers
and Exhausters, Mechanical Draft Fans,
Mine Fans (single and double inlet).
Induced Draft, Forge Blowing, General Ventila-
tion, Dust Removal, Refuse Collection, Shavings
Exhaust, Elevating and Conveying, Air Drying,
Heating, Washing and Conditioning. Take advan-
tage of special experience and submit your problems
to us.
Type of Parkinson Slip Ring Motor.
BUILT FOR
LONGER SERVICE
m O insure a long life for your electric motors
-I. purchase machines that will stand overloading.
PARKINSON
MOTORS.
Australian Factory:
Parkinson (Australia)
I,td.,
FIVE DOCK. SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
English Factory:
E. & A. Etd.,
GUISEFEY, FEEDS.
ENG.
Parkinson Motors are rated at 40 degrees C. Temp,
rise after six hours’ continuous full-load run, and
will then withstand an overload of 25% for two
hours.
ALL MOTORS FULLY GUARANTEED.
WE HAVE LARGE STOCKS.
Write or call our nearest address for all particulars of
above lines and our 128-page general engineering catalogue.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Collins and Elizabeth
Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth, W.A.
A London paper recently had it this way:
We have “Stralia” and “Austral,” so Australia is
here. When inay we expect “Woolamaloo” as an
artist’s name?
The difficulties of this Australian language!
‘‘Footslogger”: The generals who helped
shape the destiny of the A.I.F. during the
war are now widely scattered. “Birdie.”
the Boss Digger, is G.0.C.-ing the Northern
Army in India; Braithwaite, Hamilton’s
Chief of Staff on Gallipoli, commands the
Indian Western Army; E. G. Sinclair-Mac-
Lagan, who led the Covering Force (the
3rd Brigade) at the Landing, commands
the 51st (the Highland) Division in Scot-
land ; and Godley, whom the Maorilanders
loved, is with the Army of Occupation on the
Rhine.
Josiah Symon, Adelaide’s champion crim-
inal lawyer, who passes his 76th milestone
next month, is retiring from his legal firm.
He still expects to do a considerable amount
of Bar work, but will now mix it with a
little recreation in the form of travel, and
next year he is off on a trip abroad.
*‘D.” : A lady doing a funny exit in a Mel-
bourne variety show the other night collided
purposely with the side of the proscenium. It
had often been done before, and always it
had raised a laugh. This time it provoked
an uproar. There must have been a taek-
head within reach, for when the she-humorist
recoiled, she left half her beautiful golden
head of hair hanging to the corner R.IE.
When the laughter subsided a gallery boy
started it again. “Gosh,” he shouted, “that
must have lwt !”
On an opera co. which is largely Aus-
tralian :
The British National Opera 00. got a great bar-
gain when it secured the whole of the Beecham pro-
perties for £15,000. Included in the consideration
were scenery, musical and theatrical effects, a
library of 42 operas and a wardrobe of 4200 cos-
tumes. Beecham paid over £lOO,OOO for the out-
fit. The National crowd got it for £12,000 down,
balance on terms; and straightway disposed of one
production and part of another for £2OOO. Their
co. is a £50,000 concern, with 10,000 ordinary
£1 shares and 40,000 six per cent, preference.
Every member of the organisation, on the stage or
in the orchestra, is required to hold ordinary shares
in proportion to his or her earning capacity. The
Australians concerned are Elsa Stralia, Eda Bennie,
Beatrice Miranda, Gertrude Johnson, Florence Fawaz,
Frederick Collier and Aylmer Buesst. Of the ne\(P
comers Miss Fawaz (now Austral) has made the
only real hit. It is doubtful if the London season
showed a profit. The press gave the performances
handsome support, but they didn’t strike the public
as legitimate Covent Garden opera.
It is seriously proposed that the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) trams should be rooted up as a
nuisance, and the place become, like
the city of London, a motor-’bus centre
pure and simple. The rooting up of the
£1,200,000 or so of debt represented by the
lines and crawling stock is another affair.
Newcastle, though the second city of the
State, has very little control over its local
affairs; it isn’t even allowed to manage its
own harbor (as little Burnie, in Tasmania,
does), so it is clothed to this day in the
worn-out and left-off steam trams of Sydney,
and looks a very gawky and ungainly orphan
in the rig-out. These old drays are quite
outclassed by the rudest variety of petrol
’bus, and have ceased to earn their coal bill:
and if they were converted to electricity, as
wages, hours and materials are now, the loss
might be worse. There is the further possi-
bility that industrial troubles may presently
move Newcastle off the face of the earth,
and a vehicular system that can take up its
bed and disperse would have distinct advan-
tages in such circumstances. No more absurd
spectacle can be imagined than miles of
deserted cuneiform tramcars left behind to
moulder in a 20th-century Memphis.
Desiring to weaken the administration of
Governor Conder at Pentridge (Vic.) by
attacking him in Parliament, Kiernan,
M.L.C., accomplished exactly the opposite.
Ministers Robinson and Frank Clarke de-
fended Conder vigorously. So did Baird in
the other House. Morrison, Public Service
Commissioner, who is Deputy Inspector-
General of Prisoners, is in a position to
apply the brake to Conder, but hasn’t inter-
fered. However, he has given the Police
Promotions Board a bad bump by upsetting
its recommendations regarding a sergeant
and two senior-constables whom it was
proposed to lift up, to the detriment of 79
others. At Morrison’s instance the Board
is to be remoulded nearer to the John lions’
desire.
"Billy T.” : When Mrs. McDougal disap-
peared it was regarded as a coincidence
worthy of note that Saunders, who had had
the contract for sinking the big dam at the
Bend, had gone off too without word or
warning. True, his contract was finished,
and his affairs fully arranged, as became a
thrifty Scot, but he had been friendly with
the McDougals, and people will talk. As
it transpired, suspicion was justified. Some
nine weeks later Saunders reappeared at Pic
Flat leading a stout, grey horse, on which
sat Mrs. McDougal. There was a hint of
compulsion in the attitude of the lady.
Saunders went straight into McDougal’s
back yard and knocked on the kit-
chen door. McDougal opened it and
st' od for a moment gazing at ' the spec-
tacle that presented itself. Jock may have
been greatly moved by the return of the
prodigal wife, but he did not show it. “Mon,
Jock,” said Saunders, “I’m partin’ wi’ yon
female, the cause bein’ incojnpateebility of
temperament. I’ll gi’ ye five- —seven—ten
poond to tak her back and no questions
asked.” Jock McDougal was silent for a
few minutes, and then he gave his judgment.
“Vera gude,” he said; “but, mon. yev done
an irreligious thing, and ye’ll ha’ to thraw
in the horse!”
“Bret Vane”: “Lip” (B. 27/7/’22) on
clothes turning in London, calls to mind
an experience of my own in Mesopotamia
I left Aussie with two tunics (issued 1916),
and in Egypt I handed in “one of everything.”
The end of 1919 saw the remaining tunic a
ragtime article in which the Prodigal Son would
have hesitated to return home. At this stage
an accommodating old Jew who had a hut
in one of Bagdad’s back lanes (and who,
by the way, would attempt anything in
the sartorial line) came to the rescue. He
took the thing entirely to pieces, insido-
outed it, and re-made it into a respectable
uniform. Cuff edges and button-holes were
Cathoury’s bisrsrest difficulty, otherwise the
“turn” was quite successful. It still is.


Don’t miss this offer !
WOODWORKING
MACHINERY
at Greatly Reduced Prices.
*2 5
The machines we offer are right up to the
minute in design, and representative of the
best-known makes of wood-working plant.
Our revised prices show a mark down to the
lowest figure for many a day. It will pay
you to get in touch with us now.
Bandsaws
Circular-saw
Benches -
Jointers -
Shapers -
Swing Saws
Chain
Mortiser -
Panel
Planers
Sanding
Machines -
26in., 32in. and 36in. sizes. Ball bearings,
Rubber Tyres and Antifriction Saw
Guides.
Ripping, Crosscutting and Squaring.
Ball Bearings. Rising and Falling Tables.
12in., 16in. and 20in. sizes. Ball Bear-
ings. Circular or Square Heads. Easily
Adjustable Tables. Safety Guard.
Single Spindles. Substantial Bearings.
Ball Thrusts. Easy Adjustment. Various
Style Heads.
Hollow Castings or Light Wood Frames.
Ball Bearings. Substantial Saw Guards.
With Chisel Attachment. English Chains
and Cutter Bars. Built for speed and
accuracy.
20in. x 6in. and 24in. x Bin. Square or
Circular Heads. Ball Bearings. Heavy-
type Rolls. Machine-cut Feed Gears.
Belt type. Tension maintained with speci-
ally designed Jockey Pulleys. Moving
table adjustable for all thicknesses. A
great labor saver.
We supply single machines or complete factory equipment for
CABINET-MAKERS, FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS,
PATTERN-MAKERS, JOINERS, etc. Modern wood-working
plant at a price you’ll appreciate. Send your inquiries.
Illustrated literature and all particulars gladly forwarded by
return. Write us now.
Parke U Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
g
60 Clarence St., Sydney
m
Tired ?
What do you look like
in the morning?
Are your eyes tired? Is
your skin dull and color-
less? Can you see the
charm of youth slipping a
little further from you day
by day?
Don’t let it go —there’s
no need.
Keep healthy and you
will keep young. It is lack
of vigorous health that
steals the color from
cheeks and lips, writes
lines round your eyes and
robs them of their radi-
ance. Drive out impurities
and send fresh, clean blood
coursing through your
veins in a healthy stream,
and you need not fear to
look your mirror in the
face —you will look well
and feel well.
To keep your blood
pure you must keep your
internal machinery work-
ing regularly and actively,
otherwise waste matters
will accumulate and your
complexion will suffer
first.
Take Kruschen Salts
every morning—not an
occasional heavy dose,
but as much as will cover
a sixpence, every morning
in your breakfast cup of
tea. There’s no taste; you
won’t know you’re taking
salts; but this daily pinch
of Kruschen will keep your
eliminating organs work-
ing regularly and natu-
rally, and you will enjoy
clean, joyous health, keen
appetite, and sound sleep
at night.
Begin this healthy habit
to-day and say good-bye
to headaches and depres-
sion, irritable nerves and
disordered digestion.
Kruschen will keep you
young because it will keep
you healthy. Prove this
to your profit.
Tasteless in Tea
Put as much in each
breakfast cup as will
lie on a sixpence.
Kr°si lts
Good Health for a Farthing a day
The close of a sixpenceful taken
every morning is found in practice
just the right amount for a most
invigorating daily tonic. The medici-
nal dose for persons suffering from
pains of rheumatism and gout, or
habitual constipation, with inactive
liver, etc., is half to one teaspoonful
in a tumbler of hot water before
breakfast.
Every chemist sells Kruschen Salts
in 2/9 bottles—less than a farthing
a day for eager, strenuous health.
Get a bottle to-day.
Australia —Trade Supplies of Ivruschen Salts are stocked by
11. and W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street; also at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth. Direct
Indents executed by the manufacturers through
London Buying Houses.
New Zealand. —-Trade supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked
by Fairbairn, Wright & Co., Christchurch, Welling-
ton, Auckland, and Dunedin.
N. 5.59


Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
llieatre boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Onlj r , if required.
Tariff from IG/- per day, or from
4Y% Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl. 3002, 3599.
V*
ofJjrisJSane)
i S s. / v <
Hotel Carlton
The most- comfortable
and best equipped
Hotel in Queensland
situated in the heart
of Brisbane it affords easy access
to commercial, shipping and shopp-
ing centres, theatres, railway ter-
mini, botanical gardens, museum,
artgallery. etc. £14,000 have recently
been spent on modernising Hotel
Carlton. Unmatchable cuisine,
every comfort and modern conveni-
ence. Newest American Bar.
Write for Particularsl
11
THE STORM KING
LANTERN.
350 Candle-
power.
Burns Benzine. Simple and Safe.
Wind- and Rain-proof. Price, 65/-
Also I able Lamps and Comfort Irons.
Send for illus. pamphlet— Lux Light
Co., 495 Collins Street Melbourne.
Have you
ridden a
B.S.A. ?
The real test of a motor
bicycle is only applied by
actual riding. The many
refinements and the quality
of workmanship embodied
in a B. S. A. cannot be
thoroughly appreciated
with a casual, or even a
studied examination of the
machine.
MOTOR
BICYCLES
are thoroughly British and have
by their continued reliability under
all conditions established a repu-
tation which is respected through-
out the world.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
FREE ON REQUEST FROM
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Illustration shows the B.S.A. 41 h.p.
Motor Bicycle with No. 3 Sidecar
i
Agents : BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sydney
df
Manufacturing' Economy.
The difference between efficiency and inefficiency in machinery
is often no more nor less than the difference between ball
bearings and plain bearings.
SKI 7
BALL BEARINGS
Reduce Power Consumption,
because they cut out friction and assure efficient running
without waste of energy. Plain bearings use more power,
because their own undue friction needs to be overcome.
Write for our Pamphlet
“Save Money—Turn Friction Into Power.”
GARDNER, WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
Head Office: 384 City Road. South Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
DISTRIBUTING CENTRES ALSO AT:—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone
(W.A.), Limited, 37 King: Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis. Ltd.
LAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides,
York Street.
77
8822/1.
A
The 24/60 6-cylinder
SUNBEAM
4-seater Touring
Model.
Authorised Dealers:
WILLIAMS BROTHERS,
822 George Street,
SYDNEY.
THE AUTOCAR INDUS-
TRIES PTY., LTD.,
104-112 Russell Street,
MELBOURNE.
HOWARD MOTOR CO.,
LTD.,
376-378 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
“The feel of Quality”
That indefinable feeling which is particularly
noticeable in the latest Sunbeam Models, as
evidenced by the following opinions of “Men
who know”:—
The Autocar :—“There is no doubt that the six-
cylinder SUNBEAM oar is a distinct advance on the
previous model, good as that was. The flexibility of the
engine is as remarkable as its silence of running, and
although the car is decidedly fast, it behaves with the
utmost docility.”
The Motor: —“The side valve six-cylinder SUNBEAM,
of which we gave our impressions about 12 months ago,
was undoubtedly a good car, but the present overhead
valve model is far and away superior to it. Than this
there could, perhaps, be very little higher praise.”
vuvasNns
3lAl3ddnS 3HI
Mail for Particulars :
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD., Wolverhampton, England.
Export Dept.: 12 PRINCES STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.l.
Cable Address — “Subeamoco,” London.
AND AT NEW YORK.
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
REDUCED PRICES
Alt Parts Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability install a Kermath.
Factory Representatives:—
FAIRBANKS MORSE CO. (AUSTRALASIA), LTD.,
25-27 Clarence Street Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
k Kermath Manufacturing Co, Detroit. MiduUSA A
Cable Address -KERMATH “
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F. 0.8. Detroit
Mich., U. S. A.
g
\ou fill if
Just-so!
fomoatj f&eieaft
LEVER C/ FILLER
PEN
British Made.
Sold by all Stationers and
Jewellers —
from 7/6 to 35/-
[2
The United Commercial Travellers’ Asso-
ciation of Australia is running another of
its Children’s Portraits’ competition in
Australia To-day. Anyone with a really
beautiful little girl may win a fiver if her
attractions happen to catch the judge’s eye,
and a similar handy sum is being offered for
the best-looking bov.
"J.H.” (London) : London Evening
News claims to have found the man who
helped to build Melbourne’s first house. He
is—or, rather, was, for he has just died
at the age of 89 —one James Hall. He
went out to the Speck in 1857, and wan-
dered thence to the Ballarat gold diggings,
where he found it more profitable to sell
timber to the mines than to bother about
looking for gold. He returned to England
in 1890. and settled down at Whitwell in
a house he named Melbourne, where he lived
till his death.
“Y.K.”: There are three Masters of En-
gineering of the Sydney University, and two
of them are in the N.S.W. State service. One
is H. H. Dare, head of the Water Com-
mission, and the other J. C. Bradfeeld, who
has been to U.S.A., London and other places
to tell them how to tender for the North
Shore bridge. The third, who belongs to
the tweed Vicars family, is on a better thing
as a consultant.
“Frinigga” : A quaint bill, lately introduced
into the tJ.S.A. Federal Legislature, forbids
any showman, whether at pageant, carnival
or stage performance, to allow anybody to
“impersonate a king or queen, or do any-
thing to keep before the minds of the public
the idea of royalty in a laudatory manner.”
There is . not much chance of its becoming
law. If it did, one can see some lovely law-
suits to settle whether the word “laudatory”
applies to the whole clause, and if so whether
royalty in “King Lear,” “If I Were King,”
“Louis XI.” or “The Prisoner of Zenda,” is
made a mock of, and, therefore, remains
allowable.
Thoughts of an industrial veteran:—
In Melbourne, last week, a dairy-produce dealer was
fined £lO for having been abroad in his business
vehicle, in a Richmond street, at the hour of 7 p.m.,
when a number of people were presumably looking
for his sort of goods. A watchful factory inspector
produced evidence that this was the culprit’s fifth
summons for similar offences. Granted that he was
stealing a march on shopkeepers who are compelled
to close at 6, I fancy there’s a flaw in the justice
of punishing an individual for working willingly as
hard as he can whilst public opinion cries out against
“ca’ canny.” Lots of citizens earn their living 15 hours
a day if they choose. Many doctors and journalists,
for instance, must often work after 6 p.m. Their
income depends on their being quite as industrious
as the produce-dealer who was fined £lO for supply-
ing a public want after sunset. Lawyers, hospital
nurses, wives in domestic servitude, architects
and policemen follow their respective callings
in private or public for more hours at a stretch than
any law-protected industrialist is expected to work —
or go slow —in. In which fact one finds cause for
the rankling animosity that militant trades-unionism
bears towards the free-lance. There must ever be veiled
enmity, I think, between brain-workers, whose minds
refuse to go slow in order to spin the job out, or to
stop when a whistle blows, and those others who
regard persistent industry as an offence.
Less than a year ago Genevieve Ward,
who died last week at 85, played one of her
old Shakspearean parts at the “Old Vic.,”
London ; and a host of critics who admired
her pluck declared politely that she was
“as good as ever.” Anyhow, for the ancient
lady to have walked the boards and spoken
the lines was alone a great performance.
She began as an operatic artist, but
injured her voice when barely 20.
still, having strong histrionic talent, sht
made good as a tragedienne. Many Aus-
tralian theatre-goers of the ’eighties retain
enthusiastic memories of the wonderful
woman, whose art was mellowed by maturity
when they saw her.
“T.W.”: What troubles me most about the
allegation that Jews serving with the Allied
Forces were given a dispensation to eat
pork (B. 10/8/’22) is to know which army
provided the pigs. Meat rations on all
fronts never went beyond beef or mutton,
but, of course, bacon was provided in the
British forces out of the extra messing
allowance. One battalion I served with in
Blighty had a platoon of conscript Hebrews
allotted to it for training, and when bacon
was the breakfast dish a special dSlicatesse
was got for them. As for pork, how many
of the Allies’ soldiers saw a bit of fresh pig
from beginning to end of their service, unless
they “scrownged” it?
“R.D.”: Not long ago London’s “Old
Vic.,” which for years has been giving first-
class performances of Shakspeare and other
classics, announced that it would close unless
financial support was forthcoming. The
amount mentioned was £30,000, and the
dramatic critic of the Observer started a
campaign to raise it by shilling subscriptions.
A slow trickle began, but it looked as if the
“Vic.” would pass out before sufficient nour-
ishment arrived, when an anonymous donor
forked out the full amount. The modest
person now proves to be Lord Astor, the
Anglo-American, .who tried to establish grand
opera in London on a lavish scale, and came
a cropper. For some years the big opera
house he built in Kingsway has remained a
white elephant, eating its head off in rates.
The Yankee peer has a conscience, though,
and seems determined to pay with overplus
for his peerage. What a pity our profiteer
knights don’t act in similar fashion!
“Pom-dig.”: The following literary gem
from a fond parent helped to brighten a
Richmond (Vic.) teacher’s morning the
other day :
Dear Sir, —Please excuse Johnny for npt attending
school yesterday as he was too ill to eoirfe. He had
violent toothache in the a.m. and severe pains in
the p.m. Hoping this will be alright to you.
Yours, .
“Bee-line”: A Harden (N.S.W.) man
recently wagered that he would despatch a
telegram to Murrumburrah, give it an hour’s
start and beat it on foot by an .hour. He
won with 40 minutes to spare. Here’s why.
Though Harden and Murrumburrah are only
three-quarters of a mile apart (practically
one town) telegrams travel via Goulburn,
Sydney and Cootamundra, about 600 miles.
Lhey are handled eight times, once each at
Harden and Murrumburrah and twice (in
and out) at the three relay stations. If
there’s anything in the world to beat it for
circumlocution the people in that part of
the Mother State would like to have the
insanity indicated.


IESSOP'S
%J ® STEEL
Forgings can be
supplied in the
Rough, Rough
Turned, or finish
machined to fine
limits ready for
assembly, for
Railway, Mining,
or any other
purposes.
For Forgings that Must
Stand Exceptional Wear
Steels of proved wear-resisting qualities
are the best in the long run —and that s
just the kind of steels that Jessop’s have
been making for the past 15 0 years.
Jessop’s Steels are full of “body,” are
consistently good throughout, and are
perfectly graded for a specific purpose.
Por Forgings that must be really sound
and reliable —for any purpose —there are
no finer steels obtainable than Jessop s.
Let Jessop’s supply YOU.
MAULER § QUEREAU,
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
406 COLLINS STREET,
Agents for
WM. JESSOP & SONS, LTD .
Sheffield.
MELBOURNE
England.
TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
n
a_
§>
&
At
<
©
1
COMPRESSION
COMPRESSION good? Of course:
that’s the sort of thing you take for
granted. As soon as you have cause to
doubt your compression you’re likely to
get an uncomfortable feeling about the
whole engine.
Doubtful compression will knock half
the joy out of driving any car.
But there’s no real excuse for it. When
your cylinder walls become “gummed up,”
when carbon gets in the way, there’s
generally just one cause —faulty lubrica-
tion.
riIEXACO MOTOR OIL maintains
JL perfect compression because it has
the necessary stamina to resist the tre-
mendous temperature; and it does keep
your cylinder free from hard carbon.
Texaco Motor Oil lubricates your cylin-
der wall with a smooth film that holds
the compression as the pistou rings slide
up and down. Your engine power de-
pends on that compression.
Use Texaco Motor Oil and get the power
you are entitled to; take your compres-
sion fdr granted.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.,
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY.
TEXACO
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
□(
LBEEL
IDcwf, rasi in
pur -Melbourne Vozmdry
BELLS.
B
ELL casting is an important part of our
business, and we can supply bells of
suitable weight and correct tone-value
for Churches, Schools, Fire Brigades, Ships,
Factories and Memorials. Genuine Bell Metal
is used to ensure the real bell tone, and special
bells can be cast for particular purposes.
For many years past our bells have been
used in various parts of the Commonwealth
and the Islands. Sizes range from Bin. to 36in.
in diameter, and weigh from about 201 b. to
half-a-ton. Angle Steel Towers are supplied
for use where belfries are not available.
/
Being made by Australian craftsmen, our
bells are promptly delivered —free from over-
seas freight and duty charges. An illustrated
leaflet and price list will be gladly sent post
free on request.
3 24-330 P lit iS i. Syd-TL'ey
391 “403 Bocirke Si. Melbourne


A. Saunders' Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, highly burnished, 60/-
: -
: . ;
III:
A, Saunders’ Fern Pot, pure Silver-plated, Ai
quality, highly burnished, 70/-
A. Saunders Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Dish, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Glass lining, 65/-
QUALITY” SILVER-PLATE.
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly
burnished, £B/10/-
Write for
Catalogue.
We Pay
Postage.
A. Saunders’ b lower Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
detachable tubes, £lO/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,Bos-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opp. Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ Four-Cup Egg Stand and Spoons, pure
-Silver-plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, 84/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Coffee Set and Tray, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
hand burnished and fluted, Ebony Handles to pots, £l5,
'-m
///'
Vvv
m
it
ii immobile
Almost any motor car might render
good service to an expert mechanic.
But Hupmobiles are made for people
who enjoy using a motor car more than
they do “tinkering” with it.
nj?,
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth
Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY. LIMITED,
112-120 Pirie Street. Adelaide, S. Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD.,
Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED,
437 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DUNCAN, LOANE, West Devonport, Tas.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE
ASSOC., Christchurch, N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION Welling-
ton, N.Z.


Amusements.
[Yl> N E Y’S CHIEF TIIEAT II E S.
* J. C. WILLIAMSON', LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S: A NIGHT OUT.
CRITERION:
AMBROSE APPLE JOHN'S ADVEN-
TURE.
ROYAL: THE PEEP SHOW.
PALACE: KING JOHN.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAKEAN
PRODUCTIONS
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
“Better than Tatis.”
(and all others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
Id aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.
“ The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States*
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more, Post Free.
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your 5/1
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at .£4OOO.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative effort
Ticke's can be obtained from any Hairdresser
and Tobacconist in New outh Wales, and ell
branches of the N .W. Bookstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from —
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon. Sec .
Cadzow. Warrega-street. Katoomba.
Isn’t Vacation
Wonderful?
It would be wonderful if every
man could enjoy his introduction
to Mennen Shaving Cream on his
vacation —out in the open.
He’d get up when he felt like it
—no worry, no hours, no boss.
A bucket of water from the pond
—a rock to sit on where he could
watch the clouds drift over the
tree tops —then Mennen’s.
He’d be startled to find that cold
water works as well as hot, but the
crowning moment would be when
the razor starts clearing away the
underbrush. No sensation of cut-
ting—more like a gentle caress.
And afterwards, his face would
feel so balmy that his shaving
habits would be fixed —Mennen’s
forever!
U t Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. f LTD.
249 George Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOCBNE
ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
THE MERRY WIDOW.
K
THEATRE ROYAL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
PARLOR, BEDROOM AND BATH.
I ISO'S THEATRE, M IS LliOfi R N L
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
THE LIE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
ALACK THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN & J. FULLER. LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
TWENTY-FIRST WEEK ON SATURDAY.
THE GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: “Better than the best.’’
ADA REEVE.
“The Favorite of all the World.’’
SUPPORTED BY HER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
MatineGs Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Direction
E. J. GRAVESTOCK.
E-APPEARANCE
ROSINA BUCKMAN,
THE WORLD-FAMOUS PIUMA DONNA ;
also
MAURICE D’OISLY,
THE POPULAR ENGLISH TENOR.
O F
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SEPTEMBER 16, 19, 21, 23, 26.
H
OITS THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
FRANK MAYO in
ACROSS THE DEADLINE.
WITHOUT BENEFIT OF CLERGY.
BY HUDYARD KIPLING.
Prices as usual.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ANITA STEWART in
THE INVISIBLE FEAR.
B
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
|y| ELBA
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
! WORLD and SELZNICK. ■
Legal Notice.
[N THE SUPREME COURT OF TAS-
MANIA.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
To LOUISA FLORENCE JONES late
>f Devonport in Tasmania wife of William
Edward Jones of Smithton in Tasmania
iforesaid laborer AND TO FREDERICK
[TEMPLAR also late of Devonport aforesaid.
WHEREAS a Citation has been issued
>ut of the Supreme Court of Tasmania citing
mu to appear and answer the Petition of
:he said William Edward Jones wherein he
jrays for a dissolution of his marriage
NOW THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that
,vithin thirty days after the seventh day of
September One Thousand Nine hundred and
I'wenty-two the last date fixed for the publi-
cation'hereof you are to appear in our said
Dourt then and there to make answer to
he said Petition which may be inspected
ind a copy thereof obtained by you upon
ipplication at the Office of the Registrar of
he Supreme Court at Hobart in Tasmania
\ND ALSO TAKE NOTICE that in default
>f your appearing to answer the said Peti-
tion as aforesaid our said Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said charge proved in
lue course of law and to pronounce
sentence therein your absence notwith-
standing AND TAKE NOTICE that for
Hie purpose aforesaid you are within Thirty
Days from the said seventh day of September
One Thousand Nine hundred and Twenty-
two to attend in person or by your Solicitor
at the Registfv of our said- Court m Mac-
quarie Street Hobart in Tasmania and enter
an Appearance in a book provided for that,
purpose Your appearance to the Citation
must give an address at some place within
five miles of the office of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania at Hobart at which address
proceedings and notices for you may be left.
Dated at Hobart in Tasmania this Eigh-
teenth. day of August One Thousand Nine
Hundred and Twenty-two,
(Sgd.) W. O. WISE.
Registrar of the Supreme Court.
JOHN HENDERSON HENRY', of Rooke
Street, Devonport, in Tasmania, Proctor for
the Petitioner.
* A I • J rtfc® 2
$ i m
y»»* \
V, ? ' ' \\ \ '
mm
S<&£ SeJkfcf*
YOU can no more shake a drop of ink out of an
On oto Pen once you have closed it than
you can shake a letter out of a Pillar
Box. The Onoto cannot leak. It fills
itself in a flash from any ink supply
and cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO. LTD.
110 Bunhiil Row. London, E.C. 1.
Representatives: Norman Baker & Longhurst
50 York Street, Sydney.
ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
For Sale.
TV/rODERN HOME AT LINDFIELD, North Shore
IVI Heights, Sydney, N.S.W. Lindfield is the suburb
of beautiful homes amidst ideal surroundings. Won-
derful natural scenery, great parks and reserves,
delightful air. Close to the city—improved train
sendees—modern conveniences. Advertiser has a
newly-finished bungalow, complete with every facility
for home comfort. This can be purchased direct to
advantage. No agents com. —no delay. Immediate
possession.
Apply to Mrs. A. M. EATON, P. 0., Lindfield.
Missing: Friends.
WILL JOHN R. HAMILTON, who was
Special Constable attached No. <
Station, Red fern, about July, 1921, immedi-
ately communicate with the undersigned. Ur
any person knowing the whereabouts of Mr.
Hamilton will oblige by communicating with
WILLIAM H. DREW, Solicitor, 110 1 itt
Street, Sydney.
The Finest Blade Made!
BECAUSE it is cut with the grain
from Sheffield’s best Crucible
Tungsten Steel it is less
liable to breakage. Note
that —guaranteed Tung-
sten —the most ser-
viceable blade that
fdg
money can buy.
We make
Balfour’s \|
Tungsten Hacksaw Blades N
in our own Sheffield works and guarantee the highest
Hacksaw blade service. We can supply various lengths,
widths and gauges for Hand and Power work. Send a
trial order and state number of teeth required per inch.
Ask for “Balfour’s Hints on Steel,” post free.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD.,
Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
378-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Mel-
bourne; Cliff Street, Fremantle; 40 Boulder Road, Kal-
goorlie; Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street. Newcastle; R. L.
Milligan, 82a Argyle Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews,
34-36 Charlotte Street, Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd.,
88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
INCREASE YOUR INCOME.
Take up a course at STOTT’S TO-DAY.
The cost is small; the PROFIT is great.
Thousands of our students are earning MORE MONEY.
Among our courses of study are the following:—
TECHNICAL:
Civil Engineering:,
Electrical Engineering,
Mechanical and Steam Engineering,
Mechanical Draughtmanship,
Surveying,
Shire Engineering,
Architectural Draughtsmanship,
AGRICULTURAL: Bee Culture, Dairy
“Wireless" Telegraphy,
Building Construction,
Motor Mechanics.
COMMERCIAL:
Accountancy,
Bookkeeping,
Commercial Law,
Farming, Soils and Ensilage,
Journalism,
Story Writing:,
Salesmanship,
Advertising,
Shorthand,
Typewriting,
Commercial Art.
Orchard Management,
Poultry Raising. , .
Our Highly-qualified Instructors Coach for all Public Examinations.
Every person lias the opportunity to devote some time each week to a course of piofitable
study. Send to-day for our Booklet, “Careers.”
STOTT’S TECHNICAL CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
(Backed by 37 years’ practical experience),
70 Pitt Street, Sydney. 100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Hand-made from Hlghest-grade Havana Filler.
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY.
Special sampling cabinet containing:
10 Cigars, 6|« ; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9? 100, 46/=
POST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
fd
g
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club*Roil Cigar Factory.
THE MEW SOUTH WALES CHAMBER OF MANUFACTURES.
All - Australian Exhibition
To be held at the Royal Agricultural Society’s Show Ground
from October 7 to November 18, 1922.
MUSICAL COMPETITIONS.
In order to encourage the development of Australian Musical Talent a series
of Vocal Pianoforte and Violin Competitions will be held during the Eixhibition,
and Prizes to the value of £4OO will be awarded to the successful competitors.
A Special Prize of £lOO
will be given towards the expenses of the future musical training at the
Conservatorium of the most talented student m the local Competitions.
A similar Prize (donated by Beale & Co., Ltd.), for the most talented student
in the Pianoforte Competitions. . . , „ ■ ' ,
In addition to the Solo, Duet and Quartette Competitions, there will Also be
a Choral Competition of not less than 35 voices. First Prize £42, Second Inze
p ar t-Song of Competitors’ own selection. First Prize £lO/10/-,
Second Competition for bona-fide Church Choirs of not less than 25 v Dices.
First Prize £2l, Second Prize £lO/10/- f
The whole of the events are restricted to amateurs, bona-fide residents ot, ana
domiciled in, Australia. . . „ .
The definition of amateur shall be one who lias not received a fee foi sei vice
rendered in any class for which he or she may enter. The only exeinption V■
this definition will be in favor of those who luave received a fee for taking p ait
U Full particulars'-(including selections) and Entry Forms can be obtained
on application to
The Secretary. . ,
New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.


32 34 36 38 40 42 44
12/- 12/- 13/- 14/- 15/- 16/-
For Spring and Summer.
Those men who prefer Woollen Underwear throughout
the warm weather will thoroughly appreciate
PEAPES’ “WARRIGAL” UNDERWEAR
comfortable 61 * Weigllts —P° rous > absorbent, protective, very
AAISB—P u r e
Natural Wool
Undershirts,
i-sleeves
AAISB Under-
pants to match.
Full length 13/6 13/6 14/- 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
AAISBB —Trunk
Drawers to match 13/- 13/- 13/6 14/- 15/- 16/- 17/-
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for a copy of Peapes’ New
Catalogue, now on thg printing-press.
r
M
£ i
i
King George IV
M WHISKY
The TOP NOTCH scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hfh Majesty’s “A Nieht Out”
Criterion “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adventure”
Royal “The Peep Show”
Palace “King John”
lion's Moving Pictures
- MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow"
Hoyal “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath”
Palace “Spangles’*
£ ING 'S “The Lie”
Majestic ...» Moving Pictures
Mklba Moving Pictures
ijBiTANNiA Moving Pictures
Hoyt's.. Moving Pictures
lown Hall Bosina Buckman Concerts
Rosina Buckman and Maurice D’Oisly,
ljot absurdly over-rated in preliminary pub-
licity paragraphs, come up to expectation as
concert artists at Melbourne Town Hall.
The lady, whilst expanding physically almost
beyond recognition of the Miss Buckman
who sang with Melba in opera, just 11 years
ago, has expanded vocally and dramatically.
She has a tine, strong soprano, with which
she does not attempt to “do wonders”
in a coloratura way. Her intonation is
ever true, whilst her enunciation keeps one
interested in the words of whatever she is
warbling. Also, she puts genuine force,
rather than the pretence of it, into her deli-
very of dramatic passages. Her interpreta-
tion, on Saturday, of Santuzza’s Aria from
‘Cavalleria”—the statement of her misery
to Turiddu’s mother—placed her on first-
class , terms with the audience, and Mimi’s
introductory song from “Boh&me” confirmed
everybody’s good opinion of her. Among
the encores ?he sang Musetta’s air from
“Bohfeme,” one of her old operatic-stage suc-
cesses, and was thrilling in a song ‘in the
Maori language, presumably one of Alfred
Hill’s. Her last number on the programme
was the bedroom-scene duet with Maurice
D’Oisly from Gounod’s “Romeo and Juliet,”
after which they encored in the Miserere from
“Troyatore,” where the sympathetic tenor
was, perhaps, more impressive than the
prima donna, seeing that Rosina Buckman
can hardly be included among the very shrill
and high order of soprani who are most at
home'as Leonora. D’Oisly, on the concert
platform, is a comparatively better artist
than he was on the' stage. Lots of tenors
could put him into the shade as Faust, but
very few could outshine him in his favorite
French songs and songlets. Everything nice
can be said of Percy Kahn, the pianoforte
accompanist, except that an Ave Maria com-
posed by him was worth the trouble, con-
sidering how full the world is of Aves more
melodious. Of Adeliua Leon, who plays the
’cello, it can only be said that she takes
most things at a snail’s pace, and, not having
a rich tone, is truly depressing to some
people. But she gets her share of encores
from audiences that seemingly measure their
entertainment by the yard.
* * sjs
Last Friday evening in Melbourne was
calculated to keep the home fires burning,
but still a good crowd turned out to hear
Paul Altliouse and Arthur Middleton at the
Town Hall, Althouse, the tenor, who has a
dramatic top note, gave a sort of panoramic
view of the voice in a favorite aria from
“Aida.” It was a great bit of singing, ren-
dered with all the verve of a gala night in
fine company, and it stirred the audience to
frantic applause. Warbling later on with
lowered intensity, he revealed all the precious
musical contours of Cui’s “Enfant si j’etais
roi,” Holmes’s “Chevalier Belle Etoile,”
Martin’s “Minstrel,” Novello’s “Page’s Road
Song,” and several more, getting also his
share of recognition in the duet with his
portly companion in an excerpt from the
first act of “Faust.” In this item, sung in
English, the effect was immense, and made
everyone yearn to see the two in character
with a’full orchestra chiming in. Middleton,
who seems a more conscientious artist, found
some exercise for his shapely bass in the
popular old “Largo al Factotum” from Ros-
sini s “Barber of Seville.” Once or twice
the diction suffered from the pace of the air,
but the big man’s gay spirit and effortless
delivery compensated for those small short-
enings. He was also good in “I Am a
Roamer Bold” (Mendelssohn), and even in
descending to the thin bathos of “Ma Lil’
Banjo” liis vocal work was unimpeachable.
An even larger bouquet was earned by his
idea of “The Bellman,” a quaint song with
a fetching pianissimo finish. Rudolph Gruen
also deserves a word for his striking accom-
paniments. His touch is perfect, and he has
the rare ability of keeping his instrument
sympathetic with the tone of the singer. In
fact, no accompanist as competent and un-
obtrusive has appeared in Melbourne for a
very long time.
** * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s there are only
two more opportunities for marvelling at
the difference between the sweetly rasonable
Court costume of Gladys Moncrieff, the
Naughty Princess, and the crazy outfit of
Ethel Morrison, as her Highness’s naughtier
duenna. On Saturday comes the revival of
“The Merry Widow,” with Gladys in the
name-part, and a rest of the cast that has
several promising features. On the same
night “The Lie,” by Henry A. Jones, dis-
places “My Lady’s Dress,” at Melbourne
King’s, where Emelie Polini and Frank Har-
vey will appear as only one person apiece
instead of two various assortments of indi-
viduals.
** * *
The J.C.W. theatres in Melbourne are
putting up each a change of bill on Satur-
day this week, or next. Even the unartless
suggestion of a young woman discovered in
the act of bathing does not pack the Royal
with earnest patrons of the drama, and,
where the Bath failed, nothing in the Parlor
or Bedroom was likely to burst the paybox.
Louis Bennison will return to the Royal on
the 9th in his capacity of “The Great Lover.”
This Saturday afternoon Melbourne
Majesty’s will see the last of Melba ere she
departs on periodical travels. Dame
Nellie is to appear in scenes from opera, on
behalf of the Soldiers’ War Memorial Fund.
The performance starts at the unusual hour
0f'2..45, under the business management of
George 'Allan and Lemmone.
** * *
“Spangles,” at. Melbourne P’alace, touches
the 160-mark this week, and the date of
Ada Reeve’s boshter benefit for the Limb-
less Soldiers’ Association is about to be
announced.
Hovt’s Lyceum, Melbourne, which is now
advertising 3000 seats for 9d., has Douglas
Fairbanks in action in “The Mark of Zoro,”
a young and early narrative of California,
wherein Doug’s weapons are rarely at rest.
On the same sheet Frank Mayo gets “Across
the Dead Line,” in a similarly violent man-
ner. Joseph C. Lincoln’s “Partners of the
Tide” appears in film form at Hoyt’s De
Luxe, where, also, Kipling’s “Without Benefit
of Clergy” flutters through to a romantic
conclusion. The Majestic’s main figure is
asking “Where Is My Wandering Boy To-
night?” after he has bolted with a rural
storekeeper’s cash to finance a Past with a
citv siren. Corinne Griffith is also present
in a mixture of melodrama and a mannequin
parade.entitled “The Single Track.” “Money
to Burn,” at the Melba, looks like deliberate
arson on the. part of the chief character,
William Russell. The Britannia is pictur-
ing a version of “Milestones” in a flagrantly
spectacular style.
sp * *
From Stewart Macky :
I can appreciate most of the points raised by your
Melbourne critic in his account of “John Blake”
(B. 17/8/’22). But in one line of argument I
can’t follow him. He starts off by calling my play
a “doleful drama.” Later on he says that with pad-
ding it would make, for thoughtful people, a better
drama than any version of “For the Term of His
Natural Life.” 1 have thought over it, but I can’t
make out whether his pen slipped when he wrote
“doleful drama,” or whether he considers melodrama
an improvement on drama, or whether he draws no
distinction between melodrama and drama, or— what?
“KINO JOHN." AT SYDNEY PALACE.
Wm. Lockhart as Cardinal Pandolph.
But surely it is important to draw a distinction.
I am no critic, or the son of a critic, but I suggest
this as a criterion: that a play can be justly labelled
melodrama when its action does not rise truly out
of character, but is governed entirely by the demands
of effect and situation. Of course, the dividing-line
is notoriously hazy: every schoolboy knows that
a good tragedy hovers perilously close to the brink
of melodrama. Does your critic mean that I am
over the edge, or does he use melodrama, not as a
term of contempt, but with a new and subtler
meaning?
# * * *
The Adelaide public came resolutely at
the Royal season of Gilbert and Sullivan;
and there was one performance of “Merrie
England,” for which Gilbert got Edward
German to write the music after his historic
quarrel with Sullivan over a new carpet.
“The Great Lover” follows. Fullers are
moving their variety show co. from the
King’s to the Majestic, which has for some
time been closed; and the melodrama co.
goes to the King’s from the larger Prince
of Wales. In pictures, the modern fancy
Count Filip ini, the operatic baritone, at
Fullers' New Theatre, Sydney.
for desert sand with slave-girls and sheiks
is being worked on by West’s with “Arabian
Love.’’ The York counters with a “Love
Flower,” Katherine MacDonald “looking-
death in the eye” in the South Seas. The
Grand goes to extremes with Eugene
O’Brien in the Canadian Rockies. Wonder-
graph stays in the city with an alleged
“morality” play. Mary Bickford is again
and everlastingly “Through the Back Door”
at the Pav., and Frank Hurley’s delightful
pictures from real life, “Pearls and Sav-
ages,” are having a run at the Town Hall.
*❖ * *
Allan Wilkie claims credit for re-introduc-
ing “King John” to Australian playgoers after
a lapse of half-a-century or so. To renew
acquaintance with the dingy-charactered
monarch at Sydney Palace is to discover
more reasons why he has been buried for
so long than why he should now be exhumed.
The play lacks grip and ginger. For every
pennyworth of fine patriotic sentiment there
is an intolerable deal of turgid declamation.
No particularly stimulating character
prances around barring Philip the Bastard.
Prince Arthur is no more than appealingly
pathetic; John is a composite of bad or
mean qualities which never raise him even
to the level of a successful knave. There is
a shortage of comedy to offset the harrowing,
except for the little supplied b.y the afore-
said Philip’s broad comments on his own
parentage. Finally, a play that specialises
in battles and sieges and courts and rival
kings exchanging defiances or compliments,
to have any verisimilitude, needs something
epic in the way of staging and scenery.
Lacking such imagination as accepts unhesi-
tatingly the proposition that “I, one Snout,
do represent a wall,” one might be better at
home renewing one’s impressions of the
bard from a book.
Allan Wilkie’s King John proved to
be a red-haired-and-whiskered potentate.
With the necessary alteration in rai-
ment. he would have done for Judas
Iscariot, in an Ober-Ammergau pas-
sion play. But the actor managed to infuse
some smack of kingliness into him, and if
no less rascally he was at least a somewhat
sturdier ruffian than the John of the history
books. Hilda Dorrington, as Arthur’s
mother, was quietly powerful, with no
ripped-up passions in her tragedy. Vera St.
John played the ill-starred Prince with
boyish grace and clinging appeal. Lorna
Forbes, as Queen Elinor, like many of the
older school of actresses, could give points
in enunciation to her juniors. Leslie Man-
ners, as. Philip the Bastard (Sir Richard
Plantage.net), breathed 13th-century English
force and robustness. Fred Macdonald, as
Hubert de Burgh, was torn by various emo-
tions with a quiet restraint that was pro-
bably as effective as his Elizabethan pre-
decessors found abandonment and noise. The
earls and warriors and foreign notables and
persons who marched around waving ban-
ners or weighted down with ironmongery left
little to be desired. Whatever its demerits
the show was, anyhow, a most gratifying
change from mystery plays and bedroom
farces.
Wc 3 Georgie Wood, at Sydney Tivoli, con-
j saow a masculine preference for
the bloody career of a “Black Hand” in pre-
rerence to that of a May-time nut gatherer,
.ere is not a false note in his study, which
is an artistic creation, pure and simple.
Minor attractions comprise patter-merchants,
dancers, warblers and acrobats, all of more
than passable quality. And there is a lady
'7* 5 ~m ? the questionable honor of being
Australia s champion xylophonist.”
* ns * *
Ihe Bat” takes wing from Sydney Cri-
terion to-night. On Saturday the curtain
will on “Ambrose Applejohn’s Adven-
ture, with Lawrence Grossmith, a name
endeared to two generations of Londoners,
in the title part. The adventurous Ambrose
comes well-credentialled as a house-filler.
** * *
Some of the sadness of farewell will en-
velop Her Majesty’s, Sydney, next week,
when "A Night Out” gives its final kicks,
ihe atmosphere will be one of au revoir for
Maud Fane and the other talented members
of J.C.W.’s New English Comedy compare
while Alfred Frith will be farewelled—he
leaves for England almost immediately, and
should take with him enough good wishes
and pleasant memories to fill a Saratoga
trunk.
** * *
"The Peep Show” pursues its gorgeous
career at Sydney Royal. It is a feast of
many courses that makes the average play-
goer’s less varied fare look like a bit of
corned-beef and a doughboy iu comparison.
** * *
Maurice Hewlett’s “The Spanish Jade,” is
cramming Sydney Lyceum. David Powell,
<is Gil Perez, is the chief draw. “Hit the
Trail Holliday,” a Prohibition-propaganda
lilm, is the fill-up. The vivacious Connie
Talmadge yearns for a cave-man lover at
the Rialto—and gets him. “Lavender and
Old Lace” figures on the Haymarket calico
•sheet. Hoyt’s have a real draw in “Shame,”
featuring Bill Farnum. There are eight
acts in the uproar and battalions of splay-
footed John Hops. Coming to the Globe,
next Saturday, is “Over the Hill,” in pre-
paration for which tearful item the manage-
ment has had the theatre’s pumps thoroughly
overhauled. Nellie Stewart is to figure in
the prologue.
** * *
From an Australian in London :
I’ve spent the last couple of da3's in the Academy.
Though the exhibition has been open two months the
b'K place was crowded. There is, in portraiture, a
vast difference between the older and the younger
schools of moderns, and it’s all in. favor of the
younger men. Orpen is the outstanding man of that
lot. In one gallery there is an Orpen alongside a
Sargent. The other is just smooth and pretty-
pretty—there are no warts on his Cromwells. Augustus
John seems to have calmed down a lot, but there
is still a touch of caricature in his portraits: you
don’t want to look at him nearer than the other
side of the gallery. The only Australian showing a
portrait is Quinn, and his example is quite in the
first class, allowing that you can put six or eight
men there. Colin Colahan has a little thing which
is rather badly hung in a corner—a study of flowers
and vases and all that. Hans Heysen’s “Harrowing”
is welT hung, and has his usual faithful color; but
I do wish he hadn’t put the sower on the skyline
of his undulating field. Streeton’s picture, “presented
by the women of N. S. Wales” to the little Princess,
has a good place. In its surroundings it doesn’t
seem anything special. Griiner has “Sun and Shade
in Australia”—full of Australian color, but not much
of an advertisement for the Australian farmer, and
I don’t think the immigration branch of Joe Cook’s
department will buy it. There are not many spots
in the Galleries, but Blamire Young’s “Oporto” has
one of them, and deserves it. The foreground is
especially well handled. Leist and Dora Meeson
and Withers are also exhibitors. Syd Long has an
etching, but like so many etchers seems to have a
profound affection for the unbeautiful.
The place of honor in the current (August)
number of Abt in Australia is given to
Norman Lindsay. His magnificent etching,
Miconiicon,” and his hardly less beautiful
Unknown Seas” appear on opposite pages
in the middle of the book. The color-repro-
ductions, which are up to the standard of
anything done hitherto by this firm—and that
is to say, of course, in Australia —include
one of Thea _ Proctor’s fans; Simon’s “Les
Courses,” which was acquired, a couple of
years ago, by the National Art Gallery of
j and a blue-and-gold idealisation of
Middle Harbor at the Spit, by Penleigh
Boyd. On the whole, the number is stronger
on the literary side than any of its pre-
decessors, though it contains no poetry.
is an imaginative thing, “The Dawa-
mesk,” done in splendidly simple prose by
Hugh McCrae; and Norman Lindsay directs
a battery of bludgeoning epigrams at the
moderns he detests, under the heading, “The
Quick and the Dead.” Altogether, the reader
is offered, for six shillings, a more ornate
and interesting volume than was put out for
double that sum a year ago. A feature is
Arthur McQuitty’s exquisite printing: it is
itself art of a high order.


V--
; x -
-1 I
/v
. ' : nWs
* •:
• .._>
%
r’v'i:
111
1
I /
EW
w
tn
■
mMt, $&;%//! -- ''%W?
Wuam
.
•■/. - :
yy ys. m
■ , '' ;'.;v;: : -v-
BARNET GLASS
ALL STATES Er DEW ZEALAND
BAR-
TREAD
TYRES
• *
MILES "
CHEAPER.
W AND
AUSTRALIAN


CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
BLEACHING POWDER, 33%.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVIDLE, VICTORIA.
m
“VALLO”
WEED, SCRUB&TREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
m
“VAJjLiO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In rowder Form —Mixes Readily in Gold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; £lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State: lib., 9d.; lib. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; 11b., Bd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
POVERTY
POINT
“Gnarek” : I can’t see why Marie Lloyd’s
matrimonial ventures should perplex “Thor”
(B. 3/8/’22). Her first was a certain Court-
ney ; her second Alec Hurley, the Coster
comedian; her third (and last) Bernard
Dillon, the jockey. Three husbands in a
music-hall career of over 40 years shouldn’t
baffie any commentator. Quite a modest
allowance of husbands, I call it.
“Bi”; “F.L.11.” (B. 17/S/’22) insists that
there is no Booth’s Theatre in New York.
The original building may have vanished,
but there is certainly a Booth’s Theatre;
moreover, O. P. Heggie has been appearing
there as Oliver Bleyds in A. A. Milne’s “The
Truth About Bleyds.” For evidence of
which turn up the theatrical ads. in any
N.Y. daily.
“Floater”: Tom Walls, popularly remem-
bered as the tall and melancholy Peter
Ddody in “The Arcadians,” has capped his
career as a horse-fancier by becoming a
trainer. Walls was never far away
from the neddies in Australia, and in
addition to supporting them with large por-
tions of his earnings was guilty of mounting
one in the Oaklands Hunt Club’s meeting at
Moonee Valley (Vic.) about 12 years ago.
He navigated Corntax in the Spring Bank
Corinthian, and ran second to Alcoy, bear-
ing another amateur. R. T. Watt, who is
now a prominent golfer.
“Beamish” : Rosina Buckman. now facing
large Town Hall audiences in Melbourne as
a prim a donna, must recall her first appear-
ance in the Victorian capital 14 or 15 years
“King John ” at
Sydney Palace.
Frank Moore as
Philip, King of
France.
ago. I was one of
the two or three
hundred who dis-
covered her sv T eet
soprano in the in-
t e r v a 1 s between
Leslie Harris’s
performance at the
old Athenseum
Hall. Harris was
then Mel B. Spur-
ring in his graci-
ous, apple-dump-
ling style, but the
warmest hand was
kept for Rosina,
whose fresh young
beauty and whole-
some charm were
simply missed by
the daily press and
caused no remark
elsewhere, so far
as I can remember.
But an artist
friend w r ho was
with me said she
was lovely in
voice and bearing,
and the upshot
was that we heard
her again. I re-
call the incident
now, because it is
very, very rarely since that I have volun-
tarily listened to a singer twice.
“M.P.A.” (London) : The Yanks have good
reason to fear German competition in the
moving-picture line. In a Whitechapel
theatre I viewed “The Broken Heart,” an
amazingly vivid eight-reel film produced in
Berlin bv a Swede and acted mainly by
Swedes, Russians and Poles. The story
deals with the hatred of Christian for Jew
and the liberation of the serfs in Russia.
It wouldn’t appeal to Aussie audiences, but
the picture is the forerunner of productions
which will prove serious rivals to anything
the U.S.A. can turn out. All the Tids in
the East End have been flocking to “The
Jewish Heart.”
i “Rieuzi”: Marie La Varre’s ornate blonde
coloring is not Anglo-Saxon. Her family
name is Abdy, and she was born at Calais,
her forebears having been Flemish weavers
for generations. Marie went on the stage
in London, and subsequently did 12 years in
American vaudeville. She came on
contract to Hugh D. Mclntosh, and dropped
into a vacancy in one of his revues. Her
quick, sprightly personality soon brought
her forward, and her capacity for looking
cheeky in pyjamas has given her an unchal-
lenged claim to those garments whenever
they are introduced in bedroom farces; albeit
she professes to detest the garb. Marie’s
sister, Graeie Marvelle, lately left her place
in “The Naughty Princess” to undergo an
operation for appendicitis.
“T. 0.1.”: Reported that a civil-list pen-
sion of £lOO a year has been granted to tin'
widow of Henry Irving. After Irving’s
death on October 19, 1905, his will was
proved at £20,527, which is a tidy sum as
actors’ estates go. Still, it is small com-
pared with the £400,000 left by James A.
Bailey, the showman; with D’Oyley Carte’s
£240,817 and Mrs. D’Oyley Carte’s £117,796.
J. L. Toole cut up for £79,984, but he didn’t
make it all on the stage. Wilson Bar-
rett bequeathed £30,862; Geo. Grossmith,
whose son is now in Australia, £19,628:
Fred Leslie, here with Nellie Farren,
£16,113 ; George Rignold, £ll,OOO ; and George
Coppin, £10,232. At the other end of the
scale were Kyrle Rellew. £705; Willie
Edouin, £995; Hermann Yezin, £l3B, and
Oscar Wilde, £lOO.
WEE GEORG IE
WOOD, AT
SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Black Hand George (Wee Georgie Wood),
chief of a gang of desperadoes, finds him-
self in the presence of the Force.
“S.S.”: Found in a Melb. corpse-resort,
the other afternoon, the following postscript
on the small marble headstone of one Jones,
who, I take it, was an actor when in the
flesh. The P.S. was written in lead-pencil
just above the chiselled inscription:—-
Throughout liis life he sought for fame;
He wished to make himself a name,
And here it is, above his bones—
Theophilus McAndrew Jones.
“Notbell” : Discussing Bland Holt’s strik-
ing name, “T. 0.1.” (B. 24/8/’22) mentions
“a popular comedian named Harcourt
Bland,” who was a contemporary of Bland
Holt’s father. Apropos, I was with the
Nellie Stewart Co. at Ayr (N.Q.), 10 years
ago, when there was a turbulent strike on.
I went into a “private” bar with Harcourt
Beatty, and across the barrier dividing us
from the popular part of the house was a
mob of more or less sozzled strikers discuss-
ing beer and the then equivalent of Bolshev-
ism. % One inflamed rough-up spotted us.
“Yon’s Harcourt Beatty, the blanky actor-r,”
he said. “Blanky toff! Wouldn’t drink
with oor sort!” The Scotch, but impetuous,
Beatty vaulted over the barrier and invited
the speaker to either fight or drink with him.
The caviller decided on a pot—first. “Awm
a riveter-r frae the Clyde,” he explained,
“and I knew of a man in Glesga, of your
name—Harcourt Beatty Bland—he was a
teacher of elocution.” “My father!” said
Beatty. There was no more talk of stoush
after that, and Beatty turned on the tap
for the mob. The toast was “Scotland for
Ever!”
“Norbell”: In mentioning Genevieve
Ward’s career the Sydney papers are curi-
ously silent as to her Australian record.
Supported by W. H. Vernon, she opened at
the old Princess’s, Melbourne, in 1884, as
Stephanie de Mohrivart, in “Forget-me-not,”
under the management of Williamson, Garner
and Musgrove. # Subsequently, she appeared
at the Royal in “Macbeth,” “Henry V111.,"’
“Jane Shore,” “Guy Mannering” and “Nance
Oldfield.” Again, at the Bijou, in “Queen’s
Favorite,” and “Mammon,” the play Sydney
Grundy altered and called “A Bunch of
Violets.” She also played “Rachel” and
some others. Later, she toured “the smalls”
successfully. The money for the Genevieve
Ward wing of the Women’s Hospital, Mel-
bourne, was raised by a performance of
“Antigone” at the Town Hall. Miss Ward
was helped in this financially by W. J. Clark,
and her personal friend, Henry Loch, then
Governor of Victoria. Nellie Mortyne, now
“The Great Lover,” was the ingenue of
“Forget-me-not.” Dick Stewart, now mana-
ger of the Sydney Criterion, also played in
Genevieve’s company. Nellie Veitch, the
elocutionist from Ararat (Vic.), was a pro-
tegee of the lady, and went on tour with
her.
“Nella”: Touching John F. Sheridan's
nationality, here’s the great little man’s own
words for it:—
My name is John Francis Sheridan, and I was born
in America, of poor, but Irish, parents. You must
know that a Maorilahd writer had said “Frank Thorn-
ton’s name is Stubbs, Maggie Moore’s is Sullivan,
and Johnnie Sheridan’s is Levy.” So I felt 1 had
to take a hand, and explained that I was christened
John Sheridan, and that my confirmation name was
Francis. 1 have been told that I have a big nose,
but a man may have big feet and yet not be a police-
man, and I am not a Jew. I am an Irish-American.
....At the school which I attended in Providence,
Rhode Island, there was an entertainment in connec-
tion with the yearly examination. 1 played the
Widow Mulvaney. I started with a widow, and am
ending with one.
“Second Murderer”: I saw George Rig-
nold as a “celebrated comedian” in “The
Shamrock and the Rose” at 11. M. Theatre,
Sydney (“T.P.,” B. 24/8/’22), and his broth
of a blioy was, without flattery, the worst
I have ever endured. Handsome George had
a better claim to being a comedy merchant
when he essayed Mortimer Mumbleford in
“Confusion.” Still, he couldn’t cornede for
nuts alongside Phil Day, the original Mor-
timer here.
“Second Murderer”: That amazing man-
child, Wee Georgie Wood, has a laugh at
the alleged obtuseness of Edinburgh as com-
pared with Glasgow. When I was a kid, if
anyone of our clan failed to see a joke, we
always said in derision, “Edinburgh !” This
had its origin from the original Professor
Anderson, Wizard of the North, who stated
that when he cracked a joke in Glasgow
the audience anticipated the point and
laughed too soon. In Edinburgh they also
laughed half-way through the gag, but it
was in appreciation of the quirk he had let
off five minutes before.
“Fax”: There never will be an end to the
old absurdity, continued in the English jour-
nals since the war, of spelling Marie Lohr’s
name with two dots over the o, as though it
were still German. “Daddy” Lohr, the father
of Marie, was the son of a Church of Eng-
land parson who had lost count of his Ger-
man-Jewish origin, if he had it, and never
spelt his name with the two un-English dots.
Perhaps Marie, or her mother, Kate Bishop,
thought that the foreign appearance gave
distinction to the name when it was about
to be billed in London, or more probably the
management imposed those two dots on the
damsel of long ago, arid she never insisted on
their removal. Consequently, she is now
widely regarded as German by birth, and
can’t possibly have benefited by the miscon-
ception.
“Ex-Englishman”: Sims Reeves (B.
10/8/’22) had a horrible name for breaking
contracts. He took his voice very seriously,
and would not appear unless he considered
himself in top form; so that a manager
was always liable to get an llth-hour mes-
sage that hoarseness or a chill or something
would prevent Mr. Reeves from appearing.
The public got used to this, and became shy
about booking in advance ; so that in a pro-
vincial town, where Sims had been expected,
a wise management would always rush out
afternoon placards when the star had really
come. It was a recognised quotation, when
some drawing-room tenor gave voice, for a
humorist to remark “Sims Reeves has
arrived.”
“C. Ockney” : In my haste to correct “Nor-
bell” re the “Old Dust Hole,” I was myself
guilty of a slip (B. 17/8/’22). The present
London Prince of Wales’s Theatre stands
in Coventry-street, not Chandos-street, as I
wrote. Apologies all round.
“Orb”: “T.W.” is in error in supposing
that Benson, the English actor-manager,
plays Shakspeare exclusively. Benson always
has “School for Scandal,” “The Rivals” a.nd
such on tap Lately he has been playing
“The Wandering Jew,” which is a long way
off Shylock. I doubt if Benson ever gave
100 consecutive performances of the bard,
let alone 530, which was Allan Wilkie’s
record on Wednesday night.
“Pongo” : Annette Kellerman is testing* “Te
Pana’s” assertions (B. 10/8/’22) as to the
fortunes to be amassed by exploiting the
mimetic gifts of the Maoris. Annette has
established her headquarters at Nelson
(M.L.). where the underwater scenes ->f her
next mermaid picture are to be shot. Pearl-
shell by the ton has been brought from
Broome (W.A.), a crate of mummers has
arrived from America, and the islands arc
being scoured for Maoris with personable
shapes and mobile “mugs” to make faces
and strike attitudes before the camera. The
fair Australian has written her own scen-
ario, and her husband, J. R. Sullivan, helped
by Ray Macartney, sometime of the N.S.W.
Education Department, and Tom Donnelly,
son of that Tom D. who used to be a well-
known teacher of dancing in Sydney, will
direct operations. Unfortunately, Australians
and Maorilanders will not see the result
of Annette’s efforts until it has been screened
in Europe and America, and that means
waiting at least two years.
"Stargazer”: The old-fcime actress did not
know what to do with splendid publicity
stuff Avhen a benign Providence literally
forced the goods upon her. Only a very
few people in Melbourne remember that
once, during a stay in that city, the late Gene-
vieve Ward received a proposal of marriage
from a burglar. The housebreaker climbed a
Comedian Jim Gerald,
at Fullers' New
Theatre, Sydney,
sings of the appetite
of Paddy McGinty's
Goat.
hotel balcony in
the wee, small
hours, broke in by
a window, and was
discovered by the
startled actress
kneeling by her
bedside making a
most fervid offer
of marriage. He
was, he said, a
very rich man,
and had loved her
with a Vesuvian
flamboyance for
the space of three
terrible weeks, and,
at length, driven
almost to despair,
he had resorted to
the only means of
approaching the
glorious object of
his adoring wor-
s h i p. Several
hotel minions re-
moved the man
after he hud
poured out his
heart, but Miss
Ward refused to
prosecute. “T h e
poor fellow was
so much in
earnest,” she said.
But the man’s
earnestness did not
prevent him mis-
representing his ease. Me was really a
rather impecunious building contractor who
had just been through the court.
“T. 0.1.”: When George Fawcett Rowe
leased the old wooden Princess’s in Spring-
street, Melbourne, and that was in the
early ’sixties, he was the most versatile
mummer of his day. High, low and genteel
comedy and burlesque were all in his line.
He was the original Widow Twankey in
“Aladdin,” and caricatured well-known per-
sonages—Dr. Hunter for one—in burlesques,
usually adapted by himself. Rowe went to
England and became lessee and manager
of the Croydon Theatre. In April, 1869.
he appeared as Hamlet. Macbeth, The
Stranger, Nat Gosling in “Flying
Scud” (Lambert’s original part in Mel-
bourne), Widow Twankey, John Feyer in
“The Orange Girl,” and Shylock. There’s
versatility for you! In Melbourne he suc-
cessfully dramatised “Barnaby Rudge,”
“David Copperfield” (playing Micawber),
“The Tower of London” and other works. He
had gathered an excellent company, including
Clarence Holt, Hoskins, H. Edwards, Milne
and Rosa Dunn (Mrs. I- L. Lewis). Rowe
died on Sept. 4. 1889.
“L.H.P.”: Allan Wilkie is wrong when
he bills “King John” as “a work that has
not been seen in Sydney before.” Walter
Montgomery staged it at the Prince of
Wales’s Opera House (the old Royal) on
April 22, 1869, with himself as the King,
Rosa Cooper as Consfance, and Kate Cor-
coran as Blanche. In June, of the same year,
the same props and scenery were used for
a revival, in which H. Talbot, a Scotch
tragedian, was King, the same ladies sup-
porting him.
“T.R.11.” : I can’t say of my own know-
ledge whether John F. Sheridan was an
Irishman or a Jew (B. 17/8./’22). All I
know is that cheques I received from the
Widow weren’t always signed “John F.
Sheridan.”
“Snell”: I had accompanied an actor
acquaintance to visit the grave of a late
lamented pro. in the Melbourne General
Cemetery, and we had planted a bunch of
everlasting flowers above the dear departed,
and were wandering about the boneyard,
reading inscriptions, a popular dissipation
in Melbourne, judging by the large number
similarly employed. Presently we came
to a very eloquent epitaph on the headstone
of a deceased politician. My actor friend
read it aloud, hie. hat reverently in his hand,
giving the noetic effort all the advantages
of his excellent elocutionary training.
There were actually tears in the pro.’s eyes
■when he turned to me, Avagging his head,
and said : “Great publicity stuff —great!”
THE SNAKE-CHARMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She charms the snakes. I see her oft.
An Oriental mystery
Is in her eyes, so deep and soft.
A strong appeal they have for me.
Snake-like I’m bidden to her side.
Vain have I fought, in vain denied.
Her hair is twining, black and long,
And in the dusk she seems to be
Some creature in an elfin song
Of heathen eld mythology,
With locks of snakes that curl and floai
And clasp her full, fair, olive throat.
Quaint pictures of another day
Rise up: I see a garden bright
Where oranges all golden sway.
And dark grapes otter cool delight.
An indolent sweet maid 1 see.
And Adam and an apple-tree.
Ilolores, T remember thee.
Them art the Eve reincarnate.
Gone Adam and the apple-tree.
The snake remains thy chosen mate
Who was of old (as he is still)
A creature charmed to do thy will.
VICTOItIA.
STARGAZER.


»
'
*... sr''ll
' ■ ,
\J lu \”"^' n l ! ” U '"
-•* w
■/.:-v'
.
'
fill!
jr tw
r & jmx t Jm r
< a Jm i a/A
K
m
m
r ~-'Wf '~ r '"wf' '■”*
(q Mt. Hwk, j {s
Cam
( c4p J m'jfUKL x
m<
vxm R
mBBSSm
mmkm
Type right with an
Underwood Standard Portable
A light, compact, non-folding typewriter for travellers,
journalists, school principals and everyone else.
An ideal writing machine for travel, home or office use.
Light action. Easy to carry. Weighs only 8 Jib.
complete with case, and measures 12 x xB2 inches.
Wherever you are, and whenever you write, use an
‘ ‘UNDERWOOD” Standard PORTABLE for type-
writing reports, insurance policies, documents and
correspondence. You will find it as indispensable as
your fountain-pen.
Send for the “UNDERWOOD” PORTABLE Book-
let to any of the following sole agencies:—*
Stott & Underwood Ltd.
70 Pitt Street, Sydney,
426 Collins Street,
Melbourne,
305 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
PRICE :
Complete
with Case,
£lB
Cash or Terms
m
g.:V':v
-
gsf I mm
I ■
:
..
mm
’>•■• ;V>J
i■ « ;
Please send Underwood Portable Boolclet to
Name
Address


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney
>r
The
Stockman”
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side—a special feature
that, ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
FINNEY, ISLES (El CO. LTD.
BRISBANE.
1811
Gives a full rich lather.
ERASMIC
SHAVING STICK
SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Among matters worth noting at YVilliams-
town (Vic.) lust Butur<lay was the defeat of threc-
y sai"old Crimson over six furlongs by the Woorak
colt, Whittier, and another comfortable win by Stat-
ion who will continue to be fancied for Caulfield Cup
11 he maintains his form. Station was not the
only C.( . probability that won during* the Week,
baissi pulled off a couple of races at Bendigo, thereby
encouraging the belief that she is getting cured of
her disposition to behave like a vixen at the barrier,
l.t is not yet clear that she can be trusted to get
aivay as smartly as most of them in a large field
but the new treatment seems likely to work a cure.
Guaranteed a good getaway Bassi would look rather
more dang*erous than Statton, anyhow, for whereas
the gelding is only a winter star thus far (and
winter form is of doubtful value until the new
season’s goods are fairly opened up), Bassi, at Bst.
51b., has pretensions on her seconds to Furious in the
V .ICC. Derby and Oaks. In the fillies’ race she split
Furious and Sister Olive, and in the Derby she beat
Harvest King, so, on paper, the impetuous mare is
kindly handicapped.
At Warwick Farm (N.S.W.) ou Satur-
day furious made her first appearance this racing
season, and it was successful. The mare was pro-
duced in the Liverpool Handicap, the distance being
a mile and a tenth of a furlong, and, although
she carried a more 9st. 31b., had obviously done a
lot of work, and had only a few third-raters to
beat,, bar the mud-fat Wyndham and Coolstone, a
light of other days, 7 to 4 was obtainable in
places. Many fatuous punters preferred Saudwyne
at s’s. Munro rode the beautiful Derby winner, and
didn’t have to bustle her. When he moved on her
in the straight she passed Llanthony, War Spear and
CoOlstone, and won
with plenty in hand,
although the official
verdict was only “a
neck.” Ever since the
weights came out Furi-
ous had been fancied
for the Epsom, in
which she had Ost.
31b., but on Monday
she was withdrawn
from that race and
came into favor for
the Metropolitan. She
has filled out into a
lovely mare, and looks
more like a stayer
than she did last year,
but whether she can
hump 1261 b. over a
mile and ®five furlongs
at Itandwick without
fading over the last
bit remains to , be
proved.
E. E. D. CLARKE .
brother of S'Rupert,
whose horses have
won £100,000 in
two decades.
Vodka, another of Marsden’s, has been supported
for the Epsom, and, remembering- this, hundreds of
those who follow the Marsden-Munro combination
hacked her to win the six-furlong- Flying Handicap at
2's. But more money came for Gilray, who had
61b. more than his Epsom weight (Bst. 81b.), whereas
the mare was burdened with 31b. more than hers
(Sst), and the Li nacre gelding firmed to evens. It
seemed an absurdly short price compared with that
offered against Furious, but, as it happened, Gilray
had the race won at any part of the journey. Ridden
by Pike, who will steer him in the Epsom, he came
home at his leisure, two lengths ahead of the un-
fancied Even Song (also trained by Marsden), with
Vodka and Theory next. If Booth can keep him
in this form he will run a *»reat mile on Sept. 30.
Even Song, a bright and g-ame little chestnut, will
also he dangerous, if she can get away with the field.
She has 7st. 51b. in the mile, and a pound less in
the Metrop. But there is no hope for Vodka unless
she can be improved a ton.
Punch, who had won unexpectedly at Rosehill
on August 12, beat a field wbich included Braille
and Molyneux in the Warwick Handicap, 101 fur-
longs, and did it rather well. He started at 4’s, and
/nay have a rough chance in the Metropolitan with
his light weight (Ost. 121 b.), seeing that he can
stay. But a more striking performance was that of
Purser’s brother, Sea Risk, in the second division
of tiie six-furlong welter. Heavily backed at 4’s,
the brown got badly away, but he came through his
field like a good one, got on terms with the flying
Kel-Owi (a o-to-4 favorite) at the half-distance, and
beat him to the judge’s box by a length. He may
not begin swiftly enough for the Epsom, nor be
sufficiently seasoned for the longer race (he has
7st. 21b. in each), but he is distinctly worth follow-
ing in minor events.
“0.K.”: Interesting to read in a Mel-
bourne paper that, although Beauford’s owner and
trainer have no doubt about the great horse's staying
ability, they consider that w.f.a. races will give him
plenty to do without bothering about the Melbourne
t up. Well, Carbine’s owner and trainer used to
bother about the £lO,OOO Cup, whilst picking up
weight-for-age events in the usual course of tiie
champion’s preparation. To come to more recent
times, Eurythmie started twice for a Melbourne Cup
when it was worth less than £lO,OOO. Moreover, a
horse can’t be a champion in w.f.a. company without
proving himself a stayer over two miles, not to men-
tion the three miles of ' Randwick Plate, so the
stamina of Bea'uford can be put beyond doubt, whether
he runs in the Melbourne Cup or not. Why raise
the question of doubt or no doubt in connection with
a two-miles handicap?
* * -X- *
As was expected, Morie.y’s To tc-plus-
Bookmaker Bill was thrown out bv the Vic. Legis-
lative Assembly. At an early stage it looked as if
there would be an adverse majority of seven, but it
swelled to nearly four times that figure when the
stampede took place at the finish. Fifty-six mustered to
vote, and only 15 declared for the measure. Premier
Lawson (who, like Treasurer McPherson, favors a tote
minus T. Rook), Prendergast, Opposition Leader (who
says lie wants a State-managed betting machine) and
Allan, the Cocky chief, ranged themselves with the
41 “noes.” The 14 who followed Morley comprised
three Ministers (Barnes, Oman and Pennington) four
supporters of Lawson, four Hayseeds and a trinity of
Laborites (Bailey, Cotter and Slater). Unless a
Government with a fair working majority takes up
the bill and makes it a vital issue, there is no
chance of the tote arriving in Vie. Morley talks
of a bill authorising a referendum, but it would be
just as difficult to agree on the precise questions
to be submitted to the people as to pass legislation
to set up the machine.
* * * #
Those Westraliaiis wbo put their socks on
Easing-wold, at 3’s and 2’s, for the Kalgoorlie Cup
never looked like losing: them. Going to the front
•» the start, his 9st. 61b. notwithstanding, the
Eaton Lad Bahloo chestnut, who so failed to impress
Melbourne critics when he was a growing three-
year-old, and green at that, made all the pace, and
ran home lengths ahead of Drumont (6st. 131 b.) and
Sweet Doris (7st. 31b.) in 2min. 32fsec. for the 12
furlongs. That looks good enough for anything.
In fact, Eurythmie did nothing better in the West.
“15-30”: The Yankees are not showing
any uneasiness regarding the result of the Davis Cup
final at New York this week. Patterson and Wood
may lift the doubles from Tilden and Richards;
but our chances of getting away with the singles
have been diminished by the sickness of Anderson.
A bad bout of influenza takes a lot out of a man.
The tall Ma Stater has had a little over a week to
prepare for the big event, and however great his
confidence he will be a wonder if he wins a match
from either Johnston or Tilden, who have been tun-
ing up in tournaments for some time past, and must
now be at tiie top of their play. Patterson, inferior
to them all as a stroke-merchant, seems a bad bet.
bis achievements at Wimbledon notwithstanding!
Rut Gerald well knows the difference between the Eng-
lish and American games, and his three defeats by
liJden and two by Johnston (one of the latter in
three straight sets in the Davis Cup final at Auck-
land in 1920) should give him no illusions about
bis prospects this time. All the same, one expects
hnn to give his old opponents a hard game. If he
can get his sendee working, he may even effect a
surprise. There is at least one thing certain—he
will fight doggedly all the way. Tilden and John-
ston may be greater tacticians, but they are not
superior to him in courage.
_ ' x ” v, Some °f the English papers did
not relish Gerald Patterson’s victory at Wimbledon.
Most of them were grudging in their praise, and one
complained bitterly that the methods pursued by
huge persons of aboriginal appearance” had revo-
lutionised a game that the English once made their
own. Another lament was that the days of delicate
placing and back-court Jobbing' liave g'one for ever
though, to give Patterson his due, he can place as
cleverly as anybody bar Brookes, and freely uses the
lob m doubles to work a. persistent volleyer out of
position. The whole trend of the criticisms, especi-
ally the uncalled-for reference to the “aboriginal
appearance,” suggests that sportsmanship is decaving
in England as well as the national supremacy in
sport. . Patterson, who is not given to complaints,
has privately mentioned his surprise at the
vociferous partisanship of a section of the
Wimbledon crowd,, which went so far as to
applaud the errors of overseas and foreign
competitors. This badi habit was imported from
America, and one notices a recrudescence of it at
Philadelphia, where the mob cheered O’Hara Wood’s
outs” in his match with Alonzo. But the Austra-
lians know what to expect from American audiences.
The Yankees’ fiercest critic, their own countryman,
11. L. Mencken, called them “the Ilenrv Ford among
the nations.”
• M. .T. Mackenzie, a sparely-built 19-vear-
old representative of South Sydney, is the Ma State’s
five-miles cross-country champion.* He won the title
by defeating one of the hottest fields that ever
essayed the Randwick steeplechase course, St
Stephen’s Harriers (Vic.) and H. Paroell, the
Queensland crack, being among the starters. For
three miles the runners kept pretty well together,
but after that the pace told on most of them. Over
the final mile it was a neck-and-neck struggle
between Mackenzie and H. L. Sheaves, and spurting
away from the more seasoned man, the youngster won
by 12sec. in 27min. 53sec.-—l7 4-ssec. better than the
previous best, recorded by H. Hayden, two years ago.
, track ,, w *® too stiff for most of the visiting
athletes: M. V. Boyd (St. Stephens’s), seventh, H.
Parcell (Q.), ninth, and T. Vines (St. Stephen's),
' I U e tth, " el "e nearest to Mackenzie and Sheaves at
the tmish. The third man was H. R. Turner, wiio
was first last year, Mackenzie being second on that
occasion. The teams’ race went to Botany ('53
P” 1 ? 48 ) tr°m South Sydney (64) and St. Stephen’s
(S 9). A three-miles cadet race, in which 350 lads
competed, went to F. Brierley (Arncliffe), who ran
barefooted, in 19min. lSsec.
The tow Williams. — WOODS and CRIME.
They boxed a draw at Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night.
,1“ one of th* most interesting contests
It' y ±, .! n ***** Ku Sl>y League competition this season
North .Sydney boat South Sydney by 20 (2 tries 7
goals) to 11 (8 tries 1 goal). South were the early
■scorers, and mid-way they had 11 points to North’s
i. But, thanks'to Green, Thompson, Horder and the
wind. North had all the better of things in the
second, halt, Horder kicking 7 goals. Also, Blink-
horn registered a great try after running 40 yards.
South Sydney died gamely, but they were short of a
goaier. Glebe licked Newtown comfortably bv 22
((> tries 2 goals) to 12 (2 tries 8 goals.), Eastern
Suburbs overwhelmed Western Suburbs by 20 (4
tries 4 goals) to 10 (2 tries 2 goals), and ’Varsity,
who were without Cunningham and Paddy Con agh an,
thudded heavily in opposition to St. George, who
scored 27 (7 tries 3 goals) to 5 (1 try 1 goal).
North and Glebe are now level for the premiership
with 26 points, followed by Eastern Suburbs (24),
South Sydney and Balmain (21 each)
* * * .
Lexite s Deputy”: After suddenly losing
their form in Rugby League matches, and being
licked thrice m succession, North Sydney regained
ir as suddenly. On August 19 they beat St. George,
X s to 2, and a week later they accounted for South
Sydney. University, who defeated North on August
o by 7 to 6, were, last Saturday, donkey-licked by
St. George. In view' of these performances the pomp
oi Undergrad” (B. 24/8/’22) becomes ridiculous.
No one suggested that “League teams play dead.”
No one but a lunatic would suggest it. All the
same, one or two men playing under wraps can
ensure their side’s defeat. Apart from University
whose sportmanship has never been questioned, the
League footballers are mostly men who play (for money.
Moreover, there is a great deal of betting on League
matches. Such being the case, when the leading
team in the competition suffers a striking loss of
brilliance and the public, which keeps the game
going, starts sniffing, the League ought to inquire—
as stipendiary stewards do in corresponding cases
on the turf—whether there is any reason for the
sniffs; But perhaps the League is run on the
principle that nothing matters except the “gate.”
, Sydney Uni. went down in the first inter-
Varsity test, Rugby Union rules, against M.L., the
latter scoring 23 points to 22. Biit Sydney would
have won but for their execrable goal-kicking. Of
six tries only two were converted —both by the
Grammar School top-notcher, M. B. Hesslein. Kick-
ing foi goal is a lost art in the Rugby Union game.
“Kewpie” : Mark Nicholls. the AH Black
five-eighth, who kicked 22 points against the N.S.W.
second XV, got his M.L. cap the year after he left
college. lie was only 17 then, and has kept his
place in first-class football ever since. In the
past two years Nicholls has played in every Rugby
Union fixture of importance, including all three
Springbok tests. His record as a kick will take
some beating. In seven matches 64 points came
from his sure foot.
‘’Machete”: I can’t agree with “Ex-Eng-
lishman” (B. 24/8/’22) that the visit of an English
■Soccer team wouldn’t pay. Soccer crowds in Sydney
nowadays run into the thousands, and if the Rugby
League had not secured all the big grounds they
would be larger still. The cost of bringing out the
English team is reckoned at £ll,OOO. That amount
has been guaranteed by Queensland. M.L., N.S.W.,
Victoria, S. Aus., Westralia and Tasmania, all of
w'hich support solvent associations. The attend-
ances during the recent Australian tour of M.L.
totalled 60,000 for the 14 matches, the gate takings
(at low prices) being £3BOO, and it is only reason-
able to calculate that an English team w r ould
draw four times as much. The trouble will be to
get a good side. It is not likely that the big divi-
dend-hunting clubs will allow their 5000-guinea pro-
fessionals to come. The best we can hope for is
a team of first-class amateurs. But these, if of
University calibre, should be good enough for any-
thing 1 .
Incessant rain spoilt Melbourne’s football
games on Saturday, and also the “gates.” Essendon
destroyed Melbourne’s hopes of reaching the finals by
!o tln§ '- 44 points t 0 28 - Carlton beat St. Hilda
P,°, 10 after a slithery scramble, chiefly
emarkable for missed chances. Fitzroy, just bacl:
trom the Westralian trip, met the frequent fate ot
r ! K)s , u ' vho So gallivanting, and found Richmond a
ji, ade WO good for them: ’Roy, 32 points; Richmond,
, ' Collingwood, with many players out of action,
iu° U ac ’.. lr swltt "'i>’g centre, Twomey, down from
tne Murray, and, by good combination, ran over
Geelong, ending with 68 points to the Seasiders’ 44.
* 8 goals, the second of them being his
/OOtn in League football, a record that promises to
stand for a few years. Next Saturday ’Wood en-
counter Roy on latter’s ground, and, as only 2 points
if'li a ? a,ne —separate them, the winner will
probably gain the minor premiership, with its double
chance for the pennant.
* * * it
“Tren” : Though an agreement to govern
the of players has been drawn up be-
tween the Vic. Football League and Association,
trafficking continues. Outen, an 18-year-old Wil-
Jjamstown junior, is shaping like a champion, and
last week he was “approached’* by three senior
clubs South Melbourne, Footscray and William-
stown. At first ’Town seemed to be the lucky
team, for he trained with them, accepted Co as
a retainer, and agreed that ,C 2 10s. a week was
a fair thing. But Footscray, short of a really
good centre man, were determined to get Outen,
so some enthusiastic ’Scray supporters bid up to
C2O clown and C 4 a week, and won. The young-
ster returned the C 5 to the Williamstown club, and
played with Footscray what time South Melbourne
sent a motor to take him along to them. Buying
footballers is a shabby business, but it is cer-
tainly more sensible to secure a player with his
best days before him than to pay large sums for old-
stagers who may never act- up to their reputations.
“Pick” : Before the argument about long-
distance kicking perishes, let me bung in with the
performance of .Jack Kilis, a Wallaga Mission station
abo., at the Tilba Tilba athletic sports on Anniver-
sary Day, 1906. Taking first oil' in the drop-kick
competition, Jack landed the ball 70yds. away. That
effort won the prize, but with a subsequent exhibi-
tion kick he did two yards better. With a bare
foot, too.
* ♦ • *
“Winkle”: In the evolution of any field
game certain features become so exaggerated that,
the rules call for periodical revision. Of Australian
football' this is specially true. It is laid down, for
instance, that throwing the ball is strictly pro-
hibited ; but handballing and punching, which are
allowed, are slow and inaccurate, so many so-called
punches are throws excellently camouflaged. The
breach is usually overlooked by umpires if skilfully
performed. As this style of passing improves the
game as a spectacle, the rules are likely to be altered
to permit some measure of throwing. Again, the
clashing of the rucks when the ball is thrown in by the
boundary umpire becomes more brutal every year.
It has been suggested—so far without avail—that
the Vic. League should try the method that works so
well in Soccer. Preposterous, also, are the means
permitted to divert a player from his purpose when
a game is in the balance, and he lias, by .a mark or
free kick, earned the right to shoot for goal; It is
allowable at these crises for a dozen players on the
opposing side to perform grotesque antics to put the
man off his shot. In the good old days this was not
done. Nevertheless, two or three eccentrics used to
harass goal-kickers by other means. Charlie Back-
house, an old Richmond centre, would lie fiat on
the ground and throw mud pellets at the placed
bail. Nicky Londerigan, an Essendon champion, was
wont to turn a sudden - somersault or handspring at
the critical second. And there was the never-to-be-
forgotten Richard Casey (now with God), whose
knowledge and use of underhand tricks earned him
the nickname of “Dirty Dick.” At that tense
moment when the boot met the ball Richard would
spit, with great volume and velocity, at file marks-
man’s face.
The golf championship of S.A. was inter-
esting, local form seeming to have levelled up.
Frank Murdoch, of the deliberate methods, was over
from Sydney to have another shot at the title, which
he won while living in Adelaide in 1920. Cheadle,
who has won it half-a-dozen times, since as a
schoolboy he first took it nearly 20 years ago, is getting-
back into form, and he beat Murdoch, but lost the
final to Legh Winser, the holder, who is also ama-
teur champion of Australia, an inter-State wicket-
keeper, and an A.D.C. Winser is not a long driver,
but his approach shots_ are wonderful, mostly stop-
ping dead just where tfiey ought. As usual, of late
he had his hardest tussle with Swift, who in a semi-
final again ran him to the 19th hole.
N.S.W. Cricket Association has decided to
let 16 Sydney clubs compete again for the first-
grade premiership. An effort was made to restrict
the number to eight, but it crashed. L. O. S.
I’oidevin, H. L. Collins and C. G. Macartney are to
sort out the gold from the dross for the inter-State
matches, M. A. Noble, another candidate for one of
the selectorships. being outed in the ballot.
There was an exciting finish for the 40-
mile road championship of N. S. Wales, A. Maier
(Dulwich Hill) winning by half-a-wheel from Mick
Little (Dulwich Hill) and C. Burness (Enfield-
Burwood), who dead-heated. The distance was left
behind in lhr. 49min. 6sec.
One of their U.S. importations having dis-
appointed them, the Sydney Stadium people pur.
on a stopgap scrap last Saturday between two local
featherweights, Woods and Grime. Inasmuch as they
had had only a few days’ training, a thrilling exhi-
bition wasn’t to be expected, nor was it furnished.
The referee gave it a draw, but 99 per cent, of the
thin crowd thought Grime had won bv a mile.
A much more entertaining bout was witnessed at
Brisbane, where the wonderful little flyweight Men-
dies-, whose forefathers, like Harry Stone’s, were
Portuguese .Tews, engaged the tough bantam Tingle,
and emerged victor after 20 fierce rounds. Mendies
is a brilliant mannikin, and will give Jimmy Wilde
a go for it if the Welshman comes this way.
* * * *
At Melbourne on Saturday night Spargo
plucked the featherweight crown from McCarthy’s
rugged brojv, on which it bad reposed since Mac
won it from the previous proprietor on a foul.
From the first round to the last the new-old cham-
pion was always a bit ahead on points. Still, Mac
boxed with unusual speed and stamina.
RIDICULOUS EXCESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Moss Cohen owned the slowest horse
That ever ran a race:
She oft. appeared upon the course,
But hopeless was her case.
Still, in each dozen mugs, mv lad,
There’s one who’ll back the slowest prad.
So Tramway Kate quite often ran
At Yea and Squattersgap,
In town and out, and some fool-man—
A score of him, mayhap—
Would back the dull, cow-colored boss,
" hose fodder bills were paid by Moss.
And all the confraternity
Of jovial gents, who skin
Tim unsuspecting flat would see
The owner’s joke, and grin,
"hen some old hayseed, mostly hair,
Bunged in his brass on Moss’s mare.
A splendid jest—until a day
When Mossy palely came,
And tremulously told them: “Say,
It ith a beasdly shame,
basd night some chaps broke in dev gate,
And went and hocmsed Tram wan Kate!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


'• -V
W a*
THE
ZqJoLSELEY
wm
.
- ' ':‘2±m&..;\.,
3i
TEN,
FIFTEEN
and
TWENTY
m
y
»V
&
xFy:
v r :
<<■
The Wolseley Ten has put up 29 New Records
'-pHF, WOLSELEY is one of Eng-
-1 land’s most famous cars. For
many years it has held the high-
est reputation for perfection of design,
thoroughness of workmanship and for
astounding performances. That repu-
tation is again enhanced by the fact
that during the year a Standard Ten
has created, at Brooklands, 29 new
records for speed and endurance.
There is no other car of its size and
rating that has ever put up so remark-
able a performance.
I HE WOLSELEY is easily the
1 finest car for Australian road
conditions. There is no other
car of its rating that can equal it in
road performances, steady, all-the-
year-round economy of fuel, oil and
tyres. Its freedom from repairs is
simply phenomenal, due, of course, to
the superb English workmanship.
The Wolseley will cost less for repairs
than any other car of its class. It will
do anything that other cars of a rating
of sh.p. to Bh.p. higher will do, and
do it better.
You cannot buy Better Cars than tbe English,
and Wolseley is tbe Best English Car of its class.
Delivery from Stocßs.
REPRESENTATIVES:—
VICTORIA: DALGETY & CO., LTD., 664 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: H. C. RICHARDS, LTD., Richards’ Buildings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: ADAMS MOTORS, LTD., 847 Hay Street, Perth.
N. ZEALAND: G. W. SPRAGG, Auckland; INGLIS BROS., Wellington; TODD BROS., Dunedin;
LEREW MOTORS, LTD., Napier.
NEW SOUTH WALES: DALGETY & CO., LTD., Phillip Street, Sydney.
WOLSELEY MOTORS PTY., LTD.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.),
339 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.


i S
Mat::
P-.i
Making the most intricate frocks becomes
as easy as the simplest by using the
"DELTOR”
Important invention saves time and money.
The " Deltor ” is a wonderful invention
which makes dressmaking supremely easy,
assuring every garment that " chic ” which
distinguishes the original Parisian creation.
The " Deltor ” is supplied with the famous
"Butterick” patterns, and forms a pidure
guide to successful home sewing—saving
considerable time and money on material.
Agents for the “Butterick” Patterns :
FARMER’S :: SYDNEY
;
sT-
ff
,-Mk 1
/Wt-\
.i / ll •
■ • iV 1
r i
’ ",
WATER -
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows Three 25ft. Alston
Windmills on 60ft. Towers, fitted with lOin.
Pumps, pumping water for the town supply of
Donald. They have been in use for many years,
giving every satisfaction.
We manufacture Windmills in all sizes, from
sft. to 25ft. diameter, and have the largest
works in Australia, devoting its whole attention
to windmill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use through-
out Australasia.
Expert advice and Illustrated Catalogue free
on application.
We will be pleased to mail to any address
specifications and prices for Windmills suitable
for any requirements, whether pumping for the
smallest cottage or a town supply. Our experi-
ence of over half a century in manufacturing
and erecting Windmill Pumping Plants places us
in a position to supply the most suitable Mills
for all purposes.
James Alston § Sons
Pty.
Ltd.
Queen's Bridge, Melbourne, Australia,
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Cottins St. Melbourne
P[?]ces
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
No wonder ITame Melba watched the col-
lection-plate suj ipiciously whilst it circulated
in St. Paul’s u'athedral during her Sunday-
afternoon recita 1. The result turned out to
be £B7 in all. 4 ngels and ministers of grace,
defend us! 1 'lie Cathedral was packed,
partly by ticket? ■ doled out to all the Angli-
can churches in Melbourne, and the Dame
really delighted everybody who knows the
difference betwern bel canto and Salvation
Army hymn-shouting. Yet the alms-giving
didn’t average n? uch more than sixpence a
head. Evidently’ a number of the well-
dressed crowd H ad gone to hear Melba
gratis, just as tl ey go to praise the Lord.
The Dame is na t likely to sing for them
again. She know) s now what is the true
worth of the charjity which begins in church,
and she must tli ink that her warble was
shockingly mismanaged. She could have
done much better for the Archbishop by run-
ning the rpcital ion a silver-coin admission
system, which permits of the door-keepers
dividing goats who offer sixpence from lambs
who produce two .shillings and upwards.
Rosina Buckman had a triumph at her
first concert, on : Thursday of last week,
when Melbourne Ward the Zu-zuki voice
ador.ned with the fl uits of 10 years’ experi-
ence and study. .Rosina’s singing was as
sweet and easy as a bird’s. The convention
of platform manner did not conceal her
dramatic power, anct in a duet with D’Oisly
from “Bohftme,” ona could just see Mimi’s
darling poke-bonnet and sandal-shoes and
her little trippity ways. This, in spite of
the fact that Rosina v.s large and impressive
as a ship in full sail. The lady was most
perfectly groomed. Bier ivory white gown
bung in soft panels, arad was cut, simply, in
the fashionable “high neck.” A great rope
of pearls, twisted and! tasselled with more
pearls, was her chief jewel adornment, and
her bright brown hair was bound tight in a
diamond band. Her towers head-
and-shoulders over his plump lady, and his
tenor duets to great perfection with her
soprano. Adela Leon ’cello-ed in a frock of
emerald, with a wreath of flowers making-
staccato notes of Erin’s color in her hair.
When Rosina sang her many encores, hubby
slipped along and played her accompani-
ments. For one song he gripped a ragged
bit of notation about the size of a flapper’s
handkerchief. It tried to evade him
several times, but he slapped it into place
like an elephant toying with a peanut.
Mrs. Dick Casey, who contemplates an
oversea trip, has let her South Yarra home-
stead to the James Haynes, lately back
from abroad. Mrs. Hayne is a sister-in-law
of Senator George Fairbairn. As a matter
of fact, there’s a good time coming for furni-
ture-movers. The Ross Soden widow has
sold her Toorak palace, Grong Grong, to a
Sydneysider by the name of Smith ; Senator
George Fairbairn has unloaded his fine home,
Dunraven, on the Dick Turnbull pair; the
Scobie Mackinnons are moving into the
Ronald Murrays’ South Yarra place, Arn-
side; and St. Catherine’s School is to un-
pack in the Mackinnons’ former home; the
Harold Clapps hqye acquired the Freddie
Grimwade’s whiloitf abode; the Leslie Mae-
Phersons will settle in Mrs. George Moore’s
residence, and—but, let’s pause for breath !
Mrs. Everard Browne, expecting her elder
daughter back from an English trip, has
taken the lower flat of White Lodge, South
Yarra, where she will live under the David
Hennessys. At present she is distractedly
wondering if her furniture, which is on the
large side, will squeeze into the place. One
'item calling for space is a life-sized marble
Yenus.
Leslie Madden Nelken had arranged a
party of farewell to her mother last week,
but w*hen the day arrived the hostess was
fighting a mounting temperature and pneu-
monia. There was no time to head off the
army of guests, so the Madden lady, in a
smart black gown and hat, acted as hostess
in conjunction with host Louis Nelken. The
party was at the “Quamby” Club, and was
a very swaggah affair. Mrs. Bowes Kelly
made a first appearance after a severe ill-
ness, and was in a smart gown under the
newest of flat straw hats. Mrs. Ledingham
was heavily furred in fawn marmot over
a blue dress, and Mrs. Purvis brought debby
daughter Valerie, in a’ tailored frock with
a duck of a lemon-tinted hat. The Frank
Madden lady wore the most correct of tiny
white collars and cuffs with her widow’s
garments, and the Miller lady added to her
height with a mound of ostrich feathers
above her silk gown. A Japanese butler
helped an army of maids to serve tea with
savories. Savories, by the way, are the
last shriek for tea-parties now—sweet cakes
are taboo among our Very Best matrons
since the craze for banting has set in. Half
the chatter at tea-parties consists of mys-
terious allusions to “two-and-a-half pounds,
my dear, in three months,” or “Have you
tried this formula?” and a rustle while the
precious notes are jotted down in a gold-
clasped diary booklet. The height of abnega-
tion is when one of the much-motored de-
clares that she “walks every day.’" “Not
reahly!” cooes another. “Ai don’t think At
could manage walking; but” (with con-
scious pride) “I nevah touch potatoes.”
One heavyweight was extolling the virtues
of massage, but another chipped in w r ith a
marvellous new bulk-reducing discovery. “I
do the sweeping!” Everybody in her corner
gazed upon the Edisonian person with awe.
Melbourne backed up Melba’s opinion of
the Berkeley voice by packing the Town
Hall for the prospective star’s benefit reci-
tal. Dame Nellie, her neck and brow
a-glitter with diamonds, was a joyous figure
in shimmering blue draperies confined with
a silvery girdle. Wilma Berkeley, her
natural nervousness hidden under a shy
smile, was classically draped in ivory satin
girdled with gold leaves. Her gorgeous voice
filled the old hall with amazing sweetness.
Every word was audible, and those who
heard her for the first time lifted amazed
eyebrows at the little nightingale’s finished
technique. Melba stemmed the wild applause
which greeted her own numbers by explain-
ing that it was not her concert; but, not-
withstanding this, the Conservatorium girls
present insisted on bestowing their loudest
appreciation upon Una Bourne. The Dame
thanked the crowd for showing confidence in
her judgment, and acclaimed her
as heiress-apparent, to the Melba vocal fame.
Her final remark was: “People may say
this or that; but don’t you believe them.
Don’t —for I know.” All Toorak was packed
into the front pews, with the Creswell dame
in the van.
Mrs. Helm, widow of the Bendigo bar-
rister of the name, and now well in her
middle eighties, surprised her friends by
occupying a front seat at the concert, with
two daughters in attendance. The dear old
lady, who seldom ventures beyond her own
threshold, enjoyed herself hugely. She is
Wilma’s oldest friend in more senses than
one; and the little songstress lovingly calls
her “Grannie.”
This is a snapshot
of the late Lord
Northcliffe, w h e n,
according to those
who are now quarrel-
ling over his wills, he
was dying of endocar-
ditis and failing on
the mental side. His
companion is “Liza,”
a well-known Maori
guide.
A golosh ed and
inufflered multitude
sat down to a first
helping of song from
Paul Althouse and
Arthur Middleton at
the Town Hall on
Friday. A couple of
Baillieus and half-a-
dozen of the Wer-
theim clan turned up
to prove that the
Best Dwellers still
retain an ear for
music. Musicians, of
course, were every-
where, the most con-
spicuous being Una
Bourne, bright and
birdlike in a gallery
seat. Also, there was
the inevitable Benno
Sherek, with his white
fleece waving as he
made a modest contri-
bution to the applause. The two singers and
their accompanist, Rudolph Gruen, are the
positive, comparative and superlative in phy-
sical development. Gruen is a poker-backed
midget who takes a small size in everything
but intellect; Paul Althouse is a well-built,
smiling young fellow who would probably
play a good game at tennis; Middleton, the
basso augusto, has an enemy growing up
about the waistline, but, though he looks
capable of making the average weighbridge
shriek w r itb anguish, is as nimble as a two-
year-old. Likewise, his mellow voice might
belong to a much thinner fellow.
Blanche .Tones (“Falaise”), who has
earned her daily crust for 16 years on the
Australasian social staff (she is a niece of
the late editor Willoughby, of the Argus),
has left the home of conservatism to become
social editress on the brand-new Sun which
is about to rise over Melbourne. Prof. Harry
Allen’s daughter has been handed “Falaise’s”
well-paid Australasian job. Rather dis-
heartening for seasoned presswomen who
have firstly their own living to write for.
Tnora, eldest daughter of the Jack Men-
zies, and a grand-daughter of a famous bar-
rister, the late Townshend MaoDermott, is
to marry her staunch admirer “Con,” son of
Colonel Carre Riddell, who is head of the
Board of Works. The ’groom-to-be is an
original Anzac, and a D.S.O.
Mrs. Dyer gave a wonderful party to
Rosina Buckman the other night. It was
at the highbrow Lyceum Club, and the host-
ess, with some ingenuity, evolved a decora-
tive effect of butterflies and cherry blossom
because Rosina’s dearest memories hang
about “Madame Butterfly.” Mrs. Dyer, in
a pale cherry-tinted frock of charmense, wore
a large turquoise butterfly on her shoulder,
and she presented a butterfly made out of
pansies to the guest of the evening. Rosina,
a lovely, large creature with a sweet expres-
sion on her youthful face, muffled up all
the evening in an amethyst-tinted velvet-
cloak edged with white fox fur. Dame Mary
Hughes came along in a slim sheath of ivory
clingy silk, and had her tawny hair dressed
high. Mrs. Gravestock was gorgeous in
pink brocade with a gold-tissue sash. Lady
Best brought a debutante daughter, who is
musically-inclined. Mrs. Henry Berry wore
lavender and old lace. Her hubby hobnobbed
with D’Oisly, who is Mr. Rosina, a large,
impressive creature with the easy, smooth
movement of a Rolls Royce and a pair of the
most humorous eyes on record.
The news that Mary, Duchess of Hamil-
ton, is leaving for Australia this month lias
set an old Melbourne identity talking. He
has no reminiscences of the lady (daughter
of an unwealthy Duke of Manchester, and
a mother who became Duchess of Devonshire
when her first ducal hubby died), except
that she held very broad views of “sport”
when she took Hamilton in hand, 50 years
ago. The young bride-elect, being shown
around one of her fiance’s country houses,
was told that some old barns were to be
removed because they were infested with
rats. “Don’t pull them down,” she*- said;
“I like a bit of ratting as well as the Duke.”
That was in 1873, says the reminisceneer,
when the Hamilton property had been nursed
back to health sufficiently to admit of the
gambling Duke getting married. He had
been the gay, young boon-companion of the
notorious Marquis of Hastings, the Duke
of Newcastle, Duke of Beaufort and other
turf plungers of the period. One of the
follies perpetrated By the first-named
was an after-supper bet of £200,000
to £lOOO against a Derby colt owned
by the present Lord Chaplin, on whom
the blue-blooded coterie had a “set.”
(Lord Hastings made
a runaway match with
a giddy girl—Lady
Florence Paget—who
was under contract to
marry Chaplin next
day. Lady Flo left
her deluded swain
cooling his heels out-
side a London drap-
ery store while she,
having escaped by a
back entrance, was
eloping with the Mar-
quis.) The colt won,
but the bet was after-
wards cancelled or
curtailed. The widow
of the unintellectual
but amiable Duke of
Hamilton afterwards
married Carnaby For-
ster, but retained her
proud title. During
his period of rustica-
tion the Duke used to
pass long wintry
weeks at bleak New-
market Heath, in the
home of his former
trainer, Tom Brown.
Mrs. Brown did her
best to entertain her
noble guest, but was
bored to death by his
dulness, and finally
she left him to play
alone for hours together, the game of solitaire,
a sort of patience, with marbles in place of
cards. He would pore over this all day and
all week, but could never get it “out,”
though the ; way was shown him again and
again. His intention was strong, but his
brain was not equal to the strain. Brain-
fag didn’t run in the noble family of our
imminent visitor’s first husband. But
blood ! Here is she, the daughter of a Duke,
and the re-married widow of another Duke,
whilst her mother is two duchesses rolled
into one.
The Best came in shoals to Mrs. Norman
Brooke’s parlors (gay with daffodils and
Iceland poppies) on Friday afternoon to
meet Rosina Buckman. The guest’s gener-
ous proportions were encased in peacock-
blue georgette heavily dadoed with gold and
silken birds, while great bunches of grapes
trickled giddily over her head with a fine
bacchante effect. Dame Mary Hughes, who
flew what looked like forbidden paradise
plumes from her headpiece, brought along
little Helen to play with the three Brookes
chicks after the latter had handed Rosina
Buckman a floral trophy. Mrs. Brookes was
in apricot, topped with a tricky little black
headpiece. Wilma Berkeley created the
usual buzz of admiration with a quartette of
songs, her aunt Ada Casey acting as accom-
panist.
Mrs. Arthur Staughton, who was one of
the Winter-Irving sisters, has signalled from
England that her daughter Lorie has be-
come engaged to one of the Western Dis-
trict Shaws, whose squattage marches with
the Staughton acres. The youthful bride-
elect, who is the eldest of a quartette of
girls, has been reversing the usual order
by topping off her education in Switzerland
after coming out at one of the Prince’s-visit
balls.
Major Morton Williams has succeeded to
the command at Queenscliff, from which
district he took to the front a contingent of
Vic.’s most experienced big-gun men shortly
after the outbreak of the war. Having brought
his command to the war zone, Major Wil-
liams went out to a fearful smash, and saw
no more fighting. He was terribly broken
up about the body, and his head was injured.
The femur bone being badly fractured, it
was thought he would never walk again, and
after three or four years of continual experi-
ment and great suffering the victim aban-
doned all hope of doing any further soldier-
ing. Now, thanks to a silver cap to the
femur, and tirelessly patient treatment, he
is able to walk with a scai’cely visible limp.
His fine soldierly figure (there is six-foot of
it) has been seen at the head of several
gubernatorial guards of honor lately.
A woman “revivalist” arrives in Mel-
bourne from Canada early next month. Mrs.
Aimee Semple McPherson comes on behalf
of the Pentecostal mission, if you please, so
she must be rather sorry that her godfathers
and her godmothers gave her such a nanm
as Aimee. It ought to be suggestive of
Christian love, and endeavor, and all the
virtues; but somehow it has come to reek
of vaudeville, and toe-dancing, and late sup-
pers. Godparents take an awful responsi-
bility when they launch Aimees on the sea
of society. It is the same with Dorothy
and heaps of other names. How
much safer to call a baby girlie Pru-
dence, and leave her to work out her
own signification of the name-word! It
gives her such wide scope. She can either
join the pentecostal cult when she grows up
and be very, very good, or go into the ballet
and be particularly careful. Every inch a
Prudence either way, so to speak.
The Percy Thiels’ daughter was married
a month or two ago in England to Gordon
Walker —’the eldest son of the whisky
Walker. She is a beautiful girl, and was
only 17 in the month of her marriage. The
pair met in India, when the girleen was on
an after-school trip abroad. It was a
desperate case of love at first sight. Gordon
followed in the wake of the adored one and
her mamma, and things were fixed up as
soon as they reached England.
A coo-ee from Adelaide:—
There was a Government House dinner t’other
night, for men only. The High Court Judges were
the special guests, but among the eaters were a
couple of local Judges, a K.C. or two, a sprinkling
of politicians, and two mere pastoralists by way of
relief.
The Gaud Mayoral Ball was a thing of splendor.
Moorish arches and straight-hung pillars, long vistas
from the main hall to the annexe, thousands upon
thousands of colored electric lights, a platform banked
high with palms and greenery that hid the musicians
and held in its centre a scented fountain where
prisoned lights gleamed through the crystal and
spray, great clusters of lights hanging, bell-like,
from the ceilings—that was the material; and the :
effect was as gorgeous as anything this city has ever
seen. There were 4000 invitations, and, judging by
the crowd, never a refusal among the replies that
rolled in; but good organisation reduced crushing
to a minimum. The Cohens—he still on the sick list
and only just well enough to come—began saying
“How d’ y’ do?” at 7.30 (!) and went on till 8.15,
when the Barwells were due as the first of the officials,
with the Murrays five minutes behind.
News comes from England that C. H. Bentinck, of
the Athenian Legation, has married the only daugh-
ter of the eldest son of our ex-Exes, the Fowell
Buxtons. The bride’s father died, as the result of
a motor accident, only a year after succeeding to
the title, and just as he was due at the Versailles
Conference as an expert on African problems.
Passed out, the widow of the late J. E. Thomas
and a sister of the late Robert Kyffen Thoma 3, of the
Register. She and her daughter Gwynneth returned
from a trip to England and the Continent only a '
few months ago, and were temporarily settled near
Aldgate, where they- had planned to make their
permanent home.
The Archives Department is steadily amassing
possessions. Its latest acquisition is the diary of
W. H. Hoare, who was assistant surgeon, mineralo-
gist and artist (he must have had a busy trip) with
the Goyder expedition of ’6B-70. The diarist is
still alive, at 81.
Sylvia Whitington, George Pearce and Harold
Wylde shared the programme, and the honors, at the
Conservatorium’s latest concert- —one of the best
given to date. The first two were at the top of their
form in a violin and piano sonata by Vincent d’lndy,
and the lady also made a great success of Zsolt’s
“Dragon Flies,” popularised here by Daisy Kennedy.


(9o '.tbcuULu
dent' teaAe—
I
*
m.
m
mm.
AnoiO tA&y- uhe
HILLIEPS
CHOCOLATES
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to you
the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
_ Post free to any address in Australia.
B
>UcLo
>nm
eJt HiMuA
162-166 PITT Street.
£> Cr George 6 King S+s
SYDNEY.
Wonderful Reproductions
of Priceless Gems
I
' ‘.;,x
mounted in rings, brooches, pi
THE texture, the tint, the
lustre of the gems of the
sea are reproduced in all
their beauty in Lafaye Pearls.
So excellent is the reproduc-
tion that even experts agree
that Lafaye Pearly are indistin-
guishable from the originals.
Miss Rene Maxwell, the
popular artist, willingly testi-
fies: “My Lafaye Pearls are so
perfect that I am unable to
distinguish them from my real
gems.”
Lafaye Pearls are available
in all lengths of necklets, with
the pearls most skilfullymatched
and graduated in size. They are
also obtainable charmingly
as or ear-rings, from one guinea.
Special Offer
Let us send you a 1 6in. Lafaye Pearl Necklet, identical in
appearance with a £5OO string. You may compare this with
the natural pearls, and if you are in the least degree dissatisfied
you may return our necklet within seven days, and your money
will be refunded immediately. For this nr " . . : r-.Qoc-
necklet send the Special Price of * W(J vjUilTcdo
Mail orders from any part of Australia receive prompt
and careful attention.
Lafaye, Scientific Pearl Authority
The Only Firm of Artificial Pearl Specialists in Australia
First Promenade, City House,
164 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Block Arcade, Collins Street,
Melbourne
Late of Tecla, 7 Old Bond Street, London
m
BOUDOIR GRANDS
AT PALING’S.
We have some exquisite small
Boudoir Grands in Sheraton
Design, cased either in Walnut or
rich-toned Mahogany.
MASON & HAMLIN - - - BEHNING - - - GAVEAO - - - CHRISTMAN
These makers are classed as High-grade Manufacturers. The Tone Quality is excellent
and well sustained, the Touch is all that can be desired, and the design of the cases
suitable to all styles of furniture.
Any of these Superb Pianos can be bought on Easy Terms.
Catalogues are Free for the asking.
Branches at
Brisbane
Toowoomba
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY hi
Rockhampton
Lismore
Newcastle


CHARLES
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1911
CMflMtl
NE PLUS ULTRA
-‘I
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
DIAMOND and GEM-SET RINGS.
The Company has a comprehensive selection of finest-quality Diamond and Gem-set
Kings, mounted in Platinum. Estimates and full particulars sent free on request.
gdf
g
Two-stone
Diamond
Ring, in
case,
£l5O 0 ()
Diamond Octagon
. Cluster Ring, in
case,
£75 0 0
Fancy Diamond
Cluster Ring, in
case,
£l2O 0 0
WILLIAM MRMER & CO.LTi|
Jewellers, Gem Merchants, %
Goldsmiths & Silversmiths,
34 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
/
gfdg
Fancy
square-cut
Diamond
Ring-, in
case,
£166 0 0
HAWAII
| Q THI YEAR ROUND PLAYGROUND | g
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
sports and sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropic fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to'
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.AI
X
friers
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
soaps
powders
Ijady Jellicoe is expected in Sydney on
Sept. 25. She will be the guest of his Ex.
and Dame Margaret at Government House
for the Spring meeting festivities, and then
go on to Melbourne.
At the Althouse-Middleton concert at the
Town Hall, one night last week, a seraphic-
looking flapper sat in the best seats, with
fur wraps, an outsize chocolate-box, a head
of honey-colored baby curls, and an admir-
ing; escort. As Althouse ended his “Celeste
Aida” outburst, the sWain whispered “Glad
you came?” The pretty creature raised her
baby-blue eyes and vibrated: “Glad! Why,
I’m! bucked to Hell!”
ifhe much-talked-of artists’ masquerade
ball went off with a bang, and there’s been
an unprecedented run on arnica and cold
crehm ever since, for the jazz girl and boy
is mostly bruised shin and arm since they
gallantly took their chance of floor space
among the other 4000 masked dancers seek-
ing; foothold in Sydney Town Hall proper or
in the cabaret in the basement. Never has
the; civic barn sheltered such numbers, nor
can the oldest doorkeeper remember such an
astonishing combination of clothes or lack
of them. The 16ft. posters that buttressed
the pillars of the overflowing galleries were
not more grotesque or varied in their garb
than the floor conquerors. Balloons and
streamers and nightmare figures tossed their
heads with a cocktail recklessness, and the
candelabra in the vestibule had the sight of
their lives. The most notable feature of the
dressing was the cheerful impartiality with
which the masked ones had plucked their
costumes from the centuries —Cromwellian
top-boots kept company with a Georgian
hat and an Elizabethan gallant’s clonk. The
matrons mostly had their feet and bodies
planted in the 20th century, while their
heads and hats were still coquetting with
the, powder n.nd patches and the plumed hats
beloved of the beautiful Miss Gunnings when
the pump rooms of Bath were Fashion’s
headquarters.
Of course Lambert was there, disguised
as j either a Velasquez portrait or Charles
11. Artists with an English flavor are
the fashion this season, and no really up-to-
the-minute party is complete without one.
Longstaff • was on deck; and Sydney Ure
Smith wandered about hidden in the depths
of walrus-like moustaches and a mandarin
coat. He took the job of judging the sets
so seriously that he threatened to execute a
nervous breakdown before the night was over.
Mrs. Sep Levy was like a Greuze lady in
palest lilac tints and powdered hair. Mrs.
Ernest Watt looked as though she
were playing Slieoherdess in Versailles
in her silken panniers and wide-brimmed
hat. Mrs. Vivers appeared as a be-
ruffled Early Victorian flapper, bowpot, poke
bonnet and all. Lyster Ormsby was arrest-
ing as the God of Plenty, and gave his bless-
ing to the mad whirl in the basement; as did
his small wife as a dashing vivandiere. But
in spite of the benediction the lager did not
multiply; for at an early hour a desert-like
drought set in, to be mitigated only by soda
or ginger-pop.
Each side of the basement was lined with
side-shows, art salons, sculpting studios,
photo parlors, and Heaven knows what not.
They didn’t draw the giddy throng in multi-
tudes, but they were a boon as tr.vsting
places. Gayfield Shaw and-Gladys Owen,
who looked as though she had just stepped
out of a Jane Austen page, ran a caricature
shop, and Theo Cowan’s stone-masonry, with
its bechecked Trilbys and Little Billee, its
Mimis and Musettas, was as gay if not as
naughty as its name—“La Vie Parisienne”—
implied. Among the Carmens and Dutch
Cleansers, Pierrots, gollywogs, Maoris a.nd
cavaliers, a stir was caused by the chap who
went as a Convict, clothed below the waist
in a pair of arrow-branded duck trousers,
and above the waist in some bloodstains.
With him was a girl who kept her pretty
back warm by a horse-race painted on her
skin. Soutar went as his own Cat: and
Albert Collins was a cross between
a Spanish Hidalgo and “Gaily the
Troubadour.” There were girls who
were ruffled up to the chin, and girls
whose partners, after one look, had to
simply get their grip into a handful of loose
flesh and on with the dance —and there were
the sitting-out couples who risked pneumonia
in the passages and balconies from an early
hour. A prowling judge came across one
insouciant pair at 10 o’clock, she perched
lightly on her cavalier’s knee. “Ah,” said
the judge. “May I ask you what picture you
are illustrating?” The lad cocked an eye-
brow. “The Dance Well Lost!” he said.
There was the trail of the Lost Whisky, that
kept many amateur ’tecs busy till after mid-
night, when the thirstiest sleuth ran it to
earth behind locked doors. Happy wives
lost their husbands, and (a tradition,
this, at masked balls) one absentee hus-
band found, with a shudder, that the masked
flapper he had pursued half the night was
the wife he had left at home to mind the
twins. Mrs. Norman Lindsay came to the
party wearing a head-dress that might have
belonged to Beatrice d’Este. and a dress that
glittered like a frozen sketch of the lvatoomba
falls. Leon Gellert made a slim but dash-
ing D’Artagnan; but author Louis Stone
seemed as lost as his owttj “.Jonah.”
Vice-royalty was sets of it,
masked and doniinoed, in orange, purple
and blue. All arrived at the one time,
all were received With the same honors,
and preceded by the same heralds,
dancing girls and a court jester who
looked like Roy de Mestre. The dais
held a crop of throne chairs, but the visitors
weren’t allowed to sit in them until their
identity was put to the test by tossing a
brown, and by the old potent incantation that
commences “Eenie, Meinie, Minie Mo !” Still,
when supper-time came, the riddle was yet
unread; and when three Sir Walters spread
their bread and cheese with a carving-knife
opposite a paper-covered kitchen dresser in
the basement, the mystei’y was like unto that
of “The Bat.” One frolicsome lad, thinking
he recognised a pal, cried, “Me for the
plums!” and gave a purple domino a whack
with a bladder —and rumor hath it that his
Ex. still carries a bruise! Anyway, Sydney
has its night—and now if it has anything to
learn in the way of human anatomy, let
Oscar Asche and Cairo do their darnedest!
This letter has started a romance
that will end in a peal of weddings-bells
before next week’s Bulletin slips into her
pink camisole. A year ago, a photograph
of a merry-faced V.A. brightened up this
page, and Connie Scott-Reed was the ori-
ginal. She was one of the first 14 V.A.’s
in Sydney, and developed a good deal of
arm-muscle polishing floors and brasses at
Randwick in the days when V.A.-ing meant
real graft. When the V.A. Club opened she
, helped to take charge of the commissariat,
and the photo was published to celebrate
the event. An old playmate came across the
picture in a copy of a borrowed Bulletin in
Samoa, and, realising that the flapper he
had known was grown up and still unmar-
ried, he decided to wade in. Since then,
the mails between Samoa and Sydney have
grown considerably heavier, and now the
young woman becomes Mrs. Robert Suther-
land. attached by marriage to the M.L. Gov-
ernment Service of Samoa.
This is Mrs. Victor White, one of the
Hunter River clan, whose scheme of deco-
rations for the
Peace Ball still lives
in the memory of
Sydney’s dancing
world. Her big push
is now behind the
Cranbrook fSte. She
is first lieutenant to
Mrs. Alexander Gor-
don, who is corn-
man der-in.-chlef of
the Art Show, to be
housed In the lodrc
of the picturesque
old G overnment
House two. days be-
fore the fair proper.
Mr s. White is
specialising on an-
tiques ; and has
already some re-
markable French and
Dutch pieces in her collection. Every
pawnshop-keeper ard antique dealer in and
around Sydney has made the energetic lady’s
acquaintance in the last few weeks. The
fair is to be as gay as late September sun-
shine and artistic hands can make it. The
wide, old drive is to be turned into a street
of stalls that will combine the usefulness
of the West with the. mystery and color of
the East. Dancing-girls and crystal-gazers
and a magic carpet will fleece the sheep and
the lamb as closely as a champion shearer.
Tea will be served on the terrace, which, in
the mad. bad, long ago of Sydney, was the
favorite sitting-out spot after the quad--
rilles and lancers in the big ballroom.
Ruth Ryan wak the belle of the Madrigal
Society’s concert at the Conservatorium
early this week. She poured out a Chopin
Nocturne and a Lizst Rhapsody with poetic
fire that warmed her Australian cousins to
salvos of applause, and then trailed the butter-
fly sleeves of her Paris frock back and forth
half-a-dozen times in response to recalls.
She is a pupil of the brilVant Raphael
Joseffy, and Sigismond Stojowski; and has
been giving recitals and playing at concerts
since she - was 14. She toured France and
part of Germany after the war with a
Y.M.C.A. concert party. Northcliffe, who
had been struck by her playing in England,
and who met her again on his way to Aus-
tralia, urged her to give a series of recitals
in Sydney, but up till now her relations
have absorbed all her time.
Mrs. Brookes, the Melhourne woman who;
is interested in playgrounds for children, is
staying at the Wentworth, and is having a
srreat pow-wow with the local kindergarten-
heads on her favorite subject. She is a
daughter of Alfred Deakin.
This is a May Moore picture of Sir Wil-
liam Beach Thomas, who is just back at bis
Sydney headquarters
—the WentVvorth— •
from Queensland.
He didn’t find the
white mhn yyilting
under the influence
of the tropical
climate. On the
contrary, he reported
last week that he
found him every-
where working
harder and looking
fitter than in many
cold climates. And
the great war-cor-
respondent should
know something
about fitness. A
fact which none of
his press biographers
in this country have
mentioned is that he was one of Oxford’s
finest athletes when he xvb s at Christchurch,
20-odd years ago.
The Grand Opera Ball on Thursday night
for the benefit of the Royal Alexandra Hos-
pital for Children suffered by comparison
with the wild jamboree held within the civic
halls a few nights earlier by the artists. The,
floor appeared smooth and uncrowded as a
billiard-table; and the decorations, so merry
and bright on Monday, looked as though a
sudden blight had fallen upon them. They
seemed to say “though Spring comes, Winter
isn’t far behind.” However, in spite of the
echoing spaces, there were several hundred
dancers who had apparently stepped out
from the countries set to music by Verdi and
Gounod. Marguerites and Mephistos held
friendly intercourse with a group of pretty
girls dressed in red motor-togs who named
themselves “The Bing Boys.” There was a
brawny male Cleopatterer whose shoulders
would have found their proper setting in the
Stadium. One of the prettiest features of
the dance was a group of dainty dancing
youngsters, pupils of the clever Scully sisters.
Mayoress McElhone blessed the gathering in
the Lady Mary Carlisle costume she had
worn to the Artists’ Ball. Secretary-of-the-
hospitnl Clarence Moss wore an engaging
smile ard some other things as Mcnhisto.
Mrs. Spencer Rrunton was the Keeper of
the Cash, and Dame Alice Chisholm the sec-
retary of the flutter.
Ivatoomba is now talking about running
an electric lift from Echo Point to the Fed-
eral Pass below —to obviate the necessity of
climbing the steps! What is the beauty of
the mounta ns, anyway? As it is, the once-
popular walk to Echo Point has degenerated
into a frenzied race in a lumbering jugger-
naut. It’s up to someb dy now to make a
move to decently clothe the Orphan Rock
and the Three Sisters, or, perhaps, the
Jamieson Valley could be dammed, and ex-
curs ons run with the Milson’s Point ferries
when our £10,000.000 bridge puts them out
of bus'ness in Sydney. And will mere man
be expected to doff his lid in this £20,000
bird-cage?
Alfred Hill illustrated the principal
themes of his new opera, “Auster,” at the
Musical Association’s smoke-oh the other
night. With the aid of a piano he sang the
arias of the soprano, alto, tenor and bass,
only acknowledging defeat before the deep-
est basso notes. He demonstrated the'r pro-
fundity by a finger that stabbed eloquently
downwards. “Auster” will he produced for
the first time on Thursday (to-night) at the
Town Hail. The libretto, incidentally, is
the work of Mrs. E. Coungeau, a Bulletin
verse-writer of strength and charm.
Lambert has taken to earning an honest
quid or two by perpetrating pencil sketches
of anyone who will put up the coin.
The volatile George sketches only in black
and white, and his friend Ernest Watt was
among the earliest victims.
The Palais Royal might have been the
deck of a vessel floating in Polar seas last
Thursday night, when the Sydney Gram-
marians turned on jazz, in the interests of
the school sports fund. The Arctic night-
kept the dancers busy; and even supphr
offered no great rivalry to votaries of per-
petual motion, as it was served in an annexe
that was a degree or two colder than the
dancing enclosure. There were flappers
everywhere, and the few misguided young
aunts who had been persuaded by money-
grubbing nephews to purchase tickets began
to feel like their own chaperons. Clarence
Mackenzie secretaried the shivoo.
St. Mary’s staged a pretty matrimonial
fixture one evening last week, when Maisie
Steele, of Melbourne, by means of the old
incantation, “love, honor and obey,” became
Mrs. Clive Carlton, of Mosman. The four
maids who followed the bridal froth of ivory
brocade and Chantilly laces to the altar
were all in soft white satin frocking, against
which they clutched armfuls of daffodils.
The bride s brother-in-law is C. M. Mc-
Donald, the coal magnate, and he supported
her through the give-and-take ceremony, his
wife hostessing the subsequent cake-dispen-
sation at the Wentworth.
The dance held in the Paddington Town
Hall by the Kambala Old Girls’ Union, for
the benefit of the permanent endowment fund
for their cot at the Alexandra Hospital, netted
£ls6’ 11s. The treasurers are Mrs. Ilaigh
and Miss C. Randall Carey ; and Mrs. 11. B.
Wilkinson is the secretary.
Annie Walker, spinster, who died recently
at 77, taught manners and etiquette to the
mothers of the scholars of to-day. Fifty
years ago she and her elder sister Harriet,
who has been dead some years, ran a “f/idies’
School” on the north side of Bathurst-street,
Sydney, between Pitt and Castlereagh
streets, and later they shifted to Forest
House. Forest Lodge, formerly the home of
Dr. Munro. Boarders came to them from
as far afield as Charters Towers (Q.), and
day scholars from all the suburbs. Among
the boarders were daughters of the Lackeys,
the Lawsons, Towns (of Richmond), Mc-
Cullochs and McLeans. While in Bathurst-
street Annie Walker was organist in the
old Presbyterian Church at the rear of St.
Andrew’s Cathedral.
The Royal Prince Alfred Hospital runs
to five big parties per year. The first, second,
third and fourth year nurses have their own
special fixtures, when they invite their favo-
rite students, medicoes and other humble
followers to the Nurses’ Home. The most
important spree, however, is that at which
the matron and sisters are hostesses. This
holds all the joys of the other dances, with
the addition of a super-supper—and a dash
of something extra in the fruit-cup. The
nurses’ commou-room is given over to jazz,
and the feeding is done in the dining-room
around which runs a balcony resembling a
Gothic stone cloister. It occurred last week,
and was a vast success, with the matron
and Sister Lowe doing arduous work as
chaperons.
A certificated centenarian passed out at
Copton last week in the person of Mrs.
Sarah Page, who was born near Grafton
102 years ago, and reared a family of five
sons and a daughter. There are 84 other
descendants. The old lady had resided for
the great part of her life in the New Eng-
land district.
Mrs. Adeline Howell, who was., buried at
Rook wood last week, aged 7,4 years, linked
the names of two families historic in Aus-
tralia. She was the daughter of John Wild,
of Vanderville, near Oaks, Camden, and
granddaughter of John Wild, lieut. and
adjutant of the 48th Regiment, who had a
grant of 2000 acres (200 extra bPing allowed
for rock) on condition that he maintained
60 assigned servants (convicts). The grand-
dad dcd at Vanderville in March, 1834,
aged 53, and the father passed out in 1857
aged 50. One of the family, William Varder-
mulen Wiki, a barrister, represented Cam-
den in the second and third N.S.W. Parlia-
ments, and died at 26. The name Howell
has been connected with Parramatta, where
Mrs. Adeline Howell died, for long over a
century, Howell’s “old mill” being still a
tradition in the town.
A cheque for £25 goes to the credit of
“Tresillian” from the sale of Spring flowers
in the vestibule of Her on Friday
morning. The banked-up golden glories were
the gift of the William Walk gardens at
Kurrajong Heights, and the group of attrac-
tive flower gifftfSr- among whom was the
Evening News beauty, Eve Grey, quickly
sold their W#es.
A line or two from Brisbane: —
Capt. Sanders, of New Guinea, who has been stay-
ing with his Ex. at Government House, went along
to the inter-State matches at Auchenflower, and the
Governor himself shouted tea for the David Hamil-
tons, Lockhart Spences, Arthur Feezes and others at
the Milton courts on the Saturday.
During the week the City Hall, South Brisbane,
was all red for the Tennis Association’s ball, and
into this democratic color walked the vice-regal
party. The supper-room, however, saved the situ-
ation, with, white-and-blne streamers and red candle-
shades. Miss Cecil Spong, of Sydney, in fuchsia
taffeta, was among the whirlers.
The' Digbys and Pitt Rivers, with Capt. Lawrence,
have been the guests of Mrs. William Collins, io
whom they went from the Coochin Bells. Capt. Pitt
Rivers, whose remarks on anthropology have set vari-
ous “Pro Bono Publicos” at work in the correspon-
dence columns of Brisbane dailies, is now off to
Melbourne.
Mrs. J. K. Cannan called tea-drinkers together in
a bower of Iceland poppies and sweet-pea at the
Bellevue the other day in honor of daughters Lilian
and Olive, who are up from Sydney.


dfg
HARDY BROS. LTD
Jewellers .
Gem-set Wrist Watches
Dainty model in all platinum, fitted with highest-grade
Swiss Lever movement, set until finest-quality diamonds,
mounted on moire silk band, and diamond snap, £250.
Hardy Brothers are constantly supplement-
ing their stocks with smart new designs in
Gem-set Wrist Watches. Recent additions to
the Company’s fine display include handsome
models in all diamonds, emeralds with dia-
monds and black onyx with diamonds. Prices
range from £6O.
A visit of inspection is cordially invited.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
BRISBANE.
LONDON
298 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
df
of an Eversharp
WRITING with an Eversharp
gives you a sense of satis-
faction—for it is a beautiful pen-
cil —comparable to fine jewellery.
Eversharp is made of the finest
materials with normal use, it
will last a life time. And it’s al-
ways sharp without ever being
sharpened. Each Eversharp has
an eraser under its cap.
Eversharps are made in gold,
gold-filled, silver and silver-plated
styles, in a variety of patterns and
sizes. The name Wahl Eversharp
is engraved on every pencil as
your guarantee and protection.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York " U. S. A.
Be sure it's an
EVERSHARP’
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HOARE, Ltd..
Remington House, Liverpool St.. Sydney
A Camera which makes
Picture-taking easy and sure
The Ansco Vest Pocket
No. 2
For Roll Films —Daylight Load-
ing. Is equipped with a high-
quality Anastigmat Lens, assur-
ing sharp, clear 2\ x 3£ pictures,
and Extra-speed Bionic Shutter,
accurately adjusted for auto-
matic snapshots of 1-200 second.
fcur/n
@LJp)
o£b\
Fast enough to catch
moving figures.
PRICE
With F 7.5 Modico
Anastigmat
Lens - -
Bionic Shutter.
£6
g?
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
Katoomba Street, Katoomba.
Adelaide —41A Bundle Street.
Melbourne-—266 Collins Street.
Auckland —144 Queen Street.
Brisbane* —93 Queen Street.
Wellington—42 Willis Street.
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
&
ff> Pm
p* Pm
ffrt
■m rm
>rm «m
**!«!*
0
0
HiP
■Royal Cord 'Nobby*
Wr
Chain’ ’Usco’
THE. WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.


Baby Wants Cuticura
It Keeps His Skin Soft
Smooth and dear
Baby's tender skin requires mild, sooth-
ing properties such as are found in the
Cuticura Soap, Ointment. and Talcum.
The Soap is so sweet, pure and cleansing
and the Ointment so soothing and healing,
especially when baby’s skin is irritated.
Cuticura Talcum is also ideal for baby.
Soapls.,Ointment Is.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
dress: “R- Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W."
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
LEARN TO DRAW!
f
“There’s Money
in
the Pen."
You can
learn to
make cifcc-
tive original
drawings in a
short period
under the
WESTON
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Each lesson is given
under the personal
supervision of Aus-
tralia’s foremost
commercial artist,
Mr. Harry J. Wes-
ton, who criticises
and corrects the
exercises.
Big salaries await
successful students
in the field of . art!
Why not learn all
about this profit-
able hobby?
Send your name
and address . and
three stamps for
Mr. Weston’s book-
let, “There’s
Money in the
Pen,” which
tells all about
the course,
fees, etc., and
gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
postal School of Drawing,
15S Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
IWMilUlifllaß
£7/?e £F>er/ec£
©gIFSCgH IP&g'fflE
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST.- BEST
SOLO BY ALL STATIONERS
j#o!s% Ie ALEx Cowan © Sons, L™
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed* . think of
g
fd
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
BE PREPARED TO MEET THE BULLY!
You should learn “how” to box —
learn to defend yourself. Such a
knowledge will never be a burden to
you, but at times of need will prove
your best friend and protector. No
man knows the day or the hour when
he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he
"’ill have to defe.nd himself against
some bully or ruffian.
WE TEACH BOXING BY MAIL
—teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The boxing instructions are very thorough
you’ll find them most interesting, and "be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under our
coaching. The lessons provide an enjovable pastime
and are cramful of health-giving relaxation and
exercise.
rite your name and address across this advertise-
ment, and post it to us, and we will send you bv
return mail the interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which tells all about the
methods, terms, etc. Please send three stamps for
postage.
XM
X
k
TP
. fe" 1
: ': : !■■■' ::
• • | •
REG. L. (“Snowy”)
BAKER
The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
168 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
pSTOCig
m
[bTr o w n I
Keep Your Footwear Youthful
with this scientific preparation that ‘‘keeps the leather
alive,” soft and pliable, and imparts a shine that stays.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS
(In Bottles and Tubes).
COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Nigger Brown,
Blue, White, Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
DIAMONDS
AND
DIAMONDS
Diamonds differ in value just as bank-
notes.
Two bank-notes —one may be worth
ONE pound and the other FIFTY
pounds. So ’tis with Diamonds. One
may be worth TEN pounds a carat,
and another may be worth ONE
HUNDREDS FOUNDS a carat, and
each be as good value as the other.
One Diamond is perfect, without
flaws, another is imperfect.
One has chips off it or internal faults;
One is blue-white; another off-color.
No gems are too good for Australians, and so we specialise on the best grades only.
Our prices for the best gems will be found to be as low as those of London, and
as low as the poorer qualities usually sold in Australia,
Two Choice Diamonds, set in Platinum on Plati.
num Front, Gold Brooch, £B/10/-
Fine Blue-white Diamonds, set in Platinum on
Platinum Front, Gold Brooch, £lB.
"" ——
Choice Diamond, set in Platinum, on Platinum
front, Gold Brooch, £4/4/-
another is flawless.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
The neui Brooks Book
useful help on the “
saddle. Send for i
gives much
fit” of a
< copy.
Does your cycle fit you ?
IN the " IRISH Cyclist ”we read : —" In buying
a bicycle, be as careful as you would be in
selecting a pair of gloves. See that the bicycle
'fits' you properly.”
The saddle is the most important point in the "fit”
of a machine; it must be the correct type, suffi-
ciently strong for your weight, attached correctly,
and it must afford this perfect “fit” for many
years. Sum it all up in a luxurious and reliable
BROOKS
SADDLE
' J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD.,
Criterion Worki, Birmingham, England.
Agents in Australia
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, Ltd., 3la Pitt St., Sydney.
There would be a
Lot Less Beards
rmimiv
if every man knew all about
the
■URHAMI-lUPLEXI
Safe Razor
Try one to-day, and learn
something about shaving
comfort.
*
J 4
7"
\ v
M*
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation 1
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
iVo notice (except 0/ a hostile character) will be
taken oj communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. wilt be returned
unless stamps accompany.
1.M.P.: Not quite worth space... .C.G.:
Tiger par much too long. . . .Jacko: The old chap
has already been paragraphed.... Harry T.: Too old.
.... Chuck: Seven couplets do not form a sonnet,
and many of your lines limp. Some even waddle...
J.S.H.: Wanted better handling.. .E.11.G.: “Brother-
hood” must go back.... Max Eyb: No use sending
that sort of stuff as verse.... The Toad: The yarn
is too thin... .L.M. (Marrickville) : Rubbish....
Graph: You don’t make anything of it... .A.R.P.:
Send it to the lady. If she can stand it her love is
pure g01d... .M.D.M.: Daphne bathing in two sec-
tions is not a bright episode. Even if she did it
in three rounds it wouldn’t make for gaiety....
W.E.-B.: “The Sentimentalist” is a dreary person....
Yanga: The idea is print-worn. .. . A. 8.0.: Needed
more forceful handling... .Harry M.: The solemn
kicking of cows doesn't move u 5.... W.E.L.: Must
go back... .Cheerio: “The peer's proud daughter”
doesn’t attract.... Klaney: Nothing in it.... Dina:
A rhyme like “store-draw” is a crime... .A.B.
(Richmond River): Through the drunken roll and
slither of the lines we observe that farming doesn’t
pay. In future, say it in prose.... .Gladys P.: Most
ordinary “Peach Tree.”.... J.H.S.: Not much use
asking what becomes of verse with lines like “Why
singeth thou so mournfully ahvay ?”.... Howard T.:
Same old business of courting rheumatism in the
damp twilight described in the same old phrases
A.S.K.: Wanted fine telling to make a yarn of it.
....Arthur J.: Doesn’t strike us... .A.R.H.: The
same weary old tale of the new-chum who could
ride when they thought he couldn’t J.W.F.: Not
for us Oka: Miserable little yarn P.A.L.:
Visits to Hell have to be of unusual interest to avert
boredom Andrew S.: Oh, the British flag isn’t
as bad as all that!.. . .F.B. (Ringwood) : Not our
style... ,Q..P.: There seems no justification for the
irregularity of metre in “Things” T.M.0.: Don’t
know. It’s an awful thing to face Judgment Day
with a load of verse like that on your soul.... Kat:
Cut this out, post to cashier, and buy sausages with
the proceeds:—
I'll grant that your a monarch of the office you
survey,
And that 1 can’t drag from you some pay.
And it’s an insult to feed you on good hay.
Let alone send a lay.
Be I some day. Pat in your Editorial chair.
And you, are hard up against it. And find bread
dear.
If you send a song, along, for a cheer.
You’re snubbed. I’ll be a bear.
But please note. It’s a dismal wintery morn.
And 1 am hungry. Hence this lay is born.
And I’m rash, without cash. I feel forlorn.
Yesterday I was by bookies shorn.
. ...H.K.: (Hawthorn): A weary sermon, and we
like them bright Marjorie E.: Verses are some
distance off M.M. (Ipswich): No use H.A.S.:
The makings of a yarn in it, but the yarn is not
made... .H.V.J.: Not up.... John C.: Machine-made
yarn Cassar: Tuneful, but gets to nothing
W.G.S.J.: Not well enough d0ne....5.L.M.: One
subtle stanza :—*
Nay, foolish youth: your hair is soft,
Your eyes are blue and clear;
Your breath the incense from the croft
Where new-mown hay doth rear.
Try it this way:—
Nay, foolish youth, your brain is soft
As is the new-mown hay,
\\ bile beer hath gently reared aloft
The breath you wear to-day.
....Stella. S.: “Oh 1 Why return again?” Also,
“Oh 1 Why sing about it?”.., .S.E.F.J.: Not for
us; but congratulations on the typewriting....
Papua: No name on copy, but the “Evening” there
is not up.... Bellerive: It may serve as an inspira-
tion to Prime Minister Hughes in his coming election
campaign there:—•
In Bendigo a-batching
I soon learnt what to do;
To skin and cook a rabbit,
Or prepare a pot of stew.
I’d neatly peel potatoes,
And wash ’em in a can ;
Loin chops and mince-meat
I’d juggle in the pan.
My tasty little dumplings,
Steaming on their plates,
For a Sunday dainty,
Were relished by my mates.
Near Bendigo a-batching,
On dreary winter nights
Football was our topic,
And roped arena fights.
....Arthur R.: Remove and sprinkle with carbolic.
. ...A.T.R.: Doesn’t strike u 5.... Frank N.: Gets
nowhere.... P.S.S.: Feeble... .V.M.: A long heavy
curse upon the person who first wrote “Wanderlust”
in English.... F.D. (Randwick): They haven’t
enough in them. .. . J.S.N.: It moves very heavily to
say very little. .. .Silas: The yarn was old and grey
when Noah was coaxing the death-adder on board....
P.R. (Manly) : “The Sea” is a subject that has been
handled before, and practically everybody knows that
it is wet.... J.F.K.: Both miss, but not badly....
C.W.H.: Same old love for the place you don’t want
to go to J.C.8.: The idea is strong; but the
verse weak.... Sparkles: It doesn’t sparkle....
0.D.W.: Not up R.G.H.: Doesn’t get near....
Howard N.: Wooden verse.... J.A.W.: The plumbers
can’t put the waterspout up here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPON DENTS.
G.R.: You’ve a lot to learn yet....11.J.: Faint
pencil markings on writing-paper useless... .G.C.:
Below the mark... .L.C.: W’eak gag and weaker
drawing... .A.M.: Take a cold, critical look at those
arms... .T.H.D.: This “meritorious paper” wouldn’t
dream of publishing ’em... .5.M.0.: Pretty terrible.
V.B.: It is, emphatically, not up to the stan-
dard... .F. V.M.N.: Awful drawing... .L.G.: Better
go on studying... .C. 8.: Too amateurish.. . .J.C.M.:
Hopeless Cam' H.: Old gag L.T.: Both out.
. ...J.K.: Very rocky draftsmanship... .C.W.: No
appeal, even in those legs.
“L’Fou”: A quite recent spectacle, cheer-
ing to decentralisers, was the Dutch steamer
Le Maire lifting 15.000 cases of condensed
milk at Warrnambool for Java and Singa-
pore. Factories right at Warmambool’s back
door turn out 1500 tons of milk products
monthly; and there’s a wealth of spuds and
onions, wheat and wool, almost as handy—-
all bulky and unwieldy freight, to send on
a long and costly roundabout railway jour-
ney to Victoria’s only recognised port, Mel-
bourne. Usually, the harbor makes and
mothers the city. But in Warrnambool’s case
it has been a long struggle against Melbourne
influences.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By wny of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley-—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, SEPTEMBER 13.
SONOMA.
10,0U0 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
; OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
yHE North Goast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND TIIE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at 7 p.m. ;
passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.tn.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/6/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHII.P
& CO.. LTD.
Unliking, Public Companies. Ac.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAITbANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Established 1872.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO.OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Mart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,523,000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1922. . £13,269,793
Directors: Sir Mark Siieldojj, Chairman; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A., Deputy Chairman ; George
F. Todman ; Duncan Carson; 11. A. Russell;
Lieut.-Col. T. L. F. Rutledge, M.L.A.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Acting-Manager: G. 11. Westcott.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 147 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 23 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rtindle Street).
Manager; it. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairrairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business^
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
Xhe Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,551,188
Vmldinz Reversionary Additions to
' Policies of about £2,629,000
>■««>• e &z-z
Annual Income £.,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, eta.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (IM.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST, AND REST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 26th OCTOBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N . 1).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States. Camilla, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United-Stated'Clin he seen on the Journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizonn, Yellowstone Park, NhiEuru l ulls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MAIJNGANUI, 7th SEPTEMBER, 11 a. in.
TAHITI, 12th OCTOBER.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STIUM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
-% *»
Island Tours
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands,
Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 31 TO 41 WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY..
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OK THE I’INE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 toil*
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 13,500 tons
SUE VIC 13,500 tons
MEDIC 13,000 tons
PERSIC 13,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route,
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES 11,350 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,350 tons
•SOPHOCLES 13,500 tons
•DIOGENES 13,500 tons
•New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED.
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Ss= ■ \
I’ald-up Capital
Kescrve Fund
Keserve Liability
Directors:
£5,000,000
3,000,000
5,000,000
£13,000,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Macltellar,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G.
, K.C.M.G.,
Milson, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkinev, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Blade, M.L.C.
General Mananer: Oscar Lines.
Head Offiee —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, F,.C.
300 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
!«£!
JBanf^Hustralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALU CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Intereston Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300,
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G..
Deputy Governor. Governor.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-ioom at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Missing- Friends.
/GEORGE ARTHUR ELLISS. —A substantial Reward
will be paid for information as to the present
whereabouts (if living) or of the date and place of
death of George Arthur Elliss, who was last heard
of at Mackay, Queensland, in the month of Aug-ust,
1915. For some time previous to the above date
the said George Arthur Elliss was employed at the
Mackay Mercury Newspaper Office as an Engineer.
Dated at Mackay this sixteenth day of August, 1922!
GORTON & HARTLEY, Solicitors, Mackay,
•auiaaiMg
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circum stances permitt i ng.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
Sydney Agents.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.,
7 Bridge St.
Mollwraitb,
McEaeharn’s Line,
61 Pitt Street.
5 Howard Smith
Ltd. & Reduced,
! 350 George St.
Melbourne S.S.
[ Co., Clarence and
i Barrack Sts.
FOR BRISBANE
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Maekay, Townsville and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alnni;"Jl«ekay,. Bowen and Towns-
' villo.
TOUR AND TRAVEL
to all parts of the World.
ipecial Round Eastern and Round World Tours
,tiered by our Tourist Trt.llte Depurttneni. Also
•assages booked direct to ENGLAND, AMLRICA,
IFRIOA, INDIA, CHINA and JAPAN.
BUIiNS-PHI Ll* LINK to
JAVA AND SINGAPORE.
tegular monthly sailings for SINGAPORE, passen-
gers are. also booked through to India, Burma, China,
lupan, etc.
For itineraries and all information apply,
BURNS, PHILP At CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane.
Huddart Parkei Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melboui ue and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne! Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
YAk^E/THU^S- w v rt ’irnriAAir A ’
Monthly Sailings lnereauei.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Jupan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
moneV. freight, etc., apply to
money, yUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address:
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IllOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Eitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.'
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough. Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown-
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/C per day, or apart-
ments may he secured separately by the
dav from C/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.


Lowe’s
' '<
famous £5 Suits
tailored to order
\MuV\\WvX.v
¥
....
■M
S i :.H
m
A
■■
X
m
///A
The best £5 Suits
in Australia.
The above statement "the best £5 Suit in Aus-
tralia,” is based upon solid fads—superior qual-
ity of materials and expert workmanship in every
detail. Experience, however, is a : safer teacher
than statements. Let your next suit be one of
Lowe’s £5 Suits and you, too, will be among
the many who have discovered the above to be
much more than a statement —a proved reality.
Men’s Sac Suits to-order of Vicars’ famous Mar-
rickville Tweeds and high-grade English Tweeds in
the new Spring and Summer weights and patterns.
Tailored in newest styles with that striking, clean-
cut character and individuality which is the wish
of every man who takes pride in
his appearance. Price ...
£5-0-0
PATTERN COUPON.
LOWES’ LIMITED,
Box 1622, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me patterns of Vicars’ Marrickyille
and English e 2 “weeds for suits to order at £5;
also, self-measurement form, tape, etc.
3\Came
ylddress
F. 8.-31-8-22.
g
mmm
c 'Merchant Tailors, Sydney •
Stores all over Town; one at Newcastle.
RELIABLE GUNS
BY WORLD-RENOWNED MAKERS.
TRY US FIRST FOR ALL SPORT EQUIPMENT.
SUNOL FINE CUT
TOBACCO.
The World’s Best.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
MR
r-
li2o. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge,, top lever, SOin. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
- Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£5/12/6
£6/5/-
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES ,
rsy}
n
8 SB
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
, , , u L English D.15.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-ineh
>airels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
parent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 711 b. Freight paid,
=£l4/14
Marble’s Waterproof Matcli
Boxes, for the Outdoorsinan.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing; to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
<BO3
Ttlwcg "Field
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
I‘iseon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pislol
grip, chambered for 2jin. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 741 b.
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid,
£.161101-
Ml
z£»
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeatin
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-dow
system, magazine holds six cartridges; weight
about 71b Freight paid,
= I?
£l2/12/-
112. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun . ... ... .
Freight paid,
£l5
POWDER
AUSTRAL. 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 9/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/6 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM EREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
dfg
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gull, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks.
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 751 b Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
IMPORTANT TO SHOOTERS.
You can now purchase Sporting Rifles and Guns without
first obtaining a license.
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
df
g
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 82in.
walnut stock; weight about 6Jlb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. B 8 EjcCtOf, 05/“ paid.
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE.. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Spring Brings with it Skin
Troubles, Pimples, Boils
and other Skin Eruptions.
Why Worry?
Rexona is the Rapid Healer
which Brings Skin Health
and Beauty.
We all look forward to the Spring, and often forget how the
change of season affects our health, and especially our sxin, causing
pimples, sores, rashes, blotches, eczema, and even boils and ulcers
to break out.
These skin eruptions are dangerous if neglected, and might
become chronic—you must give them careful attention. There is
no better treatment than to apply Rexona, the Rapid Healer. This
is an antiseptic ointment, containing just the right cooling, soothing
and healing properties that are needed to rid your skin or a
impurities and give you a fair start for the summer. Rexona
soothes pain, builds new fresh tissues, and renews and heals the
skin. The triangular pot of ReXona, with its healing, soft green
ointment, should be kept
handy on the dressing-table so
that every member of the
family can have access to its
wonderful healing powers.
Spring Time
is
Rexona Time
1/6
3/-
r<1
feLoohrva,
b'oolKirxtt
- Healmq
gnixiiicpiic OiwmoM
# rlbiololdy '
ta Heals j Reliable
feocona
* A Reliable KOT1C0> rw all enipnom and irntanons of Ihe
-Skin taenia. pimples. Soro. Chilblains. Chapped Hands
? Saanca. Itcning Of Bleeding Piles. Cuts. Bunu. Onuses. Si-ald*.
Bad Legs. Jungs of lnsecb and all Kinds of Innammanoa
„9l« PfOOneW* ■
SMP&
335
Hi
5005
1
PM
1
I
I
SKI
ia
i
Wl
ffl
M
I
foods
PURE
Si
1
I
1
I
I
8
mNNs
MW
¥
n lit
Mil
mgmm
B—
i
As With a
Magic Wand
The Rex Chefs calling to their aid the choicest spices
from the East, transform the far famed Rex Ham and
without sacrificing any of its mildness or delightful
flavor bring it to you as
REX Ham Pate
Truly the Sandwich Spread that “leads the band.
You will be surprised at the help it gives you in keeping
the Sandwich Spreads “different.” You can ring the
changes by the addition of Lettuce, Tomato, Cucumber,
Horse Radish, Beetroot to the Spread of Ham Pate. All
will vote such Sandwiches templing and nourishing.
Yet they are very economical. You only need a scrape
of Rex Ham Pate on every Sandwich.
Rex Ham Pate is made of the most carefully selected
Rex Ham. The seasoning and process of preparation
leave nothing to be desired.
Try a tin—but
INSIST ON REX HAM PATE
FCGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 268
Cold Nights.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f I'iHE west wind howled along the plain
I And heaped the star-grass high ;
The yellow earth called for the ram,
But wind-clear was the sky.
By tlie piled wood tire, glowing bright,
We played at pirate ships that night.
There was a ’possum on the roofs,
W'e heard its scraping feet;
Far off, a lonely horse s hoofs
VVitu huny in liieui heat ,
Between me two chain rences, wheie
The star-grass made a hollow staii.
Across the creek we knew the breeze
Whistled amidst the boughs ot gums,
But we were r.ding lonely seas
With cannon anti With drums.
The tank had ebbed to the lowest rung,
So Kings Men Horn "the yardarm" hung !
We heard the young lambs crying where
The sheepyards sprawled along the plain,
For Spring nad followed, bleak and bare,
A bitter winter, need.ng rain.
But our craft rolled through mounting seas
Despite low tanks and westerlies.
How sleek and black were those Hell-hulls!
How white the cross-bones on the hags i
How paper-white the grinning skulls!
Lord! But a dead man’s body sags!
Bring out the rum and fling the dice—
Up irum the hold the whin of spice
Proves we have gained a merchant-prize.
What bales of silks! What cLnk or gold.
What jewel-chains for sweethearts’ eyes.
Green parrots, too, that swear and scold;
A monkey from the Barbadoes
That like a hunch-back jester goes!
Of cedar wood the sea-chests are
Whence treasure of the East appears.
That yellow-visaged, pig-tailed tar
Had real gold ear-rings in his ears,
A scarlet sash about his waist,
Wherein an ivory butt was placed.
Above the decks the sea was green,
Sparkling and dancing in the sun,
Below the decks, the kegs had been
Prised open—see the spigots run
Until, where fallen pieces shine,
Wine turns to blood —and blood to wme.
How dark it is between the decks!
Iteeking with bilge and sandalwoods,
The light steals in in golden hecks,
And finds, beyond that bale of goods,
A pointed face, so small, so fair,
Half-hidden in a rain of hair!
This is the skipper’s share, of course.
He drags her forth with oath and smile,
With smacking kiss and laughter hoarse,
With rough caress and wooing vile.
In one quick glance she pleads with me,
Half-slipping from his blood-stained knee.
Anti —just because she had your eyes—
I smote him with a boathook there;
He died the wav a brute-tiling dies,
His loose hand tangled in her hair.
I caught her to me—rushed a boat,
An instant —then we were afloat!
They sent a round-sliot in our wake,
Perhaps—l don’t remember now—
I only saw the green waves break
And scatter crystals on our prow
While they were dicing for the gold,
The spice and plunder;.in the hold.
The wind that bl<?w athwart the ship, .
Brought with it scents of wine and blood.
But, oh ! The red upon your lip
Was better harvest for my mood!
It seems so strange a boy should care
Just for small hands and drifting hair.
Or, have I learned to care since then?
And Knowledge into Memory slips
With boy-games, other games of men *
Played since the day we played at ships
When “whistling riggings” were the trees
Tossed here and there by westerlies!
Would you were in that prize to-day,
The prize we took in bitter fight,
Or that at pirate ships you’d play.
With me, for just one hour to-night,
And I could search and find you there
Behind the cargo All your hair
A cloud about you falling down, .
The red wine bathing your white feet,
The scent of spices powdered brown
Between the decks, pervading, sweet—
All of the pirate tale come true.
To make my world a boat —and you.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Finito I’Amore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
clock struck six as she left the
I station. The porter made a jocular
remark, but she did not reply,
though usually she was quite ready for a
joke. She was late, and Peppino would be
angry; that was, her-only coherent thought
as she hurried down the road towards the
pier.' Peppino was angry quite often lately;
little things made him angry, such as too
much color on her lips, the shape of her
hat or the way her hair was done; then he
was cruel.! She dre\b in her breath with a
sharp little sob. Until she had seen Peppino
angry she had not known that anyone could
be so cruel.
The ship was berthed at the further end
of the pier, and it was a long walk down.
She tried to run, but tripped on her high-
heeled shoes, and her short ffimsy skirt
twisted about her legs. She pulled it up
above herj knees and ran on. There
no one to see, .but Oven if there had been
she would! not have cared. She .must huryy,
hurry, for Pepmno would be angry. , )
Under the" thick coating of powder and
rouge her insignificant little face wore a
haunted expression. Some tinge of Spanish
or Jewish blood bad given her the large,
dark, lustrous eyes which were her
redeeming feature; given her too. the liking
for cheap jewellery and garish colors. Her
bare arms were fitted out with a numhor
of imitation gold bracelets, and on b<n* finger
she wore a cheap little ring with blue and
red stones. In her black dress, slashed with
red and orange, and with her small red
hat close fitting to her chalky-wh.te face,
she looked like a colored poster —artificial,
common, except for her unhappy eyes.
It was quite dark on the pier, but ahead
she could see the mast light of the cargo
steamer City of Naples, and she kept her
eyes fixed on that. She had been working
late at the factory, and she was tired. Her
quick fingers had out-distanced all the other
girls that day, for she had needed the money
urgently. Last night, as they sat together
in the cafe, she had seen Peppino look at her
stockings. They were of flesh-colored, arti-
ficial silk, and she had thought them pretty
until Peppino had looked at them with that
quick, merciless glance of his. He had said
nothing, nor had she, but she followed his
eyes. He was looking at a woman opposite;
her stockings were of Milanese silK, grey,
exquisite. She had resolved then that she,
too, would wear grey Milanese stockings. It
had been a bit of a rush to draw her money
and get to the shop before it closed, but she
had managed it. Now she had them on. She
hoped Peppino would notice them and be
pleased.
It was a nuisance, but to-morrow she
would have to work again at the factory.
Her bill at the cafe was mounting up, and
they had spoken to her about it. She had
never owed money there before, but since
Peppino had come she had not been able
to avoid it. He liked her to order wine
when they were having d nner together, but
he did not pay for it, as other men would
have done. He left that to her. But then
Peppino was an Italian, so perhaps that
made the difference. Of course, there were
other ways in which she could get money
instead of working for it, but she had not
reached that yet. She had been foolish many
times, but it had always been for something
that passed under the name of love.
A cold wind was blowing from the sea, and
she could hear the wash of the waves against
the pier. She shivered a little. Once she
had dreamt she was adrift in the sea arid
had awakened with just that gentle, melan-
choly sound in her ears. She thrust the
thought away. It must have been the long
day at the factory that had made her feel
so nervous and dispirited. But she must
not let Peppino see it. Peppino hated un-
happy women; he had often told her so.
Always one must laugh and sing; that was
the way to please Peppino. Lately, it was
becoming more and more of an effort. She
wished she could have had a vermouth be-
fore she left town, though one would not
have been of much use; it took three or f ur
now to produce the desired effect of care-
less gaiety. , ,
There was a man standing at the head of
the gangway as she stumbled up. He grinned
as he saw her.
“Captain’s in his cabin,” he volunteered.
“He’s happy to-night—so happy!”
She wondered vaguely why, but did not
stop to inquire. As she passed the saloon
she heard the clatter of knives and forks
and peeped in. The officers were at dinner;
they all seemed very excited, but she thought
nothing of that. Italians were always ex-
cited about something. Peppino was not
among them, and her eyes brightened. Per-
haps he was waiting to take her out to
dinner. Outside his door she hesitated a
moment. She could hear the twang ol a
guitar and his voice. He was singing an
Italian love song, one of those songs she hated
because she' could not understand the words,
and he mocked at her ignorance.
She opened the door timidly and stood
half-cringing on the threshold. She expected
a rebuff*’ but he took no notice of her en-
trance. Seated cross-legged on a chair, his
head thrown back, and his eyes dancing, he
trilled out his song. She caught the refrain,
“Napoli, Napoli,” and a tremor ran through
her. Why should he sing of Naples to-
night? Perhaps he was going away! But
that was ridiculous; he had said nothing
about it yesterday. .^
He finished the song, and she sidled to-
wards him with an ingratiating smile. I m
sorry I’m late, Peppino,” she said, but I
couldn’t help it.”
“Late, are you?” He tightened the strings
of his guitar and tested them with his fingers.
“I had not noticed.”
Anger she could have met, but not this
blank, utter indifference. He had not even
looked at her; had not noticed her grey silk
stockings, nor the hat she had made to
please him, because he had said that red
suited her. Tears came to her eyes, but she
forced them back.
“You said to be here at five,” she ven-
tured, “but I”
“Don’t talk,” he interrupted roughly. I
want to sing, and you sing, too. What shall
we have? One of your charming English
love-songs, eh?” , ,
He spoke with a sneer, but she was used
to that. She was grateful that he had
noticed her at all. He struck a chord and
she tried to sing, but her voice was tired
and thin. He threw down the instrument
with a scowl. , , ,
“What is the matter?” he demanded.
“You are —what is it you English say?—
you are boring me.”
“I’m sorry,” she faltered. His face bore
the expression ~ she dreaded, heavy, sullen
with the underlip thrust out. He was going
to be cruel; unless she could amuse flnd in-
terest him he w T ould be very cruel indeed.
“Let’s go out to d’nner, P'eppmo,” she
said gaily, putting her hand on his arm. “It’s
my shout.”
He shook her off. “I dine on board to-
night,” he said. “We sail at nine o’clock.”
She stared at him; she had not unite
grasped the meaning of his words. “You
sail at nine,” she repeated. “Why, that
means” She glanced at the clock, then
gave a sudden desperate cry. “Peppino, we
have onlv two; more hours together.”
He shrueged his shoulders indifferently.
“Hardly that, mv little Lola. You see,”
he indicated a bile of papers on the table,
“I am busy. We will make our farewells
now.”
She Was fighting for self-control. She
must not give why'; that would only anroy
him. She looked round the room. There
were the cigarettes she hrtfl given him: it
h°d tak°n a whole week’s wages to buy that
silver, embossed case. On the wall was the
stupid little kewrde doff she had given him
ns a mascot. It ' lee"ed hwn at he l ’. TT w
they had laughed that day she pinned it
(Continued on next page.)


*7^
r
is
iiiii/i
'tliiiiiiinn. <
IlltlL* .
111111 l
Daily Mishaps Make Zam-Buk
a Daily Need.
A
CCIDENTS will Happen no matter how careful you are.
Here s where Zam-Buk saves worry. Applied to any cut,
bruise, burn or scald it instantly takes out smarting pain
and promotes perfect healing. All the while Zam-Buk safe-
guards your damaged tissues against the disease 'infection”
which causes simple injuries to becomes festered and poisoned.
Healing, antiseptic and pain-soothing properties of a unique
order make Zam-Buk world-renowned as a “first-aid.” These
properties are derived from its herbal character and absolute
freedom from the animal fats and minerals found in most
ointments and salves. Zam-Buk is highly concentrated and
economical. Its constant reliability and wide range of useful-
ness are other features that make Zam-Buk
The World’s
Greatest Healer
1/6 and S/6 per hear, of all Chemists
and Stores throughout Australasia.
/AM-BUK MEDICINAL SOAP is specially recommended to those
suffering with a diseased, tender or irritable skin. It is invaluable
when used with Zam-Buk Balm for the cure of skin troubles. 3/- ner
tablet of all Chemists.
AGONY WITH A
SCALDED FOOT.
“Whilst lifting a pudding out of the pot I
scalded my foot dreadfully,” writes Mrs. M.
Souther, 03 Brown Street, Adelaide. “My stock,
ing could not be got off without a lot of skin
and flesh coming away with it. Proud flesh
developed, and so frightful was the pain that
for six weeks I dare not place my joot to the
ground.
“1 used all sorts of ointments, but without the
least evidence of healing, until one day my hus-
band bought a box of Zam-Buk and persuaded
me to try it. The first application of Zam-Buk
relieved the pain and caused the foot to improve
rapidly. Before I had finished the second box
of Zam-Buk I was able to wear my boots again.”
HO AMIHAI OlLom VAX
,T If*
Rif*
eucstts
mes
C2£M4
MIUMATISH
SCIATICA
tecs
DfAOS
CMAAPtm
HAMOM
c*/c*tr*
crcusrs
r&araAii
*IAT**S
s+€>*rsA*e#
C£Af£»AUJf
s!I*AOCATI®j!
n
WI4IIIS
a
MiNtaw
I? I/O
( C’TJ
C.'.s-.a.i.ai
»:•>
*•1
sp oe,
sssweg
*//►
%
up, and how silly it seemed now. The
porthole was open, and she could see the
twinkling lights of the Williamstown fore-
shore and a patch of pearly-green sky. It
was barely a month since she had met Pep-
pino, and now he was going’away: sailing at
nine to-night.
"When do you return?” She asked the
question m a whisper. Surely he would
ma . ..®L >me suggestion? He could not be
as indifferent as lie seemed.
He looked at her with narrowed eyes.
1 erhaps in six months, perhaps never. Ah,
Italy! lie gave an exaggerated sigh and
blew a kiss from the tips of his fingers.
It couldn’t be; she wouldn’t believe it!
Surely she could make him desire her as
he had done in those first glorious days. He
naci lo\ed lier then. V\ ith a passionate move-
ment she filing her arms around his neck
and pressed her lips to his. “Take me with
you, Peppino, she whispered. “I will come
now, as I am, but take me, Peppino; take
me jr„ * ... , . , , , ,
*j e tinew back lus head and laughed,
Why. the little Lola is being amusing at
otvJ'n.' H loo ** ’ , ~ , , ,
Gout laugh, don t laugh, I can t bear
it. Her tear ot losing him had given her
courage. "Peppino, you can’t be so cruel.
Take me with you. I Jove you.”
Ills expression of scornful amusement
changed. Muttering something m Italian
he Hung her from him. She fell against a
‘•hair and crouched there, looking up at him
with desperate eyes. Her cheek had left
L,S S a 0 L P °7- de m^ ai n t hls C i )at /. J . I,R
b ushed it off daintily. He was fastidious
about his person. Then he pulled down his
smoothed liis hair.
,
i.eppino She stretched out lier arms
to him. “Take me with you.”
“To Italy ! You !” He spread out liis
hands in an ineffable gesture of contempt,
No, no, my little Lola Me have had a
pleasant time together. You were quite nice
to talk of love with to laugh and drink with,
but take .von to Italy! His cruel glance
measured her. I ask yon, liow many men
be fP^ T e } met you and how many since?”
Not since 1 met you, Peppino. I swear it.”
No, of a certainty not. I saw to that,
But when I am gone, wlqit then?” He
sketched the picture with vivid touches, bis
hands gesticulating. The little Lola will
sit in the cafe. She will drink wine, much
wine. All, lire is guy and jolly there. First
will come one friend, then another. The
little Lola is not particular. Ah, la! la!
Soon, very soon, the little Lola will be—what
do you call it?—in the gutter.”
She heard him out, her face rigid. Then
she rose to her feet. So that is how you
,m,?f „„ . , ,
Well, what would you? he shrugged.
“I thought you cared—a little.” She met
his mocking eyes and any hope she may
have cherished died I see, she said
T’mGy- Good-bye, I eppmo.
Allow mo. He opened the door and
bowed with punctilious courtesy, but she did
not look at him again. Indeed, lie had almost
ceased to exist for her; she was only con-
scious of that horrible pain at her heart.
It was dark in the corridor. Above she
could hear the tramp of feet, and from one
of the cabins the sound of A'oices. They
were making ready to sail at nine o’clock. I’ep-
pino had said so. Well, that did not seem
to matter now. She was very clear as to
what she was going to do.
They had finished dinner in the saloon
when she looked in again, but the steward
had not yet cleared away. There on the
table was just what she wanted: one of those
long, sharp Italian knives. She took it.
She was glad she had never worn corsets.
It was easy to strike through her thin, flimsy
dress, strike straight to that heart which
ached and ached....
It was the ship’s doctor who found her
some time after. He thought at first she
had fainted until he saw the knife clutched
in her hand and the sticky mess about her
.heart. Her face was ravaged with her last
struggles, the jaw dropped and the eyes
glazed. She did not look beautiful in death,
but she had done what she meant to do.
The saloon was full of excited, gesticulat-
ing men. lie cleared them out and sent for
the captain. He came in, his dark face
sullen and his heavy underlip thrust out.
"What’s this?” he demanded.
The doctor made a gesture.
“Dead?”
“Half-an-hour ago.”
Lola had shrunk from his indifference, but
she had his full attention now. For a
moment a flicker of feeling crossed his face
—it may have been remorse, fear.... Then
with an inimitable gesture he stooped, took
the ring from her finger and put it on his
own. He, too, had a liking for cheap jewel-
lery.
"The little Lola was fond of me,” he said.
“Well” He shrugged his shoulders.
“One woman more or less, what does it
matter?”
The doctor watched him without comment,
his thin face twisted into an ironical smile.
"Shall I send for the police?” he asked at
last.
Peppino blazed into passion. He pointed
to the clock; the hands stood at half-past
eight. "We sail at nine,” he said. “No-
thing must delay us. That”—he jerked his
head —“will come with us. After all, it is
what she wished.”
“And if there are inquiries?”
“Pouf!” He brushed that away. “There
will be no inquiries. She had no friends.
Where is the little Lola ? No one knows, no
one cares. Soon they will forget altogether.”
He made a motion as though washing his
hands. “To-morrow night, or the next we
will have a burial at sea. Please attend
to it.”
He walked off, humming under his breath
and holding up his hand to watch the light
play on the colored stones in Lola’s cheap
little ring.
The doctor was left alone. Women did
not care for him. Ilis slight figure and
worn face did not attract them, therefore
he had some illusions left. Looking round
to make sure he was not observed, he bent
and made the sign of the cross on the breast
of the dead girl.
“Finito l’amore. Love is finished, little
one,” he said.
CAPEL BOAKE.
The Pin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IMES had never been better. The
freight curve soared up like the
peak of Mount Everest. Plodding
behind came the curve of costs, always
trying to overtake it, but never succeeding.
Between the two was a space which ship-
owners called "a fair margin of profit,” and
shippers “highway robbery.”
lx)id Thynne (of Thynne) was the real,
though unavowed, head of the Trust, Ring,
Combine or Association, sometimes referred
to in business circles as "the Forty Thieves.”
It controlled seven steamship lines, three
collieries, a shipbuilding yard, four foreign
docks and sundries, lie had all the quali-
ties associated with the name of the late
Samuel Smiles, and a few additional ones,
equally essential to success in a world which
is, after all, only four or five hundred gen-
erations from the Stone Age.
Lord Thynne (of Thynne) said to him-
self: “This is too good to last.” He sent
for Mr. E. M. G. Allstone, the general man-
ager of the principal steamship line in the
combine. "Between ourselves, my Lord,”
said Allstone, “the profits are good, 1 might
say, very good. We are, speaking vulgarly,
having the time of” “It is,” inter-
rupted the Master Brain, “precisely during
such times that the cumulative effect of small
economies is apt to be overlooked,” and
Lord Thynne (of Thynne) stooped down,
picked up a pin which had fallen on the
floor, and stuck it in the flap of his waist-
coat.
E. M. G. Allstone was a man of quick
perceptions. You did not need to actually
point a machine-gun at him to induce him
to take cover. When he returned to the
office of the Comet Shipping Co., Ltd., lie
sent for the Marine Superintendent, an an-
cient mariner of dour appearance, and said,
“McDougall, I have been looking into the
clocking, repair and renewal costs. They
are enormous. I sometimes wonder if the
masters ever consider the interests of the
company at all. ‘Waste not, want not,’ as
the Good Book says. Just look into this
and let me know, McDougall.”
McDougall’s job was worth £2OOO a
year. His salary alone was £l5OO and—
hut we needn’t go into that. He was born
in a Scotch fishing village, and first went to
sea before the mast. His recollections of
these early clays contrasted unfavorably with
his present circumstances. He sent for the
skipper of the Halley’s Comet, which hap-
pened to be the only boat of the line in port.
“Now, ye’ll understan’,” he remarked
severely, “that this shinanakin is going tae
stop. £9563 7s. lid. was yer last dock hill,
and that’s got tae do ye. The company’s
no’ made o’ money.”
The captain returned to his floating home
and sent for the chief-oflicer, variously
known ou board as “The Mate,” “The First
Greaser” or. more simply and generally, as
“That Blank.” He was a capable young
fellow, engaged to a girl who said that she
knew Fred thoroughly, hut didn’t. “I’ve
been up at the office this morning,” began
the commander, “and they’re raising Beelze-
bub over the expenses. They seem to think
we eat the stuff. Anyway, you’ve got to
do with what you jolly well have got, and
there’s none of the Comets laid up that vou
can steal anything out of either.”
The chief officer scratched his chin and
looked fixedly at a cupboard, wherein his
captain sometimes kept a bottle. Probable
it contained medicine. “Well, sir,” he
“we’re going to take in that big lift° to-
morrow, and the gear is none too good and
I thought”
"If you don’t feel competent to take in
that boiler, I’ll stay aboard and do it for
you,” said the master.
These, or equivalent words, are the last
thing in insults on board a steamer. The
mate got very red, remarked, “No thank
you, sir,” haughtily, retired to his own
room, wrote out his resignation, thought
better of it, and tore it up.
Next morning lie rigged the gear for the lift.
"Tilon shackle s sair rusted,” commented
the carpenter.
“Go to Gehenna !” replied the mate. “Set
up that preventer-tackle and give less jaw."
1 grieve to write these words, but the
truth is mighty, and occasionally it prevails.
The 20-ton lift rose slowly till it swung
safely over the hatchway, and the mate
(reused to have an tineasy feeling in his
digestive organs. lie gave the regulation
order, “Come back easy.” The winchman
was dreaming, lie had a theory that he
might wangle a free drink out of the new
barmaid up at Maggie’s by a vivid account
of being torpedoed in the North Sea. He
had not had Lord Thynne’s educational
advantages, but he was what you might call
a fine natural liar. He put the lever over
a shade too far, saw his mistake, and threw
it back with a jerk. The shackle-pin bent,
held for a moment, and then broke. In
accordance with the law of gravita-
tion, knowledge of which we owe to
the illustrious genius of Sir Isaac New-
ton, the boiler _ continued its descent,
nipping off the luitchman’s leg e«
route. The hatchman was an unintelligent
person, and could never be brought to un-
derstand that, as the opposing lawyer in
the compensation case pointed out, “he had
neglected to take the most elementary pre-
cautions to ensure his own safety.” All
he could tell the Court was that he
was set to mind the blanky hatch, and he
was minding the blanky hatch. It (the
boiler, I mean, not the hatehman’s leg)
fell some 30 feet, raising trouble every foot
of the way. It finished by starting three
plates, and seriously bending sundry stan-
chions, angle-irons, reverse bars and other
portions of a steamer’s innards. The re-
pair bill was £11,297 16s. 7d., and the losses
through delay, legal expenses, cost of one
liatehman’s leg, etc., say, half as much
again.
When Lord Thynne (of Thynne) heard
the news he sat straight up in his revolving-
chair, and, as was his wont when seriously
annoyed, pulled down the flaps of his waist-
coat vigorously. A pin which someone had
put there, tore his forefinger, even unto the
effusion of blood. “Damn that pin !” cried
Lord Thynne (of Thynne) passionately, and
for a second or two was as unreasonably angry
as the hatchman had been when he learned
of the loss of his leg.
GUNNER.


-
...
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z* Office—o 3-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—9B Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, M. S. WALES
-O''
L.A. Rowboat Motors
magneto type.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches: Stroke of Piston 2Jjj inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Kails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
lcr Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
or
Athletes &
Sportsmen
tttei Rcfrtscntitlvit f
THE BRITISH
H. F. RITCHIE & Co Ltd
CHINA HOUSE, SVDNEV
The morning glass of water sparkling with a
“dash” of ENO’s “Fruit Salt” contributes
directly to the maintenance of those clean and
orderly conditions upon which perfect physical
fitness depends. ENO has the pleasant, refreshing,
purifying properties of fresh, ripe fruit and is
equally effective. Ask your chemist for
FRUIT SALT
_ _ _
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
12-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY ffi on) ,
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC. 1/-. New
Book of Puzzles. 1 /.. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
%/-, Magic Made Easy, 1/-. Tricks with
Coins, 1/-.
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1/-.
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
iS/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds —GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
r*»
V
BOOK OF SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, With-
out Sleights 1 /<}
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARC E S, in one
book 2/-
Contcnts—lci on Parle
Fra neats, April Fools,
Who Is Who? Who's
to Win Him? PLAY
Catalogue Free.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage
1
C-3
Rem^to*
and Pistol
Cartridges
Accurately made and carefully tested in the arms for which
they are designed, these cartridges assure correct function*
ing and maximum accuracy.
RS'Vtft 0 ' 1 ’
for Shooting Right
Regardless"of the mate or calibre of your favorite revolver
or automatic, your dealer can sunply you with a box of
Remington UMC cartridges—thoroughbreds in every
particular.
Catalogues free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.,
D. D. Bryant, Australian Representative, Box 686, G.P.0., Melbourne.
If you knew how surely this world-famous
family remedy restores health and strength you
would know far less of suffering. Beecham’s Pills
relieve, in the gentlest, safest, quickest way
possible:—lndigestion, Liver Trouble, Constipa-
tion. Beecham’s Pills purify the blood, brighten
the eyes, clear the complexion, and
lighten the Steps
of every woman who uses them as occasion
requires. They clear the system of the
impurities that cause so many women to
suffer and drive away lassitude, headache,
backache, and flatulency. Try a few
doses and see how much better and
stronger you are —how much more
enjoyable your life will be —how
certainly you will escape
unnecessary suffering how
soon you will be able to
leave the ranks
of Worn and Weary Women
df
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting. Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, ltoad Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY.LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
g
TRADE MARK.
I
FOR FORDS
ARE MADE AT
THE LARGEST PISTON RING FACTORY IN THE WORLD.
These works produce large quantities of
Quality Piston Rings to the specifications of >
ROLLS ROYCE, CROSSLEY, SUNBEAM and all THE
HIGHEST-GRADE ENGLISH CARS, CYCLES and AERO
ENGINES, and it is a fact that
British Piston Rings for Fords
are made of the same quality of material and finished with the
same care and attention as rings intended for the quality
machines.
Install a set of
British Piston Rings on Your Ford
and you will immediately command—
REAL COMPRESSION, \
GREATER ECONOMY,
IMPROVED PULLING,
with a marked reduction in
CARBON AND OIL PUMPING.
PRICE 3/- each.
SWANS LIMITED,
304 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY,
THE HOUSE FOR MOTOR ENGINEERS’ SUPPLIES.


/r # ( xw
|l w d
/~
V
tilm
75,
UVVtf
M
\‘h
m\m
gp^
rw
/ X
v (i #,
sl i
r
*(* i A If 4
’
yy'.#
rV>\ *
rjN
N\ r
V/
s'- I ;
\
x :»>*
S 5
Mi'
«*/»»»
*se«K
*s
S 3
I ,
v r
N
\iiiimituittHMflitllllllUilM*
im,i,
wmmmm
l. f
'XrS'
1
vx
) f
fl
w'
M
/
5
U
■
-
&
c.
Q>
Is
is
. Q)
§
