

<*
m
Q
m
/^•2STF~
J2P
Three Lamp Radiator with
switches for controlling heat.
Finish—Oxydised copper body with
polished copper reflector
à
EDISON Glow ELECTRIC HEATER
Finish—Bronze green body with pol-
ished copper reflector and guard.
&
3L
Quead Electric Fire with
switches for controlling heat.
Finish- -Stove enamel in all colours.
A Fireplace always ready for use
CLEAN, Safe, economical and efficient, the electric
radiator stands paramount as a reliable source of heat.
Place one wherever you will—every model is portable
—and turn the switch. The resultant glowing mass is
cheerful in appearance and intense in its radiant effect.
We have many styles on view in our Showrooms and will be pleased
to demonstrate at any time.
á
X
Two Lamp Radiator:
Finish—Polished nickel body
with polished copper reflector.
Quead Industrial Fire,
for factories, cellars, pas-
sages, offices, theatres etc.
Finish—Black enamel
DKSK2
//
Electric Log Heater complete
with wire guard and stand.
Finish—Natural coloured logs—black
stand and copper guard.
'A
HOUSE
ISLETS
Comer Queen £ Little Collins Sts
• -MELBOURNE' •
AGENTS:
BRISBANE—The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia, Ltd. (E.S.C.A.),
corner Edward & Charlotte Streets.
TASMANIA— Oliver & Oliver, Hobart and Launceston.
ADELAIDE—CharIes Atkins & Co., Ltd., Currie Street.
PERTH—Charles Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Limited, “Mazda House,” 894
Hay Street.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2202.
Thursday, April 27, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a .Newspaper.


N T ew 1922 Circulating' Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free 4 to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE
428 George Street. City
LTD.,
VS //
f S
I
y/.
%
<4s^
me
xsc
EVERY Drop of
«
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W.G.Hearne& Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
9 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
A Plain
Fact!
jijjjsjsjnijiflisnii
ran
kHM
BU ii!i!l
UK
1:1
BELTING OF SPECIALLY SELECTED LEATHER
Our forty years’ experience in the manufacture of
Raw-Hide and Leather Belting- has enabled us to
produce in
MANGROVITE BELTING
a power-transmitter that utilises every ounce of
generated energy, it does more work and endures
greater punishment on difficult drives, cuts down
running costs and increases production. Order Man-
grovite now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid k Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Gibbs, Bright k Co.. Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark k Co. Ptv . I td., Hobart
QUEENSLAND: Philip Erankel k Co., Ltd.. Brisbane.
<l. »
’ •>
/ i//Px\ Onoto Ink—Best for all pens. \/7Yv
W } .ffrmrXtff
Ask to see the
jNew Streamline Model
The Aristocrat of Pens.
The Pen de luxe.
The Pen for the man or woman of taste,
of refinement, of Discrimination.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
AN IDEAL REMEDY.
hm»cal «ntmu<ts-
'swuumonwaacM
c.Hudson!
For Goughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the fooo
when taken aft* 1 ' i 6
The Red Page
Language
Quarter or a century ago a number of
aborigines were found in wild country in
the south-west corner of N. S. Wales.
Twenty-odd years previously, it was recalled,
two or three men who had committed an
offence had escaped into the fenced-out
“rnallee and porcupine” scrub and had taken
some women with them • and this little tribe
of timid nomads was the result. They had
had no communication, so far as could be
learned, with the infrequent aborigines of
the West Darling, and had already a lan-
guage which seemed to vary greatly from
the one they had spoken before their flight.
The case offered a pretty good illustration
of the rapidity with which a language can
develop. But we need not go to Black
Brother for illustrations of that. We can
find plenty in our own white-Australian ex
perience. How many hot arguments have
there been in The Bulletin’s Aboriginal!
ties pages because the name commonly give)
to _ bird, tree or reptile in one district i
quite different from that given in another
Trains run every day between Sydney, Mel
bourne and Adelaide; yet “jinker* 7 does no
mean the same thing in the three cities; wha;
one calls a "lorry” another calls a “trolly”
“corn” in N. S. Wales means maize, whereas
if it means anything at all unpainful in S
Australia it means grain generally, and in
particular wheat; and whereas the street-
vehicle on rails is colloquially a “tram” in
Sydney, in Adelaide it is colloquially a “car.’
No doubt there is a tendency so far as Aus-
tralia is concerned to standardise the lan-
guage ; but while the accommodation of dif-
ferences proceeds new words are continually
appearing, and since new words must neces-
sarily start in some one spot there is always
more accommodation waiting to be done. In
recent years the Westralian goldfields have
naturally produced the largest crop of new
words and expressions. Some have been
lost: a few others, like “dry-blow”—for a
rub-down without water—will probably last.
. Professor Otto Jespersen, of the Univer-
sity of Copenhagen, one of the world’s great-
est living philologists, some years ago wrote
“Progress in Language”; but that being now
out of print he has re-written most of it,
extended it, and called it Language: Its
Nature, Development and Origin (George
Allen and Unwin). After the manner of his
kind the Professor is rather inclined to split
hairs and sometimes to labor the obvious
and dwell at great length upon the trivial
nevertheless anyone interested in the fas-
cinating study of the development of lan-
guage will find a wealth of material and sug-
gestion in the solid 450 pages. No other sec-
tion is more admirable than that which deals
with the origin of language or speech—a
branch of .the. subject of which many philo-
logists are inclined to fight shy because of the
impossibility of proving anything. .Tespersen’s
cuess is that man at first had no language,
but merely made noises:—
Primitive man came to attach meaning* to what
were originally rambling sequences of syllables in
pretty much the same way as a child comes to attach
a meaning to many of the words he hears from
his elders, the whole situation in which they are
heard giving a clue to their interpretation.
“If,” he says, “a certain number of people
have together witnessed some incident and
have accompanied it with some sort of im-
promptu song or refrain, the two ideas are
associated, and later on the same song will
tend to call forth in the memory of those
who were present the idea of the whole
situation.” How feasible the theory is most
people have had opportunities of person-
ally observing. An infant, just beginning
to use his tongue, was present while a col-
lector for some charity was stating her case.
“Well, how much do you want?” she was
asked? “Oh, anything from a bob up,”
was the reply. The infant fastened on to
“bob-up”—it was a sound he could repro-
duce. It happened that, while he was still
repeating it, he was given his first bouncing-
ball. The two ideas, or, rather, the sound
and the object, became associated; and there-
after a ball was a bob-up.
It is rather commonly supposed that lan-
guage has become more complicated. It cer-
tainly has become much bulkier; but there
has been an easily recognised tendency to-
wards simplification. “The Mohicans have
words for cutting various objects, but none
to convey cutting simply. The Zulus have
no word for ‘cow,’ but words for ‘red cow,’
‘white cow, ’ etc.” Jespersen observes also
that such words as “horse”-“mare” come
to us from a remote past: we don’t say he-
horse and she-horse. What we call grammar
came alter language. We had left off at-
taching different names to male and female
by the time we discovered Australia. It is
“cow”-“bull”; but we didn’t think up differ-
ent names for the male and female kangaroo,
or wallaby, or ’possum. Our remote ances-
tor’s habit of multiplying his words did not
stop at that point. He had “good”-“better,”
“ill”-“worse.” The modern has invented, say,
“nifty.” But we cannot imagine him (or
her) going to the trouble of inventing a
second word to signify “niftier,” or “more
nifty.” And let us be thankful to him (and
her) ; for the dictionary is quite cumber-
some enough as it is, and probably 500
words may fairly be added to it every year.
Some we borrow straight out; some we cor-
rupt ; some we invent. For a good many
years a firm of chemists struggled to pre-
serve for their own use the word “tabloid.”
They had invented it: it was theirs. But
gradually it came into such general use that
now nobody thinks he is guilty of misappro-
priation when he uses it. That is a typical
instance of how the dictionary gets its addi-
tions.
Dealing with the changes that are all-the
time taking place in language, or languages,
Jespersen agrees generally with Whitney,
the American authority, that the chief ten-
dency is “to make things easy to our organs
of speech, to economise time and effort in
the work of expression.” But the two things
—making things easy and economising time
—are not necessarily the same thing. It is
probablv largely a matter of latitude. In
a climate like that of the greater part of
Australia it mav be easier to open the
month than to close it. If. thereforo. Aus-
tralia had had the job of inventin'' familiar
names for John and ■Richard ‘”-4
we should not have snapped out “Jack” and
“Dick” and “Bob.” We do even now register
our frequent protest in “Johnno” and
“Dicko” and "Kobbo.” Our cold-country
ancestors didn’t provide us with enough
opportunities to show our perfect trust in
our warm atmosphere: so we have improved
upon the language we inherited with “good-o”
and “right-o”; and our disposition to
linger over “yairs” is merely proof that our
climate isn’t that of either Copenhagen or
New York.
S.H.P.
The Teachings of Tirpitz
In view of recent happenings at Washing-
ton a special interest attaches to the book
of Memoirs published by the German Grand
Admiral, Von Tirpitz. Even as literature
it is above the average. Tirpitz knows how
to express himself; he is more of a stylist,
more of a natural writer, than the other
German heads who have given the world
their apologias. And though 72 when his
book was written, he shows himself a clear
thinker and reasoner. Almost alone of the
I’otsdammers he could foresee in 1914 some-
thing of what was to happen in 1918. Nor,
as extracts from his private letters show,
was he playing the after-game. He had
lived most of his life on the sea, and he
knew England, and the meaning of Eng-
land’s sea-power, as the crowd ’around the
Kaiser did not.
In his explanation to the world of what
had happened, Tirpitz summed up the posi
tion in a sentence: “The German people die
not understand the sea.” Most of them hac
never seen a battleship; they had been fee
up all their lives with talk of victories on
land ; they didn’t realise that a nation must
be able to do things on sea as well as on
shore; that a bottled-up Germany must in
the long run be a beaten Germany. That
was what Tirpitz tried to make them realise;
but they realised it too late. He says
that at all costs the German Fleet should
have challenged the British early in the war.
That is the main argument of his book. The
venture would have been desperate, but he
maintains that there was nothing else foi
it: a land-power that is enclosed by a naval
enemy must do desperate things or die,
unless it be completely self-contained. The
Jutland battle showed that Germany had
certain advantages in ship-construction that
would have given her a fair chance in a
naval battle; in any case “we would pro-
bably have inflicted' as much loss on Eng
land as England would have inflicted on
us. And the effect on neutrals should have
been considerable.” Given another two years,
a mere speck in a nation’s history, he would
have had a fleet strong enough, so he thinks,
to make Britain think twice about entering
the war. He may be quite wrong there; but
the conclusion is interesting.
In his. chapter on “Main Issues of the
War,” Tirpitz writes like a man of sense,
and again you feel that he is not playing
the after-game. The fact that England was
the one enemy that mattered was so clear to
him that he thinks it should have been clear
to everybody. England had sea-power ; France,
Russia and the rest of them had not. The
then Chief of General Staff, Falkenhayn,
was the boss militarist of them all, and the
things he didn’t understand about the sea
and also about England made Tirpitz feel
ill. “When I warned him,” says the
Memoirs, “against rating these troops”—
i.e., the English Expeditionary Force—“too
lightly,” he replied: “We shall arrest them.”
Tirpitz gave him up as hopeless, and tried
to knock sense into the Chancellor. “Again
and again I represented to the Chancellor
that England would never stop fighting
while any prospect remained of breaking our
world position. He returned, as his manner
was. no definite answer.” Even Bethmann
ilollweg did not realise that, whatever the
result of an action at sea might be, the re-
sults of a prolonged blockade were certain
and deadly.
In 1914 Tirpitz. then aged 65. was on
the retired-list. The fleet, which was mainly
his creation, was in the hands of others.
Efforts were made in some quarters to bring
him back as a fighting admiral, in which
event there would probably have been the
biggest naval clash the world has known.
But the Kaiser wouldn’t hear of it. His
policy was not to risk the fleet in a decisive
action —and in spite of Tirpitz you can
see there was reason for his caution, though
it wasn’t justified by after-events. So the
old man was left to chafe and fret over the
spectacle of his bottled-up ships. On August
22, 1914. when most of Germany was vic-
tory-mad and talking of the capture of
Paris, preliminary to an invasion of Eng-
land, he wrote in a private letter from Cob-
lenz : “The English Fleet stays in its ports
to operate as a fleet in being; that is what
is so rarely understood amongst us.” On
August 23: “Nobody seems to understand
our greatest danger is still the polo-plaving
Englishman.” On August 28. after getting
news of the sinking of the Mainz and
Magdeburg, off Heligoland: “I am greatly
distressed by the affair at Heligoland ; they
seem to have let themselves be surprised.”
On September 9: “The drivel about neace is
immeasurably absurd.” On September 12-
“We shall never get England to agree to a
peace in which we dare to hold ourselves
blameless ; if we don’t want to be wiped out
as a great world-power there remains no
choice but to hold on and see it through.”
Nobody who reads these extracts and 50
more like them, all written while German
yells of victory were rending the air. can
have any doubt that Tirpitz’s judgment of
war values, was remarkably good; as good
as that of the politicians was bad.
In the hour, of defeat it hurt him as
much as anything to think that the reputa-
tion of Germany as a nation of decent people
had gone down. He had given 40 years of
his life to the sea ; and personally he had
played the game. “Our enemies,” he wrote,
“have done their best to hold us up to the
Wffi'ld as criminals.” He quoted what he
calls a painful example,” “On August
24. 4914. Admiral Beattv signalled to the
officers and men rescued from the sunken
Mainz: ‘I am proud to welcome such brave
(Continued on pane Ho.'i


uGC
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Invite You to Prove the Super Value they Offer in
by
LINOLEUMS
Comparing tbe Prices!
Anthony Horderns’ offer linoleums at prices so low that no
reason remains for delaying to cover every room in your house
that needs it. Compare the prices—let them convince you
that such linoleum value as this is as unique as it is excellent.
A wide variety of type and patterns is offered for your choice
—lose no time in inspecting the assortment.
PRINTED LINOLEUMS.
Our vast stocks of Printed Linoleums embrace every style produced by British Manufacturers,
including: Parquet, Tile, Floral, Art Designs and Persian Effects, in almost every combination
of coloring.
No. 3 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 7/9
No. 2 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 9/3
No. 1 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 9/11
Anthony Horderns’
Carpet and Linoleum
Showrooms are the
finest in the land.
Inspect the new
designs in Wilton and
Axminster Carpets and
Rugs, as well as the
wonderful array of
Eastern Rugs and
Squares.
JASPE
and MOIRE
INLAID
LINOLEUMS.
A large range of Self
Colors in art shades,
suitable for
surrounds," 6ft. wide,
per Running Yard,
Price... 13/11
INLAID LINOLEUMS.
All of British Manufacture, including the “Greenwich” and “Staines” makes.
No. 3 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 15/3
No. 2 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 18/6
No. 1 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 21/-
SUPER INLAID LINOLEUM.
A very superior quality in Parquet designs, which exactly imitate the grain of a real Oak Parquet Floor.
No. 3 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 16/6
No. 2 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard 19/11
No. 1 Quality, 6ft. Wide, per Running Yard . 23/-
LINOLEUM SQUARES.
Ft.
7
9
9
One of the latest developments in the Manufacture
of Linoleums is seen in the wonderful range of
squares now being offered.
Linoleum Squares possess many advantages. They
are easily laid, no trouble to keep clean, and can be
used equally well in either Living Rooms, Hallways,
Bedrooms or Kitchens.
in. Ft. in. No. 2 Quality.
6x6 0 £l/17/6
ox 6 0 . £2 5/-
ox 7 6 £3/3/-
No. 1 Quality.
£2
£2/12/6
£3/12/6
Ft.
10
9
10
12
The new designs and coloring are in keeping with
the modern tendencies of decorative Art, whilst
the wearing qualities and durability of Linoleum
Squares—and their superiority over other makes of
Floorcloth Rugs—is too well known to need
reiteration.
in. Ft. in. No. 2 Quality. No. 1 Quality.
6x7 6 £3/19/6
ox 9 0 £3/15/- £4/5/-
6x9 0 £4/7/6 £4 19 -
ox 9 0 £4/19/6 £5/12/6
ANTHONY HORDERN © Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


The NEW EDISON
alone proves!
Any talking-machine manufacturer can
claim that his instrument and his records
reproduce the true art of the singer.
But The NEW EDISON alone proves that
its music is Re-Created—exactly as the
singer or artist delivered it.
IhmGhri
■tT*
The NEW EDISON alone
has sustained the test of
direct comparison—when
other manufacturers have
not dared to face it; its
realism alone can give your
home the world’s finest
music at its finest.
Book, “Edison and Music,”
sent post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LIMITED,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
o
U
LOZ
X
1a
TURF
BIG
VIRGINIA
CIGARETTES
The irresistible Cigarette
for discriminating Smokers
Turf Cigarettes make an epoch in cigarettes.
Beautifully made with golden leaf from the
famed Old Belt and Eastern Carolina
Districts of Virginia they are irresistible
to the man of taste.
Turf Virginia burn slowly and smoke sweetly
and have a softness at once distinctive.
Be sure to buy Turf—the Big Handsome
Cigarettes—2o for two shillings.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL TOBACCONISTS
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Made by
Alex. Boguslavsky, Ltd*
55, Piccadilly,
LONDON,
v England
a
i
ij
Es
IS
i
i
1
4
i
SB
$
SI
M
i
■
%
x
X
X
Ik
X
X
X
g \
XX
txtx \ll
» ¥1
w X
Sis?
‘lflgfllßf
13
DID you ever notice how some windmills
work long after others have stopped, how
they start up in a light breeze before
others have turned to the wind? That’s real
“COMET” service—first to start, last to stop
—extra revolutions that minimise any risk of
water shortage.
Many features of design and construction are necessary to
give this extra service, and the “ COMET ” is the only
mill embodying them all—a special balancing adjustment
which stops (he mill always at the top of the stroke so
that the merest puff starts it, high-grade ball-bearing
turntable, large powerful sails, frictionless bearings, roller
guides and many other features.
Although the “COMET” Mill will convert 50 per cent,
more of these light winds for you, it is secure against
damage from high winds. The sails are securely brack-
eted and so set as to prevent racing of the wheel in a
gae and a special spiral spring governor absorbs all
shock and makes the “COMET” reliable in any weather.
Three years guarantee behind every “COMET” Mill.
Don’t buy another make until you get particulars. Write
to nearest of following addresses.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO. LTD.
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Works: Constitution Road, Dulwich Hill, Sydney.
Also at BRISBANE, ROCKHAMPTON and TOWNSVILLE.
Mimosa, Raglan,
Jan., 1921.
“I feel I should let you know of the entire
satisfaction your COMET Mills are giving me.
During the last drought my stock was almost
entirely depending on these mills for water,
and they never failed me. it is surprising
what a large quantity of water they will
pump, and the ease with which they work in
a light breeze.
“(Signed) A. W. DAVEY, for
“W. J. DAVEY & SONS.”
mi
\***
THE
MOTHERS
STAND-BY
The ideal Food-Drink in concentrated
form. Instantly available by the addi-
tion of hot or cold water only-
Send 4d. for Sample to Hutchinson
& Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W..
In 3 sizes of all Chemists and Stores.
HORUCKS
MALTED MILK
HORUCKS MALTED MILK C?
Slough, Bucks. tnq.Jtyi
mm
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for ll-
£looo
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Bluz Mountains A. H. S I. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16 th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chances,
and can possibly wih £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke’s obtainable from N S.W Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH. Hon, Secretary.
Cadzow, Warrega-street, Katoomba. N.S.W«


PINKETTES
An
After Dinner Pill
Most people eat too much. If
you are a hearty eater help
your digestion and take care of
the over-load by taking one
Pinkette, the little sugar coated
laxative pill, after a big dinner.
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are greatly superior to old-
fashioned medicines which
over-stimulate the liver and,
when their use is stopped, leave
it more torpid than before.
Pinkettes do not upset the
stomach or cause griping.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Hams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALL THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material.
SI/- Complete Outfit.
Eull directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a I* REE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
The “COMFORT”
(Self-heating) IRON
â
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price,
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
I IvmvH
ENJOY JULY
and AUGUST
in America’s Mid-Pacific Paradise. The
cruise offers a holiday of unusual pleasure
—splendidly appointed liners, calm
waters, blue skies, summer breezes.
Then the isles of your imagination:
Gorgeous scenery,
tropic fruits,
trees, flowers;
ã
continuous recreation
including golf, swim-
ming and surfing ; and
incomparable Kilauea,
living volcano. Ask
your nearest travel,
tourist or steamship
agency for new book-
let, or write direct to
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
ART
Studies,. Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FEE UR Y, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
W*
•»*
\
Much of the charm of woman’s
hair lies in its color.
Walnut Hair
of that exquisite shade which
entrances all can be easily
obtained by using
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Harmless, permanent, water-
proof. All chemists.
Value in Veterinary
Instruments and Appliances.
Because of an exceptionally good quality and the
keenest of prices consistent with to-day’s manufacturing
and material costs, the Denyer Veterinary Instruments
and Appliances offer a value appreciably above the
ordinary. Let Denyer’s supply all your Veterinary needs
and you have the advantages of modernity and absolute
reliability, coupled with the most reasonable of prices.
Denyer Bros.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Latest Emasculator.
From the up-to-date, scientifically-
constructed Denyer’s Triple Crush
Emasculator quicker, easier and
more satisfactory results are
obtained. This Denyer pattern
Emasculator is hand-forged from
the best steel and thoroughly
dependable. Its use eliminates
the danger of hemorrhage.
PRICE 607-
Postage 9d. extra.
Send to-day for our free Catalogue of
Veterinary Instruments and Appliances.
lE63STE»FO
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also, Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
•am
■n»
S&i
Mb
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
ONLY THE BEST is Good
Enough for BABY!
There is No Better £Milk than
fIFEGUARD
JU Condensed MlIjLiK.
ITS QUALITY
NEVER VARIES
Your Grocer Has It!
KILL WITH
KYNOCH
ä
Cartridges
Made in England and
loaded in Australia
with the highest grade
Powders
In case of difficulty
refer your dealer to:
KYNOCH Ltd.
90 William St.,
MELBOURNE.
277 Clarence St.,
SYDNEY.
å
MOTORISTS! ENGINEERS!
Get the best steel for bard work
and rough roads —it pays.
The heavy demands on the private car or commercial vehicle In
Australia quickly find out weaknesses and prove the futility of
using inferior steel for car and lorry parts. High-quality steels
of correct grade only will stand overdue strain and shock.
* ay
®te on *■
“An Cag'le on a Globe”
motor-car steels are genuine British products, especially prepared for the work
after generations of manufacturing experience.
S.D. 16 SPECIAL. NICKEL. STEEL (to case harden) for Gear Wheels, Gudgeon
Pins, Sliding Shafts, Cardan Shafts, Ball Races, and small stampings.
S.D. 21 HIGH TENSILE CHROME VANADIUM AXLE STEEL (specially heat-
treated), also for Axle Swivels, Crankshafts, Transmission Shatts, Arms,
Stampings, etc.
*
'•CE OH
Write nearest address for particulars of these “An Eagle on
a Globe” special motor-car steels.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfoxir & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Koad, Kalgoorlie. Paul &
Gray, Btd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. B. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Btd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just So.
Call me not false because in others’ eyes
I find a solace and a sad delight
What time the hours, thy lovers all, in
spite
Withhold the charm that in thy presence
lies.
And if gay Laura’s prattle still I prize
Or Mona to a thoughtful mood invite,
Deem not my love for thee one spark less-
bright,
Or strayed one breath from my devoted sighs.
To me thou art the sum of womankind.
Since all thy sisters’ best in thee compounds
I needs must love that part of thee in them.
Else were I to the darling sum purblind,
My fondest vows deceit beyond all bounds,
I, very knave, all, true love must contemn.
N.S.W.
W. L. D.
The Smile.
Death makes poor, stark men act the hypo-
crite
And wear a smile, as though in that mute
way
To mask the clutching fingers of decay
Which rend beneath the surface bit from bit;
Or, Jonely, would they lure their loves to sit
And speak Faith’s garbled words, “He
smiles,” they say,
“As one who wakens to the perfect day,”
And with crazed senses strive to vision it.
My smile shall bear my sorrow to your gaze
That I must hold the secret from all view.
Grey prelates still will wrangle o’er a
phrase;
You still shall see grim prophets go and
come—
Blind, simple friends, how I will pity you
That God, in telling all, first struck me
dumb!
VICTORIA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.
Thunder Witchcraft.
In the black hobgoblin weather
Thunder-witches laughed together,
Laughed for waste and laughed for dool,
Drum-a-doom and cackle-deedle,
While through the uiurk of hell-cloud wool
Went the lightning knitting-needle.
■
The brindle frog went up the tree
And croaked back seven times at me;
The smoke blew out, the black cat cried;
And down from the top of the world there
fell
The fear of a thing the dark can tell
With its soul shut and its eyes wide.
I pulled an apple off the tree—
Cackle-deedle and drum-a-doom—
I set it green upon my knee,
And the lightning blue went round the
room.
I sang a song to a bird that knew.
And away and away with a word he flew
To bring the White Lady of Grief to me.
She rode up from the black of the south.
And set a white hand on my mouth ;
And when she laughed and when she sighed
My soul whs shut, my eyes were wide.
We broke the Cross in pieces four
And trod them under on the floor.
We said a thing that has no name ;
And her mouth on mine was a red. sweet
flame,
While the thunder-witches laughed together
In the joy of the black hobgoblin weather.
The morning clamored at the door.
I feared that Thing upon the floor;
I dared not let the good light in
With yellow eyes to see my sin.
I set a bar across my soul
Lest life should see how much I stole
From death in that black thunder-weather
When fear and shame made tryst together.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Holiday.
The breakers race the shoreward breeze, the
ripples dance and run;
The morning seems a merry girl, whose lover
is the sun;
The nameless gods, the shameless gods, a
chuckling pagan crew,
Glad kin of Bacchus and of Tan, have made
the world anew.
The long drab streets of sordid hopes, of
cramped, ignoble wills,
That never heed the dawn a-dream above the
misty hills,
No more shall chain our servile souls —their
world bag passed away—
And all the way to Youth is not so very far
to-day!
The laughing gods have drowned it deep, the
old world grey and mean;
And Morning smiles, as one who knows that
Grief has never been;
Far seas of jacinth, purple-deep, bright
sands of lucid gold—
Joy finds the new world fairer far tnan e’er
it found the old !
Far out beyond the golden bars are fleet
white sails a-dance,
And hazy islands dear and dim in blue seas
of romance—
All these are ours for one glad day, one
magic hour of joy;
And royally, with laughter crowned, goes
every girl and boy.
Last night when dawned love’s amber moon
beyond the purple sea,
The gods, the chuckling gods of mirth, laughed
out with pagan glee,
As you and I, my dear, my dear, fared forth
on seas of gold,
And found their new w r orld dearer far than
e’er we found the old !
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLWAY.


BUCK and WHITE
M
'' 5 *
A ‘ v \
<
, * *
v!zs t ~■ ■-- \
J
K
*-' , * • fe-H
i * * * . ■ *w»w<* > xr «
111 111111 !^Hransi
’ V ■
' ■•■'.■ >■■.■■..-•■: ..-...■ . '• .'1 , :■: ' \.r- .;
'. ' .
■fe •
1
1
j,tfsSi:.4 m i -
{,}■.
. ->' -
4GE AND QUALITY .
»
WHISKY
IMPORTANT NOTICE !
Messrs. James Buchanan & Co., Ltd., Scotch
Whisky Distillers, Guarantee that all “Black
and White” supplied in Australia is PRE-
WAR WHISKY, and that they and their
associated companies hold the largest stock
of Old Matured MALT Scotch Whisky.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.
S v. -


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vor.. 43.—N0. 2202.
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1922.
Trice 6d.
THE NEW EXODUS.
HER VON MOSES: “Forward, comrades! What a country to loot!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia lor the White Mau.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. S.vdnpv. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to A.\y address' in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d.; 3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all llusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to ve
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number ts hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Put
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. IVlien MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ISlack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid fot as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received a>e those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each snail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and \V. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Dreams Buildings, London E.C.4;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, J/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The Drilish-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Duivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
11.8. A . —Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Doulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New l York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn Jk Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. —lE. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Snmarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Postage Pates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth,, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
160 z., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet— otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, 40z., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
ffuTZßixUefon.
THURSDAY, APRIL 27, 1922.
THE RUSSO-GERMAN AGREEMENT.
Germany went to war, seven and a half
years ago, for more colonies, and as a pro-
test against the spectacle of thousands of
vigorous Germans transferring their alle-
giance, yearly, to other flags. The Treaty of
Versailles deprived the Teuton of one of
the wealthiest portions of Europe for its
size—a loss no less bitter for the fact that
the territory was stolen property—and of
his colonies. That was all in the game: he
would have done worse by Britain and
France, no doubt, had things gone the other
way. But in private life a successful
gambler often wipes out a bet, while in
trade a creditor compounds a debt for no
more elevated reason than that it is bad
business sometimes to be a Siiylock. It
is the Siiylock touch, administered chiefly
by the Chauvinists of France, that has pre-
sented the men who have been striving to
bring Germany and Russia together for the
past five years with their opportunity.
* * * *
Germany’s desire for more colonies was
not altogether a question of reluctance to
see young Prussians becoming old English-
men or Americans. Von Bulow admitted
in “Imperial Germany” that the money
spent on the improvement of German agri-
culture was virtually defence expenditure:
it assured a supply of foodstuffs in the
event of war —foodstuffs that the Father-
land’s colonies could not grow. He would
have regarded it as much more satisfactory,
economically and otherwise, could Germany
have acquired a Canada or an Australia.
The rest of the country’s overseas require-
ments were also war-essentials, such as
copper and leather. No one appreciated in
those days, and least of all the megalo-
maniacs of the Tirpitz school, that the
German Navy would be reduced to impo-
tence and the Empire economically isolated
as regards overseas goods, within a few
weeks of the outbreak of war. Nowadays
even the most truculent Boche recognises
that his country can never command the
seas. And so Teuton eyes have been turning
to colonies capable of being reached by land.
The natural and obvious arrangement was
with Austria; but France was afraid, find
found it easy to dictate to people seven-
tenths of whom are dependent on outside
charity for the food necessary to keep them
alive. Towns such as Duren poured forth
their cheap and durable dresses, men’s
clothes and undergarments; Solingen and
the rest of the German Sheffields produced
armories of knives and other steel goods; at
Essen every variety of mechanical device
was turned out, from motor-cars to type-
writers and cash registers. The more cheaply
they were offered —in other words, the lower
the wages the Hun workers agreed to take —
the higher rose the tariff walls of, the spend-
ing countries. German manufactures might
sell in Sofia and Stamboul, but (outside a
few specialised and exclusive lines such as
the rarer aniline dyes), Paris and Brussels
would have none of them. The external
trade of the Fatherland for last year showed
an adverse balance of £100,000,000. Assum-
ing, then, that Germany intended to keep
financially, which is to say nationally, alive,
it had to find some country, other than a
former enemy country, or Austria or Turkey
capable
(1) Of supplying it with minerals and raw
materials generally for its key industries. (It im-
ported for this purpose goods to the tune of
£289,200,000 in the year befoi'e the war.)
(2) Of taking in return the finished articles which
its factories are turning out in immense quantities.
(3) Of supplying it with a huge volume of food-
stuffs. Despite the policy which Bismarck began,
and which all his successors adopted, of making the
Empire self-supporting in this respect, it had to
import foodstuffs in the year before the war worth
£157,400,000, as against £39,21)0,000 exported.
Russia is the richest country in the world
to-day in most of those things that the civil-
ised world primarily needs. It may have no
diamonds and relatively little gold or silver;
but its crops of wheat and rye (winter and
summer) and oats, barley and potatoes were
stupendous in the days before the world
went mad, despite the fact that the majo-
rity of the peasants knew nothing of modern
farming methods, and employed implements
which were old when Carthage fell. Coal,
iron and steel, copper, lead and zinc—Russia
is rich in all these. It has been estimated
that the oil of the Baku district alone is
capable, with up-to-date handling, of sup-
plying the world’s requirements for many
years. And Russia has a great future as
a sugar- and tobacco-producing country. It
is more a “geographical expression” than
Austria-Hungary ever was: more so than
China is. Until 1917 an intelligentsia of,
at a generous estimate, 100,000 ruled a
population of 170,000,000, of which vast
sections differed as widely in languages and
customs as a Chinese of the north differs
from a Chinese of the south. Most of the
old intelligentsia are dead or exiled, and
their places have been taken by a sinister
gang of adventurers, mainly of German and
Jewish extraction. They had an easy task
in foisting internationalism on the moujik:
he was used to having novelties foisted on
him by Governments, though they had chiefly
taken the form of new tax-gatherers in the
past; and his centuries of misery had given
him a gift for that variety of socialism which
is the badge of the down-trodden every-
where. It will be easier now to foist Ger-
manism on a people who can see nothing in
front of them but that or death by starva-
tion. The factor which is starving Russia
is not so much lack of food as lack of
transport: Germanism stands for an un-
limited supply of railway engines and
coaches, and, if necessary, the experts to
attend to them. Russia is prepared to buy
boots and clothes, even if they are only the
cheap synthetic articlas which the Ger-
mans learned to produce during the block-
ade. Many Russian agriculturists are eager
to buy modern farming appliances, and most
of the manufacturers want hew plants. Ger-
many is in a position to supply such needs
at a cheaper rate than any other country.
What does Germanism ask in return? No
more, on the surface, than the privilege of
showing the inhabitants of Russia the way
to get the best results out of their wonder-
ful land. In practice, of course, Russia
will be exploited like a colony. But the
change should be pleasant by contrast. “You
have heard of the battleship Khabarovsk?”
smiled the Russian Grand Duke in pre-war
London. “Yes,” said his friend: “the one
on which your Government is spending five
million roubles.” “Exactly: Well, I, my
friend, am the Khabarovsk.” There will be
nothing like that under Germanism. The
money which is allocated for ships or guns
or ammunition will be spent on those things,
and carefully spent, too. The tax-collectors
will be less obtrusive and insistent, in con-
sequence; and as the country starts to work
its multitudinous mines on business-like
lines, develops its secondary industries and
applies more modern methods to farming, it
is bound to increase enormously in prospex - -
ity. It will be asked only to sacrifice what
it has never known —its freedom. And
even in this there should be compensations.
The Russians who fought on the German
front in the early days of the war were
armed with scythes, the Grand Dukes having
squandered the money that should have been
spent on their rifles. In the next war the
Russians’ arms, equipment and rations will
be of the best: their German masters will
see to that.
* • * *
The brainlessness of some of the diplo-
matists employed by the countries which
won the late war may have precipitated the
new entente , just as their protests may pro-
duce hypocritical assurances from the con-
ti-acting parties that nothing of a malign
nature is intended, and that all their ar-
rangements are subject to modification or
even abandonment. But the« merger will
proceed; for it is inevitable. The lesson
that the development contains for countries
in the position of Australia is two-fold. The
first is that there is no comfortable or even
safe place in the woi’ld of to-day for the
minor Power. It is an epoch of rational
as well as commercial trusts. Even France,
once so great, begins to assume the status
of the impovei-ished aristocrat in a society
of profiteers. The Republic continues veliem-
entlv to assert itself, insists on holding its head
as high as ever, but the gesture deceives
no one; without the backing of its rich
friends it would have to sell the motor-car
and move into lodgings to-morrow. That is
the truth which should be assimilated by our
separatist jingoes. The other outstanding
fact concerns a different class: it is that
there can be no such thing as permanent
internationalism. Internationalism was the
foundation of the German revolution. In
its name millions of Russians have been
slain •or havfr starved. Yet hardly have
stable Governments been formed in the two
countries than the leading men in both
administrations are found organising one
of those old, old alliances which led to the
world-war, and using the immemorial
methods of secret diplomacy for the pur-
pose. Human nature being what it is, the
desirable country which adopts inter-
nationalism immediately becomes the prey
of the powerful units that have clung to
nationalism • and it pan know neither peace
nor prosperity till it jettisons its suicidal
ideal and becomes a member of a group
formidably organised on a nationalist basis.
THREE PARTIES.
The inevitable conclusion to be drawn from
the N. S. Wales general election, and the
events that have succeeded it, is that the
present alignment of parties is a fraud on
the people, and that great changes are in
store. That is true, not only of N. S. Wales
but of the other five States, and of Com-
monwealth politics as well. The association
in alleged parties of men who have nothing
in common except the desire to cleave firmly
to their legislative salaries, and who hate
one another rather more furiously than they
hate the other side, is becoming too gro-
tesque to be tolerable. In the nature of
things political, expediency can never be
anything more than a temporary substitute
for principle, and the expediency that
brought politicians of widely divergent views
together—Tories and demagogues in the
National Federation; moderates and red-
raggers in the A.L.P.—has just about served
its turn. Fuller’s Nationalists carried N.
S. Wales on March 25, not because they had
a policy (they hadn’t), but because most
people were sick of the arrogant and intoler-
ant gang who_ spoke for Labor. The in-
cohesiveness of the victorious party was
shown when its leader distributed 13 port-
folios —at least three too many—among the
hungry crowd waiting under the plum-tree;
at once there were reports that some dis-
satisfied jobhunters proposed to secede. A
would-be defender of English Liberalism
once wrote that it wasn’t so much a poli-
tical philosophy as a frame of mind. The
trouble with “Nationalism” is that it isn’t
even a frame of mind. It is simply a device,
worn pretty threadbare, for keeping one
gang of professional politicians in office and
another gang out. Having no discoverable
principles or objective it is bound up with
the fortunes of a few powerful individuals
and remains at their mercy. At present it
suits these persons to keep the thing alive;
but there is nothing to prevent their destroy-
ing it utterly if they care to say the 'word.
Nothing but the .mad follies of their Labor
opponents could have arrested the dissolu-
tion of the N. S. Wales Nationalists. In
Queensland and Westralia the party is sick
and is apparently destined to be absorbed
by the Cockies. In Victoria, S. Australia
and the Speck, although the label has been
preserved in two cases, it has virtually
ceased to exist. As for the Commonwealth
Parliament, even the label is in jeopardy,
so fed up are the Liberals with the collec-
tivist crimes committed in the name of
“Nationalism,” and so universal is the
weariness of Hughes.
The internal condition of the Labor party
isn’t really as bad as that of the Nation-
alists, although it looks worse. Still, it is
bad enough. Ruminating on the fall of
Dooley, and abandoning the pitiful pre-
tence that it was due to the machinations
of Plute and his press, R. W. Cruick-
shank', a very unusual sort of Labor writer,
makes the following pithy remarks :
Never in the long history of the Labor movement
has a party entered a fight with less prospect of suc-
cess, and never before was its fundamental weakness
more obvious. Labor entered the contest as a rabble.
....It was a house divided against itself. Its
organisation was a pitiable failure. The most com-
plete apathy and indifference permeated the party.
Everyone seemed to be out for himself and no one
for the movement. During the long recess some of
the sitting members hardly paid a visit to their
electorates. Without having made any preliminary
sacrifice to achieve victory, many of the candidates
rushed into the fray like a pack of hungry wolves,
prepared to rend their colleagues or any other obstruc-
tion which endangered their personal success.... If
there is to be salvation there must be a reformation.
A new spirit, or something of the old spirit, must be
aroused if Labor is to live and justify its existence.
Its conscience has been smeared in internecine hatreds
and feuds. The movement must recover its soul.
This is a true bill as far as it goes, only it
doesn’t go far enough. All the causes men-
tioned by Cruickshank' contributed to the
Labor defeat, but there were others that he
doesn’t mention. Labor lost the election
primarily because it has ceased, for the
time being, at any rate, to stand for Aus-
tralia. As a party it is infested with
blatherskites who think more of Russia and
Ireland than of the country in which they
live and have their beer. It has become
associated in the public mind with policies
which are anti-Australian from first to last
—with socialism on the Russian plan, Tam-
manyism of the New York brand, pacifism,
De Valeraism, slow-down, job-control, repu-
diation, other South American financial
notions and the Black Australianism of
T. Walsh. No Australian electorate will
ever swallow such a decoction, and N. S.
Wales rejected it decisively. “Had Labor
been prepared for the battle with closed
ranks and a united front” —thus Cruick-
shank.' unconvincingly—“all the assaults
of sectarianism would have perished before
it.” Sectarianism certainly played a part in
the election, and a loathly part. On the
Nationalist side, with some honorable excep-
tions among the candidates, it was worked
for all it was worth. But sectarianism alone
wouldn’t have settled Labor’s hash. Neither
are the controllers of the movement entitled to
claim that their acts and proceedings contained
no incitement to bigotry. When, for example,
they allowed the fatally fluent Dr. O’Reilly
to go to a foreign conference boasting.. that
he had been “endorsed by the A.L.P.,” they
simply invited the trouble that has descended
upon the party in large quantities. The
butchers of the French Revolution sent their
unsuccessful generals to the guillotine.
Similarly, the wirepullers of the A.L.P.
executive have relieved their wounded feel-
ings by politically beheading (as far as
they can manage the business) their cam-
paign-director Catts. Though facile and
energetic and not lacking in courage, Catts
is too small a man to lead a party, and his
attempt to form a new group will almost
certainly fail. All the same, his expulsion
was an act of bigotry which has simply put
another weapon in the hands of Labor’s sec-
tarian enemies. Not by resorting to such
gutter-bred intolerance and tyranny will the
movement recover its soul.
* * * *
With Labor suffering from dementia and
“Nationalism” from general debility, there
is a .great chance for the Country party, pro-
vided it ceases to be merely a Country party.
The worst that can be said about the Coc-kies
is that their appeal is a section of
Australia, but even a section of Australia is
more important in this association than a
section of Russia or Ireland or England.
They start with the great advantage that
they have no past to live down. They are
exempt from the foreign influences that have
well-nigh ruined one of the bigger parties
and from the cheap jingoism that distin-
guishes the other. During the late struggle
in N. S. Wales it was a relief to turn from
the sordid atmosphere of bribery and bigotry
to the just claim of the Agrarians that 48
of their 50 candidates were born in Aus-
tralia, and that 14 had fought for it. It
was the one hopeful feature of an unspeak-
ably sordid campaign. Young as it is, the
Cocky movement has thrown up two good
Australian leaders in Earle Page and
Bruxner, both men with impressive records
and modern minds. It is an organised pro-
test against the subjection of the continent
to the ravenous coastal capitals and their
ragged regiments of politicians. It has
identified itself firmly with the New State
policy. The chief obstacles to its progress
are sectionalism, foreign-trade (Gregory’s
secession is a good sign, for he led the
foreign-trade element of the party), and the
exclusiveness which prevents it from asso-
ciating with its natural allies, those workers
who hope to go on the land and those others
who see in co-operation and profit-sharing
and similar devices some hope of relief from
the unnecessary brutalities of the competi-
tive system. If the party can get rid of
these hindrances and some others, such as
its habit of welcoming to its bosom decayed
old party hack.s, it will go far. More especi-
ally if it changes its uninspiring name.
WHITE MEN FOR THE TROPICS.
Partly by reason of S.A. Premier Bar-
well’s lapse into Black Australianism, and
partly because the requisite mad variety
of full moon has come round again, a spirited
newspaper controversy has been raging in
Sydney about the alleged impossibility of
white settlement in “the tropics”—particu-
larly our tropics, which appear to be a
specially malignant sample. During the de-
bate the ignorance displayed by some
apostles of colored brotherism was colossal;
their crusted old-fogeyism passed belief, and
their lack of logic approached the miracu-
lous. They manifested only the dimmest
idea as to where the tropics are, or what
they are. They agreed, however, that the
Northern Territory is the most northerly
part of Australia, which it isn’t, and that
Darwin—the most low-lying “capital” in
Australasia — is the Territory—the whole of
it. They were solid on the point that the
heat is fearsome and continuous —this in
the same Territory where good Bishop
White, camping out one night while in pur-
suit of his flock, complained of being almost
frozen to death. The utter unhealthiness of
our tropics, and of all tropics, was taken
as read, despite QueenslancTs regular habit
of being well above the Australian average
for births and well below it for deaths.
Unanimity prevailed on the point that it is
heat —the heat of the hobs of Hades —-which
prevents the Territory being populated,
though North Queensland alongside it is
populated, ana the census (so far as it has
got) shows its northern ports to be the
bright exceptions to the general decay among
coastal towns which are not capitals. The
loss of inhabitants at Darwin after the meat-
works closed was cited as convincing evi-
dence that the fried community was giving
up the ghost, though the statistical man
lately announced that he had already located
34 perishing towns in N.S.W. alone, which
makes it look at least equally uninhabitable.
A sort of climax was reached when a Syd-
ney man summed up the situation thus: —
There are no “white” settlements in the true tropic
regions away from the sea-coast in any part of the
world, and if the law of averages is anything to
go by, the “Empty North,” so far as a white popula-
tion is concerned, will stay an “Empty North.”....
The only people who can ever people the North are the
people God designed to live in the tropics—the black
race*.
The pity of it is that there are any number
of people who think themselves at least
threatened with education and yet cherish
similarly idiotic beliefs.
* # * *
The “true” tropics (and there are no
false tropics) swarm with the white man’s
habitations—coastal and inland. Between
Cancer and Capricorn are four cities with
over or about a million inhabitants. Cal-
cutta was created by white men for brown
men to live in. Mexico (1,080,000 with its
suburbs) and Rio (rather larger) were
built by _ white men for white occupation.
Bombay is brown, but its origin was largely
Portuguese. Mexico is inland enough to
satisfy anybody. The great mass of the
republic’s population is in the tropical sec-
tion, which contains 12 inland towns apart
from the capital, with populations ranging
from 23,000 to 120,000, and possessing quite
a colorable imitation of white citizens. Cen-
tral America has five inland capitals, built
by white town-planners and occupied mostly
by folk who say they are Spanish —and it
is none too safe to say otherwise. In tropi-
cal South America the white man has built
himself five inland capital cities (one
exactly on the equator), and when Goyaz
is finished he hopes to be the proud owner
of six. As for the white man’s tropical
towns that are not metropolitan, the long
list of them suggests the roll-call of a Span-
ish army. In Africa the two Rhodesias


(North and South) are wholly tropical,
wholly inland, and are being rushed by white
settlers. Salisbury, Bulawayo and Victoria
are white cities in the building. The Trans-
vaal Boer is partly tropical, and last time
the commandoes were out he looked as if
the life agreed with him. And the inland
Queenslander of the heat-belt, though he
hasn’t been 400 years at the game like the
man who proudly calls his republic “Equa-
tor,” is doing well, and hopes to do better
when he warms up to his job.
• * * »
As a matter of simple fact the white man
does better in many parts of the tropics
than the colored man. Also, he does better
in some parts of the tropics than in many
cooler regions. Anyhow, what are these
blatant tropics, and where are they, and who
are these people whom God allegedly made
to fit into them? India is quoted as a
bright and shining type of the sort of place
where the white man decays, and the greater
part of India is in the temperate zone.
Persia is there also, and most of Arabia and
Egypt, and all Tripoli, Algeria and Morocco.
In fact, with a callous disregard of the
alleged rules of the game, about three-
fourths of the more-or-less colored folk seem
to live outside the tropics, and have always
insisted on building their cities outside.
Cases of this sort, or outstanding examples
of the innate cussedness of black, brown and
yellow persons, are Cairo, Tunis, Fez, Bag-
dad, Delhi, Lucknow, Cawnpore, Hyderabad,
Nankin and many more. As the colored
man either couldn’t or wouldn’t build in
the tropic land which is said to be his very
own by the dispensation of an extra-special
Providence the white man bogged in and
filled the gap. He ran up Manila, Singa-
pore, Goa, Havana, Cairns, Rockhampton,
Port Louis, Honolulu, Batavia, all the ter-
races of cities 'in Spanish and Portuguese
America, sky-scraper towns like Bogota and
ditch towns like Panama. Nothing came
amiss to the mighty runner-up, and he made
the trojpics his especial domain. Tropical
Australia has been his one temporary and
partial failure, and Paradise wouldn’t have
been much of a success under similar methods.
Settlement began in the South because the
untidy and uncharted northern seas were a
cemetery for ships in the pre-steam days.
The gold finds anchored the population in
the South. When the turn of the North
came the country had sunk into that dread-
ful frame of mind wherein nothing is done
save with loan money—the remittance man’s
frame of mind. The North never had a
Government of its own to float loans for
its use and benefit. It never had a Govern-
ment of any sort, but was always mis-
directed by remoter absentees down south.
It was pawned to the last acre to pay for
southern razzles, yet never had a razzle of
its own. So it progresses slowly, while
African and South American regions in the
same latitudes boom. And knaves and fools
who might take a lesson from the Afrikander
or the Brazilian find the climate a handy
scapegoat.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Last Lone Labor Premier.
There are signs that Australia’s last Labor
Government, that of Theodore, in Queens-
land, is on its last legs. Its existence has
been precarious ever since it went to the
country at the end of 1920 and reeled back
with a majority of four, thanks to a glar-
ingly undemocratic distribution of seats and
to ghosts. In the constituencies it was actu-
ally in a minority of 20,000 or thereabouts,
but the cemetery vote and the shade of
Gerrymander saved it. Division among the
Opposition, both wings of which were weakly
led, enabled the Government to struggle
through a session that was almost a world’s
record for, brevity. Even so, its majority
was reduced to two, including the Speaker,
by the defection of Peterson, and one or
two others would assuredly have joined him
had the Opposition possessed the strength
of unity, and had it been as clear then as it
is now that Australia has no use whatever
for the kind of Laborism that has ceased
to be Australian. The election which rang
Dooley’s knell was an omen of ruin to
Theodore. His doom will be pronounced by
a fed-up people the moment he can be forced
to face them. And if the Opposition fac-
tions will only stop snarling at one another
and realise, as everybody else does, that
neither can govern without the other’s sup-
port, there is, no reason why the compulsion
shouldn’t be applied within a few months.
In Westralia the Liberal and Cocky parties
have been represented in the same Govern-
ment, or Governments, since 1917. They
have never had a serious quarrel, even though
they have run candidates for the same seat.
An arrangement eaually harmonious and
equally useful is possible in Queensland, and
as soon as it arrives victory will be in sight.
Meantime the state of affairs in Theodore’s
country is going from bad to worse. Lament-
able is the condition of the exchequer. The
railway deficit has assumed ghastly propor-
tions. Having systematically looted indus-
try in the fancied interests of the “workers”
who, as ex-Treasurer Fihelly boasted before
he fled to London, are exempt from direct
taxation, the Government finds, now that
the slump has come, that many of the
wage-paying class can neither employ labor
nor pay taxes. The result is that a large
proportion of the population is living on
American loans. Hoping to revive the faded
fortunes of his party, or to curry favor with
the farmers against the day of wrath, Theo-
dore has weighed in with a programme of
rural co-operation. His proposals are so
vastly different from the wild idea of social-
ising industry, to which he was committed
by the Brisbane Labor Conference, after
vehemently opposing it, as to suggest that
he is pondering deeply on the case of
Scaddan. That versatile gentleman, who
led a Labor Government for five years,
quitted the party when its case was hopeless
and, after a decent interval for reflection,
and some reverses, joined the Cockies. He
now represents that group in the Coalition
Ministry, and is booked to succeed Premier
Mitchell when the amiable individual in
question steps down, or is shoved out. To a
politician in Theodore’s position, who
doesn’t believe in the socialisation of indus-
try, the example must be impressive.
The Autocrat of the Rabbit Skin.
At a receut meeting of the Marrickville
(Sydney) Council a letter from an adjoin-
T\r g r ( A° un .^ l ) Vi * s i' ea< i by Alderman Ness,
. as ' i i D S for co-operation in urging
the I remier to take action to prevent dis-
loyal utterances, and to suppress seditious
c e^v^ ure ‘ i -N ess expressed approval
of this scheme : “It is high time,” he re-
marked, “that public bodies took a stand
on the question.” Such claims are being
treely made just now by numbers of pro
tessional Imperialists who, while plumbers,
small-goodsmen and so forth of unquestioned
aptitude, are clearly no lawyers. Nor are
they even good citizens from the British
standpoint. There is nothing of which edu-
cated Englishmen are prouder than the fact
that for over 300 years British Governments
have not had the right to forcibly guide public
opinion. This is where the English political
principle differs so radically from what is
known as “Prussianism.” A word of criti-
cism directed at the ex-Kaiser before the
German revolution might have landed the
critic in gaol for a term of vears; and there
are many notorious cases in which it did
so. The sovereigns of England, ever since
Elizabeth’s reign, have had to submit to
criticism very much like other public char-
acters. There is no such crime as “dis-
loyalty” ( Idse-majeste ) in free Britain • it
was a Hohenzollern offence taken over
from the Bourbons. As regards the “sup-
pression of seditious literature,” in the words
of Dicey (“The Law of the Constitution”) :
Neither the Government nor any other authority
has the right to seize or destroy the stock of a
publisher because it consists of books, pamphlets or
papers which in the opinion of the Government con-
tain seditious or libellous matter.
Under normal conditions—that is, when the
rule of law is operative—there is but one
authority qualified to say what is or is not
sedition; namely, a jury of 12 British citi-
zens. Englishmen had a taste of what hap-
pens when Governments are empowered to
suppress sedition” while the Defence of
the Realm Act was in existence, and, in a
less degree, Australia was similarly enlight-
ened by the. agency of the War Precautions
Act. Britain’s greatest Liberal daily was
penalised m various ways, and its greatest
Liberal weekly was prevented from reach-
ing subscribers overseas. Assuming that our
alder manic repressionists are aware that the
War Precautions Act has been repealed,
and that, without the special powers a mea-
sure of the sort confers, Governments cannot
decide what criticisms they will silence as
seditious utterances, then the only remain-
ing conclusion is that they want to impose
on Australians, by means of fresh legislation,
a system which was not democratic enough
for Germany. It would be a short-lived
Government that tried it.
The East-West Railway.
Once more, “Solomon Malaprop”:
In reply to my remarks about the East-to-West
railway swindle “Elburg” (B. 13/4/’22) says
that “the building of the Western railway was a
distinct pledge, although, like many other things,
it was not in the Constitution... .There were
Eastern advocates who assured the Westralian elec-
tor that the East-West link would be forged as soon
as possible.” " f
If the East-West railway was an official pledge-
before the Constitution took its final form it would
have been in the document. (The South-to-Nortb
line wasn t in the Constitution, of course, because
it only became a fixed obligation when South Aus-
tralia paid over the famous land-grant of 200,000
acres per mile.) For the rest, I fail to see that,
even if some candidate, possibly an irresponsible and
subsequently defeated person named Briggs, promised
the Westralian line, his assurance bound me or any-
body else. I was in the Federal campaign from the
beginning to end. In the course of it I met every
member of the first Federal Cabinet except Drake
of Queensland and John Forrest of Westralia. And
none of them told me of it, though Alfred Deakin
talked over Territory matters with me freely. 1
am aware that the matter turned up very early in
Federal politics. John Forrest saw to that. He
also secured a special grant for his golden State,
and a special tariff. The tariff, being a genuine
agreement and not a mere “distinct pledge,” was
inserted in the Federal pact.
“Elburg” states: “It is true that Westralia has
been too hard up to convert its 370 miles of narrow-
gauge line between Perth and Kalgoorlie to the
Commonwealth standard, but while : there remain
over 1000 miles of 3ft. 6in. and sft. 3in. mix-
ture between Port Augusta and Albury the Westra-
lian fragment is relatively a small matter.”
Westralia undertook to alter its gauge, otherwise
it might not have got its line. The other States
undertook nothing. A premeditated breach of faith
isn’t a small matter. And Westralia wasn’t too
hard up. In 1917 it professed to be so rich that
it only required to tax its people 265. Id. per head
yearly, which was 20s. Bd. below the maximum and
10s. lOd. below the average. It manufactured a
bogus poverty and dodged its obligations. It has
spent £8,000,000 of loan money since 1917, but
none of it on keeping its promise.
Unlike “Elburg” I have no local axe to grind.
My business and family interests are in Sydney.
It is as an Australian that I hold:—
That the line which was paid for and which
would open up Federal territory has a better claim on
the Federal purse than one which wasn’t paid for,
and which only improves State property.
That a line which is 1470 miles shorter than the
old sea route has a better chance than one which is
564 miles longer, and which parallels the sea route
so that the latter is in constant competition.
That a line which traverses the oasis of Central
Australia, where there really are rivers (Australian
variety), and ends in a land of fairly big rivers,
may have a better prospect than a route without
a permanent trickle of fresh water in its dreadful
1050 miles, and which ends its 1050 miles at a place
equally bad.
That a railway through virgin country may be
more promising than one to a decayed mineral field
the population whereof fell from 26,321 t0.,16,116
between the two last censuses.
That a system like the South-to-North, which
under State management did occasionally show a
fair margin over working expenses, unfinished though
it was, holds out more hope, on completion, than a
finished work which was a loss all the time.
“Elburg” says that Westralia, as the goldfields
declined, turned “to agricultural and pastoral pro-
duction.” The Federal Statistician’s figures are to
the end of 1920 as regards animals and later as
regards vegetables. He says the big State’s best year
for sheep, cattle and horses was 1918, and for pigs
it was 1917. Then a sort of perish set in. Pro-
duction of bacon and hams fell 30 per cent, between
1918 and 1920, and that of cheese 75 per cent.
between 1914 and 1920. Wool output declined
heavily between 1920 and 1922, and the cultivated
area slumped between 1916 and 1920 by 20 per cent.
Perhaps it was really borrowing that Westralia
turned its attention to. Anyhow it doesn t seem
much of a place for so big a heap of Federal
money to be invested in—not under the present
management.
♦
The Man Who Was Hanged.
“0.K.”: The next man charged with a
crime such as cost Colin Boss his worth-
less life will probably think twice or thrice
ere he burns his bridges with a foolish
speech from the dock. Boss’s final whim-
pering pleadings for mercy, and the strivings
of his friends to save his skin after the con-
viction, had a certain ironic pathos, inas-
much as the saving of his skin had been
possible up to the time when he recklessly
protested himself an innocent victim of con-
spiracy. If in his speech from the dock
the prisoner had told the truth about the
death of the little girl Alma, the truth em-
bellished with just a few. uncontradictable
details, and colored with touches of his own
true regret for the mess he had got himself
into, no jury would have found him guilty
without a recommendation to mercy. The
Judge could not have avoided presenting him
as a mad fool rather than a wilful murderer.
The Crown counsel might well have admitted
that the child’s death was, from the killer’s
point of view, an accident. Himself, from .
the dock, could have stressed the point that
all his accusers had agreed in saying that
the death of the victim of his diseased pas-
sion was a shocking surprise to him. Medi-
cal evidence would have supported the alle-
gation that she was very easily choked. An
eloquent comparison between the story that
Colin Ross had to tell and'the original
newspaper story of one hideous crime being
committed in order to save the culprit from
the consequences of his previous crime—such
a comparison, forcibly drawn, would have
silenced the howls for vengeance against the
prisoner, and have made him, if not an
object for high-class sympathy, at least a
matter for merciful comment. But the pri-
soner went for an acquittal. He took the
risk where hanging was concerned instead
of giving up his chance of acquittal for lost
and playing for safety as regards tne death
penalty. It was, as already argued, in the
power of Ross to save himself by a speech
of explanatory confession from the dock.
Nobody could have contradicted him in a
reasonable statement of facts from his own
point of view. He chose to play the part
of an obvious liar, thinking that he might
look truthful and that lies were his best
policy. And therein be signed his death-war-
rant. No future young beast in a similar
position is likely to repeat the mistake unless
he be enough of a philosopher to reflect that
one had better be dead than sentenced to a
long term of penal servitude.
•
Royal Commissions in W.A.
West Australia has had a surfeit of Par-
liamentary Select Committees and Royal
Commissions of late, and there are indica-
tions that the practice of giving M’s.L.A.
roving commissions to find out something
that is doubtfully worth knowing, even if
it could be ascertained, is beginning to get
on the State’s nerves. The one Commis-
sion that has done anything approaching
useful work was that appointed to investi-
gate the trafficking by land sharks and
moneylenders and persons of the boodler
type in soldiers’ gratuity bonds. This body
at least brought certain very shady dealings
into the light of day, and made some offen-
ders disgorge their illegally-gotten gains.
But some other self-important and essen-
tially futile tribunals, sworn in for less
specific investigatory purposes, have merely
set people asking whether the Royal Com-
mission business isn’t being carried to farcical
lengths in a State that is as hard up as
W.A. is. There was a Forestry Commission
empowered to dredge up information about
the best way to conserve the country’s timber
resources, and its members proceeded to
make their way into the jarrah and karri
areas trying to look as much as possible
like plenipotentiaries going to an international
conference. The first indication they gave
of their sense of the momentousness of their
mission was when, after a morning spent
in taking evidence at a sawmilling centre,
they majestically inspected the State school
and subsequently ukased that, in honor of
their visit, the kids could have a holiday.
This made it necessary for an aggrieved
Minister for Education to advertise in the
Government Gazette, for the information
of State dominies, that the powers of Royal
Commissioners do not extend to the arbi-
trary suspension of work at the desk and
the blackboard. Meanwhile, another Com-
mission was engaged making comic history
elsewhere. W.A., like most States, is always
altering its liquor laws or trying to, or at-
tempting to find where they need altering,
and a trio of legislators had been empanelled
to tear around the country at Government
expense and collect data as to how the 9 to 9
law is working, and whether local option
should be carried any further than it was
at a referendum taken last year. Mobilising
itself at Ivalgoorlie—possibly because this is
about the thirstiest place in the State—this
Commission called a host of witnesses, and
elicited, and presumably tabulated, a whole
bundle of items like these, to wit, in manner
following:—
William mullocky, a trucker, who has worked for
22 years on the Great Boulder, has invariably made
a practice of taking a pot when he comes off shift.
He attributes his health and fitness entirely thereto.
The Rev. Coldtea CHollop regards every variety
of malted and spirituous liquor as insidious poison.
He suggests that all brewers and publicans should be
outlawed by Act of Parliament.
After the Commission’s stenographers had
covered reams of paper with these and simi-
larly conflicting expressions of public senti-
ment, the Mayor of Kalgoorlie, a cheerfully
downright person, blew in and was duly
asked if he had any evidence to give rele-
vant to the subject of inquiry. He bluntly
replied that the only opinion he would care
to put on record Was that inquiries like these
were an unholy waste of public money. The
goldfields people, he added, elected their own
Parliamentary representatives, and were
quite content to rely on them to express the
views of their constituents on the liquor
traffic or any other topic of the hour. After
which, the Mayor stamped out again, leaving
the Commissioners with dazed faces and
ruffled feelings. Yet it was probably the
most valuable bit of evidence they had col-
lected since their investigations began.
Settlement Railways and Blue Ruin.
The inclusion of Joseph Carruthers in
the bloated Fuller (N.S.W.) Ministry
foreshadowed an endorsement of his scheme
for putting a million loan-haunted farmers
on a million mortgaged farms; and on Thurs-
day it was duly announced that: —
settlement, border and cross-country railways will
be proceeded with as soon as possible.
These railways are built ostensibly to settle
millions on the land. The real aim is to
find' easy employment for the vast army of
men who should be making things (and thus
saving Australia its appalling imports bills),
but who might as well be Kaffirs for all the
technical skill they possess. When they have
reluctantly finished the railway they swarm
back to the capital to demand more jobs of
the sort, it being the only place where such
benefits are handed out. Apparently the
settlers come back at the same time,
possibly to escape the extra burdens that
are piled on them to cover the losses on
the settlement railways. Anyhow, through
some rotten kink in the system
There were 2588 more miles of Government rail-
way working in 1920 than in 1916. And there
were 6,229,718 fewer acres under cultivation in
1920 than in 1916. Despite the fact that returned
agricultural men were going back to their farms,
and that returned non-agricultural men were being
pushed headlong on to farms, owing each a heart-
breaking debt to the loan fund, one-third of the
Commonwealth’s cultivation vanished in four years.
As to the wheat area—between 1916 and 1921
2799 more miles of railway meant 3,415,362 fewer
acres under wheat.
Thus, under the present system of big loans,
big States and city congestion, one mile
of new loan railway kills off 2020 acres of
old cultivation as well as all the new culti-
vation and the settlement that went with it.
As N.S.W. built more railways than any
other State in the 1916-1920 period, and
borrowed more money and at higher inter-
est than any other State to “promote settle-
ment,” it naturally lost more of its culti-
vated area than its neighbors. This State
went in for 797 miles of new line and
£22,262,064 of new debt; and it lost
2,022,799 acres of cultivation. In other
words, each, mile of its new railway abol-
ished 2538 acres of its old agriculture. As
the figures for sheep, horses, pigs, wool,
butter, bacon and ham all show a decline
there is lack of any compensating advantage.
Everything that is cursed with the loan and
loan-railway “development” policy, and
with the interference of professional land-
settlers, borrowers and Million-Farmers, has
come under a curse. Manufactures, which
these folk leave alone, are the one promising
feature of the dismal case. And as the
Commonwealth’s manufactures could be
doubled without exhausting the local market,
and without vast loans and loud clamor,
it seems that artisans, and not agricultu-
rists, are the sort of immigrants required.
-
Legal Aid in N. S. Wales.
From a Sydney Gent One: —
One piece of legislation which calls for revision
by the incoming Government is the Poor Persons
Legal Remedies Act (1918). There are four view-
points from which the situation created by it can
be regarded—the solicitor’s, the taxpayer’s, the poor
person’s and that of the other party to the suit.
The solicitor deals with a client who seldom has
a case; who is often unable to collect his own
witnesses; who is often,. too, a betrayer and a
liar; and who has generally, if he is honest, earned
his trouble by carelessness. There is no remunera-
tion, and even if the client is successful, costs are
seldom awarded.
The taxpayer is contributing to the upkeep of a
department conducted by several responsible officers
and a bevy of clerks, who deal each year with
hundreds of applications by impostors, rogues, luna-
tics and a few poor but honest citizens. He also
pays for the maintenance of a judiciary and judicial
officers, a great deal of whose time is occupied on
the work of the poor person’s actions.
All the poor person is required to do is to tell
certain lies, and he then gets permission to pro-
ceed. And he interviews his solicitor thereafter as
often as he likes or as infrequently as he likes.
There is no sort of check on him in this respect. As
for the defendant, if he loses he pays his own costs,
and may be ordered to pay those of the poor person
who stakes nothing: if he wins he still pays his own
costs and bears the annoyance, inconvenience and
loss of time which are the inevitable accompani-
ment! of a lawsuit. These facts are not conjured
up; they are the working result of what is claimed
to be a piece of democratic legislation. Unques-
tionably the Act occasionally allows justice to be
done where it would otherwise be denied, but the
writer’s experience is that such cases are excep-
tional. Here are some instances of “poor persons”
(persons who under the Act must not be worth
more than £5O) who proceeded in forma pauperis :
1. A railway ticket-collector suing for money
due on the sale of a motor-bike.
2. A vet. surgeon suing for £l3O due on the
sale of a racehorse.
3. A woman, professing absolute poverty, but
later found to be receiving regular maintenance
from her husband for herself and children, suing
for £BO on the sale of furniture.
4. A governess in a permanent position suing for
damages for breach of promise.
Upon which The Bulletin, as the first
Australian newspaper to advocate Legal
Aid, has these comments to make: —
The chief amendment proposed by ex-Solicitor-
General Spimhile’s new bill, which has already been
through the Parliamentary Draughtsman’s hands,
provides for payment of assigned lawyers. If the
proposed scale is not a fair thing, both as regards
the legal profession and the public, the new Parlia-
ment will presumably say so. The Poor Persons’
Legal Remedies Act was an experiment, and, like
all experiments, is capable of improvement.
The Legal Aid Office is known to be one of the
most inexpensive departments in the State, if not
in the Commonwealth. Because it exists thousands
of indigent citizens have obtained justice. Also,
thousands of prospective defendants have been saved
the csst of defending legal proceedings which might
otherwise have been launched against them by specu-
lative attorneys. By and large it has probably pre-
vented more litigation than it has encouraged.
As regards imposture, there is bound to be a cer-
tain amount of it wherever the State has anything
to give away; but more precautions are taken here
than (say) in the public hospitals. A declaration
as to the means of any applicant is first required,
and then the other party to the proceedings is given
a chance to lay all his cards confidentially before


“After all, there’s
only one Australia
T
he
w- ,rTC '
rmrRAUA]
HU
PREMIER HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
Entertain Your Friends at “The Australia.”
TO do honor to your friends, you could not choose an institution
more to your taste or with better facilities for their entertainment.
The Hotel Australia is central to the leading theatres, while its
great marble Entrance Hall offers a convenient rendezvous. Handy
to the Hall are the Bars, the Winter Garden, the new Billiard-room,
Theatre Booking-office, Flower and Book Stall, etc.
The cuisine has long been the source of favorable comment, while the
new Banquet Hall provides ideal accommodation for public and
private entertainments.
Telephone 86441 or communicate with the manager, and your
wishes will receive prompt attention.
Extensive alterations have made available 110
new rooms, each with complete private toilet
and bathroom, supplied with hot and cold running
■water. The most up-to-date Hairdressing,
Massage and Manicuring P-oms in Australia are
another new feature—2nd Floor.
BED AND BREAKFAST RATES—
Single Room, from 12/6.
Double Room, from 25/-
- Suites de Luxe—rates on application.
Luncheon or Dinner it la Carte, from 47-
Quick Luncheon, in Winter Carden, from 2/6.
the Legal Aid Office. If he claims that the appli-
cant has no case the facts are considered by counsel
and then put before a Judge. Assigned solicitors
who find that the alleged poor person has means
are at liberty at once to apply to a Judge of the
Court to discharge the assignment order; and the
other party to the suit may so apply at any time
before or during the trial.
The examples cited of misuse of the Act, though
selected, presumably, for infamy, are not all sensa-
tionally flagrant. A ticket-collector on the basic
wage with a family is beyond doubt a poor person,
even though he may own a motor-bicycle of sorts.
A governess usually earns £1 a week and keep.
How can one in her position be expected to find
a lump sum of £4O or £5O by way of costs?
And if she offered ss. a week —a composition which
is frequently made by this class of litigant with
the Legal Aid Office —what likelihood would there be
of an unassigned lawyer touching her case?
As good a proof as might be desired of the
beneficence and wisdom of this system is afforded
by the “Forty-fifth Annual Report of the New York
Legal Aid Society.” Woodrow Wilson, William
H. Taft and Charles E. Hughes are its vice-presi-
dents; and the last, as Attorney-in-Chief, remarks; —
The Legal Aid Society received requests from
30,466 people during the year 1920....0ur policy
of refusing to assist those who have acted in an
unfair, unjust or dishonest way with their employers
made it necessary to refuse as unworthy clients
1197 persons. The work of the society has broad-
ened in a notable way by the inclusion of the service
previously rendered by the Voluntary Defenders
Committee. Its service in criminal cases was
analogous to that which has been rendered by this
society in civil cases. Thus the worthy poor may
receive through the one organisation the protection
and assistance they need in both civil and criminal
matters.
The poor, in short, are considered in the U.S, to
have the same right to legal aid as they have to
medical aid. It is chiefly because there has been
no organised attempt by Private Enterprise in N. S.
Wales to concede this obvious right that the Gov-
ernment has stepped in; and for the same reason
it should not be long before the system spreads over
the rest of the Commonwealth.
A Hurrying, Fuming Sphinx.
It is Australia’s misfortune to have a Prime
Minister who is such a genius at holding
his billet that he has forgotten how to be a
genius at much else. W. M. Hughes is in
his eighth consecutive year of office, his
seventh consecutive year as Prime Minister,
and is sitting in his eighth Cabinet —all in-
side 214 years. Age, either in years or port-
folios, brings caution to a certain class of
mind, and Hughes has always had that sort
of mind. Gone and almost forgotten are
the days when a Government took its Life
in both hands over some great issue without
much preliminary counting of heads, had an
epic fight, and handed in its resignation
with a jest next day. Just now parties
are rather evenly divided. Every big matter
has votes on both sides, all of which may
possibly be kept on a string by the doing
of nothing, but some of wffiich would cer-
tainly be lost by the doing of anything. Over
the South-to-North railway—the one which
will reduce the distance across Australia by
1470 miles instead of increasing it by 564
as the East-to-West abortion did —the Prime
Sphinx has no opinion. There are votes
either way, and the business is put into the
Chancery Court of interminable commissions
of inquiry, with the hope that a great many
people may be dead, like the litigants in
•Tarndyce and Jarndyce, before it makes
itself a nuisance by coming out again. As
regards Canberra, the problem is to waste
just enough to prevent Austin Chapman
from going mad, and not so much as to
make other people go even madder than
Austin Chapman. The nation lias been
waiting for a lead' on the matter of the
formation of new States. There are votes
here and votes there, and the Oracle’s
reply has been a voiceless, unseeing
stare. A convention to revise the Con-
stitution has been urged, but it would
be hard even to decide on the basis
of that convention without making a
whole row of small pots boil over, so the
Prime Mystery is non-committal. It will be
essential soon to decide on some way of
getting the Commonwealth’s ships to sea
with at least the same punctuality as Pri-
vate Enterprise displays, or else on selling
out to people who can get ships to sea.
Either proceeding would rouse a tempest,
and either might cut off a promising line
of retreat—to the old steady job of Labor
leader should that of anti-Labor leader
flicker out. The industrial arbitration diffi-
culty is always w r ith us, and the more
courts we acquire the fewer definite results
appear to ensue. Now comes a proposition
to substitute for the lumbering arbitration
system “round-table conferences between
employers and employees.” Such a confer-
ence sat recently, with Hughes himself in
the chair. Well-known employers turned up,
hut the other case, instead of being in the
hands of genuine employees, was represented
liv a crowd of non-working officials, of purest
Bolshevik bray serene. They expounded
'•ertain doctrines which were partly Karl
Marx and partlv extracts from the early
theories of the Russian revolution. The
real business of the conference never started.
As the chairman didn’t disqualifv the sec-
retaries and other sundries and ask for
genuine workers, he was presumably quite
content with that sort of conference, and if
the conferences are to be that sort they look
even less promising than the disappointing
arbitration arrangement. But Hughes is
content, in his own vehement and curseful
way. He has lost nearly everything but
office: however, he finds the residue such
a comfort that he is not bothering seriously
over details which cause Australia the
utmost anxiety.
*
Wanted—a Jeroboam.
James Edmond puts it in a condensed form:
I have certain ideas which, I think, would make it
quite feasible for the New State in N. S. Wales to
be in working order and borrowing its first loan
by the beginning of 1923.
I would suggest getting enough candidates, not
only to contest every State and Federal seat inside
the secession area, but those in the fringe round the
area. The fringe might want to come in, especially
as a division of the assets and debts would probably
leave the New State with only about half the debt
per head of the Old One. Candidates are always a
handy thing to have around at election time. The
fringe should be wide.
The Unofficial Cabinet of the New State might take
from each candidate a pair of documents. One would
be his pledge to leave the old State Parliament when
called upon, but retaining his membership and salary,
and report himself to the Dail Eireann at the new
capital. The other paper would be his resignation,
as a precaution against treachery. Of course the old
Parliament might declare the resignations null and
THE REFORMED GLUTTON.
N.S.W.: "Glut ain’t this larger than I can afford now?”
void, but aa a counterblast the first member who took
advantage of this quibble could be tarred and
feathered, or even asphalted, on his reappearance in
the North. That would discourage defection.
It might be advantageous to have a Parliamentary
leader who would break r.ll rules, obstruct every-
thing, and, if necessary, insult everybody, till he
secured a “yes” or “no” on the question of Separa-
tion. Having got their “no,” or failed, despite their
best efforts, to get anything after a reasonable
period, the Northern members might start for home.
They might even get there in time, to intercept the
land-tax and income-tax payments, and put them in
their own Treasury.
The simple justification of this action would be that
the Law is always supposed to provide a remedy.
But when the plea for Home Rule within the Com-
monwealth and the Empire has to be made to the
very body which refuses Home Rule with insult—
when the plaintiff’s appeal lies in the defendant’s
court, with . the defendant in overwhelming force on
the bench—it is plain that the Law has fallen down
on its job, and other measures are allowable.
The New State would presumably work in the
main with the aid of police, magistrates, justices of
the peace, lands and tax and railway and harbor and
other officials taken over from the Old Order. They
would have the choice of coming over or becoming
permanently jobless.
The New State could start its own little bank, so
that its assets might not sneak away into the enemy’s
camp.
The certainty of success, unless the leadership was
weak to the point of imbecility, lies in the fact
that the Old State Government is a voice and nothing
more. It is minus army, navy, mint and note
issue. It doesn’t control shipping, banking, foreign
relations, or the arms factory. It would have lost
a good part of its bobby force. And considering
the impassioned way the Sydney Government
approved of Home Rule in Ireland, it would be very
short of sympathy if it tried to do the “Cut-throat
Castlereagh” act against its own Home Rulers —
always premising that they weren’t so languid and
tame that no one took an interest in them.
In capable hands I think the secession
I have outlined would not interfere with the running
of the Brisbane-Sydney mail for more than a day. I
believe it would be bloodless, healthy and amusing,
likewise a splendid example and a precedent. If
the Northerners sized up the situation better, and
were less in awe of the roaring germ in the path,
things might move.
Looking up leading precedents, from Jeroboam to
Dk Valera, and from Moses a long time ago to
Bohemia the other day, it appears that the best way
to secede is just to go away, and the simplest recipe
for making new States is just to make them.
Joseph Carruthers went Million-Farming
at Sydney Showground recently to this
effect:—
Ate we to draw from the streams of immigrants
leaving Europe, or wait till the floodgates of the
yellow and brown races burst and overwhelm us ?... .
Australia could he made safe by the adoption of
20th-century methods. There was room alone on
the unimproved Mildura lands of N.S.W. for 3000
farms, and the development of this land could be
achieved by the utilisation of modern methods, such
as the laying down of railways, good public high-
ways, irrigation systems and domestic water sup-
plies. The undertaking of this work would not
only solve the unemployed question of the State
but would in time transform a waste into a veritable
gold-mine. Thirty years ago the Victorian Mildura
was described as a desert. To-day it. had a popula-
tion of 30,000 and the products were worth
£1,500,000.
Mildura was founded 35 years ago, at a
time when wages were low, because the
country had a gold currency, and because
living was cheap, and loan money was cheap,
and taxes, especially m Victoria, were very
small, and men still worked 48 hours per
week. And it now supports 30.000 people,
and the product is equal to £5O per head
per annum. It isn’t much to wait so long
for. even if the work could be duplicated
with the men N. S. Wales has and under
the present conditions. The ghastly results
of the Ma State’s own Mildura at Beeton,
which is losing about £lOOO per day, don’t
suggest that it can, and until that debris is
cleared up Ma State shouldn’t listen to tales
about what other men did in other times
and under different circumstances. Yanco
is the text —not Mildura, even if Mildura
were much bigger than it is. The Vic-
torians, who own it, don’t boast of it as a
marvel and a shining example to all the
world, as Carruthers does; but then they
don’t aim to build a new borrowing boom
on the strength of it, and they didn’t start
it as a complete remedy for unemployment
nor as a substitute for manufactures.' ’
A new view of the Man with the Hoe :
Ln.si.v reigns at Moscow, and there are fools and
ruffians in Australia who dream of imposing his
Oriental socialism on a free people by force of arms.
Here, at Norton’s Summit, in the heart of the hills
outside Adelaide, no such crazy beliefs obtain
Propinquity to the soil has established a saner faitln
the faith that as a man sows so shall he reap. Suc-
cess, as understood at Norton’s Summit, depends not
upon the ravings of some boastful, work-shy waster,
whose ocean of words waters not a single carrot, but
upon the labor of one’s hands between sunup and
sundown. In our small community five generations
have toiled with hoe and spade and pick. Mere-
tricious picture-shows cannot thrive here—we know
too well that it takes a dozen of bunch-stuff to go
in. That is what living near to Mother Earth
teaches you. One must turn so many spits of earth
to earn a loaf of bread. Long rows of trees to
prong-hoe are measured against the worth of a
pair of boots. This earth-creed may be primitive,
but it is manly and independent. I have kept the
local store for four years and haven’t one bad debt.
Nor have I ever known a deputation to go begging
to the Government or the local authority for a dole.
Sadly it must be confessed that we are not for the
Revolution. We think little of KAhn Maßx and a
lot of the stubborn soil on our steep hillsides. But
mark this, Mr. Bolshie — we are going to last. And
elsewhere, I trust, in good old Australia, there are
other little communities of peasant proprietors like
ours who will be toiling, and, if necessary, fighting
for the Commonwealth when the new and truculent
race of wharf-lords, sea-lords and coal-lords have
vanished, with their imported class-war, from the
face of the earth.
“Borom” : “Greb’s” account of the bride-
groom who developed—not contracted —
syphilis while on his honeymoon, having
been innocently infected months beforehand
(B. 30/3/’22), is only another illustration
of the fact that there are scores of persons
unconsciously carrying in their systems the
dormant organisms of the disease. In some
cases these may remain quiescent for years,
in others they may blossom into full activity
a few months after infection. One of the
most difficult features of syphilis is its ten-
dency to assume the form of some othpr
disease. To quote only one instance, a
country clergyman, the father of seven child-
ren. liad been a persistent sufferer from
catarrh, for which he had received the usual
treatment for years. When he decided to
consult a specialist the latter made a Was-
sermann test, which proved that the patient
was suffering from a deep-seated syphilitic
infection. When a similar test was per-
formed on blood samples from his children
four of the seven were also found to have
been congenitally afflicted. Yet in none of
them was there the slightest manifestation,
while the only sign in the father was the
throat trouble. In the case of the children
the disease might possibly have remained
dormant for years or may have appeared
only in a succeeding generation. A shocking
proportion of the cases met with in practice
are instances of the disease having been in-
nocently acquired, and until the people real-
ise that it is easy to contract syphilis while
living the life of an ascetic celibate, the
scourge is going to remain cloaked in the
secrecy which has helped it to spread so
vigorously in the past.
- ♦ ——- - .
Proportional Representation threatens a
fresh terror on the lines of street bands, art-
union ticket-hawkers and the like; and the
preliminary symptoms may be studied in the
North Shore (N.S.W.) electorate. There,
last month, A. E. V. Reid put up a desperate
fight for seat and salary, but was downed
by, amongst others, Dr. Arthur and Cocks.
While the contest was on no one strove harder
to rob Reid of the No. 1 votes which would
have meant his financial salvation than these
two affluent citizens. Now that their manoeu-
vres have succeeded they are taking up a
public subscription for him on the grounds
(1) that he needs the money; (2) that he
was a particularly valuable representative
until they ousted him. If every citizen who
supplanted a friend in a lucrative job which
the latter was performing efficiently could
follow suit, there might be fewer bruised
consciences about; but, fortunately for the
public, the device is not likely to work out-
side the political sphere. Several hundreds
sterling have already been subscribed by
prominent patriots in recognition of the
alleged assistance given to the Empire by
Mr. Reid. Simultaneously, the Rev. Rich-
mond —Prince of Army Chaplains—has been
trying to raise £l5 for a necessitous Digger.
This lad’s father, who was killed at Mons,
“died penniless through the war”; the boy
was badly wounded himself, and all he and
his wife have to live on now is a pension of
10s. a week. At the time of writing none of
N.S.W.’s habitual King’s Men have come for-
ward with a shilling for a case which is
surely more deserving than that of any non-
combatant politician. And, presumably, the
more defeated M’s.L.A. who are assisted
financially at the instigation of victorious
rivals in their own ’tarty the less cash there
will be for those who have the best of all
right to be assisted.


IF YOU ARE
BUYING RUBBER.
KEEP THE
GOODRICH
TRADE MARK
IN TOUR EVE "
GOODRICH Means Economy.
All Goodrich users are obtaining splendid results and a consequent low cost of running.
Read what Mr. A. E. Scott, of the Dover Motor Garage, Rose Bay, writes us:—
12th April, 1922.
“We are extremely pleased with the service we have received from Goodrich Cord Tyres.
“We use our cars for Hire Service, and have very heavy work to do. We have received 7000 miles
and then have been able to put on retreads three times, so that we ultimately get 16,000 miles,
allowing 3000 miles for the retreads.
“This is wonderful service, and we don’t want' anything better than this.
“Yours faithfully, “(Sgd.) A. E. SCOTT, Manager.”
GOODRICH TYRES.
DUVAL COMPANY, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Anzac Day was a pleasant function for
those in steady work; and the professional
Imperialist got many admirable sentiments
off his platitudinous chest about the death-
less valor of the lads who died to make the
world safe for democracy. But many of the
orators wouldn’t give a deteriorated Digger
a job, as against a fit shirker, under any
consideration. And things are even worse,
presumably, with those who don’t orate.
Here is the net result for one State alone,
the deponent being Chaplain George S.
Richmond: —
There are, on this seventh anniversary of Gal-
lipoli, more than 5000 returned soldiers out of
work in N. S. Wales. In Sydney, where most of
the unemployment exists, the Warriors’ Friend Cam-
paign has established a feeding depot, at which the
men who are seeking for work may obtain one meal
a day. There, every day, can be seen returned sol-
diers who have been picked up actually starving.
Some of them are men who held high rank in the
A.1.F., and who won decorations for their bravery.
Many of them have wives and families to add to
the tragedy of their plight.
This sordid business of remembering Anzac
on one day a year, and leaving Anzacs to
starve unremembered on the other 364, does
more harm to the Empire and casts more
opprobrium on the Flag than all the Bol-
shevik ravings of Sydney’s Domain and Mel-
bourne’s Yarra Bank.
“Ireland is yours for the taking. Take it,”
was the brief summing up of the situation in
De Valera’s latest proclamation. But it is
often easier to take a thing than to know
what to do with it afterwards. It will be
recollected that Lenin used almost precisely
the same words when he told the Russian
artisans to annex the factories which are
now in ruins.
The new Sydney Government has dodged
its first rock. A condition of the arrange-
ment between the Nationalists and the Pro-
gressives was that Wearne, the Progressive
chief, should be deputy-leader of the Coali-
tion, but the bulk of his party refused to
follow Wearne and he found it a mortal
struggle to hold his seat. A post in the
Ministry was found for the leader without
a party, but when it was proposed to make
him deputy, some of the Nationalists talked
mutiny. In the end it was decided that
Wearne should have the barren honor and
Oakes the refusal of the Premiership if (or
when) Fuller goes. But it is ominous what
a little thing it takes to bring the great
Nationalist party in sight of ruin.
A deputation of cattlemen was discussing
with certain Queensland bigwigs and union
officials a reduction of wages in order to
quality for Priminister Hughes’s offer of a
farthing a lb. on beef. In stepped the Pre-
mier. The cattlemen, all political opponents,
stood up—to his office. The three union
delegates remained seated. They knew too
much, presumably, to pay deference to a
dummy.
In saying good-bye to his constituents of
the Northern Province (Vic.), Billionaire
Baillieu had a kick at the Cocky party. He
complained that the pledge it exacted was
just as objectionable as Labor’s. Dick
Abbott, of Bendigo, who used to be Bail-
lieu’s fellow rep. for the Northern Province,
and who was outed by Prank Clarke nine
years ago, will be the F.U. candidate. He
will have a doughty opponent in Hugh Mc-
Kenzie, who used to be Assembly member
for Rodney, and was a Minister under
Murray, Watt and Peacock.
“Henry Horsecollar” sums up the Irish
situation:—
Apparently Prime Minister Collins lost his punch as
soon as he was legally authorised to use it. While
he was against the Government he was a man of
might: when he became the Government his might
STARTING HER CAREER.
THE MAIDEN: “Which is the woman I soon will he, I wonder?“
left him, and he became a mite. When a Govern-
ment sits tight in its ostensible capital while a mob
wrecks its Customs House at leisure and does several
millions’ worth of damage—sits like a graven image
and calls out no troops—it may fairly be suspected
of having lost faith in its luck and its followers.
The Republican leader, who is a foreigner, addresses
meetings with no fear of arrest, but when the Free
State Premier attempts to speak in public he is
searched for hidden documents or confectionery and
sent home in disgrace. The new Free State stamps
have been issued, printed in a language which is
taught in 3 per cent, of the schools, and is said to
be understood by 2 per cent, of the population. It
is believed that, amid the general excitement, half
the soil will pass out of cultivation this year. Mean-
while Ulster plods along with war inside and out,
and a Parliament as comic as an Orange' Lodge. Its
Premier, Craig, like Field-Marshal Haig, owes his
wealth to whisky, and it was mostly his firm’s potheen
that rolled in a muddy flood through Dublin. Pre-
sumably the shattered blue-ruin magnate will claim
compensation, but his chances of getting it are slim.
If the parties would agree to abandon their respec-
tive religions and compromise by becoming Buddhists
there might be a way out, but after the spilling of
so much whisky and the resultant national bitterness,
what hope is there?
William Pember Reeves, M.L. Minister
for “Labah” in Ballance’s first ministry in
1890, still lives in London. As chairman of
a big banking institution he carries no
suggestion of the political socialist of his
younger days. Reeves is now 65 and he and
Joseph Ward are the only survivors of the
first great Ballance team which, by bloodless
revolution, changed the political history of
the Shivery Isles.
Minister John Huxham of Queensland
was the first to approve of the resolution cf
the Australian Teachers that secondary edu-
cation should be made compulsory. But if
liuxham is such an enthusiast for compul-
sory secondary education it is time he set
about enforcing compulsory primary educa-
tion. which (up to 14 years) is already law
in Bananaland. The neglect and almost
open defiance of the law in Southern Queens-
land is patent to everyone, but prosecutions
are rare. Besides, the kind of secondary
education current throughout Australia is
mainly a training that fits boys and girls
for the city—for office-desks and Public Ser-
vice billets. Governor Nathan summed it
up trenchantly: “Too few milking-machines
and too many typewriters.” Australia
can’t have too much education of the right
kind, but she has a darned sight too much of
the present kind.
Remarks of an old Labor politician:—
Jim McGowen's death brings up dreams of the
might-have-been. Suppose that in the history of
Australian Labor there had never been any “heresy
hunts” or “purifications” or expulsions bv small
factions or bigots momentarily in the ascendant,
what a party it would have become! But from the
start, especially in N. S. Wales, the idea of persecu-
tions and proscriptions held sway. Whenever a big
question came up for settlement there were always
persecutors and heresy-hunters on the premises. The
result was the loss to the once great Australian
movement, which held power in five out of six States
and in the Commonwealth itself, of Hughes, Holman,
Watson, Pearce, Poynton, Higgs, Dawson, Lamond,
Matt Reid, Classey, Kidston, Airey, McGowen, Beeby,
Hall, Spence, Trenwith, Farrer, J. D. Fitzgerald,
Scaddan, Alf Edden, Geo. Black, Bussell, the two
Vaughans, Verran, Jackson, and a hundred other men
of ability who, by pen, tongue, good counsel or
organising genius, made the party what it was in
its great days.
As the fees paid on behalf of pupils to
Vic. high and tech, schools don’t provide a
tithe of the amount expended, Treasurer
McPherson proposes to raise them. He has
discovered that many well-to-do people avail
themselves of these seminaries because the
tariff is only £6 a year, about a fourth of
the figure charged in private secondary
schools. But it will require a lot of courage
to carry the suggested increase. More fees
mean fewer votes.
“Cosmos”: If Australian unionism is split
on sectarian lines it will only be a repeti-
tion of what has happened often on the
European continent. Germany has a “Chris-
tian [i.e., R.C.] Union” numbering about
quarter of a million, and before the war
the figure was much bigger. Austria has
had R.C. unions ever since unionism was
made legal there, and the position is the
same in France and Belgium. The organ-
iser usually has some political or clerical axe
to grind, and he sees to it that the body he
brings into being turns the wheel for him.
As a rule it tends to be friendly with the
land-owning Conservatives, that being the
policy of the Church.
From the centre of a mild disturbance: —
The wire-pullers are hard at work in the Corio
(Vie.) electorate. J. H. Lister, the erstwhile Queens-
land Digger who won the seat in 1917, is not tract-
able enough for the Nationalist heads, who want a
member more subservient to Hughes. Under the
redistribution of boundaries Corio drops some of
its northern extremities, where Lister was popular,
and takes in a big slice of Corangamite. Allan
McDonald, a district farmer who was narrowly beaten
by Gibson in Corangamite, is to be run by the aiiti-
Listerites for the Nationalist nomination, and the
fun has started already. Every little branch of the
Nat. Feds, has a vote in the pre-selection. Ergo the
more branches a candidate can control the more votes
he gets. This accounts for the feverish haste of
Lister’s supporters to start new branches in the
Geelong district, while the McDonalditcs are equally
diligent at the Colac end. But Donald Mackinnon
may upset all calculations. He, too, has an eye on
Corio, where he has many friends.
Opening the Australian State Teachers’
Conference at Melbourne Frank Tate, Vic.
Director of Education, declared that he only
was a free man whom thought made free;
the bigot and the man of prejudice were
slaves. If he catches his Australians young
enough Tate may knock those truths into
them, but what chance has he with the
people who are running the political
machine now?
Chops, the private butcher, is making
things interesting for Queensland’s State
meat-shops. It is becoming frequent for
Chops to start a stall to right or left of the
Government enterprise and, down Valley
Junction way, for every customer that buys
Theodore’s topside three patronise Chops.
Yet in theory Chops should be starved out
in a week. He has to buy his carcases from
graziers whose stock is duffed at an unmerci-
ful rate, whereas there is no authentic evi-
dence that the Government cattle-stations
have ever lost a single hoof. At least no
cattle-thief is ever prosecuted for filching
from a State run.
From a distant and rambling electorate:
Harry Gregory, M.H.R., whose political beliefs and
party status are at present providing material for
cynical comment and puzzled diagnosis, has had a
quarter-of-a-century’s run as a legislator, with but
one brief break. Menzies sent him to the W.A. Leg.
Assembly in 1897, and he hung on to his Parlia-
mentary job (being, incidentally, Minister for Mines
in three or four post-Forrest Administrations) till
1911, when Labor outed him after many desperate
struggles. But within 18 months he succeeded in
bumping Hugh Mahon (who was, curiously enough,
his original opponent at Menzies) out of the Dampier
Federal seat. Gregory wasn’t a C.P. man then;
he only became one under fairly strong pressure in
1914, when the Agrarian party in W.A. was begin-
ning to flap its wings and crow about its strength.
In fact, the first person it did demonstrate its
persuasive or minatory powers on was Gregory.
Dampier was a safe C.P. seat at that time, and
Gregory knuckled undei-, albeit a little sullenly.
Thei'e are people in the West who say that he would
have hesitated a lot longer about kicking over
the party traces had not the latest Federal Redis-
tribution Bill extended his constituency to take in
some of the eastern outskirts of Perth.
In one of his occasional despondent moods
Prime Minister Hughes lately said that his
Government had spent £31,513,130 in coax-
ing 26,444 soldiers on to the land—say £1192
per coax. Someone remarked lately that
Old Dad used to make £1192 out of the selec-
tion before he died, but now he owes that
much before he begins.
Federal Labor-leader Charlton made an
impassioned declaration, in the sacred in-
terests of Little Work, that there was no
justification for the demand that men at
Canberra should do 48 hours per week in-
stead of 44, about which matter a brisk
little strike is, or was, in progress. The
last yearly accounts in the Federal “Year
Book” said that the year’s revenue of the
Federal capital was £2256 from taxes and
£26,898 from the various undertakings and
from 940 square miles of territory—about
lOd. an acre. The place, in fact, paid about
half the interest on its cost and nothing
towards management expenses. A shred of
economy seems called for in a spot like that.
Hughes, who has been vigorously damning
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, is
apparently determined to let it perish from
neglect. Months ago it was stated that help
would be needed to enable the present head
of the court to cope with the glut of busi-
ness, and every now and then the Cabinet
was going to consider the appointment of a
couple of extra Judges, but nothing has been
done. The yarn goes that sundry Ministers
want to relieve the strain on Justice Pow-
ers ; but that every time the matter has
been tremblingly mooted, the autocrat of
the Cabinet table has jumped on the pro-
posal with both feet. Hughes’s object is
seemingly to bring derision on a court he
hasn’t the pluck to destroy, and thereby
obtain some further election ammunition,
which he is manufacturing in vast 'quanti-
ties just now.
THE IDOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“I wish to make the statement that I am to-day
probably the most popular Labor man in N.S.W. with
the portion of the Labor movement which counts.”
—Gregory McGirr.
The air is foul with hate and howl,
And gasconade and bounce;
Contestants swear and wildly tear their own or one
another’s hair,
However, “I announce,
Nay more, aver,”
(Says Greg McGirr
Fi-om where the feathers fly, and fur)
“Howe’er my hide they trounce,
I cut more ice than all the rest,
I’m liked the most and loved the best—
Among the Ci’owd that Counts.
“Though ‘duds’ and ‘mongs’ with rasping tongues
My name and fame denounce,
Though some assert the Cause I’ve hurt and left it
downed and in the dirt,
All I would say amounts,
Madam or sir,”
(Says Greg McGirr),
“To this, advanced without demur,
Cold fact, not frill or flounce,
Of Labor heads, or near or far,
There’s none remains so popul-ar-
Among the Crowd that Counts.”
With schism rent, and bashed and bent,
The A.L.P.’s astir:
Men meet and mix with heavy bricks to bung at
fleeing heretics
With stigma chased and slur.
“But this, you see,
Don’t worry me.
With undisturbed serenity
I view the war and whir.
I fear no foe, I dread no hit.
I know, whatever throats are slit,
That where the Men who Matter sit
I’m still' —unchallengeably—IT,”
Says Gregory McGirr.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ON TOP OF THE CRIME-WAVE.
BILL SIKES (to Premier Lawson): "W'y ’ave any more gaols ennywhere, gny’ner? And tor Gawd’s sake abolish the rest of the police force. We’re
improvin' Au we ask now is total immunity from errest.”


PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
FOR DURABILITY.
No matter how severe the conditions are in any factory, Pioneer Belts will
always give the best results.
Twenty years ago Messrs. Barnes’ Linseed Oil Mills of Alexandria, purchased
an 18in. Pioneer Leather Belt transmitting 1508.H.P. Driving pulley Oft.,
driven pulley 6ft. Distance between pulley centres, 40ft. Length of belt, 104 ft.
to take a speed of 3000 ft. per minute.
To-day it is still giving excellent service, and, for the last three years has
been averaging 24 hours a day.
This is sufficient proof to show that Pioneer Belts are unbeatable.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, SYDNEY.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA J. & R. E. Madder, 409 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND Hoey, Fry & Co., Edward Street, Brisbane.
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
S. AUSTRALIA .... John MeKell, Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
W. AUSTRALIA Horace Summers, Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety *use
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings in Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breaking
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address: —
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Westebn Australian Insurance
Co: —
Reserves
(including
Reserves for
Towards Unexpired
June, Surplus.* Dividends. Reserves. Risks).
1913.. £1,233 5 p.c. = £5OO £733 £473
1914.. 215 Ml 215 638
1915.. 20,512 6p.c.= 3,600 16,912 17,600
1916.. 26,963 6 „„ 3,600 23,363 40,963
1917. 7 „„ 4,200 179,132 220,095
1918. .377,787 10 „ ~10,000 367,787 587,882
1919. .142,781 15 „ ~15,000 127,781 715,663
Transferred to Life Dept., £20,000 695,663
1920.. 56,101 10p.c.=10,000 46,101 741,764
Securities written down, £43,637 698,127
Loss.
1921.. 58,406 639,721
Taxation .. ..£143,594 495,827
Written off .. . . 11,559 484,268
*Apart from Life Department.
This young: co., like the 1.0. A., has also dis-
covered that marine underwriting is not all
it looked. A profit was made on fire and
accident operations during the 12 months to
June 30, 1921, but almost £51,000 more
than was received in premiums was paid
in settlement of marine claims, and after
allowing for exes, the branch showed an
underwriting deficiency on the year of
almost £99,000. This explains how the
loss shown in the table was made up:—
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Surplus.
Fire .. £149,654 £92,429 £53,146 £4,079
Accident .. 37,945 17,334 13,915 6,696
Loss.
Marine .. 292,835 341,871 49,911 98,947
Loss . . . . .. .. . . £88,172
Interest earnings, etc. .. .. 29,766
Net loss £58,406
The co. had had a great run of luck with
hazardous marine business during the war
years, and phenomenal surpluses were dis-
closed. Within half-a-dozen years it had
developed from an infant struggling for busi-
ness in Westralia to a concern with reserves
exceeding three-quarters of a million, and
with branches and agencies in almost every
corner of the world. It was a great gamble,
of course, and the little co., on the published
figures, looks like a big winner, despite last
year’s set-back. The management made no
attempt to claim the whole of the surplus
as profit actually earned, and when the 1920
accounts were issued no less than £393,909
of the accumulation was reserved for marine
contingencies and unexpired risks, a reserve ex-
ceeding that year’s total premium income from
marine business. Last year’s losses and the
transfer of £11,487 to the general P. and L,
account reduced the reserve to £300,000,
which was still about £7OOO larger than the
latest premium income. How much of the
reserve will prove to be profit probably even
the management cannot yet anticipate,
though the accounts were presented about
nine months after the books closed: settle-
ments of marine claims are frequently not
concluded until years after acceptance of
the risk. But the W.A. Insurance Co.’s marine
department was, at the balance, supported
by reserves so large in relation to risks that
unless the management again becomes reck-
less, or abnormally heavy losses continue, sub-
stantial profits should ultimately be available
for transfer from the branch. The feature of
this office, though, is that the hazardous busi-
ness is still its biggest line. The manage-
ment has also backed other departments with
strong reserves. In the Fire branch- —which
also did not have a favorable experience last,
year (the underwriting profit was only 2.7
p.c.)-—reserves of £89,792 were held, and
that was £29,931 more than the customary
40 p.c. provision for unexpired risks.
Besides the underwriting loss, the co. was
also billed for £153,027 for taxes. So the
demands of the Treasuries have also made
a big hole in reserves. Judging by the
balance-sheet list of assets the heavy claims
and taxation commitments had put a severe
strain on the cash position. At the previous
balance £295,000-odd was on deposit and in
the till; at June, 1921, only £28,342. How-
ever, there w T as £153,859 available in Gov-
ernment securities, written down to market
value. Assets at the balance totted up
£946,396, shown in groups in the last column
of this comparison :
1914. 1920. 1921.
Government securities . . Nil £144,211 £153,859
Mortgages, etc £38,255 350,600 321,074
Debtors and agency balances 1,014 230,564 435,610
Cash, etc. . . . . 1,172 295,808 28,833
Odds and ends . . . . 204 5,753 7,019
Outstanding claims, sundry creditors and
assessed taxes totalled £334,096, so the co.
had £612,300 available to meet unexpired
risks on marine, lire, accident and other
business. The comparison of assets shows,
incidentally, the amazing growth of the con-
cern: in seven years net assets had expanded
from £40,445 to £612,300 with the assistance
of only £60,000 of new capital.
* * * *
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of ceil-
ing and roofing materials, etc. Apparently
the co. paid £64,289 for goodwill, and later
items brought the total to £65,702, at which
figure it now stands. In the following table
goodwill is not reckoned as an asset:—
Dividends.
,
„ . Net Pref. T o Re-
reb., Profits. 7 p c. Ordinary, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1912.. 30,405 2800 9i p.c.= 11,646 15,959 23,094
1913.. 34,071 2800 10 ~ „ 12,259 19,012 4,082
1914.. 32,8/7 3821 10 „ „ 13,599 15,457 Ke il,3?s
1915.. 23,635 5600 71 „ „ 10,694 7,341 18,716
1916.. 20,450 5600 74 „ „ 10,694 4,156 22 872
1917.. 22,8.1.0 5600 8 „ „ 11,407 5,803 28,675
1918.. 22,931 6600 9 „ „ 12,834 4,497 33,172
1919.. 25,961 5600 10 „ „ 15,739 4,622 37,,'94
1920.. 27,870 5600 10 „ „ 21,784 486 38,280
1921.. 45,837 5600 124 .. „ 37,500 2,737 41,017
1922.. 36,139 5600 10 „ „ 30,000 539 41,556
The table gives the profits available for
shareholders, but does not include amounts
voted to employee-shareholders. The Wun-
derlichs were among the first local manu-
facturers who invited their staffs to
become active partners; at the latest balance
shareholders had put up £380,060, and there
were staff-partnership certificates for £32,265.
The amounts taken from profits in the past
six years to purchase these certificates and
to pay dividends and bonuses have been as
follows:
Cer- Divs., Cer- Divs.,
tificates. etc. tificates. etc.
1917 ~ £760 £217 1920 .. £2450
1918 .. 1000 1328 1921 .. £19,575 1278
1919 . . 4970 2245 1922 . . 1572
So the actual net earnings of the busi-
ness have been considerably larger in recent
years than would appear from the introduc-
tory table. Also, by combining the two lots
of figures the falling-off of profits last year
looks more serious: the 1920 accounts gave
a divisible surplus of £66,691 ; for the past
year only £37,711. The decline is not sur-
prising, though, in view of the unsettled
conditions of the period ; the building trade
had not only oppressive labor demands to
contend with, but money-tightness also
restricted operations. The published
accounts are not informative: the co.
confines its statement of earnings merely
to one entry which gives the net profits
claimed by the directors. These disclosed
profits were just ample to pay 10 p.c., so
shareholders have not suffered as a result
of the troubles of the period. The co.
may have done better, but as no information
is tendered as to the provision made for
depreciation and for contingencies, there
is no evidence on that point.
Wunderlich’s continues to expand its
manufacturing interests: during the year
net additions of £10.486 were made to the
plant account and also £24,578 more went
into property. This shows how the business has
expanded over 10 years:—
1912. 1921 1922
Shareholders’ capital .. £162,591 £380,000 £380,000
Employees’ capital . . 35,365 32,265
Liabilities . . . . 51,162 52,913 68,789
Freeholds .. .. 52,410 167,219 191,797
Leaseholds . . . . 10,493 4,052 3,404
Plant, etc. .. .. 34,020 126,240 136,726
Stocks 55,970 138,371 141,789
Book debts 35,965 70,811 57,065
Cash and investments. . 4,227 25,973 6,724
Other assets .. . . 5,097 2,782 3,642
For goodwill £65,702 was paid, and in 1912
£23,094 of the £162,591 paid capital was
still represented by this intangible asset.
Since then divs. have averaged almost 94
p.c. on old capital and a little more than 10
p.c. on new, and meantime sufficient surplus
profit has accumulated to make the £412,265
of present capital (including employees’
portion) wholly represented by tangible
assets, with £41,556 (2s. 9d,. per ordinary
share) to spare. There are two lots of 7
p.c. prefs. of £40,000 each, and 300,000 £1
ordinaries.
» * * #
Bon Marche, Ltd., drapers, of Sydney. In
the table the £60,000 paid for goodwill is not
regarded as an asset: —
, Dividends. s Towards
Net Pref. Re-
Profit. 71 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£60,000
1921.. £18,760 £6OOO 74 p.c. = £7500 £5260 54,740
1922.. 14,565 6000 74,, ~ 7500 1065 53,675
The nature of this business —a drapery off-
shoot of Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., —is
clearly indicated by two balance-sheet en-
tries : Stock, £29,663: book debts, includ-
ing balances secured under agreements,
£108,127. The co. is doing very well —as
are most other t.-p. concerns—but in this
instance investors have no direct inter-
est in any fat profits which may be earned.
The Marcus Clark co. holds all.the ordinary
shares: outside interests are confined to the
74 p.c. cum. prefs. Their £6OOO annual
divs. are earned with ease. As to the secur-
ity for their m-oney, there are net tangible
assets with a book value of £126,325 to
protect £BO,OUO, or practically 81s. 7d. per
£1 share. The t.-p. balances are, of course,
not the best of backing, but Bs. 7d. in the
£1 of these accounts would have to go be-
fore the prefs. need become concerned. The
parent co., though it receives only 7* p.c.
its holding, is getting a handsome return:
£60,000 of its £lOO,OOO of scrip was issued
for goodwill.
* ► » .
Elder’s Trustee and Executor Co,
(Adelaide) :
Alar., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1912.. £425 Nil £425 £435
1913.. 1722 Nil 1722 2,157
1914.. 2435 6 p.c. = £l2OO 1235 3,392
1915.. 1883 6 „ „ 1200 683 4,075
1916.. 2045 6 „ „ 1200 845 4,920
1917.. 2855 8 „ ~ 1600 1255 6,175
1918.. 3165 8 „ „ 1600 1565 7,740
1919.. 3541 10 „ „ 2000 1541 9,281
1920.. 5059 10 ~ „ 2000 3059 12,340
1921.. 5411 10 „ „ 4000 1411 13,751
1922.. <-6376 10 „ „ 4000 2376 16,127
This trustee co. began a dozen years ago
under the auspices of the Elder-Smith crowd,
and with that backing a big and solid busi-
ness has been acquired rapidly. Last year
new estates, etc., estimated to be worth
£1,100,000 were placed under its control.
After winding up trusts the net increase for
the period was £712,832, taking the total to
more than 4| millions. This shows the very
rapid growth of the trust figures:—
1911 .. £53,562 I 1920 ..£3,553,763
1915 .. 1,405,146 I 1921 .. 4,078,224
1918 .. 2,779,039 | 1922 .. 4,791,056
That expansion of business explains the
steady improvement of profits in the introduc-
tory table, though they have also been
helped by the doubling of paid capital a
couple of years ago: £20,060 was raised by
a new issue at par. Divs. at the rate of
10 p.c. p.a., have become a habit, so share-
holders are doing very well. Meantime, a
good margin of surplus profit has remained
after each distribution to shareholders, and
reserves of £16,000-odd have accumulated.
The 00. now has £56,000 of funds, invested
almost wholly in Government securities, and
£160,000 of uncalled capital as protection for
clients.
* * * *
Permewan, Wright and Co., Ltd.,
carriers, etc., of Melbourne and elsewhere:
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1911 .. £5,562 6 p.c. =£3ooo £2562 £6,721
1912 . . 5,594 6 „ ~ 3000 2594 9,315
1913 .. 7,689 6 „ „ 3000 4689 14,004
1914 . . 9,340 8 „ „ 4000 5340 19,344
1915 .. 5,510 7 „ „ 3500 2010 21,354
1916 . . 3,804 7 „ „ 3500 304 21,658
1917 .. 3,022 6J „ „ 2750 272 21,930
1918 .. 5,614 7 „ „ 3500 2114 24,044
1919 .. 10,973 10 „ ~ 6000 5973 30,017
Assets written up .. 7003 37,020
1920 . . 12,261 10 p.c. = 5000 7261 44,281
Set aside for taxation . . 2500 41,781
1921 .. 14,549 12* p.c. = 7500 7049 48,830
1922 . . 6850 8 „ „ 6000 850 49,680
Though the profits for any particular year
in a concern like this, whose activities de-
pend on the seasons, are not much guide,
on this occasion they have special signifi-
cance. These back-country general-merch-
ant, commission and carrying cos. are busi-
est when dry seasons give them extra work
supplying fodder, so P., W. and Co. did well
in the three years 1919-21. The drought
being over, and prices all-round having re-
ceded, gross profits for the 12 months to
January 31 last got back to 1919 level. But
the management could not get costs down
in keeping with reduced earnings:—
Gross Exes, (not inc. Exes. p.c. of
Profits. Depreciation). Gross Profits.
1919 .. £73,857 £60,637 82.1
1920 ~ 85,363 69,805 81.8
192 L .. 91,253 75,558 82.8
1922 . . 73,287 65,029 88.7
So though earnings were only a few hund-
reds less than three years ago net profits
were £4lOO smaller, and that means 5*
p.c. on capital, Results are the poorer, too,
because the £75,000 paid capital is half as
large again as it was two years ago. The div.
rate has dropped to 8 p.c., and little remains
after making the distribution. Future
profits evidently depend a good deal on the
extent to which the management can cut
exes., and with present wages awards opera-
ting in such a widely-spread business that is
not going to be easy.
This Melbourne 00. has not done nearly so
well as the Wright-He a ton concern, of Syd-
ney. Fourteen years ago £12,500 of capital
was considered to have been lost and was
written off. It has never been replaced by
scrip, but while a moderate average div. has
been paid considerable reserves have accumu-
lated. Here is a comparison of balance-sheet
figures over a dozen years:—
1910. 1915. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities . . 30,781 47,218 79,212 40,044 44,107
Assets—.
Plant and
property . . 38,870 49,791 47,193 4# : ,990 46,641
Book debts.. 34.990 43.903 90,583 82,927 82,941
Merchandise 10,537 24,331 32,883 35,939 31,501
Cash, etc. .. 3,044 2,546 5,834 6,267 12,205
Until a few years ago the co. ran a fleet of
packets on the Murray River, but they were
passed over to a co. in which P., W. and 00.
now holds £lB,OOO of scrip. This holding is
included with plant and property in the com-
parison above. Incidentally, Murray Ship-
ping, Ltd., has had a good year and gave this
co. £1560 (8§ p.c. on its share-holding) com-
pared with only £6OO in 1921. Book debts
are much larger than they used to be; the
£25,000 of new capital raised was required
chiefly to ease the strain in that respect.
The accommodation granted clients is a fea-
ture of the business; there are risks, of
course, but these cos. are much more sure of
their money than many city traders, and
rarely do they show serious injuries as a re-
sult of accounts getting beyond the doubtful
stage. The balance-sheet entry, by the way,
is “after making provision for all bad and
doubtful debts.” The co. has so many lean-
ing on it that the management in turn is
still leaning heavily on outsiders. But credi-
tors’ position is snug enough: stocks, mer-
chandise, cash, etc., total only a few hund-
reds less than all outside liabilities. The
recent good run enabled the management
to pile up assets with a book value of
£126,000 to represent £75,000 of paid capital,
or 335. 7d. per £1 share.
* * * •
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd., vignerons and
wine and spirit merchants. In the table
goodwill (£25,000) is not reckoned as an
asset: —
, Dividends. N To Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
1920. . £11,392 8 p.c. 15 p.c. £91.33 £2259 £468
1921.. 12,615 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 9650 1 1966 1497
Staff bonus .. .. £lOOO )
The Caldwells began collecting champion
ribbons and medals for their wines away
back in the ’eighties, but investors have been
interested in the concern only since the end
of last year, when shares were listed on
’Change for the first time. So far, though,
there have been no sellers. Ten years ago
nominal capital was £20,000. When recon-
structed two years ago paid capital had
grown to £40,000, and two cash-paid issues
each of £20,000 have since been got in, mak-
ing the present total of £BO,OOO, the whole
of the new capital having been provided by
old holders and their connections. The
accounts to December 31 last are the first
published, but the previous year’s have also
been made available for The Bulletin :
1920. 1921.
Paid capital .. . . . . . • £66,400 £BO,OOO
Deposits . . . . . . •. 14,186 15,908
Overdraft .. •• •• 11,724 10,283
Other liabilities . . . . . . 42,480 36,194
Vineyards, property, cellars, plant, etc. 33,521 43,279
Book debts .. . . . • • • 33,710 31,832
Stock ' 77,599 79,046
Cash, etc. .. •• •• 253 376
In the reconstruction £25,000 was paid for
goodwill, but to set-off that intangible asset
there were at the latest balance reserves of
£23,785 and a P. & L. balance of £2712;
hence the £1497 surplus of tangible assets
shown in the introductory table. The nature
of the reserves of £23,785 is not disclosed ;
whether they are specific reserves, a genuine
accumulation of profits, or were got by
writing up assets in the reconstruction is not
ascertainable. The accounts, however,
explain that plant, etc., included at £16,060,
was £4715 less than valuation. An amount
equal to only £lOOO less than the paid
capital of £BO,OOO was tied up in stocks,
consequently the co. was leaning heavily on
outsiders. Liabilities totalled £62,385; but
in stocks, book debts and cash there was
£111,254, giving a surplus of more or less
liquid assets over liabilities of £48,869. There
are 60,520 ordinaries of £1 each on which
15 p.c. p.a. has been paid for two years, and
19.450 £1 8 p.c. prefs.
# * * #
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1910.. £11,327 10* p.c. = £7,795 £3532 £18,866
1911.. 8,569 9 „ „ 6,682 1887 20,753
1912.. 8,319 9 „ „ 0,682 1637 22,390
1913.. 8,302 9 „ „ 6.682 1620 24,010
1914.. 9,040 9 ~ „ 6,682 2358 26,368
1915.. 6,899 9 „ „ 6,682 217 26,585
1916.. 6,979 9 „ „ 6,682 297 26,882
1917.. 8,407 9 „ „ 6,682 1725 28,607
1918.. 12,886 16* ~ ~12,251 635 29,242
1919.. 9,400 ll| „ „ 8,538 862 30,104
Premiums on new shares, £6439 .. 36,543
1920. . 12,644 14 p.c. = 11,038 1606 38,149
1921.. 11,544 10 „ „ 10,000 1544 39,693
The co., in its present form, started 15
years ago, when a stock-taking of old boom
remnants was followed by readjustments
between shareholders and creditors. Clean-
ing-up has steadily proceeded, and every-
thing worked out so well that the directors
decided to extend the co.’s interests in dere-
licts. Latest balance-sheet figures compare
with those of 14 years ago in this way:—
1908. 1918. 1920. 1921.
Liabilities. . ... £89,954 £84,066 £85,861 £76,180
Realisation suspense
account. . . . 7,460 25,339 29,477 31,342
Property . . . . 76,438 30,407 54,369 52,936
Shares in other cos. 6.256 114.422 119,421 122,761
Balances owing . . 58,440 30,084 39,470 36,010
Other assets . . 46,589 47,260 48,295 41,508
Good divs. have been paid, and meantime
substantial reserves have accumulated.
So when the directors offered 25,755 new £L
shares 18 months ago at a premium of ss.
the scrip was readily snapped up. Besides
the £39,608 of reserves shown in the table
there is £31.342 in a “realisation suspense
account,” this amount being'the “apparent
profit on sales which have been made on ex-


When building make sure of getting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Any measure that affords the cutting down of
expense is welcome to every class of the community,
and hundreds of men from the municipal engineer
to the farmer are interested in water supply. Metal
pipes for conducting water are expensive to buy and
cost a considerable amount to keep in A 1 order.
Pioneer Wood Pipe is lighter in first cost, incurs
practically no upkeep and permanently maintains a
superior capacity of from 15 to 25 per cent. Write
for the free 68-page illustrated book on the subject to
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
*#■»»#
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * • •
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
♦ * » #
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).— Advt.
* » * . *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
* * * •
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place. Sydn°v.— Advt.
• V.<
&M9IM
Tilling-Stevens (English) Petrol Electric Chassis.
TILLING-STEVENS MOTORS LTD., Maidstone, England.
Petrol
Electric Chassis.
This Petrol Electric Chassis is suitable for
all kinds of transport duties, and is pre-
eminent for ’Bus or Charabanc, being Swift,
Silent and Smooth.
The jolts and jerks incidental to gear
changing are entirely obviated. Smooth, easy
running is ensured by the Gearless, Clutch-
less, Electric Driving Power.
Made in two sizes—2 and 4 ton.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-14 George Street, Gamperdown, Sydney.
tended terms” and which is not taken credit
for in the P. and D. account when the deals
are made. That reserve alone represents
6s. 3d. per £1 share. After payment of the
latest div. there were net assets with a
book value of 345. per share. The co. still
holds £52,936 of property on its own account,
and has a £122,761 interest in other con-
cerns—mostly the Land Mortgage Bank of
Vic. If present property values hold there
are, therefore, prospects of further pickings.
Sales on the instalment plan last year put
£1865 more into the realisation suspense
account.
* * * #
The Barrier continues to employ about
half its normal working force. There has been
practically no expansion of operations since
the beginning of the year, conditions under the
Edmunds award being such that at lesjst six
mines haven’t a dog’s chance of working at
a profit unless by some miracle metal prices
soar. The cos. which are working, except-
ing North and British, are relying on their
surface dumps to provide cheap additional
tonnage, and it is due to this and the zinc
contract with the British Government that
they are able to keep going. It is expected
in some quarters that when the long-awaited
final report of the Technical Commission is
presented there will be a move for a read-
justment of conditions. Compensation for
pneumoconiosis and tuberculosis under the
1920 Act costs the cos. and the Government
a total of £70,000 annually. To this has
to be added compensation for lead poisoning,
which will probably bring the total to close
on £lOO,OOO.
* * * #
“Anode”: The whole system of compen-
sation for occupational diseases at the Bar-
rier is wrong, as most of the men are not
“incapacitated,” except for mining work. A
sensible scheme could have been worked out
whereby these men would be absorbed in
other industries, probably by the cos. them-
selves. There they could have been kept
track of, received medical treatment if neces-
sary and have been trained to skilled work
which would not endanger their health. The
present system of ladling out cash and plac-
ing a man permanently on the unemploy-
ment list is really only a shirking of the
responsibilities by both parties.
Development work in the South Lucknow
and the Lucknow Pups, to the south-east
of the old Lucknow field (N.S.W.), has
reached an interesting stage. In the former
show the new shaft has been got down, ■ the
well-hole commenced, and a plat opened out
for the level which is to be driven at 125 ft.
to intersect the joint. Last week there was
some excitement among the old hands when
a vein at least 2ft. wide was cut in the shaft,
and good samples heavily charged with
arsenical pyrites were brought up. They
have been sent to Sydney for assay ; mean-
time old-time Lucknow miners firmly believe
that the South has hit on a repetition of the
riches of the famous field. A lot more work
has yet to be done to establish the future of
of the South, but prospects are very en-
couraging.
In the Pups, a spur is being developed in
the bottom of the drive at 114 ft. in settled
country. Assays up to Boz. 3dwt. have been
got. The material is highly mineralised, and
as work proceeds on the joint more should
be known of the Pups’ chances.
Another syndicate; South Lucknow
Extended, is .being formed by the plucky
crowd who floated the South Lucknow and
the Lucknow Pups. Two leases, covering
about 22 acres, and in which “it now seems
reasonably sure that the strike of joint will
occur,” are to be tested. The syndicate’s
capital is to be £l6OO, 40 contribs. of £2O
each providing necessary funds.
The Clark-Wesley, Gundagai (N.S.W.),
has given its battery a run: 200 tons ore
won from development and assaying 15dwt.
were put through for 128Joz. recover-
able gold, an average of 12dwt. per
ton. But though the battery has spoken
the co.’s position has not improved, and the
mine has still not been given an opportunity
to show its worth. The co. was floated to
get down to see what offered at depth and
to develop large tonnages; but it has failed
to do more than tap the formation. Another
effort will probably be made to secure the
financial backing required, and not unlikelv
London will be invited to become interested.
* * * *
The Cooper sheep-dip people are running
their arsenic plant at Tent Hill, near Emma-
ville (N.S.W.), to full capacity, from 8
to 10 tons white arsenic being produced
Aveekly. The stuff is coming from the old
Ottery mine, which is said to have many
years’ supply of ore in sight. This show
was the most extensive and consistent lode-
tin mine ever worked in the State. All
the ore carries tin, and the present ownbrs
have a valuable asset in the metal contents
of the residues accumulating from the roast-
ers. A plant to treat this material is to
be erected. It has also been notified that
it is intended to enlarge the roasting plant
to provide for the treatment of arsenical
ores from other mines. The district abounds
with such deposits, and a local market for
the ore at a reasonable price will mean
work for many miners.
* * # *
After all, the purchasers of the White
Hope, Hampton Plains (W.A.), may not
do so well as at first appeared. There is
now talk of the ore being rather refractory.
Also, since the deal was made treatment
charges have increased, and the price of gold
has dropped considerably.
* * * *
The new find near Bullfinch (W.A.),
where Mutooroo Junction and others have
secured options, looks like a poor man’s field.
The small lodes are rich, but those that
have any width lose their values with depth.
The lode in the Mutooroo Junction Options
is very high-grade, but altogether too small
to be of much value to a co. Comparatively
little work has been done on the field to
date, and as country rock is not unlike that
at Westonia it is possible further work
may locate something more permanent.
* * * *
Golden Hope, Hampton Plains (W.A.),
discovered by a well-known Yilgarn pros-
pector after the boom had got a good start,
is opening up fairly well at 100 ft. There
250 ft. of driving has been done, showing a
lode averaging 4ft. wide and going 12dwt. The
co. will have to get down to 200 ft. before it
can count its chickens; it has been at that
depth that most Hampton Plains shows have
failed.
* • * •
A scheme is afoot to amalgamate the
Golden Hope and the properties north and
south, both of which are held by the Hamp-
ton Areas Co. The Golden Hope has possi-
bilities and the English co. has the cash
with which to develop the ground, so it is
thought that something may come of the
proposals which will soon be discussed in
London.
a * * *
Gold is still being won from Westralia’s
abandoned mines. During March tributors
and prospector-owners secured 588 oz. from 46
tons out of the old Nil Desperandum, at Laver-
ton, and 2600 z. from 185 tons from the
Mararoa, at Norseman. ' %
Vic. Attorney-General Robinson has on
the stocks for next session a bill to control
the issue of prospectuses of mineral oil
cos., and he is not acting a moment too
soon in the interests of the public. Most
of the propositions boosted in the State
have had little to commend them even as
long-shot chances.
•* * * *
T. W. Scott, long experienced in deep-
lead mining, swan-sings that the Langi
Logan South “will not only become self-
supporting but will be profit earning.” But
Bryant, who is It at alluvial work,
lost a bit over the same belief after he had
dug into the claim pretty hard. His mantle
is carried by John Cock, jun., who brings
Rutherglen training to Ararat and puts
out a model report. He has been shoving
out in the north end to 1550 ft. On the
way bores got wash at about 30ft. above the
level and gave nice samples of gold. On
the strength of these Cock has risen into
the wash at the end of the level and opened
out north and west in the gutter, getting
an average of 33dwt. from 12 fathoms. This
looks cheerful, but the trouble with the
Langi lead is that when worked in bulk
the grade slides back owing to the runs of
gold being short and narrow. Cock’s pro-
gramme is to push on north with a pilot-
drive, and to go east to see what the gutter
looks like towards the edge of the bank
there. He is a mile away from the New
Langi’s south boundary, yet is confident
that the lead will be profitable the whole
way. If it is, there will be joy in Jimmie
Mackay’s office, because the New Langi,
being nearer the source of the gold, should
do even better. At Mackay’s show they
have just made a call while in the rich
area where the Cathcart tributary junctions
with the Langi Logan. John Cock, jun.,
is a plucky digger to particularise as he
does. It has taken £178,406, £108.982 of
it calls and £11,666 capital subscribed at
the flotation, to get to where Cock now
stands on his strong opinion about Langi
South.
» * * *
The gaff is blown that Morning Star,
Wood’s Point (Vic.), has not far to go to
reach the end of the quartz floor at 600 ft.
Also work is along the upper portion of the
shoot and near the eastern rim of the basin,
where the best average-grade stone lives.
’The quartz floors are almost flat, and when
they hit the end of a bulge mostly die out.
If they should carry into the slates gold
spangles the quartz. Where small faults
bisect the big floors good gold also shows,
but generally the eastern side of the Morn-
ing Star shoot is the right stuff, with the
western edge poor. As there is not a big
tonnage at No. 6, everything depends on
how tbinsrs shape when the reef is opened
up at 700 ft. and 800 ft. The ground must be
tighter, and with depth mountain shoots
become more erratic.
* * * *
Al, Gaffney’s Creek (Vic.), has had to
settle down to hard work. Most of the
stone in the upper levels has gone up the
shaft, so the dyke has to be tackled at 1352 ft.
and at 1452 ft. Work south at the upper of
these levels isn’t promising, for the 3ft.
floor averages only fldwt. That would have
left a bit over for an occasional div. in the
good old times, or if water power could be
got all the year round. To-day 6dwt. barely
covers costs. There is a chance that as
work goes along the dyke more gold will
come in, as it did in the upper levels. The
floor pitches at a rather steep angle, and
when that happens the grade fades. Cross-
cuts are going out at 1452 ft., and 200 ft. of
prospecting is under way. No calls are
being made because the management had
the sense to withhold divs. when it saw
reserves, of rich stone overhead becoming
depleted.
* * * #
An old hand in reply:—
Regarding deep holes and hot places (B.
13/4/’22), “Bendigonian’s” account is rather florid
and not quite accurate. I worked at the face in
some of the hottest claims between Back Creek and
E’hawk, including the notorious Windmill-hill, but
never found the “rock” hot enough to warm up my
pasty for crib-o. As regards the pipes which “Ben-
digonian” found untouchable, they were used to
convey water and compressed air, both of which are
pretty cool. My uncle, Phil Williams, who secre-
taried the A.M.A. at that time, was, in company with
mines-inspector Mcßride, one of a party which in-
spected the workings, and he subsequently reported to
his union that the centre country winze which bot-
tomed in Bdwt. dirt at 4800 ft. was as cool as the
proverbial cucumber. This he attributed to a
Roots Blower, which seems to have evaded “Bendi-
gonian’s” notice.
Lignite exists on Yorke’s Peninsula, not
far from Wallaroo and Moonta, and the
country along the coast has been pegged.
The old copper co. and general-manager Han
cock set about devising schemes which would
enable them to dispense with Newcastle and
Greta fuel: and now the whole, area is fused
into one, with Hancock as chief boss. Six
bores sunk over a length of three miles have
proved brown-coal seams from 20ft. to 70ft.
thick. Calorific values are not stated, but
ash is low and moisture not excessive. The
brown-coal declared to be the best the
State has yet dug up. To the Wallaroo and
Moonta co. this discovery is a godsend, as
Hancock’s recent hustle round the U.S. de-
cided him to scrap old methods of burning
fuel and instal pulverising appliances. These
he will adapt to this Yararoo brown-coal
in the hope that he can solve the fuel pro-
which to-day keeps the old smelters
idle.
A good seam of coal has been found in
the Warwick district (Q.), and it is likely
a co. will be formed to work it. It is about
eight miles out of town, on Freestone Creek,
and about two miles from the railway. The
coal is of good quality—nearly as good as
Tannymorel, which is reckoned the best of
the Downs coals. Tannymorel, which started
new workings after a fire destroyed portion
of the old mine last year, has struck trouble
with the faulting of the seam in the new
site. There is room for another colliery in
the district owing to the large railway re-
quirements between Toowoomba and the
border.
Coal prospecting has taken a spurt in
the Rosewood field, near Ipswich (Q.), since
the geological survey was carried out. Two
small collieries have opened up during the
past year on the seams which pass through
Perry’s Nob and Edenbank. Owing to the
flatness of the strata these can easily be
picked up at shallow depths over a large
area to the north-east of the town, but it
is always a speculation as to whether the
section is workable until actually exposed,
owing to the rapid changes in the width and
bands of the seams. The best prospects for
the future are reckoned to lie beneath the
town, where the seams should be again
picked up at a depth of 150 ft. to 250 ft.
Rosewood coal is a high-class gas coal; Mt.
Morgan tests of the cleaner grades, made
some years ago, showed that it was about
the best producer-gas fuel in the Common-
wealth. The reserves are not large,
they are at present being used up in supply-
ing locomotives in which much of the
calorific value is lost. Distillation of some
kind would s»em to he the only way where-
by the valuable volatile matter can be wholly
used up without waste.
* * * *
A find of opals has been made at Spring-
sure (Q.). The guns so far found are small,
but extremely brilliant. A sample of the
matrix sent to Rockhampton proved to be
hard basalt full of small pieces of opal,
many being of gem auality. It has to be
found out if the gems can be got from
the matrix without injuring them before any
excitement is warranted.
* * * *
Hobart became scornful because of an-
other shut-down of the Gillies carbide works.
But things didn’t go agley as they thought.
Aided by the Commonwealth embargo, the
co. has captured the carbide trade of Aus-
tralia. And as the product it sends o”’
is up to standard, the demand which fell
off when cheap Jap stuff inundated the
market has revived. So the Gillies family
decided to alter the transformers and en-
large the capacity of the plant to 6500 tons
instead of 5000 tons. This means that
5000 electric-h.p. will be employed instead
of its old measure of 3500 h.p. But the
co. can’t get the power at less than £3 10s.
annually, whereas the fatter Electrolytic
Zinc has to pay only £2 a year. Gillies
proposes to burn lime at Ida Bay, instead
of at the Electrona works, and so reduce
the quantity of lime to be cartied by half.
* # * *
Mersey Valley Oil Co., with a capital of
£250,000 in 500,000 shares of 10s., has been
registered in Melbourne to buy opt the
Victas Shale Oil Co., which holds oil-shale
areas at Latrobe (Tas.). The old co. is to
get 142,660 fully-paids for its interests.
Captain Eugene de Hautpick, the Russian
oil engineer, has reported favorably on the
chances of striking oil by drilling in the deep
marine tertiary rocks which exist ih the
river Mersey valley.
At the Salmon River mine (Tas.) a
deposit of copper has been cut by the shaft
at 47ft. The ore wOn so far is reported to
go 20 p.c. copper;
Lindesay Clark is steadily pushing ahead
with the deviation of the Ringarooma River
(Tas.), and towards the end of next month
Briseis should again be in good ground.
There are approximately 4000 tons of high-
grade stuff available when Clark has com-
pleted the big engineering job.
* * * «
Austral Malay continues .scouting in
search of new tin areas, but its luck was out
last year. Nineteen properties were tested,
and only three were considered to be worth
close-prospecting. Two of them have
been definitely turned down, and the third
also looks a blank. Lately attention has
been given to a portion of Malaya where the
co. has hitherto not operated. Applications
for prospecting rights have been lodged.
South Taiping (F.M.S.) placed an order
for a dredge to cost £72,000, but discovered
that the bill would run into about £90,000.
So there has been a reconstruction by
which the old dollar shares are credited as
paid to 75 cents in a new co. Some of the
dredge parts are on the way to Malaya, and
the balance will be dispatched towards the
end of June. What work there is ahead of
the plant is somewhat of a mystery; so far
as The Bulletin knows, nobody outside the
Board-room has seen the boring plans.


SOLD UP.


VISITORS TO SYDNEY
will find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the HOTEL SYDNEY
considerably reduces the
cost of their stay in the
holiday city, while giving
greater freedom of move-
ment for business or sight-
seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management: E. T. CHEESEMAN.
None Better!
æ
Brewed and bottled by Tooth & Co., Ltd., Kent Brewery, Sydney,
SEw,
Mi
At! v3it*
THe
finest
TOBACCO
in
two forms—
Plug-Slice
or
Ready-Rubbed.
“EDGEWORTH’
K. TOWNS ft CO., Sydney, Agents. [
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LIMSEED
OIL
“Sol”: A rift appeared in the Easter
lute at Genoa when it was alleged that
many of the Russian delegates had arrived
in Italy under false names —presumably to
conceal their previous convictions from the
Italian police. Nothing was said about
false whiskers. Aliases are much favored
by modern Russian statesmen. Lenin wears
an assumed name. In fact, it was once
alleged that Trotsky was the only man in
the Lenin Cabinet who didn’t.
“Zanthus”: The greatest day in the late
Ross Smith’s life was Dec. 10, 1919, when
he and his mates swooped from the sky on
to the paddock next the at Fannie Bay
(N.T.),- thereby completing the first flight
from Britain to Australia and landing the
Commonwealth’s £lO,OOO prize with two
days to spare. Yet when he stepped out of
the old ’bus he was the coolest man on the
ground. His nearest approach to excite-
ment came when the Darwin Collector of
Customs wanted to search the ’plane for
anything dutiable. As there were no floats
on the machine someone asked Ross what
he would have done if it had fallen into
the sea. “Why, drown, I suppose,” he re-
plied. “Floats would only have prolonged
the agony, anyway, and it’s just as well to
get it over.”
Harold Beauchamp, who has just retired
from the chairmanship of directors of the
Bank of M.L., is a native of Ararat (Vic.),
but moved over to Wellington (M.L.) as a
youngster. He gained considerable business
experience with an auctioneering father, then
joined one of the big mercantile companies
before blossoming into a banking magnate.
There recently died in the Cold Country
the widow of Dr. Ivenealy, counsel for
Arthur Orton, the Wagga (N.S.W.) butcher
who claimed the Tichborne title and estates
half a century back. When the claimant
was prosecuted for perjury Kenealy got so
hot over it that he defied the Judge and was
eventually “disbarred.”
“Chris”: Noka Hukanui, a tough lold
Maori warrior of ancient lineage, has left
for the spirit land. Apakura, his ancestress,
was in the Tainui canoe which reached the
Rickety Isles from Hawaiki in a.d. 1350.
Noka, a fiery Maori Ivingite, fought through
the Waikato campaign, then, yielding to the
inevitable, became a peaceful subject. A
fine orator and vigorous thinker, his mana
was great with both Maori and pakeha.
Forty of his nephews and grand-nephews
tackled the Boche, and many never saw their
pah again.
Ned Hogan, the new president of the Vic.
A.L.P. and about the tallest member of the
State Parliament, succeeded Harbor Trust
Chairman Holden in the Bungaree (Warren-
heip) seat, which promises to be a pocket
borough for him. Destructive criticism is
his long suit. He is ambitious, but so far
all the fruit he has reached out for has
proved to be of the Dead Sea variety. Had
the cockies stuck to Labor in September,
Hogan would have been Minister for Lands
or Agriculture under Prendergast. D. L.
McNamara, M.L.C., as organising secretary,
will work with Hogan. Whether they will
be extreme enough for the rein-holders of
the party outside Parliament has to be
proved.
Walter Manifold seems to be sure of a
walkover for the Western Province seat in
the Vic. Uppah Chambnh when the nomi-
nations close on May 22. And he will be
re-elected President of the House.
May birthdays:—
Brig.-Gen. Senator “Charlie” Cox, 59, and Chas.
Miscamble (Vic. Railways Commissioner), 60, on
2nd; Justice Rich (High Court), 59, C. R. J.
Glover (Adelaide’s first Lord Mayor), 52, and Prof.
T. H. Laby (Melb. Uni.), 42, on 3rd; David J.
Gordon, M.L.C. (S. Aus.), 57, on 4th; G. M. Prender-
gast (Melb,), 68, on 6th; H. E. Pratten, M.H.R.,
57, on 7th; S. J. Mitchell (S. Aus. Insolvency Com-
missioner), 70, on 11th; Pope Cooper (Q’land ex-
Chief Justice), 74, on 12th; P. P. Abbott, ex-M.11.R.
(born Hobart), 53, on 14th; J. W. Blair (ex-Q’land
Minister), 51, on 16th; Newton Moore (ex-Western
Australian Premier), 52, Justice Chubb (Q’land),
77, and poet Leon Gellert 30, on 17th; W. M. Flem-
ing, M.H.R.,. 48, on 19th; A. B. Moncrieff (ex-S.
Aus. Railway Commissioner), 77, on 22nd; Justice
Angas Parsons (S. Aus.), 50, on 23rd; Archgaiters
Riley (Perth, W.A.), 68, on 26th; Dr. Fred Bird, of
Melb., 64, on 27th; Fred Robertson (Adelaide
Advertiser), 64, and M. Scott Fletcher (Wesley
College, Sydney), 54, on 28th; G. Gordon McCrae, of
Melb., 89, on 29th; and Prof. Berry (Melb. Uni.),
55 on 30th.
, •, According to “Two Gold Stripes”
(B. 16/3/’22) the Q.M.G. “does not know
much about active service.” In addition to
Justice RICH, of
the High Court,
who is 59 this
month.
a year’s training
with cavalry on
the always-lively
N.-W. Indian fron-
tier, Forsyth had
a Light Horse
brigade on the
Peninsula and an
Infantry brigade
at Pozieres. He
was invalided to
Australia when in
his 50th year, and,
while still a sick
man, took on the
Q.M.G.’s job in
1917. The acknow-
ledged excellence
of the Digger’s
clothing, food and
equipment and the
absence of major
“scandals” are the
best tributes to
him in that capa-
city.
President Braithfwait-e of the newly-
formed Australian State Teachers’ Federa-
tion, is a demigod in the eyes of Vic. school
kiddies —he objects to home lessons, holding
that all studying should be done at school.
He has just stepped out of the presidency
of the Vic. State Teachers’ Union.
“Yoyang” : Henry O’Brien (B. 20/4/’22)
has still another claim to remembrance
besides being the father of squatters and a
pioneer in boiling-downs—and that was his
violent temper and cruelty to his convicts.
An eloquent bit of doggerel is still quoted by
the old hands:
If ever you go to Hell,
There in a corner
Sits Black Henry O’Brien,
And Wallabaloolah Jack —the informer.
When the Government had no more con-
victs t>o give out as free laborers his men
struck for higher wages, and, apparently
capitulating, he told them to come next day.
They did —and found the fields they expected
to reap a vista of charred blackness. O’Brien
had tired them rather than give in to the
men.
“Bill Bowyang” : Set out on his last voy-
age from near Townsville (N.Q.) recently,
Harry Miller, one of the old-time Pacific
adventurers. Born in Cornwall, he got to
Valparaiso as a stowaway at 16, and a little
later was mixed up in a Peruvian insur-
rection, during which he and others made a
rise .out of loot from an old church. Then he
drifted to the South Seas and met most of
the notorious characters of that time, includ-
ing the much-boomed “Bully” Hayes. Miller
afterwards worked on a blackbirder and was
badly skewered by Solomon Island natives.
From ’S2 he spent most of his time in
Papua and N.T. chasing gold, birds of para-
dise, orchids, buffaloes and other things.
Failing health took him to Townsville Inst
year, and he had just passed his 88th mile-
stone when the end came.
A rolling stone who gathered quite a lot
of moss in his time was J. B. Tothill, just
dead at 66. He served in the P. and O. Co.
in various capacities, working up to marine
surveyor and dock-master at Bombay, then
from 1892 till 1910 made wine from his own
vineyard at Auburn (S.A.). Latterly he
lived in the Nilghiri Hills in India, and
between whiles introduced Australian cattle
and persuaded retired Indian army men to
settle in Australia.
Governor-General Jellicoe is not the first
of the family to
make a mark in
Maoriland. II i s
eldest brother,
Edwin George, ar-
rived in Welling-
ton in 1884, and
quickly piled up a
reputation as a
criminal lawyer.
He wanted to be
a 1 politician too,
but his aggressively
bald pate and
walrus moustache,
which were the
terror of witnesses
i n court, were
objects of un-
seemly derision on
the hustings, and
he alwavs wooed
the electors i n
vain. Later on he
returned to Eng-
-1 a n d, where
healthy Costs
ushered him into a
comfortable
vion.
ARCHIE WHITE,
secretary Vic.
Nationalist
Federation.
“A.W.8.”: George Lambert’s painting of
the Landing at Anzac, recently bought for
the War Museum, should be accurate in
detail and have the right atmosphere. Be-
fore starting the picture he studied on the
spot the famous old cove and landing-place.
This was in 1919, when he went to Gal-
lipoli with a small party under the leader-
ship of historian Charlie Bean, the one man
who really knows Anzac from A to Z. Bean’s
remarkable knowledge of the details of the
Landing, placed freely at Lambert’s dis-
posal, must have meant invaluable help.
“Tuart”: Like their dead kinsman Traill,
of The Bulletin, the brothers Moodie
Ileddle —Bob, skipper of the Hobson’s Bay,
and Ted, who commands the Katoomba —
are Orkney Islanders. Both are phlegmatic,
hard-fisted, big-framed men, not exactly
popular, as the term goes nowadays, but
well liked by those who are admitted to
their intimacy. The Katoomba. with Ted
on the bridge, was the first merchantman to
make the passage of the Dardanelles after
Abdul caved in—a ticklish bit of naviga-
tion, for no one knew if the mine-sweepers
had collected everything—and her crew cele-
brated the Armistice at Constantinople.
Afterwards she was employed in ferrying
troops to Batoum and rescuing distressed
Muscovites from the wrath of the Bolsheviks.
“J.H.” (Lond.) : I saw “Birthstain”
Beauchamp at Princess Mary’s wedding. He
has settled down into obese middle-age now
—he was 50 in February—and there isn’t
a trace of the slimness of his Sydney days
of 20 years ago. His public appearances
now are few, but he gets up occasionally in
the Lords to make a few remarks that create
no visible stir in those placid waters.
“Peter Piper”: The scribe who (B.
6/4/’22) pictured R. C. Bishop Liston of
Auckland (M.L.) as “vigorous, eagle-eyed”
with “sharp mouth and aggressive chin,” has
mixed either his drinks or his mitres. The
Liston I saw a
few days before
he was served 'with
his summons for
alleged sedition was
in appearance the
personification of
meekness . and sim-
plicity. With a
halo floating above
his head he would
make a first-class
saint of the ultra-
mild brand.
Professor
ELKINGTON,
Brisbane
University.
“Skipper”: The Leanes of S. Aus. runs
the martial Mackerseys of Auckland (B.
G/4/’22) a good second. In one company
of the 12th Batt. Leane, senior, sprang
smartly to attention at the command of his
son, a full corporal; but besides a number
of Billjims the family produced several
majors and colonels and one brigadier-
general—lt. L. Leane, now Commissioner
of Police in S. Aus. When the brig, got
the 48th Ben Leane became his adjutant,
and numerous other members of the clan
lined up under the family banner. And a
dark saying arose in those days: “Why,” it
was whispered, “is the 48th like Joan of
Arc?” “Because it’s made of a’ Leanes.”
Stephenson Percy Smith, F.R.G.S., presi-
dent of the Polynesian Society, whose “His-
tory and Traditions of the Maoris of the
West Coast” promises to become a Maori-
land classic, is now 82, and has been in
the Dominion since he was nine. After
■seeing a good deal of fighting against Henare
in his early surveying days he became
interested in Polynesian matters, and since
his term as Surveyor-General and Secre-
tary for Lands and Mines (1889-1900) has
given much time to the compilation of re-
cords for the preservation of the history,
traditions and literature of the islands.
The unusual record of having graduated
from bushranging to police work belonged
to a half-caste named Jack Sheehan, just dead
at 76. Ilis apprenticeship to outlawry was
served with Ben Hall and Johnny Gilbert,
but he left that game to become a police
tracker. He was still engaged on light
station work in the Brewarrina (N.S.W.)
district when he died.
J. M. Chanter, Chairman of Committees
and the first to hold that post in the House
of Reps., is now 77, four years older than
P. W. Bamford, who, through wearing a
more venerable appearance than the other,
has generally been regarded as the patriarch
of the House. Chanter was born in Adel-
aide, and has been in politics for close on
40 years.
“Footslogger”: When looking up Fighting
Charlie Cox’s war record recently I discov-
ered from official reference books that he
was twice awarded the C.B. —the first time
in S’Africa and later during the Big Noise.
I’ve had to do a lot of fossicking-out of
decorations gained by brass-hats, both Aussies
and others, but this is the only case I know
of a C.B. being given twice.
G. Judah Cohen, about the most promi-
nent man in Australasian Jewry, is 80 this
week. A son of one of the originals of
David Cohen and Co., he had wealth to
start with, and for long he has been connec-
ted with all the most solid financial con-
cerns of Sydney. He was President of the
Board of Management of the Congregation
of the Great Synagogue for a lengthy period,
and when old age compelled him to resign
his son, Sam Cohen, stepped into his place.
Frank Short will relinquish the job of
sec. to the Vic. Premier’s office at the end of
the month. He has worked under Bent,
Murray, Watt, Elmslie, Peacock, Bowser
and Lawson, and in recognition of his 40
years’ service he gets four months’ leave
on full screw or a cheque representing the
difference between pension and pay. Short
is, appropriately, one of the tallest men in
the service, and is a brother of the editor
of the Leader, the Syme weekly.
Of the Judges constituting the Vic.
Supreme Court Bench in August, 1913 —
Madden, JBeckett, Hodges, Hood and Cus-
sen—but one, Cussen, lives.
A GRAVE IN FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In far-off France the lilies shed
Their tender tribute to our dead ;
While nodding poppies, noiseless keep
Red vigil o’er their dreamless sleep,
And green across their rounded graves
The grass of Flanders proudly waves.
They hear no more the roar and tramp
Of armies, for their last long, camp
Is “in the West” ; and, at the fall
Of day, when homing bugles call,
They will not come, with eyes ashine,
To take their places in the line.
But when our bright Australian sun
Goes down again, and day is done;
When fragrant breath of mountain musk,
And scented lily in the dusk,
And distant murmurs of the sea
Bring back a dear, dead dream to me,
’Tis then I long—God, how I long!—
To have him rest, where sound the strong,
Brave echoes of our Southern Land,
From jungled brush to seaward strand;
The ringing axe, the bullock bell—
Sweet voices that he loved so well.
And, when returning Springtimes hold
A captive bush in chains of gold ;
When, droning in the crested trees,
One hears the working song of bees,
And, rose and amethyst, the Morn
On dewy wings is hillward borne,
I would that he might nearer lie
Beneath his own Shoalhaven sky ;
That o’er his resting-place the tall,
Slim shadows, of the palms might fall,
When flame-trees splash their scarlet through
Those hillside jungles that he knew....
In far-off France, though Autumn weaves
Them chaplets of her mourning leaves,
My heart is aching when the strong,
Crisp west wind sweeps our hills along,
To have him laid within the view
Of those blue ranges that he knew.
While dark cloud-shadows drifted slow
O’er clearings on the slopes below.
And hazy valleys in the dim,
Far Southland called again to him,
With mystic sunbars streaming down,
Like roadways, from the mountain crown.
In far-off France all things proclaim
Our Legion’s valor, and its fame.
Strong warrior’s praise, weak woman’s tears,
These shall they have through all the years!
And on a splendid script is spun
Their story, ’till the days are done.
But he would rather be, I know,
Where clear Shoalhaven rivers flow;
Where speckled bellbirds in the high
Trees tinkle all the mornings by.
And hear, if dreams in death may be,
The far, faint requiem of the sea,
Whilst o’er her meadows, gold and green,
Our coastland —sea and hill's between—
Glowed radiant with a fruitage won
From Austral wind and Southern sun ;
Ilis coastland, with the morning pearled—
The sweetest Land in all the World !
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


njr
Witt
/ &&S
y/J
11!
-
ffippp Wm
• ' ' ':■' ■A \ A
'
:,.;A
.
g|||||||l
,
: ■
m Si
Wm
««»»-»-''K<.>*.i-;..:,... ; .., jfl
Wj^SyP^/Z
WmM
prflllSfe.
_
~'W'W%W
—1
... . .<. „
~~~. ,
' \ ■ ' ’ ■
hSmphHmhP>
s»wis»fia»
|g|?||^
m
Bgxwdsf
BH
.
IWW»*"
. ■***
iIV-'W .
Misi
| Sg <yA""- |
:
A" . : -W
A AAA
H*~
111
■
.
ǽ
a
UNIQUE RANGE
OF MODELS
OBTAINABLE OF
ALL TOBACCONISTS.
A FINE GRAINED
BRITISH MADE
BRIAR*


Though You Were as
Lovely as the Daffodil
a soap out of harmony with the susceptible
character of a fine complexion would depre-
ciate it, slowly but inevitably.
You must have purity the most absolute
in a soap you use a thousand times a year.
“Peerless” Erasmic Soap
is so pure that it could not mar the Daffodil
nor the Lily.
It is a creamy food to the face and hands,
and gives to the bath a scent delicately
delightful that clings and charms for the
whole day.
“Erasmic” is all pure soap. It is not possible to
make a better soap. There is none better than the
best and the best is “Peerless Erasmic.”
A Peapes Riding Boot
Peapes show here one of the special Riding Boots
made to their own specifications. It has a plain
circular vamp, Derby laced front, no cap, light
sole, close welt, no hooks. It laces up full length
and is light-leather-lined throughout.
Built expressly for strength, comfort and service
in the saddle. Sizes 5 to 10; Fittings D and E.
In Black Box Calf 37/6
Or in Tan Willow Calf .... 42/-
PEA-PES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
á
Usher’s Hotel Ltd.
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
SAVED!
FIRST SOCIETY MATRON : “I’ve sprained my
thumb.”
SECOND DITTO: “But what a blessing it isn't
the hand you deal with!”
“Astor” on ci’iminals’ luck :
Colin Ross, hanged in Melbourne Gaol on Mon-
day, was an extraordinarily unlucky criminal. Con-
sider some of the clues that brought him to the
scaffold. On the very day of the crime Ivy Mat-
thews, who had not been near his saloon for two
oi- three weeks, walks in unexpectedly and spots
Alma Tirtschke in an «inside room. The same
night, or, rather, early on the following morning,
Ross is seen moving about at the Little Collins-
street entrance to the Eastern Arcade by about the
only person who has yet been discovered with the
unusual habit of sitting in his doorway until the
small hours. This character, a dosshouse-keeper,
may have his own good reasons for staying up late,
but admiration for the surrounding scenery was
not one of them. But worse was to befall Colin
Ross. Two members of the adjoining Italian club
also delayed their bedtime the same morning and
noticed a light in Ross’s saloon. Worse still, when
the young murderer was travelling home with the
little girl’s clothing and might reasonably have
expected to have the road to himself, he encountered
—at 2 a.m., mind you—another traveller known as
"Scotty,” who recognised Ross from his golden
smile. This strange person was not produced by
the police at the trial, allegedly because he was
unobtainable, but most likely because he was too
glittering a link in the chain of coincidences which
already looked too good to be true. The police
were wise in holding back "Scotty.” If he had been
turned into the box after the remarkable Darkey
Upton, even Ross’s allegation of a frame-up would
have gained in plausibility. For once in their
lives the sleuths were embarrassed by too much
evidence,
“Copabella”: Now and again the parson
risks his job and drops cant for plain horse-
sense. The funeral party was returning by
train from a distant Melbourne subui’b.
“Only 31 and leaves a wife and young
family!” moaned one mourner. “The ways
of the Loi-d are inscrutable,” sighed another,
"but,” she added with sententious glibness,
“it is His will.” It was then the parson
turned. “Leave the Lord out of it!” he
interposed acidly. “Bibbins” —Bibbins was
the late lamented —-“got beastly drunk, lay
out ail night in the rain drugged into hog-
gish sleep, caught pneumonia and died.
That’s what happened to Bibbins. Be fair
to the Lord!” The astonished mourners
were still trying to recover their breath
when the party reached its destination
station.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: A couple
of old landmarks are disappearing from
Jack the Miller’s Point (Sydney). One
is Moorecliff House, built by Henry
Moore, M.L.C., of Moore’s Wharf, 80
years ago. Here he lived for some
time until he sold it to Capt. Robert
Towns. Alexander Stuart, an ex-Premier
and partner of Robert Towns, Mr. Myers, of
the old "fireworks” firm of Myers and Solo-
mon, and Mr. W. B. Tooth were later occu-
pants. Some years ago the building became
an adjunct of Sydney Hospital. In Vic-
toria Cottage, close by, Ileni'y Moore lived
after selling Moorecliff; prior to that the
cottage, built in the ’thirties, had sheltered
Capt. H. C. Wilson, Chief Police Magistrate.
The other landmark now being wiped out
was known as Darley House, ’he old home
of Captain Benjamin Darley, an early-day
mariner and merchant who, after many suc-
cessful voyages, married, ’tis understood, a
sister of W. C. Wentworth and settled down
for a period in partnership with Capt. Towns
(who also married a Wentworth) at the
wharf hard by; Darley was proprietor of
the old patent slip in Sussex-street, one of
his many speculations. Darley was on the
point of sailing for Europe when apoplexy
ended his cai’eer. Jack the Miller (John
Leighton) had a windmill on the Point,
which is shown in Skinner Front’s picture, of
1842 or thenabouts.
* * * *
“Mareeb”: When for any reason the
Chinese opium-smoker is unable to obtain
supplies of his dope, he suffers intensely,
and the only drug
that will allay his tor-
tured nerves is mor-
phine. the active alka-
loidal principle of
opium. As morphine
cannot be smoked,
Ah Sin has to dis-
solve its crystals in
water and drink the
solution. The bever-
age soon restores him
to his normal condi-
tion ; but it does not
bring with it either
the dreams of Para-
dise or the blessed
feeling of detachment
from all things
earthly, as one European smoker once de-
scribed it to me. Hence the Chinese call it
by a name which, being interpreted, means
“Ashes of Dreams.” After this, nobody
can say that Chinese is not a poetical lan-
guage.
“Gundagai”: When did the Australians
dig trenches in Beersheba for nine days,
vide Flinders Petrie in a recent book
on archaeology, quoted by “Pollio” (B.
9/3/’22) ? Beersheba was taken on Ist
Nov., .1.917, and the Light Horse were there-
after kept on the hop chasing Jacko north
for many days. No spell of anything like
nine days was enjoyed until the vicinity of
Jaffa was reached. The “unexpected duty”
our boys so “nobly” did in digging up pave-
ments of historical value, refers, I take it,
to the mosaic-work staircase at Shellal, on
the Wadi Ghuzzi, which was carefully
exhumed and taken to Ghezira under Canon
Maitland-Wood’s supervision. The “wonder-
ful interest” these “intelligent men” took
in “preservation” was illustrated by the
manner in which they faithfully preserved
the stones which comprised the first mosaie
picture they blundered into —whilst digging
a machine-gun possie. I still have a few
of them.
* * * *
“Billy T.” : He was travelling with a new'
make of cigarettes and something novel in
Yankee tobacco, and found himself at Tin
Roofs with a whole Sunday on his hands.
He allowed Chugg, with whom he was stay-
ing, to persuade him to go to church in the
evening, although it was plainly to be seen
this was an indulgence he had not permitted
himself since he was last married. Pre-
sently Hodge came round W'ith the plate.
He pushed it resolutely under the nose of
the bagman. The drummer sniffed at it, and
then thrust it from him gently but firmly.
“See ’ere,” said he in a noisy tone of voice,
“I have set myself resolootely ag’in this evil
practice of tipping.”
An Imperial note from M.L.: —
C. J. Parr, Maoriland’s Minister of Education,
sleeps o’ nights at last. Every school-teacher in the
Dominion has been compelled to take an oath of
THE DEVOTED WIFE.
THE WORM: “Very nice; but I’ll bet I can’t
afford it.”
THE BIRD: “Of course not, darling; but
when it’s to please you I don’t care
what sacrifice you make.”
alleg'iancG and sign it. But there is no rest for
the truly loyal; and in view of the obvious fact that a
genuine Bolshevik would not scruple to perjure him-
self for the privilege of remaining where he was in a
position to undermine Imperialism in the young, a
movement is now mooted to insist on the creation of
special investigators to search or smell out sedition
amongst the dominies of the Shivery Isles. Whether
Parr yields to it or not is a question, doubtless, of
how the public mind reacts on the issue.
“Billy T.”: When Ross Smith and his
mates came to earth near Henty on the run
down from Sydney,
after completing their
flight round the world,
they were hospitably
treated by the natives,
w ho came rushing
from all directions
with offers of assist-
ance and entertain-
ment. The airmen,
however, were too
busy to accept until a
husky dame raced in
with something steam-
ing through a clean
pillow-slip. “I reck-
oned yiz would be
agreeable to a bit iv
a taste iv something,”
she said, and revealed
a large beef-steak and
kidney pudding. The
aeronauts accepted the
boiled offering with
gratitude, and then
returned to work on
the defect in the
engine. They were
just about to take
wing again when Jim
and Mike and Harry
claimed their atten-
tion. Jim and Mike
and Harry came from
a tent back in the
bush, and seemed to
think themselves en-
titled to special con-
sideration. “You see,”
said Harry, “in point
of fact that was our
pudding you ate. The old girl pinched it
in her admiration.”
• • « •
“Wondah”: I have run across some lazy
men in my time, who persistently sought to
profit by any efforts except their own, but
the champion human cuckoo was one of two
street piemen. The other one was energeti-
cally extolling the virtues of hm wares to
the passing crowd, and each time he paused
for breath, the opposition salesman lazily
cut in with : “Same ’ere, sir.”
“Dido”: Said the amiable young house-
breaker : “I had had an eye on the place
tor some time, a pal of mine
who works for a plumber hav-
ing given me the plans and
specifications. Late one Sun-
day night I had perched myself
on the top of the gardener’s
ladder and was levering up a
side window when a man below
chipped in and shook me off.
I came a thud, and messed up
my works to such an extent
that I could offer no resistance
to the betrayer what time he
towed me into the house hv the
hind leg. In response
to his blasphemous
bidding a swell Jane
of. about 25, in a
kimono ornamented
with purple whales,
came into the room,
looked at me scorn-
fully, looked at the
raving citizen more so,
and said she had never
laid eyes on the
wretched fellow in all
her days. The infuri-
ated one turned on me
again. ‘Then who the
devil are you ?’ lie said,
‘and what are you
doing about my house?
You are an infernal
burglar.’ He grabbed
me, and being a
strong, abundant man
he raised me up and
kicked me out of the
house and off the pro-
perty. I was
content to be so
maltreated: it
was an easy
way out; but I am
still irked at not
knowing wh o the
prime girl was, wife
o r daughter, and
who the deuce the angry taxpayer imag-
ined me to be. As his boot made contact
for the last time the housefather said: ‘You
are a damned thief, but you have saved your
life by not being the particular damned thief
I took you for !’ ”
* * * *
“Kapiti”: If Conan Doyle ever went to
Rotorua (M.L.) he must have found kindred
spirits in the Maoris who inhabit the old
village just round the point. Not long ago
they sold a block of land to the M.L. Gov-
ernment for a Military Hospital site, but
insisted on reserving a patch just on the
brow of a hill. An _ ancestral spirit is
credited with making this his landing-ground
when he revisits the old home. He does
not come often, but when he does his ap-
BEFORE THE ELECTION.
“Marry me and I’ll give you everything you
wish.”
“What a politician you would make, Tom!”
proach is marked by a sort of greenish light.
Some old Maoris claim to have seen the
light, but they haven’t a photograph of it.
(Continued on page 18.)
HO, FOR SANDY BAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Mixed bathing is becoming very popular at Sandy
Bay.”— Hobart neirs item.
I’m approaching fifty;
Hair is growing grey,
Wife is neat and thrifty:
Couldn’t call her gay.
Finds her joy in dusting,
Spring-cleans every day ;
Never catch her trusting
Me at Sandy Bay.
I dream of the beach there
Where I long to go.
Every girl a peach there,
Cheeks of rose and snow.
Mermaids of the river—
Sirens of the spray—
How they make me quiver,
Thoughts of Sandy Bay-
Wife saj’s it’s improper,
Clad from neck to knee,
For a girl to drop her-
Self into the sea.
Swears the gates of Hades
At the awful day
Stand agape for ladies
Seeking Sandy Bay.
When my weekly toil
Ends on Saturday
I dig up the soil.
Can’t go off to play.
Wife says that my duty’s
Round the house to
stay,
Far from wicked beauties
Down at Sandy Bay.
I grow daily thinner,
Wasting quite away,
Can’t enjoy my dinner.
Need a holiday.
I know what will cure me,
Fit me for the fray,
But she won’t endure me
Naming “Sandy Bay.’’
Praise be to a letter,
Came here yesterday;
Called away my better-
Half to Bangalay.
I feel young and twenty,
I’m off right away,
Where the girls in plenty
Bathe at Sandy Bay.
TASMANIA.
EXUL.


5 ■
f IV . , . , : .
'S' ■*>■ v '“ ' , „<*.
ijgjQ;
’/V “.U
■
■
f ■ :
V ' ‘ \ •:
K
.•55 s -*"
- i ' - f
m
r
> ; -
fi „
i (i
■ '
-
■
.
* * ,
-
■
: ,
; '
.' < ' ’ ■ ‘
:■
■
\ ?jr- b ~7
■ ',*v ■
oil
*
.
V,
.. ,
r
■
Mi
w
\v*v
id*®*'
' ../!
-
i
i
4»
JII
■■ a
, : :
,
%" -C.
W
II®
■1
■ .V;
ill
■H
mi
■■I
' -
MMiH
ill
■i
1111
Blfil
1111
lllllf®
■ -
I Mn
wU.
af
• n


I riTrrn'nTrrriTriTrrriTvmfiTmTrmrnTnmmTl 1
k J
K 372. —Elegant Diamond Brooch, eet plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114. —Three-
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K 444. —Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Tttng, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
160. — All Diamonds, set Platinum
Brooch, £3O.
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you to
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
Wristlet Watches in 9et. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets. Prices:
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Stewart Dawson & QcuoLm
Sydney £sfcibiisment*s :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR KING ST.,
K 375. —Fashionable Diamond Brooch, set
Platinum and loot. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129. —Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and ISct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
o. 155. —Five-Stone Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
STRAND CORNER. -*I2 GEORGE ST..
“Billy Cann”: “Hanno’s” sailor (B.
30/3/’22), who couldn’t remember the name
of his packet, recalls a good Digger—at least
he rests on Gallipoli as one —who didn’t
know which State he enlisted from. He
was a sailor, and never saw Australia before
1914. When the ship hit Fremantle the
first lot of men were going into camp.
Deserting promptly he enlisted and was
sent to Broadmeadows (Vic.), finally
embarking from Sydney. Later on, a hospi-
tal orderly thought he had struck a mental
case when told that the patient did not
know his State. Fifty-seven years old and
a skilled signaller, the ex-sailor did great
work till Jacko fixed him with a “tailor-
made one.”
* # • #
“E.O’H.” does a bit of prospecting with
a genealogical pick :
The difficulties of tracing back English surnames
to their earliest forms ought to stop anyone sneer-
ing at ancient Irish or other patronymics. The
name Edmond, for example, was not always spelt
in that gentlemanly way. The Eadmoinches, or
Eadhmoanghes, inhabited a small fen in Wiltshire,
and the first great names among them were those of
Caedasdmoinch (of “fast-drying woad” fame) and
Daneadhmoinch, who built Stonehenge (Sept. 27,
1359 b.c.). The latter was surprised and killed by
Snodgrass before he could explain why he built it.
But it is surmised that he erected the thing for
the purpose of knocking it over again in his old
age, such being the inscrutable instinct of this
singular family. The name evolved to Eadmonsh,
which misled the chroniclers of the period into
identifying it with “head-money.” This error was
excusable, as the tribe had been greatly enriched
by the scalps of the Irish merchants who were wont
to harass Wiltshire, black-birding—or blue-birding,
as it was then called, from the color of the victims’
bodies. At present the name is further dissolving
into Hemans, Emmins and (more lately) Jeames.
EASILY ANSWERED.
“ Dinkum , Dan, which party can we make a
cert’ll do the country most good?”
“Whichever's outed.”
“Caswick”: “Orney’s” family of mixed
nationality (B. 6/4/’22) is easily knocked
out by that of a N. S. Wales matron, who
has attained some local celebrity by her
contempt for color lines. Of Caucasian
stock, she was first wooed, won and wedded
by a Scotchman, to whom she presented one
daughter. Deserting her spouse, she took
up with an Italian, who added a brace of
Dagoes to the family tree. The Italian
treated her as she had treated the Scot.,
whereupon she bestowed herself upon ia
Chinaman. After three Mongol arrows
had been placed in the fast-filling quiver,
Ah Fong was murdered by a fellow-country-
man. A full-blooded aborigine next won
her affection, and two dusky daughters
resulted. The abo., however, was addicted
to drink and had nearly reduced the family
to starvation when a well-to-do-Syrian took
over the entire outfit. Three young Syrians
THE ABSENT-MINDED GARDENER.
RUBBERNECK: “What’s the trouble?”
INFORMED ONE: “Oh, some chap started watering his window-box with a fire-hose,
and that’s a few of the drenched people looking for his blood.”
have since materialised. This unique collec-
tion inhabits the same house or zoo, and all
call the Syrian “Dad.”
* # * *
“Prof.”: I wonder if “an old gaol doctor”
(B. 2/3/’22) ever bothered to feel the pulse
of the patient with the stretched neck. He
asserts that iialf a minute finishes the
horrible job. Rot. Unconsciousness may
occur instantaneously; everything goes to
show that it does so; but death doesn’t
occur till some time afterwards. The pulse,
after the drop, is at first strong but gradu-
ally becomes more and more faint until, at
the end of 10 or 15 minutes, the corpse is
well and truly dead. Hanging is prolonged
for an houu, presumably for certainty’s
aake. Where does the doc.’s half-minute
come in?
“Skipper”: “616’s” Digger (B. 6/4/’22),
who was accidentally wounded by his mate,
had better luck than one I knew. Bill was
sitting on the firestep one sunny morning
at Anzac, giving a few loving touches to liis
super-clean rifle with a shaving brush. His
mate noticed that the rifle was at full cock,
and the safety-catch disengaged. “You’ll
cop it if the corporal spots it,” he drawled,
and leaning across, pulled the trigger. He
was startled by the report, and horrified
when he found that Bill’s head had been
in the line of fire. A court-martial followed,
the charge being “manslaughter.” . The pris-
oner’s plea was the old one of “Didn’t know
it was loaded,” and he got off with a severe
fright and an ugly memory.
* * * *
“Pipards”: When words, even slang words,
change in meaning it is almost always for
the worse. Yet there are occasional excep-
tions, and one of the most curious is the
monosyllable “tart,” viewed in its col-
loquial sense. To the Australian schoolboy
it has become just a generic term for the
opposite sex of his own years or a few
more. 'And in the glossary attached to
“Ginger Mick” I find the suggestion that it
is a mere pleasant abbreviation of “sweet-
heart.” Which it certainly might be, but
as certainly isn’t. Thirty or forty years
ago “tart” had a perfectly well-established
meaning in English slang, and, well —there
was no fragrance in it. So far was it
from being accepted as a term of playful
endearment in those days that in or about
IS9O, as far as my recollection serves, an
aggrieved London actress sued the Sporting
Times for applying the term to her in cold
print. For the defence it was argued that
“tart” had no invidious signification, that it
was derived from the imagery of a Persian
poet who had apostrophised girls generally
as “cream tarts of delight”; and that in
short it simply denoted “a pretty young
woman.” But the jury thought otherwise,
and John Corlett, proprietor of the Pink
’Un, was duly hit up for damages. Yet
nowadays nobody would suggest that there
was anything remotely defamatory in the
substantive, whatever it may lack in elegance.
Truly, some words move up in the scale of
values —as much as others go dowm.
* * * #
“Jobber”: Prohibition gets a poor ad. on
the Murrumbidgee (N.S.W.) irrigation
areas. There are no pubs in those parts,
but “blind pigs” abound. I heard of a
shanty-keeper who left the district with
£lBOO, all made out of sly-grog. Pinky is
a favorite beverage on the areas, and I’ve
never seen a tougher sight than that of a
mob of navvies engaged in a pinky drunk.
A properly conducted pub would put an end
to these infamous orgies and close up l
“blind pigs,” but the Rev. Holyjoe says
“No.” And he is mighty and will prevail.
* # * *
“Eddyson”: Dan delivers my wood.
ITe has a hook instead of a left hand, hav-
ing dropped liis sinister duke on the West
front. Dan is affable and confiding, and
while he * r as stacking a ton of box blocks
in the woodhouse and I was doctoring a bed
of radishes he told me all. “Afore I went
to the Front I had a bit iv a girl called Lizer,
one of the best, and as dainty as a bookay.
She stuck to me fer two years while I was
out in the thick iv things, sent me all she
could afford, and a lovin’ letter every mail.
But I, John Chump, goes and complicates
meself with a t’othersider, a well-ernough sort
iv clinah, but nothin’ much where Lizer lives.
Me wicked doin’s comes to Liz’s ears, and
she cuts me right out. There’s jist one
touehin' note, announcin’ the dead finish, and
then no more of Lizer fer yours to command.
When I gets back I gives the old town a
look over, but Liz ain't nowhere visible, and
nobody knows what’s come of her. I ain’t
no good at me trade —a clicker, 1 was—so
I takes this on. Be’old me one Monday
’bout a month back deliverin’ a parcel iv
coal at a neat, swell viller not a mile frim
here. I’ve landed the goods, and the lady
iv the house comes out to pay up, and, s’elp
me cat, I fair topples over. It’s Lizer—Lizer
a few years older and a few years stouter,
but as red as a rose, and something good to
dwell on. There’s a nipper dingin’ to her
skirt. ‘Your money,’ sez she. Then ‘Dan!’
she sez, and she goes over her perch, same
as me. We don’t say no more, coz why?
I does a guy. She’s married well and strong',
and I ain’t one fer gettin’ in the way iv
married ’appiness! I thought iv chuckin’
the job fer fear iv runnin’ agin her once
more, but there ain’t many games a lad can
tackle with one duke, so here I am with ten
’undred iv split fer the same house, an’
feelin’ as shivery as a wet hen about meetin’
her agin.” I met Dan in the right-of-way
half-an-hour later. A tremendous change
had come over the man, he radiated beati-
tude. “Give’s yer fist, ole sport,” he said
“Gors truth, I’m arf ratty! S’elp me, it
seem.s Lizer ain’t the missus iv that viller
after all. She’s the maid, and guess what.”
“You’re to be married in a month,” said I.
“Wrong agin, young feller,” Dan replied
“it’s a fortnit.”
* « * *
Adelaide’s horse-killing sadist has got to
work again. The victim this time was the
property of an undertaker, and it was found
with its throat cut on the park-lands close
to West Terrace cemetery. In the City
Council the astonishing assertion was made
that the police had formerly identified
the culprit and “had him placed in the Men-
tal Asylum at Parkside. He is again at
liberty and cutting horses’ throats.” The
series of unaccountable crimes began about
four years ago, and the total of victims
reaches nearly 30.
Mr * * #
“X2X”: Some months ago a woman on
discharge from one of the metropolitan hos-
pitals, after nearly six months’ treatment,
was asked, as is customary, to pay for
value received or make a donation to
the hospital’s funds. She excused herself
from doing either on the grounds that she
was practically penhiless and that her hus-
band —whose occupation she refrained from
mentioning—had not been very successful
of late. The plea was accepted, and
the debt of £lOO, at a low estimate,
written off as irrecoverable. A few weeks
ago the ex-patient turned up again, and
nearlv paralysed the secretary by handing
over a roll of notes to the value of £2O. She
explained that her husband, a professional
punter, had recently had a fairly good win,
that out of it he had backed a ten-to-one shot
with £2 on behalf of the hospital, and that the
good thing had duly rolled home in front.
She further added that in the future her
husband proposed to back a horse and ear-
mark possible winnings for the hospital
whenever he could afford it. A harassed
official gently remarked that the institution
would prefer to have the money with which
the punting was to be done, on the bird-in-
the-hand-worth-two-in-the-bush principle, but
JUST A FEW THINGS HE NEEDED.
UNCLE : “ What did Willy do with the six-
pence I pave him?”
D ORA: “I think he spent most of it on
cigarettes and picture shows and ginger-
beer arid peanuts and chocolates.”
she would not hear of it. The whole
staff now feels that it has an interest in
the races, and although it does not know
which horse is carrying its cash, it scans the
results of each meeting and hopes for the
best.
THE OPTIMIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind is keen, the day is drear,
But I am bearing up.
The girl I thought a special dear
Has gone with someone else to sup.
She’s criticised my figure, and
She calls my face a fright,
While giving me to understand
She thinks my prospects far from bright.
I should be desolated quite.
Yet there is hope. I still can smile,
Although my luck’s not good.
The world I find is full of guile,
Blokes don’t behave as real blokes should.
The splendid chaps who smiled on me,
And helped my cash to spend,
Now when I pass them do not see
Their shabby, impecunious friend,
But I am keeping up my end.
I do not hold that all is lost,
While yet all may be gained.
Some ventures may have proved a frost,
Some friendships may be rather strained,
But hope abides, and still one’s heart
Beats optimistic pats.
I shall not for the bow-wows start,
For I’ve a talisman, and that’s
The ticket that I bought in Tatt.’s!
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


•ancQQCU
uai
RTS
te
/*
m
X
.— k
Ss
'M/
O '
YOU will find in the (Pelaco
label an assurance of the
Shirt Quality which you
require; a guarantee of the satis-
faction which you have a right
to expect.
CAsk for that label , and
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
"mine tinio it they fit"


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-1529 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Case 3 containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5 - GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case)
Liquid, 37/6 per drum J,
I F.o.b. or
[.f.o.r. main
”< ustiailan
Ports.
Manufactured in Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne
497 Collins
Street.
Sydney:
7 Hamilton
Street.
Brisbane:
239 Elizabeth
Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States.
world-famed.
HATS
Australasian Agents :
COLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
HAPPINESS APART.
“Why aren't, you in the surf?”
“My wife’s there.”
“What, do you quarrel much?”
“No, only when we meet.”
“Alex”: I visited a kangaroo-shooter
friend at Baree, near Dalby (S.Q.), the other day.
His mansion was built of kerosene tins, the inside
being lined with flourbags. Over the bags he had
pasted all the Bulletin cartoons of the past three
years. I never enjoyed a picture-show so much in
my life.
“Yond”: I know three brothers in a
western (N.S.W.) town whom nature entirely forgot
to endow with teeth. As they are all middle-aged
there doesn’t seem much prospect of her rectifying
the oversight now. Any others?
* * * *
“F.C.L.”: What’s your biggest alligator?
I saw one that had been caught outside Townsville
(Q.) and he taped 19ft. llin. In the Christchurch
(M.L.) museum is one considered to be enormous—
22ft. Is this a record?
“Malua”: “A.V.L.’s” yarn about the
lightning performance of a couple near Casino (B.
22/12/’2l) reminds me of an episode in our little
Pacific island. After four and a half months’ wedded
bliss a daughter arrived. S-ome of the hard cases
chaffed the male parent. His answer was decisive:
“The missus has been married four and a half
months. So have I. That is nine. What more
do you want?”
• • * a
“Kalibionba”: I have always understood
the early settlers called eucalyptus “gum” trees
on account of the gum, or more correctly kino,
which exudes from so many species (B. 23/2/’22).
“Blue-gum” was specifically so named on account
of the very distinct blue tinge of the foliage of
young specimens of E. globulus.
* * » *
“Allyn”: South Townsville (N.Q.) has
a billygoat who is an habitual drunkard. For years
he has been in the habit of going to the back of
one of the hotels in the morning arid drinking freely
from the bar slop-dish. As a result he becomes hope-
lessly boozed. Then he staggers to a shady spot and
sleeps off. He makes a daily shicker of it.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Pickles, J.P.,” goes to needless
trouble (B. 23/3/’22) in enticing a snake to within
reach of a waddy. When next he meets a crawler
and there’s no shillelagh handy let him throw down
his coat, hat or tucker bag, and hurry away for
the bastinado. When he gets back the enemy will
still be there balefully trying to stare the property
out of countenance.
* * # *
“Mac P.”: Some time ago somebody asked
if any birds drank like pigeons, and a couple of Abos.
replied mentioning parrots. I have been taking
notice since then. Parrots don’t drink like pigeons;
they lap like a dog or cat, whereas pigeons drink
like horses or cattle —that is, in great gulps. Some
of the finches, if not all of them, have this way
of drinking. I’ve noticed black-throats, double-bars
and firetaila at it. Anyhow, no bird drinks by gravi-
tation, as the original paragraphist stated, because
the drink is taken before the beak is pointed sky-
ward. The head-raising is only the birds’ way of
smacking their ruby lips or sucking their ginger
moustaches.
“Veronal”: One of the friendliest birds,
when encouraged, is the soldier, or garrulous minah.
I know of a company of six which conic down
regularly from their gum-tree observatory about
4 o’clock in the evening when crumbs are thrown
out for them. Sometimes crow shrikes (magpies)
join the soldiers at tea, without invitation, and
then the garrulous ones tell the magpies exactly what
they think of them. Soldiers always talk volubly,
too, when they light upon a snake.
* » * *
“Reynard”: ii’.e “W. Blister’s” nomination
for the Endurance Stakes (B. 30/3/’22). It seems
to me a case of “save me from my mates.” To
let an injured lad like Paddy White set out on a
2/00-mile journey to Tibooburra alone, having to
camp-out for eight nights, hobble the horses, get his
own tucker, etc. —-well, the ways of the back-
country bushman have undergone a change that is
incredible.
* * * »
“Billy T.”: Myers and Wild were sinking
the shaft of the Pieman. They were down about
50ft. and working up to their knees in water. Barney
was bracernan. The miners were working under a
whip, and twice Wild had called up the shaft for
fuse. He was raising his hand for a third, indig-
nant bellow, when some confusion above caused the
two men to jump simultaneously against the wall
where it caved under and offered cover. A second
later a man’s form splashed into the water. Myers
was quiet for a moment, pick in hand ; then he said
mildly: “Hello! That you, Barney?” Barney’s
head slowly emerged from the water. “Yes, it’s me,”
said the bracernan. “Did you bring the fuse?” asked
Myers.
* * * *
“Bios”: Has anyone ever noticed the
homing instinct in meat-ants? A while ago I saw
one making for his nest with a dead friend. I
enclosed both in a matchbox, swung them round in
the air and then opened the box on the ground.
Every time I did it the ant, still hanging on to his
dead cobber, started on a bee-line for home. I was
so interested that, as I was going to Melbourne
next day, I returned him and the corpse to the
matchbox and took them on the 150-miles journey
south. When I tipped them out the little chap
picked up his pal’s corpse and set off due south.
“Ha! old fellow,” I chortled, “bushed at last!” But
I was wrong. He was making straight for the rail-
way-station.
“Rough Herbalist”: A wriggler in the
Jordan Valley is my nomination for the Venomous
Stakes. During the sojourn of the Light Horse
in that salubrious region five men, to my knowledge,
received bites which proved fatal -exactly three days
afterwards, in spite of prompt and thorough medical
attention. One of the victims went out in peculiar
circumstances. He dreamt that he had been bitten,
and so vivid was the impression that he called his
cobber and a search was made which, however, proved
abortive. The men turned in again, but an hour
later the dreamer awoke with a yell, and this time
an examination proved that he had received two
distinct bites. All treatment was futile, death
following three days later.
DECEIVED.
BILL FROM BOGADILLON (to attendant at National Gallery) : “The bloke at the hotel up
at Dogleg Creek as been pullin’ my leg. He said down in Sydney they changed
the pickshers twice a week —and I seen all these here last Sundee.”
Anatol”:'We came upon two companies
of caterpillars crossing the road at Goulburn (N.S.W.)
the other day, and our sulky-wheel laid out little
Willie who brought up the rear of B Coy. With
“Moonraker’s” par (B. 16/2/’22) in mind we pulled
up. A Coy (18 strong) went steadily on over the
rut and into the scrub; but B Coy at once became
demoralised. I suppose the shock was communicated
up the whole file through little Willie’s eyebrows
and the tail feathers of his next-in-line, and so on,
for they all stopped. Breaking ranks they nosed
about a bit, each examining those nearest him, and
then they crawled back to where lay little Willie,
with his little inside outside. They wandered
round him, looking at the poor chap’s injuries,
OTHERS’ TROUBLES.
DAD: “I allus like reading the jokes in the
newspapers about them Fords.”
remonstrating with him (“Holding us up like this!”),
even attempting to drag him along, but all to no
avail. We left them then, as they seemed inclined
to linger over the burial service, and we had to
get home. But I’ve been wondering since whether
they ever caught A Coy up again.
“Jim Carew”: The Binghis of Cape York
Peninsula (N.Q.) have one vegetable food which
would be a paying proposition if cultivated for
white consumers. It is a bulrush-like plant, called
marroate, and grows plentifully round and sometimes
in freshwater lagoons and creeks. The abos. collect
the roots, crush them into a thick paste between
two stones, and with the juice still in it roast it
on live coals. I have eaten it on several occasions
and have found it a palatable and strengthening
food. Abos. who have been living on it for any
time are always sleek and fat.
“Mag”: Re narrow escapes (B. 30/3/’22).
A friend of mine outside Rockhampton (Q.) a
while back was fixing a plunger-pump at the bottom
0 f a 78ft. well, 3ft. square, when his offsider on top
let a length of 2in. piping fall to the bottom.
Nothing happened but a rapid ascent of, lurid lan-
guage. Again, two mates in the Burnett (Q.) dis-
trict were working in a shaft 30ft. deep, and had
the boss’s son to obstruct them as assistant. After
a couple of shot-holes had been drilled, they called
to the lad, who was on top, to send down the plugs
of dynamite. He did—by dropping 10 to the bot-
tom. The only explosion was from the men them-
selves; but many things happened in the world
before they stopped chasing that youngster.
“X.R.M.0.”: What is the age limit of
willy-wagtails ? While paying a professional visit
the other day, I noticed one hopping in and out of
the house and was told he had been a friend of the
family for 20 years. His mate disappeared a long
time ago, but Willy remains, and though his feathers
are a little shabby he doesn’t seem to suffer from
rheumatics. While I was examining my patient
he looked in to see what was happening. They say he
usually hops about the table at mealtimes, and
sometimes allows himself to be caught.
“Lagani Namo”: New Guinea owns an
animal that is not yet classified by the zoologists.
It resembles a crocodile except that its snout is much
blunter and its tail is nearly as long
again as its body. It is very swift
on its feet, climbs trees, burrows in
the ground and swims. It is extre-
mely savage and aggressive, and such
natives as have met it and survived
don’t want to renew its acquaintance.
Bodies of “boys” have occasionally
been found in the scrubs frightfully
chewed and mangled, and the “ota
ara” (as it is locally known) is
blamed. Its habitat, as far as I can
learn, is the tangle of jungle near
the Ply River. The beastie is so
well equipped to care for itself that
it is remarkable it hasn’t multiplied
more; especially as the natives are so
scared of it that they will not venture within a dis-
trict where there is any likelihood of bumping
against one.
“Crooked Mick”: Why does a bushman,
after taking a damper or a johnny-cake from the
ashes, always stand it on end? I have rolled up
thousands of “johnnies” and their elder brothers in
the Gulf (Q.) country, from Point Parker to Cion-
curry, but have never adopted that style of cooling-
off—and have not had a failure in 40 years. Is it
only a fad?
* * * *
“ J.G.”: There is a lady swaggie who for
years has had a beat between Gippsland and the
north-eastern (Vic.) districts. She travels the
road from Whittlesea till it connects with the Syd-
ney-road, then goes nor’-east on this highway,
returning in a few weeks. She carries her few
belongings in a sugar-bag clasped under her arm,
never cadges, and cannot be prevailed upon to accept
a cup of tea from any sympathising woman along the
track. Nor will she take advantage of any offers
to sleep indoors, preferring to doss out in all sorts
of weather. She never appears to be short of
cash and buys everything she requires.
(Continued on page 22.)
CAMPFIRE DREAMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night, while on tall city roofs
The moon shone late and low,
There came to me grey memories
Of camps of long ago.
Around me stretched wide western plains,
And as those campfires burned
Like red stars in the pit of night,
Dreams, dreamt of old, returned.
Fine dreams they were, rose-hued by youth,
Brave visions, bright and gay ;
The ashes of dead mulga fires
Are not more dead than they.
At times, dream-led, I quested far
O’er deserts, red and brown,
To where the ibis built her nest,
And where the stars went down.
And always there, like those who seek
The fabled crock of gold
Beneath the rainbow’s end, I sought
For treasure trove of old.
Heaped gems and jewelled chalices
That Spanish buccaneers,
Dark men with flashing eyes and swords,
Had hidden in past years.
And there in broken oaken chests
I saw rich chains and rings,
And cups that long ago had held
The golden wine of kings.
And as the red fire flashing lit
The saltbush with its gleam,
I shook the thick dew from my hair,
And turned again to dream.
And as I dreamt it seemed to me
Beneath the falling dew
That, north and south and east and west,
The plains were dreaming too.
And in the wonder of that hour
The stars above, it seemed,
As west and west they slowly moved,
In silence also dreamed.
The plains and I, the stars and earth,
In one seemed merged and blent,
As though all watched with dreaming eyes
For some august event.
And yet, for that all times I feared
The wide and mystic night
Of dreamful things, I sought the fire
And blessed its friendly light.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


CONFIDENCE.
CONFIDENCE is the foundation
of business—a mutual confidence
existing between manufacturer
and consumer is essential to any
satisfactory transaction.
CONFIDENCE is the growth of years—
the child of fair dealing and the father
of success.
CONFIDENCE in our Oils is
firmly established, and is con-
tinued by the superior quality
always maintained.
It is because we realise so well tbese
facts that we Have so jealously guarded
tHe unvarying' quality of MEGGITT
LIMITED’S OILS and Have main-
tained tHe MEGGITT LIMITED
standard. Our reward is tHat to-day,
throughout Australasia, there is
confidence in tHe name MEGGITT
LIMITED.
V
Gm
St
o
%
o
Q
/
AUSTRALIAN MADE FOR AUSTRALIAN TRADE.
PNSEedoilhe^
wrn
nEBGITT L
HEAD OFFICE ‘LG KING ST sYlTO:Y^ife:PaiTamatta)
UNSEEDOIIME/^
MEGGITT l”
tyke boy on the bag
guarantees quality
4. GENTS. — Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Messrs. R. S.
Exton d : Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane. Messrs. William Adams c£ Co., Ltd., King
Street, Perth. Messrs. Clarkson Limited, Rundle Street, Adelaide. Messrs, F. W. Heritage cC-
Co., Ltd., Hobart and Launceston.
“VAe boy on theboq
guarantees quality


MONKEY BRAND
WONT WASH CLOTHES
mm
9,
%
Baft
v\
/// a Pj4 #
M 3
—but Keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
AT ALL GROCERS,
Good to The
Last Drop
M
m
'i&t
J
ABBOTS
LAGER
TAe3eer m'/fioafaftnffl.
Preyed from Pure7falt iff op? Only
«-89 v
“A.W.L.”: Could not something be done
to prevent the wholesale slaughter of pigeons in parts
of New Guinea? In the Fly River district the
Torres Strait pigeons perch at night in the low trees
on the islands in the river, and at neap tides the
natives cover these small islands with dry palm leaves
to a depth of several feet, and when the birds have
gone to roost they set fire to the leaves. The birds,
of course, fly straight into the flames and perish in
thousands. Next morning the tribe paddles over
to the island and indulges in an orgy of roast pigeon.
Though hundreds of the birds are well roasted,
thousands are burnt to a cinder, while many are still
living and are allowed to linger on to a tortured
death.
* » * ■»
“Settled Soldier”: Can any Abo.-liar pro-
vide me with plans and specifications for the eradi-
cation of yabbies from bore-drains? It is suggested
in these parts (Walgett, N.S.W.) that the Murrum-
bidgee lobster will eat them and that he does not
burrow. Is this correct and would he live in bore-
urains? P.S. —I don’t want anyone to butt in with
a small boy and cotton and meat.
* * * *
“Jimmy J.”: For the Slow Travelling
Stakes I nominate this. A few weeks ago a party
returned to Hobart after an extended exploration tour
of the wild region between Hobart and Port Davey.
Their average speed for the trip was a mile a day.
By the way, they found that many Tasmanian tigers,
recently mentioned in The Bulletin, were almost
cleaning the country of wallabies and kangaroos.
* * * *
“Bendee”: Now that we know the most
effective weapon for kangaroo murder (though no
one seems to have thought of a 5.9 h.e. as a sure
killer), what about the best sights to use? I favor
THE LACE OF ENTHUSIASM.
THE RIDER: “You don’t find people walking
twenty miles to town to vote these days.
They’re disgusted at our rotten laws.”
THE SWAGGIE: “Yes, the pubs close on poll-
ing day now.”
the rather expensive “Lyman” peep sight, with a
small diamond- or heart-shaped foresight, made
from a boar’s tusk —this being dead white, with a
matt surface that shows up well in any light and
has no flare. The Lyman gives a very full view
of the shootee, and in a month I found I could
sight much faster (and with both eyes open), than
with the V back sight.
“Mag”: “FY7” (B. 23/3/’22), comment-
in on “Bowyang’s” reference to Narcisse Pellatier
(B. 2/3/’22), suggests that all boys of the tribe
underwent sub-incision, at the initiation ceremony.
Had they done so the tribe would soon have become
extinct. There are two theories given for this opera-
tion, and both are more or less correct. The first is
that on the principle of the survival of the fittest
the weaklings were surgeoned at the age of 15 or
16; the second is that it was done to prevent the
tribe becoming too numerous, the food supply, owing
to periodic droughts, etc., being too precarious for
a multitude. In any case the weaklings were always
sacrificed. My theory is that Pellatier was operated
upon so as to prevent the admixture of blood, the
primitive abo. being very strict in this respect.
* * * *
“F.E.”: The weight (41b.) of “Y.Z.’s”
daddy blackfish (B. 16/3/’22) is not uncommon,
but the length (nearly 3ft.) is estimated too
liberally. The blackfish, perhaps the choicest
of our Australian river fish (when properly
fried), is found only in the rivers running into
the Bass Straits. The Vic. papers some years
ago reported the capture of an lllb. and a 91b.
blackfish in one of the creeks of the National
Park, Wilson’s Promontory. Pioneers of the Bun-
yip River, Gippsland, state that in the early
days blackfish up to 81b. were caught, while
even now an occasional one up to 61b. may be
hooked. In the exhibits at the Victorian Anglers’
Club, Melbourne, there are two fine specimens
obtained by Messrs. Dave and Tom Devenay in
the Bunyip River —one
61b. 20z., 25in. long;
the other 51b. 40z., 24in.
long. My own best one
was landed out of the
same stream —s£lb.,
length 23in., extreme
girth 13in. Bui the
largest blackfish now
available seem to be
found in Tasmania.
Many years ago a mon-
ster was caught there, its
size being so extraordi-
nary that the Minister
concerned with fisheries
thought it necessary to
report its capture offici-
ally to Parliament, so
that authentic informa-
tion about it should be
placed on record for
future generations. My
informant in this matter
—a native of Hobart and
for long years my angl-
ing companion—could not recall the recorded weight
of this distinguished blackfish, but among the older
Hobart anglers there may be some who can.
“Jim Carew”: “Big Bend” (B. 30/3/’22)
says snakes can’t wriggle over linoleum. Rubbish!
On the Upper Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) years ago
we used to think nothing of hearing snakes chasing
mice across the floor, and the mater made a
particular hobby of keeping the linos, well polished.
Again, at Cobargo (N.S.W.), a brown snake dropped
out of a hollow log I was about to put on the fire
in our dining-room. The linoleum didn’t prevent
him getting outside quicker than I could reach for
the poker.
* * * *
“Pickles, J.P.”: Tell “Tarago” (B.
16/3/’22) that the vegetable I have the impudence
to call an elderberry-tree is about
16ft. tall, has dark green, dense
foliage, and is at present carrying a
fine crop of round black berries in
clusters and about the size of 8.8.
shot. Mostly the berries go to stuff
imported starlings, but sometimes they
are used to make jam or wine. “Tara-
go” says he has four dinkum elder-
berries around his house and no flies.
Well, I can shew him 40 elderberries
within a radius of less than a quarter
of a mile of my house and on them
enough maggot-containers to blow
him off the face of Australia. The
night before last we were treated
to 16 points of rain, and yesterday
morning about 8 o’clock I invited
Mrs. P. to note the results when I
stirred up the foliage of the tree.
It’s a wonder you didn’t hear the
buzz at Sydney. As to “Tarago's”
insinuation regarding foliage in frosty
weather, in winter my vegetables, like
his, are as bare as he was when he
emitted his first infantile squeal;
but it may enlighten him when I say
that since the beginning of February
there has been ice l-16in. thick on
the water in the trough in my cow-
yard. I have some sort of hazy
idea that frost was the cause; still I may be mis-
taken.
# # # *
“Exul”: Some months ago an Abo. writer
asked the council if his cow, which had expired
after eating the bones of a poisoned animal, had
died from the strychnine still contained in them,
and was told that she probably had. 1 herewith
produce fresh evidence and ask for ' a review of the
verdict. In Tasmania poisoned rabbits after being
disembowelled and dried over a fire are used as
dog and fowl feed without any ill effects. X suggest
that Strawberry died of a disease known in S’Africa
as lamziekte, in S. Australia dry bible, in Vic-
toria as impaction paralysis, and in Tasmania as
midland disease. The cause has been discovered
only during the last three years, after long and
patient research by Sir Arnold Theiler and his
colleagues in S’Africa. It is the result of the inges-
tion by the animal of putrifying flesh or bone
(particularly of the latter), whieh has become
infected with one or more of three definite types
of anaerobic germs. These in themselves are harm-
less, but by acting on decaying bodies they cause
them to contain a highly poisonous toxin, which,
when eaten, attacks chiefly the muscular system.
This toxin can be destroyed by heating. It can
appear in the flesh within a couple of days of an
animal’s death and persist for six months or more in
ALL THEIR FAULT.
TEACHER (after a discussion on spontaneous
combustion ): "Now, can anyone tell me
some of the causes of fire?”
LITTLE IKE: “ Please, teacher, the insurance
companies.”
the decomposing carcase. Half a grain of it injected
can produce the disease in an animal weighing
6001 b. Cattle under ordinary conditions will not
touch this putrid material, but at times they become
affected with a craving for strange articles of diet
(allot riophagia, or “pica”) owing to lack of phos-
phoric oxide in their grass—some say it is due to
vitamine deficiency-—and their depraved appetite
is the symptom of their instinctive search for phos-
phorus. Bones are then particularly acceptable to
them. The craving can be checked by feeding with
about 4oz. of sterilised bone-meal daily and the dis-
ease prevented by keeping the run absolutely clean
of all dead bodies, including those of birds, frogs
etc. The trouble attacks chiefly cattle, but has been
found in goats, ostriches and poultry, and has been
produced experimentally in horses, rabbits and sheep.
It is non-contagious and produces no typical post-mor-
tem appearances. The per-acute form can bring
about death within 24 hours. Recovery sometimes
occurs from the more chronic types. One attack
does not confer an immunity against a second.
“Camb”: Here’s a twin-sister to “Bush
Doctor’s” Bill (B. 6/4/’22), and she’s Victorian, too.
The family left the farm to the care of Kit, a 1~-
year-old lass, and drove to the township. Return-
ing at night they surprised Kit nursing a hand that
was swathed in blood-stained handkerchief. She
was pale but chirpy, and they got a shock when she
unwound the gory linen and displayed a half-inch
stump in place of an index finger. V hile Kit was
poking about in the woodheap a tiger-snake fastened
to the tip of her finger. Without hesitatic.i she
had thrown her handkerchief on a log, placed t„e
finger in position, and severed it with one clean blow
of the axe.
* * » *
“Tin-pot Bill”: How is this for persever-
ance ? Some years ago a Swede, at Barrabadeen,
near Peak Hill (N.S.W.), sank a shaft over 80ft.
deep, absolutely single-handed. He had a double
line, with a log to counterbalance his weijtht. for
ascending and descending. The shaft was covered in,
and he had a trap-door arranged to allow the full
bucket of dirt to pass through and then close, so
that the bucket would rest upon it. Then, by
manipulating another rope, he used to lift the trap-
door, and thus dump the earth at the side of the
shaft-head, after which the empty bucket was
lowered and the trap-door closed, ready for the opera-
tion to be repeated. The hatter succeeded fairly
well, and took a good bit of gold out of this shaft.
He sank several deep holes in the same way, some-
times with no success—but what a heart the man
must have had !
“Bung”: “Milaug” asks (B. G/4/’22) for
the origin of the bush saying “Send it down,
Hughie!” as it starts to rain. In the old days
on the Monaro (N.S.W.) tablelands, when nearly
every squatter had dozens of Chinese stonewall
fencers, the gangs gave warning of the approach
of a shower with a cry that sounded like “Lok-a
shuie.” The Monaro beardies adopted the call,
but Anglicised it to “Look out, Hughie!”
“Wild Oat”: “Holy Dan” (B. 6/4/’22)
wishes to know the greatest area turned up by one
plough in a day. I don’t know exactly, but 1 think
mine has a chance if we all speak truthfully. At
Yanco (N.S.W.) I scratched 11 acres with a McKay
13-furrow disc cultivator, delving to a depth of sin.,
within a 6ft. cut. Certainly the going was good and
the lead long. It also had 10 horses abreast to pull
it through. Time? Well, you all know what
coekies are.
■ “W.G.S.”: Tell “V. 1.8.” (B. 9/2/’221
not to take on “T.A.L’s.” (B. 30/3/’22) plan for
curing his neddie’s objection to being caught. A
trace-chain is too likely to prove a snare to the
horse and a delusion to the owner. The trailing
end is apt to bring any horse down when galloping,
and a horse with a broken neck cannot be regarded
as satisfactorily cured. Use 2ft. or 2ft. 6in. of
chain and attach to the front leg with a hobble-
strap. That’ll fix him.
“Bill R.”: The coast where “The Rum-
pus” (B. 6/4/’22) collects his stingaree spikes
must harbor a diminutive breed if their longest
bayonets are only 8 inches. I can show the barb ;d
prong of a specimen taken on a fishing-line at
Mystery Bay (N.S.W. South Coast) that measures
174 inches. The stingaree wears his prodder,
not at the end of his tail, but lying
flat along that appendage from near the base
to some distance beyond half its length. As for
the alleged impossibility of laying hold of a
stingaree, the fishermen at Narooma throw them
ashore from their nets by the dozen. They handle
them by hooking finger and thumb in the prominent
bones protruding over the eyes.
* * * #
“Jobber”: “Pick” (B. 30/3/’22) is quite
right when he says a yarraman will look for his
boss in time of trouble. “Doctor” Batt, late of
Colo Vale (N.S.W.), had a fine bay mare, which he
lent to an employee to ride to Mittagong. Bill
got tanked, the mare broke the bridle, and came
home through the bush. We caught her, pulled
the gear off and let her go. She raced down the
paddock to join her mates, and in less than half-an-
hour we heard queer noises outside. Pansy had
come home, with half her inside hanging from a hole
gashed by a stump and an appeal in her eye which
put lumps in our throats. A bullet finished the
hideous job, but I shall never forget the look in
that mare’s eye.
* * * *
“R.P.C.”: The water complained of by
“Billy Can” (B. 6/4/’22) has probably magnesium
chloride in it. Let “Billy Can’’ run the liquid
before use into a trough and add crushed soda
crystals, stirring the whole time. A white precipi-
tate will appear, consisting of magnesium carbonate.
Keep adding the soda till no precipitate appears,
then let residue settle and run off the clear fluid.
This clear water will not be suitable for drinking
purposes, but will be quite satisfactory for the boiler.
If it is needed for drinking it will have to be
distilled. Apropos William’s request for a simple test
for salt. Most of them involve weighing; but the
simplest of all is just tasting.
DETERIORATED FOODSTUFFS.
BILLY: “Ah, boot-leather isn’t what it teas
before the war.”
“Jim Carew” : Let “Gouger” try this for
keeping the March flies away from his horses (B.
23/3/’22). Shake one ounce of oil of penny-royal
and one of olive-oil or rape-oil well together and
sponge the horses lightly with it. It is quite harm-
less, and a complete protection for the prads for
about 24 hours.
WOOL CHEQUES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I can’t see why our young men still
In cities want to stay
Where everybody’s got a bill
That must be paid to-day.
The landlord sends each week for rent,
The butcher calls for more;
The last bean of your wage is spent—
You’re stony as before.
The squatter’s life is honey-sweet;
A motor-ear he owns ;
There’s no man that he dreads to meet,
No pal he asks for loans.
He writes a cheque upon the bank
To bet with Oxenham,
His missus is the height of swank —
She doesn’t care a damn.
The bank writes out to ask him why
He’s overdrawn galore;
The tradesmen feel they’d like to die.
“I thought I owed you more,”
He tells them all—“ Now, gentlemen,
I’ve all my sheep to shear;
I’ll pay you from my wool-cheque when
I sell my clip this year.”
The wool-cheque comes, the family go
To Europe in great style,
A big wad goes to Ikey Mo
To finish off the pile.
The same old tale ho tells them then,!
“Be ye all of good cheer,
I’ll pay you from my wool-cheque when
I sell my clip next year!”
N'.S.W.
TOM MOT.


Men Who Outfit at Lassetter’s
Have Evidence of Good Quality
Long After Price Has Been Forgotten.
“Follow in the Footsteps of the Wise.”
BAI.
BAl—Solid Leather Kit Bag, with straps,
side pinch lock, two end clips.
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
52/6 57/6 62/6 67/6
Ditto, superior finish, best-quality frame—
20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
72/6 80/- 87/6 95/-
K
BA2.
Men’s Fur Felt Hat, Slate shade, with
black band, and bound leaf. Sizes, 6f to
7J, 23/6 post free.
BA2—“Morley’s” Pure Wool English
Motor Scarves (as illustrated). Fancy
Knitted striped design. Shades of Grey
and Helio, White and Helio, White and
Saxe, White and Black. Best quality,
heavyweight 37/6 each
“Morley’s” Wool Scarves. Plain colors,
as Helio, Grey, Saxe, Henna, Black.
30/- each
“Morley’s” Wool Scarves. Plain Grey
only 21/-each
Australian Wool Scarves, in Grey, Navy
and Saxe, with striped ends 12/6 each
Cream Woollen Scarves, 15/6, 37/6 each
Pure Silk Striped Scarves. Large assort-
ment of pretty shades .... 63/- each
BA3 — Men’s Coat Sweaters, all pure
Wool. In shades of Navy, Brown, Grey,
Heather, Cream —
Slender. Men’s. O.S. X.O.S.
V-shape front .. 22/6 23/- 25/- 27/-
Austral Collar .. 25/- 25/6 27/6 29/6
Ditto, in heavier weight—
V-Front .. 26/6 27/6 30/- 32/6
Austral Collar .. 30/- 32/6
a
Write
for
Our
Catalogue.
BA3.
F. Lassetter & Go. Limited
George Street,
Sydney.
ALL ABOVE GOODS POST
FREE IN AUSTRALIA.
worW
ol Mwis»ews&
si ifvS^onoJa
Scexma&Gs
Hiisr Booklet,
with descrip-
tions and full
particulars
of len Models
of Rexouolas,
priced from
£*76
io£ss
will be posted
free on request
Send Tor it
TODAY
Choose a Rexonola NOW
for Your Home.
HE REXONOLA is the Talking-machine Supreme—in Tone Quality, Appear-
ance and Construction. You should not be one week longer without the
pleasure of the music it will bring into your home.
Rexonolas offer definitely the best value obtainable in any talking-machine
throughout Australasia. They are true musical instruments, and the cabinets
are handsome and well constructed—an attractive addition to the furnishing of your
home. Made in ten handsome models.
REXONOLAS will play all Disc Records.
No Talking Machine Is a genuine Rexonola
unless the name appears on the cabinet.
Table Models from £3/7/6 to £l9.
Cabinet Models from £l9 to £55.
REXONOLA No 4.
A splendid model for the
small home or flat. Work-
manship and design of the
highest standard throughout.
Tone of particular depth and
richness.
CABINET— S-ize 41 x 194
x 17 inches. Detachable
motor board, giving easy
access to motor. Record
Chamber has shelves for
storage of records. Patented
Rexonola Reflector Sound
Chamber, giving magnificent
reproduction quality. The
Mahogany Model has doors to
the Sound Chamber.
MOTOR Double Spring
Swiss worm-drive motor, play-
ing 3 records with one winding.
Rexonola Grand Aluminium
Sound Box; swan-neck Tone
Arm, with tapering arm ; num-
bered Speed Indicator; 12-incli
Turntable, nickel-plated and
polished.
PRICES— In Selected Oak,
Golden or Mission finish, as
illustrated, £l9. In Selected
Queensland Maple, Mahogany
finish, £23/10/-
a
PRICE
£l9
PRICE
£IIIIS|
PRICE
£4(101-
REXONOLAS FOR TONE 1
Note!
Kexonolas are obtainable from hundreds of talking machine
stores throughout Australasia. If you do not know the name of
a Rexonola dealer near you, write direct for the new illustrated
Rexonola Catalogue to
JACKSON & MACDONALD,
Cor. KENT and DRUITT STREETS, SYDNEY.
JPS9&B
mmm
u
§JI
■■
H 1
REXONOLA No. 8.
A very popular portable model, similar
in construction to Number 4.
Size 20 x 16 x 141 inches. Nickel
Needle Oups; Automatic Lid Support;
Double Spring Swiss worm-drive Motor,
playing about 3 records with one wind-
ing ; Swan Neck Tone Arm; 12-inch
Turntable; Eexonola Grand Aluminium
Sound-Box.
PRICES In Selected Oak, Golden or
Mission Finish, £ll/ 15 / -
In Selected Quensland Maple, Mahogany
finish, £l5.
3d
REXONOLA No. 17.
An inexpensive model, handsomely and
strongly constructed; suitable for the
home, and portable enough to be taken
away for week-end or picnic use. ze
16 x 12 x S inches; Swiss worm-drive
Motor ; Kexonol'a Nickel Grand Sound Box.
PRICE'S— In Light or Dark, £4/10/-
Mahogany Finish, £O/o/-


Est&b
1742
Ask specially for
BY APPOINTMENT
1
it ««■»«■!»
rumi*
nntt«»
'MThe OCd BletsA
SBs? - Whisky
(HIM
r»OM th*
SffMn OrifirAl R*W
AEE* ihai arc dcairoua 10 h} u .-a
EDINBURGH 10 LONDON. • «
other place on their icih H,. r
?K.» the WHITE HORSE CELU
•EDINBURGH, at which pUcc
57J » • STAGE COACH ««W H *„a
t^* 11 <£«e 6 pence per pound
7> »j« 1 — r
?A C r Kl£ . 4 COY. DISTIUEfiS gji
Ottilltry |tlpod of Islny «"d G’* l '**
and BOTTLED IN »Co T^°
white Hors
SCOTCH WHISKY
“WHITE HORSE” Whisky is made from Scotland’s choicest
malted barley and water from her heather hills.
“WHITE HORSE” has a rich, full flavor,
yet it is exceedingly soft to the palate.
The secret of good Whisky is Age:
“WHITE HORSE” has great age.
Established 1742.
MACKIE & CO. DISTILLERS LTD.,
Glasgow and London.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.
Bottled in Bond, under Customs
supervision
“BILLABONG” HILL
fr,
DS
WATERS STOCK
WITHOUT ATTENTION
The big flock of sheep or other stock
watered without attention by the “Billa-
bong” Mill is a common sight on remote
stretches of back country.
When fitted with the patent self-acting Tank
Supply Regulator the “Billabong” takes
charge of watering operations, and stops or
starts according to the level of the water
in the tank. The troughs will not over-
flow or become empty. All the human
attention required is an occasional oiling of
the mill by a station-hand.
The “Billabong” is made more massive
than is actually necessary, and is safe-
guarded against sudden gales by an
exclusive patented governing device, which
prevents racing, pulls the wheel right out of
the teeth of the storm, and swings it back
to the breeze when the blow dies down to
safe pumping velocity.
The Billabong stands for a satisfactory
water supply, and all that means to station,
farm, orchard or home. Write for free
booklet and a price for your requirements,
and see how reasonably you can instal
“Billabong” Mills, Pumps or Troughing.
Order early and save twice. Promptitude
is the eye of economy.
JOHN DANKS & SON PIT. LTD.
324-330 Pill SI. Sjdne^39l4osßouriseSl.Melbourne.


Purest
Spirit
irvtKe
V^brkL
a
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
iV °IFE'S SCHNA^^
“ Ir T STANDS AT.O^E”
men on board my squadron.’ In November,
1918, on the other hand, Beatty issued orders
to his own crews who were to take over
the German ships: ‘Never forget that the
enemy is a despicable beast.’ ” Now Tir-
pitz’s own son was one of the “brave men”
whom Beatty’s squadron picked up from the
sunken Mainz, and the changed note —the
big drop from “brave men” to “despicable
beasts”—hurt him very much. You can
hear a catch in the old man’s voice—at 70
not as strong as he used to be. You can even
feel a bit sorry for him, too.
A human document, but something more.
It is the most convincing testimony to the
value of sea-power that has ever been writ-
ten ; and the fact that it comes from an
enemy source makes it the more valuable.
There is something here for every Austra-
lian, and particularly every Australian poli-
tician, to think about and to think about
often. The policy of naval superiority main-
tained through good and evil over a course
of centuries made it possible when the test
came to save the world and, incidentally,
Australia for the kind of Government we
believe in. Washington and circumstances
leading up to Washington have changed all
that. Britain has made the biggest volun-
tary surrender in her history, perhaps in
any history. But she says to the outlying
Dominions: “I am not doing what I used
to do—the economic pressure has got too
heavy—but the chance is with you. You
have an uncertain crowd round' you; and
you may want a trident of your own.” Aus-
tralian statesmanship that will not take the
“jnt* but will let the sea tradition go to
blithering blazes” (Hughes has no mon-
opoly of this phrase), is stupider than that
of Germany in 1914.
ALFRED BUCHANAN.
Day by Day
The journalist’s lot is a hard one. There
is so much lears-and-blood testimony to this
that it is folly to try to disprove it. Yet
a recurrent note of temperamental hysteria
in the testimony gives me the courage at
least to stand it up and look at it. For
instance, John Davidson is supposed to
have taken his own way out because of his
penury and hopelessness. But he couldn’t
have been earning less than £8 a week at the
time of his disappearance, and that at mini-
mum x? leet-street rates, which he certainly
wasn’t asked to take for most of his work.
My authority for this, a prolific freelance
who knew Davidson and worked for the
same papers, made me the estimate in the
Cheshire Cheese soon after the search for
Davidson began to look hopeless. As an in-
come for a man of 43 perhaps 255. a day
was a bit thin, even in 1909; but it is 'a
h>?ig. way from starvation. The notes of
Hissings journalism-earnings are illuminat-
es* too, as are those of Dickens’s and
Charles Lamb’s early struggles. The way
tho! ;e men had to struggle along on £3OO
or £350 a year (about £6OO or £7OO now)
was a crying shame. No office expenses, not
even a typewriter to buy in those days, and
a beggarly £l2 or £l5 a week. No wonder
th ev testified in tears and blood.
Stul, the financial result of a professional
occupation is generally what you care to
make it, once you are on your feet. If you
ftiust write mystic verse instead of literary
chit-chat, naturally you must pay for it.
Hardly anybody else will —or would before
vers libre was re-discovered. “Literary chit-
chat that is the rock of disaster for
so many. Wilde fold Yeats that “writing
literary gossip, was no job for a gentleman.”
It meant, I think, nothing except that Wilde
was not a journalist. Yeats was ; so he was
after ‘some literary gossip for some pro-
vincial newspaper which paid me a few shill-
ings a month ” Yet I expect he hated ask-
ing tor it as much as he hated writing it.
But he was u g enough to do it because it
was his job.
Nobody likes doing what he doesn’t want
to do, but quite 75 per cent, of the world
does it all the time. The energetic journal-
ist need do it only part of the time; with
luck he may eventually stop doing it alto-
gether. Here I will go off at a tangent. It
may be that my reading of the word “jour-
nalist” is as narrow as Wilde’s, so I’d better
specify it. The free-lance article, short
story, par.-writing man who in his “spare”
time gets a best-seller off is not a jour-
nalist ; he is a novelist whom we can leave
nigh and dry sorting out his commissions.
Ihe man with a reputation for political
hard-hitting who is expensively absorbed
into the holy staff of a paper is not a jour-
nalist ; he is an anonymous staff-man. And
so on by a process of eliminations until we
come down to us who, keeping our unhin-
dered fingers on the pulse of the passers-by,
live on as much of our diagnosis as we can
get into print.
Naturally, very few readers being semi-
artist-journalists, the parts of the diagnosis
which we particularly like are rejected - and
for a time things look bad. By degrees
however, we get the strength of’ the little
uninteresting bits which the editors want
and we learn to shoot ’em in while they
are hot. They are accepted, and we pay
the butcher —perhaps in time we even have
a few minutes sometimes in which to write
really important matter. More pertinently
to our estimate of our place on earth we
gradually discover that the whole diagnosis
is the thing, and that, surprisingly enough
no one section of it is more vital than an-
other. When this point is reached we are
qualified for the finest job on earth.
Journalism is the basis of the arts of
each succeeding; age. Day by day, polishing
up our pot-boilinsr work, we are weaving
the pattern by which a future Australia
will criticise and select its verse, its pic-
tures, its stories, its music—by which it
will express and absorb all its 'imaginings
£* a y by day the thought of -a generation
ahead is m our hands. When we cut a
pet phrase out of a MS. (thereby searing
our souls and improving the story) we are
forming the style for Australian genius yell-
mg perhaps for a bottle at the moment. The
editors force us to condense, allow us to
expand, pay us a little more for new types
of matter which we invent, reject (as a
useful hint) matter such as they earlier
accepted, gradually punch us and the papers
into the shape which represents the rising
thought.
But our good job, our inspiring, unhori-
zoned and unshackled job, is to write it.
Unnoted and unnamed in history, with ali
the forgotten multitudes, nevertheless we
write, the imagination of to-morrow. Our
combined effort is stronger and more direct
than Homer’s. He found the path of the
world’s epic song. We build a national mind
whose working we may see before we die.
HILARY LOFTTNG.
Ernest Dowson
In Lord Morley’s Recollections there is a
thumbnail sketch of Gladstone in his old age,
“doing what old fellows have done for long
ages on a, Sunday afternoon, reading a big
Bible.” I was reminded of this, strangely
enough, by Frank Harris’s musings on Jesus
in an article on “George Moore and Jesus”
in his second volume of “Contemporary Por-
traits.” Harris himself is now, as he some-
where puts it, in sight of port: for him the
long voyage is almost over; his eyes turn
from Athens towards Jerusalem for light,
as he once told Louis Esson ; and although
it is hard to imagine him with a big Bible
open before him, like Gladstone, yet i:i his
old age, he, too, seeks the truth in Jesus.
Perhaps the most illuminating of his por-
traits in the volume I have just read is that
of Ernest Dowson, though here and there
one may detect his indebtedness to Arthur
Symons’s memoir, accompanying Dowson’s
collected poems. The facts of our poet’3
short and unhappy life are few. An Oxford
man of good family and moderate means,
possessed of peculiar personal charm, his
early work in verse was mostly imitative, an
echo of Verlaine or Swinburne and water.
Always in search of new sensations—a sorry
business that brought Wilde to prison and
disgrace, and in Dowson began with hashish
and ended with squalor and consumption—
he found the supremest of all in the tender
adoration of a young French girl, a waitress
in a Soho caf6, the inspiration of most of
his verses and the one to whom he dedicated
them. She accepted his adoration for two
years, and then married a waiter. Deem-
ing his life irretrievably ruined, he became
an alcoholic wastrel. His native sensitive-
ness and delicacy, which shine through every
line he wrote, and particularly in some
exquisite prose—read his “Springtime in
Brittany” in one of the early volumes of
the Yellow Book —were somehow no proof
against an innate love of the sordid : he had
that homesickness for the gutter for which,
in some natures, there is perhaps no account-
ing. Suffering he hunted after with the
same eagerness with which most men pursue
pleasure: he took a delight in self-abasement,
flung ashes on his head, and was wilfully
dirty. Consumption had been slowly kill-
ing him for years, and he died in 1900, aged
33.
. Dowson’s singing faculty was of the
highest: his poems contain some of the loveli-
est lyrics in our language. Love and despair
brought forth the greatest he wrote, one
lyric in particular having every claim to
immortality. We all know it, or we should.
In “Epigram” the poet tells his whole story
in a few words, in a sentence even. In
“Non Sum. Qualis Eram,” he lays his soul
bare; passion, the divine despair of unre-
quited love, these we feel till it hurts. But
the something nobler that lifts the poem to
greatness is the song of two passions at
war, the purer conquering :
But, when the feast is finished and the , lamps expire,
Then falls thy shadow, Oynara! the night is thine:
And I am desolate and sick of an old passion,
Yea, hungry for the lips of my desire:
I have been faithful to thee, Cyriara! in my
fashion.
Harris, a man of swift phrases, as illuminat-
ing to the reader as electric-light just turned
on, tells in unforgettable stvle how Dowson
first recited some of his verses to him. Not
having seen the unhappy poet for some
years, he invited him to dinner, and tried
to rally him to activity and self-respect.
felighLy nettled, Dowson recited the “Impeni-
tentia Ultima,” wherein he sings his hope-
less desire and despair. Harris’s criticism
was not very warm, and there followed the
wonderful u/ JLo One In Bedlam,” where we
have imagination transfiguring madness and
captivity into “star-crowned solitude.” Here
the critic was delighted, after which Dowson,
trembling and in tears, began what he said
and knew to be his best poem. It is long
since I read anything so poignant—a master
of graphic phrase presenting before you his
experience of something sacred that breathed
immortality.
CAMDEN MOBRISBY.
A Dissertation on Dancing
Anyone who takes a train from North Syd-
ney and goes as far as Asquith may see, some
evening, dancing on the hill in the blue light
of the setting sun, the oldest dancers in the
world—the ivhite-footed kids of an old
mother-goat browsing near by. When Diony-
sus saw the kids dance in Thrace one blue
morning long ago he danced with them, and
°4 mu tlle ( ? a , nce he led over the meadows
of Thrace with his goat-ballerinas the ballet
or to-day probably sprang.
Most of the modern dances have an old-
time beginning. The songandance that is
being performed in the vaudeville houses this
evening is only an echo of the Shinto song-
dance, or kagura, done in the 14th century
and when Nella Webb came to Australia with
her delightful method of dancing to a popu-
lar ballad, she was only reviving the old
'foot‘A sung and danced by the priest in the
No plays of Japan. Arthur Waley ex-
plains how, “in order to lure the Sun-god
from his cave, the goddess Uzume bared her
breasts, let'down her skirt and danced. Then
the gods laughed till the high plain of
Heaven shook.”
Dancing has never expressed as much as
one good line of prose or verse; but it has
acted as a relaxation to countless thousands
and it has spurred millions on to war and
victory. As such it has always had a place
—-a pretty low one; but a place—in world-
play. Perhaps the Spanish bolero, intro-
duced about 1780, reaches the limit of ex-
pression in its attempt to portray the dif-
ferent emotions and final ecstasy of love.
Yet both the bolero and its sister the fan-
dango probably had an African beginning;
and it all pushes the dance down to a purely
physical level.
I was with a company of performers who
took the tango into North Queensland years
ago. It made its biggest hit at Irvinebank,
where the barmaid at the hotel said it was
Oh, so beautifully vulgar!” Now the
tango is quite dead, and its “scissors” and
grape-vine” steps are forgotten. Yet its
romance is interesting. “Tango” seems to be
a corruption of “tanga,” an East Indian
coin, which had its birth back in India,
Persia and Turkestan. It makes one think
that the tango was born black and not yel-
low, after all. On the other hand, while
everyone is busy explaining that the jazz
is negro, the first jazzer was probably a
Spaniard somewhere in South America.
Every age has had its dance-craze. Every
craze has died out. But another chases it
up quickly. The waltz, a national German
dance, seems to stay. The polka, which
appeared about 1842 and came from Bo-
hemia, has lost ground in the ballroom ; but
we still cling to the old lancers. The last
time I danced the lancers was in a small
hall at Ravenshoe. My partner was a
timber-getter, 10 times lighter on his toes
than I was, by the way. When he had fin-
ished the dance he bowed, wiped his perspir-
ing hands in the usual way and said bravely
—be had not spoken all through the dance:
Well, I done it. Good-night.” They
have been danced in England since 3836,
when Count Laborde introduced them.
But none of the country and national
dances touch the ballet dancing that sprang
up, as near as can be gauged, in Spain about
the 15th century at the Court of Ferdinand
and Isabella. From the moment Spain heard
the click of the Moorish castanets it has
encouraged the spirit of the dance. (Spain
is conveniently near Africa, and it would be
disheartening if we had to trace the ballet
back to a black beginning.) But there is
little likeness between the ballet of to-day
and that of the 15th century. By the time
the original dance had moved from Spain to
the Court of the Medici it had begun to
change. It was originally a Court dance,
and remained so for a long time. When it
went to France it arrived with ballerinas,
who were soon to be instructed in the five
exercises which are the daily plague of every
dancer’s life. The survival of to-day is but
a shadow of the old form. Even the famous
Russian ballet but plays with the art. for
there is nothing that can revive it. It is
as dead as paganism, though thousands of
girls in Australia and elsewhere laboriously
practise the cross-capers and toepoints.
It was a Chinese dancing-girl who origi-
nated the distorting of the women’s feet in
China. When she danced the Emperor cried,
“See how she dances. At every step she
causes a lily to grow!” So “the golden
lilies” of China were invented, for, history
says, the dancer pined to make her feet as
slender as the new moon. She bound them
in order to coax them to do this, and the
ladies of the Court followed her practice.
Chinese dancers aimed at extreme dainti-
ness. The lovely Fei Yen —“the flying swal-
low” who danced hearts away in 18 b.c. —
could turn in the palm of the hand and in
a rice-bowl. “Green Pearl” and “Precious
Pearl” were two sisters who also performed
miracles with their toes.
The Chinese may excel in such pirouetting,
but the finest feat I ever saw was a per-
formance of Brisbane ballerina Molly Asher.
She danced without a stage cloth, bare-footed,
a la Maud Allan, at the Victoria Mill hall
in. North Queensland, and the stage was
alive with tin tacks. Molly was dancing for
soldier funds, and I think the soul of every
Anzac must have risen to cheer her when
she went back and gave an encore.
ZORA CROSS.
A Satchel of Books
Nottumo, by Gabriele d’Anqunzio (Treves). The
volatile Italian reappears again after an absence of
seven year*. This time it is a volume of poems com-
posed after his aeroplane had crashed,, and he was
threatened with complete blindness. (Hence, no
doubt, the title.) He lost one eye in the end,
and painfully jotted down his ideas on long, narrow
strips of paper. They lack the old vigor and elan;
but they have all the old egotism and much of the
old decadence.
Readers and Writers, by A. R. Orage (Allen
and Unwin). In this lively volume A. R. Orage,
editor of the New Age, delivers a number of judg-
ments frequently oracular, often quotable, aimost
invariably keen. The admirers of Ernest Dowson
will be glad to learn that his “affection for labials
and liquids is conclusive evidence of minority, not to
say infantilism.” J. 0. Squire is “not a great or
even sound critic, he is not an impressive writer,
and he i: not a distinguished or original thinker.”
Bertrand Aussell, whose philosophy “denies that life
has any meaning or purpose,” is alleged to sing
“like a doomed cricket on a dissolving iceberg.”
Orage’s mordancy as a phrase-maker makes him
eminently readable.
Forward with the Fifth, by A. W. Keown
(Specialty Press, Melbourne). A faithful and well-
written history of a Victorian battalion with a
noble record. The Fifth went everywhere and saw
everything. It was #at the Landing, Cape Helles,
Pozieres, Fleurs, Bullecourt, Glencorse Wood, Brood-
seinde and Passchendaele Ridge. AVhen the Germans
broke through “those comic-opera soldiers the ‘Pork-
and-Beans,’ ” it helped to repiece the line. Going
south its old unconquerables had an honorable share
in Monash’s victorious offensive, ahd they were pre-
paring to move into the forward area again when
the cease-fire sounded on November 11. The author,
a private, was with the battalion from the begin-
ning, when it was largely composed of Victorian
Scottish and Old Boys from thie Public Schools. He
has done a worthy job worthily. His book adds
cubits to the Digger’s stature. It draws from unde-
served obscurity men whom the reader is glad to
know —heroic souls like Private Skilbeck, who saved
the battalion from being cut off'at Pozieres by dash-
ing across with his Lewis gun to the German trench
and blazing away until the drum was exhausted of
ammunition (he did this again ahd again) ; humor-
ous characters like Joe, the regimental malaprop,
who used to go for “a promenade with a nice little
‘bint’ up that there revenue of popular trees.” From
such volumes as Keown’s the future Australian his-
torian and novelist will extract precious material.
“Smith seems to be particularly interested in his paper this morning.”
“Yes, I was just speaking to him. It appears that last year he bought a pair of
Ceylonette Pyjamas at David Jones’ for 21/-, and that they were most satis-
factory.”
“Yes, experience has taught me the same.”
“Well, now, he says Jones' are advertising the same quality pyjamas for He's
persuaded me that they’re splendid value, so I’ll drop in this morning and see
for myself


PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THE BARKY STEEL SPLIT PULLEY
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write jor Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.
Cor. York 8t Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY
581-83 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Note this Woolbale
and the message it contai s. The advice is
worth taking. Top results are the firm’s
strong point.
Write: —
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Woolbrokersi LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/G Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
<l-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Culwulla Chambers.
Castlereagh Street, SI’DNKY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED • BATHS, SINKS, ETC. I
'y.aaa o ' y/ ‘
tip ■ % '
i'i/s'y ''.ft
/'A
' A
A /
Wp. *A
m
mt % i
r«
'A A
'/. A
Y///P
'A ’A
V. 'A
/. A
.MU
a
m
,i
■2
* 9
< %
A A
%■
is I
4®
A/wm
fl
mm
W/y.
P//////////AAAA I
©
m
11H.R A Seater
*3he Car for the Owner- Driver
The A 1
ritish
m
XKI'FHE
LIGHT CAR
8 h.p. and 11 H.p. Two and Four Seaters.
(Rating 9.5 and 13.9 h.p.)
For speed, craftsmanship, reliability and comfort, the
all-weather Standard Light Car is the world's pre-
eminent production.
No matter what the conditions of climate terrain and
load, the btandard Light Car remains by universal
acknowledgment the Car for the Overseas Owner-Driver.
«Particulars of either of these models on request.
STANDARD MOTOR CO., LTD.,
COVENTRY . . . ENGLAND.
Agents :
I. PHIZ ACKEHLE ¥,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
URODONAL
The Great French Remedy for Gout, Rheumatism, Gravel, Calculi,
Obesity, Acidity, Arterio-Sclerosis.
Si
Mill
m*.
&
i
s'-
a
W\s
The age of a man is the age of his arteries. Keep your Jby
taking URODONAL, and you will thereby avoid Arteno-Sclei osis, wm
hardenS the walls of the blood-vessels and renders them stiff and briiu
THE SIGN OF THE TEMPORAL ARTERY.—(Dieulafey’s Temporal
Sinn ) “If you should see between the eye and the root of the hair
under the wrinkled and withered skin of the temples, a kind of
bluish and knotted cord protruding, be on your guard, for .. J ° u
threatened with senility. It does not matter if you have not a_ white hair ,
your arteries are growing old. It is necessary to act immediatelj. PuriiJ
your blood of the poisonous substances which taint it, and especially o
the most dangerous of all, viz., Uric Acid." JUS BOTAU.
DISSOLVES URIC ACID as easily as warm
water dissolves sugar!
PREPARED BY ETABUISSEMENTS CHATEUAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3,
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggiste throughout Australasia,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 302 KENT STREET.
SYDNEY, from whom also can be obtained Free Booklet contains*,
Medical Opinions.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jago” : I don’t know whether a doctor is
legally entitled to call himself a doctor, but
I do know a Carlton (Vic.) barber who
hangs out the sign:—
DASHBY BLANK.
Tcmsorial Artist, Cranium Manipulator and Facial
Decorator.
“D.F.” : There is no reason why Australia
should not make its own laudanum. Nearly
a century ago James Murdoch, one of the
pioneer doctors of the Speck, planted pop-
pies and prepared his own medicine from
them. At times he even made shift with a
decoction of lettuce-leaves, which have the
same qualities in a lesser degree.
* * * *
“Pog” : I know it would be pretty hard to
get the N.S.W. railways to pay, but is the
Department too dispirited to make any
effort at all? Journeying recently from
Pokataroo to Walgett I arrived at Burren
Junction at 11.40 a.m. The train for Wal-
gett leaves at 11.4 a.m.—a 36-minute margin
on the wrong side. I had to cool my heels
at Burren Junction for a couple of days,
as the trains are only tri-weekly. The
people out there are too fed-up to complain.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The first and lowest of the
Murray locks has been opened at Blanche-
town (S.A.), between the Nor’-West Bend
and the Bridge. Johnston, from the U.S.A.,
recommended the site and drew the plans,
and Cutting, his countryman, has been resi-
dent engineer. Work has been going on since
June, 1915, whenever the river would allow.
The lock has a total length of 378 ft., or
275 ft. clear between the gates, and is ex-
pected to affect the river for 45 miles up,
where lock No. 2 will be placed.
* * * *
“Derwentside”: The Speck’s little burst
of industrial activity, arising out of the estab-
lishment of the Zinc Co.’s works at liisdon,
Cadbury’s chocolate foundry in neighboring
Claremont, the signing of a £90,000 contract
for the erection of spinning mills at Laun-
ceston, and the doings of other manufactur-
ing shows attracted by cheap electric power,
is already stirring the placid pools of local
business. Famous landmarks of old Hobart
Town, such as Walch’s Corner, Whiteside’s
furnishing stores and Mather’s patriarchal
clothing shop, have recently changed hands
at prices hitherto undreamed of in the old
city. The bookshop corner, which has been
in the Walch family since 1842, and is only
35ft. by 113 ft., brought £32.000. Harold
Bickford, of Melbourne, bought it.
* * • •
“Adelaide” : About the biggest single hold-
ing within Adelaide city is being broken up,
and with it goes a relic of old days. Hill
and Co. had an enormous coaching business
up to the end of the century, and their
stables occupy two acres, right through from
Grenfell-street to Pirie-street. They car-
ried the mails for everywhere till one rail-
way line after another took over the job,
and they “horsed” a host of doctors and other
citizens. John Hill, himself a fine cricketer
and father of Clem, Roy and the rest, was
head of the concern. He likes to tell how
he drove Grace and the English cricketers
the long road to Moonta for a match ; they
could have gone by sea, but had had such
a buffeting on the voyage round from Mel-
bourne that they declined. The business has
latterly been Graves, Hill and Co., with an
inevitable development on the motor side.
The valuable block will be turned into build-
ing sites.
* * »
“Athol”: A North Shore (Sydney) town
clerk retired the other day after a quarter-
century’s service, and, apropos, the story
was told of how he settled in a neighbor-
hood where land was worth 12s. 6d. a foot
then and can’t be got now for less than
£2O. The man who built his home in the
long-ago in such a place is supposed to be
utterly joyful. But there is a large-sized
wasp in that pat of butter. The home he
built isn’t worth any more to him now than
it was then —the years haven’t added to
its .size or made its roof any more water-
tight. But because other people have come
into the district municipal rates have been
increased in some cases tenfold, with the
result that many a man is being driven
from his old home. Of course, if he sold
it he could get bigger money for it; but he
doesn’t want to sell it—-he only wants to
live in it. And he has to pay through the
nose to do that.
WHEN A LITTLE TALENT GOES A LONG WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The other day the members of the ‘Night Off’
company at Melbourne Majesty’s gave a performance
which was carried by wireless all over the place.
The effort was mainly for the edification of sick
soldiers in a hostel at Brighton, but ships at sea
were invited to catch on.”
The singer sings in Melbourne town;
The audience is scattered wide
Where Yang-tse-Kiang’s floods come down,
And Congo’s mighty waters glide.
Bolivians may catch the lay,
And Madagascans too may know
The happy choruses that sway
The people up Spitzbergen way
And charm the odorous Eskimo.
When chorus girls take up the song,
A rapture’s felt at Sarawak,
They voice their pleasure in Geelong,
At Borneo and Burrenjack,
Yet know a tinge of real regret
That they must do the thing by halves —•
Where Cotopaxi’s smoke-racks steal,
_ And maelstrom waters suck and reel,
No man beholds the' fatted calc es!
Whene’er the tenor lifts his voice
In Terra del Fuego, man
Will find occasion to rejoice,
As may the maids of Astrakhan.
But greater the ecstatic thrill
The artist feels when from abroad,
From Uruguay and Nilgiri Hill,
Come rapturous cheers, and louder still
He hears the whole wide w 7 orld applaud!
But this has got the Firm knocked flat—
How send a man round with the hat?
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


&
u
el
<£?
I J
Many people who have never had
anything the matter with them in
their lives make it a practice to
take a dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills on Saturday night. It
is a sound idea, and accounts for
their keeping in good health.
As impurities collect in the healthiest of people,
germs that might develop into something serious
are swept away, and the whole system put right for
the week to come. A habit of this kind is the secret
of Good Health among thousands who make it
a rule to look after themselves and who do not allow
their health to be undermined, by carelessness or
neglect of one of Nature’s more important functions.
YSSSSSSSSS/,
D
R
Morses
m
a
i
■
the
FOR
-2224.
They Make You
Rills
m
m.
wmmz
Feel Brighter.


Are Your Bowels Like This?
Look at this picture of part of the large in-
testine or lower bowel as it is commonly called.
It is packed and bloated with waste food mat-
ter which cannot move out of the system the
way Nature intends it should.
What is the result ?
This waste matter begins to ferment, rot, and
form gases, poisoning the entire system.
Then all the organs of the body will become
more or less deranged and chiefly among these,
the bowels and stomach will suffer.
This may cause obstinate constipation, sour
stomach, gas on the stomach, loss of appetite,
nausea, headache and many other symptoms.
Finally, through the irritation or the gases
caused by the rotting material, or assisted by medi-
cine, the bowel forces part of this foul matter out
of the system, and things are better for a while.
But unless the right treatment is undertaken,
the same condition may occur again and again.
Of course, few bowels get into quite as bad
condition as the one pictured above. Some only
get as bad as the picture shown below.
W///A
unit
ms
Here you can see how the old particles of waste food
are sticking to the walls of the large intestine.
In the centre there is still a little passage
through which some of the waste matter is able
to pass out of the system the way it should.
Many persons whose bowels are in this con-
dition don’t realise that they are constipated and
that there is anything the matter with their bowels.
They may have a movement of the bowels
every day and even twice a day, but they never
have a GOOD, THOROUGH, FREE MOVEMENT.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be due
to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only “ half
alive” will be surprised how much better they
will feel when they get rid of this matter which
has been poisoning their system for months.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poisoning
of the system through poisons left in the bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness, so-
called weak and fluttering heart, are often caused
by pressure of gas in the intestines —this gas
may originate from decaying food in the system.
HAMGERIM
•If
M COUGH u
REMEDY
//
Cougtislolds.
CROUB^i
_
W?
7*
/
SORE THROAT.
INFLUENZA
up gno •r/icign o> tm
THROAT ond LUNGS
5a
S 3
PS
?io/
So
53
Protect Yourself.
CRANNY” CHAMBERLAIN
[copyri cuTtO)
B Y getting a bottle of this wonderful
medicine to-day. You can rely on it
to prevent much suffering in your family.
There is no surer protection from
Coughs, Colds, Croup or Influenza than
CHAMBERLAIN'S
COUGH REMEDY
Watch your bowels carefully.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all kinds,
watch your bowels. Don’t allow the old fer-
menting, filthy stuff to stay in them for weeks
and months, but GET IT out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your bowels
constipated, if you feel sluggish, dizzy or bilious,
get a box of Chamberlain’s Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate the
bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse the
system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for constipa-
tion, sour stomach and gases on the stomach.
A single dose often relieves these troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strengthen
them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They have
none of the sickening qualities of pills, and do
not produce any unpleasant effect.
SpH/- Pull&q
Just as the S K F Ball
Bearings have proved
themselves in sim-
plicity for universal
application to machin-
ery, so is the SKF
Split Pulley a simple
device that can be suc-
cessfully applied when-
ever and wherever belt
pulleys are called for.
0P
:
mm r
l'"
warn
m
ST* sr
When an extra pulley is needed on a shaft there is no unnecessary loss of time, for
the S K F Split Pulley can be fitted in five minutes—by one man.
The SKF Split Pulley has interchangeable bands, allowing of from 3in. to 9in. rim
being rapidly fitted on the same spyder, has accurate balance-weights, and is extremely
light in weight without sacrificing of strength.
The fact that no keys are required avoids expensive fitting and depreciation of shafting,
for no keyways are necessary.
Efficiency, Durability and Economy are grouped together in the SKF Split Pulley.
Illustrated literature free on request.
Gardner, Waern & Co. Pty. Ltd.
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Centres also at
SYDNEY—22S Clarence Street.
BRISBANE—329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE—I 22 Currie Street.
PERTH—Unbehaun & Johnstone, 37 King Street.
“J.C.” recalls an impressive ziff: —
Capt. Gilbert Mair, doyen of M.L. buslifighters and
scouts, is one of those out-of-doors men who are
young at 80. He was born the year Maoriland
became a British possession—his father was ship-
builder, skipper and trader at the Bay of Islands —
and to-day he is knocking about on horseback and'
in small deep-sea fishing hookers like a youngster
of 50. Between whiles, Tawa, as the Maoris call
him, is typing his reminiscences in his Tauranga
home. He was a dashing young colonial soldier
in the days when men prided themselves on their
whiskers, and was famed in the ’sixties as the owner
of the finest ziff on the coast. The only complaint
his Arawa Maori contingent had against him in
the war days was that he marched too fast; when a
scrap was toward he rushed into it with his carbine
at a rate that left his fastest men in the rear. It
was for one of these impetuous yet well-judged
actions, when he put Te Kooti’s column to flight
near Rotorua in 1870, that he won the N.Z. Cross,
the rarest military decoration in the world.
“T. 0.1.”: The most interesting stone in
Australia to the memory of a hanged man is
at La Perouse, a little removed from the
R.C. section of the old Sandhills Cemetery.
It carries this inscription:—-
To the memory of John Dunn, who died March
19, 1866, aged 19 years.
May he rest in peace.
He has gone to the grave, but we must not deplore
him, ,
Though sorrow and darkness encompass his tomb
The Saviour has passed through its portals before
him,
And the light of His love was the lamp through its
gloom.
Dunn, who was of the Hall-Gilbert gang, was
hanged for the murder of Constable Nelson
at Collector, on Anniversary Day, 1865. A
Mrs. Pickard, who was present at Dunn s
birth, visited him daily in the condemned cell,
gave him decent burial and put up the head-
stone.
“Pip Tok”: My little experience of tele-
pathy was like this. Ploughing through a
muddy sap I distinctly heard my wife call me
by name. So vivid was the impression that
I stopped dead. Then I heard the smack of
a bullet against the wall of the sap. Had
I not stopped when I did I must have
collected that bullet. Unfortunately Mrs.
Tok kept no record of all the bad dreams
she had about me while I was away.
“Anaf” : It is not always the patient who
doesn’t adhere to instructions such as those
mentioned by “Exul” (B. 30/3/’22). One
Government laboratory in Victoria, which
daily receives and examines scores of speci-
mens from suspected cases of typhoid, diph-
theria and other diseases, sent by practi-
tioners in the country, recently despatched
a circular letter giving instructions as to
how the specimens were to be packed and
emphasising the necessity for guarding
against the risk of infecting those who
handled the parcels en. route. _ In a few days
specimens began to arrive literally deluged
with potent disinfectants, such as pure car-
bolic and mercury perchloride, the favorite
method being to place the matter to be tested
in a glass container and then to fill the latter
up with the disinfectant. The natural result
was the death of any organisms that might
be present, thus preventing cultures from
being made. It was not until a further
letter was sent, emphasising that the disease-
germs must be alive, that they began to
arrive in proper style. After that there
doesn’t seem to be much point about a doctor
laughing at the patient who, on being told
to take some medicine in water, got into the
bath and then drank his dose.
“F.D.D.’s” epic and confession: —
Concerning endurance and other things. A scalper
named Joe Blake, here in the Maranoa (Q.), was
thrown from his horse and lay unconscious all day
in the Sun. When he came-to at sundown ha had
a thigh that was broken and a brain that gave him
only a hazy idea of what had happened and where.
As nearly as he could recollect his camp lay about
two miles to the south, and there was a selector s
humpy half-a-mile to the north. Incidentally, his
mate was away and would not return until late next
evening. He had his rifle and three cartridges. In
the hope of calling the selector to his assistance he
fired two rounds. Nothing happened. Then as night
fell he wondered if he had mistaken his location.
That seemed to queer his chance of finding his way
back to camp even supposing he could drag his
wounded leg. He hesitated over firing the last shot.
In the extremity it would be a merciful short-cut
to the finish. Then, being a good gambler and a
fighter, he fired into the air. After waiting a reason-
able time he started to crawl home. What hap-
pened between then and the next evening, when his
mate found him lying unconscious a couple of chains
from the camp, is something Joe can’t describe. He
comes out of hospital next week and I am shy of
meeting him. I was the selector mentioned. I heaid
that last shot, but did not think it worth investi-
gating..
IN HOC SIGNO VINCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a Christian. Not for pelf
1 yearn, nor for the crowd’s applause;
1 luave a soul at peace because
1 love my neighbor as myself.
I know a cottage built upon a sward
Beside a little river chuckling by;
And in the cottage patience has reward
Of peerless faith and passionate constancy.
For there lives Mabel, there she lived when she
Was Mrs. Binks and wouldn’t look at me.
So sing we, Hey! and sing we, Ho!
If what you -want you truly know,
You need not bid fond hope ta-ta....
Tra-la !
When Mabel was of Binks the pride and joy,
I loved her, yet dreamt not of this success;
For Eros ever was a fickle boy
And Fortune makes of dreams a shocking mess.
Mabel, all shy and sweet, was wed and chaste;
How could I slip an arm about her waist?
“Sing, heart, alas! sing, heart, oho!”
Sighed I. My heart kept chuckling low,
“Just notice how her curves are sweet..,#
Tweet-tweet!”
Now in the little cottage that I know
Our life d deux is wholly pearl and rose;
For Fate turned down his thunjji one day, and so
Old Binks (ah, not too soon!) turned up his toes.
Mabel, the chaste and fair, is warm and shy,
Whetting love’s ardors with an impish, sly,
Sweet, zest. Hey, Pan! Pipe high, laugh low!
Stroll with us down the road we go.
I’m richlier mated than the Shah....
Tra-la !
N.s.w.
ELLERSLIE GREY.


V
tt
&
4
*S*A
FITTINGS
Build tHe Perfect Bicycle.
The bicycle built with B.S.A. Fittings is depend-
able, looks good and is cheaper in the long run
than the machine which in first cost is much
less than the B.S.A.
You can compare a bicycle built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings by every possible test with a
so-called cheap bicycle, and you will readily
understand why a B.S.A. is the cheapest machine
in the end.
Year in and year out this bicycle will give
unfailing service, providing many hours of real
enjoyment because of its easy running and comfort.
The choice of a bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is a businesslike decision; the economy,
reliability and freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A. a sound investment
which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. riders say there is nothing to equal the satisfaction which the bicycle
of the “Three Piled Rifles ,, gives.
The range of models and constructional improvements shown in the B.S.A. catalogue
will illustrate why the bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings is so popular.
TRADEMARKS
Look for the B.S.A. three piled rifles trade-marks; they
are stamped on the Steering Head, Crank Bracket, Seat-
pillar Lug, Back Fork Ends, Back Fork Bridge, Back
Stay Bridge, Hubs and Pedals.
These trade-marks carry with them a guarantee of long
and reliable service, and are backed by a reputation of
over sixty years’ standing.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A,
B.S.A. Fittings are Guaranteed interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be obtained. Don’t
be put off with “pattern fittings,” but look for the B.S.A.
Trade-marks on EVERY PART. They are your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook free from
D. Y. RENNIE,
REPRESENTING THE B.S.A. CO., LTD., BIRMINGHAM,
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.
o.(
or


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per iay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl. 3002. Apply Manager.
Tn&elf&irf
ofJorisnanQ)
Hotel Carlton
The most- comfortable
and best equipped
Hotel in Queensland
/"> ENTRALLY situated in the heart
'*■' of Brisbane it affords easy access
to commercial, shipping and shopp.
ing centres, theatres, railway ter-
mini, botanical gardens, museum,
artgallery. etc. £14,000 have recently
been spent on modernising Hotel
Carlton. Unmatchable cuisine,
every comfort and modern conveni-
ence. Newest American Bar.
Write for Particularsl
The
‘Stockman
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side —a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
FINNEY, ISLES ©. CO. LTD.
BRISBANE.
11
18
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per (lay, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to Tiie Manager.
99
“Ml.
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Sycney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
nSV
:
If you have
a delicate chiM
give
The following convincing letter should be read by
all parents:—
65 Station Street. Carlton.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Gentlemen—About eighteen months ago my little
daughter, 4 years old, had an attack of bronchitis, which
she was subject to. being delicate ever since she was a few
weeks old. I gave her your Hypol, and it cured herofthe
bronchitis, and so strengthened her that she has not had
anything the matter with her since. In fact, thanks to
Hypol. she is now the picture of good health.
Yours'truly ( Signed) P. C. TURNER.
What HYPOL ha* done for others, it can do for you.
HYPOL is a celebrated strength-promoter, and a
proved remedy for unhealthy lungs or other chest
troubles.
This delightful Emulsion has the appearance of a rich
cream, and tastes like it too. Therefore it is most
alluring to children, but
IT BENEFITS YOUNG AND OLD ALIKE.
GET A BOTTLE TO-DAY. SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by FELTON. GRIMWADE & CO.
. Melbourne
The Best Place for Your Savings.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 19-23 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/-
4 % interest up to £5OO, and 3^ /o on any excess
to £lOOO.
PERSONAL, JOINT AND TRUST
ACCOUNTS OPENED.
153 Branches and 520 Agencies throughout the State.
f.
Man: this is the iron
the wife wants
—get it!
Haven’t you noticed how tired-out the wife is every ironing day—
after she has been toiling in the summer heat over hot stoves ana
with old-fashioned flat-irons?
It's not a fair thing.
WITH A
“SPOT-REVO” K™°
she’ll iron in cool comfort and convenience. She’ll finish her ironing
earlier. There’ll be no after-ironing tiredness; in short, ironing
will cease to be a drudgery and become a pleasure.
Then there are two other things it’s worth your while considering -
One: Dinner will always be on time on ironing day as other days
prepared with the care she likes to give it if the minutes permit,
and, two, your shirts, etc., will be ironed even better than tney
Sir —an ironmonger or electrician will supply you with a
“Spot-Revo.” Get after it to-day.
IT WILL COST
YOU ONLY
35
AND IT’S GUARANTEED
FOR THREE YEARS.
Wholesale from:
Homewood &. O’Neill Pty., Ltd.,
Head Office: 172-176 William St, Melbourne.
“Whipping behind caused boy’s death,”
says a sensational heading in Adelaide
Register (5/4/’22). But it wasn’t a case
of cruelty, after all: a boy was merely steal-
ing a ride on the back step of a tram-car and
was killed in getting off.
“Eddyson” wants another show: —
The Westminster Gazette, in suggesting that the
Australian Government should co-operate with the
Royal Academy to hold an Australian artists’ exhi-
bition in London, has caught an echo of
an agitation that has been going on at this
end for some time. Such an exhibition was
held in London about 25 years ago, when the
older exponents of Australian art were adequately
represented; now the artistic mind, prompted to
some extent by the inartistic pocket, has been turned
towards a similar display of our newer art. If
the Westminster Gazette’s espousal of the project
leads to active support from the Royal Academy, it
will only remain to inspire Hughes with some little
of the enthusiasm for art he rightly feels in the
cause of frozen meat, and the thing will be as
good as done.
But the new should go beyond the old: it should
be an exhibition also of Australian books. Australia
has turned out some particularly fine ones of late;
but such a display as I suggest might include the
cheap and efficacious novel as well as the art pro-
ductions of Louis McCubbin, and Ure Smith and the
late Bert Stevens, and Hassell, of Adelaide, the
idea being to awaken in the more alert Cockney in-
tellect some appreciation of the fact that we are
producing art as well as hides and tallow.
The Digger viewed his home and said:
“Young Esau for a mess of pottage
His birthright sold, but, strike me dead!
I’ve sold mine for a mess of cottage!”
TASMANIA. £!• h-
“O.K.”: My particular grouch is against
the high and still rising duties on asthma
remedies. There is no occasion to name the
best-known medicine sold in the bottle. It
is half a century old and is sent all over the
world from England. To the assertion that
the makers could open a factory in Australia
the reply is that they cater for more popu-
lous countries thousands of miles from home
by means of depots only. Then there is a
famous asthma powder the mixing whereof
is a trade secret —in America. It has been
going for 70 years, and the suggestion that
anybody in this country might form a syndi-
cate to-morrow for the manufacture of
exactly the same powder is mere pulling
of the public leg. The duty charged on that
powder is a tax on asthmatics. Finally I
will instance the herb grown in England by
a conservative firm of manufacturing-drug-
gists for smoking and inhaling. Everybody
who has tried it knows it to be wonderfully
effective. Certainly the herb is not native to
England; but the English chemists are the
recognised authors of the processes by which
the dried herb is prepared for market. There
is no reasonable possibility of a mixture
equally efficacious being created in Australia
in my time; hence my protest against the
excessive taxation of its users. The extra
taxation of the tobacco I smoke for pleasure
annoys me not at all; but the continual
raising of the cost of my relief from asthma
spasms makes me mad indeed !
“Gouger” has an idea: —
My mate and I have found, by hard experience,
that surface alluvial gold and the old alluvial beds
down to the bedrock slate or granite are played out.
But surely this does hot mean that all the alluvial
gold of Australia is exhausted. If so, this continent
must have been well behind the door when the yel-
low stuff was issued. I prefer to believe that most
of the gold with which Australia was endowed in
the beginning of things has never been struck. Well,
then, where is it? We are told that originally the
gold came up from the bowels of the earth, through
volcanic crevices, in the form of vapor, or else in
the pure molten state, where it united with quartz
and formed the gold-bearing reefs which are so
damned hard to find to-day. In the course of ages
rivers broke up these reefs and washed the gold into
the river-beds where we find it—sometimes.
Now, as to coal. We all know that coal is the
wood, etc., of bygone forests converted by the .press-
ure of layers of rock. Besides huge trees, the coal-
seams show the remains of shrubs and fresh-water
plants of dense tropical growth, also innumerable
fossils of shells, fish and land animals. This argues
clearly the one-time presence-of great rivers. Now,
where are the washstones of those rivers? I’ve never
heard of a river-bed yet without its washstones.
It’s among the washstones of the tropical rivers of
N.Q. and New Guinea that we get the gold to-day.
If we can find the missing washstones of those old
coal-seam rivers we may open up exhaustless fields
of new alluvial wealth. The washstones can’t be up
above the coal-seam because the coal-miners would
have worked through them when sinking their shafts.
Clearly the wash must be lower down beneath the
coal-reams. At least that’s my idea.
THE CRY OF YOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O wine of the savor of living, and wine of the body s
desi re,
Poured out with full measure of laughter and pride
of the brain’s quick’ning fire;
Ere the gods break my soul in their fingers and
shatter with laughter my breath,
Let my lips quaff their fill of your fragrance, and
Life go down drunken to Death 1
White moons —pools of pearl in clear heavens red
dawns with their tremulous rain,
Sough of trees when the green leaves kiss sharply,
and songs of the sea in her pain
Have I poured in a measure of beauty—white wine
of the vintage of God
That assuages with pale consolation the wounds of
His chastening rod.
But, oh! ere my golden breath flicker and fade In
a furnace of years,
While the rose of my being is perfumed with sweet
pangs of laughter and tears,
Delight and repentance and loving, fierce hunger and
sinning and hate,
Waft the fume of your wine to my nostrils, and 1
shall not cavil at fate!
For the peace of the pangless years turning from
nothing to nothing grows grim
With the thought of the rose-petals scattered, the
light in its vessel burnt dim.
Let me feel but your fullness, O Springtime, the
glory of knowledge be mine,
Till the savor and splendor of living fill me as a
beaker with wine!
N.S.W.
HELEN BURKE.


m
i
r
111
57
LUAfc
I
/p
\
\
ft
|®CVT
T
OKio
<?o
<>
S®
V
"REX”
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 133
A
r a/
ii
if
s
S 3
&?■ <
.. « i
*
■ j
5 Jit
SBtt
■
■
■■■■
#**— —■ *-J
Chocolates*
“/ do like my Daddy —
See what he's brought me
home."
One of the famous Bed Boxes:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-
amd 30/-
Mailed the day they are
made to any Address in
Australia—Post Free.
162-166 Pitt Street,
also Cr. George S King
Streets, SYDNEY.
Your Pocket Torch is Out-of-date
a
INEXHAUSTIBLE FLASH LAMP
THE HANDILITE is a new Magneto Flash Lamp, made in
England by the GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is inexhaustible, easy in operation and GENERATES
ITS OWN LIGHT by a simple operation of the lever*
THE HANDILITE requires no refills and is always in working
order.
Indispensable to the DOCTOR, MOTORIST,. SQUATTER,
BOUNDARY-RIDER, or anyone requiring a reliable, portable,
steady light available in any emergency.
THE FIRST COST IS THE ONLY EXPENSE.
Price 35/
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Storekeepers,
or direct from
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC Company Limited,
NEW SOUTH WALES, except Newcastle District —MAGNET HOUSE, 154-56 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE —London Bank Chambers, Scott and Bolton Streets.
VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA —MAGNET HOUSE, 590 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA —MAGNET HOUSE, 203-07 Murray Street, PERTH.
QUEENSLAND —Norman Bell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE. n irvrnii«
NEW ZEALAND—MAGNET HOUSE, 8 Willeston Street, WELLINGTON; 238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN.
TASMANIA Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone Co., Ltd., HOBART.
FlJl—Morris Hedstrom Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hand Mirror, highly
burnished plain design, bevelled-edged Mirror,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Stud Box, pure Silver-plated,
engraved Ribbon desig'n, Silk-lined, So/*
A. Saunders’ Shaving Cup and Brush, pure
Silver-plated, porcelain lining, 40/-
TOILET GIFTS
□
A. Saunders’ Shaving Stand,
pure Silver-plated, bevelled-
edged Mirror, £4/15/-
ms
m
gPi
m
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar, pure Silver-
plated Lid, engraved Ribbon design,
Crystal Glass Jar, 307-
Hair Tidy to match, 30/-
n
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, engraved Ribbon design, Silk-
lined, 70/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Silvei
Hair Brush, plain design,
finest-quality Bristles,
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Manicure Set, plain design, finest-
quality Instruments, £5 /10/ -
A. Saunders’ Silver-mounted Shoe Hook and Lift, in Silk-
lined Case, 15/6; with Glove Hook, 20/-
WRITE FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ Writing Attache Case, fitted with necessary
conveniences, £3.
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
All over the world the Hupmobile has the
reputation of being a remarkably g'ood car.
When it first appeared it immediately began
to make a name for itself as a value decidedly
better than the ordinary—and that good
name has never stopped spreading'.
IMPORTANT FEATURES:
Extra strong, rigid frame.
Two carburetter adjustments.
Pressure oil system feeding oil direct to bearings,
Soft operating clutch, with adjustable pedal.
Extra-long change-speed lever, with short, easy
throw.
Extra-long, semi-elliptic springs; chrome vanadium
leaves.
Semi-irreversible steering-gear; strong construc-
tion.
Detachable engine-head; easy to grind valves or
remove carbon.
Extreme roominess of tonneau and driving com-
partment.
Completeness and quality of equipment.
I. PIIIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne. . .
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pine
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, .LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


Amusement*
C Yl» N K Y’S CIII E F TIIEAT It E S.
'■* J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
CRITERION :
MY LADY’S DRESS.
ROYAL:
THE MAID OP THE MOUNTAINS.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAItEAN
PRODUCTION'S.
Australian Tour:
SYDNEY SEASON—GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Australasian Representative. HUGH D. WILSON,
17 'ihe Banking House. Pitt Street, Sydney.
J AND N. TAIT
* Present
THE IRISH PLAYERS
in
“A Play of All Periods and of All Lands,”
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY,
A Comedy in 3 Acts by Lennox Robinson,
WITH THE ORIGINAL ABBEY
THEATRE COMPANY,
Now in their sixth year and sixth country on their
triumphant world’s tour with
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY.
THREADS FROM LIFE’S STORY FASHIONED
INTO A BIT OF EXQUISITE IRISH LACE.
Delicate in shading,
droll and whimsical throughout,
and filled with
haunting wistfulness.
Striking one vibrant note upon our heart-strings.
Making harmonious the discord of ages.
ON SATURDAY, THE SIXTH OB’ MAY,
THE WHITE-HEADED BOY
at
THE PALACE THEATRE,
will meet ye, and though it be night-time itself— —
will wish ye
“THE TOP O’ THE MORNIN’.”
Firstnighters’ Seats as usual. Applications for pre-
liminary bookings now being received by the Manager
of the Palace Theatre. Plans open at Nicholson’s,
Monday week.
\A/ I R T H S ' CIRCUS
ww and
Menagerie of Performing Wild Animals.
THE HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE S'ATS. and WEDS., 2.30.
Children half-price.
This Year the Best Ever. Everything New.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
gyg ELBA Til EAT UK, .MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WHIM D find SFT.ZNICK.
Tenders.
TIIENDERS are invited, closing 17th May,
JL 10 r the purchase of the whole of the
Plant, Machinery, Stores, Tools and Build-
ings in one lot, or alternatively for any lot,
as detailed and set out in Schedule, compris-
ing: WATER TUBE and other BOILERS,
WINDING ENGINES and WINCHES,
AIR COMPRESSORS and ROCKDRILL-
ING EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS,
PUMPS, PIPING and BUILDINGS as and
where now lying at the mine, Cobar, New
South Wales.
Schedule supplied upon application to the
undersigned. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO.,
Solicitors.
Union Bank Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
4
A
6
<2^
Isn’t Vacation
Wonderful?
It would be wonderful if every
man could enjoy his introduction
to Mennen Shaving Cream on his
vacation —out in the open.
He’d get up when he felt like it
—no worry, no hours, no boss.
A bucket of water from the pond
—a rock to sit on where he could
watch the clouds drift over the
tree tops—then Mennen’s.
He’d be startled to find that cold
water works as well as hot, but the
crowning moment would be when
the razor starts clearing away the
underbrush. No sensation of cut-
ting—more like a gentle caress.
And afterwards, his face would
feel so balmy that his shaving
habits would be fixed—Mennen’s
forever!
(Mennen Salesman )
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 George Street, Sydney
James Smith's Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
_____ Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, ' LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MAUDE PANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS BENNISON in
JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN.
KINO’S THEATRE.
PHILLIPS TEAD and ELIZABETH DUNN in
THE FIRST YEAR,
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|y|A.IES’IIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE PENALTY.
PRODUCED BY GOLDWYN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
JOHN HALL. MELBOURN E.
3rd, sth, 6th, 9th and 11th MAY.
THE VERBRUGGHEN ORCHESTRA.
ANDRE SKALSKI, Conductor.
Prices: 7/6, 5/-, 3/-. Plans at Allan’s.
I_l OYT'S THEATRES, M I'll,ls<»U KNE.
" Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
WHEN BEARCAT WENT DRY.
featuring BERNARD DURNING.
HOOT GIBSON in
SURE FIRE.
Prices as usual.
gItITANNIA Til EAT It E, MELItOUBNK
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
m
C
CRAIG & AITKEN,
664 George St.,
SYDNEY.
The Plum Razov
HAS THE REAL SHAVING EDGE.
Made from the finest Sheffield Razor Steel,
tempered and ground to perfection—set and
finished ready for use by our own experienced
tradesmen.
Price 12/6.
PAIR IN PRESENTATION OC /
CASE, POST FREE, ' '
tsludes £in. and Jin. set ready for use, and guaranteed and kept
in order for two years free.
FOR SALE.
SHANKS’
MOTOR LAWN-MOWER
30in. 6-h.p. Water-cooled Engine,
fitted with all the latest appliances.
Further particulars :''
Apply G. H. BROWN,
McCATHIES LTD.,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Last Few Weeks.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
and
105 Other I’riiees valued at £BOO.
CLOSES MAY 23 and DRAWN MAY 20,
1922.
Winning numbers published In this
paper June 1, 1922.
1/- ONLY—TICKETS—ONLY 1/-
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughput the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, BLACKHEATH, N.S.W.
m
“f
M*
<£s?
r
3L
m
&
m
e.
: S
N
n
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x
10 ft. 6 in.; 9 ft. x 9 ft.;
9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
'V'goldW
SEAL
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR YOUR MONEY BACK
REMOVE SEAL WITH
DAMP CLOTH
"'•O I ™ CONOOLtU*' 1 1
That Well Furnished Appearance
Discerning purchasers require
a floor-covering handsome in ap-
pearance, absolutely waterproof,
sanitary, and durable at a low
cost.
Gold-Seal Gongoleum Art
Squares are the only floor-cover-
ings which embody all these ad-
vantages and unlike woven
Gold Seal
(ongoleum
rugs can be mopped clean in a
moment.
Their handy sizes and rich color-
ings make them appropriate for
every room in the house. No
fastening of any kind is required;
they lie perfectly flat and cannot
curl or “ kick-up ” at the edges.
The Congoleum Gold-Seal is
your protection when you buy.
At all leading stores
or write
BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Gr. King and Kent Streets,
Sydney
Congoleum Representatives for Australia


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
King IV
4*
tHE'tOP NOTCH”scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
■iiWiifl T -in— vmmmmmm —bw—■ mm ■ mm ■——— '■■■■* ■ I^l-
-
iuoai\ mo
comfoi't and
Do tvoi;
take a substitute
All Mercers
a
fS- E 8
&
a
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl’’
Criterion » “My Lady’s Dress’’
Royal “The Maid of the Mountains”
Grand Opera House Shakspearean Productions
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Royal "Johnny Get Your Gun”
King’s “The First Year”
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
To-night (Thursday) and to-morrow will see
the last of the Sistine Choir at Melbourne
Town Hall. None of the reputation which
the 50 men and boys brought with them
has been lost during their strenuous first
fortnight. Divested of all the majesty
of its natural church environment, the
unaccompanied singing of the Sistines
is charming in the perfection of its art in
pianissimo effects, or astonishing in his
organ-like volume of sound when all the
voices are in full tongue. Faint impressions
of monotony as the evening advances are
dispelled almost as soon as felt, for the
longest number has stimulating turns of
melody, and the finales are unfailingly im-
pressive. Certain items have asserted par-
ticular popularity, of course, the picks of
several programmes last week being the_o
Salutaris, Benedictus and the Alleluia, with
a second choir of 10 stationed in the south
gallery. But these compositions by Perosi
are not more finely rendered than heavier
works in the repertory. The occasional
star solo that one gets in an oratorio or an
anthem is missed ; nor do the boy sopranos
count for as much as people in general ex-
pected. Nevertheless, the fact remains that
the famous choir is a wonderful novelty
in concert entertainment: wonderfully con-
ducted, and nearly as pleasing to the pro-
fane as to the pious.
sk * * *
Further inspection of “Spangles” at Mel-
bourne Palace supports the conclusion that
the weakness of the salad is not in the dress-
ing. The first scene, representing a winter
resort, is merely an excuse for the exposure
of Ada lieeve’s vivacity as a diamond-
snatcher disguised as a duchess. Gus
McNaughton is not altogether blameless for
the failure of some of the episodes in which
the leading lady participates. He lacks
what the pugs call “devil.” The (rela-
tively) funniest item on the programme is
still the grocer’s shop wherein the patter is
warbled with bogus operatic effects. The
principal jester in the disturbance is Harry
Gould, who provides the active hinder region
of the panto, elephant at the end of the
first act.
* * *
“The First Year,” at Melbourne King’s,
is still proving that a great financier can
“The First Year,"
Melbourne King's.
Phillips Tend as
Thomas Tucker.
be born with the
mirthful name of
Tom m y Tucker.
No suggestion of
Tommy’s abound-
ing brilliancy as a
dollar-getter a p-
pears in the first
act, where he sues
for the hand of
Grace Livingston
in an inconspicu-
ous small town
manner. His
genius is disclosed
in the second
spasm, where he is
heavily fortified
for a real-estate
deal with a pro-
cession of gin
cocktails. The im-
pression derived
from this phase of
his career is that
insobriety sharp-
ens the commercial
intellect; to which
extent the show
may be regarded
as useful anti-pro-
hibition pro p a-
ganda.
“Johnny (let
Your Gun” has
only another week
at Melbourne
Royal. The ques-
tion as to whether Louis Bennison
can impersonate any other sort of char-
acter than a swanking- gawk must be
indefinitely postponed in Melbourne.
“Johnny,” it seems, is booked for Sydney
and elsewhere.
## * *
“A Night Out” at Melbourne Majesty’s
will celebrate its 100th performance on
Friday this week. Photographs of Maud
Fane will be distributed broadcast on that
occasion, and Maud, since she lost the super-
fluous flesh which embuxomed her at the
outset of the season, ought to make a very
pretty photo.
:*< ss:
At Melbourne Tivoli the sentimental bal-
lads and familiar wheezes of Talbot O’Far-
rell continue to be rivalled in popularity by
the ragtime revelries of the Two Rascals;
whilst the Lottos, the Franjacks and other
people happen at duty’s call.
* * * *
Iloot Gibson is the latest cowboy hero at
Hoyt’s, Melbourne. He is the enemy of
peace and repose in “Sure Fire,” in which
he takes a certificate for gunnery in hand-
ling a bad man and a team of bandits.
“When ‘Bearcat’ went Dry,” screened by the
same management, would be tame if the
revolver had never been invented. However,
there is a Cold Tea moral about the film
which presumably compensates for the gun-
powder display. Virginia Pearson in “Im-
possible Catherine” is a brighter entertain-
ment, because the lady is charming—even
in the tantrums that give her a shrewish
prominence in the yarn. Majestic supporters
are registering a vote of confidence in Will
Rogers as “Honest Hutch.” Also there is
strong faith in the value of “A Lunatic at
Large” as a cure for melancholia. Chrissie
White and Henry Edwards are the leads in
a frenzy of lavish love-making and head-
long matrimany. Louise Glaum gleams in
“Greater than Love” at the Britannia. The
Melba’s prevailing passion is William S.
Hart, who, in “White Oak,” demonstrates
the usual hand of iron and heart of gold.
** * *
Conductor Joseph Bradley got the Phil-
harmonics floated on a sea of music last
week, and the Town Hall rocked again to the
surge of Wagner’s “Flying Dutchman.” A
feature of the performance was the singing
of Gladys Cole, who, as the sacrificing
Senta, was sympathetic and fervent as neces-
sity arose, and used her sparkling voice with
more than usual discretion. Robert Harper
was equally happy as Erik.
* * * *
It is hard to classify M. W. O’Connell,
who is giving his first big show of water-
colors at Melbourne Athenaeum. He seems
artistically related to Blamire Young and the
Japanese, but there are eccentricities in
his work which are either wilful challenges to
the academicians or crude strivinsrs sf f '-
effect. One can’t look at his “La Victoire”
without thinking that he has sacrificed
sanity to an unbalanced imagination. At a
distance the picture might be a pass 4 Futur-
istic effort, but closer inspection reveals a
dim galley, shields and a number of strange
figures crowded into a mosaic of fiat tones
carrying no suggestion of depth or per-
spective. The painting of the. human figure
is not the artist’s strong suit. He fails to
make even a pardonable design of “Venus
and Mars,” and the group on the wharf in
“Departure of the Early Immigrants” is
far less captivating than the solid vessel in
the background. In his landscape a sense
of poetry is fitfully demonstrated, and there
are gleams of color, as in “Halvcon Davs”
and in the pastel of the red-sailed boat (No.
9), that hint of greater performances later
on. Summed up, O’Connell is at +
rather irritating, but far more interesting
than a number of better-known dabblers in
his particular media.
** * *
A feature of the reappearance lof the
Verbrugghen Orchestra at Melbourne Town
Hall on May 3 will be the much discussed
Andrd Skalski, clutching the baton that
Verbrugghen waved with such graceful virtu-
osity.
** * *
At Adelaide King’s, where Daisy Yates
has been dancing charmingly, some other
echoes of pantomine are among the best
turns; Edgley and Dawe continue to be
funny, and Jennings and Gerald have some
cross talk which is new. The Royal finds
Nicola sufficient attraction ; his illusions are
unfathomable by the ordinary theatregoer,
and he gets the last ounce out of them b-
skilful showmanship. A bright thing in
pictures is little Jackie Coogan at the York,
as a lad who puts ants in his father’s pants ;
and by way of collaboration he has a
singularly clever dog. Harold Lloyd at
Wondergraph, in, under and on top of a
train, rivals Chaplin; and West’s has a
British production for once. The Oaltbank
steeplechase also screens well, as usual.
The spoken drama has started a winter
season at the Prince of Wales. Victor Fitz-
herbert comes back to his steady job as
villain, his main villainy in “One Law for
Both” being to force John Kirby and Agnes
Dobson'into each others’ arms, leaving them
to hunt for a parson later.
** * *
Toscha Seidel attracted a packed audi-
ence at Sydney Town Hall on Satur-
day night. Heifetz made his appeal
through the passionless strain of his
music. Tosclia’s fiddle is a more intimate
instrument. It’s a thing of heartache and
pang and irresponsible gaiety. Toscha faces
his audience with tight shut eyes, growing
red about the gills, rather like the baby
in the bath who is warned not to let the
soapsuds into its eyes. He sways to the
rhythm of his music so that his coat-tails
act as a fan to his lower extremities. The
programme opened with the rarely-heard
Vitali-Charlier Chaconne, played with a
roundness of tone and dignity that impressed
the audience and produced a storm of re-
calls. When the bow got to work on The
Mendelssohn Concerto in E minor, romance
poetry cropped out like primroses in
a Northern spring; and indeed the Andante
Movement was perfection. Beethoven’s
Romance in G major, the Brahms-Joachim
Hungarian Dance, and the Schubert-Ivreis-
ler ballet music from (Rosamunde) had to
be followed by no fewer than five extras,
“A LITTLE
DUTCH GIRL ”
AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
George Gee as Captain Poscit in a moment
of dancing madness.
which included the Beethoven-Auer “Tur-
kish March” and the very popular Schubert
Ave Maria.
** * *
Whatever Elizabethan first-nighters may
have said after the final curtain of “Mid-
summer Night's Dream” on Saturday, Syd-
ney Opera House audiences rocked with
laughter to the adventures of Bottom the
Weaver, and the rest of the play didn’t
seem to matter much. Wilkie, as the oafish
egotist, was sublime, and in his own thorough
enjoyment of the lamentable comedy of
Thisbe and Pyramus wrung a crescendo of
farce from his fellow-yokels in the cast.
Plumpton Wilson, as Starveling, the tailor,
wore an astonishing makeup that made him
look like a kindly but half-witted ghost,
and again came an easy second to Wilkie
in characterisation. Pamela Travers, made
a winsome Titania; but her lover, Oberon
(Leslie Manners), was a wordy fellow whose
henchman Puck (Vera St. John) was much
too shrill in tone. Roy Workman and
Robert Purdie were the dashing Athenian
blades who finally paired off with Helena
(Hilda Dorrington) and Hermia (Lorna
Forbes). Other heavyweights in the gossa-
mer net were Augustus Neville’s Theseus
and Mona Duval’s Hippolyta.
* * * #
“The Taming of the Shrew” occupied the
beginning of the week. The Katharina of
Hilda Dorrington put up no great opposition
once Petruchio (Allan Wilkie) had told her
roundly she wasn’t a perfect lady. She
probably never recovered from the shock of
the wedding garbage worn by her bride-
groom and his man Grumio. This was a
thing of ludicrous rags and tatters whose
crowning glory was a euchre hand standing
pridefully aloft in Grumio’s cap. Wilkie’s
Petruchio isn’t a very violent fellow. He
might be described as a matrimonial dry
Martini, likely to give a fillip of bitterness
while leaving no sourness to the matrimonial
tenure. Lorna Forbes was a sweet-voiced
Bianca who played her suitors, the upstand-
ing Lucentio (Leslie Manners), the fatuous
Hortensio (Hamilton Henry) and the thy-
roid-gland candidate Gremio (Roy Work-
man) with an ease and an adroit com-
placence understandingly maddening to
Katharina. Augustus Neville was Baptista,
the father of the two belles of Padua, and
Jack Lennon as Yincentio looked as though
he carried all the weight of the leaning tower
of his native city of Pisa.
S* * *
The Alliance Francaise opened its season
with “Le Retour” at Sydney Playhouse on
Saturday night. This is a four-act comedy
by de Flers and de Croisset, which has been
one of the successes of post-war Paris. It
is a sparkling story of a young wife, Colette
Vandieres, who experts her soldier husband,
Jacques, who has done so bravely in the war
and written to her so passionately, to return
quite changed from the pedant who went
away. “A husband went away but a lover
returns,” she informs her mother thrillingly,
and then enters the husband whose one desire
is to slip back to the former stagnation of
humdrum life—his slippers, his books, his
middle-aged friends. How Colette (Henri-
ette Segaert) clamors for divorce, aided and
abetted by a match-making mother (Miss
I’ognon), and how the hectored husband
(Belgian Consul Segaert) agrees on condition
that he chooses No. 2 from his own circle
of friends, was told in the most sprightly
and natural manner by this group oi vivaci-
ous amateurs. Henriette Segaert, the young
daughter of the Consul, revealed a
taste for comedy, a prettily-modulated voice,
and a rapid succession of striking frocks.
Miss Pognon, as the volatile mamma, was
inimitable. French Consul-General Cam-
pana played the difficult role of the rather
doddering Balthazar friend of the family in
love with Colette. Mr. Dulieu was a pre-
sentable naval officer who nearly became the
home wrecker, and small parts were filled by
A. Campe, Marie Playoust and Mrs. Canipe.
** * *
Owing to the crowds that have been
trying to jam into the Sydney Hippodrone
to see the “Greatest Show on Earth,” Ah
Foo and his cobbers have been jostled clean
off the Haymarket pavements. From the
other side of the Markets come plaintive
cries of “Whaffor?” but the Wirths only
smile inscrutably and continue to rake in
the cash.
* * * *
The good impression made by “A Little
Dutch Girl” on the City of Culture has been
continued by the City of Pleasure, where
the lady has taken up her quarters at Her
Majesty’s. And presumably Sheila Gale,
who had to fill another role in another
play at short notice, will get her chance pre-
sently.
if- * * *
If there is anyone in Sydney who hasn’t
seen “The Maid of the Mountains,” now at
the Royal, there are only six more nights
in which the omission may be rectified.
* * *-
Emelie Polini and Eily Malyon still serve
strenuous apprenticeships to every registered
trade at Sydney Criterion, while Frank Har-
vey continues to gnash his teeth over the
cost of “My Lady’s Dress.”
* * * *
In the Picture Show world Sydney Crystal
Palace is wringing a tear from every feeling
eye with “Squibs,” the story of a slum-child
■win cooks, washes and mends for a brutal
dad and a flighty sister till her rocket-like
social ascent concludes with marriage into
the police force. The Haymarket features
“Red Hot Romance.” It tells insurance can-
vassers how, in a S. American revolution,
they may save any presidents to whom they
have sold life-policies. Mary Pickford is
at the Strand in “Pollyanna.” “Polly-
anna,” who in less experienced hands would
be extremely trying, is a child born to be
a little sunbeam in the home. Three fight-
ing-men cause a dust-up at the Lyceum, and
the neighborhood can’t do much about it. as
“A LITTLE
DUTCH GIRL,”
AT SYDNEY
HER
MAJESTY’S.
Hughie Steyne as a comic Lord Chamberlain.
they are reported dead. The title of the
film is “The Three -Live Ghosts.”
* * * *
The blithesome Tivoli Frolics will con-
tinue to knock the last ounce of mirth out
of “All the Winners” until Saturday next.
Then the demolition party will get to work
on Chinatown and the mannequins will par-
ade no more. All is not gloom however,
for the Frolics propose to perpetuate their
good work in a new show.


M
U
H
m
i
M
i
Consider the successful business and public men you
know ; 99 per cent, of them are convincing talkers.
Let any two men start off in business life together with
equal opportunities, except that only one is a convinc-
ingi>Jr‘k er- U f Tore long he will “get there.” Success
MUSI come his way. The other man, handicapped by
lack of the mastery of speech, strives and strives, but
somehow, in most cases, fails.
The convincing talker, the man who has cultivated the
power of speech, can talk to any man at any time, and
"L exaotly . t, 11 * 5 ri » ht wa y> which means that ultimately he most likely will
nterally taik himself into riches, fame and power.
Present position in life depends upon speech—upon what you say and how you say it. Just how
*; v nleans t° you, you exactly know only if you are already, a convincing talker. But if
y °“ ?f e not y° u su rely realise what a tremendous help fluent and correct speech would mean to
examinaHon ° f Y °v? the secret. It is yours free, for a perusal and careful
, * 0f ‘ Mastery of Speech,” by Frederick Law, Ph.D., will reveal to you how you
conscientious study in your spare time, with ease, become a convincing talker. “Mastery
If vou e desiri C tT P 6te "J 8 b ° und ? a / ts) wil \ 'u sent you free for 3 days ’ examination and us A
it you desire to, you return the set to us and there the matter ends; or you forward us £“> 2s
in full payment. « u*
ne'ver 3 is . all . V7e .? laim lt ' unle f s uis great value to you, this offer would
hwL b n,ad e- As it is, it protects you, for you make absolutely sure you can benefit
could be° made ab°out yo anyt P hing. a “ 13 yOUr guarantee - the t binding guarantee that
Fill in the coupon given below and post it to-day. At once we will forward you the
MASTERY OF SPEECH
By FREDERICK LAW, Ph.D.
The Complete Set of 8 Bound Parts sent you for Three Days’ Use FREE
THE COURSE OF STUDY. BOOK ONE: How to Speak Correctly and Pleasingly BOOK TWO •
BOOK°FonB W °H S C ri Ct \ T S UEK: t0 T S P eak Wei ‘ Under AH Sar? Condi™!
BOOK FOUR; How to Speak in Daily Business Life. BOOK FIVE: llow to Sneak Under Trviiw
Conditions. BOOK SIX: How to Speak in Private Life and in Public Places. BOOK
How to Speak on Public Occasions. •
BOOK EIGHT: How to Find Material
for Talking and Speaking.
THE S. A. BOOR CO. LTD..
Edwards’ Buildings,
178 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
gr
SEND NO MONEY
Th/sCoupon/osledNow
wf/hr/ng you}fie
COMPLETE COURSE FREE!
FREE OFFER COUPON.
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
178 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
On the distinct understanding that 1 can use
and examine it for three days free of charge , and
that I can return it to you with absolutely no
obligation if I wish to, please send me your
complete Frederick Law’s “Mastery of Speech”
(in eight lessons, separately bound). After three
days l will either send the set back to you or
forward you the complete purchase price of two
guineas ( £2/2/-)
Name
Address
E.1—13/4/'22.
Lfr^J
A Camera suited to
the needs of the
Expert, Amateur
or the
Casual Snapshotter.
Price,
with Modico
Anastigmat
Lens F 7.5,
£6
Postage within
each State, 1/-
Xshe
Ansco
Vest Pocket
Camera No. 2
For Roll Films—Daylight Loading.
A real Camera, with the refinements
desired by the expert, yet simple,
sure and swift in operation.
It is so small and light you can carry
it with you always, yet it takes
pictures 2\ x 3 4.
From the clear sharp negatives
beautiful enlargements may be made
to any desired size.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
206 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The House for
Good Cameras,
a
YOUR
WIFE
a
is busy the whole day long. A Mother’s work seems never-ending. The children must be got ready for school, house-
work has to be attended to, and the dinner ready when you come Home.
Don’t you think she is entitled to some recreation after the usual day’s work?
GIVE HER MUSIC.
Next to a Mother s influence in the Home—perhaps Music comes next. It will keep your family together more than
anything else and, after all, Home influence is the chief factor in making our children the men and women of to-morrow.
PAJLING’S
Pianos and Player Pianos will give you the needed recreation. You need not be a musician to produce with a
Player Piano the best of all music. A Chopin Nocturne will soothe you or a Liszt Rhapsody fire your imagination
with its majestic harmony. If you do not lean to the Classics there is always the lilting melody of the latest Waltz at
your disposal, or the popular Foxtrot or One-step.
Call in and hear our glorious Player Pianos—you will be delighted with them.
Sold on Easy Terms.
Catalogues Eire Free.
SYDNEY.


CAUSTIC SODA
Electrolytic—32 per cent. N a 2o.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID-
Guaranteed chemically pure
Commercial, 33%.
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
POWDERED CAUSTIC, Pure.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE.
SULPHUR MONOCHLORfDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%.
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
BLEACHING POWDER.
98/99 per cent. MANUFACTURED BY
THE MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE, VICTORIA.
ALL YOU DESIRE
in a razor will be found in a
UPLE
URHAM
Safe Razor
The first time you use it
you will be surprised at the
ease with which it glides
over the face.
à
á
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-dav —ask Idm to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances —then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation!
POVERTY
POINT
“Y.Z.”: The tall, shaven theatrical
genius with the hollows in his cheeks deep
enough for eggeups, kept pounding the bar
counter and reiterating: “Best actor of my
day, sir!” Whereat the shorter, fatter pro.,
\vith the blue jowl, comforted and corrobo-
rated, “Yes, you were, Dick. You were.”
Suddenly the long person rounded on his
friend. “Yes, you were,” he repeated trucu-
lently : “Were, were. What do you mean
by were?” The other held himself erect and
looked stern. “You were Dick,” he said
gravely. “I am.”
“Silas”: Oily Deering was doing comic
stuff in a peripatetic theatrical company
that went all to bits in the Beechworth dis-
trict (Vic.). The pangs of hunger impelled
him to take on a job as cook to a gang of
pile cutters. The axemen found him a treasure.
They raised his wages after two days, built
him a comfortable hut, furnished it and made
his credit good at the nearest store. Deer-
ing, dubbed “Bert,” stayed with the pile-
getters three months, and then, having
something of a cheque, and feeling the urge
of Art strong within him, fled back to
Melbourne. He was playing the bad Baron
in a pantomime at the Royal, and the show
had gone into Act 2 Avhen, after a particu-
larly trying effort, the comedian heard him-
VIOLINIST
TOSCHA
SEIDED
self greeted by a tamiliar voice from the
gallery. “Ah, Bert, ole boy,” it roared,
“better come back to the cookin’.”
“T.W.”: That illusion to Benno Scherek’s
fortuitous descent on Melbourne (B.
13/4/’22) reminds me that, on the surface,
Benno is exactly the same age now as when
I first encountered him in Dunedin in the
early ’nineties. The Dunediners fussed over
him as a fatted prodigal, for he returned to
them as solo key-whacker with Camilla
Urso, plainest of women but divine violinist,
and Clementine de Vere Sapio, the soprano,
whose husband used to play accompaniments.
Scherek had formerly been organist of St.
Joseph’s R.C. Cathedral, in Dunedin. In
Melbourne he was made locally illustrious
by Davison Symmons in “Benno on the
Bike.”
“Machete”: The Grand Guignol players
continue to thrill Cockaigne. Their latest
is a cheerful spasm entitled “The Regiment.
The regiment, an East Prussian formation,
is to be inoculated with anti-influenza vac-
cine, but a moody Polish recruit substitutes
tubes of rabies culture and 2000 jackbooted
victims of hydrophobia bark and howl dismally
in chorus. 'When the fell truth is discovered
they are surrounded by other regiments of
ordinary Huns and shot down Avith machine-
guns, howling and barking to the end. And
after this bright and pleasant finale a critic
sourly complains that “2000 men barking
and howling in the madness of hydrophobia
would hai r e made more noise than the Grand
Guignol producers afforded.” Some people
are nei r er satisfied.
“Aisle Seat”: The £35,000 deal which
gave the Fullers control of the Victoria
Theatre, Newcastle (N.S.W.) incidentally
permitted the former proprietor, Reuben
Baker, to get out of the game. Baker is
establishing himself on a model farm near
Sydney, where, far from the maddening jazz
crowder and serio-comic, he will indulge his
hobby—the study of psychology. He is pro-
bably the only man on record Avho volun-
tarily surrendered the license of a payable
pub.
“Iloyce Rolls”: Paralysing is the origin-
ali t y of these
American drama-
tis ts. In “The
First Year,” at
Melbourne King’s,
the young Yankee
h ero makes his
forchin by the
simple expedient of
buying a lump of
land and selling it
at a profit to a
railroad company
—a motif that was
used in “T he
Laughter of Fools”
and many other
plays before it.
Then again the
brown slavey, who
is introduced into
the second act of
“The First Year”
to cheer up the
proceedings with
artless nigger joco-
sities, is com-
pelled by the tra-
dition that pre-
vails in these inat-
ters to break
crockery. As she
has to send a veg-
etable dish crash-
ing every night.
“The First Year,”
Melbourne King’s.
Elizabeth Dunn as
Hattie.
the effect on the Firm’s cash-box can well
be imagined. However, a compromise has
been arranged, and the Taits can now listen
to the evening catastrophe without shud-
dering. Hattie, the maid, only lifts the dish
in a reckless manner, and as she goes off
a stagehand gives a pardonable imitation of
a priceless bit of china smashing to frag-
ments.
“B.”: Louis Esson has secured George
Dawe for the name-part in his production
of “The Battler,” at Melbourne Playhouse.
Dawe has had considerable experience in
Australia and London. He started as an
amateur with the Melbourne Uni. Dramatic
Club and appeared in two or three plays by
Shaw and Galsworthy, doing good work as
Jones in Galsworthy’s “Silver Box.” Becom-
ing a pro., he tried a long course of melo-
drama with Marlow and Anderson, and for
a while sparkled in light farce under Wil-
loughby and Mclntosh. In London he had
excellent engagements at the Globe and
Alhambra, but when the Kaiser broke loose
he dropped the greasepaint for the Flanders
drama.
“Second Murderer”: Young Bangs had
been on countless times as a citizen, a bush-
ranger, a villager, a courtier or a smuggler,
and had played “murmurs off” more than
once. But he had a soul above such work.
Dampier was putting up “Hamlet,” and
Alf Rolfe, his son-in-law and stage-manager,
was pestered by Bangs for a part. “Righto !”
said Rolfe at last, “you shall play Marshal
Stork.” The ambitious “props” was de-
lighted. “’Oo is this ’ere Marshal?” he
asked of everybody. Nobody knew, until
kindly old Ned Holloway, who played the
ghost, broke the joke to him gently, “Don’t
you know, laddie, what Marcellus says in
the first .scene ?:
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.”
“Oh, thanks, Mister ’Olloway,” said the en-
lightened Bangs, “wot kind of a uniform do
I wear?”
“Norbeli”: Discussing the grip of the
moving-picture habit on Australia, London
Times asserts that “the cinema has made
its way to outback hamlets where no tour-
ing companies in the country would dream
of adventuring.” Nonsense! Before the
cinema came strolling players were as plen-
tiful as mortgages out back. And they didn’t
dream: they suffered endless nightmares
founded on the fact that they had to go
everywhere, from Tallygaroopna to the Dar-
ling woolsheds. Dampier, Ned Holloway,
Charles Holloway, Maggie Moore, Grattan
Riggs and others explored the smalls long
before the day of the _pitchers. I went with
Dampier on a navvies’ train from Narrabri
to Moree before the railway was opened, and
played in “Robbery Under Arms” by candle-
light on an earthen floor in a slied. I’ve
seen Harcourt Beatty, as King Charles 11.,
dressing in a cowshed, and the Nero of an
itinerant “Sign of the Cross” co. making
up in a smaller and even more lowly out-
house. And that is since the films broke
loose. A few years ago I was on the road
in Queensland with n company of eight. We
played Legume, Wyreema, Milmerran, Auga-
thella, Jericho, Marmor, Montville, Palm-
Woods, Miriam Vale, Emu Vale, Mount
Larcom and Duaringa. I didn’t notice
many symptoms of the cinema in those
places—nor anything else, much.
“W. 8.”; Wiils didn’t write “Cromwell”
(B. 30/3/’22). I saw his “Charles the First”
at London Lyceum, with Irving as the King
and Geo. Belmore as Oliver, but “Cromwell”
was written by Col. Richards to give the
public of that day an opportunity of realis-
ing Noll’s true character. When the play
was produced its republican sentiments
aroused indignation in influential quarters,
and its withdrawal followed. Richards was
at that time colonel of the old 3rd City of
London Rifle Volunteers and proprietor, or
part-proprietor, of the Morning Adver-
tiser.
_ “Hamfat”: “Orb,” in referring to his re-
discovery of “Jimmy” Martin as verger of
a suburban church (B. 13/4/’22), over-
looks the ancient thespian’s work in pictures
since he left the stage years ago. In “Ginger
Mick” he made a sympathetic appearance
as the parson who broke the news of the
Digger’s death to his tart. Some time before,
while picturising for Spencer’s, he was acci-
dentally shot, but pulled through. Amongst
other experiences in a varied life he has
been a pastoralist in Queensland: he was
rich one year, and was driven out by
drought, fire and flood, practically broke,
the next.
_ “E.F.” : Doubtless a few thousand apolo-
gies are due to Marjorie Bennett from the
person who accused her of being Juliet to
Nellie Stewart’s Romeo at a recent Mel-
bourne matinee. I am the person, and I
know that the mistake was unpardonable,
in the face of programme and advertisement
on the day. But previously Marjorie Ben-
nett had been announced as the girl who
would Juliet to the other lady’s Romeo,
and nothing in the way of unconvincing
Juliets has seemed impossible to charming
comedy ladies from America —via Australia
or other countries. The fact that Miss
Kathleen Pelham presented a Juliet almost
as blonde as Marjorie Bennett cannot be
held wholly responsible for the misunder-
standing. It was rather that the somewhat
large-featured angel who eventually stepped
in where Miss Bennett had declined to tread
was positively the most skittish Juliet on
record. Such a way of playing the part,
with herself trying to disguise her natural
voice because she was talking Shakspeare,
and the limelight playing pranks with her
profile, might have been the indiscretion of
Marjorie Bennett, methought. I was sorry
for her under that sad misapprehension, and
I felt like forgiving her for the sake of the
one famous American Juliet (Mary Ander-
son) who, in the long ago, was the model
for the only Australian Juliet this country
ever enthused over —viz., Essie Jenyns. It
seems I was wrong. I ought to have felt
sorry for Miss Kathleen Pelham.
“0.K.”; As an entertainment the Sistine
Choir owes not a little to the platform
figure and style of its conductor, apart from
his genius for his work. The ardent musi-
cian in Monsignor Rella appeals to mixed
audiences. He stands between the two divi-
sions of the choir, and the capacious back
view of his red splendor, with a rich lace
overskirt and pants peeping from beneath
the cassock, suggest the Scarlet Woman
with every tang of Orange bitterness ex-
tracted from the term. He’s the right pic-
ture in the right place as he conducts the
choir or rests between pieces in a majestic
armchair turned sideways to the audience.
Meanwhile his gestures in acknowledgment
of applause have somehow reminded one of
the traditional jolly friar of old French
comic opera. It is when he faces the public
and beams and talks silently with his hands
that Monsignor seems to cast off his finery
and assume a long brown overall, with a
thick cord girdle round the place where a
waist ought to be. He becomes a stage monk
or lay brother rather than a real Monsignor
He belongs to the Offenbach period, and
somehow sets one thinking of Brother Some-
body who used to sing a solo whilst conduct-
ing the monastery wine-cellar in the second
act. '
“Eddyson”: Byblow’s Dramatic Co. was
showing at Smeaton (Vic.) in the days
when Smeaton was a thriving minim centre.
The co. had secured a shed at the back of a
pub and had converted it into a hall, with
sitting accommodation for about £3O. The
first night’s effort was poorly attended. The
Wirths’ Circus at
Sydney Hippo-
drome.
Mighty Muldoon
and clown Dan
Goslin.
second night was worse. In fact, when
the start was almost due there were two
people in the seats —a man and his wife.
Byblow in the bitterness of his spir.t went
and sat next his two patrons, and engaged
them in conversation. “What did you come
for?” said he in a vein of thickly-disguised
sarcasm. “I dunno,” was the reply of the
man. “The fact is I found two tickets
someone had thrown away, and I thought
there might be a chance of gettin’ me money
back.”
“Pitt Streeter”: An imported mummer
giving evidence at Sydney Central Police
Court emphasised the fact that he was a
“comedian,” not an “actor.” “Is there any
difference?” asked the surprised beak. “Oh.
yes: a comedian gets more money than an
actor—thank God!” And yet, we are told,
there was never a comedian who didn’t want
to play Hamlet! It must be the love of
lucre characteristic of the tribe that nearly
always prevents the malign ambition being
realised —thank God !
“J.H.” (Lond.) : The success in London
of “The Lady of the Rose,” the first Vien-
nese light opera produced since the war,
seems to be upsetting one or two English
composers who are howling about “lack of
patriotism.” The truth is, of course, that
for four or five years English composers of
light opera have had the field to themselves,
and the measure of their success is a long
list of dud musical shows. The Viennese
light operas, as the Manchester Guardian
says, are written with a serious musical
tradition behind them, while in England
“light music is still regarded largely as a
means to efficient digestion.” Moreover,
L'ehar, Strauss and others write their own
orchestral parts. They do not commission
hacks to arrange their piano score for the
band. When English composers take their
art as seriously there may appear another
Sullivan or German. Meanwhile howls about
lack of patriotism won’t move the stonv
hearts of the new-rich cotton magnates of
the “Jimmy” White type, who are now
putting the legitimate producer out of busi-
ness.
“T. 0.1.”: Melbourne’s very first theatre
was a wooden building, put up by a com-
mittee of citizens, C. H. Ebden being one;
but as its management was not a success
John Thomas Smith built the Queen’s.
Smith at the time was keeping the Adelphi
Hotel, in Flinders-lane, into which he had
been put by his father-in-law, Michael
Pender.
PROUD HUMILITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We staged Devoy’s “The Native Youth,”
An Austral drama, of to-day,
Which dealt with homely bush life. Struth !
How did the public stay away!
The first night was extremely bad.
’Twas very plain the local push
No sympathy at present had
For stirring dramas of the bush.
The second night was even worse—•
An empty circle, empty stalls.
Next night the hapless author’s curse
Rebounded from the theatre walls.
He went into the cold, wet night.
It was enough to make you weep.
The street crowd drifted in full flight,
The ticket-takers were asleep.
Then came one man who cocked an eye
Upon the bill. He wished to know
Of poor DeA r oy, who shivered nigh,
How much it was to see the shOAV.
The author fixed him with a grin.
“Nay, nay, old chap,” he paused to say.
“What will you charge for coming in—■
It’s only an Australian play!”
VICTOIUA.
STARGAZER.
THE FREE LIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once on a time I took delight,
And felt a splendid glow,
At having, as a critic’s right,
At any place, on any night,
The run of every show.
A glorious boon, it seemed to me,
The privilege of going free.
These times, when I am rather staid,
I take another view.
I like not plays by Yankees made,
Nor do I like the way they’re played,
I hate the new revue.
So I am just as pleased to-day
T >i being free to stay away!
VICTORIA.
Y.Z.


COMFORT and CONVENIENCE
For Country and City Homes.
Earthenware Basins for Corner
Fitting:.
I
?555
Pore. Enamelled Wash Basins in wide
variety.
CONTENTMENT and Home Happiness can be
induced in no better way than with these modern,
convenient and labor-saving Fittings for Bath-
room, Kitchen, Laundry and Lavatory.
In these respects the Country Home can be quite
as up-to-date as that of the City, as we have Fittings
for all purposes—quite independent of Gas, Water or
Sewerage services.
OF PARTICULAR INTEREST
TO COUNTRY VISITORS
is the exceptionally fine display of Up-to-date Hard-
ware Fittings now being shown at our new Pitt Street
Showrooms.
THE ITEMS
Are an Education in Good Value
and include Porcelain Enam. Baths and Wash Basins,
Concrete Baths and Wash Tubs, Fuel Stoves, Boilers,
Coppers and Sanitary Fittings.
Our Price Lists, with full particulars of Fittings, are
being posted to all parts of Australia.
Write for one to-day!
Fuel and Gas Stoves in
big range of sizes and
styles.
Fore. Enamelled Baths with rolled
edges.
Concrete Wash Tabs, in sets of twos
threes; also Concrete Pedestals
same.
or
for
â
The “SWIFT’’
Chip Bath Heater
The ideal Water
Heater for Country
use.
Needs only Waste
Paper, Scrap Wood
- or Dry Debris for
Fuel.
Hot water in-
stantly. Simple,
and absolutely safe.
Price 47/6
each.
So.-:
JSt
Ilf
“Send to Falconers’.”
Wilfrid falconer hi l
I Builders and Plumbers Suppliers
342 Pitt Street • Sydney
* A Door from Liverpool Street
SANITARY PANS.
“ Falconers' Special.’'
The most efficient lavatory
fixture on the market.
Automatic spraying device
makes it positively sani-
tary.
Strongly built to give
years of wear.
£5.
Write for our Illustrated
From every point of view
Preventing Blow-fly.
"I have been feeding some sheep on scrub lately and I have
given a liberal supply of Prophylactic Lick, and it is remarkable
how well the sheep have done. I have noticed that all sheep
getting this lick are very clean about the crutch; consequently
they do not attract the blow-fly.”
(Sgd.) A. C. BLAXLAND. “The Pinnacles.” Barraba.
Since using Prophylactic Lick my sheep have improved in
health and are free from fly, whereas my neighbours have had to
shear on account of the fly."
(Sgd.) THOMAS # REIt>. Snr.. "Marlingbung.” Dalgety.
*'l find Prophylactic Lick keeps my sheep strong and healthy.
Flies are active in the district, but my sheep are free from the
pest”
(Sgd.) J. MOONEY. "Milo/ Moree.
‘‘Owing to the use of Prophylactic Lick my ewes have been
free from blow-fly during lambing, and I have sustained no loss.
My ewes are particularly susceptible to fly trouble, being wrinkly
close-woolied sheep.”
(Sgd.) G. M. CRABB. “The Willows.” Willow Tree.
“Since using Prophylactic Lick my sheep have improved in
health and condition, and I have had no trouble with the fly,
though last year I had to crutch in March. This Lick, if perse-
vered with, will do all the manufacturers claim for it.”
(Sgd.) J. W. HEAD. Mudgee.
"Prophylactic -Lick has given and maintained my sheep in
splendid health. They show much brighter, longer and better
fleece than before. I have had no trouble with the blow-fly and
I expect a better lambing this year.”
(Sgd.) E. J. CLIFFORD. “Kuroona.' Cooma.
"Since using Prophylactic Lick I have not had any bother
with the flies. They were very bad before.”
(Sgd.) ROBERT J. HOLLAND,. "Fishington,” via . Armidale.
Curing Worms and Ticks,
Sheep.
'Since using. Prophylactic mi sheen have, been free from,
lung worm, while at shearing the fleece was softer and in much
better condition than was expected after the severe drought due
I believe, to the use of the Lick."
(Sgd.) FREDK. G. TAYLOR. "Terrible Vale." Kentucky.
"My sheep became low In condition, and infested with ticks.
After using Prophylactic they began to improve and my losses
ceased. I was surprised at shearing, when although the fleeces
were tick-stained,, not a tick was found on the sheep."
(Sgd.) D. DIAMOND, "Elouera," Armidale.
Calves.
"A trial of Prophylactic delighted me. Of all the calves suf-
fering from lung worm not one has since died, and all are im-
proving in health, and condition."
(Sgd.) W. P. HUTCHINSON. ■'Allowah,” Belllngen.
Horses.
I have tried Prophylactic Lick for my horses, and one In-
stance convinced me that its qualities are not exaggerated. I
gave some of the Lick to a pony very low in condition, and in a
week you would not have known her. The Lick cleaned out a
lot of worms.” .
(Sgd.) J. R. O’DONNELL, "Bloomfield." West Wyalong.
Assisting Lambing.
*'l used a considerable quantity of Prophylactic Lick during the year. My
ewes lambed on old dry feed with excellent results. The lambs are all in splendid
condition, which I can only ascribe to some virtue in the Lick.”
(Sgd.) FRANK MACK, Narromine, Narromine.
“Prophylactic Lick, I feel sure, went a long way towards keeping the ewes in
good health and enabling them to lamb very freely.”
(Sgd.) Manager, CHARLTON STATION, Brewarrina.
'Since using Prophylactic Lick my losses have been / singularly light, and this
is more especially noticeable amongst the lambs. I marked over 8,500 lambs early
in June, and my losses are practically nil.”
(Sgd.) THOMAS J. A. FITZPATRICK, “Erin Vale,” Old Junee
L
CROSS
BLUE
/
[
Promoting General Health.
"We have given Prophylactic Lick to
1,700 sheep on "Charlton,” to 9,000 on
"Milroy” in the Brewarrina District,
and to . 3,400 on "Heathcote” in the
Walcha District. The Managers agree
that the Lick gave excellent results on
these three places.”
(Sgd.)'ALP. E. BOND,
Acting-Manager A.M.L. & F. Co., Ltd.
“Kindly forward another two tons of
Prophylactic Lick. The sheep appre-
ciate it and we consider the results
very satisfactory."
<Sgd.)
THE WHITNEY PASTORAL CO.
“I have been using Prophylactic Lick
for over 12 months and find it most
beneficial for sheep and cattle.”
(Sgd.) C. MACKINNON,
“Derribong,” Dandaloo.
“Prophylactic Lick has given us
every satisfaction.”
(Sgd.) JAS. CAMPBELL & SON.
“Inglewood,” Carrathool.
"We have had such good results
from the use of Prophylactic Lick that
we are having sheds erected in all our
paddocks with a view to supplying this
Lick to all our sheep.
(Sgd.) FLETCHER BROS.,
“Cairnie ” Walcha (New Eng.)
Assisting Dry Feed.
Sheep.
'I cannot say too much in favour of Prophylactic Lick, as I
consider it of very great benefit to sheep diving on dry fodder."
(Sgd.) A. C. TREWEEKE, "Rossmore," Burren Junction.
“We used Prophylactic Lick when feeding some 30,000 sheep
on wheat and lucerne hay. Owing to some virtue in the Lick
these sheep did remarkably well throughout, and no losses were
sustained.”
(Sgd.) ROBERT A. HILL *The Buttabone Past. Co., Warren.
“I have been using Prophylactic Lick on four-fifths of my
flock since February, with the other fifth on ordinary salt. Despite
the bad season those fed on Prophylactic Lick are in excellent
condition carrying beautiful, long, staple fleece, while the ones
fed on salt are in poor condition and carrying poor fleece. I con-
sider the difference in favour of the Lick-fed lot in wool alone
about £lOO to 1.000 sheep, without the benefit of health and con-
dition ”
(Sgd.) GUS. HOGNO, "Landgrove,” Walcha.
”1 am quite satisfied that Prophylactic Lick has been a great
help to my stock.”
(Sgd.) Manager, COWL COWL PAST. CO., LTD., Booligal.
‘‘l have been using Prophylactic Lick for about three months
while feeding sheep on old dry grass and scrub. The Lick evi-
dently Contains something lacking in the food as the cheep are
very keen on it and prefer it to ordinary salt."
(Sgd.) W. B. AMOS, "Bomuckledi,” Gurley.
"Before using Prophylactic I was losing a good many sheep
from “dry bible,” due to the dry grass and scrub. After using
the Lick for a few months, there was a marked improvement and
there has not been one death from this cause, during the last six
months.”
(Sgd.) J. F. COLLINS, "The Look-Out," Orange.
"Prophylactic is undoubtedly a splendid preparation. All
through the drought I lost very few sheep, though there was
not a blade of grass. The growth of wool was also satisfactory.”
(Sgd.) G. B. FISHER, "Coolabah," Wyalong.
Assisting Dry Feed.
Cattle.
"I have been using Prophylactic Lick for all cattle on the
station, and it is undoubtedly the best thing I have used for
stock living on old dry grass.”
(Sgd.) Manager, COWL COWL PAST. CO.. LTD., Booligai.
”1 have been giving Prophylactic to cattle and horses, and
am quite satisfied that it has been of great benefit during the
dry time.”
(Sgd.) R. R. PIPE, "Glen Idol," West Wyalong
"My cattle which are on dry grass, show splendid results from
the use of Prophylactic."
(Sgd.) THOMAS REID. "Marlingbung." via Cooma.
"We gave your Lick to a large number of. cattle which were
feeding on old dry grass and salt bush. They^.consumed large
quantities of the Lick which seemed to supply'some deficiency in
the food and kept them in good health."
(Sgd.) ROBERT HILL. Buttabone Pastoral Co., Warren.
“The result of Prophylactic Lick on my sheep and cattle sur-
prised me. I have had considerable experience in stock, mainly
in cattle, and this Lick brightens up the skin and gives the stock
an appetite to tackle old dry feed.”
(Sgd.) JAMES HUGHES. “Kelvin Grove.” West Wyalong.
Ihe men who have put in writing these opinions of
Prophylactic Stock Lick are known throughout the pastoral
world as keen stockowners of wide experience. Their
verdict on anything is never given lightly. Consequently,
there is a special significance for every stockowner in such
definite expressions of appreciation of Prophylactic Lick.
Prophylactic is not “just another salt lick.” It is really
a tonic and a food in lick form. By making up deficiencies
in the natural food it enables stock to resist the fly and other
pests and to come through dry spells without loss of
condition. Whatever the season, Prophylactic brings “all
profits and quick returns.”
Start now by writing us for prices and full particulars.
Chief Distributors for Australia:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.* Young St., Sydney.
Interstate Distributors:
DALGETY & CO., Ltd., Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, and all branches.


RESCSTS Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: HUKNS, PIIIL.P & CO., DTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS CO ROWS ?
LEWIS & WMITTy MAKERS
i
v£ t °4s
PATENT
An All-Steel Stock Watering Trough.
Perfectly watertight joints are made
with our patent Coupling, securely
holding every section together as
rigidly as a bridge.
The Heavy Steel Angle Supports and
heavily galvanised Steel Sheets used in
the manufacture of the Alston Trough-
ing, together with our Patent Coupling
makes this Trough superior to all
others.
CL.
<S>
O
CO
<c
LU
James Alston 8 Sons Pty. Ltd., Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne.
Send for Free Catalogue.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPEALY
Before the Autumn Stakes at Randwick
Eurythmic was absurdly over-praised; now the
sporting public, always capricious in its likes and
dislikes, has swung to the other extreme. As the
w.f.a. race was run the Westralian chestnut would
have had to be at his top to have a chance of beat-
ing Beauford, and it is clear now that he wasn’t
at his top or anything like it. This was demon-
strated on the third day of the A.J.C. meeting, when
he encountered David, Furious, Swift Shot and
Sister Olive in the two-mile Cumberland Stakes. The
horse looked jaded, moved sluggishly off the mark
and ran like a light of other days. A year ago none
of this lot would have been able to live with him
over 16 furlongs, but in the end both David and
Furious beat him, and the filly is no two-miler. Of
course he was scratched for the three-mile A.J.C.
Plate on Saturday, and again David plugged his
way home, after a working gallop with Harvest
King and King of the Forest. Toohey kept Harvest
King under restraint for a couple of miles to pre-
vent his running himself into the ground, and on
the second round an angrily-twitching tail showed
what the colt thought of Toohey. Nevertheless, Har-
vest King made a quite respectable struggle up the
straight, and is evidently the soundest stayer among
the three-year-olds now in the business.
Beauford registered his ninth successive win by
helping himself to the All-Aged Stakes (eight fur-
longs). The opposition failed to make him race.
The horizon may hide some meteoric animal
destined to settle this hurrying freak over any dis-
tance up to 12 furlongs, when the Spring comes
round, but unless something remarkable trots out
next season’s middle-distance w.f.a. events at Rand-
wick and Flemington look like being Beauford Bene-
fits.
Of the two-year-olds sent in pursuit of the rich
A.J.C. stake-money a couple stood clear of all
rivals —the Woorak colt Sooralc and Rosina, a filly
by The Welkin. Beaten in the Sires’ Produce by
Soorak, Rosina w 7 on the Champagne in good style,
and promises to be a sprinter of renown. Soorak
stays better than the filly, and must be regarded as
a Derby possibility, although his sire, who couldn’t
stay himself, has yet to prove his ability to get
stayers. There was some rotten horsemanship during
the four days, and there was some good horseman-
ship. Wood, Toohey and Munro rode with noticeable
judgment and skill. These lads, with Pike, are
certainly the most competent pilots practising their
profession on Sydney racecourses.
* * * *
“S.” : Eurythmic isn’t the first racehorse that
has helped to advertise W.A., although in the other
case W.A. was hardly capable of being helped thereby
and such ad. as it got was in England, not in Aus-
tralia. To put it more plainly, there was once a
mighty thoroughbred named West Australian, although
at this distance of time (anything over 60 years) I
disremember precisely what he achieved. But I can
well recollect that, at the time when the redoubt-
able Ormonde was in the zenith of his fame, there
was a controversy in certain London sporting papers
as to which was “the horse of the century.” There
were naturally many opinions, and several candidates
for the somewhat nebulous distinction besides the
Duke of Westminster’s champion of ’B6 and ’B7. but
the votes of some seasoned racegoers went to West
Australian, although I don’t think that he had much
of a record of wins. Yet there was evidently a
strong feeling that he was a horse quite out ot the
ruck in his day. I am so little of a sport that 1
have forgotten his pedigree, if 1 ever knew it, but I
have sometimes wondered since who it was that
fastened his name on him, and why.
* * * »
The main feature of the big picnic meet-
ing at Oakbank (S.A.) was the third win of old
Doiran (Sojourner-Hibernia) in the Great Western
Steeplechase. He carried 12st. 41b this time, and
gave a stone and a two-lengths’ beating (over 31
miles and 21 fences) to Epictetus, the second horse.
It was a highly popular win. In a field of 18, the
dividends were only £3 10s. and £2 Bs., so the
40,000 present were pretty good judges of form.
Another old horse, Melbolt (Footbolt —Melba), won
the Onkaparinga Cup, as he did in 1919. Reliable
old Dependence was second once more; he has
had four shots at this race, and has never been
unplaced. The attendance was probably a record,
and the tote figures certainly were, for £47,000 in
a day is the highest total S.A. has seen so far.
Jim Paddon had small difficulty in lifting
the world’s sculling championship from Darcy Had-
field on the Wanganui (M.L.). For a hundred yards or
two Hadfield was in the lead; after that it was a
procession, with the spectators wagering by how
much Paddon would win at the finish. The
judge put it down as nine lengths, and the time for
3 ] miles was 19min. 15see —31sec. faster than when
Hadfield defeated Arnst. Paddon’s previous effort
to gather the title was against Ernest Barry on the
Thames in 1914, but he went under in 21min. 28sec.
over a 3 miles 713yds. course. Dick Arnst has
butted in with a challenge to the winner, but on
his showing against Hadfield only a Jubilee Juggins
would bet on his chance.
The new champion is a fine sample of Australian
manhood. He stands 6ft. 4in. and goes to scale at
14st. Born at Evans Head (N.S.W.), in 1886, he
has lived in that delightful North Coast district
practically all his life. He is a fisherman by calling,
and a total abstainer.
* * * *
Maryborough’s victory in the inter-
district eights at Wide Bay R. A.’s regatta entitles
that club to carry Queensland’s colors in the inter-
state eight-oar race at Sydney next month. The
Northerners are impressed with the notion, which
got a start in S. Aus., that a well-tried club eight
is likely to shape better than a more or less strange
crew selected from several districts.
* * • •
The annual paddle by the four colleges of
Melbourne Uni. resulted in an easy win for Queen’s.
Having beaten Trinity, Queen’s were matched with
Newman, whose previous defeat of Ormond sug-
gested that they would make the most of their
weight against their lighter opponents. But New-
man hadn’t learnt the art of fully utilising their
4st. advantage. Nor did their blade work and body
action call for an illuminated address. The result
was that they straggled from the start, and the more
efficient Queen’s romped home with four or five
lengths to spare. Queen’s also scored in the Second
Eights race over the same course, but in this they only
reached the post a length from Ormond, who were
about half-a-length ahead of the other two.
* * * *
Milton Kent (7sec.) showed fine form in
landing the Parramatta Sculling Handicap on Satur-
day. Alf Felton and Reg Short (both on scratch)
were the other finalists, but Kent defeated the ex-
champion by three lengths, with Short over 100yds.
behind. The mile and threequarters was left behind
in llmin. 30sec.
* • * *
The Australian Davis Cup team, with the
help of Jack Hawkes, gave an exhibition display
on the Albert Ground, Melbourne, last Friday.
Owing to the late arrival of Anderson from Syd-
ney, the doubles match had to be put back over an
hour, Patterson and
O’Hara Wood enlivening
the interval with two
sparkling sets in which
honors were even. Wood,
who played great tennis,
showed masterly accuracy
in the deep volleys in
which he delights, and,
but for a fierce rally by
Patterson at the end of
the first session, would
have had both sets. The
weakness of Hawkes was
responsible for his and
Patterson’s defeat in the
doubles. But Anderson’s
capital cross-court drives,
plus superior strategy and
the efficient net work of
O’Hara Wood, would have
been too strong for the
other pair in any case.
The result of the match,
unfinished owing to the
growing darkness, told
its own tale. The Ander-
son-O’Hara Wood scores
read: 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 4-2.
GEORGE SHAND,
25 years member
of the L.T.A.V.
Council, ex-president
Vic. Amateur
Sports Club.
15-30 : I doubt Sideline’s” contention
(B. 20/4/’22) that Anderson and Patterson “would
constitute a far stronger combination than Patter-
son and Wood.” The fact that Anderson and Pat-
terson are singles stars is no basis for the assump-
tion that they would combine well in doubles. They
are individualists of the Johnston and Tilden pat-
tern, and though the Yanks are wonders on their
own, we all remember the miserable hiding they
suffered when opposed to Brookes and O’Hara Woo'd
in Melbourne. Their shock tactics failed against
two men who are masters of volleying and lob-
play, s 0 fascinating in doubles. For that reason
I believe that Wood and either Anderson or Patter-
son would be a better pair than the two champions
together. Judging by their work in Melbourne last
week, an Anderson-Wood duet is worth considering.
In parts they were positively brilliant, their team
work being excellent in comparison with the routine
tennis of Patterson and Hawkes.
* * * *
Maoriland’s skirted tennis-players aren’t
quite up to the Australian standard. A team from
the Shivery Isles encountered a N. S. Wales com-
bination at Sydney last week, and was beaten by
8 rubbers to 4. The smartest of the M.L. girls
was Miss Curtis, who, playing an excellent heady
game, won a match from Mrs. Lascelles —6-3, 1-6,
12-10.
VAL QUIRK, referee, Melbourne Stadium.
P’ran easily won Melbourne’s cricket pre-
miership. Faced with the job of amassing 689
to capture the pennant, ’Wood threw in the towel
without the semblance of a fight. The reliable
R3 r der, who doubtless realised the hopelessness of
the task, played only to improve his average, and
with a monotonous reiteration of his favorite stroke,
the drive, knocked up 92 before he was bowled by
Wallace. His young and lusty followers failed tro
produce the form they had shown earlier in the
season. M. Keating was best with 15, his usually
biilliant brother went for 8, and Brown retired
for 10. The other scores comprised four s’s, a 4,
3 and a duck ; total 165. Wallace was P’ran’s best
bowler with 5 for 50, Lampard taking 3 for 51
and Grimmett 2 for 22.
* * * *
Thanks to North Sydney’s unexpected
defeat of Mosman, Waverley won Sydney grade pre-
miership for the second successive season. It was
anticipated that ’Varsity would draw with the
leaders, and they did, but not in the orthodox
manner. The Uni. skipper declared with 7 down for
274, and successfully appealed on account of the
light when Waverley wanted four runs to win and
had three wickets intact. Waverley’s hopes then
rested on. North Sydney, and the ’Shoremen rose to
the occasion. Solid batting by Myers (70 n. 0.) and
Punch (54) gave North the victory (and Waverley
the premiership) by 4 runs. The batting stars of
the day, along with North’s pair, were Alan Kippax,
who contributed a sparkling 117 n.o. for Waverley
when runs were sorely needed ; arid the inexhaustible
Macartney, who ’ knocked up 167 n.o. for Gordon
against Glebe. Although Waverley deserve the dis-
tinction they have won for the second time (the
suburb also carried off the second-grade competition)
the success of Mosman would have been more popu-
lar. The latter did uncommonly well for a side
which was derisively alleged at the outset of the
season to be mostly has-beens.
• * • •
A country XI that visited Sydney at
Easter brought along a fine batsman in Bruce Bowd,
of the Hawlcesbury. He began with 100 v. Poide-
vin’s .XI, and then successively rattled up 100 v.
Cumberland, and 72 and 90 for Country v. Metro-
polis. There will be a rush for Rowd’s services
in grade cricket next season.
# * * *
Rugby League football will begin in Sydney
on Saturday. Last year the game was marred by
scrum breaches: things got so bad that the League
forbade the halves to place the ball in the scrums,
the job being performed (with no better conse-
quences) by the referees. As a result of a con-
ference between some of the returned Kangaroos and
representatives of the Referees’ Association, it has
been decided to let the halves manipulate the ball
in the downs, but front-row ruckers of either team,
on the side nearest the half, are not to l'ift their
feet after the leather has been placed in the scrum,
except to prevent it coming out again. The new
rule should greatly improve the scrum work. Three
of the Kangaroos—-Watkins, Pearce and Cubitt —will
not be seen in action. They are still on the
injured list. A veteran who will strip is Ted
Courtney, Western Suburbs forward, who has played
the game since 1900, was a member of Giltinan's
original Kangaroos who toured the Cold Country
in 1908, and revisited England with McKivatt’s lot
in 1911. Courtney is 37. An odd fart is that he
trains very little; in fact, he was only once seen
at training-quarters last winter.
* * * *
The Queensland Rugby League season was
spectacularly opened by the Kangaroos. Against
a Northern XIII they won by 45 points (9 tries,
all converted) to 32 (8 tries 4 goals). Frank
Burge scored four of their nine tries, and Duncan
Thompson kicked five goals. For Queensland A.
Brown, a fine forward, and E. Connell, a nippy half-
back, got two tries each, and C. Aynsley notched
three goals. In the return match Burge pulled on
the Queensland jersey, and put so much vigor into
his game that the ’Roos only won on the post by
27 (7 tries and 6 goals) to 24 (6 tries and 6
goals). H. Caples got two good tries for the ’Roos ;
and C. Aynsley (wing-threequarter) distinguished
himself for the losers. A try and three goals went
down to his credit.
Jerry Brosnan, who captained the Fitz-
roy footballers when Percy' Trotter, Jim Sharp,
“Boxer” Milne, “Tich” Bailes and Fred Fontaine
were stars, still does his bit at cricket. This year
he won the bowling figures of the Fitzroy second
XI, bagging 41 wickets for an average of 11.68.
With the bat the ancient averaged 22.
* * * *
Vic. Education Department is not short of
sporting teachers. Among them are W. M. Wood-
full, the find of the Vic. cricket season ; Mathers, the
Ballarat man who did big things in Country Cricket
Week; Harold Nicol, the Vic. 100 yards champion
(incidentally, the Department refused him leave to
go to Sydney for the inter-’Varsity contests) ; H.
Crebbin, winner of the first-class singles handicap
tennis at Geelong; Ilughie Spurrell, winner of the
130 hurdles and second in the 220 hurdle 3 at
Stawell Easter meeting; and Dan Nolan, winner of
the 440 at the same meeting. And there are others
of less note—scores of them.
» * * *
Mick Little (N.S.W.) has wiped out H.
Kaltenbrun’s lhr. unpaced record, put up in Mel-
bourne before the S’African cyclist' left for home.
Mick covered 24 miles 542 yards within the hour, an
improvement of nearly a mile and half on Kalten-
brun’s achievement. The details of his ride are
noteworthy:—•
1 m., 2min. 20 l-ssec. | 15 m., 36min. 53 l-ssec.
5 m., 12min. 9 l-ssec. I 20 m., 49min. 20 3-ssec.
10 m., 24min. 24sec. | 24 m., 59min. 16 l-ssec.
However, the world’s amateur record is still one
mile 1026yds. better than the Dulwich Hill man’s
best.
* # * »
Louis Garcia, the elongated Mexican who
outed Packy McFarlane in good style and ran fairly
true to this form later, encountered Bud Ridley at
Sydney Stadium on Saturday night. There was a
thin house, and Israel suffered from a fear as of
something dreadful about to happen. However, the
Chosen were saved from a fleecing at the hands of
the Gentiles of Mexico, since, after the fiasco had
gone 10 palpably dishonest rounds, Joe Wallis de-
clared it “no fight.” The non-combatant was Garcia,
and in the event of his having a conscience he will
be gratified to know that his confiscated share of the
gate-money has been handed to public charities.
* * * *
That wionderful little puncher for his
poundage, George Mendies, settled Sid Shannon inside
six rounds at Sydney Stadium on Monday night.
The champion weighed out a shade under Bst., and
Shannon was 31b. heavier. A left swing to the
point was the actual stroke of destruction; but
Shannon had been down for eight to a body-blow in
the previous round, from which time onwards he
was as nearly licked as not to matter.
• * « •
Bert McCarthy (9st. lib.) was adjudged
the winner of his brisk argument with Jerry Sulli-
van (Bst. 1241 b.) at the Melbourne Stadium on
Saturday night. It was a just decision, although
Sully’s barraekers signified their dissent in the cus-
tomary manner. The youth from Sydney came
with a rattle in the last five rounds, but left it too
late. Had he bogged in as vigorously in the first
half of the fight, when he clung like a barnacle to
the descendant of the McCarthys, kings of Erin—
always busy with the weapons that Nature gave
him —the result might have been different. As it
was, referee Quirk did the right thing.
* * * »
N.S.W. bowlers carried off the honors at
the inter-State carnival at Sydney last week. Against
Queensland they won by 97 to 73 and 104 to 92, but
they lost the third match by 102 to 81. Victoria
was downed in the rubber (101-93 and 97-89), but
beat the Cornstalks in the third—96-85. A. U.
Alley (Vic.) was the only skipper to win on all three
rinks, being “up” 83-48. By defeating Victoria
(104-88) the Queenslanders proved themselves the
second-best combination at the carnival.
# * * *
In Melbourne on April 15 a tournament
of chess champions was launched on its wild career.
The more or less old masters who weighed in with
nominations were representative of all the States and
M.L., and at the moment of writing no one had
been run in for reckless castling or furious check-
mating or any of the pleasantries which old masters
affect. Wallace, the N. S. Wales champion, started
off brilliantly but fell away in an unaccountable
fashion, being beaten by the S. Australian Sim-
mons. Boyce, one of the Queenslanders, also lowered
Wallace’s colors, but went under to the Victorians,
Watson and Gundersen. Midway through the week
it looked as if the tourney would be fought out by
Watson and Viner (N.S.W.), and the latter seemed
a good bet. Viner was champion of Westralia at
18, and won the Australian title from Watson five
years later. He is a. dairy farmer and a Digger.
The winner will represent Australia, and, inciden-
tally, meet the great Capablanca, at an international
series in London.
* * * *
“Ex-Oxonian”: A paragraph by “Ex-
Englishman” (B. 13/4/’22) leaves me puzzled. Cam-
bridge, he says, has comfortably beaten Oxford in
most sports of late —and so it lias. Casting round
for the cause, he puts forward the suggestion that
moneyed classes in Britain, with promising sons,
whether they be students or athletes, are sending
them to Cambridge rather than to the sister Uni-
versity, because on the banks of the Cam they will
not encounter the competition of Rhodes scholars,
“picked men of the whole English-speaking race,”
who are generally two or three years older, when
they matriculate, than undergraduates from English
public schools. In other words, the recent successes
of Cambridge at outdoor sports (scholastically there
is really no means of comparing the two ’Varsities)
are assigned to potential athletes going there be-
cause they reckon it will be easier to get their
“blues” than at Rhodes-scholar-dominated Oxford.
But surely if Cambridge can show a run of triumphs
in the annual contests at cricket or football or
athletics, it is some evidence that it is harder, not
easier, to win a “blue” there—just now, anyhow—
which disposes of the bogey of unfair competition
from Rhodes scholars. The latter have certainly
shone conspicuously at Oxford in the athletic line
(notably at Rugby football and on the running
track), but, whether it be the river or the playing
fields or the cinder path, it would be difficult to
show that they have tilted the inter-universitv
balance markedlv in the last 20 years. And just
now, teste “Ex-Englishman,” the Oxford end of the
see-saw is up in the air.
A SPORTING OFFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Even at the Sydney Town Hall Dame Nellie
Melba cannot entirely escape from the subject of
fleas.” — Argus.
Here, Diva, where the thund’rous surf in snowy
splendor breaks—■
To drop hyperbole, at Manly Beach,
The insect which disturbs you so no special anger
wakes
Though practically always within reach ;
The reason being this, that ev’ry true-blue Manlyite
Is capable of killing fleas unerringly, on sight.
It is a democratic sport, enjoyed by rich and poor.
Our game is flushed in haunts both dear and
cheap.
We put fleas up in pubs and clubs, while from
each bedroom floor
In boarding-houses famished coveys leap.
The poachers use insecticide, but that no skill de-
mands :
The better class —I mean the sports—rely upon their
hands.
The brute-like strength that lands a Dempsey in the
Halls of Fame,
The speed and vigor of the football crack
Are not essential here. In fact, you’ll get there
just the same
Though all athletic qualities you lack.
Cool heads, quick hands, stern hearts, keen eyes—
all persons who have these
May easily be trained to catch our very fastest fleas.
Which brings me, Diva, to the aim and purpose of
these lines:
I’ve always longed to be a vocalist,
Aid me, and, ere another summer’s sun (flea-
burthened) shines,
Your troubles will have vanished like the mist.
Here is my scheme, and may it, Dame, swift appro-
bation bring:
I’ll teach you how to capture fleas if you’ll teach
me to sing.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


CIGARETTES
Number
Virginia
The Famous Red Packet
lO tor 9d.
ã
ä
NEW PRODUCTIONS.
STATE EXPRESS
No. 222
Gold=Tipped Virginia.
Also suitable for Ladies.
STATE EXPRESS
EVE.
Finest Turkish Leaf,
approved by Ladies’ Society.
STATE EXPRESS
CLUBLAND.
Pure Macedonian Leaf.
20 50
2/3 5/6
Sole ManufacturersAßDATH TOBACCO CO., LTD., LONDON.


Farmer’s Special Tobacco
blended to one’s individual taste.
TO meet the wishes of discriminating smokers,
_ Farmer’s offer an exclusive service. Special blends
- ■' of strength and flavour to suit individual prefer-
ences are prepared to order. Each mixture receives a
private reference number, which, if quoted when order-
ing, ensures the identical blend being again supplied.
This unique service is only one of the specialised
activities typical of “The Store for Men.”
Farmer’s :: Sydney
Carriage Paid. "The Store for SMen.” 80x497,G.P.0
FAMILY CANTEENS,
SPOONS, etc.
We are showing perhaps the largest, stock in
Sydney of Cabinets of Spoons, Forks and Knives.
Made specially for us, they are all of our famous
“heirloom” quality. A quality that has passed
from one generation to another.
Cabinets of 6 pieces each.
Cabinets of 12 pieces each.
Every combination and assortment are displayed
in handsome Solid Oak or Walnut Cases.
Prices, too, reflect strongly our strenuous efforts
to get back to reason and good values.
We invite inspection and comparisons..
Very heavily plated on special
hard White Metal Spoons
and Forks, with Rustless
.Cutlery, £22 net.
Every combination of pieces
shown.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd., JSSttST
Ssh n o F ni^ res 23 & 25 Hunter Street*
iiiiiitiimmmimnmiii
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?]
MISSESE MONKE DOVLE
Phones central 1533, 11609.
Geelong had the Back-to-home demonstra-
tion of the season. (Victoria is at present
an orgy of Back-to-here and Back-to-there
excursions. It was an interesting example
of the workings of what the scientists call
herd-psychology that the elusive Squizzy
Taylor should have written to the papers
and said he was organising a Back-to-Pent-
ridge movement.) Anyhow, Back-to-Gee-
long meant very ancient memories. It is
a more venerable settlement than Melbourne,
and never ceases its moaning at the bar —
the sand bar in its harbor which prevented
it being the city of the‘south. Draper Hitch-
cock, the local Whittington—he has been
five times Mayor, yet still drapes with vigor
—stirred things up to a. volcanic pitch, and
the whirl of dinners, speeches, drives, dances,
tennis and golf fairly woke Sleepy Hollow
up. All the places round about were packed.
Tennis-mad Peggy Forrester and Betty
Argyle stayed with Mrs. Esmond Lillies,
while Margaret Maxwell was with the
Marcus Collins party. Dr. and Mrs. St.
Clair Steuart were with the Austins at
Lara, and Mrs. Keats, from New South,
went to her sister, Mrs. McKellar, at Bell
Park. The Ogilvies had Nialls and Camp-
bells at Ellengerrin, and squatteress Audrey
Morpbot, from Woods Point (S.A.),
dumped her bluey in the Elder homestead.
The Vincents had a tribe of nephews and
nieces, who motored over with all their sport-
ing paraphernalia from N.S.W.
The Corio Club Ball was a wonderful
affair. The decorations from the ceiling
suggested the Aurora Australis —long, wav-
ing colored .streamers all aglow from
hidden electrics—and vine leaves and purple
grapes trellised round the walls made the
jazzers feel quite Bacchanalian. Eileen Hurst,
Jean Vincent and Lalla Napthine had a
trio of men to help them in the committee
work. Some of the chaperons were royally
gowned. Mrs. Hawkes’s satin frock of shell-
pink had oceans of pink tulle and opal
sequins; Mrs. Hugh Robertson’s black
gown gleamed with jet; Mrs. R. R. Vincent
was in her smartest black chiffon satin, and
Mrs. Leslie Sprague put Paddy green, fine
black net and silver hand embroidery into
her inspiration; and Mrs. C. N. Brown’s
orchid charmeuse was a veritable dazzler.
Mrs. Leslie Sprague gave a dance at
Charlmont, and Mrs. John Lang hostessed
a brilliant jazz-party at the Barwon Heads
Llotel, to which Geelong motored in droves.
A new jazz is the Camel Walk. Frying-
pan feet are not absolutely essential, but
the mode of progress is a drawling one-step.
The girl flings her head and shoulders at
her partner’s boiled shirt and slides her
arched tootsies while he languidly backs and
acts as a prop. It’s all in the balance, my
dear.
Squatter Robert Simpson and his wife
have had burglars in their Mayfair flat at
South Yarra. Jewels, furs and other valu-
ables, including 1000 of a very special brand
of cigarette, went into the loot-bags
to _ the estimated tune of £lOOO. The
police have since caught the thieves, and
retrieved all but the diamonds and the fags.
The new nurses’ home in the grounds of
the Alfred Hospital is to be opened on
May 11 by the Countess. President Senator
Fairbairn is giving a party that day to show
off this absolutely model Nightingale’s cage.
St. Catherine’s girls’ seminary is getting
ready for a move. Principal Flora Temple-
ton had so many school children she didn’t
know what to do —so she has bought the
L. K. S. Mackinnon palace in Toorak for
them.
Dr. Mannix and a drove of country bishops
raided Spencer-street last Thursday and de-
canted Archbishop Duhig from the Brisbane
train. The northern prelate left for Eng-
land on Saturday loaded with friendly
wishes and good cheer.
Captain A. P. Addison, our new Naval
Commodore, is expected in Melbourne any
moment now, to “take over” from Dumaresq.
Addison is an expert in submarine and tor-
pedo work. He has been Director of Tor-
pedoes and Mines at the Admiralty for two
years, and saw much active service afloat
during the war.
Warriors’ Day brought in something like
£lO,OO0 —and there’s plenty more coming.
There were no stalls, or kiosks or inside
parties—the girl collectors just mobilished
themselves at street corners and waited for
the monetary shower to begin. There were
badges for one shilling and badges for half-a-
crown, and the special bronze medal de-
signed by Dora Ohlfsen sold in great num-
bers at £5 each Cheques poured in, and at
the time of writing all moneys had not been
counted. Other good works will happen
before May 10. Organising-secretary David
has planned a raid on shops and ware-
houses, and there are to be a theatrical
managers’ association matinge, an Ada Reeve
matinee, a cafg chantant at the Oriental,
a physical-culture display by Aaron Beattie
and the filming of “Three Live Ghosts” (an
A.I.F. trio who were prisoners in Germany)
by the Paramount Picture Theatre.
H. 11. Smith, who beat Norman Bayles
for the Melbourne Province seat in the
Uppah House when Johnnie McWhae took
the Agent-Generalship, has to face the elec-
tors again next month, and he has printer
Henry Pride in the field against him. If
Smith had thrown up his seat on the City
Council when he got into the House of
Repose he might have been allowed to slip
back to Parliament unnoticed; but Mr.
Colorless Smith, M.L.C., is held responsible
for the versatility displayed by Cr. Smith,
and that accounts to some extent, if not
wholly, for the appearance of an opponent.
The Sistine Choir intends to give a big
matinge next Friday for the inmates of
every charity home in Melbourne. The poor,
the halt, the blind and the lame are all to
come along as guests, and arrangements are
being made to have them driven to the hall
by motor.
Feminine experts gaze with wonder at the
materials used in the vestments of the sing-
ers. One woman hissed in an impressed
whisper: “Lleavens, I shouldn’t like to have
the doing-up of their linen !” Some laundry
must be putting a labor of love into the
washing and ironing—no washery hereabouts
does such exquisite work for mere lucre.
On the eve of his wedding Allan Spowers,
one of the owners of the Argus, was in-
veigled into the composing-room and forced
to carry away a heap of gifts from the staff.
He is one of those employers who are the
despair of the Bolshies.
The death of Gladys Aldridge while motor-
ing from Hamilton to her brother’s place at
Mount Bainbridge in the Western District
was a tragic shock to her friends. David
Fenton, who was driving her home, let her
take the wheel for practice; the car got
out of control, overturned and pinned her
beneath it. Fenton was badly hurt. Gladys,
whose dad is C. E. Aldridge, of Hawthorn,
was one of the most dashing women-riders
in Vic. hunting circles.
John F. Goulding, who faded out the other
day at his Toorak home, was one of the
chieftains of the corn trade in Melbourne.
An old Ballarat boy, he helped 27 years ago
to rear the firm of Ryan, Goulding and co.,
and later on started on his own account. A
likeable man and a good employer, he de-
served a bigger innings than 48.
Here is a Spencer Shier’s portrait of
Elsie Dickinson, a Ballarat girl who is one
of Melbourne’s popu-
lar singing teachers
and who further
shines as a pianist.
She carries about
with her a charming
soprano voice which
Melba helped to
train at the East
Melbourne Con.
Meta Pauncefort,
the Aussie girl now
playing star rbles at
the Winter Garden
Theatre in London,
is an attractive
advertisement o f
Miss Dickinson’s
teaching, for Meta
has had no other
vocal trainer.
Dr. Faulkner, of Sunbury, retired from
practice lately, and started on a pleasure
trip for England by P. and O. steamer, but
got no further than the Outer Harbor at
Adelaide. He was very deaf, and, walking
across the wharf to the post office, he stepped
straight in front of a train from the city
in broad daylight, and was cut to pieces.
The Davis Cup team, after a grent send-
off, got away on the Osterley on
Saturday. Incidentally, Anderson and
his wife nearly missed the marine
’bus. They only tore aboard at the
last moment. Gerald Patterson’s bride held
a reception on deck, in smart travelling
tailorings and a duck of a droopy hat.
O’Hara Wood, who is single, got tangled in
acres of colored streamers from the wharf.
So like a bachelor! Hawkes, gazed wist-
fully after his departing pals; reflecting,
possibly, that but for the institution of
marriage he and his racket w 7 ould be with
them. President Theyre Weigall was among
the crowd on the wharf; also Daish of the
M.C.C. and Hammond and Shand of the
Lawn Tennis Assoc.
The Ministering Children’s League is get-
ting a lift from the Cafe Francatelli, w T hich
is giving the proceeds from all afternoon
teas during the week beginning April 24.
The cash is to go to the funds of the invalu-
able Cottage by the Sea at Queenscliff. So
now 7 you know what to do.
Herbert Haminil, who died as the result
of an accident at his Timboon sheep
acreage last w r eek, was formerly in
partnership with estate-agent Charles
Forrester. His wife, a daughter of
the late Hastings Cuningham, of
Toorak, heard the news during a flying
visit to Melbourne. The deceased, a most
genial personality, leaves a son —an Anzac
■ —a daughter (Mrs. Harry Gordon) and
tw 7 o sisters (Mrs. Herbert Power and Miss
Edith Hammil).
This is the head and hat of ex-Corporal
Neil Mcßeath, who composed that popular
Diggers’ ditty, “Take
Me Back to Yarra-
wonga.” While he
was in Anzac khaki
Mcßeath became
chief draughtsman
t o General Jo h n
Monash, and when
Fritz had taken the
count he stepped
into the limelight of
the Blighty music-
halls and warbled his own and other men’s
songs at the Palladium, Holborn and Empire.
He is now launching his 31st effort —a song
entitled “June.” Before coming back to
Melbourne last year as modeller for the Aus-
tralian Museum the versatile Digger spent
nine months as assistant to artist John
Hassall.
The Alex. Landale widow, who left for
England on the Nestor, will find it full of
sad memories. Her husband and younger
daughter both lie in English soil, and a
wooden cross stands over one .son in France.
The genial old squatter passed out suddenly
of heart trouble in a London railway carri-
age in 1914, and the widow returned to
Australia. The following year her son
Douglas fell at the Front. Her nephew-son-
in-laAv, Cyril Landale, was killed in action
in 1916, and his broken-hearted widow died
in England last year after a few days’ illness
on the eve of sailing for home.
Sassiety is chuckling over the adventure of
a college youth of its acquaintance. He was
returning by train from a holiday and struck
a party of “commercials.” Rightly sensing
that Adolphus was gilded they drew him into
penny poker, which soon became two-
bob poker. The lad was a game loser, but
he became painfully aware in time that he
was losing not frequently but always. Then
he caught the signals of some of his oppo-
nents. Now it happens that this youth has
a reputation of some eminence as a -presti-
digitator at mother’s little evenings. He tried
a bit of sleight-of-hand. When his neighbor
found he had four kings there was some
courageous betting. But the smiles were
with Adolphus, who had dealt himself four
aces. He arrived home with a tenner.
Shakspeareans in Melbourne are busily
celebrating the bard’s birthday this week.
The S. Society booked the Masonic Hall for
the day and night of the 26th, so that mem-
bers might revel in some of the songs and
scenes that Bill built.
John Mackey and his lady gave a dinner-
party at Latimer, Canterbury, in honor of
pianist Spivakovsky. The very musical
guests included the Golls, Miss Yerbrugghen,
Captain de Hautpick and the Bateses. The
hostess dined in a magnificent gown of black
velvet.
Hope Hammond Clegg and Captain Teddy
Yencken made an Easter-time announcement
of their matrimonial intentions, whereupon
they were swamped with congratulations.
The Cleggs were* at Nylands—their Sor-
rento place—at the time. Hope, who has
just got back from a trip abrawd with her
mother, is the youngest of a trio of daugh-
ters. One sister is' the young Simon Fraser
widow. The Ycnckens belong to Toorak.
Melbourne will be Verbrugghening from
May 3, when the orchestra, under the locum
baton of Skalski, drops in here from Maori-
land.
This year St. Andrew’s, of Hobart,
achieves its centenary. It was established
in 1822 by Archibald Macarthur, the first
ordained Scotchbyterian to preach in Aus-
tralia.
Nicholson, Melbourne’s new 7 Commissioner
of Police, has risen to the dizzy salary of
£lO5O after nearly 40 uniformed years. The
Vic. Government has always been mean to
its police and detective forces; and the same
cheeseparing is visible in the Crowm Law
department. Macindoe, w T ho turned up a
promising Bar practice to take on the thank-
less job of Crown Prosecutor, gets the same
money as the Police Chief, and in big crimi-
nal trials—as in the recent Ross case—has
to conduct his case alone. F. O’Neill,
Macindoe’s lieutenant for the preparation of
Crowm briefs—a skilled and heavy job—
draws £504 p.a. And he has scrambled to
this skyscraping emolument after 32 years
at the Law 7 Courts.
The new color-craze is brown—good old
frumpy Brown beloved of the Mid-Victorian
middle-aged. It is a Parisian conception,
of course, and its name translated means
flea-brown. It only remains for some im-
portant dyer to fashionise plague-rat-grey
and we’ll be comfortably set for the winter.
James Mcßae, the Education Dept.’s new
assistant chief inspector, last year found a
man wandering in the Teachers College
buildings and had him arrested. A comp.’s
error next day told a startled world that
Mcßae himself had been charged with hav-
insufficient means of support and got
“a month.” A little late* there reached him
a solemnly-worded, official-looking letter
from headquarters expressing regret and
asking for an explanation. Although Scotch,
Mcßae saw the joke, and replied that as it
waa a ease of insufficient means of support
P er haps an immediate and substantial m-
crease in salary would be sufficient punish-
ment. Maybe his promotion is the result,
The two Fisken girls and their sister,
Mrs. O’Hara, scored £lO3 off their own
bats for the Rose Day appeal. They made
everything they sold at a stall in the Orien-
tal f^te.
The H. W. Grimwades (himself is the
brig.-general) are off in the Tango Maru
to Japan. Arthur Woolcott’s wife and
school-girl daughter also start a holiday spell
on the same boat.
One thing is sure about Ross Smith; in
that last tragic spin he kept his head to the
finish. No one ever saw him disconcerted,
it was his canny Scotch way to speak little
an <j a Jways with deliberation. In the fussy
fgtes forced on him in Melbourne he was
lionised to the limit. At dances the most
blatant type of rich Sassiety girl purred
round and deluged him with swank, adjectives,
italics and eye play. It would have embar-
rassed anyone but an A.D.C. The airman
would look over that Wellingtonian nose of
his with a whimsical glint in his grey eyes
a s though the girl were some interesting
mechanical specimen; then would detach
himself quietly from the twittering and
flurry. Some of the woolly-rich hunters
obviously yearned to hang the scalp of this
wonderful new young knight to their belt;
but it was a vain yearning. In the fuss
the men made over him, Ross was just as
imperturbable. He landed in Melbourne
after his big flight into a swirl of intense
enthusiasm. Motorists who had rushed
their cars down as near the landing-ground
as they dared swarmed about the aircraft,
Ross pulled off his cap and gloves, shook
hands where he could, rubbed his eyes and
drawled “I’d like some breakfast.”
A line or two from Adelaide: —
Blazing hot summer weather kept no one from
Oakbank on Easter Monday. The crowd is put
down at anything from 30,000 to 40,000; and on
the roads traffic was so thick that you could pretty
well have walked the whole wav on the roofs of
the vehicles. The Weigalls, wise in their genera-
tion, went by train and cut the first and last races,
thereby dodging- the worst of the dust and crowd,
At the Tuesday levSe there was an investiture
with Sidney Kidman, Mrs. Crawford Vaughan,
Arthur Coleman and Chaplain Kendrew as its cen-
tral figures. His Ex. got a medal too—a gold
membership badge of the S’African Soldiers’ Asso-
elation. Mrs. Crawford Vaughan’s record of war-
work includes endless speaking and organising in
the interests of conscription.
r, l he new Babies’ Home at Waikerville is finished
a ” d . full swing. The other day Lady Weigall
opened it-three months after she had
ald lts foundation-stone. His Ex. and Priscilla
happened along later in the afternoon. It was the
s ™ n chdd T ei f th b . irtbda 7’ and a good many
offerings to the home, including toys for the babies
and cheques apd cash to the tune of £ 70-odd, were
m ade then and there through her as birthday pre-
sentg
' one of the best .known squatters of the State
has passed out in George Melrose. He was born at
Rosebank, the Mt. Pleasant station still held by
jjjg Mothers, and he had big properties himself in
th e lower and upper North and in N. S. Wales,
jjjg second wife was a sister of Pemberton Billing,
g arru i ous British M.P.
Ethel Cooper has gone back to England, plan-
rung t 0 take np relief work in a sanatorium—the
exact address depends on the War Victims’ Relief
Committee, in whose hands she has placed herself,
but it will probably be Russia. She will act as
this State’s delegate for the Stricken Europe Fund,
and w jh gend regular reports of work and eondi-
tjon9
Th ' e dress} at the Weigalls , farewell garden-
party was largely of the coat and skirt variety ..
Their Exes, received under a marquee-like extension
of the porte-cochere s with aides Somerset and Bos-
weii in the gold-corded glory of full regimentals
t 0 do the announcing, incidentally, the how-d’ye-
do’s were late because of the verbosity of the poli-
ticians at the farewell lunch to his Ex. at Parlia-
ment House. He, poor man, arrived at his own
front gate to find a long queue waiting for him,
so he made a surreptitious entrance round the
back.
The same good-byes were said all over again on
the Thursday evening, this time in the Town Hall,
with Gaud Mayor Cohen as host and about 300
local notables as his Ex.’s fellow-guests. And in
addition both vice-regals have had to face a bom-
bardment of farewell speeches at a round of func-
tions from a Boy Scouts’ affair to a St. George
Society “social.”


E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
What
Does
Pedal
Touch
Mean
as Applied to the
Player Piano?
SOMETHING:—You will never
understand until you have
Actually Played
The
GULBRANSEN
(THE PLAYER WITH A SOUL)
WHY ?—BECAUSE
Its pedalling is so easy,
Its manipulation so simple,
Its tone so perfect, and,
combined with Wonderful Durability of Piano
Construction, places this instrument on a
plane alone.
We offer you every facility in pur
Showrooms of testing our claims
for this
Wonderful Player Piano.
Being nationally priced the Gulbransen means a tremendous
saving. Send for Catalogue B and Price List (Posted Free).
Cash or Terms.
OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
O
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
(T WO DOORS FROM BATHURST ST BEET).
TEE.: CITY 10751 & 10753
Agency: Newcastle, 483 Hunter Street.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
KING & KING, Brisbane.
FINDLEY’S PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
Hobart—Launceston.
“Tasteless
in Tea”
fruschen s#
or *d* pnnapwtff
Kruschen Salt & a
the blood oft
suffaing trom W*
-? m# Coosupoiion Itm -
i O3 .
JTi
Keep well and young
with Kruschen Salts
THE fresh, good looks of youth are
far too precious to be flung—
over-early—to Father Time.
Sooner or later he will have to reap
them, but why throw them wantonly
away by neglecting your health? Guard
your health carefully, and you can laugh
at Time, for Health and Youth go hand-
in-hand. A daily dose of Kruschen Salts
will keep you fit, and keep you young—
thousands of women are proving this
every day. Not a big dose, just a pinch
(as much as will lie on a sixpence) in
your breakfast cup of tea, but it must
be every morning. You can’t taste it,
you don’t know you’re taking Salts, but
this little dose does you a world of good
—keeps your skin clear, fills you with
happy, glowing, vigorous health.
The reason is long—and scientific—but
it is so. Prove it to your profit.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
All Chemists —2/9 per bottle
Enough for more than two months.
Kruschen Salts have been proving their great value as
a remedy and a corrective during more than 160
years. Sufferers from Gout, Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Eczema, Constipation, Liver and Kidney disorders
find in Kruschen Salts a sovereign remedy for these
distressing ailments. Kruschen Salts are gentle yet
thorough in their beneficial action.
For relief from these maladies take “half-a-teaspoon-
ful” of Kruschen Salts in warm water every morning.
The improvement in your general health from this
small but regular dosage will astonish you
Australia.—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are stocked by
H. and W. Grear, 119 to 123 York Street,
Sydney; also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane
and Perth. Direct Indents executed by the
manufacturers through London Buying Houses.
New Zealand.—Trade Supplies of Kruschen Salts are
stocked by Fairbairn, Wright & Co., Christ-
church, Wellington, Auckland and Dunedin.
Note.-—Kruschen Salts are made in Manchester, England, by
E. Griffiths Hughes, Ltd., established 1754, in
• the reign of George the Second.


CIWRIfS
Heiosiecks
Vintage 1911 (
CMfIRW
NE PLUS ULTRA
a
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
We will
show
shape.
every
week
n
F.L.C. Pipes
are made by
French Diggers at
St. Claude (Jura), France,
and only the finest flawless
Briar is used in their manufacture.
98 Smart Shapes, Plain and Silver-mounted.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a postcard to
Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will tell you where to get one
THE WORLD’S BEST PIPE.
NON-CRACKING CORSICAN BRUYERE.
à
GUARANTEED 12 MONTHS
Against Craoking or Burning.
Any F.L.C. doing bo within that
time will be replaced FREE.
Illustrated is Style 502,
Silver-mounted,
15/-
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castleraagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS .
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-.
per Day.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
Last Saturday the A.J.C. put up the shut-
ters on its Easter display, and for the first
day of the autumn meeting women’s winter
glad-rags got an outing. Beads, fringe and
braid were everywhere, and the smartest
topcoats boasted avool or chenille embroid-
eries. The small, feather-wreathed hat is
going to run neck-and-neck with its wide-
brimmed sister for the Winter Stakes. Cos-
tumes are worn with the coats rather long,
and the coat frock is as the Poiret-around
the-corner sees smartness.
Through the torrid days of the meeting,
as through yesterday’s cold, Lady Forster
has stuck to her favorite blue frocking.
Daughter Mrs. Pitt Rivers, who wore a dif-
ferent flat and dress for each day, glad-
dened Wednesday with a smart Paisley vest
worn under a sapphire-blue cape. The
knutty cane has been given a boost by the
Stradbroke lady, who carried one in Malacca
on Saturday. Hobart’s Mayoress, Mrs.
Snowden, has been one of the week’s smart
frockers, and Dame Margaret rang the
changes on cream lace, nigger-brown moro-
cian and navy tailorings. Mrs. Tony Hor-
dern’s brown-lace rigoul looked as delect-
able as a chocolate souffle; Mrs. Alec Hay,
who wears her waist slim, girdled it with
golden brown on Saturday and looked more
than ever like a prize chrysanthemum ; Mrs.
Willie Collins wrapped herself in tones as
grey as a twilight meditation ; Mrs. Clal.vton
wore tweeds in school-girl length finished off
with a tight-fitting lid that sprouted a
golden coque. Mrs. Reggie Broomfield kept
the sunburn from the straightest nose in
Sydney with a drooping Tagel hat.
The Town and Country dance is always
a feature of Easter week, and always hap-
pens in the Paddington Town Hall. This
year the dressing was a gorgeous display of
brocades and lace with sequinned dresses
and wraps also heavily toted. George Ful-
ler’s lady pinned her faith to the favorite
fabric and sported it in silver grey. John
Longstaff wearily left his quest for the prize
beauty of the State and sought oblivion in
perpetual motion. Professor Anderson-
Stuart’s wife, with her first-class jazz certifi-
cates in her peggy-bag, wore a dress that looked
as if it were made from the bloom of purple
pansies. Rita Buckland danced in a cloak
of sequins as short as her dress ; vivid Mrs.
Broomfield trailed mists of gold-embroidered
tulle panels, and Melbourne visitors Mrs
Knox and Mrs. Clive Baillieu were two
striking frockers.
The Sydney that studies its “Who’s Who”
and the Union Club Almanac had the thrill
of a near-royal wedding the other day when
Mollie Little, whose dance programmes dur-
ing the Prince’s visit boasted a record num-
ber of Edward P.’s signatures, married Roy
Chisholm. He is a brother of Lady Lough-
borough, and all the world knows how chatty
the Loughboroughs are with royalty. The
wedding was altogether an affair of close
relations, and there were no bridesmaids,
though the bridegroom had support in Aymer
Maxwell. Mollie discarded the usual bridal
trappings and dressed her slimness in geor-
gette the shade of a cool stretch of sand,
her flower-wreathed lace hat being of the
same tone. Although the wedding took place
at 2 o’clock on a race afternoon quite a
large layer of the Upper Crust decorated
the pews of St. Stephen’s, for both the bride
and bridegroom are very popular. The wed-
ding party was held at “Brooksby,” the
Littles’ Double Bay home. The bride’s
mother wore a dark-blue satin dress with
a heavyweight girdle. The prettiness of
Sheila Loughborough (who had her two tiny
boys with her) shone from under a large
black hat, and her mother. Mrs. Harry
Chisholm, in a grey jersey silk and a plumed
hat, was another good-looker. Braidwood is
the future address of Mr. and Mrs. Roy.
The honeymoon is being spent at Coolan-
gatta, the Alex. Hays’ lovely old place on
the South Coast, which the Seppy Alisons
had been inhabiting till they came to town
for the Easter festivities. Coolangatta, by
the way, is putting up a record as a fashion-
able honeymooning resort that threatens to
rival that of the Arthur Allens’ Port Flack-
ing cottage.
The swankiest private party of the week
was the Tony Horderns’ flutter at Retford
Hall, and the ballroom at the foot of the
gardens, near the Harbor’s lip, was simply
reeking with money and sheep and Sassiety.
Drawn to the net were the Stradbrokes, Lady
Helena Rous, the Digbys, the Pitt Rivers,
the Loughboroughs and Dame Nellie Melba.
St. Mark’s, at Darling Point, was quite
fluttered the other afternoon when a daugh-
ter of one of its late canons, dark-eyed
vivid Agatha Flower, in ivory satin, trailed
her Limerick lace train up its aisle. The
man in the case was ex-Major of Light
Horse Douglas Close, son of the late Robert
Close and nephew of Peter Close. He
is on the land up Warren way. The cere-
mony occurred in the presence of an almost
exclusively family party. Lorna Robinson
and Joan Garland, a symphony in mignon-
ette-green and old gold, bridesmaided. Bride’s
mother wore an eye-ravishing overdress of
Spanish point and blonde mounted on oyster
satin. Bride’s brother, Dr. Willoughby
Flower, and his wife travelled from their
rural fastness for the event, and family
friend Mrs. Kelty, of Darling Point, host-
essed the wedding feast.
St. Vincent’s Ball attracted the vice-
regals of the Commonwealth and two States,
and the dais of the Town Hall could have
put out the sign “Full house” at 9.30 when
the contingents of Exes, got seated. About
this hour the big floor, hitherto sparsely
populated, became a boilipg of the conserves
and preserves, resulting in a not unpleasant
jam among the young fruit with the bloom
still upon it. Looking on at the invasion
of the dais one had to agree with the tall
bloke from Outback who drawled: “They
may complain they haven’t much money, but
they’ve got the looks, all right.” There
wasn’t one really plain face under the glit-
tering tiaras. The G.-G.’s lady, supported
by her film-hero spouse, added flowing angel
sleeves of lace to a jade green and silver
brocade gown. Dame Margaret wore her
Order on an artful mingling of powder blue
brocade and mauve, while Victoria’s Count-
ess Stradbroke swished a silver-lined fishtail
to a sapphire blue gorgeousness with enough
sapphire-blue beads upon it to keep a whole
kindergarten absorbedly threading for a
year. Mayoress McElhone wore her white
satin skirt short but her side panels long,
and Mrs. Pitt Rivers was in the fairy story
grandeur of ivory velvet and pearls, while
Lady Helena Rous lit up the group with
flame drapings.
The living pictures were arranged by
Josephine Marks. They were presented to
music. When “The Angelus” was posed a
voice touchingly sang “The Rosary”; Fildes
“The Doctor” evoked “Sympathy”; and
“The Sea Hath Its Pearls” was greeted by
a voice sobbing “Out on the Rocks.” Which
recalls Max Adler’s story of the lantern-
slide lecturer who engaged the Town Band
for the incidental music to his Biblical pic-
tures, and nearly had a fit when it crashed
out “When Johnnie Comes Marching Home,
Hurrah !” as the Prodigal Son appeared on
the sheet.
It was this charming young woman (Rose
Currie is her name) who, in her capacity of
organising secretary of the Women’s Sec-
tion of the Vic.
Farmers’ Union,
told the Country
Women’s Conference
in Sydney last week
that unless members
of the sex pulle,d
themselves together
and took an intelli-
gent interest in poli-
tics, “it would be
better to take the
vote away from
them.” Miss Currie
is disturbed at the
popularity of jazz-
teas relatively to
political meetings.
She is a daughter of
the late John Currie,
of Gippsland, and is
an energetic worker in the interests of the
women and children out back.
The Country Women’s Conference has
done at least one thing—-it has reminded
female Sydney that there is such a place as
the Country Club. Dame Margaret and the
Stradbroke Countess opened the pow-wow
therein, and president Mrs. Hugh Munro
tabled a schedule of improvements in the
Country Woman’s lot that only the Millen-
nium will see put through. The successful
settling of baby on the land took up most
of the first day, and such experts as medicoes
Harvey Sutton and Selwyn Harrison put
in a strong brief for the care and comfort of
the newly-born. Architect Mrs. Taylor
talked of comforts in the home that ran
even to pergolas and covered w r ays and elec-
tric lights. A loud clamor also went up for
more telephones and reduced train fares. A
Country Women’s Association is to be the
upshot of the heart-to-heart talks. Mean-
while, Cocky’s wife still potters along be-
tween the kitchen and the yard, and boils
up the wash in the old kerosene-tin.
All the best brands of motor-car stopped
at the Queen’s Club on the way home from
the races the other day, the occasion being
in honor of the re-upholstered and extended
club, and of the G.-G.’s lady. The House
Committee has done the thing regardless;
and the grey and black drawing-room carpet
is of pre-war lushness, which makes the
pink border to the grey curtains as trifling
a thing as the glad eye in Westminster
Abbey. The crowning glory of the premises
is the lounge on the ground floor with its
parquetry and rich-toned rugs underfoot.
Lady Forster wore dark blue and white
silk and cheered a navy satin hat with red
berries; and Dame Margaret matched nigger-
brown frocking with a brown-plumed hat.
Mrs. Harry Chisholm came on after the
family wedding. The Geoffrey Fairfax lady
was an outstanding dresser in sand-colored
jersey silk, the skirt covered with a fringe
as dense as a tropical undergrowth. But it
was Mrs. Aeneas McDonnell, of Toowoomba,
who eaught every eye w T ith a quaint device
of sheer tucked muslin around the neck and
falling from each sleeve of her black satin
and lace dress. President of the Club, Mrs.
Arthur Allen, and battalions of Onslows and
Dangars were other tea-drinkers.
Newcastle made a double event in Sydney
of the races and Cecily Lang’s wedding.
Cecily, who is one of the radiant daughters
of the Herbert Langs, of Coal.opolis, took
ex-flying man Alan Binnie to husband last
week at the hands of the impressive Dean
of Newcastle, who. modern-wise, ran a cen-
sor’s pencil through the “obey.” St. James’s
was thronged with Coal City society, and
some of Sydney’s Best, and the pews almost
purred beneath the sleekness of soft satin
and panne velvet. Green is no bad omen
to this tall, dark bride, for her frock of
ivory chiffon velvet was lined with silver
tissue over green leaves, and the fine Lim-
erick veil was moored by a leafy hair band
of the same hue. Sister Marjorie dressed
the bridesmaid’s part in daffodil tones of
pale yellow and gold, and there was a flash
of delphinium blue in her black hair. The
Archie Rankins’ small girl, Suzanne, and
little Barbara Johes were equally absorbed
in their duties to the bride’s train and
contemplation of their new Easter-egg
brooches. Afterwards the new blue-panelled
jazz-room of the Australia harbored the
party, and among the notables who watched
the happy, modern bride, her cigarette be-
tween her lips, cutting the cake, none was
more striking than her mother in black
panne velvet and one of those-hard-to-wear,
pushed-off-the-brow hats. Bride’s aunt Mrs.
Charles Warren, in yellow velour, looked
like an Aubrey Beardsley drawing; another
Lang sister, Mrs. John Massie, the cricket-
er’s wife, wore autumn shades; Mrs. Ernest
Watt was in soft satin of the new tone of
navy, and with her was sister Moira, very
pink-cheeked under a leghorn hat. The
Archie Rankins and Mrs. Howard Ash,
whose neat tailorings must have felt like a-
blanket, sat together. Bridesmaid’s fiance.
Geoff Rutledge, and the much-upnerved best
man, Gordon Brady, helped to make up the
big gathering. The bridegroom’s people are
the George Binnies, of 4D station, Quirindi,
and Alan’s own address is Coolamatong,
Cooma. The bride’s mother takes a line
to herself —she is the song-writer who com-
posed “Salaam” and “Before the Dawn.”
It was a happy idea of the Harry Aus-
tins to introduce Mrs. Harry’s niece, Sun-
beam Mylius, to Sydney to the measure of
a jazz, and the wide verandahs at East-
bourne, Darling Point, provided the ideal
setting. Sunbeam, a pretty girl lately
arrived from England, made her bow in
silver tissue and lace, to which clung tiny
pink buds. Mrs. Harry did the honors i«
black lace and jet. Graceful Helen Laidley
and the pretty Nathan girl from Auckland
(the fiancees of the two Sep Levy boys).
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, Pauline McMor-
ran, Phyllis Rolin and Mick Ricardo, Muffle
Layton and Barbara Westrrlacott were some
of the good-lookers who danced under the
gaily-colored electrics.
Frank Otter, who visited Australia last
year with his wife (she was Ida Barnard,
of Sydney), has just died at Woburn Lodge
Leighton-Buzzard, an English hunting-box
which he bought only a few months ago.
Their Australian visit was notable for two
things—the wonderful mechanical cub-tiger
that Mrs. Otter carried to afternoon parties
ivith her; and the fact that the lady was
the first woman to wear a knitted costume
in Sydney. Frank Otter was one of the
best-known men about town in London in
his day, and a wit whose tons mots were con-
stantly quoted in the more frivolous papers.
On being “sent down” from Oxford for a
term, owing to some trifling difference of
opinion with the dons (he_ refused to go up
again “having,” as he said, “no desire to
force himself where he wasn’t wanted”) he
joined the 7th Dragoon Guards and fought
throughout the S’African campaign. He
was only 45 when the end came.
Miss Mills, a country heiress, did some
entertaining during the race week. She owns
Tirwilla, a fine place up Bungendore way,
where she lives in more or less solitary splen-
dor, her parents being dead.
The Leonold of Battenberg who died last
week was in Sydney before the war on a
health trip. A feeble-looking young man, he
travelled with a private doctor, who did not
allow the affliction of his charge to prevent
him having a very good time. His trouble
was haemophilia, the agonising complaint
from which the murdered heir to the Russian
throne suffered. Young Battenberg fell in
love with a Maoriland girl, and the affair
actually reached the stage of an interchange
of communiques (chiefly concerned with the
question of finance) between Buckingham
Palace and the Rickety Isles.
Australia’s old friend Wallington was 67
the other day. His work about the Court
is chiefly diplomatic. He soothes people
down or bucks them up. In the latter
capacity he wrote most of Princess Mary’s
letters of thanks for the wedding-presents
sent to her by people other than her personal
friends. His tally amounted to 150 “and,”
he wrote recently to a Sydney friend, “the
world is kind enough to say that there were
no repetitions.” By the world he meant, of
course, the Palace: he knows no other.
The great Foreman whose hobby has been
detaching other people from their appendixes
and other loose parts, parted with his own
in Clarmore the other day.
Lute Drummond entertained the Lyceum
Club one day last week with readings from
the three great woman writers of Italy:
Sarao, the romancer and one of Italy’s best
sellers; Ada Negri, whose powerful “Libro
di Mara” has broken away from the recog-
nised forms of verse writing; and Annie
Vivanti, whose “Vae Victis!” according to
Conan Doyle, is the greatest of all war
novels.
The Musical Association handed out the
cold cheer of a music and sandwich recep-
tion at Farmer’s to newly-arrived violinist
Toscha Seidel. Unfortunately a Melba
concert kept most of the orchestra and
Skalski away. The latest fiddling visiter
is small and dark, with black, finely-spUn
hair and a pleasant smile —this latter is a
sort of family affair possess'd akao by
mother and the brother who accompany
Toscha. Mrs. Seidel is short, plump and
vivacious wiith a nice 'taste in (evening
dresses. Henry Penn played and Mrs.
Goossens-Viceroy sang. Also present were
the E. J. Taits and Frank Hutchens,
Seidel’s accompanist. Just as the party
was breaking up Dame Nellie looked in,
dressed in pink and covered with a black
velvet cloak with large gold flowers sprinkled
upon it. Shutting up time being 10.30 or
thereabouts, the diva held an impromptu
reception on the Pitt-street pavement that
was swelled to giant proportions by the
homeward-bound from the theatres.
Mrs. George Vivers, who was Irene Marks,
had an eye put temporarily out of action
last Sunday. While crossing the beach at
Bondi she collided with a cricket ball. And
a cricket ball travelling at its top is capable
of producing the same optical effects as half
a brick.
The National Council of Women, which
has extended the hand of good-fellowship
to the newly-formed Country Women’s Asso-
ciation, cemented the bond iast Friday night
by a flutter at the Women’s Club, at which
the committee of the recent conference was
presented to the G.-G.’s lady and cheered by
vice-regal crumbs of sympathy and under-
standing of its woes. Then the only truly
dyed-in-the-wool women on the land present
shook out their brocaded evening finery and
made a dash for the Paddington Town Hall,
where the Town and Country Matrons’ Ball
was speeding cheerily in its expensive gyra-
tions.
Leon Gellert, the new Art in Australia
and Home editor, who recently essayed on
“Self-expression for Children,” will be able
in future to deal with this problem as an
indisputable expert. A daughter arrived at
his Balmoral home last week.
Artists Vera Nieholl, Viola MacMillan
Brown and Olive Crane had an unusual
farewell party in Julian Ashton’s studio
the other evening. Some clever youngster had
written a sketch, in which most of the art
students took part as casts and still-life
objects. The stage was dressed as a studio
into which tumble two noisy students (one
a son of Norman Lindsay), very Latin
Quartery in their dress. Presently they fall
asleep to the soothing strains of Schubert’s
“Serenade” and then the studio comes to life,
and bottles, vases, pots and things perform
a little drama of their own. The audience
was in fancy dress, Olive Crane making her
speech of farewell from the swelling circle
of crinolines. The three gifted girls leave
for England on Saturday.
At the Country Women’s Conference
a Sydneyite found herself beside a
woman she presumed was either from an-
other State or from the country. The pair
chatted, the Sydneyite laying down the law
as to what was wanted in the country and
the stranger showing that she, too, had
more than a passing knowledge of things
rural. Then it struck the local lady to
ask her new-found acquaintance where she
lived. “In Melbourne,” was the reply.
“What part of Melbourne?” “At State Gov-
ernment House,” replied the visitor sweetly.
“I’m the wife of the Governor.”
Marie Tempest while in Australia bought
a Streeton, two Hans Heysens and two
Norman Lindsay pen-drawings; and in the
Shivery Isles she has added two Van der
Veldens to her collection.


a
HARDY BROS. LTD.
Gem Jewellery.
Pearl and Diamond
Spray Brooch,
£9.
Sapphire and Diamond
Cluster Ring,
£ll5.
Sapphire and
Diamond
Pendant,
-£7O-
Pearl and Diamond
Double Spray Brooch,
£7 15 0
Diamond dorter Ring,
£7O.
Sapphire and Diamond Brooch.
£l7O.
The Company’s comprehensive stocks of
Diamond and Gem Jewellery offer un-
equalled opportunities for the selection
of gifts of high quality.
Each article represents sterling value.
Illustrated catalogues are posted free on
application, and selections are sent on
approval.
HARDY BROS. LTD
<ga <s 'ilversm.it/is.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-IJB Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
THIRTY YEARS in One Job
Honest and faithful service without initiative and specialised knowledge have kept
this man at the same desk for thirty years. Year in and year out he has been
giving patient and painstaking service of the * bis not to reason why” order.
The Time to Consider Your Future is Now
The more you know the faster you will forge ahead in business.
Your employer is constantly on the watch for signs of ambition in his
employees. Are you content with your lot, content to stay where you are
for the rest of your life, and miss the opportunities all around you?
If you wish a more important position you must fit yourself to take it".
Use this coupon and let us tell you of the opportunities existing for
trained men. Mark your subject X.
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
Journalism
Salesmanship
Story Writing
School Teaching
Shorthand-Typing
Educational Subjects
Shire Clerks’ Exams.
All Public Exams.
Commercial Art
Ticket Writing and Designing
Newspaper and General Advertising
I arm and Station Bookkeeping
Agriculture
Live Stock Breeding and Management
Builders Drawing, with Estimating and
Contracting
Wireless
Steam Engineering
Gas and Oil Engines
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Motor Mechanics
Shire Engineering.
Matriculation.
Name
Address
Stott’s Technical Correspondence College
70 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
100 Russell Street,
Melbourne.
225 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
\1
f
OMMUNIT
w
a
'I
m
IPS
iW£
§?j
\w»
SffisSWß
K&k
basis
II
P "
&»§
n
K<sSw<tJs
W
m
. ■ TOTCA,* ,*v £,
l-vv^
[v*.v/
!><®
vw*.
•v
I mm
mm
'<*
&
|iy^
88; v«
**«
=7*
i' 1 «-,
•J.f'v?
pi
*4L l
mm
AV
o©
'••.y
ji*
M*
BN£t
I
£2^
Nr£>
v«\
M*yss
&
i«te
m
Ssfi
MmSKSI
g^S3Z
/3 ft
>v,v
2SSS
s-;s
s£»«*
;;
®k-
ik
m
5^52
?1 A
iptt:?’/
4*/,©
4575*
Cl~©
?<sv*
Ss
rs&
mi
»•»
EAUTY and service
combine to make
Community Plate the
choice of the woman with a
keen appreciation of charac-
ter and distinction in the
things of every day.
For COMMUNITY PLATE is made
in four beautiful period designs—
Adam, Sheraton, Hepplewhite and
Patrician (illustration shows the
Patrician design), whilst its service is
guaranteed for thrice-daily use for
fifty years.
The price of COMMUNITY PLATE to-day is
considerably lower than for some time past,
bringing this most beautiful and serviceable
plate well within the reach of practically all
for every-day use.
On exhibition and sale at
leading Jewellers and shops.
Wholesale Distributors:
S'. R. Seaver,
Broughton House, 177-181 Clarence Street,
Sydney.


Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
him
:\
The above
is the title
of our book-
let which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to . DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
127 Union House, George Bti eet, SYDNEY.
S/Irue Ease
W 'iTHE BRUCE”
STEEL -_ J
SHELL
faf
PETMS
elected and recommended by
Me «Ja>\es .Bruce. "Writing Specialist,
and Writing Master to the principal i
Schools of Sydney,N.S.W. & marm/aeturea
by the celebrated Pen makers.
Joseph Gillott & Sons, Btnningham.
<Sold by all Stationers
Vvkolesale -ALEX. COWAN & SONS.L™
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
IAUNDRENA
The Dainty Womans favou rite Starch
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C*L T ? SYDNEY.
In these days we all have !
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention
Office—
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
a
MONARCH
a
YOURS-
FOR A BETTER SMOKE!
Better, because every
Monarch cigar is hand-
made. Every leaf of the
filler used in its manu-
facture is high-grade
Havana, blended to pro-
duce a satisfying mel-
lowness that you will
appreciate.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists.
6d.
each.
Special sampling
cabinet containing
10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/9;
100, 46/-
Post free to any address.
Craig & Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Reil Cigar Factory.
BE HEALTHY and HAPPY!
I I
You don’t know that life is really worth living unless you are
physically fit. If your nerves and muscles are working properly
you’ll find that the world is a jolty good old place after all.
You’ll enjoy your work, enjoy your meals, enjoy your leisure,
and enjoy the company of those around you. Good health is the
most glorious asset man can have and
YOU CAN HAVE IT
By taking up Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker’s Postal Course
of Health and Strength Culture you can build up the
organs that are sluggish, drive enervating poisons from
the system and make the whole body work in peifect
harmony, as Nature intended it to. Then you will feel
the wonderful glow of perfect physical fitness. The
difference will surprise you! The exercises are clear
and simple, and are adapted to YOUR particular require-
ments.
You can learn all about the advantages of this splendid
course—if you will send for “Snowy’ Baker s booklet,
“Health and Strength from Self-Culture.’ it will be
bound to interest you. If you want better health just
write your name and address across this advertisement,
and send three stamps to us. We will forward the book.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete oi Australia,”
93 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
m
K
A
It’s the SHOES they’ll look at
provided you use
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings
PASTES (in tins).—'Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Bi o ,vn, Nigger Brown.
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING—For Canvas Shoes.
WHITE LIQUID DRESSING.—For Suede Shoes.
BLACK & BROWN LIQUID SUEDE CLEANERS.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD.
THE BURMAN Power Horse-Clipping Machines
British Made.
WILL CLIP YOUR HORSE IN 30 MINUTES.
POINTS:
Featherweight Flex-
ible Shaft, 6ft. long.
All Gears Machine
cut from Solid.
Total weight
packed, 351 b. Size
of case, It x 18 x 8
inches.
The Burman Clipper
Head will take a
thicker coat and
leave a better finish
than any other
make. Easy run-
ning.
a
These machines
have, by perfection
of design and scrup-
ulous care in manu-
facture, obtained an
unrivalled reputa-
tion throughout the
World.
There is the weight
of 50 years’ practical
experience behind
every BUBMAN
CLIPPER. Rapid
Clipping.
The Burman No. 17 Power Clipper at work.
GEARS enclosed in dust-proof Box.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES.
Burman and Sons, Ltd., Birm., England.
>
V, If
p 1
i
STONE BREAKERS.
Portable Stone Breakers, Portable Bins
and Screens, Crushing Rolls, Elevators.
T~
JAQDESBROSJ>TY. ltd.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs. ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S. .
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE No. 20.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Ella W.: A too-familiar trope. Valhalla is
peopled with heroes who have been assured by minor
poets that they are not dead at all:.. . J.W.T.: She
is the war correspondent’s daughter... .G.W.F.: Fair
tombstone verse. Try an “In Memoriam” column.
....Samuel S.: The lines are rugged and the
yarn p00r... . A.L.F.: Wobble and bump verse....
A.A.G.: A wooden and ancient tale.... Mary N.:
Contrives to say nothing in an irritating way....
A.ll. (Geelong) : Fact that Home wasn’t built in a
day has been noted.... Silentus: You can’t mix up old
and new speech in that fashion. If the hills are
“thine” they can’t be “yours” also; and to rhyme
“fine” with “time” is a crime against aural decency.
~. .Eric J.: “Buckland” is spoiled by worn tags. .. .
G.A.H.: It’s too dull to be a shocking example....
Mag: The “Shadow” is too obscure... . T.T. (Manly):
Nothing in it....Jas. B.: Not blank verse: more
blanky verse.. . .H.W.D.: A hint of merit, but not
enough to carry it. .. . A.J.F.: Not up.... Frank T.:
The sorrowful thing went sobbing to the basket..
Dingey: There have been worse first attempts; but
no number of highly-scented flowers can make up
for the lack of something to say....E.C. (Melb.):
No idea whether the poet mentioned was crossed in
love or not; and if he doesn’t say so publicly we
can’t see that it’s any business of yours. .. .Jakabe:
No earthly use... .H.W.8.: Not well enough done
Ole B.: “Always” is tired verse on an ancient theme.
Ben S.: It creaks like a cattle-truck. .. .A.11.P.:
Not our style... .F.L.A.: Not up....A.5. (Padding-
ton): Doesn’t get near W.M.L.: Completely empty.
.. . .R.J.E.: Rambling commonplace. . . .G.N. (Can-
terbury) : Might have made a thin par if most of the
words had been cut out. . . .G.A.H.: Your effort is not
worth the blow it strikes at the national ink supply.
....Steve II.: Not up. . . .Barwon: Doesn’t strike us.
C.R.J.L.: The novel thought that “marriage is a
lottery” has been inscribed for future reference on
the rim of the basket E.K. (Dulwich Hill): Com-
monplace dew and machine-made flowers... .C.R.P.:
All seem to be on the way, but none arrive... .Gus:
Both miss. .. .W.L.D.: Very sad. . . .Jack A.W.: There
is a brooding intensity about it that thrills us to the
whiskers :-
The cudgel, the knife and the pistol;
What tragic performers are these,
As they step to the sinister music
Of jangling skeleton keys.
Policemen wield their batons
With masterful courage and skill:
They need it all when opposing
The knife, pistol and cudgel.
When quarrelsome thieves engageth,
In a merciless, struggle for life,
Their varying views are adjusted
By cudgel, pistol and knife.
The knife, the cudgel, the pistol ;
What lovely performers are these,
When they play to the beautiful music
Of jangling skeleton keys!
. ...P.M.L.: No use for bedroom utensil humor...,
Margaret M.: Too frail for a flight in print Leo K.:
Yarn fades to nothing. .. .K.G.: (Kimbolton) : Thank
your gods “the days of yesterday are over” if they
make you feel like that Bruce L.: There is promise
in them, but it never achieves fulfilment. .. .J.G.D.:
Too slim....M.P. (Toowoomba): “Gallipoli” wants
better and more original treatment at this time of
day than you are capable of supplying. .. .N.N. (Glad-
stone) : Not injurious, but without a pulse Tom
M.: The mirth is frayed at the edges Douglas C.:
Poem well-nigh bursts a blood-vesesl every time it
reaches for a rhyme. .. .Brutus: Old, mirthless, tear-
less funerals have been wandering into the basket for
ages. .. .R.W.C.: Of commonplaces and rotten rhymes
compact ..'. .C.E.8.: You call it a “poem,” but it is
actually bad prose with an occasional rhyme Camb:
Your wild, moral howl doesn’t call for print... .Iona:
It makes an old remark in a dreary manner....
Riverina: Not a bad picture, but hardly worth paint-
ing J.A.W.: “Hercules” is dead J.K.8.: We
never realised before the horrors of a housemaids
job:—■ , ,
Humanity that struggles for its bread,
With envy, sees the rich on rosy bed;
A bed, perchance, some other hands had made,
By wielding ruthlessly the cruel blade
That cuts its way regardless who might fall,
Or sink to black despair in losing ail.
. ...M.8.P.: Must go back... .R.M. (Katoomba) :
Nothing in it. .. .Norman M.: Rugged verse, and it
says little Ellerslie: Rocky little fragment
I. : Well, sing it: —
Dear Editor I write this missive to you
Because you have made me feel quite blue
I’m sure you turned my “Australia” down
On- account of that chap from Manly town.
Now I’ll bet my bonnet against your cap
This ornry fellow is no Yankee chap.
Whoever he is he has us wrong
For our Yankee lads for your girls are strong.
Our beautiful countries, your’s and mine
For each we should hold the thought divine.
To see them bonded in friendship true
Would be like the sweetest dream come true.
So let us clasp hands and try each day
With love and kindness to clear the way.
Ando: The member of the staff you address is
not editor and has nothing to do with pars
Stanley O. G.: The verse is not up Annie M.:
“Suttee” does not strike us H.D. (Palmwood):
Crude verse. .. .Wilfrid L.: “Out of the Mouth
comes something that misses being song by some
distance.... Esperance: The yarn is altogether too
slight J.R.F.: Not enough in any of them
J. : No general interest D.A.S.: Dad ought not
to have let you send it Dominie: Rather light-
weight... .J.D.: Been told already... .J.W.: Still a
bit thin.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.E.C.C.: Bad drawing and feeble gags H.S.K.:
Out again Greg: Lessons will do you no harm, any-
how F.V.M.N.: If he’s anything like that he should
keep his face for private circulation 0n1y.... C.K.C.:
Lady with the aggressive legs going back. ...H.H.R.:
All wide of the mark C.G.: Drunk badly drawn;
general effect too scratchy... .G. A. S.: Hands give
your draftsmanship away.. . .F.C-H.: Misses....
Drewsky: Nothing in it.... 8.5.: One gag old, the
other labored.
“Morehead”: Who dares to question the
politeness of the Australian nipper? My
small sister, aged 9, a pupil at a Ma State
public school, approached me the other day
and asked “Have they hanged Mr. Ross yet?”
I was fogged for a moment and queried
“What Mr. Ross?” “Mr. Ross, the gentleman
that lived in Gun-alley,”


ghlDDlnar.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cnbines-de-
hitxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private P.nth rooms.
Single-berth Looms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Eor all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S, N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Bl o! Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 10.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H * North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
\\ eatlier and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; pasr.enger d\ie in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.rn.
S.S. OItARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at' 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m..
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of tiiese steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIiLP
& CO., LTD.
Bunking, Public Companies, ftc.
M QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK?
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Art 1803.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,432 0 0
Reserve Fund 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. W.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hai ti
Esq. ; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager —M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens land.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. £250,000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman •
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kim-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Rundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £629,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts till other usual Banking business.
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Australian Mutual
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. .. .. £2,575,000
Accumulated Funds .. . . . . £47,000,000
Annual Income .. • • • • • • £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
ShlppJar. e*4s.
Canad ian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARQEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
ND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, 18th MAY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE.
San Francisco Royal IVlail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
I lie Great Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Cnnyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Fails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 4th MAY, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, Bth JUNE.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
"i
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3k TO 4k WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 t<>
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
Only One Clar-; Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAU SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
POPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18.500 tons
- (Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SUEAIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PEKSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
1 tegular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
I-lighest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
r\
oignuiiiug uear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
•SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
“DIOGENES 12,500 tons
“New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
established 1817.
raid-up Capital
Ueserve Fund
J{enerve Liability
Directors
- £5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkinei', Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places nTTtECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
fa
J8ank at jtaralta
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, Kew Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% interest on Deposits up to £1,000.
3% Interest on Amounts over £1,000 up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
4 LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Beading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
ghlnolft.
* Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
I.ondon Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Legal Notices.
TN the matter of the Estate of ANNIE McALLIS-
TER, late of Summer Hill, Spinster, deceased.
CHARLES MCALLISTER, brother of the above-
named, or any person knowing his whereabouts, is
requested to communicate with the undersigned
regarding the above estate. T. W. GARRETT,
Public Trustee. Public Trust Office, Culwulla
Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
29th July, 1921.
mO BENJAMIN GEORGE NICHOLL,
JL formerly of Halswell, near Christ-
church, New Zealand, brother of James
Nicholl, late of Halswell aforesaid, Farmer,
but now deceased, and to all persons claim-
ing by, through or under the said Benjamin
George Nicholl.
PURSUANT to an Order made at Wel-
lington on the 21st day of February, 1922,
by a Judge of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand, you are hereby called upon to send
into the undersigned on or before the 1st
day of September, 1922, your claim to a
share in the distribution of the estate of the
abovenamed James Nicholl, deceased, failing
which the said estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 7th day of
April, 1922.
GEO. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


Westclox
11
Destclax
warn
10
5
9
8
5
7
6
Sleep-Meter—A dependable
Alarm
Sleep-Meter —a depend-
able Westclox alarm made
by the people who make
Big and Baby Ben. Sleep-
Meter has a clear, full face
that bears the quality mark
—Westclox. A neat,nickel
plated case of pleasing
design and a movement that
can be relied upon to keep
time. Like all Westclox,
Sleep-Meter is built in that
special Westclox way that
assures its running on
time, ringing on time and
lasting a long time.
Westclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/-
Blue Bird, 12/6 Boyproof,9/b; Pocket Ben, 9/6; Jack o'Lantern Luminous, 20/-
Big Ben Luminous, 32/6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CEOCK CO.. LA SALLE. ILLINOIS. U.S.A.
THOMPSON 8 C
(Castlemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
ENQUIRIES INVITED
for
ANY MACHINERY PROPOSITION
such as
Steam Power Plants
for Mining, Factory or Electric
Light Purposes.
Pumps and Complete Plants
for Waterworks, Sewerage,
Irrigation, Mining, etc.
AIR COMPRESSORS and BLOWING ENGINES
for Mines, Smelting Works, etc.
FORGINGS OF ALL KINDS.
Only the Highest=Grade Machinery Supplied.
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
Jj. Hinks & Co. Etd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co.
Eta
BRISBANE: ADELAIDE: PERTH:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd. Newton, McLaren Ltd. Brown & Bureau Ltd
LONDON:
Francis Clrapman Son & Deekes, Fencbureh Street.
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
TENNIS
REQUISITES.
©
%
RACKETS.
| Special School Match
I c. 8.8. Special Practice
| Hay market
| Haymarket Special
= Haymarket Extra Special
| Spalding’s Greenwood
= Spalding’s Vantage •
§ Spalding’s Tournament
I Spalding’s Continental
5 Spalding’s Gold Medal ........
= Ayre’s Sandown 30/-; Handicap
1 Ayre’s A 1 40/-; Champion
i Ayre’s Matador 55/-; S.N.D
8/6
17/0
30/-
40/-
70/-
25/-
45/-
40/6
55/-
70/-
37/6
50/-
87/6
Bussey’s Sandown 25/-; Standard 25/-
Busse'y’s Conqueror 30/-; Handicap 32/6
Bussey’s At 35/-; Invincible 50/-
Slazeuger’s La Belle 27/6; Player 30/-
Slazenger’s Renshaw 45/-; Demon 55/-
Whitoliouse 63/-; Classic 80/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M. 85/-; Doherty 87/6
Slazenger’s Imperial 77/6; Stadium 90/-
Slazenger’s I.Z 95/-; Patterson 95/-
Prosser’s Improved Phenomenon 95/-
Pavis Riseley Hexagon 87/6
H. C. Bee’s Seneca 55/-: Spartan 70/-
H. C. Bee’s Church 90/- Monogram 105/-
(Rackets, 50/- or over, post free. Postage on cheaper rackets: N.S.W.. 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
RACKET REPAIRS a Specialty.
TENNIS BALLS.
Each. Do/..
Dunlop Rcsrulation Grey 1/4 10/-
Dunlop’s Champion, 1922 2/7 30/-
Each. Doz.
Avre’s Court 2/2 25/ _
Ayre’s Champion, 1922 2/9 32 /m
1 SLAZENGER’S
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.) |
Championship, 1922 (airtight tins) 32/- doz. |
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
SUNDRIES.
(Kindly add sufficient to cover cost of carriage.)
Each.
Tennis Nets, full size,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, GO/-, 70/-
Acme (square) Posts, pair 105/-*^
Tennis Court Markers 37/0
Tennis Tapes 522/0
Gut Solution, for renovating the strings
of rackets, bottle 1/-
Each.
Racket Covers ... 2/6, 5/6, 7/<
Tennis Ratchet 7/6
The “Grip” Racket Press 3/6, 4/6
Racket Handle Grips .. 1/-, 1/3, 1/6
Scoring Books J/6
Racket Gut, 36ft. coils .. ... 2/6, 4/6, 6/6
Racket Gut. 21ft. coils, 0/6, 8/6, 10/6, 15/-
ILLUSTRATED TENNIS
PRICE LIST FREE ON REQUEST.
BOXING
GLOVES
MEN’S GLOVES.
Our Gloves
are well and
faithfully
made from
selected
materials,
and are
unsurpassed
for durability
and
effectiveness.
Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value •••••••
t' 1 B B Fighting, tan napa, laced palms, 6orB oz 16/6, 18/6, 21/ , So/
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist-band, 6 or 8 oz., 25/-, SM/-
XTTFTT-GRADE FIGHTNG, napa, leather-lined, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz. So/-, 4U/-
TviTP “T.TFHTNING ” made in Australia, officially adopted and exclusively used by
Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Personally recommended by Mr.
Re o- L. (“Snowy”) Baker »••••••• •
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
BOYS’ GLOVES. Set ct*.
Snnerior. napa leather, hair stuffed * y "’«//* io /o
ftupeiiui, laced palms 9/-, 9/6, 12/9
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.),
rnnr STRAPS best quality (Postage 3d.) . *** * • 7/6each.
BOXING BOOTS, English Leather, extra light, weight 3joz. (Postage 6jd.), 15/0, 17/6 pair.
PUNCHING BALLS.
y-rz.
*■'4
u
m
ARMY
fHg
PORTABLE
THE EXPERT
1 ARMY, Swinging Ball, rcg., for fast work, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 22/6, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
| Y extra light Professional Swinging Ball, specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable
I and perfect shape; made of higliest-quality brown mocha kid. The finest made . . 45/-
I EXPERT double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for floor and rope for ceiling. . 12/6, 15/6
I EXPERT* double-end Ball, regulation size, double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
| FXPFRT’ double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide, rubber and leather fittings,
1 (Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.) 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
| PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring upright, heavy iron base, leather cover and bladder
I complete (Carriage extra on portable balls) 105/-
I All above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
| SUNDRIES.
I Doubf e-atfiion G S\vivels| S 6 /- each. Ball-bearing Swivels - . 10/6 each
1 Ball Gloves 3/9, 4/9 pair. Punching Platforms, 50/-, 75/-, 147/
1 SPORTING REPAIRS a SPECIALTY
each
ae
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET,
Branches: Hunter St., NEWCASTLE;
SYDNEY.
Edward St., BRISBANE.


Rexona Soap for
Health and Beauty
MISS MARCIA RUTIIYEN (from a photo).
“I am sending you
one of my photo-
graphs, for I am a
true Rexona Girl and
use only Rexona Soap.
“I find that it is de-
lightful for use on the
skin, and as a sham-
poo for the hair I am
sure it has no equal.
“I have been using-
only Rexona Soap now
for some years, and
liko it better every
day.
“Wishing Rexona
Soap every success,
“I am,
“Yours truly,
“(Sgd.)
“MARCIA
“34 Bayswater Road,
“Darlinghurst, N.S.W.”
Girls! Beautify Your Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of your
hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and
charming as anyone could desire after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delightful
surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy, dry, brittle
or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair
of all dust, dirt or excess oil,
and in a few moments you have
doubled the beauty of your hair.
Rexona Soap dissolves every
particle of dandruff, cleanses,
purifies and invigorates the
scalp, for ever stopping itching
and failing hair. If you care to
have pretty hair, and lots of A,
get a tablet of Rexona Soap
to-day.
Rexona Soap
1/- per tablet.
1
I
mmmm
m
MEDICATED SOAP
. Rexona Proprietary Company
Sydney. N.S.W.
i
PRICES REDUCED.
“AUSTER” 3J-B.H.P. Kerosene Engines
Complete with Fuel and Water Tanks,
Silencer, Magneto, Carburetter, etc.,
ready to run.
m
I
COME AND SEE
THE LATEST ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
with further improvements and
TREE-FELLING ATTACHMENT, etc.
SHIPMENT JUST ARRIVING.
W. G. Watson & Co. Limited,
279 Clarence Street (4 doors from the Town Hall),
SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9967-8-9.
The Swede.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GREEN seas on Gabo, groaning, break,
Grey seas from Howe recede:
A falling glass forebodes a change—
But ’tis a hardy breed;
Three waves will drown a Dago, but
Three hundred leave a Swede,
“Yah ! Hot dat plitty bulb, Ay dink,”
Said Peter Hammerstrong,
“Ve gat our fish, ve gat some vind,
But ef der dhings go wrong,
Ay poot mine trust in George, an’ poosh
De dam’ ole ark along.”
So pip-er-pop, pap, pip-er-pop,
Sou’-west by south she goes—
A hundred boxes, hold and hatch,
To market or—who knows?—
To feed the sharks in Bass’s Strait,
Scales, fins and guts and roes.
But fishermen and sailormen,
Their kinchen and their wives,
Must still be housed and clothed and fed,
At risk of hulls and lives,
Else homes are stinted, tradesmen Scowl,
And no fat agent thrives.
“Dere’s leedle Yak und leedle Lil
Und Ivor, Bill an’ Kate,
An’ Mary, mine Ostralian vife,
To meet us at der gate,
Ven ve coom home to Gippsland Lakes
Mit half der fish for freight.
“But ef ve miss der leading vind
Ven yust a bit she blow,
Dere ain’t some boots und hats to buy,
Und shirts and dhings to sew;
Der ain’t some butcher meat nor bi t ad,
Und nodings doin’—no.”
From Bastion to the Little Ram
That leading wind held fair:
At Wingan Point it drew to south,
And freshened at Beware;
By Snowy Bar ’twas feather white,
With spindrift in the air.
Their tiny craft of twenty ton
Was smothered in a smoke
Of risen seas that hissed ahead
And thundered where they broke;
And Peter’s hands, like iron claws,
Clutched hard upon the spoke!
Shrill sea-birds clustered on the sands.
And harshly screamed, atune,
To angry seals on Skerry Rocks,
As, ’neath a scudded moon,
The dingo howled, with lifted nose,
In echo by Tamboon.
“By ghost!” said Hammerstrong to Hans,
(I His ruddy mate and crew,
Ay dhink it gif us yust so much
As dis ole ark she do!
Berhaps she make it. Odervise
Id’s finish up for two!”
Sweeping the sea-spray from his beard,
From somewhere down below
Hans Iloopman, slowly lifted up
His face of fire, benign, and slow
And, blinking at the boil, remarked:
“By Hogan’s ghost, she blow !”
And that was all that passed between
This cutter’s company,
Who, hour by hour, fought inch by inch,
White breakers close a-lee,
The wearing strength and wicked will
Of God Almighty’s sea.
Aye stung by cold Antarctic winds,
And lashed by scalding spray,
With decks awash, that stubborn fight
Went on throughout the day,
With all the world of living men
A million miles away!
Perchance at last an angry Thor
Looked out across the sand
On two brave Northmen faring hard,
As fared their forebears, and,
Well pleased to see the Breed ran true,
Upheld them with his hand.
For, through the gloaming, like a ghost,
The lookout saw, afar,
A dripping cockle-shell that rose
A-reeling to the bar:
Whiles, in a cottage, on the cliff,
A lamp burned like a star!
* * * #
A hoarse voice hailing through the night!
A footstep at the gate. . ..
A woman sings, who might have sobbed;
A sound of fork and plate;
And sogging sea-boots at the door,
Close shut on Death and Fate.
So Peter by his fireside looms,
A Viking home indeed,
With red-haired Hans, again, to share
The boon of bed and feed.
Three seas will drown a bago—but
They cannot drown a Swede.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.
Two Men and a Dog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON top it was a wet day. The whole
flat was sloppy with pools ; the rain
blew across the treeless expanse
loaning at an angle of fifty degrees, rivulets
ran down the tips, snake-like, sentient in
eager quest of some larger stream in which
to lose themselves! The old native dam at
Carver’s corner was overflowing its banks.
A large, lank dog, dragging a scrap of chain,
loped before the wintry wind, not merely
hiv tail but the whole of his hindquarters
tucked in from the blast, his ears dripping,
sniffing- right and left in a hopeless, ill-tem-
pered search, angry with the perversity of
a fool-man that brought him from warmth
and cover on. a day like this. He stopped
now and again in his hunt, his sides collap-
sed, his legs bunched under him, and gave
expression to' his emotions in an unequi-
vocal yowling that said: “Tainch, you infer-
nal jackass of a man. where have you hidden
yourself away in all this muck and misery?”
The dog did not know precisely why he
was seeking Oliver Tainch, but the search
was imperative. Something within drove
im on m a state of curious vindictiveness.
Impatience possessed him. He was called
upon for the performance of duties outside
his class. He was not a hunting dog; a
dog who is about three parts bull-terrier is
not a setter or a retriever. It is his nature
to attack on sight, to deal with things right
under his nose without delay or circum-
locution. His incapacity for the present task
irked him, and made him fretful. He came
at length to a comparatively dry spot in the
three walls of a wrecked hut, and nosed
carefully and conscientiously amongst a
patch of bagging. Two or three times he
turned over the grease-soaked leather lining
of a hat; then with his nose close to the rain-
washed, pipeclay surface he went seeking
hither and thither after the illusive scent,
ciyiug out in his irritation. Once he lingered
by a stump to kick himself, looking back
longingly to the dry warmth of a corner of
the hut he had just left, but the impulse
within him was not to be resisted.
Eventually the dog came to an old alluvial
mine logged up to a height of eight feet,
and surrounded by piled clay. Here he
lingered, sniffing every inch of the surface.
But the soil was sluiced clean, and a dog
could not get anything dependable. Sniff,
sniff, sniff, he swung his head right and
left, going quickly round the windlass brace.
At spots he thrust his nose into little pools,
blowing the water all about, making silly,
eager noises. He could not be satisfied, yet
he would not pass on. He came to the
timbered sides of the shaft; he crouched
down and shot his head into the hole, smell-
ing at the slabs. Here where the rain had
not reached was some satisfaction. All
along the slabs on each side went the search-
ing nose of the dog, picking out the faintest
evidence. He found a spot; he clung to it,
almost falling in his efforts to get further
down after tne tantalising odor, wuin.ng and
yapping very softly in feverish agitation.
Mow Bully was satisfied. He had located
his man. Lying at full length, his head upon
his paws, his nose level with the edge of the
hole, his big, unblinking eyes looking into the
darkness below, he watched and waited.
Bully’s long,. uncropped ears, unfortunate
ears he inherited from his maternal grand-
parent, who was a carriage dog, lifted and
turned forward to catch the faintest sound ;
but no hint of Oliver Tainch came from the
blackness below. Quite still Uow, and quite
silent, although the cold wind blew fiercely
upon him in this elevated place, and the
hail pelted him with stinging bullets that
threatened to perforate those sensitive, thin,
large ears. He persevered in the task that
had been imposed upon him, he knew not
why, nor how, nor by whom—an instinctive
mission beside which large meaty bones and
warm bags in a dry kennel became matters
of trifling concern.
The dav passed slowly, its bitterness abat-
ing towards evening. The large, white,
cold moon looked down upon a windless
space from a quiet sky, cloudless and with
almost the blueness of day, a sky wrung dry
at last. Bully had not moved from his watch-
ful guard; but now his body was a-quiver
with excitement, and all his caution must
be exerted to repress the inclination to bark
that possessed him. He had seen Harry
Bond s body borne away between two men.
blood dripping from the head, and Harry
Bond was liis master. The culprit must be
found. The killer must be dealt with.
Someone was coming up the shaft, slowly
and laboriously, with grunts and occasional
low ejaculations. The climber was astride
the narrow hole,, using the slabs on both
sides as a ladder, carefully testing each
before trusting his weight upon it. The
shaft was at least fifty feet deep, and the
man made a slow and wearisome journey,
resting often to ease his toes and recover his
breath. He was not in good cord tion, and
this was no task for a beer-drinker fresh
from a debauch. Slowly he came out of the
blackness of the depth into the light, where '
the white brightness of the moon dipped
down one side. The face was thick-lipped
and swollen, grimed with dark stubble-round
the fat chin and jowl, but otherwise showing
a dough-like pallor. Heavy eyebrows over-
hung small, red eyes, red even in this light.
With a great grunt of satisfaction, Tainch
gripped the timber at the surface.
Then the man’s eyes met the eyes of the
dog, large and luminous, and Oliver Tainch
saw the white, long teeth.
“Me Gawd!’’ said Tainch. He sank back
against the end of the shaft. “Me Gawd,!”
he repeated in a whisper, cowering before
the ominous eyes—“it’s ’Arry’s dorg!”
The movement exasperated Bully; he
reached his body forward, tottering over the
depth, and snapped furiously, with low barks
clashing his. long , teeth, growling from the
depths of his being, a terrifying, blood-
curdling sound suggestive of suffocation and
tearing flesh. Tainch slipped down two
slabs, almost missing his footing, with a
shock that left him weak and trembling
violently, clinging desperately to the timber.
, The movement exasperated Bully, bust-
ling him into a demonstration of futile vio-
lence. He tore round and round the mouth
of the shaft, barking and snarling, scramb-
ling at the edge precariously, chopping at
Oliver Tainch with his keen, white teeth;
and Tainch cowered down uttering soothing
noises.
“Good dog.” he said. ' “Poor old fellow.
Here, boy; here, boy.” But as this only
served to increase Bully’s demonstrations of
enmity, he became stern with the animal.
“Lie down !” he said. “Lie down, sir! Lie
down, damn yer!”
Bully was on his stomach again, reaching
oyer as far as he dared, silent but for an
occasional deep, guttural complaining, unde-
monstrative but for a convulsive baring of
his teeth when Tainch addressed him.
“Poor old dog,” whined the man. “Poor
old fellow. Good boy. Good old Bully.
Good boy.” He made a sucking sound be-
tween his lips, a sound supposed to be
soothing to the feelings of a dog, and the
opalescent light in the dog’s eyes glowed
with increasing fire, warning Tainch to
place no reliance on the effect of his efforts
at reconciliation.
Meanwhile Tainch’s toes were feeling the
strain, the thews of the calves of his legs
were taut -and burning. He made another
upward move, the dog reached for him With
(Continued on next page.)


n
>S
111 l
A
/
\
ZAM-BOK THE BEST HEALER FOR WOUNDS 4 SORES.
YOU CANT AFFORD TO negled even the slighted skin trouble.
Such painful and disfiguring complaints as Eczema, Barcoo, Ulcers,
Ringworm, Poisoned and Festering Sores usually start with a
Pimple, a Rash or a simple Cut or Burn.
The only safe plan is to keep Zam-Buk always handy and
use it at once whenever you have any trouble with your skin.
This herbal balm, which is the product of years of scientific research, has
no equal as an antiseptic healer and cure for obstinate skin diseases.
In Zam-Buk is the modern successor of those wonderful healing balms used by the
ancient Roman Gladiators.
Zam-Buk is so refined that it is at once absorbed by the pores of the skin.
Impurities, poison and disease are drawn out of the tissues, and new healthy skin is growm. So
powerful is Zam-Buk that the worst skin affection yields to its marvellous healing influence.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap is specially prepared to meet the needs of those people
with a diseased, tender or irritable skin. It is invaluable when used with Zam-Buk balm
for the cure of skin troubles.
All
Chemists
(Sr 5 Stores
j/6 and
u
am
Insist upon
Zam - Btik,
therms
nothing
"just as
good.'’
A free sample of Zam-
Buk will be sent to ail
TEST ZAM-BUK FREE.
readers on receipt of name and address, and stamp * or R ’"j*’<irn
postage, by '.lie Proprietors. C. E. Fulford (Alist.) Ltd., Sydnej.
Please mention this paper when writing.
a wolfishness that filled Taineli with terror,
and he started down again. Retreat was his
onlv alternative. If he advanced the brute
would be at his throat; if he remained Ins
strength would presently be exhausted. He
went down clinging with splintered, bleed-
ing finger-tips, sweating profusely, feeling
that lie might not be able to sustain the
effort, lie fell the last six or seven feet,
and lay huddled at the bottom of the shaft,
rather battered and utterly exhausted. He
felt he would never be in a condition to
attempt the terrible climb again. _ In that
event he must either starve in his prison
or be discovered by the seekers who would
be after him—discovered, and taken, and
hanged !
Looking up he could descry the head of
the bull-terrier silhouetted in the oblong
patch of blue moonlight against the clear
sky. Occasionally he caught a flash of the
peculiar, hard, red light in the animal s
eyes. With the cursed brute cowering there
ready to throttle him what hope had he of
escaping, what chance of evading the
searchers ?
Taineli did not enjoy a restful night.
When you have killed a man in unfair fight
and find yourself trapped in a devil of a
hole with the dead man’s dog on guard at
the only means of exit, intent upon tearing
your throat out, you do not sleep well. It.
was not till the first light of dawn was show-
ing in the sky that Taineli felt himself
equal to another venture up the shaft. The
dog’s head was not now visible. A glorious
hope possessed the man; Bully might have
gone back to the township for food, perhaps
to bring the trooper. He had had previous
experience of the mongrel’s uncanny intelli-
gence, and could imagine the cursed dog
dragging McGuire to the spot. A dog that
knew his master had been murdered, tracked
down his slayer and stood guard over him
like a famished panther might easily be
inspired to communicate with the Law.
The thought lent strength to Tainch’s
stiff arms and sore legs, and he mounted
quickly. He brought his head level with
the surface, his heart beating like the
plunger of a pump. Cautiously he raised
his head, and a cry of fear and fury broke
from him. The dog was still there, crouch-
ing low on the reef, hiding back from the
shaft in the hope of luring Taineli into a
position in which he could be seized. Their
eyes met, the hair along the dog’s neck arose
bristling like wire, his teeth were bared, he
uttered a blood-curdling growl. Taineli
cried aloud once more and slipped back into
the shaft as Bully sprang. The dog’s teeth
tore his scalp, so that the pouring blood over-
ran his face, filling his eyes. The weight of
the dog hurled him into the end of the shaft,
where he clung for life to the surface timber.
Bully was tearing the man’s face with his
hind claws, fighting his way to the windlass
brace again. It seemed to the wretch in
the shaft that he must go; the limit of his
endurance, the extreme of his strength was
reached. He .sagged on the point of collapse;
but, the weight of the dog being removed, he
recovered himself with a supreme effort and
stood with his feet planted weakly across
Ihe shaft, his back against the end. unable
to see, unwilling to release a hand to wipe
the blood from his eyes. For a full minute
he remained so, the furious dog barking into
the shaft, throwing the foam from its lips
into his scrub of whiskers.
A little recovered, Tainch broke into a
fury of curses. He apostrophised the dog
in the foulest language, he spat at the brute,
yelling blasphemies, his rage consuming him.
The dog. strung to an ungovernable pitch,
answered with the violence of passion : his eyes
were bloodshot, his jaws clashed horribly.
Tainch weakened. He had eaten nothing for
30 hours; he had been drinking a week. It
seemed to him that his veins ran water. He
hung by his hands desolately ; self-pity seized
him: his throat was convulsed with sobs.
He felt death near.
Then came a shouting voice, the sound
of feet. Was it Trooper McGuire? They
were coming to take him. to hang him by
the neck. He had resolved that that should
never be. The footsteps were on the reef
built up at the mouth of the shaft. Tainch
raised himself, leaned forward with a diving
movement to let himself go head foremost
into the depths.
A man with his head in a bandage climbed
the tip and stood a moment over Bully.
“Why, yeh damn old fool,” said he, “what
yeh doin’ ’ere?” Then he went down and
snatched at Tainch, caught him by the
collar of his coat and vest, and with the
tremendous effort of a strong man drew him
to the surface, and laid him on his back on
the reef.
The dog gambolled clumsily round the two
men. Where a man’s judgment betrays him
there is every excuse if a dog’s instinct is
at fault. After all, there had been no
murder. Tainch blinked through his blood
up at the man with the bandaeed head.
“Me Gawd, it’s ’Arr.v Bond!” said he.
EDWARD DYSON.
Safety.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. ~ ~
4 s 1 P ass ed tlie Swaggies Cave a thin
j voice called out “Good evening.”
The Q ] d thin f ace framed in white
. Hnvs flre
hair looked over a shoulder The days are
dr awin’ in again, a in t they !
j ye s and stopped, not because his
■ j nY j t ed any more than a passing greet-
because I had a bag of cakes for the
n ;S' out oecuu e i a *
kids and I thought he might like one.
The Swaggies’ Cave is a beautiful place
practically a drawing-room with running
water j' t is a po cket in the limestone wall
Lawson and Wentworth h alls. T
hangs over it and stands sparsely before it,
and a little mountain-spring bubbles and
chuckles in one corner of it. In midsumrnei
as in winter this spring is alive, so you are
certain of ice-cold filtered water. I e e 1
plenty of room for a man to stretch out,
with good shelter from the westerlies, a red
and yellow roof to keep ott the lain, and the
ti-tree veil to keep out the sun. There is
even a little paten of grass for a lawn in
front, with a telegraph-pole to lean against
while the billy boils. The cave floor is a
couple of feet above the level of the road,
which makes it safe from passing traffic,
and the whisper of the spring is companion-
able through the night when there is no
traffic. A beautiful place.
“Ah!” His eyes gleamed when he saw my
proffered cukes, “ioud army believe ow
seldom you get a bit o’ sweetstuff. Plenty of
bread an’ dripping —bit o’ butter sometimes
an’ cold meat an’ that, an’ o’ course tea an’
sugar. But no one thinks of a slice o’ bread
an jam. It’s only that they don't think of
it, yer know’’ —wavering, uncertain old eyes
held mine for an instant —"an’ yer don’t
like to ask for it, ’s if you was pickin’ an’
cboosin’. But sometimes I’ve bin to three
places”—a motor tore round the curve honk-
ing viciously as it passed us, and he shrank
back into the cave, fear and hatred light-
ing up his face —“an’ got plenty o tucker at
all of ’em before I c’d get a bit o’ bread an’
jam. An’ that gets you a bad name, lie
added, staring thoughtfully after the motor’s
evil dust.
“What does?” I sat down on his lawn
beside the sweet-smelling fire. Great
shadows loomed up in the cave’s depths by
the water shimmering in the fireglow.
“Goin’ to a dozen ’ouses in the same
place.”
I suppose I looked foolishly blank. Any-
way, he was sharp with me.
“If yer’ve got yer bag full once yer’ve
got yer tucker, ain’t yer? Any more’s
cadgin’.”
“Oh !” My tone apologised for my stupid-
ity as well as my defective sense of honor.
“D’yer live about ’ere?” he asked, his tone
accepting my apology.
I told him yes, down the road a bit. That
I liked it. Just as much in the winter as
in the summer, ies, a good deal of rain.
I had often thought what a good place his
cave was for a man sleeping out in the ram.
“Ah!” His eyes gleamed again as he
turned and looked back at the shadows warm
in the sheltering dusk. “I’ve travelled
about a good bit, out west and up in
Queensland an’ a good bit along the coast,
but,” —he smiled, his beard twitching fan-
tastically forward as he did so. The billy
boiled, and he washed his mug and gave me
tea —strong, biting tea, whose flavor I
remembered for days.
“Yer see” —he crouched more closely over
the fire and held his mug in his two hands
as if he wanted to warm them—“everyone
’as ’is ideas. Some wants a bit of a place
an’ a cow; others wants a garden; others
wants a big family an’ a big place to put ’em
in ; an’ others thinks they wants nothin’. I
remembered this camp when I was out on
the roads —just remembered it, yer know, as
you might, or anyone passin’—an’ often
wished I was ’ere. Some of those Queens-
land roads is bad. But one time I got
pinched in Sydney at a two-up an’ I ’adn’t
got die fine, so I did me seven days.”
He paused and sat silent for a moment.
The white hair shone round the brown old
face looking deep into the lire; some un-
happy memory was puckering his forehead,
steadying his pale, uncertain eyes.
“Yer learn ter take things a.s they come,
mister. The lock-up wasn t too bad; they
treated me right. But I wanted this camp.
There I was shut up tight an' safe, as yer
might say, but I wasn’t safe. An’ I knew 1
wouldn’t be safe till I got ere.
lie looked up and smiled, his beard twitch-
ing forward spasmodically.
-It’s the ideas yer get, yer know. I was
safe when I got ’ere —or I felt safe, an’
that’s the same thing, I s’pose. That’s a
good many years ago, that seven days, but
i ain’t forgot the feelin’. Wherever I am 1
c’n always come ’ere —come ’ome, in a man-
ner o’ speakin’ —an’ feel that it’s all right.”
Another motor swept round the curve, its
headlights making a terrifying day of the
gathering dark. The old man’s face was
full of scorn and loathing as he moved out
the searching glare.
“Messin’ up the footsteps,” he muttered,
picking up the billy and mug nervously and
putting them farther in as if he thought the
motor would pollute them.
“The footsteps?” He was an old man
and very tired, and I was nearly sure that
he had ’forgotten me. but I chanced it. A
sickle moon just lifted herself over the gully
and threw a quiet light on him and his
haven, the waning fire and the darkness
behind, where the water chattered. He
looked hard at me, measuring my under-
standing. In the end he risked it.
“All the footsteps,” he said, keeping a
watchful eye on me. “All the men that’s
bin on the' road before me. Big an’ little,
young an’ old, they’re all walkin’ with me.
I c’n hear ’em, an’ see the little puffs o’
dust they make. It’s comp’ny fer yer, yer
know, all them other men. But them
motors,” he snarled suddenly, “they’re churn-
in’ ’em all up, messin’ ’em up so you can’t
tell t’other from which. Bastards!” he
added, looking up the rise over which a
honking sounded.
When it had gone past him, cowering out
of its aura, he went on.
“But we’ll beat ’em yet; the road’ll beat
the motors, you see if they don’t. I
read the papers; an’ what about these aereo-
planes?” He chuckled harshly and tapped
me on the knee. “Eh, mister? What about
these aereoplaries ? They’ll be carryin’ every-
body soon. Then what about the motors?
They’ll soon chase the ’s off the roads.
An’ all the footsteps’ll come back, svvishin’
soft beside yer, keepin’ step with yer,
passin’ yer, laggin’ be’ind. Some alone,
some in twos an’ threes, some draggin’ tired,
some steppin’ it out.. . .All goin’ with yer
as far as yer goin’ yerself. That’s great
comp’ny fer a man, that is.”
I agreed that it was, salvaged the kids’
cakes and said good night—l’d be late for
tea. Queer old cove —seemed a bit dotty.
Too much tramping alone. Rounding the
bend to the home track I stubbed my toe
and swore. And laughed at myself—l’d
been walking in the ruts and stones of the
roadside, leaving the road itself free and
undisturbed.
HILARY LOFTING.


W&V-fi-V*V
liSip WißHi 8H
!■ r . !•
i. ia^-J
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOOSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Zi Office—93-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Vlotorlan Office—9B Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
Correspondence invited.
f. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
IS
tf:
m.
if* Cl
MX
%:'.; >£. v m s'*
* JS> %;,
"' WZ:/ ■■:
j
l/f. 'S
Z&2
Iff
m*
&C
a;:;
Shirley President
Braces
When one contemplates erecting
the tallest building in the world
or a pair of braces one must
have a definite plan: that the
plan may be good or bad, time
will tell.
But if one builds with the point
of view of having the welfare of
the users at heart, the plan is almost sure of success.
The President Suspender Company started fifty years ago to build
braces to give the wearer the most comfort and the best value. At
all times they built for quality.
Fifty years of continuous ever-increasing satisfied wearers the world
over is a testimonial that their plan of building was correct.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT’*
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
¥-V.
Quality counts
in the long run
THERE are days when your shooting is
not what it should be —you return
home disappointed with general results —
you were not as keen as usual —you had
many chances, but something was wrong.
It makes a big difference what cartridges
you use. A good-looking cartridge is not
always what it appears to be. Are you
sure you are getting your money’s worth
in shooting value ?
Even if you are obliged to pay a little more,
wny not have the best that can be bought and then see if
you don’t enjoy your day’s shooting to the utmost.
cartridges give entire satisfaction
o-i
and YOU can prove it.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Aiutrilian Repre.entatir* P. 0. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
àa
i'M,'
li:
IlliUiUii
STAND
UNRIVALLED.
PERFORATED SHEET METAR
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining. Harvesting. Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON S SONS PTY.LTD.,Footscray.Vic.
INLAND CONSTRUCTION
MAKES FOR
GREATER ENGINE EFFICIENCY
BEING ONE PIECE CONCENTRICALLY TURNED, GAPLESS AND SPIRALLY CUT,
COMPRESSION IS HELD
WHILE.
Oil Pumping is Practically Precluded.
INLANDS
ARE NOT
A FREAK
DESIGN,
THEIR
WORTH
.BEING.
PROVED
WHERE
OTHER
RINGS
HAVE
FAILED.
IN U
| PIECE
PISTON
PING
9
INLANDS
HAVE
BEEN
ON THE
MARKET
NEARLY
FIVE
YEARS
AND
THEIR
POPU-
LARITY
IS
IJNDIM-
INISHED.
MORE
POWER
LESS
FUEL
Inlands exert: an equal pressure on the cylinder walls.
Use INLANDS and solve carbon difficulties
and the troubles arising from oily plugs.
INVESTIGATE TO-DAY.
WE STOCK FOR ALL CARS IN EITHER ENGLISH OR METRIC
MEASUREMENTS.
SIZES AND OVER-SIZES.
PRICES to 31 in. diameter, 6/9 each.
LITERATURE AND ALL INFORMATION FREE.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Dire<st Importers of Inland Ring's.


From George the Third
To George the Fifth
One Hundred years long
Born 1820, Still going strong*
life. - vCt
X
iij
v ' • •. >.' V x'k v» x
\ W
"7
c
3
m
• t?
=* Jk
s
sa
ss
&
S 3
VS
yfh
srn
*■ *>
* *
\
/
V
\
\
i
r
fsc
T*' *9
md t It *
7 4
ssss
T^ojt
,
■CT'
Pni—-aSS
1
j£o Ch^%,
JOHNNIE WALKER TRAVEL 9VRIES. NO. 29. MADEHA
Johnnie Walker: “Is that your best posy ! ”
Flower Woman : “ Like you, Sir, it is ‘ the pick of the market.
> il
Guaranteed same quality all over the world.
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD.. Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, SCOTLAND.
