

2*l*
tra^E
FA TAW A FA v.
2
ffli/ASr <WA
?
■■: ••• ■••
yi-'.'i-"'^,;;'' \ j ,i
m
: v-
: ; ;
;-*\Wv. “
Vi 1
*»
' «S
Sgggp
-
M
1«
$
m
WBmmm
1
■i i
sS£^3i3Si
&
•'■
llliur itlli
*
k! ■
m
1!
.■••• i
?s>
BM
'
Vy^Sf!
V***!#/,
yOSTO/VsT
* , S&aarj*
>.«-
Jr“.
kSSisSQifc:
i&SaS'iwlJ
HtH
&
96
asKS
<7
:
•*'•
-.••:•
ks@s
Hi
.
m
wzm
IRMSMSeP
:■ •.;
:
'JV/ ;'V
\
w J.C.Hutton Pty Lt l ?
M E. LB 0 U R N EL., Br ISBAN E. .SyDN EY,
Fremantle , Launceston.
Wholesale Distributing Centres.
VICTOQIA
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES. _
WESTERN AUSTDALIA
TASMANIA
f.CHutton Pttj.Ltd. 9!WilliamSt.Melb.
f.CHutton Pttj.Ltd. Pom aSt Brisbane
_ Prescott ltd. Sussex St. Sudneu.
_ J.CHutton Pttj.Ltd. Fremantle.
_ F.WHeritage s Co. Hobart.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2203.
Thursday, May 4, 1922
Priee 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'
New .1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 George Street. City.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT (Australia) LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
g§»
mbwmLa
m
m
MANGROVSTE Leather Belting
The Result bf over 40 Years’ Experience.
Exhaustive tests have proved to us that there is one
best way to tan leather for power-transmitting
purposes.
Rigid supervision and the employment of experts in
our tanneries enables us to produce in MANGItOVITE
LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING a coupler that
gets more work done and cuts down production costs.
Order it now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUDOWJCI, Managing- Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett, Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henry Clark k Co. Ptv., Ltd., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: Philip Ernnkel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
OURNVtttE COCOA
BY TEST
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATE!
THE BEST
Made In Australia
i
Wl
m
if
I
B
m .
i:- *■*. irffoffift/
'AI-fr .^;
- m
V\
NATURE’S
SECRETS
are unlocked in the lovely
Zenobia Perfumes. The subtle
charm of the flowers at their
sweetest moment is found in
perfection in these exquisite
favorites. There are no
fumes truer to nature than
Zcnobia Uly of the Valley —is as charm-
ing as the tender appeal of the living
flowers.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blos-
som—a triumph of deli-
cacy and fidelity to nature
The original perfume of
the name.
Zcnobia Night-scented
Stock —as sweet as the
perfume of an old-worlc
garden—a great favorite.
Manufactured only by
Ze.vobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire, England.
Sole Agents for Nevy Zea-
land (Wholesale only):
Newsoh & Go., Ltd.,
.0. Box 1102, Wellington.
Sole Agent for Australia
(Wholesale only) :
Kenneth Buckniaster,
15 O’Connell
Street,
Sydney.
<&
<£U2
(i
%
{l
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
“Better than Tatts.”
£#9o for ll-
£l6oo
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
jsiooo
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Blue Mountains A. H. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
. £5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16 th, 1922.
17- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post, 1/2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 3/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chances,
and can possibly win 324000.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke's obtainable from N S.W. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH', Hon, Secretary.
Cadzoar, Warrega street, Katoomba. N.S.W«
to keep our end up.
Think of
Schute, Bell 8 Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office-
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ďfďf
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forma
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion ; on the
contrary, they, have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus they prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Said Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6. [6
® \J»
i
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of on#
of the Luna;3.
The Red Page
Antipodean Liberalism
Australia has often been called a land
contradictions; a country where wore
assume new meanings. Bruce Smith’s “T
Truisms of Statecraft” (Longman’s, Gre
and Co.) helps to establish the claim so t
as the political sphere is concerned. IS.
Smith regards himself as a Liberal—a Glac
stonian Liberal. He begins (and, incide
tally, ends) his work With this note: —
According to the historical authority named (Gro
the people of Lokris adopted a social regulat
whiqh provided a check on what we now call “o
legislation,” by requiring the advocate of anv n
law to make his proposal in public with a ‘hal
round his neck ; and, in the event of his failing
persuade the people to adopt the proposal, the hal
was employed to strangle the proposer.
‘Such a law,” observes the author in refe
cnee to modern class legislation, “wou
effectively prevent this constant tamped;
—this meddlesome aud irritating interfc
ence—with the people’s rights and liberti
by making an example of one or two deli
quents.” There is one astounding passa
which puts Mr. Smith’s political faith in
relatively small compass :—■
The history of the British race for the last tho
fand years will be found, if carefully analysed,
have been a slow but gradual freeing of the peop
from a great variety of wrongly-conceived restr
tioitfi, ignorantly and unjustly imposed by early am
despotic rulers on their civil and religious libc
ties. „The latter part of the X9th and the begi
ning of the 20th century have witnessed a reacti
from this liberalising process.
Up to the reign of Henry 11., who bega
the centralisation of the Feudal Cour
into a curia rcyis, Englishmen kne
practically no legal restrictions'. The
Wiere almost as free—in the sense tha
Mr. Smith understands freedom —as Centr
African savages.: they were freer than tl
sons of Russia under Gzarism; and tl
Russian serfs —insofar as they were a
liberty to sweat and ill-treat their ebildre
hnd be as dirty and insanitary as they likec
. in their homes and in their persons—wer
of course, freer than any Britisher of
day. During at least six of the seven arii
a half centuries that followed, the King
Law, since it w,as made by privileged pe
sous, operated inevitably in the interests o:
privilege. The people well understood thi
and, when the Peasants’ Revolt of 138.‘
occurred, it was the lawyers they sought ou
‘‘Not till all these are killed,” they cried, a
they set fire to the Inner Temple, “will th
old land enjoy its old freedom again.” Dea
Farrar, in*n famous passage, paints the con
dition of England after a thousand year
of “the slow but gradual freeing of th
people from n_ great variety of wrongly
conceived restrictions”:—
When the reign [of Queen Victoria] began, apprei
tiees were often treated with brutal injustice. Greed
sweaters, uncontrolled by any legal enactmen
ground down the faces of the poor; women, hal
naked, yoked to trucks like horses, and boys, hal
naked, crawling on all fours like dogs, beginnin
their labors often at seven years old, grew, doubi
with hideous deformity and depraved morals, in th
black galleries of the mines When the reig
began little paupers were beaten and starved ; nava
•apprentices .in eoalboats nn.d merchant vessels wer
subject to horrible barbarities ; the poor little climl
ing hoys, grimed with soot and skin disease, wei
maimed and suffocated in choked and erookc
chimneys; children were worked in cotton mills fo
unbroken hours which would have been crushing t
grown men. Waifs and strays, criminal and sem
criminal—unwashed, untaught, unfed—weltered i
■ an atmosphere of blasphemy and gin, in lairs am
dens of human wild beasts' such as are now svvep
away by the merciful hand of Law. Like a verna
breeze the "spirit of mercy has swept through thes
lurid mists of contagion, which on every side wer
stagnating into pestilence.
Had the device .of the lawgivers of Lokri
for the suppression of free speech on soda
questions been in force in England during
the 19th century many a good and grea
man would have swung. The first Com
inittee of Inquiry into the state of affairs
in the chimney-sweeping trade sat in 1817
hut it was not till 1864 (3 and 4 Vic.) thai
child labor in chimneys was abolished
Thousands had animadverted on the scanda
of Lancashire factory life (Ashton, in 1831
said that “the. negroes were slaves in name
out the factory employees of England were
slaves in reality’’) before the 10-hour dav
replaced the 12-hour day in 1847. The
truth is more restrictive legislation of i
class nature was put on the statute-books
in the century that followed the birth o
Liberalism than in the previous nine; anc
most of the restrictions were either advo
eated originally by Liberals, or acquiesced ir
by them after discussion. Gladstone, wlio
began by opposing trades unionism, endec
by becoming one of its Supporters. Bar
barons though Mr. Smith’s laissez-faire
notions may appear to modern minds, there
is this to bo said : lie is starkly consistent
in them. He is a Freetrader. ’ He, quotes
“the venerable John Bright, who said: Ol
all the' crimes against the laws of God anc
the true interests of man, none has evei
existed more odious and more destructive
than that which has assumed the amiable
term of ‘Protection’.” But whatever is is
best in Mr. Smith’s eyes. And so:—•
I clearly recognise the almost insuperable obstacle
to a complete return to freedom of commerce..'. .If
such a change were suddenly brought about there
would follow similar disturbances such as occurred
with the introduction of the spinning-jenny in sub-
stitution of the hand lefom in English history.
It is fortunate for civilisation that Har-
greaves, Kay and Watts, Arkwright, Comp-
ton and Cartwright. and their hackers be-
lieved sufficiently in their mission to scorn
such pusillanimity. They had something to
giye the world; and no fear of the imme-
diate consequences held them back. And it
is of such stuff that the true Liberal is
made the'world over. All the great British
Liberals who hold to the Gladstonian tradi-
tion—Asquith, Grey, Morley,
have expressed horror at the Versailles
Treaty: the‘Liberal press from the (Lon-
lon) Nation and the Manchester Gua-r-
-han downwards has denounced it as one of
those blunders which are worse than crime:
the Italian statesman- Nitti, who typifies
Continental Liberalism, remarks in his just-
published “Peaceless Europe”:—
One thing is certain: that the treaties threaten
to ruin conquerors and conquered; that they have
not'brought peace to -Europe but war and violence.
In M. Clemenccau’s words, the treaties are a way
of going on with the war.
And now hearken to the Australian Liberal,
Smith, on the game question
The nature of the international settlement that
has been arrived at shows that neither of the salving
nations sought personal or national aggrandisement,
but only wished to punish appropriately the selfish
peoples who attempted to perpetuate an inherited
code of “might” dominating “right.” The world
lias now, at incalculable loss, vindicated the prin-
ciple of the superiority. of “right” over “might.”
It may be well and truly said that the millions of
justly-disposed people who gave their lives in aid
of so righteous a conflict, died not merely for their
country, which is compatible with an unjust war-
purpose, but in vindication of the greatest and most
widespread moral tissue that the world has ever
known.
However and wherever Mr. Smith is tested
he reacts always to a complacent Toryism
which has been the same in all the ages;
never to the fearless and humane Liberal-
ism of Gladstone’s day. In short, he is an
Australian Liberal.
J. B. D.
The Progress of Our Words
The vocabulary, like science, march
steadily forward. Writing has grown in
one of the big industries: it does not escat
the inventive instinct of man. Words a
the machinery of expression, and improv
under the dissatisfied, calculative observatio
of their users.
I have before me the “Manual of Englis
Grammar,” by J. C. Nesfield, M.A. (3,906;
Under the heading, “Purity of Diction,” th
is quoted from a letter from Lord Cheste
field to his son: “....we must never...
make use of words that are not reall
words.'” According to Nesfield, dross wore
are of seven kinds: vulgarisms, colloquia
isms, technical words (ones not gene
ally understood by the layman), obso
lete words, foreign words and newly
coined words. Apparently he of th
title _ would have deemed it a blasphem
had it been told him that his dictionary wa
open to improvement, that a future genera
tion would find it to be inadequate. Nes
field agreed with the Chesterfield dictum, bi
was dubious about its stability, for he wrot
down this: “When new thoughts or ne\
situations arise, new words must be fount
to express them if none exist already.
Whereby he shows that he, and not the con
servative lord, is the better servant of edi
cation, mankind’s third hand and arm! How
ever, his opinion on this point was timid; i
the very face of his belief in what was du
to new thoughts and situations, he gives t
the student an exercise of examples, culle
from 1898 newspapers and journals, tha
“seem to 'be opposed to purity,” the stiiden
being required to “substitute suitable word
in their places.” One of the examples i
the use_ of “fictionist,” another of “medium
istic,” and so on.
The 1906 student, thus tutored, was mad
Chesterfieldlike—fastidious and chary o:
using, much more of adopting, a word uncon
tained in the standard dictionaries. Bu
less than two decades have gone by and th
dictionaries have gathered in new words tha
were fated to come, as Nesfield foresaw wit
a measure of uncertainty. As a Red Pag
contributor recently remarked of idiom, th
coinage of to-day is the language of to
morrow.
Consider what busy, urged-on builders th
suffixes “ism” and “ise” are. The engineer
of the language-machinery have patentee
their improvements. No instrument i
destined to be overlooked by progress.
By the aid of the new words, we get ther
more quickly, and that is the high decree o
editor and audience alike. Brevity is th
soul of more than wit; moreover it is now
the age of valuable economy.
The purist, however, is still in our mids
(vide the Red Page occasionally), but pro
gression is bound to make of him a negligible
quantity. The reverse extremist, the word
vulgarian, is also with us, but his chance o
establishing his jargon is comfortably doubt
ful. Slang is the jazz-music of our language
it is appreciated only superficially and no
appreciated at all in our true moments. On
the other hand, the effect on the dictionary
of the colloquialist is sure to make the Ches
terfield groan in his grave. The colloquialis
is so many: he is you and I.
Says Nesfield: “Colloquialisms are con
sidered to give zest to conversation”—wffiicl
sounds grudging. And: “ others use
them because they will not take the trouble
to think of the proper words. Others use
them sparingly or not at all. The safest
example to follow is the last”—which is very
Chesterfieldisli. That they give zest and
piquancy is indisputable. For this reason
they will be always acceptable. Billjim (the
nearly forgotten), for his tired spirit’s enter
tainment over yonder, specialised in collo
quialisms, and, on his return, was such an
adept in their use that he inoculated his
family and his friends with the habit. Of
course, \ve had colloquialisms before the wai
by many years, but Billjim multiplied them
He contributed much queer slang, but, like
his service, it is fading from our memory.
Words are swift vehicles of thought 'and
we 'are speeding up. Try to imagine an Abo.
par. of the deliberate, breast-stroke style
of Dickens! Compare Wells, Arnold Bennett
and E. F. Benson with the immortal Charles,
all analysts of human nature. To my mind
the direct, crisp, get-therfe style of the living
shows up the pedantry of the dead. We have
smartened up our literature. Nowadays we
strive harder.to write as we speak; the pity
comment has displaced the tedious lecture.
The tongue is economical; the pen is falling
into line with it. Because our verba! state-
ments and descriptions are fast and concise,
our written ones are following suit.
So we seize upon the deftest words; the
unwieldy ones, the many-lettered, are passed
over. Simile and metaphor come to our
assistance: they are excellent when used
without ostentation. Expression is on the
up grade. We see that w r e can play with
words. Powerful pieturisation can be per-
formed by coupling them. That is coining;
but we are perpetually finding new uses for
our tools, and the hyphen discloses new pos-
(Continued on par/e 25.)


We
fashion in Supreme /[ulfiorili/
ihe \6oue of VELVETEEN!
THE KEENEST VELVETEEN VALUES
a
i ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Fashion writers all insist that this will be a big Velveteen
Season, and, in advance of the mode, Anthony Horderns’
are ready with the finest assortment of pile fabrics you
could wish for—not a color your fancy might; choose
but is represented, not a texture your taste might desire
but is available. And prices, under the test of comparison,
must tell their own story of remarkable value.
Plain Velveteen, 22 inches wide. Colors:
White, Black, Goblin Saxe, Light Brown,
Mid Brown, Nigger, Light Navy, Dark
Navy, Navy, Royal Cerise, Cardinal, Ivory,
Electric, Nil, Reseda, Primrose, Orange,
Grey, Mole, Tabac, Violet, Moss, Gold.
Price 3/11 yard
Twill Back Velveteen, fast Pile, Chiffon
finish. Colors: Ivory, Black, Fawn, Goblin
Saxe, Nattier, Emerald, Moss, Myrtle, Light
Brown, Mid Brown, Nigger, Vieux Rose,
Light Navy, Navy, Royal, Cardinal, Mole,
Smoke, Beaver, Bronze, Gold and Garnet.
22, 23 inches wide.
Price 5/11 yard
Hollow-cut Velvet Cord, 22 inches wide,
Chiffon Finish, Twill Back. Colors: Cream,
Ivory, Black, Light Navy, Navy, Reseda,
Emerald, Purple, Grey, Saxe, Mole, Vieux
Rose, Fawn, Light Brown, Mid Brown,
Nigger.
Price 7/11 yard
Chiffon Velveteen, 44 inches wide. Colors:
Blue Black, Jet Black, Navy, Brown, Mole,
Saxe, Violet.
Price 18/11 yard
Velvet Cord, 2 7 inches wide, in a very fine
cord. Colors: Cream, Saxe, Reseda, Pea-
cock, Nattier, Putty, Rose, Cardinal, Brown,
Nigger, Mole, Royal, Grey.
Price 3/11 yard
Velvet Cord, 2 7in., in a good, heavy cord;
Cream, Saxe, Reseda, Peacock, Putty, Rose,
Nattier, Cardinal, Brown, Nigger, Mole,
Royal and Grey.
Price 4/11 yard
Hollow-cut Velvet Cord, 2 7 inches wide,
Twill Back, Chiffon Finish. Colors: Cream,
Black, Mole, Nigger, Reseda, Emerald,
Navy. •
Price 10/11 yard
“Louis” Velveteen, Twill Back, Chiffon
Finish, 22 inches wide, is a velveteen that
carries a guarantee with it. Colors: White,
Ivory, Black, Pink, Vieux Rose, Sky, Light
Brown, Brown, Nigger, Grey, Mole, Helio.,
Saxe, Nattier, Light Navy, Navy, Dark
Navy, Cardinal, Peacock, Royal.
Price
The Prices of SEAL FABRICS
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’ are so Keen
that they bring the superior worth and the richness of appearance possessed by
these fabrics within the scope of expenditure embracing ordinary coatings. Such
prices make it possible to combine economy, comfort and style to a remarkable
degree—compare the qualities and the figures, and you will realise that only at
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ are equivalent Values obtained.
48-50 in. Pony Skin.—Don’t judge the quality by the price—this
is absolutely dependable—a super Value.
Price 15/11
Still better qualities are available at
Prices 18/11, 22/6
48-50 in. Coney Seal.—So silky in Texture, so rich in Pile that
the coat made from it could not help being handsome.
Price 18/11
And there are heavier weights if you want them—
Prices 19/11, 22/6
Other Prices 25/-, 27/6, 30/-, 35/-
48-50 in. Black Seal.—A truly luxurious quality, so rich that it is
difficult to distinguish it from real fur.
Prices 29/11, 37'G
48-50 in. Stamped Coney Seal, an original suggestion for those
who delight in “Something Different.”
Price 22/6 per yard
WRITE FOR PATTERNS THEY WILL BE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST.
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


KODAK pictures
are easy to make.
s
i
m
5r
an
::
1
,
Autographic Kodak Pictures tell
How? When? Where?
Half-an-hour’s practice will
enable you to set out making
Kodak pictures of your experi-
ences and pastimes, your
friends and your life at home.
In this brief time you will have found
that you have acquired a most fasci-
nating hobby that will afford you
entertainment for every spare hour.
The No. 3 Box Brownie is simple and
dependable —takes good pictures 3J x
4 j inches —Price 26/6 —just what you
need to make pictures easily, and with
a minimum of expense.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior
is fitted with every appointment you
need for good picture-making. Con-
venient to carry—makes good photo-
graphs 2\ x 31 inches. Price 87/-
The new complete Kodak Catalogue is posted
to any address (exept N.Z) for 6d. in stamps.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane ; 7. he Valley ; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street,
Toowoomba ; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies
Co., Perth; ‘The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
You hear the world’s best
on “His Master’s Voice.”
When the purchase of an
Instrument is under discussion
none should be considered but
that which will give you the
world’s best music in all its
original clarity and beauty.
It is a significant fact that the
greatest celebrities—among
them Melba, Caruso, McCor-
mack, Galli-Curci, Moisei-
witsch, Heifetz, Paderewski
have recorded with “His
Master’s Voice” exclusively.
These most critical judges have given it their unqualified
approval as the only worthy medium for their peerless art.
Be guided by their choice—decide on “His Master s Voice.”
Prices range from 11 to 91 guineas.
Instrument catalogue, record list and name of nearest dealer on request.
N
J
His Master’s Voice i
LI.
i i
m
m
Jb>~.
41
§
Amin
-
\h
v Jk
tl
V/
'jlul/lf
»S
**rrs
K
V‘f
<u»M
m
0
“Gramophone”
Read. Trade-marie.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney,
“Eis Master’s Voice”
Ttegd. Trade-mark.


PINKETTIS
FOR BILIOUSNESS .
When your tongue is coated
all over with a whitish-yellow
color and your breath is bad,
if you have constipation and
headaches, the chances are
you are bilious. Your liver
needs attention.
Strong purgatives which pro-
duce a re-action only aggravate
the trouble. Gentle assistance
is what nature needs. Pink-
ettes, the little pink laxative
pills, meet the requirements
admirably.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALU THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any materials
21/- Complete Outfit.
Tull directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a i-REE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
_
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
SHIP BRAND
a/or
delicious
Summer Dishes
Manufacturers
CLIFFORD LOVE & C?L™ SYDNEY
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
•fi
m*
■v
“A Woman’s Glory is her hair,”
and one of the most desirable
beauty assets is hair of
Rich Walnut Shade
so easily obtained with
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Harmless to the skin. Per-
manent and waterproof. All
Chemists.
Eudenta
Charmingly
Fragrant.
Eudenta Tooth Paste has a fragrance
all its own. It is essentially a
dentifrice of quality, imparting a
pearly whiteness to the teeth and
destroying the germs of
decay.
Sold by all
Chemists at
REGISTERED
r**ot mark
Guaranteed*
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holcb a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 60 York Stret. Sydney.
HESSs wR
WmSSSSko
Mmßpsra
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
JLQOO SATISFYING SHAVES ,NONE
RAZOR
Pair iu
Throughout
■^Australasia
JUYTHIS RAZOR and share with thousands of others the
.comfort that shave after shave of satin smooth-
ness brings to users of THE PLUM RAZOR.
vresentationftse
25/Post free
S>
Guaranteed x
in order for two years free;
CRAIG & AITKEN.6S4 GEORGE ST.SYDNEY,
100% Efficiency Ideal Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club, school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an “IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN BE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users:—
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
AUSTRALIA:
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTII. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHILIP RUSSELL, Esq., Beaufort.
T. W. GUNNERSON, Esq., Balwyn.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, Melbourne.
NORTHCOTE CITY COUNCIL, Melbourne. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
The “IDEAL JUNIOR” is specially made for private lawns. Over 8000 “IDEALS” in use.
Sole Australasian
Agents:
#
C. J. WHITE & SONS,
172 Little Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
o
y
D
O
O
When you see a Pillar Box
remember to get an Onoto.
The Onoto is like the Pillar Box —always
ready for your letters.
A twist with thumb and finger releases the ink,
and the Onoto writes on without giving you a
moment’s worry. The Onoto fills itself too, and
when sealed by a turn of the hand it can no more
leak than you can get your letter back after
posting it.
And like the Pillar Box —the Onoto is a British
Institution—made by De La Rue of London.
THOM4S DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.
Bonhili Row, London, E.C.i.
ASK FOR ONOTO INK-BEST FOR ALL PENS
The Finest Pipe in tHe World
ďfdf
Style No. 503,
Sllvei mounted,
t 18/-
m
S
m
m
1
We \
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
FAMOUS
NON-CRACKING
CORSICAN
BRUYERE
is made at St. Claude (Jura),
France, by French Diggers, in
98 smart shapes from the high-
est-grade, flawless Corsican Bru-
yere Boot. Every pipe sold with a
12 Months’ Guarantee
against cracking or burning. Any doing
so within that time will be replaced.
ASK YOUR TOBACCONIST FOR F.L.C.
or send a postcard to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne,
and we will tell you where to get one.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pittwater.
From out the sapphire morning sea an eager
sun has sped,
Swift scattering his retinue of rose and
amber blent,
And arrogant above the hills has thrust
his aureate head
To look upon this rippled bay among the
long hills pent.
Oh, sheen of sparkling water between the
swaying trees,
Bird-clarions float joyously on every errant
breeze,
W ind-song in murmurous cadences is down
the valley borne™
Look up, and drink the beauty of the morn!
Here in the dim-lit forest-ways bedight with
fern and bloom,
A sun-streaked path dips crookedly across
the little hill;
Like Autumn’s tawny leaves a-wing within
the dappled gloom
Drifts by a stream of butterflies blown
at the wind’s soft will.
Oh, golden-green of bushland against the
shimmering sky,
Deep in the azure water the bent tree-
shadows lie;
The sea sends from beyond the hills its old
insistent croon —•
Look up, and know the glory of the moon!
Soft has the dusk, the cool blue dusk, drop-
ped low on beach and hill;
The solitary vales are hid in trails of silver
mist;
The world in this brief twilight hour is
hushed and lone and still;
Long shadows steal across the slopes in
robes of amethyst.
Oh, little, winding seashore road that in the
darkness lies,
With lure of some dim, elfin path beneath
the velvet skies,
Clear glows the slim, cnrvated moon in
realms of waking light—
Look up, and feel the magic of the night!
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Unrevealed.
He of the west and I of the east
We met for a little space
Where late lights glowed
On ridge and road
In a quiet mountain place.
Cattle he spoke of and growing crops,
And things it was good to know,
And frank of speech
Seemed each to each —
But I wmndor if it was so?
This he scoffed at, and laughed at that.
And answered me Nay and Yes;
But all the while
In look and smile
Was a something I could not guess.
Present he stood in strength and grace,
And yet, though he seemed so gay,
So thrilled with youth,
I knew, in truth,
rnitt ms neart was leagues away.
Round about us the sunset glowed,
And golden the lights fell down,
And yet it seemed
That midnight dreamed
In his dark-lashed eyes of brow®.
Day sped west, but the lampman Night
Still lingered with tardy feet,
For gleaming still
On road and hill
Was a splendor dim and sweet.
Day died out and he rode away
To jingle of rein and bit,
And near and far
Star after star
By the lampman Night was lit.
He of the west and I of the east
We parted and said good-bye,
God-speed, and then
Took road again—
But I wonder what made him sigh!
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.
Mint.
There was a shady tree with apples on it
And just below the tree a grass-grown
trench;
And in the trench was mint, self-sown, deep
green.
The apples, like the cheek of some farm
wench,
Glowed over it as bright and firm and clean.
1 have been in a bower hung with pink
Of frail peach blossom, but all of silk,
Wherein was a great satin bed and gilt;
Fine linen sheets and slips as white as milk,
Over whose folds a priceless essence spilt.
Scented the air, as incense in some dim
Cathedral, to a worshipper grown dear,
’Neath pillars of grey stone and carven
arch....
A different kind of worship centred here ;
And Weariness dogged Folly in the march.
I have been in a wattle-scented scrub,
Have heard a parrot screaming and the call
Of those pale cloistered doves in nunneries
Of leaf and bough, the wattle over all,
Like a swung censer, clotting on the breeze.
And I have been in old-world gardens, mapped
With roses red and roses creamy white
And honeysuckle arches, sweet as lips
Of luscious women All I want to-night
Is the clean smell of mint that lightly slips
Through memory’s chinks to drift o’er pine-
wood floors
To kitchen dressers, where there stands a
bowl
Of fresh-cut greens some ggtirerer~without
stint
Has piled. For there is, somewhere in mv I
soul,
A hunger for the. wholesomeness-of mint. I
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


44
99
n
'A
K
A
%
111 Kill
Jfc
Mw
MIHOI
1
1
I
i
IS
K
I
fD
rv
R£
►< 4'
Not only is the “Wolseley” to-day—as ever in the past
—a car recognised as a masterpiece of mechanical
construction and beauty of design, but it has PROVED
ITSELF—on the very first attempt—to those who
prefer to judge a car considerably on account of “racing
performances.”
15 WORLD’S RECORDS
were secured in a few weeks at Brooklands by a “Wolseley Ten”
with standard chassis, and. one outstanding feature during the series
of races was the covering of 250 miles at an average speed of 78.67
miles per hour without any need for adjustment, and without a stop
—apart from minutes to replenish with oil and petrol.
Stich reliability and stability must surely impress the prospective
car purchaser with the advisability of deciding upon none other than
a “Wolseley.”
In every-day performance the “Wolseley” can always be counted
upon to give full and troubleless service, for its marvellous and
accessible engine, flexibility and ease of control make the “Wolseley”
—whether “Ten,” “Fifteen” or “Twenty”—a delight to drive and a
pleasure to own.
Particulars and Illustrated Literature
on Request. Write, Call or ’Phone.
VICTORIA ..
N. S. WALES
S. AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA. .
N. ZEALAND.
REPRESENTATIVES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Phillip St., Sydney.
H. C. Richards, Ltd., Richards’ Build-
ings, Currie Street, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Motor Service, Ltd., 105
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
G. W. Spragg, Auckland; Inglis Bros.,
Wellington; Todd Bros., Ltd.,
Christchurch; Todd Bros., Dunedin.
j. Wolseley Motors Proprietary, Limited
Head Office in Australia:
125 William Street, Melbourne.
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.)
Works: Adderley Park,
Birmingham, England.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2203.
THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1922.
Phice 6d.
THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN.
JOHN: “Well! Well! And I thought we burnt that d—d kit at Versailles!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co.. 214 George Street. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Meluourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Austualasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 month#, 13s. 6d.; S months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 135.; 3 months, 7s, 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. ivill be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient meidt and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. 'The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received (tie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and IF. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 16 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
llolbom, London, IF.C.L
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others. . _
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brehtano’s. sth Avenue
and nth Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle', Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn Co. t The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Honc ICong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
llong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and C(K, Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.— lF. G. P. Perera, 16 Baxlhe Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 1605.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: ioz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
All Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: !,gz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere: 2oz. or part thereof, id.
THURSDAY, MAY 4, 1922.
THE JEREMIAD OF THE PROPHET
TAYLOR.
“Break up the large alienated holdings, and the
small holdings, too, it they are not utilised for the
common good. Leave the empty spaces to the pas-
toralist, for whom nature meant them. In Australia
as everywhere else, it is the farmer and the manu-
facturer who determine the dense populations. Tackle
the tropics and the arid lands later.... much later,
and leave the desert to its loneliness.” —Prof. Griffith
Taylor in The New Outlook (N.S.W.).
Such is the advice to his adopted country
of a writer who, being a geologist and
geographer, gets credit for special knowledge
of the problems of tropical and sub-tropical
settlement. And it is ruinous advice. The
case of Professor Griffith Taylor invites
attention. His bright mind has become
dominated by a fixed idea. Somehow he has
persuaded himself that, apart from benefits
already visible and beyond dispute, nothing
good can come out of the North. He has
developed this destructive theory in a forest
of articles contributed to newspapers and
magazines, and by Black Australians of the
Bar well school he is hailed as a prophet.
It is years since the criers of stinking fish
got so powerful an auxiliary. For the point
is that the Professor’s lamentable position is
n.ot new, whatever novelty there may be in
liis restatement of it. The dismal person
who holds that pretty well all the natural
wealth of the continent is contained in a
small part of the coastal fringe was an early
arrival in Australia, as his ancestor was in
North America. (Some of the most produc-
tive country in the Republic over the water
used to be known as the Great American
Desert.) He arrived early enough to impress
his characteristic gloom on the maps, and
on the narratives vf some alleged explorers
who didn’t know good country when they
saw it, and has stayed late. The most
striking industrial developments of the past
40 years were made in his despite. Had
me croaker been taken as an oracle there
would have been no Broken Hill or Kal-
goonie; no Cobar or Chiiiagoe; no Mildura
or Deniliquin or Charleville or Quorn or
Kellerberrin. Nearly all the gold produced
in the Commonwealth, practically all tne sil-
ver and base metals* most of the wool, hides
and deceased meat and a good deal of the
wheat and fruit come from parts of Australia
that not half-a-century ago were regarded as
desert, and in some cases were solemnly
classed as such by the geographers and car-
tographers. In face of these examples the
scientist who counsels Australia to “leave the
desert to its loneliness” is taking a serious
risk.
* #
So devoted is Mr. Griffith Taylor to his
depressing theories that he ignores or brushes
aside facts that conflict with them. For
instance, he “can see no reasonable prospect
of growing wheat on a large scale with a
rainfall of 11 inches or less.” Why not?
The thing lias been done on a fairly large
scale in Westralia for the last decade. A
considerable proportion of the wheat grown
in that State (and grain of the finest milling-
quality withal) is railed from districts with
10 or 11 inches of rainfall. This has been
made possible by the breeding of special
early-maturing and drought-resistant varie-
ties, a process which is still going on and
to which it is difficult to set limits. And,
encouraged by the success of farmers on
the arid lands in which the Professor can
see no virtue, although Gibb Maitland, the
Westralian Government Geologist, insists
that "arid regions always have rich soils,”
settlers have pushed out beyond the recog-
nised 10-inch belt. Again, the Professor
excludes “the eastern half of Queensland”
from his gloomy generalisations, ostensibly
because that territory is “entirely different
from the rest of the tropics”; really, one
suspects, because its inclusion would weaken
his case. But, apart from population and
geography, in what does the eastern half
of Queensland differ from, say, Northern
Westralia? Both have splendid rivers,
healthy highlands and great store of min-
eral wealth. Each contains vast tracts suit-
able for tropical agriculture, enormous areas
on which cattle can graze, and an abund-
ance of artesian water. Probably Northern
Westralia is just as rich a country as the
other. Its comparatively slow progress is
attributable to its far greater distance from
the populous southern States which have so
largely colonised North Queensland; for all
practical purposes it is as remote as Africa.
At all events, it is the one part of Australia
where petroleum has been definitely found
and where the prospects of striking a pay-
able oilfield are unquestionably good. It
also has the largest known deposits of high-
grade iron ore in the Commonwealth. And
in connection with the working of these
deposits a hydro-electric installation, utilis-
ing the waters of the Glenelg, Isdell and
Charnley rivers, has been suggested by geo-
logist Maitland. “It is the farmer and the
manufacturer who determine the dense
populations,” says Mr. Griffith Taylor.
Incredible to him is the notion of manu-
facturing industries arising in “the arid
centre and the tropical lands. What chances
have they,” he asks, “of supporting a note-
worthy population within the next 50
years?” Yet if petroleum is found in pay-
able quantities in the Kimberlies the Pro-
fessor will • have to change his tune. It
would also profit him to remember that in
the most ambitious venture now on the in-
dustrial horizon iron ore is to be mined at
Yampi Sound (W.A.), about 600 miles north
of the line at which lie abandons hope, and
worked up into steel at Bowen (Q.). And
Bowen is near enough to the tropics to sug-
gest doubts as to the contention that no
sizable industrial communities can ever burst
into life in those parts.
* ■* * *
One important admission Mr. Griffith
Taylor makes. He allows that “in most
of this region the climate is healthy enough.”
To that extent he differs from the advocates
of a Piebald Australia, who regard
him as a champion of their degrading doc-
trine : he evidently accepts the conclusions
of Dr. Breinl, based on that authority’s in-
vestigations in the Townsville Institute of
Tropical Medicine, and stated at the 3920
Medical Congress, and the facts revealed by
half-a-century of N.Q. settlement. His case
then is, not that the North can’t be developed
by white men, with the generous measure of
Government assistance which such an under-
taking would necessitate, but that it wouldn’t
pay so to develop it. In effect, he suggests
that Australia should addrpss the following-
observations to the crowded and hungry
nations: —
Ours is a small and remote white nation which,
by the dispensation of Providence or superlative
luck, has inherited a whole continent. There are
not quite 5$ millions of us, and the area of the
continent, that of a neighboring island politically
attached to it excluded, is 2,948,366 square miles.
But only a section of this stupendous region is
effectively occupied. Except for a few patches of
settlement here and. there the northern and most
accessible moiety of it lies naked to our enemies. Yet
the North has things calculated to arouse the envy of
poor, but fecund and ambitious peoples. It is rich in
the precious metals. It contains iron, coal, copper,
lead, tin, spelter, wolfram, cinnabar, manganese,
molybdenum, tantalum and guano. Mineral oil has
been found there. Sugar and cotton are grown i also
bananas. There are scores of rivers which might be
used for irrigation purposes or as sources of cheap
power. There are vast stretches of horse and cattle
country. The forests are considered valuably and
the fisheries are about the finest of their kind in
the world. Some people might call this a splendid
country, but this generation has no use for it. We
are not going to develop the place and no one else
shall. We prefer to remain in the South, where the
votes and the comforts are. Let the nations take
notice that, as far as the northern part of our estate
is concerned, we are retiring from the Empire-build-
ing business indefinitely; and let them also be warned
that they will have to keep off the grass.
The astonishing thing is that an intelli-
gent man should believe Australia capable of
advancing these impudent and humiliating
propositions, and the world of accepting
them. *
AN INTERIM POLICY FOR
PROHIBITIONISTS.
There is no city in the Commonwealth pro-
bably where, the street drunk is more obtru-
sive than Sydney. It is not, of course, that
Sydneyites are naturally more inclined to
make beasts of themselves than (say) the
inhabitants of Melbourne; nor yet that there
is a bigger supply of inherent depravity in
city-dwellers than in the inhabitants of the
backblocks. The difference is a matter,
chiefly, of the mean bar. The low-class
public-house and the wine-dive —the modern
variants of the thieves’ kitchen —are, like
venereal disease, the professional reformers’
pets. They are too valuable to the forces
of extremism to be attacked. That is why
drinking-places continue to flourish, unas-
sailed by the clamantly righteous, where
murders have been committed; where brawls
in which knives are used happen frequently ;
where women as well as men imbibe liquor
nearly as toxic as the original old Greek
mixture in which the arrows were dipped.
Melbourne—always active in drink reform—
was stirred by the Gun-alley crime to further
efforts; and a crusade is now mooted
against all wine-shops. The discipline is
easy to apply: it is merely a question of
putting existing laws into motion against
unscrupulous licensees. So strenuously has
Victoria pursued the careless or criminal
drink-retailer that its tally of those fallen
by the way in liquor has always been rela-
tively low. In 1919 20.5 per 10,000 Vic-
torian inhabitants were convicted of drunk-
enness : the N. S. Wales figures for that
year were 99.3 per 10.000: in 1918 Victoria
stood at 21.5, N. S. Wales at 107.2: in 1917
it was Victoria 29.2, N. S. Wales 111.3, and
so on. This state of affairs has certainly
something, if not a very great deal, to do
with Victoria’s admirable liquor control legis-
lation, and in particular with the way in
which the Licenses Reduction Board has
been administered. Under the N. S. Wales
Liquor (Amendment) Act. 1919, the autho-
rities have power to provide the community
with hotels so well-conducted that the reel-
ing or blasphemous or hopelessly overcome
street-drunk, who at present forms such a
useful advertisement for prohibition, would
become unknown, and any sort of drunk a
rarity. The thing is not a distant and splen-
did vision, like effective prohibition : it has
been made an accomplished fact in many
parts of the world.
The English “People’s Refreshment House
Association,” for example, has amongst its
vice-presidents both Anglican and Catholic
bishops. With its kindred organisations it
owns several hundred public-houses. The
policy has been set out as follows :
In addition to the obligation to earn a fair
return upon money invested in the company, the
directors can never forget that their main object
is to prove that constructive Conference work on
the lines which they have adopted affords the true
solution of the temperance problem.
The theory on which all these concerns
started (and in one form or another they
exist in many countries besides England—
notably in Scotland and in Germany) was
that the normal human being does not visit
a hotel specifically to get drunk, and that
it is possible to minimise drunkenness, even
in the case of abnormal folks. The stand-
up bar, where there are no women except the
complaisant ladies who attend to the beer-
engines, is the most powerful incentive to
drunkenness yet devised, barring, possibly,
the shadowed parlor of a wine-den. The
genuine temperance reformers who started
the beer-gardens of England and Scotland
accepted the fact that gregarious mankind
has an ineradicable tendency to consume
refreshments in company; and they laid
themselves out to organise public-houses
where those who did not want beer could
have bovril or barley-water, and where those
who decided for beer should be compelled to
imbibe so moderately as not to become nuis-
ances or worse to the teetotal patrons and
their wives and families. A beginning was
made by informing every manager that he
would be instantly dismissed if a drunk
was detected on his premises. So well has
the system worked that the president of
an organisation owning over 400 public-
houses was able to state officially last year
that in 18 years not one conviction for
drunkenness had been attributed by the police
to a reformed hotel. There is no mysterious
virtue in the circumstance that the share-
holders are chiefly high-minded citizens in-
spired with a desire to see their fellow-
countrymen drink no more than they can
carry. The real preventive is public senti-
ment which finds expression in a determina-
tion to keep these’ resorts decent, and it has
been created by education imparted by tem-
perance reformers —real temperance reform-
ers. Exactly the same methods, pursued by
the British S.P.C.A., have made the United
Kingdom a model for the civilised world as
regards the protection of dumb animals.
There are societies for the prevention of
cruelty to animals in Australia. Most of
them are struggling bodies as yet. Neverthe-
less they are doing an immense amount of
good. They would be quite useless if the
members lacked the courage of their convic-
tions. It is not a pleasant duty for a woman
to have to tackle a carter who is flogging
a galled horse with an iron chain, or a youth
who is found kicking an inoffensive dog to
death —yet both these unpleasantnesses have
been undertaken by devoted Australian
women in the past month, and similar situa-
tions are being faced constantly by others.
Australia is reputed to have a vast army
of prohibitionists. The leaders of the move-
ment claim that they are actuated by a desire
to save from ruin those who are being daily
dragged down by drink. The sale of liquor
to a drunken man is punishable, and to that
extent preventable by law in the same way
as cruelty to animals. Yet who ever heard
of unpaid prohibitionist enthusiasts making
a practice of taxing N. S. Wales publicans
with offences against the Liquor Act. col-
lecting the necessary witnesses, and so
causing the offender’s licenses to be im-
perilled, if not cancelled altogether?
• * * *
The complete extirpation of alcohol is as
demonstrably impossible as the extirpation
of cruelty. According to Genesis, Noah
drank. There was beer in Babylon 10,000
years before Christ ; and though the fact is
not recorded in written history we may be
sure that human beings were consuming
spirituous liquors 10,000 years before that.
Under suitable conditions, which are by no
means uncommon, Nature itself becomes a
vast sly-grog shop: so that in the cider
country of Normandy and the hop-fields of
Kent gentle cows and innocent birds may be
seen under the influence of a brew concocted
by no human hands. Prohibition has-had
quarter of a century to prove itself in parts
of Maoriland : and to-day it constitutes one
of the dour Dominion’s few standing jokes.
It has had a trial of 75 years off and on in
Maine (U.S.A.), and the verdict is that at
the best it has only acted as a form of local
option: drink has always been obtainable in
those centres where a fair proportion of the
inhabitants wanted it. The U.S. Govern-
ment has given nation-wide prohibition every
chance. There is no subject on the statute-
book which has attracted so many laws,
rules, regulations and penalties; and the list
is constantly growing. Yet when Colonel
John Irby visited Sydney the other day
(and he is no liquor-trade propagandist, but
an ex-Collector o'f Customs in the Wilson
Administration) he said :
Prohibition in my country is a tragic farce. For
three years I tried to enforce it, so far as my official
duties were concerned in its enforcement. In spite
of this, and an army of prohibition deputies, it is
a miserable failure.
The latest view expressed even in optimistic
anti-liquor circles in such cities as New York
and Chicago is that it will take “at least
another generation to make the U.S. dry.”
Assuming that Australians are no fitter to
accept the teetotal evangel out of hand
than the Yanks, the question arises: What
are the drink-reformers of such States as
N. S. Wales going to do pending the arrival
of the millennial period that lies so far
ahead? If they were sincere—as sincere as
the humanitarians above mentioned, who work
to save an animal here and a bird there from
misery or torture —they would work, with
like zest, to save a man here and a woman
th'ere from the ruin which is disseminated by
a well-known type of drinking-shop. In
other words, they would run the reformed
pub against the boozing-den. So long as
they refrain they lie open to the charge of
hating drink more than they care for
humanity: of being willing to see thousands
perish for years to come on behalf of a
dogma or superstition as impossible of proof
as any that was thrown up during the Dark
Ages.
RE-ENTER ABDUL.
One by one the blessings and advantages of
what was at least a colorable imitation of
victory are vanishing into gas. And as one
little war after another gets going persons of
military aspect may be heard remarking, not
entirely without gratification, that the old
times are coming back. The truth is that,
despite Genoa Conierences and the dreams
of hopeful philanthropists, the old times
never went away. It is now understood that
Turkey, filled with pride over its partial
success against the miserably misconducted
Greek forces, is preparing to join the new
Russo-German Alliance.
By no means the least disastrous outcome
of the efforts of rival diplomatists to best
one another at the various Peace Conferences
which have done so much to advance the
cause ot Militarism is this threatened recru-
descence of the Unspeakable One as a world
Power. None of the lost and muddied oppor-
tunities of the war was more lamentable
than the lost hope of shifting Abdul into
the Asiatic inlands. There was a chance to
restore Constantinople to the descendants of
the great race that built it; to put a really
solid new European Power on the map, and
to send the last fez across the straits. But
Athens lacked the right man. The cause of
civilisation found Greece, first a recreant
ally, second an almost assured enemy, and
third, when its unpleasant royalties had been
got rid of, a very belated friend. Because of
all this it wasn’t allotted its old capital when
the world-war ended. Yet it was granted
some regions in Asia Minor which were
Greek two or three millenniums before the
Turk w®s heard of, and have been Greek in
sentiment ever since. And then, after sun-
dry vicissitudes, the unpleasant monarchs
came back, and by that time no one cared
much whether the historic State with the
unlimited ’bus-missing capacity regained its
old property or not. Single-handed and none-
too-well led the Greeks had only moderate
luck in their fitful war against the unspeak-
able, unthinkable, unprofitable Ottoman.
And now that they have apparently been
fought to a standstill Abdul, in his pride,
suggests the return to him of Constantinople
and Adrianople, and speaks feelingly of the
restoration of Palestine and Damascus. He
looks a promising third member of a new
Triple Alliance which may, with luck, open
a frekh road via the Caucasus from Berlin
to Asia in place of the old one which Britain
closed.
Unless appearances lie in this regard
another war will be necessary, sooner or
later, to put the Turk in the subordinate
position which, among progressive races with
mental possibilities, is the only one, barring
the silent tomb, that he is fitted to adorn.
His career, which once made him almost the
biggest single landowner in three continents,
has had no parallel for uselessness in written
history. There is no Turkish school of
literature mother in prose or poetry; of paint-
ing ; of sculpture; of philosophy; of medi-
cine, surgery or anything else. Abdul is
not known as inventor, scientist or explorer
except along well-beaten paths. He bor-
rowed the polite elements of his language
from the more refined Persians and Arabs;
his religion and consequently most of his
law came from Arabia ; his fez is, or used to
be, imported from Austria ; and his alleged
right to be Commander of the Faithful was
taken by violence, along with the necessary
pedigree, from 'an old man in Egvnt. The
Turks from the beginning were no builders
but marvellous stealers of buildings. Even
some of their most famous mosques. are
Christian churches made over and garnished
with rust and dirt. Their orand of tolera-
tion consisted in letting the warring Chris-
tian sects fight things out, or urging them to
do so. Consequently there were many dead
Christians, many ruins, and enough dissen-
sion to make combination against the common
enemy difficult. The Turk wa« always a
mighty ruin-maker. A reverend person
named Smith, Principal of Aberdeen Uni-
versity. in a recent book on Syria, described
the valley of the Orontes thus: “The rums
of ancient townships, averaging, it is said,
one to the mile, are proofs of its natural
resources, and melancholy protests against
the incompetence of the Turkish Govern-
ment.” Greeks of Seleucia and Antiocn,
Latins of Rome, and Roman-Greeks of Con-
stantinople used the best intelligences the
world possessed to adorn Western Asia.


Then the Turk came along and did the rest.
While this most successful of the world’s
brigands is at large and carrying lethal
Weapohs it were lunacy for civilisation to
disarm.
A HARD CASE.
W. M. Hughes affords the unique spectacle
of a man who succeeds in politics be-
cause he lacks friends. The Nationalists
favor him because he has the bitter enmity
of Labor, and Labor is not as vindictive as
it might be, for the- reason that it perceives
he has neither the complete confidence nor
the respect of its opponents, the party he
is said to lead. Of the other parties—the old-
style Conservatives and the farmers, for
instance—there is none who likes or fully
trusts the Prime Minister, but each sup-
ports him witfi dubious entnusmsm since ne
is opposed to tnose political elements it really
hates and tears. Tne Nationalist finds stm
some remnants of the horns on IPughes'S
hands, the dark stains ot labor on ins lace,
and regards mm as one not so tar removed
from tne JJevil but that he yet may be dan-
gerous. Where tiie horns are and the black
brands, the cloven hoof may well be sus-
pected. Hut Nationalism in Commonwealth
politics cannot grow a man of eloquence
and power, and ITUGIIES’S strength is rela-
tive. It looks like strength at any rate by
reason of the weakness ot the politicians sur-
rounding him. They are men of parts,
secondary parts at best, capable of imper-
sonating Hokatio to the Hamlet of wil-
liam Hughes, but never to be thought of as
playing leads.
Tet it is true there was never an actor
on the Federal stage less deserving of sup-
port. All his virtues are negative; all his
faults positive. He stands for nothing fine
or dignified or commonly useful, and cannot
even be applauded as a promising man, since
he promises nothing, content, apparently,
with his position as the little fellow who
looks big among pigmies. Mr. Hughes has
been on tour again, appearing in the metro-
politan centres and the “smalls,” posing as
a man with a message, and delivering what?
The best that can be said for him is that
he brought forth butter on a lordly dish,
and with it he larded all those not actually
his adversaries.
We have learned absolutely nothing from
his recent cycle of speeches for the excellent
reason that he has nothing to say, and wants
nothing to do. He has gone his rounds like
an excellent baker, saving for the fact that
he has not delivered the goods, standing
true to my first metaphor as a mere expo-
nent of platitude, a professor of make-believe.
Previous leaders in the Federal and State
theatres have all meant something ; even the
least significant of them felt it essential to
be strongly for or against some given prin-
ciple. Hughes alone is careless of all such
considerations. Ask any dozen electors for
what purpose he is leading his Government,
with what intention, in what direction, and
you will produce troubled stares, a per-
plexed scratching of heads. Ten out of the
twelve will have no answer, the others may
make doubting replies, ascribing some virtu-
ous object in life to William, but William
himself has no doubts, no misunderstandings
—he is the man with nothing to do and a
fixed determination to do it.
We hear vague talk of the Government’s
platform, but the Government has no plat-
form ; it has at best a scaffold on which the
Prime Minister runs, clambers and dangles
with ape-like agility, and often an ape-like
vindictiveness, skipping on the joists and
stays, swinging from the battens, swarming
up the uprights, if anything upright Can be
said to exist in connection with a structure
based on humbug and buttressed by fraud.
Nothing in what William has had to say
on tour would lead an intelligent stranger
within our gates to believe that Australia
was anything but a happy land, without a
single political need. Such a stranger might
reasonably assume, after listening to the
Prime Minister’s exposition of our situation,
that we possessed all a happy, prosperous
people could reasonably desire, and it re-
mained only for the Government to admin-
ister the best possible laws in the best pos-
sible way, and draw what emoluments a
grateful people afforded, with light hearts
and liberal intentions.
It is not stupidity imposes this attitude
of negation upon Mr. Hughes in a country
urgently in need of helpful legislation, and
among a people over-stressed with burdens
for whose relief immediate provision should
be made. Mr. Hughes is callous, he is
peevish, shrewish, querulous and has many
of the least pleasant characteristics of the
fishfag, but he is not lacking in intelligence,
and we may reasonably presume that in
offering a programme in which nihility is
preceded by nothingness and followed by a
cipher, he is following a deliberate policy.
He recognises that he is held in place largely
by the party that wants nothing done, and
is always content to let ill alone, holding in
its heart that all new legislation is for the
benefit of the people, and benefits to the
common people entail disabilities falling
upon the privileged ones who are not com-
mon. In short, William Hughes is pur-
suing a safe policy for the betterment of
himself, and the present security of his
tenure as a small, angry autocrat in a land
that wakes up rarely and does not always
know what is good for it when it is awake.
Mr. Hughes has many of the qualifications
for leadership: he has a certain kind of
courage, he has talent, he has eloquence of
sorts, and is not without knowledge. He
might have been a popular idol, but he lacked
the greatest essential to a big democrat—he
lacked heart. You cannot squeeze out of
this tough hide, these dry bones, one ounce
of the milk of human kindness. William
can hate; he cannot love. Throughout his
public career he has never drawn a man
to himself by the force of any pleasant per-
sonal attribute he may possess. Many may
have clung to him more or less as the little
monkey clings to the tail of the larger ape,
to be drawn up to the nuts, but never has
he inspired affection, for the reason that he
has never felt affection. Nobody can believe
that anything Hughes ever did or attempted
for the benefit of his kind was done because
the doer was inspired with kindness; always
a certain fierceness went with his efforts :
in all his nublic appearances there is the
predominant flavor of bile and wormwood ;
and it has probably never happened that
a leader working consistently for the benefit
ot his fellow-creatures has not felt for them
always, deep down in his heart, perhaps, a
sincere, humanising fondness. A politician
needs first of ail philanthropy; he must be
something ot a redeemer. William Morris
Hughes .is nothing of the sort. He has
been accused of forsaking his party and then
forsaking the people. The charge is untrue.
Never having been for the people how can
he be said to have forsaken them?
DIDO.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Awaiting the Verdict.
A eecenx rather marked decline in the Irish
death-rate is believed, by some, to be due to
the fact that old people, at death’s door and
quite resigned, have got so interested in the
local political situation that they have
resolved to hang on, at any cost, and see
what happens. To the casual eye the island
appears to be governed too much. And yet,
in a sense, it is not governed enough. In
the South th„ere is the Free State Govern-
ment, the address of which is known. There
is the Irish Republican Government, whose
address varies: it is said to have had as
many as three different addresses in one
nighf. The last joint in the tail of the old
British authority is presumably hanging
around, for a few British troops still re-
main, “by request,” as the funeral notice
has it when people are asked not to send
flowers. In the North there is a sort of
Ulster Government, which curses angrily
and occasionally fires its blunderbuss in the
air by way of protest against something, but
which does little else. Asa keeper of the
peace it is as futile as the Free State con-
traption. Either there is a Revolutionary
Administration hidden somewhere, or the dis-
order which makes life in Erin such a glowing
affair just now is running itself. Presum-
ably there is a Revolutionary Government,
and a A'igorous one- The final fragment of
the Imperial regime has its bag packed pre-
paratory to leaving for quieter parts, but has
paused to wait upon events. A great difficulty
in the way of a settlement is that no one, save
the Republicans themselves—those earnest
snipers and bomb-throwers—knows whether
they stand for 20 per cent, or 1 per cent, of
the population. The fact that De Vaxera’s
men are shooting hard and bombing hard to
prevent an election, and hinder the establish-
ment of a real Irish Parliament and Gov-
ernment, goes to show that the Spanish-
American patriot does not see triumph wait-
ing for him at the ballot-box (people don't
wade in blood to avoid a triumph), but
whether the Republican vote would be
small or ridiculously small is another matter.
The Republican party (numbers unknown,
but shooting capacity well authenticated)
has put its terms in writing, and they are
not exactly the kind that Genoa conferences
a.Dd such-like bodies call “a basis for negotia-
tion.” The gunmen ask that their republic
shall be recognised; their army recognised
and maintained and allowed to run its own
little executive; while the nation is to be
muzzled so far as elections of anv sort are
concerned until “the threat of war by Eng-
land has been removed.” Presumablv it
won’t be considered to be removed till Britain
acknowledges the republic. And after the
republic is admitted and established it will
be very little use for the people to vote as to
whether they want a republic or not. With
the republic counting the votes, and possibly
classing a vote against the republic as
treason against the republic (which techni-
cally it would bet. the ballot, as mere com-
monplace Australian democrats regard it.
would be of no more intrinsic value than a
handful of Liffe.v mud.
Patriotism on the Cheap.
A sinister feature of most of the Anzac
Day oratory was its insistence on the debt
Australia owes to the dead. Nearly all the
complacent business men and politicians who
held forth in public on this theme implied
that by getting together annually to pour
verbal butter —cheapest and most useless of
offerings—on those soldiers who are past the
need of help the community may discharge
its debt to the ones who have the misfortune
to be alive. The word “misfortune” is used
advisedly. In every State of the Common-
wealth there are thousands who would be
happier dead, inasmuch as it is less dread-
ful for a man to have lost his life than to
have been spared only to experience the
pangs of starvation; or, worse, to see his
wife and children starving. Chaplain Rich-
mono estimated recently that there are 5000
workless Diggers in N. S. Wales. Accord-
ing to the Newcastle coiTespondent of the
Sun, “200 Diggers and 40 Imperial Service
men are unemployed in the Newcastle dis-
trict alone, and a number are sleeping on
the beaches.” Chaplain Cashman, of Charle-
ville (Q.), reckons that “there are 1000
workless Diggers in Brisbane.” And Mel-
bourne is understood to contain over 3000.
In the process of helping to save Australia
for the men who are now making fortunes
•out of it, the dead of the A.I.F. left a total
of nearly (50,000 jobs vacant. Clearly it is
vital to Australia’s good repute that these
positions at least should be filled by Diggers.
The men who now confine themselves to non-
committal fustian about the merits of the
dead talked only of the living when it was
essential that their properties should be
defended by the living. Nothing was to be
too good for those who came back; nothing
too bad for the shirkers. The principle of
preference to loyalists was to be applied
everywhere—a loyalist being accepted in
those days not as a man who orated about
the Empire, but as one who was ready to
risk his life for it Jt is not necessary to
gaze upon the tragic armies of jobless Dig-
gers in all the big cities to realise that in
most concerns wherever, bv remaining at
home, a man gained a little more “pull,”
a little more knowledge, a little more phy-
sical or mental vigor, he is being preferred
to those who by enlisting threw a wav five
years of civilian experience in addition to
their other sacrifice?. One of the latest
examples of the tendency in ooeraßon was
the selection of the N. S. Wales Ministry.
Nationalism, which claims to be pre-eminent
in loyalty, had a chance here to set an
example in Empire patriotism to that State
which, on its Digger unemployment figures,
needs the lesson most. The anti-Labor side
in the.N. S. Wales Assembly is stiff with
ex-soldiers of ability and character—profes-
sional men like Rosenthal and Jaques,
successful pastoralists and business men
such _ as Main, Bruxner and Rutledge.
let, in a Ministry of 13 but one (Chaffey)
was chosen—the war-time tourist, Henley,
being, of course, a jest if not a profanation
m the capacity of Digger. And even Chaf-
fey was not given man’s work: the sinecure
billet of Assistant-Minister for Lands was
created for him. Is it astonishing that
when Premiers who have gained office on
the patriotic ticket adopt such a policy mere
business men should argue that there is no
obligation on them to strain a point in the
interests of a returned man, or that, in con-
sequence, the nominal roll of starving heroes
should be constantly swelling?
Bad Fruit and Bad Business.
A fruit cargo reached London recently on
the Larsrs Bay in an unspeakable condition.
Some of the trouble is vdguel.v ascribed to
neglect or mishandling- of the ship’s freezing
apparatus by the largely-foreign crew that
the union put on board after it had job-
controlled the situation. But, in any case,
the fruit-growing, and especially the fruit-
export, business has always been an uncer-
tain and fluctuating trade, with no big for-
tunes in it. Even along the Hawkesbury,
at the back of the County of Cumberland,
with Sydney next door, there is a pathos
about the orchards. They are so tidy, and
suggest such an immensity .of toil, while the
box-like habitations of the owners hint that
very little comes out of this toil. The ex-
port business, of course, suffers from the
invariable Australian handicap—too much
distance. When the fruit has been grown,
picked, graded, wrapped, boxed, nailed,
hauled by old Dobbin to the railway over a
rough road, trained to the city, unloaded,
shipped, conveyed 12,000 miles by sea, un-
loaded, Dobbined again to Covent Garden,
there to be treated with contumely and
agents’ commission, there is little left for
the orchardist, and he has to wait a long
tune before the fragment transpires. When
“A Million Farms” start in competition he
will go further and fare worse. A million
new artisans, for whom there is plenty of
local employment, scattered through a
thousand little industrial towns, and buying
the local apple on the spot, would cut " out
JU per cent, of these drawbacks, including
the contumely in Covent Garden and the
row about the manning of ships like the
Bargs Bay. The new men would reduce
the farmer’s taxes by half, paying the other
half themselves; and they would supply
him with cheaper pants and other things he
needs, because these would be made along-
side his orchard, and not dragged expen-
sively round the Seven Seas on a craft whose
cooling chamber was liable to go wrong. In
fact, if Australia could rid itself of the
crazy idea that it has a mission to furnish
low-priced bread and vegetables to the re-
mote beggars of Europe, in hot competition
with the nearly-nude agriculturists of Asia
and elsewhere, and get down to attending
more to its own wants, it might afford to
do without Government-owned ships. A
blessed and self-contained era might even
come to pass in which, no matter how brisk
the coastal and island trade was, one large
steamer per month, almost wholly of the
passenger variety, would suffice ' for the
European business, and there would be no
need for a United States service at all.
*
Murderers in Embryo.
If Australia is afflicted with a series 01
crimes ot the Gun-alley type some acces-
sories before the fact will be the State
Legislatures which shirk the duty of provid-
ing adequate penalties for those guilty of
stoss cruelty to animals; the magistrates
who usually do not inflict, to the full, the
paltry punishments the Law allows; and the
daily press which often suppresses the names
of persons convicted of abominable brutali-
ties. Last week the S. M. Herald reported
a matter to which one John Bateson
Goodworth, of Bowral, pleaded guilty
(without printing the gentleman’s name) as
follows:—•
Constable Eadie (brought on the scene by a ladv
who had seen defendant and a friend “breaking in”
f horse) stated that he found the animal’s
left eye cut in halves, the hindquarters cut about as
if barbed wire had been used for breeching, the
intestines ruptured, and there was a lump under the
stomach about half the size of a football. The
horse was also bleeding from the nose, mouth,
hindquarters, and all over the body. There were
dozens of whip marks and cuts on it, and it had been
attacked by blowflies. When the horse fell down
they sat on it and smoked cigarettes. They then
took the horse out of the breaking-in gig and took
it two and a half miles along the Berrima-road,
where it was left without food, water or care for
two days and nights.
Zola, during a newspaper discussion of his
I hu H T? Deast” (tile classic-
analysis of the teadistic impulse), disclosed
that he chose Normandy as the birthplace of
ms central character, because nowhere in
hrance, 40 years ago, were animals and
children treated with such brutality. His
theory was that the mere spectacle of any
sort of cruelty, much less a habitual indui-
gence in it, brought out blood-lusts which
would otherwise have lain dormant. If
this view is correct, and reason shouts that
it is so, then the community which con-
dones the diversions of monsters such as
John Bateson Goodworth, 0 f Bowral is
thereby signing the death-warrant ’not
merely of horses but of human beings. Con-
finement in a lunatic asylum “during bis
Majesty’s pleasure” would be the indicated
step m all such cases if the safety of de-
fenceless women and children was 'the only
consideration. That failing, the penalties
should, anyhow, be deterrent. What the
average legislator fails to appreciate is that
bouts of cruelty of the sort that Good-
worth indulged in last week are pleasurable
orgies which may be checked in the begin-
ning, by those prone to them, if the Law’s
threat is sufficiently formidable. Left un-
checked, even for a little while, and the sub-
ject becomes like Colin Ross—an automa-
ton controlled by a dreadful force about
which he knows nothing save that it has
got the best of him.
A Westralian Deficit that Threatens to
Become Chronic.
Westralia’s State railway system has been
run at a loss for some years now, the short-
age for the nine months that finished on
March 31 being close on £200,000. And it
has been hinted that depression in the timber
trade is making the immediate outlook more
dismal than a year ago. All the causes that
have increased railway-running costs in all
countries, notably wages that have soared
and receipts that have slumped, are to be
found in W.A., and in addition the country
has some special handicaps of its own. For
every ounce of gold that was produced 20
years ago, no more than sdwt. are obtained
to-day, and on hundreds of miles of goldfields
lines, constructed or authorised in the roar-
ing ’nineties, the passengers and goods to
be carried are becoming an inexorably van-
ishing quantity. But whether W.A. rail-
ways have ever been managed capably and
efficiently is a matter of doubt. Government
and Parliament are perpetually experiment-
ing with new forms of control and new men.
John Davies, an English railway expert;
William George, an excitable politician
with some knowledge of foundry-work ; John
Short, an understudy of Davies, and
Oolone] Pope (the present Commissioner)
Re-incarnation.
[FOR THE BULLUTIN.]
This at the Millions Club befell.
Black Aiagic may explain
The awesome inwardness thereof —
Black iViagic or champagne.
The food was rich, the drinks were choice,
The company select—-
Stout magnates of the Business World,
And sons of the Elect.
My vis-a-vis was one well known,
Sir Digby Dividend,
Director of a shipping co.,
The “small investor’s’’ friend.
Sir Digby’s ships, Sir Digby’s men,
Sir Digby’s money too,
Are held in great respect, I trow,
From Hull to Timbuctoo.
This florid, portly, three-chinned knight,
A prop of Church and State,
Imbibed with proud solemnity,
With dignity he ate.
And when the Master of the Feast
t (Who wore a diamond ring)
Uprose with due respect to call
Attention to the King,
Sir Digby seemed to tow’r above
That crowded, festive throng,
Which now, refreshed with meat and drink,
Embarked on loyal song.
But— magic, mockery, or wine?—
My vis-a-vis I saw
In one weird moment change into
A Thing of Tooth and Claw.
At some unseen, Satanic touch,
That stout director shed
His present seeming and became
A buccaneer ihstead!
His face was seamed with many scars,
His nose shone like a flame,
A gaudy, blood-stained belt he wore,
With pistols in the same.
And—be it magic or champagne—-
I vow that, north and south,
This ribald rhyme of rum and blood
Came roaring from his mouth:—
Oh y stout hearts, fear no gallows tree,
Where sits the corbie crow!
With gold to gain, we’ll sail again,
While bully breezes blow.
Oh, ho, the rumbelow!
While bully breezes blow!
There’s powder in the locker, lads,
There’s bullets in the chest,
And of the wenches we will keep
The youngest and the best.
Ho, ho, the rumbelow,
The sharks can have the rest!
Hey, ho, the rumbelow!
The sharks can have the rest!
So, cheer for Captain Blackbeabd,
Who hailed from Bristol town;
He sailed the coasts o’ Guinea
And raked ’em up and down.
Hey, ho, the rumbeloio!
He raked ’em up and down.
With five-and-twenty pellets
Thgy made him pay the toll.
Hey, ho, the rumbelow!
They took his head to Charlestown,
The Devil took his soul.
Ho, ho, the rumbelow!
The Devil claimed his soul!
A cheer for Captain Aveky,
A cheer for Captain Kid !
Way down in Carolina
His treasure chests are hid.
Ho. ho, the rumbelow!
His plunder’s safely hid!
They captured our bold captains
And hung ’em up in chains;
The Devil claimed their spirits and
The vultures their remains.
Hi. ho, the rumbelow!
They swung their bones in chains!
But you an’ me we fear no tree
Where croaks the corbie crow.
While gold, red gold, the good ships hold
And plunder stowed below.
Ho. ho. TTO, the rumbelow!
Hoist Jolly Roger at the fore.
We’ll out and take the seas once more
While bully breezes blow ....
While bully breezes blow!
This at the Millions Club befell!....
Like witchcraft at the end,
From out a haze there re-appeared
Sir Digby Dividend!
Yet somehow as I sit and read,
Of modern ships and freight.
Of rings and mercantile combines
I often see of late,
his wealth and lmh renown,
This r>ron of Church and State
As some half-hidden, dual self.
A wolf reincarnate.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


T h i Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A OS iSJi a
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’s Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. sJiMOND, Managing Director.
have been in charge successively since the
days when Forrest was consul. Each of
the first three went his way at the end of
his term, amid .yells from all over the coun-
try for an entirely different sort of man.
Pope got the billet, chiefly on the returned-
soldier ticket. He returned from the war
with the reputation of a fine officer and a
capable leader. But before he went away
he was no more than a fairly high-up clerk
in the Railway Department. His knowledge
of railways and railway-working must have
been mainly an armchair one. There were
other candidates for the job among the de-
partmental heads, and in some of the grum-
bling that inevitably followed the choice
there was a distinct hint that it wouldn’t be
all plain sailing for the lucky man. What
with strikes and industrial troubles and per-
petual Arbitration Court cases (and pos-
sibly a certain lack of that loyal co-opera-
tion which is so essential in tight situa-
tions) the famous Anzac has been tried
high. If he cannot stop the leak he stands
a good chance of being the next scapegoat.
And then the old argument will begin afresh
as to whether three Commissioners mightn’t
be better than one, or an outsider preferable
to a home-grown product, and whether poli-
tical influence can ever be eliminated and
railways run as a simple business proposi-
tion, and if not, why not. But it is highly
unlikely that anything will happen to the
deficit.
Putting the Meat Before the Railroad.
Another paragraph in the tragic-comic his-
tory of the Federal estate in the Northern
Territory will begin with Prime Minister
Hughes’s scheme for re-opening Vestey’s
ineatworks at Darwin. Not so many years
ago the Territory wasn’t a “question” or a
“problem.” It was just a place, spot or loca-
tion. It was far more prosperous and pro-
mising than the northern part of Westralia
on the left, because the Government was
better. It was less advanced than North
Queensland on the right, because the Gov-
ernment was further away and more of an
absentee. Owing to the curious terms on
which the area was held from the British
Government separate accounts were kept for
it, which put it in a bad light. Similar
accounts might have put Gippsland in a
worse light, and would certainly have put
N.S.W. west of the Darling in the same cate-
gory with a place seldom mentioned in
polite conversation. South Australia, in a
moment of magnificent folly, ceded the Ter-
ritory to the Commonwealth in the form of
an endowment for a land-grant railway—
-200,000 acres per mile, when the regular
charge of Private Enterprise had always
been a mere 12.000 acres per mile. The
bargain might not have panned out so badly
if Alfred Deakin, the last Australian
statesman who thought in continents, had
remained in power, but he was succeeded bv
Fisher and Hughes, who set out to do
things calculated to make angels roar:
Fisher hurried north to arrange that every-
body in the Territory must be a trades
unionist: to appoint every political parasite
be possessed to some sort of job and load
the estate with the cost of his keep ; and to
put the A.W.U. in possession. It has been
in possession ever since. The railway was
hardly even mentioned. The Fisiier-
llughes Government, in fact, invented “job-
control.” which had its first run in the
Defence Department. District paymasters,
for instance, were instructed to apply to the
local union boss when clerkly assistance was
needed, and the union sent along its favored
son to keep accounts. The appointees in-
cluded blacksmiths, jockeys, drapers, nail-
makers. butchers and horse-copers, and when
war made the department a big affair the
vagaries of this kind of “assistance” were
costly. The A.W.U. bosses, put in charge
of the remote dependency, presently put the
local Administration on board ship and
ordered it to quit. This might have served
as precedent for a special Act, under which
the said bosses would be shifted for life out
of the Territory, but instead a minor State
Judge was sent up to whitewash them.
Vestey’s meatworks, round which the pre-
sent fuss centres, cost nearly a million, and
were expected to inaugurate quite a burst
of prosperity for the country. Strikes and
miscellaneous troubles closed them in two
or three years. The miscellaneous troubles
included wage-demands that ran to £2O per
week for men and 565. per day for boys. If
the South-to-North railway, to which the
Commonwealth is pledged, had put Darwin
within three days’ run of the labor supply
of Adelaide these disastrous and crazy doings
wouldn’t have been possible. The proposal
for re-opening the Darwin meat industry is
to leave the place in all its ancient isola-
tion, and to leave the ancient gang of Bol-
sheviks in command, but to helr> the industry
by reducing the railway freights on cattle
to less than half the cost of carriage. If
the scheme comes off the aonall'nc railway
deficit that must ensue will he held as evi-
dence that a South-to-North line will never
nay, and should never he built. From that
it will be deduced that the North can’t he
settled at all. and that Tronical Australia
is no white man’s land. They are conclu-
sions which may he. gratifying to overseas
trusts, but which are disastrous from an
Australian standpoint.
The Cheap and Narrow Track.
A Maorilander’s plunge into an Australian
controversy:—
In 1921 Australia (that is, the mainland) had
22,666 miles of Government railway open for traffic.
Of that 11,186 miles are on the 3ft. 6in. gauge. Reckon-
ing in the private railways and those of the Speck
(which cannot be ignored from the standpoint of
national defence) the proportion of 3ft. 6in. lines
amounts to considerably more than half. It puzzles
me why you don’t unify your messy systems on that
gauge instead of the far costlier 4ft. BAin. Apart
from the tremendous expense of standardisation as
proposed by Hughes, whose contempt for millions
amounts to a passion, it is going to be a staggering
burden on the pioneering States, Westralia and
Queensland, to construct new 4ft. B}in. lines.
In Maoriland we don’t share the curious Vic. and
Ma State prejudice against the 3ft. 6in. gauge.
Our engineers consider that for Australasian pur-
poses the 3ft. 6in. is better than any other class
of line. The popular idea that speed depends on
breadth of gauge is all wrong. Only tunnel and
station and track clearances impose any limit upon the
size of rolling stock. Since the stability of any
moving vehicle increases with the speed, theoreti-
cally the monorail type of construction would be the
most desirable for high speeds. There is less friction
at the curves too on the narrow gauge, while the
overturning effect on curves is resisted by the cant
of the outside rail to suit the gauge. After seeing
N.S.W.'S PRODIGAL IS TAKER BACK TO THE BOSOM OF NATIONALISM.
°»e of the latest express engines warbling up a stiff
s rade with a 350-ton train behind her, the average
Australian visitor is apt to change his mind about
the 3ft - 6in - Also he begins to ask questions about
the designers of the Ab simple, superheated, narrow-
&auge locomotive.
When the Ab hits the breeze the only thing that
lim its her speed is the size of her driving wheels,
one cf these locomotives ran from Timaru to Christ-
church. 100 miles of level running, with 423 tons
behind her. at an average running speed of 46
miles an hour, and she developed over IOOOh.p. for
a great part of the distance. In ideal conditions the
Ab can develop 1200h.p. An engineer will grasp
the <l ual >ty of this feat when he is told that this is
done with 1500 sq. ft. of heating surface and 35
S( i- «. of grate area from a boiler weighing 15 tons,
The Ab is, without doubt, a remarkable engine and
11 was wholly designed by Maoriland engineers,
1S commonly complained that M.L. carriages are
not wide enough for comfort. If you pass through
a tunnel when the Ab is chasing furlongs
through the hills you will realise why they are
" ot wider. There is not enough clearance. Yet
the express cars are of the same width and height
as the usual English ones. On the other hand, in
s - Africa, with a 3ft. 6in. gauge, the carriages and
waggons are higher, wider and heavier than those
use d on the sft. 6in. and 4ft. 81in. gauges of Europe,
The Cape-to-Johannesburg express is every hit as
fast alld comfortable as the Melbourne-Albury mail
train. Australia shouldn’t rush lightly into unifica-
tion on the 4ft. B£in basis when there are so many
points in favor of the 3ft. 6in.
Sydney Telegraph is trying to work up an
insectarian issue of its own, by arguing
ihat the growing anti-HUGHES movement is
merely a matter of Victoria’s jealousy at the
spectacle of a N.S.W. man in high office.
This is the 14th Federal Cabinet. Eight
have been skippered by N. S. Welshmen;
three by a Victorian, and three by a Queens-
lander. There were seven individual Prime
Ministers —one Victorian; one Queenslander,
and live N. S. Welshmen. Eight Minis-
tries started with a N. S. Welshman as
second-in-command and heir-apparent the
crown; only three with a Victorian. N. S.
Welshmen held office for 11 years and 9
months; the Victorian for four years and
10 months; the Queenslander for about the
same. Hughes has had a run of 61 years.
Previous leaders resigned when the numbers
were against them. Hughes, learned
the points of the game with the Waterside
Workers’ Union, reconstructed three times
while still keeping his stranglehold on office;
led both parties in turn; and is now sus-
pected of complete willingness to lead his
first party against his second. Is it necess-
ary to look any further for the explanation
of Victoria’s restiveness?
“Bill O’Costs” on Go Slow methods
amongst Legal Unionists :
The B. (13/4/'22) notes, apropos the rebukes
aimed by Justice Gordon, of S.A., and Judge Woin-
arski, of Vic., at young lawyers who omitted to
turn up at trials for which they had been briefed,
that the seniors are as bad, or worse. In my State
the trouble is not so much to get the K.C.’s into
court as to keep them out. Here’s an instance.
At the conclusion of a matter in which we had
Bigwig, K. 0., the Judge intimated that he was
against us, but would not deliver formal judgment
till a later date. A junior was employed to attend
and hear the words of wisdom. Nevertheless, Big-
wig weighed in later with a claim for a “fee to
hear judgment”— i.e., the judgment he hadn’t
heard or been asked to hear. When remon-
strated with he explained, somewhat irrelevantly,
that “his Honor was deeply hurt by his
(Bigwig’s) absence from court on that occasion.”
And he capped this by refusing to go on
with subsequent proceedings in the same suit unless
hp vvas paid for the work he hadn’t done. If that
isn’t scrupulous attention to a case, what is? Accord-
ing to The Bulletin, the leaders of Melbourne, and,
perhaps, other places, “farm opt” their briefs when
hearing dates clash. That difficulty was overcome
far more neatly in my day in Melbourne by the
skilful handling of a junior. No successful K.C.
used to think he had arrived at the end of a really
perfect day unless he had opened a case in one
court, examined a witness in another, and argued
a point of law in a third, with a string of per-
spiring clerks chasing him and harried juniors trying
to hold the fort in his absence. I once had to
watch a case for which I had briefed Bhasshide,
K.C. As he failed to appear, and as we had no junior,
I was forced to battle with the thing myself, but
at the end of an hour took an adjournment at niv
own cost rather than risk going on. When the great
man arrived he was tremendously annoyed. “Why
the devil didn’t you open the case?” he asked. I
replied that I had opened it, but that my inspira-
tion, being void of wind, material or artistic reitera-
tion, had blown out. He refused to accept
my apologies, and nearly threw up his brief.
And the assiduity of “Silks” extends in
other directions. I know that if I send a brief to
Fat-fee, K.C., £ven on such a trifling matter as the
settling of a pleading, I will soon get a telephone
message that F-F. wished to see Mr. O’Costs. After
he has “seen” me (if it’s only to say that the thing
looks all right, and to put out a feeler about my
client’s financial capacity), it is certain that I’ll
find a fee for a “consultation” added to the list.
And if we have any luck with the case I’ll get a
reminder that it ought to stand another “opinion”
or a “conference.” Yet I see a light ahead. One
Law Society has appointed a sub-committee on “pro-
fessional etiquette.” This probably means that
the modest top-storey solicitor who accepts a fee
of 55., or is suspected of advertising, will be put on
the carpet and reminded of the noble ideals of the
profession. Of course, the public would be better
pleased if the new organisation laid down that it
was etiquette for a K.C. to devote all his time to
the hearing of one case, thus sacrificing the pickings
resulting from a partial attention to many. But
as such a recommendation would be dead against
“the traditions of a noble calling,” it is most
unlikely to be made.
• ♦
A remarkable feature of the recent row
over the running of the new Commonwealth
liner was the threat issued by the general
manager of the concern, by name W. M.
Hughes, that if the union bosses created
any more difficulties he would tie the vessel
up. If one of these ships was laid up the
jobacontrollers wouldn’t lose the billets they
had—only those they might have had. Some
Private Enterprise ship would butt in to
do the work, and jobs would be going again.
Meanwhile the Federal owners would have
the loss and defeat as their share. Private
Enterprise ships get away with fair regu-
larity and with no trouble worth mention-
ing, while the Government passenger line
has been in a state of worry through all
its brief existence, and this despite the fact
that the owners of the Government line can
make laws to deal with malicious obstruc-
tion, while Private Enterprise has to do the
best it can with existing laws. This sug-
gests that either the Government line re-
quires different management, or, if that
can’t be found, that the Government should
go out of the business. Nothing is gained
by staying in it to be the jest and cockshy
of every Communist secretary and organ-
iser, and to meet the derision of such per-
sons with feeble threats of national lock-
outs. According to the better sort of sea-
faring man, the trouble, or great part of
it, lies with the management. The general
manager, whose name is Hughes, had a lot
of early training at organising unions and
managing strikes, but none in combating
strikes and managing ships. And hence the
proposition that the nation should go on
strike if the good ship Hobson’s Choice was
unduly interfered with, and remain there
bv way of revenge till it grew mouldy.
The word “strike” is the most dangerous
one in the lexicon of nationalised industries,
and no genuine business manager would be
the first to utter it.
“Sol. Malaphop” issues a warning:—
A feature of the world to-day is the feebleness
of the police, combined with the overgrown influence
of the push. The push is always in existence if
not in evidence—arrogant, intolerant, animal (if
not bestial), non-productive (if it can live without
being productive), wholly non-constructive, an enemy
to peace and order, contemptuous of all self-govern-
ing rights, violent and only to be dealt with by a
better-organised force, and ready to help itself to
anything, from a passer-by’s watch to entire control
of “the means of production, distribution and ex-
change,” also “the factories and workshops,” all the
private lands within reach and the entire fixed and
portable property of an Empire. The genus includes
the Unspeakable Turk, who was the larrikin of three
continents for centuries; Lenin’s comparative hand-
ful of armed and disciplined Communists; De Val-
era's gunmen, who make up for the lack of a majo-
rity to serve them at the polls by staving off the
election with guns and midnight assassination; the
leading lights of the N.S.W. Labor Council; and the
Fitzroy gang which runs the famous vendetta in
Melbourne. Also there are other brands. Anyone
who recalls the cases in which a handful of
fierce nocturnal hoodlums have terrorised a large,
ill-lighted, badly-policed town, especially if it was
one with a feeble magistracy, will realise that
pushism, given a little too much rope, is always
liable to get on top, and then to fortify itself on the
summit. Tom Walsh's famous threat that his strikers
would so effectually take possession of Melbourne that
quiet citizens wouldn’t dare to be abroad aftei
dusk included no mention of any proposal to give
back the captured city when the strikers’ purpose,
whatever it might be, was achieved. One moral is
that Australia wants more population—and especially
more gaol population. The comparative and increas-
ing emptiness of the gaols, while violence and eou-
spiracy against the self-governing rights of the
people grow apace outside, is a danger and a scandal.


Half-Hose Specials at
Peapes’
For a limited period Feapes offer some fine-quality
all-wool English-made Cashmere Half-Hose at
special prices.
These include three lines:—
Black, Tan or Covert Cashmere, with a pleasing
variety of cl ox.
PRICE:
4/6 pair; 26/- half-dozen.
This is an opportunity that should be availed of
immediately. Such value must effect a very early
clearance.
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
dfd
The Standardised
Complete. No extras to buy.
Spare tyre and tube included in
For COMFORT, SIMPLICITY ANljf
ECONOMY you need look no further, for
the STANDARDISED OVERLAND
possesses all these qualities and many more,
Furthermore, it has demonstrated ITS
ABILITY TO OUTCLASS OTHER CARS
in these points in the hands of owners and
in Reliability Tests throughout Australia.
In the last Petrol Economy Test in Brisbane
a few weeks ago this ECONOMY CAR won
the competition with 50.8 miles per gallon
to its credit. '
Owners average from 25 to 35 miles per
gallon of petrol and from 5000 to" 8000 miles
per set of tyres.
GARRATTS LIMITED
173-175 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
■ALTCK McNEIL, General Manager. ’Phones: City 582-3-4.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Although Australia lavishes the cost of a
serviceable army and navy on the ponies
and the pitchers, its vote-mad politicians
reckon it too poor to pay the premiums on
its modest life-insurance policy. So a first-
class scrapping of the national defence sys-
tem is starting. The Commonwealth’s one
battle-cruiser is to be broken up or sunk.
Its one military college (“Australia’s West
Point’’) is to be turned into a home for
resting legislators or something of the sort.
And hundreds of naval and military officers,
who have given their best years to the ser-
vice of an ungrateful country, and who
have no pension rights or provident funds,
are in hourly expectation of the sack. Be-
fore going back to Britain Admiral Duma-
resq, himself an Australian, spoke in a de-
spairing strain of the vanishing R.A.N.,
only to be petulantly rebuked by the Pri-
minister for his “bad taste.” When all the
“reforms” now in contemplation are effected
Australia will be about as well equipped to
meet an invader as Bokhara or Tibet. Mean-
while, a large section of the population
derives comfort from the statement that,
“owing to the unprecedented popularity. of
the Sport of Kings, stake-money is being
increased all along the line.”
“Sol”: It was a sign of a weak man’s
despair (weakness and physical bravery are
quite compatible) that Premier Collins (South
Ireland) should have written to Premier
Craig (North Ireland), complaining of his
failure to keep order. Craig, who doesn’t
want his State to be a State at all, has on
his hands Protestants and Catholics in about
equal numbers, Republicans and Irish Free
Staters who form a rift within the lute of the
other rift, and Unionists of both creeds. Col-
lins has really only Republicans and Free
Staters on his mind, for Protestants and
Unionists hardly count. He has no ene-
mies save hi.s own warm friends of a few
months ago, and if he wants an army he
has twice the population to draw upon that
Craig has. Yet the Collins Government sat
supine while rebels in its own capital seized
the Customs House and “performed” for
hours till the spilt whisky amounted to mil-
lions. Craig, futile though he may be, has
always saved the whisky hitherto.
The item which has caused all the
trouble over the salaries reduction pro-
posal in the N.S.W. Assembly is the hog/
like selfishness of the Ministerial atti-
tude. M’s.L.A. were drawdng originally
£5OO p.a.: they voted themselves £875 p.a.—
a rise of £375. At the same time Ministers
were drawing on an average £950 p.a. : they
doubled that figure, bringing Ministerial
screws up to an average of £l9OO p.a. What
the Fuller Government —which was returned
to power on the distinct understanding that
it woufd revert to the status quo ante as
regards all salaries —is working for at the
moment is an all-round reduction of £275.
That is to say, the rank and file are to be
left in the enjoyment of ill-gotten gains to
the extent of £lOO p.a. apiece; while every
Minister takes the country down for nearly
seven times as much. And this cynical
swindle is being proposed in the names of
economy and honest government! •
Hughes’s appointment of Dicky Foster as
Minister for Works and Railways hasn’t
allayed the trouble between the small Nation-
alist group and the powerful Liberal Union
in South Aus., and it looks as if old Labor-
ites like Poynton, Story and Blundell, who
decline to swallow the Liberal programme,
will be opposed at the elections. A pre-
selection ballot for Boothby has already
resulted in Captain Iluncan-Hughes getting
the party’s endorsement, which means that
the ancient and almost noiseless Story, who
is the Hughes Whip in the Reps., will have
a fine struggle for his seat. As regards
ability the loss of Story or Blundell would
be no great calamity to the Commonwealth,
but Hughes can’t see them outed without
making another fight for their political
existence. Probably he will soon visit Adel-
aide again to try to patch up a peace.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The numerous people who are looking to Willie
Watt to make a move against Hughes continue to
be grievously disappointed. On several occasions
there have been dark newspaper rumors regarding
his future, but after two or three days the discussion
has died out without Watt giving a hint of his inten-
tions. Last week there was another attempt to revive
the stale subject, and the Age suggested that a speech
to be delivered by Watt before the Wimmen’s
Gnational League, at Malvern, would at last contain
some threatening language and make his fretful rival
sit up and take notice. The oration turned out to
be a more or less academical review of the industrial
position. It contained no reference to the matter
that everybody was dying to hear about. Watt’s
magnificent silence has baffled many commentators,
but I think the explanation is very simple. He has
weighed the Representatives in the balance and found
his friends wanting.
Some Speck Labor selections :
Almost anything may happen in a Labor selection-
ballot. That for Denison, the only Tas. constituency
that did pot dispense with the foolishness altogether,
resulted in the defeat of capable and experienced
Parliamentarians like D. E. Dicker (who missed
WEDDED.
" 'Strvth. missus, who did it?"
"'I' m as 'as the bent o' right to —me ’ usbin."
very badly) and W,- A. Woods (who only just
missed) and the narrowest escape of W. Sheridan,
one of the three sitting members, who, like Woods
and Dicker, has a dozen years of useful Parliamen-
tary work to hjs credit. The team of five selected
for Denison, with 22,000 electors, by a vote of barely
300 A.L.P. members (including young persons of
anything oyer 18 years of age) are R. Cosgrove,
J. Cleary and W. Sheridan (M’s.H.A.), C. Culley and
W. Reece. There is rather more than the usual
dissatisfaction among local toiler? over the choice
of what is regarded as an unlikely-looking team.
Dicker is expected to nominate as an Independent,
probably for Franklin, where he topped the poll
three years ago. For Bass sitting members Guy
and Becker, with V. Shaw, are the endorsed Labor
men; for Darwin the selected team includes former
Labor Ministers Belton and Ogden and ex-soldier
J. A. Hurst; Wilmot’s lot comprises Labor-leader
Lyons, Mrs. Lyons and Mick O’Keefe, and Franklin
will have Ben Watkins (Labor Whip), A. G. Ogilvie,
M.H.A., W. Pearce, W. E. Shoobridge and J. J.
Kenneally to choose from. Kenneally was the timber
workers’ secretary some years ago. Watkins, when he
is not on the political stump, runs a bakery business
in Hobart. Shoobridge is orchardist, hop-grower and
irrigation apostle; Pearce is a grazier, and Ogilvie
pursues Costs.
Queensland’s Labor Government is adding
an auctioneer’s business to its long list or
State enterprises. Perhaps the idea is that
the poor old taxpayer should be credited with
the commission when the Government sta-
tions and butcheries and the rest are sold
at an alarming sacrifice. Anyhow, there is
a gloomy significance in the fact that a tot-
tering Ministry should find it necessary to
appoint an official to cry "Going, going—
gone!”
Premier Lawson's dull speech at the New
Settlers’ League Conference only served to
emphasise that his Government hasn’t much
to offer the land-seeking immigrant. Com-
pared with the other mainland States Vic.
has very little Crown land available, and it
ought to accept the inevitable and let W.A.
and Queensland snap up the best of the
settlers offering. It could get better results
in secondary industries.
One of the jokes of the debate on the
reduction of members’ salaries in N.S.W.
Assembly was the contention by ex-Labor
Minister McKell, supported bv ex-Attorney-
General McTiernan, that because a member
can’t vote on a matter in which he is finan-
cially interested no member could vote to
reduce his own salary. Therefore the rais-
ing of salaries two years ago was null and
void, and the payment of all salaries since
salaries began is invalid and ultra vires.
From which it follows that all the salaries
so paid should be refunded.
Federal politicians are a reposeful family
when big national and constructive matters
are on. Wherefore the Prime Minister has
enjoyed 11 years of office since 1908 and has
no more definite policy about the Northern
Territory and the subdivision of big States
and the transcontinental railway and the
uniform gauge than when he began. In fact,
Hughes has been in eight Cabinets and his
sturdy fugleman, Pearce, in seven, without
pushing these big affairs any forrarder. But
when a few workmen at Canberra went on
strike on the question of 44 hours or 48
Ministers Foster and Pearce ran like hares
to the spot per express train to fix the matter
up. Yet it was pre-eminently one of those
matters which settle themselves if left
strictly alone. Men who rule a continent
shouldn’t mistake themselves for petty gang
foremen.
Any resident of Victoria who is (1) a
graduate of a University in the British
Dominions; (2) a legal or medical prac-
titioner ; (3) a minister of religion; (4) a
certificated school-teacher; (o) a naval or
military officer, or (6) a matriculated stu-
dent of Melb. University, is entitled, if 21
years of age, to be enrolled as an elector for
the Leg. Council. The only condition is that
he must apply for an elector’s right and pay
for the sixpenny duty stamp. So little is
the “privilege” valued that only 150 such
votes are registered in the State. Of course
many possessing the qualification are en-
rolled as ratepayers, but there must be a
big crowd of non-ratepayers who are eligible
Contempt for the Uppah Chambah couldn’t
be more clearly indicated.
Governor Nathan, of Queensland, declares
that the infant mortality of Brisbane is as
heavy as was that of Westminster when he
lived there some years ago. Considering the
better general conditions of life in the
Queensland capital this is a withering indict-
ment of those who have the ordering of its
affairs. Some medicoes explain that summer
diarrhoea is responsible, and summer diar-
rhoea is a disease bred by filth and impure
milk. It wouldn’t cost much to clean Bris-
bane up and keep it tidy, and a city in its
situation ought to have about the best milk
supply in the world. But there is no zeal
in Australia for the public health. The sub-
ject is never mentioned by fluent impostors
on the hunt for votes.
The long drought of Labor deficits has
been broken by a surplus, and in Darwin of
all places. It was proudly announced the
other day by the Labor-bossed local body that
the cemetery, which is under its control, was
showing a surplus of £6O. This answers the
vulgar allegation that the crowd who speak
for Labor couldn’t even run a bottle-o round
profitably, but it provokes gloomy reflections.
After 10 years of bureaucracy tempered by
Bolshevism the cemetery is the only enter-
prise that is paying in Darwin, or what is
left of it.
Back in Melbourne from Westralia, where
he has been trying, without much hope of
success, to secure a renewal of their nomina-
tions for Senators Buzacott, Henderson and
De Largie—a saddening trio who would have
been slung out five years ago if the Liberal
party hadn’t been doped—Hughes solemnly
recorded his approval of Premier Mitchell’s
land-settlement scheme, which the Common-
wealth is subsidising. “If the right kind of
people are placed on the right kind of land,”
said the Priminister sagely, “the scheme
should succeed.” This majestic statement
would be equally true of land settlement
in Greenland or the. Sahara Desert. Still, a
Priminister whose job has become unsteady,
must say something—something sonorous
and meaningless and calculated not to
alienate votes.
They are saying in M.L. that Melbourne
Trades Hall is going to send 70 fiery orators
across the waste of waters before the general
election in December. Also, the Prohibi-
tionists are importing various cold-tea tri-
bunes from overseas, including “Pussyfoot”
Johnson himsplf. Apparently it’s only an
old-fashioned electoral law that prevents the
obliging foreigner from providing the coun-
with electors and candidates.
“Hamer”: Whilst the reduction of salaries
was being debated in N.S.W. Assembly
Dunn, deputy-leader of the Labor party,
complained bitterly of the High Cost of Elec-
tioneering. Which recalls that a Sydney candi-
date’s flutter in March is supposed ito have
Cost him £SOOQ. That, of course, is excep-
tional, but group electorates have multiplied
the expense of campaigning, and unexpected
charges have arisen. For instance, many
country newspapers now demand advertising
rates for the publication of speeches. Un-
less things are drastically altered the poor-
man candidate without a party able and
willing to stand the racket, will disappear.
It is one of the unforeseen results of P.R.
An evangelist from Yorkshire by the name
of Wigglesworth has started operations in
Sydney. His specialty is “healing by
faith”; and he told on Sunday night of “a
nurse who hack been cured of cancer in the
nose through his cursing the unclean thing.”
When it comes to claiming that cancer can
be cured by cursing the man of God puts
himself on the same plane as the quack
specialist who promises to procure the same
result with herbs. The effect in the case
of both is to betray sufferers into putting
off the only treatment that can save them
till too late. If Parliament legislated both
menaces out of existence the certain result
would be to save a number of valuable lives.
Premier Lee, of the Speck, celebrated his
4Sth birthday by opening his election cam-
paign in his home village of Longford. After
a nine-column review of the Lee Govern-
ment’s six sessions of uninterrupted legisla-
tion, and the sorrowful admission that the
debt had persisted in growinsr at the rate of
over a million a session, and that the interest
bill had soared up to £750.000 (more than
the total amount received from direct taxa-
tion), he promised to have more to sav
about his policy “after Mr. Lyons, leader of
the Opposition, has spoken.” He also pro-
tested against the existence of the Cocky
party, complaining that it had taken the
field without any policy whatever. The
birthday party then closed.
From a Federal Galleryman:—
Victoria’s dismal Labor party cannot concoct its
own moonshine, but* has to import it from Lenin,
Trotzky, and their brother wreckers. The Vic.
Labor Conference has solemnly issued its new plat-
form. Plank 1 stands for “the nationalisation of
banking and principal industries,” and subsequent
strings of polysyllables express unstinted admira-
tion for Soviet rule. Everybody will be glad to
hear of this—especially Hughes, who is now whizzing
over the continent delivering disguised election
speeches painfully lacking in new matter. The
cranks at the Trades Hall have provided Billy with a
fresh yelp, and he will make full use of it to the
inevitable detriment of the sane man in the Labor
movement. In fact, if he goes to the polls with
the cry of “Down with Bolshevism,” whilst publish-
ing the foregoing 'programme far and wide, the
remnant of Labor will suffer another Sedan.
MIXED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“A maze of cross-currents swept across and rent
.Labor. The inner Tammany Junta, ever seeking to
maintain its grip, plays at Haymarket diplomacy
with any group or ism having an axe to grind.”
— J. 11. Catts.
Oyez j Arise 1 Avaunt! Awake!
A plot I sense, a rat I sriiell;
And in the grass there lurks a snake
Pilled with determination fell
To sprag the wheels of Catts and Co.,
And turn our cake to sodden dough.
Beware the Octopus that eats
Sour grapes that set the teeth on edge,
And spur him on to fearsome feats
With that age-old, thin-ended wedge,
Where, like r.ew brooms, cross-currents sweep
The stillness out of waters deep.
Though there be slip ’twixt cup and lip,
And out of sight is out of mind,
Woe worth the day when Juntas grip
At where the isms axes grind!
The milk is spilled, you see, and that's
Why mice are out for belling Catts.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE LONG SMOKE-O.
“Ain’t it time you got a move on—up or down?”


V /
V
M.
IF NOT THIS
I
THEN THIS —S
When you
home
cannot go to the sea bring fresh breezes into your
or office by using “THE WHIRLWIND FAN”
2l
Elizabeth St.,
MELBOURNE
ers
CO. LTu
tticTnicAw
213
Clarence St.,
SYDNEY
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Qeka.tine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety suso
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Manufacturers of “MAGPlE’Specialties
Flour Sifters.
Gravy Strainers.
Wall Vents.
I) Gate Latches.
Watering Cans.
“Dreadnought”
Wire Strainer.
Shovels —
Special Steel.
'atcnrcd N? 17.3*8. 10!"May. 1910
A STRONG, SPRING GRIP.
No Separate Clip or Bolt Required.
TINWARE.
Wire Nails.
Barbed Wire.
Spouting and
Ridging.
Sewerage Pipes,
etc.
Sheet Metal Work
of all descrip-
tions.
Fry Pans.
TITAN Manufacturing Co.,
Normanby Road, South Melbourne.
Telephones—C2l9l, C 2192.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of N. S. Wales lias expanded
so rapidly that at the end of this month a.
meeting of shareholders is to be asked to
authorise a further million increase of capi-
tal. Paid capital in 1914 was 34 millions,
but though 14 million more had been got in
by September last, and reserves had also
grown by a million, the bank was holding
slightly more than £7 Is. of the public’s
money for every £ of its own funds. The
proposed increase will take paid capital to
six millions. The shares are to be offered
at par to holders, and as there is every pros-
pect of a continuance of 10 p.c. divs.
average profits for the past three years have
been considerably larger than the amount
required to pay that rate on the increased
capital—-the issue will no doubt be readily
take? up.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture
and tin|e-pqyment salesmen, etc. (Sydney) :
Dividends.
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 n.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1912. . £24,429 Div. & Bonus £7,615 £16,814 £40,410
Reserves transferred to capital or
distributed, £12,393 .. 28,017
1913.. 28,477 1200 Uip.c.= 8,847 18,430 46,447
1914.. l2OO 10 „ „ 7,998 14,271 60,718
Transferred to capital £40,000 .. 20,718
1915.. 20,368 1200 10 p.c. = 12,000 7,168 27,886
1916.. 20,394 1200 10 „ ~ 12,000 7,194 35,080
1917.. 30,465 1200 11±„ ~ 13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20,000 . . 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
733,096 1200 15 „ „ 21,000 10,896 49,727
1919.. 4.Voted to staff fund, £2OOO .. 47,727
(.Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
f Interna] reserves disclosed and 4
| other additions to reserves,
1090 J £32, 1 21. -5 014
1920.. ■< Reserves capitalised, £36,000 °> UA *
I 29,266 1200 124 P-c. 27,000 1060
(.Staff provident fund, £5OO J
192!.. 41,112 1200 124p.c.= 27,000 l 17j4 26
Staff lurid, stood ) ’ ’
The year’s profit stated by the accounts
was £29,682, but as on previous .occasions
substantial amounts were dropped into reser-
ves and were not included with earnings.
Last year £11,430 net went into reserve in
this way, and for the past eight, years the
profits shown in the introductory table have
included reserve additions as follows: —
Profit (as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Dec., Account). Reserves.
1913 £15;850 £12,627
1914 15,141 8,328
1915 15,111 5,257
1916 15,133 5,261
1917 15,895 14,570
1918 22,644 7,542
1919 26,132 6,964
1921 29,682 11,430
The additions for the 1920 financial year
were not ascertainable owing to a reshuffle
of reserves when £36,000 of accumulated
profit was capitalised. In the past, besides
unannounced additions to visible reserves,
considerable amounts have also been set aside
for contingencies: 18 months ago ±20,546
was dipped out of a “book debts insurance”
account accumulated between 1915-19, and
the directors then reported that no asset had
been written up in value, and that “due pro-
vision had been made for possible deprecia-
tion.” So what the co. has claimed to have
earned has been a good deal less than actual
profits made.
Gordon’s has made most of its profits from
t.-p. business; it specialises in cash-orders:
paper advances to its own clients which are
negotiated by numerous retailers. The co.
collects the instalments and interest thereon,
and also gets commission for introducing
business to the retailers. The interest
charged for the accommodation is high, but
individual accounts are so small that that
aspect of the cash-order is overlooked by the
customer who seeks an advance! Still, a less
efficiently organised business would fail to
show the margin of profit made by Gordon’s.
In addition to the trade in cash-orders the co.
also sells furniture on its own account-
much of that is t.-p., too —and makes a bit
from invested funds. The published accounts
for the past two years have detailed assets
as follows: „ .
1920. 1921.
Property and plant . . . . £28,399 £27,954
Stock and hire agreements .. 72,090 76,953
Book debts .. . . ..... 82,887 83,397
Shares and debentures.. .. 62,813 78,339
Mortgages .. .. .. 43,445 38;249
AVar Loans . . . . . . 19,895 19,921
Cash 200 322^
The December. 1921. list totalled £325,135;
but on the other side were creditors for
£35,349. After payment of the final div.
and staff bonus there were net tangible assets
of £285,786 to represent £236,000 of paid
capital. On that capital shareholders are
getting 12-i p.c., but the actual return to
old holders is much sweeter, owing to the
various reserve capitalisations. Nine years
ago paid capital was only £82,000. and at
least £148.000 of the £154,000 added has
been transferred from reserves. Gordon’s
visibly earned almost 17 p.c. on its bonus-
enlarged ordinary capital.
Finney, Isles & Co., Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
To
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1912. . £16,856 Bp.c.= £13,057 £3,799 £42,846
1913.. 14,617 8 „ „ 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914 20,475 8 „ „ 12,944 7,531 52,133
1915.. 17,744 S ~,, 13,019 4,725 56,858
1916.. 9.269 8 „ „ 6,547 2,722 59,580
Transferred to capita], £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 . . 25,244
1917.. 21014 8 p.c. = 14,923 6,091 31,335
Premiums on new shares.. 1,752 33,087
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43.32-5
1919.. 29,833 8 „ „ 17,977 11,856 55,181
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,466
Premiums on new shares, £1,509 45,970
1920.. 33,098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 29,019 10 „ „ 26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 1 44,934
Tax thereon, £95 .. •• )
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
When the management had its annual talk
with shareholders in 1921 it was anticipated
that the margin of profit would “in all
probability be temporarily on a reduced
scale.” But, having taken stock at what
then looked like conservative values, the
directors thought that the co. would “quickly
emerge from all ditiiculty.” So, despite the
black clouds, they offered £12,500 of bonus
scrip along with a new issue of shares at
par. But things did not work out at all as
the management had anticipated; instead of
a temporary decline of prices, the slump con-
tinued throughout the financial year; the
public “refused to buy except on a heavy
price-reduction basisfc” and Finney’s was
forced into realising its heavy and costly
stocks at new replacement values. Stock
unsold at January 31 last was subjected to
careful re-valuation, and after book values
had been got down to “bedrock replacement
cost” the period closed with a loss of £14,173
In September the directors paid away £BO6O
in a 3 p.c. div.. so altogether the co. was
weakened during the period by_ £22,233.
The loss has not been serious: including
the div. which was not earned only a little
more than half of the. surplus profits stored
in the five vears 1917-21 have disappeared,
and though £22,500 of bonus scrip has mean-
time been issued there are still reserves of
£22,701. It is unlikely that any further
serious slump of prices will be experienced,
so Finney’s is apparently on a sound trading
basis again- But whether profits on the
scale of recent years will be possible. is
another matter: conditions for the retailer
are not likely to be so favorable as in the
years when War Loans, boom prices for pro-
ducts and a general feeling of prosperity were
helping sales. The present depression will,
no doubt, gradually disappear, but even when
conditions do become normal again taxation
is going to take a big bite. Last year, for
instance, Finney’s manso-ed to curtail work-
ing exes, by about £6900. but £5OOO more
was paid in and interest.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows how the business has grown :
1905. 1915. 1921. 1922.
Capital. . .. £29,462 £155,293 £250,000 £275,983
Liabilities .. 103,666 114,557 215,787 185,120
Stocks . . . . 60,878 123,408 242,847 175,993
Property .. 3,657 99,235 138,327 138,463
Plant etc. .. 4,008 27,877 23,571 23,927
Book debts, etc. 24,912 68,876 111,418 131,891
Cash & Invest- „„„
ments 14,404 16,334 21,934 13,029
Other assets .. 11,882
The co. has gone in for properties exten-
sively in recent years; it is, in fact, at
present overloaded in that respect. To pro-
vide for extensions the co. was forced into
over-buying, and is at present seeking a pur-
chaser for portion of its freeholds before re-
building. Incidentally, the directors report
that the rv-nnovties which are given a book
value of £138,463 were recently independently
appraised at more than £190.000. Of the
liabilities of £185.120, £47.950 represented
mortgages on properties and £39.000 deben-
tures. The trading debts of £98.171 were
covered by liquid assets of £321,413. Com-
pared with seven years ago the management
has now £120.000 more capital for which it
has to find divs.
* * * *
Abermain Collieries, Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1921. . £90,816 10 p.c. = £60,000 £30,816 £30,816
1922.. 100,006 15 „ „ 90,000 10,006 40,822
This CO- took over the old Silkstone colliery
nearly 20 years ago, and now operates two
mines—Abermain Nos. 1 and 2—on 4339
acres on the Greta (Maitland) seam. Prior
to March. 1920. paid capital was £190,000,
in 100,000 £1 fully-paids, and a similar num-
ber paid to 18s. each. Handsome divs. had
been paid (up to 15 p.c.), and meantime con-
siderable amounts had apparently gone into
inner reserves. Thanks to Prime Minister
Hughes, assisted by Mr. Justice Edmunds,
everything had been made so easy for the
colliery cos. that in 1920 this one decided
to reconstruct. The £20,000 uncalled capital
was got in, and three fully-paid shares in a
new co. were issued for every one previously
held. That took paid capital to £600.000,
and apparently all except about £60,000 of
the bonus scrip for £400,000 was _ got by
writing-up mining property. Having had
the Coal Tribunal to fall back upon when-
ever increased wages threatened to lift costs,
and trade having been brisk, these coal-
mining cos. have had everything their way.
Abermain in 1921 paid 10 p.c. on its en-
larged capital, and for the past year 15 p.c.,
which means 45 p.c. on paid capital of two
years ago, prior to, the issue of bonus
shares.
Many other collieries have, of course, not
done nearly so well as Abermain; most,
however, are showing larger profits than
formerly. But there is obviously something
seriously wrong when, assisted by. Gov-
ernment “regulation,” a colliery co. is able
to pav 45 p.c. divs., while big enterprises
such as the B. H. Prop, steelworks are
practically shut-down —“one of the. main con-
siderations in the profitable running of the
steelworks,” said general-manager David
Barker the other day, “is a reduction in the
price of coal” —and while record deficits are
being shown by the railways.
Comparisons of balance-sheet figures prior
to the reconstruction are not of much value.
Here are the figures for the past two years:
1921. 1922.
Stocks and stores .. £10,604 £11,144
Book debts . . .. 102,787 68,162
Investments and cash.. 153,783 130,416
£267,174 £209,712
Liabilities . . .. 104,452 149,962
Surplus liquid assets £162,722 £59,750
Fixed assets .. .. £498,094 £626,071.
During the year £127.977 net went into fixed
assets, and surplus liouid assets were cut
into to the extent of £102,972.
* * * «
Seaiiam Collieries, Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
To Re-
Mar., rrofit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1915.. £15,910 5 p.c. = £9,500 £6410 £80,512
1916.. 6,769 5 „ „ 9,500 77,781
1917.. 11,118 6 „ „ 11,400 77,499
1918.. 15,801 8 „ „ 15,200 601 78,100
1919.. 20,809 9 „ „ 17,100 3709 81.809
1920 . , 26,068 10 ~ ~ 19,000 7068 88,877
Co. reconstructed: three fully-paid shares issued for
every one in old co. No accounts published for
1921.
Feb.,
1922.. 52,910 8 p.c. = 48,000 4910 4,910
Seaham Collieries, Ltd., is in the same stable
with Abermain : it is managed by the same
team, three of the Abermain Board are its
directors. In some other respects they are
practically twin cos.: old paid capital of
both was made up in precisely the same way;
also both reconstructed on the same basis.
But Abermain is more prosperous: it works
the Greta seams (a top seam 13ft. to 23ft.
thick and a bottom one of 4ft. to 7ft.) ; the
Seaham is on the Borehole seam (New-
castle) and digs an average of sft. of mar-
ketable fuel. The colliery has been
producing for about 30 years.
Until lately this co. had not given its
shareholders fat returns: between 1915-20
divs. averaged a trifle more than 7 p.c. p.a.,
and meantime, after having maintained the
mine, equipment, etc., in good order, the
surplus of liquid assets over liabilities im-
proved in this way :
1915. 1920.
Liquid assets .. £35,727 £45,026
Liabilities .. .. 16,637 15,707
Surplus .. ..£19,090 £29,319
Two years ago mine property, plant, rolling-
stock, etc., had a book value of £259,058;
thev are now included at £561,419. Profits
twice as large as in any other year were
made during the past 12 months, and 8 p.c.
divs. were paid, the return being 24 p.c. on
old capital. Incidentally, five years ago
the old £1 fully-paids were bought in the
market for 15s. The reasons for the re-
constructions were, of course, obvious. Old
shareholders, some of whom recently found
buyers for the new shares at 16s. 6d., are
doing handsomely. On a regular 8 p.c.
div. basis buyers at that price would also
do well. But what guarantee is there that
these colliery cos. will in future do much
better than they did a few years ago? In
the recent boom period industry had little
difficulty in passing on the extra costs due
to the increased coal prices which had so
readily been granted by the Commonwealth
Gove v nment to buy industrial Deace on the
coal-fields —increases which, N. S. Wales
Royal Commissioner J. L. Campbell found,
“were not wholly absorbed by the increased
cost of production.” Conditions are verv.
rVffe , ’ f 'nt now compared with onlv a few
months ago: almost every industry is
struggling to reduce costs. If the col-
lieries are to retain their local and foreign
markets, the cos. will probably soon have to
consider a few matters which were over*
looked when the increases were granted.
Commissioner Campbell foresaw the difficul-
ties in 1919: —
It may be questioned whether it was wise on any
ground to lay upon an essential product like coal
an impost to serve an immediate purpose of relief)
which in the circumstances under which it arose
was primarily one of benevolence, without regard
to whether the industry could permanently support
the burden, and also apparently without regard to
the probable or possible effect on the general
economic situation that must be faced after the
war. Particularly does this question arise in A
case where, after the emergency has passed, the con-
sequences of precipitate and ill-considered action can
only be redressed at the cost of industrial disturbance
and discontent.
« * * *
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane) : «
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Talc. Reserves, serves.
1912.. £24,630 20 p.c. = £21,000 £3,630 £103,384
Premiums on new shares ~ 11,111 114,495
1913.. 22,516 llip.c.= 14,138 8,378 122,873
1914.. 25,114 12J „ „ 17,457 7,657 130,530
1015.. 23,967 124 „ „ 17,495 6,472 137,002
£133,333 transferred to capital .. 3,669
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 I » 000 5 669
Written off, £6539 S
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 ) ' 5,669
Written off, £5833 )
1918.. 25,118 7 p.c. = 19,599 I x 000 6 ,669
Written off, £4519 i
1919.. 25,066 7 p.c. = 19,599 ) , 000 7 6C9
Written off, £4467 j ' ’
1920 -' K 5 7 J 19,698 I LOOO 8,669
Written off. £5507 1
Internal reserves disclosed.. 80,220 88,889
Reserves capitalised £88,889 ..
1921.. 26,941 7| p.c. = 24,138).
Written off, £2803 1
1922.. 23,054 6 p.c. = 22,666 1
Written off, £3BB f
The accounts presented annually by this
brewery are not much guide for the investor.
Since 1916 sometimes a round thousand, and,
latterly, nothing whatever, has been visibly
added to reserves; but the disclosure of in-
ternal reserves on several occasions _ has
hinted that profits much larger than claimed
have been made. Even the small surpluses
in excess of div. requirements go into a
“rest” account, which is, with other reserves,
parcelled up with liabilities in the published
balance-sheets. So the _ extent of the re-
serves cannot be given in the introductory
table, which is of little value beyohd show-
ing dividend performances over a number
of years. On this occasion the dividend rate
has dropped to 6 p.c.: conditions during the
period covered by the latest accounts were
not so favorable for the'beer trade. Spend-
ings by the Commonwealth on account of the
war practically ceased, depressed markets
created unemployment, and even the
Labor Government’s borrowing in New York
failed to maintain the air of prosperity which
had existed in previous years.
Divs. of 6 p.c. look very poor in these days
of dear money, but in this case that rate
gives a handsome return to old holders.
Only seven years ago 12i p.c. was being
paid on £133,334 of capital, but £222,222
of bonus scrip has since been issued, so on
cash-paid capital the 6 p.c. means nearer
16 p.c. Still, the co. is evidently not doing
nearly so well as it did years ago. Profits
have not expanded in keeping with the
growth of the share-register: in fact, the
profits of 20 years and more ago were iarger
•than those disclosed nowadays, and besides
the large amounts of profit accumulated
meanwhile and put to work £44,444 more
cash-paid capital is in the business. It is
also questionable whether internal reserves
are being accumulated in such volumes as
formerly. However, the accounts say so
little that only those inside can know the
true position. Owing to the inclusion of
reserves with liabilities, a comparison of
balance-sheet figures is not of much value,
but this statement of the book value of assets
over three 10-year periods may be given for
what it is worth :
1902. 1912. 1921. 1922.
Properties £94,120 £136,644 £219,855 £220,886
Stocks 38,529 41,718 105,313 94,048
Book debts 45,361 88,968 140,985 137,369
Cash, War
Loans, etc. 6,277 5,225 18,270 22,825
£184,287 £272,555 £484,423 £475,128
According to the published accounts the
£184,000 of assets in 1902 were giving the
co. several thousands more profit than the
£475,000 now at work. Put another way:
20 years ago every £lOO of assets was turn-
ing in £15.4 of profit; average profits for
the past five years have represented £5.3
per £lOO of assets now held.
* # * *
McKimmins’ Golden Gate Sundae
Shops, Ltd. (Sydney).—This co. was formed
last year to take over and extend a success-
ful sundae-shop enterprise—the promoters
were among the first to develop the trade in
striped soft-drinks and variegated ice
creams. “Sundae” shops are now almost as
numerous as pubs in Sydney. This co.’s paid
capital is £69.137, in 14,130 £1 10 p.c.
prefs. and 55,007 £1 ordinaries.
owns one freehold property valued at £32,731,
on which there is a mortgage of £12,000, and
has £3815 tied up in the lease of another
shop. Plant, machinery, furniture and fit-
tings have a book value of £16,293, and at


Dalgety & Company
Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Co. Ltd.
The “M.L.C.”
Probate Contract.
THE INVESTMENT TO MEET THE
INEVITABLE DEATH DUTIES.
As a man’s wealth accumulates he
should assist his executors by taking out
one of these contracts. They are issued
on a basis highly profitable to his estate,
besides providing the necessary cash to
meet the very substantial Death-Duties
(State or Federal) on deceased estates,
without disturbing existing investments,
or necessitating heavy borrowing for
the purpose, a course which is bound
to involve a lengthy delay in the distri-
bution of the estate to the Legatees.
JOHN J. GAKVAN,
Managing Director.
Asbestos Covering for boilers, steam pipes, etc., of
the best quality is obtainable at Wm. Adams & Co.
This asbestos covering prevents loss of heat by radi-
ation in boilers and condensation of steam pipes.
Adams’s Asbestos covering saves from 30 per cent, to
4,3 per cent in fuel, less stoking is required where it is
used,, and steam pressure keeps uniform. Inquire
from Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney',
Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.— Advt. [3
* * *
The clogging of pipes through rust and their
consequently rapid decay are no longer problems
tnat need confront engineers when installing a water
system. Progressive men everywhere are now speci-
fymg Pioneer Wood Pipe in place of metal. Amongst
the obvious advantages of wood are its greater
cleanliness, durability and immense carrying capacity',
it is also proof against corrosion by salts, acids or
minerals, and remains unaffected by electrolvsis or
frost. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
tiay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * ’ *
Inventors. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Kassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton. Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office , tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; City 2723.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colli son & Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co Ltd
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43 to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Svdnev stock
- C °- « t,.y
d
* BOORD Sok
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
Ms
DT
l.td.. Australasian Agents. 2fi 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
cJ
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
289 Elizabeth Street.
e k\, “8 stocks, book debts and cash totted
up fooo6. On the other side there were
creditors for £8451. For goodwill £30,000
was paid, and that is the largest individual
asset; besides, portion of the book value of
plant, furniture and fittings, being dependent
on the business continuing to attract profit-
a^J®,pust°lU' must also be regarded as “good-
will. The support for the ordinary shares
is slender. For the 12 months to February
xo net of £0940 was shown, and
£-000 of that has gone into a taxation
reserve. The ordinaries got 6| p.c. (£3713),
r to °k £ltf7l> leaving a balance
or £156 for the current year’s accounts.
Though the backing for the prefs.’ is satis-
factory and only £1413 p.a. is required for
their 10 p.c., the likelihood of regular divs.
from, sundae-shops in the future is a matter
the investor must decide for himself.
# * •* *
Last year there was a further falling-off
of the world’s gold-production : latest counts
imuente a total output of slightly more than
JO5 million ounces, worth 66 millions sterl-
ing with the, metal at normal value. There
has been a rapid decline since the war: last
year s output was worth little more than
that of 20 years ago. In 1900 52 millions’
worth was dug out, and production graduallv
increased as follows: 1902. almost 61 mil-
io?o: ot 0 ! 6 ’ ®2f minions: 1908. 91 millions;
1912. 974 millions; 1915, 974 millions.
I igures since 1915 have been as follows:
19115 ..£93,324,000 1919 ..£75,034,000
“ 86,183,000 1920 .. 69,452,000
1918 . . 78,272,000 1921 .. 66,000.000
High costs everywhere have been chiefly re-
sponsible for the decline. The gold pre-
mium has, of course, helped the industry,
u- i even . w^e . n premium was at its
highest it did not nearly compensate
the additional costs. Many old producers
have, therefore, had to' discard, tem-
porarily. at least, portion of their proved
tow-grade reserves. Aleantime, the opening-
up, proving and equipping of new mines has
been so costly, and profit inducements so
slender, that new producers have been few
compared with pre-war years.
* * *
A. E. Langford, killed between a tram and
a motor-car in Chicago (U.S.A.), had a
meteoric career in Alelbourne mining circles
m° Ut i years ago - tie was just 54 years
old, all of them busy years. Beginning as a
lilt boy, ‘Bert was successively a, law-
clerk, dentist’s assistant, clerk, mining mag-
nate and sharebroker. He first came into
view as clerk and private secretary to Bowes
Kelly, who taught him a good deal about
Alount Lyell. James Crotty, Kelly’s hostile
rival, secured Langford’s services, and to-
gether they formed five small holding syn-
dicates for leases around Alount Lyeli such
as the South, the North, the Extended, the
Comstock and the Jukes. Hanging on to
the skirts of the big Lyell, these thousand-
pound syndicates became slowly more valu-
abJ,e - , Then water and air were injected, and
full-blown cos. floated into the Lyell boom.
Hector AlacDonald, a Alelbourne solicitor,
introduced James Crotty to D. J. Alackay, a
London promoter, who floated the South and
-North Lyells. Crotty and were
passive spectators: Langford went into Dr.
T itzgerald’s hospital for an operation. When
the patient was discharged cured he did not
hold a single Lyell share, but he had a bank
balance of £40,000. Langford next went to
F ond £™^ Bowes KeJly and floated Briseis
for £600,000. That success was Langford’s
zenith, and he gradually faded into private
obscurity.
* * # »
Dick Osborne’s skill put £20,000 cash into
ALutooroo s pouch while people were on the
hunt after Hampton Plains possibilities. So
wjth the boom finished; Mutooroo has
£lB,OOO in cash and no debts. Out of its
Hampton Plains lease it has taken 23800 z.
(fine) from 1127 tons, and has 20,000 tons
u stuff proved. J. Warwick, of
the Great Boulder, who kept an eye on work
has not much that is good to say. The: shoots
roun< Ld essop s shaf . ts ar e only 20ft. makes,
and (00ft. of drilling to Hargrave’s shaft
has opened up only tough norphyr.v carrying
a trace of gold. At 180 ft? deep the lode is
barren. Another lense of ore off Osborne’s
shaft is as short and shallow as the rest, so
that all that is left is to pick out the stuff
that will pay and then stop. To fill in time
and have a final dash, four prospecting shafts
are testing the western run of stone. The
Mutooroo still sticks to its old copper show
A ” s - Why not bore to get the grade
ot that big formation at depth?
* * * •
Mestralia has been showing.some activity
m unearthing mineral wealth other than
gold. Phosphatic rock at Moora is receiving
attention, lime and gypsum at Dongarra,
more coa] at Collie and prospects of more at
Jrwm, lead at Northampton, manganese at
Aleekatharra, alunite for fertiliser' at Kur-
rawang, china clay at Mount Kokeby, and
the chance of an oil basin or two in the
A or-West. Unemployment in the gold-
mining industry has caused many miners to
go prospecting.
■** * *
Copper Separation, Ltd., a Westralian
float now on the market, controls the
Metallic Contact process for the rapid pre-
oipitation of copper on iron. The process
consists of fine sliming (after roasting in the
case of sulphide ores), then passing steam
through a. dilute sulphuric-acid pulp consist-
ing of the ore, one part common salt and
12 parts finely divided iron. Advantages
claimed for the process are: (1) rapidity
of action, metallic copper being recoverable
within three hours; (2) economy in con-
sumption of sulphuric-acid and iron; (3)
simultaneous recovery of gold and silver with
copper. From results achieved in the
laboratory and by treating samples of ore
weighing up to 2cwt., a marked advance in
metallurgical practice is claimed. Nothing
on a big working scale has apparently yet
been attempted, and the scheme for putting
the process into actual practice without
results first being obtained in a practical
way looks somewhat venturesome.
* * * *
Sydney is interested in the Sand Queen,
at Comet Vale (W.A.). For some years it
was worked by the Moss brothers, and was
a good producer and profit-earner. The
grade fell off with depth, and eventually a
deluge overwhelmed it and the adjoin-
ing Gladsome. Both mines, after having
been practically abandoned for some time,
are now being unwatered and re-opened.
Already the water has been lowered to the
100 ft. level. Hopes centre chiefly in the
Gladsome, whose workings are not so deep
as those of the Sand Queen. Still, the old
owners were a hard-headed mining crowd,
and it would be surprising if they aban-
doned anything of much value.
South Ivalgurli and Lake View and Star,
at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), are slowly but surely
adding to their ore reserves by a steady
policy of development. In the Lake View
and Star the lode at 2300 ft. level has been
exposed over a width of 15ft. and shows an
average value of 355. per ton. The grade is
not high, but will be profitable.
■“• ** *
Mica deposits of promise have been located
100 miles east of Esperance (W.A.). The
main deposit is in a dyke over 30ft. wide,
which can be traced at least two miles. The
future depends on unearthing sufficiently
large sheets of mica at depth. At present
sheets 2in. square are being obtained, and
that is a commercial product.
* * - *
Bullfinch Prop., which discontinued crush-
ing at its Yilgarn (W.A.) mine last year
and is now testing ground in Northern
Nigeria, showed a loss of £8844 for the 12
months to September 30 last. Estimated ore
reserves a year previously were 50,710 tons
worth 18s. Bd. The co. treated 27,430 tons,
but as working costs ran into 21s. s£d. a
halt was called.
* » * •
Associated is steadily pushing down its
bore near Mt. Gambier (S, Aus.). The
first stage has been accomplished, the' per-
cussion drill having got through the lime-
stone and dolomitic covering which extended
to a depth of 150 ft. Work is now in black
mud, in which gravel is embedded, and as the
rotary plant is to be put into commission sink-
ing will be speeded-Uo. The Associated
crowd regard the discovery of the mud as
important, “for underlying the limestone
indicates a successive elevation, depression
and elevation of the field being evidence of
the earth’s movement of folding, gradually
elevating the fold to 380 ft. above sea level.
The conditions proven point to the possi-
bility of the lignites and shales expected to
be met with being nearer the surface than
was originally anticipated.”
* * * »
Boola Boola Petroleum and Natural Gas
has been boring for oil near Traralgon
(Vic.), and seems to have struck trouble
instead of petroleum. Oil options, lease
applications and surveys sucked up £20,726
of the £42,250 paid-up capital. Of the nom-
inal capital of . £50,000 there is left £7750
uncalled (ss. on 31,000 shares). Boring
plant and casing cost £14,341. and there is
£4381 cash on hand. The drill on April
22 had reached 795 ft., although the superin-
tendent intended to go to 2500 ft. in quick
time. Sand and gas. also breakages of rope
and loss of the string of tools" and some
casing, are given by the directors as the
reasons for the failure to reach their objec-
tive.
*** . *
The heavy-weights in Laloki, W. L. and
•Toe Baillieu and G. C. Klug, are speeding
to London, and the news now filters out that
Minister Poynton has persuaded the Hughes
Government to give New Guinea Copper
£45,000 for its jetty and for the railway to
Dubuna. Thus ends a period of agony and
sweat, because the pivotal factor in Laloki
for many a weary month has been to get the
Federal Ministry to let Poynton loose over
the deal. As the railway stops at Dubuna,
the big mine at Laloki will have to be tanned
by an aerial tramway three miles long. That
will cost a penny or two, but the thing is to
get going. Laloki will now push ahead with
its plant, and probably ship pyritic ore to
the mainland whenever the copper mines
want something basic to flux up silicious
material.
* * * *
Block 10 Misima (Papua) has caused a
lot of trouble to some good men. Those who
have had charge at different times have been
exceedingly well thought of in the profes-
sion, and it seems that the time is oppor-
tune for a thorough independent overhaul.
Many a good engineer has had his reputa-
tion blasted by an impossible proposition,
and it is quite on the cards that Misima is
too lean to be any good. The inexperienced
may regard cheap black labor—about £(j p.a.
and “found” —as a valuable asset, but
Hoover long ago knocked that theory out
by proving that white labor at four dollars
mined ore at less cost than nigger labor at
20 cents.
Instead of working 25 mines Bendigo
Amalgamated now operates only nine.
The Londonderry is handed over to
tributors, who can’t earn bread, much
less butter. At the Cornish the grade
is better,, and patches at Koch’s bring
in more than grist to free workers.
V lrginia and the Northern shafts are kept
open mainly for tributmg, but prospecting
is also going on in the latter, for the Con-
stellation 622 ft. shoot may carry into North-
ern ground. Deep working both in this
mine and in the Virginia is so disappointing
that it needs the pluck of George Lansell
to carry on. Drilling has been resumed at
the Alliance to try for centre country beiow
the big west slide in the hope that a shoot
may be got there. Plenty of quartz shows
in Monument Hill, but 2000 tons taken from
the upper reef was poor stuff. As that
leet and a smaller one are rising to the
south the altered pitch may bring a change
in values to compensate for all the effort
Moline has put into this dud. So with this
sifting out of mines and only a bit of good
stone forthcoming from Constellation," the
weight rests on Carlisle and Unity. This
truth brings to the front the fact that, ex-
cept for Constellation, if Dyason’s ambition
had been limited to developing these two
claims.he would have raked in profits instead
?*• having to prop, the whole block of mines.
In the Unity end the grade is now about
<dwt., which is profitable. In the Carlisle
1-85 and 12(54 stopes the average has made
up from 4dvvt. to 7dwt. But these are the
only bright spots, in a dozen dark corners.
Bendigo Amalgamated refers in a recent
report to its new finds of golden spurs in
the Carlisle-Unity, and this recalls the early
history of Bendigo’s most magical mine, or,
rather, group of claims. Prior to 1871 six
famous mines covered the Carlisle-Unity
ground: Bell and Watson’s, Unity, Carlisle,
A orth Garden Gully, Passbye, and part of
d. B. VV atson’s phenomenal Kentish claim.
At the 1255 ft. level south, a rich spur 30ft.
wide by 80ft. long is now being stoped, while
at the northern end of the level stone aver-
aging 7 or 8 dwt. is being broken. There
is plenty of stone of lower values. At 1235 ft.
in the Carlisle payable stone (7dwt.)
is being crushed and a strong body of quartz
is being attacked. There is a considerable
amount of ground between 1140 ft. and 1264 ft.
levels not yet entered by any workings
near centre country. New ground is also
being explored at the 1327 ft. level south.
Fancy the present owners of this giant mine,
once Bendigo’s biggest gold-producer, being
thankful for such small mercies as 7dwt.
dirt! The Carlisle, a quarter of a mile
north of the famous Garden Gully United,
was that co.’s great rival. Three claims —Car-
lisle, North Garden Gully and Passbye—be-
fore amalgamating disbursed £271,000 in divi-
dends from profits made between 230 ft. and
410 ft. And even that was not taken, from
the rich parQof their combined lease. They
bought the Kentish lease after the death of
J. B. Watson, who took 13 tons of gold from
one reef, worth roughly £1,300,000. Before
J.B. acquired the Kentish lease, it was
worked by the Golden Fleece and Central
Garden Gullv cos., which took eight tons of
srold out. of it! For several years the upper
levels yielded Boz. to the ton regularly.
Watson is credited with obtaining 20 tons
of gold, from his Kenfiish private mine,
all of it won above 860 ft. One shaft
went to 3000 ft.. and at 2525 ft. the stone was
6in. to 12in. wide, but unpayable. Deep sink-
ing eventually, stifled all these giant mines,
and it is a sign of the times that in the
few mines remaining open the policy pur-
sued is to prospect old levels near the sur-
face.
* * * *
With Mt. Morgan off the producing list,
Queensland’s gold yield for the first quarter
of the current year looks very sick:—
, 1921 N , 1922
Oz. Value. Oz. Value.
January .. 4,582 £19.463 448 £1.904
February . . 9.046 38,425 1200 5,097
March . . 6,690 28,417 1069 4,541
Total . . 20,318 £86,305 2717 £11,542
For the three months to March 3.1 last year
Morgan alone contributed 17,3320 z.
* * * *
Queensland Mines Department has come
to the aid of Billy Hughes, on the Normanby
field, with a subsidy of £BOO to enable the
co. to complete its 3.0-head battery and power-
plant Developments in the Frederick mine
continue to give promise. A reef sft. wide
and averaging 18dwt. has been proved over
the full length (40ft. ) of the level, and latest
driving has disclosed a new make coming in
on the footwall. This new reef is at present
showing sin., and has given an assay of
2|oz. Manager Walter Colley is now at
work sinking the shaft a further 50ft., and
then proposes to drive 50ft to 100 ft. to see
if size and values persist there. If so, the
Frederick will give the co. a good block of
ore to work on.
* * * *
“W’gabba”: “Bendigonian” (B. 16/3/’22)
deplores the vanished glory of his field, but
for vanishment of glories Charters Towers
can beat Bendigo easily. Along the two
miles of the Brilliant and Day Dawn lodes
there is now scarcely a stir. The old poppet
heads have all gone. Clark’s is the only
show left that is worth calling a mine, and
it is after all a puny thing. The Towers
never had any alluvial, and its £29,000,000
worth of gold has come almost entirely from
lodes. These were its six best years:—
Gold Won. Dividends.
1§98.. 272,3680 z. £308,588
1899.. 319,572,, 301,535
1900.. 283,237 ~ 299,205
1901.. 235,302 ~ 271,113
1902.. 265,244,, 415,157
1903.. 285,771,, 460,042
The Day Dawn Block and Wyndham, the old
mine in which Dave Bollston made his pile,
has the record for the field with gold to value
of £1,937,948 won, out of which came divi-
dends of £892,962. Mills United ran to with-
in £30,000 of it in gold output. One of
the purplest patches was the bit of the
Brilliant shoot that ran into the VictioJy.
From a couple of acres there came 2-,>JUO
tons of ore carrying 75,0000 z., and the little
co. paid out £177,500 inside two yeaio.jCThe
last big splash was the Queen Cross. On an
unsuspected shoot at 900 ft. the shareholders
scored a clear half-million in less than
three years (1902-04). During 1903 the mine
showed a clear profit of £686 for every work-
ing day in the year. With the end' of the
Queen Cross shoot came that mysterious
explosion which destroyed the fine mill and
set a thousand tongues wagging.
F. K. Hall now runs the Christmas Gift,
Captamundra (N.S.W.). He is pushing
ahead cutting down and timbering the main-
shaft, and dividing it into three compartments.
Meantime the workings have been made
secure, the 200 ft. main drive in Baulder-
stone’s having been completely timbered and
the filling of the old stopes commenced.
Tvr ln , ev j^ ence before ' the Speck’s Public
VV orks Committee the other day, bluff old
John Craze, for many years manager of the
Western mjne, gave it as his flat opinion
that Zeehan mining field is practically worked
out, and that the ore bodies do not exist at
depth. Other experienced mining men ex-
press _ the view that, given cheap hydro-
electric power, deep sinking on the Zeehan
held will pay. Geologists are divided in
opinion.
* * * *
For many years King Island (Bass Strait)
hns been known to be tin-bearing, and a
little alluvial mining has been carried ovt by
small syndicates. Now Currie Tin Mines.
N.L., with a capital of £3700 in shares of
il each, has been formed to give the deposits
an overhaul. Shares are mostly held bv the
Islanders.


CHEER UP! LET’S LOOK FORWARD TO 2022


VISITORS TO SYDNEY
will find that the bed and
breakfast tariff system
at the HOTEL SYDNEY
considerably reduces the
cost of their stay in the
holiday city, while giving
greater freedom of move-
ment for business or sight-
seeing.
400 Guests.
Hot and cold water in every Bedroom.
Delightful Roof Garden.
Write for Tariff Card.
Management E. T. Cheeseman.
Have the best!
K.B.
LAGER
It costs no more!
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO., LTD., Kent Brewery, Sydney.
ďf
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and IS
the highly successful result of many years
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories. ..
This Model is smaller and neater than ail
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings.
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Governor Weigall, to whom S. Aus. has
just given a tremendous 'send-off, was the
most popular Ex. that State ever had.
But he has left it guessing. Professing to
enjoy the life intensely, and promising to
come back as a private citizen at the first
chance, he threw up his job after a mere
two years. Assuming the reason given is
the correct one —and crushing poverty seems
hardly the excuse an Ex. would invent if
anxious to get back home —the problem is:
If a man who married the only daughter of
the late Blundell Maple can’t stand the
cost of a State Governorship, who can?
R.C. Archbishop Redwood, of M.L., has
probably worn the mitre longer than auy
other prelate on earth. At 83 he still comports
himself in many respects like 38. Thus
when he came to Australia last year he
travelled with no one to look after his
luggage, book the rooms or buy the tickets.
In his strength and longevity he recalls the
Marathon churchman. Archbishop Daniel
Murphy, of Hobart, who died in 1907 after
bishing 61 years.
The late Robert C. Sticht, under whose
rule as general manager the Mt. Lyell Co.
smelted out over £12,000,000 worth of cop-
per, gold and silver, was more than
a great metallurgist. He was keenly
interested in science in the broader
sense, also in letters and art, and had one
Sehor BARTOLI,
Consul-General
for the Argentine,
with headquarters
in Melbourne.
of the finest private libraries in Australia.
Sticht was always ready to hear both sides,
a fact which explained why the Alt. l.yell,
while not escaping labor troubles altogether,
had a fairly good run in his time. He was
born in New Jersey (U.S.A.) 65 years ago,
he came to the Speck as chief metallurgist
at Alt. Lvell in 1895, and got the bigger job
two years later.
William Applegate Gullick, who suddenly
faded out last week, learned the printing
trade with John Sands and Co., and went
from them to take over the Govt. Printery
in 1896. A quiet, scholarly man, he had
curiously wide interests, ranging from
philately and numismatics to color-photog-
raphy and heraldry. He was 68 when the
thread snapped.
A. J. McLachlan, chairman of the directors
of the Liberal Union Club in Adelaide, who
has been chosen as a Federal Senate candi-
date for S.A., with Rowell and Vardon, will
be 50 this year, but has never been in Par-
liament. He was C. C. Kingston’s law-
partner when the big man was doing his best
Federal work at the beginning of the cen-
tury.
“Tim Tiki”: The baronet who is working
as a market gardener in Melbourne, recalls
the Scots baronet of ancient lineage who
married a washerwoman in a small South
Island (M.L.) township a few years ago.
His son, the present baronet, earns a living
to-day by doing odd jobs in the Fielding dis-
trict, but, like his progenitor, strives to forget
the title.
Murray, Chief Justice of S. Aus., has
become Lieut.-Governor till an import can
be found affluent enough to step into the
shoes which the Weigalls found too expen-
sive. The interim job should be no great
strain on his resources, as he has private
interests in flocks and herds, as well as
nronerty in M.L. Though well-built, srood-
looking, clever, and still on the right side of
60, he is a bachelor.
For the library of the Vic. State House
Premier Lawson has commissioned Web
Gilbert to fashion a bronze bust of
Alfred Deakin. It
is not to be a repli-
ca of tlie one the
Commonwealth has
ordered from the
same sculptor. This
time Gilbert will
try to reproduce
the Deakin who
was the shining
light of the Legis-
lative Assembly, the
pathfinder of Feder-
ation, the Bayard
of debate. If
he succeeds Vic-
toria won’t
envy the
Coromon-
Avealth the
bust of the
more serious
Deakin who was
thrice Priminister.
Major CONDER,
new Pentridge Gor-
ernor, Melbourne.
Apparently McGirrism is infectious. The
seat on the N. S. Wales Water and Sewerage
Board vacated by Tom ’Enley is to be con-
tested by his brother. Jim ’Enley.
Speaker Dan Levy and R. E. Walker,
Chairman of Committees in the N. S. Wales
Leg. Assembly, are members of the lower
branch of the Costs profession. Levy, who
was originally a barrister, practises in
Sydney (mostly in the police courts), but
Walker carries’ on a practice established in
the country 70 years ago by his father, Wil-
liam Walker, who represented Windsor in
the 3rd, 4th and sth Parliaments and ended
up as an M.L.C.
Obit ‘“King .Timmy,” the oldest abori-
ginal on the Bellinger River (N.S.W.).
His age was put down at 106; but
some who should know say that he was a
lad of 90, or even less, when the calhcame.
Died in his native Somerset (England)
the other day, Charles Lock Eastlake, who
was well known in Bananaland and the
South Seas a quarter of a century ago. He
always had a martial bent, and a couple of
years after he arrived in Queensland joined
the local army—a poor thing, but Q.’s own.
In his capacity of captain he led the punitive
expedition against the New Hebrides island
of Adba the following year. The natives
had massacred the crew of the Mystery, and
under Eastlake they were given good cause to
regret it. When he had done with the town
of Lamywoot, which was the abiding-place of
the chief murderers, its oldest acquaintance
wouldn’t have recognised it. As Q. Govern-
ment Agent he was a familiar figure for
about a decade from Norfolk Island to New
Ireland.
“Rienzi” : Peter’s triple crown can be won
by the humblest priest. The peasant Pope,
Pius X., was an instance, but an even more
remarkable example is Achille Ratti, now
Pius XI. Ratti’s father began life as a
laborer. He urged his son to be a lawyer,
and his answer to the plea for holier work
was that there wasn’t any money in it. But
despite his sardonic parent, the youngster
chose the cassock. He had a hard life, but
his tenacious spirit helped him along, and
his learning and rigid piety d’d the rest. He
is now one of the world’s authorities on early
Christian manuscripts, and his study of
sciences like chemistry and biology has had
him labelled a “modernist.” A striking char-
acteristic is his bodily health and stiength.
In his youth he broke records at weight-
lifting ; he used to play billiards and is not
unacquainted with the English art of stoush.
S.A. Liberal party has a useful new recruit
in Dunean-Hughes, who is after Storys
seat (Boothby) in the House of Reps. He
is the eldest son of the late John Duncan,
and takes the other barrel of his name from
his grand-uncle, Walter Watson Hughes,
who was earliest into Wallaroo copper and
later joined Thomas Elder in founding the
University of Adelaide. The embryo poli-
tician is qualified as a lawyer, but since
the war (in which be 'earned the M.C.) has
not practised. For some time he was pri-
vate secretary to the last Governor-General.
“Yoyang” : April 30 is the anniversary of
the death of the first white man buried in
N S. Wales. He was Forby Sutherland,
one of Captain Cook’s seamen, who went out
to consumption on April 30, 1770, and was
interred ashore the following day. The
Endeavor at the time was anchored in
Stingray Harbor, now known as Botany Bay,
and Cook called the south point of this bay
Sutherland’s Point in remembrance of the
country’s pioneer corpse.
Died at sea on the Naldera three hours
out from Melbourne, John Dean, son of
Alexander Dean, builder and contractor.
The firm (established 1856) put up some
fine Sydney buildings, including Lassetters’,
City Bank. John Keep and Co., Macleay’s
Museum at the ’Varsity, and the Hotel Aus-
tralia.
“Wallabaloolali”: Will “Ducie” (B.
30/3/’22) say where it is stated that among
the first naval officers to reach Australia
was a “Captain” Manly (or Manley)?
The only mart of the name I can trace is
Isaac Manly (or Manley). servant to Robert
Molineaux,' master of Cook’s Endeavor.
Molineaux died in April, 1771, and Cook
wrote that Manly was “too young for prefer-
ment, but his behavior merited recommenda-
tion.” Perhaps later he rose in his profes-
sion nnd returned to Australia; but that
would hardly make him one of the first naval
officers here. It would be interesting to
know if Isaac Manley were related to Mary
de la Riviere Manley, daughter of Sir Roger
Manley. She and Mrs. Aphira Behn were
Australia’s first women-journalists.
The Australian Gaslight Company (Syd-
ney) celebrated its diamond jubilee in 1897,
and of the 12 directors then serving two
only are now alive —George Judah Cohen
and Henry Moses. Cohen, who. is chair-
man of numerous trading compan ; es, passed
his 80th milestone on April 27. and Moses —
who is not a Hebrew —is in his 88th year.
Both are native born.
George Morrison is to continue for an-
other year as Vic. Public Service Commis-
sioner. He has already held the job for 14.
Morrison has been in the service lust 18
months short of the half-century, nnd ip that
time has been clerk of courts, handy man in
the Law Dept., police magistrate, metropoli-
tan eoroner and permanent.lmnd. He draws
£1259 a year now. and will be entitled to
an £BOO-a-yenr pension.
Western note :—• ,
Governor Newdegatc (W.A.), now on 10 months
leave of absence, has made things pretty hard for his
successor. He always insisted on seeing everything
and going everywhere, from sacred concerts to box-
ing scraps. Labor joined the chorus of good wishes
when he took his grip aboard the boat: he was the
first Westralian Governor to get into personal touch
with the Trades Hall. There is some doubt whether
Newdegate will return. He owns many hereditary
acres in England, and has probably been hit as hard
as the next man, as a result of John Bull’s determina-
tion to straighten the national ledger by grinding the
faces of Burke’s landed gentry.
When William Henry Jarrett retired at
65 from the job of general manager for Aus-
tralia of the Commercial Union Assurance
Co. at the close of last century, he hardly
expected to see 22 years of the new cycle;
but he did, and the Reaper called only a
few days ago at his Home in South Yarra
(Vic.l. He outlived most of bis contem-
poraries, but got along very well with the
younger generation.
“Peter Piper”: James Doyle, who retired
the other dav from his iob of chief inspector
to the Wellington (M.L.) City. Council,
must take the cake. bun and biscuit for
absolutely unshrinkable, guaranteed-to-wear
conscientiousness. • One day . he jumped off
a city tram ear while it was in motion. lhe
crime weighed on his conscience, and he
prosecuted himsfelf under the city by-laws.
William Tally and his- wife, of Red Hill
(S.A.). aged 72 and 73 respectively, died
on Good Friday. They had been wedded 52
years, and lived most of the time in the one
district. The wife’s eyes closed.in the early
morning, and when a daughter informed the
father he replied: “I am going to join her
at 3 o’clock.” And at that exact hour he
did so
“1891” : This is Democracy : Mutch, lately
N.S.W. Minister of Education, began as
“cook’s slushy” in a shearing-shed in the
West and graduated, by self-education,
through journalism and Parliament to
Cabinet rank. “Ernie” Farrar, M.E.C.,
Minister of Labor and Industry in the
Fuller Ministry, was once a very humble
rouseabout on one of Henry Ivater s stations
in the West. He, too, is self-educated, and
came up from the ruck through his organising
ability and ivise counsel in trades-union and
Labor conferences. He was lost to organised
Labor through the conscription expulsions.
E. C. VARDON. S. Australia’s stop-gap
Nationalist Senator.
“Rienzi”: My last view of poor Ross
Smith was when he tried his newly-prepared
picture talk about the flight from England
to Australia upon the Federal members in
the Queen’s Hall. He felt his inability to
recite his performances, and the conscious-
ness of his oratorical defects weighted his
unpicturesque tongue. Almost everybody
appreciated his effort. But one Important
Member was. not exhilarated. “No descrip-
tive gift,” he complained to a colleague, “the
man hasn’t any eyes.” “No,” answered the
other grimly, “but if you had been telling
the story, now, there would have been plenty
of I’s, wouldn’t there?”
Judge Jameson, recently appointed to the
Queensland Supreme Court Bench, will pi’o-
bably not carry his new honors long. There
is some talk of his resigning in six months,
and his successor is tipped to be A. Douglas,
a barrister with a big practice in the North,
and a son of the late John Douglas, a lead-
ing figure in Queensland in the ’seventies
and ’eighties, who ended his days as Admin-
istrator at Thursday Island.
“T. 0.1.”: George Robert Whiting, who
went out at Gore Hill (Sydney) the other
day after topping his 88th year, came to
Australia in the first ’fifti's. Mrs. Hobson
then had a juveniles’ clothing establishment
in Hunter-street, near George-street, and in
1854, Whiting, having married into the
family, the firm of Hobson and Whiting
came into being. The business was extended
in scope and carried on till 1881, when A.
A. Debney and Co. took it over. Whiting
was the first to establish workmen’s homes
near Sydney. He secured a block of land
from the Cooper estate at Redfern and put
up 300 houses, which he leased to tenants
on the time-payment system. Forty years ago
he built the Grosvenor Hotel, Church Hill,
which recently passed to his grandchildren;
he had an interest in the building of Barren-
joey lighthouse and in large brickworks at
Gore Hill. In 1883 he went to live at Val-
etta, Gore Hill, and it was there he died.
One of the after-victims of the war was
Sergt. Roy Phillips, of the 4th Pioneers,
known occasionally to Bulletin readers
under the pen-name of “Ishmael.” He was
badly wounded at Pozieres, and pulmonary
tuberculosis ended him at the Bedford Park
Sanatorium (S.A.) on Easter Monday. He
was only 29 when the last post, sounded.
Justice Rich, of the High Court, who w T as
59 on May 2, was born at Braidwood
(N.S.W.), when his father, the late Canon
Rich, was in charge of the Araluen district.
He went from Syd. Grammar School to the
’Varsity, got his M.A. in 1885; was called
to the N.S.W. Bar 1887: was Challis Lec-
turer 1890-1910; K.C. in 1911; Acting-Judge
N.S.W. Supreme Court 1911-12, and was
permanently appointed in July, 191~. A
year later the High Court was in want of a
strong Equity man, and he accepted the job.
FOR WHAT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let us devote ourselves to the development oi
this great continent and strive resolutely for the
attainment of those ideals for which the Anzacs
fought and died.” — IV. M. Hughes.
A speck of blood upon a handkerchief,
Eyes strangely bright, as though death whispered
there;
“Keep courage, friend, and soon will come relief;
My halls are open, and my gardens fair.”
I hear him cough, and see the tragic clot;
Am I disloyal if I ask “For what?”
An ugly, shattered limb but part concealed
By the old Digger tunic, gone to seed;
I wake from speculating how it healed
To hear: “Say, Dig.! a sprat—to get a feed?”
I give, heart-sick to feel his sorry lot,
Then hurry on and ask myself “For what?”
I meet with others, healthy, sound of limb —
“The flower of manhood,” only yesterday;
To-day the phrase seems mocking, brutal, grim;
Such flowers can starve beside the dusty way.
The vaporings, the promises forgot,
1 hear them vaguely cpiestioning, “For what?”
Consumptive, limbless, those who ask but work,
Yet beg and starve and rot before our eyes—
Better to lie with Allah and the Turk,
In unknown graves beneath far battle-skies!
Ah, you who have in luxury forgot,
Keep a stiff lip—they’re asking you “For what?”
N.S.W.
CECIL MANN.


v: : • ;
■miiniwiinTi'Kii iirmruamiTr
mm
5
mm
&
mm
fsmm
::k
E •'!?% i-l ,
;
v
M
mm
L\. .-
L ’.
WM
11
t ■
M
XU
il
w
1®
$ mm
i
. ,>
111
:7 :
i
.
smSm
-7-
K- • •
B ■ ■
'JWM
mm
m
■
ifc-I
Ixll
B
gif : i|Pk
i ij
>.>•&£
1 1
I: 1
w m
ill
IJj™ M *■>
I Jr mi H ;
-m ft;. t- vragHn «HBnv ■» -Ifo.
.
w
ii
: ®
411
.
’A> /„ . M®.
•7 ■ •■B
£
m-
t£
... ..71
i:
iii
-
n
lx
s
,;
r
i
®^>sa
X-. ( rl
1
I
--’V'
s: ■.-
SM
■ : 7:
-~L
*£§
m
m
■'
7
1/
Gowmgs’ Rugs
Australian made of
Australian Wool.
FOR travelling; for warmth and
sound service; for the protection
of your health; and certainly for
your comfort—one of Gowings’ Rugs.
Listed below are several leading lines,
which will appeal to you in quality
and price.
THE “WARATAHa good medium-
weight Rug, is made of All Pure Aus-
tralian Wool. The size is 60 x 72
inches. Available in several attrac-
tive broad check designs and quiet
colorings, with fringed ends. Excel-
lent value at this price.
l
I
W I WTO
I
*
THE “NULLA NULLA,” a light-
weight but large-sized Rug, measures
60 by 84 inches, with fringed ends.
In several broad check patterns.
25/-
THE “COO-EE,” similar Rug to “The
Waratah,” only heavier. Size 60 x
72 inches.
27/6
THE “BOSKER JUNIOR” is exactly
same Rug as the “Bosker,” only
smaller. Size is 70 x9O inches.
32|6
THE “BOSKER” RUG—Famous all
over Australia. Of extra large size
and weight, this Rug measures 6ft.
Bin. by Bft. 4in. Attractive large
check designs, in light, medium and
dark colorings.
42|-
THE “CANBERRA” is a Pure Aus-
tralian Merino Wool Rug, reversible,
in check designs. Brown and Fawn
colorings, with Grey, Green and Blue
overpatterns. Size 60 xB4 inches.
50/-
THE “MARRICKVILLE” RUG is
made from High-grade Australian Pure
Merino Wool. Plain on one side, and
patterned on the reverse. Fawn, Slate,
and Brown colorings, with heavily-
fringed ends. Size 60 xB4 inches.
65/-
Our New Winter Catalogue will be sent, post free,
to any address, on request.
Carriage Paid on All Goods throughout
Australia.
GOWING BROS. LTD.,
486 GEORGE STREET
(Opp. Centre Q. V. MarKet B’ld’s),
And Branch at 304 George Street.


m
CHWEPPES
-
Schweppes’Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of,
winning a Prize.
£65
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 3dth
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths u$ to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited. >
PRESTIGE
How Much is it Worth to You?
5*5
CoroNA
The Complete Portable Typewriter
WILL ADD PRESTIGE TO YOUR LETTERS,
ACCOUNTS, REPORTS, ETC.
COSTS ONLY £.17/171- COMPLETE IN CASE
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
470 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
l7 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
“Frecliencourt”: An institution that
should be better known among Diggers with
T.B. is the experimental farm at Beelbangera,
near Griffith (N.S.W.), run by the Red
Cross. It has some remarkable results to
show for its two years of patriotic effort.
The idea is to give those who have been
ordered light* work a chance to do it in suit-
able surroundings, with the incentive of
something to show for their toil afterwards
HUNTER. AND HUNTED.
“ She’s out in the sun all day golfin’ and
swimming. She says she wants to get
brown.”
“But I thought his name was Green?”
in addition to health. The Red Cross people
have arranged for a number of irrigated
farms to be made available for ex-T.B. sub-
jects who have put in six months or more
learning the business. Six of these cases
have already taken up blocks, and 14 more
are about to follow suit. The man who
goes to the Beelbangera farm does not for-
feit his pension or any of it; he can earn,
in addition, between 40s. and 50s. per week;
and for board and lodging, agricultural
tuition and medical supervision he has to pay
only £1 a week. So the position is that
if a T.B, sufferer goes to the farm and
fails to regain his health, he retains his pen-
sion ; while, if his health is restored, as has
happened in the cases above mentioned, he
faces the world a trained agriculturist and
the possessor of a property capable of return-
ing him a living from the day he goes on to
it, and something a good deal better later on.
It is one of the best bets a man could make.
* * * *
“Invalid”: Bunko, who is the Bryce of
my suburb (“a brain like a cathedral” and
so forth), bested me rather badly in con-
troversy a few nights ago. In point of fact,
he always does. For some demented reason
the argument was concerned with Darwin.
"Darwin cried Bunko, “why Darwin’s
theories have been discredited for half-a-
eentury. One of the things he claimed was
that if two children were placed on an
island, and never allowed to hear any lan-
guage spoken, they would grow up speaking
English. The experiment was tried, and
they spoke French. That was the end of
Darwin. Anyway, it was proved before he
died that he was a religious maniac.” . The
vicar corroborated Bunko, and weighed
down by the force of hostile public opinion
I subsided.
* * * *
“T.W.”: “Pip Tok’s” par about General
Holmes’s insistence on 4th Division men
knowing the names of their chiefs (B.
20/4/’22) recalls the big Maoriland ser-
geant who lobbed along for training with
the Guards officers’ cadet battalion about
midway through the war. He had an M.M.
and bar, and there were other souvenirs com-
ing to him, but I found him almost broken up
after his first day’s tuition. “My God!”
he howled, “how can I ever get through this
flaming business without disgracing myselfV
Here I’ve got to remember the Duke of Con-
naught’s the Colonel, but he’s really a Field-
marshal and he’s not the Colonel-in-chief
because the King is, and anyway, he isn’t
the Colonel who does the real stunt because
some bloke named Strickland’s doing it, and
Strickland’s only called a Lieutenant-
Colonel, but he’s really a Colonel, and on
top of that he’s the Brigadier of the whole
damn Brigade of Guards. And that’s only
the beginning of the blarsted tangle.” He
was wrestling with the problem six months
later in a final attempt to push into the
Irish Guards, when most of us who hadn’t
half his soldiering grit were seasoned one-
pippers. # . ' ; .
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos that old gaol doctor
and “pulse feeling” (B. 27/4/’22). I was
present as a pressman at the execution of
Nichols and Lester, the Parramatta River
murderers, in June, 1872, at Darlinghurst.
Old Isaac Aarons was the gaol surgeon who
had medical charge of the tragedy. One of
the bodies worked convulsively for some
minutes after going through the trap, but
Aarons placed his hand over the heart of the
hanged one and declared him well and truly
dead. The movement was purely muscular.
In the other case there was no movement.
After a lapse of 20 minutes the bodies were
lowered into shells and removed to the dead-
house by a couple of South Sea islanders
who were doing short time in gaol. The
post-mortem disclosed broken necks.
* * * •
“Caff”: Talking of coincidences a cobber
of mine got it
through the richt
forearm one Satur-
day between the
hours of 1 and 2
p.m. In three
months he was fit
for duty ) again and
returned to receive
another one
through the left
forearm between
the same hours on
the same day of the
week. Patched up
once more, he went
“up the line” again
to get a 5.9 all to
himself. And again
it was between 1
and 2 p.m. on a
Saturday. It made
some of us wonder
if he had ever had
a big win over the
fir«t race on a
Saturday.
* #
“Herodot” quests for battered ornaments
of the British aristocracy in our midst: —
Re “Veronal’s” reference (B. 18/4/’22) to the
proposal of the ’sixties to establish ah hereditary
Australian peerage. There has always been a good
deal of Debrett permanently located in our midst.
A baronet came to light quite recently in a Mel-
bourne divorce-court, where his wife, a former char-
lady, was petitioning for a dissolution of the nuptial
tie. He was a jobbing gardener in the suburbs. Not
long since there was another baronet fruit-
growing near a Victorian country town. His
title leaked out, with the result that the local
paper showed its respect for hereditary rank by
publishing each week a brief summary Of his activi-
ties, industrial and social. As this particular bart.
was a retiring and decent bloke, it was probably
distaste for such homage that led him to dispose of
his orchard and steal away silently one night, leav-
ing no address behind him, to the great regret of
the local editor, the two bank-managers and the
town clerk. Some years ago a younger son of a
peer was a well-known figure about the lower-class
hotels of Melbourne. He eventually took a job as
waiter at the Savoy, and was killed in the Great
War when he had reached the rank of sergeant.
His original military rank, by the Way, was that of
subaltern in a crack English cavalry regiment. But
Queensland stands on its own as a refuge for oversea
aristocrats, distressed and otherwise. In the Too-
woomba district are several titled cookies, more or
less incog., while some of the coastal towns in the
North can also boast of a baronet or a peer, or a man
who asserts he may be either some day. They are
mostly in varying stages of disrepair. In one Banana-
land town, five or six years ago, a disreputable Eng-
lish person who had been cast ashore by the skipper
of a sugar-boat on which he had stowed away in
Brisbane settled down among the undesirables of the
place, and presently married a tinted lady as an
PREFERENCE VOTES.
“I see your friend only got eleven votes.”
“ There’s something crook about it, Billy. I
gave him twelve myself, and Ethel says
she gave him eighteen.”
alternative to working for his living. A little
later he had his skull fractured by a blow from a
bottle and died in the local hospital. While the
police were trying—but not very hard—-to find who
had hit him, they discovered that he was the dinkum
heir to an English title. A month after his death
his widow bore a son who, if he lives, should have
a claim to a seat in the House of Lords some day.
At present he is a coffee-colored youngster living in
the local Chinatown.
* * * •
“Mr. Ocky”: From Wongrabelle, a small
but ancient settlement in the extreme east-
ern corner of Victoria, six young men, r the
total eligible population, went to the war.
Five of the six lost their lives. Is it a
record ?
* * * *
“Two Blues”: “The Moralist’s” account
(B. 18/4/’22) of how Sampson Bray saved
his mate in the Virginia mine, Eaglehawk,
needs correction. The story
is well known in Bendigo.
“The Moralist” has got the
names of rescuer and
rescued transposed. It was
Sampson Bray who fell off
the bucket; it was William
Rodgers, his mate, who
saved Bray’s life in the
manner detailed. Rodgers
earned the title of the
“Eaglehawk Hero”—or
“Hero Billy Rodgers”—and
the cousin Jack fraternity
were always rightly proud
of him and his achievement.
It earned him the Royal
Humane Society’s medal as
well as a position in the
Water Supply Department,
which enabled him to give
up work underground. As
for the final sentence in the
par., the Sampson Bray
who lost, his life at Mount
Lyell was a nephew of the
Sampson Bray whom Wil-
liam Rodgers rescued. Poor
old “Sampy” Bray was a
cripple for many years after the Virginia
happening, and t doubt if he ever got any
further from Eaglehawk than the Bendigo
Hospital.
* * # *
“Q. Ren”: Priggins, our conscientious par-
son, dropped in to see old Andra’ MacPher-
son the day after Mrs. Andra’ had gone
west. “My dear Mr. MacPherson,” gushed
Prig., “if there’s anything I can possibly do
for you in this terrible time I beseech you
to tell me.” Old Mac. considered the offer.
“Well,” he said at last, “ye micht milk th’
three cows in th’ yard while I’m a-bnryin’
’er.”
"Tren”: A Gippsland (Vic.) resident, not
having heard from his brother in Russia since
the outbreak of the war, mourned him as a
victim of the Bolshies. He was pleasantlv
surprised to receive a letter from the lost
one, when an obituary notice telling of a
speedy death and a decent burial was about
the best that he had dared to hope for. The
reason for the delay in writing was stuck on
the envelope—the necessary postage stamps
had cost 73,000 roubles.
* * * *
“Imbaga”: Here's an entry for “Donk
Belter’s” “Wind-up” Stakes (B. 20/4/’22).
I was engaged in the
illegal occupation of
killing fish with dyna-
mite off the N.-E.
coast of Papua. As
I was preparing to
drop a plug into a
shoal of fish working
over the reaf, some
20ft. below, the lethal
contraption slipped
and became wedged
between the planking
of the boat and one
of the longitudinal
stringers which run
round inside the ribs.
In a second the yelp-
ing crew of 'niggers
was over the stern.
To join them meant
the loss of the boat
and the only steady
job within a 300-
mile radius. There was
no knife handy to cut
the fuse, and the time
occupied in prising
the accursed thing out
of its position seems
even now a thousand
years or over. The
dynamite went into
the water with
Heaven knows
how few seconds to
spare, to the utter
relief of a grey-green collection of blacks
and a chalk-white taubada.
# # * *
“Hoppy”: In reply to “X2X,” medical
hypnotism is not new to Australians, even
if it is to Australia. It was successfully
employed by a 2nd Diy. major at Monte
Video Hospital, Weymouth, early in 1919.
The patients were either shell-shocks or the
possessors of stiff joints which massage
could not unstiffen. Hypnotic treatment
was very successful with the latter cases,
but I cannot speak of my own knowledge
about the former. An English doctor at
Fovant, however, unmistakably demonstrated
the benefits of hypnotism for shell-shock, and
our Aussie major may have done the same.
Unfortunately for him—and, maybe, for
them —all hospital cases were being hurried
home at that stage of the game, and I don’t
think the Major was given a fair chance of
AN AID TO DECEPTION.
"Mrs. Brown has had a new carpet laid on
her stairs
“Well, she’s a fool. She’s simply encour-
agin’ her husband to stay out late an’
come home blithered!”
drawing the attention of Australia to his
treatment. Otherwise shell-shocked Dig-
gers, instead of being herded with civvy
detenus in State lunatic-asylums, might be
receiving proper care from specialists.
ON ANZAC DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We climbed the sandy ridges and saw the sea,
The old unresting sea and its headlands grey;
And the yellow beach sang low to each of us three
, A song of another land and another day.
Came dawn, and the shadows fled, and the hiUs lay
bare;
“Gawd’s Truth!” said Joe—and I laughed and so
did 8i11....8ut
....But I felt the radiant soul of Anzac there
About us on the hill!
1 pictured the dark ships stealing in to land,
The headlong rush in the dark, the shots and cries,
The crash and surge of the conflict hand to hand,
The gleam of steel and the glint of teeth and
eyes
I seemed to see the hills in the glowing morn,
And the scar of the shallow trench where my
brother died,
And the smoking heath where a race of men was
born.
To walk the Earth with pride.
Joe blinked his eyes and cursed the wind and sand:
There was no wind, and the sand drifts lay at rest.
“By cripes, that sunrise beats the blanky band!”
Bill spoke, but he was staring into the west.
Thus each to each his secret thought laid bare
“Let’s go,” I cried. Joe laughed and so did Bill-
But still the spirit of Anzac hovered there
About us on the hill.
N.S.W.
GUNNER 379.


m
y&j
V , •. -
mm
:V
i
an
■«:.
■
M
1
.
o
a
✓4
v • -•' •■
• :r- ■:
wiMsT? -.;
■ V: ; - . -vt. .. •
■ ;
, j>- :
H
«
K
ia
■■l:-
i ji.
:
SB*f
1 1
//
■
:
■
\
' :
m
m
m
mm
m
m &
WATSON’S


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
' HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
kzmw
SHAVING CREAM
m
LEVERX-
sc
THE LAST WORD
IN SHAVING LUXURY
FOR MEN
AN ACCEPTABLE
GIFT
“For Ever Best/'
STA(a
LA6ER
TOOHEY'S.
“Wilfrido”: “Gregor’s” reference to
“white slave” scares reminds me of the story
of the girl who was told to avoid elderly,
grey-haired men who came up in the street
and spoke to her, as such were invariably
steeped in wickedness. One day, as she
was gazing in a shop-window, a gentleman
answering to this description touched her
lightly on the elbow and made as if to
address her. “Go away,” she said, “go away
at once or I will call a policeman and expose
you and your methods.” The reply was:
“You would only expose yourself, my child.
I am a married man, the father of a family
of girls, and as such I thought it only right
to tell you that you are standing on your
petticoat.”
* * # *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Amongst the
booksellers and publishers in Melbourne in
the “ ’Fifties” was George Slater. He in-
habited 94 Bourke-street, opposite the
Theatre Royal, an iron building of two
floors, the property of E. J. Brewster, the
first appointed Judge in Port Phillip. W.
QUITE INVOLUNTARY.
THE GIRL: “Nice face your mother-in-law’s
got.”
THE VICTIM: “She has to look like that to
keep her teeth in!”
H. Williams, a letterpress printer, had the
upper part. On July 1, 1855, Williams
printed and Slater published one of the many
Melbourne magazines which were doomed
to a premature end. It was called The
Journal of Australasia. Later it be-
came The Illustrated Journal of Alts-
tr ala si a Monthly Magazine. It ran for
15 months (at least, I have 15 numbers
which, I think, is a complete set) and
reviewed politics and trade, printed poetry
and fiction. Also, it gave some interesting
particulars of the first elections under Re-
sponsible Government. “Our Portrait Gal-
lery” limned ,T. P. Fawkner, W. C. Haines,
W. F. Stawell and others as they appeared in
the ’fifties. Williams did not die till late
in 1910. Besides being a printer he was a
well-known amateur vocalist of his day.
“Bill Bowyang”: Sam and Jim had been
mates since boyhood, and they saw Gallipoli
through to the evacuation in the same Batt.
In England they both fell to the charms of
the same girl, and when she accepted Sam’s
proposal in preference to Jim’s, the two dis-
solved their long partnership. Then Jim
stopped a lump of shell at Bullecourt and
got an Aussie. The other day he was handed
a ietter with an N.Q. postmark. It was
from Sam, and read.: —
Dear Jim,—l have a big timber contract up this
way, and as Don Ferguson, who met you in Sydney
seme time back, says you are not doing too good,
I can fix you up with a long job. I’ll wire your
fare if you want it, and by way of a peace offering
you can have the old woman, as I’m fed up with
her. She’s always nagging about the mistake she
FROM GRAVE TO GAY.
“Where does the money come from?”
“Well she gets it from her dead hus-
band, and Dashleigh gets it from
HEB.”
made when she refused to marry you, so you should
both get on fine. —Yours truly, Sam. P.S. —She
ain’t got no kids.
* # * *
“Eightensix”: The mother-in-law joke is
as old as comic papers, but I can give an
instance in which she was something more,
something bewilderingly more. Her young
daughter had married a middle-aged man who
spoiled her consumedly. Just about the time
that the home he had expected his wife to
control became an unregulated purgatory,
owing to her habit of gadding, ma-in-law
arrived to make things comfy. As wifey
persisted in keeping in the social swim ma,
who is a well-preserved woman, actually
younger than her son-in-law, and the latter
were thrown much together. The upshot of
it was that one day they disappeared simul-
taneously. Alimony has been left for the
wife, but the erring pair, if that is what
you would call them, are said to be touring
America as Mr. and Mrs. Sundry friends
are now wondering whether the indignant
wife will seek a divorce, and establish the
precedent of a case in which a petitioner’s
mother is cited as co-re.
* * * *
“Spare Corp” : The casual Digger is still
in evidence. In N. S. Wales alone 123 ex-
soldiers who took the trouble to make applica-
tion for the gratuity have not yet had suffi-
cient energy to go to the post offices and
collect the bonds awaiting them. But quite
apart from this there are 5821 cases in
which, although a gratuity is obtainable for
the asking, no application has been made.
In 40U3 of the cases the soldier was killed
in action or died, and it is relatives
entitled to benefit who have failed to apply.
A battalion mate of mine came to Syd-
ney during Easter and lodged his claim.
He explained that he had heard about the
gratuity, but thought it was only a political
dodge. “Them politicians ’ll do anything,”
he said. A man on a neighboring farm
showed him some stock he had bought with
his bond, and this had made him think there
might be something in it worth his own per-
sonal attention.
* * * *
“E.D.”: The late Ross Smith claimed to
have encountered something more fatuous in
mayors, after hitting terra firma in Australia
on his great trip, than he had ever struck
outside this continent. The potentate in
question had manifested a childlike interest
in the art of the aeronaut, and wanted to
kuow all about it in one lesson. The bird-
man explained with what lucidity he could
command for a space of half an hour, when
-the mayor seemed tremendously relieved and
enlightened, but suddenly exploded what faith
the instructor had acquired in his intelli-
gence by kicking at the under-carriage and
saying, with his eyes cocked .aloft: “Yes, yes,
but I still cannot see w.hat the wheels run
on.” Ross Smith groaned and gave it up.
“Oh,” lie said, “they run on the lines of
longitude and latitude.” The mayor seemed
quite satisfied.
* * * *
“Donalbain”: While he claims to be a
Celt “Zozimus” (B. 20/4/’22) seeks to
belittle the pride and vigor with which
our ancestors slew or mutilated their kings
and princes by quoting the records of the
Byzantine Empire. Yet liow beggarly is the
Byzantine tally of 67 emperors killed, muti-
lated or driven out in 1000 years as com-
pared even with the record of the tiny
island of Man in comparatively Christian
and civilised times. In the 98 years from
1066 to 1164 Man used up 13 rulers. Four
had their eyes gouged out and were other-
wise carved up, one was. burnt, one fled
into exile, five were merely “killed” and two
died in their beds. “Zozimus” reckons eye-
gouging as a point to the Byzantines, but
unless the chronicler Camden lies they had
nothing on Man in that respect. It must
in fairness be admitted that the Norwegi-
ans were a good deal mixed up in Manx
affairs (as they were in Irish in those days'),
and king-killing was the most popular
sport in old Norway.
*■r * * *
“Dido”: The middle-aged couple in deep
black got on tip'' cable tram running! from
St. Hilda Esplanade to/Chapel-street, .where
it connects wifh the tram to the St. Hilda
Cemetery. He 'was carrying rather a large
parcel sewn in a sheet, which he set on its
end on the platform, standing over
it with his hat in his hand. The
woman sat inside the car, her handkerchief
to h_er eyes. Presently the conductor,
whpke was aroused, endeavored to
enter into conversation with the man,
ipaking a casual remark about the weather.
This drew no response, so he tried again
with a comment on the Ross case. Then
the mourner spoke: “Young mon,” said he,
“wad ye kindly refrain fra all conversa-
tional remarks. We are a funeral!” The
conductor now perceived that the sheet con-
tained a very small child’s coffin.
“Oilskin” on war hall-marks: —
I’ve broken with the habit of wearing my returned
badge, thank God! If a lad who is now 18 had left for
the big rumpus on my transport he would have been
10 when the row began, and 14 when the Armistice
came. Yet walk the Melbourne streets to-day and
you will find scores of palpable 18- and 19-year olds
desecrating the badge of world-freedom. Apart from
boy-impostors, there is an army of deadbeats who
right through the war fought on the Bourke-street
front. These liars address one another as “Dig. - ’
and babble of estaminets and hop-overs, finding easy
money in pitching romances to lambs. On the
whole they have engendered a feeling of con-
tempt for genuine hard-up service men, which, now
that it has taken root, will be hard to shift. Yes,
I’m glad I’m no hero if the brass badge be accepted
as the emblem of courage.
* * * *
“Dido” : The, to me, most amazing feature
of the Colin Ross trial and execution was
the extraordinary amount of sympathy for
the accused one found amongst reputable
people. I met with quite respectable and
well-to-do families, the members of which
were always ready to shed tears over the
wrongs of Ross, and to utter furious dia-
tribes against the uncoifscionable wretches
who had sworn the poor fellow’s life away.
I have met with two school-teachers, lady-
like and of more than usual intelligence, who
became quite passionate in his defence, and
another, a young wife, pretty and well off,
who wrote letters of deep sympathy to the
mother of the murderer, and yet another
woman who called on Mrs. Ross to see if
there was anything she could do to assist
in the good work of endeavoring to save the
condemned man. Thousands signed the
petition for a reprieve at the last minute,
and thousands more contributed money to
assist the defence. Yet without doubt Ross
was one of the most despicable criminals the
Commonwealth has known, a man with an
evil record, no great loss in any circum-
stances, and proven guilty of a crime more
revolting than anything of which Deeming
was guilty. But I remember that Deeming,
too, had sympathisers prepared at any
moment to shed morbid tears over his mis-
fortunes. #
“Cobby”: There is enough evidence near
Camden (N.S.W.) to build up a theory of
a Spanish discovery before Cook, if it got
into the right hands. jQuite lately a Spanish
coin of the 18th century was picked up on
what is stili callfed Spaniards’ Hill, a few
miles out of Camden. This is one of several
old Spanish coins that have been found
there. Local nationalists explain that some
Spaniards settled on the spot in the very
early days of the cow-pastures, and point out
that a coin isn’t necessarily lost the year that
it is minted or thereabouts, but may be scores
of years old before it is lost. But there are
always narks like that.
* # * *
“Artist” comes back :
“E.F.’s” par. (B. 30/3/’22) re the recent Felton
Bequest purchases is an unconvincing effort, j Gains-
borough made his name by such works as “The
Parish Clock,” “The Blue Boy,” “Self Portrait”
(R.A.), “Mrs. Stone Horton” (A. de Rothschild’s
collection), and the celebrated landscapes ’“Watering
Place” and “View of Pedharn” in the London
National Gallery. Nobody of any stanxling could
or would ever classify as a very good purchase the
“Portrait of a Young Soldier,” with its flat,
characterless background, lacking all sense of texture
and arrangement of light and shade. iThe “Crown
Turner” is evidently beyond “E.F.,” but lie shouldn t
blame the picture, which is a very sincere nature
study. The harsh criticism of the little nude
study by Corot, because “Corot has no reputation
as a figure painter,” is a further manifestation of
ignorance. No less an authority than Max Mel-
drum reproduces in his eXCellcjnt hook a figure study
of Corot’s to emphasise the fact that the quality of a
THE YEW WAY.
“If you’ll only marry me”
“Oh, well, send me in your income-tax return
with the others.”
big artist’s work is never dependent upon subject
matter. If that is not enough, let “E.F.” apply at
the Melb. Public Library for the two special volumes
on Corot, and see figure studies there of which any
master might be proud.
THE LEAN MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not the fatted, silken-hatted, over-dressed and large
and loud.
Waiting pompously for cars, cigars in mouth and
girl on arm:
But the lean —some think them mean —men, that
go strolling through the crowd,
Are the stalwarts of Australia that shall hold her
safe from harm.
Shy they are and dull they seem in streets that baulk
and bind them ;
They pass the gorgeous hostels with their teeming,
reeking bars.
The strong lights of the side-walks seem to dazzle
and to blind them;
Their heated brows are calling for a cool wind off
the stars.
You may see them hurry past you with a motion
almost furtive,
Apologetic threaders of the city’s busy throng,
So humble in their bearing and so little self asser-
tive—
Could you guess our nation-builders in those silent
men and strong?
Youth that drives the strippers in the wheat by
Murrumbidgee,
Pluck that rounds the cattle on the camps beyond
the Bree,
Grit that drives the weaners through the dust-choked
Darling gidgee,
Strength that rolls the wool-bales on the floors
of Wingadee.
Your dainty dames may scorn them, and your bellied
bigwigs sneer,
But I’d rather touch in passing just one royal,
roughened hand
Than dine in well-wined splendor with your richest
profiteer,
For the lean men — yes, those mean men t —are
the great ones of the land!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


■
* y \, . /•: < I
11^
■1 <C M f
: A
m. I
ft
MS &
!
■ft ;• ,v - ; . ... :•>-■■'
.t‘ V:', r- '-v ■ ../-..-.ft .■ :'
.
.
■
.
,*’'?*> / <. i
4
•.^gg
i i '
; s
, m
aft'* ft,.,...
" X
•..<* -ft %»•<.*. sty;,; •'
« .«•
■ .-*. .. ......... .
r- fti&iWSSiS
*4
m
m,
m
m
IS
"•••-ft*;
m
n
m
m
y.w ;
\ ..41
< i’-j.
WZ
-
■ *
feftft- ft*
& M
-ft’:
: ftft >.y
IS! »>
KSafe's
s 'ft ;. ft.'.* ' ' . ' .•' ' ..' ■ •■•
ft- .-, ■'''ft V- ‘ •' ft
r
* -
7
mmm
m
r^r
m *
S’
irm*
immmmD
cr
■ * -
WjA
[nnJ
O
v\
"m wm
• : ; *
#
y:
o
BVf
MW
.-.■.ft;;’,'
ISaßssaifS&i
si ,/£ ff
- r -
mu
»•
[nal
ft*
mmfiS
(s=>)
.
a s *?;/
M
i
“ftsft©: v ?
' . ■ V
■ ~ ,•■■:•.• ""ft,
" ft. - ft
ft ' ■-•"■' v-
- *
ft-, .ft
’ ft*
835
sy. fw
. .-V - ~«•
i 7ft ft ft/ft^
•> -
- -i ftftft"’ y.
!■
*' •* \ ft...
.'ft ft •
yiift : ft,Aft,-; \
:
w&im
.... ■
.: •■ .
1 ■
5
.
■v' ■'
-• • fSfJ
' • " F - , | . Trr - Itrt -|
L* # gjl'
i
M
rig*
■**,, .ft
ftft ft
&
.
: ,ft
-


EDGEWORTH
Smoking Tobacco.
m
4
w
K. TOWNS & CO.. Sydney, Agents.
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
Thistle Shirts
ThisfleStog
ALEXANDER STEWART & SONS LTD.
BRISBANE & SYDNEY
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Hanno”: Although the feat of “Hibis-
cus’s” doe wallaby (B. 13/4/’22), that bore a second
young one some time after her husband had died
and without her having seen a male wallaby in the
interim, is not common, still it is a happening that
is well known to biologists. The explanation is that
one of the spermatozoa from which the ovum was
impregnated prior to the birth of the first joey re-
mained and retained its activity for a period longer
than usual —long enough to impregnate another
ovum after the death of the male wallaby. The
causes of its retention and the preservation of its
vitality, however, are something more difficult to
explain, but any one of a dozen or so things which
suggest themselves may have been the reason for it.
Theoretically, there is nothing to prevent the pheno-
menon from occurring in any kind of animal, even
the human being, but the instances recorded have,
with very few exceptions, taken place among the
lower animals, the highest yet reported having been
the case of a monkey that was in captivity in the
Bronx Zoological Gardens in New York.
“Barney”: “Country Bed’s” reference to
deadly dead snakes (B. 13/4/’22) reminds me. One
day -we killed—really killed—a large brown snake,
and after carrying him some distance threw him
on the ground; whereupon an old terrier and a
big greyhound started to play with the corpse. The
terrier got hold of one end, near the head, and Bluey
fastened to the other, and they had a tug-of-war.
The tertier being old and short of teeth, Bluey won.
A little later I noticed that the little chap was
groggy, and he passed in his checks in about
10 minutes. He hadn’t had any chance to get bitten,
so I examined him and found a scratch on his
lip which the fang must have inflicted when Bluey
pulled the snake through his mouth. Now I respect
the reptiles dead or alive.
“Sandfly”: Jacky seemed to be greatly
interested in the first brass band he ever heard, but
I noticed that he kept his eyes fixed upon the
trombone player. “What you thinkit longa that
fellow, Jacky ?” I asked. The nig. seemed relieved
to be able to get it off his chest. “Might be him
swaller him orright,” he said, “but mine thinkit
him plurjy liar aller same.”
* * * *
While the fossil remains of both
the Tasmanian “tiger” ( Thylaeine ) and the devil
have been found on
the mainland, it is
generally stated that
the living animals are
confined to the Speck.
Stray yarns about a
specimen of one or the
other crop up now
and again; for in-
stance, it is alleged
that a devil was
caught near Ivilmore
(Vie.) some years
ago. In his “Port
Phillip,” published in
1841, George Arden,
then editor of the
Port Phillip Gazette,
mentions among the
animals found in Vic.
the “devil and the
opossum hyaena, the
tiger formerly sup-
posed to be peculiar
to Van Diemen's
Land.” Most of the
population of Port
Phillip at that time
had come from
V.D.L., and there must
have been many men
there who knew both
animals well. And there are no other beasts that
could well be mistaken for either.
“Cleveland” : The Papuan fish-traps men-
tioned by “C. Coral” (B. 6/4/’22) seem to have
their counter-part in the stone dam at Brewarrina
(N.S.W.), which is of great antiquity. Lang in his
“Aboriginals of Australia” says:—
It is built at a rocky part of the river, from
80yds. to 100yds. in width, and extends over about
100yds. of the river course. It forms one immense
labyrinth of stone walls about oft. or 4ft. high, form-
ing circles from 2ft. to 4ft. in diameter, some open-
ing into each other, forming very crooked but con-
tinuous passages, others having one entrance only.
In floods as much as 20ft. of water weeps over
them, and carries awaj’ the tops of the walls; the
lower parts of the walls, however, are so solidly
and skilfully built, with large, heavy stones, which
must have been brought from a considerable dis-
tance and with great combined labor, that they have
stood every flood from time immemorial. Every
summer this labyrinth is repaired, and the fish, in
going up or down the river, enter it, get confused
m its mazes, and are caught by the blacks by hand
in immense numbers.
Perhaps this is another link in the chain suggested
by “C. Coral” as connecting the old-time Spanish
or Peruvian visitors, although the Spaniard more
ALL THE SAME TO HIM.
“Gibbit rum an' mark it up on the slate."
“We don't keep a state."
“Well, mark it up on that plurry cash register."
frequently left his trade-mark on the half-caste
generation that usually followed his visits. These
should not be altogether obliterated if they ever
existed. Has any Abo. De Rougemont noticed any
traces ?
* * * *
“Pick” : When menaced by a natural
enemy the shyest wild creature will sometimes
instinctively seek man’s protection. We were rifle-
shooting on the Bungendore (N.S.W.) Range when
a very battered hare zig-zagged haltingly towards
us in the line of fire. Then came a vicious swoop
and a big brown eagle further mauled the exhausted
puss with his talons. Two or three rifle-bullets spun
into the argument, and a second or two later
hooky-beak was ambling across the plain dragging
a broken wing, while the hare with whimpering
sobs struggled to the mound and squatted against
an ammunition box not 10ft. from where our rifles
were cracking.
“Kopp”: In June, 1883, a whaler in
Behring Straits caught a huge whale 62ft. long
and estimated to weigh 75 tons. An old harpoon
was found firmly embedded in the insect’s side, and
not only had the wound healed but a cartilage had
grown around the toothpick, thus preventing further
penetration. That harpoon was one of those used
at Portland (Vic.), and bore the brand “Henty, L.,
1838” —-the “L” standing for Launceston (Tas.),
where the llentys had most of their tools made.
Now, where did that young whitebait pick up his
souvenir? And how far, ancf how long had he wan-
dered before he blew into the Arctic ? Anyhow,
he couldn’t have dodged further away from Bass
Straits than where he finally met the Reaper.
“Billy Muggins” : I agree with “Flanders”
(B. 23/2/’22) that “Iron’s” branding record (B.
29/12/’2l) is a bit over the odds. It’s a matter of
sheer impossibility for two men, let alone two boys,
to put through 67 cattle in 57 minutes. Round our
way it was reckoned pretty slick when 60 calves up to
12 months were put through in 5 9% minutes, and
there’s a challenge for any team of men that can do
better. There was no picking and choosing, the
calves being taken in the ordinary run of the yard,
and the chaps that were doing the job hadn’t been at
it all their lives either. Five men did it, and if
“Iron” can put up anything better I’ll give in.
* * * 4b
, “Wanderlust”; That big cocoon “Ishmael”
saw (B. 30/3/’22) was made by the caterpillars
he has no doubt seen crossing a road end-on to
each other. Had he seen it about three weeks
sooner it i d probably have been snow-white;
now it will ,<} as dark as mulga-bark. He hap-
pened upon it in the first stage of discoloration,
which commences at the bottom and extends to the
top, due, I think, to the excreta of the worms inside.
After rain the discoloration becomes very rapid.
I have suffered no ill-effects from handling these
cocoons, but each time I have taken no risks, having
heard of their itchy reputation. A very sharp knife
is needed to cut the sheath, and it occurred to me
that possibly the silk might be commercially vain-
able; so, on the advice of Major Smeaton, D. 5.0.,
4 took some to the Forestry Department of the
Adelaide University, where I was informed that
th . er ?. was a mechanical difficulty in the way of
. W 1 ? dn, « fe silk owing to the number of small
it Still, couldn’t that
Bllk ia valuable > why not breed
the worms, ana thus exploit one more of our great
t , „
r
THE WAGES OF SIN.
“Well, the Sydney Cup's put me son out of
the farming business fer good.”
“Dear me, lost everything, I presume?"
"No bloomin' fear; toon a fortune on that
blanky outsider."
“Tim Tiki” : A coffin made for a Raetihi
Maori the other day was 7ft. 3in. long, 22in. high
and 2ft. wide.
(Continued on page 22.)
BY THE BOORAL TRACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Down in the corner where the creek runs wimpling
Under those old gum-trees by the Booral track,
Strolling very lazily, I met a damsel dimpling,
Passed her by, and turned to see, and caught her
looking back.
She’d a mass of tawny hair that the light was fain
of,
She had laughing honey-eyes puckered by the sun.
Something stabbed me, and I said, “This sure is
the pain of
Loving her before our mere acquaintance has
begun!’’
Maybe this she saw too, saw me flinch and falter,
For the eyes of honey-gold flickered and were
sweet:
So I was most docile, I was ready for the halter,
Knelt and bowed upon the grass, face against her
feet.
Metaphorically? That of course—l couldn’t
Kiss the feet of any girl whom I didn’t know.
More; if I had thought I could, all the same I
wouldn’t—
If you want to win a race start by going slow.
But we got on middlin’ quick down there by the
corner
Where the creek beside the track loiters singing
by.
Every dappled fleck of light danced up to adorn her;
Every corpuscle cooed low, “Why not kiss her?
Why !’’
So I kissed her pretty soon, and her cool delicious
Lips responsive wooed my lips back to youth and
song.
Not for me your city-loves, sordid, meretricious,
Based on lies and trickery, never lasting long.
Oh, the joyous afternoon down there where the shade
is,
Afternoon of kisses, afternoon of lovers’ troth!
Never was a sweeter mouth than that mouth of
Sadie’s. -
I love fire and sentiment —Sadie had ’em both.
Unsophisticated girl, girl of sunlit spaces.
Girl who never dreamt of hiding anything she
felt.
Fresh from city madams, fluff and fuss and laces,
All my tired heart worshipped her, singing as it
knelt.
“Bill,” she said, “comes back to-night. I think you
will like him.
Good old sport is Bill for one rising sixty-three.
A PRAYER WITH AN INTERLUDE.
“Forwhatweareabouttoreccive, O Lord—
damn the flies —make tis truly thank-
ful”
Ought to have some quiet now, though that didn’t
strike him
When he got the district all worked-up by marryin’
me.
Don’t let on to Bill, though, you an’ me are
cobbers—
Bill’s a bit old-fashioned now he’s gettin’ old.
See how those dark clouds up there look like skulkin’
robbers
Chasin’ those small fleecy bits down the sky of
gold ! ”
There in the corner where the creek runs wimpling,
Whispering to the gum-trees along the Booral
track,
Wondering: how I’d kill the time, I met a damsel
dimpling,
Passed her by, then turned a bit, and caught her
looking back!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.
“Bill Bowyang”: I'm not surprised to
hear that “Jim Carew’s’’ N. S. Wales abo. (B.
30/3/’22) was unable to throw Westralian boom-
erangs. Up this \yay (N.Q.) I’ve known clever
manipulators of the weapon who were for some
time unable to throw boomerangs left behind bv
a deceased member of the same tribe. I once asked
Binghi the reason for this, and he said some of the
natives placed a peculiar twist in the weapon when
shaping it, and that they were the only ones who
knew how to throw it. A stranger securing such
a boomerang would have to practise with it for
several weeks before he could handle it as skil-
fully as its late owner.


Novels by Best
Australian Authors
1- per volume.
“BOOKSTALL” SERIES
OF AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
REDUCED TO PRE-WAR PRICES.
Cheaper paper supplies and largely increased sales of this popular
Australian fiction series have enabled the Publishers to reduce the
price of both old and new volumes.
120 AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
By foremost Authors.
3,000,000 copies already sold.
1/- each—All One Price—l,2 posted.
The best value in fiction on the bookstalls.
Complete descriptive catalogue posted (free) on application.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
LEVIATHANS
LATEST PURCHASE
ZJ
English, Irish and Scotch
ALL-WOOL TWEEDS
enables them to Offer their Customers not
only an Expertly Cut and Tailored Suit, but
the Finest Range of Materials in the most
pleasing patterns, including Herringbone,
Bird’s-eye, Pinpoint, Fine-line Effects and
Fancv Mixtures at an extremely Low Price.
SELECT YOUR MATERIAL EARLY!
The Suit
TO ORDER,
£6/101-
There are no suits like Leviathan Tailored
Suits. Years of experience have developed
Leviathan Tailoring to the highest art—an
art that culminates in good materials, linings,
trimmings and style.
THE
i n h
‘SUPER-QUALITY” SUIT
In NAVY TWILLS and WORSTED.
Super-Quality Hand-
Tailored
to Order
£9/9/-
WRITE FOR PATTERNS.
Illustrated Winter Catalog—-
Write for Copy. We would like to put your ]
—Now Ready
on Our Mailing List.
Leviathan
PTY.
LTD.,
Cor. Swanston and
Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
* *-
WHETHER
YOU SING or DANCE
YOU WILL FIND ONE OF
PALING’S
PLAYER PIANOS
FILL ALL YOUR REQUIREMENTS.
\j
is/
By careful use of the levers you can accompany Songs with the same result as if a
skilled Pianist was at the keyboard. A poor accompaniment often proves
disastrous to a good singer—this is impossible when you use one of our Player
Pianos, because it is absolutely note perfect.
You want to vary your evening with some dance numbers, simply put on a waltz,
fox-trot or jazz roll, and the time is absolute perfection.
Call in and hear our Players—you will be delighted with them.
Catalogues free by post. Any Player sold on Easy Terms if you wish.
in
a
St.
e
SYDNE


“NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., CIIALLIS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
: 7-:r M
H<?mf LooKing at Yoii"
ABBOTS
I LAGER.
The Beer
without a Rival
mm
e
7
m
“Prof”: Lord help “5.N.0.” (B. 9/2/’22)
if he gets snakebite and uses leeches as a cure. The
latest researches show that snake venom contains
two active principles, the more potent producing a
solvent effect upon the blood corpuscles and every-
thing else within reach. And it’s damnably quick
in diffusing. All the leeches in the world couldn’t
take hold fast enough to get away with the poison.
Let “5.N.0.” stick to the good old plan .of cutting
out the bite and rubbing in crystals of potassium
permanganate. These will neutralise any organic
poison by oxidation if only given a decent chance.
“Clytie”: Re “Jobber’s” “inside way-
backs” (B. 23/3/’22). The local bobby at Port-
arlington (Vic.) when filling in the old age pension
claim of an Italian fisherman found that the old
chap, who was 70, had lived in the township since
his arrival, when he was about three. He had never
been more than five miles on land from the port,
and had never seen a railway, though there is one
at Drysdale, about eight miles away.
» * # #
“The Reefer”: It being a close season for
niggers in New Guinea these days we go croco-
dile shooting instead. I want nothing better than
a .32 Winchester for the sport. I have killed many
crocs, ranging from 4ft. to 18ft. both drifting
in the rivers and basking on the banks. A croc,
floating displays usually two sections of his anatomy
■ —the front one being his nose and the larger the
brain pan. Hit the latter and you’ll be able to
< ollect your trophy. It is futile to attempt to shoot
a drifting croc, behind the forearms, because they’re
below water and the flat trajectory of the bullet
simply makes it hop when it collides with the
moisture.
“Sassafras”: Among the inside-waybacks
(B. 13/4/’22) I nominate a young’un from Gympie
(Q.) district. He is
25 and lives about 13
miles from a regular
railway service, but has
not seen either a ship
or a train yet. He
has not worn a pair of
boots for 16 years and
has never had a coat
on. If he were tested
he would be the cham-
pion rifle and gun shot
of Bananaland. Not
long ago he had a bad
arm, but went on
squaring girders and
sleepers with one hand,
using the broad-axe
comfortably. But good
old Red Tape wouldn’t
let him go and take tea
with Fritz—told him
his heart was weak.
He goes into a incar-by
village twice a year to
buy two pairs of mole-
skins and two flannel
shirts. When asked one day why he didn’t go to
town and see a train he drily remarked, “Any
cove who goes in for one of those things is too
Hash for me.”
“Yamawa”: I wonder if “Bendy’s” lady
traveller (B. 30/3/’22f) 'is the stout, jovial party
whom I met in Menindie (N.S.W.) in that'driest of
dry years, 1903. She insisted on doing the chores
in the kitchen of the West End Hotel before imbib-
ing—and the mercury was bubbling a«..y up in
the hundred-and-something-plural. She took rum.
Making up-stream she reached my camp a couple of
day's later, and washed some clothes for me in one
of the waterholes which was the Darling, in return
for some tucker and a plug of tobacco. Peace to
her restless soul!
# ♦ •
“Solo”: I’ve done some hard thinking
over “Hibiscus’s” wallaby doe (B. 13/4/'22) that
gave birth to a joey so long after she had become
a widow, and through it all there has kept recurring
the discussion which raged in the Abo. quarters
recently as to the crossing of cats and rabbits.
Being almost convinced by some writers that it
would be possible to cross a cat with an elephant,
tam inclined to blame puss again. Will “Hibiscus”
kindly let us know if there were any tom-cats in
the town; as there is a controversy raging on the
subject at my -club, and friends are seriously ques-
tioning my theory of a cat-wallaby cross.
“Barcoo”: At Avington (Q.) out-station
in the early ’seventies a three-year-old daughter of
the couple in charge
wandered into the
scrub, and although
all hands searched for
a week no trace of
her was found
Thirty-one years after-
wards the mother of
the lost child sat lis-
tening to the strange
tale of a neighbor who
detailed to her how
years and years ago
she had been taken
from a camp of blacks
on the Lower Diaman-
tina when she was
about five years old
by some station people
who had adopted her.
In those days wander-
ing tribes used to trek
hundreds of miles out
of their own territories
to trade for the flint
weapons that inter-
mediate tribes between
the fay inland dis-
tricts and the seaboard
had acquired from the
coastal abos. The
boundary-rider’s wife
was interested, and as
the age of the other
seemed to tally with
that which her lost
daughter would have
been, she inquired
whether the younger
woman had a straw-
berry birthmark on the
small of her back.
That cleared up the
mystery—she had. Evi-
dently a wandering Diarnantina tribe had been over
on to the Barcoo and picked up the stray picca-
ninny. Abos. are very fond of children, and this
little white one would doubtless be a source of
some wonderment to them.
* * > »
“D.F.”: Even a university professor can
invent something useful. The Westralian Govern-
ment officially recommends to settlers a cow-bail
designed by John Hilton Mackay when Professor of
Engineering at the Tas. ’Varsity. He thought out
the contrivance when he and his brother had to
break in about 50 more or less wild heifers on a
farm they were running near Irishtown. The
bail is worked with a string, so that the bailer-up
never has to go near the cow’s head.
CAUGHT NAPPING.
THE PARSON : “It's my turn at the Old
Men’s Home to-morrow afternoon.
Tell Tom to come along and bring his
, sketch-book—some good hard old faces
there—sketch ’em in during the ser-
mon.”
HIS WIFE (innocently): “Yes, he’d get
them in repose, dear.”
“C. Coral”: The Datum islanders, close
up alongside New Guinea, have a short, yellow-
bellied reptile about a foot long which, when it
strikes, they allege, literally loses its head, detach-
ing the rest of its body from that member in the
violent jerk. It is lethargic, often mistaken for
a piece of wood, but is pretty rapid in retaliation
if touched. I’ve never seen it actually striking—-
none of the natives would volunteer to act the
martyr in the cause of science. But does anyone
happen to know what the thing is?
“Pick”: Talking of durable timbers; in
1865 Ben Hall, Gilbert and Dunn had a skirmish
with the three sons of W. P. Faithful on the Goul-
burn Plains (N.S.W.). Gilbert took cover behind
a post in the roadside fence, and a bullet from
a Faithful rifle plunked into it. A splinter struck
the free-booter on the chest, and he exclaimed, “That
was a narrow shave, old man!” That post—a white
stringy-bark—though very much weathered and
shrunken, still stands in its original position with
the bullet-hole, now much enlarged, through its
middle.
EASILY DIAGNOSED.
“So you prescribed for yourself in accord-
ance with the directions in this booh?"
“ Exactly, doctor. Strange I feel so bad,
isn’t it?”
“Oh, no, it’s plain enough. You are suffer-
ing from the effects of a misprint.”
“Cnossarm”: I would strongly advise
“Billy Cann” (B. 6/4/’22), who is having trouble
with his boiler-feed water, to submit a sample
to an analyst, and thus ascertain with certainty what
medium is required to prevent “pitting” of the
tubes. It would be dangerous to act upon any sug-
gestion given without water analysis; boiler tubes
do not answer to rule-of-thumb methods, and any
water treatment should only be undertaken after
expert advice. I remember one- case in which zinc
blocks werf recommended by a man claiming close
knowledge of the subject. These are the only cure
for some water troubles; but in the case in point
the net result was boiler tubes perforated as if
machine-drilled,
* * # *
“Gouger”: A couple of busy coves butted
in pretty lively when I asked for sug-
gestions re a slush lamp. “Sir Spen”
recommends a piece of my moleskins
as a wick. Strike me pink! I’ve
only got one pair of pants—and
they’re not moleskins. Times are
pretty hard up here (N.Q.). Besides,
you must remember there’s no city
shops anywhere handy—merely about
600>miles of bush, niggers, and a scat-
tered handful of tick-bitten white
men. “Huffin Guffin” recommends using
half the tail of my oldest cotton shirt. I
haven’t got such a fal-dal —never had
one since 1919. Then he says some-
thing practical:Use a honey-suckle
cone. Right; but I’ve run out of
fat now. That’s why I’m writing this
by moonlight. It’s cheaper. It’s
easy to get. It doesn’t want a wick.:
Keep your blooming impossible suggestions.
* * * *
“Ika”: The record swordfish so far caught
on the M.L. coast was too much for the scales.
Colonel Calthorp, a veteran- English sportsman,
tackled the Ziphius yladius tribe off Major Island,
in the Bay of Plenty, and landed two, each about
twice the length of himself. The smaller weighed
4861 b. But when the larger was put on the scales
the spring balance, which only weighed up to
5001 b., gave it up. The Colonel thought 5201 b.
would be about the mark. The angler used a 500yds.
line, and when the quarter-tonner was hooked all of
it was run out and Ziphius yladius (alias taha-
rangi) took the power-launch in tow for an hour or so
until he worked off his deep-sea bucking, after which he
kept the men with the rod alternately winding-up and
slackening-away for over three hours. I have a
snapshot of the kills—the bigger of the two is
quite 12ft. long, with sword-bayonet to match.
“8.E.8.”: Can any modern stockmar
or duffer beat Tom Hanson’s record at spaying cows ?
In a single crush he cut, spayed, sewed, knotted,
tarred and earmarked 233 cows in 11 hours. And,
having a few spare minutes, he operated on a bull.
Tom didn’t forget the inner-man either —he found
time for two full feeds between whiles.
“Alf A. Beta” : He was the typical fencer,
all whipcord and tanned hide, and had just struck
the pub after straining his last wire on a six-mile
job. “Yairs,” he drawled in response to my query
as he tilted his third pint. “Parts of her weren’t
bad goin’; in fact, first mornin’ I started sinkin’
right away from the camp, and by sundown had
put down that many holes it took me two days’
hard walking to get back.”
“Prof”: “Moe’s” newspaper oil (B.
9/2/’22) isn’t anything new. He simply struck a
way of manufacturing an impure form of the com-
mon or garden juice known as creosote, which when
applied to a hollow tooth destroys the nerve and
sterilises the cavity. All dentists are in the habit
of using it, anil some of the patent toothache cures
consist of nothing else.
* * * *
“The Moralist”: Can any Abo. hair-
specialist account for this phenomenon? My bay
pony was treated by a horse-doctor for what he
said was typhoid fever. The moke recovered —every-
thing except his clobber. He started to moult in
the middle of the treatment, and never stopped till
he had parted with his last eyelash. Now he is the
color of an elephant. I have fixed him up a tail
which serves to annoy the mosquitoes, but summer
is waning, and I don’t think he’s going to appreciate
the Chidley racket in winter.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : Another expedition is setting
out to find the tailed men of New Guinea. For
years there have been all kinds of yarns regarding
these alleged freaks, and the common explanation
is that some tribe adorns itself with an attachment
which is mistaken for the real thing. I’ve come
across several native missionaries—some of them
Torres Strait islanders—who declare most emphati-
cally that the appendage is genuine, and that when
sittirg the owner has to excavate a place in the
sand for the projection. I can’t quite swallow
it. Anyway, it will be interesting to see what
the expedition brings to light.
* * * •
“Golub” : In spite of its length— 6ft. 24in.
—I should say that the wriggler killed by “Don
Quill” near Normanton, N.Q. (13. 6/4/’22), is
probably an ordinary death-adder —considerably over-
grown, of course —for adders of a similar green color
have been reported from that part. Though the
length given is nearly twice that of the usual death-
adder, still reptiles of 6ft. sin., 6ft. Sin. and 7ft.
.tin. have been reported. The seven-footer was killed
in the Tweed River district (N.S.W.) in 1914 or
1915 (I’m not sure which). The description of the
head and the spiked tail of “Don Quill’s” find
points to an adder, for the latter is practically the
only venomous snake which owns an appendix of
that kind.
**' » *
“Cambronne”: It is only a question of
time when the she-oak will be a thing of the past
in the Speck. The foliage is greedily eaten by stock,
so that no young seedlings have a chance to grow.
The tree is handsome when well grown, and may
PERILOUS PLEASURE.
“May I hare the pleasure of ashing you to
afternoon tea in the Gardens?”
“ Certainly.”
"That's very hind. Most ladies make such
a fuss about a trifle.”
“Oh, I leave all that to my husband. He's
downstairs now wrangling with a pro-
mpter as to whether he fights for the
gate or a lump sum.”
be raised from seed. On the Craigow estate, South-
ern Tas., there is a long avenue of 30-years-old s'le-
oaks, all grown from seech It is the only avenue
of the kind I know of, but it is a very fine one,
aid I’d like to see more.
BEN HOLT'S AFFLICTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Chinaman’s there was, I found,
Great sympathy for Ben,
And he was held by all around
Least fortunate of men.
Yet Ben was plump and Ben was well —•
What troubled him I could not tell.
In Pointer’s bar they drank and said:
“There’s Benny Holt, poor lad !”
The speaker sadly shook his head
And someone wailed “’Stoo bad!”
Of this commiseration proud,
Ben sipped his beer and groaned aloud.
Then came that Saturday when nine
Lay drunk upon the grass,
And Ben alone was looking fine
And waving still his glass.
There’d been a christening at the mill,
And all the rest had got their fill.
“Poor Ben!” said Wilson with a sigh.
I turned upon him then:
“Great Scott!” with petulance said I,
Whatever 1 * wrong with Ben?”
“What, don’t you know ? Ten quarts lie’s
sunk—
Ben is the bloke that can’t get drunk!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


-if
m
Cth£ WmmMzf* i “ lit
:Wiwv ill!**
J* ■
1
■ //
... ....
g ’.
,u£
Es.
*
**3B^
■■ .v
■■ ■•
■Ux&Mrt
Jr
■
fe
a
i
1
I HH
IB
i
W-V
isiiP
-fmi*
... .
MM ■■
y ■
IT
- -•
i SsS
* i.":
_the motor owner
is to be envied!
His or her machine is available at all
hours for all classes of work—whether
it be a city run for business or plea-
sure or more extended journeys in the
country,
easy of
■C-L-
The modern car is highly efficient,
control, and when “Railroad”
are used, practically free of trouble. Many
motorists now drive thousands of miies without
need of spanner or pump, so great is the efficiency
of the modern car, and “Railroad Dunlops.
Freedom from tyre trouble is one of the great
features of “Dunlops,” and their quality, strength
and construction ensure long mileage. Hall
the motorists of Australia use them, and judging
by the ever increasing demand for more
“ Dunlops,” the other half is beginning to realise
that it pays to use these dependable covers and
tubes. All garages can supply in beaded edge
or straight-sided types.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust Ltd.
All States and New Zealand.


Australian Tweed Suit
to Order, 841-
The claims of Country and City life
often render the highest-grade Suits
superfluous except on special occa-
sions. To meet this necessity with
the minimum sacrifice of quality and
style, Lowe’s offer a suit to order of
Australian Tweed in a smart range
of patterns, and tailored on lines
similar to illustration
or in any desired
style. Price . . .
<er\ a /
PATTERN COUPON.
LOWE'S LTD.,
Box 1622 G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me Patterns of BJf/-
Australian Tioeed Suit-to-Order.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 4/5,
Lowe’s Sell it for Less
A
? <r
&
3
x-\T
Lowes Pay Carriage.
Stores all over Town
510 George Street,
369 Pitt Street,
Daking House,
Oxford Street
Merchant Tailors.
Stores all over Towns
Bond & George Streets,
New Boys’ Store
(Bond & George Streets),
Haymarket, 710 George St.,
Newcastle, Hunter Street.
DTD
1
m
m
The public believes implicitly in the good-
ness of Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
It has found, in six years of experience, that
its performance in all parts of the world and
on all kinds of roads, has been uniformly
consistent.
Its ecomomy of operation and maintenance,
its freedom from repair, have never varied,
The petrol comsumption is unusually low
The tyre mileage is unusually high
AW 11
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney
Dodge Brothers, Inc. is a Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce
The “Home-made” Craze.
i
ORK finished? That’s splendid.
yf Well, I’m afraid you ladies will
have to be idle for a little until
a fresh lot of files are ready: this comes of
‘hustling’!”
And the door closed behind the back of
the bead of Department X. The four occu-
pants of the room settled themselves a trifle
more easily in their chairs. One, a slim,
red-haired girl, whipped a piece of lemon-
j colored knitting from a drawer and bent dili-
gently to her needles.
“That going to be a jumper, Miss May-
field?” inquired a dark girl whose hair
tumbled untidily about her ears. Then, as
the other nodded, “you are clever: there’s
a regular craze for home-made things, but
I’m such an awful slacker. Oh, bother
my hair!” she broke off, vainly trying to
thrust back an unruly lock, “I washed it
last night, and I can’t do a thing with it
to-day.”
“What do you wash it with?” inquired
Miss Mayfield. “Not Stallax, I’m sure.
Ah, I thought not.”
“1 do,” said a pretty fair girl who had
not yet spoken. “It’s simply splendid
stuff.”
“There,” said Miss Mayfield, “I told you
so. You try it next time. If you haven’t
any at home a chemist will always supply
it. It works up into the most lovely foamy
lather and cleans your hair in no time.
Afterwards it dries quickly and crisply, so
that it can be done up at once—none of
that untidy ‘endy’ look the day after a
shampoo.”
“Well, well,” said the dark-haired one,
“that’s something worth trying. As we’re
on the subject, do any of you know a cure
for falling hair? I’m convinced I’m getting
prematurely bald; also I’ve got quite a
little patch of grey hair —overwork, of
course,” she grinned.
The head of the room, a slightly older
woman whose face was redeemed from plain-
ness by the masses of soft browm hair sur-
rounding it, sailed into the discussion.
“I don’t think you’ll beat my recipe, Miss
Carey,” she said; “and, like Miss May-
field’s jumper, it’s home made. Get a pack-
age of boranium from your chemist, and
dissolve it in bay rum. If you rub this
into the roots of your hair at night you will
find, in a few days, that not only will your
hair stop falling out, but it will grow much
more thick and glossy. If you aren’t joking
about that grey hair I can give you a tip
which has been of great use to me person-
ally.”
“I’d be fearfully grateful, Mrs. Drewe,”
answered Miss Carey.
“Well,” said the other, “it is not unlike
the first recipe, only this time the bay rum
should have pure tammalite dissolved in it.
You should apply the mixture with a clean,
| small brush, and it will gradually restore
the faded part to its normal color. Of
course, this isn’t a dye; I know nothing
about hair-dyes, for I disapprove of them
entirely. But it’s wonderful tonic.”
“Thanks so much,” Miss Carey said; “I
ought to be a dream of beauty as regards
my hair. Seriously, though, I’m going to
try your ideas. Stallax, boranium, tamma-
lite—is that right? Thanks, Miss May-
field, what a delicious jumper that is;
but my complexion would never stand that
color. You red-haired girls are lucky, you
always have such topping skins.”
"I had anything but a topping skin a
year ago,” replied the latter. I used to
freckle and burn and get dreadfully blotched-
looking. Then a friend told me that mer-
colised wax was by far the most scientific
and effective thing she knew. If it is rubbed
on at night and washed off with warm water
in the morning it gradually absorbs the outer
skin which has become stained and rough-
ened, and reveals the fresh new skin under-
neath. It sounded rather wonderful, and
so I tried it; and I’ve used no other face-
cream since.”
“Would you believe it?” murmured the
facetious Miss Carey. “I wouldn’t be half
so bad-looking if I had your skin, Miss May-
field. Is this wax very difficult to get?”
“Not a bit,” said the other; “any decent
chemist has some in stock.”
Mrs. Drewe looked up. “You all seem
great beauty-specialists! I wonder if one of
you experts know if there is any way of
curing blackheads, as I have a friend who is
quite disfigured with them?”
Miss Carey knitted her brows, but the
fair girl said quickly: “_I think most people
use something called stymol, which you can
buy in tablet form. It closes the pores of
the skin, or, rather, reduces th.em to their
proper size, and that loosens any blackheads
and prevents others from forming.”
“How do you use it?” inquired Mrs. Drewe.
“For blackheads, I believe you dissolve a
tablet in warm water, bathe them and gently
remove them with a towel. But, though I
don’t personally suffer from blackheads I
often have a stymol face-bath. It’s so de-
liciously sparkling and refreshing.”
“Thank you so much; I am sure my friend
will be very grateful,” smiled Mrs. Drewe.
A step sounded in the corridor. “I’m
afraid this very enlightening discussion must
be postponed,” she continued. “I think that’s
the messenger with our files. Yes, here
they come. We must carry on with the
work now.” —ADVT.


Tke
Purest
Spirit
irv the
UirkL
f
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Fife's
“fT STANDS
□
L
%
m
S5Sb
ORIGINAL
BALATA
d
BRITISH
BELTING
The high character consistently built into every inch of
DICK’S Original Balata Belting is responsible for the
profound goodwill it enjoys with all leading Engineers
and Plant Owners. Its reputation for efficiency with
lowest operating costs is backed by over 35 years of
faithful service and sturdy performance.
The plies of DICK’S Balata Belting will not part under the
severe mauling of shifters, as they are closely and firmly welded
together by powerful machinery. There are no seams or splices
tJTbump, wear, or damage machinery.
Being impervious to all conditions of dampness, DICK’S is
the ideal belt for use in Refrigerating Plants, Laundries, Butter
and Dairy Factories, and in all plants where damp conditions
prevail.
One of our practical men will be pleased to consult with your
engineers regarding the correct application of belting, without
any obligation to you. WRTTE FOR FREE COPY OF THE
BALATA BELTING BOOK.
JAMES HARDIES COY. LTD.,
SYDNEY,
York and Wynyard
Streets.
MELBOURNE,
581-83 Little
Collins Street.
ADELAIDE,
30 Currie Street.
QUEENSLAND: The Queensland Machinery Co.,
Albert Street, BRISBANE.
sibilities for facilitating the idea under
expression.
We have come to apply architecture to our
words. In speaking and m writing we use
a little of the colloquial, a little coinage and
—a little of the dictionary !
R. L. CLAY.
Kendall in Melbourne
The bad luck of Henry Clarence Kendall
began some time before he was born with
his bright and beautiful mother, who was
Melinda McNally, grand-daughter of Leon-
ard McNally, who, early in last century,
earned an unenviable notoriety as an in-
former against the little band of Irish
patriots working with him in London for
the emancipation of Erin. Leonard Mc-
Nally was a clever journalist, a playwright
and a brilliant lawyer; and through
his grand-daughter no doubt Kendall
inherited the literary temperament. Through
her, too, came that passion for alcohol which
was his life-long bane. It was Ken-
dall’s misfortune also to be the son
of a consumptive father, himself a con-
siderable consumer of strong waters. Ill-
luck followed further in making Kendall one
of twins, a fragile child born in a bush hut
into a scattered community composed of ex-
convicts and dependent on a dying father
for what education he received up to the
age of 11.
Kendall was born in Ulladulla, on the
south coast of New South Wales. The sur-
roundings of his youth were of extraordi-
nary beauty. Behind the clay-floored slab
hut the boy called home rose tier above tier
of glorious hills, matted wth primeval bush,
spangled with streamlets; before the door
spread the boundless Pacific, blue and beau-
tiful under an ever-faithful sun. This
beauty Henry Kendall sought to express
with poetic fervor and an undying love of
truth that pursued him throughout his whole
after life. The Kendalls settled on the
Clarence River when Henry was a mere boy,
and the youngster entered into a new heri-
tage of beauty. When he was a thin, pale,
very retiring boy of 11 Henry’s father died,
and the neighbors found, huddled by the
death-bed, the prostrate form of the once-
beautiful Melinda. Overcome with grief?
No —-with rum ! She was too drunk to com-
prehend the misfortune that had befallen her.
At IB the weak, shrinking boy was sent to
sea on a whaler, and endured the many vicissi-
tudes of a cabin-boy in a rough-house brig,
with a tough crew, not one of which had
the smallest sympathy with the poetic tem-
permanent as manifested by the Plumstead’s
youthful rouseabout. At 15, utterly sick of
the sea, Henry was back in the Sydney
streets, entirely his own master. He took
a job in a drapery establishment, and at
length the rhymes began to ooze. His first
effort in verse was printed, curiously enough,
in a temperance paper. His second, more
curiously still, in the S. M. Herald. Let
any budding bard break into the columns
of a respectable great morning daily nowa-
days if he dares. Having proved his liter-
ary qualities, kind friends, with that quaint
perversity peculiar to kind friends, thrust
the lad into a lawyer’s office. Then came
friendship with James Lionel Michael, him-
self a poet and a man of good heart and
honest literary tastes, who pushed excellent
books upon young Kendall, fostered his
poetical talent in every way, and brought
him into contact with Stenhouse,. Harpur,
Deniehy, Parkes and Halloran. After
Michael’s death, Kendall forsook the law,
and was presently clerking in the N.S.W.
Lands Department. His first book, “Songs
and Poems,” was published in Sydney in
1862. In 1868 he married the daughter of
a Sydney solicitor, and it was largely to
get his wife away from the grim trials of
close association with his drunken mother
that Kendall resolved to go to Melbourne,
then a muen larger city than Sydney and
a centre of far keener literary interests,
with Lindsay Gordon and Marcus Clarke
foremost in a significant coterie. It was an
unfortunate move, for although Kendall was
already a fairly heavy drinker at 28, it was
the Bohemianism of Melbourne that served to
break down all the restraints he had hitherto
imposed upon himself. He arrived at Queen’s
Wharf in Flinders-street early in 1870, and
found his name well known in the southern
city. Reputation had got in ahead of him.
Most of the men with whom he came in
contact could quote a verse or two
of “Ghost Glen” or the “Song of the Cattle
Hunters.” He w r as delighted with his new
surroundings, and saw the future in a rosy
glow, from which rum was to be wholly
eliminated. He, his wife and their small
daughter, Araluen, occupied a modest cottage
in Carlton, facing the Gardens, and within
a few weeks George Robertson had under-
taken the publication of the poet’s second
book. “Leaves from an Australian Forest,”
a collection of the poems published since
’62, but containing one or two of the best
sets of verse from “Songs and Poems.” Ken-
dall, now 29, was in a jubilant state. He
prepared his book and turned to journalism,
writing a little for the Argus, the Austral-
asian and Punch, then in size, shape and
make-up closely resembling its London pro-
totype. Kendall also contributed to an-
other comic weekly, Humbug, but almost
all trace of his matter in these publications
is now lost. The writer signed little, and
the rest cannot be identified. But the room
available for freelance contributors was
scanty, and it was not possible to keep the
debt-collector from the door hv casual writ-
ings of this sort. The rosy glow soon faded
to a depressing blue. Onlv a very few copies
of “Leaves” sold, those of the general public
who knew Kendall considering five shillings
a preposterous price for a thin book of verse.
Robertson lost £9O by the transaction, Ken-
dall received not a farthing, yet ’’.Leaves ’
contained much of the Kendall verse that
has since-become most popular and profit-
able.
The poet is frequently noted for sartorial
eccentricity, Kendall was the most extra-
ordinary of all our bards in this respect.
He had a thick mop of close-curling nan-
and a wavy moustache and beard. He
adopted what was then known as the Cousin
Jacii shave, winch leaves oniy the moustache
and tiie chin whiskers. Set on top of this
abounding hair, these whiskers and a blood-
less, thin face, a preposterous chimney-pot
hat, fiat and straight of rim and very high
in the crown, made of some dull, black
material covering a shape like a section of
an old stove-pipe, and your mind’s eye has
photographed the poetic headpiece. But
Kendall was not content with these low-
comedy effects; fie must adopt very wide
trousers of brownish material, resembling
sections of rusty gasmains, and a volum-
inous long black coat, with black gloves
of heavy texture, and a fat, outlandish um-
brella of the type known as a gamp, tied
awkwardly at the top to make it bloat after
the manner of the specimen borne by the
best pantomime dames. At this time he was
never seen in Melbourne without his absurd
umbrella, excepting when the owner was too
“wet” to give heed to any extraneous objects.
In fact, it was a sure indication to Henry’s
associates that he was very drunk indeed
when he forgot his umbrella. Next day,
with the coming of sobriety and contrition,
arose the necessity of searching Bohemian
haunts for the lost gamp. And with all
this Kendall was still, as in his extreme
youth, pale, thin and intensely nervous. He
never became actually intimate with men
like Marcus Clarke, Gordon and the literary
fraternity of the Yorick, although he was
much in their company, his reticence and his
shrinking nervousness keeping him always on
the edge of any party he happened to join.
True, a couple of glasses of wine
were sufficent to loosen his tongue
to some extent, but he always remained
more or less like the little boy who
follows ‘on the heels of his larger
brothers into whatever mischief might be
doing, and, unhappily, there was often mis-
chief afoot in the convivial company to be
found at the Yorick of those days, when
Gordon, Clarke, Shillinglaw, Horne, Telo
and Horsley formed the nucleus of a too-
roystering set. Even Gordon failed to get
close to his brother bard, for whom he had
a large and sincere admiration as a poet.
There arq letters of Gordon’s to Kendall
expressing high praise of the latter’s poems,
and one confessing that he (Gordon) had
torn up a set of verse he was writing after
reading the Sydneysider’s “glorious” “Hut
by the Black Swamp.” On the other hand,
there is in the 1870 file of the Australasian
a criticism of Gordon’s verse written by
Kendall, that is a too enthusiastic appre-
ciation. But for all this mutual admiration
the two men were not friends, possibly be-
cause neither could offer the other the decent
hospitality a true friendship might be
thought to demand. The one Melburnian
of the time who seemed to get close to Ken-
skin was George Gordon McCrae, to
whose forthcoming autobiography we may
look with confidence for more intimate de-
tails of this period of Kendall’s life. Both
Kendall and his wife spoke with sincere
gratitude of McCrae as the one true friend
whose kindness never abated.
Meanwhile, however, things were going
from bad to awful. Aralpen died. It was of
this period Kendall wrote: —
Apart, and with the half-grey head
Of sudden age, again I see
The father writing by the dead
To earn the undertaker’s fee.
They had removed, or been chased by duns,
from the cheap house in Carlton to a cheaper
one in Fitzroy, and from that they had to
creep to the cheapest possible in Colling-
wood ; and Colling wood had quaint" possi-
bilities in cheap residences at this time. All
the while Kendall w r as drinking. Often he
presented a strange, dank figure lurking
drunkenly in the streets, white as a ghost,
a truly extraordinary vision in the black
gloves, the funereal suit, and the extraor-
dinary stove-pipe hat, not so drunk as to
be free of compunction, and dreading, above
all things, the eyes of the poor' wife by the
dying child. Then came a stroke of luck—
he won the prize offered for an ode to com-
memorate the Sydney exhibition of that
year, “Orion” Horne being the adjudicator.
Yet it is not correct to call this luck; never
was a prize more worthily earned. A
few weeks later he won also a prize offered
for a cantata concerning the opening of Mel-
bourne’s new Town Hall. The money was
not of much use, serving mainly to open
wide the bar-door to the man of genius
burning with a fever that no amount of
drink could drown.
I have a mental picture of Kendall, only
30, in his undertaker’s suit, not forgetting
his hat and gloves, keeping up with the
small band of riotous Bohemians, yet not
quite of them, trailing them into their haunts,
joining in their bacchanalian revels, a pale,
slight man with hollow, hectic cheeks and
a fevered eye, unconscious of the somewhat
larrikin humors of his friends, but spurred
on by the irresistible quest of the bottle.
There was for a long time a caricature of
Kendall in this guise done in charcoal on
the wall of the Yorick, then covered with
mad drawings and fantastical verses by a
roystering set of young hell-rakes to whom
the vie de Boheme was the only life for an
artist. From these gatherings Kendall
stole to lurk in dark streets or to hide him-
self in squalid bar-rooms, actions that in-
spired the subsequent lines :
This much I’ll say, that when the flame
Of reason reassumed its force,
The Hell the Christian fears to name
AVas Heaven to his fierce remorse.
They had given him a job in the Vic.
civil service, in the census office, of all
places, casting up dreadful columns of death
returns. He lasted at this just three days,
and then fled the place as an alternative to
being driven to a mental hospital. Early in
1871 husband and wife returned to Sydney,
terribly despondent, leaving the “bird we’ve
buried” and a laurel on the grave. Ken-
dall’s sorrows made good poetry: we may
not begrudge the poet his sufferings.
EDWARD DYSON.
The Inky Way
“Thorold” on an ill-starred bantling: Mention of
the fact that Labor Papers, Ltd., has again turned
tail on Sydney recalls the grimmest effort of all,
the Daily Post, financially white-anted at the outset
by the diversion of its funds to the Australian
Workman. I was one of the literary staff victims,
and drew full screw for the first week, half screw
the second week, and in the third week ss. and
(the result cf a strike) 2s. dinner-money. Three
of us were deputed by the staff to demand a week’s
pay to go on with, and chairman of directors Sam
Smith, M.L.A. and Seamen’s idol, offered to buy
us off on condition that we bluffed the others.
When we allluded caustically to his Labor principles
feathers flew. Luckily in the Daily Post days
there were fine, hefty counter-lunches at the three-
penny bar in Roberts’s Hotel; but you couldn’t run
a Labor daily for three months on counter-lunches
now. The Daily Post had a useful literary corps,
which included Frank Fox, Jack Drayton, Frank Col-
lette and the late Dr. Gellatly. Most of us made
up our minds over those counter-lunches that service
under the plutocrats was good enough for us.
Another glimpse at the Kaiser, from a new book
of reminiscences by Von Eckardstein, the young
German nobleman who was picked as a diplomatist
by old Bismarck because he oould “drink without
getting drunk.” At the end of last century he was
the confidential man, under an invalid Ambassador,
in the German Embassy in London, and a friend of
the Prince of Wales, afterwards Edward VII. (Inci-
dentally, he was the husband of the present wife of
the Governor of South Aus.). The Kaiser, so fond
of crossing over to England for Cowes regatta that
he had almost worn out his welcome, had sent his
yacht Meteor to compete one year (1899) without
coming himself. One morning, says Eckardstein,
“there was posted up in the hall of the Yacht Club
a long telegram in which he roundly abused the race
committee. One passage ran thus: ‘Your handicaps
are perfectly appalling.’ That afternoon the Prince
of Wales sent askirg me to come to him. When he
saw me he shook his head and said: ‘lt is really
enough to make one despair. Here am I taking the
greatest trouble to put the Kaiser straight to some
extent with the British public, and here he is begin-
ning again to throw mud at us. You know how
sensitive we are about our national reputation for
fair play in sport. Besides, I really don’t know
what he means. The best proof that our handicaps
are fair is that his Meteor won the Queen’s Cup
yesterday!’”
“T. 0.1.”: William Moore in his article (B.
6/4/’22) on ‘‘Books of Reference” has omitted one
—rare now, I am told —“The Representative Men of
South Australia,” by George E. Loyau. It was
printed and published by George Howell in 1883,
consisted of 264 pages, and contained 28 portraits
and 261 biographies of South Australians.
“Biltong”: In the re-shuffle of staffs on the Syd-
ney evening dailies the Nkyvs gets Harold (“Bill”;
Targett, who has had a place on the S'un
it arose from the muddle of the old Stak. Knowing
and known by everybody—he calls the Priminister
“Billy” and the block-boys “Cuthbert” or “Adol-
phus,” as the case may be —he is one of the city’s
best news-gatherers on the personal side, and he
goes over on a comfortable roving commission to
hunt his own special “stories.”
Frank Tate and Prof. Ernest Scott have planned
a history of education in Vic. which will be pub-
lished in six months in connection with the cele-
bration of the jubilee of free, secular and compulsory
instruction. Sweetman, of the Teachers’ College,
will <take the period before ’72 ; C.i'R. Long, editor
of the School Paper, will tackle the stretch from
’72 till 1900; from that point Prof. J. Smyth, of
the Chair of Education, will carry on the story.
About an ancient bookery: Hobart's new Pub-
lic Librarian, ex-journalist J. A. D. Collier,
emerges from a cloud of dust and cobwebs to
announce that the books in the reference library
are about equal to tinder-boxes in point of practical
usefulness. In the agricultural division, for instance,
the only volumes dealing with breeds of cattle, dis-
eases of sheep, pig-raising and the like, were published
between 1834 and 1847. Veterinary science is repre-
sented by one book, Law’s “Farmers’ Veterinary
Adviser” (1879). Theological works occupy more
shelving space than agriculture, wool-growing, medi-
cine, hygiene, forestry, mining, metallurgy, engineer-
ing, electric practice, manufactures, telegraphy and
accountancy put together. The dreadful condition of
Tasmania’s principal public library is due to sheer
starvation. The total yearly income of the institu-
tion, including Government and municipal subsidy,
has never exceeded £l2OO. In these circumstances it
is hardly surprising that the library’s latest inform-
ation about pig-raising is 75 years old.
“Coot”: Under the heading “Geology” in the
catalogue of the library in the Mechanics’ Institute
of a Victorian inland town I recently saw printed:
“Dyson, E.: Rhymes from the Mines.”
“Gregor”: There are a number of interesting
references to early Australia in the recently-published
“Enciclopedia Universal Ilustrada,” compiled jointly
by contemporary Spanish and American historians,
and dealing principally with the early Spanish pene-
tration of the Pacific. One stands as an instance of
what trifles the future of a nation frequently hangs
upon. It is contained in a letter from a minor
official in Lima, Peru, to the Viceroy of South
America, written about the time that the first news
of the hardships that were being experienced by
Mendana and his party of colonisers in the Solomons
reached Lima. That would be between 1545 and
1550—the letter itself is undated. The writer sug-
gests that in the event of the settlement in the Solo-
mons being unsuccessful by reason of the unhealthi-
ness of the place, an attempt should be made to
transfer it to the “large island” due west, the
existence of which had just previously been reported
by several navigators and whose presence had always
been suspected. This large island was, of course
Australia. The reasons why the Viceroy did not g<
into the suggestion are left unexplained; but tin
Australian of to-day should be rather thankful that
he didn’t.
“Tim Tiki”: Te Toa Takitint is a Maori magazine
recently hatched in Hastings under the wing of the
Diocese of Waipu. It reaches settlements from North
Cape to the Bluff, has many Maori university gradu-
ates as contributors, and deals with moral, political,
social and intellectual matters affecting Henare and
his youngsters.
SNIPPETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the new-style editor.
My efforts are unceasing
With dictaphone and semaphore*
To keep my lead increasing.
I'm looking round for smart young men,
For specialists in sippets,
Bards of the paste-pot, not the pen,
Sub-editors of snippets.
My readers don’t want heavy stuff,
Or anything, that’s solemn.
For articles one line’s enough—
The photos fill the column.
‘‘Stories” and news you have to tell
Must be in headlines stated;
And words above one syllable
Will not be tolerated.
My clientele scorns culture vain:
The brain-food I’m supplying
Causes no intellectual strain —•
Snippets are satisfying.
My circulation is immense;
My patrons seem eternal —
The village idiots round the fence
All patronise my journal.
VICTORIA.
CANSHA.


ďf
Winchcombe,
Carson!
No wonder the firm’s
name attracts his
attention.
The top values secured
for rabbit and other
skins at Winchcombe,
Carson’s sales are a
constant inducement
for skin-getters to
trap and quickly send
their consignments to
market.
CONSIGN SKIN 3
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
PATENT STEEL SPLIT
THE BARRY STEEL, SPEIT PULLET
represents the most considerable for-
ward step yet taken in the design and
manufacture of a.steel split pulley.
The BARRY is Electrically Spot Welded by
the latest and most improved methods. Weld-
ing is the strongest possible means of joining
metals, presenting many advantages over the
old-style riveting. There are no rivets in a
BARRY Pulley to work loose or shear under
strain. The BARRY is made of special steel
and formed in accurately constructed dies.
Write for Free Illustrated Descriptive
Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
Cor. York 8t Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
540-542 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per (lay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Rreakfj st.
Under the management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. liuns on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto —sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
■Spe
Sydney Agrent:
«. N. KIRK, 25 O’Connell Street.
Adelaide Agrent:
C. S. STOKES, 62 Brookman Bldgs.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
d
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
ď
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust— Containing about 90% Metallic Zin»
ZINC CONCENTRATES— s^es.
For Quotations and Terms of Delivery, address—
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with tluTßoard of Trade.
COLLINS~HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The ALDERDSCE
BRASSFOUNDRY
WARRNAMBOOL
We make goods up to a standard—not down to a price. We
cost all our work, and when we cannot get a profit on any line at
current prices we stop making that line.
We use virgin metals, and exercise close metallurgical control over
all operations.
We do good work, and charge cost plus a profit
—and we are entitled to that. [4
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
jIFEGUARD
Jgetfdl Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
fd
MAINTAINS YOUTH OP THE
s\ HEART AND ARTERIES.
It frees them from all the waste
products, uratic and chalky de-
posits which tend to harden theij
walls.
This cleansing process may be compared tc
the boiler and pipes of an engine, \ liich
would certainly refuse to work were its
variotis parts allowed to become clogged
with accumulated dust and dirt.
The same rule applies to the human machine
URODONAL dissolves uric
acid, removes sandy de-
posits from the heart
\alves, prevents degen-
eration of the blood ves-
sels, which interferes with
normal circulation, there-
by preventing overstrain
of the heart.
PRICE PER
BOTTLE, 9/3.
Prepared by
Etablissement»
Chatelaiii.
Paris.
URODONAL
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout - Austraia&u*,
or from CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 SCENT STREET,
SYDNEY, front whom also ean be obtained Free Booklet containing
Medical Opinions.
f 2
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Branx” : Anyone heard any loud protests
from the “never-againers” about the re-open-
ing of trade with Germany? Some of the
Australian Chambers of Commerce would
find the 1914 resolutions interesting reading,
considered in relation to the departure of
soft-goods magnates and other bigwigs for
Europe. There may be nothing in it, but
travellers for several city firms are filling
country storekeepers with gaudy yarns about
the glorious values that will be forthcoming
when the boss gets back from Germany.
Was Hughes’s Anti-dumping Bill designed
to prevent Germany from dumping her goods
here or to prevent us from dumping Hughes?
“Edson” : A new calling for girls has just
come within the purview of the Melbourne
police. It is simple, easy and lucrative.
The operative merely answers advertisements
for domestics, and seizes any opportunity
that may offer to get away with such port-
able articles of value as may come to her
hand. As showing that the range of mov-
able goods is a large one, it may be mentioned
that at a South tfarra house the other day
one girl secured a sewing-machine. It was a
hand-machine, but a hefty item, and the
loser is still wondering how the feat was
accomplished. One active and intelligent
girl will put in a dozen applications in a
dav, and get away with a souvenir from
each. If the house is very promising, the
nice girl may take on any job that is offer-
ing, and take off anything that profoundly
interests her in the course of the following
night. Altogether the enterprise adds a
fresh horror to housekeeping and a new
terror to the domestic-servant problem,
already sufficiently terrifying, Ileaven knows
w * * *
“T.R.H.”: On Good Friday and Eastei
-Monday last I snared a job—-day watchman
in a silk-stocking factory. “I want you,”
said the superintendent, "to keep going from
one floor to-another during the day, opening
and shutting windows on all sides of the
building.” “Ventilation” I began. “Venti-
lation nothing!” was the answer, “we want
the ‘talent’ outside to know there’s a watch-
man inside.” Incidentally, the silk-stock-
ing trade must be booming: this firm is
extending its premises east, west and south.
One of the show places of Adelaide’s hills
has come under the hammer —the garden at
Mount Lofty station, where the train tons
the rise and' starts to run down to the city.
A place of terraces and clipped hedges, it is
always pointed out to inter-State visitors.
R. A. Stock, of the S.A. Brewing Co., laid
it out about 25 years ago, and since his death
it has been owned by James Marshall, the
draper.
* * * *
“Wilfrido” : The remuneration of the Aus
tralian private detective, as proudly men-
tioned by “Sixenate” (B. 6/4/’22), would
be scorned by the M.L. variety. A young
woman who tracks. erring wives as a side-
line gave evidence in a recent case that she
charged £5O for two nights’ work. One male
practitioner exacts a minimum fee of £s ; ss.
a day. Before he turned sleuth he was a
slaughterman. , ,
* * * *
“Kirk”: At least one brand of. “safety”
matches doesn’t deserve the name. • I acci-
dentally knocked an unopened pkcket of
12 boxes from a shelf 7ft. high, find when
it hit the hardwood floor two'box-es ignited
and fired the paper wrapper. Kerosene was
stored nearby, and had the deed been done
by a rat instead of a careless hand my’ pre-
mises might have gone “up in smoke. They
were foreign matches, by the way, but in
future my packets of “safeties” will repose
on the floor.
* * * *
“Matax”: The first lot of sweets from
the Cadbury, Fry and Pascall factory at
Claremont (Tas.) arrived in Sydney re-
cently. It consisted of 118 boxes, but they
were not for sale. Stocks are to be stacked
up both in Sydney and Melbourne before
the merchants get a single lolly.
* * * *
“Cambronne” : I have tried the Australian
make of axe-handles and sadly testify (I
am an Australian myself) that they can’t be
compared with the best American article.
Some of the Australian handles I have
used were apparently made, roughly at that,
from stringy-bark timber, and snapped like
carrot at the first jar. That sort of timber
is only fit for gate-posts. There may be
good Australian handles, but I haven’t seen
’em.
* * * *
“Anaf”: On Mrs. Juggins’s kitchen-table
stood a glass jug full of a pale, yellow-
colored liquid. “It’s some stuff the chemist
sold me.” the ladv explained, “for keeping
the children’s heads clean.” On examination
it proved to be Starvesacre seeds, one of
the deadliest poisons in common use, and
the jug contained enough poison to kill the
whole household ten times over. It is a
cr’rne that chemists should be permitted to
sell such deadly substances in plain white
packages, as this was. without a word of
warning to the unsuspecting buyer.
A TRIAL TURN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Bachelor,, 40, offers home to respectable woman
return light duties. View matrimony. Passage paid.
D.E.” —Lure in Auckland ( M.L .) Times.
I met her in the train.
She seemed a bit downhearted.
And so, to entertain,
I divers topics started.
I spoke of many things,
Sad, serious and funny.
From cabbages and kings
I got to matrimony.
I talked of wedded bliss,
My tones conviction carried,
She perked up so at this
That I cried: “Are you married'?'’
“I’m not exactly wed”—
She spoke with hesitation,
Then blushed, and archly said,
“I’m.out on approbation!”
N.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


99i
m
■
mSBm
k
■
■
m
999999H1
:>■%
■
mm
m
-
MS
.
-
SE
: ;
■
,
m
1
- 1
Hi
»
i :
TO
HH
B
: V
■
:
Ha
i
■I
Hi
H
1111 l
IBWi
B H.
.
: Ttl
ill
9
1
11
■
■ - “
■HB
Sfi
I
■
■
m
a
■
HM
nH
1H
9
T;
:, ■
H
: >-:.;y : ;; : -;^.:
Iffl w
■: z&rr? ip.
■
m
1 s
■
Bliliii
——BB
is^
■HKMHMMiaj
BaMgpHHI
■
HHH
ESS!
1
tV'I
•:f~
11111
H ;
M
:
"liT
vtvy\
:;
if
r/
L
apMHßgj
hMUj
1119119
Hi
§lll
i
HSgWsii^sM
'Zy'w'
■
:-
: ■
■ ■
/; !; . .
-
mSSmmWSSm BZaii
p9HHp9wW9MBMpBH9HBM9HMMBBg
■■■l ' 9M99999999919
ill
MM
v** '
.'T
a
mat
*
ssss
■■B
BB
i
■■l
■
inm!
98 i
jjiiiMi
IMwßli
■i
;
:£
. 1
n
-
HBMM
■ t : v
■
. ■.
...
■
m i
BHMBj
Hi
• -TV:
.
■
• ' ■' .
m
.
A ... . . ■.■ - . ....
. •••
. ' : ■■■ ’■■ : -
■ ■:..
■9999
T
a9H9i BHfclTf
< , mtkm#
'
■
H lill
■ I I ■
y':::T;':vT, ; V.::V HH 991
mSK
i
n
;
:
■
i
i i
';’■/■ .
■ HH
T
■■ ;
■ y.; : T V-:;';'
H' I
■I
B
-T
y?v#
■VT
■ ■ •:•■
■
5 ■ ;
t . mm
I ■■■;:■•■;
I
■
IWWillllllllll
1
111
■
... ..
i/ »* *- .t* «. :
*m\
m
V
': '-.: •:
BB
■ : :.T; -
■
&wm
■
9
■
:T
*i
m
■
■
II
m
T. ■■;:
the Beale Player-
"~y\Piano has a technique far beyond
the demands of the most difficult
piece of music ever written, and because
it possesses devices for the intellectual
control of that technique, in no sense
detracts from it as a piano for use by the
manually proficient musician.
To overlook this aspect of the JVew Beale is to
neglect what is possibly its greatest ’attribute. The
better musician you are the more you will appreciate
the New Beale.
cA Booklet descriptive of this wonderfully human player will be
sent post free to any address.
BEALE 6> COM PANY DP
Showrooms:
540 George St.,
SYDNEY
ď
Head Office and
Factories:
41-47 Trafalgar St.,
AN NAN DALE
BRANCHES—N.S.W. i Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle amt
Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart: Maples, Launceston.
S.A.: John Evans, Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: J. A. Thomson,
Co, Limited. Perth.
BEALE 8C COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane, Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


PENCES
he largest selling
quality pencil in
ike world
BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
Rotastrop
■SHARPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES
f
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
If Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton House,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Anti COMMERCE HOUSE, MELBOURNE
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LAItGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
LIGMOLLIENE
Wr
m„ u ..
Chemists All Chemists
Recommend 5 / 6 7 / 6 tin:
/\\ it. or send 1/6 for
For the Skin.
Every skin trouble,
whether superficial or
chronic, quickly yields
to the Ligmolliene
treatment.
Ligmolliene is un-
rivalled for the treat-
ment of Eczema,
Barber’s Rash, Ring-
worm and all skin dis-
eases.
sample tin to
MALYON 8 SONS,
Sturt St., Ballarat.
d
The farmer has long awakened
to the fact that to obtain the high-
est standard of efficiency from his
farm implements and machinery, he
must pay attention to their correct
lubrication. Farmers now-a-days
are not believers in “hit or miss”
lubrication.
Our association with the farmers
of Australia during the past 25 years
has been a very close one. We
have made a study of the lubricating
requirements of farm machinery,
and we feel proud of the apprecia-
tion expressed to us by farmers for
the help and advice they have recei v.
ed on their lubricating problems.
To-day the Gargoyle trade mark
and the name ‘‘Vacuum” on a
package are the first things looked
for by farmers when purchasing
Petroleum products.
Farmers in the six States know
and appreciate Vacuum products
and Vacuum service. They accept
this Company’s recommendations
with, the same assurance as does the
power or marine engineer.
Gargoyle Lubricants point the
way to Correct Lubrication and
greater mechanical efficiency.
We invite you to write our near-
est branch for assistance with your
Lubricating problems.
VACUUM OIL COMPANYPOP
M Q 6
ďfd
ďf
d
ďf
d
ďf
d
Large Shipment Just Landed.
“MAXIMUM” HIGH-SPEED
TOOLHOLDER STEEL.
HARDENED READY FOR USE.
3-1 6in., fin., 5-16 in., fin., 7-16 in., fin., fin., fin., 1 in. square
in 1 Bin. lengths; also short pieces 3in. to 4in. long.
Poldi Steel Works,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 8704.
A Good Line
for Smokers.
ď
When a man is out with rod and line
there is nothing like a GBD to pass
the waiting time.
There are few things in life that give more satisfaction
to the sportsman.
If you re a sport, pal up with one of these genuine French
Briar Pipes and prove its merit as a source of smoking
comfort.
You are sure of a “good catch” when you buy a GBD.
Many
popular
shapes
from
'B/6
On
Sale
Everywhere.
“W.E.J.”: Whether the northerners are
long-livers or not I don’t know, but the
southerners certainly are. The Hamilton
(Vic.) Spectator tire other day told us
that tlierej' a young gent, in Bendigo vvno,
“although he has reached the age of 092
years, still attends regularly the City Court
Bench.”
A popular appointment has been the elec-
tion of Alfred Wunderlich as president of
the Philharmonic Society in succession to
just-dead William Johnson. For 35 years
the metal-ceiling king has been a member of
the society, and sang solos at its concerts as
far back as Hazon’s day. Among his other
musical activities he is on the Advisory
Committee of the Conservatorium, is one
of the Orchestra’s guarantors, and for some
time was a member of the Madrigal Society.
Alice J. Muskett, best-known of Australian
women artists of mother’s day, is living in
quiet retirement in a Sydney suburb, after
a final burst of great activity in London
during the war. Born in Melbourne, Miss
Muskett studied in Paris over 35 years ago,
and returned to Australia to be the constant
companion of her bachelor brother Philip,
the author of nearly all the popular Austra-
lian medical books we have.
Of the £73,000 left by Hobart’s
pioneer jam-maker, W. D. Peacock, a
fair amount goes to charities. The
big Swan-street (Hobart) house, Ruar-
dean, and a couple of valuable adjacent
building blocks, will be held by the widow
for lite and then pass to the Speck Govern-
ment for the foundation of a Peacock Home
for Incurables. Hobart Homoeopathic Hos-
pital gets 1000 shares in Henry Jones Co-
op., Ltd.; 3000 shares are divided between
Ta,s. Temperance Alliance, Melville-street
Methodist Church and Hobart City Mission,
and £lOOO is left to Methodist ilome and
Foreign Missions.
A Sydney girl, featured in the press the
other day, reckons that she has seen 350
weddings since she started to count six
years ago. It seems a monotonous life; yet
she professes to be as keen as ever. But
she goes less into the matter than another
Woman who keeps what she calls her
“matrimonial score-book.” Details of all
the weddings she has witnessed (with press
cuttings attached) are entered in this regis-
ter, and comments of the consequences are
entered from time to time. Friends who
are intimate enough to be shown the volume
can find out that the 300-odd weddings she
has recorded in a little over 10 years have
already produced 13 divorces, 2 suicides,
and no less than 53 known separations,
some, however, only temporary.
“The Reefer”: Until the Kaiser ran amok
the Godeffrays of Hamburg controlled many
island groups about the Pacific. They were
bankers, storekeepers, recruiters and trad-
ers, and piled up much wealth. And they
came into the southern seas through a Ger-
man sailor getting wrecked. He was cast
up at Yap in the Carolines and lived with
the. natives for a couple of years, -during
which he acquired, a knowledge of numerous
isles and peoples in the neighboring grouns.
Incidentally, he saw sandalwood, heche-de-
mer, copra, pearls and the rest waiting to
be exploited. He eventually got away in
a Chinese junk to the Moluccas, and thence,
with another wreck en route . made his way
to Hamburg. Cseizar Godeffray, an enter-
prising financier, heard his story, fitted up a
yessel for an extensive trading cruise, and
sent him south to lay the foundations *of
both their fortunes.
“P. Airey” raises his hat: —-
Is the Britisher (or the Australian, for that mat-
ter) played out? There landed in Brisbane a few
days ago 281 Italian immigrants, who paid their own
passage-money to Queensland, didn’t ask one cent’s
worth of State aid when they landed, and didn’t
spend a single day looking for a job. They proceed
immediately to the of the North, are
received among compatriots, placed in jobs’ and
regard their fortunes as made. Inside six or seven
years pretty well every one of them will either be
owner or part-owner of a substantial block of sugar
land and an employer of '* other newly-arrived
Piedmontese, who will also be on the highway to
becoming good Australians. A simple method of
co-operation explains the whole business. The
new arrivals are assisted on the land by their
prosperous countrymen, and when the block is cleared
and under crop they are on the road to
peasant proprietorship. No charity, no doles, no
£6OO (or £2000) per head of State assistance—
just a little co-operation and a good deal of hard
work. One begins to suspect that the Australian
system of land-settlement is all wrong. Comparing
this incident with the wretched attempts of the
State and Federal Governments to provide blocks
for the Diggers, I lift my hat respectfully to Giu-
seppe and Antonio.
“X2X”:—
The old physician who said (B. 30/3/’22) that
“the normal woman never prostitutes herself because
the trade is too disgusting” spoke sense. Among
psychologists, alienists and sociologists it is being
more and more recognised that our fallen sister is
an abnormal creature—a “moron.” The fallacy of
the idea that she is largely a victim of adverse
industrial conditions is proved in Aust'alia, where,
though prostitution flourishes vigorously, women are
probably better off socially and industrially than
in any other part of the globe. That prostitutes
are a class apart, like the criminal class, fs demon-
strated by statistical records, which show that the
greatest percentage of female illiterates if' found
among them; that they provide nine-tenths of the
female lawbreakers, and that they are the most
susceptible to diseases, such as tuberculosis and
cancer. Moreover, they provide an extraordinarily
large proportion of female lunatics, and in nearly
every case in which it has been possible to trace
their history back to the days of their childhood,
it has been found that at school they were looked
on as dunces, if not half-wits. Recent expert >
ments in the United States, conducted by the mem-
bers of a psychological clinic who examined a total
of 300 arrested street-walkers, showed that where
the mental co-efficient of the average person is repre-
sented by 20, that of these women ranged from
three or four to eight or nine. When our methods
of dealing with the mentally and morally unfit have
advanced, steps will be taken to pick out those
children of a lower mental level and give them
some treatment designed to improve their chances
in life. Now we try to flog their shortcomings
out of them ; u(hicb_. all things considered, is about
on a par with the Middle Ages’ idea of burning people
alive to exorcise the devil in them.


m*.
“Rexona is a wonderful Healer, and
l always keep a tin of it handy."
—Miss Ivy Shilling.
I
i
“7 think Rexona Soap truly delight-
ful."
—Miss Cecil Bradley.
Rexona Soap,
the Aristocrat
of Soaps.
“ Rexona' and Rexona Soap are
worth their weight in gold."
—Miss Madge Elliott.
“Rexona Soap if miles ahead of
anything I have ever tried before"
—Miss Gracie Lavers.
Be Dainty! BePretty!
Be Attractive!
Be a Rexona Girl!
Use only Rexona and Rexona Soap.
Every day the fame of Rexona grows, until
it is now world-wide. Most of all of our
noted theatrical artistes are Rexona Girls,
for they know how much personal attract-
iveness adds to charm, and have learned
by experience that the use of Rexona and
Rexona Soap is the shortest road to health
and beauty. Note what these artistes say
of Rexona and Rexona Soap, and if you
are not already a user of the Rexona
Products, start their use to-day. Rexona
will keep your skin in perfect condition,
and free from all blemishes. Rexona Soap
gives natural beauty to the skin and hair.
S'vSS
rili
W'.
v/y.
5%
I
v,% Zy
%
r/.
m
%
yy
'/y
For
Cleanses
Bath
TOILET
HEALS Af
Purifies
ANO
NURSERV
lAL
FA
SKI
f
V/.
W'/M
m
%
1
m
V/.
I
1
%
"a
Vy
'//
'm,
Girls! Beautify Your Hair.
Do you know that in less than ten minutes you can double
the beauty of your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy,
abundant, and appears as soft, lustrous and charming as anyone
could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A
delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected,
or is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin. Rexona Soap cleanses the
hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few moments you
have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves
every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates
the scalp, for ever stopping itching and falling hair. If you
care to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a tablet of Rexona
Soap to-day.
Have You a Good
Complexion ?
Rexona Soap makes you proud of your complexion. There
can be no luxury to a woman equal to the consciousness that
her complexion is clear, fresh and delicately radiant. To
keep it so, no amount of cosmetics can equal the regular use
of such a soap as Rexona Soap, which thoroughly cleanses,
and at the same time has just the right soothing, healing
action to maintain the natural health and beauty of the skin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the pores, removes excess oils, cools
and clarifies an angry skin. Rexona, the Rapid Healer, 1/6
%nd 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
“J have never come across a Soap
like Rexona before. So lovely for
the Skin and Hair.”
-—Miss Lottie Collins (jun.).
mr
:S*S
ite
‘My motto is Rexona
—Miss Dorothy Brunton.
Purest and
Best Soap
Known
“Rexona is a marvellous Healer,
and I will never be without it.’’'
—Miss Jean Robertson.
“T find Rexona Soap delightful for
my Skin and Hair ”
—Miss Eileen Cottey.
Rexona Soap for Health and


Hotel de Luxe,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND OROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boatl right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine Now Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 10/- per lay, or from
4 % (Jnineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON &• JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl, 300?. Apply Manager.
m
ft
r£
qe
S&IOVJTV / !
Jfcofvn
YES!—You Cair
Easily Mark any
GARMENT or MATERIAL
ito ensure You Protection
'’against loss, and individuality
by using
(KHIH
Unlimited scope, easily sewn
on any Name Woven in Past
Color.
Prices - 12 doz. 7/6,
G doz. 5/-—3 doz. 3/6.
I Be sure and ask for CASH’S
at all Best Drapers
Made in Australia by
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
! 85 Cubitt St. Richmond,Vic.
WRITE FOR STYLE BOOK
f
THOROUGHLY BRITISH
Ride a bicycle
built of
n
m
n
FITTINGS
A MODEL TO
SUIT EVERY RIDER.
Whatever your need, there is a
bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
to meet it. The well illustrated
B.S.A. Fittings Handbook covers a
wide and varied range of bicycles.
I
THIS
TRADEMARK
APPEARS ON ALL
BICYCLES BUILT OF
B.S. A. FITTINGS.
Illustrated Handbook
post free on request.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
d
DO YOU WEIGH WHAT
YOU SHOULD? \
As.a genera! rule your weight is a reliable index
to the state of your health.
Sick people invariably lose weight, but none so quickly as
those with a heavy, racking cold or other form of chest complaint.
Natural resistance and vitality, of course, decreases aiso, and
If not checked may lead to serious consequences.
When such conditions arise, remember that you Can Speedily
regain top-notch condition by taking
fin
■iiiiimiitmiiHiiHuuiiii
This highly efficacious remedy will make you
LOOK BETTER, FEEL BETTER,
WORK BETTER, SLEEP BETTER.
Nothing energises the systeyh and promotes
vigor and alertness like HYPOL, which is
a food, a tonic, a revitaliser all in one.
Recommended
by Doctors.
Used in the
Leading Hospitals.
Commence taking HYPOL to-day, and the
joys of a healthy life are yours .
Made by FELTON. GRIMWADE & CO. Ply. Ltd..,
SOLD EVERYWHERE. MELBOURNE.
§?* c 'i
© 371
Quality Governs Value
The Product of a world-famous firm of high-grade
Shoe Manufacturers,
SHOE POLISH
imparts a lasting lustre to the shoes and adds greatly
to their life. COLORS: Black, Brown, Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
The Drills for Service
ďf
Dependence
on your part in anything under the sun is the result
of reliable service that experience has taught you to
expect—be it your own experience or that of any
other man.
“Capital” Brand
H.S. Twist Drills
are proved by performance. This fine steel cuts
accurately at high speeds, and retains its cutting
edge. The slight “thinning” at the point pre-
vents splitting under normal conditions. Send
us a trial order and ask for table of feeds and
speeds, and special booklet on steel treatment
post free.
n W/M
Tine Eag'le &. Globe Steel Co. L*td.»
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOCK & CO., LTD., Sheffield,
MAKERS OF UETRA-CAPITAE HIGH-SPEED STEEE,
379-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 312-18 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
niff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Kalgoorlie; Paul &
Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle; H. E. Milligan, 32a Argyle
Street Hobart- John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Etd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
s©l L E
APPLIED TO INTERNAL
SURFACES WITH A BRUSH.
CONTAINS NO OIL. HALVES THE BOILER SCALING BILL.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET.
SYDNEY: The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd., 490 Kent St.
BRISBANE: John Reid & Nephews, Charlotte Street.
MELBOURNE: The British-Australian Engineering Co., Coilrns St.
ADELAIDE: E. Treliving, Grenfell Street.
PERTH: W. Adams & Co., King Street.
Minister Massy Greene, who has a charm-
ing little bungalow at Brunswick Heads
(N.S.W.), has persuaded Priminister Hughes
and his Dame to spend a week-end with him
next month. “Billy” is hoping for peace
and quiet, hut he will need to he a very
artful dodger to escape the basket picnics,
the welcomes . and deputations which will
surely fall upon him, even in this out-of-the-
way place.
The latest admission to the Bar of the
Speck is Alan Coles Propsting, who calls
the Attorney-General and ex-Premier dad.
He saw service as an airman in Palestine,
and then put in a year or so in Britain. Chief
Justice Nicholls presided at the admission
ceremony the other day, and both parents of
the new lawyer beamed down from the
Judges’ dais upon the induction proceedings.
From another old Labor politician:—
There is nothing very novel about Labor going
to Capital to cadge subscriptions for John Storey’s
Memorial (B. 13/4/’22). The pay wasn’t high in the Q.
Parliament 20 years ago, and sometimes the hat was
sent round to aid some Labor member in distress.
Seldom was the amount raised within the party
limits enough to afford considerable help. None
the less the total results were usually Substantial
for we (this scribe was in it) used to appeal to
the nefarious capitalists on the other side of the
House, and rarely did we appeal in vain. Really,
Fat wasn’t so bad after all.
“Trim”: “J.F.11.” (B. G/4/’22) is lucky
to be u a mud where books are becoming
cheaper. Here in Australia he might be in
vited to pay a war price for a volume with
a pre-war date. In Melbourne, lately, I
bought W. S. Gilbert’s plays, four vols., for
7s. (id. a time, the price being marked on
a slip gummed on the wrapper. One of
these becoming detached another slip, hear-
ing the legend "55.,” stole into view. This
concealed a third slip, on which the price
was 45., and there was actually a fourth
indicating the original charge—3s. net. I
wouldn’t begrudge this 250 per cent, in-
crease if it could benefit Gilbert or his heirs,
hut my opinion of the soulless brigand be-
hind the counter could only be recorded on
asbestos.
“Bill Bowyang”: A Bulletin writer (I
have forgotten his name or brand) once
argued that the climate and soil of the N.T.
were suitable for growing vanilla beans.
There is no doubt about it. The variety
known in Mexico as pompona would flourish
in the Territory. This bean does not split;
it can be cured by simply exposing it to the
sun ; it doesn’t require to be dipped in hot
water or subjected to a process of baking,
and it yields at least two crops of flowers
during the year—sometimes three or four.
Vanilla is a profitable plant when the crop
is good. But intending growers are warned
that the juice of the vine produces an itch-
ing sensation, resembling prickly heat, and
that handling the dry beans brings out blis-
ters on the hands and sores upon the arms
and body. However, a mixture of equal
parts of carbolic acid, glycerine and rose
water rubbed on the blisters before going
to bed brings relief.
“Cartot”: “Macquarie Street’s” sugges-
tion (B. 30/3/’22) to limit the number of
students permitted to enter the Medical
School each year would go a long way to-
wards remedying the sorry state of affairs
in medical practice he pictures, and it could
best be put into force by insisting on the
possession of a degree in science by each
candidate for entry, as is done by leading
universities in other parts of the world.
Such an innovation would be opposed on
the grounds that it would prevent any save
wealthy students from 'completing a medical
course; but thousands of poor men manage
to do it elsewhere, and bur own students
are surely made of as good stuff. One
of the chief troubles at present is that the
course is too easy, whereby, as a Bulletin
writer who knew something lately remarked,
many a good plumber has been spoiled to
make a poor doctor.
A creepy note from a Sydney girl:—
We went cray-fishing on the Nasalai reef in Fiji but
found we were too early, so decided to wait in an
ancient wreck until the tide had gone out. As we
entered the hulk a torchlight showed it to be already
occupied—it was festooned with snakes! They
squirmed in masses on the floor, "writhed upon the
beams and stared at us with wicked eyes from every
crack and cranny. Horror turned me speechless;
but to my amazement one of my companions care-
lessly kicked about 30 of them on one Side. When
I had been restored to normal, it was pointed out
to me that these black and white stripes are sea-
snakes and harmless. I was even invited to pull
their flat, eel-like tails, and when I saw the obvious
terror of one particular 6ft. serpent on being caught
by the southern end my courage returned. W T e then
chucked several dozens of them out into the cold
hard world and settled down comfortably for a two-
hours’ wait among the rest. Incidentally, the wreck
was the old Syria, a coolie ship which came to grief
with a full cargo of Indians 30 years ago and all
aboard perished. What is left of the teak-wood deck-
ing is in excellent condition after all these years.
The life-story of a moustache: —
To account for the position which the late Fred
Villiers made for himself, as war artist and corres-
pondent, one had to consider his moustache —his
Kaiser William mo. He claimed to be a person of
great importance, and looked the part. His career
ivas in a large measure originated for him by a
proud, effusive father, brother of a wealthy music-hall
proprietor and father of the Laura Villiers who
brought a theatrical company to Australia in a
costly ambition to star as an actress, which she
certainly wasn’t. The desire to let their light
shine before men, was in the Villiers blood, and
young Fred’s father bragged about his boy’s artistic
ability until the editor of the Graphic gave the
youth a show in order to pacify the old man. When
war broke out in the Balkans in 1876 Frederic got
his chance. Only 24 at that time, his work was
notoriously crude, but in swank and self-esteem he
stood alone in his profession. He had not been
long at the game ere he added lecturing to his equip-
ment, and for practically 40 years he kept himself
going as a celebrity. All that time he was doing
comparatively little with big opportunities. Apart
from his appearance he was dull. His black-and-
white work had no touch of genius in it; the stuff
he wrote was the journalese of a stodgy thinker, and
his lectures left no impression on one’s mind. But
his large military manner of taking the stage and
looking terrible was a sufficient explanation of how
he had come to he a specially-engaged son of adven-
ture. One felt that Frederic’s great aim in life
had been to live up To his moustache. His second
visit to Australia happened only six years ago, and
his age when he died was just as long as the
Psalmist sanctions.


STAND ONi
m
RES ISf,
V-':
fe//TEmcs
|2’>.
Manufactof«o
WORKS f
PORT HtC.HES
K
TEMCO
Don’t pay a high price.
A Texaco roof is remarkably low in cost —yet
it’s a thoroughly good roof in every respect; and
protects you for years from all sorts of weather,
under all sorts of climatic conditions.
You may, if you like, spend more money on other
types of roofing, yet in a very short time find that
your roof is not doing all a good roof should.
You won’t have that experience with a Texaco
roof. Texaco Hoofing lasts for years.
Texaco Roofing comes in rolls all ready to lay—
with printed instructions, a full supply of heavily-
galvanised nails and two quarts of asphaltic cement
for the laps. You get a complete roofing outfit —
all but the hammer and ladder you’ll use in build-
ing the roof.
Texaco Roofing is easily laid by anyone who will
read the printed instructions, and when the few
simple directions are followed, your finished roof is
practically one continuous sheet of heavily
asphalted felt, the finest weatherproofing material
known.
Ask for Texaco Roofing in any of the several
weights suited to your needs. You’ll be well
satisfied.
THE TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited
Head Office- Auto House,
143=145 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Branches throughout Australasia.
c
A
r
.«§
i
II
CE
pure f 0022
DR 5*
Rex Ham Pate
The Ideal Spread for
School Sandwiches!
Good for them —economical for you ! There you have the
reasons for the popularity of “Rex Ham Pate.
Try it! “Rex” Ham Pate as a Sandwich filling gives their
healthy little appetites plenty of encouragement.
Besides it is wholesome food— the country famed “Rex’
Ham with its inviting mildness and delightful flavor pre-
pared so invitingly that no appetite could possibly lesist it.
Its real Economy will quickly make “Rex” Ham Pate a
favorite in your home.
“REX” HAM PATE IS “REX”
HAM IN MOST ECONOMICAL
FORM—TRY IT !
Sold by all leading Grocers.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 147
HupnobOt
l
The Hupmobile mechanical and g'eneral
designs, as worked out in tbe beginning,
Have proved basically sound and rigbt. Tbe
result, of course, is exceptionally long life;
and no need for radical engineering; revision
from year to year.
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS.
Body Types. —Five-seater touring car, two-seater
' roadster.
Wheelbase. —112 inches (2.84 m.).
Cylinders.—-Four, cast en bloc, removable head,
3% in. bore x s%in. stroke, 83 x 104 mm.
Starting and Lighting.—Electric—two-unit system.
Ignition. —High-tension magneto.
Carburetter. —Adjustable.
Fuel System. —Vacuum feed.
Lubrication. —Pressure system with pump.
Clutch.—Dry disc type—7 plates.
Tyres.—Bls x 105 mm. clincher or 32in.
straight side. Demountable rims.
Wheels. —Wooden (Artillery type).
Color.—Blue or grey body.
4in.
I. PIIIZACKERLEY, 160-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALOETY & COMPANY. LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PI KEN IX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pine
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 437 Adelaide Street,
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania. ,
NZ. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch,
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
d


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Oct. Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, £lO.
Others, £5/10/-, £6/10/-, £7/10/-,
£B/10/-, £l2.
A. Saunders’
9oi. Gold Scarf
Pin, set Pearls
and Red Stone,
A. Saunders’ Circle
Brooch, set Pearls,
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’
Soft-collar But-
tons, chain con-
nections, 9ct.
Gold, 7/6.
Etone set, 8/6.
A* Saunders’ Solid Gold Lever Watch, Gold Expanding
Side Bracelets and Leather Strap, £5.
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, £2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set Pearls
and Aquamarine, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Oct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines,
£2.
A. Saunders'
double-cut Diamond
Ring, ISct. Gold,
£l5.
Larger Diamonds,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
Saunders’
Gent, s 9ct.
Gold Signet
Ring, 20/-
15ct. Gold,
£2.
18ct. Gold,
£2/10/
-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 25/-; heavier,
30/-
15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
<j*«
- k *
A. Saunders’ fine
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18cc. Gold,
£5/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£lO.
A. Saundere*
double-cut Diamond
Sing, 18ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Open-face Keyless
Watch, £2.
Higher-grade movement, £2/10/-, £3.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Silver, Open-face
Lever Wristlet Watch, £B/10/-, £4.
Gold-filled, £5, £5/10/-
Bct Gold, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct.
Gold Ring, set
Aquamarina or
Tourmaline,
£2.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, concave, convex or
flat, 20/-; heavier, 25/-,
30/-; 15ct. Gold >
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Brooch, set Pearls and
Aquamarine or Tourmaline, £2.
16ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Pearls and Ruby, 12/6.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Kins, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£l5, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders*
double-cut Diamond
Bing, 18ct. Gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’ Set.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamarines and
Pearls, £3.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opp. RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
/k
''fry
m
as
/v iVl\
V
Better Floors—Better Homes
Well kept floors—polished with Tohnson’s Prepared Wax Paste—
lend a note of refinement and good taste to the simplest home, making
a suitable background for furniture, rugs and other home furnishings.
And when you consider the ease with which these floors are kept dusted
and polished, you do not wonder why so many housewives have adopted
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste for all floors—wood, marble, tile,
linoleum, &c.
JOHNSON’S
Waste—Liquid— Powdered
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is also prepared in the Liquid form for
k furniture, phonographs, pianos, leather goods, motor-cars, &c.
It contains no oil and therefore cannot gather
or hold dust, or become soft in warm, damp
weather. It imparts a hard, dry and durable
surface that protects the varnish and covers
mars and small surface scratches.
Johnson’s Powdered Wax will im-
mediately put any floor in perfect
condition for dancing.
Your dealer has Johnson’s
Wax —there is no substitute
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
3 79 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
FIFTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE
SHAREHOLDERS.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting' herewith for the information of Shareholders the Balance
Sheet of the Bank as on 27th March, 1922, also statements of Profit and Loss and the Reserve Fund on
the same date.
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 27th March, 1922 (including the Balance brought
forward from previous year, £22,178 12s. 10d.), amounts to .. ..£114,812 .1 9
Out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid
in November last . . .. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. 31.250 0 0
Leaving available .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ~ £83,562 5 9
from which it is proposed to pay a Dividend at the rate of 10 per
cent per annum .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £31,250 0 0
to transfer to Reserve Fund .... .. ... .. .. .. 30,000 0 0 61,250 0 0
leaving a Balance to carry forward of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £22,312 5 9
Dining the year the Branch at Port Victoria and the Agencies at Urania, Willalo and Yeelanna have
been closed.
It is with much regret that we record the death of Mr. \y. L. Ware, who was an Auditor of the
Bank for 35 years, during which period he rendered valuable service in that capacity. Following on his
death the Board appointed Mr. G. R. Annells to fill the vacancy, in terms of Clause 90 of the Deed of
Settlement.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Boardroom at the Head Office of the Bank, King
William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, 3rd May, 1922, at 12 o’clock noon, at which the Shareholders
will be called upon to elect two Directors in the place of Sir George Brookman, K.8.E., J.P., and Arthur
Graham Rymill, Esq., who retire by rotation, and being eligible, offer themselves for .re-election.
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the remuneration of
the retiring Auditors.
BALANCE SHEET. 27th MARCH, 1922.
LIABILITIES.
£8,231,821 17 1
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion,
and Cash Bal-
ances . . . . £290,005 3 0
Australian Notes 1,130,789 0 0
Government De-
bentures. . .. 531,759 0 3
Imperial Govern-
ment Treasury
Bills . . .. 1,380,000 0 0
Municipal Deben-
tures . • • . 900 0 0
Money at short
call 260,000 0 0
Balances due
from other
Banks .... 121,958 11 10
Notes of other
Banks .... 900 0 0
Remittances in
Transitu.. .. 370,817 0 0 ’
£4,087,129 1 1
Bank Premises
and Furniture 153,113 15 1
Bills Receivable and all other
Advances 3,991,579 0 11
£8,231,821 17 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
YEAR FROM 28th MARCH, 1921, TO 27th MARCH, 1922.
To Reserve Fund, as »
below £20,000 0 0
Dividend in Mav,
1921 31,250, 0 0
Dividend in No-
vember, 1921 . . 31,250 0 0
£82,500 0 0
Balance 83,562 5 9
£166,062 5 9
By Balance 28th March, 1921 .. .. £73,428 12 10 J
Net Profit, including Recoveries,
and after making provision for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, Re-
duction of Bank Premises, In-
terest accrued on Fixed De-
posits, and Rebate on Bills
Discounted, and deducting
Expenses at Head . Office and
53 Branches, including Salaries,
Rents, Taxes, etc .. 92,633 12 11
£166,062 5 9
RESERVE FUND.
To Balance at this date .... . . £620,000 0 0
£620,000 0 0
By Balance 28th March, 1921 .. .. £600,000 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May,' T 921 .. .. .. ... .. .. 20,000 ; 0 0
£620,000 0 0
It. S. YOUNG, Superintendent.
W. P. COTTRELL, Accountant.
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
GEO. BROOKMAN,
JAMES R. FOWLER,
HOWARD W. LLOYD,
A. G. RYMILL,
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of The Bank of Adelaide
for the Year ending 27th March, 1922, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We have
counted the Cash and examined the Bills and Government and Municipal Securities on hand at the Head
Office —the Assets and Liabilities at the Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates
of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled
by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 11th April, 1922.
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A., V
G. K. ANNELLS, F.C.P.A., j
Auditors.
As it should be played
The clear, mellow music of the EDISON
DIAMOND Amberola is a revelation to all
who have heard the harsh, mechanical shrill-
ness of ordinary “talking machines.” The
music of the Amberola is the true music of
the artist, and whether it be vocal or instru-
mental it is reproduced with all the harmony
and feeling of the original.
Mr. Edison’s Diamond Point
Reproducer does awiay with the
bother and expense of changing
needles, and the Blpe and Royal
Purple Amberol Records are
practically indestructible. Think
what these two features alone save
you when you own an Amberola :
they make it the world’s greatest
phonograph value.
There are three Amberolas to
choose from. Amberola 75 has
Golden Oak or Mahogany Finish
Cabinet with space for ‘B4 Blue
Amberol Records, and stands
41 inches high; Amberola 50 has
same finish, but without space for
records, and stands 15 inches hi eh;
Amberola 30 has Golden Oak Cabi-
net. and stands 121 inches high.
You should hear your favorite selection at the ■ nearest Edison Dealer's—his name wilt
he furnished on request to Thomas A. Edison, Ltd., 3GJ,-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
EDISON AM BE RO LA
Amusements.
A Play of All Periods and of AH Lands.
“THE WHITE=HEADED BOY,”
IN 3 ACTS.
mm
mm
mm
mi
am
m
Threads from life's story
fashioned into an exquisite
bit of Irish lace.
PALACE THEATRE.
6th May.
Amusements
S\ l» NIC VS CIII 1C !■’ THKAT It K 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON'. LTD., present
IIER MAJESTY’S:
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
CRITERION:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAREAN
PRODUCTIONS.
Australian Tour:
SYDNEY’ SEASON —GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Australasian Representative: HUGH I). WILSON,
17 'I he Ranking House, Pitt Street. Sydney.
WIKTHS’ CIRCUS
ami
Menagerie of Perfornling Wild Animals.
THE HIPPODROME. SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE SATS. and WEDS., 2.30.
Children half-price.
This Year the Best Ever. Everything New.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTI)., MELBOURNE
■ ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE BAT.
THE BAT IS A SUPER-MYSTERY PLAY.
KING’S THEATRE.
PHILLIPS TEAD and ELIZABETH DUNN in
THE FIRST YEAR.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|y|\.IESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
SQUIBS.
A SPECIAL FEATURE FILM.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
■po WN HALL, MELBOURNE.
sth, 6th, 9th and 11th MAY.
THU VERBRUGGHEN ORCHESTRA.
ANDRE SKALSKI, Conductor.
Prices: 7/6, 5/-, 3/-. Plans at Allan’s.
OIT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
HERBERT RAWLINSON in
THE MILLIONAIRE.
REGINALD DENNY in
THE LEATHER PUSHERS.
Prices as usual.
BIiITANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
(VI ,51LIJA
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WOULD and SEI.ZNICK.
Tenders.
riTENDERS are invited, closing 17th May,
JL for the purchase of the whole of the
Plant, Machinery, Stores, Tools and Build-
ings in one lot, or alternatively for any lot,
as detailed and set out in Schedule, compris-
ing : WATER TUBE and other BOILERS,
WINDING ENGINES and WINCHES,
AIR COMPRESSORS and ROCKDRILL-
ING EQUIPMENT, MACHINE TOOLS,
PUMPS, PIPING and BUILDINGS as and
where now lying at the mine, Cobar, New
South Wales.
Schedule supplied upon application to the
undersigned. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO.,
Solicitors.
Union Bank Chambers,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Missir.g Friends.
SIMON— JAMES NlCHOLAS.'—lnforma-
tion of whereabouts sought by William
Daniel Decker. City Hall, East London.
C.P., South Africa.
liCgal Notices.
TN the matter of the Estate of ANNIE McALLIS-
TER, late of Summer Hill, Spinster, deceased.
CHARLES MCALLISTER, brother of the above-
named, or any person knowing his whereabouts, is
requested to communicate with the undersigned
regarding the above estate. T. \V. GARRETT,
Public Trustee. Public Trust Office, Cuhvulla
Chambers, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
29th July, 1921.
rpo THOMAS RENO WHEN, a brother
JL of Edith Amelia Rennodene or Renow-
den, late of Christchurch, in the Dominion of
New Zealand, spinster, deceased, and to
CAROLINE, daughter of the said Thomas
j Renowden, to ELIZABETH ANDREW
! (born Renowden), aunt of the said Editli
Amelia Rennodene or Renowden, and to her
children, and to THE PATERNAL
UNCLES AND AUNTS, NEPHEWS AND
NIECES AND FIRST COUSINS and
THE MATERNAL UNCLES AND
AUNTS, NEPHEWS AND NIECES AND
FIRST COUSINS of the said Edith
Amelia Rennodene or Renowden and all
persons claiming by, through or under the
foregoing persons or any one of them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
28th day of February, 1922, by a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of Decem-
ber, 1922, your claims to the estate of Edith
Amelia Rennodene or Renowden, who died a
Spinster and Intestate at the City of Christ-
church in New Zealand on the 10th day of
June, 1913, and who was born and formerly
resided at St. I. es in the County of Corn-
wall in England, failing which the estate
will be distributed amor" those entitled
jtheret> disregarding your claims.
Dated at Wellington, this 14th day of
March, 1922.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor.
Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Public Notices.
DAIiGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED.
Interim Dividend.
rrVHE Transfer Books will be closed from the 7th to
the 21st May inclusive, preparatory to payment
of an Interim Dividend of 5/- per share —being at
the rate of 10% per annum, which has been declared
and will be payable at the office of the Company, 15
Bent Street, Sydney, on and after the 18th May.
M. R. MACRAE, Manager.
Municipal Directory, 1922
Tust published—s7th Edition—Bl6 pages—Crown Bvo.
Commonwealth, State of Victoria,
Municipal, Water Supply.
Valuable to Commonwealth and State, Municipalities,
Professional 1 and Business Films.
ARNALL & JACKSON,
Printers & Publishers, 478 Collins Street, Melbourne
Last Few Weeks
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
In aid of the Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee).
£llOO
£5OO
£3OO
Ist PRIZE
2nd PRIZE
3rd PRIZE
£llOO
£5OO
£3OO
and
105 Other Prizes valued at £BOO.
CLOSES MAY 23 and DRAWN MAY *6,
1922.
Winning numbers published in this
paper June 1, 1922.
1 /- ONLY —TICKETS—ONLY 1/-
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughout the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, BLACKHEATH, N.S.W.


mg George r
fSieTOF-HOTCH’Scotch.
Ladies’ Wristlet
Watches.
We know all about Wristlet
Watches. Every size and shape
and good quality Watch we
carry.
Tens of thousands we have sold,
and during the last financial
year we repaired just on 12,000
Watches, hence we may reason-
ably claim to have experience.
Solid Gold Bracelet and Reliable 15-jewel Lever
Watch, £B/8/-
Our experience enables us to judge THE BEST Watches for Australian wear.
Our great capital and large buying for Cash only secures the lowest possible cost
prices.
These factors are expressed in our famous low prices and high qualities.
Hence our showing a thoroughly sound, good watch in a Solid Gold Case, and witc
a Gold Britannic Bracelet at £B/8/-
Fairfax &. Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
ller Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl"
Criterion “My Lady’s Dress’
Palace “The White-headed Boy’
Grand Opera House Shakspearean Productions
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night out”
Royal “The Bat”
King’s “The First Year ’
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Town Hall The Verbrugghen Orchestra
The Decoration Co., Melbourne, has a
show of etchings that is worth seeing. Head-
ing the catalogue are two or three by YVlust-
ier, the principal of which is “r reetrade
Wharf,” though it is not representative of
the little artist’s best manner. Nor can his
admirers claim that there is much suggestion
of his sprightly line and quality in his Chel-
sea Bridge and Church. Lee Hankey’s 13
prints are masterfully executed. Ilis needle
strokes are strong and wristy, and he has
a feeling for grava and graceful tableaux, as
demonstrated in “Evening” and "The Cloak.”
Anders Zorn’s somewhat pallid impressionism
is not so successful in his portrait of Anatole
France, but he gets a suggestion of vivacious
carelessness into his piquant view of “The
Water Nymphs.” Seymour Haden produces
a rich black line, and his drawing is impec-
cable ; but there is not the thrill of a tour de
force in any one of his quartette. Take his
“Whistler's House at Old Chelsea.” It is
pretty and correct, and might have been
etched to the tune of a minuet. E. Blampied
is much more enthralling from a popular
point of view. Perhaps his vitality is too
shattering in so delicate a medium, but there
is no denying the raciness of his performance
in “Potato Planters” and “Dozing and Snor-
ing.” The latter, depicting a dirty tramp
and a cat rubbing against his leg, will pro-
bably lie regarded as a degrading subject for
the sacred art, but it is lifelike nevertheless.
J. F. Millet is noted for the dexterous
shadow masses in “The Woolcarder,” and
Brouet’s ballet-dancers have the unusual dis-
tinction ot not appearing posed for the occa-
sion. Robert Spence’s "Cromwell” presents
a rather wistful face with a large, disturbing
nose. To The Bulletin’s mind the face
would be more historical with a little less
proboscis and a bit more chin.
* * *
“A Night Out,” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
having survived its 100th performance, is
now looking forward to next Saturday week,
the 13th. Theatrical management ordained
some years ago that Boat-race Nights should
be matters for business exploitation, and the
13th. will be an annual occasion for crowd-
ing the theatre at advanced prices. Mean-
while the best joke in this cheery musical
show continues to be the stodgy widower
who travels with a quartet of beauteous
flapper daughters, and suffers from string-
halt..
$ $
At Melbourne King’s the want of sub-
stance and untheatrical staginess, as it
may be called, of “The First Year” pro-
hibits the probability of a long run for the
Yankee play, though it _is an inexpensive
production with but eighT characters in it.
Nothing rings quite true in “The First Year”
save the farcical rough and tumble between
the serio-comic husband and liis wife’s former
“The First Year,'”
Melbourne King's.
Thomas Lloyd as Mr.
Barstow.
sweetheart, and
the fact that in
aiming something
heavy at the other
fellow the wife hits
her liege lord on
the head. Situa-
tions are uncon-
vincing. An al-
leged dinner given
by the newly-mar-
ried Tuckers to a
pair of unnatural-
seeming guests in
the second act is a
source of merri-
ment to some
people, because
any sort- of
pretence of din-
ing on the stage
strikes some
people. especially
in the amp h i-
tlieatre, as being
intensely realistic :
also the stereotyped
stupidity of an at-
tend a n t hand-
maiden moves
them to fits of
laughter. Never-
theless. that bogus
meal on the stage
is stagey in nearly
all its bearings,
and the subsequent
bickering between Tommy Tucker and his
aspiring doll of a ’housewife is forced in
its movement. The comedy is entertaining in
spots, exceedingly thin in its first-act interest
and pitiably weak in its conclusion, but it
distinctly doesn’t “put a new viewpoint on
marriage,” or do any of the things the adver-
tisement says about it. It merely suggests
that a providential opportunity to amass
dollars prevents T. Tucker’s matrimony from
being a ghastly failure aggravated by the
unlooked for advent of a baby, Mrs. Tucker
being in no frame of mind to have a nurs-
ling until she learns that hubby has miracu-
lously attained the position to provide her
with a couple of helps.
* * *
Melbourne Tivoli is losing Talbot O’Far-
rell this week. Now that the community
has realised the limitations of Talbot’s talk-
and-song resources his departure will be
endured with resignation. Truth to tell,
the Two Rascals have supplanted the older
“turn” in popular acceptation. There is
virility in the sing-song of the Two Rag-
time Rascals and their piano. A good many
of the words may be lost in their slippery
utterance, but a number of them strike home.
Irreverence waits on geniality in their per-
formance (mostly maintained at fever-heat
by the Rascal who doesn’t play the piano)
and, sinful to say, the public loves irrever-
ence which is spiced with wit. George Car-
ney joins the bill on Saturday.
* # * SC
Ada Reeve’s show at Melbourne Palace
is preparing, like Her Majesty’s, for wild
festivities on the 13th. Meanwhile
“Spangles” rejoices, seemingly, in the old
familiar character of its revels. Nothing
“A MIDSUMMER
NIGHT’S
DREAM,”
AT SYDNEY
OPERA
HOUSE.
Snug (Fred, Macdonald ) as the lion that
wounded Thisbe.
startles in “Spangles/’ and the “public tele-
phone” turn (numbers 17 and 18 on the
bill) is even wearisome in reminders of
scenes which have faded and gone. Other-
wise the procession of frivolous convention-
alities in vaudeville may claim to be satis-
factory. The motto of the show is Neatness
and Despatch, and the comparative rarity of
Ada Reeve’s appearances (more prolonged
at night than at matinees) tends to enhance
their value. The plumpened artist has lost
none of her magnetism. She imparts _an
air of 'importance to a medley that promises
to gain in roundness and polish as it rolls
onward.
** * *
Young Spivakovsky, having done his dash
in Melbourne as a piano recitalist, returns
to get two farewell shows at the Town Hall
in concertos with the Verbrugghen Orches-
tra. To-day (Thursday) the long-haired
Russian will be tested in Beethoven’s and
Tsehaikowsky concertos, and on Saturday
he deals with Brahms and Mozart. Spiv,
is said to have 25 concertos at his finger-
tips.
* * *
The first of several concerts by the Ver-
brugghen Orchestra has already come to
pass at Melbourne Town Hall. The second
is due to-morrow (Friday), and on Satur-
day the orchestra will be working afternoon
and evening. Also, Tuesday next will see
Skalski controlling the forces which formerly
responded to Verbrugghen’s beat.
* * * *
“The Bat” comes to Melbourne Royal on
Saturday, bringing some new people with
it. “The Bat” is understood to be an Ameri-
can mystery play, more mysterious than
“The Thirteenth Chair,” and trusting to
the chivalry of its audiences not to give the
game away. The two nights remaining be-
fore Saturday will be devoted to final repeats
of the weird Bennisonian story of the cus-
tard-pie, the idiot impersonator of a dnok,
and all the other bizarre absurdities apper-
taining to “Johnny Get Your Gun.”
** * *
Hoyt’s (Melbourne) are holding the eyes
of the multitude with the first of a film series
called “The Leather Pushers,” depicting the
art of biff as practised by a saucy amateur.
There is plenty of emotion in the tale, but
the stoush is responsible for the high public
pulse. “The Millionaire, travelling daily
across the same screen, has a strong dollar
motif and a pretty girl, but it doesn’t become
stirring until the final clinches between the
hero and a gang of crooks. In “Forbidden
Valley,” Hoyt’s third study of unreal life,
the Kentucky feud industry is shown to be
progressing favorably. The Majestic’s get-
rich-quick is “The Penalty,” which the bash-
ful ad. writer claims to be as “powerful,
fascinating and original as anything Hugo,
Dickens, or Stevens [sic] has done.” It
is a middling yarn adapted from one by
Gouverneur Morris, and the personality of
the leading man, Lon Chaney, is the only
feature of it. The second attraction, “The
Amazing Lovers,” isn’t a ravishing bit of
celluloid, but the girls are nice and some of
the situations are pleasing. “Three Live
Ghosts” from the mud of Flanders are en-
livening the Melba’s congregation. At the
Britannia “Honest Hutch’s” simple life is
beguiling thousands who can’t afford it.
* * * *
The Royal, at Adelaide, is turning from
Nicola’s magic to Marie Tempest’s dainty
art. The recent verdict that Nic. gets the
last ounce out of his effects has to be modi-
fied on consideration. He escapes from
handcuffs and chains with such extraordi-
nary ease that spectators can hardly believe
the manacles genuine; in other words, he
might give himself a harder run for his
money. At the Prince of Wales, John Kirby
has ttte always popular character of a man
who redeems his reputation, in spite of the
absolutely devilish wiles of Fitzherbert;
Agnes Dobson is the goal and the reward.
Crook drama to follow. At West’s is Mary
Pickford, trying hard to look young enougn
for “Pollyanna.” At Wondergraph James
Kirkwood plays two different men with suc-
cess; this house has begun a local “Who’s
Who” series, with ex-Governor Weigall as a
start. Spivakovsky, at the Town Hall, treats
the piano as though he had a grudge against
it.; a fine artist, all the same.
* * * *
The Allan Wilkie company stepped back
into Roman history on Monday night; and
found a good house waiting to hear about
what happened to Julius Caesar in the Capi-
tol. The strain on Wilkie of holding his
somewhat uninspired company together and
leading them through individual dulness to
artistic triumphs must be enormous. Brutus
(Jack Lennon) was a good-looking Brutus;
and Robert Purdie made Cassius a spirited
Scotsman. Augustus Neville wore the purple
of Caesar; his attractive missus (Lorna
Forbes) and an incoherent servant duly un-
folded the auguries for his benefit. Fred
Macdonald’s Casca was a husky but sharp-
witted ancient, with an inconspicuous gang
of fellow-conspirators. Hilda Dorrington’s
Mrs. Brutus was efficient in the acting- and
superfine in the pictorial-sense. Vera St.
John’s Lucius was a clear-spoken youngster,
while Wilkie made of Mark Antony a force-
ful character who, if alive now, would be
priceless to Tom Henley as a suave, silver-
tongued interviewer of the unemployed.
* $ *
Sydney Tivoli’s costumiers and scenic
artists have succeeded in making the second
edition of “All the Winners” the most
colorful show in town. The new turns that
hit the eye with most violence are “Mabel’s
Teashop” and “My Lady’s Boudoir.” The
former is enhanced by the tomfoolery of
Leyland Hodgson and Harrington Reynolds,
the latter by a small army of pretty girls
representing the comb, the hairpin, the pow-
der, baby ribbons, and so forth. . Marie La
Vai’re is “My Lady” in a rose-petalled crino-
line creation. Taken altogether the show
aims more at pleasing the eye than the ear,
and the little warbling that is indulged in
could be much better. Comedians Moon,
Morris and Hector St. Clair never miss a
point. Ray McLean, Gladys Hermes and
the Tivoli Sextette dance well. The first
appearance of Henry de Bray and May
Vivian strengthen the vaudeville side. Both
are remarkably quick and clever in jazz and
complications and extensions of jazz ; they also
score in song and patter. Sam Barton, the
trick cyclist and Scott Argyll continue to
rake in the shekels of applause.
:Jc }»«
The Irish Players—the original Abbey
Theatre Company—open at the Pa'ace
Theatre under the management of J. and N.
Tait on Saturday. They have captured
England, the U.S. and several other coun-
tries with Lennox Robertson’s “White-
headed Boy,” and Sydney will see him
whiter and brighter than ever. Know-
ledgeable critics have acclaimed the play as
the last word in drollness and whimsicality.
sje $ *
All the indications are that the plump and
pleasing “Little Dutch Girl” is in for a long-
stay at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The young
woman from the Netherlands has hit the
taste and fancy of a public that in some
respects is not easily pleased.
** * *
“The Maid of the Mountains” finished
her second innings at Sydney Royal on Wed-
nesday night. Gladys Moncrieff reappeared
in her old part of the Maid before the pro-
ceedings closed, and was. royally welcomed.
For eight nights the theatre is to be dark-
ened, after which Louis Bennison will shoot
it up in “Johnny Get Your Gun.”
# * * *
Not all the Sydney youngsters who crowd
into the Pitt-street trams at the theatre
hour these nights are High School students
intent upon the study of Shakspe-are. Many
are bound for a show where there is an
animal even stranger than Nick Bottom with
the ass’s head. This is Wirths’ warthog,
widely acclaimed as one of the most attrac-
tive artists that has visited this country for
many a day.
* * S:
At the Town Hall, on Saturday, Sydney
will have an opportunity of judging whether
the Sistine Choir deserves its celebrity.
There will be six other opportunities during
the ensuing week.
v# * *
“My Lady’s Dress” and the dame therein
encased —which her name is Emilie Polini—
“The Maid of the
Mountains ,” at
Sydney Royal.
Ancie McMasters as
Baldasarre.
are still drawing
crowds of short-
skirted chocolate-
scoffers to the Syd-
ney Criterion. The
play is a stinging
rebuke to econn-
mic al husbands.
Hence its popu-
larity was inevit-
able.
H: :!: * *
Seidel with his
fiddle and Frank
Hutchens at the
piano drew an ex-
pectant throng to
the Town Hall on
Saturday, when
the Ivreutze r
Sonata was the
star number on
the programme.
Whether, owing to
a lack of harmony
between the play-
ers or to the size
of the Town Hall,
the performance
was uri "foresting.
Yet, 1' k e the
cm ate’s egg, it
was good in parts,
as. for instance,
the Andante, which
provided some ex-
quisite moments.
The Sinding Suite
in A minor was a
brilliant item; the richness of tone, and
poetry of the slow movement quite gripped
the imagination. Schubert’s “Ave Maria”
and Beethoven’s “Turkish March” ended a
memorable programme.
* * * *
At Sydney Haymarket and Rialto the
“Song of Life” teaches the useful lesson, in
these servantless days, that there may be
worse fates than that of washing up for the
old man and infant. “The House without
Children” is a variant on the missing chee-ild
theme, which takes the form of a .substituted
chee-ild. It absolutely . tears the heart-
strings to shreds. The misery is proceeding
at the Haymarket and Piccadilly theatres.
The Lyceum and Lyric feature “Miss Lulu
Betts,” a family drudge who drifts in and
out of matrimony in a casual manner till
finally wedlocked to the village schoolmaster.
“Pollyanna” finds iov in misery at the
Strand, and “The Shiek” refuses to shift
from the Globe.
*# # *
The fete in aid of Riverview College War
Memorial will occur in the school grounds
between 2 and 10 p.m. next Saturday. Every
variety of entertainment is promised, from
music to jazz music.
“Pandh”: Wellington (M.L.) ’Varsity
students will shortly produce a home-made,
three-act musical play. “Christopher Colum-
bus” the thing is called. P. B. Broad.
Assistant Public Trust Solicitor and re-
turned soldier, wrote it, and W. H. Stainton
pleads guilty to the compositions. The col-
laborateurs are liberally sprinkled with de-
grees.
“NelJa”: A recent reference to Jimmy
Martin as the Bishop of Bath and Wells in
“Sweet Kitty Bellairs” reminds me of his
bad luck at the Melbourne Princess’s. In
the play a jealous husband, who is searching
for a red-headed Lothario, _ snatches off the
bishop’s imposing white wig and reveals a
crop of hair which confirms his worst sus-
picions. As Jimmy’s own thatch was quite
white, he had to wear a ginger scratch-wig
under his episcopal chevelure. On the first
night of the show the suspicious husband
grabbed the bishop’s top-knot too enthusias-
tically and brought away both wigs. Belas-
co’s directions for that scene were that, all on
stage should “display great confusion.” The
confusion was particularly convincing that
night, and so were the comments of A. B.
Tapping, the producer, when the rag came
down.


Scotch Sampling in the Early Days.


1
A
I
f
m
*
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
NSW MONT de PIETt
■=>.£* B. COY. LTD,
74 Ca.stlerea.gh. St. Sydney. 74
Phone CityQ's2.s.
Capital & 300.000.
Joseph. IV. Hill.
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not he laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
2D King- St., Newcastle. N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, 3lelbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagli Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
“W.E.F.”: Oakes, N.S.-W. Chief Secre-
tary, did a wholesome thing in banning the
noxious Gun-alley film, but his interdict
didn t arrive soon enough. Perhaps, though,
that wasn’t Oakes’s fault. Before he took
action the youth of at least one swagger
feasted its eyes on the poisonous
stuff. A man I know, the father of two
small, girls, went to a lot of trouble to keep
prints featuring the Ross case out of the
way. Tea-table comment on the case was
also barred. One night, however, he asked
the misses what they had done in the after-
noon. They told him that thev had been
to the pictures. What had they seen? “Oh,”
replied Doreen, aged nine, “we saw Colin
Ross and the Gun-alley picture.” That
parent’s opinion of picture-showmen who
exploit crime for,what they can make out
of the. laddies would scorch celluloid. Their
alleged industry is not so prosperous, or
in such good odor, that they can afford to
take chances with public opinion.
“First Old Man” : The plays we’re getting
from the U.S. these days seem all to be
written by mummers. “Johnny Get Your
Gun” and “The First Year” are both by
actor-authors. The first-named is by Louis
Bennison, who stars in it; the second was
concocted, after a familiar George M. Cohan
recipe, by Frank Craven. Soon we are to
have “The Great Lover,” by Leo Dietrich-
stem, whose reputation as an artistic mime
is. second to none in the U.S.A. His best-
known piece is “Are You a Mason?” in
which the late George Giddens appeared here
with Ethel Knight-Mollison—now Mrs T.
IT. Kelly, of Sydney.
“Stargazer”: Bosker had paid the Stroll-
ing Hogans, then well known in the provinces,
the sum of £25 as a premium, and had
promised, another £25 when the Hogans had
made an .actor of him, and assured him a
favorable metropolitan reception as Romeo
or Hamlet, or some trifling thing like that.
“THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.”
AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Phil Smith as Tonio.
Already Bosker was to appear as Archibald
in “East _ Lynne” at Bramble Flat. When
the curtain went up there were nine people
in the house. Bosker was indignant, and
made bitter complaint. die had been led to
expect better things. “An audience of nine,”
he snorted. “Nine!” “Yes,” replied the
elder and larger Hogan, ‘'and you will have
to be content. I can’t afford to hire any
more.”
John Hare, who died in London last
December, left £30,000 to his widow with
instructions to distribute it among their
three children according to her own good
judgment, which, the will said, had been
of great help to him during a married life
of over 50 years. Millais painted him, and
the portrait is to go to the Garrick Club, a
gloomy London institution, far east of Club-
land, whose small rooms are so many pic-
ture galleries with stage notabilities as the
principal subjects. The presents from mem-
bers of the royal family which every actor
of eminence collects—usually at the ruinous
price of “command” performances—will be
held as family heirlooms.
“M.L.”: “Orb’s” recollection (B. 13/4/’22)
of the incident in which the orchestra went
on strike just before Tyrone Power’s produc-
tion _of Belasco’s “Charity Ball” is imper-
fect in one particular. It "was my late husband,
Harcourt Lee, who helped Frank Mus-
grove out of his dilemma and played the
piano through the performance. I was with
him in the theatre at the time.
“Lond”: A novel instance of wifely
thoughtfulness. James Tate, recently dead,
though married to Lottie Collins long ago,
was latterly the husband of Clarice Mayne.
During his last illness Clarice “stayed away
from his bedside as long as she could, fear-
ing that her presence there would tell him
how ill he was.”
“Dapper Tutto”: History is dubious about
the origin of the Sistine Choir, but it cer-
tainly goes back to the dim recesses of Euro-
pean history. Pope Sylvester (a.d. 314-335)
is alleged to have started a school for choral
singers, and in the time of Hilarius, over
a century later, a
choir was an estab-
lished institution.
Throughout the
ages singers have
been recruite d
from Italy, but
after Clement V.
changed the papal
headquarters from
Rome to Avignon
in 11105, French
and Flemish sing-
ers w ere intro-
duced because they
to be
the best religious
composers of their
time. Palestrina,
the Church’s great-
est artist in eccle-
siastical music, d ; d
not appear on the
records until the
16th century, and
though he was a
great composer he
was not a glitter-
ing chorister, and
on the death of
Julius 111. he lost
his job as one of
the collegiate sing-
ers of the Sistine
Chapel. It is worth
noting, by the
G. D. PORTUS
manager of the Ver-
brugghen Orchestra.
way, that the Maestro of the choir is elected
from among the choristers, the practice
being to choose the principal bass.
Concerning some wandering voices:—
On February 6 the British National Opera Co.
set out on its travels in an overcrowded island; With-
in four weeks it had collected offertories from 80,000
people. Australians are strongly represented in the
company. At Liverpool I heard Gertrude Johnson
and Fred Collier, Miss- Johnson playing the Queen
of the Night in the most luscious of Mozart’s operas.
Her easy and fluent soprano made a hit with the audi-
ence, and she will never regret coming to England.
She is in excellent hands. Fred Collier' appeared as
Klingsor in “Parsifal”. The whole theatre re-echoed
with his clean, bell-like tones and each word was
noticeably distinct—in fact, Fred’s contribution was
the most enjoyable feature of the performance. He,
too, is getting experience that will make an artist
of him.
Other Australians I had the pleasure of listening
to were Eda Bennie and Kosina Buekraan. With-
out doubt Miss Buckman is the greatest drawing-card
in British opera. As I write she is on her way to
Milan, and she is booked to appear in Auckland on
May 20. Her hubby, Maurice D’Oisly, goes on tour
with her. Unquestionably a great pair.
Two more Australians in the British Opera Co. are
Beatrice Miranda, who sings leading roles, and Aylmer
Bnesst, the conductor. So great a percentage of
Australian-born artists is distinctly flattering to the
Commonwealth. Again John Browning-Mummery
had a chance to go on tour with the co., but
he prefers to sing at concerts and high-class cafes,
where he gets more money. It is an ill-advised
decision on his part, for he needs the supervision of
men like Bucsst and Percy Pitt to bring out some of
those faculties I know he possesses, but which are
obviously dormant,
“Thor”: Though still only 27, Fay Comp-
ton, sister of Compton Mackenzie, has just
taken on her matrimonial third. The tirst
was “Follies” Pelissier, fat and 50; the
second, comedian Lauri de Frece, who passed
out opportunely last year, when she was
applying to the courts for conjugal rights;
now it is Leon Quartermaine (brother of
Charles, whom Madge Titheradge divorced),
he having disburdened himself last year- of a
wife who preferred Gilbert Frankau, the
novelist. Stage amorosities aside, it would do
Australia good to see Fay Compton and her
Leon on a tour. In Marie Tempestuous trifles
such as “Tea for Three’’ she adds youth to
cleverness, while he ranks second only to
Edmund Gwenn, practically an Australian
discovery, in character acting.
“Tawa”: Until the five-mile tunnel under
the Southern Alps is through, all luggage
for the West Coast (M.L.) is carried over
Arthur s Pass on the coaches. Annette
Ivellerman’s water-tank for her diving and
swimming stunts was among this merchan-
dise. It arrived intact at Greymouth, and
the populace gathered to see the mermaid.
But all they saw was a dim shape in a dark-
brown mist This was due to the tank
having been filled with the discolored fluid
known as Greymouth Borough water. Be-
fore the second night arrived someone dis-
covered an artesian well, the water from
which made a more nellucid setting for
Annette’s sinuous exhibition.
“Orb”: At Rockhampton (Q.) one night
a youngster in George liignold’s company
got upset by the climate or something, and
the Law ran him in. Bailed out in the
morning by his pals, Clarence was scared
out of his life lest the Old Man should
hear of his carryings on. Fortified with a
tew hairs of the dog that had assaulted him,
aud with his bailors as moral support, he
arrived early at rehearsal, praying that his
luck was in. Rignold, in his shirt sleeves
was piaying the fiddle in the stalls.
Holding Clarence with his glittering eye,
he struck a tremendous chord, and boomed
out, fortissimo:—
“Locks, bolts and bars—especiallv bars!”
Clarence fled.
‘b. Snell”: A Melbourne pressman was
allowing his recollection to run wild in the
presence of a popular entertainer of the
genteeler sex. Turning suddenly to the lady,
ever fair and young, he exclaimed: “I'ou
could not have been more than 20 when I
first saw you at the Princess’s Theatre. Let
i to ,. remember the date.”
, lhat s right, replied the actress sweetly.
A ever forget to fail to remember, ole boy.”
", Th ? £ ld . est .habitant”: The Melbourne
*- dub initiated Shakspearean commem.
nations in Australasia. For three months
4 pn j it rehearsed “The
Merchant of \ emce” for production at the
xneatre Royal, to commemorate the ter-
centenary of the poet’s birth, but owiug to
Barry Sullivan, tne lessee of the theatre
having made other arrangements with
Lysters Opera Company it was compelled
on i he --ad. The programme began
with a prologue by R. H. Horne (Orion)
Wn eQ V UllL , Next came a scene
Lorn Ihe Taming of the Shrew.” then
eau c) Shakspearean characters, with
VViiham litt as Shakspeare, and then
lhe Merchant of Venice,” with .Mrs
Heir (afterwards Mrs. Geo. Darrell) as
l ortia. An epilogue written by James
Smith, then Parliamentary Librarian, was
spoken by J. M. Forde, who is still on deck
at i>2. As far as I know Forde is the last
survivor of the night’s entertainers.
Melbourne’s pet tenor, Walter Kirby, is
alleged to be tbe only non-Italian artist
who ever sang a solo with the Sistine Choir.
On an Easter Sunday in Rome, Walter sang
the solo part in the “Ave Maria” of Dom
ierosi. whose ode in honor of the Anzacs
will be a leading dish of the Choir’s feast
of song in Australia.
. “0.K.”: A capital advertisement for
piano-playing as pnysical culture was Ara
beila Goddard (Mrs. Davison), who died
lecently at 87. Arabella, I fancy, was
the first English woman-pianist to appear
as a platform star’ and tour the world on
her celebrity. She visited Australia some
of) years ago. The fact that she married
tke ciat i c ol ~' London Tikes when she
was 24 justifies a suspicion that Arabella
probably got boosted into more celebrity
than she deserved. My faint remembrance
of her piano-playing is that it mostly ran
to fireworks as the term was understood
in those days and was said by critics in
general to be “hard.” Anyway, Arabella
retired from public life as long ago as
1878, which suggests that a younger school
of pianists had already dimmed her reputa-
tion.
“T.yv.”: Those who wonder why the Sis-
tine Choir has been sent so far afield may
have their eyes opened shortly by a Papal
injunction against women in Australian
choirs, and the banning of the “operatic”
Masses of Haydn, Gounod and company. The
effect of the restriction in all except‘half-a-
dozen of the richer choirs in England has
been painful. Just now there is a squabble
about the matter in the Carmelite head-
quarters at Kensington, the show place of
musical medievalism. But Perosi’s wishes
on this point are law in the Vatican, and a
glance at the Sistine programmes is enough
to show that the composer-priest has more
than one eye on Australia.
“0.K.”: “The Silence of Dean Maitland.”
which the Fullers lately staged as a suitable
drama for their “Singing Parson” to play
the name-part in, has been more or less of a
failure in Australia for over a quarter
of a century. Even when the novel was new
the drama adapted from it failed to boom.
King liedley was the original Dean here-
abouts, and he had respectable all round
“A MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.”
AT SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Bottom (Allan Wilkie ) discovers Thisbe's
bloodstained robe.
qualifications for the job. With Maud Wil-
liamson as the sister, Cyril Keightley as the
friend, and a cast that included such artists
as Edwin Kelly, Atholwood and Pollie
Emery, the drama had a chance. Arthur
Dacre was studying the part in Sydney when
he and his wife, Amy Roselle, agreed to die
a sudden death together.
"T.W.”: The woman has yet to be born
who can manage grand opera and sing in it
successfully at the same time. Mary Gar-
den, who has been trying the experiment in
Chicago, has just resigned after many tears.
She had quarrelled with principal tenor
Muratore, the Parisian idol who for years
was big enough to keep Caruso off the boule-
vards. Her chef d’orcheatre was also visibly
and volubly annoyed with her.
“Fare': "Eddie” Finn, the old Mel-
bourne journalist who passed out last week,
must have had a finger in many pantomimes
in days of yore. He and his brother Pat,
who weiit, to America and died there long
ago, were always on the look-out for little
theatrical jobs, and Edmund, at any rate,
was as capable a journeyman humorist as
the next man. His most considerable effort
m playwriting—or the luckiest-—was a
burlesque on "Trilby,” staged by Maggie
Moore at Melbourne Royal within a few
months of tdie first production of the drama
in Australia. The burlesque was pretty
thin, and at first glance it looked almost
hopeless, but the time was ripe for a skit on
the subject which the masses had only just
begun to discuss. Finn had struck the iron
whilst it was hot. The bloke in the street
was now commencing to speak of feet as
“trilbies.” So Finn's burlesque lasted a
few weeks in Melbourne, and was subse-
quently played in Sydney.
"T. 0.1.” : Oily Deering (B. 27/4/’22) nar-
rowly being a wax-figure showman.
In 1872 John Campbell, who had been con-
nected with theatricals in Melbourne as
wigmaker and costumier, started a show
with Aggers of his own manufacture. He
toured the Speck, and, reaching Sydney,
opened in. a Pitt-street shop where now is
the Imperial Arcade. Caffyn the cricketer
had a hairdresser’s business in George-street,
an d, wishing to return to England, sold out
to Campbell, who had had enough of the wax-
works business. Willie Gill, comedian, who
had married Oily’s sister and had his mother
and others professionally with him, yearned
to purchase the outfit, and Oily was sent to
negotiate. But Campbell wanted cash and
the Gills hadn’t a feather to fly with. They
persuaded one Cohen to inspect the articles
with a view to a loan, but Cohen declined the
‘ security ’ and, as far as Gill and Deering were
concerned, the sale was declared off. Johnny
Gourlay, the Scotch comedian, became the
purchaser and ran the show for some time,
supplementing it with a bit of vaudeville.
ROMEO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Well over forty years ago
I saw her as a drummer gay
In some half-mediaeval show,
hast night, a laughing Romeo,
She looked but nineteen and a day
She was a beauteous maid of yore,
Last night a lovely boy in truth.
So do the Powers, themselves so hoar,
Set back their universe—restore
To favorites the boon of youth.
The proverb herein noted goes
Astray with those I move among.
The truth I’m seeking to disclose
Invariably is that those
The kindly gods have loved live young.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


; r * i
i r •,
■
m
■ B, 8
If
81:
- H
nil
c -.r-*
I*
warn
wm
m
» J
i
KH
: I
in
P
V ;
■ H
BP
I?
1
mwiim
Ipsa
If*
h A
Hi
i?
avis
Bl
'STs'SK
Ty 1 !
a
EP
m
m
: - ' ■ :-
m
HHHHBs
x '"^rr:
fc ;rwi
fe
s
a
V ;■
I
H
rm
.
.
’’
ss
~\X
f-v^j
K
■
-
Ilf®
. ■ '•
x
m
A, i S
f. >sp
' -r* try
?S
r
$
©
I
tTLP 2
--and now she has more time
to herself!”
Home Light and Power Unit
ELECTRIC service in the home means
lightened work and more spare time for
the housewife.
Think for a moment what such service
means.
It means that every room, porch and
outhouse can be instantly flooded with electric light—brilli-
ant and plentiful. No dangerous matches, messy lamps,
fuss or delay. You simply turn a handy switch—that is all.
No more pedalling the sewing machine; no more trudg-
ing to and from the hot stove on ironing day; no more
broom sweeping. A.G.E. Electric Sewing Machines, Irons
and Vacuum Cleaners do the work, and do it quickly and
well. No more stuffy rooms, A.G.E. Fans bring cooling
breezes right into the home.
The A.G.E. Home Light and Power Unit now makes
this service available to you in your home.
Full particulars of A.G.E. labour-saving
devices, and showing how easily you can
obtain them, will be sent post free by
return for the writing of a card.
't j . V
IVrite it now.
fd
ď
fď
35-45 WENTWORTH vWENUE
SYDNEY
fd
Aft
Phone : City 3510
Box 2517 G. P. O.
Phone : Central 2646 Box 538 G. P. O.
AGENTS:
Enginemng Supply Co of Aus- ADELAIDE-Charles Atkins S' Co. Ltd.. Currie St.
TA S _ni E ' S ‘9Ap )me fj^ warc l & Charlotte Sts PERTH - Charles Atkins HI Co. (W.A.) Limited
JAb. Oliver & Oliver, Hobart and Launceston. "Mazda House,” 894 Hay Street.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager and Pilsener Beers.
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, FHIDP & CO., I,TD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCH3, LI TUT PD, Redtern, Sydney
CARTRIDGES.
“A.P.” Fresh-loaded Cartridges are loaded on
the premises by automatically correct
machinery. Only the best smokeless powder
and chilled shot used.
“BLUE SEAL.” The universal rabbit Cart-
ridge, 21/- 100.
“KILOS.” For Quail Shooting, unsurpassed,
22/- 100.
“INFALLIBLE.” A splendid hard-hitting
Cartridge, 24/- 100.
“APOID.” Deep brass gas-tight cases, for long-
range shooting. Once used always wanted,
25/- 100.
“A.P. SPECIAL.” Deep brass gas-tight cases,
loaded with Ballistite smokeless powder.
Long range, 25/- 100.
CARTRIDGES loaded with Schultz or Amberite
or smokeless Diamond or Ballistite powder,
23/- 100.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
SPOTIONS
SPORTING
MICK
SIMMONS
SPORTINC
NEEDS
No mistake was made by Samuel Hor-
dern when lie gave a couple of thousand last season
for the Newcastle-owned Keneppil. Though scarcely
ready the black Kenilworth gelding showed brilliant
form at Rosehill a few weeks ago, and it was only
bad luck in running that caused him to finish behind
Salitros in the A.J.C. Dangar Handicap. On Satur-
day at Randwick, ridden by Albert Wood and carry-
ing Bst. 91b., he never looked a loser in City Tatt. s
Cup, Ilf., and landed a big stake, at 4’s and 3’s, tor
a stable that puts in to some purpose when in an
optimistic frame of mind. And the best hasn t been
seen of Keneppil yet. Though well up in the weights
he will take some beating if produced fit and well
lie is a rather hard horse to train —in one of the
middle-distance Spring handicaps. Keneppil and
Inia’s Boy, a likely young Repartee gelding that
won the second division of the Novice Handicap,
were the only favorites to get home. Two 20-to-l
chances (Nelsonite and Curraween) and a 10-to-i
shot (Oriental Charm) won for that victim ot
circumstances, Israel Noses, who so rarely succeeds
in “brealtin’ even on the day.” #
Mufti, who disappointed her friends in the
Australian Cup, where her weight was nothing to
speak of, proved just good enough to take the
Glenhuntly Cup at Caulfield from Luteplayer. The
spry old gelding, always dangerous in good second-
class company over 11 or 12 furlongs, tried 10
win all the way, but the little mare beat him
in the last 100 yards. Her weight, Bst. 61b., was
thought to be rather too much under the circumstances,
though it was not forgotten that the small fouv-
year-old daughter of Almissa won a slow-run Dak'
under the regulation Bst. 101 b. There were three
close finishes at Caulfield on Saturday, the third of
them when “Baron” Brown’s Pelaw Main, with 341 b.
the better of it, gained inch by inch on Molly s Robe
and won the six furlongs race by “ ’arf an ed.
* * *
There are still Westralians who maintain
that Easingwold will yet rival Eurythmic’s record.
Since he recrossed the Bight after his disastrous
visit to Victoria the big Eaton Lad colt
has won seven races, among them the
W A T.C. Derby and St. Leger. In the Leger
he proved himself a thorough stayer by leading ail
the way and cantering home seven lengths ahead of
Poondsfira (Jolly Bubble, the third horse, was 14
lengths further back), in the good time for the 14
furlong's of 3min. 2sec —a fourth of a second faster
than Harvest King established in beating Furious at
Sydney. That form reads good enough for any-
thing.' # ,
“0.K.” : One is reminded by Eurythmic’s
recent defeats that when Carbine was getting placed
in all his races (save one) he was only a year
vounger than another famous horse who, in 35
races, figured only twice among the also-rans. James
White’s big chestnut horse Abercorn had a record
of 21 wins, 8 seconds and 4 thirds. Carbine having
been his conqueror on several occasions. Abercorn s
two “nowheres” were in the Melbourne Cup, as a
three-year-old, and the Melbourne Stakes the follow-
ing year. Champions were things to be sworn by
in those days. For instance, Abercorn ran third
in a Metropolitan, carrying 9st. 81b„ when the win-
ner, Lamond, was receiving 461 b. from him. Next
vear he won with 9st. 71b. When Carbine, then
a three-year-old, took his first Sydney Cup with
9st. up, Abercorn ran third under 9st., 41b.
A proprietary tote has been launched by
four or five of 'the leading London bookmakers.
“Totalisators, Ltd.,” is to be a registered co. with
a capital of not less than £100.000; but £250,000
was asked for, in 10-bob shares. Commission
charged will be “not exceeding” 9 per cent., and
backers of a winner are never to get less than their
own money back, a useful provision in some English
races with only two or three starters, and the result
an obvious certainty for one. Counsel’s opinion has
been obtained as to the legality of the business,
but the K.O.’s who give it make the large “assump-
tion that the co. will not keep or use any premises
for the purpose of betting with persons resorting
thereto, or for the purpose of any money being
received as the consideration for a payment on any
future event or contingency.” The directors are
mostly army officers, with a Rear-Admiral as chair-
man.
* * * *
“Roma”: The 12 office-bearers who shape
the destinies of the Campanui Picnic Race Club at
Roma (Q.) average 14st. 21b. and 6ft. in their
socks. And there isn’t one of them that can’t throw
a bullock, hit a sixer or break a clay pigeon with
any man his size. Three of the hefty amateurs
answer to the name of Ferrier —family average. 14st.
and 6ft. 3in. Fred Tinbury, Alan Campbell mid
Farquhar MacKenzie are almost as gigantic. The
dwarf of the party is Boyd Linton (sft. 7in. and
10st.), and next to him comes Lionel Harden (sft.
gin. and 12st. 61b.). Norman Ferrier, the deputy-
judge, is not included; he goes 6ft. 51n. Ten of the
huge masses of manhood were born and reared in tne
Maranoa and 11 are station-bred. Is there a club
anywhere that can equal them?
Some clinking races were witnessed at
the N. S. Wales Great Public Schools regatta on the
Parramatta last week, and the final of the eights was
memorable. In the last 150yds. Sydney Grammar
overhauled the leaders, C.E.G.S., and won by a
narrow margin (the judge, Tom O’Neill, said “three
feet”), with St. Joseph’s a quarter of a length
behind C.E.G.S. and Scots close up. A fairly stiff
southerly blew, and Sydney Grammar had all the
worst of the conditions on the exposed northern
shore, but their coxswain kept them in the straight-
est line possible in the bubbly water. C.E.G.S. made
a bold bid in the dead water on the southern side
approaching Cabarita, but their stroke (N. W. Owen,
9st. 41b.) was too light when the final test came.
Still, it was a grand race. Grammar averaged
list. 61b., C.E.G.S. lOst. 91b., St. Joseph’s lost.
111 b. and Scots lOst. 71b. Grammar was stroked
to victory by a palpable comer in 0. J. Peters (list.
21b.). His father presented the school with the
winning boat, which was built by George Towns.
King’s proved the best of the second crews, defeat-
ing C.E.G.S. and Sydney Grammar; but C.E.G.S.
had a turn of luck in the third crews, which race
they won easily from King’s and St. Ignatius.
On Saturday the inter-State eights and the ama-
teur sculling championship will be contested on the
Parramatta. The Westralians, who won at Laun-
ceston last year and have made no material change
in their boat, are hopeful of repeating the perform-
ance. In an early spin on the river they beat
the N. S. Welshmen handily, albeit the latter have
shaped better since. The Queenslanders are a bit
on the light side, but the S. Australians are a solid
lot. According to the experts the issue will be
fought out by the Victorians and Tasmanians, both
crews of heavyweights, and both experienced, confi-
dent and trained to the minute. But there is no
mathematical certainty about the prognostications of
experts.
v * * * *
Jim Paddon and Dick Arnst have signed
to meet for the world’s’ sculling championship on-
one of the N.S.W. northern rivers within three months.
It will be Arnst’s ninth race for the title. He
defeated Webb (twice), Barry, Pearce, Whelch and
Hannan, and went under to Barry and Hadfield.
Aussie heavyweight GEORGE GOOK,
sketched at his training quarters at
High Beach, Epping Forrest.
In the opening round of N.S.W. Rugby
League’s competition North Sydney, last pre-
miers, downed Newtown by 17 points (3 tries 4
goals) to 8 points (4 goals). One of their tries was
scored by Horder, who likewise kicked all the goals,
and the other two by Blinkhorn. It was an aus-
picious commencement. South Sydney, the City Cup
holders, walloped Western Suburbs by 20 points
(4 tries 4 goals) to 12 points (2 tries 3 goals).
South’s custodian, Hallett, entering upon his 12th
year of senior football, was about the best man on
the ground. Glebe defeated Balmain by 15 points
(3 tries 3 goals) to 8 points (2 tries 1 goal).
Although ’Main had three internationals, Fraser,
Schultz and Latta, they were no match for the
young men from Glebe, whose star was Tom McGrath,
a graduate from the second grade. The Eastern
Suburbs v. St. George match was a benefit for East,
despite that thev were without Pearce, Watkins,
Norman, Campbell, Cubitt, Lees and Cameron of
last season’s side. Rigney, Norman and Caples
greatly stiffened the backs and helped their side
to a decisive win—2o points (4 tries 4 goals) to 3
points (1 try). ’Varsity had the bye. League
players are on their mettle, for a Maori XIII is due
in June, and a N.S.W. team will tour the Windy
Isles later in the season.
There is money m football. The Kan-
garoos’ trip to Britain resulted in a profit ot
£6209, and £5954 of it is to be whacked by 28
players and two managers—a bonus of £l9B eacn.
The team also got £4 ss. per week and all expenses
paid.
* * * *
“0.5.1 i.”: Rhodes scholars from Bris-
bane Grammar School distinguished themselves in
the English football season. L. G. Brown captained
Enzland in all the international matches, playing
half-back. In previous seascns he was wing-three-
quarters, and the versatile youth has also taken a
turn forward. Lawton and Roe got their blues
at Oxford, and Lawton was picked as emergency
for England. Some of the critics describe him as
the most promising discovery of the year. Brown,
Roe, Lawton and Grenning are members of the
Blackheath team.
* * * *
“Tren” : The Prahran (Vic.) cricketers, who
have won their sixth pennant, are a hard side to beat.
They have reached the final four on seven occasions,
have never lost a semi., and have lost only one final.
On that occasion (1915) they looked a certainty,
but Sandford, then a youth due to embark for the
Front, gave a foretaste of his quality by topping
the century on a drying wicket after the champs,
had failed, and so pulled the game off for Melbourne.
Gerald Healey’s batting average of 74 has given him
the Prahran average for the ninth time; and bowling
honors were divided between Wallace and Grimmett
with 39 wickets each, at a cost of 13.23 and 14 runs per
wicket respectively. The luck of catching the selec-
tors’ eye is well illustrated by this pair. Although
Grimmett has been recognised for years as the best
slow bowler in Victoria he is only on the verge of
big cricket. Wallace, however, got inter-State
honors in this his first season.
* * * *
“Ormond” states a case:—
A cricket match was in progress at Ti Tree Point,
South Island (M.L.). One team had finished its
innings; the other had lost nine wickets and wanted
two runs to win. A batsman hit a skier with such
force that the ball broke in the air. A fielder tried
to catch one half in its separate descent, but dropped
it. Picking it up he threw in quickly and hit the
wicket when one batsman was out of his crease.
Then he confidently appealed to the umpire. There
being nothing in the rules about broken balls, that
functionary gave a verdict of “not-out,” and added
an “as-you-were.’ The batsmen were ordered to
return to their original positions, the ball and the
score off it were not counted, and the game proceeded
as if nothing had happened. The incident has
divided Ti Tree Point into two vociferous camps.
“Out!” shouts one. “Not out!” yells the other.
What does The Bulletin think?”
The Bulletin's money is on the umpire’s decision.
But the incident is certainly unique.
* * * *
Frank O’Keeffe, who was the backbone,
heart and lungs of the Carlton cricket team in the
season just closed, is hurrying off to England, and
.Edgar Mayne of Hawthorn-East is going with him.
“Business” is the reason given for the trip, and
“business” may mean jobs as professionals with
one (or two) of Britain’s county elevens. Mayne,
who is strangely unpopular in Melbourne, would pro-
bably snap at any English engagement that came
his way, .considering that he has now outgrown his
usefulness in Australia for anything bigger than
pennant cricket. With O’Keeffe the position is very
different. Still in his twenties, he has his future all
before him, and rhe maintenance of the form shown
in pennant and inter-State cricket lately would make
him one of the first picks for the next Australian
Eleven. However, money is a big item with the
best of sportsmen, and if O’Keeffe has received a
good offer to play in the Cold Country, the people
who expect him back next year are optimistic.
“15-30”: The decision of the American
Davis Cup committee to have several preliminary
rounds played in Europe means that in the event
of defeating Belgium in England, Australia will
also haye to tackle Czechoslovakia (which will pro-
bably get a walk-over from Hawaii) before going to
America* for the other games. This arrangement
lessens the Australians’ chances of getting accli-
matised for the big final battles in the U.S. (should
they reach them), but seeing that they have gone
to Britain to suit the purely personal ambitions of
Patterson and Anderson at Wimbledon, it would be
unreasonable to make the Belgians travel to America
to meet them. In fact, it is likely that our cham-
pions would draw a bigger gate in England, inas-
much as they would be opposed by a pretty good
team, whose probable captain, Wascher, won the
singles at the Antwerp Olympic Games. After Bel-
gium and Czecho-Slovakia there may be France,
Er gland, Japan or Spain to face, and considering
the strong sides that will represent those countries
the Australians will need all their luck and bril-
liance to encounter the Yanks in the challenge
round.
* * * *
“Linesman”: Spain is beginning to get
an advertisement from the un-Spanish game of
tennis. The other day a picked team of Spaniards
massacred a small British party, including two of
Bull’s representatives for the Davis Cup last year.
Though not mentioned in the cables, much of this
success was probably due to Manoel Alonso, who
ranks among the world’s best dozen players. He
ran into the semi-finals for the world’s singles-cham-
pionship at Wimbledon a few months back, and
he ant! his partner pushed Britain very hard in
their first appearance for the Davis Cup. Alonso
has captured trophies also in Paris and the Riviera,
and if he plavs this time with a good man, Spams
chances of lifting the Cup are not hopeless.
* * * *
Stanley Mcßride has pleased the cogno-
scenti more than any Yank who has appeared at
Sydney Stadium for a very long time. But he met
his master there on Saturday night in the person
of that great little fighting machine, Bert Spargo.
Spargo won in almost every department of the game,
but it was at in-fighting that he most noticeably out-
classed the visitor. And yet it was a great battle
to watch. This was because there was never a
moment, up to the final 10 seconds, when Mcßride
lacked the chance to win on a knock-out. In the
sixth session he nearly did it with a terrific swing
to Spargo’s stomach, which dropped the Melboumeite
like a pole-axed bullock. As has been previously
remarked in this paper, Mcßride does not fight fair.
Spargo, on the other hand, declines in any circum-
stances to ’foul. It is one of the reasons why a
Sydney crowd is always pleased to see him win.
The return match between Jamito (9st.
21b.) and Walter Ross (Bst. 12j1b.) at Melbourne
Stadium demonstrated how unlucky the alanuaman
had been in their first bout. Leaving nothing to
chance, “Jameater” plunged in from the start, tools
the lead in the first round and never lost it. lie s
too strong for me,” said the battered little Briton as
he was led away after an envenomed 20 rounds, 100
strong, and too good..
* * * *
Hughie Dwyer, another of the brilliant
Australians who can’t get a fight at the mud-
quarters of boxing, where obscure Mexicans, hall-
breeds and other foreigners flourish, took on Frank
Locke at Brisbane on Saturday night and skittled
him in the 17th round. It was an impressive per-
formance, for Locke has several recent knock-outs
to his credit, and gave Bradley, the Gympie crack
who made Sid Godfrey look like a novice, no end
of trouble. In Maoriland, where the young man
had to go in search of matches, being denied a
chance in his own country, Dwyer, who can fight
lightweight, cleaned up everything in sight, from
9st. 91b. to list. 41b. But in the multitude of
imported “champions”—largely genelmen with a
dash of color in them—that habitually infest Sydney,
the Stadium management has no use for him. The
same applies to Griffin and Collins and other pro-
mising lads, whose offence is that they are home-
grown. Wanted, a boxing promoter ivho will give
preference to Australian pugs. No Wrens need apply.
* * * *
“Sucre”: Jack Dowridge, known to the
Brisbane fancy of an earlier day as the Black Diamond,
has taken the count at
74. Born in the West
Indies he arrived in
Australia via England,
where he was a pupil
of Nat Langham, and
taught hundreds of
Queenslanders how to
put ’em up. But his
cleverest pupils were
two of his sons, who,
after performing bril-
liantly in the amateur
ring, became riders at
the pony meetings. The
Black Diamond was a
white man in every-
thing but his skin.
Peter Jackson had no
more faithful friend.
For years Jack ran
“consultations” in as-
sociation with his
tobaoco business in
George-street. Wh o n
Tatt.’s sweeps went
Dowridge’s were sup-
posed to go also, but
they lingered a long
time.
WALTER ROSS,
English bantam.
C. G. Watson, the Victorian, is the new
chess champion of the Commonwealth. He won
the title plus £5O and a free trip to Britain, where
he will represent Australia at a meeting of inter-
national masters, by gaining 11 of his 13 games
at the interesting Melbourne tournament. Through-
out Watson played attractive and enterprising chess.
A life-insurance man by profession, he was beaten by
Viner for the Australian championship at Perth m
1906, but has noticeably improved since. Viner,
who finished second and collected £3O in memory cf
the achievement, lost his chance of retaining the title
when Watson lowered his colors in the eighth
round. Crakanthorp drew third money ( £2O) with
a total of 10 points. There was a fine sporting
flavor about the proceedings, and chess enthusiasts
coughed up spiritedly to provide prizes and
expenses, and the wherewithal for the winner to
proceed to London. *
L. A. Tracey (Victoria College) was the
slickest of the sprinters in the inter-’Varsity cha»l-
pionships at Auckland. He won the 220yds. in
23sec. and the 440yds. in 51 3-ssec., and was only
inches behind A. Porritt (Otago) in the 100yds.
(10 l-ssec.). R. M. Webber (Auckland) again showed
that he has no superior among the long-distance
brigade by taking the mile in 4min. 32sec., and
the three miles in 15min. 31sec. In the aggregate
Otago won with .12 points, Victoria getting 10,
Canterbury 9 and Auckland 8.
“Pipards” : I sometimes wonder if any iof
the nocturnal pastimes, yclept sporting competitions,
that one could see in the East End of London 30 or
40 years ago, are obsolete nowadays—passed into
the limbo of oblivion, like the card games that our
grandfathers played. One of the tests of quickness
of hand and eye that still lingers in my memory was
“coddam,” played with a single coin and three men
seated on each side of a table, and something sug-
gestive of thimblerig about it. There were
coddam champions in those days whose fame ran
westward from Whitechapel almost as far as lempfe
Bar And there were athletes who would devour hot
jam-roll pudding against all comers, or against
time, with lighting-like gusto and careless grace.
But one of the most thrilling competitions in the
lower social levels of Cockaigne that I ever witnessed
had to do with boots. The starters, two or three
dozen in number, were ranged on a dais in a sub-
terranean hall. Each man divested himself of his
footwear, his assigned number was chalked on each
sole, and the resultant pile of bluchers, Tastic sides
and’ what-not were solemnly shuffled together in a
huge sack, like marbles in a churn. Then, amid a
tense silence, they were shot out on an open space,
and at the word “off” the competitors descended
on them like vultures upon a carcase or terriers upon
rats. The bloke who could first retrieve his own
daisy roots from the mass of assorted leather, in
varying stages of disrepair, drag them on his feet ana
get the referee to O.K. the numbers by exhibiting
himself to that official soles-upwards, netted the
stake-money and the kudos. Incidentally, I remember
there was a lot of betting, several of the contestants
being performers, of prhved proficiency, each with
his knot of sturdy admirers. I forget what the
game was called.
THE BETTER WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I never had the tennis craze —
To me it’s up to mud —
But tennis writers, all my days,
Will stir my sluggish blood.
Their blague is pleasure unalloyed;
The taste for stoush it whets:
Fierce are the similes employed,
Savage their epithets.
They dwell on “Topp’s terrific serve”
And “Dasher’s deadly slice” ;
Anon they praise the “killing nerve”
Of Jinks, that “man of ice” ;
With “demon rallies,” “mad returns”
And such their screeds they fill,
Until the guileless tyro yearns
To feel the self-same thrill.
Once I was caught. Don’t spare your gibes.
’Twas out at Double Bay.
According to the gloating scribes
I spent a “frenzied” day.
Bubb’s backhand was “a joy of joys” ;
Dubb’s drives were “fearsome” all —
I saw but two tame Willie-boys,
Patting a bouncing ball!
Since then I go no more to see
This languid Sissies’ game;
Small is the interest to me
Of dude or leggy dame;
Their footling “sport” at second-hand
Now swims into my ken,
Transfigured by the strenuous band
That plays it with a pen.
N.S.W.
TUART.


I have not joined a Safety Razor Union
1
&/ET
o
f (CjCilf /if /iff (IK rif iff (ff
Although lam a safety razor I never ca’canny. My job is to see that you
get the maximum output of shaves from every Valet blade.
My method is simple—just stropping, wonderfully accurate stropping—and
I do it myself, so that I know the job is properly done.
You will find that a razor which strops itselt is as great an improvement as
a motor car which starts itself. It is even better because it means more
“mileage” per blade.
Stop at the next good razor shop you pass and ask the man behind the
counter to show you the “Valet” Auto Strop Razor, then I’ll show you how
I strop myself.
THE STANDARD SET No. 1 consists of heavdy silver-plated. self-stropping "Valet" Auto Strop Razor, 12 O r T /C»
Valet Blades and Valet Strop, in handsome case, lined velvet and satin »( O
<6
VALET
99
JViiXxy/Sfc&cyp
Safety Razor
Managing Agents for Australasia:
PIIIPSON & COMPANY, LTD..
42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Ihe word ‘Valet’ on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product oi the AuloStrop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng.
YOU WILL ALWAYS BE A WINNER
if you can box scientifically.
You never know what moment
j'ou will have occasion to use
your fists, and it would be a
mighty uncomfortable experi-
ence if you got a thrashing.
Your SIZE will not protect
you if you’re untrained —
SCIENCE will come out on top
every time. The man who
knows the art of Scientific Box-
ing has it “all over” on his
opponent.
We Teach Boxing by Post —
teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot tail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops,”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE
to any address. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and post it to us with
three stamps to cover postage.
SEND FOR PRICE
LIST OF OUR “K. 0.”
BOXING GLOVES.
mm
!l^
fH
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
“The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
AND BROTHERS,
95 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
=IiYNOCH=
AMMUNITION
22 RIM FIRE.
chi!
Black and Smokeless Powder.
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
fThe
a
WmiiM.
IN TAN
'i/s.
-y/i
'S.
rip i
•:S=Sfc
fel£&e&
a
%
£
S¥
ft
S7*
8-
E
■V£
:*r
fe^ 4
*
,i:“
S*
"fulljr-
' ’Calf,• with'BlastfcSides
- an.dDaahteTags; Dust-
'Jprqof
-Easy
MEgulf. otVvand- off, the-
: " a *^to<;liman£ ! - is _«y.boot
"that no Australian horse*
- man should be without.
..Obtainable in oil sizes.
; V W V V 'V
' Wirto, S6ft~:g :
t Wanned qlacfcpofrdt 27/6 Dan’Mail t&z&fdu■
Guamntee S-
.-•-•••• * .....
; v ==i,_^v
Lincoln,-Stuart .arrd Cov Pty. : Ltd£^
'*• "SpecHtKsja-Jn- :• I 77C"'
744-254 Flinders


ď
Warm Winter Overcoats
in smart styles.
Overcoats with every attribute of service
and comfort, coupled with distinction of
style, await selection at " The Store
for Men.” The values are exceptional.
PRl —English-made Tweed Overcoats, latest
models, including Raglan shape ; obtainable
in lawn, dark brown, and grey. Price, 115/-
PR2 —Smart Overcoats, Raglan style, all-wool
medium-weight Coatings; in fawn, medium
grey herringbone patterns. Price, 126/-
Farmer’s :: Sydney
"The Store for Men.”
Carriage Paid. Box 497, G P.O.
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
r~-
If itftnt
Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER ” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickiy and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
rvl'rf'ns Mc U r l th ’? shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, MarkFoy’s,
Or en Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and countrv Or -ostage pa i<j 1,9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11609
Anzac Day was chosen for the formal
opening of Anzac House. Our Earl was
given a real gold key with which to do the
job, and he accomplished it to an obligato of
rervid eloquence supplied by himself, Rear-
Admiral Everett and the military Chauvel.
lhe hall in Anzac House, by the way, is
already popular for hire as a ballroom. It
is just the right size for a smallish select
dance, and conveniently in the city. The
Women’s Automobile _ Club monopolises a
spacious flat with a big, chintz-covered club-
room extending along the whole frontage on
the third floor.
This was race-week at Warrnambool, and
the city of the south-west was at its bftst.
The Earl shared in all the functions, of
which one was the unveiling of an oil paint-
ing of John Murray, who was Premier from
January, 19U9, till May, 1912. Alec Pea-
cock, who performed the ceremony, informed
Jack’s old friends that when the clamor
came for the reconstruction of his Ministry
in ’l5 lie declined to drop Murray. Their
idol insisted upon resigning owing to the
heart trouble which later brought about his
sudden end during Warrnambool race-week.
Engineer J. Macaulay, just arrived in
Melbourne to join the Perks firm of consult-
ing engineers, brings a strong Scots’ accent
and a wide experience of engines that go
down to the sea in ships. Lately of Birken-
head (England) he has been engine-designer
for a small herd of battleships, cruisers and
other fighting sea-urchins. He attended to
this portion of the internals of H.M.A.S.
Melbourne, Sydney, Parramatta and Yarra.
Carlyon’s jazz apartment overflowed with
money for the Eree Kindergarten dance. The
frivol was organised by the Donald Mackin-
non and Norman Bayles matrons, reinforced
by a heavy-weight committee, with the Guy
Miller widow as hon. sec. Everyone paid for
their own supper ; the funds were swelled by
the sale of cigars, sweets and carnival favors,
and James Dyer did his bit by footing the
expenses bill. It was an unconventional
happening, in the course of which Toorak
and Second Suburbia exchanged friendly
smiles in a joyous carnival romp. But the
£250, which is all the Kindergarten will get
as the result of the spree, seems rather paltry
in the circumstances.
Nineteen Board members and trustees of
the A.N.A. and the wives of s”eh as were
invited dined at G.H. the other night.
Knight Barrett and his lady were there, lest,
perhaps, Peacock and his dame should feel
lonely among the untitled. Barrett has
nothing to do with the A.N.A., but the man
who, in a manner of speaking, saved his
Ex.’s eye can’t be regarded as an outsider in
any vice-regal function.
The new H.Q. of the Yic. Red Cross were
opened with much circumstance on April
26 by the Stradbroke lady. It is a three-
storeyed building in Latrobe-street which
formerly sheltered a couple of furniture fac-
tories. The Countess’s references to Red
Cross activities were followed up by some
words from the Hennessy knight and the
Edward Miller dame, and the affair was
rounded off with afternoon tea and an in-
spection of the well-equipped building. The
secretary, Miss Philadelphia Robertson, has
toiled for years as sec. of the Australian
Red Cross. She now proposes to double
her job by wielding the Victorian secretarial
pen as well.
Lady Stradbroke rushed over from Sydney
to preside at the recent Ambulance Service
meeting, at Stonington, and then had to take
to her bed instead. The Steward lady, who is
intensely interested in the movement, took
her olace. A ball is to be given at St. Ivilda
Town Hall on June 19, and a hefty commit-
tee was formed to handle the matter —the
Countess president, the Steward and Clark-
son ladies vice-presidents, and Mrs. Charlie
Lyon ticket secretary.
Municipal Thursday concerts for 1922 in
the Town Hall begin to-day, and Dr. Price
has arranged a strong opening bill. Waiter
Kirby and the Mewton Choir will be on
deck, and the organ ought to be specially
interesting, for it is said to have had its
pitch lowered since last year, because of
Melba or somebody protesting against the
severity of the old pitch. But before the
municipal concerts are resumed the N.S.W.
Orchestra will get another look in. This
is the musical season when hardly a night
passes in the Town HaU without the stodgy
oil paintings of bygone Lord Mayors attract-
ing scornful attention. It is only on nights
when the hail is empty that nobody snorts
at ex-Lord Mayors done in oils.
The James Clarkes, of Tyrone, Ballarat,
had their diamond wedding the other day.
He is S 3, and she close on 80 years young.
Mrs. Clarke is a granddaughter of the
Thatcher who was A.D.C. to Phillip in the
“First Fleet” days. The pair were married
at Learmouth, near Ballarat, in ’62. In
his youth Clarke was in the R.I.C. (no,
not the “black-and-tans”), but he has been
a farmer in Victoria now for close on 40
years.
On Anzac Day Lady Forster, though away
in Sydney, invited the widows and mothers
of fallen Diggers to Government House. The
Chauvel lady took over the job of hostess
and received the guests on the fountain ter-
race, after which there was a short service—
prayer, hymns and an address by Archgaiters
Lees—in the ballroom. Programmes of the
service carried a message from her Ex., and
each had a little spray of rosemary. After-
wards tea was handed round from the buffet
and some prophylactic brightness was im-
ported into the proceedings with a concert
programme. in which figured Mrs. Victor
Sellheim, Betty Paterson, Annie Bennett,
Vera Bradford, Phyllis Parlett, Hodgson Wil-
liams and Angus McPhail. The Clarkson
and Cresswell and Sellheim dames all gave the
acting hostess a hand to keep things on an
even keel. At the foot of the gardens, in the
Domain, five new Anzac trees were planted
in the fast-growing plot, and General
Chauvel and the civic Ilennessy made
speeches in the rain and gave the gardeners
a band before going up to the bouse for tea.
Arndell Neil Lewis, eldest son of Elliott
Lew.s, Chief Secretary in the record-break-
ing Lee (Tas.) Government, was the other
day handed the LL.B. degree of the Speck’s
University after a law course in which he
bagged that institution’s highest legal honor,
the Backhouse Walker prize. He joined up
during the Big liow, and while in France
picked up a couple of pips and an M.C.
Incidentally, no new job has yet been found
for his dad, who recently set people wonder-
ing by announcing his intention of retiring
from politics at the youthful age of about 60.
Tennyson, the Digger son of David Blan-
sliard, of Hobart, was married at Christ-
church, St. Kilda, a few days ago to
Miss Florrie Thomas, the charming little
daughter of the W. J. Thomases, of Bux-
ton, Carlisle-street, Balaclava. The bride
sported the daintiest leaf-brown dress, em-
broidered in millions of tiny bronze beads,
and an autumn-tinted hat and bronze shoes
completed the color scheme. The wedding
was at 7 in the evening, and a supper party
at Buxton followed.
Lady Denman opened the Lost Dogs’ Home
nine years ago, and President Adamson is
having an anniversary party on May 6. He
wants to show off the Home’s new motor-
and horse-drawn carts, which are luxurious
improvements on the former box-carts. There
is also a new motor-cycle ambulance for
injured bow-wows.
This is Mrs. Flintoft, of the Ministering
Children’s League. She is president of the
South Yarra and Prahran section of it.
Her method i 3 to
concentrate on some
special need of the
children and then peg
away until the
necessary funds to
cover that need are
in hand. At present
she is trying to re-
place the risky kero-
sene lamps with
electric light in the
Cottage-by-t h e-S e a,
and a special effort
is being made to deal
with the financial
equation. She is a
South Australian by
birth, and married
widower Flintoft,
who has served more
than one term as Mayor of Prahran.
Bibron, the ever-young, has sent out big
sheets of pasteboard surmounted by a family
crest and a motto which is French for some-
thing like “always top dog.” The cards are
for a ball in the St. Kilda Town Hall this
(Thursday) evening.
We certainly have some high-falutin’ folk
in our dancing-teacher world. Kathleen
Lascelles, who is running the swaggah Hun-
dred Club dances, is a i*elation of Mr. Prin-
cess Mary.
The Navy officials are moving to save
money. In a week or two they will leave
Lonsdale-street, where they have to pay rent,
for Victoria Barracks, where they haven’t.
At a club soiree at the Institute of Arts
and Literature, the other evening, Dr.
Nyulasy read a paper on “The Stage
Othello,” and among other things proved that
to dress the Moor in a flowing bath-robe
trimmed with scimitars and turbans is wrong
—Shakspeare meant him to do his dirty work
in the uniform of a Venetian officer. The
doctor diagnoses Othello’s complexion as a
pale coffee-and-milk instead of the burnt-cork
so dear to Oscar Asche. Robert Garran
presides over these high-brow congregations
of the Institute, and he and half-a-dozen
all chipped in with literary arguments, and
they so rammed home their points that they
could easily have convinced mere Allan
Wilkies and Oscar Asches that Othello’s eyes
were pink, his beard red and his breath the
color of spirit.
At the Rose Day Appeal Ball at Carlyon’s
one well-known dame "looked very charming
in black.” However, her maid had evidently
neglected to hand her the “petty” which the
dress-builder designed to go beneath her gold-
banded skirt. Black bloomers met the eye
until after the third dance. Then somebody
must have whispered something, for the lady
vanished, and when she returned her dressing
was back to normal.
W. B. Mclnnes, who has been persuaded
to face Monteath’s camera for The Bulle-
tin, is the virile young artist who recently won
the Archibald prize
with his portrait of
the monocled Des-
browe-Annear. He
is also the author of
a convincing study
of the late Ross
Smith, done for the
Australian W a r
Museum. He paints
with a bi’oad brush,
fat with pigment,
but his practised,
forthright manner is
responsible for illu-
sions of depth and
atmosphere that
have won him a
separate distinction
for his landscape
work. Mclnnes was
trained at the Melbourne National Gallery,
where lie was runner-up for the travelling
scholarship in 1007, and where he is now
chief aide to Bernard Hall. A few years
ago he went to Europe, and subsequently
to Morocco and Algeria, and the fruit of
the latter experience was a Brangwyn-like
zest in handling rich color. Nowadays his
canvases hang in the Sydney, Brisbane,
Castlemaine and other galleries, and many
have been snapped up by private collectors.
Guy Mioore, D.F.C., has an altar appoint-
ment with Miss Marguerite Thompson on
May 11. Marguerite is the daughter of the
late R. D. Thompson, well known in mining
circles here and in YVestralia. Guy’s dad
is mining auditor Capper Moore, and' he has
taken his Digger son into partnership. The
young man was on Aussie service in
Egypt before transferring to the R.F.C.,
with . whom he soared to the height
of Flight Commander in France. He has
a scientifically-built concrete dove-cot ready
at Brighton, and is planning the addition of
a hangar, also a small Avro ’plane to go
with the chooks and other domestic birds.
The wedding will be a quiet affair at Adam-
son Hall, Westley College.
The two women recently lost on Mt.
Strickland for three days are not the first
to mislay themselves in the district. A few
years an Adelaide girl staying in Marys-
ville went a-missing for eight days, but was
then discovered safe and sound, though some-
what altered in appearance, in an old ’pos-
sumer’s hut on the mount. She had lived
on dandelion-roots and tree-fungus, having,
as it happened, some knowledge of the edible
varieties. She roasted the fungus on a bit
of tin ; When returned to the boarding-house
the girl was in great distress of mind, and
confided her trouble to a ring of sympathetic
females. “Just think,” she wailed, “eight
whole days without a drop of peroxide!”
The priceless lace that edges the gowns
of the Sistine choristers varies in width with
rank—the small boys have an inch of it and
the depth increases through the choir until
you find Monsignor Bella, wearing a skirt-
ing of spider-web quite 20 inches deep.
This hangs over a marvellous gown of vivid
scarlet velvet, and more of it makes “angel
sleeves” as he waves his arms. Bella, by the
way, uses no baton, but gets all his effects
with expressive fingers. Out of his volum-
robes, he is a tall, slight man with an
astonishing facial likeness to Hugh Ward.
Governor Stradbroke and his lady were
booked up to attend the choir performance
the evening they got back from Sydney, but
the Countess was too ill. ’Flu was the
trouble. Consul Grossardi and his lady have
been devoted attendants at most of the con-
certs.
_ The Fairbairn-Wheatleys are having par-
ties to welcome Major and Mrs. Osborne
Fairbairn, who stepped down the gang-plank
of the last liner from England. Mrs. Fair-
bairn was Irene Ridley, an English girl whom
the young man met when we was with the
A.F.C. abroad.
Journalist Edmund Finn, who passed out
the other day, had been associated with
Melbourne Punch since 1875. His widow,
one of the best-known women journalists in
Victoria, recently retired from‘active paper-
work, and his only daughter, Florence, has
caught the public eye with travel books and
amateur theatrical work. The family was
a most devoted trio. Edmund Finn, an
old Scots Collegian, was a barrister, but
never practised. ... »
Tasmania is chuckling over the visit or
a Vic. provincial magnate. lie did ms
accommodation-booking from hotel to hotel
by wires, upon all of which he added to his
signature the proud evidence of his mipoit-
anee —"0.8. E.. J.P.”
W. R. Barstow’s appointment to the
much discussed job of Sergeant-at-Arms in
the Leg. Assembly means a general move-
up-one in the House staff. McLaclilah be-
comes Assistant Clerk of Papers, Landj
Assistant to the Clerk of Records, yy ank<‘
Clerk of Papers, and Webb Reader and
Clerk of Records. Each of these jobs car-
ries with it a tremendous pother of swank
and ceremonial. '
The conference craze is still upon us. VY e
had the Cornstalks, the Cockies, the Metho-
dies, and a few others; then, after a noli-
day spell, came two educational gatherings
one the quintessence of the teachers of the
Commonwealth, and the other for all and
sundry Vic. teachers. The second was nearer
to the earth than the first, but Victoria will
be none the worse for the looking upward
exercise it got while the All-Australia crowd
was sitting.
Mrs. W. L. Baillieu, her second son, ILL-,
and her three daughters, Vere, Claire and
Amy, accompanied W.L. when he left on
his business trip on the Niagara. It will
not be all biz. with the head of the Baillieu
clan, but it will be all pleasure for the nest.
The trip is scheduled for eight months, but
it may stretch out to a year.
A coo-ee from Adelaide: —
The Weigalls motored from Government House on
Monday to the accompaniment of the first rain
we’ve had for months. There was a brief halt at
Parliament House, and a longer one at Port Adelaide,
where they boarded a train, and they got to the
Outer Harbor just five minutes before the Osterley
sailed. Their send-off was an amazing one, and there
were continuous crowds from Government House
gates to the Outer Harbor. The Sunday had been a
hectic day for the departing vice-regals ; the Anzac
service at Elder Park in the afternoon and a
final word with the returned men there, an impromptu
parade of Boy Scouts on the Government House
lawn, the Anzac service at St. Peter’s Cathedral,
and afterwards good-byes to personal friends. The
collection for the Lady Weigall Souvenir Fund, by
the way, has touched £lOOO, and money still comes
in.
The fund for the Church of England’s Girls’
Grammar School, at Glenelg, has had a sudden boost,
thanks to a cheque for £lOOO from Mrs. Ernest
Ayers and a couple of anonymous £soo’s.
One of Lady Weigall’s last visits was to the hostel
run by the Travellers’ Aid Society on North-terrace,
a useful and all-too-small institution whose special
business it is to provide cheap and decent board
for women travellers and immigrants. Its organiser,
Miss Dixon, has rescued all sorts of “strays” in her
peregrinations of the wharves and railway stations,
her latest haul including an old Belgian dame of
82 and a small girl of 11, neither of whom seemed
to have any idea as to why they were there or
where they were going.
Anzac Day was grey and damp, but a vast crowd
turned up for the unveiling of the Women’s Memorial
in Pennington Gardens. The whole thing was admir-
ably carried out. The ceremonial was made up of
two hymns led by massed bands, a couple of simple
prayers, a dedicatory speech by Brig.-Gen. Leane, a
minute’s silence, the last post, reveille, and the
National Anthem. That was all, except that after-
wards the base of the cross was massed with flowers.
The prime, movers in the matter of the memorial
were ex-Mayoress Glover, Mrs. A. A. Lendon, Miss
Dorothy Gilbert, Miss Ethel Wyatt, Mrs. Arthur
Lungley and Miss Clayton.
Col. David Fulton and his wife are back from
Egypt and Palestine after a spell there that dates,
for him, from 1914, when the first Light Horse
Brigade landed. He is not cheering about the con-
ditions that he left. He doesn’t like the way the
German colonies at Wilhelmina and Maifa are forging
ahead, nor the manner in which German and Aus-
trian goods are pouring in; Britain seems to be
lackadaisical as to the interests of her nationals, and
the success of the New Jerusalem seems more than
doubtful, most of the Jewish immigrants being
Russian communists, and a poor type at that.
The A.N.A. is moving for better care of the grave
of Mrs. Carleton, author of the “Song of Australia,”
which this State claims as the Commonwealth’s
national anthem. The grave is in the Wallaroo
cemetery, badly neglected, and a call for funds
brought in only £lO. The whole of the A.N.A. is
to be appealed to now for money to erect a permanent
monument 4s well as to effect temporary repairs.
The Roy Mellishes got back from Queensland (he
had been judging at Maryborough’s Easter Eistedd-
fod) in time to pick up the Nestor for their 12-
months’ holiday in Europe. Their fellow passengers
include Mrs. Charles Todd and daughter Lorna, the
Wallace Sandfords, the W. Lowes and Dr. H. A.
Wyllie. The last-named takes in his pocket an
honorary commission to inquire into the Spahlinger
treatment of tuberculosis.
Local Girl Guides, have had their first camp, on
the shores of the gulf at Seacliffe. The 50 members
were strictly limited to officers and patrol leaders,
w'ho have thus served their ’prenticeship at running
similar camps for their own companies in future.
W. H. Woodhead, London chairman of the British
Broken Hill Co., who has been looking into things
in Australia on behalf of his company, left by the
Osterley after being farewelled at the Outer Harbor
(S.A.) by friends who had come from all parts
of Australia to do it.


=3?
r\
■ "V
3
7J,C.
\
ft*
*3
m
IS;
V
wjy
r:
\
■yii
*L\
p
w
'V!
W/i
o
Sr
Ef
1.3
lift
/
'■
m
Keep that wedding day complexion
m:
m)
m
tk
H
i
u
THE blushing bride of to-day should be
the blooming matron of to-morrow,
retaining the charm of
freshness to enhance radiant maturity.
For bridal beauty should not fade, nor tht
passing of each anniversary be recorded
on your face.
Keep the schoolgirl complexion which
graced your wedding day, and you win
keep your youth. With a fresh, smooth
skin, no woman ever seems old.
The problem of keeping such a complex-
ion was solved centuries ago. The method
is simple—the means within the reach
of all.
Cosmetic Cleansing
the Secret
To keep your complexion fresh and
smooth you must keep it scrupulously
clean. You can’t allow dirt, oil and perspi-
ration to collect and clog the pores if you
value clearness and fine texture.
You can’t depend on cold cream to do
this cleansing—repeated applications un-
removed help fill up the pores. The best
fray is to wash your face with the mild,
soothing lather of Palmolive, containing
Palm and Olive oils, the cleansers used
by Cleopatra,
Science has combined these two Oriental
oils in the bland, balmy, facial soap which
bears their name. You need never be
afraid of the effects of soap and water if
the soap you use is Palmolive,
How it acts
Wash the face gently with the velvet,
creamy lather of mild Palmolive, and
massage it softly into the skin. When this
foam is rinsed away, it carries off the im-
purities which clog the pores and are the
foundation of skin infection and disfigure-
ment.
Palmolive softens the skin and keeps it
flexible and smooth. It freshens and
stimulates, encouraging firmness and
attractive natural colour.
Palmolive sells everywhere
at 1/3 per cake
The guest-size cake of Palmolive Soap will be sent post free, on request, by The
Palmolive Company {Australasia ) Ltd,, Broughton House, Clarence St„ Sydney.
2,000 years have passed
since Cleopatra proved that a blend of Palm
and Olive oils worked magic on the skin.
She knew that cleanliness is the first law of
beauty, and that only by a thorough cleansing
of the pores can the skin reveal its natural
raaiance— its satin-like texture.
So she used Palm and Olive oils—the same
mild oils which are contained in Palmolive,
and the crude combination which was the
best that even Royalty could command in
ancient days, now, as the result of scientific
development, reaches you in the perfection of
Palmolive.
Test also the perfection of
Pamolive Cold Cream; Palmolive Vanish-
ing Cream; "Violet of the Nile” and
*' Egyptian Rose ” Talcums; " Palmole ”
Face Powder; Palmolive Face Powder;
Palmolive Rouge; Palmolive Shampoo.
fd
ď


Under
Royal
Warrant
ďf
Asfjoag
siuiM
■W'H °1
CHAMPAGNE
*-HampaCNC
Reims
s)* o** 0 **
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agronts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfurnes
Soaps
Powders
On Saturday the Sistine Choir lifts up its
voice in the Town Hall, and already the
advance bookings for the season are what
the gentleman responsible calls “pheno-
menal.’’ The opening “Viva.” by Reflee,
is said to be a sparkling brew with so
much kick in it that it would be banned
under the U.S.A. Volstead Act. Perosi’s
‘Requiem” and “Alleluia” will form part
of the first programme, an added in-
terest accruing from the cabled news
that the eminent cleric has gone mad. The
basis of the suspicion appears to be the fact
that he has given away 75,000 lira, but as
this at the present exchange rates only
amounts to the value of a few tram-fares, the
thing appears to smack of advertisement’s
artful aid.
One little black-eyed Sistinite nearly hung
up the show one night in Melbourne.
He had received a letter in English, and
he went rushing madly from one to another
of the choir to have it read to him. No-
body attended to him, and he was in despair.
Finally a ripple of the disturbance reached
the great Itella, and he, who in his wisdom
has learned that a boy chorister is as tem-
peramental a bird as an operatic prima
donna, sought the cherub disconsolate and
read the momentous missive to him. It was
an invitation to the youngsters of the co. to
come and consume ginger-pop and ice-cream
in a Toorak garden.
The Judge Gordon couple returned from
Kosciusko last week with a story against
S’Onor. Staying at the mountain hotel was
a youngster who became deeply interested in
stories of the left-at-home Gordon children.
Any scrap of information concerning the
small girl of the family fascinated her. “And
what does Anne’s father do?” she asked one
day. The answer, “He’s a Judge,” brought
only a puzzled frown to her face, so some-
body explained : “Well, sometimes, you know,
grown-up people are naughty and disobedient
just like children, and a Judge is the man
who punishes them.” The kiddie beamed
with understanding: “Oh, you mean he’s a
policeman !”
Perhaps the most impressive service on
Anzac Day was the unveiling of the
memorial fountain at the Woolloomooloo
wharf gates. The fountain is let into the
wall of rock that. falls sheer down from the
more or less fashionable plateau a couple of
hundred feet above, and clambering on a
craggy ledge almost above the G.-G.’s head,
patched and shoeless little ’Loo-ites kept a
critical eye on his doings. One impressive
pause in the proceedings was broken by a
breathless: “Crikey, you nearly pushed me
on to the boss’s lid!’ But the young ’Loo
feels the sadness and the glory of this Day
of our Deathless Dead, and he would die
rather than touch a ribbon or a leaf of those
memorial wreaths. One battalion ribbon has
fluttered for four years on the Anzac-parade
monument, and unless it has been ruined by
the recent rain, its wounded owner will have
it pressed again next year to tie on the
wreath the missus weaves for him every year
in memory of his “cobber.”
Stanley Lucas—who started out to be an
architect, changed his mind in the belief that
he was to be Irving’s successor, but got bored
by the astonishing number of young mum-
mers . with the same belief—is now busy
k° me lights of Newcastle
(N.b.W.) in fascinating super-lampshades
painted on a parchment-like surface, which
gives a quaint lead-light effect. The other
day in Coalopolis he held a show which he
meant to bring down to Sydney; but every-
body who went along carried away a shade,
and there was no show left to ship south,
so it will be another month before the Arts
and Crafts put out his sign here.
On. the 7th floor of Bernard’s Buildings
Merric Boyd, of Melbourne, is displaying
his wares, and old Omar could make no
complaint about the slipping of the potter’s
thumb if he saw these vessels, tall and squat,
lifted in their perfection from the wheel.
The young Victorian works without moulds •
every piece is shaped in its entirety on the
wheel and then baked and colored by this
poet of ceramics. There is one pitcher that
is an autumn hymn to Bacchus. Softly
yellow without, it curls to an olive-green
interior, and on its side blooms a bunch of
purple grapes. On a little table, where the
Gallery purchases try to look unselfconscious,
is an exquisite piece of flashed glaze that
might have wandered down from a Ming or
a Hang dynasty. It represents a chook
whose young brood is adventuring just be-
yond the maternal wing. The show continues
till May 15. Boyd is one of a trio of artistic
brothers—painter Penleigh is the second,
and the other is a poet who has just pub-
lished a book of good post-war verse.
At the last Victoria League meeting (it
occurred at the Women’s Club) the G.-G.’s
lady suggested some schemes for discussion
at the inter-State conference in midwinter.
Cr&ches and hostels for the care of the
woman immigrant and her children at the
different ports of call were stressed. Pretty
Mrs. Pitt Rivers was a ray of light in the
gathering of brows knit with thought, and
Hame Alice Chisholm, of Kantara, added
her rare and gentle presence. Mayoress Mc-
Eihone, Mrs. Chris Bennett, the Hughes and
H ade ladies, and shelvesful of plain and
de luxe editions ol Bush Book Clubbers
made up the gather, ng. For, as everybody
knows, the Bush Book Club and the Vic-
toria League are as Siamese twins.
Sydney’s Municipal Librarian, Charles H.
Bertie, sails with his wife aboard the
Sonoma on May 10 for a four-months’ holi-
day trip through the U.S.
Tighe Ryan, of the Catholic Press, is
about to celebrate his jubilee as editor of
that genial organ ; and the Church is mobi-
lising its financial resources for the event —
or, anyhow, some of them. There is to be
a presentation to send him for a trip to
Ireland; and if half the ecclesiastics now
alive who have climbed the dusty little stair-
way to his office in his time subscribe, there
should be sufficient funds to keep him travel-
ling for life.
The engagement is announced of pretty
Jean Brooks and Arthur Noel Eedy, whose
father s city address is the Mutual Life
and Citizens’ Insurance Co. Arthur Noel
• t^le crac k athletes of the
S.C.E.G.S., which he left with 30 cups won
by his prowess in different events. fie
served in the Great War with the A.F.C.,
and is now learning the station bus’ness at
tlie John McMasters’ place, Binnia Downs.
The Royal Hospital for Women, Padding-
ton, has started in pursuit of £50,000 to pay
for a new wmg. It would be impossible
to subscribe to a better cause. Since the
hospital '.was erected
in 1905 nearly 24,000 babies have been
born with the help of its doctors and nurses;
but the supply of accommodation is now
so much behind the demand that in the past
five years 4000 women had to be treated
on the balconies, and other thousands could
not get in at all. It is to rectify this
state of affairs that the well-to-do are being
asked to give and give quickly.
Lord Loughborough’s sister, Lady Rosa-
belle Brand, has started a duck farm in an
English village. The London Daily Chron-
icle, in the course of an approving note on
the venture remarks :
With the help of an assistant and a few village
boys to pluck and prepare the birds for market, Lady
Rosabelle hopes to hatch and sell 2000 ducklings
every year.
At 2s. profit per duckling—and assuming
that none die or are stolen before sale, and
that the buyer pays up like a man—this
would show an income of under £2OO per
annum—rather less than would suffice, at
post-war rates, to support and pay the wages
of the assistant. It is an interesting example
of the optimism of the newly-poor.
This is the ha#d-
so m e visage o f
Mrs. Hugh Munro,
as seen by the
Leighton Studios.
Her chief claim to
fame at present is
the fact that she is
first president of the
Women’s Country
Association. Despite
her citified appear-
ance when she is in
the city she is very
much the bu s li-
woman. She was
formerly of Greigin
station, near Wari-
aldaj and now lives
on Keera station.
One of the unofficial mourners for Lieut.
Bennett who was killed with Sir Ross Smith
is Dora Ohlfsen, the Australian sculptor.
She travelled to England with him on the
Orsova last February, and they became great
friends before they parted—she to go to her
work at Rome, he to travel on to England
and his death.
Mrs. Jack Toohey and her pretty daughter
Girlie arrived back in Sydney on the Omar
They made a round of the battlefields of
France and Belgium, where, incidentally, the
head of the family saw service.
. Admiral Dumaresq was not only popular
m Sydney : he was respected. This was be-
cause, unlike most of the naval brass-hats
who have come here from England in the
past, he took his job seriously. His prede-
cessors of high rank mostly regarded it as
a place o l cheap diversion. He is connected
with Australia on both sides, in a sense.
His father was, of course, a N. S. Wales
station-owner, and his mother—Miss Edith
Gladstone—was a sister-in-law of Lord Bel-
more, the Governor of other days.
Mrs. Hare Foster is in Sydney on a visit.
She was Freda Lamb, daughter of Mrs.
Alfred Lamb. Mrs. Wilfrid Fairfax, who
is her sister, has been entertaining in her
honor on the “hail and farewell” principle,
the visitor being due shortly to return to
England.
Mrs. Donald Donald, of Masterton
(M.L.), blew into Sydney last week, only
to leave again on the Hobson’s Bay for Eng-
land. She and her husband, Major Donald,
lived at Woollahra Point for many years, and
had a wide circle of friends thereabouts.
He was a well-known figure at the Rose
Bay Golf Club, and she did a lot of enter-
taining. A rift appeared in the domestic
lute in M.L., and she has just divorced
him. In fact, she is on a health tour de-
signed to help her to recover from the shock.
This g o od-1 oo k-
ing youngster i s
Gertrude Con-
cannon who re-
vealed a voice of
unusual lyric qual-
ity at her recital
during the week. She
hails from Mary-
borough (Q.), and
her programme was
a happy mingling of
old and modern
genius. Madame
Christian is her
teacher.
The big crush of
the week was the
Women Painters’
Show in the
Education Depart-
merit s Gallery. Premier Fuller’s lady,
refraining from undue elation in her dress-
ingj declared the exhibition open on Satur-
day afternoon, and later on encouraged Aus-
tralian art by purchasing five guineas’ worth
of Constance Moser’s canvas labelled “The
Visitors.” The show attracted shoals of
women, among whom the occasional male
looked as though he couldn’t account for his
own presence. Old friends Hetty Dymock,
Mrs. Iledle.y Parsons, Cumbrae Stewart and
Doris Wilson smiled from the walls, for the
most part putting a modest valuation upon
themselves. Thea Procter conscientiously
did the whole show in navy tailoring's, ivory
stockings, black shoes and an upstanding
white ham-frill tickling her ears. Thea’s
three bits of modernism drew as persistently
as a magnet all the afternoon. They have
the exouisite finish that should accompany
slender-legged French furniture tapestried in
gold, and they would certainly refuse to live
on the walls of any but a 10-guinea-a-week
Adventurers upon seas of paint are
Mabel Barling, with her big lion canvas that
looks like a bit of Taronga Park at appetite
time, and Melbourne Violet Teague, whose
‘Boy with the Palette” is very gallantly
painted. This is the canvas which won
Violet the Paris Salon Gold Medal, after
lying unrolled for six years from eventful
1.114, when the Salon closed its doors “for
the duration.” The decorative Mrs. Rix
Nicholas, who moved about in frocking exotic
with embroideries, showed a number of works
of which “The Bathers” won the popular
vote. Edith Cusack’s “Caterina” was an-
other favorite. W.A. is the only 'State not
represented on the gallery’s walls.
ci fM-l t A he x>? ally , d .°?Sy people are helping the
S.i .C.A. fete, which is to take place on Mav
b m the gardens of Mrs. T. Knox’s home
,Bellevue Hill. Ladv Forster will sav
a little opening speech, Dame Margaret has
piomised to judge some of the competitions,
Daphne and Diana will run the children’s
stall, and Sheila Loughborough, Lady Digbv
and Mrs. Pitt Rivers are throwing their
good looks into the scale of mercy. The
show threatens to have a remarkable
flower-stall. Eadith Walker, whose Yaralla
garden is famous, is the brigadier, and Mrs
Horrick Knowles, daughter of “Tith.” who
knew almost as much of flowers as he did
of acting, is one of her lieutenants. They
have been promised the loot of the neigh-
borhood’s gardens: and prize blooms from
the North Shore line will also be in evi-
dence.
of a gallant flying-man was
honored _ fittingly on Anzac Day when the
wife of bis brother Ernest laid the founda-
tion-stone of the Oswald Watt wing at
Havilah, the Wahroonga Home for Orphans.
The idea of bin ding the wing first sprouted
m the Union Club, and the subscription-list
gradually included the names of most of the
popular Sydney man’s friends. Archdeacon
D Arcy Irvine, whose wife was a cousin of
Oswald., blessed the stone-laying; and such
good friends as his Aero Club chums, Cap-
tain Feakes, R.N., the Jimmie Burnses, Mrs
Jamieson, Rose Merivale and the Littlejohns
made the long trip out to Havilah through
the day s heavy weather for the ceremony.
Maude Hanaford may be in Sydney longer
than she expected. The reason is that she
doesn’t know any better place to have her
teeth attended to. The sparkling little hero-
ine of “Scandal” is withdrawing her rose-
pink frocking from the Australia this week*
and betaking herself to the sumptuous Hugh
D. Mclntosh residence oh Bellevue IlilL
Some Inky Wayfarers of Sydney are form-
ing a new kind of club. There is to be no
sub. —only a bob chucked into “Kitty” for
the evening’s refreshers. It met last week
for the first time in the Alexandra Lounge,
Denison House, and there was a great muster
of poets and authors and playwrights. Lalla
Fisher was the presiding genius. Dulcie
Deamer looked frightfully Spanish smoking
cigarettes in the shadow of a black Niagara
of fringe that plunged over the right brim
of her hat; Lola Gornall was rose-pink jersey
silk where she wasn’t slim black leg j Zora
Cross was in snuff-brown, and poet David
McKee Wright Uncurled a scroll that dealt
with Faith in Literature. The gathering
included more men than Sydney usually
sees together; and they went without dinner
to attend the informal gathering, coming and
going between the eating hours of five and
eight. But then they were mostly poets; and
it is notorious that this class doesn’t eat.
Parson Howard Lea, helped by her own
padre father, transferred Rosamund Lurns-
daine into the keeping of Alan Spowers, of
the Melbourne Argus, on Saturday, at St.
Mark’s, Darling Point. The bride, who is
one of Sydney’s prettiest society flappers, in
a foam of petalled georgette and an armful
of cream roses, fluttered up the long chrysan-
themum-decked aisle to where her tall young
man awaited her. Bridesmaids had evidently
struck for a 44-hour week or something, for the
wedding-dress was trainless, and all the
bridegroom’s sister, Rosamund, and Bettine
Brown, from Melbourne, had to do was to
stand about looking effective in primrose-
toned frocking. The Jim Gordons’ two
delightful youngsters helped in the ornamen-
tation of the wedding group, and the bride-
groom had brought, as supports, Jim Fair-
bairn and R. C. Casey, from Melbourne.
Rosamund’s sister, Ruth, who recently mar-
ried Harry Whiting, another Melbourne
man, sported rich black frocking and a pic-
ture hat. Mrs. Lumsdaine chose grey frock-
ing and a mauve posy; and soft navy satin
clothed the bridegroom’s mother. The cake
was carved at the Queen’s Club, and the
Frank Paynes’ cottage at Frankston is serv-
ing as the honeymoon retreat.
Julian Ashton’s pupils—there are nearly
100 of them, day and night—-hung out the
sign of the palette last week, and the walls
of the long studio in the Q. V. Markets are
literally covered with the work of the
youngsters—black-and-whites, studies in the
antique, sketches for. very modern advertis-
ing, artistic frieze designs by the threatening-
to-be-brilliant Kama Birmingham, and en-
trancing fairy sketches by two 15-year-old
students. Grace Crowley, who is giving
up her job as one of Julian’s assistants to
concentrate on the travelling scholarship,
has a joyous and sunny brush; and the
work of Myra Cocks has extraordinary
verve and grace.
Bmelie. Polina and Eily Malyon have
dropped into a habit of spending week-ends
at the Newport cottage of the medical
Donald Frasers. Both are interesting
women off stage, and the actress who can
be that is a rare bird. The vibrant-voiced
Lmelie can talk enthusiastically on a dozen
subjects; and Eily (she’s Mrs. Plumpton
Wilson) is a book-lover as familiar almost
with the ancients as the moderns. On a recent
bunday night they reversed the order of
things and got back to town in time to hear
Dr. Donald lecture at the King’s Hall to
a mainly-Theosophical audience, in which
the newly-wed Jack Beans were front-seat-
P u S ' at . er on there was a supper-partv at
the hospitable Fraser home. Emelie, inci-
dentally, has . been a victim to the wide-
spread laryngitis trouble, and the ’cello-like
voice was short of at least three of its
richest tones all the week.
Furlough House enthusiast Mrs. Cooper-
Day is off to America with her son F.H.,
n??’ k/ the way, is the young man respon-
sible for running the Censor’s scissors
through the spicy bits in the fillums before
they reach the impressionable public. Mrs.
Cooper-Day, who worked in the city’s health
department when she wasn’t laying the
foundations of such institutions as Furlough
House, has been floated away on high tides
teas. Two notable parties were
the Furlough House committee affair at the
Wentworth, and the Repertory Society’s
flutter last Friday.
Mrs. Antlionia Jane Pechey, who died at
o tan mo re the other day, was a daughter of
-Henry Rotton, an old Bathurst identity who
sat m the 2nd, 3rd and 4th Parliaments for
Western Boroughs and Hartley (1858-64).
A sister was Mrs. Keightley, who, when her
husband was bailed up at Dunn’s Plains by
Hall s gam* did her famous drive to Bathurst
xkaa th u i nten tion of getting from her father
ist)o, the sum demanded for ransom. Mrs.
Pechey’s husband, Alfred John Pechey, was
elected for East Macquarie in January, 1882,
but was killed in a buggy accident before
taking his seat.


This Splendid
Murdoch-made Stormcoat
will ward off Winter’s chilly breath and
many a doctor’s fee. It combines a smart,
distinctive style with a sturdy, well-
planned weather-resisting foundation.
Made from English
Woollen Tweeds
of robust quality. In attrac-
tive dark shades and sub-
dued patterns. Warm, yet
without superfluous weight.
Raglan style, step collar,
flap pockets, strapped cuffs,
With or without belt.
Diredt from
Manufacturer
to Wearer
PRICE
751-
Lighter make, 55/-
When ordering please give size
around chest (over coat) and
address your letter to Desk R.
Postage Paid to your door.
URDOCH
IN PARK ST. LTD..
SYDNEY,
“ The World’s Largest Men’s and
Boys’ Wear Store.”
g|§
*1
\
18ct. GOLD "ROTHERHAM”
Guaranteed by Drummond’s.
■
18ct. Gold English Lever Watch, with high-grade, fully-jewelled
movement, specially made for Drummond’s by “Rotherham,”
England, in full hunting case, or half-hunter, as illustrated.
Price £4O.
J his \Yatch is also stocked in silver, with either hunting or
half-hunting case, at £l2. With open face, £ll.
Illustrated Catalogue on request.
W&m. ®rummonb & Cc
■===— ~ ■g-ggg-*■■■"■
WATCHMAKERS, CLOCKMAKERS and JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super-remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
m
OL
, COUCHS
COLDS
3
CROUP
LUNG
TROUBM
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
(!
d
Packed in the famous Red Boxes
and mailed to you the day they
are made.
Jz/sf
loVgJu
99
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 30/-
Post free to any address in Australia.
162-166 Pitt
Street; also
corner George
and King Streets,
Sydney.
■
I
"W
zz>
■
213
F
y
Km
m
m
m
/


Learn to Draw
"There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
3s
4^
The above
is the title
of our book-
let which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send t h r e e
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawinp,
128 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUND
in
July
and
August
offers an especially
delightful summer
vacation to the visitor.
Continuous outdoor
sports: game fishing,
swimming,' surfing, golf-
ing, mountain climbing.
Gorgeous Kilauea, living vol-
cano. Scenery of rare beauty ;
tropic fruits, flowers, trees.
Ask your nearest tourist, travel
or steamship agency for new
booklet, or write direct to
DEPT. B,
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Honolulu,
Territory of Hawaii, u.S.A.
V
a
WORK
SHIRT
The finest Shirt proposition for
the worker. Made extra strongly,
with plenty of “shoulder” and
“chest” room.
Materials are in FAST plain
shades or stripes.
'Pibeßrolhers
-*■ imi d
TOOWOOMBA- BRISBANE • TOWNSVILLE
X
n
m
'
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 21 Hrs.
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or food or cold
refreshment wi hout
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-lIOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
,, , . . able in care of the sick
Made m various or old folks,
sizes and styles
from up
Built lor Lifetime
Service
ICY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
iastalifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY'-HOT on bottom, icy-hot tea pot
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
!59 West Second Street. CINCINNATI, OHIO, U.S.A.
ďfd
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
POLO
WRITE FOR OUR FREE POUO
BOOKLET, CONTAINING the RUUES
and IJLUUSTRATIONS of GEAR USED.
Practice Sticks, 6/6.
blatch Sticks from 10/6.
Calls, AVillow or Bamboo, 17/6 dozen.
We have the largest assortment of Polo
Sticks in Australia.
WRITE FOR OUR FINE SADDLERY
CATALOGUE.
ďf
K’burra Whips Post Free for Cash
WHEREVER THE WHIPS ARE CRACKING
“K’BURRA” WHIPS LEAD THE WAY.
KANGAROO LEATHER RIGHT
THROUGH, WITH PLAITED BELLY,
PLAITED BY EXPERTS.
Thongs 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 17/- 19/6 22/6 21/6
16-plait 19/- 22/- 25/- 28/-
20-plait 23/6 27/- 31/- 35/-
Handles to Match, 16/6, 18/6 and 21/6,
but if for 9ft. thongs add another 1/6
for loading.
Walther U Stevenson Ltd.,
SADDLERS & POLO SPECIALISTS,
395 George Street. Sydney
} ist/r,
! !
A half inch to the
Shave—-
MSNrreri
SH/wirKi znsm
The economy of it is as easy on
your pocket as the lather is easy
on your face. 2
MONARCH
Hand=made from Highest-grade Havana Filler.
THE CIGAR FOR QUALITY.
Special sampling cabinet containing:
10 Cigars, 6/- ; 25, 12/6;
50, 23/9 i 100, 46/-
POST PAID
TO ANY
ADDRESS
ii
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d. each.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for Club Rei! Cigar Factory.
Slisslng Frienris.
SA NGLISH Relatives of THOMAS
CLARK, Gasfitter, Dowlais, late of
Oldham, Manchester, would be giad to iieai
of the whereabouts of any of his relatives
in Australia, especially one Thomas Clark,
late of Oldham, Manchester, or his children.
THOMAS CLARK, Nephew.
16 Upper Row, Penywern, Dowlais, Glam.,
South Wales.
Missing: Friends.
IF PATRICK KELLY, formerly of Dur-
ham Downs, Thargomindah, Queens-
land, laborer, a son of Patrick Kelly, late of
Glawler, ’South Australia, farmer, deceased,
will communicate with the undersigned, he
vvill hear something to his advantage.
GRUNDY, PELLY & HARDY,
Solicitors, 27 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
You’ll Never Put Off Shaving
if you shave with the
IURHAMJ-IUPLDC
Safe Razor
It’s so quick, so clean and so
comfortable, and, above all,
so safe that you’ll regard
shaving witn no more
thought than brushing your
hair.
m
V:
*
Lft-A.fi-Q_fla.Aact
d
AH Good Dealers Sel! the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances —then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation 1
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be
taken o / communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. t rill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Vagar: But why try and put “the inner
workings of the Japanese in Korea,” as they appear
to an Australian who has sojourned eight years there,
into verse? It isn’t a subject that lends itself to
rhymed numbers, whereas it might have made a
prose paragraph worth print... .Anon: ‘‘Prate not
to me of Robin Hood.” Right. And in return prate
not to us in a rickety imitation of Robert Burns’s
most haunting metre. .. .J.D.R. (Broken Hill): It
won’t do. . . .Caswick: Toothbrush item an echo of
Steele Rudd. Humor in other item, if it is humor,
too subtle to be perceptible to the naked eye....
C.J.D.R.: No use for slipshod stuff “written in a
great hurry” Mary R. P.: As light as thistle-
down ; and yet as clumsy as a bogged draught horse.
... .Anonaussie: One stanza from “Futility”:—
Wliy did you woke?
Why not just sleep?
Just one light break
Then follow like sheep.
White Gum: Nothing in them A.R.F.: It
bumps and groans and waddles to no artistic or
useful purpose whatever C.C.C.: The humor is
faint and heavy with age J.H. (Geelong) : Don’t
like it. ...A.N.A.: A sonnet must be a great deal
better than that 0.L.G.: A lullaby of that sort
would provoke all the babes in the world to a loud,
fierce gnashing of gums Peter F.: Not up
S.L.J.: Doesn’t strike us A.J.0.: The yarn
seems to be about nothing at all Q.P.: Verse not
up.. .'.A.G. (Wellington): On the way Allan D.:
Not up Redgum: Doesn’t arrive Bellerive; It
has all the old charm:—
They glitter like diamonds,
Flit, crackle and glow'.
Quiver and wane as
The fire burneth low.
When a boy I’d decline
By the ruddy fire bright,
To w'atcheth the sparks
On a w'intry night.
....Q.P. (Wellington): Cut out the words and get
to the subject. . . .Lucius: Doesn’t get beyond a
vague charge against the education system....C.
(Dunedin): Far too thin.... J.L.L.: Badlv written
melodrama.... Jim F.: That dream idea goes back
to Joseph of Arimathea P. J.N.: Doesn’t get to
anything worth while... .C.McN.: It fluttered wail-
ing into the basket Becky: Sorry, but “April”
and Burning” miss. Incidentally, rhymes like “are”
and ‘ Japonica” repel u 5.... A.H.M.: The business of
the names strikes us as mirthless fooling . WN D ■
Unconvincing ...Claude P.: Doesn’t make much of
a yarn. .. Fine moral sentiment expressed
m verse of fine moral dulness H.M.Q. • Haven’t'
an idea what it means. .. .T.W. (Newcastle): The
murderous Chinaman is an unreal assassin S S
(Kalgoorlie): Not well enough done... .Bruce L.:
Not up A.C.R. : Unpleasant tale of an impossible
appemng. .. .Denis Q.: Not enough there.. .Tamar •
Arrives nowhere... .J.F.E.D.: Method bad and yarn
p00r.... Rapidian: Almost pretty... .PP E • Same
PPP° Se: w Sa r ° ICI bl^ht ----Raupo: Not "up....
P.B.P" Wooden stuff... .L.W.H.: Your wants are
too oZ! 1 f “ ol ’ Mum ” sung far
too often of recent years. . . .H.G.D.: No earthlv use.
• • ..UL.: Anaemic verse. .. .C.L.G.: Misses
James G.: Bumpy and thin.... Joan R.: No yarn
G Th"fi lnda: Z life in “ Rainy D ays”....Robert
u ” the fine conclusion deserves to be preserved:—
Incurring no disgrace after that April dav
Rushing their w'ork as a mere “child’s nlVv ”
WhZ In 6 T ?. rl “’ and tho se other “has-beens!”
1 horn they bluffed so mightily Dec. 19, lot’s.
Britons still, aye, one and all
Onp P °?u'i eagerly to the homeland’s call,
tne, two, three generations—what of that'
he same old blood rushes under each hat.
tt is impossible to better that,
The same good blood flowing under each hat ”
Yet, grieving the thousands of her slain
Australia sobs, yes, sobs in pain.
. ...N.W.F.: This one misses W.E S • A verv
ancient idea... .Caerleon: It was the Engik, not the
Latin name, that the argument w’as about. T\ •
stT.rZg do anything with that closely-typed'
; These mlss; Dy some more....
Authentic: You ve struck a couple of old ’uns there.
-..Spasmodic: Neither scored; impossible to
acknowledge thousands of pars, received each week.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.J.W.: Like a bad dream... .P.P.A.: Weak from
all points.... M.F.T.: Not up....H.V.: Gao- not
worth it... .C. 8.: Drawing and humor both stiff... .
R.M.: Empty as the bottles next day. ...C SR •
Don’t do it again.... L.W.H.: The dislocated gent!
and his rocking-horse received decent burial
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant,” who
came to Australia at 17, starts on his 83rd
lap on May 9.
“Oozit” : Typical of that streak of frugal-
ity which has always characterised the Adel-
aidean is this item, from the “Wanted to
Buy advts. of the ’Tisek (21/4/’22)
Ladies, second-hand, in perfect order. ’Phone
trlenelg', .
Zanthus : A fine bit of long-distance
.surgery, was the operation o n Walter Darcy,
i L f V' eek A r .A.), directed by wire at
1800 miles range by Dr. Holland, of Perth
But the case of John Baker, of Alice
Springs (N.T.), was also a good performance.
An operation -was the only chance for
Baker, so the postmaster, John McKay, got
in touch with a doctor in Adelaide,'looo
miles away. Then he borrowed a knife from
the local saddler and, under the medico’s
instructions, got to work —without anes-
thetics, of course. Baker is going strong
again, but poor Darcy is dead —not through
the operation, but from malaria.
“Lucius”: “Queen Street” (B. 20/4/’22)
referring to the removal of the Richmond
(Vic.) bridge which was originally built
for the Crimea, says the second half is dohig
duty over the Barwon, near Geelong. But
he forgot to state that, like the Richmond
section, it has orders to quit. It is to be
replaced by a £50,000 job financed by the
Country Roads Board and the surrounding
municipalities. With the scrapping of these
two old bridges and the vanishing of the mili-
tary veterans, Victoria’s only visible con-
nection with the Crimea will be restricted
to the bay steamer Edina. She was a trans-
port in the Russian argument of 1854. I
travelled in her last week, and she seems
solid enough to outlast any of Hughes’s
modern constructions.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Ca&ines-de
Luxe. Staterooms with bedstea
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
ORIENT
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
Apply
s. n. co., ivta.,
2, 4. t> Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yoseniite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 10.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
Hankins:, Public Companies, &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 18011.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 799,432 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. . . . . 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091,009 4 5
Directors — James Milne, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. G. \V.
Gray; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
Gun Elm, Manager—M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital.. .. .. ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve B’und .. .. .. .. £250,000
Directors : Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E. ; George J. Si,y, LL.D. ; Frank
N. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFI'TCiU, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places ill
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street),
Manager: R. T. Moodik.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds FAirbahin.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares . . .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
CRANTS DRAFTS
SU'RE&K'.S;
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability of Shareholders
£625,000
620,000
£1.245.000
625.000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted. '
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income
£1,502,572
£2,575.000
£47,000,000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, eM.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST. FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 18th MAY, 11 a.m.
NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
Tlie Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone l’ark, Niagara Tails, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, Bth JUNE, 11 a.m.
MAIIAMA, 6th JULY.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply-
UNION
UNION ST
N STEAM SlilP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
TEAM SHIP CO., DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
* .
mm
R
sm
*
I
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3 h TO 4i WEEKS.
Affording’ a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK
raid-up Capital
Iteserve Fluid
Iteserve liability
O F
NEW SOUTH
Established 18X7.
Directors:
WALES.
- £5,000,000
3.500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, 1v.C.M.G.,,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faith full, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkinev, Esq.
Auditors'’■ S E Laidlev, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines,
ilea.l OfTkie—George Street, Sydney. Eon,lon Office— 29 Tl.readneedle Street, K.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and C, respondents throughout the world. .
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places nTBECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collecied. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the B orld.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 183-1.
Capital paid up .. £2,009,025
Keserve Rund . . £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,025
ďf
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman,
lion. 11. E. Kater, M.F..C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Maearthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
lion. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY. 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers — The Bank of England ; The London County Westminster
and
Parr’s Bank. Limited: Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Hotel liosciusKo.
Winter Sports in Australia.
In order to meet as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation
at the Hotel Kosciusko in the Winter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number.
Large Bed-sitting Rooms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Comfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko,
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau.
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
359 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bumsu Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
Rumsit Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Holborn, London, W.C.,
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
ShinDfnflr.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOlt MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN.
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bnndn-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mack ay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
fßrisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAM 10US TO NEW ZEALAND- Regular sailing
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars applv HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the comfort of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, MacdoillAd,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
“ Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAII SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7pm.; pasnenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORARA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:— -
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on. rail, £3/5/6
'['lie speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast. . ,
For further particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
MOllllllV Oilimigs Aiicip.utci.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money," freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KATSHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IllOQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug anti Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and I'itzroy Estates, Etd.
Blackhealth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOR
Rritish India S. N. Co., Ltd. P- N - 9°-
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
ltd Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, I arker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
PTfANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Meltourne Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.


THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
Head Office: MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
SIXTY-EIGHTH REPORT,
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting, on
27th April, 1922.
The Directors have pleasure in placing- before Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement
of Accounts for the Half-year ended 31st March, duly audited and certified: —
The net profits amount to . . . . . . . . . . . . £58,721 15 0
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.: —-
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum . . . . £37,500 0 0
Transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £475,000) . . . . . . 20,000 0 0
and to add to the amount carried forward from last half-year (making
it £32,867 Is. 2d.) 1,221 15 G
£68,721 15 6
By Order of the Board, H. T. WILSON, general Manager.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1922.
Dr. Including London Branch figures to Ist February, Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 Shares
of £4 each £2,400,000 0 0
~ Capital Subscribed —
390,000 Shares
of £4 each £1,500,000 0 0
„ Capital Paid-up-
270,000 Shares
paid up to £1 £270,000 0 0
120,000 Shares
paid up to £4 480,000 0 0
~ Reserve Fund. . 455,000 0 0
~ Profit and Loss
Account . . 90,357 1 2
£1,295,357 1 2
~ Notes in Circulation . . . . 840 0 0
~ Bills in Circulation. .. .. 300.658 6 5
~ Government Deposits—
Not bearing In-
terest . . £88,843 8 5
Bearing Inter-
est .. 1,073,181 16 11
: 1.162,025 5 4
~ Other Deposits—Rebate and Interest
accrued —
Not bearing In-
terest . . £2,182,699 19 10
Bearing Inter-
est . . 1,412,011 13 5
3,594,711 13 3
£0,353,592 6 2
~ Contingent Liabilities as per Contra 231,658 0 0
£6,585,250 6 2
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion, Aus-
tralian Notes and
Cash at Bankers £973,380 3 0
Notes and Bills
of other Banks 0,867 3 11
~ Balances due
from other Banks 21,234 18 9
~ Bills and Re-
mittances i n
transit and pay-
able in London 336,581 9 9
~ O o v e r n ment,
Municipal and
other Public
Stocks, Deben-
tures and Funds 252,630 18 0
~ Stamps. . . . 1,459 15 3
£1,592,160 8 8
~ Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises . . . . . . 154,600 0 0
~ Bills Discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for Bad and Doubtful Debts .. 4,606,131 17 6
~ Bank Furniture, Fittings, Sta-
tionery, etc. . . . . . . 700 0 0
£6,353,592 6 2
Liabilities and Securities of
Customers and others in respect
of Contingent Liabilities, as per
Contra 231,658 0 0
£6,585,250 6 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent, Income and Land
Taxes and other Charges .. £40,190 14
~ Balance .. .. .. 90,357 1
£89,135 5 8
’>y Balance at 30th September, 1921
Less Dividend Declared 27th
October, 1921 £87,500 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund . . . . 20,000' 0 0
~ Balance carried down
~ Profits for the Half-year after
deducting Interest accrued on
Deposits and Rebate on Bills
Current, less Reserves for Bad
and Doubtful Debts
57,500 0 0
£31,635 5 8
98,912 0 7
£130,547 15 3
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT
To Balance
.. £465,000 0 0
£455,000 0 0,
By Balance at 30th September, 1921 £435,000 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account ~ .. .. . . 20,000 0 0
£455,000 0 0
Practical
Woodworker
The most complete work
yet issued on this subject
Edited by
BERNARD E. JONES
with
4,000 Illustrations
%
rS*
mrn^
'LI
Including “ How-to-do-it ” Pictures, Drawings, Etc.
FOR THE HOUSE
Handsome chairs and tables—Beds in simple and in elaborate styles—A winged
easy chair—A settee with adjustable ends—Clock cases in many designs—in*
eluding inlaid cases—Fascinating tea and sugar caddies and charming small boxes
tor many uses—Wardrobe fitments for recesses—Screens—Mifsic stools with loose
tops, with box tops, etc.—An organ stool combined with a music case—Hand-
mirrors—Queen Anne chest of drawers—Gramophone cabinets—Plant stands
Bedroom furniture—Bagatelle and billiard tables—Roll-top desks—Wardrobe with
drawers and trays—another with mirror panels—Combined writing-desks and book-
cases— A Jacobean writing bureau—Book-case secretaire—Boot and shoe racks for
the bedroom— A trousers stretcher— A shaving cabinet— A smoking set etc
FOR THE CHILDREN
For the children you can make See-saws and a Folding See-saw—Garden swings
Sleighs and tobogans; also some uncommonly jolly toys. These include a rocking
elephant—A hobby horse—Toy motor-cabs, motor-vans and waggons, a model
stage, etc., etc.
FOR THE GARDEN
A hooded seat and table, enabling you to remain in the open-air during wind
and rain—A combined garden seat with tool-box —You may fix a seat round a tree
Make a gable-fronted summer-house—A cottage porch—Summer-houses, poultry-
houses, pigeon-cotes, arches, trellises, arbours, gates, pergolas, peristyles rustic
work of every description. *
SENT FREE ON
APPROVAL
Don’t send any money —just sign
and send us this coupon
GET IT NOW
WAVERLEY BOOK CO.,
231 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
218-224 Clarence St., Sydney.
With free examination please
send me, with no obligation to
purchase, the set of four volumes
of “The Practical Woodworker."
all charges prepaid by you. If
not satisfactory, I will return
the set, at your expense , within
seven days, otherwise I will
forward you 7/6 within seven
lays, and pay the balance on
the books in nine monthly in-
stalments of 7/6. (Price in Aus-
tralia).
Name
Address
Bulletin. 4/5/’22
We carry the finest range in Australia
W‘
Kindly send your Gun License
when ordering.
d
“A marvel at the price”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre. 18in.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
'v eight, about 2.}lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
26 -
5X
_ “Simple and extra stro>ig in construction."
lilO. Winchester Single-shot llille, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip.
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
Freight Paid. 57/0
Owing to market fluctuations prices here quoted are subject to change
without notice.
ďf
BIM. The Celebrated “Maine” Hit*. designed
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges, rim lire.
It can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply
unscrewing the thumb screw located underneath the fore-
arm. The action used is of the safety-bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple. The barrel is round, 18iu. long, bored
nn,l rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate.
S3PS@
Remarkably accurate and bard hitting.
Plenty of range and power.
825. Savage Hi-Power Repeating Ham-
merless Rifle, 22 High Power calibre. 6
shot, 20in. round tapered barrel, take down, weight 641 b., muzzle velocity,
2Sooft. seconds, may be used up to 350 yards without changing from
point blank adjustments of sights; soft-nosed, metal-patched bullets (70
grains) are used, giving a striking energy of 1206 ft. pounds; freight
paid
£l4 14/-
“MADE FOR BETTER SERVICE.”
M.S. SPORT EQUIPMENT
We Supply Everything for Every Sport.
d
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy .”
1113. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges: weight, about s|lb.
£6/6/
ďf
“A cheap and reliable weapon
152. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, It.F.,
round barrel. 20in.. chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
4 51
mmammm
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the marliet.
838. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
Indies. Magazine li bid's 15 cartridges. Weight s|lb
Freight paid.
£9/10 /-
MYRROHL
America.
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth ; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath, and checks dreaded Pyorrhcea. An Ideal Dentifrice for Smokers.
Price 2/- large tube (post free).
««&-
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire, full or
half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Rouna Darrel * Freight paid,
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid,
£B/1 51-
£9/10/-
BIG. Winchester Repeating Carbines, IHu2 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibre, central fire, full or half magazine.
20in. round barrel, weight about sflb Freight paid,
£7/17/6
WE REPAIR GUNS and RIFLES.
- Itffiicfc Simmons
Australia’s Greatest Sports House,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
% BRANCHES:
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


There is Nothing' Liße
a Smile whentheTeeth
are Plaza Cleaned.
Mis* SYBIL SHIRLEY (from a photo).
Plaza-cleaned teetli aid
a charming smile.
There is no charm
like the smile of a
lovely woman, but the
essential of a smile is
the beautiful sparkle
of clean, white teeth,
and what a delight to
know that your teeth
are white and pearly,
and that you can smile
with every confidence,
and not need to try
and hide the teeth.
Use Plaza Tooth Paste
night and morning,
and see how delight-
ful it keeps your
mouth and gurus. You
will find it a better
paste than you have
ever used before.
LAEGE TUBES, 1/6
PLAZA TOOTH PASTE—
A Dental Luxury.
“I have been using Plaza Tooth Paste for some time, and consider it a truly
delightful dentifrice for cleansing and beautifying the teeth. It keeps the gums in
perfect condition, and leaves a pleasant taste in the mouth.
“I shall never be without Plaza Tooth Paste, and I will always recommend it to
all my friends. “y 0 5rs truly,
“(Sgd.) SYBIL SHIRLEY,
“Haydn, Guilfoyle Avenue,
“Double Bay, N.S.YV.”
Hgawß rmKimnw
d
ďf
Black Bordeaux Calf Naval
Uniform Boots, sewn
and screwed triple-wear
leather soles. A perfect
boot. 21/6.
For best or work wear.
Large Heavy
British
Woollen Bush
Bugs, 20/C.
Postage 1/-
iu N.S.W.
in
The Best Boot of its kind
made. Selected Tan Willow
Calf, leather-lined uppers sewn
i-inch selected oak tanned
soles, now 25/- worth 35/-.
d
A 1 1-W o o 1
Fringed
Travel Rugs
29/C.
Postage 17-
in N.S.W.
Black Waxed Kip Watertight
Cossacks, 1-piece whole-backed
uppers, standard screwed and
sewn. triple-wear Kromite
metallic leather soles, 21/6.
Nothing better made.
Guaranteed Sturdy Built
FootwearSWearing Apparel
FOR OUTDOOR WORKERS
BY POST WITH A GUARANTEE, viz.,
Complete Satisfaction
or Money Refunded. 0
ďfd
Watertight Lightweight Cos-
sacks Black “Chroino” Satin
Kip, watertight uppers, stand-
ard screwed, solid wearing
“Ironhide” soles, 16/11.
Light yet splendid wearers.
X
Strong Dark
Grey Naval
Transport
Blankets, very
heavy, as good
as new, suit
double beds,
17/C. Postage
1/- in N.S.W.
Tan Regulation Army
Boots., made by Govern-
ment contractor from
selected special high-cut 1-
piece watertight uppers:
triple-wear, sewn and
screwed solid soles, 21/-.
Postage o n
Boots
throughout
Australia
V:
•Goods For-
warded V.P.P.
You pay
your post-
master on
Delivery.
f
d
Pure Wool Army Bedford
Corded Khaki Bidins
Breeches, 35/-, worth 807-
Fawn or Grey English
Gabardine Riding Breeches
28/0. Both have strapped
knees and lace-up calfs.
In strong Khaki Stockport
Drill 25/-.
m
Tan Willow Calf Leather-
lined Army Officers’ Uni-
form Boots, Much sewn
and screwed wattle-tanned
solid soles, 24/11. Worth
35/-.
Black Lightweight Naval
Bridge Oilskins, dojltale
throughout, fly fronts,
waterproof sleeve lining,
35/-.
Solid Tan Smooth
Blocked Selected
Hide
LEGGINGS.
Light Horse Pattern.
IS/6.
With stitched bound
leather tops, Officers
Pattern, 21 /-.
Also in Spring Front
Puttee Style, 22/6.
J. S. LEWIS
4 BIG RELIABLE
STORES.
Mail Order Department—l 66 B GEORGE STREET, near CIRCULAR QUAY.
Branches: 107 George St. West; 752 George St., Haymarket; and 175 North George St.
Making the Best of It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was half-past eight on Friday,
And the mountain steps were steep
Where the railway, washed and tidy,
Had been put away to sleep.
Both the rails were softly gleaming
When the moonlight fired the dew
And the rocks above were dreaming
Of the things Prometheus knew.
Yes, they dreamt of fires internal,
Of volcanic ebb and flow,
When the sulphurous streams infernal
Used to scorch the plains below,
When the boiling geysers humming
Made a music in the land,
And you saw a mountain coming
With a hell in either hand.
Flame on flame the rocks remember
As they watch the engine push
Languid airs of mid-December
Through the dimples of the bush;
Then they thrill with mighty longing
For the shrill volcano’s call,
Aud the steaming bubbles thronging
On the roaring lava fall.
But the great days lie behind them
With the dragons of the prime ;
Only little smokes remind them
Of the old, red heart of time.
Bush ways sere and dry as tinder
Sometimes find a sudden voice,
And a flying railway cinder
Bids the ancient, rocks rejoice.
That was what occurred on Friday
At exactly half-past eight.
All my soul was nice and tidy
With the dainty love of Kate,
When a spark far down the valley
Lit the world from west to east,
And the flame winds seemed to rally
Like red vultures to the feast.
We had lingered in the gloaming,
Paradise about our feet,
When the other couples homing
Fled away on hungry feet.
Little did we care for eating
Things the boarding-house supplied
While the pulse of life was beating
Bridegroom music to a bride.
Little notice had we taken
Of the hot leaves’ crisping tune
In those happy ways forsaken
Save by starlight and the moon.
Not an eye had we for turning,
Not a nose to spare a sniff
For the smell of landscapes burning
On the summit of the cliff.
Such a subtle spell had bound us,
Whispering that our love was true,
That the flames had crept all round us
Giving us a splendid view
Of a bush fire loud with laughter
Dancing to the primal song,
While the rain of sparks ran after
Lilting “Now we shan’t be long.”
Kate was earliest to observe it,
That tremendous ring of flame.
“Oh!” she cried, “did we deserve it?
Was our love so much to blame?”
“Let the vile suggestion perish,”
I replied in tones of pride,
“You are mine to hold and cherish
Though the world should burn, my bride.”
“Burn your bride?” she murmured smiling,
“That is w r hat it means to do.
See the red on amber piling
And the black smoke roaring through.
There is not one lane for flying;
Every log and twig is lit.”
Then she sighed—“there’s no denying
We must make the best of it.”
“Yes,” I said, “we two will share it
When it comes to warm our feet,
Calmly wait and grin and bear it
Till it makes the job complete;
Here together, gently resting,
See the flags of flame unrolled,
With the sparks our courage testing—
Sweetheart, are you feeling cold?
“Firm in faith and love and duty,
Here we stay till morn shall break.
See that burst! It was a beauty.
Sw'eetheart, try to keep awake.
Don’t get sleepy. You’ll be missing
Half the glory of the scene
While the snakes of fire are hissing,
Snapping at the smoky green.
Near and nearer came the thunder
And the roar of crashing boughs.
I began to dimly wonder
If that heat had roasted cows —
Cows tnat used to wander straying
Round the valley’s verdant knee —
Whoo! The sparks about me playing
Started swiftly roasting me.
At ten-thirty to the minute
I observed that Kate had flown —-
There was really nothing in it
After I was left a10ne....
Hand-in-hand on angels’ pinions
We went up in splendid fire,
Mounting through the air’s dominions
From our red and fragrant pyre.
And the rocks with embers gleaming
Shouted as the tumult grew,
Wakened from their spacious dreaming
Of fhe things Prometheus, knew.
Rose and amber, red and crimson,
Made a vaudeville of flame;
Scarce a tree had any limbs on
By the time the morning came.
Up and up through smoke that billowed,
Wing to wing went Kate and I.
Little stars on clouds were pillowed
Blinking with a misty sigh.
Up and up and ever onward,
Through the merry winds at play—
Were we going lifeward, dawnward?
Did we sail the other way?
Oft I sang a joyous ditty.
Oft I dropt a salted tear.
Vnrons things appeared a nitv.
Nothing else seemed very clear.
All the void was grey and bleary,
Not one roost was in the sky ;
Both my wingsi had grow r n so weary
That I felt we were too high.
High ! The distance was appalling.
“Kate,” I cried, “I’m letting go.
We are falling, falling, falling,
And the rocks are hard below.”
"Dear,” she said (her courage shamed me),
“There is nowhere we can sit”—
I am sure she never blamed me—
“We must make the best of it.”
N.S.W.
PAT O'MANORI.
“Vanity of Vanities.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM the organ-loft, through that dim
cathedral imitating the quietness
of a cave, where early men withdrew
for introspection and meditation before cities
began to be, fell the solemn tone of Chopin’s
Marche Funebre; the organ speaking direct
to the soul of man, yet with a touch of
humor in the Irish wailing of its first move-
ment. All the beauty of diction to canonise
the dead, whose life had been unlovely ; the
religioso atmosphere, made by the tricks
of an architect’s lighting, but which the
mourners and the curious believed to be of
themselves; the voices of the yearning
organ; the power of the eye centred on the
coffin, with the light shafting benedictions
upon it—all used at once for advertisement
and atonement. And then carloads of
flowers in their beauty to excuse the sordid
dead ; and none to sell the bloom and spike-
nard and give the money to the poor. For
the poor ye have always with you ; and the
poor are poor often because they have never
found that sweet are the uses of advertise-
ment.
* * ■» *
Down at 25 Somerset-street there was
a struggle for the limelight at ruinous cost;
not for the limelignt intrinsically, but be-
cause convention has decided against modesty
7 —even for tbe dead; and suburban pride
insists tnat a dead man, being worth less
tnan nothing, snail pauperise the bereaved
in his disposal. No. 2o is a modest little
nouse, semi-detached, picket-fenced, with
one rusty cypress, dried by the street dust
until is is narsn as crepe, growing gloomily
in the little patch of witnered grass bordered
at its fence limit by dusty geraniums ; which
grass and geraniums were “the lawn” and
"the garden.” The gate was widely opened,
and fastened back to the fence by a strap ;
for we are still savages, and it is right that
a sight of death shall be free to the stranger,
though we chase him from a view of marri-
age or baptism.
The boys of the quarter hung around the
gate, waiting the tremendous excitement of
the funeral, and the prancing black horses
which called for constant attention to keep
them at the decorous pace due to corpses
who are supposed to object to speed. These,
prevented of the spectacle by reason of
extreme youth, eagerly questioned every
adult who came from the house after view-
ing the dead and appearing sorrowful at
great personal inconvenience.
Within, the widow, already losing the
numbness of grief, accepted the condolences
of friends and acquaintances, relating for the
hundredth time the manner of her husband’s
death; how he said this and that, and at
last could say nothing; how then he put
his hand up to touch her face, and could
not; and how at last he had died unhappily
before the tear could roll from his cheek —
the last tear shed, because he had not
strength for that last caress. Jlis one sorrow
in the last stages of his illness, when exhaus-
tion came to make departure easy, and loose
without pain his last tremulous hold upon
the world, had been that he must leave her
without provision; long illness, and a young
family, and a heart that had never hardened
to a hard-luck story had seen to that. This
knowledge she put away from her as far as
might be for this present; knowing that as
soon as the grave had him, and all the excite-
ment of his burial was over-past, knowledge
of the absence of provision would return,
a hungry wolf gnawing at the unprotected
door.
There were two baskets of cake—one fruit,
and one plain—and two decanters of sickly-
colored wine—-straw-tinted sherry and port
as pink as a weak solution of permanga-
nate of potash. The acquaintances and
friends, and the people living in the street,
indiscriminately nibbled and sipped ; talking
in hushed voices of the good, commonplace
man who lay in the front room; ascribing
to him at once all the virtues of the good
failure and the strength of the bad success.
Then, as a new lot of people arrived, the
widow took them to the front room to view
the dead man in his coffin on the trestles by
the window; heard their remarks- on his
appearance, and herself tried to think of this
white-bearded, yellow shell of a mummy as
he had been in the days of her courting—
blue-eyed, dazzlingly fair of skin, yellow-
haired and debonair. And when they had
seen she replaced upon his face her own
lace-edged handkerchief with the elusive
scent. A few tears came to her eves at that:
and she had thought the last of these had
been shed two days ago. Tearlessly, after
that outburst, she looked at the bank of
flowers that masked the trestles, and trailed
over the black cloth-covered coffin, and re-
membered the month was February as she
saw the spikes of tuberoses—which had been
his choice of flowers at their bridal. Grief
dulls the senses, and destroys the functions
of the nose as if it were a catarrh: yet
with the memory born of the sight of the
flowers there returned the deep magnolia
scent of them, heavy and beautiful and sen-
suous ; the scent, not of death, but of life,
but degraded to the uses of death in the vain
attempt to carry beauty to the grave.
The wreaths were there by tbe score, for
the dead man. had been popular, though
poor: beloved as no rich man ever is except
by the rich, for he had a merry heart always,
and could make a laugh, which is to make
friend. All the unpayable little organisa-
tions he had helped maintain: progress
(Continued on next page.)


CLEMENT L. WRAGGE,
F.R.G.S., F.R. MET. SOC.,
F.R.C.I., etc.
SOME REMINISCENCES OF AN
EVENTFUL LIFE.
I am an “only child,” born at Stour-
bridge, England, in 1852, lost both parents
in infancy, and was nurtured by a beloved
grandmother at the family home at Oaka-
moor, in the romantic and lovely Churnet
Valley, North Staffordshire. Granny taught
me the first principles of astronomy, geo-
graphy and the natural sciences: and, being
evidently born that way, long before I was
twelve I revelled in the stars, and wondered
if the Jewish God was really the God of an
endless universe. As to geography, no boy
could touch me, and granny expounded the
mysteries of the “weather glass.” I re-
joiced in Nature, and the surroundings of
the Crystal Palace, near where I went to
school, fostered my tastes. Evolution pro-
gressed. I finished classics with the Vicar
of Launceston, romantic Cornwall compelling
a 'nve of Nature still more. I studied
navigation at Janet Taylor’s Nautical Acad-
emy in London, and went to sea for ex-
perience. I have travelled in all the six-
divisions of the world. I founded the
Wr-agge Museum of Ethnoghophy, Geology,
and Natural History at Stafford, England,
and gave it to the country; worked three
meteorological stations in North Stafford-
shire, and then founded the Ben Nevis Ob-
servatory, climbing the mountain (4406ft.)
daily in all weathers. This got me the gold
medal. I joined the South Australian survey'
and became devoted to science, with physical
astronomy and meteorology as very special
lines, and started the-Torrens Observatory,
Adelaide, and another on Mount Lofty, S.A.,
and later on Mount Wellington, in Tas-
mania. Then I became Government Meteor-
ologist of Queensland, and travelled in duty
all over the State. I attended international
conferences and inaugurated the observa-
tories in the French colony of New Cale-
donia, also the famous observatory on top
of Mount Kosciusko, in New South Wales.
One of my main works was the issue of
weather forecasts for all Australia. Since
.1903 my beloved sciences have maintained
me and given me a home in God’s Own
Country. All that time I have lectured on
the marvels of the universe in England, also
all over India, Ceylon, Australia, Fiji, Ta-
hiti, Tonga and New Zealand, doing all I
could to lift mankind to a nobler concep-
tion of God and what the eternal universe
really means. Radium is one of my very
special subjects, and I have splendid speci-
mens. I have published “The Romance of
the South Seas” and other works. In con-
stitution I am strong and wiry as a steel
rope, but in' South Australia a few years
ago I suffered temporarily from an awful
backache and kidney trouble. Somebody
said: “Try Doan’s Pills.” I did so, with
the result that in a little while I was cured,
and have not been bothered with the agony
since. This is a simple fact. I care not
what the medicine is composed of; suffice it
to say that it is a boon to mankind, and I
very cordially and conscientiously recom-
mend it. And now in my sixty-ninth year
I have my own weather bureau, which serves
all Australasia, and take delight in working
with iron bar, pick and shovel in my beau-
tiful tropical gardens, which I made out of
a desert in mj r new home at “Waiata,”
Birkenhead, Auckland, N.Z., and which are
open to everybody. So much tor “DoaD,”
whoever he may be, and my best thanks to
him.
ITCHING PILES CURED.
. Mr. James Higgins, 650 Botany Road.
Beaconsfield, Sydney, says:—“Some years
ago I suffered a lot from Itching Piles, the
irritation being very trying, particularly so
at night and during the hot weather. A
friend advised me to use Doan’s Ointment,
and knowing how good Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were I got a pot at once, and
it proved a blessing. After a few applica-
tions I got relief, and as I continued with
the treatment the improvement was main-
tained until finally the Piles disappeared.
Five years have elapsed since I used Doan’s
Ointment, and I have had no return of the
ailment all that time. I cannot speak too
highly of this remedy, and recommend it to
other sufferers.”
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemist*
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot.
But be sure you get DOAN'S.
*
%
m
m
\ y
T
TO
Yffi
mtz.
to
Starr
Tell>
It Isn’t Work That
Wears You Out!
Hard work never killed anybody. But hard work, with irregular hours, neglect
of rest, recreation and exercise, does weaken the kidneys and keep one tired, miserable
and out of sorts.
If your back aches —if you have headaches, dizziness and urinary disorders
don’t wait! Get back to simple, sensible habits. Help the weakened kidneys with
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. It may save you an attack of dropsy, gravel or serious
kidney disease. Doan’s have helped thousands and are used the world over.
Sydney Man Tells His Story.
Mr. Thomas Duggan, May Villa. Park Street. Canterbury. Sydney,
says: “I am pleased to tell you Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills have
done me a world of good, and that it will ever be my desire to let
other sufferers know of the wonderful curative powers of this fine
kidney remedy. For a long time I was so ill with backache and
kidney trouble that I was almost a cripple, not boing able to move
without enduring positive torture. My back never stopped aching
and I could get no relief from the pain, even at night. My limbs
swelled very much, showing serious sicns of dropsy, and this worried
me a good deal. I tried all kinds of remedies, but they did not benefit
me, and I was fast losing hope of a cure. One day I happened to
hear that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills were a splendid remedy for
all kidney ailments, so I got some at once. After taking them for
about a week I began to feel better. As I persevered a steady im-
provement was noticeable, twelve bottles of these grand Pills fixing
me up completely. The dropsical srvellings have gone, my back is free
from pain, and I feel a different man. Considering I am seventy-two
years old, I think my recovery is wonderful.”
pOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PICKS are sold b.v all Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free on receipt of price from Foster-McClellan Co., 15 Hamilton Street,
Sydney.
ďf
d
ď
committees and swimming clubs, debating
societies, Dickens societies, fend all those
harmless associations which form the public
spirit of the kindly commonplace—these had
known and cared for him. Therefore from
each a wreath, ten from the warehouse rank-
and-file—one from each department, or.e
from the office staff, and one from the pack-
ing room ; and yet .others from the managers
and the employers; flowers for the dead,
from all who knew him well enough, and
respected the conventions sufficiently to send
a wreath.
And then came messengers with yet other
two wreaths; and the eldest son of 14, his
grief slumbering in the excitement of the
funeral and his own new importance, wrote
the names of the donors in an old exercise-
book, and told her proudly that these last
two made 79.
In the little dining-room the friends and
neighbors gathered, still talking of the dead
man; recalling his habit of striking the
fences with his cane as he walked up the
street; of how he didn’t believe in the Lib-
eral's, and had always shown a proper hatred
of the Kaiser.
The widow’s mother, a little, bowed, faded,
ungracious old woman, whose nose and chin
had one ambition and hope, that of meeting
soon, stitched slowly at her mending of a
collarette of old and exquisitely-patterned
lacd, and sniffed when her departed son-in-
law was mentioned. She was a hard-faced
old woman, and a blind worshipper of that
respectability which is not the ability to
commend respect, but the desire to be as the
majority in the community. At the third
sniff Mrs. Barrie, a stout, kindly soul who
couldn’t hurt anything in the world, said to
her solicitously:—
•‘Don’t'cry, grandma. What’s the matter?”
The hard-faced old woman became sud-
denly energetic, and lost all the energy again
in a moment.
“I didn’t hold with George many ways.
He was good. but. .. .no pride.”
“Oh, grandma, now!”
“And Lucy has no pride. He should have
had a polished cedar coffin.”
"Rut so expensive!”
The old woman closed her jaws like a trap
springing; and her nose and chin almost
realised their ambition.
“Expensive! Nonsense! Everybody has
only one funeral, and it ought to be respect-
able.”
“But this is respectable. Look at all the
wreaths.”
“The flowers are respectable enough ; hut
a plain, black-covered coffin! It ought to
have been polished cedar. There’ll be
enough to bury me respectably, thank God
—all I have saved of my annuity. And I’m
going to wear this when I’m dead.”
“It’s beautiful lace.”
“It belonged to my mother—it’s real old
point. I’ll wear it around my neck. D’ve
think I’ll look nice?”
She put the lace tremblingly across her
shoulders, and almost smiled when the
kindly neighbor said she was sure grandma
would look very nice indeed.
“But George should have had a polished
cedar eof
Heavy feet upon the verandah, heavy foot-
falls in the house, trying to make them-
selves sound lightly; the undertaker’s men,
looking as gloomy as they did not feel, were
here to take the sting out of death and
snatch victory from the grave with a re-
spectability ruinous to the survivors.
And so they closed down the dead man
with the little handkerchief of the beloved
across his face; and they heaped the coffin
high with flowers until the hearse was full,
and then piled the wreaths in a mourning
coach and took aboard the widow and the
fatherless and their friends; and so to man’s
long home and the mourners going about the
streets.
Hove and habit held the pale, silent woman
lit the graveside until the eager trench was
fijled and the clay roughly shaped above
him; and then they hid the clay with flow-
ers. Then to nightfall and a return to the
darkened home, with vanity and selfishness
still maundering of its cedar coffin and the
point lace to deck its body for the grave.
The chemical wines had disappeared, the
cake-baskets were empty, the widow felt the
double loneliness—of bereavement and of
poverty.
She thought of the back rent, of the fee
to the doctor, of the clamorous butcher and
baker and the dairyman, quiet for a little
because of death in the house, but prepared
to be vociferous again before long. She
looked at her mother, still fondling the lace
that was to adorn her for burial, then at
the boy of 14 counting up the wreaths to
see if 79 could not be increased to 81. The
mockery of it all prompted her question.
“George, dear,” she said, “those wreaths
would cost a hundred pounds.”
“More than that, mother,” •he replied
proudly. “Some of them cost two guineas
each. One of the undertakers told me so.”
And the butcher and the baker and the
landlord—while a hundred pounds and more
of value rotted on the clay!
She wept again, feeling terribly alone.
The bankruptcy laws claim to limit the
extravagance of the living: in the interests
of the living the law should limit the vicari-
ous wastefulness of the dead. But that
would include an assault on respectability,
on convention arid limelight and advertise-
ment ! Yet a little fire would clean the
world of the dead and leave the widow not
so hungry!
“Vanity of Vanities,” said the preacher,
“all is vanity.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Doss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER another fruitless job-hunting
day I struck in the ’Loo a small
white house bearing on one window
the abrupt “BEDS.” I found a retired
sea captain in the manager’s office and
handed over ninepence as the price of a doss.
So that was that; and now for the day’s
fullest meal.
Your well-fed business man would say it
was impossible to get a square feed for three-
pence. But we in the depths know how
to achieve the impossible. Opposite the doss-
house is a small general shop, and there I
bought a penny rasher of bacon, a penny slice
of bread, and a pennyworth of “tea and
sugar mixed.” I did my cooking on the gas-
stove in the dosshouse kitchen, and even
though the frying-pan retained a flavor of
sausages and 1 made the tea before the water
had quite boiled, hunger is better than Lea
and Perrin, and I enjoyed my supper.
Afterwards as I sat in a quiet corner tak-
ing stock of my fellow-dossers, a tall, thin
man in semi-clerical garb shambled across the
room and sat dow r n beside me. On his
aquiline nose were a pair of pince-nez, and
his clergyman’s coat was secured at the neck
by a safety-pin. He had been at one time
the vicar of a quiet English parish, and had
endeavored to liven things up with whisky.
His parishioners stood it as long as possible,
but one day he went too far. After reading
the prayers at a funeral he lost his balance
and tumbled into the open grave. That
was the end of his frock.
Another lodger, who might have been the
original for Ella Shields’s “Burlington
Bertie posters, except tfratiie is heavily L>ui Jt ,
was a barrister whom I knew already. If
you look up the law reports you will find that
he held a junior brief in the Tieliborne trial.
Hr. Kepealy w 7 as disbarred after that busi-
ness; but the stout barrister at the doss-
*s, still on the rolls and haunts the
neighborhood of the Supreme Court and
i liiJlip-street, where he reaps a harvest of
half-crowns from pitying lawyers.
It ivas 10 o’clock when I was shown to
my bed m a large dormitory, down each side
ot which ran a row of cots. Surreptitiously
I turned the clothes down and made a
search for the worst plague of Egypt.
But the sheets, though coarse, were
clean, and the two “army blankets” were
tuck and warm. Nevertheless, I could not
sleep. The man on my right muttered to
himself m his half-drunken slumbers, and
my own self-accusing thoughts were a con-
stant reminder that “a sorrow’s crown of
sorrow is remembering happier things.”
Suddenly I heard the dreadful sound of
suppressed sobs. That may not seem so
shocking m the daylight, but in the dead
~ night, in such a place, it was inexpres-
sibly pathetic. It came from the bed on my
left, the occupant of which had seemed
asleep when I turned in. I swune round
and saw quite a youth—certainly not 20 years
c — his curly head buried in the crook
ot his . arm, trying to deaden the sound of
his crying. Knowing from bitter experi-
once that a kind word is often as precious—
and as difficult to obtain—as gold, I touched
bim on the arm. “Tell me.” I said. His
five brothers had been lost at tlie war, four
killed outright and the other died a pri-
soner in Germany—they had never been
able to find out how. Grief killed the
mother and—so the poor lad thought-
affected the father’s brain, for of late he
had become subject to outbursts of violent
passion and had now got 18 months for an
assault upon an entire stranger. The lad
had tramped down to the city to visit him
in the Long Bay prison.
That s one advantage of a doss-house,
whatever one’s own troubles you will alwavs
nnd a deeper depth of woe.
A ext morning ‘‘uncle” received the last
part of my wardrobe which I could manage
f° i ' vl thout. The lad and I had a hearty
breakfast, and the sun was shining brightly
as we went our ways. But Heaven grant
it doesn t rain for a few more days!
T. R. H.
Fairest Fair.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O ebbing tides of silver, moon-withdrawn,
O sunset wind, soft Mercy's very breath,
O deepening spirit, wonder of the dawn,
llow beautiful is death !
(Flower-perfect was the face of her who lay
In the white sleep that has forgotten
pain,
As her black barge passed slow 7 from night
to day,
The lily maid, Elaine.)
0 doors of ivory that soft unclose,
O Lethe stream that laves life-weary feet,
O moonlit garden of the mystic rose,
Where love is wholly sw r eet!
(I»ove, whose fair, haggard brows are bound
with thorn,
Who stands and shudders in the market-
place,
And to a lowering and ensanguined morn
Upturns his blinded face!)
O alabaster vase with healing filled,
O hand ’neath whose faint touch no chains
are strong,
And ’neath whose shadow every pang is
stilled—
Oh, but the night was long!
(A long, long night, a night of days and
years,
Plaintive with sighings as a hollow shell;
But now the dayspring in the East appears
Like the slain Christ in Hell.)
O morning splendor hued like roses red,
O victor’s palm, O gold-wrought crown
of bays,
O arch of many stars whose light is shed
Through a dark forest’s ways!
(Where the last blood of courage stained
the ground,
Surely the deep red hero-blossoms blow.
And on the heights where life was lost and
found
The immortal laurels grow.)
O wreath of sunrise flame that crowns the
brave,
0 mercy stealing softer than a breath,
O Love re-risen from the three days’ grave.
How beautiful is death!
N.S.W.
DULCIR DEAMER.


E
L.
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—o 3-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—o 9 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
m
. «>
PRES/O
SV-
\
a
X
Particular Braces for Particular
Kinds of Work
inFNJT* tv e A r rni man ? 3 that are , satisfied by SHIRLEY PRES-
I DENT BRACES without sacrificing any of the strength that
makes for long wear B
The extra heavy SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are rein-
forced in-every part without sacrificing that proverbial comfort
that wearers of SHIRLEY PRESIDENTS are so proud to speak of
In SHI RLE \ PRESIDENT BRACES nearly all of the strain is
taken up by the sliding cable cords arid swivels. The life of
onirley Presidents is therefore far longer
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
label tlie namC ° n tilC buckles and the printed guarantee
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
Refrigerating U Ice-making Machinery.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPEND A DLL IT Y counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.’’ Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as: when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at yonr service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR. LTD.,
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney, p”' I , SSJS* , SSSkTi na'*™*"*’
f
d
The Proof
jf a
Cartridge
is the Shooting
YOU cannot afford to let inferior shotgun
cartridges spoil your day’s shooting.
The best you can buy are well worth the price because you
can depend on them to do the work swiftly and accurately.
This means good priming, even loads, close patterns
and best of all —the Remington special “wetproof’*
process. All this brings SATISFACTION at the close
of the day’s shoot.
Shotgun cartridges of different brands may look alike,
but shooting puts them to the test.
ďfdf
Try Remington, . and
J>3 • see the difference!
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc;
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. o. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
Good Health is Happiness
but how can either exist with a disordered
stomach or a torpid liver ? It may be
humiliating* but it is true* that the very
powers on which we pride ourselves most*
insight, judgment* ambition, ability to work*
are often dependent upon the condition of our
digestive organs. If these important organs do
not perform their functions satisfactorily, the
body and brain both suffer. How necessary is
it therefore, for us to live so that the stomach and
liver do their full duty and supply our bodies
with the vigor we need for our daily work.
!K„ n, 'i i n—"'H " r " ' ■ 1 « I -- .
Beecliam’s Pills
were introduced over seventy years ago for the
very purpose of preventing or relieving all these
troubles arising in the stomach# liver# kidneys
and bowels. 1 hat they have been successful is
proved by their wonderful popularity in all parts
of the world. They are everywhere recognized
as the most useful and efficacious remedy*
They give speedy relief in cases of impaired
digestion# sluggish liver# bilious headaches and
constipation. They tone up the system and
keep the body in a satisfactory state of health.
They
Make all the Difference
Sold in boxes, labelled 10id.. la-lid and 2s-9d. (original English prices.)
rf>
$
L ->. jX
7ft
o'
V
‘So glad you've brought the
The “Decca” means Music not just
pianoforte pifcces, not just songs, but brass
bands, symphony orchestras, and a wealth
of humorous entertainment. Though so
light and so compact that it can be carried
as easily as a handbag, the ‘Decca’ is as rich
in tone and as clear in reproduction as the
largest and most expensive phonographs.
DECCA
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
3 Models—Leather Cloth £lO/10/-
Fibre £l2/10/-
Cowhide .... £l6
Obtainable all over Australia
from all Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors : . j
Stanley E. Green, Ltd., 379','Tvent Street. Sydney.
BRAIN WAVES
If you want to prosper in life— to think
out schemes which will bring success, you
must have a clear head and a brain free
from dullness and fatigue. Avoid
Headaches, Dizziness, Indigestion,
Biliousness and that “tired feeling”
Small Pill— by taking
Carter’s
Little Liver
Pills, the
Great Liver
Invigorato r.
Thousands
have attained
success by their
timely help.
Just try one
after meals.
Small
Dose-
Small
Price
f
CARTER'S
"ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
mmm
MALTED MILK
Nourishes and sustains. The ideal
FOOD-DRINK. Contains Milk,
Wheat and Barley. Ideal for
growing infants. Made in a
moment with hot or cold water.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
V Jamieson St., Sydney, NS W. /
V* In 3 sizes of all Chemists /A
and Stores.
Pk
Mk
MALTED MILKC O
SLOUGH. BUCKS. ssgiSi<f
4 *
ENG.
R. G. WATKINS ®. CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


THE
Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited,
MINE OWNERS.
IRON AND STEEL MASTERS.
... .TT
M
A
m
Mm
H
n
m
iS
m
fp.
a
The Broken Hill Proprietary Company’s Steel Works (Newcastle) Blast Furnaces, showing Number 3 nearing
completion. Height of Furnace, 144 ft.; Height of Stoves, 103 ft.
Manufacturers of
PIG IRON (various grades),
STEEL INGOTS, RAILS, FISHPLATES,
BILLETS, BLOOMS, ROUNDS, FLATS, SQUARES,
BEAMS, TEES, ANGLES, CHANNELS, JOISTS,
REINFORCING MATERIAL (from i to 1} inches),
etc., and
SULPHATE of AMMONIA.
HEAD OFFICE:
Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Cables and Telegrams; “Gambroon. Melbourne.*
