

V- ■ ■
■
‘,y
m
<S: K \
I;;
•.* ,r •:•! >':(
I
V-
iik
o v«
-■if;
K<U
&:4i vf?
i ,i i
* v-' ?/
30®
-* »
■'• r V
■• /-• . , v '!*f;.
-= y- , Vtl
' J ■ | • : > ■-?
K f . » ' r f- <M : t ■
t „• J
m
* v.*
"s
F
: y -.;
PRESTIGE
When a line of accessories is the best known of its kind on the
5 w hen these products are the first choice of both car-makers
arid car-owners; when they are the most universally adopted as
standard equipment of all accessories in motordom, it is a foregone
conclusion that they considerable prestige.
\ '■ ’ ■ ’ ‘ : N ■ ' **’• .i
' *’ • - • ■ ■ '■? . s • • . \ . ... k y- r v ./?
This description -fittingly applies 4? #
THE STEWART SPEEDOMETER, through its remarkable accuracy and durability, has established the “Stewart Patented
Magnetic” as the accepted Speedometer Principle. . The Stewart is now used as standard equipment on 95 per cent, of all cars made.
No other accessory was over given more rapid universal adoption by car manufacturers than the Stewart Patented Vacuum System.
Wherever Motor Cars travel Stewart Warning Signals are heard. Sure, positive, effective* No other signals warn like them.
Hundreds of cars are being equipped daily with the Stewart Searchlight. Makes night driving safe and enjoyable.
INCREASE THE VALUE AND SERVICE OF YOUR CAR BY HAVING IT STEWART
EQUIPPED THROUGHOUT.
Stewart products are obtainable from leading wholesale and retail accessory dealers throughout Australia, including the following
Interstate Service Stations:- . f
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD., Pitt Street, SYDNEY. BERRY & ROCHE PTY., LTD., Swanston
Street, MELBOURNE. MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
ARTHUR CHRISTIAN, Hay Street, PERTH. CORNELL, LTD., Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2201.
Thursday, April 20, 1922.
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a JSevßftpajier.;


The new Library Catalogue for J 022 i<? in
prr>mrat ; nu end will be forwarded when
ready, with full terms, efe.. pos t f ree on
Telephone f!431.
BYMOCK’S ROOK - ATIC 'DE. TTT).,
428 George Street, Sydney.
LYSAGHT’S
Galvanized Sheets
The recognised standard of quality throughout
the Commonwealth,
A new and revised edition of the “Referee” is now available,
and may be obtained post free on application to
JOHN LYSAGHT <« u ., ra ia> LIMITED, 8 Spring Street, Sydney.
mm
iiSI
iiim
YOU CAN PREVENT
POWER WASTAGE
by harnessing your drives with
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
It is scientific ally tanned by experts with over 40
years' experience, and has many enviable records of
excellent service to its credit.
For thorough belting efficiency order Mangrovite
now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Oiraotor,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE : Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derhain & Co. I’ty., Ltd.. 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons. Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs. Bright & Co.. Perth.
T\SM\V|\: Menrv Clark A Co. Ptv.. Ltd.. Hobart.
OI'EEVST. Wn: Philio Frankel A Co., Ltd.. Brisbane.
Maura,
OURNVILLE Cocoa
THE COCOA WITH THE DELICIOUS FLAVOR ,
CADBURY’S CHOCOLATB Made la Australia
100% Efficiency JHS. l ldeal Power Lawn Mower.
No municipality, club, school or owner of large lawns can afford to be without
an “IDEAL.” ITS COST CAN BE SAVED IN A SEASON’S USE.
The “IDEAL” MOWER will cut and roll five to seven acres in eight hours with
unskilled labor on a gallon of petrol.
If you are up-to-date and prize efficiency and economy you will add your name to
this list of discriminating users: —
U.S.A.
THOMAS EDISON. JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER.
ANDREW CARNEGIE ESTATE.
AUSTRALIA:
T. TURNER SHAW, Esq., Cheltenham.
J. VAN COOTH. Esq., East Malvern.
OSWALD SYME, Esq., Macedon.
PHfLIP RUSSELL. Esq.. Beaufort.
T. W. GUNNERSON, Esq., Balwyn.
METHODIST LADIES’ COLLEGE, Melbourne.
%
NORTHCOTE CITY COUNCIL, Melbourne. COUNTRY
The “IDEAL JUNIOR’’ is specially made for private lawns.
REPRESENTATIVES WANTED.
Over 8000 “IDEALS’’ in use.
Sole Australasian
Agents:
‘S.NOS V 3XIHM .T 'O
172 Little Col'ins St.
MELBOURNE.
Perfect Gifts
The leading pen is always
an acceptable gift. It is
the symbol of friendship,
for with every use it will
inspire a kindly thought of
the donor. It is a beautiful
gift, yet useful and lasting,
and will prove a constant
pocket or desk companion.
Swan
FoWN¥PLN&
So'd by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney, Toronto and
Cape Town. Associate House: Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc.
New York, Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
J. A. BURKE. 5. Primrose Buildings, 255 a, George
Street. SYDNEY.
f
s
Hudsons Eumenthol
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to gel
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own. and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats and the
Prevention of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx ot
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
Of the Lungs.
The Red Page
The Poet and His Public
Gerald Gould, writing of “Where Poetry
Stands,” has a striking note about the
modern poet and his public. He says:—
Unbought poets used to comfort themselves with
the- thought that they were “too ■ good” for the
publics they recalled that Shelley had no circulation
in his lifetime; and explained the popularity of
Byron and Tennyson by the baser qualities of those
great writers. Nowadays, however, you can be as
good as Mr. Hodgson or Mr. de la Mare, and sell;
you can be. as good as Miss Mew, and not sell;
you can be as bad as (the names will suggest them-
.siSves), and sell; you can be as bad as (need I
say ?j and not Sell. It Is not a question of merit,
but of kind; and the kind itself is incalculable.
Who would have prophesied that the delicate, rare,
reticent, fantastic genius of Mr. <le la Mare would
move so wide an audience? In asking where poetry
stands, one must not ask how many people buy it.
The poet's concern is with God. And yet what a
prig he must lie if he affects to care nothing at all
about his public!
'Hie feeling the questioner is apt to
have iu reading this is that the word
“public” is very badly in need of a defi-
nition. The poet from the very nature
of his craft is a more or less secluded
person. His place is not fixed by votes,
nor is there any possible academic
mark that can be set upon him to distin-
guish him as worthy. Even the judgments
of himself and his fellows are apt to be
painfully wrong. Tennyson hailed Alfred
Domett’s “Banolf and Amohia” as a great
poem; Shelley thought “The Curse of
Kehama” one of the finest long poems in the
language, yet was capable of understanding
Keats *and realising something of his im-
portance; Byron thought Moore a great poet,
and could find nothing in Keats; Southey
thought he had found in Kirke White a rival
for the young singers of his day; Macaulay
thought his own “Lays of Ancient Borne”
the outstanding poetry of a decade which
saw the best work of Tennyson and the
Brownings. On the other hand, Fitzgerald’s
“Omar” Jay almost unread for 30 years, and
the cults of Blalte and Clarence Mangan
sprang up long after their original small
reputations had been forgotten. The poet’s
public is dearly not that of his poetical kin,
though it is sometimes his fortune to win
surch a public. Nor can lie very well have
God as his sole reader and appreciator. God
in such a relation can be no other than
himself —an ideal self standing for judg-
ment rather than mercy. Poetry is the
essence of speech, a social affair which can
only live in solitude on the memory of other
tongues and other ears. Had there been
but one Adam, first and last, with no in-
ttuSion of Eve or the snake, that man might
have gone singing like a waterfall for the
accident of sound that was in throat,
but he would never have made an articulate
note. Even the bird sings for its kind.
"There is no poetry attributed to a mono-
theistic God; but wherever there was a
pantheon the gods found a singer in their
ranks.
Every man seeks self-expression ; and the
poet is the person who expresses something
WOtrfh while in verse. The question is, to
whom does he express it? That again turns
upon the understanding of what is worth
while. Remove from the sphere of the poet’s
effort all that is covered by other branches
of human mental activity—science, mathe-
matics, history, pure philosophy and the like.
It is not possible really to remove them,
the complexity of the human mind is
■such that all things within its scope blend
and gather head in every feeling and emo-
tion. You can hardly eat a mutton chop
without a sub-conscious flash-light on evolu-
tion, nor discuss a politician without a thin
background of theology. But consider for
die purpose of getting at the heart of the
poet’s task that all these things can be
eliminated, that all ground covered by those
who find expression in other w'ays is clean
cut out, all knowledge put on a shelf by
itself and only one bare table left on which
the poet can exhibit his wares. What is
left for him? Is it not the prophetic note,
tjhe gathering up of the long instinct pro-
duced b.Y a hundred thousand years of human
idealism, human dreams after the unattain-
able? Is ’the poet not in very fact the priest
of mind drawing aside the curtain of the
holiest of holies in the sub-conscious
soul of man? There is no language
of the sub-conscious; yet in the finest
use of the language of consciousness
die poet touches a borderland speech
which stirs an emotion whose centre
is within the conscious, but whose circum-
ference ripples far out into the wider and
vaguer sub-conscious. So the poet’s expres-
sion of what within himself is worth while
fs not merely some bizarre half-jest of the
mind that flickers to his pen-point, but the
genuine surge or sob of the thought within
the thought that causes not a reflected
surge or sob in the mind of the reader, but
thg, very same feeling within him, which is
part of a long joint racial heritage of both
(the poet and the reader.
So it becomes possible to see the poet’s
public. They are those whose sub-conscious
heritage of feeling and aspiration is most
akin to his own and who respond most read-
ily to his inner touch. Those who buy his
books may or may not he within that cate-
gory. A book is often bought for a very
slight reason and loved for something purely
meretricious it contains. Books please, hooks
are recommended, books become a fashion ;
none, of these things are vital. It is quite
PQss'ble that a poem may bo hated bv its
readers for the verv passion of kindred emo-
l§on it stirs: hut the haters are well within
die circle of that writer’s public.
Admitting the mental priesthood of the
true poet—-hp n»v he a erent noet or a little
one, bnt that will not alter his relationship
to" the mass of mental effort— ; t is clear that
his approach to the bnlv of holies must be
a: reverent and thoughtful one. There is no
breaking into the place through the side
aynfl, which is as thick as the glacial epoch
and as strong as the bars evolution lets down
behind a past age. A man wnnnt reach his
spul or show his inner mind bv
wart of his skull. Efforts ip this direction
have produced the ragged diseords which
move nothing but the superficial wonder of
the. commonplace and the disgust of
know language as a dear friend. Keats
here- “fgfirv easements” opening into the ex-
quisite beyond the exquisite, but he could
never have found their latch save by the
rhythmic sadness of all the lesser magic the
nightingale made from stanza to stanza in
the approach. Observe that he does not
merely draw the curtain aside; having
glanced once within, he sets it back with
a reverent and altogether priestly hand. The
two lines, which a million men and women
to-day hold as the tenderest miracle of
English speech, might have beep thrown out
ragged in a discordant setting that would
have touched no finer chord and would long
aao have passed into dust of the small dust.
The priest owes it to his public of the
temple to make his entrance faithfully, if
he is truly expressing himself, he is express-
ing a great multitude—and the world grows
that way, the world that is more than break-
fast and a covering from the wind.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Books that Children Eat
After ail, does not the average youngster
adventure upon literature as lirst he adven-
tures into the township dam, timidly, expec-
tantly, but on his own initiative? 1 hope it
it still with many as it was with myself,
that reading is a wonderful discovery, coming
upon the neophyte with dramatic suddenness
—every volume a book of revelation. I was
eight and had never read anything, never
attempted to read anything of which I have
the faintest recollection. Indeed, with that
first book I might have come tp an amazing
realisation of the fact that I actually could
read. It was a besotted copy of “Jack Hark-
away in America,” tattered, swollen, cover-
less, illustrated with half-page wood-blocks
like rough prints of a picket fence made by
a bush carpenter. I was thrown on a bed
with the book between my elbows, and with
the turning of the first leaf I opened the
gate to a new world of limitless possibili-
ties. I had set my foot on the radiant path
gravelled with all the gems of Aladdin, be-
strid by a rainbow, a path that led through
“The Boys of Great Britain,” and via the
“Young Men of England,” the harmless
“Deadwood Dicks” of my day and genera-
tion, past Dickens, and Dumas and Eugene
Sue, on to, say, Friedrich Nietzsche, as the
latest and greatest, the one furthest removed
from the wonderful author of “Jack Ilark-
away,” whose name I never knew, but to
whom I have raised a monument within my
mind—a monument round whose base the
indomitable and resourceful Jack leads a
quaint procession, including the ineffable Dr.
Mole, and the bewildered Fat Boy, over
whose comic misfortunes I laughed as, alas!
I may not laugh at Sam Weller, or Fal-
staff, or Pan urge, or the latest extravagance
of Professor Stephen Leacock.
At about nine I forsook “The Boys of
England” for 'Dickens. Somebody had in-
sinuated “Burnaby Budge” into view, and
summer dawned in my new world. I ate up
“Barnaby Budge” with voracity. Books
were not easy of access in my sphere of life
and in the particular location in which I
found myself, but by raking the small liter-
ary possessions of my neighbors, and by
offering bribes to mercenary playmates, I
laid hands upon “Pickwick,” which, I re-
member, disappointed me a little, though it
remains the one Dickens volume to which I
can turn again in my middle age with abso-
lute satisfaction. I grappled “The Old Curi-
osity Shop” to my soul, literally clamped on
to “Little Dorrit” and “David Copperfield.”
Then I made the acquaintance of a boy at
the other end of the township who was the
proud inheritor of a subscription to the
lending library at the Ballarat Mechanics’
Institute. I attached myself to him, and
would not be shaken off. We went halves
in the books, our joint selections, and in
this way I got at the rest of Dickens, in-
vaded Dumas’s domain of marvellous adven-
ture, struggled manfully with Hugo, finding
“Les Miserables” a formidable task that en-
veloped me in the story’s grim atmosphere
as in a heavy blanket, but impressed me tre-
mendously. I have only to hear the name
and back to me comes something of the ter-
rible pathos that long story provoked in a
boy’s soul. The book was a weight on my
hands, a drag on my spirit, but I could not
escape from it, and never will.
Eugene Sue’s “Wandering Jew” made an
even deeper mark, equally indelible. The
awe inspired by the idea of that solitary
figure dragging himself out of Asia, across
Europe, dripping the germs of plague from
his skirts, retains its freshness. A boy’s
appreciation of the atmosphere of religious
intrigue and murderous emprise clings about
the name. A moment’s thinking and I get
again the strange thrills the radish-eating
Jesuit inspired, and the emotion provoked
when the loosed leopard killed the pilgr'm’s
horse in the inn stable, or when the infuri-
ated mob, believing its drinking places were
being poisoned by cholera microbes, tore the
giant to pieces. I have not touched “The
Wandering Jew” since I was 11, but the
spirit of it comes back to me as I write,
with a vividness not one in five hundred of
the books I have read since can evoke. I
read Fenimore Cooper, Walter Scott and
Thackeray, but not with the supreme
relish.
After this I went to sea with “Mr. Mid-
shipman Easy,” and entered on a long,
delirious course of Captain Marrynt.
Meanwhile there were two books, family
treasures, that I fell back upon again and
again when nothing else was available. One
was somebody's fife of I ord Horatio Nel-
son, from which I brought to man’s estate
a sentimental idea of Lndv Hamilton as a
creature of great sweetness, n"ntv
beauty, and a solitary sentence—“ Good God!
if I d : d not find the great little man of
whom all the world is afraid, nlaying under
the next room table with Mrs. Nesbitt’s
child.” The second was of an intnn Se lv
religious character. “Patmos. or the Isle of
Weeping.” from which I brought nothing
but a quaint suggestion of a uDce of deso-
lation where the skies twine noon a
dreary people driftine in eternal gloom.
If some enficbtened mind, a boekhsh peda-
gogue, for instance, however well-meaning,
had guided my childish excursion into the
(Continued on pane 55.)


xtae
ECONOMY IN SILVER-PLATED WARE
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS’
CXI 40—Biscuit
Silver-plated i
floral design.
Price ....
Barrel,
lounts;
32/6
CX255-—C andle*
stick, Silver-plated
on Britannia Metal
plain fluted design.
Price. . 22/6
ru
m
CX79—D inner
Cruet, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 4
Cut Glass Bottles
complete with Mus-
tard Spoon.
Price. . 45/-
1
CX37B—Cako Forks, in silk-lined
cases, newest designs.
Price 25/6
THE Fineness and Dependability of Make,
Excellence of Finish and Economy of Price, give
to Anthony Horderns’ High-grade Silver-plate that
standard most desired but rarely achieved by others.
In this list of suggested Gifts are articles which
conform in every respect to our rigid standard of
Quality and Value.
Customers will find their needs will receive all the
attention possible to give by our highly-qualified
Mail Order Staff.
CX293 —Cake Stands, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver.
2-Tier 47/6
CXI 22—Sugar Scuttle and
Scoop, Silver-plated on Brit-
annia Metal, pretty chased
design.
Price
30/
CX292—Cake Basket, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver;
diameter B|in.
Price
50/
We Pay Carriage on
Silver-plate in N. S.
Wales, and to the
nearest Port on Inter-
state Orders.
0X27-5
CX275 —Salt Cellars, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
bowls gilt inside, complete with spoons.
Price 19/6 pair
CX324—T oast Rack,
Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver.
Price .... 20/-
CX362— Bread Platter, Silver-
plated on Nickel Silver; plain with
turned-up edge.
Price
25/6
CXl3B— Hot Water Kettle, Silver-
plated on Britannia Metal, engraved
festoon design, 2-pint size.
Price £5/10/-
CX234 — Teap-ot, Silver-plated, on Brit-
annia Metal, 2-pint size.
Price
45/-
CXI37 —B i s c u i t
Barrel, English Oak,
Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver
mounts.
CX795 Breakfast
Cruet, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, 3
Cut Glass Bottles.
CX263—Afternoon Tea Spoons
and Sugar Spoon (in easel.
Price 30/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limi+ed.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 9440.


For your boy or girl
—a brownie:
I— '
The new, complete Kodak catalogue is sent post free to any
address (except New Zealand ) for sixpence in stamps to cover
postage.
The gift of a Brownie means a source of unending
enjoyment for all the days that follow. It is an
eminently sensible gift, too, helping to develop
powers of observation and love of nature —which
means more real fun than many gifts costing five
times as much.
The pictures they can make are really good, for the
Brownies are so very simple to use that no skill is
necessary.
The No. 3 Box Brownie is a simple and
dependable model that is used by
thousands of young enthusiasts the world
over. It takes good pictures 3j x
inches. Price, 26/6.
The No. 2 Folding Brownie is more com-
pact in form, and is fitted with adjust-
ments that greatly extend the field of
usefulness. For pictures 2\ x 3J inches.
Price, 52/6.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) PTY* LTD,,
379 George Street, Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne; 250-252 Queen Street,
Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Rundle Street, Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart; Ruthven Street.
Toowoomba; Flinders Street, Townsville; East Street, Rockhampton; Optical and Photo Supplies Co.,
Perth; “The Kodak Corner,” corner Lambton Quay and Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
You Get More from Life
with “ His Master's Voice
»
i~~——isniFJiip
mm,
''2ZZ2
i§
Sew
®§B
m
■a
i
o
YOU need this modern marvel, which makes
instantly available to you at any hour or place
the world’s best music, to help you get the
most from life.
Whatever your mood, “His Master’s Voice’’ can
provide music to match it —operatic arias that
soothe and satisfy, merry tunes that cheer and
enliven.
Choose the instrument which the foremost artists
of this generation have acknowledged to be
supreme by electing to make records for it
exclusively—“ His Master s Voice.
Write to-day for instrument
catalogues, lists of records
and name of nearest
accredited dealer.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
'‘His Master’s Voice”
Read. Trade-mark.
“Gramophone”
Hegd. Trade-mark.
rrmn
mu
_ —*-


PINKETTIS
For
A Clear Complexion
Constipation disfigures the com-
plexion with pimples and blotches.
Poisonous matter which should have
been expelled from the system is
retained and gives rise to impurities
in the blood.
Pinkettes quickly clear away all
offending matter without the least
griping or discomfort. They are a
corrective for bad breath} will clear
the complexion, and are recom-
mended for torpid liver, biliousness,
headaches, constipation and when-
ever a gentle laxative is required.
1/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams' Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT ALL THE
NEW DRESSES AKE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Full directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a FREE
specimen of embroidery to
T&e Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
JSL» •
■m
P
JL
Showing
Bottle
de-mounted
KEEPS CONTENTS
Cold 72 Hrs. Hot 24 Hrfj*
Made id various
sizes and styles
front up
When motoring,
travelling, picnick-
ing and on all out-
door trips, ICY-
HOT provides hot
drinks or f bod or cold
refreshment without
bother of preparation.
ICY-HOT Flasks keep
water steaming hot for
making tea. ICY-HOT
Tea Pots keep tea hot
for hours. Indispens-
able in care of the sick
or old folks.
Built lot Lifetime
Service
IGY-HOTS are extra pro-
tected; with ordinary care will
last a lifetime. Easily cleaned;
absolutely sanitary. Look for
name ICY-HOT on bottom.
ICY-HOT TEA POT
THE ICY-HOT BOTTLE CO.
158 West Second Street. CINCINNATI. OHIO, U.S.A.
A DT
m n i
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Calle
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
Tz-zm
••= •
S
• JB
“A Woman’s Glory is l.er hair,”
and one of the most desirable
beauty assets is hair of
Rich Walnut Shade
60 easily obtained with
DR. ALLEN’S
WALNUT STAIN
Harmless to the skin. Per-
manent and waterproof. All
Chemists.
N
śfd
Pleases the
Most Exacting.
The fragrancy of “Eudenta” is one
of its pleasing features; its antiseptic
properties another.
All Chemists
sell it
1/- <
a tube.
/
“ROSS” FIELD GLASSES
are THE BEST the World produces.
Then have Incomparable Luminosity,
Very Extensive Field,
Perfect Definition,
Fine Stereoscopic Effect,
ana being hermetically sealed are both
water and dust proof.
The central adjusting wheel permits
instant focussing, and rapid rectifi-
cation, and provides a clearly defined
picture at any distance.
Any unequal vision of the eyes is cor-
rected by a separate adjustment.
We quote English catalogue prices only,
plus 15 per cent. Customs and import-
ing expenses.
sfd
“Ross” RACE GRASSES are the
best the world produces.
Fairfax &. Roberts, Ltd.
Sight Specialists
and Opticians,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
23 & 25 Hunter Street, Sydney.
lAUNDRENA
The Dai nfy Womans favcru rite Sfa rch
Ideal for delicate fabrics,
fine linens and lingerie.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Manufactured by
CLIFFORD LOVE &C?L TD SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in Thk
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
In these days we all have
to Keep our end up.
Think of
Sckute, Bell# Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Use ....
fIFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
MONEY CANNOT BUY A BETTER PIPE than
ƒ
CORSICAN BRUYERE
Illustrated No. 807.
Silver-mounted,
16/6.
MSI
w,
is
43
We
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
Made by
French Dig-
gers at St. Claude,
Jura, trance. Irnm
the finest procurable
Briar Boot, these flaw-
less pipes are the World’s
Best. They are made in 98
smart plain and silver-mounted
shapes, and every pipe is
Guaranteed for
Twelve Months.
Ask your tobacconist for one, or send a post-
card to Box 954 G.P.0., Melbourne —and we will
tell you where to get one. "
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Flowers.
Flowers are the scent of nations and their
thought.
In every flaunting dahlia I see
Some stately Aztec bride whose lord has
caught
Her beauty in a golden memory.
And where the pale wistaria hangs down,
Lavender lanterns of remembered spring,
I think cool Chinese lutes of love, jade-
browd
Mid the cold leaVeb, borne slender lyric
sing.
Here is a lost sweet stock from winter blown
Into the heart of summer, pink and pure.
Surely it is a fragrant rondel flown
From a Provencal garden, maid-demure.
Out of my .soul I pour their scents away!
Blooms of the many nations, one by one,
Till only gum-flowers woo me this blue day,
Heavy with pungent perfumes of the sun.
N.S.W.
AOELAIDE STREET.
The Redemption.
Sodden and sombre, all the day
Gloomed the mountains, valley and height;
Sunken and still the forest lay,
Swept by spectres of mist, snow-white.
Never a bird on scarlet wing
Lit the scene like a falling flower;
Silence, muting all mouths that sing,
Wielded her wand of magic power.
Never a thrush with notes of joy
Woke the stillness of depth and peak ;
Never a lyre-bird, shy and coy,
Gladdened the gloom of guliy and creek.
Grim and sullen, great sandstone walls
Carved by water and worn by wind,
Scarfed and ribboned by waterfalls.
Stood like giants by age made blind.
Old and furrowed and yet sublime
Stood they, shouldering ridge and range—
Sentinels on the towers of time,
Witnesses of the toil of change.
Solemn and sombre, grim and grey,
Gloomed the mountains, hollow and
height,
Till at sunset a golden ray,
Sudden and swordlike, shot its light.
Struck and stirred by that splendid shaft,
Glory settled on peak and glen;
Winds made music and waters laughed,
All things glowing with life again.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.
Venus Urania.
Who would dispraise the goddess the years
have worshipped?
Is not her beautiful temple old as the
spring?
Are not the roses under her feet and the sea
winds
Slaves to sleep at her bidding or waken and
sing?
All the bees at her blossoms are drunken with
honey,
And like snows in summer the countless
wines of her doves
Whiten her porches and lighten her jasper
altars,
Warm with the ashes and fire of innumer-
able loves.
Ah, the marriage of lips the poets have sung
of,
The strength that bolds and the dear desire
that cleaves!
Bluer than heaven the sea that yielded the
Sea-Born,
Glimpsed by lovers through garlands of
midsummer leaves.
Here, where the senses ache ’neath the
weight of fragrance,
And the earth-heart beats with pulses of
white and red,
Here in the tides of summer, athirst or sated,
What should discrown her shadowless
golden head?
Out of the wreck of autumn, whose ruined
beauties
Are sodden with rains and tattered and
sanguine-dyed,
What butterfly wings are these that open and
tremble—
Wings of the psyche, fragile and peacock-
eyed?
Out of the mists of passion like clouds of
sunset,
Incarnadine, molten, roseate, a seething
* sea,
Who are these multitudes rising like faint-
limbed swimmers?
What are these winds of the spirit that
over them flee?
Under the mists are dead flowers, spilt wine,
cold altars,
Branches of cypress and dust in a brazen
urn;
But out of the mists are the faint, fair multi-
tudes rising
Where a wind goes by, and the sacred star-
fires bum.
Oh, is the rapture less than the flame that
touched them
Unde” the vines and roses that live for a
day?
Lo, in the arms of her lover the slain Fran-
cesca
Drifts while the timeless centuries pass
away.
Butterfly wings that rise from the spoils of
autumn —
Lovers disporting the fugitive mists of
love—
Is the mother of gods and men but a broken
statue?
Ye have found Her face in the heavens
that bend above!
N.S.W.
DULCIE DEAMER.


Don’t Overlook
One.
.
gJM
Alt
• oii>
8
I
ij i;
is
a ■»
I I
B
m-s.
ilv?£*
111 t
,fl
M
’
{l®.
1
sar?
If you have much figuring to do in your business,
you are undoubtedly acquainted with the Burroughs
Adding Machines and you probabiy know something
about Burroughs Bookkeeping Machines.
But do you know that there is another type of
Burroughs figuring machine especially designed for
extremely rapid figuring, where a printed list of items is
not necessary —for that big figure job in every business
where all that is wanted is the answer?
With a Burroughs Calculator any clerk can work
out figure problems faster than the best trained special*
ist can do them by mental calculation. For example,
to figure that well-known discount, less 80-30-15-2, in-
volves eight separate mathematical problems which have
to be solved whether you put down the figures on paper
or carry them in your head. With the Burroughs Cal-
culator it is only necessary to know the decimal equiva-
lent of the discount to be taken, and by a simple
mechanical operation the answer appears on the dials
of the machine.
The Burroughs Calculator
This handy little machine, easy to learn, easy to
operate, goes straight to the answer; extending and check-
ing invoices and freight bills; gathering cost, selling price
or profit totals; totaling weights and quantities; proving
ledger postings and trial balances; extending and adding
stock-taking figures, and analyzing production records.
Ask us to show you the Calculator. It will give
you a new conception of the speed and accuracy with
which all sorts of routine figuring can be done.
A demonstration will put
you under no obligation and
you may find the Calculator
just the machine you need
to take care of the calculat-
ing work in your office
Sole Importers of
Burroughs Machines
Ira L. & A. C. Berk
Chaliis House, Sydney.
London House, Melbourne.
Strand Block, Brisbane.
72 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Wellington Building, Perth.
Commercial Bank of Australia Chambers,
Hobart.
Denham & East Streets, Rockhampton.
New Zealand Insurance Buildings, Auckland.
Also Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin.
s
It
4
1
4406
Adding Bookkeeping Calculating
Machines


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2201.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1922.
Peice 6d.
THE MUTUAL RECRIMINATORS.
COAL-OWNER AND -MINER (simultaneously): “You’re hurting the poor animal.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, ol
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Svrlnev. N.S.W., Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. Gd.; 3 months, Is.
To any address Oveuseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, Is. Gd.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to oe
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bui
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in liiack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.h;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 1/6 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, Loudon, 1 V.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Daivson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
USA. — Chicago: J. Boland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boidevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
Egypt.— Jacques, Horn & Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore. .
Ceylon.—TV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; 11. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. . , _ , „ .
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
Newspaper): Throughout the Commonwealth, Maori-
land, Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe
Islands, 10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route,
IGoz., lid. Only one newspaper should be enclosed
in each packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Bloz. to 10oz.,
Sd.; lOoz. to 120 z., Sid.; elsewhere, ioz., lid., and
id. each additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, APRIL 20, 1922.
UNIONISM ON THE DOWN GRADE.
Industrial unionism began all over the
world like a religion. In England, America,
Germany, some of the most formidable of
the early unionists were preachers—humble,
GoD-fearing men, such as Joseph Arcii, who
first organised that most sweated of all work-
ers, the English agricultural laborer. In
Arch’s day and before it there was no more
need to preach Communism amongst the be-
lievers in the new creed than there had been
1800 years before in the catacombs of Rome.
The enthusiasts who were behind Hume and
Place in their campaign against the Com-
bination Laws voluntarily shared the little
they had with their more miserable brethren.
As 'in the case of Christianity, Mahometanism
and the rest, and all their offshoots, the mes-
sage of unionism was directed in the begm-
■ ning. to the poor and the outcast to the
men, women and children who were working
14 hours a day under appalling conditions.
The ideals that the union bosses of a century
ago put ever before them were the Christ-
like ones of service and brotherhood. There
was neither money nor honor in upholding
unionism then. On the contrary. Hundreds
of union committees went to gaol en masse
for the faith: Australia got many of them
(for example, the Dorchester laborers who
combined in 1884 against a wage-rate of 7s.
a week) ; and the unionist who arrived here
from foreign parts found awaiting him an
even more elaborate martyr’s crown than
was offered by the Old World. During most
of the first half of the 19th century a N. S.
Wales union leader was liable to penal ser-
vitude for life and anything up to 500 lashes
for his activities on behalf of the down-
trodden. * * *
schoolboy knows what happens to
a creed when it becomes fashionable. It
sloughs its drab, inconspicuous, selfless teach-
ers. They either flee into the wilderness and
are only audible thereafter as, complaining
or minatory voices, or they organise a re-
formed version of the old faith. The world
had never known so edifying a spectacle as
the first four centuries of Christianity. Greek
philosophy and Latin cynicism had produced
a civilisation of atheists. Manners were
everything and morals nothing. There were
but two real crimes in the estimation of the
society of the day—to be poor and to be
weak. In short, that part of the world which
was not under the sway of barbarians held
with the employers of the Industrial Revolu-
tion that Nature intended all but a few
fortunate children to work from the moment
they were capable of doing so, and all but a
few fortunate men and women to live wretch-
edly and die early. And every king and
statesman thought of war, as the Kaiser and
his advisers did, as “a biological necessity,”
and scoffed, as Bernhardi was to do later,
at the absurdity of the idea that the weak
nation should have the same right to live as
the powerful and vigorous nation. Into
this desert of selfishness and cruelty Chris-
tianity swept, with its doctrine of democracy,
altruism and loving kindness, like a mighty
river. Paganism went down before Chris-
tianity’s earlier leaders as the stony-hearted
doctrine of laissez-faire did before the criti-
cisms of the 19th century reformers. Once
the new path had been shown the world
could not remain on the old one. So
Christianity became respectable and then
rich. And immediately the worldly and the
ambitious pushed in and the character, of
the movement began to change. The time
came when to be a Christian prelate was to
be more powerful than a king. Expulsion
from the fold meant social and financial ruin.
Self-seekers began to use the leyer of excom-
munication for personal and political pur-
poses, and freedom first languished and finally
died. The Reformation was not a century
old in England before clergymen like Cotton
and Roger Williams were emigrating to
Massachusetts to escape being suspended for
such offences as “gospel-preaching” or refus-
ing to wear surplices; and thousands. of lay-
men were excommunicated for receiving the
Communion while sitting down. The Church
was once more as authoritarian as ever; and
it remained aristocratic (and hence Torvl
and vehemently political until the widening
of the franchise detracted from its power.
* * * *
Unionism in Australia appears to be going
the way of the other great humanitarian con-
ceptions. It was feeble here for many years
after it had grown relatively powerful in
Britain. Then came the 1890 strike which
helped teach the workers to organise; after
that the slump and the inevitable boom, which
found a literate population of wage-earners
eager to help themselves and one another and
confident that they knew the way. It has
been estimated that in the black years after
the ’93 bank smashes there were but 45,00 <
unionists in all Australia. In 1914 there
were 528,000, or 106 per 1000 inhabitants, as
against the 27 per 1000 of the U.S. And
to-day the figure verges on 700,0(X), which
represents over 50 per cent, of all those per-
sons over 20 years of age who are in receipt
of wages or salaries. It is easy to see what
a field this development offers the self-seeker
and the mischief-maker. The Early Fathers
of Australian unionism are gone: their type
could not breathe the same air as the mate-
rialists who have turned a religion into a
machine and are exploiting the gigantic con-
trivance chiefly for their own personal benefit.
Dogmas are industriously manufactured,
many of which have no relation whatever to
unionism proper; and whoever disbelieves
in any of them becomes a heretic. The union-
ist who openly criticises one of these articles
of faith which follow one another with such
bewildering rapidity from year to year—
now conscription, now anti-conscription;
now Fabian socialism, now Marxism, now
the creed of the Third Internationale —is
liable to excommunication, with all the finan-
cial disasters which the ban involves. The
old clerical arguments are used in support
of this ancient policy—that the prelates in
conclave know best, and that sacrifices must
be made for the good of the Faith. One
result is to put an immense and ever-increas-
ing amount of power in the hands of men
whose only qualifications to exercise it are
that energy and subtlety in intrigue which
distinguish' the leaders of political caucuses
and caves. Another is to kill freedom of
speech on all serious political, issues as re-
gards a majority of the working population
of the country. And a third is to destroy
the character of Parliament. The Charl-
tons, the Theodores and the Dooleys may
talk at large on the floors of the Houses
in which they are supposed, to represent
large sections of the population; but when
it comes to business they can only advocate
the policies of one or two or three office-
men. unknown to the general public, and
who, perhaps, have never been elected to a
constituency, much less to a Ministry, in
their lives. Under modern unionism the
work of Parliament is done in a back room
of a back street, and Parliament is degraded
to the status of the place where the deed
is registered. These are the undemocratic
anachronisms which are ruining, the good
name of unionism and wh ; eh look like making
a pariah of political Labor for years to come.
THE SPORT OF KINGS AND
THIEVES.
It has been estimated that 90 per cent, of
the money embezzled in the Commonwealth
goes in backing the wrong horse, and one
would be taking chances to say off-hand that
the figures are an exaggeration. The clerk
whose accounts won’t balance through this
cause is a weekly or even daily publication,
with an occasional evening edition thrown
in. The bookmaker, in addition to being a
useless and unpicturesque parasite, is, from
this point of view, the greatest receiver of
stolen property in the country. He ranks
as a principal source of crime, apart from
the sudden brawl variety; and directly and
indirectly he, or the horse which gives rise
to him, is one of the most fruitful causes
of small offences, including ugliness, lan-
guage” and political corruption. Liquor is
a bad second to him. Yet Horse Prohibi-
tion, which Australia could do with, has
no vogue among the well-meaning brethren
whose collars button at the back and their
waistcoats at the side, while Drink Prohibi-
tion, which is an onslaught on the old
national vice of Scotland or the U.S.A. but
not on ours, gets all the limelight. The
anomaly is simply the result of the importa-
tion of'ideas. The brethren lack the initia-
tive to be different from “Pussyfoot”
Johnson.
* * * *
In Melbourne recently a clerk, feeling the
sudden call of horse in the blood, dissipated
in four (4) crowded days his (and his
family’s) house and furniture, his loose
change and a heap of his employer’s capital.
If the employer had been in a small way
he might have been ruined likewise. The
case excited interest, not because of its
unusualness, but because of its velocity.
Alcohol affords no such chances for sudden,
absolute and surreptitious sinkage of the
ship with all hands. Before the victim of
temptation had drunk a decent roomful of
furniture, let alone a home and part of a
bank, his condition would have given warn-
ing. No man ever drank a fair-sized for-
tune, to say nothing of the trust funds,
single-handed in a lifetime. The cubic mea-
surement of the stomach forbids. Except in
the flutter which happens once in 10 years
it is difficult to achieve such a result even
on the Stock Exchange. The irresistible
temptation to plunge, with more embezzled
money, in the hope of recovering the first
loss is a characteristic of the game. No
one who has drunk too much beer plunges
into more beer with a hope of recovering
the first beer. Yet to some extent the two
habits go together; not that drink leads to
horse, but horse certainly leads to drink—
after the event, when the desire to drown
the quadruped in oblivion is strongest. Un-
like spirits, the sprinting of the flogged and
four-footed animal has no value in medicine,
manufactures or the arts. It can’t be
poured into the tank of a motor-car to make
it go, nor into the tank of a human to resus-
citate the apparently drowned, nor can the
family silver be cleaned with it. And it
isn’t associated with the supply of board and
lodging to give it a respectability not its
own. Furthermore, the race-game takes up
more ground-space, much of it valuable sub-
urban space, than all the other familiar
sins put together. And it takes up an immen-
sity of newspaper space which might other-
wise be devoted to the lucubrations of Good
Men —especially on Mondays, when the Good
Men who tried to improve the world on
Sundays could do with some spare columns.
Apart from the buildings and real estate
required, the apparatus involved in racing
is vast and vastly expensive. The paid, or
partially-paid, staff which is required to keep
the sport of kings, mugs, thugs and thieves
going, to say nothing of the volunteer staff
which pays itself, looks larger than that of
all other well-known sins put together.
. * • •
As a means to the production of criminals
and semi-criminals, including corrupt police-
men, the horse industry ranks very high.
It is ah aid to the pickpocket who appre-
ciates crowds, and to magsmen of various
sorts. How many suburban shopkeepers
only cut hair and sell tobacco as a cover
for’ their betting trade it is impossible to
say, but four in a street is a fair guess in
some places. And a time has come when
the man who has become specially conspicu-
ous in betting circles feels it his duty to
enter politics on that ground alone, and put
his services at the disposal of his country
for a consideration. Even the owner who
is above suspicion is seldom so far above it
that his obituarist thinks it superfluous
to mention that he never swindled the public,
but gave it a run for its money, or the
money it had surreptitiously borrowed. No
one mentions, when the esteemed bank man-
ager goes to his great reward, that he
rigidly abstained from stealing the deposits.
Still,' the “sport” might have some virtue
if it were an aid to health and beauty. But
the jockey is a stunted sitting man in busi-
ness hours, with too little contour, and he
has no value outside his useless profession.
(The lack of usefulness has also been charged
against the actor, singer and musician, but
they occasionally compose a play or a gem
of music, whereas no one ever saw the dis-
engaged jockey composing a new horse.)
The bookmaker is a standing man in his
working time, and mostly a sitting man
at other times, and he tends to altogether
too much contour. Few painters seek either
of them as a model for the human face or
form divine. As for the typical mob at a
pony meeting, it can hardly be asserted that
either its aggregate physique or language or
countenance inspires much hope as regards
the future of the nation. One. theory is
that going to pony races makes it look like
that. Another is that looking like that
drives it to pony races. The former view
seems the more probable.
• * * *
It is said that horse has so eaten into the
Australian soul that his Prohibition is
impossible. Certainly he is a mighty insti-
tution. He is so mighty that a great part
of the driving force behind the 44-hours-per-
week movement, which blighted quite a lot
of industries through reducing, production
and income by one-twelfth while expenses
remained stationary, was the craving to have
a whole Saturday’s horse instead of a half-
Saturday’s. Still, “reformers” allege per-
sistently that Drink Prohibition is quite
feasible—in fact, that it has really been
accomplished in the case of a hundred mil-
lions of intelligent Yankee citizens. Drink
is traced hack to Noah, and compared with
it horse-racing is a thing of yesterday. And
drink is an established thing among jungles
and mountains and marshes and lagoons where
racing was never known. Possibly, then,
the racing craze is less deep-rooted than
people imagine. Certainly the crowd one
sees going out on a race morning looks as
if it would resist Horse Prohibition to the
death. On the other hand, the same crowd,
coming back at night, mostly gives the im-
pression that it wishes every horse on earth
were dead. The evening aspect suggests that
the experiment may yet be tried. The whole
hog of Prohibition may look a large animal
to swallow; but if presently it should be
decided that there is no alternative,, those
who have been guilty of the multiplication
of courses and meetings, with the gambling
and the crime and the roguery, and black-
guardism that iroes with them, will be wholly
respoi.siult for it.
CHINA IN 1921.
“Feng Shui” reviews four hundred millions:
China has survived another year of the Republic.
That fact is a stirring example of the magic which
resides in names, for of the Republic all that re-
mains is the name. Presidents have come and gone
and Premiers have succeeded one another, Cabinets
are formed and portfolios distributed, although no
Parliament, except fugitive ones, exists. The pro-
vinces are still in the hands of rival generals, and
Peking confirms their successful strategy by grant-
ing them appointments with high-sounding titles,
but is quite powerless to transfer or depose them
except through the good offices of other generals
who may be prepared to risk a trial of strength.
They move their armies to and fro over the State
railways, in their interminable game of war, with-
out reference to any other authority than their own.
A great war-lord, Chang Tso-Lin, reigns in Man-
churia ; another, Wu Pei-Fu, straddles the Yangtsze;
between are lesser barons whose fickle allegiance
keeps the balance of power constantly oscillating.
It is these men who really appoint or degrade Minis-
ters and control the finances of the Republic. Recently
Chang Tso-Lin saved the Government from financial
disaster by remitting a little of the revenue he had
previously stolen from it., thereby earning the admira-
tion of the people; and at present a creature of
his, Liang Shih-Yi, reigns as Premier in Peking.
The Chinese appear to see no paradox in the fact
that the Central Government still collects Cus-
toms revenue in Canton, the rebel capital, where
Sun Yat Sen Styles himself President, and that
officials are appointed to “independent” cities.
Trade flourishes between North and South, osten-
sibly at war, and posts and telegraphs function as
departments of the Central administration.
In Peking the ex-Emperoi;, a young man of liberal
spirit, still lives in one of the ancestral palaces,
surrounded by all the old pomp and ministered to
by the eunuchs, the palace rats who brought his
dynasty to its present predicament. The old
intrigue rages round him. His wives and concu-
bines still carry on the ancient struggle for power,
poisoning their rivals or throwing them down the
palace wellls, as if there were still the throne of an
empire to fight for. The ex-Emperor still issues
edicts to the Manchu bannermen, and, as Son of
Heaven, promotes the dead as a recognition of the
merit of their living descendants. The official guar-
dian of the deposed monarch is the President of the
Republic himself, and in order that the Emperor
shall be a credit to the revolution his education is
carefully attended to. R. F. Johnston, the brilliant
Buddhist scholar, traveller and author, and ex-
magistrate of Wei Hai Wei, is one of his tutors.
In fact, all the great members of the Manchu clan
are fostered by this tender-hearted revolution.
They are given liberal pensions, and their upbring-
ing is carefully attended to. The ancestral shrines
are maintained at the public expense. Occasionally
an ambitious general attempts a monarchical restora-
tion, and the Emperor may be dragged out of his
retreat for a day or two; but the revolution tikes
no sanguinary revenge, andi the boy is allowed to
return to his Sequestered throne without resentment
on the part of the people.
The President of the Republic wields a more ex-
tensive authority than any other ruler. He is lord
of both the living and the dead. Just as the Em-
peror did before him, he performs the ancestral
rites at the temple of Heaven, grants posthumous
honors to the souls of dead officials, and promotes
and degrades the shades for three generations back
according to the good or bad performance of their
living descendants. In acting as mediator with
Heaven for the people, he is either usurping the
functions of the Son of Heaven himself or else
regards himself as the Emperor’s delegate, and
either way the Chinese see no inconsistency with
his function as President. It should be remembered
that the Edict of Abdication which the Empress
Dowager promulgated on relinquishing the Govern-
ment in 1912 was not an edict of abdication in the
Western sense at all. It was more the sort of mes-
sage a business man might make to his partners
when retiring from active participation in the
management, but with every intention of returning
if things should go wrong; and it had a satiric
sting in its tail, the bite of which subsequent his-
tory has not mollified. The edict ran:—
Now Yuan Shih-Kai has been elected Prime Min-
ister. Let Yuan Shiii-Kai with full powers organise
a provisional Government, consulting with the repre-
sentatives of the Republican army as to the methods
of union, thus assuring peace to the people and
tranquillity to the Empire, and forming one Great
Republic by the union, as heretofore, of the five
peoples, namely, Manchus, Chinese, Mongols, Moham-
medans and Tibetans, and maintaining their terri-
tory in its integrity. We [the late Empress Lung
Yu] and His Majesty the Emperor shall thus be
enabled to live in retirement, free from responsibili-
ties and cares, and passing the time in ease and
comfort we shall enjoy without interruption for the
present the courteous treatment of the nation, and
see with our own eyes the consummation of an
illustrious Government, an ideal state sincerely to
be admired.
Only a Chinese revolution would take its orders
from its deposed sovereign. Even the character used
for “abdication” is not that used in previous cases of
abdication, but simply means retirement. And, it
is to be noted, the deposed monarch commissions
the Prime Minister of the Republic and even gives
him instructions in the correct method of consoli-
dating a revolution.
There was no Reign of Terror with the Chinese
Revolution, no Marat, no Celestial Fouquier-Tin-
ville. No king had to be sent to the scaffold, and
the Manchu bannermen, the aristocrats of the ol
regime, were quietly absorbed into the Chinese
population, that ocean which has absorbed so man}
conquerors. Since the revolution, the Repub 10,
stimulated by foreign armaments and Japanese in-
trigue, has drifted into civil war; but even here the
indomitable pacifism of the Chinese people mani-
fests itself. A catalogue of the alarums and excur-
sions of the last few years would give the .impres-
sion that the country was swiftly sinking into
chaos; yet each succeeding year the Customs revenue
establishes a new record, and last year was no excep
tion; the Chinese merchant pushes his business,
industry steadily develops, railways link up P ro
vinces ostensibly at war with one another ; and re e
generals foregather at Peking under the protection
of the Government they are in arms against.
The passage of the past year leaves China approxi-
mately where she was. There were numerous poli-
tical crises, clashes between North and South am
between one province and another were nan ° w ;
averted, the military war-lords rose or fell, there
were famines and floods and a terrible earthquake
which, like many such cataclysms, involving
of thousands of the “stupid people,” would. “‘
remained unknown even to the European resi e
of the treaty ports save for the correspondence ot
missionary. n <
For a brief while at Christmas the attention,
patriots was drawn from their internal dissension
by the prospect of the Washington Conference,
and extravagant hopes were entertained by P r «“
and people of the outcome. The unsophisticated
Chinese pictured the Western nations like shining


knightg coining to the rescue of the fair Chinese
maiden, imprisoned in the toils of the dragon, which
was Japan. The cynical arrangement which was
the sole tangible result of that Conference appears
to the Chinese as a deliberate attempt on the part
oi Western and Japanese capitalism to exploit
Chinese industry. If the attempt is successful the
consequences to China will be serious; but more
serious still to the Western peoples. The world
talks glibly of the industrialisation of China without
having the least idea w#iat it would mean. The
industrialisation of Englland caused a revolution
which affected the whole world. The industrialisa-
tion of 400 million people, accustomed to work 12
to 15 hours a day for 355 days of the year, inured
to a diet of rice and weak tea, immune through
generations of infection to most diseases, all the
chaff winnowed out of them by centuries of fierce
struggle, is going mto be the mast portentous
phenomenon this old globe has ever witnessed.
When it is achieved Asia will have avenged herself
for the past 300 years of European aggression. She
will be able to roll back her invaders without
moving a soldier, and to ruin the homes of Dutch-
men and Australians without the necessity of drop-
ping bombs on them. The navies of the world will
assist in the work of carrying her death-dealing
weapons to and fro, and the very people she is
destroying will be her unwitting allies. There is
only one way in which the organisation of China on
an industrial basis can be achieved without the
wholesale lowering of the standard of living in
other countries. If China is left independently to
rearrange her national economy without subservience
to foreign finance, the family system, the organisa-
tion of guilds and secret societies and the influence
of Confucian ethics may temper the worst abuses
of the factory system; and a steady rise in wages
and the standard of living may increase the cost of
the Chinese coolie’s production and enlarge his
meagre consuming power. Chinese indusurialism
would then give an enormous impetus to trade; and
a healthy interchange of commodities would do no
harm to anybody. But if China’s millions are to be
the sweated slaves of Western capitalism—if the
production of their antlike activity is to go as tri-
bute to Europe, America and Australia, to feed an
oligarchy of foreign bond-holders—the doom of
Western civilisation will have sounded.
The squabbles of her creditors were China’s best
defence against aggression, but the Four Power
Pact seems to indicate that the foreign concession-
hunters realise at last that when thieves fall out the
honest man is apt to come into his own. The old
lawless system of pledging China’s resources to the
highest bidder is to cease, and in future China is
to be exploited on strictly business lines. If the
project succeeds China may shortly be expected to
bud factory chimneys, like tombstones to a dead era.
Four hundred million factory-hands should be able
to produce quite a lot of pots and pans, and no
"'•’rg need be entertained about the supply of labor.
DE VALERA.
I was in London during the negotiations
for the Irish settlement, and was in touch
with leading Northern and Southern Irish
and Liberals. Before I left London I saw
crowds of Irish kneeling in Downing-street
praying for the success of the conference,
then sitting, which agreed to the Treaty.
That the broad scheme of the settlement was
pre-arranged we knew, because it was common
i,ondon club news before the King made
his appeal at Belfast. All parties had been
sounded. De Valera, the then head of the
Irish Republican movement, and in arms
against England, was twice arrested, appa-
rently by mistake, and then released. The
world did not then know much of this ex-
traordinary man. The British commanders
knew him during the 1916 rebellion as a
brave and determined leader in the field;
and on his capture after a desperate resist-
ance, his shooting was regarded as a fore-
gone conclusion. But he was reprieved
(through American influence, it is said),
and lives to be the protagonist of a danger-
ous and sinister movement which may mean
the sacrifice of a million lives and the ruin
of Ireland’s prospects for decades.
When the negotiations came out into the
open, in consequence of Lloyd George’s
letter, based upon the King’s appeal at Bel-
fast, “the Spanish-American Jew” (the
epithet of a section of the English press)
was naturally, as President of the Irish
Republic, the principal figure-head on the
Irish side. The correspondence leading up to
the conference was signed by De Valera,
and bears all the marks of having been writ-
ten by him. It was so involved, so ambigu-
ous, so free from the characteristic which
Americans admire —“coming down to brass-
tacks”—that comment on its unsatisfactory
nature was universal. It put the Irish in
the wrong, and held them up as “tricky.”
There. w r as a wonderful outburst of good
feeling in England towards the settlement,
among all classes, from Labor to Tory.
Except the Morning Post, which was sav-
agely against any settlement at all, and
which ran amok against both sets of nego-
tiators, the great London and provincial
dailies displayed wonderful tact and re-
straint while the tricky letter-writing was
going on. I have seen on a Liberal editor’s
desk a stack of letters a foot high, demand-
ing that the negotiations should be can-
celled, as the negotiator, De Valera, on the
Irish side, could not be pinned down to any-
thing definite, but side-stepped and evaded
in a maddening way. Not a line was pub-
lished. In the end the public, both of Eng-
land and Ireland, got “fed up.” Lloyd
George gave an ultimatum which repre-
sented public opinion on both sides of the
Atlantic, and the terms of the conference
were arranged.
. Then the matter got into other hands,
viz., the then unknown quantity, Michael
Collins, so conspicuous to-day for cour-
ageous and constructive statesmanship, and
Arthur Griffith, who was responsible for
the radical change of the whole basis of
Irish agitation. Griffith it was who in-
duced his fellow-patriots to discard the
old Butt-Parnell-Redmond tactic, and
adopt the Hungarian scheme. This undoubt-
edly made for eventual success. Seventy
of the Irish members elected to the House
of Commons would not go to the House
of Commons. They constituted a Parlia-
ment in Dublin. They set up an Executive
with Ministries, among them a Ministry of
war; courts of law, which in the end had
nearly ousted the jurisdiction of the old
Irish courts; all the deadly machinery
of a secret service, swift to punish sus-
pected treachery to the Dail Eireann ; a well-
organised guerilla army, which smote like
lightning and then disappeared to unknown
hiding-places. In short, they organised a
Catacomb Government, emerging when they
deemed it wise to deliver their swift strokes.
-Lhe Black and Tan troops were the special
objects of their fury, and they struck at
these remorselessly, it was the terrible fate,
the almost total annihilation, of these illegal
troops whose employment was condemned
by men of good counsel in all political par-
which brought a Government of men
with such records in speech and action as
Lloyd George, Austen Chamberlain and
Lord _ Birkenhead to accept seats at a
negotiators’ table with men whom they had
lately denounced with such epithets as “mur-
derers,” “assassins,” “dacoits.”
The conference met, with the prayers of
the whole world for its success. De Valera
was not appointed a delegate; whether be-
cause of his position as President of the
pail Eireann—as is probable—or because he
had, in the correspondence with Lloyd
George, shown none of those gifts of states-
manship which the world expects from the
leaders of the Irish race, we do not know.
In the end the Irish were practically
offered “everything that Canada, Australia,
oouth Africa and Maoriland have got, but
under the Crown,” and the straw-splitting
was done with. They were given three hours
to decide (this is one of the alleged griev-
ances), and they accepted, or signed, some
of them going back on their signatures when
the ratification of the Treaty was decided
later in. Dublin. The whole world rejoiced.
The Irish delegates were acclaimed great
negotiators and great statesmen. History
will ratify this judgment.
Though De Valera was not a delegate,
he was handy during the negotiations, and
the slippery part of the Irish delegation was
naturally influenced by him. His influence
has never waned; it has grown. It has
spread here. Now it is easy for the die-hards
to whoop for De Valera from the
safety of 12,000 miles distance. There are
a great many Irish in Ireland and England
—I met some of them —who do fanatically
believe that Ireland has defeated England in
the field during the last two years,, and that
her old foe is on her knees and afraid. These
are doomed to a rude awakening. There
is no class of the English people which is
not prepared to teach them a lesson on that
point. For, as they say, if we couldn’t afford
to allow Germany to overawe our prestige,
how can we allow a little, gallant, wrong-
headed, cock-robin nation next door to flout
us, to misunderstand our generosity, to mis-
construe our magnanimity’/
Then there is the class of hopeless igno-
rants who say: “Oh, America will intervene
on our behalf!” De Valera, who is a
Spanish-American, appears to be of this
opinion. Such credulous people should cast
their memories back a little and recall
how the United States for three years stood
every species of insult to her nationals, how
her ships were sunk, her sailors drowned,
and towards the end 1120 of the flower of
her intellect and citizenship sent down by
a Boche torpedo in the Lusitania—and still
she wouldn’t fight. Do they expect that the
same people will bother their heads or go
to war about Ireland, especially when, in
view of the magnanimous offer of Britain
for full constitutional rights under the
Crown, there can be no shadow of a justi-
fication left except to the Hearst anti-
English press and the paid agitators?
Should the misguided heroes in Ireland
and the long-range patriots in Australia
have their way, and the Treaty be rejected
and the war resumed, other hard facts will be
brought home to us. Britain could blockade
Ireland with her fleet so that not a crust
or a crumb would get in or out for the
duration of the blockade —and Ireland’s best
customer is England. England has 2,000,000
unemployed trained and experienced fighting-
men, mostly young, in desperate straits, who
would harry the Green Isle more ruthlessly
than Cromwell. The English unemployed
blame the disturbance of trade on the un-
settled Irish question—that is one of the
factors which produced their miserable
plight. They have said so in London. Within
six months, if the war were a Voutrance —
“all in”—as it probably would be, England
could build enough aeroplanes to smash every
town in Ireland to atoms. This is no idle
forecast of the imagination. I have heard
men who have been lifelong Home Rulers
declare some such plan of campaign in the
Tabernacle of Home Rule, the National Lib-
eral Club, the basis of their cold-blooded
riposte to De Valerism being that England
would lose prestige in the world’s diplomatic
circles if it didn’t. The men quoted
say: “Not because we’d like to do it, or want
to do it, to Ireland; but because we must
do it.” Every sensible man in Australia
knows both that England must and that
England can.
No encouragement should be given to De
Valera- from this hemisphere. Surely the
constitutional freedom Australia enjoys is
good enough for any nation? S® a great
section of the Irish in Ireland think. Let us
hope they prove to be the majority.
ZOZIMUS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Possibly Overdone Craving for
Recognition.
Miss Poktia Geach, a citizeness of whose
appearance and talents this country is justly
proud, was quoted recently as saying that
she found Australia less well-known in the
United States than it should be. During a
stay in New York the only item of Austra-
lian news that came her way related to the
convict hulk Success, which is, or was, still
dragging out its wicked old existence and
peddling its criminal record round the world.
To New York people, according to the charm-
ing Miss Geach, whose weep is merely the
echo of a million other weeps about Yankee
ignorance of this country, Australia is
merely a successful convict settlement, de-
spite the fact that large sums are spent on
Trade Commissioners that they may teach
the Yank how good a place this is to commer-
cially plunder. Two typical old kings,
Crcesus of Lydia and Hessekiah of Judah,
took very similar steps to advertise, and
the results were unexpected; also, the Boers
lost their independence through becoming
too well known. So the ouestion arises why
the travelling Australian should bother about
Uncle Sam’s unacquaintance with this
country, and why he doesn’t simply pass by
with a pitying smile and leave him to wallow
in hm_ ignorance and welter in the shame
thereof. The Australian has enough igno-
rance of his own to look after. Very few*
of him know much of the United States
except the “bootlegging” news; the trial of
“Patty” Arbuckle ; sundry magazine stories
whose moral is that, bar the hero of the tale,
there is no honest man, and especially no
honest lawyer or Judge or politician, in the
Washington land; and the cowhoy and bull-
girl pictures. Very few indeed take the trouble
to learn that all the British possessions in
North America, from the border of Canada,
then French, to the Spanish frontier in the
far south, were declared convict settlements
in 1666 (Charles Tl.’s time), though they
were already in the business, and were con-
victed again under George I.; that, in fact,
they had 120 or 135 years of convictism of the
all-round sort, against Australia’s record of
some 50 years in a mere corner of the con-
tinent. Virginia, then much larger than it
is now, the proud home of Washington,
Madison, Jefferson and Lee, was the
centre of “The System.” These things are
not taught as they should be in Australian
schools, so that the traveller from these
parts may be in a position to explain mat-
ters patiently when need arises. Still, we
know more of the U.S. than it knows of
us, but when we have a hundred million
people instead of five, and a real “Patty”
Arbuckle and Prohibition, we may get on
the map likewise. Meanwhile the national
soul should possess itself in patience. Pos-
sibly the craving for recognition is a little
overdone by reason of excess in hero-wor-
ship. Uncle Sam has done wonders, and
yet some hold that he isn’t in the same
street as the Englishman for doing things—
that he is rather the favored child of circum-
stances. He inherited a land of vast rivers,
quite unlike Australia. The desert which
he is understood to be reclaiming with great
eclat, “a region which only wants water,” is
really a mere 300,060 square miles in area.
Australia has 1,100,000 square miles which
wants water just as badly, and the waters are
not here in anything like the same abund-
ance. Uncle inherited from Providence mil-
lions of splendid cattle (buffaloes) and used
them up, while the kangaroo, the best-known
of our bounding natural resources, was a
poor substitute. He inherited gigantic for-
ests, and has so nearly used them up, too, that
he now imports almost as much timber as
he exports. He had left to him the world’s
greatest known gold and coal deposits, and
they won’t last for ever. He was blessed
with half the world’s known oil-supply, and
made so much sudden and reckless pros-
perity with it that oil b°gins to look like
a promising import. And up to the war-
time he had an enormous supply of cheap
unskilled or little-skilled labor—convicts and
slaves in the beginning and an avalanche of
the unlettered races of Europe later on.
They were mostly non-unionist, being
too mixed to even understand each other.
They made the land first Europe’s harbor
of refuge, and then Europe's dump, but they
did heaps of work. Whether the amazing
Yankee, despite his chances, would have been
anything extraordinary without his cbee>>
labor, which now shows signs of revolt, isn’t
known. There is a legend that many Cartha-
ginians refuged in Ireland, as a place be-
yond the Roman orbit, when “the splendid
daughter of Tyre” was doing her last lap.
They were stupendous builders (with cheap
slave labor), and North Africa is strewn
With their broken glories. In Ireland, with-
out their peculiar brand of cheap labor, thev
seem to have found their level in the small-
shopkeeping class. This legend may illus-
trate a point.
4
False Leaders of Nationalism.
Two reputed Nationalists held forth re-
cently within a few days of one another—■
Premier Barwell, of S. Aus., in London,
and T. Henley, of N. S. Wales, in Sydney.
Barwell advocated a Black Australia, the
scrapping of the li.A.N., and a reversion to
hired naval defence. Henley said: —
Let us wipe out the failures, and get back to first
principles—payment by results. Encourage efficiency
by paying for it, and let the drones die for the good
of their country.
Widely though those pronouncements differ,
they are based on the same idea. They be-
long to the school from which the revolu-
tionary derives all his arguments. Their
authors shout to a scandalised world that
the Labor cartoonist’s capitalist, with his
dominating stomach and exiguous forehead,
does really exist. The social religion of
such citizens is a form of monism : they
hold that the secrets of power and the things
which explain all and justify all are con-
tained in a single doctrine—that of Imme-
diate Profit. Of course there would be pfe-
sent gain to many Australians in imported
black labor, and as long as it remained up
north it might not lower the general stand l
ard of living. But to the genuine Austra-
lian Nationalist as distinct from the
curious type of anti-Australian and
ultra-Conservative who began to call
himself a Nationalist during the war,
the question of profit is irrelevant. The
genuine Nationalist knows that every one
of Barwell’s arguments was current in
the Southern States of the U.S. a century
ago; that when emancipation came there
were only 3,000.000 negroes in the entire
Republic, and practically all of these in the
tropical and sub-tropical States; but that
the colored folk in the U.S. number
12,000,000, including 120,000 in New York
City and 100,000 in Washington. Capital-
ism of an undesirable class may call, in the
name of profit, on this country to take the
risk which has turned out so disastrously
for America, but Australianism, in the name
of the coming generations, rejects the pro-
posal wiih horror. It may be good business,
similarly, to hire a navy,’ more especially if
we can induce Britain to let us have ’ the
ships at bargain rates. Such an arrange-
ment, however, while economical as regards
one generation, must do a deadly wrong to
another. Mr. Barwell’s generation and
class, for example, would have suffered bit-
terly in their pockets as well as in their
pride had hired ships been in Australian
waters in 1914-15 instead of our own cruis-
ers. As for Henley, his aboriginal idea of
“wiping out the failures” and “letting the
drones die for the good of their country” has
not even the merit of being new. It has
been regarded as barbarous in civilised Eng-
land for half-a-century; and since the waf
no educated Britisher has attempted to even
condone it. It is the Nietzschean maxim—
“ Ruthless and thorough conscription of pro*
ductive labor for all classes alike and un-
sparing extirpation of the idler: that is the
only solution of the financial problem.” It is
the voice of the spirit which led to the war.
and was thundered by every German war-
lord till Prussianism collapsed; and the man
who repeats it in Australia is no more a
Nationalist than Barwell, the apostle of
the black and brindle.
Othello’s Occupation Gone.
Governor Davidson, of N. S. Wales, an-
nounced definitely last week that his term
was not to be renewed; and it is to be
hoped that the State will allow him the
honor of being the last of his line. Any
form of government which is not dead
suffers continual changes; and if the resuit-
ing excrescences are not cut off they are
dangerous, or, anyhow, unhealthy.- Eighty
years ago Lord Durham was regarded as
what a member of the King and Empire
League would to-day term “a disloyalist”
because he said in his famous Report: “The
constitution of the form of government, the
regulation... .of trade with the Mother
Country and other British colonies and
foreign nations, and the disposal of public
lands are the only points on which the
Mother Country requires a control.” A
dozen years after tfiose words were written
the Australian colonies were empowered, in
law as well as in constitutional practice, to
deal as they wished with their lands;
the Australian States have had the
power ever since the Colonial Laws
Validity Act was passed in 1865 to
amend their Constitutions at will; and
the Commonwealth possesses, as the States
did before it came into being, the fullest
trade powers. What powers for good or
evil remain, then, to our highly-paid State
Governors, whose only real justification for
existence consists in the fact that they are
Imperial intermediaries? The answer has
been hinted often of late years: it was stated
by the late Lord Harcourt, as Colonial
Secretary, just before the world war; it was
shouted by the present holder of that office
a few days ago. He cabled in reference to
the Queensland Legislative Council Amend-
ment Bill: —
The policy of the bill being one of purely local
concern, it would not be in accordance with estab-
lished constitutional principles that his Majesty’s
advisers should intervene to prevent the bill from
becoming operative.
Since foreign-relations questions are dis-
cussed through the Governor-General there
remains not one serious function for his
State brethren to fulfil. They are drones
who enjoy sinecures as flagrant as any which
existed under the Rotten Borough system
of the pre-Reform period in England. Their
presence might be less objectionable if, as
in the past, they were in a position finan-
cially to repay in lavish expenditure what
they gain in glory. But the modern State
Governor is frankly, almost clamantly, im-
pecunious. In plain terms, he wants some-
thing for nothing; and any Government
which goes on allowing him to get it is
doing a notable dis-servlce to the Empire.
♦
If I Were Mr. Harwell.
Dear Bulletin, —There would be great
changes for the better if this country took
example from the United States in one re-
spect. In that dry land the Prime Minister
(disguised as a President) is elected for
four years. Then he appoints his Ministers,
and a Minister may be any reputable citizen
over a certain age and not a member of
Parliament. Therefore the Prime-President
has no excuse for choosing his Ministers
save on their merits. The salary is less than
Dooley got, and, incidentally, there are 10
Ministers for the whole country, while 13
Dooleys fed fat on N. S. Wales alone. If
Australia had that simple business-like sys-
tem I think John Monasii would be Min-
ister for Works and Railways if he cared
for the job, and David Lindsay, explorer,
who has spent many years in the North and
knows it from end to end, would be Minister
for Home and Territories. As all Aus-
tralia’s Territories are in the North, the
job is essentially one for a Northern man.
Yet by the amazing cussedness of the pre-
sent system the most important property of
the lot must be administered by a stranger,
and is generally entrusted to a remote and
ignorant one, for only politicians in harness
are eligible, and the Northern Territory isn’t
allowed to supply politicians. Thus it came
to pass that when David Lindsay suggested
to the urban (but not necessarily urbane)
person in charge of Repatriation that the
Commonwealth’s own vast estate might be
utilised to some extent, the ignoramus re-
plied : “I would not give a returned soldier
fl to help him go to the Northern Terri-
tory, because it is unfit for white people.”
The fact that the. temperate area (the area
outside the tropics) of the Territory is
almost as large as Victoria and Tasmania
put together was doubtless quite unknown
to this lumpish official. Queensland is the
only part of tropical Australia with
enough people to supply a distinctive group
of members who know the North. But they
don’t help the Federal territory along. They
have other fish to fry, as suggested by this
daily-paper paragraph:—
The Federal Works Committee has decided to go
to Queensland to inquire into the proposition for an
extension of the Northern Territory railways through
Thargomindah (Q.) and Hungerford (N.S.W.) to
link up with the N. S. Wales railways at Bourke.
The Ma State has 34 Federal votes to sell,
and Queensland has 16. That is more than
half one House and one-third of the other.
South Aus. paid for a railway with a land
grant of 200,000 acres per mile ; but if Queens-
land and N. S. Wales want it diverted into
their area, and the short cut across the con-
tinent abandoned, and the Commonwealth
taxed to develop their estate rather than
its own, and the temperate region of the
Territory left empty—well, I suppose a Gov-
ernment which has only an hour-to-hour
tenure of its job must give way, assuming,
of course, that it values job more than honor.
But if anything of the sort were seriously
begun I think I would take a different line
if I were Premier Barwell. Instead of
wasting my beauty and sweetness on the
desert air in posing as a nigger-labor advo-
cate, I would remind the central authority
that part of the East-to-West line is S. Aus.


Tt Farmers’& Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co.ofA^Jli 1 ?
HEAD OFFICE: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices: 360-6 Collins Street, Melbourne; Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
CAPITAL £lOO,OOO.
Co-operative Insurance for the Man on the Land.
Fire, Workmen’* Compensation, Wool Clips (from Sheep’s back to Store), Motor Car, Personal Accident, Crops and Stacks.
The Company has already over 5000 Shareholders. Every Farmer and Pastoralist should become a Shareholder in this soundly
established and progressive Company.
W. R. DIMOND, Managing Director.
property. I would add that if the South-
to-North line is taken away the other might
as well go, too, even if it meant taking up
and deviating the little section between
Quorn and Port Augusta. The supreme iest
is that the Federal forces couldn’t interfere
to put down the fuss that would no doubt
follow unless I asked them to do so. And
I wouldn’t ask.—Yours truly, Henry Horse-
collar.
The People’s Eyes.
“Optometrist” puts the views of his trade:
Some years ago a Sydney optician—not optome-
trist —was fined for displaying a sign whereon his
name appeared with the prefix “Dr.,” and the fine
being rather heavy it acted as a deterrent to others
for years. Then came another epidemic of unscrupu-
lous peddlers who had diplomas bearing ornate
seals which were gained by taking correspondence
courses with unrecognised American “Colleges” at
a cost of 25 dollars. These diplomas set forth that
the holder was entitled to style himself Doctor of
Optics, Doctor of Refraction or Doctor of Optical
Science, as the case might be. Many country watch-
makers and jewellers secured a diploma styling them
Graduates of the Spencer Optical Institute, which
permitted the suffix “G. 5.0.1.” to their names. The
course of instruction to achieve this credential cost
about five guineas, and lasted from a week to a
month according to the ability or otherwise of the
aspirant. Again the public fell! in and paid up.
The only educational body of the sort in N.S.W. is
the Institute of Optometrists, incorporated under the
Companies Act. The founders realised that the pub-
lic—especially the more susceptible majority—was
being daily victimised, and set forth an educational
and examination scheme which has more than justi-
fied the labor involved. Young men are being
passed through a course embracing all the necessary
subjects to make them “safe men” to handle the
public vision, and the public is beginning to realise
that this means of voluntary uplift is worthy of
consideration, especially since the optometrist passes
through a two years’ course in optometry, whereas
the medical practitioner has only a few hours
allotted to the study of the eye in the medical
curriculum. Not only the public but the more
conscientious medical practitioners who safeguard
the health and welfare of the community are daily
sending their own neurasthenic and headache
patients to the optometrist for an examination of
the state of refraction. And they are coming them-
selves and bringing their wives and families. The
optometrist is no longer an uneducated interloper.
Yet when a deputation waited upon the Minister of
Health he pointed out that the only opposition to
an Optometry Bill came from the oculists, who, it
appears, would rather countenance the present harm-
ful and chaotic state of affairs than allow the regis-
tration and control of optometrists, since they
affirm it would constitute a menace to protect such
a profession by law.
Evidently The Bulletin’s M.D. (B. 6/4/’22)
sees the matter in its true light, judging by the
concluding remarks in his most cheering article,
and notes the false attitude adopted by the oculists
—especially in view of the fact that the majority
of pathological cases referred to the oculists would
not reach them unless they were sent on by the
optometrists, who are taught the value of the
ophthalmoscope, and who agree, upon being elected
to the Institute, to abstain from the use of cyclople-
gics—known to the public as “drops”—unless they
are duly qualified to use them. Indeed, the optome-
trists do not hold with the eycloplegics, for the reason
that it is hardly feasible that the ciliary muscle
should be placed in a state of paralysis without the
actions of other muscles being in some way affected.
Ample proof is on record that optical pre-
scriptions arrived at with the use of atropine
sulphate have been markedly unsatisfactory and
totally different. More satisfactory results have
been obtained by means of the principles of ciliary
relaxation used by optometrists. There should be no
grounds for friction between the oculist and optome-
trist, and in States which enjoy the benefits of
optical legislation there is a marked cordiality and
absence of small-mindedness.
A Tribal Troubled Land.
James Edmond replies to M. P. Jaguers
(B. 13/4/’22) :
I am sorry to have aroused the anger of any mem-
ber of a race whose worst faults are a lack of
humor and a tragedy pose. My text was the sug-
gestion that it would be interesting if the new
Government asked the Sassenach oppressor to
stay on awhile and save it from its own loving sub-
jects. Well, it did —and why should it not?
My Irish kings were not “a plagiarised rehash of an
infamous article which appeared in Whitaker of
1909,” as suggested, for I don’t possess that number.
But I copied from what I imagine was the authority
Whitaker copied from in 1913. Unless you invent
your facts you have to copy from something.
Your correspondent states that the Irish dynasty
(name of dynasty not given) “lasted unbroken for
2172 years,” and that this proves “the ancient Irish
sense of loyalty to their kings, coupled with a love
of law and order.” The figures carry us back almost
to the time of Noah’s contemporary Phelim
McDeluge. It looks to me rather like the unbroken
dynasty of Mexican presidents on a larger scale—
so unbroken that at times there were six reigning
at once. Other European nations, and most of the
Irish themselves, have given up this craze for dubious
antiquity and a pedigree that goes back to the gods
and giants, and the habit was a silly one even for
baby tribes to give way to. Mr. Jaguers gibes at
the short-lived dynasties of Wales and of Anglo-
Saxon England. If I had been around then and
had had any voice in the matter they might have
been even shorter. I never had much use for
dynasties.
The trouble about Irish royalty is a certain foggi-
ness that hangs over it, the like of which is known
hardly anywhere else in Western Europe. If the
locally-written histories of England, Frame or
Italy w T ere lost or had never been, a fair though
scanty record of each place could be put together
from the annals of its neighbors. The bad old
monarchs were known and recognised outside. They
were highly corroborated flesh and blood. With
singularly few exceptions the Irish High Kings,
sitting in a fog among their anonymous leprechauns
and other legends and apparatus, have no existence
save in their own histories. When the mist lifts it
generally reveals that the two-king dynasty of the
O’Cokors (the last) was no part of an orderly pro-
cession lasting 2172 years, but had snatched the
crown by violence from the O’Briens ; and that the
greatest of all the known Irish sovereigns, Brian
Boroimhb, was a petty chief who succeeded to his
petty chieftainship on the murder of his elder
brother (by whom the record sayeth not). Then
he made fierce civil war on adjacent minor kings
till he became a man of size. His liege lord,
Maelseciilainn Mac Domhnaill, helped him when
his new subjects rebelled. And in his gratitude he
A MIXED PARENTAGE.
MAES: “ These kids of ours make me smile! They forget that in their veins they
have my blood as well as yours!"
allied himself with his country’s bitterest enemies,
the Danes, and turned them loose on his own people
that he might pull down his lord and ally and reign
in his stead. This isn’t Whitaker’s Almanac* but
Chambers’s sober Biographical Dictionary. Appa-
rently the hero’s action was just an ordinary happen-
ing of the time and place. Brian doesn’t fit too
well into the dynasty somehow. The Irish mission-
aries and teachers are authentic enough, though their
number is uncertain. As to Mr. Jaoeurs’s alleged
Irish colonies in Iceland, Greenland and America
before the year 1000, they didn’t leave a trace, or
else historians conspired against the island even at
that early date, and suppressed them. The first
colonisation of Iceland is monotonously ascribed to
Norwegians (a.d. 874), and that of Greenland to
Icelanders (a.d. 980). The only suspected Europeans
in America before Columbus w T ere also Norsemen.
Not in one of the continents was the Irish forerunner
heard of. The same might be said of many other
nations, but they don’t claim unbroken dynasties
that lasted 2172 years, nor profess to have been next
door to the angels in barbarous days when angels
were scarce.
I never even hinted “in the face of historical
facts that Irishmen are incapable of self-govern-
ment,” nor did I suggest it in the face of unhistori-
cal fictions, nor in the countenance of anything
alive or dead beneath the sun. They did govern
themselves, and they are beginning to do it again,
and if they like that way of doing it I see no objec-
tion. But I don’t think them fitted to govern other
people. A Premier born in Ireland and nine Mini-
sters of Irish descent have invited odious compari-
sons by governing N.S.W. for two years, and have
dissipated many ideals. The verdict of many people
is that they were arrogrant, intolerant, uncivil and
extravagant"; that they weren’t beyond the kinder-
garten stage of Parliamentary government; and that
their belief in their own right to over-rule the law
amounted to a brain disease.
♦
When Senator Pearce returned from the
other side of the Pacific he was promptly
annexed by the inevitable Austin Chap-
man, and obligingly went through his paces;
He had lived three months in Washington, and
one could not stop there very long without being
impressed with the Federal spirit which existed.
He found in the various States the same jealousies
as existed in Australia; but the consensus of opinion
was that if the capital was in one particular State
the influence of that State would probably pre-
dominate. He expressed the opinion that we would
not get the true Australian spirit till the capital
was established in its own territory, and he was
in favor of this work being pushed on as fast as
the financial position would allow.
One of the two malignant blots on the Aus-
tralian Federal Constitution is found in
chapter vii., which says that the capital of
the Commonwealth “shall be in the State of
N. S. Wales,” and N. S. Wales is certainly
“one particular State,” and the one that
has always endeavored to predominate.
According to Pearce, therefore, Canberra,
as described in the Constitution, is just the
capital that any nation should be ashamed
of, Washington isn’t “in” any State so
that it can be blockaded and starved into
submission when the State people want some
concession that isn’t in the contract. It has
a land outlet to two States and its own sea-
outlet. Canberra, on the other hand, is a
besieged hamlet, surrounded by the domains
of a province which includes two-fifths of
the population of the Commonwealth and
connected with the sea only by a right-of-
way.
Without the authority of Parliament,
which is drawing its £lOOO a year and is
away fishing, the Prime Minister has gone
to the aid of the once-rich bullock industry,
which is almost on its last hindquarters.
Provided wages are reduced to correspond
with the fall in the cost of living, that
freights go down, and that freezing costs
drop half-a-farthing per lb., a subsidy of a
farthing per lb. is to be paid on alt meat
exported this season. Queensland owns half
the bullocks of the Commonwealth anri
almost all the bullock-export industry so
it is mainly a concession to TheodoVr
country There the. Government, on fhe
plea that the pastoralists were bursting with
affluence, raised their rents far beyond the
oO per cent, increase on re-appraisement sneci-
faed in the terms of the leases. It dated the
increase back, and pastoralists had to borrow
money to meet the huge and sudden fines
It seized much of their meat at a low Drice
to feed its State Witcheries, and it trebled
or more than trebled, the income-tax. Now
Australia is to be taxed some more, partly that
strangers may get our meat more cheaply
than we do ourselves, and partly that a
Cabinet which holds office regardless of the
popular will should be able to continue these
profitable doings. This opens up quite a new
avenue for the State financier. All he has
to do, it seems, is to dig his claws into some-
body within his reach, steal what his victim
has got, and then plead with the Federal
Government to relieve the poor sufferer’s
necessities.
♦
From a bushinan who lives at the back of
Carnarvon, in the far-nor’-west of Westralia :
I wish The Bulletin would let me mention the
great benefit we derive from the generosity of those
people who send out magazines and other periodicals
to be distributed to battlers out back in this vast
and sparsely-peopled territory. We subscribe to
what papers we can afford, but the supply is scanty.
Since the Presbyterian Church sent a live minister
to Carnarvon we are much better off; and the
magazines and Bulletins and other papers the mis-
sion secures are passed eagerly from camp to camp.
Already it has received and distributed 2200 maga-
zines, etc., free of cost to men and women out back
—in kangarooers’ camps and shearers’ huts and
among teamsters and station-hands. Think what
thia means to men who are otherwise completely
cut off from the white world. Would it be too
much to ask The Bulletin to plead for us and
bring this matter under notice? The address to
which the longed-for contributions can be sent is
the Inland Presbyterian Mission, Carnarvon (W.A.).
The appeal goes out with The Bulletin’s
blessing.
0
Among the strange folk that this country
entertains are the anti-militarists who want
every man to be trained, provided he is
allowed to take his gun with him into civil
life so that he may be armed at the public
expense for revolution day. There are those
who want to have an Imperial Federation
with the Red Internationale at Moscow, in
whose Parliament Australia, being outvoted
100 to 1, would merely receiye orders—
orders to go and do as they did in S’Africa.
There are also those who advocate the free
admission of colored men into our trades
unions on the ground that all workers are
equal. These parties (called Labor because
they do little or no productive work) have
a Labor Council which is affiliated ivith and
directed by the Red Internationale; also
they now possess a Council of Action. Even
before the N.S.YV. election returns were all
in this Red Mixture published the announce-
ment that it wasn’t going to put up with
defeat. The obvious, inherent, Gou-given
right of the Red Mixture to rule this coun-
try, whether the people want to be ruled
by it or not, is put forward with the
boundless assurance of the noblemen that
the Yankee met at the Court of King
Arthur. It may be a nasty thing for this
Mixture if it convinces the nation into tak-
ing it seriously. For a voteless people rising
against its petty tyrants the world’s sym-
pathy is strong. But when petty tyrants
rise against or conspire against a vote-
possessing and self-governing people they
generally come to a bad, messy finish.
The problem is, how far they should
be allowed to run their Council of
Action in a land where the elected repre-
sentatives of the whole nation are supposed
to be the only folk authorised to take action.
The claim of any class—barons or union
secretaries —to be above the law and to have
a special right of private war should be
nipped in the bud.
+
The typical Australian politician of to-day
has had no training in commerce, manufac-
ture or finance, and when he gets among
hard business people be is rather helpless.
Senator Pearce, coming back with a bitten
ear and a dragged leg from America, was
a case in point. He was loud in his admira-
tion of the Trade Commissioner who last
represented this country in the United States,
because every door was open to him. One
would think they would not only open the
door when they saw him coming, but take
out the side of the house. A man who
doesn’t urge bis Government to reprisals
though this country is flooded with Yankee
goods, while not only our products but onr
people are held up wholesale at Yankee ports,
is a pearl of price—but not to us. Accord-
ing to Pearce, the U.S. people have discov-
ered Australia, and we should be glad as a
matter of course. It isn’t always the dis-
covered who should be glad. For instance,
the English discovered Ireland, and all the
cheers that Ireland has given wouldn’t make
half a whisper.


HE
. '"i
Pipes’ “WARRIGAL” Underwear
Woven of the Finest Australian Wool.
Wool of the best quality Australia produces, is utilised for the
soft, warm durable Underwear Peapes offer under their registered
IVarngal Trade-mark. s
SeaSOn the heavier weights are much lower in price than last
AAI6O.
Medium - weight 32 34 36 38 40 4-> a
pure natural wool
Undershirts, half-
Und e‘r' Van "t" s ~ 15/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 19/6
t 0 ma AAi6i. 16/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6
Heavy-weight pure
natural wool Under-
Un'd’erTanTa “ W 6 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6
to match 19/6 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
REDUCED PRICES.
mo;( 3els have been reduced to
PRE-WAR PRICES.
Compare our prices with all other prices.
Compare our prices with, LONDON
prices, the World’s centre for motor
traction.
s
Model 501, 4-cylinder Torpedo.
Old Price, £650 NEW PRICE, £595.
Model 505, 4-cylinder Torpedo.
Old Price, £lOOO. NEW PRICE, £825.
Model 510, 6-cylinder Torpedo.
Price, £l2OO. NEW PRICE, £995.
London Price, £550.
London Price, £BOO.
London Price, £9BO.
£9™ °V r pric f® ° n aU models include spare wheel, with cover and tube
AT? model7fit+»rf S t^ L r? D T d ?V 1 i C 1 e does H6t include cover and tube for spare wheel.
W “and s p2fwhS. FI ' A ' T ' ““*• S “ Kr “ d Set. Ump* with f*e
GARRATTS LIMITED
’Phones: ’city 582 S’,-” 173-5 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“If you only knew how much work there
is to do you wouldn’t say that,” the new
Hungry Ministry in N. S. Wales whines in
reply to the charge that Fuller has over-
loaded the Cabinet with 13 members. In pre-
Federation days, when the State Govern-
ment had to handle everything, it managed
with eight Ministers. The IJ.S.A. Govern-
ment, with 20 times as many people in its
charge, has only 10. Quebec (Canada),
with a. larger population than N. S. Wales,
has only nine portfolios to distribute. British
Columbia has eight, Manitoba seven, Nova
Scotia four. Norway has 11 Ministers,
Roumania (with six times N. S. Wales’s
population) seven, Spain (12 times N.S.W.’s
population) nine. Argentina has eight “secre-
taries of State,” and Brazil (35 million
people) has seven. The N.S.W. Ministry
hasn’t 13 members because there is so much
work to do. It has them because there are
so many wolves to feed.
For the past nine months Queensland
revenue has dropped £116,445 below the
figures for the corresponding three-fourths of
the previous year, but £189,443 more was
spent. Excess of expenditure over revenue
was £1,110,630. March showed a revenue
decreased by £26,412 as compared with
March, 1921, whereas expenditure for that
month surged £169,860 further ahead. Of
course, deficits mean loans, and that means
interest: the deficit last month, viz.,
£196,272, was nearly all accounted for by
an increase of £169,248 in the monthly in-
terest bill. Taxation receipts are falling;
railway revenue is drooping (there is a de-
crease of £264,197 for nine months). But
expenditure goes gaily ahead, and the 3000
superfluous employees in the railways keep
their jobs. Even the departure of Fihelly
has failed to ease the situation, and the
abolition of the Eeg. Council, which was to
set all thiners right, has not arrested the
rush of the Gadarene swine.
Financial worries have clouded all other
issues in the Rickety Isles. As the elec-
tions loom all eyes are on Jo Ward, though
suggestions as to his re-entry into politics
have been promptly denied. Since his return
from abroad he has been living very quietly.
Bad health has left its mark and taken much
from the old generous curve of his waist-
coat. But those who know him well say
only a ukase from his doctors will keep him
from the coming .scrap. In any case, Mhssey’s
party is at the moment suffering for its
“meat-axe retrenchment” policy; and if the
rumored amalgamation of Tom Wilford’s
Liberal-Labor pairty with the more pro-
nounced brand of Labor led by Harry Hol-
land comes about, things wall be slippery
underfoot for Farmer Bill.
Though the price of coal has fallen heavily
in Britain and has slumped considerably in
other European countries and America, Aus-
tralia is still paying 100 per cent, more than
in 1915. During the war the charge for the
tuel took_a succession of leaps upward from
11s. to 15s. per ton (large), followed after
peace by another jump of 2s. 9d., and by
still another of 4s. in 1920, bringing the rate
up to ~ls. 9d. This has now prevailed for
nearly two years, with the result that the
coke industry is perishing, and big concerns
like the Broken Hill Prop, have to close
ddwn and add large crowds to the unem-
ployed. And apparently not even the pros-
pect of the high price lessening the demand
afreets the attitude of the owners and the
miners. It is a “key” industry which is in-
viting some very strenuous action.
From the Federal Gallery-man:—
The Federal Government has no present intention
of huilying into the wilderness. On the contrary,
it is talking of erecting a building costing any-
thing from £lOO,OOO to £200,000 to house the
1 ederal Taxation Department, now squeezed into a
couple of floors in Elizabeth House, Melbourne.
The congestion is nearly as bad as in the Melbourne
branch of the Commonwealth Bank, which, if it
were a place of amusement, would be fined foi
overcrowding. In a few months time, however, the
bank will shift to new quarters on the site of Tub
Bulletin's old address in Collins-street, but the
taxation staff hasn’t yet even the promise of a site. It
was at first suggested that a home might be planted
near Princes Bridge, on the south side of the
Yarra, but on examination of the ground the pro-
ject was abandoned. The choice now lies between
a block behind the G.P.O. and a lump of ground
THE NEW PLUMBER ARRIVES.
between the State’s public offices opposite the
Treasury Gardens. Incidentally, tlih Melbourne
newspapers, which invariably burst into tears over
every penny spent on Canberra, view this fresh
outbreak with unstinted silence.
For a long time past vendettas have been
pursued with guns in the Melbourne suburb
of Fitzroy, and occasionally the clansmen
have met, and gaily plugged each other in
the city streets. The gunmen, over whom
juries almost always disagree, should be all
happily in gaol by now, but for a simple and
well-known cause—the excellent jury-fixing
organisation that is known to exist. The
traditional jury of 12, which must be unani-
mous like the old Polish Parliament, is the
great asset of the jury-fixer. An obvious cure
is the adoption of the Scottish jury of 15 and
the majority verdict. Even if a two-thirds
vote was required to convict (ten votes in
place of the present dozen), the fixer would
have to make Sure of six, whereas one obsti-
nate man can now block the most obvious
case. To regularly stiffen six horses out of
15 is a hard matter.
London Las been Dooleying and McGirr-
mg in local affairs, and a landslide has hap-
pened there also. The English poor are
looked after by elected Boards of Guardians,
of which there are 28 in London alone.
Labor captured many if not most of these,
and in some localities it proceeded to do
heroic things in the way of paying a basic
wage to the unemployed. But Guardians
can’t borrow, and have to collect rates as
they go on, so the fowl comes to roost
almost the same day. The tenant pays the
rates, and though he gets his house cheaper
than the Australian in consequence, per-
sonal contact with the tax-collector makes
him take notice. In Poplar the rates went
up to 225. lOd. in the pound. The man who
paid £1 a week for his house or shop paid
about as much more in municipal taxes, and
so did the man who hired a corner of a tene-
ment house for 2s. 6d. or ss. Which no
doubt was why at the recent election of
Guardians Labor slid into the bog.
Earle Page, leader of the Country party
in the House of Reps., returned from the
Territory the other day, and at Brisbane
told the interviewers that Darwin was the
remittance man of Australia, or words to
that effect. The Sydney News and the
Herald and a score of other papers quoted
this phrase approvingly; but none of them
faced the obvious fact that Darwin’s isola-
tion is the cause of all its trouble. As for
Papua, the other dependency which has long-
been suffering from isolation, the Common-
wealth has merely closed its only market by
a Customs barrier. Even Russia could hardly
improve on those methods.
Following the regular arithmetical progres-
sion, which is aspeision, suspicion md dis-
qualification, N.S.W. Laborites some true ago
deprived the Worker of its standing as an
official party organ, and gave the dignity to
the much less conspicuous Labor News. So
the latter has the job of explaining away the
landslide, and is making heavy weather. Its
general attitude seems to be that Labor
finance and legislation were perfect, and the
members and bosses and the Labor News
only one degree lower than the angels, but
that the public, which fails to appreciate
them, is wormy and rptten. It may be rough
on the public, but what is a public or two?
One of Queensland’s '‘boundless natural
resources” is the State land on the Upper
Burnett, and the crime of the Commonwealth
in not advancing millions of money to the
local Government so that it might settle this
paradise has moved Brisbane politicians to
tears. Apparently nobody goes to the Upper
Burnett, so the place is usually taken on
trust. But an ex-Lands Commissioner who
made the first survey there has broken the
silence. It would appear that there are
mountains in the Burnett land off which flies
fall and break their necks; creek bottoms
that are mostly flooded ; “some of the worst
bf* had ever seen,” to quote the sur-
veyor, including 19 square miles of sand in
one patch ; and enough decent soil for, say,
1700 settlers. So the “developmental” loan
which Theodore demanded would have been,
say, £ll5O per settler.
The loyalty bee is still buzzing in the
bonnet of Dr. Leeper, ex-warden of Trin.
College, Melbourne. He induced the Coun-
cil of Education a year ago to suggest that
State teachers should be required to affirm
allegiance to George V., but Peacock, the
Minister, pigeonholed the letter. The other
day the venerable Ulsterite stirred up the
thing again, and sent on a reminder to the
Minister, who blandly remarked that it
would be “a work of supererogation” to ask
his staff to swear allegiance when they had
proved so convincingly during the severest
testing time in history that they were the
right stuff.
A deputation of waterside people waited
on the Prime Minister in Melbourne to allege
that on two occasions Australian Govern-
ment ships had been patched by Indians at
Indian ports, and Hughes lost his suavity
worse than usual, and bade it “Go to blither-
ing blazes.” 1-Ie also said, “Black labor
be damned! Don’t talk to me about black
labor. Why all this explosiveness? White
ships occasionally go wrong in nigger ports,
and sometimes they are Hatched there lest
worse should happen. Sometimes also a
brown shore-authority won’t grant clearance
till damages or defects have been repaired.
Something might be done to regulate Tom
Walsh, who has talked about his willingness
to admit thousands of Chinese to the Sea-
mens Union, that being a local matter; but
white Australia can’t always be carried
round in a parcel on the high seas.
From the Federal Gallery-man:—
The gyrations of Harry Gregory are beginning to
be worth watching. Originally leaving the National-
ists for a banner-bearer’s job in the Cocky party,
he professed the same feelings for Hughes’s Social-
istic enterprises as he had for the whole objective
of the Labor crowd. Suddenly there came a change
of leadership among the Farmers. The untried Hay-
seeds, overlooking Gregory’s glaring qualifications,
elected one of their own artless comrades to take the
helm. Thereupon Gregory grew tired or something,
and his enthusiasm was further damped when he was
compelled to decline a snug billet in the Cabinet
whose Socialism had previously set him frothing.
Since that episode Gregory’s confidence in the agri-
culturists has been steadily waning. He now an-
nounces himself as sort of semi-detached, still appa-
rently with his old colleagues in principle, but deter-
mined to attend their meetings no longer. This is
the first step to complete severance, and the next
meeting of Parliament will probably see a new party
of one, or even an addition to Hughes’s snipers, now
sadly in need of reinforcement.
Tn setting up a Police Promotions Board
(consisting of Cohen, P.M., Supt. Evans
and W. P. Heathershaw, head clerk of the
Chief Sec.’s Department), the Vic. Govern-
ment is borrowing an idea which it claims
has worked well in the Education Depart-
ment. Exchange of teachers with the Cold
Land has suggested also that a first-rate man
should be borrowed from Scotland Yard for
12 months or two years to advise and organ-
ise at liussell-street, the most promising man
m the Vic. C. 1.8. being attached to Scot-
land Yard to pick up wrinkles in the mean-
time. Nothing definite will be done, how-
ever, till Cabinet talks it out.
If N.S.W. acquired a doctor instead of a
prosperous vendor of rabbit poison as Min-
ister of Health it is possible that the law
making syphilis a notifiable disease might be
enforced, as it is elsewhere. The date when
the law was to come in action arrived, as
most dates do, but Mc-Girr said it could just
slide, as the liquor referendum did. The
Dooleys were great sliders: their utter in-
ability to understand that the law should
be enforced, even if they didn’t feel like it.
was worthy of a midnight raid.
. Even the sturdy land-jobbing industry was
in the pit of depression during the last days
of Dooleyism. The suburban housewife,
opening the door with the baby under her
arm, ceased to be astonished ‘to find the
caller a streak of misery who said he was
town-traveller for Whiteant and Co., the
largest property firm south of the line, who
were giving the public this unparalleled
opportunity to buy allotments in the new
suburb of Moses Vale. Sometimes he
brought a sample in a flower-pot and some-
times he didn’t. And if the bustled female
signed the proffered bit of paper she realised
her folly within the hour, and soaked the
babkins with her tears.
It has been left to an English M.P. to
fasten on to an old Bulletin idea of allow-
ing “No” votes as against all candidates in
elections, with a fresh contest to follow if
there is a majority of noes against an impos-
sible offering. He suggests that a “bogey”
space shall be left on the ballot-papers, and
if Bogey captures enough crosses all the
disliked candidates shall be debarred from
fresh competition. The only objection is
that this process might conceivably go on
ad infinitum, and Danny Levy’s great grand-
child would be offering a couple of genera-
tions hence for the same election that Danny
himself has been turned down in to-day.
LIBERTY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He picked a skull from out the dirt
That once was Nevski-street,
And someone asked him what he’d found—
Was’t stone or bone or meat?*
“Oh, no,” he cried, “in this you see
A symbol of our Liberty!
"There once was here a city fair,
Then came the Russian blight;
They cut a wide swathe with their scythe
And said ‘Now all is right!’
But all we saw was blood—a sea
That ringed the Land of Liberty.
“And every man of thrift and brains
Except a chosen few
Was crushed that mijrd’rous wrong might reign
And shape the Earth anew.
When Justice goes her sisters flee —
The remnant must be Liberty.
“The fruitful soil is famine-struck,
Its rusted ploughs decay:
Within its starving villages
Grim Pestilence holds sway—
But this one comfort left have we:
It is the Land of Liberty!
“And though the gibbets daily dance
Beneath a ghastly load,
Our Casars bid us be of cheer—
This is tlh’ Appointed Road !
l£pr foul rapine and gallows tree
And plague and pest and butchery
United make our Liberty.”
QUEENSLAND.
P. AIREY.


SAVING THE ARMY.
“Retrenchment is threatened among the Brass-hats.”


WVy
/
m
&
M \
fflllß
COSMOS
m
LTn
JL\X
1C
ers
'/
w
I , ! T-V-^^rn\ T n\\\\X\X^
give a
CLEAR
SOFT
WHITE
LIGHT
ARE
ECONOMICAL
STRONG
AND
LASTING
21 Elijdbol'b Sh
Melbourne
304K<?nl- 5h
SijdnPLj
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelati
Dynamite
Safety c uso
Detonators
Cartridges
WHO IS THE EXECUTOR OF YOUR WILL?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon
after you, and your Estate may pass into the control of someone whom
you would never have trusted? Or he may maladminister the Funds?
(Jr your Estnte niny suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS
YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
of 33-30 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which' offers undoubted security, combined with expert administration.
TRUST FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED
£19,400,000.
Write or call for Booklet.
Manager: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co., Ltd., from the time the manage-
ment gave up the bad habit of lumping its
Ordinary and Industrial figures:—
Ordinary Department.
‘ Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.
1911.. £12,582 £2651 £5212 £4,719 £36,636
Transferred to Industrial Funds, £1046 35,590
1912.. 14,961 2073 5979 6,909 42,499
1913.. 16,746 3572 6063 7,111 49,610
1914.. 17,964 3351 6206 8,407 58,017
1915.. 19,104 4999 5976 8,129 66,146
1916.. 20,650 5060 5044 10,546 76,692
1917 -- 2-’n 39 6581 4128 H,230 87,922
1918.. 25,840 6932 6536* 12,372 100,294
1919.. 31,451 7470 8799 15,182 115 476
1920.. 37,259 7198 8915 21,146 136,622
1091 in on°? Sale „ ° f P ro Perty 8,500 145,122
1921.. 41,826 7238 9573 25,015 170,137
* Including bonus to shareholders, £458.
Industrial Department.
r. r . Added to
i ni*V Claims. Expenses. Funds. Funds.
19H. .£22,946 £6,141 £15,336 £1469 £24,373
mi« Tr “ s l err ed from Ordinary Dept. 1046 25,419
1912 -‘ 27 > 065 5,788 16,721 4,556 29,975
1913, ‘ ll’oia I 8 ’ 880 19)208 2)916 32,891
1914) * 35,914 14,353 20,729 832 33,723
loifi" 8)686 21,062 9,219 42,942
1916.. 44,142 11,147 23,711 9 284 52 226
? 917 -- 50)812 15,762 25,529 9,’521 61>47
1918 -- 55,654 18,538 28,858 8,258 70,005
•iQ9o“ Sn*?, 11 18)056 30,657 13,295 83,300
19-0.. 70,465 13,170 35,479 21,816 105,116
io9i anon? s ? le ° f Property.. 15,437 120,553
-921.. 80,298 18,096 39,186 23,016 143,569
Written off, £3437 140,132
Xhe current year closes another quinquen-
nium: the Metropolitan makes its policy
valuations evei'y five years, though big offices
concerning whose stability there is never
any doubt issue actuaries’..reports annually,
lhe figures m the table since 11)17, there-
tore, present only one view of the Metropoli-
tan s operations. The important matter of
the relation of funds to estimated liabilities
under policy contracts is obscured until con-
sultmg actuary W. It. Day has had his say
alter the books close on December 31 next.
i,r i s h°P 6( I that on this occasion the
Metropolitan will mend its ways and that
chairman Judge Montgomerie Hamilton and
ms Hoard will concede that others besides the
select few appointed by shareholders to direct
the concern .should be provided with the
evidence necessary to enable them to sum up
the co. s position. Hitherto the , Metropoli-
tan has not published actuary’s reports:
even • shareholders were informed that it
was not proposed to go to the expense of
printing ’ these most-important of life-assur-
ance documents. Owing to the rotten state
°t insurance laws, the co. is, of course, under
no obligation to disclose its inner workings:
nevertheless the Metropolitan is at least
under a moral obligation to policy-holders
whose cash it holds.
In some respects the Metropolitan is a
much more satisfactory office than it used
to be: prior to 1911 no division was made
111 the. published accounts of Ordinary,
Industrial and other business. Ten years
ago funds were separated: Ordinary policy-
liabilities were estimated, and the surplus
then disclosed was transferred to strengtuen
thelndustrial branch. No information was
the management as to how that
surplus” was derived; but evidently some,
if not all, of it was unearthed by varying
the rate of interest which it was assumed
that portion of the funds would earn in
future. The co. did not itself disclose that
tact: The Bulletin resorted to the N.S.W.
Statistician’s records to discover that the
valuation in 1907 was on a 31 p.c. basis
throughout and partly at that rate and
partly at 4 p.c. in 1912. The valuation of
five, years ago was evidently on the same
basis as at the previous investigation. Aver-
ai?e ast year earned slightly less
than 4f p.c., so there is not much margin on
a 4 p.c. valuaticn. The big A.M.B. by
valuing at a point less holds, for contin-
gencies, five millions in that way alone,
and a small office can make itself relatively
as strong by working on a conservative basis.
The Metropolitan is now in its 27th year,
and as the tables show it is small for its
age. However, if has been putting on a spurt
lately; it is doing double the business it
did only five years ago. Meantime the
expense rate has been improved: 10 years
ago in the Ordinary department it was 41$
p.c., in 1916 24.4 p.c., and last vear 22.9
p.c. In the Industrial branch: 1911. 60.9
p.c.; 1916, 53.7 p.c.; 1921, 48,8 p.c. Ordin-
si£n?oo S n ? w total £*-70,137, and Industrial
ziw.ld^; but these figures are of no
value unless accompanied by an actuary’s
report. The Bulletin hopes that next year
the directors will publicly provide that back-
m-*n n^ess there is anything to hide there
A V r fl e . reason whatever for withholding
Mr. Day s judgment on the concern.
All there is to add at present is that,
including the £11,844 of shareholders’ capital
and the odds and ends owing, the balance-
sheet tots up £329,013, laid out in this way:
public securities, £187,610; freehold pro-
perty, £71,038 ; shares in other cos., £16,781;
loans on mortgages, £8625; cash and de-
£23.300; and sundry other assets,
£-1.158. ihe co. recently sold its old free-
hold, and apparently got about £27,000 more
than the figure at which it had stood in
the books. The management has since pur-
chased another property, Norwich Chambers,
which it is modernising. The investment in
public cos. is apparently mostly the accident
pup which was floated a dozen years or so
ago. What that holding is actually worth
this paper does not know.
* * * *
London Stokes, Ltd., which bought a
men’s outfitting business in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other
intangible items representing £26,368 of the
capital:—
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1912.. £7,293 8 p.c.= £4,200 £3,093 £23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items .. 24,941
1913.. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5,600 £1596 2,506 22,435
1914.. 11,003 8 „„ 5,600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 „ „ 6,300 645 8,187 9,549
1916.. 15,134 10 „ „ 7,000 604 7,530 2,019
_ Reserves.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7,000 549 10,781 8,762
1918.. 19,040 10 „ „ 7,000 496 11,544 20,306
1919.. 22,111 15 „,, 10,500 487 11,124 31,430
1920.. 28,829 15 „ „ 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921.. 29,142 171 „ „ 15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 171,, „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
This co.’s remarkable run continues; but
though declared profits show a £2700 in-
crease on the year, actual results may not
have been so good. The 1921 profits i'n the
table did not include £lB4O dropped into a
taxation reserve; on this occasion nothing
was visibly added, while a round £4OOO fell
out. From the beginning London Stores did
well for shareholders, notwithstanding that
£26,368 of the paid capital of £70,000 was
represented by goodwill and other in tarn
gibles. Conditions during the war and since
have helped trading, and gross profits have
moun.t°d in this way:—
1914 .. £47,532 1919 .. £75,983
1916 ... 56,396 1920 .. 95,160
1917 ... 61,809 1921 .. 101,332
1918 . . 67,740 1922 . . 115,892
Paid capital was increased to £lOO,OOO two
years ago by a new issue at par, and last
year, though a lot of funds are nowadays
tied up in properties, net profits gave a
3* P-C. return on the lot. So after paying
17i p.c. there was a very handsome margin
left for reserves. Of course, the co. nowa-
days is assisted by the large reserves
accumulated in years when milder divs.
were paid. In 10 years surplus profits as
large as the whole_ of the capital have been
piled up. Or put it another way: disregard-
ing goodwill, with the assistance of only
£30,000 of new cash-paid capital the co. had
built up its net tangible assets from £46,725
in 1912 to £176,464 after payment of the
latest div.
Further details are provided by this com-
parison :—•
1912. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities ..£7,310 £36,100 £111,504 £91,651
Stock . . . . 31.237 98,819 98,950 88,478
Property, etc. . . 40,199 142,074 137,754
Book debts . . 3,257 5,054 5,060 4,975
Plant, etc. . . 5,624 4,714 4,405 4 450
Cash, etc. . . 14,728 20,465 44,158 48,965
In properties and equipment there is now
£142,000-odd, but £84,400 of that has been
financed by mortgages. All other debts at
February 28 amounted to £7251, and in cash
alone the co. held £21,342 more than was
required to meet trading debts and the final
divs., besides which there were War Loans
of a book value of £9322. The co. is, there-
fore, in a very cosy position, though during
the year £20.000 was wiped off the mortgage
debt. Falling prices evidently helped:
£10,472 less was locked up in stocks at the
latest balance. The large reserves support-
ing capital should assure good returns to
shareholders in future, even if trade should
fall off. London Stores was one of the very
few cos. which did not capitalise any por-
tion of their stored profits. Hence the shares
are at a high premium: the 365. 6d. which
the market offers buys assets with a book
value of 355. 3d. and gives a 9.6 p.c. return
on a 174 p.c. div. basis.
* * * »
Commonwealth General Assurance
Corp., Ltd.—The C.G.A. had been writing
life business 11 months and fire, accident
and marine business 10 months when the
first accounts closed on December 31. In
the former department 896 Ordinary poli-
cies assuring £224.688 were written, and,
including £607 of Industrial premiums, the
total premium income was £8735. To win
it £14,592 was spent; in other words, the
whole of the first year’s premiums and 67
p.c. of the second year’s went- in capturing
policy-holders; and as it is quite possible
that some of the policies will be allowed to
lapse after the first payment, the.proportion
or exes, to be carried by the balance will,
ot course, be increased. The position was
made to look a bit better by including with
revenue the £1394 interest earned by share-
holders funds and £584 surplus transferred
from fire, accident and marine operations.
ut that surplus could by no means be
claimed as profit, no provision whatever
having been made for unexpired risks. On
4O p.c. of the net premiums
should be so held a reserve of £3700 was
required at Dec. 31. Besides the outgo
shown above, life claims took £715. The
net result of policy-writing at December 31
was that there was an excess of claims and
expenses_over all income of £5045. In addi-
tmn £3574 had been spent to coax in capital
and £5369 had gone in promotion and pre-
liminary exes. So at the close of its first
year the C.G.A. showed a deficit of £13,988.
which means that Bs. in the £ of capital put
up by shareholders had been lost —though
only temporarily, perhaps.
The position is no worse than might have
been ex Pected. It is impossible to forecast
the future of a life office from its early
operations: establishment is costly, and even
in very few of the big offices do first pre-
miums more than cover the expense of get-
ting the business. The policies written
by this office have proved very expensive;
whether the expense was justified depends
entirely on whether the business sticks and
the premiums thereon can in a reasonable
time be made to do the work for which they
were designed. That is one risk which the
policy-holder takes. At present, there is
no cause for concern: the £lB,OOO-odd of net
tangible assets, being the balance of capital
still intact, was unquestionably more than
ample to cover actuarial requirements
under the policies in force at Dec. 31. But
from shareholders’ point of view the enter-
prise is, as The Bulletin pointed out at
flotation, a long-shot. Under normal cir-
cumstances, many years must pass before
the co. can offer policy-holders anything
like the same inducements as big competi-
tors do, and also find something for share-
holders. Elsewhere on this page are the
records of the Metropolitan. That office was
established 27 years ago, and though its
paid capital is only £11,844 shareholders to
date have only had a miserable £458 from
operations in both Ordinary and Industrial
business. Meantime policy-holders have
apparently had no bonuses. M.L.C. is the
only co-op. life office which is fattening its
backers: the others aspire to the big office’s
affluence, but only one or two at present
look like providing even crumbs for policy-
holders and shareholders for many years.
* * * #
Metters, Ltd., manufacturers of stoves,
windmills, oil engines, enamel-ware, etc., who
paid £29,656 for the goodwill of the business.
In the table this item is not regarded as an
asset:—
t „ Writ- Toße-
",?"•> Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves. Deficit.
1912. . £18,665 10 p.c. = £11,844 £2199 £4,022 £23,356
Premiums on new shares .. 3,177 20,179
1913.. 24,305 10 p.c. = 14,173 3758 6,374 13,805
Premiums on new shares .. 375 13,430
1014.. 15,718 Nil 4995 10,723 2,707
, _ _ Reserves
1910.. 17,606 5 p.c. = 8,206 5087 4,313 1,605
1916.. 22,487 6 „ „ 9,848 4609 8,030 9,636
1917.. 23,794 6 „ „ 9,848 5206 8,740 18,376
1918.. 23,434 6 „ „ 9,848 5667 7,919 26,295
1919.. 23,907 8 „ „ 13,131 5825 4,951 31,246
Premiums on new shares .. 25 31,271
Transferred to capital .. £32,794 )
1920.. 39,610 8 p.c. = 14,453 6687 18,470 ( lb > 947
Premiums on new shares . . 114 17,061
1921.. 54,767 10 p.c. = 20.069 8697 26,001 43.062
Premiums on new shares .. 258 43,320
Proms troin sale of assets.. 3,020 46,340
1922.. 48,809 10 p.c. = 20,497 12,672 15,640 61,980
This 15-year-old concern added £27,888 net
to plant during the past 12 months, and that
was not far short of the total capital in
plant only years ago. In 1913 paid
capital was_ £145,019; it is now £254,801,
including £50,000 of 7 p.c. prefs., the divs.
on which, by the way, are not included with
the profits shown in the table or with the
distributions to shareholders. The directors
adopt the unusual practice of charging up
the £3500 “interest” on this pref. capital
with general trade exes. This comparison
explains in greater detail how the business
has grown :
Liabilities.
1913. 1921. 1922.
Overdrafts .. ..£26.689 £73,861 £76,781
Other liabilities . . 26,607 54,859 46,373
Assets.
Land and buildings .. 48,000 116,092 116,153
P lant •• •• •• 31,784 88,265 103.300
Stock 75,384 169,192 175,721
Bw>k debts .. .. 36,418 73,422 67,880
Other assets .. .. 175 137 173
Meantime profits, before providing for depre-
ciation, have doubled, and There is a hand-
some margin over and above the amount
required for 10 p.c. divs. So, despite the
Jabor troubles the co. has experienced periodi-
cally, the management’s faith in the indus-
try has been fullv justified. Metters, Ltd.,
has been one of the few local manufactories
which have been very carefully nursed dur-
ing development; though good profits were
made in the period 1914-20, shareholders
were not ravenous: they averaged slightly
more than 5| p.c. p.a. (and a premium had
been paid on some of the shares), while a
visible £36,000 was left behind to strengthen
the business. Later, holders were compen-
sated with scrip equivalent to what they
might reasonably have received previously
by way of divs. So the transfer of reserves
indicated in the introductory table was diff-
erent from the general run of bonus issues
and “waterings.”
The co. did very well last year consider-
ing the disturbed trade conditions: though
profits were less than in the previous term,
they gave 17 p.c. on ordinary capital and
about 13$ p.c. on funds (that is, capital plus
reserves). This indicates that the co. has
held the trade it developed in the war years,
and that the industry has been soundly
extended. Many new lines of manufacture
have been added, and last year a start was
made with producing porcelain-enamelled
hollow-ware. Not only has the extension of
manufacturing required ai lot of funds for
plant, but additional stocks have also deman-
ded financing. Liabilities of £123,154
at the balance looked formidable, but set
off against them were liquid and semi-liquid
assets of a book value of £243,774. Good-
will still figures in the accounts at £29,656,
but, after payment of the final div., there
were net tangible assets shown as worth
£265,000 or so to represent the £204,801 of
ordinary capital, or about 255. lOd. per £1
share.
* * * *
A note from a London accountant:—
Those Bulletin readers resident in Australia who
receive income from the United Kingdom and have
already made a claim to the Inland Revenue for
repayment of the income-tax deducted therefrom for
last year can now claim in respect of,the current
financial year. To those who possess such income
and have not yet made their claims, I would point
out that by the Finance Act 1920 a British subject
resident out of the United Kingdom is entitled to
recover the whole or part of the income-tax deducted
from income arising in this country. With tax at
6s. in the £ it means a very considerable addition
to the income of such persons. In addition to the
above claims any person whether British subject or
otherwise may recover the whole of the tax deducted
from the interest on foreign and colonial securities
paid through this country for the past three years.
* * * ■ »
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Capi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Profit, dends. Assets).
1910.. £295,000 £193,318 £6,198 £4,375 £88,716
1911.. 295,000 190,711 6,081 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80,574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,066
Loss.
1914.. 295,000 191,172 7,261 Nil 96 3“>7
1915.. 295,000 198,099 1,960 Nil 98*287
Profit.
1916.. 295,000 201,494 401 Nil 97,886
Loss.
1917.. 295.000 203,169 9,061 Nil 106 947
1918.. 295,000 208,961 2,718 Nil 1
Renewals written off, £10,750 .. ( 120,415
1919.. 295,000 244,212 7,785 Nil )
Renewals written off, £lO,OOO .. f 138,200
Profit.
1920.. 295,000 260,263 887 Nil 1,,.,.,
Renewals written off, £B9OO ( 146,213
Loss.
1921.. 295,000 271,357 12,781 Nil 158,994
This poor co., run by three of the weightiest
of Melbourne’s heavyweights, is in desperate
straits. The enterprise was one of the pro-
ducts of the Zeehan (Tas.) boom. For
rights” £lOO,OOO had been paid, and besides
spending a good deal of capital on the leased
Emu Bay-Bischoff line, the co. borrowed a lot
of outside money to finance a connection with
the once-famous silver-field. Things never
did go well for the co., but since 1913 divs.
have dried up and the concern has gone from
bad to worse. Of the present capital of
£295,000. £lOO,OOO is 8 p.c. prefs. ? 4 p.c.
of that div. is cumulative, but not only has
the co. been unable to pay even that por-
tion of the pref. div., but lease rents and
debenture interest have also banked up. The
accrued divs. on the prefs. at December 31
totalled £32,000. Taking precedence over
the prefs.’ claims, however, was this formid-
able array of debts: Deferred rent and in-
’ deferred debenture interest,
IbLT l i lt ? rest and unpresented coupons,
±818; funded dividend certificates and inter-
est, £20,449 ; sundry creditors, £2064. Seven
years ago the directors prevailed upon les-
sors and debenture-holders to allow interest
to pile up during the war years if it was
not earned. These agreements have nearly
expired, and from Jan. 1 next both parties
will again hold out their hands regularly,
while the co. is also faced with the problem
of paying deferred obligations and interest
thereon by June, 1925. Worse still, six
months prior to that date the whole of the
£172,000 of 5 p.c. debentures mature. It
is a tangle which appears to be beyond the
powers of directors John Grice, Wm. Jamie-
son and Bowes Ivellv to straighten out. Th»


Do you use soldering irons in your business? No
doubt you would appreciate the advantages of those
which stay hot and are free from the soot of a
heating flame. The G.E. Electric Soldering Iron
possesses these and many other advantages over the
old style. It costs but little for current, and re-
quires very little attention to be kept clean and
well tinned. An exclusive feature of this iron is
the spiral coil wire handle, which keeps remarkablv
cool, and which may be grasped close to the tip
without discomfort. Australian General Electric
Company, corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn
Street, Sydney ; and corner Queen and Little Collins
Streets, Melbourne.— Advt. [2
* * * *
Every man wants plenty to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are over
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
roalleables represent the world’s best—they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wra.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. — Advt. [1
* * * *
The comparatively high cost of metal pipes and the
perpetual cost of cleaning them is leading engineers
to adopt other methods. Pioneer Wood Pipe solves
the problem of the high cost of water conduit. It
is low in initial cost, incurs practically no upkeep
expense, lasts indefinitely, and in addition carries
from 15 to 20 per cent, more water. There is an
interesting illustrated 68-page book on the subject
that may be obtained free on request by writing to
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Burns Bay
Road, Lane Cove, Sydney.— Advt.
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Pink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Office ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723. — Advt.
• • w m
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison k Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writa
is for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
• • • •
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * » *
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East).— Advt.
Dalgcty 8 Company
-Limited
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.
Wolfram, Scheelite &
Molybdenite, Bismuth,
Tin, Copper, Lead, etc.,
Ores, Mattes & Metals.
GOOD PRICES.
GOOD ASSAYS.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN'.
CANADA. NEW ZEALAND, etc.
The “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada. WEEK-END messages are accepted
up to midnight on Saturday for delivery in
Great Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
«■»*• ■■ «■ w (SsSfiSß
New Zealand.. 4}d.
<*»“<* ... W w
U.S.A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
Argentine, Brazil. Chili and Peru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
281 George Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346
(3 lines}.
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne.
Tel. Central '-084
J. MIT. WARD. Manager in.the Pacific,
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
sfd
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
1 Swift * Company 1.,t<1.. Australasian Asrents. 26 30 Clarence St.. SydneyJ^^^™
a
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS.
mi
m
For Industrial Chemicals, Minerals, Raw
Materials and Manufacturers’ Supplies.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals and Specialties.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sydney,
7 Hamilton Street.
And at Sydney and Brisbane.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED.
Brisbane,
239 Elizabeth Street.
drift since 1913 can be shown in another
way:—
1913. 1920. 1921.
More or less liquid assets.. £15,572 £36,026 £25,770
Liabilities (apart from de-
bentures) . . . . 21,448 95,223 101,420
£5,876 £59,197 £75,650
Owing to mining depression last year’s
operations resulted in losses heavier than
had been, experienced in any other year. The
outlook is still cheerless, though both the
North Mt. Farrell and Magnet mines have'
restarted. But something much bigger is
required to get the Emu Bay Railway on
to a smooth track. The opening up of the
Electrolytic Zinc’s mines might help, but
that concern does not appear to be in a
hurry to get on with that job.
* * * *
“Awaruite”: A proposal is on foot to
merge under one management the three
sections of the railway from Burnie to
Queenstown, now run by three distinct cos.
all working more or less to suit their own
convenience. Mt. Lyell and the Electro-
lytic Zinc Co. are said to be behind the move-
ment. It is believed that the Emu Bay will
gladly welcome the proposal. Some advant-
ages of the merged administration will be a
through train each way instead of the pre-
sent changes at Zeehan and Strahan,
greater efficiency, less rolling-stock required,
less lost time and labor. There are some
serious financial snags to be cleared from
the track, though, before an amalgamation
can be effected.
* * * ♦
The B- H. Prop.’s latest monthly report
tells how desperate is the iron and steel
position :—•
Coke ovens: Whole plant now closed down.
Blast furnace dept.: All these furnaces are now
closed down.
Foundry furnace: No production.
Open hearth: Produced 17,472 tons.
Blooming mill: Produced 16,009 tons.
Bail mill: Produced 12,294 tons.
Merchant mills (18in., 12ih. and Bin.) : 6175 tons;
18in. mill closed down March 18.
Rod mill: Working one shift per day.
Iron Knob quarries (S.A.) : No productive operations
carried on, the quarries remaining closed down.
Imported steel is now being delivered any-
where in the State at £2 less than the local
product can be bought for at the works.
Those who have an idea that the industry
can’t be killed had better refer to old re-
cords. The industry was first started at
Mittagong in 1852, but the venture was
never a financial success. The Eskbank
works, at Lithgow, began in 1875, but after
a brief run, the treating of local ores was
abandoned and work confined to re-smelting
scrap-iron. In 1907 a fresh start was made
on ores, and by degrees the enterprise de-
veloped great promise until world’s prices
crashed at the end of 1920 without any cor-
responding reduction in war-inflated Aus-
tralian costs.
W. H. Woodhead, chairman of the London
Board of the British B. 11., who has just
visited Broken Hill, made it clear to the
Barrier newspapers that under present work-
ing conditions and metal prices his co. is on
very thin ice. Looked at squarely Broken
Hill is to-day in much the same position as
it was before the sulphide problem was
solved. Industrially, its immediate future
cannot be determined. It has millions of
tons of ore which it cannot treat profitably,
and the popular idea is that this is due to the
demands of labor. That is only part of the
truth. For some years prior to the war
Broken Hill had a good time; it prospered
in metallurgy, in management and in markets.
The war came along, and it prospered in
markets—markets that were easily tapped,
the British Board of Trade, for instance.
They were markets which called for neither
effort nor imagination In the ordinary course
of operations, and the mentality of those
who direct Broken Hill policy suffered in
consequence. It was not kept in training,
and Broken Hill is to-day incapable of con-
certed action to meet the changed conditions
of industry.
* * * *
Geologists have been busy in Perth, pack-
ing for the great petroleum trek to all points
of the compass, except, perhaps, west. It
is generally believed that all Westralian oil
concessions are in the North ; but licenses
covering practically the whole of the State
have been granted. Certainly there are not
many of them, as the average concession is
about the area of Victoria. Blatchford and
Talbot (W.A.) and Mahony (Vic.) are
already on the track. .Tones (N.S.W.), Base-
dow (London) and Melson (America) will
soon follow, as also will a fusel-oil expedi-
tion or two.
Freney’s Kimberley Oil is getting to work.
So are the oil gangs round the Stock Ex-
change corners in Perth and Adelaide. Given
the least smell of petrol, and shares will be
unloaded wholesale on the trusting public.
Freney’s starts first on the Mt. Wynne and
Price’s Creek blocks, where two drills are to
work to search out oil down to 4000 ft.
Geologist Blatchford is to select the anti-
clines through which boring is to go.
W. H. B. Talbot is with him, and the pair
will carefully study the drill cores until
they learn what the work will hatch out. As
it takes time as well as money to get plant
transported and in operation in the dry Nor’-
West, the drills cannot start for some weeks.
Then will be the time for some enterprising
person to establish carrier-pigeon services
from the derricks to the markets.
• * * *
Anglo-Persian Co.’s geologists Mayo and
Gray are now in the Roma district weigh-
► ing all the pros and cons, as to the likeli-
hood of commercial supplies of petroleum
occurring there. As a basis for their
work they have the recent geological
survey map by Dr. Jensen, but the country
to the north of Roma, where the “wet” gas
strata reach the surface, is scrub- and soil-
covered to a great extent, and underground
structure is extremely difficult to delineate
from surface evidence only. The Common-
wealth Government will probably decide, on
their report, whether it will go halves with
the State Government in a prospecting cam-
paign to prove or disprove the existence of
commercial pools of oil there.
* * • *
Queensland Oil Co. has had a heap of
trouble with its bore at Woolston, near
Brisbane. About six out of the last 12
months have been lost through various
troubles, chiefly breaks in casing; and at
present a strong flow of water is delaying
boring at 630 ft. Morry, who reckoned on
getting oil at 636 ft., is, therefore, within a
few feet of his objective. The present boring
plant is only capable of doing 800 ft. to 900 ft.,
and shareholders will have a say as to
whether it is worth going deeper. Bores in
this region have struck the ancient Brisbane
schist at about 1000 ft., and, of course, when
this co.’s bore strikes that it can put up
the shutters. The second sample of sludge
recently supplied was not sufficient to deter-
mine the nature of the trace of oil present,
and the Queensland Government analyst
keeps asking for more.
• • • •
The slump in Westralia’s gold output con-
tinues, but the Mines Department cannot be
accused of not doing all it can to stop the
rot. Advice, assaying, analytical and re-
search work are freely bestowed on gold
hunters, and cash on easy terms is loaned
to cos. in need. Edna May Central and
Riverina South were both given fat cheques,
and in neither instance is there much chance
of repayment. The latest scheme is a
State prospecting party, the members of
which will be paid 50s. per week. Captain
William Jones has been appointed leader at
£6 per week. The captain’s credentials show
he has had considerable experience prospect-
ing at Mount Monger and Hampton Plains.
After much haggling with the Mines De-
partment, Edna May Deeps (W.A.) got per-
mission to extract portion of the block of ore
on the Edna May boundary, and in March
960 tons were won for 850 oz. This indi-
cates the grade of ore Edna May had to
work on. and, incidentally, further illus-
trates the rottenness of the policy whereby a
very small area was worked by two cos.
instead of by one. The block on the boundary
is all that is keeping the great accumula-
t:on of water in Edna Mav from overwhelm-
ing Deeps, and much excitement is nromised
in the event of the flood breaking through.
» * * *
Ives Reward (W.A.) paid £65,919 in cash
and paper for the mine, and now boggles, over
getting in the trifle of cash required to pur-
chase power rock-drills. It wants to lean
on the Westralian Government for plant.
The Reward has 104,100 shares on which it
can call up 16s. each (£83,280) ; it is
another matter, of course, whether the holders
would part up. They are mostly not think-
ing so much about works as about cash to
pay off £2OOO due to the estate of the late
vendor, Ives, in September, and, perhaps, to
pick up more cheap lots of the £BOOO of
debentures. Last year £2500 went these
ways, or as much as was spent on develop-
ment. So far £6626 has gone in proving the
property.
* * * •
Lass o’ Gowrie (W.A.) selected an appro-
priate date —April I—for1 —for its latest option.
The directors rook a month’s free-sampling
rights over the Lalla Rookh, at Pilbarra. A
fortnight later everything was declared off.
• * « »
A little £5OOO co. has been formed in
Sydney—the 2000 £1 shares offered were
over-subscribed—to test Cedar Creek, 420
miles north of Sydney. The field is a new
one, but not far from the old Lionsville
ground, which gave riches in days gone by:
£140.000 of gold came from the Garibaldi
and Lion lines of reef alone. Ore shoots un-
covered at Cedar Creek have given values
up to lOOoz. per ton, and the co. is out to
follow the leaders to see if bonanzas exist.
As the country is certified to be similar to
that at Lionsville, backers like their chances.
* * # *
From an old hand on the field :
There are other aspects of the Great Cobar debacle
(B. 9/ 3/’22 and 23/3/’22). Woeful mismanage-
ment from the very inception of the co. to the
final whistle must be credited with a big slice of
the trouble. All types and conditions of men were
added to the staff, but mostly men absolutely un-
suited for administrative jobs, and with no prac-
tical experience of handling such a proposition.
Discipline became a thing almost unknown, more
bosses of one sort and another were added, and the
man from U.S.A. was misinformed and bamboozled
from one end of the works to the other by the
huge army of bosses. The flotation plant erected on
the Chesney will long be remembered as a joke:
everybody did as he liked, and no one, bosses in-
cluded, thought of much else but pay-day and the
easiest way of keeping their jobs.
There are possibilities yet on the Great Cobar
leases, more particularly in Cobar Gold (Fort
Bourke) and possibly at the Peak. But entirely
new control must be got in. At present the field is
down and out, the main industries being the collec-
tion of relief coupons by the unemployed and the
recital of “tales” to the Warden by co. representa-
tives when applications for suspension of labor con-
ditions are being dealt with.
* # • *
Occidental Consolidated, Cobar (N.S.W.),
has been unwatered and sampled by Mount
Boppy, but as that concern’s headquarters
are in London some time will probably elapse
before Jas. Negus’s opinions of the badly-
bungled show are known.
• * * *
The Queensland Government appears to
have made a good deal in acquiring the Mun-
gana mines outright from the Chillagoe Co.
Developments indicate that several of the
mines have a long life under normal condi-
tions. The Girofla, which has been supply-
ing the bulk of the lead-silver ore to the
smelters, has responded well to recent pros-
pecting. Probable ore, down to the 300 ft.
level, is estimated at about 80,000 tons,
candying 10 p.c. lead and also fair silver
values. The Consols was flooded out last
month, but the rush was coped with, and
work has been proceeding, the best strike
being 10ft. of ore, carrying 26 p.c. lead
and 30oz. silver. A prospecting shaft in
maiden country on this lease struck carbon-
ate ore, and has continued on it for 30ft.,
values being good. The width of this ore
body is not yet known, but it looks good
enough to work. A lot of dead work has
been done in renovating the old Lady Jane,
one of the chief copper suppliers in former
days, much of whose wealth was sealed up
after the fire in 1910. After the workings
are secured an effort will be made to size
up prospects. There are others in the bag,
but the Government is confining its atten-
tion mostly to these three.
* * * * *
The Jibbinbar (Q.) State arsenic-mine h. s
been re-opened after six months’ spell, neces-
sary to allow surplus stocks to be absorbed.
Reserves of ore are sufficient for another
couple of years, at least.
“W’gabba”: F. E. Knox, on behalf of the
Ballara Gougers’ Association (B. 23/3/’22),
says that the Cloncurry slump is chiefly due
to a decrease in the grade of ore smelted.
Rubbish ! Cost of production, keeping pace
with the rising market, went up 80 or 90 p.c.
between 1914 and 1921. But though cop-
per has dropped nearly 50 p.c. from its recent
value, costs are almost as high as ever. That
is why there is no inducement to work
10 p.c. ore. Admittedly it is harder every
year to keep u|j the grade of ore, but it can
be done in Cloncurry with mines such as the
Answer, Mt. Oxide and others to help the
average from the older shows. The gougers
will have to wait a long time for copper to get
back to a price which will permit of a
general resumption of mining. It is signifi-
cant that they can now do better by sending
ore to America than to their next-door neigh-
bor, Chillagoe. That tells of low costs in
U.S.A., and the dollar country normally sup-
plies 70 p.c. of the world’s copper. It’s a
pity that the gouger, undoubtedly a fine,
independent type, should, owing to economic
stress, have to confine his efforts to raising
20 p.c. ore to make his work pay; for that
is going to shorten the lives of a lot of
mines.
« * * «
Bendigo yields have been shaping badly:
1918. 63.1600 z.: 1919. 65,9700 z.: 1920.
85,8910 z.; 1921, 54,2410 z. Constellation
saved the position in 1919 and 1920 with
big crushings from the South Moon reef.
While “satisfactory” results are got now, the
tonnage is small and results are only so-so.
Carlisle and Unity still buttress things for
the Amalgamated, but the Constellation is
partly frozen, the Northern and Virginia
claims are rockier than ever, and Hercules
is a disappointment. Dyason and his
Board have talked of shortening work, and
with yields like those of late sentiment isn’t
likely to count for much. A side-show at
Wandiligong is to be tried. The reef there is
small but rich as far as exposed. Amal-
gamated has the funds to give the show a,
run; but it is a long way from Bendigo.
Other shows in the Bendigo area suffer from
poor diet. AI keeps going without profit.
New Red, White and Blue gets 9dwt dirt,
but tonnages are small. Central Blue is
hard-up for a decent crushing, and Ulster
is bustling along to see if a fair body of
lldwt. stone can be opened up at 1600 ft.
Generally, the hunt in the field to-day yields
nothing of consequence.
'-The mystery mine of the Speck, the Mag-
net, continues on its way, as it has done
for the last 20 years: getting no ore and
creating neither interest nor wealth. Where
the capital comes from that keeps six men at
work year after year is the mystery. The
co. is supposed to be trying to locate at depth
the problematical continuation of the small
pocket of silver ore of the old Godkin mine,
which carried up to 15,0000 z. to the ton, but
it is just possible this idea has been lost in
the passage of time. At all events the co.
is still driving and crosscutting, and old
hands expect it to continue to do so long
after mining has become a lost art in the
Speck.
* * * *
A new find of galena by Government tri-
butors on the old British-Zeehan holdings
has taken place. The lode is reported as a
foot wide of clean ore assaying 80 p.c. lead
7soz. silver, and there is much jubilation
in the silver city. Whether the tonnage is
great or not remains to be seen, but in any
case the tributors should do well out of it.
* * * *
From a man on the spot:—
Rich ore has been cut in taking out the chamber
at the 80ft. shaft-level in the Round Hill (Tas.).
This is the first level that has been sunk, all previous
development having been by adits. The shaft is
right alongside of the lode, and has been sunk near
the point where very rich ore was won in the level
above. The lode is about 20ft. wide, so other rich
parallel seams are to be looked for by crosscutting
next month. The mine has shown some very rich
patches in the past, but the workings have apparently
been right in the top portion of the lode, which
does not come to the surface and is covered by
disturbed country impregnated with ore. If the
lode should look strong and permanent at the present
shaft-level, no time should be lost to prove and test
it at a further depth. The Seam went over 1200 oz.
silver, 15dwt. gold and 46 p.c. lead per ton. It
was about 3in. wide, 80ft. below the adit level, and
in virgin country.
# • * *
Driving on the course of the lode from
the old tunnel at the Golden Entrance (Tas.)
is now in hand. When in about 200 ft.
the syndicate expects to pick up the
downward continuation of the ore shoot lost
18 years ago, and which was said to have
given up to 360 z.
The 60ft. level of the Ladv Betty silver-
mine (Tas.) is now out 80ft. in ore, and
stopina is in hand for the trial shipment
of 25 tons to Mt. Lyell. The lode, though
narrow, carried high silver values. The
shipment of 50 tons produced by the old co.
returned 5000 oz. silver, and it is expected
that the Lyell shipment will come up to this.


ANZAC DAY.
Too soon is quenched the altar flame;
Too soon we lose the dew of youth;
Our soiled wings drag the ground in shame.
Yet, Time, have ruth!
Beave one brave truth,
One living pride, one deathless name!
QUEENSLAND.
O years that rob us as they flee,
That dull the gleam and steal the thrill,
That grudge us even Memory,
Take what you will,
But leave us still
One epic page—Gallipoli!
Anzac! The name holds magic rare!
The Future’s thrilling battle-cry!
And boys unborn red Death will dare
Because that name,
In living flame,
Deep-graven on their hearts they wear.
EMILY BULCOCK.


wMmuuic] pus
°J
<lO
THE MAGNIFICENT
DINING HALL
OF THE
HOTEL
SYDNEY
SPLENDID ORCHESTRA
Management
& T Cheeseman
CV-
MIiJUU#
03J
. ‘ -
'4L
“THe drink of good taste.”
—T.B.—*
LIGHT
—ALE— J
You'll enjoy it with luncheon,
dinner or supper!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
4 Deaf? t
Scientific Perfection
at last.
The New 1921 Model Mears “De
Luxe” Ear-phone is just to hand, and is
the highly successful result of many years'
research by the Scientists at the Mears Labora-
tories.
This Model is smaller and neater than all
others, and is recommended for its curative
powers by all leading Ear Specialists.
The Mears Ear-phone has been used with
unvarying success by many thousands of Aus-
tralasian citizens for the past 10 years, and is
the only proved
PERFECT AID TO HEARING.
Send for free booklets fully explaining our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
THE MEARS EAR-PHONE CO., Dept. 12
Bernard’s Buildings,
387 George Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
A note from a fellow-campaigner:—
The last time I saw Ross Smith was at an Aero
Club dinner in Sydney, over which Colonel Watt
presided. He was in uniform, his breast a kaleido-
scope of unusual ribbons —and, as a near-by Digger
observed, “every one of ’em earned.” But he would
have looked the remarkable man he was in any get-
up and in any gathering. It was not because he had
made the greatest flight in history that he reminded
one of the classical Discoverers of the time when the
world was young. The type of face he had may be
seen on the walls of any great European gallery—a
long face, with a high broad forehead and bold
wide eyes, and the sort of mouth'that laughs at,
danger. It is the leader with this type of mouth
who cheers, inspires and brings off forlorn hopes,
as against the iron-jawed strong man of melodrama
who so often steeps his following in apprehensive
gloom and so puts a premium on disaster. Ross
Smith even had the religious bent, so common in
men of action in the days when there were still new
worlds to be conquered. He died the very death
that he was said to most dread —the result of a
crash where all the conditions were in the airman’s
favor.
AVord comes that the thrifty Allardyce,
who found the Governorship of Tasmania
far too expensive for a pairson of moderate
means, threatens to settle down “somewhere
on the Continent where living is not so
costly as in Britain.” S’AVilliam mentions
that if he had to live in England in the
style he was expected to maintain in Tassy
the cost would be not less than £lO,OOO a
year. His, declared intention of seeking a
cheaper tucker-track in a foreign land may
be taken as a sure indication that better
paid vice-regal jobs than Tasmania’s are not
going begging in Britain just now. It pro-
bably means, also, that Allardyce, whose
hurried exit from the too-expensive Speck
before the completion of his term evoked
little sympathy in Colonial Office circles, is
now out of the business for keeps.
Maoriland’s Priminister Bill Massey
has just passed his
66th milestone in
tiptop form. He
seems to have suc-
cessfully taken the
thyroid gland or
Bulgarian bug treat-
ment or something,
for the older he gets
the younger he is.
He has been a mem-
ber of the Rickety
Isles Parliament for
nearly 28 years, and
has been at the head
of affairs for a de-
cade ; but as cham-
pion optimist he
was never busier
than he is to-day.
"DAD" CLAYTON,
head of the Fathers'
Association, which
keeps an eye on the
welfare of the
Digger in Victoria
in particular and
Australia in general.
Big Bill Baillieu has decided to retire
from Vic. State politics when his present
term of office as member for the Northern
Province in the Uppah Chambah expires on
May 31. He is about to sail for the Cold
Land, via America, and will be away till the
end of the year.
Ten of the 12 Ministers comprising the
Vic. Cabinet are Australian natives, and
several, including Peacock, Lawson, McPher-
son, Baird and Davis, are members of the
A.N.A. Attorney-General Robinson was
chief president of the assoc. 18 years ago,
but has given it the cold shoulder recently.
Supt. Nicholson has been invited to stay
on in the chair of the Chief of Police in
Victoria, and the J. Hops of the State
rejoice that one of their own holds the top
job again. He is just on 60, and has been
demonstrating for four months that he can
do the work. He holds the valor badge,
the V.C. of the Force, and has a personality
to match the job. The screw _and allow-
ance tot up to an inadequate £lO5O a year.
“Shavius” : Re the beginnings of McCaw-
ley, Bananaland’s new C.J. (B. 6/4/’22).
His father was on the land, which young
McCawley left to take a billet as a teacher
in a Darling Downs State school. Thence
he obtained a transfer to the Crown Law
Department in Brisbane, and between
whiles swatted for the Bar. Sheer ability
lifted him to the Crown Solicitor’s chair,
and then to that of U.S. for Justice. Kid-
ston, a canny Scot, and Denham, who suc-
ceeded Kidston as Premier, were his respec-
tive appointers. The late Premier Ryan, him-
self a barrister of capacity, sent McCawley
to the Arbitration Court Bench, and fought
through to the Privy Council when Cooper,
C.J., and Judges Real and Chubb refused
to swear him in. He certainly is young
(41 next Nov.), but the man who catches
him napping deserves the V.C.
Dead in Adelaide, at 73, Alexander
McDonald, farmer, storekeeper, politician.
He sat in S.A. Assembly from 1887 to 1915,
being Chairman of Committees part of the
time. He had an absolutely safe Liberal
seat for the district south of the city, and in
1915, when Peake had been beaten in an elec-
tion, McDonald resigned to let his Premier
come back to the House. His sound busi-
ness qualities were later shown in a seat on
the Board of the Savings Bank. Some
people said that was Peake’s way of showing
his gratitude, but McDonald made a good
trustee, anyway,
Died at Mosman the other day William
Henry Hazell Yarrington, clerk in Holy
Orders, but retired from parish work since
1909. He was the author of the poem “Cook
Meditating on Australia’s Future” which he
recited at the Sydney ’Varsity commem. in
July, 1859, and for which he gained the
Chancellor’s gold medal. Ordained in 1870
he worked at Balranald, Yass, West Mait-
land and Burwood, could trail M.A.
and LL.B. after his name, and was a past
president of the Historical Society. He
wrote several works of a religious character,
and was an authority on various phases
of Australian history.
Dotted his last full-point, Alf Strode, 62,
mining .journalist and one of the best-known
men in the Bendigo of the good days. Strode
was trained to be a stonemason, but learn-
ing early that the pen was lighter than the
mallet, he joined the Bendigo Advertiser
under old R. R. Haverfield, and after 21
years there became Bendigo correspondent
of the Age, which organ he served for an-
other 20.
F. R. Zietz, dead much too soon (at 48)
in Adelaide, was one of Australia’s experts
in natural history, and especially on birds.
He grew up as assistant of his father, an
expert of the Adelaide Museum, and in due
time succeeded him. His whole heart and
mind were given to his work, and S. Aus.
will be singularly fortunate if it can replace
him.
The late Drysdale Brown, Vic. M.L.C.
and frequent Minister, was one of those
pawky gentlemen who arrive at a certain
eminence in politics without anybody realis-
ing why. There is a yarn of him which
illustrates his quality. He was in Swanston-
street one afternoon when a horse fell where
he was stahding waiting for a tram. The
conveyance to which the fallen neddy was
harnessed was laden with furniture, and
articles were spilled about the road. The
driver having regained his feet yelled at
the M.L.C.: “Sit on his head. Mister! Sit
on his head!” Drysdale Brown, preoccupied
as usual, blinked through bis glasses. “Eh.
what is that?” said he. “Sit on his head!”
repeated the driver. Drysdale Brown almost
awoke. “Eh, eh, no, I thank you,” he said ;
“I will take a chair.” And he did.
In Thomas Neave, aged 43, death has
claimed one of the best-known and best-liked
commercial lawyers in M.L. and a former
Crown Prosecutor. The firm to which he
belonged has been dogged by bad luck. In
1913 it consisted of five healthy members,
and now only one is left.
Robert Hogg, the Scots socialist, has left
the editorial chair of M.L. TrOth and goes
on a holiday to the land of haggis and bag-
pipes. His successor is to be Fred Earle,
sub-editor of the Post and brother of Charles,
editor of the Dominion.
George Swinburne. Vic. Electricity Com-
missioner, who was formerly a star man in
Tommy Bent’s Cabinet and who vegetated
for several years as an Inter-State Commis-
sioner, has joined the directorate of Mel-
bourne Herald. It isn’t his first dealings
with rhe press. When he was Minister for
Water Supply he recovered nearly £3OOO
from the Age for libel, and gave the money
to the tech, school which bears his name at
Glenferrie.
Monsignor BELLA, director of the Sistine
Chapel Choir, and one of the advisors
of Rome on questions of music.
Lt.-Col. Thomas, D. 5.0., the new registrar
of the Speck’s microscopic ’Varsity, dropped
his job as secretary of the London University
College Hospital when the war came, and
went out on A.S.C. work in Mespot. Before
the end he was responsible for the feed-
ing of 600,000 —60,000 fighting men and the
rest non-combatants* camp-followers, refugees
and the Lord knows what.
Conder’s breezy style has struck Pentridge
like half a gale after a stuffy day. The big
Vic. gaol’s new governor, addressing the
warders, told them he wanted to work with
them, but if they tried it the other way—
well, he was going to win. He would do
what he could to redress real grievances,
but he was Conder and not a divinity. When
asked to hear a “deputation” of prisoners he
answered that he was ready to listen to
prisoners individually, but wasn’t there to
encourage unions inside prison. Conder’s
reputation as a champion amateur boxer is
proving a fine introduction for him in his
new environment.
W. G. Ivnight, of Bendigo, is 93, and for
over GO years he has been regularly, once or
twice a week, fining the city’s drunks at the
police court. The old J.P. used to own the
biggest nursery in the district, and did a
lot of hybridising in the Burbank manner.
The well-known Centennial, probably the
largest table grape of any, originated in his
nursery.
Like a good many other Judges who have
been retired, Justice Real, of Queensland,
has decided to practise at the Bar again in
spite of his fIOOO-a-year pension. The man
who lifted himself from a carpenter’s bench
to the other sort may be different; in other
cases the return to practice has rarely
amounted to anything in the end.
Billv Hughes, when an M.L.A., was nearly
lost to the Empire. Bernhard Wise was N. S.
Wales Attorney-General, and he had a hilari-
ous party on the old Premier. As they tore
into a quiet Middle Harbor reach a skiff
containing a lonely fisherman hove in sight.
The Premier’s bow took the craft amidships,
and W. M. Hughes, after shooting some
eight feet into the air, foundered, and was
prised from under the screw T by a boat-hook.
They filled him with champagne and apolo-
gies while his ruined garments were drying
before the engine-room fire, but he threat-
ened an exposure of the outrage in the
House, and other _ reprisals, to the end. The
rescuers compromised finally by reimbursing
him for the immolation of his boat and
clothes.
“Exile” sees an oil-nabob:—
E. L. Doheny, the Mexican oil king, who lives at
Pasadena, the millionaires’ suburb of Los Angeles
(U.S.A.), once gave me an interview. He is a
small, shrunken, mild-mannered man who while
studying law worked as a mechanic. I found him
sitting behind a pile of dividend cheques about two
feet high signing them carefully, but, millionaire-
like, not blotting his signature. He was not really
cordial, because it was getting near luncheon time,
so I rattled off my reasons why Australia ought to
be full of oil, and why he should spend a few
dollars in boring there. He casually remarked that
he controlled two hundred million dollars of oil
wells in Mexico and had a hundred years work to
do —therefore he could not send anybody to look
for oil in Australia. By this time the pile of
cheques had been signed and Doheny, begging my
pardon for having his luncheon there and then,
pulled from behind a heap of papers a small, hard
cracker biscuit and a tumbler of iced water! “You
see,” quoth this multi-millionaire, “my digestion
is not as good as it used to be, so I have to be
careful what I eat.” Like J. D. Rockefeller, E. L.
Doheny. is a temperate man, and, like the richest
man in the world, he suffers from bad health, due
to excessive thinking and too much dry biscuit and
water. As he declined ■to come into the Australian
search for petroleum we parted, he to sign another
pyramid of cheques, I to attack a porterhouse steak
d la Chateaubriandj with lots of fat and plenty of
gravy.
“Cato”: A few years ago in the Banana-
land Assembly barrister Blair referred to
the rising Theodore as “a Bulgarian atro-
city.” Theodore has now wiped out the
insult with a present to Blair of a tropical
Judgeship. A decade ago the self-same
barrister declined Kidson’s offer of the
Northern Judgeship —he evidently expected
one in the South. McCawley was then his
clerk. To-day McCawley is Chief Justice
of Queensland, and the old boss will have
the privilege of sitting in the Full Court
when his former clerk asks him to do so.
Alexander Nicholson, the new head of
the Victorian police, wears the coveted Valor
Badge for a little affair at Ballarat. One
night when he had returned from a long
bike-ride he was informed that a young man
with a revolver was playing up at a Wen-
douree hotel. Nicholson, then a plain bobby,
collared a baton, walked into the bar, and,
despite being punctured in the hand and
ribs, captured the man. There were 17
other people in the bar at the time. _ Two
of them were barmaids who had fainted,
and the other 15 were men too terrified to
move. Nicholson’s courage, by the way, was
responsible for the institution of the Valor
Badge in the force.
“Tom H.” : I know old Thomas Conroy,
Melbourne’s record “drunk” (B. 6/4/’22).
He is 81, a saddler by trade, and nearly
blind. The magistrates invariably offer to
send him to a "home,” but Tom, knowing
he knows, prefers the Melbourne Gaol,
where (owing to the mercy of Dr. Godfrey,
the G.M.0., and W. A Hughes, the super.),
all aged men are kept in the hospital. The
old chap is better off in the gaol than he
would be in a Vic. “home” for old men;
and if one can say a harder thing than that
about a Government I don’t know what that
thing is.
The result of the Sturt vote in the Ma
State election won’t make Michael Consi-
dine very optimistic
about winning the
Darling from brother
Blakeley. Darling
now includes most of
Considine’s old Bar-
rier seat, and it was
in Broken Hill, where
the votes are most
numerous, that the
industrial Laborites
whom Considine now
prefers to represent
were sadly bumped at
the polls. But Consi-
dine, who no longer
opens his hatchet face
in the official caucus,
won’t allow that re-
sult to keep him out
of the fray. He will
stand against Blake-
ley, and if, as seems
likely, he is rejected,
he will take his gruel
withoiit a whimper,
and. he says, go back
to the pick and shovel.
J. CRONIN , curator
of the Melbourne
Botanical Gardens,
whose Autumn glory
has been attracting
record Easter crowds.
“Wallabaloolah”: The par. about Henry
O’Brian and his boiling-down pots (B.
2/3/’22) did not mention that he has an-
other claim to remembrance, in that he was
the “father of squatters” or such as go forth
into the wilds with their flocks and herds.
His first grants were round about O’Connell,
near Bathurst (N.S.W.), but, fired by the
explorations southwards of Hume and Hovell,
he was the leader of those who pushed
down towards the Yass and Murrumbidgee
rivers. His first wife, a daughter of Cap-
tain Macdonald, of the 17th Regiment, died
at their Sydney home in 1838; his second,
Elizabeth Sadlier O’Brien, outlived him many
years. His only son died in England while
still young, and neither Henry nor his
brother Cornelius, who was associated with
him in his ventures, left any descendants.
ROSS SMITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was a youth who held the world too small:
And now a leaden coffin cases all.
He knew the risk and faced it unafraid.
The cost he counted and, ungrudging, paid.
True sons of sires who marched from sea to sea,
Without such souls what would Australia be?
The airman dying by his wrecked machine,
Tlie drover fall’n in sight of pastures green,
The miner stark beside his desert lode,
The Digger lifeless in the Sunken Road —
These are our pride, our heroes of romance.
Honor to them, the Men Who Took a Chance!
N.S.W.’
S. G.


m
;
m
I
H
ir^r-
as
aa
to#
»
r*P
1
=JEL
l£
SS?
%3
a
Si
V 3
>s
I
s*
f/I
8i
#
fc
v^c
peV Vesiepri
Sioar’kUnd "Vines
IMPERIALS RESE RVE
Ommpaone ofQuslralia
B. SEPPELT & SONS, LIMITED.


I * ,J#
! 1 i
i»
mJmM
M
ś
Schweppes’Essence
Competition—
Closing date 30th September.
Every bottle of Essence of
Vanilla, Ratafia, Lemon, etc.,
purchased has the chance of J
winning a Prize.
45
Each competitor must send in five labels.
The numbers on the five labels will be
totalled, and the aggregate highest numbers
of the five labels will be the winners.
Address to SCHWEPPES, LTD., 67
Foveaux Street, Sydney, and mark the
envelope “Essence Competition.”
Closing date No. 1 Competition, 30th
September.
Ask your grocer for further particulars.
Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
♦
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOia. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
PRESTIGE-
How Much Is it Worth t*' You?
CoroNA
The Complete Portable Typewriter
WILL ADD PRESTIGE TO YOUR LETTERS,
ACCOUNTS, REPORTS, ETC.
COSTS ONLY £l7/17/- COMPLETE IN CASE
MACDOUGALLS LTD.,
42 Martin Place, Sydney.
410 Collins Street, Melbourne.
365 Queen Street, Brisbane.
11 Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SOCIETY
“Pip Tok”: “Hanno’s” tale of the Digger
who didn’t know the name of his battalion
(B. 30/3/’22) reminds me of the Dope of
C Coy. When General Holmes took over
the 4th Division he insisted on men knowing
the names of their C.O.’s, brigadiers, etc.,
and for a while our Old Man was very hot
on pulling up stray Diggers and putting
them through a Who’s Who of the brigade.
He struck the Dope one morning and elicited
the information that the Old
Man himself was “one of the
heads” and that the Dope’s
company commander was “a
long bloke they call the
skipper.” He did not know
the name of his company or
battalion, but knew for a
fact that he was “in the
Aussies” and under the com-
mand of Mr. Birdwood. Yet
during the Somme winter
the Dope was a bless-
ing. He was the most
expert coal-pincher in three
brigades. Before the war he wielded the
pencil for a bookmaker. He probably does
so still —if race meetings are held in Val-
halla.
* * * #
“Dido”: The long arm of coincidence
strained a point in favor of a lady in Kew
(Vic.) the other day, when a new servant
turned up, wearing a beautiful old cameo
lost by the family some five years ago. It
was positively identified by initials at the
back and by its peculiar construction. The
girl insisted that the article had been given
her by a former boy of hers, who declared
he had brought it back from the Front. The
boy was run down with some difficulty, and
corroborated the girl’s story. He had given
the girl the brooch, and he had got it at
the Front, not from a deceased Hun. as he
had told her, but from a Christmas billy sent
vith hundreds of others from Melbourne.
The lad was able to describe the contents of
his billy, and the family recognised it as one
they had filled for the boys. How the heir-
loom got in with the chocolate and the fags
and other things is left to the imagination,
but it is assumed that the baby-girl of the
day added her own special tribute to valor
before the billy w T as lidded and sealed.
“Barwon”: It happened when feeling was
running high at the time of the Tirtschke
tragedy. Smitliicks adds to a retiring dis-
position a sense of humor and a Dotable care-
lessness in dress. When, therefore, while in
casual conversation in a lonely residential
street with a little girl wearing the hatband
of a swanky ladies’ college, he was roughly
spun round by an earnest passer-by and
bidden accompany him to the watchhouse,
he made no objection. (The passer-by was
a heavyweight and very earnest.) Intrigued
by the thought of seeing a watchhouse, the
child went even more willingly. Arrived
there, the amateur sleuth told his tale and
proceeded to extract confirmatory evidence
from the child. “What did this fellow say
to you?” he demanded ponderously. “He
wanted me to walk with him round Way-
back-street,” lisped the maiden. “Ah! And
has he ever spoken to you before?” “Oh.
yes,” she answered cheerily, “that’s dad!”
Then they all went home.
♦ -» * *
“Wig”: The cap and bells left by the
late N.S.W. Justice G. B. Simpson must
shortly be awarded to one of the newest
appointees to the same Bench. He is be-
coming famous for adding to the gaiety of
Court proceedings. This may be harmless
—“gets a laugh,” as the late George Gros-
smith said to the late W. S. Gilbert. To
whom the latter replied: “So would you
get a laugh if you sat down on a pork-pie!”
Which suggests how, when proceedings are
dull, this Judge mav “get a laugh” without
in any way prejudicing the other matter
he is sitting on. Any other sort of judicial
joke may indeed be dangerous: a Judge may
often (quite unwittingly) influence a jury
by getting a laugh at the expense of the
wrong party in a cause. Ridicule is a big
weapon, especially in the hands of the demi-
gods sitting in the high seats.
* * *• *
“Bilbav” on warfare in Russia: —
Nearly every Russian can play some instrument
or other, and the few who can’t are singers. They
can’t work, march or even sit still without a song.
I saw two old white-whiskered Russkis come down
to our ship at Archangel to unload our stuff —the
young men were fighting either the Reds or Whites,
so only old men and women were left. The pair
couldn’t look at the job, so we got into the hold
and fired the cargo into the slings. It took
all day, but those old men sat on a bale of shirts,
cut of the way, and sang all the time. Our little
Australian detachment soon picked up the tune of
their most popular marching song and used to la-la-
la the rather dreary air as we imitated their heavy,
long, slow stride on the march. There is another air,
a waltz, that they were always playing, and the tune
haunts me yet. I had it drummed into my head in
a Russian support blockhouse where they kept it go-
ing all night. A battalion of the Hampshire Regiment
had a fine band which used to play on the railway-
station of a townlet named Obozerskava, where the
rest camp iwas, and I think this did more to make
the Whites in that sector stay white than all the
proclamations and ceremonial parades of the British
Expedition. The whole village used to flock on to
the station platform and dance. I have seen both
sides—Whites and Reds—walk out of the line for the
whole day and celebrate a praznik. They danced all
the morning, drank all the afternoon, and went back
to their posts at night as if it was all in the day’s
work. When things were quiet in the line a picture-
show was held in an old barn or shed just behind
the reserve line, and about half the British garrison
PUTTING PERCY IN HIS PLACE.
“The woman I marry must take me with all
faults.”
“Look, she’ll be so desperate that faults
won’t trouble her!”
used to attend. The pictures were English or Ameri-
can, of course, and an interpreter stood at the back
of the hall to interpret the captions. One night, in
the middle of the show, the first shell of a barrage
crashed on the support blockhouse, and in one second
that show was the wildest confusion. I was handy
to a window, so I went out that way, taking the mos-
quito-proof gauze with me. The Russians panicked,
rushed the two small doors and all tried to get out
at once. Two of them went down and didn’t get up.
There was a Polish legion in that sector, and some
of them used to come to our camp at might and
bring their fiddles and turn out some very fine
music—stuff we knew, and not the wild, rather
dismal folk-songs of their comrades-(for once)-in-
arms. Yes, there w r as no lack of music in that
campaign.
* * * *
“Old P.M.”: There were seven Chinamen
concerned. They had been convicted of
some breach of the statutes at Bungaree,
and condemned to five months’ imprisonment
in Ballarat Gaol. Pert was the constable
chosen to deliver the goods. An old American
waggon was requisitioned, and the seven (m
handcuffs) were loaded aboard. Pert, with
a revolver at his hip, took up the reins, and
PILGARLIG AGAIN
“I think I’ll get a fouta-foula coat and skirt
for the cold weather.”
“Don’t forget we agreed to economise on
clothes for a bit.”
“Well, haven’t we — didn’t we decide that
your last-winter’s suit was good for
another season?”
flicked his horses into a jig-jog. The day
was hot and the way was long. Pert
passed two pubs, but he did not pass them
in a hurry. Arrived on the outskirts of Bal-
larat East, after a long, hot, sleepy, silent
ride, he awoke, and took the precaution of
counting his charges. There were only six.
He tried again. No better luck —a bare half-
dozen confronted him. The others, when
questioned, w T ere as obtuse as mummies. Pert
drove on. On Blank-road he came upon a
Chinese sitting on his heels by the way.
Pert jumped down, and borrowed him.
Clapping handcuffs on him he added him to
the collection in the waggon. Seven Chinese
were delivered to the Ballarat Gaol accord-
ing to schedule, and seven Chinese served
the sentences apportioned by the Wallace
Town Court. Later Pert got his stripe for
efficiency and devotion to duty. What the
commandeered heathen thought of the matter
I regret I am not in a positon to say.
# * * #
“Bendee”: I remember another swallow-
ing of note which took place in a Victorian
town 25 years ago. A well-known profes-
sional man, when sobering up after a bender,
was given a silver teaspoon to take his medi-
cine with. The disappearance of the spoon
caused little comment at the time, but months
afterwards a chronic pain under his belt
terminated in an operation which brought
to light the missing silver. The patient had
no knowledge of having swallowed it, and.
incidentally, he is still hale and hearty, and
still gets tight.
“Copabella”: Chance took me to a “closer
settlement” hidden aw y ay in the big timber
of the Black Forest country of Vic., and,
when there, to a tiny hut of unpainted hard-
wood, the chatelaine of which was a little,
white-haired lady with that voice and deport-
ment known in fiction as “genteel.” The
outside of the cottage was mean enough, but
the inside was a revelation. It was almost
a picture gallery of illustrations from the
Queen or Society —save that the pictures
were original signed photographs. There
were matrons in gala attire, misses in Court
costume, gallants in military uniform or
in Court dress. Resplendent was the only
word to describe some of them. With a
manner which reminded me of visits to the
“housekeeper’s room” at some of the feudal
homes in England, I was bidden accept hos-
pitality, and my hostess explained. She had
been nurse to a Scots family which traced
itself back to Macbeth or Donald Bain or
somebody, had followed tradition and married
the coachman, and had emigrated to Aus-
tralia. But she had not been forgotten. As
each member of the family “came out” (if
a girl), obtained his commission (if a boy,
for the boys entered a Highland regiment as
a matter of course), married, had an heir or
heiress or otherwise gave cause for photo-
graphers’ attention, a signed picture was
faithfully sent to the old “retainers” in dis-
tant Victoria. Some of the Snobocracy would
give their ears to possess that collection, for
the family is a very great family indeed, and
its sons and daughters are in face and form
well worthy its tradition.
“Donk Belter”: How’s this for the breeze-
vertical record? In the early part of the
Passchendaele stunt one of the Umpteenth
Battery’s guns was in a corner where two
banks met. Bill,
the No. 4, prided
himself on the way
he could stand well
back and throw a
shell into the
breach. Now the
average shell can
be treated as care-
lessly as a politi-
cian’s promise, but
when the fuse of
“shrap” is set it
is as well to be
careful. On this
occasion Bill
slipped and the
shell hit the
breach-ring with a
bang and fell
smoking to the
floor of the pit.
No. 1 hastily
grabbed it and
threw it out to the
left. It rolled back.
Grabbing it even
more hastily he
threw it out to the
left. It rolled back
again. Then a
very desperate No.
1 seized the smok-
ing horror and cast
it over the gun-
shield, where at
last it burst —
harmlessly. They gave Bill a job as a driver.
“Hanno”: Time was when scientific men
looked pityingly upon those cranks who
spoke of the human aura; yet to-day clinical
medicine is inclined to be cock-a-whoop over
a new diagnostic agent in the form of what
is known as the aura screen, the inven-
tion of which is hailed as marking a new
era in medical science. Some years ago
the “discovery” was made quite accidentally
by a doctor on the staff of a leading London
hospital that the adult human body emitted
a distinct aura which could be seen more
plainly under some conditions than others,
and to study this emanation he devised a
screen made with the chemical dicyanin. A
jittle later it was found that the aura
changed according to the health of its owner,
this being particularly so in the case of the
A HANDY FASHION.
“Ladies in Paris are dyeing their hair to match
their costumes.” — Fashion note.
“ George , I found a red hair on your over-
coat.”
“Er — yes, my dear! Don’t you remember
you wore auburn hair and a brown
dress the last time I had that coat out?”
pregnant woman. Since then the pheno-
menon has been further investigated, and
already it is being made use of for diag-
nostic purposes in more than one hospital
in London and on the Continent, while a
good deal of research is being carried out
in several American universities. At pre-
sent the whole thing is in its infancy, but
it. is more than likely that aura diagnosis
will become an every-day practice.
FORMULA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sure 1 am there’s nothing sweeter,
Nothing worthier a defender,
Nothing trickier, daintier, neater
Than a damsel young and tender.
True, O owl with conscience pure,
\ou may like your dame mature.
Choose your hen. A girl must be
Young and tender still for me.
Much I shudder at the she
Thirty-six to sixty-three.
When you have your damsel, hold her
Very firmly, very stoutly;
Press her head back to your shoulder,
Stoop and kiss her lips devoutly—
Kiss should last, if love is in it,
Forty seconds to a minute.
Should some censor peer and quiz,
Muttering hateful homilies,
Kick his rearmost edifice;
That is where his conscience is.
Seat her gently—on your knees is
Just the spot for this best suited:
Kiss her more the more she teases.
Kisses tell. It has been bruited
(Though I’ll not swear this myself)
That the sauciest, naughtiest ell
Can’t resist the pleading kiss
Of the swain who doesn’t miss
Any chance. (But, mark you this,
I’m the foe of artifice 1)
If you love her and she’s willing,
Craft is needless; you’re the winner.
Rich or barely worth a shilling,
Bold or timid, saint or sinner,
If she loves you she will give
All —that’s her prerogative.
Nay, though censors squawk and yell,
Man and girl, sit close, and tell
Those old tales that surely spell
Crooning priest and marriage-bell 1
I am orthodox, I swear,
Orthodox to my last hair.
Do not i coldly turn from me,
Doubting my morality,
Little Mrs. Pharisee.
Joy about us every day —
Oh, i] 1 could have my way
{This is solemn truth I speak),
I’d be married twice a week!
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


hb m
h
HHHI
■
■
m
1
11
' '
mMm
;
I:
■
f
irm
Eh'/
H
:
-
**
;y . ' .
: V
OH
* v>
%
WmSmm
«•'
mSmm
I i
i&safl
■ ■■■•
■a
I
mm
k
i
;
■
..
■
R "
mmm
H
WmKmM
•f' ?
■
a
H
1
5 :
MHm
■
-
m
ti- '
■
s
■ V
■
!*fH
■■l ■•>
Hi
m
m
■
'Y<£
ft
an
■M
m
H
ISini
nn
H
■HI
11111
&y~' im j
i *
»«. g w
.
Ik
it*®!
Mm
BHBB
'• ! H
8951 «
“
■HHHi
M
L ,1
;
JiJSi*®
i
■
(Ml
r
m
HM
‘ y* ■ • •
.. ■•
SM
|i|
HB
' i
n
■
■:
"* '
1
n
V. '< ■
m
.
1
•■":•■■■ -
•• ;. ” . •' : : .
\
.
:
US
1 11
KHHi
anHHHI
Iggg
: ■;. • ■ '••
qA Few Favourite lls
HE possession of a player-piano creates one further bond
fF~\ of interest between friends. It places in their hands the
means to enjoy the masterpieces of the world’s tone-poets
as well as the works of the just-as-enjoyable lighter, lyrical writers.
It grants the ability to personally inter-
pret and search out for one’s self the
inner beauties of the various compositions
that would for ever be hidden under a
fumbling hand-technique. Best of all,
it grants the means of giving to others a
big measure of this enjoyment—a meas-
ure not possible where one’s manual
proficiency lags far behind individual
knowledge of music.
c A Booklet has been prepared which gives details of
the New dfteale Player-Piano. Copies posted free.
Showrooms :
340 George Street
SYDNEY
BEALE § COMPANY IT P!
Head Office a\d Factories
p-47 Trafalgar Street
AN NAN DALE
BRANCHES—N.S.W.: Bathurst, Lismore, Newcastle ar 1 Goulburn. Victoria: Maples in all
Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobar jVlaples, Launceston. S.A.: John Evans,
Ltd.. Adelaide. W.A.: J. A. Thomson Co., Limited, F erth.
BEALE & COMPANY (Queensland) LIMITED,
90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane; Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton, Townsville, Mackay and Cairns.


Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SAFETY FIRST!
LIFEBUOY SOAP
K
0
KILLS GERMS IN THE WASHtUB.
'Tor Ever Best.”
STA<S
LASER
TOOHEY'S.
“Spare Corp.” : There is nothing very ex-
ceptional about the recently cabled story of
the Digger who went through tiie Scottish
form of marriage with a lassie, and, having to
leave for Australia next day, has only just
now been able to trace her, because all he
could remember was that her name wus
Helen and she lived in Dundee. The
mislaying of brides by Diggers was a fre-
quent happening. One who had been meet-
ing a girl regularly at Trafalgar Square
decided to marry her before his leave expired,
and he duly celebrated the event beiore sundry
bars as well as before the Registrar. Then
one morning he turned up woefully at A.I.F.
H.Q. with a yarn about a bride awaiting his
return at an address that eluded him. He
wasn't taken seriously, but was drafted back
to his unit, protesting bitterly. Some months
later an indignant lady visited us with a
story of heartless desertion, and a demand
to know what was going to be done about
the expected infant. Then papers in the
soldier’s file, containing frequent appeals for
action to be taken to find Ins wife, connected
up with the lady’s plaint, and a reunion was
brought about. And that was only one inci*
dent of many.
“Exul”: I hate to appear a sceptic, but
I frankly don’t believe some of the tempera-
tures the papers have lately said patients
have put up. The Bristol girl with ’flu may
have reached 114° F.; but the tales about
the “hysterical w'oman” of Guy’s Hospital
who rose to 128.1° F. in 1881, in an attempt
to lower the record of 130.8° F. established
by a person at the Adelaide Hospital (Dub-
lin) the year before, and of the “hysterical
fireman” who beat it easily with 148° F. in
1895, are more than I can swallow. The
last gentleman would have been only 10°
off _ the point of coagulation of protein, at
which stage he would have assumed the con-
dition of a lightly-boiled egg. A patient will
generally complain if a lotion of 120° F. be
applied to him, so these people must have
been pretty unpleasant to handle. High
temperatures in hysterical patients are
always to be regarded with suspicion. I re-
member one some years ago in Sydney Hos-
pital whose temperature used to rise so high
at times that the thermometers broke under
the strain of registering it. However, when
the hot-water bottle into which she was
found to be inserting them was kept out of
the bed she never once reached 99° F. Tem-
peratures of 112° F. are not uncommon in
sunstroke and are a very dangerous symp-
tom. The highest I have seen have been
110° F. and 111° F. —these were in cases
of tetanus and fractured skull respectively.
SYMPATHY.
MRS. SHOO-SMITH : “I had such a strange
dream last night. I dreamt that dear
mother was alive again.”
MISTER ( shivering) : “Lobster-salad always
gives me nightmare too!”
In both these the mercury continued to rise
for about an hour after the death of the
patient.
t * t t
“Crony” : N.S.W. lawyers didn’t like the
judicial slobbering by a Judge over “my
old schoolmate, who I wouldn’t believe would
ever,” etc. After the case had gone badly
for the “old schoolmate” and a settlement
had to be effected by his firm, it was surely
“over the odds” for the Judge to use the
whitewash-brush in open court. It is
singularly like what happens in the Ameri-
can courts, where the Judges are all
looking forward to the next elections or to
future briefs if they are defeated and have
to go back to the Bar.
THE MORNING AFTER THE NIGHT BEFORE.
LITTLIN : “Well, how did you get on?”
BIGGIN : “Oh, my little wife was sitting up with a cigarette, smoking.”
LITTLIN : “ You're lucky. Mine was sitting up with a poker fuming !”
“Coot”: In a Melbourne suburban kirk a
tablet had been for many years on the wall
in memory of an old elder. Upon the death
of his wife it was decided that reference
should be made thereon to her also, as she
had liberally contributed to the church’s
funds. A stonemason was given the job, and
when he had finished the inscription read: —
In Loving Memory of
JOHN BLANK,
For many years a faithful Elder in this Church.
The Lord God Omnipotent Reigneth.
Also his beloved wife,
SUSAN BLANK.
# * • *
“Hanno”: “Exul’s” reference to a blood
test for disproving paternity (B. 30/3/’22)
recalls that recent research has brought to
light a new terror for malefactors. Blood
samples may be identified microscopically,
and it is now possible for a chem-
ist to take two specimens and say
whether they both come from the
same source. The method consists
of isolating certain crystalline pro-
ducts in the blood, and then mak-
ing a comparison of the crystals,
which differ just as thumb-prints
do. In many a murder case a man
with blood-stained clothes has
pleaded a Cut finger; but that won’t
work when this new development
of science has been worked out a
bit further. The thing promises
to have a considerable effect upon
the killing industry, and it will be interest-
ing to see what the Murderers’ Union is
going to do about it
“Verri”: A well-known Auckland (M.L.)
couple, both extremely fair, had four chil-
dren, also fair and blue-eyed. Then came a
fifth child, black-eyed, very dark-skinned —a
distinctly foreign type. Inquiries dug up a
family legend that a remote ancestor had
married a gypsy, and that the Romany
strain recurred every third generation. Inci-
dents like this in the Rickety Isles, where
there is much Maori-pakeha intermarriage,
ar ; making people wonder if the Ilori type,
which practically fades out with the fourth
generation, will recur later. It hasn’t hap-
pened yet, but we shall know more about it
in another hundred years.
“Zozimus”: James Edmond’s most satis-
factory recital of the manner of “combing
out” my ancestors, the kings of Ireland,
challenges comparison. Naturally, we Irish
are all proud of the violent ends which came
to these gallant controversialists in the
green-swarded abattoir which Ireland then
was and now is. But poetic justice must
be done, and I oppose the records of the
Byzantine Empire, and the fate of the em-
perors of that other great Christian State,
to the early Irish records of poison, violence,
steel, fire and sword which he adduces. A
French writer in the Revue des Detjx
Mondes (Jan., 1891) set up this record for
the Byzantines:—
It is calculated that of 109 Byzantine emperors
who reigned alone or in association from Arcadius
to Constantine DragazGs only 34 died in their Im-
perial beds, and eight in war or by accident. Of
the others 12 of their own free will abdicated or
were forced to abdicate; 12 ended their lives in
monasteries or prisons; three were starved to death ;
18 were mutilated or had their eyes gouged out
[this is a detail which, I think, scores one point
for the Byzantines over the early Irish] ; and 20
were either smothered, strangled, stabbed or thrown
from a column.
Ireland was more prolific in the number of
kings than the degenerate Byzantines, show-
ing 169 to 109 in about the same period ;
but the died-in-his-bed record is higher in
Byzantium than in Ireland, viz., 34 to 8.
It is to be hoped that, no matter how we
descendants of these early and defunct Irish
kings may admire the choice and variety of
their heroic deaths, the modern leaders will
not emulate them, but will “live and let
live.”
• # * *
“Cellu Lloyd”: One night back about
1905 we were crawling up the coast of
Santa Cruz in a schooner close hauled to
the wind. It was raining in streaks, sheets
and lumps, and charcoal would have left a
white mark on the atmosphere three feet
from the binnacle. Fifteen miles from land
in the pitch dark a stranger came over the
f’c’s’le. He had walked overboard from a
tramp going God knows where, and we had
run him down—and ours was the only other
vessel within hundreds of miles. Three
weeks after he had got a shore job a whale
stranded on the beach not far from his
station. The ambergris netted him £750.
Six months later we met him in Sydney and
we had a wet night. Five whiskies and
three cocktails always created within him
a great desire to travel—and at once. This
night he insisted on Maoriland, and he did
it so loudly that to keep him quiet we took
him to a tobacconist’s and bought him
a ticket. He thought it was for M.L., but
we knew it was for a flutter in Tatt.’s, and
when we got him into bed we reckoned it
was worth it. The ticket we bought him
won for him over £5OO, and he used it in
getting away with another man’s wife. He
also pinched a Stewart banjo of mine, which
was a more serious matter.
» * * *
“Yoyang” peers into the past:—
“Dutie” (B. 30/3/'22) is sceptical of the
generally-accepted theory as to the origin of the
name of Manly (N.S.W.), and says that among the
first naval officers to reach Australia was a Captain
Manly or Manley. Even so, there is no evidence to
connect him with Sydney’s surfing village; but
there is evidence enough to convict the other theory
of guilt. “Historical Kecords of N.5.W.,” vol. 1,
part 2, gives verbatim the first dispatch of Governor
Phillip. In it he told how at one point of the
harbor 20 abos. waded into the water unarmed,
received what was offered them, and examined the
boats. “Their confidence and manly behaviour,’’
says Phillip, “made me give the name of Manly Ccve
to this place.” This dispatch is dated May 15,
1788. Again, in “The Voyage of Governor Phillip
to Botany Bay,” printed in London in 1789, on page
58, wo find: “This confidence and manly behaviour
[of the natives]... .induced Governor Phillip... .to
give the place the name of Manly Cove.” As for
Bankstown, I find that in January, 1798, Governor
Hunter made the first land grants at Banks Town,
and the name of Banks does not appear among the
early grantees, who were Surgeon George Bass, Cap-
tain Geo. Johnston, James Healy, Michael Murphy
and John Winsted, all marines; Capt. Thus. Rowley,
Wm. Barter, James Angle, Thos. Bramwell and Thos.
Smyth. There were apparently no settlers there
before 1798 —certainly no land had been granted
prior to that date. So I fall back on the explanation
that the name was derived from Captain Cook’s
great naturalist.
* » * •
“Cartot”: A few weeks ago there died in
ex-German New Guinea a half-caste Japanese
lady who, one day in 1914, did more to liven
up somnolent Madang than any other 10
people ever did in a lifetime. For about
three years she had been housekeeping for
an Australian who made a fluctuating living
by trading, recruiting or anything else that
happened to turn up, and eventually the
white residents had come to look upon her
as his wife. Then a lucky deal put him in
possession of nearly £lOOO, and, leaving the
half-caste lady behind, he went off on a trip
to Sydney, lie came back in the Prinz Sigis-
mund. News travels quickly in those parts,
and long before the steamer had left Rabaul
it was known in Madang that he had with
him a woman he had married in Australia.
The housekeeper took the news calmly, but
the day the Sigismund arrived it was noticed
that she was nowhere in sight, and people
wondered where she had got to. They did
not wonder long. The steamer was about
100yds. from the wharf when a crack came
from the mangroves, and a rifle bullet flat-
tened itself on the vessel’s side. It was
followed by four more—and two seconds
later there wasn’t a person to be seen on
A DIVORCE SUIT.
“Can you show me something suitable to
wear at a divorce trial?”
“ Certainly, madam. Defendant, plaintiff, or
co-respondent?”
deck. For a quarter of an hour the irate
lady kept up her bombardment, and it was
only after her ammunition ran out that she
was captured and disarmed. She said she
intended no harm to anybody but the man,
and, as nobody had been injured, she got off
with a month in the calaboose. Com-
ing out, she set up in business as a store-
keeper and prospered exceedingly.
AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Apple-pink April is here again;
Cosmos are showering their fragrant rain,
Petal on petal, slim anti arch,
Over the grave of boisterous March.
April is here, and the red-heads plump,
Twitter and titter from stump to stump.
Pert little wagtails, black and white,
Trip rigadioons to the Summer’s flight.
April is here, and to-day I spied
Autumn, as brown as an island bride,
Yellowing glances backward fling
Over the red of a parrot’s wing.
N.S.W.
ZORA CHOSS.


'"''■"’TTS
...
*
iiiiiililia
111
: ‘
1
§111!
1
I
Jig
iiisiiiii
tlllill
mm
v
'-Vs
MB
■IS
■
mm
■. ■ ■ .:
llllillii:
■
1
lllplllilil
:
m
wmmmrn
lil§Bit§i
IlilSfUilll
ssSsWilllSiili
■llillll!
/;
PUBLIC NOTICE-
Extract from letter of 11th January, 1922, received by
JAMES WATSON & COMPANY LIMITED, SYDNEY,
from their Principals at Dundee, Scotland. —IT SPEAKS
FOR ITSELF.
“The question of price must, as in the past, be based
on quality. We could, as you can understand, ship
cheaper whisky, but there does not seem any ultimate
advantage, either to our customers or to ourselves,
in doing so; besides, we would not associate our
name with the re-sale of Scotch Whisky three years
old. There is also the wider question of policy—
whether we are to come down to compete with the
cheapest, or whether we are to STAND on QUALITY
AT OUR PRICE. We believe we will gain prestige
by the latter course.”
Watsofts'No. 10” Whisky
Now as Ever, SUPREME.
Standard Ag;e -
lO Years.
Ample PRE-WAR STOCKS
Held to Meet All Demands.
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., Scotch Whisky Merchants,
DUNDEE, GLASGOW & LONDON.
SYDNEY,
26 King Street.
Australian Branches:
MELBOURNE,
453-455 Latrobe Street.
PERTH, .
13 Barrack Street.
s
I
w
H


The
finest
Tobacco
obtainable is
_EXTRA HIGH GRADED
BE4DYRUBBO
31 B. TOWNS & CO., Sydney, Agents.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlereagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR FAMOUS
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
I
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN &. CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Meataxe”: The water in “Warrawee’s”
“soaks” (B. 16/3/’22) 5000 ft. up on the Baw Baw
range (Vic.) must come from some higher ground,
no matter how far away. Even subterranean water
is subject to ordinary regulations and cannot rise
above the level of its source. The elevated outlet
happens because there is a kink in the watered
strata. From its source to its outlet it must be
held under a stratum through which very little
juice can find a way, except where someone has
driven a bore. Originally the entire stratum was
underground, and when the Baw Baw was built,
either by a volcanic bust-up or a plain shrinkage,
it curled upward?, unearthing a section of itself,
which now shows a soak.
« • * *
“Colub”: If “Rolls” (B. 9/2/’22) and
“Pat Bushie” (B. 16/3/’22) will examine the mouth
of the next snake they kill they will see it would
be a physical impossibility for it to milk a cow.
The reason lies in the arrangement of the reptile’s
teeth and the muscular structure of its mouth —
apart altogether from any interference that the
venom fangs might offer. The teeth are all
curved back, those in front much more so than the
others, and it would be impossible for the snake
to avoid inserting at least some of them into the
flesh of the teat, which would hardly soothe Straw-
berry. Then the act of milking would require 3
movement in the muscles that began closest to the
front of the snake’s mouth and continued back;
but the wriggler’s muscles are adapted for the exact
opposite to this.
* # * #
“Ilerodot”: I cnn endorse the remarks of
“Wandi” (B. 16/3/’22) as to the ability of the
abo. tracker. In the north-west of N. S. Wales I
saw one follow for about three miles the track of a
fugitive who had walked along the bl ’e-metal bal-
lasting of a railway line in the belief that he would
not leave any traces behind. Binghi did it merely
by watching for the oil-stained stones that had
been moved by the criminal’s feet. One thing about
trackers, however, that has always puzzled me is
why they fail when taken out of their own dis-
trict. The tracker belonging to the west of N. S'.
Wales will perform marvels in his home territory,
but take him to Queensland and frequently he will
prove completely useless. Most probably it is a
feeli.ig of strangeness, and not a difference in the
nature of the country, that is at the bottom of it.
“Te Whare”: “Moe’s” par. anent the
poison proteid ricin contained in the seeds of the castor-
oil plant (B. 23/3/’22) incidentally bears witness to
the integrity and ability of manufacturing chemists.
Although castor-oil is a household medicine, acci-
dents very rarely occur. In early days the oil
usually came to the stations in opaque blue glass
bottles, and was used both internally and for
oiling buggies, harness, etc. I know of one hardy
stomached individual, who after oiling his buggy
axles thought nothing of taking a drink out of the
bottle. As regards the (presumably crude and there-
fore dangerous) castor-oil sold in bottles labelled
“for external use only,” fatal accidents may well
occur among those unable to read, and there are
reckless persons who, at a pinch, would not be
deterred by the notice from using such oil as medi-
cine. Very probably, when a dose of this oil,
it sometimes does, results in internal pains, an
infinitesinal quantity of ricin may be the cause of
the discomfort.
* * ■# *
“Snell”: Gambril was a fattish, loutish
man of 30-odd, and too tired to pull up his pants.
They were always hanging precariously, and he wore
unlaced boots without socks, and a dirty grey, un-
buttoned shirt—always the same shirt. He lived
with his wife and his wife’s mother on the farm
that had been his wife’s father’s, and he never did a
hand’s turn. Sitting with his back to the fence,
smoking; coiled in the shade of a lightwood-tree
near the dairy ; or lying along a form by the back
door, he allowed the women to do all the work. I
saw him make only one effort, and that was memor-
able. His mother-in-law, a thin, hollow-eyed little
woman of 70, had been with two buckets and a hoop
to the well, about 150 yards from the kitchen-door,
and was returning, staggering under her burden,
when Danny Gambril advanced to meet her, a pint
pannikin in his hand. He dipped a pannikin of
water from one bucket and drank. “I thought it’d
'elp you,” he said.
“A.W.L.”: Talking of “Fizzers,” every
week the mailman at Julia Creek (Q.) set out
with the bags for Savannah Downs. Taking a
roundabout way, so as to include all selections, he
called at Millungera, Manfred Downs and Dalgon-
ally, finally reaching Savannah after covering 126
miles. After a night’s rest he made the return trip,
RAISING THE ROOF.
“What you doin’ diggin ’ there, Jacky?”
“Mine bin thin hit. make this roof a bit higher, boss.”
and arrived back at the Creek to catch the weekly
mail train to Townsville. The total distance, over 250
miles, took just under four days. For two years
he never missed a mail. In dry weather he used
a buck board, in wet weather pack horses. Then fie
bought a Ford car, and at once a thud —the
dry bed of the Flinders was his Marne.
* * * *
“Ragar”: I tasted something new re-
cently—ra small fish-reptile that lives in the mud-
banks of the Fly River (Papua) and is known to the
natives as kak-kor-me. When disturbed it hides in
tunnels a few inches below the surface and about a
couple of feet long. It seems as much at home
in the mud as in the water. The native watches
it take cover, then locates the exit of the tunnel,
and gradually brings his hands together through
the soft mud till the fish is secured. Grilled, -as
I had them, they make good eating, the flesh being
THE LAST HOPE.
white and firm. They grow to about 12in long
and lib. in weight. The largest are found off Kiwi
Island, in the mouth of the river, where the natives
include them in the daily menu.
“Helen Hopbush”: After all, “Yarrum”
fB. 26/l/’22) is probably right when he says death-
adders strike only when the pressure is removed,
Some years ago one of Cooke and Co.’s buyers was
riding in the vicinity of Edgeroi (N.S.W.) when he
saw two barefooted youngsters, aged about 8 and
10 respectively, very much engrossed in something
they were doing. He rode over and was horrified
to find the elder standing with both feet on a death-
adder, while the younger was hacking off its head
with an old knife. Incidentally, if anyone wants
to study the death-adder he should visit Hulacca
(Q.), the site of so many prickly-pear experiments.
It is not unusual for three or four to be killed
in the streets (?) in one night in summertime, and
they even come on to the hotel verandah when every-
body’s sober. (No one dreams of going out at
night without a lantern.) They are very easy to
kill, as they make no attempt to escape. In fact,
one young lady, having no other weapon of offence
handy, despatched one with the buckle-end of her
patent-leather belt.
• f * *
“Nadehan”: A resident of American
River, Kangaroo Island (S.A.), missed one of his
hens and some time later found her with a brood
of several-day-old chicks in the scrub. The nest,
in which the family was hatched and in which the
broken shells were still lying, had been built in a
she-oak about 6ft. from the ground. Has any Abo.
heard of a similar cAse, and how did the hen get
the youngsters down to earth?
* * • #
“X.R.M.0.”: There is some mistake in
“Moe’s” statement (B. 23/3/’22) that the smallest
amount of ricin required to kill a man is 1-25,000 th
of his body weight. This fraction, for a lOst. man,
works out at about 40 grains, and there are hundreds
of substances that are fatal in smaller doses than
that. On the figure given an ordinary dose of
castor-oil containing as much as 5 per cent, of
ricin could be taken with impunity.
* * * *
“Gouger”: Can any Abo.-ite tell me a
few simply-remembered facts about our tropical
orchids? Aren’t rare ones supposed to bring fancy
prices? I often run across different varieties in th?
great scrubs of N.Q., but I might pack them for
hundreds of miles to the nearest port and then find
the pretty deceivers valueless. It’s no good giving
me a list of jaw-breaking names; just send along a
recognisable Australian description of the valuable
ones. And while you’re at it, let me know if the
skins of the alligator and cus-cus are of any com-
mercial value, and, if so, the address of the market.
» • » *
“Gippsland”: Two of my bullocks have
cured themselves of snakebite very simply. When
the first was bitten on a front leg by a black snake
he immediately put down his head and began to
suck out the poison quite calmly. I looked on in
amazement, and he presently spat out the poison
and proceeded on his way unruffled. The second
beast was similarly bitten and cured himself in
exactly the same way.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE COACHMAN’S YARN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a tale that the coachman told,
As he flicked the flies from Marigold
And flattered and fondled Pharaoh.
The sun swung low in the western skies ;
Out on a plain, just over a rise,
Stood Nimitybell, on Monaro;
Cold as charity, cold as Hell,
Bleak, bare, barren Nimitybell—
Nimitybell oil Monaro.
“Now this ’ere ’appened in eighty-three,
The coldest winter ever we see;
Strewth, it was cold, a? cold as could be,
Out ’ere on Monaro;
It froze the blankets, it froze the fleas,
It froze the sap in the blinkin’ trees.
I made a grindstone out of cheese,
Right ’ere in Monaro!
“Freezin’ an’ snowin’—ask the old hands;
They seen, they knows, an’ they understand.
The ploughs was froze, and the cattle brands,
Down ’ere in Monaro;
It froze our fingers and froze our toes;
I seen a passenger’s breath so froze
Icicles ’ung from ’is bloomin’ nose
Long as the tail on Pharaoh!
“I ketched a curlew down by the creek;
His feet was froze to his blessed beak;
’E stayed like that for over a week —
That’s cold on Monaro.
Whj r , even the air got froze that tight
You’d ’car the awfullest sounds at night,
When things was put to a fire or light,
Out ’ere on Monaro.
“For the sounds was froze. At Hay don’s Bog
A cove ’e crosscut a big back-log,
An’ carted ’er ’ome (’e wants to jog—
Stiddy, go stiddy there, Pharaoh!).
As soon as his log begins to thaw
They ’ears the sound of the crosscut saw
A-thawin’ out. Yes, his name was Law.
Old hands, them Laws, on Monaro.
NO AWARD RATES.
PLUCKY PLUMRER: “Give us a kiss, Polly.”
NEW MAID: “Not now. The boss is home,
but I’ll meet you to-night in the park!”
P. P.: “What! In me own time! No
bloomin' hope!”
“The second week of this ’ere cold snap
I’m drivin’ the coach. A Sydney chap,
’E strikes this part o’ the bloomin’ map,
A new hand ’ere on Monaro;
’ls name or game I never heard tell,
But ’e gets off at Nimitybell;
Blowin’ like Bluey, freezin’ like ’ell,
At Nimitybell on Monaro.
“The drinks was froze, o’ course, in the bar;
They breaks a bottle of old Three Star,
An’ the barman sezs, ‘Now, there y’ are,
You can’t beat that for Monaro!’
The stranger bloke, ’e was tall an’ thin,
Sez ‘Strike me blue, but I think you win;
We’ll ’ave another an’ I'll turn in—
It’s blitherin’ cold on Monaro.’
“’E borrowed a book an’ went to bed
To read awhile, so the missus said,
By the candle-light. ’E must ha’ read
(These nights is long on Monaro)
Past closin’ time. Then ’e starts an’ blows
The candle out; but the wick ’ad froze f
Leastways, that’s what folks round ’ere suppose,
Old hands as lived on Monaro.
“So bein’ tired, an’ a stranger, new
To these mountain ways, they think he threw
’ls coat on the wick; an’ maybe, too,
Any odd clothes ’e’d to spare. Oh,
This ain’t no fairy, an’ don’t you fret!
Next day came warmer, an’ set in wet —
There’s some out ’ere as can mind it yet,
The real old ’ands on Monaro.
“The wick must ha’ thawed. The fire began
At breakfast time. The neighbors all ran
To save the pub...... an’ -forgot the man
(Stiddy, go stiddy there, mare-oh).
The pub was burned to the blankv ground ;
’ls buttons was all they ever found.
The blinkin’ cow, ’e owed me a yo-und —
From C'ooma his blinkin’ fare, oh!
“That ain’t no fairy, not what I’ve told;
I’m gettin’ shaky an’ growin’ old,
An’ 1 hope / never again see cold,
Like that down ’ere on Monaro 1”
Ho drives his horses, he drives them well.
And this is the tale he loves to tell
Nearing the town of Nimitybell,
Nimitybell on Monaro.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


“Bookstall” Novels J(-
The N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., foremost Australian fiction
publishers, have pleasure in announcing a return to pre-war prices
of all volumes in the famous
“Bookstall” Series
of Australian Novels.
War costs of publishing made an increase to Is. 3d.
temporarily necessary. Nevertheless, the popularity of the Series
was as great as ever: sales increased to the enormous total of
3,000,000 copies.
But the Publishers decided that at first opportunity there
should be a return to the popular price of
1|- per volume.
Cheaper paper supplies have enabled the Publishers to effect
the reduction in price—both of all old volumes in regular demand
and of all new additions to the Series.
112 SPLENDID AUSTRALIAN NOVELS
to select from.
NEW NOVELS BY BEST AUTHORS ADDED MONTHLY.
Is. each All One Price Is. TJd. posted
THE BEST FICTION VALUE IN THE WORLD.
On Sale at all Booksellers and Bookstalls in the Commonwealth.
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.
476 George Street, Sydney.
Diamond Cluster
Ring, Set in
Platinum,
€5O.
Lady’s 9ct. Gold Lever Watch, on Black Moir<s Band,
£B/10/-
Diamond Cluster
Ring, Set in
Platinum,
£3O.
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum
Set,
£25.
Diamond Clustei
Uing, Set in
Platinum,
£2O.
Pearl and Diamond Cluster, on Platinum
Bar Brooch,
£7/10/-
Pearl and Diamond Cluster Bar Brooch,
Platinum Set,
£7/10/-
Pearl and Diamond
Brooch, set in
Platinum,
£5.
<=s@@=»
Two-stone Diamond
Ring, set in
Platinum,
£2O.
Gem Jewellery.
The articles illustrated represent but a few of hundreds
of designs, but choice and exclusive, included in the Firm s
large selections.
All are of exceptional quality and value, and the work-
manship is unsurpassable.
Watch or ring catalogue sent post free to any address iD
the Commonwealth.
®ntmmonb & Co
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
liil
iiSiili*
.
“The extra cultivation at the
moment of planting counts for
much in the resultant crop.”
The “Suntyne” Drill (D. Cultivator Combined
is THE Implement.
CATALOGUE POSTED FREE ON REQUEST
H.V. McRAYPTY. LTD., Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES:
Comer COLLINS & SPENCER STREETS, MELBOURNE.
102-105 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
STANLEY STREET, SOUTH BRISBANE.
Comer YORK & ST. JOHN STREETS, LAUNCESTON.
36 PIER STREET, PERTH.


“JTOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.”
m
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC., CHARMS HOUSE, SYDNEY.
mm-
m*
~^r
4*98
A
3S«
«t
IE
Jor the Summer Camp
?£bbots
LAGER
TgE BEER WITHOUT ARfVAL*
“J.T.K.”: In my Brisbane garden are
two “potato-trees.” I got them as cuttings, and
planted them last December. Now they are about
9ft. high, somewhat bushy, and have a certain resem-
blance to the castor-oil tree. Sweet potatoes, reddish
in outward color, 9in. long, and about 2in. wide,
are at present projecting at all angles beneath the
ground at their roots. I do not intend to dig
them up until the end of May, when they should
be ready for eating. The “potato-tree” is new to
me. Has it any connection with the yam-tree of
America 1
*#’ * *
“Yarrum”: At Appin (N.S.W.) I saw a
sft. goanna take a very young lamb, run up a
tree and out upon a limb 16ft. from the ground.
An eaglehawk swooped at the pair and the liberated
lamb fell to earth, breaking its back.
“Tarago”: Tell those Abos. who have diffi-
culty in catching their horses to tie a nut from
any ordinary bolt to the • prad’s forelock. This
strikes him on the forehead when he attempts to
trot or gallop away, and will, bring him to a stand-
still in a few yards.
* * » *
“Merlin”: “N.C.S” (B. 16/3/’22) refers
to the pineal body in the amphibia as being almost
evolved out of existence. As a matter of fact, the
pineal body reaches its highest development in the
reptiles, which were evolved at a later date than
the amphibia. In the hatteria, or sacred lizard, of
M.L., now somewhat rare, we find a comparatively
well-developed third eye which is connected during
the animal’s youth by a nerve to the brain. The
alligator and the hatteria, both members of the
reptilia, are much more akin biologically than the
alligator and the frog.
* * * •
“D.F.”: There is not a specimen either in
Australasia or in Britain of the long-extinct flightless
parrot of Macquarie Island, but there are probably
one or two stowed away in some corner in Petrograd
if the Bolshevik uprisings haven’t destroyed them.
These were taken back to Russia by Bellingshausen’s
Antarctic expedition, which visited the island in
1828.
SWEETENIN' HER UP.
COPPER GOUGER: “Hello, Jan, how did your
ore go?”
COUSIN JAN : “Wal, me son, I took un and
picked un, and she only went 42 per
cent. So I picked un again and put a
little prill ore in and sampled un again,
and that time she w[?] 110 per cent.”
“Veronal”: The morepork (frogmouth) is
a good mouser, but I think the boobook-owl and
laughing-jack run him pretty close. Another good
rodent-destroyer is the Australian barn-owl. I
have also seen a magpie (crow-shrike) carry a
freshly-caught mouse to the top of a pine-tree, and
carol exultingly before dining on it. Hence, I
reckon Madge thinks a mohse no small beer. The
smaller hawks, too, prey on mice.
THOSE DANGEROUS FIREARMS.
DEAR OLD LADY : “Good gracious, I wish those children wouldn’t meddle with that
thing! Only last night I read in the paper how a little hoy had been fatally
shot with a pea-rifle."
“Colub”: Cooktown (N.Q.) seems to have
a snake of its very own. It is about the same size
and length as a black snake, but it is almost pure
white underneath, and is a dirty greyish-white alopg
the back and sides. It has a full set of venom
glands and fangs provided with ducts. The only
structural point of difference, seemingly, between
it and the common black snake is in these fangs,
which are shorter and thicker, with differently-
formed ducts and a number of thin membranes placed
posteriorly to their base —a feature entirely absent
from most poisonous reptiles. I have never heard
of anybody being bitten by one of them, but that is
probably because of their rarity.
« • • •
“Wart”: “Te W.’s” statement thaj: Harris
was the first to describe the thylacine, or Tasmanian
tiger (B. 23/3/’22), is incorrect. Soon after Col.
Paterson landed at Port Dalrymple (Tas.) he collected
one for Sir Joseph Banks
and wrote a description of
it. I think Harris was
wrong in stating that the
tiger was always confined
to the highlands. Oxley
states that it was seldom
found in the south, but
Paterson found it along
the Tamar. Within my
recollection it was pretty
plentiful along the N.E.
coast. Sixty years ago,
too, it was common enough
within 25 miles of Laun-
ceston to eat the profit
and a good deal of the
capital of a sheep-farm.
My grandfather owned the
farm. It is hard to say
how plentiful the tiger is
at present, owing to his
habit of hunting at night
and hiding during the day.
I think dogs sometimes
get the credit of killing
sheep that should be put
down to his account. The
trappers up on the high-
lands now poison (cyanide)
the carcases they leave —
they say that by clearing
tigers out of the district
they double the supply of
kangaroo. Incidentally, the
remains of a very similar
animal have been found in
recent drifts of South
America. This and the
deciduous beech-tree of
the Speck, which still
grows in S. America, argue
a comparatively recent
connection between the
two places.
“Battle-axe”: Most of the Abo. snakeolo-
gists seem to miss a very glaring fact when dis-
cussing the difference between non-poisonous and
poisonous wrigglers, viz., the latter have three large
scales between the eyes, while the non-poisonous
have from seven to eleven smaller scales. I have
killed and dissected snakes of all makes, and this
variation of scales has held good throughout.
“Te Wliare”: I have been interfering
with mason-wasps’ nests lately, to find out the
exact breed of spider immured in the clay cells as
food for the wasp grub, and especially to ascertain
if red-back spider was on the menu. In the many
cells overhauled I found no red-backs. As a rule
they contained only three small varieties of spider
(one pale reddish-brown, one pea-green and one
white, possibly immature) ; but occasionally there
were small examples of the brown and yellow banded
spider common about gooseberry bushes, etc. Some
cells contained only wasps ready to emerge, others
pinkish grubs, or wasp larvae, the preserved spiders
having been already eaten. By the way, Red-back
has a first cousin (also of the lactrodeetus family)
which has rounded vermilion spots instead of a
band upon his abdo-thorax, and he’s also plum-
colored in body. I wouldn’t trust this fellow either.
No doubt the mason-wasp well knows that a red-
back spider diet mightn’t agree with its chicks,
and so excludes it from their menu.
* * * *
“Chuck”: West of Widgiemooltha (W.A.)
I ran into a flock of about six birds shaped like
guinea-gowl or very young emus, and about the size
of the domestic turkey-hen. They were black with
a profusion of white spots, and had no visible tails,
black and massive (conirostral) beaks, and legs short
in proportion to the body. They flew reluctantly,
swooped towards a thicket and, alighting there, dis-
appeared. What were they?
“Spud”: Let “Gouger” (B. 23/3/’22), who
wants a practical method for keeping March flies
from his horses, rub ordinary axle-
grease under the neddie’s lower jaw
and well down the under part of the
neck. Don’t De too economical with
the grease. The fly usually deposits
its eggs in these two places, and
while feeding the horse gets the habit
of rubbing his neck againnst the
manger. In this manner the eggs
find their way to the feed and subse-
quehtly to the beast’s interior, where they cause
trouble.
* * * »
“Hargo”: “Y.Z.’s” big blackfish (B.
16y3/’22) was beaten over 20 years ago by the catch
of one Graham, an original settler on the “green
area,” Woorara, South Gippsland. He drew his de-
lectable breakfast, with sufficient over for the other
menus of the day, from the Franklin River. It
weighed 71b.
» » # *
“Pat Bushie”: Can any Abo. supply the
name of this tree? We had one growing in our
garden on the North Coast (N.S.W.) some years
ago. The flowers always opened up with the dawn;
in the morning they would be snow-white, by mid-
day their color had changed to a pale pink, and at
night they would be a bright red. The following
morning the old flowers would be dead and a
fresh lot of white blooms showing. The leaf
was not unlike that of the grape-vine, only of a
more yellowish color, and it had a furry feeling.
The bark of the tree, which stood about 7ft. high,
was an ashen grey, and quite smooth.
* * # *
“Te Whare”: The native-bear seems to
have turned up near Port Jackson about 1803, the
abok. bringing a live couple to Colonel (then Lieut.)
Paterson, Governor of N. S. Wales, from the Hat
Hill district in that year. The abos. called the
animal “koala,” which is said to mean “biter,”
although Bill Gumleaf is more given to scratching
than biting when handled. As usual, the early
naturalists —Illiger, Lesson, Goldfuss and the rest —
each evolved a different sicentific label for the
beast, but its title eventually crystallised into Phas-
colarctos cinereus, or ashy koala, from its pale-
gTey coat.
“R.G.R.”: Driving along a bush track I
chanced on an albino woodpecker at work on the
bark of an apple-tree, a brown mate helping him. A
yellowish tinge on the wings gave him the appear-
ance of a canary. I have also seen albino 1 “jacks,”
and a friend tells me that as a boy in Erjgland he
took an albino blackbird from a nest of four.
* * * ' .«
“Claraek”: Many thanks to “Rockdale”
(B. 17/11/’2l) for his timely warning re fighting
birds, including willy-wagtails. Tw'O wags built a
nest on a very low bough, not far from our kitchen
door. I was most interested, especially when the
brood arrived, and often poked my nose in to see
how they w’ere and to admire the fighting attitude
of pa and ma as they flew round me. I was just
tickled at the cheek of the little beggars, not dreaming
I was lucky not to lose a perfectly good eye. I’ll
know better next time.
* * * •
“Pick”: It is generally thought that
when lightning reaches the earth it does no further
damage. At Widgengullen, on the Murrumbidgee
(N.S.W.), a “flash” ripped a thin shred of bark
from top to bottom of a brittle gum, and then
shivered to fragments a thick root that extended
beneath a made road. In doing this it shifted the
solid earth and metal above the root, cutting a trench
2ft. deep and 20ft. long as cleanly as if .it were
done by a shovel with a good navvy at the handle.
* * * *
“Otway”: Can any Abo. name me this
fellow? He belongs to the parrot tribe, is all yellow
except a red patch round his bill. The underparts
of him are a very pale yellow—almost white. Ib-
is about the size of a lory. I have seen only one of
him here (Beech Forest, Vic.) in 15 years, though
there are plenty of lorys and kings, and an odd
grass-parrot.
» * » *
“Marora Mick” : I have met some women
who followed peculiar occupations, but one which
my father mentions in his diary of the early
’seventies will take some beating. He says that
in Central Queensland there was a woman who owned
a draught stallion and travelled him herself.
“Citibloke”: A pair of doves have built
right over a steam-hammer in our forge shop in the
heart of Melbourne.
“Veronal”: Clement Wragge, the weather-
man, struck a scorposnoid fish in Tahitian seas which
beats our forteseue fish (also of the scorposnoid
variety) hollow. It is rusty-brown, about a foot
in length, and carries a tremendous armature of
pre-orbital and dorsal spines. When trodden upon
this fish injects a poisonous secretion which causes
nerve pains in the body; then the glands swell, the
feet turn livid, and, in the absence of effective treat-
ment, tetanus and death supervene. The native
mcdicine-men, Wragge says, have an effective remedy
—a decoction of w.ape, or native chestnut, applied
to the head or the nape of the neck. This obscene
fish is probably the Scorpcena diabolus of the
scientists. Another of the family is the beautifully-
colored but goblin-like red rock-cod, which, in
spite of its evil relationships, is" good poLmeat.
IN BAD ODOR.
FRIEND : “Well, how do you feel after last-
night?"
T’OTHER FRIEND (after a storing night):
“Well, I don't exactly know. Even the
wife’s pet Pomeranian scowled at me
this morning.”
“ Jim Carew”: Near Bermagui (N.S.W.)
recently, while sitting in a boat, fishing, we noticed
a very sick and sorry-looking diver perched on a
stump. After a bit of a struggle he disgorged two
fully-fledged young butcher-birds. Is i't usual for a
fish-eater to rob other birds’ nests, or j did this one
merely make a disagreeable experiment?
“Spud”: At the hermit’s garden at Nath-
alie Park, Montbulk (Vic.), I recently saw the
manageress of the hostel feeding big blackfish by
hand. A quantity of meat was chopped up finely and
the keeper of the park rippled the surface of the
water with her hand, whereupon the fish rushed
from every point of the pool, took the meat from
her palm, and allowed themselves to be fondled.
“Billy T.”: One day a scrubby-looking
man carrying a swag fell through the door of a
store at Eaglehawk, Bendigo, gathered himself up
and lurched to the counter, where he hung on.
“Gimme a long beer,’’ he said. “No beer here,”
replied the shopman. “Well, gimme nobbier of
rum.” “No rum either.” “Well, gimme gin.”
“No go, old man; the only liquor I can serve here
is machine oil.” The swagman clicked a shilling
on the counter. “All right,” he said. “Gimme a
pint.”
A DARLING SHOWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All about is dust darkening the sun,
Turning day to night ere the noon be done;
Swirling, wounding, red, under hidden skies,
Blown by wicked winds, loosed from Hell, it flies.
Hidden by its pall mulgas shriek and shout;
Lost are camp and track, blown and blotted out;
Helpless in its grip wings and leaves are swirled;
Fiery red of tress, Fury rules the world.
Lost is east and west, lost is south and north,
Fury rides the world —tresses streaming forth.
Raging goes the dust, blown before the wind;
Mute are bird and beast, cowering, trembling, blind.
Gone are light and calm, stilled are song and mirth,
For one burning hour Hell has mastered Earth.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


u
Take thou
t course
YOU CAN ALWAYS RELY ON
o
ou
oti _ n
□
'
,
■
' f i
.•. : ■ ■ ■- '
, - > '
, - -Jl |v» -
'
'
•'"' •■ \ . ,-.■ „■ : ■■- ■■ '- ■ •
. ' : : v» -
.' • . ’ .■• ■ •
■ .•• .. •
' ■ • . -
• ' •, ‘
' '■■■'. ‘ •
. *
.
■'" • ■ • ' •.-.•' - - -
.• ■ .* ■ ■
i
. ; .;':v > ■ ■■■, ■ ■
Jgf9
Jm
.
. JUB
■ .
•> ‘ ' '~ '
s ■■ 'f;-. ..
''V .■ ‘ - •
J-A.
- ■
i.'
w
\ ‘ ‘W'-W \
m&m
■ ■
.• ■
mT*m
vT
£> *
f
v '.
and construction ensures
thousands of miles of free
from trouble motoring
over ail descriptions of
roads and tracks. For
value and economical
service they stand alone.
AH garages can supply.
* *, «
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
of Atss*. tA&*
All States
and N.Z,


fit
> •"'
m*
f kdSri
' t ■■;
IT. 1 ill
5
» %
y» f yss gg ,
Vf
. ii
aii
MW
.• A’
1
if
\
0 p f mM
Ir s . <r 4
=i
■
i
a ae*
***** ;
v*« ,*’ M
mk&
s» Wm£M &s&§pi§
rx
Hi
18
Saturday noon; the office door locked; a
good car, and away to the hills. Business is
forgotten and the scent of the gums brings
relief to the tired mind.
A factor of import in being thus “spirited
away" is the continuous sweet running of the
engine.
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT
MOTOR
LUBRICATING
ensure maximum power, dependable running
and more miles to the gallon.
In speed contests, endurance contests, and
the every-day running of thousands of Motor
Cars, SHELL products give the highest service.
The British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND
SHELL
OILS
m
U!
m
m m
&
e
n
vs
BID
m
m
Dodge Brothers works, according to efficiency
engineers and experts on manufacturing methods,
is one of the greatest manufacturing institutions in
the world.
In every department there is evident that spirit of
manufacturing accuracy and precision which
actuates Dodge Brothers; and which is made
manifest in the efficiency, economy and long life of
Dodge Brothers Motor Car.
The expansion of the plant has been practically con-
tinuous since the business began, yet the demand
for the car has always been in excess of capacity.
The petrol consumption is unusually low.
The tyre mileage is unusually high.
mm
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency (Queensland), Limited, Brisbane
Canada Cycle & Motor Co (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Cheney Motor Company, Limited, Adelaide.
Winterbottom Cc., Ltd., Perth
Standardised Motors, Ltd., Sydney.
Dodge Brothers Inc. is « Member of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce.
The Rose in the Wilderness
u ~pk 1" RS DESPARD,” announced the
|f j maid. For the minute the name
was unfamiliar; then, as a very
perfectly-tailored girl came into the room, I
laughed.
“Why, Ruth, I was just wondering who
the stranger was. I always forget my
friends’ married names. Tea, Marie, and
hot, buttered toast. Well, how goes it,
Ruth?”
The firelight flickered on a pretty face
that was momentarily hardened in rather a
worried look.
“Fairly u T ell,” she said, as she loosened
her furs. “Fact is, I’ve come to say good-
bye. I’ve had a cable from David, and he
wants me to go over to Canada to him on
the next boat. Of course, I’ll love to see
him again, but it’s all rather uprooting isn’t
it? I have never lived on a ranch in my
life, and I think I shall be rather homesick
at first.”
I sympathised, and we talked for some
time. Then she said: “You know I’m rather
! worried about the frivolous problem of keep-
■ ing my looks. David told me that what first
attracted him was the fact that I looked so
different from most Canadian women. But
. under Canadian conditions, shall I be able
to keep it up? For example, I have my hair
washed and waved at a hairdresser’s every
fortnight: that will be impossible in my
new life. And I look hideous with straight
hair.”
“Why, that’s easily solved: take over a
supply of silmerine 'with you. You only
want to damp your hair with it slightly and
put in slides or a curler or two, which can
easily be concealed under a boudoir-cap. Get
your hair accustomed to silmerine treatment
on the voyage over; then by the time you
land it will probably have developed a dis-
tinct natural tendency to curl, and will only
occasionally need damping. Of course, it
is much better for the hair than to sap all
its gloss and vitality with hot irons. For a
home shampoo I think you cannot beat stal-
lax. A teaspoonful of stallax granules to a
cup of hot water will make the most deli-
cious foaming lather, which cleanses the
hair splendidly. You’ll be able to dry it in
the sun in no time in that gorgeous climate.
If I were you, I should always keep some
reliable tonic in the house, for you never
* know w T hen your hair may require a little
stimulating. Yes, boranium and bay rum
is excellent: I always use it. Also, I think
it would be a very wise plan to keep some
j tammalite by you; dark hair like yours has
a very disconcerting habit of turning grey
in patches. If your hair does show a ten-
dency to fade, you have only to dissolve two
ounces of tammalite in three ounces of bay
rilm, and you have a wonderful hair-restorer
ready for use.”
“Why, that seems too good to be true!”
exclaimed Ruth. “I must write that down.
Now, Estelle, I’m going to worry you some
more. What kind of complexion-cream
should I take? I want something that lasts,
that doesn’t take up much room, and, above
all, that really does keep one’s skin in con-
dition,”
“The answer to the riddle is mercolised
wax,” I replied. A tin such as chemists
usually sell lasts for three or four months ; it
is solid, compact and not wasteful to use,
and it’s the finest complexion-beautifier there
is. Its great merit is that instead of making
the skin dull by clogging the pores with
grease, as too many face-creams do, it gently
absorbs the dull, outer tissue which gets
coarsened by hard water, dirt and so on, and
reveals the dazzling freshness of the new
skin below. Of course, in a hot climate,
where the sun and dust tend to ruin even
the prettiest skins, it will be simply invalu-
able. I’ll give you another useful tip: be
sure to provide yourself with some tablets
of stymoi; then, if you happen to have a
! blackhead, you have only to melt one tablet
in a little warm water, bathe the blackhead,
and you ■will be able to remove it without
the slightest difficulty, w 7 ith a clean towel.”
“Thanks so much. I’m sure I shall be as
grateful to you when I’m so far away. Of
course, I shan’t need powder, because since
I discovered cleminite I haven’t needed it.”
“No, you couldn’t do better than carry
' on with cleminite,” I assured her. “I can’t
think why more women don’t give up the
old-fashioned messy powder and use that
| nice lotion instead. Well, Ruth, I think
i you’ll blossom in the desert all right, if you
are wise and take care of your looks.”
| “I hope I’ll be able to,” she said, “be-
! cause how 7 ever much one loves adventures
| and roughing it, I don’t want to become a
masculine-looking woman. After all, David
liked me as he found me, and it’s up to me
to try and stay the same.”
“I must go,” she said, rising. “I don’t in
the least want to, but there are so many
people to see. Will you come and see me
off? I sail on Friday fortnight. Good-bye.”
“Good-bye, Ruth, and the very best of
luck to you both. Write to me, won’t you?
1 Good-bye.”— Adv*.


The
Purest
Spirit
in. tkc
V^a-iA
Fife's schna^^
“IT STANDS
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
Some Coughs take a lot of “shaking off”
—generally several bottles of the ordinary
cough mixtures; but the worst and most
obstinate cough will disappear like magic
if treated with
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
Under the influence of this super - remedy
the improvement is immediate.
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Office:
2 Bond Street,
SYDNEY.
ui
i
S-i-riO
sSL
COLDS
, COUCHS
D
CROUP
LUNG
TP.OUBUS
CHEST
AFFECTIONS
©
0
Lilli
world of letters, I might have read to much
greater advantage. But would 1 have read
with one-tenth of the pleasure I experienced
in following my vagrant fancy V Would I
have been able to look back to “Jack Hark-
away” with sheer delight? Would "The
Boys of England” be now among my pleas-
antest recollections, leaving a lingering
flavor akin to my earliest memories of feeds
of dewy-ripe red cherries? Of late years I
have taken peculiar pleasure in certain
writers—in Oscar Wilde, in Bernard Shaw,
in Ibsen, in Casanova, in Nietzsche —but
never have I been able to recapture the first
fine careless rapture inspired by the tumul-
tuous folly of “Jack Harkaway” or the
faßious absurdities of “Corney Dabber,
Friend o’ Nelson,” as continued indefinitely
in “The Young Men of Oreat Britain.”
EDWARD DYSON.
The Study of Literature
My education was a thing of shreds and
patches, due to my being biessed with parents
bitten by the movie microbe. In all I
sampled seven primary and two secondary
schools, a college and a university, with the
result that my schooling appears in retro-
spect as a kaleidoscope of drab patches and
redeeming bright ones.
I am reluctantly compelled to admit that
the bright spots came mostly under masters,
not mistresses. The women, with one or
two shining exceptions, were too prone to
stick to the text and seldom ventured further
afield than the footnotes and glossaries pro-
vided. The men, less timid, lightened the
way with many a delightful little human-
interest anecdote.
To the eccentric pedagogue who intro-
duced me to Shakspeare I owe a lasting
debt of gratitude. Lady Macbeth, Hamlet,
the Merchant—he made them all live. Pac-
ing up and down before his class, he was
simultaneously actor, stage-manager and
teacher. Perhaps my peculiar joy in the per-
formance came from the fact that I was not
an official member of the class at all. The
hour belonged rightfully to the seniors, and
we small fry were seated at the back of
the class-room supposedly preparing the
morning’s Latin composition. But there I
drank in the immortal William, my joy quite
uninterrupted by inconvenient calls to
answer questions. I have seen Hamlet and
Portia played by some good actors, but I
have never quite recaptured the first thrill
imparted by that obscure country High
School instructor.
After that bit of luck I entered upon an
extensive cold, grey area. She was a blood-
less little woman with chilly blue eyes and
lank, asli-colored hair. Through the medium
of her frozen personality I first considered
the Skylark and the Cloud. It was years
before I gained the courage to return to
Shelley of my own free will. With her also
I dragged through the interminable length
of “Paradise Lost.” My one distinct recol-
lection of the course is a sketch which
adorned the title-page of a fellow-student’s
copy of the immortal classic. It represented
a bleary-looking gentleman down on all fours
earnestly searching for a mislaid pair of
small cubes decorated with tiny black dots.
One of the comic bits among my youthful
recollections was this lady’s rendering of
Tennyson’s “Mermaid” and “Merman.”
How we youngsters shook with unholy glee
as she pursed her spinster lips and pro-
nounced : “Till they kissed me.” It was not
until many years after that it occurred to
me that it may have been tragedy instead
of comedy. The poems were not in our
syllabus, and she had introduced them
apropos of something which I have forgotten.
Perhaps, in them she found expression of
that which life had denied.
But tribute must be offered to another
mistress of quite a different type, a plump,
little person, not averse to laughter. She
it was who taught me love and pity for the
Ploughman Poet; and she it was who created
that atmosphere of mystery and loveliness
whieh Keats’s “Eve of St. Agnes” to this
this day recalls. Also to her I owe an immea-
surable debt for sympathy and understand-
ing in one of the most poignant tragedies of
adolescence. It happened in History, not
Literature. I had grown up, so to speak,
with English History, and its calamities,
while real enough to me, never arrived with
the horror of unexpectedness. With Greece
it was different. Here was virgin soil, and
I watched her rise with the breathless fond-
ness of a lover. It had never occurred to
me that she was to fall. I was too entranced
to turn to the back of the book, till one day a
chance remark brought home to me the awful
truth. I believe I must have gone white
with the nain of it; I know I cried aloud
in my misery. “But Greece d ; d not really
fall—not really, in the end, Miss R- !”
She did not smile; two grey eyes looked 'nto
mine with infinite nity and understanding.
“Yes.” she said gently, “one of historv’s tra-
gedies.” Bless her, she’s marri a d these 20
years, and I’ll wager there are some hobble-
dehoys somewhere who have an understand-
ing mother.
I cannot even feel resentment towards
those poor, plodding worthies who hammered
the minor classics Into ns bv rote. Like the
texts I learned at Sunday-school, tbev made
little impression at the time. I just took
them in as a Christmas fowl rec Q iveg its
stuffing. But there they are to-day, like an
inexhaustible bank credit, and. having
come to know their value. I can draw unon
them at will. Along with 40 other urchins
of tender years.. I learned the Psalm of Life
in this manner. We understood seance a
line of it. but we lov«d it because of the
metre and rhymes. We used even to sing
it in the playground c 0 a tur-o 0 f ollr own
with a smashing original refrain:
Coro-ohee-lunk. ohee-lunk, chee-la-lie
High ho, chicken, why don’t you lay?
But “Art is long and time is fleeting,” and
its sister gems were safely embedded, biding
their time. I’m not sorry now they were
drummed in past all possibility of forgetting,
for scarce a day passes but I find fitting use
for one or another of them.
MARY S.
The Social Reformer and the Critic
To write forcibly on social subjects it is
first necessary to teel intensely. The capa-
city to feel intensely is a powerful motive
force in life, yet it is almost invariably
accompanied by extreme views giving rise
to prejudice and ir. expression to exaggera-
tion. Most books written on social reform
exemplify the truth of this phenomenon.
One might go further and add that exag-
geration is essential to the formation of
public opinion. The truth of things must
lie eternally betwixt extremes, but the force
of human aiiairs lies in extremes. It otten
happens that we are moved to surprise by
the spectacle of men possessed of mediocre
capacity in other respects, yet with the criti-
cal and analytical faculties abnormally de-
veloped, weighing and destroying with the
double-edged sword of reason the works of
authors of outstanding ability. The true
critic is rarely capable of intense emotion,
for the reason that logic, his mainspring in
life, is fundamentally cold and more inspir-
ing of thought than of feeling. Yet the
author is a far more effective force in the
trend of human affairs, because of his app°al
to prejudice and emotion. Wars, revolu-
tions, great social reforms have never been
the result of logical deductions in the aggre-
gate mind of the community affected. Man-
kind in the mass has little time or inclina-
tion to formulate reasons for believing this
or that. “Sex-slavery!” shrieks the femi-
nist. “Wage-slavery!” cries the socialist.
All the other -ists join in advocating their
causes with a maximum of emotion and a
minimum of evidence. And the individual
brooding over a vague sense of injustice
gladly takes up the cry as the solution of
his or her problem. For the moment ex-
pediency becomes truth, and so the accumu-
lated force of public opinion sweeps on,
carrying all before it in a devastating flood,
while the man of reason is silent—mainly
because he is a man of reason. Into the
melting-pot are thrown the human ingre-
dients of violence, hatred and suspicion, and
as the cauldron hisses and bubbles the social
reformer, himself honest and sincere., sees
his beautiful dream dissolve into a hideous
nightmare. The white heat of emotion en-
gendered by the trouble and turmoil of
society gradually cools down into a sem-
blance of articulate expression, and if the
reformer has built on a real human need
the world becomes a better place in which
to live.
Evolution is slow but inexorable. Time
is of no consequence, individual lives only
a means to an end. On the other hand,
the social reformer, mindful of the brevity
and significance of his own life, is inevit-
ably in a hurry. He is abnormally con-
scious of society’s ills and the value of
human lives and happiness, and is filled with
a very real desire for readjustment to ap-
proximate more truly to justice. He is
ardent, impulsive and emphatic, and so in
his haste and fury inevitably trips on the
banana-peel of logic. Both reformer and
critic, play their little parts in the scheme
of things, the former endeavoring to accele-
rate the car of progress by exaggerating the
necessity for speed, the latter attenuating
to apply the brakes at the steep gradients
by pointing out the danger of probable con-
sequences. It is not the fault of either that
the ’bus sometimes gets out of hand, the
play of action and reaction, cause and effect,
the measured inarch of evolutionary pro-
gress, being things entirely beyond human
powers to foretell with any sufficiency of
accuracy.
SAAEDI.
The New Home of Culture
Through the centuries culture has had its
headquarters in many places—in Jerusalem,
in Athens, in Rome, in Paris, in Berlin (a
rather doubtful brand) and perhaps even
in London. It has gone now to New York.
With its system of efficiency, the U.S.A.
has determined to purge the ancient thing
of its obsoletisms and its anachronisms, and
replace them with something that is, above
all, brisk and business-like. American cul-
ture has hustled people off their feet by pure
organisation and commercial acumen. Civil-
ised countries are setting their standard to
that of the new exemplar, and the more civil-
ised the country the more complete seems
to be its surrender. New fashions have been
established in literature, music, stage-pro-
ductions, dancing and even spelling.
Literature has, perhaps, suffered most at
the hands of the rebuilders. American litera-
ture was progressing peaceably and ration-
ally until Walt Whitman came upon the
scene _ and proceeded to show his contem-
poraries how real Americans should write
poetry. He is the prototype of the new
movement, the Shakspenre of the States.
The modern American ideas of mus : c har-
monise exactly with Whitman’s idea of
rhythm. His verses are composed of one or
two long lines, a few short lines, then a
couple of medium-length lines, all written
in the same nonchalant style, all with but
one thing in common, and that thing obscu-
rity. As he has been set on a pedestal for
true beauty-lovers to idolise, naturally his
jazz-poetry has produced many imitator's, the
chief of them Vachel Lindsay, works
would make ideal shocking-examples for
young poets, and whose circulat’on is aston-
ishing. Indeed, jazz-poets, “vers libre” poets
—all poets who write anything but poetry
—are having the time of their lives.
The way Engbsh-speaking neople of all
countries are taking the American novelists
to their hearts i 3 further proof of the
supremacy of American culture. David
Graham Phillips, Robert Chambers and
Rupert Hughes will live long in the annals
of American literature bv achieving the
climax of most American writers’ hopes and
desires —a phenomenal circulation. Ameri-
can magazines are monopolising the atten-
tion of people whose literarv appeHtes are
satisfied with superficial reading. The days
of the Corn hill and the Yellow Book are
but memories. Even the more reputable
English magazines are beginning to realise
that, in ord- j r to ensure onick sales, a maga-
zine should have a name like “Nifty Stories ”
a picture of a semi-nude female on the cover,
and novelettes inside to match the girl.
The American music of to-day is as ori-
ginal and elevating as its literature. The
rag-time and the jazz with all their din and
babel have arrived, and cotton-wool was
never in such demand. Nobody expects that
Englishmen and Australians who have had
no musical education should be compelled
to listen to Mozart and Beethoven in pre-
ference to rag-time; but while the works of
Sullivan, Cellier and German live, there
should be no need to patronise a mere noisy
racket of negro extraction. An American
lyricist with more observation in his soul
than music once wrote a song whose first
line was "Syncopation rules the nation.”
The trouble is that too many nations are
bending the knee to the same monarch.
In this rejuvenation of culture, the stage
has not been forgotten. America’s farce-
factories are turning out inane “revues” and
miscalled musical comedies in huge quanti-
ties. These productions for some reason or
other possess attractions that no legitimate
English playwright can offer. My judgment
may be bad, but surely Shakspeare, Sheri-
dan and Shaw have written plays that can
compete in humor with these trans-Pacific
classics. It is unfortunate that most people
refuse to go to plays by the English giants
because of their reputation as highbrows,
but there is more rollicking mirth in "Twelfth
Night” and “The School for Scandal” than
in the whole collection of revues (even those
including bedroom scenes) that are being
served up at present.
It is bad enough for Australians to think
they have to borrow money from America.
Can’t we do without her literature, her gum-
chewing habits, her jazz-dances? She will
probably be very disgusted with them herself
presently when she gets a real mind of her
own.
S. M.
The Inky Way
John Drayman”: Henry Lawson’s useful mention
of Bertram Stevens’s long-ago dive into Single
Taxism (li.P. 2/3/’22) suggests that a statement
or the Gentle Anthologist’s much more recent politi-
cal faith may be not without interest. Here is an
extract from his letter to a fellow-scribe of Labor
leanings, written just before the close of the war:—
“I’m sorry you disagree with my politics—l sup-
pose you mean on conscription principally. Well, it’s
no use arguing about them. I admire Boote’s vigor
and one-eyed vision, but if he had his way he’d pull
out the keystone and let the whole social fabric go
wallop. He favors the Bolsheviki: well, look at ’em!
He objects to leaders in the Labor party, and every
line he writes is a leader —a declaration of policy
or call to action. Which means that he objects to
other leaders than himself. He demands justice for
Labor, but would treat everyone else with injustice.
However, peace to his fiery soul—he means well!
“For my part I have come to think that fire and
fury, words in torrents, whether spoken or written,
bashing of drums and thumping of pulpits, don’t help
the world forward much. Step by step she is going
forward: those who seek to make her run and jump
help, of course, but they produce reactions, and in
those reactions many and much may suffer. I remain
an individualist in favor of socialism—or, rather,
extension of State functions wherever possible; but I
regard syndicalism as possible only in a highly-
educated community. At present it is a destructive
policy and has no constructive programme that will
bear analysis.”
Practically all those Australians who, with Bertram
Stevens, first “saw the cat” in the land-monopoly
puzzle-picture when Henry George pointed out the
main outlines of the animal 30 years ago, would
express precisely the same sentiments. But not all
would display such kindly tolerance.
“D.”: From Argus (24/2/’22): “It was Hughes
contra mundum; it is now Hughes cum mundum.”
And this is the kind of Latin which urbum et
orbum must be taken cum granum salum.
“Pen Handle”: The London publishers sold the
first edition of Steele Rudd’s latest book, “We Kay-
tons,” in three months. Rudd regards this as uis
record sale. Ten years ago the MS. of another
book of his, the sales of which have now passed the
50,000 mark in Australia, was submitted to a
Melbourne publishing house of some note, and the
answer the author received through his agent was
“Mr. Rudd is written out.”
“Fleet-street”: Newspaper men are speculating as
to the significance of the method of syndicating
Melba’s articles on the voice. It is the first time
on record that the S. M. Herald has thrown in its
lot with Fink’s Herald, and journalists are looking
for signs of a cleavage in the ancient cable combine.
“Pax”: The sales of Melbourne newspapers during
the Gun-alley excitement exceeded those of all war
issues and left those of the Deeming and Ned
Kelly days far astern. On the day Ross was found
gM* th ? circulation of the Herald exceeded
300,000. As the paper that day happened to be over
20 pages, the co. was a loser on circulation. But
the advertising man won’t forget to mention the
figures when he is fighting a hard battle.
« <<R- G- N- Cliffwell”: Choice by “Oily K.” of
aveise to as text for a criticism of my criticism
of modern journalistic English suits me well.
Averse to is one of those very slipshoddinesses
against which I rail. It has been given the blessing
of dictionary compilers merely because it has slipped
so far and so often—just as the slipshod writers
are now permitting by constant use “either” to be
accepted for “each,” “curb” for “kerb,” “story” for
storey” “monies” for the plural of money; just as
the slipshoddists of the 16th century permitted
gradually to mean obstruct instead of
go before. ’ If custom be the test we may as well
accept “I have seen it” and “them things” and save
our school-money. If we but do it often enough
lexicographers will follow. AVhatever be the custom
regarding “averse,” the fact cannot be gainsaid that
its derivation is Latin avertere (ab-vertere, not
ad-vertere), to turn from or away. To write “averse
to” is plain contradiction.
The latest Sydney recruit to the Inky Wav is the
New Outlook, an offspring of the Public Ques-
tions Society of the Sydney Uni. Braham, lately
editor of Sydney Telegraph, has joined with Corn-
forth, school-teacher and leader-writer, in founding
the Forum, a more pretentious fortnightly, which
will probably emerge in a month or so.
“Womerah”: “S.M.’s” attack on the method
of teaching literature in schools (B. 23/2/’22) is
unjust as regards N. S. Wales. During the last
five years the influence of Lambourne, Michael West
and Caldwell Cook, among the English, and of
Hosie, Koch, Clapp and other Americans has spread
through our training colleges and schools. It would
do our critic good to sit among a class out of doors
listening, with the children, to the music of the
river, and then to the magic of Tennyson as ex-
pounded by the teacher: —•
“I heard the water lapping on the crag.
And the long ripple washing in the reeds.”
No explanation is needed. The atmosphere and
the mood are there. And it is a familiar experi-
ence in little country schools —my own. for instance.
Again. Australian poetry has a large place in
our scheme. If “S.M.” had an opportunity of
listening to a spirited discussion of “A City Bush-
man” or “Clancy of the Overflow,” or of reading a
schoolboy’s appreciation of “An Australian Sym-
phony,” he might change his opinions—or prejudices.


Stockmen!
Silence may be golden—sometimes. But the
energetic efforts of Winchcombe, Carson’s
auctioneers at the yards catch buyers’ atten-
tion and produce good results for sheep and
cattle senders.
Hence the top values secured by Winchcombe-
Carson clients.
Rail Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Hoinebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
-SAVE-
BUILD NOW WITH
The cost of a home or any other clasg
of building constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets is con-
siderably less than a similar building
built of weatherboard and roofed with
iron or tiles.
“Fibrolite” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust
or corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes. Before building send for
full information.
Write jor free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen Bt., Brisbane.
581-3 tittle Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per clay inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
4-5 h.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia ahd South Sea Islands.
PLUMBERS
BRASS WORK
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY
Medium '
Country
Melbourne
Sydney
Brisbane
Hobart
Perth
Adelaide ,
'Bib Cocks, Hose Cocks, Gully Bibs, Stop
Cocks, Shower Cocks, Ferrule Cocks, Straight
< Ferrules, Path Cocks, etc.,
[ TANK COCKS, fin., lin.
WINDMILL PUMPS
ALDERDICE, Warrnambool.
T3
'
'
■ ;y» ■ .
. .' ph
V
Mi
.4 L-.
,
Hi
To the large army of sufferers afflicted. witL
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. TJRODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchium and iodides (by
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricfoma.
PREPARED BY ETABEISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or from
CHATELAIN’S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 352 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. [1
THE
L
JS €
Jt- ±i
xr:
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
With which is amalgamated the
COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
and in which is merged the
BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE —Collins Street, Melbourne.
Established 1858.
Authorised Capital
Capital paid up.
Reserve l'und
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
£5,000,000
£2,000,000
1,320,000
£3,320,000
828,000
£4,148,000
Directors ;—SIR JOHN GRICE, Chairman.
EDWARD TRENCIIARD, Esq.. Vice-Chairman.
J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq.
Hon. F. G. CLARKE, M.L.C.
BOWES KELLY, Esq. H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.
Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD. Deputy Chief Manager: JAMES WILSON.
Chief Inspector: J. A. G. HADLEY.
VICTORIA—Head Office, Collins Street, Melbourne, and 137 branches.
N. S. WARES—Principal Office, 60 Pitt Street, Sydney, and 23 branches.
QUEENSLAND —Principal Office, Queen Street, Brisbane, and 34 branches.
Local Board of Advice: The Hon. Sir Alfred S. Cowley, Kt., Chairman; William Davies, Esq-1
E. H. Macartney, Esq.; Hon. Sir Robert Philp, K.C.M.G.; Hon. ? A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
State Manager: E. H. Matthews.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, King William Street, Adelaide,
and 43 branches.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—Principal Office, St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
and 30 branches.
LONDON OFFICE—7 Lothbury E.C.2.
Agents throughout the World.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Tim Tiki”: The commercial honeymoon
has come to light in Taranaki (M L.), where
a couple recently commenced their connubial
partnership with a motor-caravan tour
through the back-blocks. They paid expenses
by selling tea to the settlers en route.
* * * *
“Nik Sim”: £l5O a year with board and
residence was the inducement the Ipswich
(Q.) General Hospital held out the other
day for a junior medical officer. The place
treats anything up to 160 patients a day.
Side by side with the Ipswich advt. someone
was offering a gent, who writes advts. £4UO.
*** * .
“Huffin Guffin”: “G.” (13. 2/3/’22) says
that when the Admella was wrecked
Portland (Vic.) was “simply a whaling
station owned by the Hentys.” I think
that wreck occurred in 1557; and I’d like to
have the value of the wool, wattle bark,
etc., shipped from Portland prior to that
date, to say nothing of the other commerce
of the port. It would be safe to back the
value of the trade at Portland in, say,
1850 against that of 1020. '
* * * *
“Bildad”: It seems rather a pity to aban-
don the idea, or carrying stumpy Moore-street
(Sydney) through to the Domain, now that
it could be done without being a smellsome
swindle. The old city howls for this improve-
ment ; and the proposal to put a gigantic
duplicate Sayings Bank right across the fair-
way looks like ending all chance of it for
ever. Why not sell The State Savings Bank
to the Commonwealth institution, give up the
silly and costly duplication, and buy a royal
avenue with the money?
“Dido”: Consider the growing arrogance
of the Dago greengrocery man. He was a
poor, thin starveling when he first started
business in a new shopping centre in our
suburb, and so obsequious he envied the
worms their methods of locomotion. Now he
is fat and has two businesses and a motor-car.
The other day he waylaid a housewife in
the street before his shop, and said: “Why-a
for iss it you no buy-a the fruit, the veg’,
the banan’ from me?” “Because I do not
choose,” was the reply. “Ah, ah !” cried the
Dago. “You notta choose. I make-a you
cry for the fruit, the veg’. I buy your
house!” And he has done it.
* * * #
“J.G.”: Many people have the idea that
the quickest and cheapest way of getting rid
of old trees and stumps is to blast them with
gelignite. But Hugo Herman Sclilapp, a
cocky, of Donnybrook (Vic.), has found that
the idea can have expensive attachments.
The Vic. law prohibits anyone without a
license from having in his possession more
than 301 b. of gunpowder or more than 51b.
of any other explosive, the penalty being a
fine of £2 for every excess lb. The other day an
inspector visited Schlapp’s farm and found
a little heap of 3001 b. of gelignite and 1250
detonators. Cocky had to appear before
the Broadmeadows beaks, who, after viewing
the Act from all angles, came to the conclu-
sion that Schlapp would have to hand over
£590.
* * * »
“Waiotapu”: Even if the Taranaki oil-
wells never turn out gushers there is a
chance of Maoriland becoming largely inde-
pendent of outside oil. When the islands’
water-power is fully developed motor-cars
and lorries may all be run with batteries.
The new system is already taking hold. At
Christchurch, served by the Lake Coleridge
hydro-electric scheme, electrically-driven
’buses are used, and in some of the North
Island dairying districts milk-lorries are
run with the same power. So far, the range
is PO miles or so; but this will be increased.
With water-power as widely distributed as
it is, one day there will be charging stations
wherever they are needed, and cars will pick
up current as they now pick up petrol. Then
Maoriland will save the million a year or so
now spent on imported spirit.
* * * *
“Gregor” returns to tar: —
According to “Ybned” (B. 30/3/’22), Australia
should keep on wasting millions of pounds’ worth
of tar each year until there is a population suffi-
cient to provide a market for all the stuff it is
possible to manufacture from it.' When he says
no one would put £40,000 into a coal-tar distillery,
because the local demand for aniline dyes would not
absorb a quarter of the distillery’s product, “Ybned’’
overlooks the main point—that dyes form only a very
small proportion of the substances obtained from
the tar (about 600 in all) and that they are not
obtained direct, their source being really the basic
substances, such as aniline, which are yielded by
distillation processes and have to be still further
treated. The other compounds include “fine” chemi-
cals used in technological processes, photography,
medicine, the manufacture of other things; and
besides these there are such compounds as xylol,
toluene, benzol and pyridine, and perfumes and
substances used in such widely dissimilar trades
as furniture-making and confectionery, saccharine —
600 times sweeter than sugar—being a coal-tar deri-
vative. It would pay to establish small distilleries
for the recovery of only two or three of the com-
pounds found in tar and to disregard all the others,
even the dye-bases. The cost of such a plant would
only run into hundreds, and as soon as several
of them were in operation auxiliary factories for
handling their by-products would spring up. The
establishment designed to recover every compound
existing in or formed in tar would easily run into
£40,000, as “Ybned” states; but even in Germany,
the home of coal-tar treatment, there are but few
such extensive places, and only one or two in the
United States. For the most part the distilleries
are small, each place aiming at the preparation of
only three of four substances, and selling the resi-
dues to other factories, which again treat them for
definite things, and, in their turn, pass on their
residues to somebody else. Thus a vast inter-
dependent industry has sprung up, the starting
points of which are the works where the crude stuff
is treated for xylol, benzol, toluol and the other
aromatic hydrocarbons. It would not be difficult
to start in the Commonwealth on a small scale, for
the technical knowledge is here, while the plant
required is not so complicated or intricate in its
design that it could not be made locally.


ROAD-MAKING MACHINERY. The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR u>d TROMMEL
All Australian Made.
nr
fme&x
m
X
■
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE “C”
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT”
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION. :
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street, Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
telephone!
Central - - 5993
Hawthorn 1675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS:
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.
k
Cfi
s
THE
INTRINSIC
OF A
PIANO OR
VALUE
w
n
is in the service it gives to the owner and its low cost of upkeep.
In our Pianos and Player Pianos our chief aim is to insist on the best materials
being used by practical workmen who thoroughly understand the art of piano
building.
By these means we are able to guarantee the durability of the instruments we
sell, and the result obtained is long wear at reasonable cost.
If you are interested in either a Piano or Player send to us for a catalogue,
which will be sent you post free.
m
a
st.
338 George
SYDNEY,


s
cJke largest selling
quality pencil in
{hewoxld
ENUS
PENCILS
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
SURVEYORS,
DRAUGHTSMEN,
BUSINESS MEN,
and are
CHEAPER THAN
CHEAP PENCILS.
Sold Everywhere.
ś
otastro
\RPENS SAFETY RAZOR BLADES |
ŝfd
600 Shaves
in One Gillette
Type Blade.
Money Returned
If Dissatisfied.
LASTS A LIFETIME.
Post Free, 35/=
S.Scott-YoungLtd.
Broughton Hous-,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
And COMMERCE H3USE, MELBOURNE
If you are
languid and
weary, you
need a light
stimulant,
such as
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
which has a sure
yet gentle action
on the Kidneys
and Bladder.
It is as good for
women as for men
and is the purest
of all drinks.
Obtainable in
LARGE AND SMALL
BOTTLES
ALWAYS DEMAND
CHATEAU
TANUNDA
STANDARD *** HOSPITAL
BRANDY
Delicious
as a
Beverage.
Indispensable
as a
Medicine.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price -for it.
*7Cave Vou&ried ■
(nan.
dl{£
PLUM
MOTOR
SPIRIT
Easy starting, siteef running. more miles.
CONSERVATIVE owner-drivers, level-
headed and shrewd in matters of
motoring, demand a motor fuel that
gives them easy starting, full and lively power
and more mileage. They are enthusiastic
oaers of the new Plume Motor Spirit.
The explanation of Plume quality lies in
the perfection of the grouping of its boiling
points during the process of manufacture.
The percentage of low boiling points is
great, thus giving instant and complete
vaporisation. Every drop is turned into gas,
ensuring easy starting, quick acceleration,
and maximum miles.
The new Plume makes a perfect explosive
gas, leaving no liquid fuel behind to work
past the rings and dilute and ruin the lubri-
cating oiL
Try it out In your car to-day. Put it
through the most rigorous tests and you will
be another enthusiastic motorist added to
the ranks, of the users of the new Plume
Motor Spirit.
Order
fIUME
i'?Toßsrs&
Case
To-day
Q.6A
r VACUUM OIL COMPANY P T -*W
ş
ONOTO INK-
BEST FOR ALL PENS.
Ask for
the New
Streamline
Model .
When you want to write, the Onoto is
always ready. When you have finished,
a twist with finger and thumb turns the
Onoto into a sealed tube, which cannot
leak.
And when you need a fresh supply of
ink, the Onoto Fills itself in a flash from
any ink supply, and cleans itself in filling.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO., LTD.*
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Choose a Marcee
Pipes of Quality.
Century=old Briar.
The upper pipe shows the famous
MARCEE —one of the renowned
GBD family. Made from selected
French Briar—beautifully marked and
fitted with silver mount and superior
vulcanite mouthpiece. Unique value
at the price quoted. |A»
All Tobacconists and Stores. Iv/”cach
The lower pipe features the famous
MARCEE-DE-LUXE. The briar
used for these pipes is over 100 years
old. Subjected to special hardening
and seasoning processes which empha-
size the beauty and blackness
of the matured briar.
All Tobacconists 1C / .
and Stores. each
If you find it difficult to obtain
these pipes—send remittance to
Box 502 G.P.0., Sydney, and your
order will receive prompt attention.
!
I?
Y
V.
SB
1
“Stringybark”: Talking about slow trains.
On the soldier-settlement line from Amiens
(Q.) a chap walked to one of the sidings,
found the train gone and set off after it
on foot. He ran it down at the next siding
with 10 minutes to spare. I was the chap.
“John the Ostler”: When it was decided
to erect a station at a growing settlement
on the Mildura (Vic.) line, the boss told a
ganger to nail up a sign near the site: “Tem-
porary Railway Stat on.” When the notice
appeared it read: “Tempy StatLn.” And
Tempy it is.
The late John Haynes, just one of
his election triumphs at M ellington
(N.S.W.) years ago, was approached by a
man with a hand on him like a leg of mutton,
who thrust out that hairy paw and said:
“Shake, old man, shake. I knew you’d
dish that blanky scrubber. I could have
beaten him myself. Why, a blanky Chinaman
would have beaten him.”
If political leadership consists “in getting
your supporters back into Parliament after
a general election,” then there would appear
to be no hope for the pretentions of Gregory
McGirr to lead the Labor party in the future.
McGowen, Holman, Watson and Hughes led
ever-growing parties to success and kept
them in. When shrewd politicians are look-
ing for a possible winner to back for leader-
ship, they will not overlook this important
point. McGirrism is from the threshold
associated with failure.
J. H. Michell is to succe°d Prof. Nanson
in the Chair of Mathematics at Melbourne
Uni., where he won his own M.A. But that
was a long while ago: he has been joint
lecturer with Nanson in mathematics
for 30 years. In Eneland he pursued his
favorite subject at Cambridge, where he
became a Smith’s prizeman and shone also
as a Senior Wrangler. Followed coveted
Fellowships of Trinity College and the Royal
Society of London, which, without the other
distinct I 'cm s. would brand him as a scholar of
a very high order.
Things seem to be shaping this way:—
On April 1 a very picturesque divorce was cele-
brated at St. Jude’s Church, when Mrs. Quernie
Smith was separated from Mr. Harold Smith. The
ceremony was performed by the Rev. Harold Jiggs,
and the bride was taken away by her best friend,
Mr. Horace Tomlinson, supported by her mother,
who wore a green charmeuse gown with heavily-
beaded overdress of georgette, the skirt girded with
forget-me-nots.
The bridegroom is the eldest son of Mr. Duncan
Smith, J.P., who was present in lavender trousers
and braided Beaufort coat and white vest. The bride-
groom is well known as a member of the firm of
Smith, Smith and Smith, city architects. He wore
the conventional sports suit in light grey, with a
cap en suite. His best man was Marmaduke Ross,
dressed like his friend Mr Smith, but carrying golf
implements for two. The amiable significance of
this convention—for convention it now is—is that
presently the benedict will be free for a little
flutter on the links—the only links he need recog-
nise henceforward.
The appellant wore smart tailorings of fawn tri-
colette embroidered in Madonna blue, hat to match.
She carried a bunch of bops, which may confirm the
hint that her passion for dancing was at the root
of the marital difference that, leading to indiffer-
ence, precipitated the happy ceremony in which so
many of the Very Smartest participated on Friday.
The Rev. Harold Jiggs in pronouncing the couple
no longer man and wife was impartial in his
felicitations. “The day has gone by when it is felt
necessary for a gentleman or a lady to apologise
for divorce,” he said. “I have been divorced three
times myself, and shall continue to divorce myself
as often as it seems essential to the betterment of
my material and moral condition. Marriage is neces-
sarily an experiment, an experiment rendered the
more dubious by the innocent and inevitable deceits
of courtship. Divorce is the act of rectifying an
error which we have sufficiently repented. Absolu-
tion is the reward of repentance, and should a man
or woman, deeply, sincerely and truly repenting
marriage, be denied the relief that is extended to
sinners truly regretting affairs of greater turpi-
tude?’’ (“Hear, hear!” and great applause)
The reception and divorce breakfast were held at
Queenleigh, the divorced lady occupying the head of
table, the divorced gentleman the foot. Mr. Digby
Ditch, K.C., in proposing the health of the lady who
had just regained, he would not say her liberty, but
her right to do as she jolly well pleased without
being questioned by the late Mr. Harold Smith, went
on to say he considered defendant in this case as
the “late” Mr. Smith, inasmuch as any recognition
of his existence that he had previously enjoyed had
sprung from his position as the husband of the
beautiful, intellectual, and refined Mrs. Harold
Smith. “I congratulate Mrs. Smith,” said the genial
K.C., “on having opened for herself an opportunity
of changing her name, the only thing about her
that has not been provocative of envy. I do not
consider my own name a fortunate one, but I shall
be delighted beyond words if the lady upon whom I
am now privileged to gaze with undisguised admira-
tion can be brought up to regard it as a welcome
change from the monotony of Smith.”
Mr. Arthur B. Boyce, the rising young barrister
who looked after Mr. Harold Smith’s interests, reply-
ing to the frivolous remarks of his learned 'friend,
hoped that if the late Mrs. Smith were induced to
take the Ditch she would employ him (Mr. Boyce)
to get her out of it when the inevitable fall came
about, and when so good a horsewoman could no
longer support so invidious a position. He was
proud to say on behalf of his client, Mr. Harold
Smith, that in many respects he regretted the part-
ing that had just been effected. His friend’s recent
wife had often been charming, she possessed not a
few delightful qualities that Mr Smith had appre-
ciated with something approaching enthusiasm. For
two years, perhaps two years and three months, she
had been a perfect wife, and for the happiness of
those 27 months Mr. Smith would be eternally
grateful. Possibly no reasonable man could expect
more of a wife. In any case, because of those 27
perfect months, he would take great pleasure in giv-
ing his recent wife the most glowing testimonial of
which he was capable.
The lady responded in a neat little speech. She
had found in the course of four years’ married life
that her late husband possessed all those superla-
tively excellent qualities which must make him a
perfect husband for any other woman, and she would
say as much in all circumstances and at all times.
The late Mrs. Smith will spend the ’moon at Manly,
her figure being admirably adapted to the surfing
habits of the natives. She went away in a smart
frock of saxe-blue San Toy and apricot charmeuse
d la Russe. A number of handsome presents were
received by both divorcee and the divorced. The
paternal grandfather of the lady was long and favor-
able known as a flourmiller and Justice of the Peace
at Billy willy.


TEXACO
MOTOR
OIL
A smooth-running motor
IT carries the reputation of the
maker. You can be sure he
gave every part careful thought
that it should function properly—
that it should operate smoothly.
And you can be sure also that
very special attention was given
to the lubricating system. Nothing
about a motor is of greater im-
portance than that.
But it’s up to you to supply
the right oil.
a
No matter how smoothly
motor operates when new —your
choice of the oil to be used will
determine whether that motor is
still the same smooth-running
motor” after one year, twp years
—or many years of service.
Texaco Motor Oil is the right
oil—if you would get the many
years uninterrupted driving you
are entitled to.
Texaco Motor Oil keeps your
engine young.
The TEXAS COMPANY
(Australasia), Ltd.
Head Office, Auto House, 143-145 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
TEX&CO
O
A
•i
. M
•••5
/. i
i
' '(■ v , I
"-S
SPA
HOME
HILLIER'S
CHOCOLATES
“And he’s brought me
one of those lovely
Big Red Boxes.”
The famous Red Box
Chocolates. Made to-
day and mailed to you
to-day—post free.
PRICES:
3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/-, 30/-
Ernest Hillier
162-166 PITT STREET
ALSO
Cr of GEORGE & KING STS.
SYDNEY
Your Pocket Torch is Out-of-date
s
THE HANDILITE is a new Magneto Flash Lamp, made in
England by the GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, LIMITED.
It is inexhaustible, easy in operation and GENERATES
ITS OWN LIGHT by a simple operation of the lever.
THE HANDILITE requires no refills and is always in working
order.
Indispensable to the DOCTOR, MOTORIST, SQUATTER,
BOUNDARY-RIDER, or anyone requiring a reliable, portable,
steady light available in. any emergency.
THE FIRST COST IS THE ONLY EXPENSE,
Sold by all reliable Electricians and Storekeepers,
or direct from
BRITISH GENERAL ELECTRIC Company Limited,
NEWCASTLE^— London* SPcSS^ CLARENCE STRE£ T. SYDNEY.
WES T S MELBOURNE -
QUEENSLAND—Norman Cell and Co., Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
TAQMAMtA A^?^ MA . G^! £T H ?« S 7 E, i 8 Wi ! le i, t ° n ? treet ’ WELLINGTON; 238 Cumberland Street, DUNEDIN
TASMANlA—Medhurst Electrical Works and Telephone Co., Ltd HOBART
FlJl—Morris Hedstrom Ltd., SUVA and LEVUKA.


Hotel de Luxe ,
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
%
Pine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Raths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days
and Sundays.
Tariff from 16/- per lay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels.: Y3OOl. 3002. Apply Manager.
fomeA ffilotuti
The Strong Arm
OF PROTECTION
in MARKING LINEN
goes with Cash’* Woven Name*
because they protect your Linen
against loss—and remember
CASH’S Woven NAMES
excel any other method for mark,
ing linen -no trouble —easily sewn
on -fast color.
The Prices are moderate
12d0z.7/6.6 doz. 5/-, 3doz. 3/6
Sold by all best drapers
Made in Australia by—
J.&J. CASHES;
85 Cubitt St., Richmond,
Vic.
WRITE FOR
STYLE BOOK
A'
m
S 3
The Lowest-Priced
High-Grade Machine
MOTOR
BICYCLES
k
For hard, reliable ser-
vice through all seasons
a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle
is the ideal mount. Not
too heavy to prevent
that economy for which
B. S. A. machines are
famous, and yet scientifically and
sturdily built enabling them to
withstand the rough usage occa-
sioned by continual riding over
bad roads.
Comfort is built
into a B. S. A.
Motor Bicycle
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
L 5
E
-•A.-:
8!
Agents: BENNETT & WOOD LTD., Pitt St., Sytinay
Science gives proof of the\
Nutriment in
Everyone must have nutriment to maintain health
and strength, and the energy to live a useful life.
A PURE
COD LIVER OIL
EMULSION
r
A Medical Scientist recently demonstrated that the
nutritious elements in Cod Liver Oil are consider-
ably greater than in a food so rick in jat as butter.
This discovery reveals the secret of the phenomenal
success and popularity of HYPOL, which contains
50 % of.the finest Cod Liver Oil from the Norwegian
Fisheries, but blended so skilfully with the hypo-
phosphites of lime, potash and soda, and so en-
ticingly flavoured, that it is just as pleasant to take
as it is wholesome.
Doctors recommend HYPOL largely for the following
Complaints, and it never fails
Coughs
Colds
Bronchitis
Pneumonia
Anaemia
Debility
Influenza
Nerves
Measles
Rickets
Loss of Weight
Whooping Cough
There's some distinction and originality about HYPOL.
Substitutes are "not as good."
insist on getting HYPOL. sold everywhere^
L. Made by FELTON, GRIM WADE & CO. PROP. LTD., Melbourne. jA
Large Shipment Just Landed.
“MAXIMUM” HIGH-SPEED
TOOLHOLDER STEEL.
HARDENED READY FOR USE.
3-1 6in., fin., 5-1 6in., fin., 7-16 in., fin., fin., fin., lin. square
in 18in. lengths; also short pieces 3in. to 4in. long.
Poldi Steel Works,
343 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE—CITY 8704.
o s '£ c k
§
S
Jjv/iCN p*U£&''
VX>%7l
Quality Governs Value
The Product of a world-famous firm of high-grade
Shoe Manufacturers.
BOSTOCkS
SHOE POLISH
imparts a lasting lustre to the shoes and adds greatly
to their life. COLORS: Black. Brown. Dark Brown,
Nigger Brown. Price 6d. per tin.
The Jointing that
adjusts itself to the job.
It does not matter how rough or pitted the faces of pipe flanges
are, you can make a thoroughly satisfactory joint quickly and
easily if you use
n^n'fbWder
Form
JOINTING
MATE FOAL
This moulds to the surface irregulari-
ties of the two opposing members and
forms a permanently leaktight and
rustless metal-to-metal joint that will
withstand the highest pressures and
temperatures. Pressure may be
turned on immediately the joint is
made.
Get a tin to-day, and try it on your
most aicktcard joint—it will never
want re-making.
, /"
re*,
---* mv <
/to
/ //
The Austral Engineering Supply Co., Ltd.
490 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
“John the Ostler”: In Kew Cemetery
(Vic.) there’s a monument to a woman who
was born, married, bore her only child and
later died on the same day of the same
month. Surely the Long Arm can’t sweep
much wider than that.
If Vic. civil-service and railway-pensioners
keep on dropping off as they have been lately
McPherson will find it easier to balance the
ledger. Gaggin. Drake, Morkham and Nor-
man, dead within the last few weeks, all
drew tidy sums. And smaller men, on the
£l5O to £250 mark, fade out, inconspicuously,
as usual.
C. A. House, editor of the English
Poultry World, winner of 4000 prizes at
shows and the poultry-judging king of
Europe, has come to Australia on the invi-
tation of the local associations which deal
with Chook. A programme of shows through-
out the Commonwealth has been arranged
for him to judge.
More things than grey pants have made
lawyers invisible to Judges. Willis., the
crank who was Vic.’s first Resident Judge, once
refused to see a gent, one because he had a
fringe on his upper lip. The old ass actually
threatened to have him struck off the rolls
unless he shaved. They struck him off the
roll —of Judges—eventually.
Harold Ellison, who is leaving Joqpok’s
elbow and coming back to Australia, was the
only monocled worker the Commonwealth had
in London after George Reid passed out. He
joined the show in its infancy under Muir-
head Collins, and he and the monocle were
latterly deputed to put the social bloom on
waybacks in Cook’s hospitality branch. •Elli-
son wedded a baronet’s pretty and clever
daughter, and she was making quite a stante
for herself in journalism when death took
her a couple of years back.
“Tarwoona”: “T.W.” (B. 21/3/’22) says
the War Office sends war medals direct to
ex-officers without application, and that it
has found most of the 5,000,000 entitled to
them. Well, it has my permanent Austra-
lian address, but it hasn’t found me yet, and
I was four years with one of the senior
line regiments. As for not requiring appli-
cations, my partner, an ex-R.F.A. officer,
received a set of application forms from the
W.O. three weeks ago. This must be an
unlucky district, anyhow, as not one out of
six of us has got his medal yet.
Addressing the Kalgoorlie Chamber of
Mines recently, Dick Hamilton, Great Boul-
der’s manager, suggested that the decline of
Westralia’s gold yield was due to the high
wages ruling. Admittedly last year’s State
Arbitration award gave the industry a set-
back, but the decline is mainly due to the
fact that the producers discovered in the
’nineties are being, and in many cases already
have been, exhausted, and no new discov-
eries of importance have been made. West-
tralia has had only one Golden Mile. During
the past dozen years the only discoveries of
note have been Bullfinch and Westonia.
Mrs Adelaide Hill, who heard the call at
Wingham the other day, was the widow of
George Snell Hill, who settled at Bungay,
on the N.S.W. North Coast, about 1859 and
died there in 1869. They had a family of
10, seven of whom are still living. One is
Theo. H. Hill, M.L.A. for Oxley. Mrs. Hill
was born in Park-street, Sydney, 89 years
ago, and after living 40 years on the Bun-
gay estate settled down in Wingham two
decades back. She was a daughter of John
Hooke, an early Dungog settler, and in her
there passes the last of the family; her
only sister, Mrs. J. K. Mackay, having
gone some time ago.
“Stargazer”: When Harry Rickards had
made a pile at Melbourne Opera House (now
Tivoli) he had yearnings for a swell theatre,
and began to spend money on the place. He
had it done up outside, and decorated it
in accordance with his own fancy. Among
other things, he fitted the bend of the dress-
circle with the expensive display of colored
jellies fresh from the mould which still give
a jocund eating-house atmosphere to the in-
terior. But ’Arry was enormously proud of
the place when it was finished, and stood in
the vestibule while the first audience flowed
in. One woman came up in a bright purple
dress. Harry was so indignant he wanted
to block her. “She can’t go in in that dress,”
he insisted. “She’ll clash with the decora-
tions !”
“Try Fluke”: Just one or two of the old-
time shore-whalers of Te Awaiti and Ivai-
koura (M.L-) are above ground to talk of
the back-breaking whaleboat days and con-
trast them with modern methods. Tom
Jackson, of Kaikoura—son of Captain Jack-
son, of the Sydney whaling brig Bee—is
pretty well the last of the blubber-hunting
Mohicans. He took bow oar in aTe Awaiti
whaleboat when 14, and stuck to the game
for over half-a-centur.v. The 6ft. 2in. patri-
arch is a gold-mine of whaling lore, and his
speech is chockful of idiomatic color. I was
yarning with him once when an exceedingly
polite little parson on a lecturing tour
dropped in to acquire some of the said
whaling color for platform use. Tom sized
him up and then went to it. When the
blankiest .of blanky narratives was at its
blanky height the parson’s knees were knock-
ing. Those shore-whalers are a type apart
from the sailor-whaleman—they are the
finest boat-handlers in existence, but not a
man-jack of them would venture aloft in a
sailing vessel.
“Hunk’s” human little snapshot:—
One of the Commonwealth steamers put in to
Port Kembla the other day for bunkers, and, as the
voyage was to terminate on the ship reaching Syd-
ney, the usual 24 hours’ notice was given the day
before leaving Kembla. But as the ship was de-
layed in coaling, the notices expired before she could
sail, and the men, thinking to get one back on the
Old Man for trying to save a day’s pay by giving
them notice before reaching Sydney, refused to
take the ship away, unless paid a fiver each for
the run. After much argument with a frantic
mate and chief engineer the crew agreed to take the
vessel away from the wharf to an anchorage, after
which they trooped in a body up to the Old Man.
He argued with them, but without avail—they
wouldn’t budge from the original demand for a fiver
apiece. Things were looking serious, when, during
a tense lull in the argument, there came from one
chap an amazingly unexpected drawl: "Aw, orright
• —we’ll run ’er up fer nix fur y\” Someone
chuckled, the Old Man grinned, then the whole
crowd were laughing like a lot of kids. Two
minutes later the hook was up, the telegraph tinkled
and we were heading north tor home.


4
m
*>s
&
'C
£
a:
£
■p
Wi
STOR
BATT
HV
4f
✓
*
*
o
\
0/
STORAGE
BATTERY
Wire wheels, wood
wheels and disc
wheels all have their
advocates, but every
body agrees on rub -
#
ber tyres. When
everybody knows
the advantages of
Willard Threaded
Rubber Insulation
over ordinary sep-
arators, the demand
for it will be as
universal.


M
A. Saunders’ Gold Watch, Expanding Wristlet, set
double-cut Diamonds, £25. Larger Diamonds, £3O.
A. Saunders’ fine-quality, double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15c t. Gold, £B5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Bar
Brooch. 15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, fancy dial, full-jewelled lever
movement, £l2/10/-
15ct. Gold, £l5.
EXCLUSIVE DIAMOND JEWELLERY
£ I,
m
m
m
A. Saunders’ fine
double-cut Diamond
Neoklei, 15ct.
Gold, £2o.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Single
Stone Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5.
V. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
King, 18e£. Gold,
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Cluster
Expanding Bracelet. 15et. Gold, £2O.
as
V'XV'vW
||||\
I
m
mm
i!i
Mil
m
- ;• :
IV'AV'W'X
A. Saunders’ 9ct. solid Gold Hunting Keyless
AValtham, lever movement, £l5.
Higher-grade, extra-jewelled movement,
£2O, £25, £3O, £35, £4O, £5O.
- A. Saunders’
do”Mc-cut Diamond
Marquise Ring,
18ct. Gold, £oO.
Set in real Platinum.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18c±. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
all Platinum Ring,
£9O.
WRITE FOR OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
WE SEND ALL ORDERS PER REGISTERED POST FREE.
AUNDERS
A. Saunders’ Gold Expanding Watch Wristlet, set
4 Diamonds, full-jewelled movement, compensation
balance, £l7/10/-
A. Saunders’ double-cut Diamond Bar Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £lO.
Saunders’ fine Diamond Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond Bar Brooch, 15et. Gold,
£3.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Diamond
Trefoil Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’
Emerald and
double-cut Diamonrf
Ring, 18ct. Gold.
£23.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold Wristlet Watch, Silk
Bracelet, solid Gold Catch and Mounts, full-jewelled
lever movement, £lO.
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
v
! Wk
ACn
' A //////
/
I
\
P.
m
f
x v -
II
brighten Up the Home
Renew the varnish on your woodwork, floors, furni-
ture, Sec. , with an application of Johnson’s Prepared
Wax —the polish that imparts a hard, dry and bright
lustre, that protects, and covers mars and surface
scratches. A soft cloth and Johnson’s Prepared Wax —
all that is needed for easier dusting and brighter home.
JOHNSON’S
Liquid and Paste
PREPARED WAX
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Paste is the most conven-
ient and satisfactory form for use on floors of all
kinds—wood, marble, tile, linoleum, See. Floors fin-
ished with this are easily dusted and polished with a
soft cloth or Johnson’s Light Floor Brush.
There is also Johnson’s Prepared Wax Liquid that is
especially recommended for furniture, phonographs,
pianos, woodwork and motor-cars. It contains no oil
and cannot catch or gather dust. It is clean to use
and durable in its effect.
Include a supply of these Johnson Products
with your next order from your local dealer.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St. Sydney, N. S. W.


SKETCH!
that
SELL
are easy to draw if
you learn by the
right method.
V
&
6»
If you are fond of drawing you can
easily be taught how to make money in
your own home. There is such a constant
demand for new sketches that persons of
very moderate ability earn good fees.
But to get the best results you should
learn direct from a successful artist.
Under Mr. J. O. Bancks, the well-known
cartoonist and caricaturist, and by his easy
system of lessons by post, many persons
of both sexes are now being trained to
do money-earning sketches.
Mr. Bancks himself supervises every
student’s work and personally corrects
and advises them by letter on each lesson.
Why Don’t
YOU Learn?
The Bancks School gives the finest prac-
tical instruction to be had in Australia,
and the terms are very easy.
Send your name and address (with 3d.
in stamps for postage), and the booklet
“Art that Pays” will be posted to you. It
tells you all about the School. If you can
already draw a little and you like to send
a specimen of your work (either original
or a copy) Mr. Bancks vyill be very pleased
to write you his opinion of it —free.
But write for the book now, and judge
for yourself.
J. C. Bancks School of Sketching
(postal only)
2 Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W,
THIS
UNITED insurance
UHI I LU COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
£1,000,000.
CAPITAL,
fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes oi
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture. &c. Rents also assured
on Wool, Merchandise.
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIQH. General Manager.
HaveYouTried
Mennen’s?
What I lake about men in Aus-
tralia and NewZealandis that they
are not penny wise and pound
foolish. Mennen Shaving Cream
costs them 2d. more a month than
hard soap. I’ll admit it. At the
sa'me titne I’ll admit that Mennen’s
is well worth the difference. The
extra comfort, the extra confi-
dence, the extra cordiality that
comes with the 120 shaves in a
Mennen tube is worth as many
pounds as the pennies that might
be saved each month.
As one of my enthusiastic
friends says,“l’m not arguing, I’m
only telling you.’’ The test is in
the tube. The tube is in every
good shop that stocks toilet pre-
parations. It’s your move.
{Mennen Salesman)
BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO., LTD.
249 George Street, Sydney
James Smith’s Building, Cuba Street, Wellington, N.Z
Amusement*.
S'*r N J s ' s clll K 1 TIIISAT K E S.
*f. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
CRITERION:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
ROYAL:
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
TTIIiE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSFEAREAN
1 PRODUCTIONS.
Australian Tour:
SYDNEY SEASON—GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Australasian Representative. HUGH D WILSON
17 'Die Hanking House, Pitt Street. Sydney.
W I R T H S ’ CIRCUS
ww and
Menagerie of Performing Wild Animals.
THE HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE SATS. and WEDS., 2.30.
Children half-price.
This Year the Best Ever. Everything New.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
“The Glory of Italy and the Envy of the World.’’
— II.M. King Edward VII.
]* HE “SIS TINE CHOIR,
SO VOICES.
Maestro: Monsignor RELLA.
MELBOURNE, COMMENCING APRIL 15.
SYDNEY, COMMENCING MAY 6.
BRISBANE, COMMENCING MAY 24.
NEW ZEALAND TO FOLLOW.
Direction THOMAS QUINLAN, in association with
E. J. and DAN CARROLL.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
att'kactioxs.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
MAUDE FANE in
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
LOUIS RENNISON in
JOHNNY GET YOUR GUN.
KING’S THEATRE.
PHILLIPS TF.AD and ELIZABETH DUNN in
THE FIRST YEAR.
E»
PLans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
ItITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTURES.
Continuous Sessions.
IV!
THEATRE.
MELBOURNE
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE.
WOTUD and SFT.ZNTCK.
s&-
Last Few Weeks. £2 Z°°,
BLACKHEATH SOLDIERS'
MEMORIAL ART UNION
In Aid of Soldiers’ Memorial Fund.
(By special permission of the Hon. the
Attorney General, under the auspices of a
Citizens’ Committee.)
£IIOO First Prize valued £IIOO
£sooSecond Prize valued £5OO
£3OO Third Prize valued £3OO
Total Prizes £2700.
Closes May Ist. Drawn May 26th. Winning
numbers published on 31st May, 19i2.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/- Only
By Post 1/2 —Two or more Post Free.
FRANK BURROWS, Queen st.. Glebe, N.S.W.
Tickets obtainable from N S W. Bookstall Co.,
Hairdressers, Newsagents, etc. through the
State and Samuel T. Green, Hon. Secretary.
Council C ambers, Bi.ackhkath, N.S.W
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you pHce for it.
ś
CRAIG & AITKEN, '“.‘‘AT, st
The Plum Razor
The “Tried and True” quality-maintained
Razor. For thirty-five years the “Plum” has
retained the confidence and patronage of men
who appreciate its sterling qualities.
PRICE, 12/6. Pair in Presentation Case, 25/ -
POST FREE.
Kept in order for two years free.
ShoAtoS A Muttitude of C liiii4
Amusement*.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE PENALTY.
PRODUCED BY GOLDWYN.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
H
Oil’S
THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SVOMCV.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
HARRY CAREY in
THE FOX.
ELAINE HAMMERSTEIN in
THE WAY OF A MAID.
Prices as usual.
ŝ
Did You Ever Have a
Comfortable Shave?
Why not try a
BURHfIMI-IPPLEXI
Safe Razor
You don’t know what
shaving comfort is till you
try one.
»0 0
All Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-day—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX 1 Safe Razor—feel It in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It's a revelation 1
Good news
for musio lovers
If you have denied yourself the pleasure of a good phonograph
simply because you assumed that a phonograph, in order to
be good, must necessarily be expensive —then hear the
Amberola.
Hear its pure mellow quality of reproduc-
tion—its freedom from metallic harshness.
Decide whether you like it —without con-
sidering price.
When actual proof has demonstrated the
fine musical qualities—then you will
doubly glad to know that it represents the
world’s greatest phonograph value —low in
first cost, while its practically unbreakable
records give users a big advantage by avoid-
ing the frequent replacements necessary with
other models.
Let us send you our' illustrated catalogue, also name
of nearest Edison dealer.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
£
SYDNEY
CRRPHIKET
SYDNEY
GRRPHIKE7
: i
Anti-Friction
METAL
117 E make the largest range of Anti-friction
▼ ▼ Metal in Australia. THE BEST BEAR-
ING METAL ON THE MARKET IS
Graphine No. 1
(Tin Base).
Designed for the heaviest loads and high-speed
work. Six qualities of Graphine are made, either
nickel or copper hardened, to cover practically
every requirement.
Plastic Metal
A plastic self-tinning alloy which is now displac-
ing standard imported brands. Supplied in lib.
sticks and 71b. ingots.
Austral Navy Bronze
A high-grade white metal for Tail Shaft Bearings,
Bilge Pipes, etc.
The very best results are obtained by the adon-
tion of these high-class bearing metals/ Stocked
by merchants all over Australia. Send for descrip-
tive booklet and full particulars to
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
Selling Agents:
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney;
125 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; and 17 Bolton
Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) Pty.
Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide;
corner Elizabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart.
Also from Geo. Kent, Ltd., Perth, W.A.; and
Jones and Co., Ltd., Clyde Quay, \Yellington,
N.Z.


A Signal Siaeeess
S 3
King George IV
ttAS7TEJ7 'it G 3
WMHSKST I
IheTOPNOTCHScotch. I
THE “NUGGET”
TAN, DARK TAN and
NIGGER BROWN
BOOT POLISHES
are as good as the famous
“NUGGET” BLACK
BOOT POLISH,
which is better than ever.
HAWAII
g g THt YEAR ’ROUND PLAYGROUND | Q
ENJOY JULY
and AUGUST
In America’s Mid-Pacific Paradise. The
cruise offers a holiday of unusual pleasure
—splendidly appointed liners, calm
waters, blue skies, summer breezes.
Then the isles of your imagination:
m
Gorgeous scenery,
tropic fruits,
trees, flowers;
continuous recreation
including golf, swim-
ming and surfing ; and
incomparable Kilauea,
living volcano. Ask
your nearest travel,
tourist or steamship
agency for new book-
let, or write direct to
Department B,
Hawaii Tourist Bureau,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl”
Criterion “My Lady’s Dress’’
Royal “The Maid oi the Mountains”
Grand Opera House .... Shakspearean Productions
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirtns’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Nie-br Out”
Royal “Johnny Get Your Gun’
King’s “The First Year”
Majestic Moving Pictures
ft OYT s Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
I own Hall The siatine Choir
A breath of schnapps blew over Her
Majesty’s on Saturday night. It was the
hrst outing of "A Little Dutch Girl” in
Sydney, and the brew was excellent —light
and lion-intoxicating, and a blessed relief
after a week of fat bullocks and disgustingly
obese hogs. There was nothing surprisingly
new in the lady’s past or present; but she
madie up for that in music and humor. Rene
Maxwell, pleasant of voice and attractive of
appearance, filled the name part and left
no gaps. Gracie Lavers, the second string
to the female bow, was sprightly and har-
monious throughout. She is awarded the
blue ribbon, but is warned that Rene Max-
well ran her very close for it. George Gee
and Hughie Steyne, as full of nonsense as
the ci"ty is of whiskers, kept the show on
the move the whole time, and proved that
even a breath of schnapps is an excellent
tanglefoot if taken correctly. Claude Flem-
ming, as the Prince, has little to do but be
married by proxy to someone he has never-
seen, and then make love to a Dutch wait-
ress, who turns out to be his camouflaged
wife, and does it as well as a fat man could
be expected to in an overcrowded, stuffy
theatre on a hot night. Perhaps the Firm
could arrange for a breath of fresh air in
addition to the breath of schnapps. It would
be as welcome as the Little Dutch Girl her-
self. The best piece of work in the whole
show, if it’s not too late to mention it, is
Maie Baird’s statue dance, the finest thing
of its kind for many days.
The Merchant of Venice signed his still
unhonored p.n. at Sydney Opera House on
Saturday night, and Shy lock made his one
known bad bargain in a long life of successful
trafficking. Allan Wilkie was the Jew stung
to revolt and worked up to frothing curse
and harrowing hate—a forceful Shylock,
never failing to convey something of the
color and the temperament of the race. Hilda
Domngton was an alluring rather than a
gallant Portia, and showed a speaking voice
of unusual quality in the trial scene. Vera
St. John was the old Jew’s flapper daughter,
and held to her own way with such sprightly
determination that Lorenzo (Leslie Man-
ners) would probably have a hard time as
her husband. Jessica Dale made the part of
Nerissa more than a mere foil to her dazzling
mistress. Jack Lennon (Antonio) in his
direst plight seemed to suggest that tne
Court of Appeal was always open. Friend
Bassanio (Purdie) had horrible moments of
remembering he had backed the bill even as
he clipped his lady Portia to him; and
Plumpton Wilson’s Pauncelot Gobbo was an
excellent bit of drawing in the company’s
lightning sketch of “The Merchant.” On
Monday there was an interesting represen-
tation of a much abbreviated “Taming of
the Shrew,” and “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream” is due on Saturday.
** * *
“The Maid of the Mountains,” with Sheila
Gale as the damsel
in question, Anew
McMaster as the
brigand bold, and
Nell Payne in Mira
Kenham’s place,
was the Easter re-
vival at Sydney
Royal. Her
mother’s death has
kept Gladys Mon-
crieff out of the
cast, but she is
booked to return
before “The Maid”
has exhausted a
populace that had
a gruelling time at
the races.
*# * *
“B roadway
Jones” not reach-
in g the dizzy
height the ad.-
writers prophesied
for it, Allen Doone
did a wise thing in
jumping back to
that type of play
in which a canvas
shamrock and a
brogue cover a
multitude of sins.
“My Lady's Dress ” at
Sydney Criterion.
Frank Harvey as Jack.
“The Parish Priest” is easily the bell-
wether of this flock. It is endowed with all
the niceties of a cleanly-writ and sobful little
love tangle, and has the requisite quota of
watery situations. In the hands of a cap-
able company “The Parish Priest” can be-
come intensely interesting, but those who
had the job of interpreting it at the Sydney
Palace rather gave the impression that they
were squabbling among themselves. Allen
Doone, who hasn’t his sweet tenor to fall
back on these days, was a somewhat jaded
Father Whalen, alternately coaxing and
scolding his faithful. Yet the American
Jewry-manufactured Irish play has a public
that fairly gobbles up all that is turned out,
and so long as its appetite is whetted all
is presumably well.
* * * *
Allen Doone is too good a veteran not to
cloak himself in a certain sincerity and
whimsical pathos. At times, however, he
tries to force the sense of placidness, and
then his enunciation goes to the dogs. George
Hewlett and Roland Riley, the rival lovers,
have one thing in common —they both have
a tough job to seem real and be convincing.
John Vincent White is a recognisable Dr.
Cassidy, George Bryant is artificial, and
Edna Keeley is at her best as the buoyant and
happy young miss at the commencement. Ethel
Bashford scores as the impulsive Agnes Cass-
idy ; and in their respective little spheres
Eardley Turner and Mabel Russell move in
almost perfect harmony.
Young Sydney is
catching its breath
at the antics of
the Mighty Mul-
doon on his tower
of boxes and dila-
pidated furniture
at Wirths’. Other
troupes of acrobats
are playing tricks
with the law that
brought Newton’s
apple to earth ; and
Joe and John Wal-
halla, the clowns,
find time to make
fun in between the
turns when they
don’t actually
crowd in on them.
In the menagerie
section the wart-
hog is only second
favorite now, as a
basketful of young
lion cubs is
brought round and
introduced to the
audience. But on
Good Friday the
generous old firm
NICOLA smiles at
the cleverness of one
of his tricks.
was itself first favorite, for, following
a practice established in the reign of George
111. or thereabouts, it handed out buns and
gingerbeer to as many of the poor kids of
►Sydney a s cared to push up a grubby hand
to receive them.
* * sts
Sydney Criterion is still displaying “My
Rady’s Dress,” and, looking on, Mum feels
that Dad really wasn’t justified in groaning
over the SO shillings she spent on her Show
hat.
** * *
A care-free holidaying Sydney is offering
the Tivoli Frolics so much inducement to
remain that you may yet find the Actors’
Union threatening a strike unless the man-
agement provides the thyroid-gland treat-
ment for warding off old age.
** * *
The return of an old performer:—
W. Lister Lister arrays a year’s work in his large
exhibition, mostly water-colors, at Horderns’ Syd-
ney Galleries. While it reaches the standard of
most one-man shows it might perhaps have been a
better year’s work if the industrious artist had pro-
duced only half the number, or if in most of his
pictures he had contented himself with attempting
a great deal less. He is a realist, but too often
misses hia mark because he forgets the whole
in his interest in the little details, and is thus liable
to produce what is actually a colored plan of his
subject. To record with even an approach to
accuracy the light and shade of grassy plains dotted
with thistles, fences, trees, a house or two, a few
cows and wooded ranges beyond, in each of which in
drawing alone there is a day’s work, is a physical
impossibility; for even the light of a grey day is
constantly changing and that of a sunny day, which
seems to be Lister’s Choice, is completely altered
every half-hour; and no memory could retain the
fractional differences in degrees of light and dark
of so vast a number of details. It* is the recording
of these fractional differences which makes a painted
flat surface appear to be a window in the wall, and
unless we suggest actual space we have not got
complete realism.
* * * *
Whether the Sistine choristers will be a
box-office success time alone will show; but
already there is no doubt about their art-
istry—they fully proved that much at Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Saturday night. The
surpliced singers, led by the beaming Mon-
signor Rella, opened in a special greeting
to Australia and followed with a series of
sacred choral effects, in which the beautiful
tones of the boy sopranos and tenors shone
out against the deep vocal backgrounds of
lusty baritones and bassos. Every voice re-
sponded to the guiding hands of the conductor
—hands which, spread out from the bent
figure as in a Hindu salaam, grew agitated
for the production of some triumphant shout
to the Creator, but scarcely moved in the
pianissimo of some solemn requiem. It was
tine music from the pens of Palestrina,
Perosi and other religious composers, but
the sound of it, rich and unaccompanied
by any other appeal to the senses, was some-
what curious in the Town Barn, though it
drove the impressionable multitude to deaf-
ening applause. Two or three items had to
be repeated, particularly Palestrina’s “Laud-
ate,” wherein the shepherd Bella’s perspir-
ing flock sang with the fervor of more than
musical inspiration. Palestrina’s impress-
ive “Exultate Deo,” an “Ave Maria” by
Vittoria, Viadana’s “Exultate Justi” and
several more were all excellently handled,
and there was a terrific demonstration when
a fragment of the choir retired to the bal-
cony at the south end of the hall, the two
sections exchanging “Alleluias” in a forceful,
if rather theatrical, chant by Perosi. Bella’s
combination will be heard all this week and
next, and the programmes, changing nightly,
will probably be further varied with some
secular selections.
$* * *
Even if there were no depressing refer-
ences to dollars, “The First Year” at Mel-
bourne King’s would still be obtrusively
American because of the sentimentality in
the last act. Mrs. Tommy Tucker, the year-
old bride who has broken with her husband
over a trivial squabble and seems likely to
lose her share of the fortune which ,he has
made by the hoary device of selling appa-
rently worthless land to a railway co., is
presented by the dramatist with an approach-
ing accouchement to bring her embittered
man to heel. The glad news, bashfully whis-
to the lady’s doctor-uncle, is too much
for Tommy, and a scene promising violent
language ends in mutual bliss. This slushy
finish is preceded by two acts of comedy-
drama., the second session providing a fairly
realistic picture of two bickering newly-
weds, assisted by a gawky-colored lemale, in
the throes of preparing a small peremonial
dinner. In this act Marjorie Bennett, as
Mrs. Tucker, plays with unexpected effi-
ciency. In fact, her work all through is
good in a pretty, fluffy way, her physical
fitness for the part helping considerably to
her success. Phillips Tead, the small for-
tune-hunter debased by the name of Tommy
Tucker, keeps his origin prominent with
occasional nasalities, but he performs alertly,
faithfully subduing a machine-gun style to
demonstrate the effect of home-made cock-
tails. All the same, he doesn’t look the sort
of man that would take the eye of a romant.c
girl. . liis face is too content to let the rest
of him act and his entrance into the last
tableau is dangerously near to farce. Eliza-
beth Dunn, also from the U.S., is a very
moderate jest as Hattie, the quaint nymph
of Sambo parentage. Maggie Moore, as
Mrs. Livingston, is a comfortable spectacle
of maternal solicitude, and Edwin Lester,
as old Livingston, is humorously matter-of-
fact. Making full use of his sweet har-
monium tones as Dr. Anderson, H. B.
Boberts tends to turn the small part into a
musical recital. William Greene, wrenched
from musical comedy to appear as Tucker’s
hopeless rival, is . all teeth and restless ex-
tremities, but a little more familiarity with
a small, crowded stage should give him and
this critic more repose. Thomas Lloyd, as
a railway land-agent, whose most fetching-
job is to make a carillon of the soup at
the Tucker dinner, gets a moment of lime-
light, while Marie Eaton, as his pr'eter-
naturaliy speechless missus, is no more than
a dressy detail.
♦# * *
“Spangles,” at the Melbourne Palace, is
a lively vaudeville mixture, not over-rich
in humor or strong on the personal side.
Much of the entertainment is devoted to song
and dance, with pretty chorus support, the
remainder being three or four full-stage
scenes prolific in patter but wanting in
striking revuesical effects. Ada Beeve
scores most as a designing French widow in
flamboyant attire inveigling a political johnny
into matrimony. Later she muffles up in the
frayed garments of a- Cockney flower-lady and
tickles the audience with allusions to her
giddy youth. Also, she sings frequently,.
introducing old favorites. But time, though
tender to her art as an actress, is beginning
to leave wrinkles in her upper register. Gus
McNaughton is first-assistant in varied
changes of raiment ranging from odd to
idiotic. Mild in manner and bleating in
tone, he best suggests the average stage
masher with an emaciated intellect. Jess
Sweet is a generally useful with her legs
and voice, but is consistently joyless except
as the diverting front section of a panto, ele-
phant, whereof the hindquarters are fur-
nished by nimble Harry Gould. The
latter also has shining moments as a grocer
in a tableau of “A Co-operative Store.” Alec
Hardisty’s baritone wins him a place in
the proceedings, but as an actor he is in
the bantam division. Nella Duval easily
misses a diploma for her vocal work, but
she has a neat figure and a winsome style.
Frank Wilson’s instrumentalism can be
classed as an interruption, and there is no
allurement in Nora O’Malley’s conventional
soprano, though her bountiful charms are
attractively frocked. Producer Fred Farren
is most obvious as an animated toy soldier
m a picturesque first-act finale, ’ wherein
premiere-danseuse Saronova pirouettes on
brief, muscular pegs. The dressing is lavish
and the scenery satisfying.
* * v
Johnny will Get his Gun until further
orders at Melbourne Royal, and the counter-
feit Jook will continue to angle for an
alleged heiress until a carefully-flung lasso
compels him to change his mind.
* * * *
Large audiences are still trying to dis-
cover the difference between Frith and froth
in “A Night Out” at Melbourne Her
Majesty’s. The problem is now several
years old, but it has become more absorbing
since Frith started to patter voluminously
in a principal part.
** * *
Talbot O’Farrell is still on the bill at
Melbourne Tivoli, but the ragtime riot of
the Two Rascals has somewhat dimmed the
lustre of the portly minstrel. The Rascals’
humor goes to the head of this spectator,
whereas O’FarrelPs tame jokes presently
affect the feet and turn them towards the
exit door. The newly-arrived Franjacks,
equilibrists and balancers, are worthy of
remembrance, and the same might be said of
the shapely Lotto lady, though full justice to
her could only be done in a sonnet. There
is also large public appreciation for the giant
xylophone of Reno and Arta, but The
Bulletin feels that the instrument should
never have been allowed to grow up.
** * *
Harry Carey has joined the outlaw-
hunters, and his latest feat in “The Fox”
at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, shows the hero’s
superb indifference to death and dismember-
ment. The story is somewhat Deadwood
Dicky, but the support of a troop of U.S.
cavalry gives Carey’s violence the appear-
ance of a "lawful occupation. Posing on the
same screen in frocks that cling affection-
ately is the beauteous Blaine Hammerstein
in “The Way of a Maid.” At the Majestic
Louise Glaum is shoved forward in “Greater
Than Love,” and wins attention by her force-
ful work in a very improbable story. “Molly
O, at the Britannia, is another illustration
of the discovery that previous poverty is no
bar to a girl’s marriage with a millionaire.
.At the Melba the taming of a wild flapper
is proceeding in “Enchantment,” and the
operation is costing time, tears and money.
#* * *
Adelaide Prince of Wales is waking from
its winter sleep with a Fuller co. of melo-
drama. The Royal gets in the magic of
Nicola for Easter,
and the Exhibition
has turned itself
into a skating-
rink. The King’s
noSv , has a mon-
opoly of variety,
including Jennings
and Gerald and
other bright pairs,
and a Fuller revue
co. with Walter
Johnson running
it. In the closing
nights of “The
Little Dutch Girl”
at the Royal the
massive Claude
Flemming displaced
Roland Hogue
from the leading
part of the princely
bounder. At
West’s Clara Kim-
ball Young is in a
filmed version of
the unpleasant
“Easiest W a y,”
and _ makes an ap-
pealing character
of the too-facile
heroine. Wonder-
graph is showing a
picture locally pro-
duced. “Whv Men
“All the Winners” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Hector St. Clair talk-
ing nonsense.
Go Wrong,” with
sundry hits at Adelaide’s varied standard
of. morals, sometimes slack, sometimes a
trifle too hard. The York has a curious
double, Norma Talmadge and the clever kid
Jackie Coogan; and Clyde Cook is as fan-
tastic as ever at the I’av. Princess Mary,
of course, gets married on all screens.
Orb’ : I was visiting a vaudevillainous
friend in his dressing-room the other night,
when the question of the “morn”-“dawn”
effort at rhyming came up. “Strike me
’an’some, wot th’ ’ell’s wrong with it?”
asked my friend. “Every sentimental song
’as it. ‘I sigh f’r th’ morn, an’ I long f’r th’
dorn,’ an’ all that junk. Sounds orright to
me. Besides, all th’ imported artists come
at it.” Then he settled it—and me: “An’
look ’ere ; I ’eard th’ Army singin’ a nim on’y
last night, ‘There will be a glorious dorn —
turn —tiddley—um—turn—on th’ Resurrection
morn!’ There y’are! ’Ow about The
Bulletin now? That's the ’Oly Bible for
it!”


Modern Methods of Construction
All Reinforced Concrete Building
for MARK FOY’S PAVILION
at Royal Agricultural Show.
. . ■ ™ ■
WSmn
y.
...* . '
FOY’S
-
m ', ■*
w^smr.
mm
■.
■
iriPss
Mill
■
’ *
f / .
■
wM
• O' I
V
i
a i
ft
w? M
*r
m
f
f:
4
■
1
ll.! I
. * *f ,
•' * , * ‘
to
Official Opening of MARK FOY’S LTD.’S PAVILION, by Mr. H. V. Foy.
Contracts now in hand
amount to £350,000,
amongst which are;
Menzies’ Hotel, Melbourne
Astor Flats, Sydney
Q’land National Bank, Sydney
We will give Estimates for All Classes of Concrete Construction.
CONCRETE CONSTRUCTION LTD
j.
Broughton House, 47 King Street, Sydney.


Si
m
I
91
WE ADVANCE MONEY
FAIR INTEREST. EASY TERMS
N SW MONT de PIET t
D.&I. COY. LTD.,
74 St. Sydney. 74
Phone City 9325.
Capital 5.300.000.
Joseph . W. Hill.
General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says: “The
Company is very well
managed, and the name
is quite a household word
in Sydney. Its reputation
is excellent, and although
the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a
vampire the charge can-
not be laid at the doorr
of the N.S.W. Mont de
Piete D. and I. Co. Ltd.”
Branches at
29 King: St., Newcastle, N.S.W.
215 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
197 a Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
POVERTY
POINT
T[?]T & Chandon
DRY IMPERIÀL
CHÀMPÀGNE
Exquisite
“Deadhead”: The formation of the Pioneer
Players in Melbourne is a spirited attempt
to form a purely Australian repertory com-
pany. They are to kick off at the Play-
house on May 18 and 20, with Louis Esson’s
“The Battler,” and will follow on later in
the year with two other full-length plays.
The idea is to give three or four short seasons
annually, producing drama that is as dis-
tinctively Australian as that of the Abbey
Theatre is Irish. Rather ambitious, but
the Pioneers say they already have enough
good plays to prove that Australian drama
can be national and characteristic without
losing itself in whiskers and caricature. And
some first-class actors, repertory and profes-
sional, have rallied to their standard with
enthusiasm. Esson’s “The Battler” is a
three-act comedy, set on an abandoned gold-
field, and it had the initial bad luck to be
burnt with the rest of the author’s house-
hold gods. As rehearsals were due Esson
set to work, and restored it within a week.
‘ Francois”: Though I never saw Henry
Irving as Richard 111., I should say that
“Johnny Get Your
Gun," at Melbourne
Royal.
George Blunt as
the butler.
Allan Wilkie’s ver-
sion of the crooked
monarch owes
something to the
Irving tradition.
Wilkie’s snarling
tyrant is only a
louder H. B. Irv-
ing, who in “Louis
XI.” particularly,
and also in “Ham-
-1 e t,” was the
mirror of his
father. But where-
as young Irving
carried some con-
viction by sheer
personal intensity,
Wilkie, hampered
by an unmanage-
ab 1 e voice and
a figure too heavy
for shuddery pos-
tures, never holds
your attention for
long. I don’t think
he really feels the
part, for he occa-
sionally forgets to
pose with the curved
backbone and the
dragging leg.
“Hang-Over” : Perth Repertory has scored
a first production—Clemence Dane’s “Bill
of Divorcement,” which was produced for
the first time in Australia on April 5. And
an excellent affair it was. The society has
turned a dull building of Scottish severity
into a neat and natty little theatre-like hall,
and here the Perth Repertory is to have
its home for the future.
“Norbell”: Nellie Stewart’s youthfulness
(B. 13/4/’22) is the effect of tremendous
vitality and a lifetime of hard work ard
rigid regimen. I have seen her, after an all-
night train journey, trip out of the carriage
as fresh as the morning milk, while the rest
of tne touring co. were knocked up. When
her singing voice failed her, she at once
made good in comedy, drama and tragedy,
including Shakspeare. Where is the next
prima donna that could do it? She took an
Australian co. to America, opened in a dis-
credited theatre in ’Frisco, and, in spite of
the sneers of the local Solomon Eagles, cap-
tured the town. She gave nine perform-
ances a week in America —seven nights and
two matinees—and would have had a phe-
nomenal run there had it not been for the
earthquake, which disorganised the tour and,
incidentally, obliterated the scenery, etc., for
“Mice and Men” and other plays which had
just arrived from Home (and that means
Australia). Ten years ago she toured Aus-
tralasia, playing anywhere and everywhere.
She kept it up for a year. Others of the
co. took ill or threw in the towel, but the
thought of Nellie Stewart cracking up never
occurred to anyone. A self-satisfied Bung
at an out-beyond pub came to George Mus-
grove’s table at dinner with the inevitable
question. “Some of the boys’ve got a bit
of a wager on, Mr. Musgrove—how old,
exactly, is Miss Stewart?” Muzzy looked
him in the eye, and all the dining-room
waited* for the answer. “Exactly ninety-
four !” .said he, politely. Little John Sheri-
dan used to tell of how the Widow O’Brien
made her bow in the 14th-street Theatre,
New York, in 1880. “And who do you
think was waiting for us to get out? Why,
Nellie Stewart!” The Stewart family was
then travelling with “Rainbow Revels.” A
wonderful woman!
“J.F.H.” (Lond.) : Goulburn (N.S.W.)
convent nightingale Madeline Collins has been
chosen to create the leading-lady role in a
new operatic version of “David Garrick,” a
play that the late Sir Charles Wyndliam
made perennially popular during his long
tenancy of the Criterion. The show is billed
for March 2 at the Queen’s, and in a prelimi-
nary par. the Daily Telegraph speaks of
the Goulburn girl as “a young vocalist who
has already done good work both in concerts
and opera.”
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos F. C.
Brewer’s "The Drama and Music in N. S.
Wales (B. 6/4/’22). The booklet of 95
pages was written for the Chicago Exhibi-
tion of 1893, and was published by the Gov-
ernment Printer at Is. 6d. In the preface
Brewer said: “I bring to my task the ex-
perience of 56 years on the metropolitan
press of this country, and therefore a greater
part of this pamphlet is written from what
came under my personal knowledge... .A
more comprehensive record would occupy
much time and fill volumes.” The remin-
iscences of “the other Ford” were written
for me and passed on to the Mitchell
Library. W. H. Ford was born on the stage
in London, came to Sydney in 1847, found
the only theatre (the Vic.) open but
twice a week, and was advised by the care-
taker to abandon all thought of an engage-
ment. He then took a station job in the
More ton Bay district, at Tarampa, as cook,
and at Christmas converted the woolshed
into a playhouse and trained some of the
station-hands in what to-day is termed vaude-
ville. He was advised to try his talent in
Ipswich and did so, opening the first theatre
in Queensland in that town. He claimed to
have been the first to open a theatre in
Brisbane also, and in his reminiscences points
out the site. He was the first to open a
music-hall —the Scandinavian—on the site
of the Tivoli in Castlerengh-street, Sydney.
He died, at 87, in Melbourne about six
years ago.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Harry G. Musgrove is
still busy. Cousin Jack Musgrove has just
returned from a diplomatic mission to South
Africa, and Tom North is installed in New
York offices. The latter’s first angling, it
is said, will be for Mrs. Vernon Castle.
Lately Musgrove, who has Uncle George’s
courage and a good head, made a big bid
for a tour by George Robey, turned a deaf
ear to a suggestion by Sir Seymour Hicks,
and listened to a kindly hint bv Harry
Lauder which brought Talbot O’Farrell to
Australia. Wee Georgia Wood and Malcolm
Scott are now cutting the sandwiches for
the trip, and George Carney also comes this
way. Robey’s horror of salt water makes
him an unlikely visitor. His last cable said,
“Thanks ever so much, but I never find it
rough in London.”
A Macquarie-street specialist’s comments:
Dame Nellie Melba his been giving an account
of the laryngology of the ’nineties, when Sir Felix
Semon’s word was law, and people would remain
“silent ” for him for months at a stretch. Singers
however, are not our most numerous patients. No
attention is paid to voice-production in our schools,
so it is not to be wondered at that many teachers
succumb to laryngitis, and have to apply for long
periods of leave. They get the trouble by over-use
of the voice, and especially by improper use of it in
overstraining it at too high a pitch. They could have
escaped, possibly, by training the voice—reading
aloud several times per day for many months. Music
pupils have to practise the scales to acquire even-
ness in piano-playing. Why shouldn’t a teacher’s
voice get a similar training for the work it will be
called upon to perform ? This is the more necessary
since teachers generally have to work under trying
conditions, amidst noise, where they- have to raise
the pitch of their voice, and in crowded rooms where
dust is present. Singers in endeavoring to employ
a register beyond their powers may develop a com-
plaint which Semon called “corns on the vocal
cords,” but whioh we know as “singers’ nodules”
(nodular laryngitis). The disease is almost
always seen in tenors and sopranos; but the nodules
are apt to occur in any person who has to use his
voice excessively amidst unhygienic surroundings.
Clergymen, teachers, hucksters, auctioneers and
especially “bookies” are prone to it. I could lay
mv hand any day upon several fine examples at the
“ponies.” The delicate fibrous bands known as the
vocal cords after being kept extremely tense for long
periods lose their pearly whiteness and become con-
gested and bathed in mucus. Nodules the size of a
SAM BARTON, the tramp comedian who
tries to ride a bike at the Sydney Tivoli.
Small seed may then develop at the edge. They pre-
vent the perfect apposition of the cords in singing
or speaking, and cause tiredness of the voice, hoarse-
ness and perhaps diplophonia. By forcing a note
they can be made to lie on the upper surface of
the cord, when apposition of the fibrous bands can
take place, and a true note be sung; but the growth
will soon resume its old position. Treatment
might consist in silence for weeks or months, speak-
ing only in a whisper being allowed. If the disease
proved obstinate the growth could be tackled, under
cocaine anaesthesia, with the cautery or laryngeal
forceps. But although I meet with cases of chronic
laryngitis in teachers and others,' nodules are a
rarity; they are no longer fashionable.
“T.W.”: It is to be hoped Hugh Ward,
when he builds his new theatres for Sydney
and Melbourne, will forget royalty in his
choice of titles. When I got back to Mel-
bourne a few months ago I found it had
added a King’s and a Palace to its Majesty’s,
Princess’s and Royal. What would have
been wrong with a Bunyip, or just plain
Williamson’s Theatre ? The/ have Wynd-
ham’s and Daly’s and the Garrick in the
place where kings grow, and no harm seems
to come of it.
“Hamfat”: Nellie Stewart, who is busy
upon her “Memories,” says her main desire
in publishing them is to do justice to the
memory of George Musgrove and his work
for theatrical art in Australia. Musgrove
deserves the remembrance. Nowadays, when
shows, in spite of improved methods of stage-
lighting and production, are mainly remark-
able for parsimonious mounting, the Mus-
grove period can be recalled as one of
purpled gorgeousness. His Shakspeareau
co.’s “Midsummer Night’s Dream” and other
plays showed the highest standard of mount-
ing ever reached in Australia. He made
£37,000 out of "The Belle of New York,” but
cheerfully lost it over other productions; and
all his losses never inclined him to cheap
staging.
“Vaudeville Veteran”: The dramatic end
of the Blaschek Twins recalls big Ike Rose,
the man who dragged them from obscurity
and established them in the show business,
where they amassed £20.000. Rose married
a 17-year-old Bendigo (Vic.) girl, who
danced solo in a Yank burlesque show. He
called her Saharet. got Sargent to paint her
picture and exhibit it at the Academy, and
won a salary of £250 per week for her.
By judicious boom Rose also assisted the
late Chung Ling Soo to fame and fortune,
and was likewise mainly responsible for
Maud Allan’s big money. In later years he
has out-Barnumed Barnum, and was run-
ning the Blaschek women when the Reaper
got his strange job.
“Ballywho”: The war is responsible for
this belated birth notice:—
During 1916, to Pola, midget circus performer of
Tiny Town, which toured Australia in 1912, a son.
Pola was 33in. high. The dimensions of
hubby and baby are not yet to hanffi The
news drifts through from Andreas Zeynard,
who brought the troupe to this country, and
who mentions that both mother and child
are doing well.
“Lond.”: The films have found some new
stars. The Selborne Society, which special-
ises in natural history in England, has
worked no a good film, “Our Wonderful
Homeland”—exhibited in aid of the society’s
“bird sanctuary” fund —and “Horses to Fol-
low” shows various racehorses of the moment
in their stables or out training.
“Ike Pagliacci”: The big fire in Pitt-
street, Sydney, the other day robbed the
theatrical world of some interesting records.
Martin C. Brennan, founder of Australian
Y ariety, lost a large quantity of photo-
graphs. programmes and documents cover-
ing 50 years, and including early theatre
pay-sheets, showing wages which would
turn a unionist’s hair white. It is difficult
to believe, but Brennan’s documents re-
vealed that, in practically all instances, the
principal actors received more money than
the stage-hands.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The ancient
building in Queen-street, Melbourne, known
in years gone by as the Queen’s Theatre,
is being demolished. It and St. John’s
Tavern, adjoining, were built by John
Thomas Smith, seven times Mayor of
Melbourne. The theatre, estimated to hold
1200 persons, was opened on April 21, 1845,
on the occasion of a benefit for a Mr. Dawes;
but a wet night interfered with the success
of the show, Queen-street being then an
unlighted, muddy, rocky thoroughfare. As
Mr. Smith was an alderman it was improved
later on. The first performance under the
Smith regime—the official opening of the
theatre—was on May 1, 1845. “The Honey-
moon” was played, with Nesbitt, a fine actor,
as the Duke. June 21. 1845, saw the Laun-
ceston company with the Coppins in occu-
pation. “The Lady of Lyons” was the lead-
ing item, with Chai’les Young as Claude,
G. Rogers as Dujnas. Coppin as Glavis.
Songs, dances and “The Turnpike Gate,”
with Coppin in the chief part, wound up the
show. The “Queen’s” had varying fortunes
until the gold discoveries, when it held high
revel, until G. V. Brooke, Fanny Cathcart
and Dick Young opened with “Othello”
(Feb. 25. 1855). The Theatre Royal and
the Olympic (or Iron Pot), running simul-
taneously, sounded the death-knell of the old
house, which later was the coach-factorv of
William Williams, who was Mayor of Mel-
bourne in 1866-67.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Ed. E. Ford, “the Aus-
tralian Sundowner,” well known in the
Rickards days, and a star of some lumin-
ance for many years in America and the
Cold Land, will return shortly, greyer but
a great deal more prosperous. An aged
mother in Gippsland, who is well over 90
and one of Vic.’s oldest colonists, is the ex-
planation of the visit.
“Flour Bag” : In the roaring days of Ben-
digo one Billy Henderson controlled the
leading hotel, theatre and music-hall. On
“My Lady's Dress" at
Sydney Criterion.
Eily Malyon as
La Grisa.
one occasion
“O the 11 o” was
played to a very
poor house. Billy
asked who the
author was. and
being told gave
orders that Mr.
Shakspeare was to
write no more
plays for his
theatre. Sara
Flower sang in
Billy’s hall, and
her husband.
“Tinker” Howard,
played in the
theatre, the couple
earning what was
then thought an
almost fabulous
£3O a week, with
board, etc., at the
Shamrock Hotel.
Many nuggets were
also thrown t o
Sara by lucky
diggers. Yet they
had not a copper
between them _on
leaving Bendigo.
Years afterwards
T met “Tinker”
with a small
company at Carcoar. He had worked
the “smalls” from Murrumburrah to Blayney.
Happily, perhaps, Sara was dead by that
time.
“Frinigga”: The theatrical slump in
N’York is pretty awful. A lot of actors and
actresses have had to go and get Work.
The girls seem to prefer the somewhat simi-
lar position of mannequin at a milliner’s.
The men mostly go life-insurance drumming,
in which an easy manner and plenty of
nerve make up for a lot of business inex-
perience.
“A.C.R.”: The co. was travelling with
blug-and-thunder, and one night the heroine
was plainly in difficulties owing to the non-
appearaee of her stage spouse to rescue her
from the clutches of the villain. Suddenly
the erring one appeared from the wrong
side of the stage, wiping his lips with the
back of his hand. “Slipped out for a pot,”
he explained in a thick whisper to the
house, “and the silly shut the door on
me.”
"NUT UNDERSTOOD.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Movie-theatre managers have long since resigned
themselves to the fact that peanuts and pictures have
become inseparably associated in the desires of
youth.”
We grasp our paper-bags in har.d
And watch the drama start.
Two lovers, by their parents banned,
Stand silent, heart to heart,
Like caged souls longing to be free.
We chew our nuts in ecstasy.
The hero leaves his native town,
And makes Noo Yoik his goal ;
The vamp, all talc and low-cut gown,
Begins to sear his soul.
His simple life by sin is torn. —
We chew our nuts in loathing scorn.
The heroine arrives express,
And quickly gets a cinch ;
She fights the vamp with evening-dress
And beats her by an inch
Of low-cut back and modes more new —
With joy we stuff our mouths and chew.
The last reel ends with plighted bliss,
Gold, love and fortune meet
In one “close-up” of Virtue’s kiss
That lasts a hundred feet.
Replete on nutshells scattered wide
We scrunch our joyous way outside.
K.S.W.
THE KNUT.


/f
EH
r»
Dakin? House
Centrar Raihmry
Rawson Place,
near Central Station.
Men’s Shirts.
F.S. 21 —Cambric Golf
Shirts, light grounds, with
smart hairline stripes, rein-
forced neck, gauntlet C / f f
cuffs, no collars. Price v / 11
F.S. 22 —Cambric Golf
Shirts, of good heavy
quality, in popular pencil,
block and semi-block stripes,
of black and blue ; reinforced
neck, gauntlet cuffs,
collar to match.
Price
9/11
\
VJ
Oxford Street
31 and S 3.
Men’s Pyjamas.
F.S. 23—Men’s Pyjamas,
of high-grade English Flan-
nelette ; in smart colored
grounds with new block and
novel stripe effects. All
Price ||
F.S. 24—Men’s Pyjamas,
of superior quality Wool and
Cotton Ceylonette; in a wide
range of colored grounds with
semi-blocked stripes,
Price
15/6
fill
Bond & George 5!
26*4-6'6 George Street.
Men’s Hats.
F.F. 25 —Men’s Australian
Fur Felt, “Noxall” Hats.
These famous Hats (Lowe’s
own Brand) are unobtain-
able elsewhere. In two popu-
lar styles, with either cut
or turnover edge brims, 2)
inches wide. Many f O iQ
smart colors. Price 10 /
Right through to Pitt Street.
Warm Winter Wants
at £owe’s —
Aiv Organisation That Counts.
Lowe’s “Sell it for Less” policy is real. Their big
organisation eliminates middlemen’s Profits by
dealing direct from Manufacturers. The resultant
savings, which are considerable, go into the pockets
of clients. Quality, in every item of stock, from the
highest-priced article to the least-expensive grades, is
given definite emphasis over inferior-made goods.
Men’s Sac Suits.
F.R. I—Men’s Sac Suits, tailored ready-
to-wear, of good quality Australian-made
Tweed—the material famed for honest
wear; stylishly cut, and in brown and grey
shades; linings are of good quality
and seams strongly sewn. Price
631-
F.R. 2—Men’s Sac Suits, tailored ready-
to-wear of Fox’s Indigo all-wool Serge;
cut on popular lines. Coat is made with
“Optima” hair fronts, which ensure the
retention of shape, no matter how
long the life of the suit. Price
84/-
Men’s Overcoats.
F.O. 3—Men’s S.B. Gabardine Raincoats,
Raglan style; full lined, step collar, back
vent and strap cuffs. This coat will make
a “chummy” companion, as it is both
warm and rain-resisting. In fawn
only. Price
631-
F.O. 4 — Men’s S.B. Gabardine Raincoats,
Raglan shape; full belted and finished
with step collar, back vent, fly front
and strap cuffs. In fawn only.
Price
*4/-
F.T.
Men’s Trousers.
s—All-wool Colonial Tweed
Trousers. Dark grey and fawn.
Price
13/11
F.T. 6 —Men’s Cotton Twist. Trousers,
stockman’s cut. In dark grey and
fawn. Price
15/6
F.T. 7—Strong Working Trousers of
Cotton Tweed; dark stripes.
Price
16/11
Men’s Coat Sweaters
F.B. B— Men’s Coat Sweaters; all wool;
double cuffs. In navy, heather, grey and
cream;
sizes;
small men’s and
’V” neck. Price.
men’s
1516
In grey and heather shades, with
Austral collar. Price
16/6
F.B. 9— Men’s Coat Sweaters, all-wool
and Australian made; finished with “V”
neck. In shades of grey and heather.
Sizes . . S.M. M. O.S. Ex. O.S.
Prices . . 18/6 18/6 20/6 22/6
Boys’ and Youths’ Suits.
F.H. 1 I — Youths’ Sac Suits, of Donegal
Tweed, in medium grey and medium
brown, all-wool English Tweed; also in
fine Twill Serge with self stripe.
To fit Youths 14 to 20. Price. .
75/-
F.H. 12—Youths’ Sac Suits, high-grade
English all-wool Tweed, in fawn, dark
brown, and medium grey shades.
To fit Youths 14 to 20. Price. .
84/-
F.H. 1 3— Boys’ Cotswold Suits, of dark
brown English Tweed, made with four
patch pockets, yoke, and half belt at
back. To fit boys II to 14.
Usually 70/-. Special Price. .
50/-
Boys’ and Youths’ Overcoats.
F.H. 14— Youths’ “Talma” Overcoats;
made of English Wool Tweed in dark
and medium grey, and dark brown
shades; fully lined. To fit Youths
14 to 20. Price
4716
F.H. 15 —Boys’ “Bangor” Overcoats, of
dark grey Tweed Mixture; lined with
grey Flannelette. To fit boys up
to 7. Price
1211
Boys’ Knickers.
F.H. 16— Boys’ Knickers, of grey
Worsted-finish Tweed; strongly made
throughout. To fit boys 2 to
1 5 years. Price
4111
F.H. 1 7— Boys’ Knickers, of dark grey
Woollen Tweed. To fit boys 2 to
7 years. Price
5/11
Boys’ Coat Sweaters.
F.G. 18— Boys’ Coat Sweaters, all-wool,
finished with double-ribbed cuffs; heavy
weight. With “V” neck and Austral
Collar.
Sizes: 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Prices 7/6 8/- 8/9 9/6 10/3 11/- 11/9
F.G. 19— Boys’ Coat Sweaters, all-wool;
finished with double-ribbed cuffs.
Sizes: 22 24 26 28 30 32
A.C.: 13/6 15/- 15/3 15/6 16/3 16/9
“V” N.:
11/6 12/9 13/6 14/3 14/3 15/-
F.G. 20.— Boys’ all-wool Jerseys, in
assorted colors. Button-shoulder style.
Sizes 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
Prices 5/3 5/9 6/3 6/9 7/3 8/- 8/9
Post TO
Box 162?
G.P.0..
Sydney.
Towes
The Leading Men’s and Boys’ Stores.
Stores all
over town.
One at
Newcastle.
iriBSS
WSm
369 Pitt Street
Near Liverpool Street.
Boys’ Shirts.
F.G. 26 —Boys’ Golf Shirts
of English Cambric;
finished with double turn-
back cuffs and detachable
collar. Sizes 12 to 14 inch.
In helio, black and blue £l£
checks. Price V/ V
F.G. 27—M ercerised
Tennis Shirts, for boys;
superior quality; finished
with collar and pocket
attached. In all sizes.
Prices range according to size
,rom 5/11 to 8/6
ICRI i KS
WCTTEKS
IKsi
|£k
6m
rtaymarkel
HO George
Near Goulburn Street.
Boys’ Pyjamas.
F.G. 28 —Boys’ Pyjamas,
of soft finish Flannelette;
Winter weight; cut on
roomy comfortable lines,
and all seams double stitched.
To fit boys 4 to 16 years.
Sizes, Chest 20 22 24
Prices 5/11 6/6 6/11
Sizes, Chest 26 28 30 32
Prices. . 7/6 7/6 8/6 8/6
• i
iO.|!
re^KWLOWESIX*
iHKH
Hunter Street
Newcastle
Near Grand Theatre.
Boys’ Hats.
F.D. 29—8 oy s’ Tweed
Hats; strongly made from
stout material. In smart
Donegal. Tweed shade effects.
Sizes 61 to 61
Price
4/6
F.D. 30—Boys’ Gabardine
Caps, in plain-top motor
style, with band at bank and
strap in front. Sizes
(is to Os. Price. . . . ,
3/11
WA
W
1
hQB
! fii
SB I
m
262 George 5 C
Ctirixcr of Bond 5f
New Boys' Store.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special li i y
sole Agents : RESCHS, LIHITED, Redlern, Sydney.
I EWIS&WhITTY
<3
zwnt
ME
OUKME& SYDNEY.
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
sat| so!
Wltij dont
uott wear a
tie
<S
SHIRT?
sv£
ş
š
CARTRIDGES.
“A.P.” Fresh-loaded Cartridges are loaded on
the premises by automatically correct
machinery. Only the best smokeless powder
and chilled shot used.
“BLUE SEAL.” The universal rabbit Cart-
ridge, 21/- 100.
“KILOS.” For Quail Shooting, unsurpassed,
22/- 100.
“INFALLIBLE.” A splendid hard-hitting
Cartridge, 24 /- 10.0.
“APOID.” Deep brass gas-tight cases, for long-
range shooting. Once used always wanted,
25/- ioo.,
“A.P. SPECIAL.” Deep brass gas-tight cases,
loaded with Ballistite smokeless powder.
Long range, 25/- 100.
CARTRIDGES loaded with Schultz or Amberite
or smokeless Diamond or Ballistite powder,
23/- 100.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
fc/J. . „
Sports Centre,
318 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Eurythmic failed on Saturday at Rand-
wick in the big w.f.a. event—failed so badly as
to justify the sceptics who had all along derided
his claims to be another Carbine. There was no
fluke or misfortune about his licking. His condition
was never better. Holt was never more confident.
The distance was his own. He had an uninterrupted
passage. When Wood sharpened up the pace over
the second half-mile and widened the gap the 85,000
crowd began to sizzle with excitement; but when
at six fbrlongs the daylight expanded to three
lengths, with Eurythmic slipping back towards Sister
Olive, Salitros and David, many of the spectators
went stark mad. Looking round at the bend Wood
saw enough to let Beauford make his own pace
through the tumult. Dempsey put extreme pressure
on Eurythmic over the last couple of furlongs, but
opposite the Leger he was finished and Sister Olive
shook him off inside the distance. She beat him by
three lengths and was herself a couple behind the
brown freak, who won pulling up. While Beauford
had hardly turned a hair, Eurythmic was much
knocked-up. He was overwhelmed by the terrific
pace which the brown set over the second half-mile.
Wood quickly had Beauford to the front and took
the rails, but slowed down to the mile pole, which
ho,struck with a two : lengths lead. Along the back
stretch he let Beauford out and ran four furlongs in
better than “47^.”
At least two men at Randwick expected all
along that Beauford would make a chopping-block
of Lee Steere’s chestnut —Albert Wood, his rider, and
Sam Killick, the champion’s trainer. But Ikey Mo
had strong faith in Eurythmic. He started by
“taking” 2 to 1; but got cold feet even at that by
the time the barrier rose. Beauford started at 2‘s
and paid nearly 3’s on the tote.
Again the Doncaster was annexed by a mare—
and easily too. And again it was an indiffer-
ent race. The public plunged heavily on Wren’s
Dunwil, and he soon shortened from 6’s to 3’s.
Julia Grey opened at 15’s and was heavily supported
by the stable at that price. For a time the market
dropped to 8’s but expanded again, and iO’s and 12’s
Were going at the death. There was much capital
too for Even Song, Tressady Queen, Braehead and
Stare. Braehead shooting out from the tape set
up a three-lengths lead to the turn, and there
obviously squibbed it when tackled by Isa. Mean-
while Etive, Julia Grey and Tressady Queen closed
up. Etive went back into the wreckage early in
the run home, and Julia Grey, coming on, had the
race wbn opposite the Leger. The hardy little
battler, galloping without the least sign of distress,
ran in an easy two-lengths winner from Sir Maitland,
who came from a long way back up the straight,
with Tressady Queen third. Even Song was cut off
on the rails, while Dumvil as usual played up at the
barrier. Julia, who is only a handful, carried 8st.
121b. over the mile in “38.” She had previously
won over every distance at Randwick- —from ffifur.
to a mile-and-a-half.
Sister Olive looked the pick of the Sydney
Cup'handicap on her performance against Eurythmic
in the Autumn Stakes. But the public reckoned
apparently that Harvest King’s defeat of Furious
in the Leger was a more meritorious Cup trial. It
wasn’t; and the Monday’s running proved it. Like-
wise it proved for about the seventy-fifth time that
a rough ’un can be relied on to take the Sydney
Cup nine times out of ten. Julia Grey and Royal
Alwyne, who had bolted with the mile-and-a-half Tocal
Handicap on Saturday, carried the field along at
a great bat, with Nautical handy and Sister Olive
always close up. Nautical —backward in condition for
a long race —was displaced at the turn by Sister
Olive. The next thing a scandalised crowd of punters
knew was that Nautical had burst and the Ally
was done. This left the fast-finishing Prince Charles
and Kashmir to argue it out opposite the stand. It
was nothing against the Prince that he was carrying
young Jimmy Munro, nor anything in Kashmir’s
favor that Johnstone had to shift the whip into his
left hand. Anyway, Prince Charles won from the
St. Alwyne gelding by a good half-length, with
Stare a length and a half further back. The winner,
who started at 100 to 3 is owned by John Brown;
and he heard about his triumph by cable in America.
“15-30”: The expense of sending Patter-
son, Anderson and their wives to America via
Wimbledon has compelled the Australian Lawn
Tennis Assoc, to retrench to the extent of one
assistant instead of the usual two. O’Hara Wood
will go as manager and emergency, and he may
figure in the doubles, assuming Australia wins its
first battle with Belgium. A team of three must
to some extent lose its homogeneity in doubles
practice through being compelled to utilise an out-
sider to make a four. It is hoped that Wertheim
will be available for practice in America, but, fail-
ing him, the Australian trio won t have much chance
of testing which is the better pair. Further the
pairing of the team down to one emergency is a
risky proceeding, for, if two fall ill at the same
time, the Commonwealth must lose by default. It
is painful to think of the appearance of the Assoc,
cashbox in the event of our reps, failing to reach
the challenge round.
* * * *
“Side-line”: It is an open secret in the
world of tennis that no great love exists between
Patterson and Anderson. It isn’t a question of
jealousy of one another’s prowess, but of something
personal that refuses to be subdued on either side.
It was agreed at first, and hoped by most tennis-
enthusiasts, that they would pair at Wimbledon, by
which time they should have had ample opportunity
to get into each other’s court ways. Of course,
given mutual goodwill, they would constitute a far
stronger doubles combination than Patterson and
Wood. Patterson now says to a Vic. interviewer:
“There is no likelihood of my pairing with the N. S.
Wales champion, though I did consider the proposal
when in Sydney.” Anderson, on the other hand, is
believed to be willing to partner the Victorian in
England, and to hope that the joint experience they
get there may help Australia to victory in the U.S.
Considering the amount of money the Assoc, is risk-
ing on the venture it might be advised to sug-
gest that the young men definitely compose whatever
differences they have before they leave the Com-
monwealth.
* * * *
Gerald Patterson gave a great exhibition
of forceful tennis in his exhibition match against
J. 0. Anderson at Double Bay (Sydney) on Satur-
day. Abandoning his flashy chops and slices he
concentrated on sure smashes and on solid back-of-
the-court work. His back-hand is still weak; but
his forehand drive has improved a lot and many of
his services were unplayable. Anderson, anxious
on the foot-fault question, was serving without
devil, and the Victorian repeatedly broke through
and won on his adversary’s serves and then again on
his own. Anderson had a good deal of luck —for
example with net-cord strokes which dribbled unplay-
ablv into the opposition court —and the match was
more in Patterson’s favor than the figures show.
They were: Patterson,
the winner, 4-6, 6-4,
6-4, 3-6, 7-5. The
champions were much
less impressive in the
doubles, in which they
met Sieler and
Thomas, the latter
playing at his top.
However, the view uni-
versally created was
that the combination
that downs them (re-
inforced by O’Hara
Wood) will lift the
Davis Cup; and that
it will have to work
all the way for the
ornament, too.
J. B. HAWKES.
the tennis player,
who may help to
win a Davis Cup
for Australia yet.
There was a great house at Sydney
Stadium on Doncaster night for the Godfrey-Spargo
bout. The lightweight champion was 9st. 81b. ; the
ex-feather just on 51b. less. For the first half of
the dispute Spargo had the ascendancy, his infight-
ing being deadly and his defence work admirable,
though Godfrey downed him for six with a heavy
right in the sixth session. In the 12th Spargo Was
again in danger of following that route which so
many of Godfrey's opponents have traversed; but
he survived, and emerged for the 13th as well as
ever. The rest of the fight was mostly Godfrey, with
the little Melbourne man always dangerous and occa-
sionally brilliant. Joe Wallis gave it a draw, much
to the annoyance of a strongly-Godfrey crowd which
was persuaded that its idol had won all the way.
Archie Bradley, who will apparently be
a middleweight before Melbourne or Sydney sees him
in action —he is now a growing welter—met Frank
Locke at Brisbane Stadium on Saturday night. The
Gvmpie star had won most of the fight up to the
eighth round (his only real check being a wandering
left wallop which was stopped by his chin) when
Locke hit him low. It was not intentional and did
no damage, but the referee promptly crowned Arehi-
bald, thus arousing the ire of those members of
the crowd who had come to see Locke destroyed in
a gradual manner.
The bantam match at Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday night also ended in a foul. Mine
Flynn, who possesses a mighty punch for his size,
had the tall, rangy Semmens down for nine early in
the fourth ; and it was only by the exercise of con-
siderable endurance and generalship that the cham-
pion survived the next 60 seconds. Semmens came
back strongly after the interval and downed Flynn
for eight; and from the half-way mark onwards it
was only a question of when in the natural order
of things the latter would enter into rest. The
foul was perpetrated in the 14th, and as it was
particularly flagrant the referee at once acted.
Ernie Symonds gave a deplorable exhibi-
tion at Sydney Stadium against Paul Demsky on
Monday night. The lethal Russian seemed able to
hit the Englishman where and when he liked, and
in the third round the latter signified that he had
had enough. The crowd was placated with a willing
emergency bout between two locals —Ernie Ross and
Dick Francis.
* * » •
The disqualification of George Cook for
holding in the sixth round of his fight with Beckett
in London last week is a tribute to the Australian
system of having a referee in the ring with the
boxers. S'-ch an unsatisfactory ending to a contest
is practically impossible here, since the man who
is doing t.ie clinching can be identified easily and
personally ordered to desist. With the referee out-
side the ring almost any foul trick can be brought
off in the corner furthest from him; nor, if he
should happen to see an illegality, is there much
chance of his protest being heard by the offender.
So what happens usually is what seems to have
happened last week. The referee gets tired of
shouting injunctions which neither party is sure are
intended for himself; and presently the spectators
are treated to a disqualification which, as likely as
not, falls on the wrong man.
W. McCoy (Tas.) and Jack Cole
(N.S.W.) clashed for the Australian middleweight
championship last week. Neither bears any striking
resemblance to a champion, but the islanders were
interested in their vigorous struggles to do damage,
and when at the finish the referee said one was as
crude as the other, the cheers were terrific.
Collingwood, who scored 591 against Carl-
ton’s 158 in the Melbourne District semi-final last
week, were presented with a dose of their own
medicine at Victoria Park, on Saturday, in the
final battle with P’ran for the cricket pennant. The
chief medicine-givers were Healy and Thomson, who,
when stumps were drawn owing to the failing light,
were still in possession with 169 and 152 against their
respective names. The only scalp that the Magpies
captured in a long game that commenced at 11
o’clock was Lampard’s: he put his leg in front to
a ball from Keating and retired for 35. P’ran
finished the first day with the record score of 1 for
367. Monohan bowled Thompson on Monday after
the latter had added 2 to his score, and Healy fell
to the same bowler when he had reached 230.
Healy’s was a beautiful innings, chanceless first to
last, and illuminated by some lovely shots through
the slips. The succeeding batsmen continued to pile
up the runs against the beaten bowling, and when
stumps were drawn the score stood at 643 for seven.
* • » »
G. Healy, who last week made Colling-
wood bowling look like tripe and scored 230 for
Prahran in doing it, was a great batsman in years
gone by. In 1910 he piled up 218 for Victoria v.
Tasmania, and in Sheffield Shield cricket in 1914-15
he had one innings for 16. But it is only lately
that he has re-found his punch.
•# * * *
Dr. Poidevin’s attempt to boom country
cricket in N.S.W. will succeed if Sydneyites of the
type of _ Alderman W. P. McElhone have anything
to do with it. As chief of the city fathers he gave
the players a civic reception on Monday, and as
president of the Cricketing Assoc, he hoped they
would make a habit of playing outside their own
district, and preferably in the metropolis. They
met a strong XI of E. Suburb grade-players later
in the day, and though Cunninghame, the Bathurst
star, went for nil, they knocked up a meritorious
178. The consistent Broderick, who must be close
to inter-State form, made 61. An interesting per-
sonality in the city team was young B. J. O’Conor,
of T.K.S. He is a son of the M.L.C., who was him-
self a performer of class quarter of a century ago.
O. E. Nothling (Uni.), who last week made
124 v. Waverlev (his first century in Sydney premier-
ship cricket), is an all-rounder. Last season he played
full-back for N.S.W. v. the Springboks, and in 1920,
at N.S.W. Dunn Challenge Shield championships, he
won the 161 b. shot putt (36ft. 7|in.) and javelin
throw (149 ft. 2in.). .
* * . * *
The Bathurst XI which went down last
week before a hot N. S. Wales Assoc, team, composed
mostly of first-grade players, contains five brothers, by
name Schofield. Three are bowlers,, one top-scored
with 50, and between them they made 80 of the
110 runs the side scored in the first innings.
* * * *
Ross Smith’s fatal crash while having a
“flip” in a tried machine on a calm day recalls the
vast number of men who have escaped death, year
after year, while engaged in dangerous work or sport,
only to meet it while attempting something that
would not awe ■ a tyro, - The classic example is
“Bay” Middleton, who, after riding safel.y over
every fence in the English shires, broke his neck
by letting a hack down over a drain. Is the pheno-
menon due to a misplaced sense of humor on the
part of Fate, or is the right explanation the fact
that even the wariest are liable to forget ? Ross
. Smith was- the last word in caution in the sense
that he left nothing to chance when a big venture
faced him. But might there not have been some
relaxation of the fibres, some momentary careless-
ness in the touch to account for last week’s disaster?
And if a Ross Smith is liable to nod, what pilot can
be trusted to keep awake?
The pitching of W. Hogg (N.S.W.) was
the feature ,of the baseball match v. Victoria at
Sydney on Saturday. Keeping his deliveries well
over the plate he struck out 10 and passed one. D.
Mitchell (Vic.), a great centre-field, brought off a
wonderful catch from a swipe by Wheeler; he fell,
and took the bajil while on the ground. N.S.W. won—
-10-2. In the second game, on Monday, the same
team won—9-6. The Ma Staters were very useful
in the field. Pitchers Martin and Smith never
gave away a base.
* * * *
W. C. Sturrock, of Manly Club, the week-
end-player whose consistency was acclaimed by The
Bulletin last week, went round the village links in
69 on Monday. The Amateur Club record is 71.
Ivo Whitton and Eric Apperly are the joint holders.
Unfortunately Sturrock’s excellent effort will lose
official recognition, as the play was not from the
back tees.
Years ago Maoriland Marine Department
distributed Atlantic
salmon ova in many
of the rivers of the
Dominion, and the
fact that few had
been caught helped
pessimists to dub the
venture a failure. The
other day, however,
a 01 pounder was
landed in the Waiau
River; and many
smaller ones have
given good sport. The
quinnat saloon has
done remarkably well.
Between them these
two will make up
for the holiday taken
hv the trout this
Reason,
The patriarch
SHEPPARD, one
of the pioneers of
rowing in Vic.,
and an enthusiast
for 60 years.
At the S.A. amateur athletic champion-
ships the attendance of the public was as usual
utterly discouraging, even though the S’Africans
looked in in passing on their way home, and gave
a fine display. Of the local men Les Wallman was
nearly up to his old form as a hurdler, and L. V.
Pellew, the inter-State cricketer, was in front of
the local men in the hundred. The police played a
big part in the events requiring strength, but the
Adelaide Harriers took most of the longer distances,
and won the teams’ trophy easily on points.
“Tren”: For the first time in history
Melbourne football clubs are beginning to lose their
idols to the country. A typical case is that of Harry
Smith, captain and mainstay of the Northcote
(Assoc.) team, who for several years has resisted all
offers from League clubs, only to be lured now to
Wangaratta by a guarantee of £5 10s. a week and
board at the best hotel.
“Push Off” : In the latest list of world’s
swimming records (issued by the Federation Inter-
nationale de Natation Amateur) the U.S. are
credited with 12 out of the 16 free-style men's
world’s records; the five breast-stroke honors are
divided between Great Britain and Germany (two
each) and Hungary (one) ; U.S.A. claims two back-
stroke titles, and Germany and Belgium one
each; and U.S'.A. also takes 8 out of 12 of the
women’s records. Hilda James, Great Britain, and
Fanny Duraclc, Australia, hold two • each of the
remaining four. Beaurepaire’s mile (23min. 30
4-ssec.) and 1500 metres (21min. 4 4-ssee.), done
at Honolulu last May and passed as U.S.A. records*
are disregarded; and so are his 1000yds. figures
recently established in Sydney, which bettered D.
“Boy” Billington’s 1905 record. Prior to 1912 no
Australian record notched in tidal waters was recog-
nised by the ruling body. Then A. C. W. Hill and
E, S. Marks satisfied the conference at Stockholm
that, owing to the manner in which our baths were
enclosed, the tide did not affect the swimming, and
Australian-made records were recognised. However,
by some strange process of logic records made here
prior to 1912 were still disallowed. Illogicality is
the distinguishing mark of the whole business, as
vvitness the facts that while Beaurepaire’s Honolulu
mile and 1500 metres (put up in tidal waters) are
disallowed, Duke Kahanamoku’s 100yds. record (made
in the same waters), Norman Boss’s 880yds.
(Sydney), and Fanny Durack’s 50Oyds. and 1 mile
(Sydney) are recognised.
* * * *
France has definitely decided not to send
a Rugby Union team to Maoriland and Australia. ;
The detail that finally wrecked the negotiations was
the French Rugby Federation’s bland demand for
saloon fares for" 29 players and entourage —sav
£7OOO merely to get the amateurs to this part of
the world and home again.
“J.H.” (Lond.) ; The English Rugby,
Union (a conservative-minded crowd of old ’Varsity;
and Public School men) looks like killing the game
altogether before it is finished. Its latest ukase is!;
that English clubs shall not play Sunday matches in 1
France. As Sunday is the day for French sport!
of all kinds, this practically means a perpetual ban
on club matches in France between Eriglish and;
French fifteens. Agents of the Northern Union;
are already spying out the land in France, and
nothing is more certain than that, within a year or
two, the 13-a-side game will be firmly established
there.
*** ' ' *
“Gilrodin”: The play of wit and fancy
during one of our village cricket matches is keen.
When the doctor, who was fielding in the slips,
dropped an easy one, the crowd yelled in unison,
while above the roar could be identified Mick Ryan’s
“You wanted your little black bag that time, Doc.” !
The medicine-man’s reply was swift: “You’ve never
wanted it down your way yet, Mick !•’ And the
crowd shrieked again, for Ryan, though many years
married, was still destitute of home-grown uairyn.gr
assistance.
ENLIGHTENING HORACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Oh, tell me, grandpa,” cried the boy—“what is
an amaeheur?”
ancient bowed his hoary head in thought.
“Why, there you have me, Horace,” he replied, at
length. “I’m sure
Your problem would intrigue the shrewdest sport;
But possibly I’d best, before we any further go,
Instruct you as to what, when I was young, we
called a pro.
“A frequent type of sportsman, though a champion
in his line,
Was virtually destitute of cash.
He could not on a cricket-field or golf-course hope
to shine,
Or as a tennis-player cut a dash.
And so, because his skill helped us to beat our
friends at play
We used to hire his services at, saiy, a quid a day.
“This carried obligations: he was not allowed to use
The magic affix ‘Mister’ with his name.
He travelled Third (a Gentleman would angrily
refuse,
I need not say, if asked to do the same).
Ha touched his cap when spoken to by those who
found his pay,
And changed and ate apart—all this for, say, a quid
a day.
“Now those whom you call ‘Amacheurs’ both Sport
and Lucre woo,
With all the ardor of the old-time pro.;
Like Kipling’s famed Harumplirodite, they’re Gents,
and Players too.
There is one point on which they differ, though,
From any pro. who ever crossed my path in days of
yore:
They’re paid for their performances incomparably
more.
“So, Horace, I would thus illume the myst’ry you
explore:
You may, imprimis, of this fact be sure,
That any Sport who costs his game a thousand
pounds, or more,
Is ‘Dinkum,’ and a ‘True-blue Amaeheur,’
While he who goes abroad to play his part in sport-
ing strife
Will also get (if Lilywhite) the exes, of his wife.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


STROPPING ?
I carry it
in my Head
&
<e
o
-55-
i
VM
%
m
STANDARD SET (No. 1)
contains heavily silver-plated,
scif-stromping razor, 12 tested
"Valet’ blades and genuine
"Valet” strop, complete in
durable case lined O'7l f!
Velvet and satin . “ » / W
I AM a self-sufficient sort of a razor, I
know exactly what a man needs in order
to get a smooth, perfect shave every morn-
ing, and I am designed to do the whole job,
not just a part of it.
Easily the most important part of a shave is the operation
that goes before—and after. The stropping and the cleaning.
My way is to do my own stropping. I carry a device
in my head which strops my blade accurately and quickly.
You should see me run up and down a strop. You don t
have to worrv about “touch” or knack. You don’t need
any separate stropping machine.
There is no need to detach my blade even for cleaning,
A rinse in water and a rub along my strop is sufficient
to leave the edge of my blade keen for the next shave.
Ask for me at any good razor shop—my name is
“VALET”—and my surname is “AUTOSTROP”
the razor that sharpens itself.
1 would like to make your acquaintance !
“VALET
4?
Safety Razor
Obtainable from all high-class dealers.
Managing Agents for Australasia : Phipson & Co., Lin.ited, 42 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Word " Valet ” on Razors, Strops and Blades indicates the genuine product of the AutoSlrop Safely Razor Co., Ltd., 197-207, City Road, London, Eng*
BECOME A “DARK HORSE.”
Learn the art of Boxing from
Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker, and
be ready to hold your own
against the bully and the tough.
The points of ringcraft are
easily mastered by our simple
series of illlustruted
POSTAL
LESSONS.
In all parts of Australia successful pupils
have quickly learned the hits, moves and
counters that make a scientific boxer. Each
lesson is based on “Snowy” Baker’s personal
experience in the ring.
Write your name and address across this
advertisement, enclose three stamps for post-
age, and we will forward “Snowy” Baker’s
book, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,”
■which tells all about the course and gives
examples of the lessons.
sm
REG. L. (“Snowy ”) BAKER
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
And brothers,
87 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
=KYNOCH=
AMMUNITION
ftgggjjp -22 RIM FIRE.
Black and Smokeless Powder*
Thoroughly Tested and Quality Guaranteed.
ALL BRITISH
New Shipment of
Shaw’s All Wool Indigo-
Dyed Cheviot Serge
From John Shaw and Sons’
famous Mills at Halifax, England,
comes the FIRST SHIPMENT of
their High-grade ALL-WOOL PURE
INDIGO-DYED CHEVIOT SUITING
AT THE “NEW PRICE.” What
this price means to you can only be
accurately gauged by comparison
of the following figures for a Suit
to order:—
Old Price, &&/1 5/-
New Price, £51151-
When you see the Serge you’ll
readily agree that, there’s positively
no Cheviot Suiting on the market of
a grade to equal it in LOOKS,
QUALITY and CAPACITY for SER-
VICE at anything like the New
Price.
SHAW’S CHEVIOT is ALL-
WOOL—with a Beautiful All-Wool
Softness—in weight it is supremely
suited to AUTUMN and WINTER
needs, and it is unconditionally
GUARANTEED to retain its RICH
NAVY SHADE perfectly—perma-
nently.
“LINCOLN-STUART”
TAILORED TO ORDER.
In a Suit “Lincoln-Stuart” Tailored
to Order at £5/15/-, there’s NO
BETTER CLOTHING INVEST-
MENT possible in Australia To-day.
PATTERNS ARE POST FREE.
Lincoln, Stuart
and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
244-54 Flinders St., Melbourne.
8
*3
B3
SO
Ill
<^8CSBSE
*F
-f*


George E. Keith’s Footwear
a neuv consignment recently opened.
FARMER’S
Box 497, G P.O. Sydney.
The new consignment features models in
which the finer details of style and finish are
prominent. Men who appreciate the distinct-
ive will find footwear that is sure to satisfy.
URl—Keith’s patent Colt and tan Calf-
skin Boots ; Parisian lasts ; lightest welted
soles. Half and full sizes. Prite, pair, 79/6
UR2—Keith’s Tan Russian Calf full brogue
Shoes, smart medium toes, light welted
soles. Half and full sizes. Price, pair, 79/6
BREW YOUR OWN BEER
NON - INTOXICATING
If it tlsn’t.
It's Better
A tin of “BEVARA BEER” contains
the exact quantity of Real Hops, Malt, Yeast,
&c., with instructions to quickly and easily
make TWO GALLONS of the purest
and best Beer. No chemicals whatever.
Failure impossible.
Six varieties, viz., Ginger, Hop, Pale, Malt,
and Bitter Beer and Stout. The PERFECT
drink for Men, Women or Children. The
BEST proof is that ONE family last season
drank 100 gallons of “BEVARA.”
Price 1/6 from all Grocers and Stores
Including Mcllrath’s (all.shops), Civil Service Stores, Anthony Horderns, Lassetters, Mark Foy’s,
Green Bros., Balmain Co-Op., Moran and Cato (all shops), Savage Stores, and all leading stores
in suburbs and country r> r ’-nstage paid 1 9 from
M. R. GREEN, Manufacturer, CARLTON, VIC.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
P[?] [?]
MISSES MONKE DOVLE
Phones Cent 1533, 11309
. bile our Earl is over in Sydney sharing
in the Easter festivities, Lieut.-Go'v. Irvine
is keeping the flag flying. He took a
run up to Mansfield when the public offices
were closed for a few days.
In Paris they are wearing coat-and-skirt
costumes made entirely of fur. Not much
good to Australians; nevertheless Sassiety
will adopt the idea since Fashion demands
it. An Australian voyager who brought one
back declares they are really quite supple
and comfy. Coney (or clipped rabbit),
chinchilla, squirrel and such thin skins are
used. Of course, there’s nothing but Him-
self to. prevent you wearing ermine if you
want it. With the suits (the skirts are
unco’ short) one wears Russian boots —soft,
crinkly things, knee-high. The more
advanced fashionables go in for high suede
moccasins and are thus completely Arctic.
Melbourne had an earthquake the other
day and took it very seriously. Feminine
chatter veered quite away from the usual
frocks, operations and servant troubles to
discuss just how madly everybody’s furni-
ture danced. “Her drawing-room furniture
danced like the table at a stance. But, then,
her stuff is light, you know. Our furniture
is so solid. But you should have seen our
mahogany wardrobe swing out from the
wall.” “It began with' such a queer patter-
ing on the balcony-windows,” said one
woman. “I was scared. Thought it was
burglars.” “The observatory-man says there
is a crack or a weak place under Bass
Straits,” said another darling. “I always
said there was something wrong there —the
boat does play up so every time I go across
to see Jim’s mother.”
Miss Hilda Hickey is the one woman-
member of the Sistine Choir. None of the
60 men and boys can speak English, and
Iliida is their interpreter. Incidentally,
she mothers the young boys—-sees that they
wear flannel next the skin and so on. There
are 22 youngsters between the ages of 10 and
14. They wear a grey uniform, and are
prowling round Melbourne with their black
eyes wide open, enjoying the strangeness of
everything.
The Russian residents of Melbourne re-
ceptioned the dark-eyed Spivakovsky at the
Women’s Automobile Club rooms the other
night. Mrs. W. Mortill, the hostess, provided
a real Russian dinner, eaten in the native
language. It sounded dreadful; but the
guests devoured the iced Polar-bear or what-
ever it was with relish, and later indulged
in various dances, the pianist nearly losing
his feet in a Gopak with another compatriot.
Practically all those present were “ovs,”
“skys” and “vitches”; but it is impossible
to mention them in detail —there isn’t
enough alphabet.
Owing to the unseasonably warm tempera-
ture Jascha Spivakovsky mixed a lot of per-
spiration with his music at the stuffy Mel-
bourne Athenaeum on Saturday night. The
young pianist’s collar lost its stiffness and
his hair tumbled in wet wisps over his fore-
head as his fingers worried through a pro-
gramme in which Beethoven and Bach-Liszt
had something to say, though the bulk of the
items were modern Russian. Rachmaninoff.
Tschaikowsky, Glazunov and Borodin were
the principal Russian composers, and their
compatriot played their pieces with his cus-
tomary suggestion of soulful absorption. He
gives his final concert at the Town Hall this
afternoon (Thursday), the audience selecting
the hill of fare.
The appeal for help for the Free Kinder-
gartens had a brisk run. “Babies’ Buttons”
were sold at all the street corners, and
flower-stalls did a good trade in Collins-
street. The Pianola Co. turned its front
windows into a kindergarten school, where
babies made toys out of paper and match-
wood. They were a great draw, and crowds
rushed the place to watch the carefully-
scrubbed youngsters at work under the eyes
of some nice volunteer governesses. Working
mothers leave the kiddies at the Free Kinder-
gartens in the morning and collect them in the
evening, a great weight off their minds in the
meantime, for they know the little treasures
are being fed and minded and amused and
taught. But the Kindergartens can’t find
room for half that want teaching, and money
is badly needed.
Those who knew the heart of the Digger
were not surprised to read the exclamation
of Keith Smith when brother Ross crashed.
“My poor old mother and dad —it will kill
them!” Australian youngsters have the
reputation of having little respect for their
parents. But those who think so don’t
know the best of them.
A Past Gallery-students’ Club has been
started. Although its glory seems to have
faded in recent years, the National School
of Art at the Melbourne Gallery has a tra-
dition behind it. Many of its students have
been honored abroad. Rupert Bunny
is represented in the Cuxembuurg, Macuen-
nal is an A.R.A., Fox a member of the New
Salon and Coates an associate. Medals at
the Old Salon w r ere won by Streeton, Fox
and Violet Teague, while Mackennal, Long-
staff, Coates, Streeton, Bunny and Quinn
got mentions honorable.
In less than an hour Cabinet disposed of
the Ross death sentence, and, of course, the
Governor made no bones about signing the
death warrant. The decision was made
easy for Ministers by the dismissal of the
appeals to the Full Court and the High
Court. Attorney-General Robinson re-
called Deeming’s attempt to get the Privy
Council to intervene in his case 30 years
ago. The application was brushed aside,
and he suggested that any appeal from Ross
would be similarly treated, particularly as
he had already been turned down by two
appeal courts. Ross’s mother made a last
plea to Robinson for reprieve or for appeal
facilities, but he held out no hope. Sheriff
Miller is to “demand the body” at 10 o’clock
on Monday morning.
The second round of the Cabena-Barry
bout over the St. Pat.’s procession has been
fought in the City Court, and Barry scored
another point by getting an adjournment for
a month instead of the week Cabena (Git-
Council) was willing to concede. The effect is
that the riverend gintleman’s application to
the State Full Court to quash the by-law
under which the prosecution is instituted
will have to be heard first. If there are
appeals from the judgment of the Full Court
there may be several rounds before there is
a knock-out, and it’s even possible that next
St. Pat.’s Day—and a parade with it—will
pop in between two of the rounds. The
smiles of those watching the spar are broad-
ening.
Irvine, C.J., roasted the movies one day,
virtually proclaiming that the censorship was
lax, and the next postponed passing sentence
on a youth on the understanding that his
father flogged him in the presence of a cer-
tain policeman. The policeman dramatically
refused the job, and, presumably, no other
copper was anxious to see Irvine’s arrange-
ment carried out. Anyway, the boy escaped
the lash. That _ would make a pretty fair
film-story; but it wouldn’t get past the
censor.
A triumphant battler with a story to tell
is Maisie Maxwell, the Herald lady who
got away on the
E u ripides last
Thursday. A stage-
struck Bendigo
child, the daughter
of a journalistic min-
ing expert named
Morehead, she got a
start with Dan
Barry, and obtained
an intimate know-
ledge of all the pic-
turesque “small s”
that came within
Daniel’s beat. But
all the early adven-
tures of May More-
head were not en-
countered on the
Bal*ry circuit. Once
when she was “fairly
up against it” she was one of the first three
women who ever played under canvas with
Texas Jack—and great was the horror of
her mother when May was said to be return-
ing to Bendigo. A change of style to Maisie
Maxwell was insisted upon, and under that
alias the young woman went on battling.
She played a round of comic-op. parts with
Sheridan, then joined up with Anderson, and
was engaged for ragged-boy characters by
Meynell and Gunn. But even while she
was drawing her best salary she was resolv-
ing to escape from the stage and earn her
living as a journalist. In the smallest pos-
sible way she started to scribble, and pegged
away until she was fit for an appointment.
Now, after 10 years on the Herald, she has
had such a send-off as only her exceptional
career could have deserved.
Community singing will come to the Mel-
bourne Town Hall on April 27. Fortnightly
lunch-hour relaxations are to he provided
by the newly-born Music Week and Com-
munity Singing Association. Conductor
Fred Earp and Gibson Young will- be in
charge on the first occasion, with pianist
Edward Goll and city-organist Price stand-
ing by on the instrumental side.
A club for working girls with a rest-room
for “the average shopping woman” has been
opened in Furlong’s Buildings, Royal
Arcade. A manageress is in charge, and
the rooms are open from 10 o’clock till 8
in the evening. Business girls, when they
find it out, will use it for lunch and dinner;
and it will be handy for a brush-up after
work in the case of girls staying in town
for a theatre or picture-show.
Henry Tate, who believes that symphonies,
fugues and other musical combinations lie
deep in the bush, is to lecture on the sub*
jeet at the Australian Institute of Litera-
ture and Art on May 25. Henry is no
visionary on the subject, as he has composed
suites to bear out his theories. He has gone
steadily on, and some day Australia may
incline an appreciative ear in his direction.
For the Rose Day appeal there will be
the inevitable charity ball. Carlyon’s is the
scene, and April 26 the date. Mrs. Donald
Mackinnon and Mrs. Guy Miller are arrang-
ing the affair with the help of a committee
of social heavyweights.
Dr. Hilda Bull (Mrs. Louis Esson), the
subject, of this picture, is settling down to
a busy life in Mel-
bourne after a long,
eventful trip abroad.
She is well remem-
bered in the artistic
world here because
of her appearances
in Ibsen and other
highbrow plays in
the hard, early re-
pertory days. And
now her husband
has cast her for a
low-brow part in his
mining-camp play,
“T he Battle r,”
which is to astonish
the Playhouse on
May 18. Bernard
Shaw was interested
in the lovely lady,
and offered her a chance of Repertory Theatre
work in London, but domestic affairs—which
included the demands of a baby Esson and
a homeward-bound husband —blocked that.
P’Shaw, however, gave her some tips that
should help along her artistic work on this
side of the world. During the war Mrs.
Esson did her bit to such effect that she fin-
ished up as medical superintendent of the
W.A.A.C.S. for the whole London district.
The energetic lady brought to Australia an
adorable little printing press with special
Viennese type and wonderful paper de luxe,
and was busy on a collection of Vance Palmer
essays, among other things, when the whole
box and dice, exeent some of the type, went
up in smoke in the disastrous fire of last
month. But plans are already formulating
for a new little printing phoenix to arise
from the ashes.
Penleigh Boyd, who contemplates going to
Blighty after his Sydney show, was formerly
a member of the art colony at Warrandyte,
on the Yarra. That settlement was started
by Clara Southern, the landscape painter;
A. Colquhoun and his wife, “Jo” Sweatman,
Hoile and others were subsequently attracted
to wbat was then better known under its
old name of Anderson’s Creek, the scene of
the first gold rush in Victoria. On one occa-
sion the artists gave a moonlight perform-
ance of Ernest Dowson’s “Pierrot of the
Minute,” the audience of about 40 being
seated mostly on boxes. The wail of a soli-
tary violin hushed them to attention.
Louise Dyer, an L. L. Smith offspring,
is organising the first concert for the British
Music Society. She has booked the
Assembly Hall for April 29.
Mrs. Ernest Scott, wife of the History
Professor at the ’Varsity, has been elected
president of the highbrow Lyceum Club. A
member of the Dyason (Bendigo) family, she
has a good supply of grey matter which she
devotes to musical lectures. The Institute
of Arts heard one of these on “Humor in
Music” last week, and enjoyed the witti-
cisms. As an antidote Bernard O’Dowd read
his “Alma Venus.”
Lady Stradbroke is having the committee
meetings of the Ambulance Service at Gov-
ernment House —the first on the 24th, when
it will discuss the advantages of a ball to
help the funds. A final payment on the
building (£45001 is due in a few months,
and the work the Ambulance Service does
entitles it to all possible help.
'There are dozens of dancing clubs in
Melbourne, but the Hundred, due to start at
the end of the month, aims at being the most
swaggah of them all. The members’ list
is utterly exclusive, and the frivolities will
be held in the ballroom of Illawarra, Toorak.
Daryl Lindsay and his bride with the rose-
leaf skin had a flutter through Sydney be-
fore they flew south to Melbourne, where they
are building their nest.
Professor and Mrs. Lyle’s medical chick
Mary was quietly married at the Toorak
kirk the other day to Ned Herring, a former
Rhodes Scholar, who shed the khaki of a
British major after earning a D.S.O. and
Military Cross in France. The bride wore
navy-blue tailorings with a blue hat, and
had no bridesmaid. After a Blue Mountains
honeymoon the pair will settle in a Melbourne
flat. The bride, who has won honors on the
tennis asphalt as well as within the walls o'f
the ’Varsity, will now confine her medical
activities to research work.
Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke, the Toorak matron
who moulds her dress and deportment on
Queen Mary lines, signals from the Fog,
saying that daughter Kesta is engaged to Sid-
ney Sturt, who crossed the equator on the
same liner as they did. He is a personable
young Englishman, who shed the rank of cap-
tain with his khaki, and earns a nicely-
buttered crust in Flinders-lane.
General Wheatley and his dashing wife —
one of squatter Charlie Fairbairn’s daugh-
ters —are beaming over the girl babe that
has just arrived unto them. The monocled
brig.-general, who first flashed across the
local horizon as gent.-help to the late State
Governor Fuller, lately shed the trappings
of military secretary to G.-G. Forster.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme is giving a party at
the end of April to introduce daughter
Hilaria to the grown-up world. Mrs. Geoff
has just got back from a trip to Ceylon with
her two eldest daughters.
Residents along the north coast of the
Speck hardly ever know when airman Cap-
tain Huxley may not drop on them. He
was born on King Island, and since learn-
ing to fly during the Fritz disturbance has
surveyed every other island and the coast-
line of Bass Strait from so many angles and
altitudes that he knows it all like a book.
He dropped unannounced on Burnie the
other day and gave aspiring sky-riders oppor-
tunities of cultivating a taste for the higher
life. Burnie, by the way, sees a good deal
of Huxley and his ’bus. A brother, G.
Huxley, M.A., is headmaster of the local
State school, and one or two old cobbers of
Mouquet Farm are always glad to cease
wrestling with the peaceful potato and swap
reminiscences with the visitor.
The contract price of £90,000 for Baton
and Baldwin’s new spinning mills at Laun-
ceston is the highest ever paid in Tasmania
for a single building. The local firm of
Hinman, Wright and Manser got the job,
and Launceston business folks, headed by
the Mayor, danced a ring-a-ring-a-rosy
round the signatories to the contract and
clinked congratulations in the usual manner
On the same day it was announced that one
of the Hinman clan had successfully ten-
dered an engagement-ring to Susie, a charm-
ing daughter of the ancient and opulent
Archer tribe of wool-kings.
Hobart makes things clear: —
There have been two Mather houses in the soft-
goods trade here: one “carried on” as J. B. Mather
and Son; the other is Andrew Mather and Co., Ltd.
It is the former that W. J. Bailey, one-time of the
S. M. Herald, has bought out; the other ancient
house, in Liverpool-street, remains undisturbed.
The troubles of Dr. Lambert and his wife
have had another public airing. The lady
said she needed £2l a week or thereabout
to keep herself and her family in the way
the doctor’s position called for. The defence
quoted from a social paper the among-those-
present at various jazz dinners, and empha-
sised such points as “Mrs. Lambert wore a
lovely gown of spangled etceteras, and Miss
Lambert was in a sweet frock of pink”—
a nasty recoil this to the dress publicity
that most Sassiety women love. The fuss
recalls the public beginning of the differ-
ences many moons ago. One big race day
the doctor was chatting to a girl under the
elms when his wife bore down on them and
used primitive methods of showing her dis-
approval. After that encounter, in which
the lady rather glories, the doctor departed
to live in bachelor freedom, and Mrs. Lam-
bert ran the home for her numerous chicks.
A line from sister Adelaide:—
H. P. McLachlan, chairman of Tattersall’s Club,
has been given an enthusiastic send-off on starting
for a long-planned English visit. He has occupied
the chair ever since Sam Jacobs resigned it, and
is a good man for the position, having plenty of
leisure. He spends most of his time in the city,
but, being Scotch, likes to be called, after the
national custom, by the name of his station,
Paratoo, which name has also been worn of late
by a pretty-good racehorse of his. A. J. McLachlan,
C. C. Kingston’s last law partner, is his brother.
W. B. Carr, who has again been elected chairman
of the Stock Exchange, must be somewhere near a
record-breaker. He has been in the chair since 1903,
except for one year, when he was in England. Long
ago he used to be Sporting editor of the Register.
And two or three from “Vandorian” in
Paris : <
I’ve been spending some pleasant hours with
artist Rupert Bunny and his wife in their pictur-
esque Paris flat. Mrs. Bunny, who is French and
charming, is also clever with a brush, but she prefers
to bask in the reflected glory of her * husband’s
achievements. Last year he sold over a hundred
monotypes to the Georges Petit Gallery—a trans-
action with a shiny golden lining. A legacy from
an old friend of the Bunny family in Victoria came
to Australia’s big artist in Paris, on condition that
he used the cash to buy a house. Result, a delight-
ful home in the country two hours from the boule-
vards. “It’s a treasure,” says Bunny, “with three
acres—the cow is to come—a little vineyard and an
orchard. The house need® some re-construction and
the builders are in possession. In three months
behold us with our tiny chateau, our wine from our
vineyard, our fruit. My foot of earth will be kept
in Paris, but my wife and I love a home in the
country. What joy! After all, one need not die
under a bridge, even though one is an un-commercial
person with a kink for art.”


rr
<rK\
CQ^
0
1
1
pf*"*
r" 1 ’ /
if
H Hi
A
Va
m
&
a
*
•<^o
'•rrrmwi
0 0
S'"
EZZDQT
SL-
-1L
_j
Ji
J
i w 1
nS
%
ZZ
'V//
¥)
m
i
Irresistible!
SHE whose face glows with natural
colour, natural clearness, natural satin
texture; she who needs no rouge to
hide pallor, or powder to cover blemishes
or an oily skin.
Many a girl is brilliant and interesting
without being popular, simply because she
seems to lack personal charm A good
complexion would make this same girl
really pretty and as much admired as more
beautiful girl friends.
For every woman passes as pretty if only
her skin is fresh, smooth and young. It is
within the power of every woman to pos-
sess this attraction —to make her com-
plexion as beautiful as she could wish *
The secret ? Cleopatra knew and practised
it in the days of ancient Egypt. To-day
we use her favorite cosmetics and follow
her method.
What your skin needs .
If you knew the delicate structure of the
skin, and the important work it has to do,
you would realize what conscientious care
it needs.
The tiny pores and cells must be kept
active, or dangerous sluggishness soon
results. Accumulations of oil, perspiration
combined with dirt, clog the skin, and
blackheads and blemishes result.
Palmolive, with its mild, creamy lather, is
lotion-like in its action. It freshens, re-
vives and stimulates, and leaves the skin
delightfully fresh and rosy.
Wash the face gently with the velvet,
creamy lather of mild Palmolive, and
massage it softly into the skin. When this
foam is rinsed away, it carries off the im-
purities which clog the pores and are the
foundation of skin infection and disfigure-
ment.
Palmolive is at once a cleanser, a tonic
and a balm. Though so thorough and
beneficial in action, it is as gentle and
mld as a zephyr. Palmolive cleanliness
is different. You will appreciate it.
Sells everywhere at
113 per cake
The guest- size cake of Palmolive Soap w ll be sent
post free, on request, by The Palmolive Company
(. Australasia ) Ltd., Broughton House, Clarence
Street, Sydney.
Cleopatra builded
better than she knew
when to enhance and preserve her own surpassing
beauty she used oil of palm and oil of olive to
cleanse the royal skin, for the beauty of radiant
cleanliness is realised to the full by modern women.
With Cleopatra and all other elegartes of ancient
Egypt the daily cleansing amounted to a ceremo-
nial, involving an exact blending of the oils and
their skilful application.
Her beauty treatment
is Yours to-day
But for YOU the crude oils have been refined and
mixed and moulded to a fragrant cake of mild and
beautifying soap, to which is added no penetrating
perfume—no harmful colouring.
The soap retains the natural colour of the oils and
their cleanly, revivifying fragrance—it is unmistak-
ably Palmolive.
mr
u
p
n
Test also
the Perfection of
Palmolive Cold Cream; Palmolive Vanish-
ing Cream; “Violet of the Nile” and
“Egyptian Rose” Talcums; “Palmole”
Face Powder; Palmolive Face Powder;
Palmolive Rouge; Palmolive Shampoo.
K


Under
Royal
Warrant
ß
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGHt
'iarlesHeidsiccK
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
Wentworth Hotel
is ideally situated in a commanding position in the heart of
the city and is generally admitted to be
SYDNEY’S MOST LUXURIOUSLY-
APPOINTED HOME FOR TOURISTS.
Not only does the Wentworth combine comfort on the most
modern and sumptuous scale with every natural convenience,
but its famous Cafe is the centre of the City’s most brilliant
social life.
N.B.—The management desires to contradict the rumor that
the tariff has been recently raised.
Address WENTWORTH HOTEL, Church Hill, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 9931.
A HUNDRED YEARS AGO
“ Man’s love was of man's life a thing apart;
’Twas woman’s whole existence.”
But this is 1922, not 1822. Byron
would not have written the famous
lines to-day. For in this age, woman
has her own life to live.
She cultivates beauty for its own
sake, and out of her own delight in
her own self.
In the delicate art of perfuming,
the clever woman chooses
Erasmic Perfumes
as the most fragrant and unobtru-
sive, yet fascinating.
What makes her such an enchanting girlt
Why? Don’t you know? An Erasmic Girl!
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfurnes
Soaps
Powders
The A.J.O. cracked its Easter egg on
Saturday, and out flew the dazzle of silk,
the beat of hoofs, the unheeded smile of
flower-bed and lawn, the ragged, raucous
clatter of sweating thousands, a blur of per-
petual motion, a dizzily-hot sky, dress fabrics
quivering and shimmering in the still after-
noon like so many beetles and of a texture
for the most part as gossamery as beetles’
wings, though the calendar tells Sydney it is
autumn’s end. In short, Randwick once
again held Sydney in thrall, for poor old
credulous human nature still clings desper-
ately to the belief that horseshoes mean luck.
The new winter rag and fur were, gener-
ally .speaking, left at home, giving place to
the soft luxury of beaded ninons and some
really beautiful lace frocks. Millinery
sprouted in a regular crop of what looked
uncommonly like bird-of-paradise plumes.
Perhaps most of them are only distant rela-
tions of the real thing, and it would be a
poor sort of constable who’d ask any lady to
reveal the blot on the ’scutcheon of her best
holiday lid. One swagger person either
sported the Easter hatch of the L.O.L. elec-
tioneering egg, or tried to emulate Joyce
Kilner’s “Tree” that wore a bird’s-nest in
its hair. Anyway, over the brim of her
millinery ai group of pathetic-looking canary-
yellow fledglings gazed at the dizzying
throng.
Lace caught the vice-regals in its web
and added still softer tones to the always
gentle face of Lady Forster; lace panels in
ivory tones fell over soft satin of the same
mellowness, and her hat was autumn brown.
Lace in cream tones, a pink sash and a
black hat were Dame Margaret’s choice.
Mrs. Pitt Rivers and Lady Digby, who
vacated the vice-regal fold for the more
exhilarating official stand, were others who
blazed the trail of lace. Melbourne’s Vis-
countess Stradbroke girdled white satin and
ninon with delphinium blue. Tall Mrs. A.
E. Hughes’s black lace and georgette was
split ’midships by a flaming poinsettia ; Mrs.
Clayton was almost extinguished by an out-
size hat in black velour; Mrs. T. J. Dalton
was sleek in brown tailorings; Mollie Little,
in serviceable checks, was with Lady Lough-
borough, who was navy coat-frocked and
wore a hat that was gay with the embroid-
eries that are alternately described as Rus-
sian and Balkan. Mrs. Collins, of Beau-
desert, was, of course, an. outstanding dresser
-—hers was an all-white choice. Mrs. Alec
Hay looked like a prize yellow-and -brown
chrysanthemum, and the Coghlan ladv wn=
smartness itself in black. Judge Rolin’s
wife brought the girls Joan and PliyFis;
and smart dressers among the younger mat-
rons were Mrs. Harry Whiting and Mrs.
Malcolm Mnckellar, both clad in sombre-
ness ; Mrs. Monty Walker, who brightened
a navy groundwork with a stucco in Dutch
blue; and Mrs. Jim Camnbell. who was in
grey and mauve tones. Mrs. Watt brought
step-daughter Pauline, and the little Segaert
girl, Henriette, wore grey.
The only things the R.A.S. left on the
old home-farm this Easter were the bees,
and the queens are so stung by the omission
that they are sending a round robin of pro-
test headed “No ribbons, no honey.” Come
to think of it, it’s too bad that the only
one to give much publicity to the Venus of
the hive was a fellow named Maeterlinck,
and he didn’t own either a newspaper or
a Show, and, therefore, wasn’t in a position
to run a beauty competition.
The Society decorated its hundredth an-
nual performance with three Governors, a
Prime Minister and extra bunting. Stands
and lawns were packed to suffocation on the
blistering afternoon last week when the
G.-G. declared the show open. Of course,
it was open already, and the belles of Cow
Flat and the King of the Clydesdales were
quite obviously aware of it as they strode
in majesty around the ring, coats shining
like satin and beribboned bodies denoting
pride of class in every movement. This
march-past is a fascinating sight, for every
animal in the ring is a beauty, and as in
the three-course circus there is something
happening all the time. Save in one or two
sections the horses seem more beautiful this
year than ever before; and when the time
came for the spanking dog-carts to whirl
around, it was a poor sort of Australian who
could cross his heart and say he preferred
a motor-car. There was a second royal
parade when the vice-regals streamed to-
wards the special gilt-edged enclosure where
the councillors and their wives and the
Mighty in Politics every year worry a bun
and a cup of tea, while Timothy Bluegum
and Mrs. Bluegum and the five little gum-
tips make a picnic of it in the shade of a
kindly pavilion.
The slim Lady Stradbroke clothed herself
in floral ninon and a wide gardenia-trimmed
hat. Our own Dame Margaret wore float-
ing primrose draperies, the skirt made with
the new apron effect. A feather ruffle in
toning shades tickled the D.B.E. chin, and
small and compact millinery topped the vice-
regal head. Mrs. Pitt Rivers turned a pinlc-
and-white face under a nigger-brown hat-
brim towards two small charges sitting im-
mediately behind Diana and Daphne David-
son, who looked more than ever as though
they had come from between the covers of
a Sunday-school prize. President Sam
Hordern’s lady picked out a neat design in
beads upon a navy georgette. Mrs. Mark
Morton sat with Mrs. Rowley (she was a
Hay) from Melbourne. Relays of visitors,
among them the Coglilan lady, were led in to
the tea-pavilion, where the decorations were
bowls of sumptuous chrysanthemums that
might have grown in the dream-gardens of
a Mikado’s palace. Tootles Williamson in
cream muslin, cool and unwilted as a spring
flower, chaperoned mother, who chaperoned
everybody’s old friend, J. D. Fitzgerald.
.T.D. might have been a sultan or a sheik
for the tribute that everybody paid him—•
the everybody including kindly Governor
Davidson. William Morris Hughes part-
nered Dame Margaret at tea. Margaret
Allen, who had been riding in the jumps,
joined her admiring family, looking very
fit in her riding kit.
All the fruits the world over were in the
pavilion—from Northern Rivers and South-
ern Tablelands; tropic lusciousness and sub-
tropic geniality; golden grain in infinite
variety; cheese that would make Ches-
terton’s heart merry; bottled streams of
honey that would make the Promised
Land look like a drought-stricken area.
It was a Show of Shows. Town and Coun-
try met, and for the most part weren’t slow
to take the hint from the whisky signboards
that hem the ring about.
A new venture was the Baby Welfare
Centre. It was rather hard to get at, but
the searcher found it appropriately enough
facing the shed marked “Milking Short-
horns.” Within the enclosure were a num-
ber of tents, one of them a day-nursery
where mothers visiting the Show could leave
their infants in safety while they did the
sights with father. Another canvas roof
covered a kiddies’ entertainment provided
by Ben and John Fuller; still another
was a rest-room for mothers; the largest of
all was the roof-tree of the refreshment tent.
Dame Margaret endorsed the Royal Welfare
Society’s endeavor in a little opening speech.
Mayoress McElhone, who wore royal-blue
georgette and a feathered hat, returned
thanks in neat wording, and the helpers
and friends and a group of those wonderful
St. John Ambulance nurses, headed by Com-
mandant Mrs. Aubrey Withers, clapped ap-
plause. The Royal Welfare’s president,
Innes Noad, and his daughter Marjorie hov-
ered about the compound; George Black.
Mrs. Cooper-Day and gentle Miss Blomfield
were among the interested. Organiser Mar-
garet Moore and secretary Stella Davies
looked upon their work and found it gbod,
and hoped that next year it would be better.
In short, the only kind of humans who "were
not attracted to the baby clinic on the open-
ing day were the babies.
The other day May Moore took this photo-
graph of Emsie Dawson, the Brisbane young-
ster whose chamber
recital at the Con-
servatorium for the
teacher’s diploma
exam, caused some-
thing like an elec-
tric shock to pass
through the Heads.
Her interpretation
of the Schumann
concerto with the
orchestra was poetic
and brilliant, and
held out promise of
a Career. Emsie,
who is a slip of a
girl not far up yet
in her teens, has a
second long-suit, and
that is literature,
but she is wise
enough to know that if one is a business the
other must be a hobby. Winifred Burston is
the teacher of the amazing chick.
The Country Women’s Conference was a
side-show; and organiser Florence Gordon
is congratulating herself on its success. At
the first day’s sessions Dame Margaret was
the early-morning speaker, and Mayoress
McElhone provided the after-lunch flip. The
architectural Mrs. George Taylor gave some
good and easy-to-follow tips about comfort
in the country home; and Portia Geach for
some obscure reason instructed the bush
woman on American clubs and scientific
feeding.
Poor Smith’s tragic death caused
more than a ripple in social Sydney, for the
young man with the lean, hatchet face w T as
a great favorite with Society hostesses dur-
ing his stay here. No big private or public
function was considered complete without
him, and at these, strangely enough, although
he was not far on in the twenties, he
was almost invariably brought to anchor
among the belles of an older generation.
What the boy within him really felt the
inscrutable face never revealed. While the
picture of their flight was being shown, the
two brothers are said to have received a
mountain of love letters every day from un-
known admirers. They got into the way
of turning to the signature first, and if
that brought no flash of memory they tore
the letter into pieces. “They’ll be sorry by
next week they ever thought of doing it,”
remarked the chivalrous Ross to one amused
caller.
Here is Sister Nellie Younger Wood, who
has matroned St. Luke’s in Darlingliurst
through its first
three years. Sister
Nellie was trained
at the Sydney Hos-
pital under Matron
Creak She saw two
and a half years’
war service, mostly
at Salonika, and
won an impressive-
looking Greek deco-
ration in memory
thereof. On her
return from active
service she took
charge of Bodington,
the Mountain sana-
torium for T.B. sol-
diers. Bowral will
remember the tall,
dark young nurse,
as in pre-war days she was matron at the
local hospital.
Vachell’s “Quinneys” was repeated last
week in aid of the Bertram Stevens memo-
rial fund by the players who had produced
it to replenish the shelves of the Bush Book
Club. Society, having turned up for the
fashionable charity, was mostly absent from
the B.S.F. effort, but for all that the fund
will stagger along with an extra £2OO. Dame
Nellie Melba, who was to have been the
king-pin the first night, was too tired to stir
after her own concerts, and the beribboned
bunch of florist’s stock intended for her had
to be written off. But, at any rate, she got
the ornate programme autoed by the play-
ers that had been prepared for her —that
was forwarded to her next day. Angus and
Robertson bought out the gallery and seated
its staff therein. Good-looking Mrs. Tony
Hordern and her friend Mrs. Ken Richards
were among the first-nighters; the medical
Dangar Byrnes, Mrs. Harry Osborne, Isabel
Hay, the Peter Mitchells, and tall Mrs.
Jessica Lee and her just-recovered young
man were others who listened to the story
of the Chippendale cßairs and the ambitious
apprentice. The sweets-and-programme piracy
was directed by capable rose-clad Hilda
Caro, who captained a crew of youth whose
beauty was overpowering: enough loot was
taken to pay all the expenses of the two-
nights’ show, and add a few pounds on to
the general fund.
Hitherto the Queen’s Club has been the
one spot in Sydney sacred from the tread of
the woman who works. Victoria, from her
pedestal opposite, flings out a sceptral bless-
ing ; and here the descendants of the early
land-grabber and the wives of merchant
princes could take a snack in perfect con-
tent, knowing that the woman at the tafcde
opposite didn’t pull her club subscription
out of a little pay envelope. But, alas,
time changes everything; and now the wage-
earner is being admitted. The reason may
be a parched treasury, or the influence of
Victoria’s great-granddaughter in marrying
money instead of a crown. But in her
heart the lady from Ashfield blames it on
Dooley-McGirr.
Hilda Caro, of the cameo-like profile, has
promised admirer-for-years Harold Weigall
to make him the happiest man in Sydney.
Mr. Weigall, a son of the long-time head-
master of Sydney Grammar, has for some
years been growing rubber in East Macassar.
Now he is giving the law firm of Allen,
Allen and Hemsley the benefit of his know-
ledge of divers tongues. Hilda has two pas-
sions—races and good works. She is one
of the quickest money-raisers for charities
in the city.
A number of old Union Club members
have subscribed- for a portrait of Ted Simp-
son, which John Longstaff has been com-
missioned to paint. If the billiard-room
were less like a barn the work of art might
appropriately be hung there. The subject,
who, at his best, was near the amateur cham-
pionship class, has won more matches within
its precincts than any other member of the
club.
Tony Hordern is now out of the big
Brickfield Hill shop on the active side, and
has installed himself in an O’Connell-street
office, where he makes mysterious motions
with pass-books, vouchers, cheque-forms and
so on. Libby, the other brother, has never
pretended to know anything about the art
and practice of retailing, so Sam, who un-
questionably does, has the field to himself.
The Seppy Alisons, who have been enter-
taining a succession of Exes, at Coolangatta,
are the youngest pair to undertake this kind
of work that Sydney has known. He was
a schoolboy when the war began, and went
straight into a Guards regiment; and her fair
and delicate style of beauty makes her look
even younger than she is. He is Jim Ali-
son’s only offspring, and inherited the for-
tune of his mother, who was a Burdekin.
Twenty-odd years ago a young globe-
trotter, by name Stanley Mylius, visited
Sydney, met the youngest of the Roberts
girls, married her and took her back to Eng-
land. Their daughter, Sunbeam, is now here
staying with her aunt, Mrs. Harry Austin,
who is giving a ball at her Darling Point
house in honor of the event. Another aunt,
Mrs. Ambrose Pratt, spends most of her
time in Melbourne.
“Nothing will be the same after the war,”
they used to say. One Digger’s wife must
surely be inclined to agree. She married
him in London and came to a block of that
wild timbered land lying between the Murray
and the Mitta rivers. She shares with her
Billjim all the farm toil, including the milk-
ing and timber-clearing. In London she was
head designer in “Jay’s,” and she helped to
make the Court mourning at the time of
King Edward’s death.
Another engagement in the Colonel Men-
zies family. This time it is Mildred, now
on a visit to sister Mrs. Sibbald at Colombo,
who sports the diamond-studded gyve. The
young man’s name is Rice, and he has a
plantation to look after as well.
Jobs are being created for the smart
woman all the time. The other day lona
Auguste (and she’s Australian, although the
name sounds like the Grecian Archipelago)
answered an advt. that had piqued her curio-
sity. She was only one of 600 Eves who
had thought the particular apple might be
worth a nibble; and she was the lucky one
to be handed the whole pippin. Now she
is installed at the Lyceum as a sort of social
secretary. Any time you want to arrange
movie parties you ring up lona, and she
does the rest. lona, by the way, was one
of the first Australian cast of “Madame
Butterfly,” and later on she and Marie
Boam, one of the J.C.W. beauty girls, grew
chickens and plucked flierefrom both prizes
and profits. Not so long ago, when she was
giving evidence on a board of inquiry as
to the cost of living, counsel for the oppo-
site side suddenly asked, “You were on the
stage before you took to chicken-raising:
did you find singing to the birds made them
increase their output?” “I didn’t sing to
them,” she replied, “but occasionally I de-
claimed Shakspeare!” and before counsel
could collect himself she added: “I often
cried aloud, ‘Lay. on, Macduff’!”
Mary Laing-Meason is forging ahead for
the Futurists, a company of entertainers
who are touring S’Africa. Mary had been
facing Plong Kong, but thought she might
as well see a new country when she had
the chance.
The memory of big-hearted Oswald Watt
will be perpetuated in a way that he’d like
most of all. The relatives and friends of
the popular airman are building a wing on
to Havilah, the C. of E. Home for Childrer
at Wahroonga. Brother Ernest’s wife vn
lay the foundation-stone suitably enough on
Anzac Day.
Over £6O was handed in towards the
Riverview War Memorial as the result of
a dance at Wlieatleigh—the T. J. Daltons’
North-side home. The beautifully-panelled
lounge and dining-room were turned into a
ballroom, which was crowded with old and
young ex-Riverviewers and the girls of their
hearts. Mrs. T. J. was sumptuous in white
satin and ermine; and the rector of the
college blinked a kindly eye at the seating
accommodation on the lawn which was
strictly for two.
The Riverview regatta wore its usual
sunny smile, but an after-problem is causing
a frown to furrow the brow of one kindly
North-sider. The day before the regatta he
rang up the Rev. Mother of a suburban con-
vent school to say that he and his wife
would gladly chaperone any of the boarders
who cared to go to see the boat-races. Rev.
Mother was charmed, and the kindly one
was made to feel all the thrill of a generous
action. On the Saturday the North-sider
went to pick up his three or four charges
at the Quay, and found 18 young misses
ready and eager! The crocodile politely
but firmly insisted on viewing everything
in the college and its grounds, and to the
kindly one’s horror never once broke its
formation. But eventide brings calm to the
harassed spirit, and eventually a suburban
train carried off the young things refreshed
with tea and cake and fed with sweets. Next
morning the Rev. Mother rang up the kindly
one. The girls were delighted with their
outing. Indeed, their pleasure over their
afternoon had been such that the school had
entered on a special course of good _ be-
havior so that next year all of them might
be allowed to go!


11 Pay Less to
Dress Him Better.' 1
4 Boy's
Suit Bargain
at Murdoch’s.
A SPECIAL LINE of Boys’ Cotswold Suits.
Coat is cut with 4 Patch Pockets, Yoke,
Half Belt, and Vent back. Knickers are
strongly lined, and have plain .knees. Made from
splendid wearing quality Australian Woollen
Tweeds. In Light, Mid and Dark Shades. An
Ideal Suit for school wear. Fit Boys Bto 10 years.
splendid Value = 27
Fit Boys 5 to 7 Years 2a /“
Fit Boys 11 to 14 Years 29/6
Fit Boys 15 to 16 Years 35/-
Band Knees 2/6 extra.
If ordering by post write to Desk R. Postage paid
to all parts.
MURDOCH’C
In Park St. Ltd., Sydney,
“The World’s Largest Men’s & Boys’ Wear Store.”
United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
a
m
0
Usco
*Royal Cord ' 'Nobby 1 * Chain'
THE WORLD'S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
8
HARDY BROS. LTD\
c Jewellers <So Silver-smitfis.
THE SYDNEY CUP—1922
(Presented by the Australian Joclcey Club).
This famous Trophy is fashioned in solid
18ct. gold, and measures 12 inches in
height on its oak plynth, with a width
overall of 8 inches. It stands in a hand-
some oak casket, lined with royal blue
and white satin.
The privilege of designing and manufacturing
the Sydney Cup for 1922 ivas again entrusted
to the Company.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
c Jewellers <£> Silvers/nitfts.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
398 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it's such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
2
r "S
%
i
F.J. 140
i
fOOD
OKI
- r
///S V 7
J? JL_,
£ I
T|
-58
'Si (, I%C
w
'As*-''
=\ ;
sK3*r'fc;
]§IIHb


Learn to Draw
‘‘There’s Money
The above
is the title
of our book-
let which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
Learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
AVeston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
stamps to-day
for a copy of
this booklet —
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN THE
PEN.”
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing.
124 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
s
"'hat itching spot of Eczema
can be at once relieved by
using
LIGMOLLIENE
the sure and permanent cure
for all skin diseases.
W. MALYON & SON, LTD.,
Sturt Street, Ballarat.
ALL CHEMISTS
CUT OUT THIS A*?
CSEND WITH Ife
FOR SPECIAL SAMPLE
S/6G 7/6 Per Tin
%
.....
i,
: O V
r—
& „0
VPZ-.
o *0 ■.-■••
s o /<£). • :
m
W|
o .;
U
a
!■:?■
Q
m
w
<>/ //
e/y
o
~?4,1
o'©
C/0.0
$
Nature has her
moments of
sweetest charm,
not when a tropi-
ca] sun scorches the soil,
but when the dew is on the
flowers in an old English
garden and their fragrant
breath lingers in the air.
Those “moments of sweetest
charm” are irresistibly recalled
by the three favorite
7ENOBIA
Zenobia Lilt or the Valley —a per-
fume with the unique grace of the
tenderest of blossoms.
Zenobia Sweet Pea Blossom—the
original perfume which, in name, his
been widely imitated. Be sure to get
the genuine Zenobia.
Zeno bi a Night
Scented Stock —-a
perfume as fascinat-
ing as the loveliest
garden by night.
Manufactured only
by
Zenobia Limited,
Loughborough,
Leicestershire,
England.
Sole Agents for
New Zealand
(Wholesale only),
Newson & Co.,
Ltd., P.O. Box
1162. Wellington.
Sole Agent for
Australia
(Wholesale only),
Kenneth Buckmaster,
15 O'Ccnnell
Street, Sydney.
X,iL»y
Tof the
VALLEY
THE
WINTON
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE.
Read what P. J. De Wet,
of Sterkstroom, South
Africa, says about
The ''WINTON’’
Saddle.
He writes:—“The ‘Winton’
Saddle I ordered from you some
time back is a high-grade saddle.
It is one of the finest saddles. I
have ever ridden in, and the dis-
advantage is that someone else
always wants to ride in it. lam
quite satisfied with the s ddie,
and I am absolutely safe on the
horse’s back.”
That is a sample of what we are
continually receiving from customers
who have bought the “Winton,” and
without doubt it is the most satis-
factory stock saddle we have yet intro-
duced. One great feature in this
saddle is the flap sewn direct on to
the seat, doing away with the usual
skirt and giving a narrow, non-chafing
grip. Fitted with folded girth,
bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups.
£l6/s|-
Freight free for cash
with order to any Port
or Railway Station in
New South Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson Ltd.
595 George Street, Sydney.
Saddlers,
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery.
SSS^@!BSS!«iS
*E«ISTERED
TRADE M*R»
Guaranteed-
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
g
Pith
Helmets
21/-
Potf Free
The "Bombay” India Pith Helmet is a style
of Cool Headwear in which we specialise.
No hat is cooler for the wilting hot days of
our Australian Summer, nor lighter on the
head. The "Bombay” is a genuine Pith-
covered with Grey Alpaca or White Drill,
Leather Chin Strap, Self Puggaree.
21 /- Po& Free. Write Desk “ W ”
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
BRISBANE
Q
REX—the Duplicator
100 copies in a few minutes.
Works like a £lO machine.
Price 25/-, Foolscap si*e.
Postage 27-
Write for particulars.
H. DIBBS & CO„ Dept. B,
18 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SlisHinsr Friends.
WILL any person knowing, the where-
abouts' of WILLIAM MYLES
TAYLOR, formerly of Wellington, New
Zealand, kindly communicate with the Local
Dcpi ty Public Trustee, at Wellington, New
Zealand.
ILLIAM BALL or DOLL, who left
vv Lochee, via Dundee, Scotland, for
Sydney, Australia, over 30 years ago, is
anxiously inquired after bv his daughter,
JENNIE DALL, 54 Gertrude Street,
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
Re BLOSSOM JACKSON v. ARCHIBALD
JACKSON.
TO ARCHIBALD JACKSON.
Take notice that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland No. 49 of 1922 by Blossom
Jackson of Brisbane in which the Plaintiff’s
claim is for a dissolution of her marriage
with you Archibald Jackson the above-named
Defendant or for such further or other
relief as to the Court may seem meet and
by an Order of this Honorable Court bearing
date the 31st day of March 1922 it has been
ordered that service of the Writ and Petition
in this matter be effected by the service of
i Sealed Copy of the Petition and a copy oi
the Writ of Summons on Mrs. Byrne at her
residence off Victoria Street, Sprung Hill
Brisbane and by one publication of this
advertisement in The Bulletin which is a
newspaper published in Sydney in the State
of New South Wales and in the Brisbane
Courier which is a newspaper published in
Brisbane in the State of Queensland. If
you desire to defend the said action you
must within Thirty-four days from the date
of the publication of this advertisement
inclusive of the day of such publication enter
an appearance at the Registry _of the
Supreme Court at Brisbane aforesaid. In
default of your appearance judgment may
be entered against you.
Dated this seventh dav of Aoril, 1922.
F. S. KENNEDY,
Deputy Registrar.
McSweeny & Wilford,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Strand Block,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Missing Frfeutls.
£5 REWARD.
GAVAN DUFFY, KING & CO., Solicitors, 125
Queen Street, Melbourne, are making inquiries
on behalf of the relatives of FARRELL DOLAN,
last heard of from Perth about seven years -'
and who carried on mining operations for many
years in the Menzies district, and the above reward
will be paid to the first person supplying them with
accurate information as to his present whereabouts.
A Saw beyond experiment.
N?lf
N ?/
utra
9°
°Af
The illustration shows 15 standard patterns
of teeth. Booklet post free.
SAW ready for the hardest cut-
ting service. Not something
to “try out,” but a proven product,
made from the right steel, by right
methods, in our Australian Saw TV orks.
Every
“An Eagle on a Globe”
CIRCULAR SAW
is made from high-quality Sheffield Crucible
Cast Steel, the only steel that will stand up
to high speeds and hard cuts. No dangerous
bursts or breaks, no constant hold-ups for re-
sharpening. Only the host of users of “An
Eagle on a Globe” saws know complete saw
satisfaction. All sizes from 4in. up. Any
size hole or gauge. Send your orders.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd..
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd.,
Makers of Ultra-Capital Hi;gh-Speed Steel,
879-81 Kent Street, Sydney; 342-48 Swanstom Street, Melbourne; Cliff Street,
Fremantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Paul & Gray, Ltd., Scott Street, Newcastle;
H. L. Milligan, 32a Argyle Street, Hobart; John Reid and Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte
Street, Brisbane; Chas. Atkins & Co., Ltd. r 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except ot a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.G.: Pretty obvious that you don’t know
the recent trend of political parties in N. > c . Vales.
....Old Supporter: All right, we will put it this
way—-there is a memorial stone in the neglected
family pLot where Kidston, ex-premier of Queens-
land, lies; but the name of Kidston himself is not
on it-r-only the names of his wife and daughter, who
predeceased him.'. ..T.D. (Landsborough) : The poet
has been smitten with it on the other cheek....
L.P.J.: It is an old quip. .. .H.C.H.: No kick iu
the mule yarn W. 0.3: Well written, but they are
weak in the point. .. .8.D.E.8.: Not enough in it.
N.B.G.A.: Can’t trace it J.T.M.: Been told
before with slight variations.... Drcw-in: Does the
6un dance on Easter Sunday? Not when the Liquor
.Act is reasonably administered... .Omega: The Ash
controls the discharge... .Amateur: Calls for too
much space: get in touch with a local breaker....
J.M.Q.: The man who said that Arst has been dead a
long while.. .Londoner: Suggestion that Sydney should
substitute motor-buses for trams implies that you
have yet to view Sydney’s main roads F.J.S.:
Read your Bulletin and you will learn that this
paper has never said a word against Prohibition-
real Prohibition—and that it has as great an objec-
tion as any wowser to mean pubs and ■wine-hells.
What it claims is that there is more lawlessness and
more alcoholic poisoning in the U.S. under the pre-
sent system of wine for the rich and water for the
poor than there was before the Volstead Amendment
came into force. .. .Territory J.: Good idea, but
wanted better handling... .L.D. (Killara) : Not up.
....Parrot: “The Mourners” go to the grave....
Lynam: Even in a crowded holiday week your pious
wish left its mark:—
Now that Dooley has been beaten
We may have a little rest.
And every man get his chance
To work out his own success.
E.D. (S.A.): “The Sea King’s Daughter” is very
long, very dreary and has too many warts. ...A.H.P.:
They don’t strike us hard enough.., .The Cynic:
Heavy wallow of words... .Wilfrid L.: Don’t like
“Early Morning”....L.W. (Longreach) : Poor work-
manship and slender thought... .A.W.P,: “Loss” is
in bad sonnet form and some of the lines refuse to
scan. The “Song” doesn’t sing and doesn’t say
enough... .Frank R.: A Cooper’s Creek sort of yarn
—seems to start by accident and wind up at nowhere
in particular E.M.E.: “Mother” hasn’t the neces-
sary distinction Rock M.: The violent thing isn’t
worth while.. .Hazel D. D.: Not nearly good enough.
A.F. (Dunedin): Not up....Wi1l D. (Numur-
kah): Dull and tedious Mary R.: Feeble little
Autter A.1.W.: Your “Pub” is worse than a
suburban musical evening... .E.D. (Randwick):
Sorry stuff L.L.L. A bump in nearly every line;
and even then it makes only a commonplace remark.
.... S. Stirrup-leather: Too rugged.... Jack S.: A
sonnet must be a lot better than that... .L.T.0.:
Your modesty disarms u 5..,. J.R.A.: A list of
“good progressive writings” is too big an order.
Intellectual Arst-aid is generally rendered by one
author at a time.... Rix: Terrible... .Meredith S.:
No use to us.. . . A.N.A.: Nothing there.... The
Nomad: Crude In manner and matter... .Camb:
Not for this market.... J.R.M.: Wooden verse
that thuds along saying the old things....
Binnie: The mouse is not for this kitten.... Stanley
C.: Yarns must have more in them than that....
Lex: The matter is slight and the manner not
original.... W.P. J.: You have followed a poor
master. White would seldom reach print to-day....
R.T.K.: Doesn’t get near the g0a1.... Michael F.:
Only two rhymes to a stanza, and yet you murder
the ear with “idea”-“near”. .. .Kays: The dog and
goat metaphor is stretched a little too far...,L.L.
(Burwood) : Both come near, and then miss....
W.J.W.: Just a patching up of old commonplaces
and weak tags... .1.G.W.: You have music. Try
regular metres till you learn your craft.... Fen W.:
The weight of that gold would have been about one-
third of a ton. Nice little swag to walk about with.
Hecagus: No yarn there... .A.H.N.: The thought
is too slight; and some of the rhymes are horrible.
. ...N.C.: “The Conqueror” works by the plan.
Machines have been turning out variations of that
story for many years.... Bruce L.: Not up....W.F.
(StrathAeld): “Love’s Death” Is fair verse, but it
fades away to nothing Annie M.: The verse
doesn’t carry it and the grammar, stumbles....
Carina: Commonplace, with a hint of something
better.... Mag: The verse drags awkwardly....
P.8.P,: Doesn’t get through even the outer gate.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPUN DENTS.
P.A.8.: Two giants and the dwarf going back....
H. G. de C.: The “designs suitable for comicks”
aren’t. .. .H. 0.: Promising, but drawing faulty yet.
... .A.S.E.: Both sketch and gag weak... .H.H.R.8.:
Is that thing in the foreground a sheep or a tick?
H.S.K.: Still off the target... .H.S.: That sert
of dude doesn’t grow' here. .. .A.E.C.: All miss....
R.N.U.: Both gags old.
“T.R.11.”: I notice that a few weeks ago
in London a cuvate. charged with being
drunk, was acquitted. The arresting con-
stable said the rev. gent, was “very gay.”
Well, why shouldn’t a curate be gay when
a bishop can be arch?
“Queen Street” : The old iron bridge over
the. Yarra at Church-street, Richmond
(Vic.), which is now to be displaced, is a
relic of the Crimea. It is half of a bridge
prepared by the British Engineers for the
use of troops at the siege of Sebastopol. The
other half is still doing duty over the Bar-
won, near Geelong.
“T.It.H.”: “X2X” is correct when he says
(B. 6/4/’22) that hypnotism is no longer
the monopoly of the showman. Major C.
G. Godfrey, senior G.M.O. of Vic., is sup-
posed to have cured nearly 200 cases of shell-
shock by its aid. As visiting-doctor to
the Lara Drink and Drug Institute (Vic.),
he frequently uses hypnotism in alcoholic
cases to help along the strychnine and atro-
pine treatment.
“Centurion”: There are different methods
of warfare, and to measure up all results
as final by the experience of one front, as
“Rio” (B. 0/4/ , 22) tries to do, is quite
misleading. I never wrote that the
m.-g. should not be utilised because it fired
ammunition too quickly. I did say that
with mounted troops covering great dis-
tances rapidly, the m.-g. could not be util-
ised as effectively as the rifle, because of
the impossibility of transporting sufficient
ammunition. I said nothing either of what
future sources of this supply may be, but
attempted to deal with the conditions of to-
ff av as I had viewed them.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
&RIENT S. N, CO., Ltd.,
tel.—City 4246, o 4 q goring Street,
4247, a a
4810. Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, MAY 10.
SONOMA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
KankliiK, I’ublio Companies, &b.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,432 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 326,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; lion. G. TV.
Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ; W. H. Hart,
Esq.; A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager—M. G. lIAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.,
HEAD OFFICE - - - HIUSBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queens land.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD,
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. ..£1,200,000
lieserve Fund £260,000
Directors: Maiik Sheldon, Chairman; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Frank.
N. Yakwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman :
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
. Queensland.
MELBOURNE (326 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finnet.
ADELAIDE (36 Bundle Street).
Manager: I!. T. Moodiic.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £ 529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
PDAMTC HRACTC on Australia, New Zea-
UIIANIO Ullrtr I d land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated 1865.)
Melbourne Office : 267 Collins Street.
Sydney Office : 105 Pitt Street.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £625,000
Reserve Fund .. .. • • • • 620,000
£1,245,000
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 625,000
£1,870,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
with 89 Branches and Agencies in that State.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout
the world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted.- All usual banking business
transacted.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. •- .. £2,575,000
Accumulated Funds • • • • • • £47,000,000
Annual Income . - • • • • • • £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Can&di&n-Austral&sian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
MAKURA, 18th MAY, 11 a.m.
- NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco,via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe,.
Tiie Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
MARAMA, 4th MAY, 11 a.m.
TAHITI, Bth JUNE.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP C 0„ DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
_
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3£ TO 4$ WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to—
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181?.
raid-up Capital
lteserve I'liml
Heserve Liability
sT6
- £5,000,000
- 3,500,000
5,000,000
£1,3,500,000
Director* :
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Thread needle Street, E.C.
358 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci rrespondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign place 9 DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1884,
Capital paid Up .. £2,909,025
Reserve Fund ~ £2,360,000
Reserve Capital .. £3,000,000
£8,269,023
I
im
'77*
o
mm 1,,
s
Jiimu
W:
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Chairman,
lion. H. E. Kater, M.E.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
J. W. Macarthur Onslow.
Hon. Sir Thomas Hughes,
M.L.C.
Owen E. Friend.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. MaSsie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Branch: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank. Limited; Barclays Bank. Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Hotel Kosciusko.
Winter Sports in Australia.
In order to meet as far as possible the hitherto unsatisfied demand for accommodation
at the Hotel Kosciusko in the Winter Season, arrangements have been made to reserve
certain rooms for parties of gentlemen or parties of ladies from four to ten in number.
Large Bed-sitting Rooms with cheerful open fireplaces have been furnished at considerable
outlay in order to meet the requirements of such parties.
Comfort is guaranteed, and anyone interested is recommended to apply for full
particulars of bookings for the coming winter season to the Manager, Hotel Kosciusko,
or the Acting-Director, Government Tourist Bureau.
Special concessions on ordinary rates for travel and accommo-
dation are offered in the case of parties of six or more.
FULL PARTICULARS AND BOOKING AT
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU, Challis House, Sydney.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
859 Little Lo,nsdale St., Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Reading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn, London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information xvithout charge.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
‘Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.
THE STEAMER SUVA
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
She is fitted with wireless and with every modern
convenience for the coinfoi t of passengers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 20
days, and from Sydney 16 days.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald,
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAIt SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m.; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. ORAItA SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at 9 p.m.
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/6/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PHILP
& CO., LTD.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars Of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“IROQUOIS.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Go.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
managing agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and l-'itzroy Estates, Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries, Ltd., and Calr lonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritimes Co.
RR4NOHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne Sjdney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktovvn.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
A Short History of British Expan-
sion. By JAMES A. WILLIAM-
SON. Author of “The Foundation
and Growth of the British Empire,”
etc. With 21 maps (8 in color).
255. net.
The Times :—“Mr. Williamson’s excellent
b00k....He has produced a book- of excep-
tional merit and with all the making of a
standard work. He has brought to his task
a vast amount of research, great accuracy,
clear narrative and sane judgments, often
happily expressed, on men, movements and
eras.”
Mr. Keynes’ New Book on the
Reparation Problem: A Revision
of the Treaty. A Sequel to “The
Economic Consequences of the Peace.”
7s. 6d. net.
New Statesman : —“lt is, like its predeces-
sor, a pleasure to read, lucid and concise in its
economic arguments, dashing in its political
satires and its judgment of persons.”
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Commonwealth, ss. per copy,
or 20s. per annum, post free to any
address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR
DECEMBER :
THE WASHINGTON CONFERENCE.
The Standpoint of Japan.
The Case of China.
IRELAND.
CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
PROBLEMS.
THE AFTERMATH OF VICTORY.
AMERICA AND THE CONFERENCE.
Also Articles fro)m “Australia,” “New Zealand,”
“United Kingdom,” “India,” “Canada,” and
“South Africa.”
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
674. The Young Enchanted. A
Romantic Story. By HUGH WAL-
POLE. ss.
673. Vera. By the Author of “Eliza-
beth and Her German Garden,” etc.
ss.
THIRD EDITION, REVISED.
A Textbook of Zoology. By the late
T. J. PARKER, D.Sc., F.R.S., and
W. A. IIASWELL, D.Sc., F.R.S.
Third Edition. 2 vols. 50s. net.
SECOND EDITION, COMPLETELY
REVISED.
Introduction to the Mathematical
Theory of the Conduction of Heat
in Solids. By H. S. CARSLAW,
Sc.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Mathe-
matics in the University of Sydney.
Second Edition. 30s. net.
NEW EDITION.
The Commercial and Library Chart
of the World. (72 x 54 inches.)
£2 ss. net, mounted on cloth and
rollers, and varnished.
[W. & A. K. Johnston, Ltd.
The new edition of this Chart, invalu-
able to the business man, shows, in addi-
tion to the latest political World
boundaries, detailed information as to
railway and steamship routes, coaling
and oil-bunkering stations, cables, etc.
Inset Maps give the great Trans-Conti-
nental Railways, and the Panama and
Suez Inter-Ocean Canals.
Macmillan’s
NEW AUSTRALIAN ATLAS,
With 41 Maps and 8-page Index, Manilla
cover, 2s.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
AUCTION SALE
BY ORDER OF THE MORTGAGEE.
E. J. HENNESSEY
WILL SELL BY PUBLIC AUCTION
The Hotel Metropole,
Thursday Island,
as a Going Concern, together with all
Furniture ahd Fittings.
THIS fine two-storeyed Hotel is situated
on the corner of Douglas and Hastings
Streets; adjacent to the Custom House, Post
Office and Town Hall, and is absolutely the
finest business site on the Island. Has wide
Verandahs and Balcony, Billiard-room and
Table, three Sample Rooms, fifteen Bedrooms,
Sitting-room, Circular Bar with Parlors,
Kitchen and all Outhouses. Lighted With
Acetylene Gas. v
Sale on the Premises at Thursday Island
on Thursday Morning, the 11th May,
1922, at 11 o’clock.
Intending purchasers desirous of inspect-
ing the property may obtain full information
as to shipping from Messrs. Burns, Philp
and Co., Ltd. Further particulars from the
undersigned.
E. J. HENNESSEY,
Auctioneer,
Thursday Island.
Thursday Island,
March 16, 1922.
MONARCH
The Cigar for
particular
smokers.
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
EACH.
m s
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6; 50,
23/9; 100,
.46/-
Post paid to any
address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club lteil Cigar Factory.
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for ll-
£looo
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
dEIOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Blue Mountains A. H. S I. Society’s Shaw
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General.
£ 7 000 First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Prize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR 5/.
Each Ticket has 241 Chances,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke's obtainable from N SW. Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH’, Hon. Secretary,
l Cadzow. Warrega-street, Katoomba. N.S.W«
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, wlio will quote you price for it.
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight titled, £5/12/6
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £.6/51-
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
barrels, both choke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks, *-»« m /■■ * i
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7ilb. Freight paid, a.j A“
“SUNOL" Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
Tobacco
The World’s Best.
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 3/10.
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
l’igeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2£in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 711 b. 4r 1 dll film
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid,
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight -a It e* I
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun £,15/15/*,
POWDER
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb -
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb *
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
i*sMS
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
pj„eon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 2S incli steel
barrels, both choke, D. & E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2jin cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 751 b
TOOTH PASTE
-—HEALING.
Destroys* pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
MYRROHL
ANTISEPTIC-
Made In
America.
CLEANSING
Steven’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
ŝ
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
walnut stock; weight about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. BB— EjsCtOf, 05/“’ Freight paid ’
ric
• •
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES-
Hunter St. NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St, BRISBANE.
nuiuer csi., , 111 „„„iiiiiiMnnimiimiiiiiiiiii


A Message
to Kidney Sufferers.
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you
require for Backache, Kidney, Bladder and Urinary
Trouble. If they don’t benefit you we will refund the
purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That’s a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly what
they say.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remedy you need if you suffer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any mnd if
Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or
Urinary Trouble out of every 100.
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who has suffered
the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble would deny the
benefit they would receive from treatment with Gin Pills.
We are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
WILL
HELP YOU
Tlais extraordinary offer is made because of these facts: —
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of humar nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of alcohol, of a
pint of the finest gin, combined with other known diuretics, and forms a remedy
which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in glass bottles, hermeti-
cally sealed, and we sell them to you with the absolute assurance that if they do
not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles. Buy a large and give them a fair
test; use two-thirds of the bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return
your bottle to the chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will
refund the money, or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Co., Limited,
131-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from Backache,
Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this wonderful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills
FOR BACKACHE and KIDNEY TROUBLES.
LEVIATHAN
RIDING BREECHES
A Necessity
UNEQUALLED FOR
HARD WEAR.
RIDING BREECHES—Smart
cut; in Suede Drill, Olive or
Khaki shades, splendid, hard-
wearing material, self strapped
and laced at knees, expertly
cut to ensure long service
and comfort. Sizes _
3to 7. Ready-for- |Q/b
Service ! JI
JUDHPORE RIDING
TROUSER S —ln splendid,
hard-wearing, serviceable
Khaki Drill, useful style, com-
bining design of riding
trousers, and riding breeches
(as illustration on right), thus
dispensing with the use of leg-
gings. Well tailored with
cross pockets and belt
loops. Read y-for-
vice
21/-
A L L-W OOL RIDING
BREECHES —Absolutely essen-
tial for camping is a pair of
our serviceable Whippet Tweed
Riding Breeches, available in
warm all-wool khaki
color, laced at knee.
Special Value ....
iMBm
I sSsfc m
• n
m
/j"i
J V i Id
-v
I i M
za U ' .*■ 'r±
rn H
H
IV.
WORKING TROUSERS —In splendid, wear-resisting Khaki Drills, suitable for rough work, cut
full for comfort, well made and finished. Sizes to fit an men. Keady-for-Service. 13/6
THEY LOOK SMART AND ARE READY FOR SERVICE.
MEN’S ALL-WOOL TWEED TROUSERS.
Superior Australian Make, very service-
able, in smart shades of grey, cut with
full thighs, side and hip pockets,
finished with cuff bottoms. Sizes y I m
3 to 7. Special «(»/
MEN’S TROUSERS, IN GENUINE
FOX’S ROUGH NAVY SERGE.
Special heavyweight, recommended for
service, smart, good-fitting style, with
cuff bottoms, side and hip an /c
pockets. Sizes 3 to 7 fcfc/O
Quarter Sizes
POST FREE.
NEW CATALOG—LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN’S WINTER WEAR.
ORDER BY POST. WE- PAY CARRIAGE.
m T«*
UfIATNAN
PTY.
LTD.,
Cor. Swanston and
Bourke Streets,
MELBOURNE.
The Ballad of Margaret.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GASTON, knight of Avinord,
At nine spears’ ends
Made a passage of the ford
For them that were his friends;
And with the battering of an oak
Against the castle wall,
The stone of enmity he broke
And stood within the hall.
But in the hall, in sarcenet
And old Tarn lace,
There stood the Lady Margaret,
And pride was in her face,
The white pride, the high pride—
Oh, knight of Avinord,
If you would win her for a bride
You needs must cross her sword !
Her sword was grey as old death —
And grey eyes above.
Ho! shall a knight be scant of breath
ithat broke a wall for love?
Call up. call up the nine spears
And blow upon the horn!
Shall he who heeds not woman-tears
Be stayed for woman-scorn?
Gaston, knight of Avinord —•
Steel loves steel—
Broke the folly of his sword
With a clanging heel,
Broke it on the grey stone,
There before them all;
Empty-handed and alone,
Faced them in the hall.
“I, for love of Margaret,
All swords break.
Walls I hold a cobweb-net
For her sweet sake.
Lady, for your will’s pride,”
Proudly did he cry,
“Fifty deaths my heart has died
In one long sigh.”
Proud, oh proud was Margaret,
In old Tarn lace.
Merrily her eyes set
Lightnings in her face.
Her sword was grey as old death ;
And ere her maidens wist,
She slew the knight upon a breath
With latighter of her wrist.
For blood was red upon the stone,
And redder on his • skin.
She went forth from the hall alone
And left him to her kin;
And in her turret far above
The cleansing of the fray
A black-browed page made happy love
To Margaret all the day.
And this they say in Avinord,
(t And this they say in Wohl:
“Who trusts a woman with a sword
Had need he shrive his soul.”
But men grown wise in woman’s way
Say this at Camberwell,
Repeating it at Watson’s Bay:
“You never can tell.”
n.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Philosopher of Indolence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPTAINED and manned by natives,
with sun-warped deck, mast cracked
from lack of greasing, and sides
athirst for paint, the Anna Ivati was the
most disreputable and ill-cared-for cutter
sailing the waters of the Fly. Wherefore,
though his shed was over-full of copra which
he wanted taken to the coast to catch the
Moresby steamer, Baxter, the trader at Ipi-
soa, 50 miles up the river, hesitated when
she put into his station and the captain
came ashore to ask if the White man could
give him a cargo.
“My copra will get wet in that boat of
yours,” he said iri the Kiwai tongue. “At
Saguane it will have to be taken out, dried
and bagged again. Much work, Poroma.”
The native pointed through the palms to-
wards the river gleaming in the sun.
“See, Baxteri, she rides high in the water.
Not now does she leak. At least not much.
For two weeks has she lain on the ground
at Malwa —and at other villages besides —
and the spaces between the planks have
become filled with mud which is now dry
and hard.”
“Truly a native means of caulking!”
sneered the trader. “What were you doing at
Malwa and the other places?”
“The people were dancing. Everywhere
they were dancing. It is the time when
the boys come out from the dubus and are
boys no longer, but young men. There was
much feasting. At Malwa they killed 30
she-pigs, and the yams and. taro and sweet-
potatoes and bananas were heaped high as
a house. They are true words I speak, Bax-
teri. We danced and feasted with the
people, for we of Mawatta are their friends
and they would have looked sourly upon us
had we refused. Besides, the girls were
pleasant.”
The trader laughed.
“So again you have been wasting time at
the villages instead of working on the reefs!
The Government man will be angry when
you return to Daru. Maybe he will take
away the Anna Kati from the people of
Mawatta.”
A while previously the Administration had
embarked on a plan of teaching these western
Papuans something of the virtue of self-
reliance and independence. They were to
learn that Responsibility was a desirable
thing, and that it was much better they
worked for themselves than for others. To
this end the Government provided one or
two coastal villages with small sailing-craft
wherewith to obtain beche-de-mer, trochus-
and pearl-shell from the adjacent reefs. The
people were expected to exhibit due industry
and to care properly for the boats. But so
far no great success had attended the project.
Deft to themselves, without immediate super-
vision. the easy-going natives proved incap-
able of sustained industry. The boats were
used more for visiting other villages than for
sailing the reefs.
“Truly will he be angry.” Poroma agreed.
“Last time we were at Daru he grumbled
.much, saying that if once more we came with
the boat empty and nothing wherewith to
buy paint and rigging, he would give her to
another village. But what can we do when
our friends ask us to dance and feast? We
are not like white men, who work every day
and feast only at Christmassi. We worked
tour days on the reef last month, getting one
bag of su-su (trochus) shell and three dozen
beche-de-mer fat teat-fish, Baxteri. Surely
it was enough. But the Government man
will not say so. He will be angry again,
lie will take away the Anna Kati, as he has
spoken. And then will my heart be sore,
for no more will I be able to sail about the
villages when the feasting is on, and maybe
some people will cast shame upon me. They
will laugh and say that he who was a captain
now has no boat. I would not like that,
Baxteri. Wherefore I ask for the cargo so
that with the money you pay me I may buy
paint and other things from Frenchy Joe at
Saguane and make the cutter look pretty for
my return to Daru. Then will the Govern-
ment man say I am a good captain who looks
well after his boat. Maybe he will give me
a present. Who knows? For five pounds
will I take the copra to Saguane in time to
catch the steamer, Baxteri, which is less than
would be charged by the schooner.”
It wasn’t, but, placed as he was, Baxter
decided to accept. The small schooner w r hieh
regularly brought stores and collected the up-
river copra had missed a trip, being laid up
for repairs. The steamer was due at
Saguane in five days. If he missed it, his
copra would be on his hands for another two
months, in which case much of it would be
spoiled by weevils and damp. To ship it in
this native cutter was his only chance.
“I will give five pounds,” he said to
Poroma. “To-night will we load the copra
so as to start with the morning tide. I will
come with you, as there are some things I
need from the steamer; also, I want to see
the cutter is pumped often, so that the cargo
keeps dry. I will return by canoe.”
They got away with the first of the dawn,
though Poroma and his crew showed distinct
dislike at being awakened so early.
“Are there not five days in which to reach
Saguane?” the captain grumbled as he came
tip on deck, fastening his lava-lava and look-
ing about with sleep-filled eyes. “The even-
ing tide would do as well.”
“What kind of a captain is he who sleeps
away the tides when he should be sailing?”
Baxter asked scornfully.
“Always it is the fashion of white men
to hasten,” returned the native. “They
hasten when there is no need. To do
a thing when there is no need is foolish.
And foolishness brings trouble.” The wind
was ahead, blit the ebbing tide ran a full
four knots and carried the cutter to wind-
ward as she made short tacks from one nipa-
clad bank to the other. By sailing all the
time and taking advantage of the favoring
slants of the wind afforded by the winding
and continually altering course of the river,
the regular schooner usually made the jour-
ney from Ipisoa to the sea in two tides. But
not so this vessel sailed by natives to whom
time was of no . value save for what it
offered in the incidents of the moment. She
dawdled her way down the stream. The
crew squatted about the deck, chewing betel-
nut and chanting dance-tunes they had lately
heard, and allowed the cutter to sail almost
any way she wished. Twice that morning
she grounded on sandbanks and was only
poled off with difficulty, and once her bow
struck a snagged tree a blow which made
Baxter fear for the strength of her stem-
post. Now and again they ran her ashore
at villages and talked and smoked with the
inhabitants. They held her up in the wind
while fishing-canoes and canoes laden with
split nipa-palm boles laid alongside and the
gossip of the villages was passed on. That
they were losing the tide meant nothing to
them. So careless was the sailing and so
frequent were the stoppages that by the
time the tide was finished and further pro-
gress impossible for the next five hours, not
more than 10 miles had been covered.
Baxter raged and fumed. He did not
want to be a week getting to the coast, he
said. Why couldn’t they, when they had
business on hand, go straight at it and get
it done? They could loaf afterwards if they
wanted to. It was no wonder the Govern-
ment man was angry with them. They would
make any man angry. It would serve them
right if the cutter was taken away from
them.
He spoke to no effect. The cutter was not
his and he had no control over the crew.
Poroma merely remarked that he had con-
tracted to deliver the copra in time for the
steamer, and so long as he did that the white
man had no cause for complaint. He re-
peated the text of his philosophy of indo-
lence : “To hasten when there is no need is
foolish. And foolishness brings trouble.
Always is it so, Baxteri.”
The anchor was dropped before a large
village which stood on a strip of rising
ground at the mouth of a narrow creek, with
a sandy beach and cocoanut-palms all about.
The people were dancing. The sound of
the drums and chorused songs came clear!v
across the water. From the cutter’s deck
Baxter could easily see the prancing, sway-
ing figures. Presently canoes came off to the
vessel, some containing soft-eyed girls, their
hair stuck about with leaves of the varie-
gated croton, their bodies smeared with
colored earths. The crew of the Anna Kati
pumped the cutter dry of her bilge and got
into the canoes.
“Be back in plenty of time to catch the
tide when it turns again,” Baxter called
after them.
Poroma laughed. “Do not worry, Baxteri.
The copra will reach Saguane in plenty of
time.”
Baxter spent the afternoon in the shade
of a makeshift awning, reading, smoking and
watching the flood-tide fill the river. The
shadows of the palms were reaching across
the stream like fingers of some monstrous
hand, when the idle swinging of the cutter
told that it was slack water and the tide
near, the turn. The villagers were still
dancing, and there was no sign of the Anna
Kali’s crew.
Baxter brought the dinghy alongside and
pulled ashore. The dancing-ground was an
area of hard-trodden sand between two large
houses with great, triangular fronts and
standing on piles so high that a man could
walk with ease beneath the floor. In circles
and lines six abreast the people curvetted
(Continued on next page.)


I
Picture
Ufa
Story
4$
m
•m
m
Wk
1
Practise moderation.
Avoid over-eating, <
muscles and nerves
young at any age.
Too Young to Feel
So Old!
Don’t let that bad back make you old! Get back your
health and keep it. You can detect kidney weakness
in its early stages, from the morning lameness, dull
backache, dizzy spells, nervousness and kidney irregu-
larities. Taken early, a short treatment with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills will usually correct it. Kidney
weakness is too often brought on by irregular habits.
Keep regular hours. Take regular exercise. Cut out useless worrying.
:>ver-drinking, over-working and all other excesses. A perfect balance of brain,
makes work as sweet as play. You enjoy life, radiate good cheer, and feel
Doan’s have helped thousands. Here are some local cases:
A MAN'S TESTIMONY.
Mr. A. H. Francis. 192 Union Street, Erskineville,
Sydney, says: “As the result of an attack of influenza a
member of my family suffered terribly from kidney
trouble. The symptoms vere various, the most trouble-
some being pains across the small of the back. Tb‘;
ailment was very trying, especially so as every move-
ment seemed to make the suffering more acute. No
position was comfortable, the ache keeping up practically
night and day. One day we were advised to try Doan s
Bachache Kidney Pills, and they proved a blessing, six
bottles driving the pain out of the back and restoring the
kidneys to a healthy state. Doan’s Pills a;. a marvel-
lous kidney remedy, and I am sure sufferers from backache
cannot do better than take them. I consider they are a
boon to humanity, and I am never without a bottle in
the house.”
Two years later Mr. Francis says: “The cure
referred to still holds good, no sign of kidney trouble
havin- returned, • a fact that proves Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills give lasting benefit.”
TWO SYDNEY
PEOPLE
CURED OF
BACKACHE
AND KIDNEY
TROUBLE.
A WOMAN’S TESTIMONY.
Mrs. W. P. Ritzau, 364 King Street, Newtown,
Sydney, says: “For years I was a great sufferer from
kidney disease. I have been treated by doctors and m
hospitals, and tortured with operations. After nlteen
months in one hospital I came out a thorough cripple:
I was so ill I was advised to go back into the hospital,
but mv husband would not let me go. I was recommended
by a friend to take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
commenced using them, carefully following the directions.
These pills have cured me. I can now get about and
do my work, and the pain has completely left me. My
cure is wonderful, for mine was really a very bad
case. Since my cure my uncle has used the remedy and
they have effected a complete cure in his case also, urn*
experiences prove that Doan’s Backache Kidney i ills
are a positive cure for kidney trouble. ’
Eight years later Mrs. Ritzau says: I have stiu
the same good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
When I feel a slight return of my old complaint I take
them, and they never fail to out me right.” .
ş
š
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
Price 1/9 per bottle, at
*ll Chemists and Stores,
or post free from
Foster-McClellan Co.,
15 Hamilton St., Sydney.
and stamped and sang to the throbbing of
drums of hollowed wood and stretched skins
beaten bv old men squatted on the ground.
Baxter knew it for the Initiation Dance.
The young men who had completed their
arduous transition from boyhood to the adult
tribal state were smeared all over with red-
ochre mixed with coeoanut-oil. Their bodies
gleamed in the slanting light. Their hair
was plastered into cones and their faces
scored with white clay. Most wore finely-
woven belts, so wide and tight as to give a
corset-like curve to their waists and an exag-
gerated straightness to their ba'cks. Girls
and young women, painted and beflowered,
watched them admiringly. The crew of the
Anna Kati were seated in a group near the
bank of the creek, before them a fire on
which a large pig was roasting.
“It is a good place, and the people make
us welcome,’’ said Poroma as the white man
appeared. “Oh, they are good people!”
“It is time to start,” said Baxter. “The
tide is on the turn already.”
Poroma sat without moving. “Why
hasten? What matters the tide when there
is feasting with dancing and the smiles of
girls? I will send a man to pump the cutter
dry, and we will start in the morning when
the people tire and seek sleep.”
In vain did Baxter protest and threaten.
Poroma and his fellows were determined
to stay the night in the village.
“To hasten when there is no need is fool-
ish,” said Poroma. “And foolishness brings
trouble. The copra will catch the steamer
and I will get the five pounds. What else
matters ?”
Had the vessel been his own and these
natives his signed ; on crew, Baxter would
have driven them aboard; but in the cir-
cumstances he felt there was nothing to do
but submit. As he returned to the cutter
he swore that never again, if he could pos-
sibly help it, would he travel in a native-
run vessel. Natives were too irresponsible
altogether.
After a meal of the provisions he had
brought, he inspected the cabin as a sleep-
ing-place. The tiny apartment reeked of the
odor of natives —an odor peculiarly offen-
sive to European nostrils. It was littered
with sleeping-mats, smudged and dirty where
oiled bodies had lain upon them; cast-off
loin-cloths ; a quantity of imperfectly-cleaned
pearl-shells; cocoanut-frond baskets of
smoked fish, boiled yams and raw sago;
fibre petticoats which had been presented
by admiring girls to the crew as they lazed
their way from village to village; and a
jumble of ship’s gear. It was no place for
a white man. Baxter rigged his mosquito
net on the deck, and some time after dark
turned in.
About midnight he awoke to an uneasy
feeling that all was not well. It had seemed
to him that the cutter had rolled a little,
which certainly she should not have done
within the confines of a river so far from the
sea. He threw up the mosquito-net and
rose. The night was clear, with a half-moon
lifting above the vegetation of the eastern
shore and giving a silvery sheen to the water
and soft definition to the palms about the
village and on either side of the mouth of
the creek. There was something strange
in the appearance of the water, Baxter
thought. About its sluggish surface was a
paradoxical suggestion of unrest. As he
watched there came a slow, low swell, slight
but distinct. It was like a long-drawn
pulse. The cutter swayed to its passing.
Presently from down-stream came a light,
crashing sound, rapidly growing in intensity,
like that of an approaching railway train.
Then Baxter understood.
“A bore!”
More than once had he seen those sudden
risings of the tide to which funnel-mouthed
rivers like the Fly were subject, those walls
of water that swept up-stream carrying
everything before them. He knew the
danger, and his first thought was that it
was fortunate the cutter was close to a
creek and shelter.
“To be caught out here would mean
swamping for sure!” he exclaimed, and
shouted for the crew.. But already the
roaring had sounded above the noise of the
dance, and canoes were putting off from
the creek.
The natives lost no time when they
reached the cutter. Poroma gave his orders
with directness and precision. With the
utmost speed the anchor yvas raised and the
Anna Ivati tajcen in tow by the canoes.
There was now no indolence. As the vil-
lagers put their weight into the paddles,
Poroma and the others found the bottom
with long poles and helped the forward pro-
gress. The vessel entered the creek, went
up the stream a little way, and was anchored
in the shelter of the low bank a little past
the village.
They were just in time. Three minutes
later the bore swept past the mouth of the
creek. At least four feet high, it stretched
across the river from bank to bank, travel-
ling with irresistible force. It was as
though the sea had decided on a punitive
traversing of the river. The vegetation of
the shore ripped and tore before the vicious
onslaught. Nipas bent to its force, struggled
a moment with the water snatching savagely
at their branches, and were carried away.
Broken palm-boles swept past the mouth of
the creek. In the moonlight their smashed
fronds trailed like dead feathers. Logs,
mangrove-limbs and massed debris raced by.
A canoe which, evidently, had been left care-
lessly in the stream at some village showed
for a moment. It was bottom-up, and there
was a glimpse of something which the
natives declared above the noise to be the
body of a man. Perhaps, shouted one. he
had tried to save his canoe and had been
caught.
The water washed high up the bank on
which the village stood, reaching almost to
the feet of the nearer houses. The natives
cried that if it rose any further the village
would go. It threatened to overflow the
bank. Its impulses entered the creek anff
tossed the canoes about. The Anna Kati>
rolled and hung back to her chain as though
afraid.
And then the water began to subside andj
its roar to fade. Presently the noise
gone altogether. The river slowly stilled
The bore was gone as quickly as it had come
Baxter looked at the debris-strewn beach'
and the wrecked vegetation of the hanksi,
with a feeling of thankfulness that shelter
had been so near.
“It was a big bore,” he said to Poroma,
who was preparing to go ashore with the
villagers. “A very bad one.”
The native looked at him with a serious
expression.
"Ah, Baxteri, you grumbled much because
we did not hasten down the river. You
spoke scornful words. But think what
would have happened had we sailed on as
you wished. Truly a bad thing would have
happened. For instead of being anchored
near a creek we would have been sailing
in the middle of the river. The bore would
have caught us, Baxteri, and we w 7 ould have
had nowhere to hide from its anger. It was
well that we came slowly and stayed here
at this village.”
He paused and looked across at the vil-
lage, where a drum was announcing the con-
tinuation of the interrupted dance.
"It is even as I said, Baxteri. To hasten
when there is no need is foolish. And fool-
ishness brings trouble. Had we hastened
down the river the cutter would have been
swept away, the copra lost and, maybe, we
would have all been drowned. But now the
cargo will catch the steamer safely, and I
will get the five pounds. Perhaps you will
give me a present, besides, Baxteri,” he
added earnestly.
JACK McLAREN.
The Influence of Fiction.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAVING successfully murdered the
man, Evangeline leaned back in
her chair puffing at a cigarette.
The dinner was burning nicely in the
kitchen. The baby was eating boot-polish on
the floor at her feet, and out in the yard her
two small sons were doing their best to paint
with mud the last clean spot on their small
“I wonder if the wretched thing is con-
vincing enough now,” ruminated Evange-
Bab.y gurgled over the boot-polish. Shrieks
issued'from the back yard. But Evangeline
simply had to murder her man convincingly.
“Bother it!” She took the slim cigarette
from between her small teeth. “I believe
it would have been better if I had made
the brute commit suicide.”
She tore up the murdered man and set
the scene for suicide.
“That’s it.” Her eyes sparkled. “I won-
der I didn’t think of that before.”
Very reverently her typewriter committed
the terrible deed for her. She leaned back
again and drew in a deep sigh. The man
was settled now, thank goodness! He was
safely dead.
“Yes. Suicide, was much better, she
mused. “The murder wasn’t nearly so true
r° life.”
She read through the passage with sym-
pathy, then took out another cigarette.
“I’m bothered if I don’t think I should
have murdered the wretch, after all,” she
cried. “Who on earth would have believed
Hint a death could have mattered so much?’
Then she tore up the sheets and murdered
ie man again.
Having finished the boot-nohsh baby began
on the furniture-cream. Out in the yard
Indians on the war-path chased the. hens
and chickens out of the fowl-run with joyous
whoops. -
The dinner burned on nicely. Evangeline
kept murdering her man. Baby continued
to poke her little fingers into the furniture-
cream, and outside the chicks squawked as
they ran.
Evangeline tore up the murdered man and
committed suicide again. Baby began to
polish her hair with the furniture-cream.
The Indians on the war-path set the dogs
on the chickens and whooped louder. The
dinner burned on. Evangeline smoked an-
other cigarette and murdered her man once
more. • • ■
Having polished her hair beautifully bapy
began on the books; and, starting . with
Shakspeare, boot-polished and furniture-
creamed everyone in turn, ending with
Milton. . , . • , , ,
Evangeline committed suicide, murdered
the man, committed suicide, murdered him.
committed suicide, murdered him, murdered
him, murdered him. , , „
“Ah!” Light dawned. She had it all
right at last. Her soul was satisfied. In-
spiration had come to her aid. She made
the wretch attempt murder and then commit
suicide. It was true realism.
She came back from her mental struggle
into the everyday world. Genius as she was,
she had to eat. She smel.t the dinner. She
saw the baby. She heard the boys. She
closed her typewriter wi£h no emotion what-
ever. She gave the baby a dose of castor-
oil and put her into a hot bath. She brought
in the boys and smacked them hard and put
them into a bath too. There was an infer-
nal noise of roaring posterity. She wrapped
them all up and tucked them into bed,, and
hurriedly read them “Jack the Giant-
killer.” ' After that she rang up the doctor
to come and see baby as she was feverish,
and, lastly, she took all the pots off the
fire, threw away the nicely-burned dinner and
peeled some more potatoes and made some
junket. .She began to sing.
When John came home all the children
were asleep. The doctor had been and said
baby would not die. So that was all right.
The fowls were sick, but she had intended
to get rid of them. So that was all right,
too. , _ ,
The Indians snored gently. John sat to
his dinner, with Evangeline as pretty and
as happy as a bird beside him.
“Had a good day?” smiled John.
“Fine,” she replied.
“Finish the yarn?”
“Yes. I didn't know whether to commit
suicide or murder. So I half-and-halved it
and everything is OK. Have another egg?
No! I’m sorry the dinner went wrong. I
put it on early,, and. I got inspired and
had to go on.” ,
“Have you seen about a maid yet r he
asked. .
“No. I hadn’t time. But everything went
well. Baby ate some stuff and I got the
doctor; but she’s all right now. Oh, help
me clear away, love, and I’ll read my yarn
to you. I simply must see about a maid
to-morrow.”
“I’ll clear away,” said John. “You’ve
had too hard a day.”
ZORA CROSS.


''J
SI
a
WESTIH CHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WtSTINUIIOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Qtieensinnil Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—B3-107 Featlierston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office-98 Queen Stieet, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
=ll
a
ft
ft
cz:
■4'
to
y
w
&
y<<\
\
S\
cssas
.• v r_-^__
m
Mtit
mmmti.
mm-'
rrni
>r
, ,
'■-•> - r
M A
• ■: •«# :-;■:■•■ ■■;/ •
Established 1870
There is a great human element in back
of every product. It does mean some-
thing to be established fifty years. It
means that for fifty years this product has steadily
increased in volume of sales and favor all over the
civilized world.
1 here are employees at the President Suspender
iii Works who have been steadily employed by this
company for over forty years. It means contented workers who
are turning out a product not alone by the hand but by the heart
as well.
The spirit of honest work well done is worked into SHIRLEY
MAKE BRACES.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY MAKE”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney.
I
r 4 .
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probable
their ECONOMY IN’ KUN*II KG—which is pertiiieut to tlie time's
their I)EI'K\I)A ISIIJTY counts a great deal for tiieir
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions thev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT Stilt VICK.” Their strong
Construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-da.v, giving the same service as when first installed.
study your requirements and design the layout of your
p.ant. not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we plnee at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
ſ
Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at
Perth;
Melbourne, Brisbane,
and Auckland, N.Z.
,
IX <*
ARROW
7;
on
SiK.
and Dependability
“WETPROOF” is a cr: ,ed
word; it is a REMINGTON
W S word and stands for the special
patented process with which all
Remington UMC shotgun car-
tridges are now treated. Car-
triage cases have long been made
Of so-calied watemroofed parer but
this exclusive “WETPROOF” pro-
cess is something different. It is a
forward step in the manufacture of shot-
gun cartridges.
r„ e^ t 3 roof com Pound of special oils
S^ P P not on Jy to body, but
also to the top of the cartridge after
fnois?ufe n f;/ ffCCtiVe y s ? al ‘ n 8 «t against
ProtecfJnn to the con tcnts that
Which insures uniformity of
Pattern, speed and penetration,
bportsmen need not fear the effect of rain
w l eathcr on their shotgun car-
tridges if they use REMINGTON UMC
kWETPROOF" proems! SPeCia '‘ Pa < Cnted
„ REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, lac..
D. D, bryam, Australian
Representative, Box 68t,
GJP.O., Melbourne
Profit by the Experience,
of Others
Cleanse the system of impurities,
stimulate and regulate the organs of
digestion. Prevent headaches, indigestion,
constipation and bilious attacks. Keep yourself
in top-notch condition. Feel stronger, and go at
your work with a clear head and steady hand.
Clear your complexion and brighten your spirits
Become healthy, happy and wise, get real vigor and
strength and accomplish this, by taking that reliable
medicine
Beechams Pills
Both health and happiness depend upon the condition of
your stomach, liver and. kidneys. When these organs
are not acting properly, nature's demands are not being
met and obeyed. BeechanrTs Pills are nature’s own
remedy, for they drive out poisons from the system
and are entirely efficacious in the numerous
ailments arising from defective or irregular
actions of the organs of digestion. Buy a
box of Beecham's Pills to-day for
they will help you as they
Have Helped Thousands
Prepared only by THOAIAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England,
in boxes, labelled l<Hd., and 2s-9d. (original English prices
Sold
1
J
;>i
,: ■
■-
: -ft'.-.
v
- :
. i
a
:
*. . re
Is your Present
Phonograph Portable ?
If not, why not buy the
“ Decca ** and then
you can have music
wherever you go.
EC Ck
THE PORTABLE PHONOGRAPH
The “ Decca ” plays all makes •( needle
records perfectly. It is compact, light,
strong. Have a “ Decca *’ and make still
better use of your records.
3 Models—Leather Cloth £lO 10 0
Compressed Fibre £l2 10 0
Cowhide £l6 0 0
Obtainable all over Australia. From all Music Dealers.
Wholesale Distributors:
STANLEY E. GREEN LTD., 379 Kent Street, Sydney,
I
LIVER-ISMS
The liver is the regulator of health. If
the liver is active and well, good health
and happiness prevails. If you allow
Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Biliousness,
Constipation, Headaches and Melancholy
to assail you, thev will result in lack of
energy, loss of memory and ill-
Small Pill IM
CARTER'S
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
health; but
remember
Carter’* Lit-
itla LiverPilis
touch the liver
and cure all
liver ills. Try
them to*day
Itnd see how
much better
you will be
to-morrow.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
i* • Food-Drink which nsain'aias
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'.I daily. It
combines ,he valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k, Wheat and
Barley. Quickly made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORIICKS MALTED MILK CO.
•LOUGH. SUCKS, ENG.
m
M
m
sX4
u
* rf^MTs
SgttftTtag
Sk
In 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
Ns
R. G. WATKINS <& CO.
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS,
AUCTIONEERS AND VALUATORS.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
All Classes Mining Machinery and Contractors’ Plant available.
WRITE US FOR INFORMATION ON MACHINERY. IT WILL PAY YOU.


SKY
The Spirit of
Perfection is the crown of all
effort. It represen ts a flnality
of worthiness that only unity
of brain and labour can attain.
The two things are inseparable
and interdependent And one
supreme masterpiece of their
unison is that which brings
contentment to the mind and
health to the body
,;- , > • > f ■■' , •, - 0
V ' fir ./ v •'' ... . ' ■ / ■ i-.V/ ''
Brtnar's
