

< BO7 7/ 182 O'
■
Still going Strong !
N
Y
is
f,
-
s 3
£
•s,
Ov
i
L
I
A
»
1
BD
om
■RJES
10. «.
NELSON'S STAINWAY.
the “George," Ports-
mouth : Very little
remaining of its
antiquity excepting
Nelson's bedroom and
the staircase which he
descended before the
battle of Trafalgar.
Johnnie Walker :
Shade of
c< Ah ! England expects
“ that you, Johnnie Walker, will go on
paying duty.”
~.. K • ■ ;
& SONS, LTD.,
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2214.
Thursday, July 20, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1922 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
428 George Street, City.
CROUP
Wv/
A
%
BnfliliiTilinmiiiiiiuiiMiiiiiiitnriiininiuiminiiiniiimiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiirnTiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
A Plain
Fact I
EVERY Drop of
“Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure”
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
Colds,
Croup, etc.)
W. G. tiearne & Co
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wale*
Branch Office:
8 Bond Street. SYDNEY.
HBK
[|q
m
BELTING SATISFACTION with MANGROVITE
For heavy angle and cross drives, for great speeds
and variable loads, and for use on awkward drives
it fulfils all requirements.
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
resists the action of acid fumes, dust, oil or heat,
and constantly delivers the full complement of gen-
erated power.
Our experienced engineers will help you elucidate
your belting problems. Write or call to-day.
MANGROVITE. BELTING LTD..
CHARLES LUDOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEWCASTLE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Pty., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid & Sons, Ltd., Adelaide.
AVEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA : Henrv Clark & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart
QUEENSLAND: Philip Frankel & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Mermen
S
M
s ; ■
I know what
soothes and
smooths and
makes me comfy,
keeps me cool
and clean.
oWollolilio
nenrren
222
BORfITCtX
dlcum powoW
»M« HIHMH
(onnnv
FOR Mil'll
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC AND PROPHYLACTIC.
For COUGHS ! COLDS ! INFLUENZA !
and tHe PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION!
MwnubMi
row?
□ N
HARMFUL THROAT TABLETS.
Throat Tablets and Lozenges containing Formalin
(Formaldehyde) are harmful. Wiley, of the United
States, investigated the effects of small doses of
Formalin (Formaldehyde) given with milk on 12
men during 15 days. Burning in the throat, itching
rash and loss of body weight were observed.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
contain no Formalin, Cocaine or other harmful or
poisonous drug.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6 ; or forward 1/6 in stamps
to the Manufacturers,“fudson's Eumenthol Chemical
Co.. Ltd., Sydney.
The Red Page
A Question of Human Nature.
“'The Problem of War and 11s Solution."
The author of this work has not solved
the problem of war, as the title would
indicate, but he has written an in-
teresting and suggestive book on the sub-
ject. His argument is divided under the
biological case and the historical case, ant
the former is much sounder than the latter
That war is accepted by mankind as a dis-
aster which cannot be evaded is, the writer
thinks, due to the spirit of fatalism which
has gripped the world. Fatalism is due to
the inability or the Unwillingness of man to
think for himself. It is generally assumed
to be an Oriental virtue or vice, but is indeed
common in any country where the masses are
willing to accept ready-made doctrines or
beliefs. That man is born in sin and con-
ceived in wickedness; that a state of nature
is a state of war; that capital is the natural
enemy of labor, are all graceful but canker-
ous superstitions, .none of which will
stand critical examination. Wrote Goetlre:
“To act is'so easy ;to think is so hard” —and
as a result criticism lags behind creation as
prayer does behind sin. Society in the
minds of the fatalists exists only by reason
of organised repression of the evil that is in
us, which must be very comforting to the
swarms of bureaucrats by whom alone we
may be gCrided aright.
The writer does well, therefore, to demolish
the fatalistic doctrine of heredity, which finds
no biological support. Man, as we are often
told, is an animal, but he is distinguished
from the brutes, and is leader of the primates,
by his ability to modify liis own surroundings
and those of the creatures amongst which he
lives. Racial clniraidteristiesiare mutable, and
, may be modified, or even reversed, by the trans-
ference of the subject to different environ-
ments and altered associations. This is no
new doctrine, and in regard to indivi-
duals has been recognised for some
time. “Evil communications corrupt
' good manners,” and the Borstal system is
only one of the many methods by which
present-day society is proving the value of
neutral environment. Biologically, heredity
is a quite minor factor in human development.
Centuries are as seconds to the biologist. A
generation is at most 30 years. In 800
years each of us lias accumulated
1,000,000,000 ancestors. From which are
we to claim hereditary characteristics V As
a generalisation the theory that man is his
own master, so far and so long ah he is able
to control his associations, is true. No
doubt the ills we suffer from are of our own
creation, and not due to any divine error.
At the same time we need not go as far as
Renan and his “Fa question de Dieu manque
d’actualite,” with which this writer appears
to agree. Nor need we ignore entirely modi-
fying circumstances which undoubtedly exist.
For example, the Jews have preserved in a
very notable manner their racial character-
istics, though au international face if ever
there was one. This is due to the preserva-
tion- of the Jewish religion with its search-
ing influence on family life. The yellow
races are notoriously unassimilable, due to
the cohering force of filial piety. The de-
scendants of an inbred aristocratic family
run true to form, generation after genera-
tion. The Scotchmen of Dunedin, Calcutta
and Glasgow do not differ in any important
characteristics from those of Sydney or Mon-
treal. We may concede a lesser influence
for heredity, but we cannot possibly abolish
it altogether.
In the same way we may agree that the
proximate cause of war is over-population,
but it is not the sole cause. This writer lays
it down that over-population results from a
human error, or, in biological jargon, the
creation of a hostile, instead of a neutral,
environment. There are two checks on
human or animal error. They are intellect
and instinct. Man is superior to the animal
in intellect but inferior in instinct. Intel-
lect _is fallible; instinct is infallible, because
instinct is governed by the laws of Nature,
which makes no mistakes. Error arises
when intellect submerges instinct. War is
an aberration of intellect, a submersion of
instinct, resulting from a long series of
errors, which had their origin, according to
John Grant, in that fundamental error, the
denationalisation of land. As a theory, in
a nicely-bound volume printed in ex-
tremely comfortable type, with black-letter
sub-headings and convenient chapter sum-
maries, the denationalisation of land by our
forebears, who lived thousands of years ago
in pastoral communities, is extremely sooth-
ing. The ex-Kaiser can transfer his re-
sponsibilities to some of the earliest of his
hundreds of millions of ancestors, in the
firm knowledge that such things as war had
to be. But actually the theory will not
stand examination, because it excludes from
consideration the existence of human emo-
tions. Love, hatred and jealousy are instinc-
tive emotions, which cannot be'entirely sup-
pressed or ignored. Instinct is the brake on
intellect, but also is intellect a brake on
instinct. Disaster follows equally on the
submersion of intellect as o.n that of instinct.
Indeed, if the earliest wars were caused by
the need of wives for the younger generations
of the pastoral communities, and the Bible
affords credible evidence on this point, human
emotion or natural instinct was the primal
cause of war, whilst the proximate cause
was not ovG'-population, blit under-popula-
tion. A biologist always tends to depreciate
the power of the emotions, because, in the
animal and vegetable worlds, they are less
highly developed. But though man is an
animal, in his case they must receive con-
sideration.
Assuming, however, for the sake of argu-
ment that the denationalisation of land is
the fundamental cause of war, and Mr. Grant
has a case here, though not a very perfect
one, how is the return of the land to the
people going to end war? The land, ques-
tion is too complicated to be settled by a
formula. There are adute national and
racial problems to be solved, and such a shib-
boleth as “the Golden Rule of the Land
by and for the People” will not provide
the solution. In the United Kingdom, urban
areas excluded, there are available live acre
per family, and the author would settle eacl
hve acres with a family. Quite .apart fron
uie dislocation of economies which this
would cause, it would not solve the problem
uie birth-rate of the United Kingdom is
20.4 per thousand, and the pre-war natura
increase was 11.45 per thousand per annum. I
does not require elaborate calculations t<
show that in less than a century each family
holding would have to be very drastically
subdivided, and within a quite short period
as history reckons, the whole problem 01
over-population would have to be faced
afresh.
Mr. Grant would solve racial problems by
the same rule-of-thumb methods. That national
frontiers should be natural frontiers is not
a new idea, but his application of it, biolo-
gica.ly grounded, is one we have not met
before. Races, lie says, can only exist where
they can breed, and the earth should be
divided on this principle amongst whites,
blacks and yellows. But here again he makes
no allowance for the element of humanity.
The fall in birth-rates is an undoubted fact,
but it is. not entirely due to climatic condi-
tions. Economic factors have a great influ-
ence. “Struggledom” is the greatest argu-
ment that Malthusians can possible evoke.
Equally, State policies may do much to en-
large the birth-rate, as in Japan, where even
to discuss birth-repression is a criminal
offence.. In his facts on this question the
writer is not always correct. There is no
sound ground, biologically or otherwise, for
the statement that white races cannot inhabit
the. tropics. As a fact, the birth-rate of the.
white female child-bearing population of
India is. higher than in any other part of
the Empire, whilst those of the white popula-
tions of Ceylon and South Africa are far
ahead of those of either Australia or-the
United Kingdom. Actually in 1919 the rate
of white births in the Northern Territory
was higher than in Victoria or in Western
Australia. But accepting the contrary’ view,
the remedy proposed would not end war.
Supposing the Northern Territory and other
tropical parts of Australia were thrown
open to the yellow races, it would be only
a comparatively brief time before that area
would become. too small for their comfort,
and they yvould seek extensions to the south.
The surface of the earth would resemble a
patchwork quilt, and the causes of war be
multiplied.
If we do not believe in the fatalistic
nature of war. apd fatalism is only educated
superstition, it is necessary to find some
better cause for it and a better cure than
those of Mr. Grant. If we chose human
nature as the cause, yve should not be far
wrong perhaps. As a cure, the selective breed-
ing of mankind yvould be an interesting
experiment. But yvlio would do the select-
ing, and how long yvould humans submit to
the process?
The Tragedy of Success
Fifteen years of Fleet-street bring home
the fact that the race is not to the swift
Once or twice in a century a man forces
Fame, as Shaw did when editors and public
refused to take him seriously. In Fight
street he played mountebank in circus attire
and straightway the men who run the porint
ing presses and theatres began to treat hm
as a philosopher and critic.
. There is nothing of the hare in the move
ments of England’s-literary lions. Thej
are shunners of the habits that make foi
speed. Sixteen years ago I had my firs
introduction to Wells. At that time ho'was
as keen on the Japanese-Australia-Invasioi
topic as he is to-day. But even on this vita
question his mind moved slowly as though
reluctant of speedy solutions.
In his study at Bur wash, Surrey, Kipling
is a heavy-browed, pensive host. A slow
worker, but the possessor of a tiger’s
digestion when it comfes to treating facts
as meat.
I have a wholesome respect for these
literary engineers,. just as I have a datura
distaste for the modern pugilist, whose rea
lack of stamina is evidenced by the fact that
he is old at 40. I used to watch George
Cook and his partner Lloyd in their train-
ing-camp here. They skipped together anc
sweated by the hour - and if by chance they
boxed they were careful to cover their pre-
cious anatomies with mudguards and shields
It is the same with the French athlete
and boxer, Georges Carpentier. lie whoops
a cry of victory with every clout. I have
gone away from these exhibitions of mus-
cular activity with the knowledge that these
people will be dead for all useful purposes
within the next five years. Yet the menta'
athletes who do not lean or wear mudguards,
and who loathe speed or sweat or muscular
contortions—these athletes carry on with
gout and dyspepsia gnawing their vitals.
Poor “Joe” Conrad! He does not skip
or whoop in the quiet grounds of his Kent
cottage. He limps painfully from stone to
stone, from flower to flower, leaning
patiently on his stick and smiling very ten-
derly when a visitor mentions Lord Jim or
Almayer.
“Jim” Barrie is a model of serenity and
repose. But there is always a feeling that
he is afflicted with the agonies of Geth-
semane before one is half-way through the
evening. Barrie ought to have remained
poor. The gold that came with Peter Pan
chafed in the carrying.
Of the contortionists I like Chaplin best.
In spite of the fact that he throws police-
men down lifts and rescues babies from ash-
cans. he will never grow old like Cook and
Lloyd and Snowy Baker. Charlie merely
pretends he’s an athlete. But the gold has
got into Chaplin’s digestion, too. A friend
who knew him in London years ago said.
“He couldn’t feed off a coffee-stall now if
his life depended on it. He used to like
pies; I’ve seen him eat six cornin’ home
across Waterloo Bridge. It’s the money
what’s done it
There’s a yood deal* to be said for the
man who refuses pies in the hour of his
fame. The trouble with too much success
is that it stops men dancing. Kipling
danced when he sold his first batch of stories
to a London publisher. But his head was
(Continued on page 25.)


JL
r a
QUALITY FURNITURE
at ANTHONY
MODERATELY PRICED
HORDERNS’
m
1
<4^
>
A Charming' Dining'-room Suite of Reproduction Jacobean.
This Suite is an excellent example of the Remarkable Furniture
Values at the House of Economy.
“THE QUEEN ELIZABETH” SUITE, faithfully made by
expert craftsmen, comprises:—
sft. SIDEBOARD, with handsome deep, carved back; 3ft. 3in.
SIDE TABLE to match, with long drawer for linen; 4ft.
CIRCULAR DINING TABLE, which extends to 6ft.; four
SMALL and two CARVER CHAIRS, with drop-in Seats,
upholstered in Fabrikoid or Tapestry.
PRICE, Complete
£55
i* ii' ,l iii ,ll in !s i iii‘ 11 j ll !!i" l it«nhi
M
m
The “Mayden” Bedroom Suite.
This Suite is handsome in appearance and solid in construction,
offering the utmost value at an exceedingly moderate cost.
Its intrinsic worth is far above the price quoted—it will prove
in service its unusual excellence.
Made of picked Queensland Maple, lined throughout inside
with Pacific Maple, comprising:—
WARDROBE, 5 ft., with two-thirds hanging space and one-
third sliding trays: 3ft. 9in. DRESSING TABLE, with Reflex
Mirrors; Ift. 1 Oin. Pedestal Boot Cupboard.
PRICE £49/10/-
4ft. 6in. Bedstead to Match . £7/7/”
Write for Illustrations and Prices of other Suites. They will be posted
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limiied.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
Box 2712 G.P.O.
Telephone: City 9440.


THOMPSON & CO.
(CASTLEMAINE)
Proprietary Ltd,
Telegrams and Cables*
THOMPSON’S,
CASTLEMAINE.
ENGINEERING WORKS,
CASTLEMAINE, VICTORIA.
BRANCH WORKS AT WILLI AMSTOWN.
Telephones:
Nos. 5 and 113,
We Specialise in the Design and Manufacture of
Pumps & Pumping' Machinery
and Complete Installations
under guaranteed efficiencies
for
Wf
Capacity 17,500 gal. per minute
against a total head of 96 feet.
Efficiency of pump 82 per cent.
W aterwor Ks
Irrigation.
Mining'
Dredging', etc.
Send
us
your
Enquiries
AGENTS
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office,
Chancery House.
SYDNEY:
L. Hinks & Co., Ltd.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co.
of Aust. Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
PERTH:
Brown & Dureau Ltd.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes,
Fenchurch Street.
-MAKING MACHINERY.
All Australian Made.
Ruwot-t
\
The “RUWOLT”
STANDARD PORTABLE
STONE CRUSHER
with
ELEVATOR and TROMMEL
THE “RUWOLT” STANDARD
ROAD-MAKING EQUIPMENT, TYPE “C.”
This Equipment includes a Standard “RUWOLT’
ROCKCRUSHER, an ELEVATOR, and a small
Trommel mounted on a Steel TRANSPORT,
making a self-contained, easily portable, and
extremely serviceable plant for ROAD
CONSTRUCTION. ~
The product from the Crusher is elevated to the
Trommel, where it is classified and delivered by
shoots into drays.
INQUIRE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM
RUWOLT PTY
Victoria Street. Richmond (Melbourne), Victoria, Australia.
TELEPHONE { hawthorn *1675
TELEGRAPHIC and CABLE ADDRESS:
“RUWOLT,” MELBOURNE.


PINKETTES
A DAINTY LAXATIVE
The day of harsh purgatives, of
big cathartic pills is over —gone for
ever. No need any longer to
swallow a nauseating dose to give
nature the gentle assistance re-
quired. Pinkettes, the new laxative,
are little pink, sugar-coated ovals,
easy to take and pleasant in their
action. They are not drastic,
although certain and thorough.
Pinkettes are designed to
arouse the sluggish bowels and tor-
pid liver, to correct bad breath,
clear the complexion, and banish
biliousness and headache.
i/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SIDNEY, N.S.W.
IF YOU HAVE NOT A
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER
BUY ONE NOW, when embroidery is
so much used. It works on ANY
MATERIAL.
Visit our SPECIAL INSTRUCTION
ROOM.
ALL WORKERS ARE WELCOME.
21/- Complete Outfit.
Send a stamped envelope for FREE
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
MONARCH
The Cigar for
ď
particular
smokers.
All Hotels
and
Tobacconists.
6d
Special
sampling
cabinet
containing
EACH.
10 cigars, 6/-;
25, 12/6; 50,
23/9; 100,
46/-
Post paid to any
address.
Craig&Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney,
Distributors for
Club Iteil Cigar Factory.
9
GREY
HAIR, the
tell - tale
symptom of
old age,
need no
longer be
e n d u red.
Father and
son can be
i n d i stin-
guishable-w-
-both hav-
ing the
same youthful WALNUT
HAIR. Perfectly harmless
and easy to apply. No in-
jurious effect. All chemists
n
m
*
MEXICAN
WALNUT STAIN
DENVER'S
MOUTH GAG,
When you need to gag a horse you need
to have the proper Gag. Denyer’s is the
most up-to-date appliance of the kind—
indispensable in looking after the teeth,
mouth and throat of horses and cattle.
The ratchet action makes operation’ easy.
Extra strongly made of best steel for
utmost reliability.
Price 05/- Postage, N.S.W. 1/C
Inter-State Postage 2/8
Catalogue of Vet. Instruments posted free.
Write for it.
DENYER BROS.,
Veterinary Specialists,
281 George Street, Sydney.
lifcru
HliillllilllliillllilillliliilllilllSillllltimUlIlIK!
5*
w.
NS
\
£
KEEP BABY WELL
AND CONTENTED
Use ....
jIFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY HAS
MADE IT POPULAR
Your Grocer Has It!
Perfect Gifts
The leading pen is always
an acceptable gift. It is
the symbol of friendship,
for with every use it will
inspire a kindly thought of
the donor. It is a beautiful
gift, yet useful and lasting,
and will prove a constant
pocket or desk companion.
FetmmN&
Sold by Stationers, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-filling Patterns, Standard Patterns,
Safety Patterns. Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
Swan House, 133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney, Toronto and
Cape Town. Associate House: Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc.
New York, Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale):
J. A. BURKE. 5, Primrose Buildings. 255 a, Georg*
Street. SYDNEY.
Slllllllllllllllllllllll!
HIHIIIHIIHIIIP'
GOVERNMENT
fg
SAVINGS BANK
of N.S.W. and RURAL BANK.
Head Office: 19-23 Martin Place, Sydney.
4% INTEREST allowed on Savings Accounts up
to £5OO, and 3i % on any excess to £lOOO.
CHEQUE ACCOUNTS opened for any person, firm, company
or institution.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Courage.
I have not seen your shadows on the pages
Of history and legend to gain thence
Naught of the spirit that moved you to
immense
And mad endeavors in forgotten ages:
O Brave Men, of all times, my every sense
Worships your visions and heroic rages;
Your strength has given me strength, and it
assuages
My anger at my own poor impotence.
Then be beside me always, you who heard
The bail of a moment when the deed
was all
And life was but a little pleasant thing,
Which, for a dream’s sake or a sacred word.
A man might take in his strong hand
and fling
Joyously into darkness over the wall.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Their Choice.
They stand, hands clasped, at sunset,
And pale with passion sigh ;
For they are met together
To kiss, and say good-bye;
In groves and green recesses
How sweet were their caresses,
Love’s words, love’s tendernesses;
And they must say good-bye !
Where roads run east and westward
They linger, heart to heart;
The sunset glow is fading,
And wisdom bids them part;
It must be now or never;
To sever not, or sever
Forever and forever;
To part, or not to part.
Along the windy ridges
The sunset glories die.
“Dare fate, dare all,” they whisper—
“lt shall not be good-bye!”
Though shaken leaves are falling,
And curlews calling, calling,
Since love is so enthralling,
It shall not be good-bye !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Grief.
The night is full of weeping and of woe.
The winter wind drifts with a sobbing
sound
Between the trees, and stirs the sodden
leaves,
The fallen, dying leaves.
Deep on the desolate and drowned ground
The water lies. The heavy clouds hang low;
The darkness, with its many voices, grieves.
Th’ impetuous torrent, through the patient
hills,
Flings in a passionate abandonment
Its white-lipped waters, while the sound of
rain,
Insistent, ceaseless rain,
A r oice of a hopeless sorrow, still unspent,
O’envhelming, unrestrained, continuous, fills
The night with sighs and piteous cries of
pain.
Oh, happy Heaven, to know this wild relief,
This luxury of tears’ tumultuous flood,
Torrential sorrow, drowning earth and sky,
Drenched earth and dreary sky.
The pulse is well-nigh frozen in my blood.
Silent I sit and think upon my grief.
Of all this passion envious am I.
The night is full of weeping and of woe.
Still it is raining and the hour is late.
Soon the grey dawn will find me here alone.
I sit and think alone.
Dry-eyed I sit, and motionless I wait,
While the hours pass before me, silent, slow,
With chilly hands and heart as cold as stone.
VICTORIA.
G. E. MARTYR.
Hate.
Corinna, when just now in your litter borne
Upon the swinging shoulders of the four
Stolid black Libyan slaves, with smiling
scorn
You looked at- me and through me, and
idly tore
The rose your hand held, smiling all the
while
As though you tore my heart and found
it g00d....
’Twas but a moment ere you and your smile
Went by and left me blinded where I
stood,
Jostled by the crushed crowd as you
passed through.
I will remember your smile till I am dead
And every other little thing of you—
The lustrous pearls that smouldered on your
head,
The golden snake about your arm en-
twined,
The small tear in the curtain and the dint
Beneath your elbow where you half-
reclined,
Half-rose at seeing me, and the drawn hint
Of -, pain at your mouth’s corners as you
smiled
And stabbed me with hard eyes. A month
ago
It was a different look that drove me wild,
Although it is the same red lips I know
That always seemed to frame a memoried
kiss
Or move at touch of shadowy lovers there,
And these that now are twisted up like
tins
With tight contempt beneath cold eyes that
stare
Merciless. Now- am I bitten through with
scorn,
And you will haunt my heart, and I will
find
Across all dreams, on four black shoulders
borne,
You will go swaying ever through my
mind.
N.S.W.
J. LINDSAY.


UUOLSELEY
TEN - FIFTEEN -TWENTY
iiMl
2
VA
IlilllJ
£
Mi:
mmssm
zz
d
OAQQXSi nwaijs
the reliability, strength, endurance and speed of the “Wolseley” Cars have
been made still more famous than ever by reason of the wonderful perform-
ances recently put up by the smallest “Wolseley” model—the “Wolseley” Ten.
4
NEW WORLD’S RECORDS
by The “WOLSELEY” TEN
but six months after the 15 new world’s
records set up by the same car at Brook-
lands in October and November last is
surely the most positive proof of
Wolseley ’ perfection.
The outstanding feature of these wonder-
ful Wolseley” performances is that they
were accomplished by a standard chassis
with but slight modifications to suit racing
conditions, all the main essentials,
constituting 90 per cent, of the chassis,
remaining unaltered.
To any prospective car purchaser such
performance should surely prove convinc-
ingly that the car for consideration—first
and last—is the 'Wolseley.”
The* Wolseley-Ten-Fifteen tTwenly
are Ready for Immediate Delivery,
each model combining thr»s*» nualJh’oo fkot j _n i a c " .
everyday performance in
each model combining those qualities that stand for all-round
equal ratio to the brilliant track performances of the “Ten ”
IT T reliabilit * P«f«* springing, economy of
p „ 8 , d beauty of finish and luxurious appointments, certainly place the
Wolseley as foremost of all cars for useful and satisfactory service,
to be a Wolseley owner is something to be proud of.
Write, call or phone for full particulars and illustrated literature .
SOUTH R AUSTRALf/ Y H & C °'’
*&£
SBftsr%&s; s^ty a «.* I 'l™, S’ «S DD BROS - D —•
u , „ , WOLSELEY MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Head Office for Australia: 125 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
(Proprietors: Vickers, Ltd.)
Works: Adderley Park, Birmingham, England.
fr
shss==
9 S/S
'*S
NC
m.
kl/Ui , A
A


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Rost Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for TransiLission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2214.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1922.
Thick 6ii.
THE RAILWAY THAT WENT OUT OF DATE.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Sydnev. N.S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to any address in Australasia, weekly:
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.; 6
months, 155.; 3 months, 7s. 6d.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all liusiness Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, The Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus; and W. Dawson, find. Sons,
Cannon House, Breams Buildings, London E.C.-i;
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, -16 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
Holborn, London, W.C.I.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Bastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: J. Roland Kay Co.. 161 East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co., Kearney and Market Streets.
San Francisco. New York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 27 th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle , Washington.
Egypt. — Jacques, Horn <Js Co. t The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., 8 Baillie Street,
Colombo. ' -
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samaras and Port Moresby.
Fiji. — A. Barker, Suva; Barry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon. Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A.—J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a
newspaper):—Throughout the Commonwealth: 160 z.,
Id. ffor single copies). All British Possessions: yoz.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
AU Sea Route: 160 z., lid. United States: hoz. or
part thereof, lid. Elsewhere : 2oz. or part thereof, Id.
TTie^-aHeixm,.
THURSDAY, JULY 20, 1922.
A NATION WHICH IS GAMBLING
WITH ITS LIFE.
Australia is the only country in the world
where the very rich have practically always
been what only the very poor are elsewhere
—stubborn pacifists. It is the only highly
desirable white man’s country whose social-
ists are content to be defended from the com-
petition of cheap colored labor by arch-
Capitalism as represented by Britain.
(Canada’s real shield is, of course, the Mon-
roe Doctrine; and —however absurdly—Cana-
dian socialists still cling to the fiction that
the U.S.A. is a democracy, and hence a
worthier guardian than monarchist-ridden
England). Because of this queer identity of
defence outlook between rich and poor the
Commonwealth was, until a year or so
before the Great War, the only unarmed
white man’s country. Some nations, like
Britain, had powerful navies and relatively
small armies; some, like France, had big
armies and relatively small navies; but Aus-
tralia had a tiny land force, without a single
modern field gun, a tiny fleet which did not
contain one vessel that was even approxi-
mately up to date.
* * * *
In other parts of the civilised world the
propertied interests are militarist (or
navalist), as a matter of course. The rich
men of Europe regard militarism (or naval-
ism) as good business, like the practice of
engaging night-watchmen to look after their
banks. Only in Australia were conservatives
to be found in large numbers, up to August,
1914, who, in the matter of defence, talked
exactly like European anarchists. When the
Fisher party began to advocate compulsory
military service, wealthy Australians pro-
claimed that they would “cut their hands
off rather than see sons of theirs under the
banners of a conscript army.” And when
the same party went to the country with the
R.A.N.—the R.A.N. which was soon to save
Melbourne and Sydney, Adelaide and Bris-
bane property-owners from the ruin of a
German bombardment —the wealthy, by some
inexplicable process of reasoning, made out
that Labor’s naval policy proved the workers
tq be disloyal and enemies of the Royal
Family and the Union Jack. During the
war —and by no means early in the war at
that —our rich came face to face with reali-
ties- They appreciated that if the old gags
which had done service for so many years did
not go, their properties might go. Conscrip-
tion ceased to be an un-British Labor device,
and some of its bitterest opponents of a
couple of years earlier were found proclaim-
ing that they would sooner cut off their
right hands than associate with an anti-
conscriptionist. The men who had sub-
scribed £lO,OOO apiece to a fund to obviate
the necessity of an Australian Navy began
to cast their tophats into the air in an ap-
proving manner every time the R.A.N. was
mentioned. The political cant about Aus-
tralians with names like O’Meara and
McCarthy having some sort of monopoly of
disloyalty fell dead before the inescapable
fact that such people were giving their lives
for the Empire, while the Barwells, the
Leys and the Weavers stayed at home.
Germany has been defeated. So far as that
country is concerned Australia has nothing
to fear —largely because of conscription,
navalism and the loyalty of working-men
and persons with names like O’Meara and
McCarthy. And most of Australia’s rich
men are back, mentally, where they left off
in the autumn of 1914: they are against
compulsory service, in favor of letting the
R.A.N. fade into nothingness, clamant on
the point that most workers, and all posses-
sors of Irish names, are inferior in Empire
patriotism to themselves.
* Hr * »
The position of Australia’s anti-defence
socialists is no more rational. In a Euro-
pean country there is melancholy logic be-
hind the opposition of many working people
to the spending of their money on big armies
and navies. They argue that their native
land is no Australia for folks of their class;
that . life offers few amenities, and little
enough in the way of bare necessities. The
manual toiler who takes his only capital
his health and his hands—from France to
Holland, or from Belgium to England, may
be no worse off in the essentials than if he
had stayed at home. The standard, as re-
gards hours of labor and payment, does not
differ vastly in any of these white men’s
countries; and if there are apparent varia-
tions they turn out usually to be balanced
by cheaper food or a healthier climate. On
the same principle defeat in warfare, or
even foreign invasion, becomes endurable to
the very poor of Europe, and, for that
matter, to some of those considerably higher
up in the financial scale. When the storm
broke eight years ago German barbers and
waiters were as much at home in London
as in Berlin; and British jockeys and train-
ers, carriage-builders and motor-mechanics,
tailors and bootmakers and thousands of
others swarmed in every leading Continen-
tal city—true internationals all. It would
have been a dreadful thing for an English
landowner had the Germans crossed . the
Channel (how dreadful the men of the
A.I.F. were enabled to see in the ruined
chateaux of the Ypres sector and on the
Somme), but it would not have greatly
altered the economic lot of the bulk of the
population. The Germans of the occupied
Rhine regions are said to have been quite
pleased at the presence of the cheery and
well-behaved British Tommies. One inva-
sion, and one only, they found intolerable—
that of the French black troops. The
humiliation of having to support a con-
queror in idleness, the loss of the reparation
sums, the handing over of their richest pro-
vinces—these they regarded as all in the
game of warfare, and no more than they
would have inflicted on the French if the
luck had gone the other way. At the worst,
they argued, such things were retrievable
ills. But they knew miscegenation to be
irretrievable; and that is why every true
German, whether he is a millionaire or a
sewer-worker, despairs when he thinks of the
Rhine towns. The position of the Australian
socialist who opposes Australian defence is
economically less defensible than that of,
say, the British socialist who does the same
thing; inasmuch as the threat to the Aus-
tralian proletariat is from Asia, whereas it
is a million to one against the conscience
of Europe ever again countenancing an in-
vasion by colored men of that quarter of the
globe. But far more dreadful to every Aus-
tralian than the threat, of coolie wages is
the threat of coolie blood. The poorest
member of a defeated white race can leave
his ruined native land in time, as thousands
of Germans are now leaving Germany. But
of what avail is it to flee if a man’s women-
folk Like away black or yellow blood with
them?
* * * #
The Australian capitalist who is opposed
to defence says frankly, in nine cases out
of ten, that it is the business of Britain
to attend to that sort of thing. Occasion-
ally he talks about a subsidy—well knowing
that though a people can be fairly easily in-
duced to spend large sums on their own
navy or their own army, they never will
provide anything worth while for the sup-
port of an overseas arm. It may be irra-
tional, but so it is. The Australian social-
ist meets this urgent question with a wordy
flood of balderdash about the brotherhood
of- man, and an era when the proletariat of
the -world shall unite regardless of color
against the bowelless person in control of
the moneybags. The fallacy here, of course,
is that some 400,000,000 Asiatics in close
proximity to ourselves know nothing of the
teachings of Marx, but a great deal of the
teachings of famine. Apart from the indig-
nity of poling on the United Kingdom for
the whole of our defence —and that is the
position we are approaching as fast as the
Hughes Government can manage it —there
are other considerations which make such a
course even more demented than in the days
when the German peril began to loom. In
the first place Britain is less favorably situ-
ated to defend us than it was eight yeai’S.
ago, while Japan (for example) is in an
infinitely better position to attack us, if so
disposed. And, secondly, it is useless to
gloss over the fact that Britain is not nearly
so good a “life,” nationally speaking, as in
the day's before most of the world’s gold
shifted" td the U.S. leaving industrial chaos
behind it. If Britain went the way of Rus-
sia, Austria or Germany tio-morrow our
grief would be in no wise assuaged by the
arrival of an Asiatic army of occupation off
our eastern coasts a Aveek or so later. On
the contrary, it Avould be exacerbated by the
reflection that through our own fault —the
fault not of any one class but of prominent
members of all classes —we had betrayed to
the colored races the last continent suitable
for the Avhite refugees of the Old World.
THE INDUSTRIES THAT ARE
BOOMING.
It looks as if half the population of N. S.
Wales and Queensland will be getting its
living presently by gambling in one way
or another with .the other half. Dr. Arthur,
M.L.A. of the former State, remarked
recently that “in spite of financial depres-
sion and unprecedented unemployment,
though all productive industry languished
last year—factories closed, mines ceased
working and land-settlement nearly came to
a halt—the returns from the tax on admis-
sion to racecourses, from the totalisator and
from bookmakers’ tickets have all increased.”
The Doctor’s observations are equally applic-
able to Bananaland ; indeed, the position there
is relatively worse. Following on an in-
sinuation in the address-in-reply debate that
the Labor Government had abandoned its con-
tention of abolishing or restricting proprie-
tary racing out of consideration for John
Wren, Kerr, M.L.A. for Enoggera, dragged
these sinister facts from the Attorney-Gen-
eral, Mullan:—
During the year ended June 30, 1922, 222 race-
meetings were held in the metropolitan racing area.
In the last pre-war year the number was 178. In
the same period (1921-22) permission was given in
Queensland for 432 art unions, 769 raffles and 77
“combined art unions and raffles.”
The lottery figures are apparently exclusive
of the Golden Casket and Liberty Fair
gambles. There is a £25,000 Golden Casket
every liirtnight, ! and the Liberty Fain
people have a general license to exploit all
the “mugs” they can catch, by means of
“ ‘art unions,’ raffles, and guessing competi-
tions,” on condition, Mullan asserts, “that
the proceeds are devoted to funds for educa-
tional purposes”—really that the Labor
organisation shares in the loot.
The N. S. Wales branch of the Labor
party has its Liberty Fairs also, but adopts
a different designation. It calls them “car-
nivals.” These carnivals haven’t been so
conspicuous since the axe fell on March 25,
but when Dooley ruled in Macquarie-street,
Sydney, and Lambert at the Town Hall, it
was difficult to escape them. Hyde Park
was the headquarters of the brotherhood of
the spinning-jenny and the chocolate-wheel,
and when things got slack in Sydney they
took all N. S. Wales for their province. J.
H. Catts’s remarks on this subject are per-
tinent. In the process of scarifying his old
associates Catts has said many things which
it is impossible for him to prove, but concern-
ing the Labor carnivals he is a competent
witness. Said the member for Cook in the
House of Representatives on July 6:—
These carnivals are a collection of small side-shows
and games of chance. In 1919 E. Simmonds, of Par-
ramatta, put a proposition to the Labor party to
raise £BOOO net between March, 1919, and February,
1922. An agreement was made on this basis for a
three years’ period. I was a member of a committee
which for months in 1921 endeavoured to obtain
balance-sheets of various carnivals, but failed. We
eventually gave it up as hopeless. No balance-sheets
have ever been submitted with the accounts to the
party executive or'conference.
In 1919 the • party accounts show bulk items of
£2085 received and £1916 expended in Labor carni-
vals. The general secretary’s report states the profit
was £156.
For 1920 income from carnivals is shown as £75
and expenditure £53, giving a profit of £22.
For 1921 income from carnivals is shown as £1791
and expenditure £ll4, a difference of £1677. But
the general secretary, in his report, states the profit
was over £2OOO.
Catts went on to read the statement of a
lady concerning an A.L.P. employee who is
alleged to have ridden on the whirling wheel
from poverty to comparative affluence. Three
years ago, the lady said, the individual in
question was on the rocks, and she was one
of those who helped to get him —and the
family—off. Thus salvaged, he went into
the Labor-carnival trade and prospered to
such an extent that he took an expensive
trip to Melbourne, banked substantial sums
in his wife’s name (the lady declares she
saw the bank-book) and bought the house in
which he is living. It is possible, of course,
that the wdtness, a hospital matron with the
Royal Red Gross medal, has imagined all
this. The accused has sworn an affidavit
in which her statements are categorically
denied. It may be taken for granted that he
would willingly give his testimony before a
public tribunal. There was also a Labor
art union, the alleged object of which was to
establish an A.L.P. library. Respecting this
enterprise Catts observes:—
This was a fraud on the public. There was no
intention to establish a library. Although the art
union was run in 1920 and 1921, the only books in
the Labor party’s (Sydney) office are volumes of
Hansard, supplied free. The party balance-sheet for
1920 shows that £152 was received from the art
union and £lll expended. These figures are absurd.
The 1921 accounts show £lB6 as having been received
and £lll expended. Yet the secretary’s report
declares that there was a loss of £7O. In March I
attended a meeting of the Labor News Board of Con-
trol, at which it was decided to take £2OO from the
art-union account to keep the News afloat.
Catts asks, very reasonably, that all these
mysteries should be probed. It is plainly
a job for the N. S. Wales Assembly, especi-
ally as the law against lotteries was sus-
pended to allow the A.L.P. gamblers to get
at the people’s pockets, and Dr. Arthur
or some other reformer should move for the
appointment of a select committee. If the
Labor Assemblymen oppose the motion, or
refuse to serve on the committee, the public
will be entitled to conclude that the party
is as rotten in this particular as Catts says
it is.
Since the Fullers succeeded the Dooleys
they have done some saddening things. Let
it stand to their credit that they have shown
a healthy disposition to attack the most pesti-
lent and insidious forms of the plague of
gambling from which N. S. Wales is suf-
fering. No longer do the hoarse cries of the
Yankee-sweat manipulator make night
hideous in Hyde Park. It is possible to
walk a city block without being pestered by
women to buy lottery tickets, or held up by
the chocolate-wheel yahoo. And a start has
been made to track down the s.-p. book-
maker, who is lawbreaker, tax-dodger
and bloodsucker in one. If the Government
keeps on harrying this dingy parasite and
knocks 50 per cent, off the racing dates,
without which he couldn’t ply his nefarious
trade, it will leave at least one fragrant
memory when it meets the doom that awaits
all Administrations, good and bad. It is not
suggested for a moment that racing should
be wiped out. Insofar as it is a sport, and
to the extent that it helps in the production
of a good class of thoroughbred, it should
be encouraged; but the trouble is that there
is not enough of the Randwick sort of rac-
ing and too much of the Robbery Park kind.
Neither is it proposed that the authorities
should wage a hopeless war on the ineradi-
cable instinct to have a flutter. It is as
natural for the Australian to gamble as it
is for his politicians to float loans. The
Bulletin’s idea is to combine these national
and inevitable pursuits by the issue of pre-
mium bonds. Subscribers to premium-bond
loans receive part of their interest in cash
and part in prizes drawn periodically by lot;
their principal, of course, is secured to
them. If people could buy bonds of small
denominations on th« instalment plan Rob-
bery Park and the Golden Brisket, to say
nothing of Labor carnivals and art unions,
would lose their attractions for thousands
and the Government would have the use of
their money for the redemption of London
loans and the construction of such public
works as must be carried out. As well as
being a safe investment premium bonds
would satisfy the thirst for a gamble. Unlike
pony-racing they would promote habits of
thrift and industry. No one ever robbed his
employer or became an habitual idler to buy
premium bonds.
THREE YEARS OF PROHIBITION
IN AMERICA.
I.
Prohibition by constitutional amendment
has been in force in the United States for
three years, everywhere with the full power
of the Federal Government behind it, and in
most of the 48 States with stringent State
laws to help. The results of that colossal
effort to enforce it may be briefly summarised
as follows:
1. The State and Federal Governments, taken to-
gether, have lost the 500,000,000 dollars’ annual
revenue that was formerly derived from excises and
licenses, and general taxation has had to be increased
to make it up.
2. There has been created, at a cost of 50,000,000
dollars a year, a great army of Prohibition detectives,
spies and agents provocateurs, four-fifths of whom are
already corrupt.
3. There has been created another army of so-called
bootleggers, dealing partly in wines and liquors
smuggled from Canada and the West Indies, and
partly in beers, wines and liquors manufactured
illicitly at home, and its members take a joint profit
that is certainly not less than 750,000,000 dollars a
year, and probably runs to 1,500,000,000.
4. Brewing and distilling and wine-making have
been re-established as home industries, and the busi-
ness of supplying the necessary materials —malt syrup,
hops, stills, wine-presses, grapes and grape-juice,
bottles, corks, etc. —has taken on gigantic propor-
tions.
5. In every American city, and in nine-tenths of
the American towns, every known alcoholic beverage
is still obtainable—-at prices ranging from 100 per
cent, to 600 per cent, above those of pre-Prohibitiou
days—and even in the most remote country districts
there is absolutely no place in which any man who
desires to drink alcohol cannot get it.
11.
In brief, Prohibition is a failure, and it
grows a worse failure every day. There was
a time, shortly after the Eighteenth Amend-
ment went into effect, when it showed some
promise of being a success, especially in the
farming regions, and on the strength of
that promise very optimistic reports were
sent broadcast by the extremely diligent
press-agents of the Anti-Saloon League, and
a number of confiding foreigners—for
example, Sir Arthur Newiiolme, the Eng-
lishman —were made to believe that the New
Jerusalem was actually at hand. But that
was simply because the great majority of
Americans had not been taking the thing
seriously—because they had been caught un-
awares by the extraordinarily drastic provi-
sions of the Volstead Enforcement Act. The
instant they realised what was upon them
they applied the national ingenuity and the
national talent for corruption to the prob-
lem, and in six months it was solved. On
the one hand they, devised a great multitude
of schemes for circumventing the law; on
the other hand they proceeded gallantly to
the business of debauching the officers sworn
to enforce it. Since then there has been a
continuous struggle between guns and arma-
ment, with guns gradually drawing into the
lead. No man, not even the most romantic
Prohibitionist, argues that there is anything
remotely resembling a general enforcement
of Prohibition to-day. And no unbiased and
reflective man, so far as I know, sees the
slightest sign that it will ever be enforced
hereafter.
The business of evading it and making a
mock of it, in fact, has ceased to wear any
of the customary aspects of a crime, and has
become a sort of national sport. The criin-
iual, in the public eye, is not the bootlegger
and certainly not his customer, but the en-
forcement officer. This new-fangled agent of
justice has begun to take on an almost legend-
ary character. He is looked upon by the
plain people as corruption incarnate —a vil-
lainous snooper and blackmailer whose sole
public function is to increase the price of
drinks. When he comes into court for
attacking an illicit distiller with firearms,
as happens often, juries handle him
roughly. Not infrequently he is mobbed
while he is at his work, and before long he
will be lynched. The effects of this public
sentiment are obviously very damaging to
the morale of the service. In the Federal
branch there is a constant changing of per-
sonnel, and the average agent now lasts no
more than six months. In that time, if he
is honest, he has become disgusted by the
work he is called upon to do, and alarmed
by the general view of it. And if. as is
probably more usual, he has gone into if
simply to get as much as he can while the
getting is good, he has made enough to re-
tire. I have heard of one Federal agent in
New York ivho, on a salary of 2000 dollars
a year, paid 4000 dollars’ rent for his apart-
ment, and kept two automobiles.


111.
Most of the strong liquors sold in the
large cities of the East come either from
Canada or from the Bahamas. Those from
Canada are brought across the international
border in large motor-lorries, and the busi-
ness is so extensive and so well organised
that the bribes paid to the officers employed
to oppose it, both on the Canadian side and
on the American side, are standardised, and
so, barring accident, a bootlegger can esti-
mate the cost of his goods to within a few
dollars a case, and prepare for financing his
operations accordingly. The supplies that
come from the Bahamas are transported in
small schooners. Some put in by night at
lonely places along the immense American
coast, where motor transportation awaits
their cargoes. Others boldly enter the ports,
and the Customs officers are either deceived
with false manifests or boldly bribed.
Most of the stuff thus brought in is Scotch
whisky. In pre-Prohibition days it sold in
New York at from 30 dollars to 40 dollars
a case. Now it brings from 80 dollars to
110 dollars, according to the supply. In
the main, it is honest goods. But some of
the lesser bootleggers—those who sell it, not
by the case, but by the bottle—sophisticate
it with home-made imitations, chiefly com-
pounded of cologne spirits, prune-juice,
pepper and creosote. Very little gin is im-
ported, for it is too easily made at home.
As for wines, the bootleggers chiefly confine
their attentions to champagne, which brings
120 dollars a case in New York. Under the
Volstead Act it is perfectly lawful to import
wines for “medicinal and sacramental” pur-
poses. The bootleggers import champagne as
“medicine,” and then trust to the venality
of the Prohibition enforcement officers to
get it released for the general trade. The
business of bringing in still wines is now
almost entirely in the hands of Jewish rabbis
in the ghettos of the coast towns. The law
allows a Jew in good standing to buy 15
gallons of wine a year for ritualistic use.
These gentlemen of God, in return for a
profit of. from 10 dollars to 15 dollars a case,
inscribe all solvent comers on their books as
orthodox Ashkenazim—and if the customer
has money enough, he may go upon the books
of a dozen different rabbis, and under a dozen
different safely Jewish names.
IV.
As I have said, very little gin is imported,
though the widespread popularity of the cock-
tail makes a steady and immense demand for
it. It is manufactured at Illicit distilleries,
or by the simple process of diluting grain
alcohol to 50 per cent, strength and adding
a few drops of juniper oil and glycerine to
the quart. It sells at from 40 dollars to
65 dollars a case, according to quality. All
the known liqueurs are made by the same
bootleggers, even absinthe. The necessary
oils and herbs are imported from France,
Italy and Germany, and added to a mixture
of alcohol, water and syrup. Some of the
liqueurs thus concocted are of surprisingly
good quality. In fact, the absinthe now on
tap in New York is quite as good as the
Swiss absinthe formerly sold in the bars. It
costs 15 dollars a quart. Everywhere south
bf New. York so-called corn whisky, made of
maize, is manufactured in stupendous quan-
tities ; in one southern State there are said
to be no less than 10,000 stills in operation.
It is an extremely bad drink, but the native
palate, particularly in the country, favors
it —and in the cities it is often transformed
by devious arts into a very fair rye whisky.
It sells for from 10 dollars to 30 dollars a
gallon.
I have left beers and light native wines
to the last. The extent to which brewing
has been revived in the home in the United
States is almost incredible. In some States
every second housewife has become a brewer,
and some of the beers and ales thus produced
are extremely agreeable. A batch of wort
may be cooked in an hour, the fermentation
is over in four or five days, and two weeks
after bottling the brew is fit to drink. In
one American city of 750,000 inhabitants
there are now 100 shops devoted exclusively
to the sale of beer-making supplies, and lately
the proprietor of one of them, by no means
the largest, told me that he sold 2000 pounds
of malt-syrup a day. Two thousand pounds
of malt-syrup will make 4000 gallons of
prime ale. It costs 2 cents a pint-bottle to
make. When the breweries were still run-
ning the cheapest beer cost about 4 cents.
Before Prohibition the American people
drank very little wine. They were, in fact,
just beginning to appreciate their excellent
California wines when the Amendment was
passed. Some of the California grape-
growers, in despair, ploughed up their vine-
yards and planted oranges and olives. Now
they wish that they had been less hasty. Last
autumn wine was made in hundreds of thou-
sands of American households, and the price
of grapes rose to $125 a ton. I know of no
American home, indeed, in which some sort
of brewing, wine-making or distilling is not
going on. Even in the country, where belief
in Prohibition still persists, practically every
housewife at least makes a jug or two of
blackberry cordial. Every known fruit is
expectantly fermented; in the cities raisins
and currants are in enormous demand. . Even
the common dandelion, by some process un-
known to me, is converted into a beverage
that gently caresses.
Y.
Well, if the American people are thus so
diligently alcoholic —if the city folk patro-
nise the bootleggers and make beer, and the
far-flung yokels experiment with wines and
set up stills —why does Prohibition remain
the law of the land? In the large cities the
majority against it is now at least 4 to 1;
in the country it loses public confidence
steadilv. Then, why isn’t it abandoned, and
the vast losses that go with it saved, and the
inconceivable corruption abated? The answer
is too complex to be made in the space that
I have remaining. Part of it lies in the
fact that the process of amending the Con-
stitution in the United States is very deliber-
ate and vexatious; it took fully 75 years of
persistent agitation to get Prohibition
adopted, and it will take years of attack to
get it formally rejected. But another part
of the answer lies in the curious power that
fanatical minorities have in American poli-
tics —a power that enables them, bv playing
upon the weaknesses of the two great parties,
to overcome their lack of votes. Upon the
nature of it, and the devices whereby it is
developed and exercised. I hope to discourse
in Tiie Bulletin on some later day.
H. L. MENCREN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Slum Habit.
A disputation of clerics waited on the Mayor
of Sydney on July 12 to relate the oft-told
tale of the slums of Sydney. Some frag-
ments from their report:—
They urged him to abolish the slum areas by
demolishing the wretched homes in which certain city
workers were foroed to live, and devote the areas to
playgrounds under proper control... .Archdeacon
Boyce. .. .mentioned that such narrow streets and
lanes in Surry Hills as Little Albion-street, Bvans-
place and f rog Hollow should receive attention. In
Frog Hollow “the back yards were in front of the
houses.” So cramped were some of the slums in
these dingy streets, measuring 10ft. to 20ft. wide,
that the sanitary conveniences ungracefully adorned
the fronts of the houses....
Rev. D. Brandt, of Chalmers Church, referred to
overcrowding
Rev. Price described conditions prevailing In Wool-
loomooloo slums, and mentioned Berwtck-lane, Palmer-
lane, Woods-lane, Charles-street, Little Charles-street
and Stephen-street as being intolerable.
Jo, alias Toughey, in “Bleak House,” lived
in a slum which was the type of ail the slums
the parsons mentioned, and he was the in-
carnation of the spirit thereof. The one
remedy for Jo was to bid him “move on.”
Inspector Bucket moved him on. So did
Mr. Tulkinguorne, and the Circumlocution
Office, and the Dedlock family interest.
With any attractive goal ahead Jo would
have moved himself on, but having none
pointed out to him he travelled in circles
and came back. He represented perpetual
motion till he wore out. The slum-curing
philanthropist of to-dlay doesn’t seem to
have improved appreciably on Inspector
Bucket’s idea that what jo required was
to be moved on. If the slums enumerated
were “demolished” and the sites turned into
“playgrounds,” the people would have to go
somewhere. Randwick is a decent sort of
place, though capable of improvement, but if
the folk of Newtown and Paddington lived as
Randwick does they would require about
8500 acres of space instead of 845 acres.
They would cover an additional block meas-
uring about 34 miles each way, and 34
miles’ additional travelling to get to the city,
in a place which is short of tube and over-
head and street-level railways, also harbor
bridges, is impossible. Yet Newtown and
Paddington are not slums. To shift the
denizens of the worst slums on to a breezy
space 10 times as roomy as the present one
might only plant them in another Marrick-
ville, which is no beauty spot. Having no
place calling them, any more than Jo had,
the moved-on would just pack more tightly
and doss more closely in the shabby terrace-
house rooms and balconies of the shabby
near suburbs, and though the streets there
might be more than 20ft. wide the life might
be narrower than ever. But if N.S.W. and
Queensland were each cut into three States
there would be four new capitals a-building,
and with the Australian’s fatal facility for
making for capitals it would probably be
difficult to see Jo’s heels for dust. There
would be four new George-streets forming in
places where land doesn’t cost, so far, more
than £2O a foot, whereas the driest of dry
sand six miles from Sydney is quoted at
about £6O, and hence is only suitable' for
the residences of capitalists. The whole
theory of slum-remedy is that a heap of
population must be sent away—most of it
permanently, for it is never supposed to pack
itself to the old insanitary density again,
also much of the ground will be wanted for
streets; and the rest temporarily pending
reconstruction. The old brutal, conserva-
tive method tries to combine the mainten-
ance of the policy of five congested cities,
and no more, to a continent, with the finding
of a remedy for congestion. It proposes to
do the move-on act on a big scale, and shove
the human superfluities out into nowhere at
the point of the legal bayonet, as superfluous
population used to be driven out of a be-
leagured town to starve between the lines.
The other and humane method would supply
four new permanent goMfields to attract and
accommodate the evicted, and in this
age of town-planning the new places could
be made slum-proof" from the beginning.
Doubtless the philanthropists who advocate
the callous way are not themselves callous—
only irnorant through lack of study and con-
sideration. But it is worth noting that in
the clean-up towards the end of Bunyan’s
“Pilgrim’s Progress” Ignorance was one of
the characters who went below.
«
Reprisals for Profit.
The Argus recently printed a letter written
by a young Australian who went to London,
and approached the U.S.A. by its front door,
which is New York. He was, and perhaps
still is, a pious lad, and was entered as a
divinity student at a college at Chicago, hav-
ing a misguided idea of interfering with the
religious beliefs of colored folk, some of them
perfect gentlemen, even if nude, in Africa.
Also he had his passport with the blessing of
the U.S. consul in London, sufficient money,
and a respectable past as the son of a Vic-
torian Government functionary. This is an
extract from the protest that he sent home:
The immigration authorities have detained me at
Ellis Island because the Australian quota is full.
After passing through a large hall they pinned a
big blue ticket on my coat, with my name, ship
and date, then sent me to another room where
about 90 people were all huddled together. After
being locked in this room (windows barred) for
about two hours we were all sent to a big hall
for tea. It just about made me sick. Blacks,
browns, yellows and whites were mixed together.
The meal consisted of dry bread, some “high”
polony, with two mugs of tea. I paid half a dollar
for a piece of steak (a special privilege). Then
we were all sent back to the small room above....
About 40 other men and myself were put in one
small room to sleep. I did not have any pyjamas
pr anything, so just went to sleep dressed. They
gave each person three blankets, which, I think,
could about have walked away, for I was scratch-
ing myself all over. What a night! In the morn-
ing I washed, and wiped myself on a piece of paper
.... So far I cannot say when I will be let out.
The plaint above quoted is only one out of a
number. The chances of redress by polite
remonstrance are small. Yet Australia, the
land which takes everything lying down, is
competent to create a legal weapon of tre-
mendous potency. The employment of it
would cost nothing, save a great amount of
money, boom our manufactures, and give us
an advt. almost equal to that which was sup-
plied by the A.I.F. It is simply a law insist-
ing that any country with which we do a
losing business may be ordered, by simple
proclamation, to deal on a level basis. If
our purchases from the U.S. in the first four
months of 1923 equalled their purchases from
Australia in the whole of 1922, then, on
May 1, 1923, the influx of Yankee goods
would stop for the year. Our quota of
goods, like the Yankee quota of humans,
would be exhausted. The surplus goods
could either go back at the shippers’ expense
or be stored here till January 1, 1924, at the
shippers’ expense. All obligations to pay for
them would be cancelled. The application of
this system would affect the U.S. exclusively,
or very nearly so. And it is far more
important to do something strenuous to U.S.
tr. de than to do anything at all to German
trade. It can’t be too often reiterated that
Australia is bleeding to death to keep U.S.
factories prosperous, and to add to the pile
of over £300,000,000 in gold which loafs in
the U.S. Treasurv. The latest available
return covering a whole year showed this
country as borrowing or digging up nearly
£.13,000,000 in gold or bonds~to pay its most
uncivil customer the difference between what
he sold us and the little he bought from us,
and further restrictive legislation is likely to
make this chronic situation worse as time
goes on. The drain to pay for superfluous
Yankee “notions” equals the drain to pay
interest on the six States’ forei/n debts. It
equals, in some years, half the Federal gold
reserve. Why should this country commit
a gradual form of industrial suicide in the
interests of a land which classes our holiest
tourists with colored heathens?
•
The “Ne Temere” Decree.
Padre Green : The discussion on the above
subject is advanced another stage by Father
Clarke’s authoritative explanation (B.
13/7/’22) that it refers to the marriage of
two Roman Catholics, as well as to mixed
marriages, where the Catholics have not con-
tracted in the presence of a priest, and two
witnesses:—
In ecclesiastical language, they incur the diriment
impediment of clandestinity.
Laymen will conclude that this admission
reveals the weakness of the decree and
affords a reason why the State should pre-
vent, so far as it can, the operation of the
decree. All the churches claim the right to
make their own standards of membership.
A good R.C. will not need the discipline of
the decree, for two Catholics will not go to
a Protestant cleric for the marriage cere-
mony. It is, therefore, practically aimed at
mixed marriages, and no one can reasonably
object to the Church punishing its own mem-
ber for violating its rule. But what can the
Church do? It can do what all the other
churches do. It can expel the offending
member. But the “Ne Temere” decree
offends because it goes further than that. It
proposes to punish the other party, who is
not a church member. The Church is ecclesi-
astically entitled to its “pound of flesh,” but
it must not “draw blood,” by pronouncing
the marriage invalid. This is No. 1 reason
why the State cannot permit the decree to
operate; it invades the liberty of the subject,
and punishes one over whom it has no proper
jurisdiction, he or she not being a member of
it. There is a second reason why the decree
is objectionable. Waiving all arguments as
to the sacramental value of the ceremony
(and the population would suffer a speedy
decrease if marriage were restricted to those
who had the slightest idea of sacramentarian-
ism) —from the State standpoint marriage
is a civil contract. Any cleric who pre-
sumes to act as though it were not would
soon find himself in gaol. The clergy have,
always accepted this, and while they use such
forms of words as their particular churches
ordain, they do not fail to conform to the
Marriage Act and secure the declarations
and signatures provided for by that Act.
The family is the foundation of organised
society ; therefore the State cannot allow any
church to call in question the validity of
marriage, which is the beginning and bond
of the "family. To do so inflicts injury not
only on the parties, but upon their children.
Still less can the State allow any church
to declare a marriage invalid on the ground
of clandestinity—because the State, by the
Marriage Act, has already expressly provided
against clandestinity. It has done this by
enacting that a marriage can only take place
before a minister or registrar duly appointed
and registered by the Government for that
purpose, and after certain declarations have
been made on oath, or duly affirmed (as to
age, eto.), or, in the case of minors, after
the consent has been formally given by
parents or guardians. It is, therefore, out
of no ill-will or sectarian malice that it is
proposed that a law should be enacted for-
bidding the re-marriage of parties already
married under the civil law, and forbidding
anyone to question the validity of a marriage
duly made in harmony with the law, or to
impugn the character of the parties to such
a marriage. This is a matter vital to the
State and to society. It is always considejed
the unpardonable sin to brand anyone as a
bastard. It is a code which exists even
among the roughest men. Almost any accu-
sation may be made except this. In the
A.I.F. (which was typical of all that was
best in Australia) to endure this charge was
considered the essence of poltroonery, and
it is hardly likely that in this country any
church can make such an accusation against
citizens and get away with it.
»
The Latest from Russia.
The report of new and extensive crop fail-
ures in Russia, but not in the old spot, hints
that the second great famine of the Lenin
regime is going to melt into a third. Just
before the Great Starve it was known that
40 per cent of the cultivated land was culti-
vated no longer. The other 60 per cent, was
probably being tilled with no great vim, for
the Russ wasn’t a yimful party, on his job
even when he got real money in payment
for his goods. The vast areas that have been
abandoned to the bears once represented the
surplus for export and also the provision
against local crop failures. With the loss
of them, local failure, which always happens
somewhere, spells a local perish, with the
wearing-out of the transport system to help
the perish along. The Government, having
taken charge of “the means of production,
distribution and exchange,” as the phrase
goes, came to a deadlock when £6.000.000
(nominal) of its rag money became worth
three nounds sterling, and then flickered out
of sight. Nobody tried to have much sur-
plus of anything when there was only one
buyer, and he paid with something that
wasn’t worth anything. And foreign goods
became as scarce as local ones, for the Gov-
ernment was the sole authorised importer,
and it had neither surplus goods nor gold
to offer in payment—only paper that was
valueless at home and lumber abroad. Even
famihe brought about by slackness this year
is no valid reason why the producer should
be less of a slacker next year. He wouldn’t
be able to keep his surplus, or to keep any
valuable currency representing it, against
the day of need, and if the system doesn’t
improve it is a matter of minor importance
whether he faces next famine with one ton
of paper money or two. In the early Revolu-
tion days there were atrocities galore, but there
was real money—the plunder of the Treas-
ury, the banks, the churches and the native
and foreign capitalists, in fact the proceeds
of universal spoliation and repudiation. Now
the fighting and the resistance and, apparently,
the atrocities have ceased, but owing to the
rottenness of the system the money has
ceased also. Not being in a position to
write home as a friend to a capitalist Gov-
ernment of humanitarian principles, as did
the starving New Australians who tried
Communism in Paraguay, to the astonish-
ment and derision of the natives, Russia
would appear to be in for more trouble.
However, the Bolshevik Government has
issued a request (it sounds almost like a
demand) that the capitalistic Powders of
Western Europe will make a loan (it smells
rather like a gift) of about £340,000,000 to
repair Russia and set it on its feet again,
or to endow the Bolshevik army, or some-
thing—this in addition to the vastly larger
sums which Capitalism was forced to throw
down the sink at the Great Confiscation. And
people ask, with a certain languid curiosity,
if, supposing the blackmail isn’t forthcoming,
the Bolshie army will be sent out on the
biggest foraging expedition since the days of
Tamerlane. The army is- said to be the one
well-fed institution in a land whose ribs are
visible everywhere else, and it numbers, on
paper, 21 million male conscripts in peace
time, with 24 millions more for war, besides
conscript women. Little is thought of its
quality, still it looks a nasty mob in a par-
tially disarmed world.
%
The Melbourne Press.
“Smithebs” : I am beginning to think that
Victorian provincialism is largely due to
the Melbourne morning press. Let me cite
particularly the attitude of the Age. Time
was when the Syme organ had a large Aus-
tralian outlook, but now it needs an epidemic
or a political “job” to make it look across
the Murray. The Federation, which it en-
thusiastically supported, is now tacitly, if
not openly, regarded as a Union in which at
least one State has ample grounds for a
separation. It is impossible to scan its pon-
tifical leaders without feeling that, when it
talks of Australia, Victoria is uppermost in
its mind. Consider lately the amusing out-
burst anent the use of Bananaland woods
in the new Commonwealth Bank in Mel-
bourne. Victorian trees might have been
equally satisfactory, but the point is im-
material, nationally speaking, beside the
rancorous suggestion that Queensland is a
foreign country. Notice, again, the Age’s
jealous anger at the alleged “log-rolling” in
adjacent States. Tassy’s special subsidy, the
Q. Sugar Agreement, N.S.W.’s Federal
Capital, and South Australia’s North-South
Railway are all “logs” published with the
Pharisaical innuendo that the Cabbage Gar-
den would scorn to mention that it had a
timber-yard of its own. Contrast that with
the paper’s gratified surprise over the Fuller
Government’s decision to allow Victorian
railways to open up the south-western corner
of the Ma State. The Age’s narrow-
mindedness and intolerance are echoed
with a grandmotherly peevishness by
the Argus ; but the Argus’s provin-
cialism is not so sustained, because
it is frequently pre-occupied with even
narrower diversions. If there were no Bol-
sheviks, no 0.8.U.-ers, and no Sinn Fein,
the Argus would be rifling its phrase-book
clay by day to prove Victoria the brightest
jewel in the Empire’s crown. All the same,
the old lady does very well for her State,
even though her polysyllables haven’t
the penetrating tone of ter bilious con-
temporary. The sheet with the biggest
continental vision is the Herald. No doubt
it will deal cursorily with a big question in
order to Deadwood-Dick a corpse found in
unusual circumstances. Yet it has an eye
on Australia. It hasn’t an atom of inter-
state. jealousy, and it is sharp enough to
perceive that the Age’s indiscriminating
''economy” is merely niggardliness. I often
feel like giving three cheers for the Herald’s
Australian viewpoint, when shortsighted, and
often elderly, people are giving three groans
for its forest of dead bodies.
- —— »——
A Doomed Measure,
Last year, the year of the Dooley Govern-
ment’s Fair Rents Court, building in
Sydney, measured by money value as
well as quantity, was remarkably small.
And such as there was mostly con-
sisted of shops, big office blocks, high-priced
and the like, that the Fair Rents Act
didn’t touch. No private-enterprise concern
dreamed of building places that could be let
to workmen; and when the Dooley Govern-
ment tried its inexpert hand at running up
three- or four-roomed hutches for £lOOO each,
situated miles out of town, it found that it
was further from knowing how to live up to
its own ideals than the stupidest P.E. specu-
lator of them all. Then, while the workers
took another course of lessons in the art of
“rooming” (in some localities six roomers per
room is fairly common), the selling of sub-
urban dwellings, save at a disastrous loss,
slumped as if it had been struck by light-
ning, the boom of yesteryear having withered
and been cast into the oven. To buy for
one’s own use a domicile with a human being-
in it was dangerous. The human, even if
he was the ex-owner, might demand to be kept
on as a Fair Rents tenant, and the Courts
had little sympathy for the heartless landlord
who sought to throw him out on a houseless
world. A lawyer could generally get the
occupant three months’ grace by instalments,
and during that time he could live rent-free
and do .much damage. Empty houses were
rare, like' complete vacuums. Adding the
weird uncertainty about taxation, new legis-
lation, and the- possible breakdown of things


Invest in a HOLIDAY
Tile Spring' Meeting Calls Yon to Sydney.
This is always the season of gaiety and carnival in Sydney—and in consequence
a holiday there, in all the glory of Springtime, comes close to one’s ideal of
enjoyment
For accommodation, one naturally thinks of “The Australia,” long and favor-
ably known for its attractive atmosphere, its pleasant, luxurious "comfort, its
delicacy of cuisine apd modernity of appointment. And rightly so, too, for
it is these niceties of individual service, that acid the touch of perfection to a
holiday.
As bookings this season will be very heavy, patrons would be well advised to
make arrangements at once.
le^lustmlia
Features of “The Australia” in-
clude Stenographic Bureau, Turk-
ish Baths, Ladies' and Gentlemen's
Manicure and Hairdressing Rooms,
Magnificent Lounge, Bars and Bil-
liara Koom, Flower, Sweet and
Book Stalls. Theatre-hooking Office,
Motor-hire Office, and Safe Deposit.
Single Koom with Breakfast from 12/6.
Double Boom with Breakfast from 25/-
Write for the new Kate Card.
PREMIER HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
.
a
i
/
£
m
1
generally, it is no wonder that people boarded,
Matted, roomed, hotelled and waited upon
events. The country districts showed equally
curious.results. In 72 municipalities not one
new dwelling was going up, though, doubtless,
old ones were, falling down. Fourteen muni-
cipalities were raising one new domicile
apiece; 15 were raising two shanties each;
md 10 had as many as three or four in
progress. Of the 135 shires, 70 reported
no building for human occupation in pro-
gress. Areas of 5000 square miles stated
bashfully that a new henhouse was about the
limit of their activities. The Dooley doc-
trine was, broadly, that work should be pre-
vented. Dooleyism prevented a lot of work,
but in many lines the importation of goods,
paid for out of loans, averted any very
noticeable scarcity. It kept the people from
realising how little was being done. How-
ever, as cottages were difficult to import, and
the importation of terraces was even more
difficult, and the bringing in of sky-scrapers
as deck cargo virtually‘impossible, the great
go-slow in the building trade became obvious
to the naked eye. It was to be expected
that the authors of the Fair Rents Act
would object to the Fuller Government’s
proposal to slay their infant. But on its
achievements it certainly does not deserve
to survive: the position is that if it lives
many of the poorer citizens will soon have no
place to live in.
«
The Prisons of N. S. Wales.
From one who knows:—
Last Saturday Sydney Telegraph printed an
article signed “Ex-Prisoner,” concerning “The Cure
for the Man in Gaol.” It was one of the most mis-
leading pieces of literature that have had to do with
the N.S.W. prison system since Donald Grant pub-
lished his “Six Prisons.” It Is not, for instance,
time that “five-eighths of all prison labor in the
gaols of this State is waste or misdirected labor”
any more than it is true that the average man in
prison “never does a single day’s hard labor.” If
the tailoring, bootmaking, matmaking, bookbinding
and agriculture that are carried on in the various
prisons don’t pay as well as they might, it is for
the simple reason that they are not allowed to com-
pete in the open market with “free” industries, but
as to the quality of the work turned out there can
be no question, any more than that good tradesmen
are often made out of prisoners whose sentences are
long enough to give them time to learn. At least
one fairly notorious embezzler of five or six years
back supports himself by bootmaking in a Sydney
suburb, and he was a inan who could no more have
made a boot when he went into gaol than he could
have flown over the wall. And anyone who looks at
the beautiful chapel at Long Bay—built, furnished,
and decorated entirely by prison labor—cannot but
be impressed by the fact that some very skilled
artisans have had a share in its construction. As to
the “honor system,” the Telegraph writer explains
that it is in use at the afforestation camp at Tun-
curry—but forgets to mention that only men are sent
there who can be trusted, and whose every interest
demands that they should be well behaved and have
no thought of escaping. He wants to see it applied
all round, and quotes Thomas Mott Osborne’s
administration of Sing Sing as a proof that this is
possible. But it happens to be the case that
Osborne, in about 12 months, succeeded in so demoral-
ising Sing Sing that he had to be removed, and most
of his ideas scrapped. His honor system is the sort
of thing that only works w'ell in moving - pictures.
There are men in Goulburn and Bathurst prisons who
have to be watched night and day, and whom it is
never safe to leave very far out of the way of a
possible rifle or revolver bullet. Could any sane
Administration trust to the “honor” of men like
the late James Wilson, who was hanged at Long
Bay in 1917 for the murder of one, Pappageorgi, a
Greek restaurant-keeper in George-street ? The truth
about the N.S.W. prison system is that it is the
best in the British Empire, and does more for the
good of prisoners than any other. It goes a long
way in encouraging men and women to work out
their own salvation—but it doesn’t lose sight of the
fact that a criminal is rarely a saint. In spite of
such critics as the Telegraph writer and temporary
departmental heads, the system that has been built
up in N.S.W. during the last 30 years, out of one
that was a disgrace to civilisation, has no cause to
be ashamed of itself.' And if it errs anywhere it
is not on the side of harshness, but rather on that
of leniency.
•
The Colored Person in the U.S.
“Smike” : Since the war the American
nigger has become an increasingly pressing
problem. Four hundred thousand went into
the army and proved as disciplined as and,
in cases, more reliable than some of the
white regiments. Sambo came home justly
pleased with his record, but also dangerously
inflated with a social pride that had been
developed in liaison with the British and
French. The Frenchman treated him as a
friend and a brother, so much so that eventu-
ally French officers had to be officially
warned that their courtesy would make them
unpopular with the white divisions of the
American Army. Despite a subsequent
stiffening of the French attitude towards
him, Black Brudder had seen enough to real-
ise that he had achieved a place in the
international organism, and when he got
back he wanted to know why self-determina-
tiou, which seemed so eminently right for
Ireland, Egypt and India, in the view of
Yankee publicists like Herbert Adams Gib-
bons, could logically be denied to what
is practically a subject race under the Stars
and Stripes. Most American writers refuse
to see a political parallel between the Irish-
man and the nigger; but the latter argues
that, since he is denied racial equality, has
been segregated like a fever in certain dis-
tricts, and tolerates an ostracism that is
beyond the margin of plain decency, he is
just as downtrodden as any of Britain’s
alleged victims, and more so than most of
them. The weakness of the nigger case for
self-determination is, of course, that the great
bulk of the blacks lack a sense of nationality.
If Sambo had stayed in the South and be-
come compact and solid, he might have de-
veloped a national consciousness. But un-
happily for his present aspirations, b° b ■ •
scattered widely and invaded the North,
which has improved his dignity and condi-
tion, but has given an immense impetus to
race bias and vastly embarrassed the indus-
trial situation. During the war half-a-mi!-
lion blacks moved north to take the places
of white workers who had been caught up
m the army draft, and the half-million have
stayed on holding their jobs by their energy
and loyalty, but remaining a menace and
A source of exasperation to the returned
“rookies” who see their chances of hard
times immeasurably increased. Likewise,
the American Federation of Labor has been
POOR MAWS POLO.
This is the only aspect of the great game that most of us know.
distressed by the presence of toilers who
are probably ready to smash the first stake
by becoming blacklegs, so the federation
decided to offer Sambo membersh.p regard-
less of the color prejudice the move would
excite. But the coon has shown no d :
position to accept the invitation, though he
is naturally elated by his sudden promotion
in the industrial seate, and in odd instance's
has been inclined to get fresh and provoke
those disturbances which are making such
ugly reading in the cables. Another thing
that has encouraged his arrogance is that
owing to the house shortage in his own con-
gested districts he has occasionally been
allowed to live in white areas and enjoy
himself in a home he could not previously
afford —even flaunting his prosperity in the
company of white prostitutes whose marked
weakness for color, though purely commer-
cial, has been one of the most fruitful causes
of racial violence. But what spoils the sleep
of the TJ.S. Government is the
recent growth of revolutionary ideps
among the literate mergers. The old
laissez-faire atftude of Booker Washing-
ton, who wanted his countrymen to gain
their rights by proving their fitness for all
the privileges of citizenship, has been largely
replaced by the shabbier and more iuopp-
diary arguments of a new Messiah, Bur-
chardt du Bois. whp counsels fight in every
issue of his brilliant and mordant sheet,
The Crisis. Btjrchardt is well educated,
sharp and fearless. He has all the power
and cheek of the demagogue, and be gets
the ear of his uncultivated readers bv the
p °is°n and passion of his editorials. Natu-
+ll.• he I s a , S r °wing influence—probably
tlie biggest colored influence at large—and
I iancy that Uncle Harding will sooner or
later be compelled to gaol him as a first step
to considering the whole terrible nightmare.
The Jury System.
Bill o’Costs” indicates another hole in it:
The aim of about eight out of twelve jurors is to
get an inkling of what the presiding Judge thirms
about the case. And it is in that spirit that they
listen to hig summing-up. If he is scrupulous, he
balances like an acrobat to avoid letting them know;
ii he isn t, he makes a point of ramming his opinion
well home with comments like, “I don’t see how you
can escape that conclusion,” or ‘‘that fact is very
obvious’; an art in whkh the late Chief Justice
Way of S.A. excelled. The remaining jurors are
either “passengers,” swayed by the stronger-minded
or more talkative, or, for reasons of their own,
don t care what Judge, advocates, witnesses or
fellow-jurors may say.
The pleasing theory is that the Judge interprets
and explains the law ar.d the jury finds the facts,
which would be well enough if it were true. What
happens, according to the usual formula, is that
the jury finds a conclusion of law from the facts , and
no one knows what facts it really does find. More-
over, it often has to disgorge some of the law
crammed into it; for nothing is more common than
to hear advocates say, "I shall ask his Honor to
direct you as a matter of law that, etc.” And it
is always a shrewd guess that some questionable law
is thus propounded, which his Honor will try to
correct in his address. Note how he goes about this.
If the crime be, say, homicide, he explains carefully
to the lay 12 what murder is, the meaning of
“malice,” what reduces the crime to manslaughter
and what to justifiable homicide. If the offence be
against property, he probably has to make clear
what is “property” in stolen goods, the necessity for
an animus furendi at the time of the taking, the
distinction between larceny and embezzlement, and
between both these and larceny as a bailee. These
things take considerable study by an intelligent law
student before he masters them, but that’s by the
way. The next judicial stage is to impress upon
the jury that upon one view of the facts and law
they may find a verdict of guilty, on another they
may find “not guilty” or guilty of another offence.
This elaborate balancing of “on the one hand” and
“on the other” is applied over and over to every
material fact in evidence as it comes under review;
and when all possibilities of mixed law and fact are
put and none omitted (and this last is of tremendous
importance), the jury goes out to collect its muddled
brains, and solve its problem of applying technical
law to uncertain facts, by a process of “I believe
he done it” and “I don’t believe he did,” and a
counting of heads accordingly. They return with
their one- or two-word verdict and a needle-eyed
counsel gets to work to discover a “misdirection.”
If he finds on the appeal court a needle-minded Judge
looking for miscroscopic holes to enlarge or hairs
to bisect, he has a good chance of disturbing the
verdict on the ground that some highly problematical
fact or supposition should have been put to the jury.
No one ever knows whether the jury considered it'
and they can’t be asked.
If we must cling to trial by jury, surely the sensible
thing is to ask the 12 laymen to decide the facts
only, and let the judicial expert apply the law and
enter the appropriate verdict. For example, in the
larceny case, suggested simple questions like these
would save a mountain of trouble before and after:
1. Did the accused take the goods (a) intending to
convert them to his own use, or (b) with anv other
and what intention? 2. Did he have possession on
behalf of the owner? 3. Was he a clerk or servant
of the owner? The questions would vary, of course,
according to circumstances. The jury would have
no function but to answer them: the rest would be
for the skilled lawyer.
This system would have the added advantage of
preventing corrupt juries taking cover behind a
general verdict. It would also help to avoid the
fool verdicts, such as “guilty without criminal
intent, or “guilty of, say, embezzlement, with a
recommendation to mercy on the ground that he
believed the money was his own.”
If we must stick to the old system, I prefer the
form of address sometimes adopted by old Judge
Boucaut of S.A.: “Gentlemen of the jury, the ques-
tion ‘Did he steal the watch?’ Consider your
verdict.” Or if the jury must have a pointer, take
this model from the same Judge, trying a prisoner
who devoted all his “defence” to proving his unim-
peachable character: “Gentlemen, this appears to be
the case of a perfectly honest man who stole a horse.
It’s for you to say whether he did or didn’t.”
•
The scowling hostility of the Communist
variety of union official to the men who
fought for Australia abroad still erupts at
intervals. A glaring instance has occurred
in Theodore's State. A Digger who had
belonged to the union in N. S. Wales got a
bricklayer’s post on a Brisbane building. He
applied for admission to the brickies’ organ-
isation, but his application was rejected. It
was conveyed to him that he had better-
make himself scarce, otherwise there would
be trouble. One of the men who had pro-
posed him as a candidate for membership
advised him to get out of the country.
Threats proving of no avail—the warrior
refused to quit, and his employer to sacri-
fice him—the other bricklayers were with-
drawn from the job for working with a non-
unionist. They explained on leaving that
the union would fine them heavily it they
disobeyed orders. At this stage Chief Jus-
tice McCawley took a hand in the busi-
ness as president of the Arbitration Court,
and ordered a compulsory conference. Sub-
sequent to the conference, at which the facts
were not disputed, his Honor pointed out
chat the building-trade organisations had
been granted preference to unionists condi-
tionally upon their raising no obstacles
against the employment of returned soldiers
and sailors. One of the associated unions
having violated this condition, the whole
group would lose preference unless the strike
was called off w’ithin a week. It is a laud-
able decision, so far as it goes, but it doesn’t
go far enough. A conspiracy to prevent a
returned soldier from laboring in his voca-
tion should entitle the conspirators to at
least 12 months’ hard.
«
“Birkdale” : Anthony J. Cumming, who
was peremptorily sacked by the Queensland
Government a few davs ago, has been as
abruptly reinstated. Cumming has been for
some 13 years head of the one State busi-
ness up north which has proved itself, over
mi seri ® s of years, a conspicuous success,
fhe State enterprises of Bananaland for
1920-21 showed a total loss on the Com-
missioner’s report of £115,753 35., made up
as follows:
State stations (loss) .. ..£58,271
State cannery (loss) .. .. 29,741
State produce agency (loss) .. 27’734
_ State fish supply (loss) .. .. 9,807
Against the above the State butcheries, re-
treshment-rooms and hotel (Babin dal
showed a problematical profit of £9BOl 18s
7d. The value of the cattle-stations, as
Iheodore admitted recently, has slumped
by fully a million. As the railways showed
a Joss on the year’s transactions of
±1,739,4(5, the total catastrophe for the
year under review amounted to well-nigh
two jnillions sterling. Consider now
the case of Cumming. According to
the Auditor-General’s report for 192021 his
office _ showed a profit for the vear, after
depreciation on ‘ plant, of
±~5,(57 13s. 5d., as avaiDst a profit for the
preceding year of £10.377 10s. Od. Cum>-
ming himself told the Brisbane press a few
days ago that the Gov. Printery for the year
just concluded would show a return of over
30 per cent. Be that as it may. this is a
tact certified by the State’s responsible
Auditor that in the two years 1919-20 and
20-21 Cumming’s management resulted in
a profit on the £125.088 sunk in the State
printing business of 13 per cent, and 20
per cent, respectively. And this was no
mere spurt, but only the culmination of a
long career of prosperity. No wonder the
autocratic Theodore was ready to climb
down at the first chance and get back one
of the few Queensland Dublic servants in a
big position who can make his job pay.


dfg
The Jolly
Old Road
again.
k\
THE countryside is calling, the high-way and by-way are eager to show the
way to true enjoyment—it's a cyclists year, is 1922. But the road surfaces
are not yet all we could wish, though you can overcome this trouble with a
BROOKS
SADDLE.
Write for a {Brooks’ {Book.
J. B. BROOKS & CO., LTD., Criterion Works, BIRMINGHAM, England
Ji gents in Jhisiralia :
SCOTT & HOLLADAY, Ltd., 31a, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
D
Dependable
Marine Engines
REDUCED PRICES
1 to 4
Cylinders
All 4 Cycles
I
$135.00
to
$1550.00
F. 0.8. Detroit
Mich., V. S. A.
Alt Paris Standard and Interchangeable.
American Bosch Magnetos—impulse coupling.
Kermath Marine Engines are made with the precision of a watch,
all parts evenly balanced, eliminating vibration and friction.
More power with less fuel. For dependability Install a Kermato*
Factory Representatives:—
FAIRBANKS MORSE CO. (AUSTRALASIA). LTD.,
25-27 Clarence Street Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
K Kermath Manufacturing Co, Detroit. Mkk.U.SA A
Cable Address -KERMATH
POLITICAL
POINTS
A vague statement is afloat that “the Mur-
ray lands” enterprise has collapsed. On the
Victorian side lies Mil-dura, fairly prosperous
after 30 years, founded with cheap money,
hard work, and the kind of Wages that a
man makes when he is his own laborer. On
the N.S.W. side is Yanko, based on high-
priced loans, high wages, short hours, go-
slow, more a vote-catching show than an
agricultural settlement, and capable of losing
£lOOO a day when under full steam. Because
Mildura prospers it was proposed that .N.S.W.
should set up, say, 20 more Yankos, borrow-
ing a billion or so at the devil-and-a-half per
cent, to pay for them. If the scheme has
burst, then all The Bulletin has to remark
is more power to its fragments.
The incomprehensible Hughes Government,
which is always entering upside down when
least expected, struck its first idea in economy
the other day. It didn’t propose to abolish
ils Trade Commissioners or its High Com-
mish in London, but it did propose to stop
tbe transmission of weather telegrams.
Weather, like comets, travels fast, and doesn’t
stay long, and if something devilish strikes
the north and is travelling southwards, the
south wants to know about it promptly or
not at all. To get the news by mail from
Darwin or Burketown two months after the
small coasters have been blown to smither-
eens, would be only piling insult on injury.
Having gone the limit in loans and taxes,
the Queensland Labor Government is mak-
ing a 5 per cent, cut in wages and salaries,
its own included. In the wretched pass to
which things have come, the reduction is
inevitable—at least, it is the only alterna-
tive to drastic dismissals—but the Govern-
ment which is resorting to it, and which
for seven years has tried to make Banana-
land prosperous by taxing it up to the eyes
and borrowing until it exhausted the
patience of its oldest and most accommodat-
ing creditor, has pronounced its own con-
demnation. It is only a question now of
when the execution will take place.
Sisyphus, the gentleman who had the con-
tract for rolling a stone to the top of a hill
which had no top, would find a congenial
job in Ireland now. When the Free State
troops recaptured Dublin, including the
ashes and ruins, it was said for one joyous
day that they had “practically quelled the
revolt,” and left it without leaders or fol-
lowers. Sisyphus sat down to get his second
wind, and promptly came the report that
republicans or brigands or hoodlums held the
south and south-west; that the situation,
which had just blossomed like the rose, was
“grave,” even “critical”; that a call to arms,
or a sort of conscription, might be necessary ;
and that Michael Collins would take the field
—if he could get it. Collins, who isn’t even
called a general, has now commanded for
both parties within a few months, and i,n the
topsy-turviness of things he may be found
next year serving as admiral of an Irish
fleet on the Bog of Allen, or doing some other
act of infinite variety.
“Gallery”; In the absence of Hughes
Massy Greene is having a chance to show
his points as deputy-leader. Greene is usu-
ally a temperate speaker, but some criticism
from the Country party warmed him up,
and the House grinned when he taunted
some of the Coekies with “living in the cities
on the losses they had made on the land.”
There was, for instance, Jowett, the wool
king, who gauged the possibilities of feed
for his jumbucks by watching the growth
of bis lawns in Toorak. McWilliams pro-
tested vigorously against this form of
attack, but the Nationalists and Laborites
revelled in the punishment from so unex-
pected and witty a quarter. Greene is show-
ing considerable skill as Hughes’s lieutenant,
and certainly increased his prestige by his
speech last week.
THE moon, the whole moon, and nothing but the moon.
FIRST AUSTRALIAN WORKMAN : “The Council of Action, did you say ?”
SECOND AUSTRALIAN WORKMAN : “Yes, and they're trying to attain the new objective.”
About a year has elapsed since the 0.8. U.
brotherhood set out to collect £300,000 for
“establishing a Labor daily in every capital.”
A rather expensive delegation has been
drumming the Commonwealth for contribu-
tions. Also, a levy of 10s. a head was struck
by some unions (notably the A.W.U.), but
since the legality of the business was ques-
tioned by a Queensland unionist who was
baled to court for refusing to pay (the
summons was dismissed on another ground),
it lias evidently been dropped. The cash was
counted the other day and found to total
£10,665 19s. 9d., which works out at about
51d. per unionist. It is a thrilling com-
mentary on what, the workers really think
of the “Labor” press, and of the prospect of
having yards of Bolshevism handed to them
every day instead of once a week.
Under the Westralian licensing law it
takes a three-fifths majority to wipe out the
pubs in any electorate, and one district can’t
interfere with another’s arrangements. But
a Royal Commission has recommended
periodical State-wide polls and the abolition
of the three-fifths safeguard in favor of a
bare majority. However, the catch in
the Commission’s scheme, from tbe Pussy-
foot point of view, is that tbe drys are not
to have it unless S 5 per cent, of the electors
exercise tbe franchise. Apd there has never
been a plebiscite with that percentage of
votes in Westralia yet, nor anything like it.
From the Federal Gallery:—
The Address-in-Reply debate in the Reps,
threatens to be protracted. On Friday the Govern-
ment had a particularly anxious time warding off
trouble in connection with the Wireless Agreement
and the new note-printing establishment in Victoria
Parade, East Melbourne. Plans and specifications
for the latter had been prepared by the Federal
Architect and the job was expected to cost £46,800,
but when the note-printing business was handed over
to the Commonwealth Bank, new plans were secured
for a building that will milk the Treasury of an
additional £14,000, whilst the architectural firm of
J. and 11. G. Kirkpatrick, which seems to be always
getting its name mentioned in the bank’s operations,
will collect another nice whack of commission. The
subject stirred members to such an extent that
there was general approval of McWilliams’s demand
for a Royal Commission. Later on the Cabinet was
asked for explanations over the Wireless Agreement,
in which Hughes’s knighted namesake, the former
head of Amalgamated Wireless, was nominated as
“independent” chairman of the new arrangement.
Charlton, leader of the Opposition, asked for an
adjournment to consider the proposal, and at first
Treasurer Bruce refused it. But when there was a
mutter of disapproval from the Corner, in which the
voices of Earle Page and Watt could be heard, the
white flag was flourished and the Government caved
in. It was a humiliating surrender, but the situ-
ation was ticklish, as the leaderless Cabinet would
have discovered if Charlton had pushed his request
to a division.
As things stand now, when a N.S.W. mem-
ber retires or dies, his place is filled by a
defeated candidate of his own way of think-
ing, or, if there is none, by a nominee of
the same way of thinking. It is said that
the new Government’s “reform” will be to
resume the clumsy and complicated count in
the late member’s electorate where it left
off, and put in the next man, even if he
doesn’t think at all. One idea is as rotten
as the other. The by-election is a casual
chance for the people to say what they think
of the Government now —whether it is better
than they expected or a great deal worst.
It may even give them a chance to throw
the concern out before it does any more
damage. Other methods only give them a
show to mention v 7 hat the electors of, say
2§ years ago, many of them dead or removed,
thought of the case, a.nd that is stale infor-
mation.
The amount of intense hate which politics
can engender is never more manifest than
when there are three teams in the field.
Earle Page and co. almost certainly abom-
inate Hughes more than they detest the
Labor party, simply because Billy is in office.
Meanwhile the Labor party, much as it
loathes Hughes, is moved to even deeper
scorn and loatning as it contemplates the
Agrarian push, which vies with it in vitu-
peration of the little man, but refuses to go
the logical limit in helping Labor to turn
him out. Still, if the Country party, tor
all its snarling, didn’t rush to the Govern-
ment’s assistance when a censure motion is
on the board, Labor might have even more
cause for reading the comminution service
over Earle Page and his mates. If there
is one thing that no party wants, however
furiously it may rage, it is an election before
the statutory time.
Barwell, Premier of S. Aus., didn’t stay
long enough in America to study the nigger
question at close quarters. The only blacks
he got in touch with were those who sh nod
his boots in New 7 York and made the beds in
the overland train. All the same, the dis-
coloration of North Australia, as he views it
to-day, is not quite the beatific vision that
enchanted him in January. Then he had it
all cut-and-dried: —
The colored people admitted could be selected, their
admission regulated, their settlement and employment
restricted to the tropical regions—-say to the north of
the 20th parallel of latitude. If this were done there
would be but little risk of fusion of races, aid no
possibility of racial hatred such as exists in America.
Six months later, having travelled in the
meantime, he is not so cocksure: —
The Territory has great resources, and in ray
opinion they cannot be developed by white labor such
as we have in Australia at the present time. Nobody
would be better pleased than I if it could be proved
that my belief is incorrect.
Six months hence the gentleman will probably
be saying that lie neveV said it.
As far as lie can calculate it at present
McPherson, the Vie. Treasurer, has a sur-
plus for 11)21-22 of £25,000. The railway
deficit is set down also at £25,000, as against
£474,839 the previous year. By the time
all accounts are paid at the end of July,
as is allowed by the Audit Act, it will be
surprising if Mac does not scrape off an-
other £15,000 to add to his credit balance of
£25,000.
The New-State movement must be good
electioneering material up north. Follow-
ing on W. G. Higgs’s visit to the Albury
Congress as unofficial delegate from Car-
pentaria, Forde, bis prospective Labor oppo-
nent, asked the Queensland Assembly to
approve in principle of “the subdivision of
Australia into a greater number of self-gov-
erning States.” Forde’s motion w 7 as car-
ried on the voices, an amendment in favor
of consent being given to the establishment
of States in North and Central Queensland
being defeated by 38 to 27. In effect, Fordo
got the ad. he was looking for, and the New-
Staters were encouraged to continue the
good work. So both should feel satisfied.
When there were hopes of a Labor success
at the next Commonwealth election, the rush
of persons willing to become N. S. Wales
Senators was something to be remembered.
Came March 25, when the Dooleys ran the
stripper through the whirlwind, and now the
man is going the other way. Paddy McGirr,
who was second on the list of selected candi-
dates (three were called for), has enthusiasti-
cally pulled out. Jack Higgins, who came
fourth and is entitled to take McGirr s
place, has magnanimously waived his right.
So the A.L.P. executive has been reduced to
calling for fresh nominations. In the days
when the Labor party believed in itself it
never had any difficulty 7 in getting candidates
to fight the forlornest of forlorn hopes. The
modern type of Labor politician—the
McGirr type, for instance —has other views.
It is against his principles to take on any-
thing but a soft snap.
The downfall of President De Valera, and
his Irish Republic, and his Irish Republican
Army, and his giddy insurrection, is a good
thing for Ireland, for D.V. is a stormy
character whom it is difficult to fit into any
peaceable scheme of affairs. Yet everybody
except the most virulent Orangeblossom
would be sorry if anything really dreadful
happened to the picturesque soldier of mis-
fortune. He believed in his star, like Jorgen
Jorgensen, and Masaniello, and Arabi of
Egypt, and other speculators on a falling
market. And he probably had quite as good
a majority behind him during much of his
hectic career as that which keeps, say, the
Theodore Government in office. The differ-
ence between the positions occupied by the
two Prussianised democrats is that, while
both depend largely on ghosts, Theodore
wants phantoms •who will vote and De
Valera spectres who will fieht. And it is
always 100 per cent, easier to find a voting
apparition than a fighting one.
IN PRAGUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Two bills, designed to get over the housing diffi-
culty and ameliorate the lot of the superfluous woman,
are before the Czecho-Slovak Parliament in Prague.
The first proposes that every man must have one
wife by the time he readies the age of 50, and
may have as many as he likes ; the second, intro-
duced by a woman deputy, recognises free love.”
— Cable.
There are problems that vex the Slovenes and the
Czechs;
They can feel for the ednsortless fair.
The lot of lone lasses they’d lighten by lex
When there isn’t a husband apiece for the sex
That its tapering digits. with baubles bedecks
And sings as it brushes its hair.
They incline to the view that for menages d. deux
The dovecots are lacking—e’en flats are too few
For the strictly monogamous pair.
So there!
Though free love be taboo at Geneva or Kew,
And harems at Rome- or the Hague,
Bohemia moves from conventional grooves-
They’re weary of virtue at Prague.
“One maid for one man” is a ukase that irks
When there isn’t a man for a maid.
And what were esteemed reprehensible “lurks”
In Mormons of Utah and terrible Turks
May become in Bohemian circles (and circs)
A tiling not to hide, but parade.
It may furnish this party or that with a plank
Secure of a welcome spontaneous and frank
In the place where new measures are weighed
And o.k.’d.
Polygamous pranks by Britons or Tanks
May ever be shunned like the plague,
But they don’t feel at all so sure that St. Paul
Isn’t ripe for Prague.
The Czech bachelor, who is fifty or more,
To conjugal bliss shall be “druv” ;
He shall go of compulsion, not coaxed as of yore
Of helpmates lie’ll have, an it please him, a score-
A system that’s Seldom been hit on before
To give the lax birth-rate a shove.
All things shall be free as the beach to the sea,
The sky to the birds, or the flowers to the bee,
But nothing at all so deliciously free
For people below or above
As love,
And a couplet that’s old shall again be retold,
Though the authorship’s misty and vague:
“All persons I pity who know not the city,
The beautiful city of Prague.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


A CITY ARGUMENT FOR DECENTRALISATION.


Efficient Power Transmission.
\ 36-inch 3-ply Pioneer Leather Belt in Bris-
bane Tramway Company’s Power House,
transmitting up to 600 brake-horsepower.
Driving pulley, 17ft.; driven pulley, 4ft.; belt
speed, 5000 ft. per minute.
Engineers specify Pioneer Leather Belting
for efficient power transmission. Year
after year it proves its superiority in
use and wearing ability. That is why
repeat orders are placed for
PI ONEER
LEATHER BELTING
with every extension of plant in hundreds
of factories throughout Australasia.
The belt illustrated is the twelfth repeat
order placed by the Brisbane Tramway
Company.
Confer with us on your belting problems.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON LTD,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, SYDNEY.
Pioneers since 1858.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobe!
Samsonite
Gela.tin6 Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED —is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings in Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breaking
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address: —
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
To lle-
Mav, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1910.. £10,406 10 p.c. = £7,545 £2861 £10,082
Premiums on new shares . . 3125 13,207
1911.. 12,911 10 p.c. = 9,614 3297 16,504
Premiums on new shares .. 3125 19,629
1912.. 13,083 10 p.c. = 11,054 2029 21,658
1913.. 15,227 10 „ ~ 12,500 2727 24,385
1914.. 17,094 10 „ „ 13,021 4073 28,458
1915.. 18,968 10 „ „ 15,000 3968 32,426
1916.. 17,337 10 „ ~ 15,000 2337 34,763
1917.. 12,976 9 „ „ 13,500 34,239
1918.. 12,563 8 „ „ 12,000 563 34,802
1919.. 22,614 13 „ „ 19,500 3114 37,916
1920.. 17,812 10 „ „ 15,000 2812 40,728
1921.. 17,622 10 ~ 15,000 2622 43,350
1922.. 17,708 10 „ „ 15,000 2708 46,058
Sixteen years ago Allen Taylor’s began as
a public co. with a paid capital of £60,000.
Nowadays, 10 p.c. p.a. is being paid regu-
larly on £150,000, £40,000-odd of reserves
have accumulated, and at least two-thirds
of the paid capital is represented by the sur-
plus of liquid assets over and above all lia-
bilities. In addition to expanding its inter-
ests considerably, the co. is, therefore, in a
very comfortable position. Possibly it is
even more cosy than the periodic accounts
indicate; some assets show signs of having
been written down hard, and the numerous
timber-land interests may be worth a good
deal more than the value at which they are
shown on the books. The directors each
year disclose net profits little more than
sufficient to provide the 10 p.c. divs.: 1920,
£15,312; 1921, £15,121; 1922, £15,208—-the
distributions taking all except the odd hun-
dreds. But the directors do not include
amounts added to reserves, so the figures in
the introductory table are nearer the true
net profits. In previous accounts the reserve
fund included an accumulation for insurance
risks; but the co. in 1919 sold most of its
vessels to the North Coast S. N., and as
“insurances of assets have been gradually
adjusted” the £40,000 accumulated and in-
vested outside the business in public securi-
ties, etc., is no longer subject to insurance
risks. In their report the directors declare
that all assets are “adequately insured.”
Balance-sheet figures since the first
accounts appeared, and since paid capital
was increased to £150,000, have moved in
this way:—
1907. 1914. 1921. 1922.
Capital. . . . £60,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 8.060 37,386 72,101 55,372
Countrv mills,
etc 1,920 35,590 66,795 66,229
C i t y wharves,
freeholds, mills,
plant, etc. . . 13,600 6,000 16,250 14,500
A r essels. . .. 18,269 31,183 18,837 19.666
Book debts, etc. 25,296 62,018 49,634 38,873
C ash, invest-
ments, etc. .. 2,128 46,320 52,43.3 50,076
Stocks.. .'. 11,562 41,504 69,001 69,586
Though profits nowadays give shareholders
10 p.c. with ease, a feature of the business
is that results are not nearly so handsome as
they were some years ago. In 1911, for in-
stance, funds earned almost 11| p.c.; last
year’s profits on capital and reserves repre-
sented about 9 p.c. Though the fairness of
that comparison depends on the extent to
which the management may nowadays make
provision for contingencies, the absence of
the borrowed millions with which Govern-
ments in the past helped construction booms
has affected earnings. That has to some
extent been counterbalanced by Private
Enterprise activities following upon war-
time prosperity and manufacturing develop-
ment of the past few years. But, though
Allen Taylor’s and other timber cos. have
continued to do well, trading conditions are
not so easy as they were a few years ago.
Costs all round are much heavier, and labor
in the scrubs and country mills, now better
organised than at any time to dictate wage
and working conditions, is a big factor in
determining market prices. On those prices
depend the turnover of the co.; and in these
days of heavy deficits neither Governments
nor P.E. can afford to pay high prices. So
Allen Taylor’s for a time is not likely to
show handsome returns like those of the
loan-construCtion years, especially in view
of the'shiploads of timber nowadays arriving
in Port Jackson. But it is a well-managed
and a very comfortable business, and should
continue to give its supporters a reasonably
rood return on their capital.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd., drapers, etc., of Syd-
ney : . .. . '
f — Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
Alar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
1913.. 91,446 16,374 8 p.e. = 24,000 51,072 16,072
1914.. 75.240 16,374 10 „ „ 30,000 31,866 47,938
1915.. 74,032 16,374 10 „ „ 30,000 27,658 75,596
1916.. 68,200 16,374 10 „ „ 30,000 21,820 97,422
£lOO,OOO of Reserves capitalised.
1917.. 71,076 16,374 10 p.e. = 40,000 14,702 12,121
1918.. 87,801 16,374 13 ~ „ 52,000 19,430 31,554
Taxation reserve taken in . . 41,000 72,551
1919.117,359 16,374 13 p.c. = 52,000 48,985 121,539
£50,000 ol Reserves capitalised .. 71,539
1920.. 117.912.16,374 13 p.c. = 55,500 43,038 114,577
1921.. 311.16,374 13 „ „ 58,500 51,437 166,014
1922.. 90,818 16,374 13 ~ „ 58,500 15,944 181,958
Mark Foy’s began as a public co. in 1909,
but shares have been quoted on ’Change only-
within recent years. Starting with a paid
capital of £571,402—272,902 £1 prefs. (0 p.c.)
and 298,500 £l ordinaries, of which good-
will represented £lOO,OO0 —the co. put up a
remarkable record : in less than four years
sufficient surplus profit had accumulated to
cover goodwill, which was finally expelled
from tne balance-sheet in 1915. By 1910,
after a run of 10 p.c. divs. on ordinaries, re-
serves gave a one-in-three (£100,000) bonus
issue. Three years later £50,000 more was
converted into scrip after paying divs. aver-
aging 12 p.c. On the enlarged capital
regular 13 p.c. divs. have been distributed,
and an average of 8 p.e. more has gone into
reserves, whicu now aggregate £181,058. The
profits in the table are not those shown by
the directors: though £41,000 was in a
reserve for taxation in 1918, £27,000 more
was added in 1919 and a further £17,000 in
1920. Last year £l5OO was withdrawn. No
doubt managing-director Hugh Foy would
swiftly disillusion the Commonwealth and
State Income-tax Commissioners as to
the nature of this taxation reserve
should they drop in to divide the
£83,500 now in hand. in the table
each year’s additions to the fund have
been included with profits. The co. must
have had a wonderful run in the years of
rising prices and of the record turnovers
which war conditions made possible. Besides
the handsome profits disclosed, evidently
there was a liberal lay-by for a possible fall
in values. When they did collapse the direc-
tors set aside £25,000 with which to revise
prices if necessary. The past year showed
almost £16,000 of profit in excess of dividend
requirements without having had to call upon
a penny of this £25,000, which has since been
again placed with general reserves.
The remarkable prosperity of the business
is disclosed by an examination of the balance-
sheet figures since the. issue of the co.’s
second lot of accounts: —
1911. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Liabilities .. £6,718 £27,181 £85,998 £43,488
Property . . 202,400 306,000 328,220 372,752
Plant, etc. . . 4,450 20,805 42,330 78,550
Stocks . . 270,394 494,611 647,999 538,880
Book debts .. 14,490 17,114 19,706 20,494
Cash, etc. . . 70,920 92,818 3,347 4,360
Assets in 1911 totalled £662,654 and liabili-
ties £6718, leaving net assets ot £655,936.
The latest balance-sheet total exceeded a mil-
lion, net assets amounting to £971,548. Only
£1560 of new capital has been introduced
during the 11 years. So, after the payment
of very handsome divs., the business is now
helped by accumulated profits exceeding the
ordinary capital with which the co. began. The
£272,902 of 6 p.c. pref. capital has been an
important contributor to these results, and
the ordinaries have been very fortunate in
having such a large volume of cheap capital
at work in their interests during the dear-
money period. Mark Foy’s was one of the
concerns which was' not compelled to seek
new funds when prices were at their top;
owing to the surplus profits accumulated the
management had no difficulty in indue ng the
bfnU.- f 0 see it through the period of abnormal
stocks. 7
After payment of the latest divs. and pro-
viding cover for the prefs. every £1 of
ordinary capital had the backing of 28s. Id.
of assets. During the past couple of years
the co. lias been employing a lot of its stored
profits in extending its manufacturing inter-
ests: £66,752 net has gone into property and
£57,745 in plant. Mark Foy’s now manufac-
tures its own blankets and flannels, and re-
cently equipped a factory for manufacturing
hosiery.
* « » •
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd., general mer-
chants and agents, of Rockhampton (Q.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Mav, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ ‘ £
1912.. 44,102 10 p.e.= 15,500 5,069 23,533 72,036
1913.. 34,194 10 „ ~ 15,500 4,500 14,194 86,230
Premiums on new shares . . 6,291 92,521
Transferred to capital, £38,750 .. 53,771
1914.. 39,246 10 p.e.= 20,000 3,000 16,246 70,017
1915 .. 51,398 10 „ ~ 20,000 11,087 20,311 90,328
1916.. 38.834 10 „ ~20,000 4,222 14,612 104,940
1917.. 37,694 12 i „ ~25,000 4,110 8,584 113,524
1918.. 50,305 121 „ ~ 25,000 2.929 22,376 135,900
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 85,900
1919 . . 30,100 10 p.c.= 25,000 4,446 654 86,554
1920.. 60,964 12$;, ~ 31,250 5.484 24,230 110,784
1921.. 44,197 10 „ ~25,000 2,340 16,857 127.641
1922.. 39,628 10 ~ ~25,000 2,907 11,721 139,362
Profits shown for the past year, are sur-
prisingly good considering that 12 months
ago the co. was burdened with very heavy
stocks and that Rockhampton has since had
a cold spell owing to the 10 months’ shut-
down at Mt. Morgan and the severe set-back
to the pastoral industry. Gross profits at
£116,063 were only £BOOO less than in 1921,
but £82,175' smaller than two years ago. The
success with which the large stocks were un-
loaded iu an adverse trading period suggests
that the management had fully protected pur-
chases in high markets against a slump. Any-
how, after writing off £2907 for deprecia-
tion of properties the year’s profit repre-
sented more than 141 p.c. on the quarter-
million of paid capital. This good return
was, however, made possible only by the
large reserves which have accumulated : in-
cluding £18,125 in an insurance fund there
is now £157,500 helping capital.
Walter Reid’s is a very old concern, and
the present co. took over 21 years ago. It
began with a paid capital of £93,750, and
only £11.250 has since been called in from
shareholders. No less than £145.000 of the
present paid capital of £250,000 has been
transferred from reserves since 1910.
Balance-sheet movements during the past
dozen years have been as follows:
1910. 1916. 1921. 1912.
Paid capital . . £93,750 £200,000 £250,000 £250,000
Debentures .. 50,000 22,900 13,500 '2,300
Other liabilities 43,556 54,380 61,741 76,306
Stocks . . 87,896 163,653 233,009 188,897
Book debts .. 116,049 105,874 78,972 104,680
Cash . . . . 20,002 49,666 35,072 69,290
Fieeholds a n d
investments .. 53,482 73,027 136,329 135,726
The co. is now in a very comfortable posi-
tion : cash in hand at the balance covered
all except £9316 of the £78,006 total liabili-
ties. In addition a considerable portion of
the freeholds and investments item is War
Loan: three years ago the directors con-
fided that £102.000 of these public securi-
ties were hold.
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate and
Agency Co. of Maokiland (Dunedin) :
'L'o Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911.. £2lBB 15 p.c. = £1406 £782 | £12,317
Written off, £lOOO t £12,317
1912.. 2343 15 p.e. = 1406 937 13,254
1913.. 2032 15 „ „ 1400 620 13.880
1914.. 2331 15 „ ~ 1406 925 14,805
1915.. 2259 15 „ „ 1406 853 15,658
191 G. . 3013 15 „ „ 1406 1607 17,265
1917.. 1610 15 „ „ 1400 204(.
Written off, £lOOO j 16)469
Transferred to capital, £3125 13,344
1918.. 2353 15 p.c. = 1679 674 14,016
1919.. 2851 15 „ „ 1875 1362 14,994
1920.. 4137 15 „ „ 1875 2262 17,256
Transferred to capital, £2500 14,756
1921 V. 3652 15 p.c. = 2250 1402 16,158
1922.. 4436 15 „ „ 2250 2180 18,344
The £4436 of profit shown for the past year
is subject to income-tax, and as Maoriland
taxes are stiff probably about £l5OO will be
clipped by the Treasury. Even so, the direc-
tors have no difficulty in finding 15 p.c. for
shareholders : as reserves exceed paid capi-
tal by several thousands, shareholders’ funds
have to earn only 7 p.c. net to give that
rate of div. The major portion is pro-
vided by the eo.’s own investments.
Incidentally, the balance-sheet includes
£50,441 of other people’s money, but
exactly how it was laid out is not dis-
closed by the accounts. Twelve months ago
“balance due by co.” totalled £60,004, and
meantime “balances due to co.” have fallen
from £60,004 to £47,974. The directors’ re-
ports should give the investor a little more
information as to the nature of these “bal-
ances.” The liabilities are no doubt mostly
trust funds held for distribution, and the
credit . balances partly advances to estates
pending realisation. The directors are not
confiding about the investment of co.’s own
funds: £19,550 is in unspecified debentures
and £16,279 is locked up in “mortgages and
accrued interest and leasehold and freehold
buildings.” The extent of the Perpetual’s
trust business is not disclosed by the annual
accounts, but 12 months ago the chairman
told shareholders that more than three mil-
lions were in the co.’s care. They are big
figures considering that Dunedin has another
prosperous trustee co., and that there is also
a State office.
* # * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1911.. £lBBO 15 p.c. £l5OO £3BO £12,586
1912.. 2190 15 „ „ 1500 690 13,276
1913.. 1876 15 „ „ 1500 376 13,652
1914.. 1709 15 „ „ 1500 209 13,861
1915.. 1624 15 „ „ 1500 124 13,985
1916.. 1911 15 „ „ 1500 411 14,396
1917.. 1856 15 „ „ 1500 356 14,752
1918.. 1936 15 „ „ 1500 .436 15,188
1919.. 1872 15 „ „ 1500 372 15.560
1920.. 2309 15 „ „ 1500 809 16,369
1921.. 2213 15 „ „ 1500 | 565 16>934
Written off, £l4B J ’
1922.. 2321 15 p.c = 1500 j m 17 655
Written off, £lOO )
Paid capital is £lO.OOO, reserves £17,655;
so, like its competitor, the Perpetual, this
Dunedin trustee co. also distributes 15 p.c.
divs. regularly. It controls estates with a
book value of nearly 2f millions. Profits
from administering this business are not
large, no doubt chiefly owing to the compe-
tition of the State Trust Office. Last year
£5918 of commission was earned, but exes.
and taxes took £5404. Interest and rents
gave £lBO7, or £3OO more than the 15 p.c.
div. takes. So all the profit from trustee
operations, and portion of interest earnings,
too, go into reserve. Last year’s profits re-
presented 23 p.c. on paid capital, and during
the 17 years since the payment of 15 p.e.
divs. began £B4OO has-been added to reserves.
Some day the directors will probably decide
that a little more can be safely passed out
to shareholders, and then proceed to re-
arrange capital and reserves in a way to
permit a slightly larger distribution to be
made without making the div. rate look
excessive. The present £l5OO div. repre-
sents a return of only 5J p.c. on total share-
holders’ funds.
* * * *
Manufacturers’ Mutual Insurance,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
Donations
Pivi- Bonus to to Ch.
dends. Policy- of Mann- Re-
April, Profit. 10 p.c. holders, fac tares, serves.
1915 .. £5,431 £155 £2,530 £lO £2,570
1910 .. 7,303 172 4,593 100 5,088
1917 .. 10,791 198 0,832 150 8,679
1918 .. 12,035 228 7,107 200 13,779
1919 .. 11,630 261 5,247 300 19,601
1920 .. 16,156 403 7,109 350 27,895
1921 .. 20,317 451 10,125 400 43,230
1922 . . 24,578 473 15,219 1000 51,122
This little co-op. insurance co.—paid capital
is only £4780 —has been handling workmen’s
compensation business for Sydney manufac-
turers for eight years with great success.
This epitomises performances to date: —
Dividends paid (10 p.c. p.a) .. £2,341
Bonuses to policy-holders . . 58,762
Votes to parent Chamber .. 2,510
£03,013
After distributing £63,613 of profit, at April
30. there were reserves of £51,122, equal to
nearly 73 p.c. of last year’s net premium
income. So there was a big margin over
and above the amount normally regarded as
adequate to provide for unexpired risks.
Further, every penny of funds was well in-
vested : of total assets of £OO,OOO at tin l
balance £80,475 was in public securities, de-
posits and cash. Hook debts amounted to
£6524, oltiee furniture which had cost £JS7
had been written down to £470. and motor-
ears (original cost £078) had a book value
of £425.
This shows in another way how rapidly
the business has grown :
Loss Expense
Net. Ex- Ratio. Ratio.
Premiums. Claims, penses.* p.c. p.c.
1915 . . £6,854 £619 £857 8.0 1.2.5
1916 .. 11,023 2,291 1342 20.8 12.1
1917 . . 16,487 3,722 2072 22.5 12.0
1918 .. 23,870 8,703 3000 36.4 12.6
191.9 .. 26,472 11,602 3211 44.0 12.1
1920 . . 36,447 15,434 5058 42.3 13.9
1921 . . 64,595 32,930 6041 50.9 9.3
1922 . . 70,065 39,130 7246 55.8 10.3
* Apart from income-taxes.
The expansion has been greater than the
figures indicate, owing to tariff reduction
several years ago. That, of course, also
affected the claims rate, and, in turn, profits,
The feature of the Manufacturers’ Mutual
operations is the very low expense rate, con-
sequently though claims last year were the
heaviest the co. has experienced almost Bs.
per £1 of net premiums was profit. The
accounts, by the way, showed a net profit
for the 12 months of £15,685, but that did
not include £2lBB reserved for unexpired
risks, £3400 dropped into a contingency
account, the £lOOO voted to the Chamber of
Manufactures and £2305 of tax-free interest
from War Loans dropped into reserves. The
co. has developed a big business in its special
line of insurance, and it will probably grow
much larger as manufacturing industries
expand. Lately some good Newcastle accounts
have been captured, and the Articles have
been amended to enable A. Goninnn to act
as director and local-adviser of activities in
that district.
* * * *
Illawarra Coke Co., Ltd. (N.S.W.) :
, Dividends—— N Nominal
Pref. Writ- Re-
Mar., Profit. 8 p.e. Ordinarv. ten Off. serves.
1914.. £321 £321
Loss, Deficit.
1915.. 366 45
Profit. Reserves.
1916/. 1,179 1134
1917.. 4,255 £5250 139
1918.. 6,778 £2562 4000 355
1919.. 8.564 8000 919
1920.. 7,138 1587 6 p.e. = £3OOO 2000 1470
Co. reconstructed. Assets written* up. Two
ordinary shares issued for eaeh ord. in old co.
1921.. 8,268 800 4 p.c. = 4400 2500 2038
1922.. 11,763 800 4 „ „ 4400 5800 2801
The 1920 reconstruction gave two fully-paid
ordinaries for every one held previously, so
the 4 p.c. divs. represent an 8 p.c. return to
original holders. The co. has its works along-
side the Coalcliff colliery, from whose screens
the feed is delivered by conveyor belt. In
this way handling charges are reduced to a
minimum, and the saving so effected is
expected to show handsome compensation for
the erection of the works on a leasehold
which has a dozen years to run. In the
reconstruction leaseholds were written up
by about £9OOO and works bv £50,000. and
goodwill was taken in at £lOOO. The direc-
tors are now writing down these items out of
profits: last year’s appropriations wiped off
goodwill, reduced leaseholds by £2BOO and


When build in? make sure of petting best roofing
value by specifying Adamax Asphaltum Roofing. It
is made from best long-fibred wool felt, and under-
goes a special process which makes it fire retardant.
Adamax is also proof against heat, cold, rain or
chemical and acid fumes. Win. Adams & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide
and Perth.— Advt. [2
* * * *
The more that is known about Pioneer Wood Pipe
the more its advantages for every class of. conduit
ate appreciated. Its permanent economy—low first
cost, and absence of maintenance charges—makes it
ideal for either small or large requirements. Its
immunity from corrosion or electrolysis and frost, as
well as its possessing a superior capacity, impress
its advantages upon everyone in need of a conduit.
Write for our free 68-page book on the subject.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burris Bay
Road, Lane Cove* Sydney.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Ilassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street. Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * » •
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 453 Collins Street, ,Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.—Advt.
For Patent Applications consult T. C. Allen, Equit-
able Buildings, 350 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone
1195 City.— Advt.
If- * # *
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and eontractois lor coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-was Wing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * #
“1921 Models” —“National” suction-gas engine*
and suctioh-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
# * * *
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the displav of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
m * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
’■MfcC?
. /
The Importance of Tight Valves
Boiler Blow-off service is the most difficult of any required of
valves. Further, the slightest leak at the blow-off valve means
continuous money loss. The valve which does not leak soon pays
for itself, whatever the cost, and thereafter earns daily dividends
for you.
GUARANTEE.— The knowledge of what the Everlasting Valve has done warrants us in giving this guarantee:—
regular Everlasting Valve in boiler blow-off use develop a leak, and not give perfect continuous service
ior TWO YEARS after installation, it will be repaired or replaced without charge, or money refunded, as buyer may choose.
fVC RLASr *N
w /f
In addition to Blow-off Service, the Patent, Leak-proof, Everlasting Valve is unequalled for any service where a straight-through passage
required. It is made for quick or slow opening and closing, and in any kind of metal.
Our valve book cannot fail to interest you.
Reference may be made to some of the largest plants in the Commonwealth.
SOLE
MANUFACTURERS—
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10 George Street (Camperdown), City, Sydney
by £2OOO. Balance-sheet figures have
moved in this way since 1916: —
19X6. 1920. 1921. 1922.
Paid capital .. £59,775 £60,000 £120,000 £120,000
Debentures .. 40,000 28,000 25,000 22,000
Sundry creditors 8.739 6,977 8,149 10,185
Leaseholds, etc. 55,000 41,000 47,707 44,907
Coke works .. 51,586 44,761 92,492 87,492
Stocks .. . . 616 • 777 639 697
Bcok debts .. 2,118 5,827 7,520 9,100
Gash, etc. . . 329 8,669 8,429 15,390
There are 110,000 £1 ordinaries and 10,000
£1 8 p.c. cum. prefs,, the latter having
received an ordinary tor each of their shares
in 1920. The capital originally put in did
not fully finance the enterprise: Mount
M-.'gan became a customer and assisted with
£40,000 of 6 p.c, debentures which the co. is
repaying at the rate of £3OOO p.a. This
deoenture debt at the March balance was
down to £22,000. Includmg the debentures
with trade debts, the co. in 1916 showed an
excess of liabilities over l.qu.d assets of
£45,676, but at the latest balance not quite
£7OOO. And in the meantime only £225 of
new capital has been put in.
* * * *
Who was responsible for telling London
weeks ago that Electrolytic Zuic would be
out with a div. on the 8 p.c. cum. prefs. in
July? Last week a div. —to June 30 —
was declared payable on September 1. The
rest of the London circular coincides so
well with what tne Melbourne Board had
to say two months later that spooks
must have been at work. These happen ngs
add mystery to the Board’s action in putting
out £400,000 of bonds in February at ±95,
less a com. of £2 p.c., without allowing share-
holders to participate at the issue price. As
sales are at £ll5 the subscribers can count
up £2O p.c. gam in four months. British
interests are said to have dipped deeply into
the deal, and they also toon up preis., as
was admitted by the Melbourne Trust, the
English co. which has a Collins House asso-
ciation.
# * # *
“N.P.”: Colin Fraser, of the Associated
Smelters, has been letting off steam about
Fritz and Port Pirie. VVhat does it all
mean? Is the yarn about the depreciated
mark a bit o*i kite-flying to be interpreted by
the smelter-men that wages must be cut, or
that the lead concentrates must go to Ger-
many? The fuss was all the other way
when F. G. Howard was alive. Australians
like S. Aus. Premier Price, realising -what
the Hun was at, demanded that smelting be
done locally and suggested that the best
way was to clap on an import duty. But
the grip of Amsehell and Schmidt was too
firm, and they collared the trade. The Ger-
mans now offer a returning charge that
Pirie cannot hope to compete with. Of
course, all lead-concentrates should be
treated here, and the larger the quantities
handled the cheaper the work will be. Why
hesitate to impose an export duty to protect
the lead industry? And why not clap an
export duty on zinc concentrates? R sdon
isn't doing relatively as well as Port Pirie.
Anyway, shouldn’t we stop the spelter going
overseas to anybody, so as to get it into
use for paint or for galvanising? So with
load. Of course, if the Hun, or anyone else,
will give an exceedingly low returning charge
and the Edmunds No. 1 award is enforced it
would pay to get back to the old plan of
shipp ng the concentrates. That would mean
lots more work at Broken Hill and divs. to
shareholders. But what of local industry?
Still, any demand for an export duty will
need to have an acid test applied to it before
its genuineness can be accepted.
* * * *
The whole surface area of both the North-
< rn Territory and Westralia has now been
taken up under prospecting licenses for oil —•
523,620 sq. miles in N.T. and 975,920 sq.
imles in W.A. This partition is absurd and
reduces genuine prospecting to a minimum.
Newcomers desirious of prospecting for oil
by drilling—the only way to prove petroleum
—cannot get any land direct from the Crown.
They have to go to the small syndicates for
sub-leases, and pay stiff sums in cash, shares
and royalties. The terms of the prospecting
licenses are for five years, renewable for
another five years, provided the Government
Mines Departments, State and Federal, ap-
prove of the prospecting work done. In most
instances the huge blocks will be shepherded
and not prospected. The only way to get
likely oil regions properly explored and drilled
is to compel holders to work their claims.
Westralian Minister of Mines Scaddan stated
that he will insist on every licensee spending
money on his block, and it is to be hoped
that he keeps his word. Imagine 44 licenses
keeping closed 975,920 sq. miles of land in
Westralia! Large areas are no more needed
tor oil exploration than they are for gold,
silver, tin or copper prospecting. The policy
is fantastic, as well as unreasonable, and it
cannot be altered too soon,
* * # *
“J.L.S.”: An impetus to the boring of oil-
shale measures for liquid petroleum supplies
in this country will doubtless be given by
the recent strike of high-grade free mineral
on. M a depth of 1810 ft. in the D’Arcy bore,
Midlothian (Scotland) by Messrs, o. Pear-
son and Sons, who are drilling the oil-shale
measures there by arrangement with the
British Government. A previous bore at
\v esc Oaluer was aoandoned at 4Uooft., after
having cost £50,060 wituouc striking o-l. The
D’Arcy well to date has cost £40,000. The
theory that beds of 0.1-saale groups in Scot-
land and eisecvhere may have conramed free
oil, which can still ex,st as such in favor-
able localities, is amply confirmed by this
strike. The locating of cavorably-folded struc-
tures among the shale measures of Tasmania,
N. S. Wales and Queensland, and the boring
of them for crude petroleum, is, therefore, no
longer of such a wild-cat nature as some of
the enterpr.ses at present features of the
Australian oil-hunt,
■* * * ■*
From Papua: Popo bore, Vailala oil-fields,
is now down 1046 ft. in blue nfud, after pass-
ing through mud and shale beds, and is stead-
ily pushing down to the regions cvhere the
geologists think oil lies. Ind .cations are re-
garded as “most promising”; but Papua is
now tired of these remarks, and waits t > see
if there is oil there. All geological conditions
are favorable to the bit opening a payable
well, but why stake the gamble on one well?
Papuan oil will never develop while the
Commonwealth tinkers along with only one
drill at work. Except in instances of lucky
strikes oil can be found only bv drilling, and
drilling, and drilling again. Indications at
the Vailala field are excellent, but there are
only two plants in Papua, and only one of
them is at work.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Mines Department has agreed
to offer a reward of £lOOO to the discoverer
of a payable goldfield, whether alluvial or
reefing is not specified, but it is probably
meant, to apply to either or to both. Why
should the inducement be restricted to a
gold discovery? The chance of the reward
ever being claimed is* very rehiote. The
genus prospector—the man of the independ-
ent type who would face all sorts of hard-
sh'ns °.nd privations to' follow r the lure of
gold—is almost extinct.
# 4 # >
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), shareholders
have had another big disappointment. The
option of purchase taken by Mount Boppy
Co. in January last, on the basis of £7506 in
cash and £40,000 in paid shares in a new
co. of £140,000, is not to be exerc.sed. It
was fully expected until a few days ago that
the Mount Boppy Co. would take over the
mine and transfer to Cobar parts of the
Canbelego plant to complete the treatment
equipment. Occidental mme has had a 30-
years’ career of ups and downs. It has an
enormous ore-body, carrying values which
under judicious handling ought to pay well,
and it was thought, when the present co.
was formed and, as was assumed, an effective
up-to-date treatment plant was installed, that
the mine would have a chance to assert itself.
The failure of the new plant was quite incom-
prehensible. It w r as a crushing blow to the
State’s mining enterprise.
* * *
Ingliston, Meekatharra (W.A.), during
June milled 430 tons for 4520 z. Last year
the co.’s chairman congratulated sharehold-
ers on “the development which occurred
during niainshaft-sinking, a new lode having
been discovered in the shaft at depth 437 ft.
This lode has never been seen in the upper
levels.” Similarly, the two local directors
reported: “We have every confidence that
before next meeting divs. will be the order
of the day.” A great amount of cash has
since been spent on development, and re-
cently it was announced that that work had
ceased, and that continuous treatment opera-
tions might be expected. The mine is
equipped with an excellent 10-stamp battery,
and the ore permits an extraction of over
90 p.c. by amalgamation. In view of the de-
velopment work carried out during the past
year, together with the reported width of
ore bodies, a stamp duty larger than 430 tons
should have been performed for June. Some
explanation is due on this point, also as
to whether the reported new lode, located in
the shaft at 437 ft., has .not, after all, been
proved to be the old main, or western, lode.
* ■* * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.), for the 12 months to
December 31, produced 60,6000 z. gold worth
£320,220, of which £60,630 was gold pre-
mium. Mine-working costs showed a further
increase, attributed to higher wages, de-
creased labor efficiency, deeper mining and
heavier railway rates. The three interim
divs. of Is. 6d. each absorbed more than the
year’s net earnings, so for the first time
since 1901 there has been no final distribu-
tion. Henceforth Ivanhoe shareholders will
have to be content with half-yearly divs. The
first of these, probably Is. 6d., will be de-
clared t!“s month. At the annual meeting
held in London on May 22 chairman Govett
announced that general-manager McDermott
estimated that, excluding possible develop-
ments, the “gutting” of the mine would make
it Doss : ble to continue payments on that
scale for about another two years. If
grade does not improve, Govett declares that
the mine will have “passed to nearly an un-
payable proposition—gutted and murdered
by deliberate action of the workers, for whom
it would then fail to find employment.” Which
is absolute rot, as is also the statement that
rather than eke out a longer and unprofitable
life, and let labor take all the gilt, the co.
was deliberately and Cold-bloodedly working
the mine above its capacity. The condition of
tne rii-Ues nas been misrepresented
for wage-reduction propaganda purposes, and
it is time the Westranan Government offici-
ally rebuked the London controllers of some
WestraLan gold-mining cos.
London-owned Associated (W.A.) has
issued a circular giving particulars of the
co.’s Canadian interests, and intimating that
in connection with a projected reorganisation
of the capital one Keeley share will be d.stri-
buted in respect of each existing Associated
share. Production at Keeley silver-mine
began in June last year, and with a
snail concentrating plant by April last
520.0000 z. silver had been won. Silver con-
tents of ore reserves are estimated at
1*194,3700z.
The two Hampton Plains cos., Properties
and Areas, held meetings in Edinburgh and
London respectively last month. The former
is practically done with Block 50, in which
the Celebration is situated, for the time
being, and is about to instal a 1000-ton-per-
month treatment plant on Block 45, where
prospects are cons dered promising. The
Areas has nothing much to show at present,
but the market hopes in a new property
which may be acquired in Northern Ontario.
Areas has a nest-egg of £63,000 in Treasury
Bonds.
* * * *
At Bulong CW.A.) a new ore bodv 20ft.
wide has been located at a depth of 100 ft.,
assays averaging an ounce. The lode is
carrying visible gold, and, though exposed
at only one point, it looks good. Dr. Lawr,
for the past 20 years noted for his mining
activities, is one of the owners of the new
find. The Doctor is also one of a syndicate
dngaaed in diamond-drilling at Kalgoorlie in
the hope of striking a continuation of the
eastern group of the lodes which Associated
and Perseverance mines are working.
Already the drill has passed through an ore
charnel from 160 ft. to 190 ft,, and from
250 ft. to 2~oft. The core has been sent to
the Geological Survey, but no determina-
tions have yet been announced.
» * • *
Inadequate water-supply threatens to re-
strict treatment operations at St. Ives
(W.A.) ; if an improved supply is not. avail-
able for summer the outlook is not bright
for clients of the State battery. This plant
has just put through 236 tons for 128 oz. for
Ives Reward, and the figures do not include
5 tons concentrates, assaying 540 z. per ton
and sands worth 4Jdwt. When the Reward
can show a similar yield from its 120 ft. level
shareholders will have more reason to feel
cheerful.
♦ * * *
The scheme for erecting State coke ovens
at the Bowen coalfield as soon as the rail-
way was completed has been indefinitely
postponed, and another election will pro-
bably not bring it nearer realisation. This
was. until recently a pet Ministerial project,
mainly to supply Cloncurry smelters and
cut out Newcastle coke, which costs £6 a
ton - there. The closure of the Cloncurry
copper-mines has been the chief reason for
letting the coke-works slide, but even if
they reopen again in the near future most
of the ore of one group anyway will, for a
start, probably be treated by Corbould’s
leaching process, which calls for only a small
consumption of coke. Mt. Mulligan, in en-
case. is getting in first. The mine has been
in full swing for some time, and its ovens
are well on the way to complet on. Bowen’s
visions of impending greatness have slumped
greatly, as the proposed steelworks now
more than ever are a chimera.
Newcastle Coal, Ltd., Blair Athol (Q.),
has issued a statement to its shareholders
that, if the other co. on the field, the B.A.
Coal and Timber, expends £75,000 on equip-
ment and excavation to introduce the open-
cut method of mining the huge seam there, it
will have to do likewise or go under. From the
statistics quoted it does not appear that the
directors are optimistic of underselling New-
castle (N.S.W.) coal to foreign buyers. The
latter has been sold as low as 17s. 9d. lately,
and they foresee a lower price still if the
N. S. Wales collieries are pushed by other
competitors. The co. reckons 13s. to cover
freight and Gladstone loading charges. With
incidental costs added this would mean that
open-cut mining must not cost more than 3s.
6d. a ton, and then the margin for dividends
would be mighty small With such a burden to
carry it would seem easy for Newcastle coal
to squeeze out the northern competitor if it
came to a cut-rate fight. Newcastle, Ltd.,
estimates that there is 43ft. of overburden
to remove, but under that there is 50 to 60
feet solid coal.
* * *
New Deborah, Bendigo, was not a line
favored by the Lansell-Dyason-Mueller
crowd in the old days, although a lot of gold
was got in the spurs down to 290 ft. Most
of the old hands stuck to the main lines, and
worked down to 4600 ft. Situated as it is
between the Sheepshead and Garden Gully
lines, the formation should have a chance.
A modern crowd has selected a strip in a
zone directly east of the New r Blue claim.
Crosscuts are going out down to 400 ft., and
at 355 ft. a cap of a reef is being opened up,
which, though showing low T -grade stone, gives
a color or two to keep tiie p„ck go.ng. Tne
spur sj’stem, bes.des the reef, otters a good
gamble, as tu tne New Blues. Ahead as a
tault, and if gold mukes on it anotner Ben-
d-go stock will jig. The work being done is
ail good prospecting.
Blue Consolidated (Bendigo) return for
past week was si3oz. from 044 tons. The
returns for three weeks totalled 19650 z. from
2043 tons. Declaration of dividend has
been deferred until next w'eelt, when the bulk
of the cash reserve will be included, so as to
avoid payment of tax of 2s. Od. in the £.
Waihi (M.L.) return for 1921 was
£309,0 i 2 from 164,042 tons. Expenses
totalled £271,670. Figures for 1920 were:
159,308 tons, giving £341,432, and expenses
£237,093. The directors’ report was pessi-
mistic, as payable ore reserves were steadily
diminishing, and it was estimated that four
years would work them out. Since then,
however, there has been a renewed hope in
the report of the Government Geologist that
indications pointed to the probability of the
discovery of a zone of secondary enrichment
at 2200 ft. It has been reported that the
prophecy has been verified, but this lacks offi-
cial confirmation. Such a development would
be almost a phenomenon; it is said that there
is only one instance—at Butte (U.S.A.) —
authentically recorded of secondary enrich-
ment occurring at a great depth. ' Official
reports on the Waihi mine will be awaited
with much interest by geologists and miner-
alogists.
“Bouragi”: The old mining properties on
Woodlark Island, in the Papuan south-
eastern division, are to be re-opened after
a three years’ spell. These reefing proposi-
tions have turned out a lot of gold in their
time, but costs have always been high and
continually-changing managements have not
helped. The field was run by Charters Tow-
ers in the past, and its fortunes declined
with its parent. There is talk of a London
interest in the revival. There are now about
800 natives and 70 whites mining on Misima
(Stid-Est).. Sud-Est and St. Aignan’s were
the first objectives of the Australian diggers
from North Queensland in the late ’eighties.
Snd-Est is full of slate-barred creeks, and a
lot of good alluvial was taken out by the
d’stgers as well as by a co. which employed
prison labor from Port Moresby. As an
o’d Papuan goM-warden, I am convinced
that dredging will bulk big in Papuan gold-
production some day. Search should be
made on the hillsides, too, for the “high
bars” from which the Klondyke got its
second wind. Papua, like the Klondyke, is
a Dnd of volcanic upheavals and water
erosion.


THE HERRING- ACROSS THE TRAIL.
“She wanted to warn them against the wily arguments of the Prime Minister, who said if they opposed sugar control they oppose,! a ‘White Australia.- That, of course, was not true.”—President of Melboume Homemve,’ Association.


Hotel Carlton
Announcement.
Mr. J. Levy, late manager Grand Hotel,
Auckland, and Usher’s Hotel, has now
taken over the management of the Hotel
Carlton, Sydney.
Associated with Mr. Levy is a well-
known French chef, whose cuisine is
famous among visitors to Sydney.
Write, wire or ’phone
Hotel Carlton for reservations.
Drink
Stout-
“BULL” STOUT for
preference!
An ideal winter beverage:
Equal to the best imported!
So appetising!
So medicinally nourishing!
“BULL” STOUT
Is brewed and bottled
by TOOTH & CO. LTD.,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
*
(SQLtf
7
The
“Stockman”
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed soles. Note the patent
strip on side—a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
FINNEY, ISLES (El CO. LTD.
BRISBANE.
1811
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
ilans Irvine, printer, viticulturist, grazier,
M.P., and several other things, lias passed
out in London at the age of 67. Born in
Melbourne, Hans worked for 15 years for the
Xiven printery in Ballarat before he founded
the wine business with which his name was
most associated. For 32 years he turned out
gallons of sparkling fluids on liis Great
Western property* of 300 acres of vines and
about the same quantity of buildings, subse-
quently turning it over to the big Adelaide
firm of Seppelt and Sons, Ltd. Followed a
less limelit existence as a sheep- and cattle-
grower, living comfortably in the wilds of
Toorak. He was in the Vic. House of
Rich Landlords for five years, and repre-
sented the Grampians in the Reps, from
1910 to 1914.
“S.Q.": Surgeon-Commander Leonard
Darby, R.A.N., recently appointed to the
flagship as P.M.O. of the seagoing fleet, is
an Australian-born, who was educated in Mel-
bourne. He rose rapidly after the Sydney-
Emden fight, at which he operated for over
24 hours without a rest. It is just on the
cards that Darby will be Director of Naval
Medical Services when Fames steps out.
Hitherto no R.A.N. doctor has been given
this job. Fames is Australian-born, but has
after his name the magic “R.N.,” the sine qua
non for high jobs in our Navy.
JOE PALMER , Sydney's oldest stock-
broker.
N. L. Levett, one of the directors of the
Leviathan Stores in Melbourne, died in
London, the other day, at the age of 62. He
was on a world-wander when he took ill in
1 a ns, but bucked up sufficiently to travel to
London, where an operation failed to save
ins life. Levett, who was an old Scotch
Collegian, contributed a bright chapter to the
school’s athletic history, whilst in recent
years he waved a pretty good stick at golf.
I>ut most will remember him as the tall and
distinguished diplomatist who assisted his
youthful partner, A. B. Sanders, in the man-
agement of the business. He was a kindly
character, and his methods were white ail
through.
Mark Twain’s old story of the prisoner
who, after many years, had a brilliant idea
7 —opened his prison door and walked out —
is suggested by the latest escape from Adel-
aide’s principal gaol, the Stockade. Three
men simply melted away, leaving nothing
broken, and hardly anything disturbed.
They must have had confederates somewhere.
One of them is Ryan (also known as
Thomas, Moran, Johnson and Jeffries), a
well-known inter-State criminal who once
took £2OOO from a bank clerk at the pistol-
point in a Sydney street, and was later
arrested in Melbourne.
The 64th birthday of the Torrens Real'
Property Act of S. Aus. occurred this month.
Robert R. Torrens, the father of the measure,
was an Irishman, who arrived in S. Aus. in
1840 at the age of 26 and at various times
was Collector of Customs, Treasurer and
Registrar-General. He was a Minister in
the first Parliament under Responsible Gov-
ernment, which opened on April 22, 1857,
and in the follow-
ing year he brought
in his Act with the
new principle of
conveyance by re-
gistration and cer-
tificate instead of
deed s—a method
which was after-
wards adopted
throughout Austra-
lia and in other
parts of the world.
Torrens returned to
England in ’62, and
10 years later was
knighted. He was
a member for Cam-
bridge in the Com-
mons for six years
(1868-1874), and
died ,in ’B4. Adel-
aide’s creek, which
is called the river
Torrens, is named
after him.
Manager HOLT
of Fullers' Mel-
bourne Palace,
who enjoys the
further distinction
of being Vera
Pearce's brother.
“Hermes”: T. E. Lawrence, C. 8., D. 5.0.,
the insignificant-looking little archaeologist
who olayed such a large part in the over-
throw of the Crescent in Palestine, is back
at his beloved Oxford. He became Re-
search Fellow of All Souls after the war,
and is writing a history of Arabia. He is
flie only don in the proud and ancient annals
of the ’Varsity entitled to sign himself Prince
of Mecca. The King of the Hedjaz gave him
the distinction.
“Mongite”: Alfred Carson, who has en-
tered the ring against Fowler for the Perth
(W .A.) seat in the Reps., is a Westralian-
horn newspaper man, and must be on the
wobbly side of 60. In his younger days he
was a schoolteacher, and for a brief period
was on the staff of the now-defunct Perth
Morning Herald, but soon joined Ilackett
on the West Australian, and is now asso-
ciate-editor of that daily and editor of the
weekly Western Mail. The little man
is popular with the women ; and the Lost
Ladies’ League, the Good Girls’ Guild and
other Bolshevik associations of the kind
will vote for him to a female. He has also
been taken up by the Ugly Men’s Associa-
tion, a weird combination of parsons, punt-
ers and others, that has a big pull at elec-
tions.
“Hermes”: Charles Barrett, editor of the
Australian boys’ paper Pals saw active
service in Palestine with the Camel Corps.
Tie was editor of the Kia-ora Coo-ee while
there, and also co-editor, with H. S. Gullett,
of Australia in Palestine. ‘ln his spare
’"moments he is co-editor of The Emu (Orni-
thologists’ Journal), president of the Nature
Photographers’ Club of Australia, and Titer-
ary organiser of Unit War Histories,
Rev. T. E. Ruth, who since, he took to
the Dill Macky business has found the Bap-
tist conventicle in Collins-street, Melbourne,
too small, and has had to engage the Audi-
torium to accommodate his .Sunday-evening
crowds, is throwing up liis job. He says
that “for pastoral, pulpit and denomina-
tional reasons within the church, and the pos-
sibilities of larger Commonwealth service
outside the church,” he must seek another
vineyard, blit refuses to be more explicit at
present as to his reasons and his future —•
except to remark that it isn’t true he is
going to marry a rich widow. He is already
; married.
A. J. McLachlan, who, with Senators
Rowell and Vardcn, will be under the S.
1 Aus. Liberal Union banner in the coming
Senatorial clash, is an ex-president of the
L.U., and owns a vigorous personality. He
has been a cocky as well as a lawyer in
his time, and comes of a family that has
long been rooted in the land.
Walter Manifold is again President of
Vic. Upper Chamber, and W. 11. Edvar be-
comes Chairman of Committees. Edgar was
going strong as Health and Public Works
Minister in ’l2, when he lost his Council
seat; but he got back for East Yarra.
Depledge Sykes, the well-known Congrega-
tional minister, follows R. J. Campbell, of
the City Temple, London, into the Anglican
fold. Sykes has been prominent in turn at
Stow Church, Adelaide, Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and Ilomebush, N.S.W. Now he has
returned to Adelaide, where the Bishop has
agreed to accept him as a candidate for
ordination.
Walter, brother of the late John and
Frank Madden, has been under the knife
in St. Evin’s Hospital, Melbourne. As he
is 74 this means he will have to rest for
some months at Travancore, Flemington,
where he lives with his younger brother,
Henry. From 1880 till 1800 he was M.P.
for Wimmera in the Vic. Legislative
Asembly, and was Minister for Lands 1881-
82. He is manager of the National Trustee
Co., vice-chairman of the National Mutual
Life Assoc., and unmarried.
Mrs. Emma Louisa Laverock Mort, widow
of Henry Mort, M.L.C., went out the other
day at 80. She was the widow of Dr. Row-
land Traill, of New England (N.S.W.), when,
in 1878, she married Mort, who, too, had
been previously married, his first wife being
Maria, third daughter of Commissary Laid-
lev, who died in 1873, 27 years after their
union. Other daughters of the Commissary
married T. S. Mort, J. S. Mitchell, J. S.
Dowling and the Rev. R. Moffatt.
When the late John D. Fitzgerald headed
the poll for the West Sydney seat in the
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly at the general election
of 1891, the other successful Labor candidates
were George Black, Andy Kelly and T. M.
Davis. Black, now M.L.C., is the only sur-
vivor of the quartet.
“Norseman” : Not long after Hugh Mahon,
formerly Minister for External Affairs, came
to Australia from Ireland, he was rounds-
man for Sydney Telegraph, and J. W, Hol-
liman, who lately retired from the job of
N.S.W. Under-Treasurer, put him on to
report a Royal Commission. It was so much
more long-winded than usual that Mahon
made £l5OO or so out of the shorthand notes.
That gave him a start, and the D.T. saw him
no more.
George Henry Keat, D.F.0., who proposes
to fly across the Tasman Sea, is a Melbourne,
boy, and has been living in Ashburton
(M.L.) for 16 years. Keat did some fine
things in the war and annexed the M.L.
medal for the soldier who saved the most
lives. Ilis total was seven. He is about to
leave for England to link up with the Sop-
with _ people, who are constructing his
machine, and has fixed February as the
month for his flight and Melbourne as the
starting point. -L
“Lucius”: The Marquis of Lincolnshire
(B. 6/7/’22) is;.one of three peers who divide
the office of Lord Great Chamberlain. The
Earl of Ancaster and the Marquis of Chol-
mondeley are', the others. They take turn
about with each change in the monarchy.
Whichever one is in office when a coronation
looms up lias certain defined duties dating
back from the, days of Henry I. There are
also perks: “Forty ells of crimson velvet for
his own robes,” the gilt basin and towels used
by his Majesty when performing his ablu-
tions prior to the coronation ceremony, and
£2OO in cash. Originally the L.G.C. was
entitled to the furniture from the King’s
bedroom, but. the £2OO. was substituted —a-
rotten/bargain from the . standpoint of the
Chamberlain. Lincolnshire is addressing his
intellect .to the job during the present reign.
Algernon Canning, just translated from
stipendiary magistracy at Perth to the
Fedeiail'-Taxation Board at Sydney, comes of
a well-known W.A. clan. His father sat as
a metropolitan member in Groperland’s first
Parliament under Responsible Government.
Algy, helped by a scholarship, went to Wad-
ham College, Oxford, and subsequently
absorbed the law and the dinners essential
to. barristerhood at one of the Inns of Court.
He returned to W.A. to hang out his legal
shingle ,at Cue, in the early roaring days of
the . goldfields, and became a partner of the
bustling Dickv Haynes (who died the other
day) at Perth, in 1898. He never appeared
much in the courts as a pleader, but for the
last few years he was part of one as a police-
magistrate. The Groper beak, however, is
not extravagantly paid, and Canning has
exchanged the job for something muc}i more
lucrative.
“T.W”: Puffy little Captain Astle Little-
joliii, given by the Royal Navy to Australia
as its liaison officer in London, has ceased to
function for the Commonwealth, and now
there are no brass-buttoned® of either defence
arm to represent us at the funerals and
Buckingham Palace jostles. Littlejohn took
over when wealth descended on his attenu-
ated former chief, Haworth Booth, and about
the first thing he did was to run "foul of
two of Australia’s best-known pressmen
attending a Chatham function. The party,
headed by Andrew Fisher, was going in to
see Admiral Dove-
ton Sturdee, hero
of the Falkland
Islands scrap, and
then Chatham’s
ruler, when Little-
john halted the
two journalists on
the doormat.
Fisher nearly
headed an emeutc.
and the roasting
the officious little
skipper got subse-
quently from the
two scribes them-
selves in a warship
mess should still
give him a warm
glow whenever he
thinks of it.
ALBERT
BRUNTNELL.
the ex-Salr’army-
ite, who as A.S.IF.
Minister of Edu-
cation is trying
to make the ,
scliool-hids salute
the Flag.
Charles Robinson, ex-leader of N.S.W. Han-
sard staff, who has just died at Gosford, aged
84, arrived in Australia from Lincolnshire
in 1856. After some years on the S. M.
Herald he went to Philadelphia (U.S.A.)
as secretary to the Exhibition Commissioner,
the late Arthur Renwick, M.D.; then Henry
Parkes commissioned him to organise a
lla nsard staff, which he led until his resig-
nation late in the Holman regime.
The veteran William Coulthard, dead in
S.A. at 71, was a son of the pioneer who
came to infant Adelaide in the historic
Buffalo, and died of thirst on an .exploring
expedition in 1856. William spent all his
life in the Outback, and few knew more
about the Finke and the Macdonnell Ranges
country in the heart of Australia. He found
the first living marsupial mole known to
science. It was sent to Adelaide, and might
in fairness have given his name a moderate
immortality. But they basely christened it
“Notoryctes typhlops.”
“Schoolmate”: Col. F. S. Ilall, D. 5.0.,
recently retired from the command of the
Fiji Defence Force by General Death, was
educated at Dover College, England. He
answered to the nickname of “Chubby,” and
later to that of “Angel”—a tribute to his
disposition. He passed high up for Sand-
hurst, but, later, went to P.C., Dublin,
whence he took a backdoor entrance into the
army, being seconded to the Indian Army.
A contemporary of Ilall was R. J. 'T T ill.vard.
now Director of the Cawthron Institute in
ALL., known as “Bughunter” on account nl
that passion for insect life which has since
made him famous in scientific circles.
Tom Livingston, who died the other day,
was one of the best Whips Vic. Legislative
Assembly has known. Beating Speaker
Frank Mason, who had been South Glpps-
land’s idol for nearly 30 years, he came into
the House on the crest of the Kyabramapootra
wave in 1002, and was in the second Watt,
second Peacock and the Lawson-teams.
Last year he . let go his job Assistant
Minister for Agriculture because:. Ire was
then 70 and had got a medical hint to take
things steadily. Livingston was a'< peda-
gogue for 13 years (1870-1883), and
after that tried,-his hand as country news-
paper proprietor, dairy farmer, butter fac-
tory director and other things, and gener-
ally managed to hold his end up. He rests
in the same cemetery (Brighton) as‘ the
great Higinbotham and Higinbotham’s rival,
Thomas Bent.
“Gallery”: No one remembers any con-
spicuous achievement of the late Hans Irvine
in the Federal Parliament, andT'-though he
was exceedingly popular he was only once
guilty of a joke. He had collected a few
friends in the party room to sample some of
his sparkling hock, and among them was a
constituent with a small knobbly face beating
a hasty retreat into an awful .growth of red
whisker. This hairy person got rather
tight and let his undergrowth stray into his
glass. “Thash goo’ wine,” he said in one of
his lucid intervals, and hospitable little Hans,
poised with the bottle over my goblet, turned
and answered, “Yes, my friend, but good
wine, you know, needs no bush.”
WE HYPOCRITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
All tilings am I to all men; for, my mood
Changing at any hour from bad to good,
From left to light, and surely back again,
How can I hope One Person to remain,
Save through the numbing of my heart and brain,
The fell disease called Death, which lays one low
And freezes virtue in its ebb or flow?
“All things to all men.” Whilst I have the will
I starve my appetites or eat my fill.
It is not wisdom which affects disdain
Of human follies and diversions vain,
Wherein is naught of “spiritual gain,”
As we are told. Oh, is it vain to be
Delighted by the jade Frivolity?
From grave to gay, from light to dark, I change.
Man ne’er is natural that seems not strange
To some who knew him in another vein
When, lapped in sunshine, he awaited rain,
Or dreamed of pleasure whilst enduring pain.
One must be changeable, for Nature’s sense
Inclines to moods and loathes indifference.
Constant am I to fickleness alone,
Born in the marrow of my mental bone,
Of Man’s own Self, embedded in his grain,
Wherefrom his airy castle homes in Spain
Derive reality and prove him sane ;
M ho has but one side to his mind, alack !
Is rightly termed a monomaniac.
Why seek to know what kinds of men are we
Whose moods to differ happily agree?
As well to strive to make the meaning plain
Of brother Abel being slain by Cain —
The better fellow, doubtless, of the twain.
Each man of changing moods and varied states
Is all the selves that he dissimulates.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


“I thought I needed to know
more about Salesmanship
but I found I needed to know more
about all Business Fundamentals.”
i:
us take this man’s letter
just as he wrote it. He
was a specialist, just as
many are. He knew his own
department of business, and
knew it well. And the very
specialised knowledge that made
him a good man in his particular
line had kept him from knowing
other departments of modern
business.
There are thousands of men
in this country in his position.
Too late some of them learn this
vital truth — that specialised
effort is a great thing, but know-
ledge too much specialised keeps
men from being great.
“When I subscribed to the Course
of the Alexander Hamilton Institute,
this man says, “I did so with the view
of advancing myself in the position of
sales manager.
“After I had been following the
Course a few weeks, I found that the
other phases of business were import-
ant to me. I began to see why it was
so necessary, if I were to be a more
successful executive, that I understand
the fundamentals of Finance, Produc-
tion, Accounting, Transportation,
Organisation, as well as my own par-
ticular selling problem.
“I found the entire Course an imme-
diate help to me.”
What does he mean by imme-
diate help? He means this: that
within a year he was taken out
of the particular line of business
which had been his whole
horizon before, and lifted into
an executive position in an
entirely different line.
He had given himself the all-
round knowledge of every
department of business that
makes a man fit to supervise the
work of other men.
There are no limits on the
man who has that knowledge.
If his opportunity is restricted
in the business where he hap-
pens to be, he can move at will
to another, for he knows the
fundamentals that underlie them
all.
Are You Limited? Begin to
Lift the Limit To-day.
Nine out of ten men who
read this are handicapped by be-
ing only specialists. Are you
one of the nine? Are you so
good an accountant, or sales-
man, or engineer, or depart-
mental man of any sort that you
are likely to be confined to one
department or one business all
your life?
You can surmount the re-
strictions that your specialised
knowledge has placed upon you.
To-day you can begin to lift
yourself into the class of men
who know the fundamentals of
all departments of business —the
men who have banished fear
from their lives, because the
demand for them always ex-
ceeds the supply.
Practical Training that Has
Proved Its Power.
The Institute has only one
course. Its purpose is to take a
man who has made a start in
business, and by leading him
successively through all the
different departments of modern
business, train him to direct the
work of other men.
The divisions of this Course
that treat of sales and credits,
accounting and merchandising,
advertising, factory and office
management, finance—and all
the rest —are each the work of
experts. They give, in sys-
tematic, pleasant reading, the
best knowledge and practice of
the most successful business
men.
They teach fundamental
principles, whose application is
universal —to every business and
in every country.
By serving years in each of
these departments the average
man could, if he chose, gain this
training by practical experience.
It’s the business of the Insti-
tute to save these wasted years;
to provide a more direct path to
success.
The Joy of Succeeding While
You are Young.
If you have studied its adver-
tising you have been impressed
with the fact that the Alexander
Hamilton Institute studiously
avoids exaggerated claims. It
cannot double men’s incomes
over night, nor transform fail-
ures into successes in a month.
But it can, and does, do this—it
eliminates the years that too
many men spend in going from
one routine departmental job to
another. It does shorten the
path to success, and affords men
the joy of succeeding while they
are still young.
Hundreds of its men reached
positions before thirty-five which
would ordinarily have come to
them only at fifty or later. What
the Institute has done for such
men it can and will do for you.
“Forging Ahead in Business.”
In a single evening you can
learn the full facts about the
Modern Business Course and
Service. They are published in
a 116-page book, “Forging
Ahead in Business.” It is a valu-
able little book that should be in
the library of every forward-
looking man. And to men of
serious purpose it is sent without
obligation. Send for your copy
to-day.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE,
42 Hunter Street, Sydney -
Send me “Forging Ahead in Business,”
which I may keep without obligation.
Name
(Print here)
Business
Address
Business
Position


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants.
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
tain ins t.O testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries sciicitei
This Reliable “Warrigal” Hat, 22/6.
One of the new and pleasing Felts
Peapes display at present is this
neglige shape with adjustable brim
The quality is so high that they offer
it under their own individual “Warri-
gal” Trade-mark —symbol of excel-
lence.
It has a medium crown, 2-jin. brim
with unbound edge, 2-inch band with
bow at side, and is available in three
shades: Grey, Steel or Slate.
The price is lower than market condi-
tions have allowed for a very long
time —the value is splendid.
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES <& CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
ARTHUIi J. USHER,
Managing Director. '
SOCIETY
GALLIC
S[?]CARI [?]RVE
[?] Whi[?]
Father Clarke, of Auburn (N.S.W.) :
“Bildad” (B. 13/7/'22) is not accurate.
The “Ne Temere” decree certainly does
run in the countries he mentions. The
law of civil marriage which obtains in them
was not passed to circumvent the decree.
In point of fact it was anterior in all hut
one of them to the decree. Catholics, of
course, do not consider the civil ceremony a
valid marriage, and resort to their parish
priest to be joined in valid wedlock. Nor has
any one of the States mentioned been idiotic
enough to attempt to prevent this construc-
tive defiance of man-made law. This climax
of folly has been left to the land where
Massey rules, and it has failed as inevitably
as legislators have failed to bludgeon Angli-
cans into admitting the validity of divorce.
* * * *
“P. 8.”: If the Federal twisters keep their
word in regard to
the S. Aus. route
for the Transcon-
tinental railway it,
will open up in
the centre of Aus-
tralia a resort for
tourists second to
none in the world.
Some of the Fed-
eral members who
recently returned
from their jaunt
“right through the
heart of the conti-
nent” are raptu-
rous about the Mac-
donnell It ang e s.
The climate for
the greater part of
the year is almost
perfect, and there
is nothing in Aus-
tralia to equal the
great “gaps” or
gorges cut through
the southern-most
and middle of these
three parallel
ranges. The
Painted Cliffs,
along the Finke
River, are the most
marvellous of all
the sights. These,
with their magnifi-
cent spl ashes of
red, white, black,
yellow, pink, crim-
son and numerous
other shades, make
a riot of vivid
coloring said to
surpass even the
canyons of Califor-
nia and Colorado.
Th e rainfall a t
Alice Springs aver-
ages 11 inches,
and sometimes at-
tains 28 inches
annually, so the
centre of Australia
is not so drought-stricken as many parts
of the State over which Barwell rules.
Adelaide detectives have been employing
with success one of the simpler Sherlock
Holmes methods —capture by advertise-
ment. The main thing they
knew about a young fellow,
wanted for a series, of shop
thefts, was that he is a good
elocutionist. So they adver-
tised a vacancy for such a per-
former in a first-class concert
party about to go on the road,
“Apply King’s Theatre.” Then
they waited there and gathered
him in. The only drawback to
the scheme was that the Kind’s
management had to spend the
rest of the day explaining to
about 75 applicants that the
engagement. w r as filled. Adel-
aide swarms with ambitious
elocutionists ready to go anywhere at any
time in the exercise of their fearsome art.
* * * *
“Flicker” on the problem “Should a
burglar tell?”:
Ethelbert, a crook, who has always taken an
artistic pleasure in the finer details of an admittedly
strenuous calling, told me the yarn. It had come
to his knowledge that the proprietor of a sumptuous
flat in one of Melbourne’s most expensive suburbs
had gone t.o Sydney for a fortnight, leaving his wife
to keep the home radiators aglow. Three nights
later Ethelbert entered the premises. He had scarcely
got inside when the light clicked on, and Ethelbert
foirrtl himself collared by a hefty gentleman in
pyjamas, who announced his intention of wringing
the intruder’s neck and then handing his body to
the authorities. This did not fit in either with Ethel-
bert’s desires or with his estimate of the situation.
He, accordingly, informed the enraged gentleman and
the lady—-whose right eye he could just see from
behind a sheet —that he was an investigator from
Blank’s Private Inquiry Agency, and that “he had all
the evidence he needed.” This put a different face
on the matter, and the guilty parties began to talk
bribery and corruption. Ethelbert at length “fell,”
and agreed to call on the Lothario next day at his
office for hush-money. “Did you get it ?” I demanded.
“Well, no,” said he. “For one thing, I didn’t reckon
it was worth the risk. Anyhow, I sent him a note
to explain it was all right, and that I was merely
a burglar, not a blackmailer.” 1 regret to state that
Ethelbert has fallen from grace since then. He now
keeps a seaside hotel.
» » * *
“Tantalus” : If “Slinga,” notwithstanding
his lengthy military service (B. 6/7/’22),
is still willing to learn I can supply him
with an instance in which the chevrons of
an n.c.o. were publicly removed on promulga-
tion of his sentence of reduction to the
ranks. And not in the early days of the
war either, nor yet on a hospital ship. The
idiocy occurred at Fovant T. C., England,
towards the end of January, 1918, and the
victim was a corporal of the 17th Batt.,
A.1.F., who, fascinated by the lighting
arrangements of London, had gone a.w.i.
The Batt. was drawn up in hollow square,
the finding of the Court read out, and the
THE WISDOM OF THE AGES.
“Fifty years ago girls married before they were twenty; nowadays
they’re thirty before they think of it.”
“We get wiser every day. In another fifty years we won’t marry
at all.”
culprit divested of his stripes by the R.S.M.
I never heard of the tradition that a son is
allowed to wear his dead father’s medals,
but it is common knowledge that the late
Earl Roberts was in the habit of wearing
two Y.C.’s —his own and that earned by his
dead son.
* # # «
The Prince Albert statue, erected at the
northern end of Hyde Park, Sydney in 1860,
and now shifted to a site in the Inner
Domain, was the work of. one William
Theed, a Staffordshire man. The original
is at Coburg, and the replica was finished
in the metal at Nuremburg. The ceremony
of unveiling the Sydney Albert was per-
formed on St. George’s Day, April 23. 1866.
Governor Sir John Young (Lord Lisgar)
made the oration, and an opera company,
then in Sydney, sang the Ijritish National
Anthem. After which the United German
Society rendered their National Anthem
with thunderous effect.
* # « *
“A.M.P.”: “Tawarra” (B. 13/7/’22) is
quite right in his view of the U.S. attitude
to lynch law. The protection of white
women from colored men is a vital question
not only in America, but in every country
where blacks and whites live side by side.
However, his remark that the New Yorker has
no “color-sense” applies to many people w’hose
blood is purer than the average New
Yorker’s, and who are in a better position
to appreciate the urgent need of keeping our
black brother in his appointed place. The
following is an extract from a private letter,
received by the writer from Fiji to-day
There is an Auckland girl staying in this district
with an American friend at the hotel They used
to walk from there to the baths, a distance of about
threequarters of a mile, amongst Fijians, Indians,
etc., in their bathing-suits, sandshoes—and a parasol.
Not even a gown. One day they returned on horse-
back, sitting behind two men.... Anyhow, they had
a severe letter from the Inspector of Police warning
them not to do anything of the sort again. They
tell me this girl is in the “smart” Auckland set.
If colored people are to be expected to respect
white women the latter must be put on a
pedestal and kept there. Such women as
the. above ought to have been deported, and
if it had been in India would have been.
* * * .
O.K. ’: My recollections of murders in
railway carriages are unfavorable to the man
who did the deed. More than 50 years ago a
German named Muller killed old Mr.
Briggs, whilst travelling on a London rail-
way, and pushed the body out on the line.
There was no clue whatever to the identity
of the man, or men, who had presumably
travelled with Briggs and murdered him for
what he had in his pockets, before casting
his bulky body from the carriage. Yet the
culprit was tracked through the chance dis-
covery of a pair of bloodstained trousers
secreted up the chimney of the room w r here
Muller lodged. Another London railway-
carriage fiend (this was in 1881) was a
young man named Lefroy—a name that for
years after suggested gory criminality. Por-
traits of the wanted man, whose chin
receded in a marked manner, were all
over the place for some days ere he
was arrested. Till then a youth of
my acquaintance had a rotten time.
No John llop, or other watchful citizen,
could see this unfortunate in the street
without going for him. Finally he got
some relief through his notoriety. When
he tvas run into the police-station the
inspector would receive him as an old
familiar friend and take him out to have a
consolation “wet” at the hostelry round the
cornei’. I have a notion that the injured
party got a trifle from the Government to
compensate him for the carelessness of the
police in arresting him so often on no better
evidence than his absence of chin.
* * * #
“Booyong”: Touching the stealing of pub
glasses, which “Winkle” (B. 6/7/’22) de-
scribes as “a novel collecting fad.” The
glasses lifted by young bucks who have
camps around the beaches are as a drop in
the ocean compared with those which are
pinched for sordid use or gam. 1 know of
a case where 300 were stolen in one day at
a football match, and when the Prince of
Wales visited Melbourne a pub in Funt-road
lost every glass and mug in the bar, so that
at 5 p.m. Bung was selling bottles only.
Glasses are stolen for two chief reasons, (1)
to sell again, (2) to enable the bottled beer
purchased just before closing time to be con-
sumed in comfort on the way home.
# * * *
“Yarrum”: Six months ago a suburban
matron sacked one of her maids and threw
in a few words of rebuke in the heat of the
moment. The maid looked up a union
official and returned demanding re-instate-
ment and more pay. She was ordered off
the premises, and left threatening to do for
and play the devil generally with her ex-
employer “first fair chance she got.” The
lady, a nervous and imaginative subject, for
many weeks lived in fear and trembling of
the “bad, wicked girl.” She was almost
afraid to go out alone for fear the revenge-
ful hussy "might be lying in wait for her at
some lonely corner. The other day, with a
friend, she wept to have a Turkish bath.
In a little baejf room she waited alone. And
as she sat, there perspiring profusely in the
most defenceless condition possible for a
human being there entered an attendant.
Then a prolonged, unearthly scream almost
THE GLOOM HABIT.
E VE: “What glorious scenery!”
ADAM: not hod; not at all bad—for
this world”
rent the baths, and the manageress rushed
in to find her client prostrate on the cold
floor. Yes. The attendant was the sacked
Abigail.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE LAY OF THE COALBLACK TRACKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Lord Northcliffe (ir.troduced by Newton Moore,
sometime Premier of W.A., as the “Great Napoleon
of Journalism”), speaking at the Royal Colonial
Institute of what he had learned of Australia on his
world tour, dwelt on the early settlers’ arduous
struggles. Amongst other things he mentioned that
“they had to fight aboriginal black trackers, a very
dangerous enemy, for nearly a hundred years, and
eventually drove them into the inteiior.
Hail to the monarch without a crown,
The lord of the linos in London town,
Who puts up statesmen to knock them down!
Hark! Over the world his vast renown
Is wafted on harps JEolian,
Harp 3 that are held in a hundred hands,
Blaring trumpets in brassy hands.
But who was it pulled in these sunlit lands
The leg of the Great Napoleon?
Who was it kidded—Holy Smoke!
The Great, Omnipotent, Know-All Bloke?
Our dads were a hefty lot, we knew;
They dug their heels in and carried through;
They eared not for bunyip or jackeroo;
Careless and gay, as in grim battue
The fearsome beasts of the wild they slew.
They whooped like kids with crackers.
But they never made of their job a do,
Till the day when, over the Mountains Blue
(Was it ’69 or ’72?),
They drove the Coalblaek Trackers —•
Hustled ’em off to Nullarbor Plain,
And bid them never emerge again,
Except to peer at a passing train.
For the Trackers had reddened in white folks’ gore
Their hands for a century, less or more.
No border Afghans were e’er so fierce
The ring of the circling forts to pierce.
Their braves would raid the Sydney shops,
And scare the salesmen and scalp the cops.
Of comme il faut they hadn’t a trace,
They wouldn’t admit us the dominant race
And themselves the quite inferior;
They worried our dads for a hundred years,
And filled our tender mums with fears,
Till the day when the Footscray Fusiliers,
And the dauntless Ultimo Grenadiers
Impounded their waddies, and smashed their spears,
And hustled them off, ’mid a nation’s cheers,
To the desolate, dry interior.
Like the ancient Britons in ancient tales
Were driven away to the crags of Wales,
Or cooped in corners of Cornish vales,
To grow into Cousin Jackers —•
SHE MEANT WELL.
MR. NEWLOVE: “This lettuce tastes positively
beastly. Bid you wash it?”
MRS. NEWLOVE: “Of course I did, darling—
and I used perfumed soap, too!”
Like the hairy Ainus of Old Japan,
Before the huskier Shoguns ran,
On the screens that the artist lacquers—
Such was the story the baron told,
The deathless deeds that his Nibs unrolled,
The deeds of our dads in the days of old,
When they swept from paddo<k and farni and fold,
From the coastal fringe of the weald and wold
The scourge of the Coalblack Trackers.
Just what they thought at the R.C.1.,
Of this stirring saga of days gone by,
Set forth by the puissant press I Am,
We needn’t worry a tinker’s damn,
Or a Yankeeland simoleon ;
But I’d like to know in what Melbourne club,
Or railway smoker or Sydney pub,
The eyes were woolled and the leg was pulled—-
The leg of the Great Napoleon.
K.s.w.
T. THE R.


)\mfi '
HI I - *
I
H
1
■
■
m
m
v>
I
■
1
■
■
: ■>
symj
/
*
*
L
o
l*i
*N3
: : : :
;:
H
aBBH ■
HI
:
awd
\Sti\b


Butterfly
ranging
Hatpins and Brooches,
in Price,] 6/6, 21/-
22/6. 25/-
Butterfly Ear Rings, ranging in price,
25/-, 30/-, 32/6, 37/6, 40/-
Butterfly Rings,
prices, 16/6,
17/6, 21/-,
The New Butterfly Jewellery
VERY FASHIONABLE FOR PRESENTATION.
COMPRISING BROOCHES, RINGS, PENDANTS,
WRISTBANDS, EAR-RINGS, HATPINS, etc.
Made from African Butterflies caught in the wilds of
South Africa. The gaily-colored wings are mounted
under magnifying crystal glass, set in Sterling Silver.
A Very Handsome Selection now on view at our
Two Sydney Establishments. Call and Inspect.
Butterfly Hat
p ins, 16/6,
21/-, etc.
dfgdf
Butterfly Wrist-
bands, Black Moire
Silk Bands, choice
designs, from 30/-
Stewabx Dawson & (9( «.w.)Ltd.
Sydneif £stablisments :
385 -1 87 PITT ST. NEAR KING ST.,
CORNER- -4-12 GEORGE
Butterfly Pendant.
Price, 45/-
“0.K.”: Some members of the Vie. public
appear to have gone quite mad about “poor
Winifred Peck”—the girl who is so extra-
ordinarily lucky to be doing six months for
wounding “without intention,” instead of a
life-sentence for murder. None of the Mel-
bourne folks who have been induced to sign
a petition for the young woman’s release
seem to have had eyes for the. man’s side of
the ease. Already their moans of sympathy
with the girl who bought and loaded the
shooting-iron have created an impression that
the whole sex is entitled to act likewise, free
of charge. For the present no young Mel-
bourne man can safely play at handies or
goo-goo eyes with any girl who loves pic-
tures, chocolates and kindred entertainment.
The poor young things must go unpunished
for anything short of murder, and even in
murder cases their papas ought to have the
option of paying a fine. Sympathy for Wini-
fred leek is not all for her sex in its native
innocence and purity. A lot of it is for
her money—or, rather, that of her people.
It a mere man, and a laboring man at that
fares a revolver at a woman he gets no sym-
pathy at all. A Vic. Criminal Court lately
considered the case of a laborer named Ouig-
ley, who wounded a young married woman
with whom he had formerly lived. She
would have lived with him again, she
told the jury, but for her husband turning
up. Jealousy prompted George Quigley to
shoot her in the left arm, and the sentence
on him was 12 months’ imprisonment. Had
his name been Winifred, bis act murderous
(tor the mouth is a pretty murderous place
to shoot into), and his jealousy ridiculous.
A FAMILY TRAGEDY.
"Old Scrooge's son has got married , and Stooge is mad as a
“Girl no good?"
"That's not the trouble. His son let him know by a collect wire.”
George would have escaped with half the
- a Hood of public
status M. d *f ’ °?, cour ?, e 'A nt the financial
sideration. f ly called for gentle con-
/TJ P o < /i'V»oo < c Lip s ” cow-country exclusives
1 .• ) are democratic by comparison
with their cousins of the sheep run. A jum-
buck metropolis near my place has a Dance
Club, and aspiring* members must survive
the acid-test of the investigation committee.
“MANNERS MAKYTH”
T HE PERFECT GENT: "Seme me, ma'am; that strap ain't tea pood. Hath, try the next
one."
A brace of ladies having been rejected, their
sponsor was ill-bred enough to want reasons
Was there anything against their characters?
he asked defiantly. “Oh, no,” came the naive
assurance, that would not signify.” “Then
pinch me purple, what does signify?” he
demanded. “Their uncle keeps a pub.”
* * * *
“Dido”: I came across the last word in
house-hunting the other afternoon, when
two vans loaded with furniture pulled
up before the office
of a lan d-a n di-
estate agent with
whom I was doing
some business—
trying, in point of
fact, to convince
him that he was
lucky to be getting
the March rent in
Jul y. A man
from the leading
van entered and
said: “I suppose
you haven’t a
house to let at
anything under
two pounds a
week ?” The agent
looked matters up.
The caller sighed,
subsided wearily
into the offir*f>-
chair and mopped
his brown. “Been
at it all day,” said
he. “You don’t
mean to say you
are carting your
furniture round
looking for a
house?” said I.
“What else could
I do? Had to turn
out of the house I
was in. We slept
in the second van
in the carter’s
yard last night,
self and missus
and the kid. Looks
as if we’ll have to
do the same to-
night.” He had
no luck with this
agent, and as the
second van passed
I saw the wife
lying on a bed tick under a rug with a child
in her arms, both asleep apparently. Expect
that by this the unhappy home-hunter has
rigged an oil-stove in the van and is lodging
there indefinitely.
Ihe Oldest Inhabitant” straightens out
another tangle:—
Touching the recently-demolished Queen’s Court,
Dailey-street, the S. M. Herald quotes a letter from
E H. Watkm, of Croydon Park, to show that a
H aUows once stood at the northern end of the Court.
Executions, it is averred, took place there in 1537,
when Rev. Watkin (E.H.W.’s grandfather) was chap-
lain, and the Herald correspondent remembers “being
taken as a boy by his grandfather to view the spot
where the gallows stood. On one occasion seven men
were hanged for burning blacks alive.” Thev were,
but not in Queen’s Court. The Myall Greek mur-
derers, 11 in number, were tried for the murder of a
tribe of blacks, Nov. 15, 1838, and acquitted;* On
Nov. 30 seven of them were again placed on trial
and found guilty of the murder of an aboriginal
(hild, name unknown, and the seven were hanged
in the old gaol yard in Lower George-street, at least
a couple of hundred yards away from what is now
Dalley-street. I would like to add that Queen’s Court
was not built in the late ’twenties, as the same para-
graph alleges, but in 1833, by one Edward Hunt, a
cabinet-maker, of Jamieson-street. On March 2,
1835, Sam Lyons offered “in one or more lots 12
new-built brick dwelling-houses, country houses and
spacious vaults, etc.” No gallows ever stood there.
* * * *
“Wilfrido”: A Post and Telegraph. Com-
mission recently sat in Maoriland to decide
whether a country postmaster should or
should not be sacked for kissing a girl in
the Dominion’s time. The alleged amorist
was represented by counsel; the evidence
took 12 days; and the estimated cost to
both sides was approximately £6OO. “As-
suming that the girl had given her consent,”
asked counsel of the President, “would that
justify the Department in ordering the post-
master’s dismissal?” “His offence,” was the
reply, delivered with the gravity of a Thur-
low, “does not consist in kissing the girl,
and whether her consent was given or not
is immaterial: it consists in kissing the girl
while in the execution of his duties.” Local
students of departmental methods foresee
that the chief upshot of this tremendous
matter is going to be the retrenchment of
several civil servants to make up for the
money blewed on the inquiry.
* * * »
“Uramao”: Self-inflicted diseases were
known in war-time as well as s.-i. wounds.
One day, just before my discharge as a
scarlet-fever patient from the isolation-
camp, a young Irishman (I was in a
Tommy unit) suggested that I should become
a scabies sufferer. He showed me a scrubbing-
brush in an advanced state of baldness, and
remarked that with this simple weapon he
could “bate the whole ar-rmy-medical corps.”
By a few blows on his legs with it he brought
out what he called “a bee-utiful clusther.” A
few days later, when we were inspected by
a couple of army doctors, this man and a
mate who had adopted the scrubbing-brush
method, found that their device had answered
well, the young medieoes indulging in
some acute and learned comments on the
complaint, with reminiscences of cases they
L a fnvp U T° Untere< V n the P ast A d ay or so
, was PH* 1 on „ draft to go overseas I
the JL?*? whilom friends skipping towards
Clvvies —they had been dis-
cnaiged as incurably diseased.
* * * *
Yarrum” supplies another bush idyll:—
It was the night of Barney’s wedding. We all
iode over to the party at his father’s place, and, of
course everybody had one dance, at least, with the
bade, lovely Ruth Riordan, whom most of us had
proposed to at different times. Barney, who
(hdnt dance, stood it heroically until the clock
indicated midnight. Then he suddenly upended his
six feet odd, threw out a massive chest, and made
JL™* 10 announcement, in five crisp sentences.
Bed-time. Good night, farder! Good night, mud-
der! Good night, all. Come along, Root!” And,
of course, Ruth, not having had time to forget her
vows and promises, escaped from her partner’s arms
and went. The party broke up, a few minutes
afterwards, in an atmosphere of gloom.
* * *
“Sierra”: Isn’t “Herodot” thinking of
o, . s ,' )eetl of light when he 1 - talks (B.
22) of the moon’s shadow travelling
186,000 miles a second? While old mother
Earth leisurely takes her annual stroll
«uounci the sun the moon runs rings round
i lke - a , hisky tyke gambolling about a
..(date mistress. In her giddy gyrations the
moon rushes past the sun 12 times a year
sometimes a little above, sometimes below
and, occasionally, a s on Sept. 21 next, fair
and square across his face. Her speed is 33
mUes a mmute, and at about that rate
(modified by the earth’s orbital and axial
motions) her black umbra will race across
Australia. By the way, her earliest convic-
t'(>n /or blotting out the sun was recorded by
the Chinese in 2158 B.c.
“Phthisis,” on patent medicines that have
come Ins way :
Some i ecent remarks on quack nostrums, especially
those warranted to work in consumptive cases, have
•set me thinking of the many infallible “cures” I
lave taken during a 10 years’ campaign against the
■ . (f m still fighting). These specifics
"eie, in addition to the open-air, rest and graduated-
exercise treatment. The first I remember was
Pneumosan,” an inky-looking fluid, which had to
be injected daily per needle three inches into the
muscle. As 1 weighed about seven stone at the
tune there was only one place where anything
approaching- the requisite depth existed. A needle
also figured in the next cure. It was inserted
between my ribs, and gas-syphoned in to deflate
the affected lung. This was called “artificial pneumo-
thorax, and worked well up to a certain point, when
adhesions made the process too risky to proceed. The
third remedy was a few drops of a drug called
“alyl-sulphide.” It smelt like garlic, and so did I
after a while. Potassium-iodide and chlorine water
was the next nasty combination I had to swallow.
It seemed to do some good, too. Two kinds of tuber-
culin were tried at different times, and I’ve had
three autogenous vaccines, that is, those made from
one’s own microbes discovered in the expectoration.
(Not the T. 8., which is never found in me nowadays,
but a bacillus by the name of Staphyllococcus
aureus .) Then there was “Chloramine T.,” which
was given to six of us “old cases.” The other five
are dead. All these were administered by specialists
after I had read the inventor’s literature, telling
how every case he had treated had almost or entirely
recovered. I’ve also had recommended as positive
THE SABBATH TERROR..
LITTLE LINEL (who has been promised a
treat ): “I say, Uncle Hughie, are
oysters open on Sundays?”
cures: Christian Science, kerosene, olive-oil, “stock-
hollum” tar, sulphur in various ways, brandy and
’erbs, turpentine, creosote, dugong lard, and many
home-brewed compounds. One old chap assured me
that he was so weak from disease and haemorrhage
that he couldn’t get out of the bed he had been
in for six months when a friend made him a mixture.
After two bottles of this, taken in a fortnight, he
went back to work. The concoction was “ ’ore’ound
and rum.”
THE DISAPPOINTING GOVERNOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The Governor’s speech is expected to contain oik
or two surprises.” —Melbourne pa/per.
Tie opened with remarks about the stars,
Elucidated Einstein’s theory,
Dealt briefly with the moods of motor-cars,
And what the temp’rature of Hell should be,'
While, in sharp bursts of startled ecstasy,
His hearers clapped, until they burst asunder
Their brand new gloves in sheer delighted wonder.
Then, swallowing the mace, he took it out
From the dazed Speaker’s ear, what time he said,
“Fling wide the bar! So long as members spout
Drinks shall be free.” And then he turned and
read
A murder case aloud, and shouted out
That, if they were to strike black treason dead,
Each Laborite should have, by legislation,
A complicated major operation.
Did he do this? Alas 1 His Ex.’s speech
Was, as of old, mud-dull and uninspired.
And yet a Governor great heights might reach
Of public fame and love who cried, “You're fired !’*
Unto the House at large; and then to each
Pale M.L.A.: “By none are you desired.
Get out! To blazes with you ! And perdition
Fall on each cadging, loafing politician! ”
N - s - w -
PANURGE.


For Discriminating Smokers.
CIGARETTES
Number
Virginia
The Famous Red Pacßet.
High-Class
Cigarettes
at a
Moderate
Price.
■sr
for Ud.
20.1*
“THE CONNOISSEUR ”
Sole Proprietors: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON,
Britain's Greatest High-Class Cigarette Manufacturers.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-GG COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
OUEENSFAND branch
A BANK chambers,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH—
W PF?I vs L^ iND buifding, GREN-
feff street, adefaide.
“VALLO”
SHEEP DIPS
r J»
In Powder and Liquid Form.
Powder Dip packed in Cases containing
10 packets of 101 b. each.
A CASE OF POWDER DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 2500 SHEEP.
Liquid in drums containing 5 gallons.
A 5 - GALLON DRUM DIPS
APPROXIMATELY 1000 SHEEP.
Prices: Powder, 72/6 per case)
Liquid, 37/6 per drum I ,
F.o.b. or
f.o.r. main
Misti alian
Ports.
Manufactured In Australia by
A. Victor Leggo & Co.,
Melbourne: Sydney: Brisbane:
497 Collins 7 Hamilton 239 Elizabeth
Street. * Street. Street.
Correspondence invited. Agents all States.
WORLD-FAMED
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
Bozzer B.” : George Kinsley, of Warbuvton
G ic.), had dodged many falling trees in his time,
but he had no hope against the final combination
some days ago. He was standing not far froiji the
spot where workmen were felling a forest giant, and
moved when the warning was given. The falling
gum struck a second tree, sending it crashing in
another direction, and it lodged heavily on the fork
of a third tree, splitting it. By this time Hinsley
was dodging death on all sides; but it was no go.
Portion of the third tree hit a fourth tree —and the
fourth tree killed Hinsley.
“Fat Bushie”: A well-built woman of 28
was standing in front of the courthouse, in a little
western N.S.W. town, when the clerk opened the
front door the other morning. She wanted to regis-
ter her baby, which had been born 40 hours previous.
The clerk was suspicious that it was a “ring in,”
and said so. “Of course it's my kid,” she blazed.
“An’ why shouldn’t it be? This is me third, an’ I
never stayed in bed longer'n a day ter any of ’em.
hy, the first was born under a bullock-waggon,
with on’y me husband ter ’elp me!” She is a
white woman, born of white Australian parents, and
was seen moving about her home the day after the
nipper’s birth.
* * * *
“Pro”: The fossilised bones of the dipro-
todon found in the Quirindi (N.3.W.) district
recently raise “the riddle of the bone beds.” How
do these vertebrates come to leave their mortal
remains in massed formation? Kindle (Canadian
Field Naturalist) says the herd animals have com-
munity dying grounds, and if this is so the fashion
must also exist among the wiggily things. At
Borenore (N.S.W.) marble caves the walls are a
mass of fossilised worms and grubs. The country
just there seems to have petrifying properties, for
fossil bones can be picked up anywhere on the sur-
face, but their distinctive peculiarity is the marble
graining, which does not appear elsewhere in single
specimens. I once picked up a perfect shoulder-blade
which showed that the bone had been sawn off square.
In all probability it was taken there by a picnic
party; but the fact that the district has not yet
celebrated its centenary seems to reverse the
popular prejudice that the fossil is a “stick in the
mud, ' or has anything in common with the Uppah
House.
* * •» *
“Slinga” : Let me back up “Yarrum” (B.
22/6/’22) about poisoning crows. In 1882-84, on
Dundoo station, Paroo River (S.-W.Q.), I saw scores
of them poisoned with strychnine. My father was
part-owner of the place, and his method was to take
the skin of a freshly-killed beast, spread it out and
then smear it with a mixture of fat and strychnine.
It was never touched by hand, but this may have
been so that the meal would be palatable to any
dingo that came along. In those days there was
no lack of crows, nor (owing to the drought) of
bullock hides.
* » # »
“Vulture”: At Numurkah (Vic.) recently
I thought my shooting companion, 50yds. to my
right in some stubble, had gone dilly when he began
running round in a ring of a yard or two in diameter.
Narrowing in he made a downward grab and—a gal-
vanised-too-late rabbit filled his hands. I main-
tained it was a fluke, until I saw him do it success-
fully' six out of seven times. Mine thinkit Binghi
gottit nothing on white pfella, after all!
* * # *
“Pro”: “D.F.’s” professorial dairy-shed
genius (B. 4/5/’ 22) is easily second to an uncle
of mine just out from England. He has ideas upon
the utilisation of waste energy, and when he saw
Strawberry put up a first-class kicking stunt he got
busy. He fossicked out an old milking-machine and
fixed an eccentric disc to the driving shaft; then, in
place of a leg-rope, he strapped Strawberry’s leg
to the disc and let her go. She naturally kicked
at the outrage for all she was worth, and the eccen-
tric transmitted the motive power into the machine,
which milked her.
* * * *
“Garie”: The most persistent haunter of
the National Park (N.S.W.) is one Nubling, a mem-
ber of tile Ornithologists’ Union. He has got together
a list of 140-odd species of birds observed by him in
the park, which is not bad seeing that it is a fifth
of the total number of species in Australia. His
special pets are bower-birds and lyre-birds. He is
one of the comparatively few observers who have
actually seen the lyre-bird dancing on its mound, and
his observations of the bower-birds will be a classic
some day. Nubling has found over a score of bowers
in the park, and has disposed of some moss-grown
ideas about them —for instance, that the bowers are
built only in the breeding season, and that the satin
bower-bird (the one in question) decorates its bower
with any bright object at random. It has a true
artist's eye, and a well-defined sense of color. Any-
thing blue it uses readily—blue flowers, bits of blue
paper, broken blue glass or china, the “blue-bags”
from the wash-troughs of the cottages in the park,
blue beads and bluish tops of match-boxes. Apart
from blue it favors yellow, green and brown, but will
not stand red, white or other colors. If objects of
the offending hues are placed on the platform they
are removed. Snail-shells are a very popular decora-
tion, and so are the dead leaves of the banksia. An-
other curious feature is that the bowers almost always
lie north and south, or very close to it. Out of 25
bowevs only one was built east-and-west.
* * * *
“Pick”: To support his argument re open-
air explosions of litho-fraeteur, “Cleveland” (B.
15/6/’22) tells of a carter who hastily shifted things
into Kingdom Come by tipping a dray-load of con-
demned gelignite. When the railway tunnel was
being driven through Brooks’s Mountain on the
Cooma line (N.S.W.), Ned Foran capsized his waggon
loaded with six tons of explosives into a cutting where
200 men were at work. The eight horses came over
the bank with the waggon, and until Foran released
them they stamped, kicked and struggled among
the scattered cases of fracteur. No explosion hap-
pened. But by the time Ned had unhooked his
first horse the slowest navvy had reached the main
camp, 2| miles away.
•T.W.R. ; Since the mice plague has been
on I throw out every morning more than 30 corpses
°. se caught and drowned in a kerosene-tin over-
night. Two crows turn up regularly for the ban-
qiiet, and get them inside their anotomy in no time.
ow they can pack away more than 15 apiece beats
mo. tittle time back they breakfasted on
poisoned mice, and front the extra gloss on their
Plumage I guess the strychnine acted as a tonic,
this was not the case with Monsieur Reynard who,
a ei eating some of the poisoned mice, gave up the
ghost within 20 yards of the camp.
A PROFESSIONAL MATTER.
EMINENT K.C.: “What do you leant here?”
BURGLAR: “I just dropped in, sir , for to see if you would defend me if I was nabbed on
this 'ere job.”
“Saaedi”: These men of the Never Never
possess a delicate sense of fair play. A heated, if
somewhat obscure, argument in Doolan’s shanty
ended abruptly when Bill invited Jim outside. Jim
eyed his foe for a moment, then gravely declined.
“Wot 1” wailed Bill. “Why won’cher (hie) flghsh
me?” “Yer about six drinks drunker’n I am,” Jim
explained; “but if yer wait till I catch up I’ll fight
yer.” “Or’right,” Bill assented, “I’ll wacher (hie)
drink ’em.” Half an hour later, an impartial judge
having decided that both parties were equally blith-
ered, they sallied forth and honor was violently vin-
dicated.
* * * *
“D.F.” ; A few simple lessons in natural
history would be of the utmost value to the N. S.
Wales officials administering the laws for the pro-
tection of the fauna and flora. It was an officer in
the N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s department who ex-
pressed the view that there was no danger of gill-
birds being exterminated by pothunters, because they
are migratory birds which breed in Japan or there-
abouts and come to Australia for the season only.
The truth is that gillbirds are not only non-migratory
but are strictly confined to certain definite locali-
ties.
* * * *
“Murkah”; Do animals die of fright (“Dr.
Nil,” B. 15/6/’22)? I think so. A bulloclcy had
just unyoked. A few minutes afterwards one of the
bullocks suddenly snorted and threw his head up
with a snake attached to the lip. He then fell
wallop—dead. It simply must have been fright.
THE REDEEMING FEATURE.
“Pause, my friend. Do you ever think about
the next world?"
“Orfen! They won't always he askin' me
to chop firewood for me tucker there."
“Colub” : What looks like a certain record
was established a couple of mouths ago in the Mil-
dura (Vic.) district, when an average-sized female
tiger-snake, when killed, was found to contain 117
young ones. The greatest number previously on
record was 109, the owner being also a tiger-snake
which was captured by a member of the field staff
of the Hobart Museum.
Billy TV’; Can any Abo. beat this as
the most quaint and original save? Curnow, working
with the railway gang on the big new embankment
approaching the Emu River Bridge, was deaf as a
post, a fact well known to the lest of the gang',
all of whom established a sort of aural guardian-
ship over the defective. One afternoon, however,
the crowd scrambled off the embankment to make
way for an engine and string of trollies coming up
with timber for the bridge, and forgot all about
Curnow who, with his back to the oncoming death,
was beating broken metal under a sleeper. It was
useless to yell, it was too late to run, bot suddenly
a missile which took Deafy on the side of the head,
sent him toppling off the rails down the (embank-
ment, where he landed with a mangled scalp and a
slight concussion, but alive and possessed of his
limbs. Kyley, the ganger, had knocked Cur now
head over tip with a well-aimed half-pound of hard
clay.
* # * *
“Mirza”: Tell “Wessel” (B. 15/6/’22).
who suggests, as an avocation, the breeding of the rare
and costly Alexandra parrot, that these beautiful
creatures will not breed in captivity. The parrot
aviary at Melbourne Zoo is notorious for its slavish
adherence to neo-Malthusianism.
* * * *
“Rusty Face": Billy, the yardman at our
local pub, found a ten-shilling note on the steps of
the post office. He consulted the postmaster, and
the following notice was duly posted: “Found; ten-
shilling note. Apply within.” A week went by
and Billy, having satisfied his sense of propriety,
promptly boozed the cash. Then the local shrewdy
came to town, saw the notice, and, on his return
home, wrote to the postmaster, saying that he had
lost the note, and asking- the official to keep it till
his next visit. Billy was shown the letter, arid
with a stubby pencil and a bit of brown paper he
evolved this reply:—
Dear S . I fownd the ten-bob note you lorst
but I don’t think you did as u wood hav cum 4 it
Bfor. Anyhow, you kan't git it now, becos it was
drunk last nitc. So was I. —Ures truely, Bill.
“FY7”: “Gouger’s” York Peninsula “tiger-
cats” (B. 8/6/'22) must be specimens of the domestic
puss gone bush, for Australia has none of the
felidae in her native fauna. Still, a puss that “stands
as high as a hefty-sized dog” and is powerful enough
to disembowel “a full-grown male kangaroo” is hot
stuff in cats. I doubt if the leopard, reckoned by
African game-shots the most dangerous and deter-
mined of the cats, and one that specialises in dis-
embowelling, could do this offhand with an old-man
kangaroo. As to another cat killing “Gouger’s”
staghound—-I’m afraid the seller of that dog sold
“G.” a pup, and a tripehound pup at that. Out-
side the snakes and crocodiles there’s nothing wild
in Australia that can give a real staghound a
moment’s pause.
* * * *
“Expert Too”: Tell “Te Whare” (B.
15/6/’22) that a meal of mutton-birds won’t cost
him Is., because he can’t put away three of average
size at one sitting. The eating of these birds is a
matter of education, and your system must be trained
to digest the fat. When I was a boy we regularly
got through a 400-bird cask every winter, and one
bird, with usual trimmings, was a good blow-out.
In winter no one in our family needed codliver-oil—
we all simply oozed mutton-bird oil. Does anyone
know where the old birds migrate to?
* * * »
“Jim Carew”: “Allyn’s” bibulous billy-
goat (B. 27/4/’22) reminds me of a beery cattle-dog
belonging to a Western N.S.W. cocky. Dan always
accompanies his owner into a bar and puts himself
outside a long beer in record time. His owner
usually pours the booze into his hat and holds it
while Dan drinks. I have known the motig to swal-
low four pints, and they didn’t seem to affect him
at all.
(Continued on page 22.)
AN OLDEN NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Oh, to meet again
Those I met of old —-
Laughing girls and men,
Good of heart as gold—
Neighbors, sweethearts, friends,
True and tried and strong,
Down by Milbrulong.
Youth to age may turn,
Pulse and heart beat slow,
Stars no longer burn
With their old-time glow ;
Yet, when Time, the knave,
Age and sadness gives
Memory still lives.
Memory, how bright
Was that shearer’s dance,
When the dewy night
Breathed of young romance;
And to its own sell
Making all akin,
Thrilled a violin!
As upon the floor
Danced each happy pair,
Love came to the door,
Bowed and entered there—
Wedding heart to heart,
Like a kindly priest
For one hour at least.
MASTER OF THE SITUATION.
(Aftermath of the Hughes tour.)
HALF-CASTE: “To blithering blazes with
yer! Yer ain’t goin’ to come the Billy
Hughes trick on ME.”
Cheeks of apple-red,
Eyes of dusky blue,
Though the years have sped
Still I gaze on you;
Memory the kind,
Gracious and divine,
Makes you ever mine.
When the dance was done,
Oh, that ride we had,
Singing, everyone—
Light of heart and glad,
Careless, free of reinT—
Ere the waking thrush,
Ballads of the bush.
Hear I now those songs
That we then outflung
To large stars that bung
On the tree of night
Branching all the world,
Steeped in gloom and mute,
Like to golden fruit.
N.S.W.
BRIG ALOW.


■ /. ;
A Life-time
Companion
OIFLL like your Eversharp
I Pencil. It becomes a pleasant and
helpful companion—just like a ring
or other piece of jewellery. An
Eversharp has the advantage over
the ordinary pencil —that it never
needs sharpening and the leads never
slip ~ 1
You can get your Eversharp in
gold, silver or plate, in various styles,
sizes and patterns.
For Sale at Leading Shops Everywhere
Made and Guaranteed by
THE WAHL COMPANY
New York U* S. A.
Be sure il’s an
EVERSHARP
The name is on the pencil
Sole Distributors for Australia:
STOTT & HO ARE, Ltd.,
Remington House. Liverpool St.. Sydney
M
V
&
«6»
■
i 4
If vour memory is bad it is holding you back. How
can you hope to get on, or to even avoid dismissal,
if you have to continually confess to the boss that
you forgot ? There is no excuse; that most valuable
possession—a good memory—can be yours easily,
for within your reach is
The Roth Memory Course.
For three days you can examine
and use it absolutely
FREE.
If after three days you wish to return it you do so without,.bliga-
tion; or, if you desire to purchase, you can do so outright for £2/2/
i w hen we tell you that the Roth Memory Course
We don’t ask you to ] good memory ;we don't ask you to go through the
is the quickest and most effective way to a gooa mef you to do i s to decide mr
time-wasting preliminaries of booklets, !ea f s. etC; h , and cr itically, without a penny
yourself —use and examine the course in its entirety ™ congideration wt h the Roth
cost to you to give the "latter of a y o|h Method is llot the best method, to
Course complete Defore y°«- y thereby ending the matter.
return the course to us within thre J ■ g more emphatically our confidence in our
Could we make a fairer ? . C °" ®{ P en tire satisfaction? Just consider it again,
course? Could you more clearly be guaianteea ei and examina ti on .
We will send you the e = n seven bound lessons for £2/2/-. It is
SSSS.2 WvS CSS? SS Free use and examination offer
Over 150 000 have already adopted the New,
Easy, Commoasease Way—THE ROTH METHOD.
The course will tell you why. Write
for it to-day and see for yourself.
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
178 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SEND NO MONEY
Jim Coupon&stedNo*
m//bring you the
lEONPIETE COURSE FREE!
FREE OFFER COUPON.
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
778 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
riease send me tree for 3 days’ use and
examination your “Roth Memory Course’ (.com-
plete in 7 lessons). After 3 days I agree to
return the set to you or forward you *.•/*/-
as complete purchase price.
Kame
Address
B. 2—20/7/’22.
u
x
V
1853—1922.
PALING’S
PIANOS.
When Pianos have stood pre-eminent for nearly 70 years
1 1 1 eic are definite reasons for this prestige.
t . u .mu cVinnlH buv vour Piano or Player Piano from
It is a strong reason why you snouia o y y j
established house that has stood the test for this long period.
Palings’ Victor Piano is an instrument of true Musical Quality. They are
Easy Terms, which makes the purchase of one an easy matter.
an old-
sold on
CATALOGUES FREE.
Branches at
Brisbane
T oowoomba
338 George
SYDNEY.,
Lismore
Newcastle
Rockhampton,


MONKEY BRAND
/
m
II
\ \ I / /
\
m
ya
WON’T WASH CLOTHES
- but keeps
everything
and
everybody
bright
AT ALL GROCERS.
M 3.
m
v
mz.
When You
ask. for
Lager-
son
The Beer
without
a Rival"
*S92.
“Dido”: We were crossing Davis’s big
dealing, near Craddock, when the silver aeroplane
swooped from over the trees and, dipping, passed
within a few feet of our heads and rose again.
McCubbin had sunk on his knees in trepidation.
“Great Scot!’’ he said, completely nonplussed; “it
must have its nest near here.’’
* * * *
“Ship Rock”: “T.P.’s” 62 bullocks and
three drivers to shift a load (B. 15/6/’22) isn’t in
it. When Roach shifted his sawmill to Cawong-la
(Northern Rivers, N.S.W.) it took 106 hornies with
five conductors to persuade the big' boiler to move
over the soft roads. Roach also claims another record
in having all his five teams evenly matched, viz.,
1 roan, 1 Jersey, 1 spotted, 1 red and 1 blood-red
team. Apart from the look of it, his reason for
matching is that when he changes a driver the old
hands can t ring-in all the joeys on the new man.
The blasphemy of the cockies who tried to use the
road after the boiler had passed makes a third record.
* * * *
Pat Bushie” : While fishing in the Upper
Hunter River (N.S.W.) a couple of years back, 1
caught three eels similar to that mentioned by
“Jim Carew” (B. 15/6/’22). They all had the
small spike just above the mouth, and were llin.,
I24in. and 15in. in length. One old fisherman told
me he’d caught several there, hut didn’t know their
name. They seem to frequent semi-sandy mud in
rather shallow water. Anyhow, they’re real good
eating. ,
* * * *
‘ Sarto”: The other day I saw a big, grey
garden-spider on my cabbage-bed with an amazing-
horde of tiny babies on her back. I don’t know
whether she was just enjoying the morning sun or
whether the old man had kicked her and the kids
out and she was looking for a better ’ole. Anyhow,
the sight brought the remark from my six-year-old
THE HAUNTED FLAPPER.
GUS: “Anything good at the dance last nightf"
C HOLLY: “One little piece teas rather sweet. She's off to Queens-
land to-morrow; hut she talked of often seeing me in her
dreams."
gill, who had been recently presented with a baby
brother, that that mummy spider must have been
sick a lot of times.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The lyre-bird mimics action as
well as sound. When the coachwhip-bird finishes
the “crack” of the whip he jerks his head upward
and sideways, and in the National Park (N.S.W.)
there’s a lyre-bird who, when imitating' the call,
which he does frequently, reproduces this action to
the life.
“Teamster”: Tell “The Wanderer” (B.
22/6/’22) that 84 bales of wool on one load are
nothing to crack a whip about. Tom Andrews, a
teamster in the Charleville (Q.) district, generally
known as the "Road
Hog” on account of
the Size of his waggon
and his loads, last July
took 100 bales of
greasy wool (15 tons
19cwt.) 92 miles from
Chatham station t o
Charleville. I have
seen him haul 104
bales (just on 19 tons)
from Biddenham sta-
tion, about 60 miles.
His average load is 15
or 16 tons. For the
building of the Drins-
mame homestead he
took the whole of the
timber in one load,
(another 16 tons-odd).
Thirty horses, four
abreast, is his usual
team, but in heavy go-
ing I onoe saw 56
harnessed together. Be-
yond being called The
Road Hog Andrews is
reputed to have the
finest draught-horses in
the West. I believe
there is a larger wag-
gon than his at Black-
all (C.Q.) with a capa-
city of 25 tons, but
I’ll raise my lid to
any teamster who car-
ries 25 tons in wool,
or, roughly, 150 bales,
without capsizing. A
hundred is quite
enough, and I might
say that Andrews him-
self capsized in a bog-
hole last year. His
waggon alone weighs
six or seven tons, and
the rear wheels are
sft. 6in. with 7in.
tyres. At any rate, I hold that 104 bales is a record.
Pat Bushie” : I hasten to enlighten “H.
A. Nasy (B. 29/6/’22). A “Cornish whisper” is a
heated argument or quarrel, unended, and likely to
remain so, as neither party can make the other see
the logic of his argument. “H. A. Nasy’s” friends
must have had a good go, and, as a result, were
not playing speaks.
* * * *
“D.F.”: I am afraid my ideas and those
of “Pickles, J.P.” (B.
29/6/’22), on the south
of the Speck do not
run through the same
quill. There is no need
to go back even half
100 years to find the
Tasmanian tiger or
thylacine in the Bream
Creek and Spring Bay
districts —and that’s a
long way south. And
you can find them still,
or could a few years
ago between Tyenna
and Port Davey—and
that is in the south
too. As to killing
tigers, the plan used
in the part I know
best, Bream Creek and
thereabouts, was to set
snares (springers) for
them, and many good
tigers came to an end
that way. Pugnacity ?
They hadn’t any more
fight about them than
a trapped rabbit. As
a deviller I can’t com-
pete with “Pickles
J.P.,” who admits he
has caught over 300
(not a bad record,
either), but I have
snared devils, too, and
I maintain that one of
them has more pluck
than a whole team of
Tasmanian tigers. I fear
that familiarity with
devils has bred con-
tempt in friend “P.”
* *
“J i m Carew”:
Nearly all Australian
snakes live in a bur-
row which they dig
themselves. Has any Abo. ever seen one on his house-
building- job? The Council not long ago settled the
question of what Bunny does with the dirt he exca-
vates. What does the snake do with his ?
* * * *
nitalSX VlP 0 !?’! t - mC ab ° Ut tbe hoS-
pitality of the bush. Repairing the telephone at a
well-to-do cocky s place recently I completed the
job at dinner-time. The old man watched me
pack my tools in silence. When someone yelled
from the kitchen, “Dinner’s ready, Dad,” I r, a d
hopes; but Dad said never a word. “Oh, well ”
I s a id a t last, “I suppose I’d better be going.”
tnen toehold man broke his silence. “You’ll have
i . „ rry >” Ile said, “or else your dinner will be
cold. Considering I had to ride 12 miles into
town he was about right.
REBUKED.
WAITRESS : "What to follow, please?”
THE CHEEKY ONE: “You’ll do.”
WAITRESS : “Lamb’s off.”
C. Corai : Can any kindly-disposed Abo-
liar give me a few points about keeping frogs? I
read the other day that they are sudden death on
cockroaches, and I’m thinking of getting a pair for
my lugger which is more cockroachy than comfort-
ble. Should a special pond be excavated for their
accommodation somewhere down in the bilge, or will
the ordinary water-tank suffice? I suppone one
doesnt want a frog license, and is there anything
in the Navigation Act against ’em? And while the
experts are at it they may as well tell me what are
a frog s working hours, and also recommended a tested
si encer in case I strike a basso who can’t work
without warbling.
* * *
“X2X”: “Sucre” (B. 22/6/’22) can shed
e idea, that a youngster can inherit snake-proof
qualities from its father. It is doubtful if any kind
of immunity at all can be inherited; if it can be
it is only when the influences which bring it about
react and extend over a large number of genera-
r?° ns : Immunity to an organism or toxin, whether
the latter be a bacterial or an animal one, is pro-
duced by the presence in the sys-
tem of, among other things, the
substances known as “antibodies,”
which are formed and then
thrown off by the cells; and be-
fore this formation can take
place the cells must be directly
stimulated, which is done by the
toxin. So, in the case mentioned
by “Sucre,” there would be no-
thing in the child’s system to
cause the cells of its body to put
forth the agents which would
subsequently render the venom
of the death-adder harmless. It
would be idle to argue that such
agents could be passed on, ready-
made, by the father; although
there would be a better chance
of this had it been the mother
who was originally bitten. There
are two possible explanations of
the child- not having been affected
by the adder-bite. One is that
the reptile’s glands may have
been empty, or almost so, at the
time; the other, that although
its fangs did actually penetrate
the flesh, the venom was not in-
jected, as sometimes occurs.
Occasionally there is born a
phenomenon in the shape of a
person quite immune to the
poisons of snakes, adders, scor-
pions, wasps and other venomous
stinging creatures; but this im-
munity is not inherited from an
ancestor who has become immu-
nised by a series of bites, but is due to the existence
of some abnormal and hitherto unisolated substance,
or gioup of substances, in the blood-stream.
* * *
Korikori (Papua) : “Rhino” seoms to
have his insects mixed (B. 11/5/’-22). Practically
all he says is true of the red palm-weevil (Riujn-
chophorus ferruguieus) ; but after 11 years amom-
cocoanuts in the Pacific, I have yet to see the palm
that has been killed by the rhinoceros-beetle. And
in V a IZZ T’, °- heaVd ,’ ° f the larva being
a pal ™ whlch 18 n °t damaged or unhealthy from
i ha ? b f etleS ‘ That the bee tle causes
troubles, I admit; but the chief one is that the
wounds made by him are convenient places for the
female red palm-weevil to deposit her eggs, after
which any plantation i s lucky if it saves 5 per
cent, of the palms so attacked. Consequently, any-
wise manager keeps the rhinoceros-beetle on the
jump and endeavors by different means (coal tar is
mine) to make the spot where the rhino, had his
breakfast too uninviting for the red palm-weevil to
entei. The weevil is the worst pest that the cocoa-
nut-planter has to deal with; but it cannot hurt
a sound, healthy palm—it must have a wound or
scar to work from. Either “Rhino” is out to blazes
m his identification of these beetles, or the rhino-
ceros to which h e refers is particular to the Solo-
mons, and the red palm-yveevil cannot have recorded
his vote there.
* * * »
Bull’s Wool”; Surely “Merah’s” wombat-
eaters (B 22/6/’22) suffer from chronic cold in the
head. Here in the Upper Yarra (Vic.) we have
halt-a-dozen yvombat flats within stone-throw of the
back door; but no one eats the residents thereof, as
Old Man Wombat has an odor rivalling Footscray.
they have a skin disease, resembling mange, only
more deeply seated. Even the hide will not tan.
rhe only use yve found for one was as a doormat.
It is six years old and still going strong.
* * *
Jumbo”; A New England (N.S.W.)
settler was ayvakened recently at daybreak by the
mournfid howling of a dog in the yard, and when lie
sallied forth to quell the disturbance found a big pure-
bred dingo there. The visitor’s tardiness in retreat
gave the man a chance to get him yvith a .32 bullet.
The attraction was apparently a kelpie slut, and had
Warrigal refrained from serenading his lady-love no
one would have suspected his presence. The incident
a decoy idea for dingo-ridden country.
“Bel”: My entry for the Queer Accident
Stakes. George Bonfield, with a 12-liorse team, was
crossing a little plain between Nevertire and Tran°-ie
(N.S.W.) when he noticed that a tree—the only one
on the plain—was on fire at the butt. He was riding
on the waggon, and as he came abreast of the tree it
began to fall. Bonfield jumped doyvn and laid the
whip on the horses just in time to Save them; but
the tree fell fair across the waggon, smashing it to
pieces and killing two cattle-dogs tied beneath it
* * * *
“West Coaster”: Yes, the breed’s still all
right. My cobber—who, incidentally, helped to eat all
my Comforts Fund parcels at the war—recently tramped
520 miles from Naracoorte (S’.A.) to Mossiface, East
Gippsland (Vic.), with nothing but a raincoat to
doss in; and this yvinter hasn’t exactly been sizzling
hot. He got a job cutting timber and had just got
set yvhen he axed the side of his knee. He put
seven stitches in himself. The cut turned septic;
but he pulled through. One of the whitest men I
know, too.
* * * *
“Yarrum” : Don’t make any mistake about
a snake not chasing- anybody. It has been said that,
yvhen yve fancy he is in pursuit, he is only making
for his hole; but I know better. I folloyved a six-
footer towards his dug-out once, and, as I yvas over-
hauling him, he turned and charged three times.
I had only a foot-long stick, and side-stepped any
in-fighting with it; but the third time he committed
suicide by chasing me to where there was a decent
waddy.
NO HORSEPLAY.
MISSUS RAT (to son) : “New, Willie, you go and play
with Jumbo, and, like a good boy, don't be rough
with him.”
“Jesmond”: It is up to “Kilang” (B.
15/6/’22) to take off his hat to my lady (B. 9/3/’22),
even though the flour she lifted was not in 2001 b.
bags but in 1501 b. ones. I still regard her per-
formance as remarkable and beyond the strength of
most men. I am not impressed by the feats of N T
women cited by “Kilang.” They might be note-
worthy there, but 90 per cent, of countrywomen in
other States wouldn’t think so.
IRONIN’ OLO’ES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I’m ironin’ clo’es—a silly game,
On such a day—it seems a sname.
Ihe sky is peepin’ through the trees
Outside the winder—an’ the bees
Is mumblin’ to me climbin’ rose,
While poor old me is ironin’ clo’es.
A sort of little baby wind
Is fumblin’ at the winder blind,
It seems ter smell of springin’ grass
(I always was a silly ass
Imaginin’ things). Huh—bust these clo’es I
When I’ll be through ’em—’eaven knows.
I wisht I lived in olden days,
’Cause folks ’ad then sich easy ways—
A few green leaves, a crimson rose,
A string of beads was all their clo’es.
Now that would suit me to the ground,
No pushin’ irons round and round.
N.S.W.
IVY GIBBS.


14 YEARS OF
QUALITY and SATISFACTION.
... *
GENUINE
* '
LINSEED OIL.
■4'''■ r ' ■ -
Absolutely Pure —Thoroughly Matured.
Ask Your Painter—He Knows!
GGITTS
UNSEEQOIIME/U
MEEOITT LT“
Oheboyon the bag
guarantees quality *
e
t
HEAD OFFICE ‘AG KING ST 6'YTm:Y(^ife:Parraiiiaiia)
AGENTS.—Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S Exton &
Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. F. W. Heritage & Co, Ltd., Hobart and Launces-
ton; Messrs. William Adams & Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. Johnston & Co. Ltd
Featherston Street, Wellington, H.Z.; Messrs. Clarkson, Ltd., Bundle Street, Adelaide ♦
UNSEraOIIM^
MEGGITT L s ■ T *
V FKRRAMATM ft
"yAeJboy on the Jbaq
guarantees quality


«£
k
£
S
r.
IS
%
•tyimfy
kl
tsD
s
RST-
S'
5^
aw
>-?
C .
-t v
Huntly Castle.
V.
difj. tjbnocJijj.
spu&
PETER
|i j
I i m
Mm
? $
♦titlMir
DAWSONS
SCOTCH WHISKY
the brand of historic lineage.
YY7HY do men who k n °u>
*’ really fine whisky
deliberately choose “P.D.”?
The reason is revealed in
every bottle of this world-
famous brand.
Make it YOUR brand.
Everyone s favourite Scotch
everywhere .
PETER DAWSON, Ltd.,
Distillers, GLASGOW.
SCOTLAND.
df gdf
gd gd
ORGANISE NOW!
for
Faster Work-Lower Costs—Longer Service
FINER Limits and Greater Production, too, are advantages we *
offer you in Modern Machine Tools of every description—for
every need. The lines we handle are by the world’s best-
known makers. They start on the job for you with the recommen-
dation of years of success in the highly-organised machine-shops of
England and America.
Investigate our Stocks and Prices Before Placing Your Order.
For Immediate Delivery
Lathes, Milling Machines,
Drilling and Shaping Machines,
Slotting and Screwing Machines,
Grinding and Sawing Machines,
Portable Electric Tools.
Catalogues and all particulars of any class of machine tool gladly
forwarded post free. Get them and keep them for reference.
Write and tell us the line that interests you.
COMPOUND REST GRADUATED
UPPER PULL
CROSS FEED
TWO CHANGES
ALL GEARS
EXTRA LONG
ADJUSTABLE
TAPER GIBS
LARGE CAPACITY
STEADY REST
REVERSE PLATE
FOR RIGHT AND
LEFT THREADS
THOROUGHLY
PROTECTED
BARREL
/ \ \
N KNOB \
DITUDIWAL .. \
DOUBLE PLATE TYPE
GIVING SACK SUPPORT
PARKE andLACY C° L TD
Engineers & Machinery Merchants, 60 Clarence St SYDNEY


TKe
Purest
Spirit
iatKc
Ut>rlcL
Ijyg
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
e'S SCHNA^^
“ J 'T STANDS ATXH*®*"
bowed the other day in Paris when the pre-
sident of the French Academy handed him
the keys of the front door.
I know at least one happy athletic man.
He knew Meredith and K. L. Stevenson,
Hardy and Guy lioothby. He used to light
the fares at the Authors’ Club, Whitehall,
and attend to the cellars. He is now an
undertaker’s assistant. In his cheerful way
he says that it is a much easier job burying
famous people than trying to keep them
warm.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.
The Novel's Future
Upwards of 00 well-known English novel-
ists were recently invited by Meredith Suut
to unburden themselves of their hopes, fears
and general views concerning the i.uture of
the novel; and these statements, while exhi-
biting much diversity, contradiction and even
confusion of opinion, reveal in the majority
of instances a naive tendency in each author
to recommend for tne consumption of posterity
his own particular line of goods.
Thus ltafael Sabutini, deriding the realists
as “crawling w’ith their noses to the ground,
continues to pm his faith to romantic fac-
tion; while \V. L. George, although admit-
ting that the romantic novel may revive,
decides that “it will not mean anything” if
it does, and holds that "the critical novel is
the novel of significance.” W. J. Locke,
deprecating the present vogue of what he
calls "static literature,” also argues that
"there must be a reaction towards romance.
Robert Hichens believes that success will
lie with the novel that “tells a human, inter-
esting story, moving to a predestined and
unforced end.” Alfred Noyes, who sub-
scribes to no literary group or clique himself,
trusts that "the tendency in the next tew
years will be away from the methods of the
coteries and more in favor of the independ-
ent writers.” Upton Sinclair hopes that the
novel will “deal less exclusively with the
mating period of man and woman”; but
Arabella Kenealy, after deciding that “points
of view, and so forth, should be presented in
other forms of- literature,” says with some
dogmatism that “the main interest of the
novel should centre wholly in the love-
episode, all the other interests being merely
accessory.” And this, according to Arabella,
is the sort of fiction that will predominate
in the future. Marjorie Bowen, insisting that
“the novel can only survive as a living force
if it continues to be the means chosen by people
of genius to express themselves,” remarks that
any "sane judgment must be wearied by the
meandering of a Lytton” ; though Meredith
Starr confesses to having read Bulwer s
"Zauoni” for the sixth time, and declares
that Zanoni is “a cosmic type, representative
of every human being.” For Max Pember-
ton, fiction is, of course, “the art of telling
tales”; so that psycho-analysis is nothing
but “flapdoodle which will be swept away by
posterity like dead leaves in autumn.” And
“the romantic revival, now due, will be an
extraordinary force.” Anthony Hope is also
of opinion that “a short time will witness a
revival of the romantic spirit.” Gilbert Fran-
kau, who confessed that he had “signed a
contract for a novel a year for the next 10
years,” in addition to which he said he
writes “about 12 short stories a year, be-
sides contributing a weekly article of
words,” says Democracy will demand “full-
blooded tales with heroes, heroines and vil-
lains.” Maurice Hewlett, after admitting
that “the only novel he had read during the
last 15 years which is really written in the
grand manner,” was Ivnut Hamsun s
“Growth of the Soil,” declared that “the best
novels are tending to be very short and very
concentrated.” Whereas Edwin Pugh
thought that the novel of the future “must
be spacious, leisurely and long—the longer
the better.” May Sinclair holds that “the
analytic, psychological novel, is becoming a
thing of the past”; and Sheila Kaye-Smith,
while recognising that psycho-analysis “will
leave its trace,” thinks that it will effect no
revolution. Dorothy Richardson, whose
“Pilgrimage” is sometimes mentioned with
James Joyce’s “Ulysses” as inaugurating a
style in “subjective realism,” intimates that
“the immediate development of the more
recent experiments may produce an old-
pattern, three-volume novel with the unities
holding sway as never before, in its midst
one person, one spot of earth, one moment of
time.” And W. B. Maxwell, with his eye on
the rising price of the novel, also realises
that “we may go back to the. style of publi-
cation of the three-volume days.” Frank
Swinnerton remarks, that “it seems.as though
we might be going to have a return to the
novel "of the 18tli century, of which the
prime example is ‘Tom Jones’ ”; Compton
Mackenzie, he says, is “heading straight
back for the 18th century.” “More inven-
tion, more romance and more imagination,”
is Hugh Walpole’s cheery summing-up of the
demands of novel-reading posterity; while
for J. D. Beresford the novel of the future
will contain, besides “fantasy and romance,”
“what the Americans conveniently call up-
lift.” He can “well imagine that it will be
allied to the teachings of spiritualism.” Ger-
trude Page was another novelist who regarded
it as “a promising sign that there is such
a growing demand for spiritualistic litera-
ture.” And Fergus Hume, also, believes
that the future novel “will deal with psychic
things, as humanity is now beginning to
sense the invisible.”
The prospect of rivalry from the cinema
was discussed bv several of those inter-
viewed. Eden Phillpotts hazarded the possi-
bility of novel and stage play being, “destined
to merge into moving pictures, with phono-
graphic accompaniment and color added.”
Phillpotts was apparently in a dejected mood
when approached. He declared that “the
novel must brave and face tremendous adven-
tures —chiefly downhill.’' The importance of
the author s him rights is also stressed by
.Paul Trent, who prophesies, though “with
diflidence,” that "within the next three or
four years our ‘popular’ writers will be
working directly for the screen, and the
novel will follow the film version Andrew
Soutar quotes figures to the same effect. “In
the old days the novelist who sold oUUtI
copies at fis. was regarded as a striking suc-
cess. Nowadays he must sell at least 10,000
before he can say it has paid him to write.’
But “the cinema has altered the whole situ-
ation. In New York (in 1021) I came across
case after case of the film rights of a book
being sold for 10,00 U dollars— normally
£2000.” According to W. E. Norris, how-
ever, the cinema and the novel "are so dis-
tinct that neither can offer itself as a sub-
stitute for the other”; and he considers that
"the multiplication of daily and weekly
papers,” rather than ihe film, is “the novel-
ist’s most formidable rival.” “Books are
getting longer, duller and more true to life
every year,” says E, E. Benson, who sodnds
disgruntled. “The author traces the history
of some group of bores.... They are not
flesh and blood, but cold meat. ’ Alec Waugh,
tracing most of the faults of recent novels
to Komain Holland (Holland having spread
the heresy that there is no need to tell a
story), decides that “the Sabine episode is
the only part of ‘Jean Christophe’ that will
be of any interest to the people of IJSO.
Incidentally, Waugh dismisses Dorothy
Richardson’s five-volume “Pilgrimage’ as a
very small thing done as well as it could be
done.” And in the opinion of I. A. H.
Wylie, “the reductio ad absurdum of the best
authors of the day reaches its climax in the
work of Dorothy Richardson,” which is ‘ fatal
to the influence of the novel, because the
public cannot and will not accept this liter-
ary diet.” Miss Wylie is pessimistic about
the future of fiction: “In fact, unless some-
thing very drastic happens I do not expect
the novel to be in existence in about 10 or
15 years.” Louis Golding refers to D. 11.
Lawrence us “the greatest of liis own genera-
tion,” both as poet and novelist, and it is m
Lawrence’s hands that he feels “the future of
the novel rests.” When the world becomes
more tranquil, “Lucas Malet” thinks, we
may possibly return to “the literary novel,
pitched in key, of course, with the new con-
ditions. Barry Pain is confident that we
shall see very little more of the ‘sex novel’ ’ ;
and though “there will probably still be
fashions in fiction, they will rarely live more
than 10 years.” And, finally, it is of Barry
Pain that the most striking thing in the
symposium is said. “I have not the sjightest
doubt,” says Alfred Noyes, “that 25 years
hence ‘Stories in Grey’ and ‘Here and Here-
after,’ by Barry Pain, will take tlieir place
as the pure gold of contemporary fiction.
‘Sparkling Burgundy,’ ‘The Commonplace,
and a dozen others are masterpieces of the
short-story that will mellow with time, and
are equal to anything written by De Mau-
passant. There are single sentences in some
of his work that convey a character more
vividlv than whole chapters in many other
writers.” Which was doubtless very sweet
reading for the subject of the eulogy, himself
of late years a somewhat neglected author.
ADRIAN LAWLOR.
W. L. George
One feels that W. L. George is always
exulting in the fact that he is a daring and
original person. His books are crammed
with small-town seductions, long, languid
adulteries and all the mi nut he of love as
a commerce, and he gambols about his
audacious characters, joyously divulging that
he has the entree for every keyhole. Iso
doubt about it —he registers the sighs and
palpitations with the care of a 1' veu-
dian or a police-court reporter. Con-
sider his latest heroine, Ursula Trent.
You are never allowed to guess about
Ursula’s intentions. Ursula’s adventures,
however, haven’t the commanding sense
of drama that distinguished the ugly
dalliance of Emma Bovary. The young
lady neatly catalogues her emotions and dis-
cusses her dead loves in bewildering post-
mortems, but, somehow, she is defective and
second-rate. She puts into the eroticism of
“Three Weeks’’ the abandon of a servant-girl
at a beach picnic. Indeed, sjie has that
touch of false passion that makes the whole
world Glyn. .
“The Confessions of Ursula Trent is
indicative of a deterioration in character-
drawing. W. L. George has been more suc-
cessful with other women possessed by
a like indifference for the Seventh Command-
ment. Ilis first book, “A Bed of Roses, ’ which
was defamed by a smoke-room celebrity
thrust upon it by numerous pornographic
readers, pictures the most convincing Phryne
in English fiction. There is no begging
your pardon for Victoria’s trade. She has
hone of the bouquet of The Pretty Lady, who
was surely founded on a rumor that the
gardener told to the upper housemaid in the
hearing of Arnold Bennett. The “Pretty”
wanton takes life too much like a macaroon
to touch the sensibilities as Victoria does.
The latter is no peacock of the pavement.
She studies men in their baser moments, and
she is comforted by the conclusion that the
brutes “have us as burdens and housekeepers,
but the mistress is the root of all.” W. L.
George has conceived no more arresting
creature than Victoria, whose piercing com-
monsense is probably due to the Gallic strain
in his education. Born a Frenchman and
educated in Paris, he can evidently look at
the most despicable phases of existence with-
out fiamiug into sentimentality. Yet it is
curious that, given a glamorous intrigue on
a higher plane of experience, he can be as
idiotic as a schoolgirl, forcing irregular
unions on oddly-sounding couples in order to
melodramatise their states of soul. Let us
inspect briefly Monica Oakley in “Blind
Alley.” Monica, whom one would never sus-
pect of pursuing an attachment darkly and at
dead of night, falls in love with a munition
manufacturer during the war. He is mar-
ried, well graced with wife and children, and
is a profitable and reckless seducer who has
the temperament of his own T.N.T. and yet
talks like a combination of Dante Rossetti
and Ella Wheeler Wilcox. It is scarcely
imaginable that a well-bred English girl,
wary of rhodomontade in the coarser gal-
lantries, should be lured into a lonely field
by such stuff as: “Most exquisite, most ador-
able, I place in each of ybur palms a kiss so
heavy that you shall casry the stigmata of
Eros.” When the author’s attention slackens
—as it often does in the affaire between
Monica and Cottenham —Bathos has. its
whim and long-repressed Drivel comes into
its own.
It would be wrong to declare, of course,
that W. L. George is entirely absorbed by
sex. In truth, it may be frankly stated that
his 'amours are sometimes parcelled into
paragraphs, whilst he takes the platform
and pillories the idiocies and indecencies of
modern civilisation. “Blind Alley,” wherein
Monica and sister Sylvia are often thrust
aside to allow George to state the case for
philosophic pacifism, is bleak with his sharp-
ened consciousness of the terrors brought
about by the mutual suspicions of military
oligarchies. In this respect he is prolix and
preachy, but behind his didacticism, stiffened
by a posture of infallibility, there is the
power of vivid address. Sometimes the pen
is flurried by his impatience with the
ineptitudes of the common man, but
he is a real radical, genuinely interested in
democracy and yearning to save it from the
statesmen and profiteers.
In all W. L. George has written 10 novels
and two or three essayish volumes on Femin-
ism, Anatole France, the art of story-writing,
the last blaring his irreverence for
the Classic Author and the Estab-
lished Deputation. His second-last yarn,
“Caliban,” which suffers from sexcess here
and there, is a racy concentrate of his hatred
for the self-booming newspaper apostle of
the Northcliffe type. Though he calls his
villain Bulmer, and purposely contrasts him
with the living Napoleon of Printing House
Square, it is obvious that Northcliffe is the
object of his satirical attentions. It is a
lively narrative, humorous in its splurges of
Northcliffe sensationalism, and full of rip-
ping passages in the English vulgate, but it
leaves no illusion of the spectacular grossness
and impropriety that the title is supposed to
convey. The two stories that appeal to one
most are “The Second Blooming” and “The
Making of an Englishman.” The latter is a
trenchant survey of English social habits
from the viewpoint of a Frenchman. More-
over, it contains in Edith Lawton the most
delicate etching of slim, sweet English
womanhood that George has yet given us.
Edith is amazingly natural. Her shyness
and restraint furnish a cloak for her dim
virginal questionings. Further, she has the
physical appeal of the healthy young woman
who bathes every day. In “The Second
Blooming” the idleness of some wealthy
married women is exposed, and the situa-
tions are handled with great skill. In
patches the author is exclamatory and bili-
ous. but the figures move, and the dialogue
assists in their elucidation. One’s final con-
clusion is that George is most searching and
character-revealing when working towards a
polemical objective. In his erotic vein lie
makes the human female of too much import-
ance. Only an extravagant worshipper of
the sex would exalt to the sublimity of a
religious rite a couple of minutes’ cuddle on
a sofa.
C. H. BRADISH.
The Inky Way
“A.C.R.”: 0. J. Dennis, in his “Book for Kids,”
sacrifices an electrical law to get an extra rhyme
for “tomes.” Not being satisfied with 17 consecu-
tive rhvmes he says “electrocuting little seeds with
ohms.” The ohm is the unit of resistance, and in
this case would be the seeds. The electrocuting
agent would be the combined voltage and amperage,
but of course this would be bad rhyme.
“Smike”: E. M. Webb, of Melbourne Age, who
has written several good yarns (notably “Runaway
Joe,” which was published in London) and surprised
his friends with the daintiness and charm of the
lyrics in the musical comedy, “The Temple of Joy,”
which he finished a while back, has now completed
a straight-out comedy, “Mrs. Brownhill’s Husband.”
Webb, who is one of the hustlers of the Australian
Authors’ Assoc., is trying to get his pieces considered
for the English stage, lie realises that the only
chance of seeing them in Australia is to have them
return from London wearing the sacred label,
“Imported.”
“Thor” : Van Rensselaer Dey, creator of the awful
Nick Carter detective series which captured boy-
hood 20 years back, helped himself off this disap-
pointing planet recently. For 15 years he wrote a
30,000-word high-tension story each week, and then
had to give in and let the job be done by a scribbling
syndicate. On the whole, Nick did less towards the
propagation of youthful desperadoism than the films
do now.
Col. W. T. Reay, one of the many ex-editors of
Fink’s Melbourne Herald, picked up a easeful of deco-
rations and medals, and, incidentally, the rank of
major in the New York police, for work as Inspector-
General of London’s 30,000 special constables. Reay
held the Herald editorship for 17 years, and bossed
the business side, in addition to .going a-colonellmg,
serving a term in Peacock’s Parliament and turning
out much oratory as a by-product. Ilis three suc-
cessors in 11 years have had all their work cut
out to liold clow'ii the editorial chair, without indulg-
ing in any sidelines.
“T.W.”: Whatever Robert Louis ' Stevenson may
have been paid in his closing years (B. 29/0/’22)
there is no doubt that some of his best literary out-
put earlier in life brought a miserably poor return.
He related himself that one year in London, after
lie had already done outstandingly stylish work,
brought him in less than £4O, and recognition of
his genius came slowly. If all Scots were after
the bawbees merely, Stevenson would have been an
engineer instead of an inkywayman. Barrie’s experi-
ence, when he left a £3-a-week job leader-writing
in Nottingham to do Fleet-street freelancing for a
damn sight less, was bad enough, but Barrie had
the advantage over Stevenson that he was a born
Fleet-streeter of tile Caledonian blend. “R.L.S.”
never could have potboiled.
“Coot”: Rolf Boldrewood is not the only prolific
Australian writer who will go down to posterity
as a “One-novel man” (B. 15/6/’23). Marcus
Clarke must be included in the same category. To
many readers it will perhaps come as a shock to hear
that Clarke wrote anything else than “For the Term
of His Natural Life.” True, his only other novel was
“ ’Twixt Shadow and Shine,” the scene of which
was laid near Westcrnport Bay, and which, speaking
from memory of its perusal many years ago, was
not to be compared, as literature, even with Boldrc-
wood’s poor “Miner’s Right. ' But Clarke wrote
many short stories, and altogether his collected works
amounted to about a dozen volumes. Eleven of
the dozen books have dropped into oblivion, and oidy
“For the Term of His Natural Life” keeps the
author’s memory alive. But what a book it is! As
a work of literary art —admitting its melodramatic-
incidents —and as an indelible picture of a phase
of life and history which happily hits passed away for
ever, it is secure of living.
“M.P.A.”: In Australia it is a mortal struggle
to get cheap publicity, but in London the game is
easy. Personally I cannot complain, because I have
had a point stretched for me before to-day, but of
late years it has ..been like trying to put a camel
through the eye of a needle to shove a line past a
vigilant Aussie sub. One time a good circus story
was always acceptable. Not so nowadays. One of
the best yarns ever presented to a sub. was when
Jim Beckett weighed into Melbourne Aon office with
a story about a bear scrap, brown V. white, at
Wirths'’ Park. The brown and the polar had stood
up toe to toe and grappled like navvies, both also
using their teeth with gory effect. Eventually the
brown bear —-a much younger animal —cross-buttocked
the old chap, and, in the mix-up on the floor of the
large circular cage, Batty, the trainer, separated
them with his fork and whip. I saw the fight
from start to finish, and Beckett came in at the
death knock. In the struggle the polar lost several
claws, and I handed one to Jim at* a souvenir, but
when the yarn reached the sub’s desk that downy
old bird told Jim his yarn was oyer the fence, so
it never saw print. In London, if one lobs with
a new show, or a stunt with some stuff in it, the
scribes will meet .you with both hands. It is
possible to obtain a press-book full of cuttings in a
few days. You are not kept waiting on the mat if
you have the goods. The papers get right out after
you.
A TIMELY TOPIC.
"I'm satished that prices have reached a commoasense level"
"Yes; so am I. See this hot I'm wearing? Well, I bought it it Daeld Jones' for 25%
and last your a similar quality cost me 37/6."
"Smart! Yes. that's the general comment!"


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
ri Kb r»o I i r£
The cost of a home or any other class
of building constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets and roofed
with “Fibrolite” Slates is considerably
less than a similar building built of
weatherboard and roofed with iron or
tiles.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-ant proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust or
corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 36 handy sizes.
Write for free Catalogue “B.”
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d’gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
581*583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
fg fg
dfg df
d gdf
gd
fg
df
gd
Wool!
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
Even a sheep springs into activity at those words.
They are familiar and linked inseparably together.
Good work, good, methods and good sales have made
the firm’s name pre-eminent in the wool trade. For
Top Values Consign Wool:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
Salesmen, Sydney or Brisbane.
Hotel
Carlton
In the heart of
Queen Street,
/r&
Brisbane
Easy access
to Rail, Shipping, Business & Pleasure Centres
When you visit Brisbane wire ahead and
book up at the Carlton £14,000 has
recently been spent on interior remodel-
ling in the Carlton. To-day it stands
as one of the modern hotels in Australia
Every service and convenience that you
expect to get at a modern hotel are here
at your convenience.
Write or wire for rooms
D. & T. Winterbottom,
Proprietors
INCLU SIVE
TARIFF
14/- a day
■ m
18111
i m
7 s
“M.L.”
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 FEES LIMITED,
30*32 Wentworth Avenue, Sj c'ney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
89 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.
Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
AGENTS—
ELDER, SMITH & CO M LTD.,
Adelaide Brisbane Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
REGISTERED
TRADE MARK
Guaranteed*
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
Cutlery,
FLAC BRAND
m
ItIUT
8BgiS»;
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and holds a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Kpives, with Rustless and Stan less Blades.
If unable to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Raker & Longhurst, 50 York Stret, Sydney.
PohasPi &
uuifh emulsifying & flavoring
Ingredient's
50 i
t
IS
A
Cod
Liver Oil
X)
%
RicbCS'
e Sr
Snefce
The manufacture of this famous medicine is not
surrounded by closely-guarded secrets.
As the diagram shows, HYPOL contains 50 per cent, of Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural Oil endowed with nutritive and healing
qualities that no mysterious formula can equal.
With the added Hypophosphites, and pleasant flavouring, a most
enticing and strength-giving Emulsion is produced.
HYPOL is a famous remedy for Chest Complaints, and
a great restorative in all cases of sickness
Those of delicate constitution should commence
to-day to take HYPOL.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. Made by FELTON. GRIM WADE & Co. Prop Ud . Melb.
SKANDIA
Crude Oil, Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
No
Magnetos
Sparking Plugs
Batteries
Carburetters
or
Electrical
Devices.
Unequalled in
Economy
Simplicity
Durability
and
Reliability.
SI
4 to 800
H.P.
Sole Agents for Australia
and South Sea Islands—
NELSON (SL ROBERTSON,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Clep”: Dealers in ’possum-skins must be
Prepared to foot the bill if the law gets on
their trail at the present time. A buyer
of rabbit-skins in a northern N.S.W. town
consigned about 25 bags of rabbit-skins the
other day to a Sydney firm. Before their
despatch the police got word there were
possum-skins in the bundles, and thev
searched them. They found nearly a thou-
sand of the barred pelts. The agent had
them neatly secured in the centre of the
bags, and it meant going through every skm
to locate them. He was fined 2s. for each
one.
* * * *
Gundagai”: The Dannevirke sheep-
farmer who netted 9s. 9kl. per head for
his carcases (B. 22/6/’22) was a profiteer
compared with me. I decided to sell all
“y 38 P'SS) so sent them per hoof to Tara
(Q.), some 18 miles distant, two men drov-
ing for two days. Thence they were trucked
to Oakey (80 miles) to be auctioned. The
market was cornered by a ring, and the
receipts were not quite enough to pay the
cost of railage, trucking and other charges.
Result: Debit note for 4s. lOd. from the
auctioneer. Total loss: £2 4s. 10d. and the
o 8 pigs.. I can’t look pork in the face nowa-
oays without weeping.
* * • •
. Hecagus : Have just opened up a new
issue of survey gear, and find that most of
the goods are of foreign make. Yankeeland
was responsible for lamps and carborandum
stones; claw-hammers came from France;
axes and tomahawks were fashioned by
Swedes; on the enamel mugs and even on
the alleged tent, from beneath which I pen
this par, are the marks of the little brown
hustlers of the Orient. Not one soli-
tary implement or cooking utensil —unless
it is the tin billies, which are brandless—
was made in Australia. All the goods men-
tioned are of extremely poor quality, especi-
ally the so-called tents.
* * * *
If a Kalgoorlie invention: (mineral sponge)
be the success claimed, then good-bye to ice-
malang, also ice-chests, butter-coolers, ther-
mos flasks and lots of other things. The
sponge is a composition of ammonia, asbes-
tos charcoal, gypsum and boric acid. It
looks somewhat like asbestos building-sheets,
ana can be made into containers of almost
any shape. Its performances up to date
are good; the temperature within vessels
made of the sponge does not appear to
exceed 60 degrees in reasonable conditions.
Other than an application of water each
day, chests, bottles or coolers made of the
stuff require no attention, and all the
requisite materials are obtainable on the
W.A. goldfields.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Touching the “Agricultural
Seeds Act (N.S.W.) and non-warranty by
seedsmen, writer has happened upon a
sample of alleged Japanese millet-seed from
a house of good name, which produced a fine
crop of summer grass,” an endemic and use-
less vegetable! The onion-seed again, sold
m packets, sometimes obstinately refuses to
germinate, and the whole area must be re-
sown. Also, some seeds, such as parsnip
fr^b eX ran tlonally b fo l feepers - Unless quite
tiesh they are unlikely to give the sower
any return Flower seeds are still more un-
certain, and the “off brands” of uncertain
Drove* o foih m gau rpj! y ' figured packets, often
P 1 ”' 0 , failures. These are commonly im-
bulk from large English seedsmen.
vet bSXC : 3 begl >:, to ]ook as if we may
y -j-i be a . e laise all the cotton we require,
of* i Uitfor export. But what about some
tbe , otkei ,' things which are being im-
ported . Take coffee. It grows to perfec-
ion m Natal at 2000 ft., and better still nearer
the coa.st-lme; .it gives heavy crops, and
once it is established it costs nothing to look
artei, while anyone can gather the pods. Yet
lve never seen coffee grown in N.S.W. And
tea. n hat about tea? And nuts? Half-
il'™?” a Pound for walnuts at any shop
t? Ji t 0 ™ OTtlOn ’ and if 1 cou hl afford
Voi take V-V Vv* acre , s . of . land in the Moss
Vale or Goulbnrn districts I could in five
years time be supplying the Sydney market
with enough to feed a zoo. Give me another
hve acres, and the Australian hazel-nut would
be as well known as its imported brother.
But there, while we import wattle-bark from
couth Africa, where they grow the Austra-
lian mimosa as a crop, and do it properly
bow can we expect to do any better in non-
lndigenous trees?
FRUITERINI’S LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
( has been passed in Victoria compelling
fruitshops to close at 7 p.m. b
Once da boss da Fruita Ring
Taka da ’orse da cart,
Risa morn, awaya dawn,
Go queek da Western Mart,
Buya da besta fruit dey got,
An’ ’ome once mora go
Nice jogga trot, so fruit no rot,
Wit ma ’orse Antonio.
Polish da apple all long day,
Maka da rosee skin,
Da flowra spray, and sing away
Till da evenin’ trade begin.
All sella fine till ah-pass nine.
Den I ’ear da citee hum,
Fer all in line I see dem fine
From da movies, out they come.
But now is gone my theatre biz,
De besta of da trade
Busted—fizz! —by cripe it is,
Bya dam fool law dey made.
To closa seven, da notiss ran,
Ma biziness knock end-ways;
An’ den, by dam, da lanlor’ man
Ma blasta renta raize.
1 tell ’im straita wota teenk,
An’ den I do ma block.
I ’it ’im clink... .on da nosa pecnk,
Den go ’ome an’ taka stock.
In street once mora, monk an’ org’,
I dreama, grinda, plays,
An’ cursa ’ogg—da lanlor’ dorg,
Da Law an’ its fool dam ways.
VICTORIA.
BARABBAS.


FITTINGS
BUILD THE PERFECT BICYCLE.
TRADEMARKS
THOROUGHLY
BRITISH.
4
7
7\
-
/
w.
the experienced cycle rider sees the
famous “ Three piled rifles ” trade mark of
the B.S.A. Fittings, he knows that at the back
of that particular bicycle are the experience and skill
of years in the production of high-grade cycles.
The choice of a Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings
is a matter of business, the economy, reliability and
freedom from trouble making the purchase of B.S.A.
a sound investment which will never be regretted.
Regular B.S.A. Riders say there is nothing to equal
the satisfaction of the service which underlies the
transfer of the ‘‘Three piled rifles.”
The range of models and constructional improve-
ments shown in the B.S.A. Catalogue will illustrate
why the Bicycle built of B.S.A. Fittings holds the
predominant position in the cycling world.
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable.
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained. Don’t be put off with “pattern
fittings,” but look for the B.S.A. Trade
Marks on EVERY PART. They are
your guarantee.
Send for B.S.A. Handbook
free from
D. Y. RENNIE.
(Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
AUSTRALIAN BUILDINGS,
MELBOURNE.


To Avoid Sickness.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all
kinds, watch your bowels. Don’t allow old
fermenting food to stay in them for days,
but get it out.
If your stomach is disordered, or your
bowels constipated, if you feel sluggish,
dizzy or bilious, get a box of Chamberlain’s
Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate
the bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse
the system. The result,is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for con-
stipation, sour stomach and gases on the
stomach. A single dose often relieves these
troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strength-
en them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
have none of the sickening qualities of pills,
and do not produce an unpleasant effect.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be
due to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only
“half alive” will be surprised how much
better they will feel when they get rid of this
matter which has been poisoning their system
for days.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poison-
ing of the system through poisons left in the
bowels.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness,
so-called weak and fluttering heart, are often
caused by pressure of gas in the intestines—
this gas may originate from decaying food in
the system.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are
irregular. Bear this in mind and take
Chamberlain's Tablets as occasion may
require. There is nothing better. They
are mild and gentle in their action and
pleasant to take.
Old Age.
Old age as it comes in the orderly process
of nature is a beautiful and majestic thing.
It stands for experience, knowledge, wisdom,
counsel. That is old age as it should be,
but old age as it often is means poor digestion,
torpid bowels, a sluggish liver and a general
feeling of ill health, despondency and misery.
This in almost every instance is wholly
unnecessary. One of Chamberlain’s Tablets
taken immediately after supper will improve
the digestion, tone up the liver and regulate
the bowels. That feeling of despondency
will give way to one of hope and good cheer.
■lt
L
r
[CV/
wn
*
S'
sry
5s
$5
g
=S
&
im
ss
cranny Chamberlain
(oo«a‘CnT«u
CROUP
let Croup develop. Start treat-
ment when the child first becomes
hoarse. Even if the croupy cough has
appeared don’t be alarmed. You can
still ward off the attack by giving
CHAMBERLAINS
COUGH REMEDY
Children’s Ailments.
Children, like adults, are subject to
disorders of the stomach, liver and bowels,
and many of the apparently alarming ailments
of childhood are due to these causes.
Constipation is a common trouble among
children and is often the cause of seeming
stupidity at lessons and also of many an
exhibition of temper.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are invaluable for
children. They are pleasant and safe to take
and absolutely without harsh effect.
Half a Tablet is sufficient for children from
six to twelve; for children under six, one-third
of a Tablet will have the desired effect.
If your child is bilious, if its appetite is
poor and variable, if it is fretful and
nattering, restless in its sleep, yju may be
sure that its stomach is out of order and a
few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets will
quickly set it right.
The only trouble con-
nected with an £IB€F"
Ball Bearing is that
which is taken to
secure its high standard
. of efficiency.
GARDNER, WAERN
Head Office: 384 City Road, South Melbourne..
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Distributing: Centres also at—
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE: 329 Adelaide Street.
ADELAIDE: 122 Currie Street.
PERTH: Unbehaun & Johnstone, Etd., 37 King Street.
HOBART: Charles Davis, Etd.
IiAUNCESTON: J. R. Sides, 77 York Street, 8.8. 22/16.
11. I. Cohen, K. 0., has got his first lift
in Vic. politics. He lias been made unofficial
leader of the Council —an honorary and
extra-constitutional job, but a leg-in for the
next Liberal Ministry. He has been in Par-
liament only 15 or 16 months.
“T.R.H.”: There is a barber in Bourke-
street (Sydney) known as “Silent Bob.”
He is a returned soldier whose period of
active service ceased when a bullet passed
through one cheek and out at the other. It
took part of the tongue with it, and the
surgeons took the rest. The ex-Digger, who
is a philosopher, exhibits this notice in his
shop:—■
Speech is Silver,
but
Silence is Golden.
This Barber is Warranted
NOT TO TALK.
“Dominie”: Reaches 70 this month,
Edward Byrne, of Ashfield (N.S.W.), who
had a record of 50 years in the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Department, and was an inspector of
schools on retirement. He tvas born at
sea, off Adelaide, while his parents were
en route from Ireland. Three other mem-
bers of a quartet of early-day school chums
at St. Stanislaus’ College, Bathurst
(N.S.W.), were: Vincent Dwyer, who be-
came the first Australian-born bishop (now
at Maitland) ; Ben Rubie, who later forsook
medicine for the Inky Way and became
editor of a London daily; and Christopher
Coveny, some of whose etchings figured at
a rdcent Sydney exhibition.
“Stony”: In Melbourne the price of cray-
fish continues to soar to absurd heights,
Crays, poultry and the giblets of the latter
are about the only goods not price-labelled
in the fish-sellers’ ’ windows. For years the
shops have priced the scaflet sea-insect
according to the apparent financial stand-
ing or mental condition of the prospective
buyer. Five shillings is no infrequent price
for a fairly stout cray, but the extreme limit
in my own experience was reached the other
night when a pal of mine, who had been
dining well, went with me to buy. what he
described as “the biggsh craysh-hic in the
shop—-hie.” The fish-person demanded no
less than 11s. 6d. —and only failed to get it
because I took Bill out of temptation by
jorce majeure .
A news paragraph :
The greatest amount of gold ever assembled in
one place lies in a Government building in
New York. Its value is 1,500,000,000 dollars
( £300,000,000), and it is said to represent one-fifth
of all the gold that has been produced since the
beginning of civilisation.
If the chronicler isn’t lying in one place as
well as the gold, that story explains a lot.
Other nations buy less and less from uncle
Sam because he won’t take goods in exchange
for goods. He demands gold, and they
haven’t got the gold because he is sitting
on it, making no profit on it, but wasting
his time and wearing out his wonderful
striped pants. He can’t even pay off his
foreign debts with the pile, for he has none.
And his industries begin to sag.
“S.T.S.” : Adelaide Y.M.C.A., which, estab-
lished in 1857, claims to have been the first
of its kind in Australia, did some dubious
financing 40 years ago. It paid xLi,OOO to
build a big place on the Grenfell-street and
Gawler-place corner property of one Feather-
stone, and has paid his estate a ground rent
of £l6OO since. Forty yeays looks like eter-
nity when viewed from in front, but it
passes, and now the Y. Emma is glad to buj
the freehold for £56,000 rather than pay an
enormously increased rent. A big effort is
to be made to raise the cash deposits needed
and a fair sum for modernising the building;
the income from the ground-floor shops along
both streets is handsome. Only two are
living of the Y.M.C.A. trustees who signed
the lease in 1883, Miller Anderson and
Frederick Chappie.
Ritchie, Treasurer of South A us., an-
nounces a deficit of £55,000 for 1921-2-,, and
is proud of it. He explains that it is a mere
trine compared with the £400,000 of 19-0-
21, in which year no provision was made
for sinking fund, whereas last year £130.000
was put aside in that direction. And there
would have been a surplus but for the rail-
wav shortage of £200,000, due mainly to
Broken Hill not getting to work again fully.
Also, the lamb-export trade slumped, and
members of Parliament had their salaries
increased, as also did some civil servants;
moreover, a dive into the loan-market early
in the year caused an increase of over
£60,000 in interest. Ritchie alleges that the
dive was necessary. Posterity may have an-
other opinion, but Posterity doesn’t vote.
“Gallery”: Bananaland’s new Senator, J.
V. Macdonald, is the first to step down from
a Federal gallery on to the floor of Parlia-
ment. He "started on the Inky Way m
Maoriland, and had spells on both the
AGE and Argus in Melbourne, where he estab-
lished a reputation as a Pitman expert. In
Brisbane he was managing editor of the
Daily Standard. In the pre-A.J.A. days
Macdonald, who was strongly in favor of
organising pressmen, deliverer! his maiden
oration on the subject in—the Argus office!
Rather than have a bridge over the Yam
at Spencer-street, Melbourne, in a line with
Clarendon-street, S. Melbourne, the Harbor
Trust would tunnel under the river and be-
neath the roadways named. Mcßeath, Kei-
mode and Allan are to inquire into the over-
head and underground notions, but it is
40 to one agin a tunnel.
“Digger’s Batman” of a Bayard who
took the wrong turning:—
Australia has just heard of a soft-hearted Digger
who married a crippled girl in London because she
needed sunshine and change, the bride dying recently
on the way here after the husband’s patient atten-
tion had made him the hero of the ship. But his
gallantry was rivalled by that of another member
of the A.1.F., who, reaching England in 1916 under
an obligation to look up and console the widow of
his fallen mate, determined to go the limit in con-
solation by marrying the lady. She died soon after
bis return to the Front. Then another mate passed
out, leaving him with another obligation. Again he
married the widow and again he lost her; but his
exploits had earned him fame by this time (a London
evening paper headlined him as a “Chivalrous Aus-
tralian Soldier”), and the wine of popular appreciation
turned his head. He started marrying war-widows
wholesale. After he had entered the holy bonds on
three successive occasions, the Law turned, worm-
like, upon him, and he was arrested for bigamy-
His plea was that he had found that the first two
women in the last batch were bigamists, and, there-
fore, thought himself entitled to marry the third.
But it only slightly mitigated his punishment.


1
r
61
Gl
m
t
LUA to
Q
3
a
\
|®cvf
T
OKt£>
Cs
Co
:s?
“REX”
Luncheon Cheese
Is Nutritious
and Appetizing
A taste for Luncheon Cheese
denotes an L.L.D. in Cheese
Education —the lover of “Rex”
Luncheon Cheese is invariably
a judge of good Cheese.
He eats it liberally for he
knows it is rich in nutritive
properties and that, apart from
its good value, it is such a won-
derful aid to good digestion.
So you, too, should insist upon
“Rex” Luncheon Cheese —as a
table delicacy or as a Sandwich
spread for Lunches, Picnics, or
any occasion where “something
different” in Sandwiches
is sought after.
FOGGITT JONES LTD.
F.J. 183
IESSOPS
sJ #
STEELS
Miner’s Drill
Steel, all sections
—solid and hol-
low.
Special Alloy
Steels for con-
structional pur-
poses.
Castings, Forg-
ings and Stamp-
ings for all
colliery and min-
ing work.
Every class of
Steel for mining
and Crushing
purposes, includ-
ing Shoes, Dies,
Cams, Tappets,
Stamp Stems,
etc.
Write for full
details to-day.
FOR ALL COLLIERY
AND MINING PURPOSES
With a reputation of 150 years to maintain
and an experience of 150 years to assist
in maintaining it, Jessop’s are in a particu-
larly favorable position to supply just the
right kind of steel best suited to any par-
ticular need. For mining and colliery work
particularly there are special brands of steel
—real high-quality steel—that have been
tested and proved under the most strenuous
and exacting conditions. Jessop’s steels
give lasting satisfaction wherever they are
used—they have a world-wide reputation
for durability and uniform excellence.
MAULER & QUEREAU,
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 406 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
A
AGENTS FOR
WM. JESSOP& SONS LTD.
SHEFFIELD. ENGLAND.
MADE IN
SHEFFIELD, THE
HOME OF THE
STEEL INDUSTRY.
Westclox
1
U
Westdox
2
Marta
10
3
9
8
?63
m
Sleep-Meter
Your Companion
Sleep-Meter invites com-
panionship the moment
you set eyes upon it.
It may be the business
like trimness of the case,
that invites your con-
fidence —it may be the
easy grace of its simple lines
-it may be its careful finish.
It may be all of these
and more, but it is the
name Westclox on the dial
that assures you that you
can rely on Sleep-Meter.
Westdox Big Ben, 251-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10 /
Blue Bird, 12/6: Boyproof 9/6; Pocket Ben,9/6; Jack o 'Lantern Luminous, 20[•;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/ 6; Baby Ben Luminous, 321 Q; Glo-Ben, 15 /-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
oSTRO^
Perfection Marine Engines
&
m
8-h.p. UNIT PLANT.
Special for the Speed Boat.
The “Caille” 8-h.p. Unit Plant is fitted with
reverse gear on the same bed. Perfect align-
ment is guaranteed. Ideal for private launches
and small speed boats. Its speed record up to
date is 2 1 \ m.p.h. driving a 20ft. by 4ft. 6in.
hand V-bottom boat. We have stocks. Call
or write now for Catalogues and Prices of
Caille “PERFECTION” Engines, 1-, 2- and 4-
cylinder, for light or heavy duty; also Out-
board and “Bantam” (Inboard) Motors.
Sole Agents for Australasia and Pacific Islands:
BENSON BROTHERS LIMITED
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.


Clifton Gardens
Hotel.
Mosman, Sydney, N.S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on the
HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH AND
GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (including
Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to and from No.
4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from Mosman.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards.
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Days and
Sundays. Bed and Breakfast Only, if required.
Tariff from 16/- per day, or from
4*4 Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLIFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
Tels. : Y3OOl, 3002, 3599.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under the management of P. Ilennessy.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
B
MADE BY
' MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
COLEMAN
Quick-Lite
LAMP
There are no greasy wicks to trim; no dirty
chimneys to wash; no smoke, soot, or dripping
oil. It is safe and cannot burst or spill the
petrol even if tipped over.
300-CANDLEPOWER EIGHT,
Twenty times more powerful than
ordinary lamp light.
PERFECT
PETROL
GAS
fg
LIGHTS
WITH
A
match.
FIGURE ON THIS FACT!
Quick-Lite Lamps are made of heavy brass,
handsomely nickelled. Makes its own petrol
gas, and gives 48 hours’ brilliant lighting- on
a gallon of petrol.
THE SUNSHINE OF THE NIGHT.
The wonderful, soft white 300-c.p. light pene-
trates the farthest corner of the room.
PRICE, 95/- COMPLETE.
With Two Spare Mantles and Tools.
FROM IRONMONGERS AND STORES.
Spare Parts are Always Obtainable.
Write to Coleman Representative, Box 1083,
Melbourne, if your dealer is out of stock.
To tlie large army of sufferers afflicted with
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the days
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
iavonte dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, colchium and iodides (by
means ot which temporary relief is procured at the cost of disastrous after-effects)
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL, the obese
legam their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, and the
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and healthy complexion, through
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. URODONAL is the great
discoveiy of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual youth,
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uricauna.
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATELAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can b ®«htaliied from all Chemists and Druggists throughout Australasia, or post free
from CHATELAIN S AUSTRALASIAN AGENCY, 353 KENT STREET, SYDNEY from
whom also can be obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. J fl
KYNOCH
CARTRIDGES
Made in Eugland: Loaded in Australia. For
all gauges of shot-guns, and loaded with the
best Powders.
In case of difficulty refer your dealer to; —•
KYNOCH LIMITED,
90 WILLIAM
STREET,
MELBOURNE.
df
277 CLARENCE
STREET,
SYDNEY.
iG
i
MOTOR CARS
Here is proof of LIGHT-SIX econ-
omy: In 15 public tests in many
parts of the world, the average
mileage obtained was 26.5 miles to
the Imperial gallon of petrol.
CAYCE-PAUL MOTORS, LTD.,
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
>
This is a Studebaker Year
LIGHT-SIX 5-Seater
Cord Tyres
£525.
A breakdown lias sent Notley Moore, Vic.’s
senior P.M., off on six months’ leave. It
was his chairmanship that largely helped to
make the Wages Board system the success it
is in Vic.
“Gonn”: The largest orange orchard in
Australia, and probably in the world, is that
which Tyes, the Melbourne drapers, planted
at Gonn’s Crossing (Vic.), on the Murray.
But its 600 acres are no longer in the one
holding. Half of it has lately been cut up
into 18 blocks, which have been taken over
by returned men. Yet the remaining 300
probably beats any other orangery in Aus-
tralia for size.
“J.C.R.”: James Honey, of Hobart, who
reached the century on July 2, is the
last surviving old-time Imperial officer
in the Speck. He was in the Com-
missariat Department from 1835. and
retired about 30 years ago on pension,
lhe vessel which took him to Norfolk
Island on transfer brought back Superinten-
dent John Price, who later was torn to pieces
by convicts on the prison hulk at Melbourne,
lhe centenarian knows the inner history of
the recall by the English Government of Sir
Lardley Wilmot, one of the Speck’s early
rulers, for alleged domestic irregularities.
Wilmot died broken-hearted before he could
answer the summons.
Tommy B.e,nt was one of the first to recog-
nise the possibilities of rice-culture in Vic-
toria. When he was P'remier he helped one
lakasuka, a Japanese rice-grower, to locate
suitable country on the Murray River Flats,
and the Government later acquired land at
lyntynder West for an experimental farm,
it took a long time to find the right kind
of nee for the soil, but in the four last sea-
sons crops have panned out at an average
of one to two tons an acre. The rice is of
good quality, and marketable at from £25
to £5O a ton.
H.Il. ’: Higgs, M.H.R., remarked to his
constituents at Rockhampton the other day:
Something is wrong when unionists are com-
pelled, not by law but by bluff, to subscribe further
moneys to the Labor daily paper. Ninety-six thou-
sand pounds were subscribed years ago for a Labor
paper m Sydney, and inexperienced men have used
the money to erect Macdonell House in Pitt-street,
a house that now, according to Mr. Catts, is used
by unworthy men for faking ballots. Still, there
? s . 110 Labor daily in Sydney, and unionists are
being threatened with pains and penalties if they
do not subscribe further money. There is also some-
thing wrong when unionists (at Rockhampton) are
forced to subscribe to the Brisbane Worker.
The Australian Labor-unionist has two
aspects. He is often a passionate lover of
liberty when his own freely-and-honestly-
elected lederal Legislature bids him do
something, but he is rather a docile party
when his .often self-constituted Labor bosses
levy on him for a newspaper to advocate
his interests, and buy themselves a sort of
club-house with the money. Higgs was him-
self ejected from the movement for a few
words of free speech about the mismanage-
ment of the Federal electon at which Labor
was blown out. Two of the Labor Council-
lors who threw the veteran ex-Minister out
on his sudden ear, he alleges, had been can-
didates for pre-selection themselves, and been
left at the bottom of the poll—one with two
supporters and one with six. Higgs had a
rather dim idea as to how they came to be
his judges, but perhaps it was a case of self-
appointment. In time there may be a revolt
and a great washing day—a Judgment
Wash—and then many things about appoint-
ments and diverted or misappropriated funds
and these eternal daily papers that don’t
eventuate should come to light.
“O’South” (London) : “Smiler” Hales
good Australian, prolific novelist, war-
correspondent and general adventurer
doisn t step along Fleet : street quite as briskly
as he used to, but he still turns out a couple
ot books a year and a few miles of freelance
newspaper stuff. He has just published his
oMh novel, and the ambition of his life is to
write a biography of Northcliffe, with whom
had a bitter quarrel long ago. But
trailer’s” opinion of the paper magnate
would have to be printed on asbestos.
“0.K.”: Rumor suggests that Melbourne’s
Gaud Mayor is not seeking a further term
of office merely for a knighthood, but is
above all things anxious to immortalise his
name on the foundation-stone of the Mel-
bourne war memorial, an affair which is to
cost a quarter of a million, instead of the
£50,000 monument first projected. Mean-
while, the principle of “One Gaud Mayor
One Year of Office” is dragged through the
mire of intrigue owing to the absurdity of
putting advertising tablets on public edifices.
Why should any passing official personage
be permitted to stick his monniker on a
monument erected in commemoration of an
event with which he had .nothing whatever to
do? How can an average civic indignitary be
made to understand that he doesn’t really
matter, and that posterity will have no use
for him? The only exception was Dick
Whittington, a probably decent enough citi-
zen, who never dreamed that his memory
would be kept green by innumerable panto-
mimes and a succession of fine, upstanding
girls in tights.
. T.W.” : It cannot be for lack of initia-
tive that Australians have so far failed to
make anything of their country’s advantages
as a perfumery and essential oils-producer
(B. 22/6/’22). A dozen or more A.I.F. men
made a point of staying in France as voca-
tional trainees in order to pick up the secrets
of perfume distillation. Has their study
gone for naught? This land should also pro-
vide a small opening in the pot-pourri and
sachet market. What is wrong, for instance,
with a special selection of dried petals with
boronia as its chief element?
“Cruma”: Tell “Tiberias” that eggs care-
fully smeared all over with vaseline and
then packed in tins with the lids on keep
better than if 'preserved with waterglass.
That seems something like his Chinese
method (B. 29/6/’22). Probably it is a
better method, for I have often heard that
Wun Lung in his native land is not very
particular about having his eggs fresh, and,
in fact, for certain extra special delicacies
prefers them otherwise. At the same time
tell “Cambronne” (same column, same
date) that a factory somewhere on the
South Coast is already manufacturing cheap
axe-handles of spotted gum. I know, be-
cause I bought one in Sydney some months
ago. It is in regular use, and stands up
well to hard work.


1
tt o
en
ts
ENGINES
Petrol, Kerosene
or Town Gas
Stationary or Portabl
Runs Day and Night by Itself
T * E hMORE, Manager Dandenong Butter Factory, writes: “Regardimr vour
inquiries on the working of the ‘Lister’ Petrol Engine, I have much pleasure in statinit
te. S Xn Sa H* iS - aoti t“. i “ ev f rJ ' wa) - As * proof "f the confidence 1 have in its SbUirt I
during hot weather, gone home and left it running (driving the Refrigerator )
!"£i° ut r fU 4 th , er attention tiU 5 o'clock the following morning. Though working on an
it thr g e\ limes dSrLrthir period Spri “ S Summer ’ 1 have oal y had occasion "to clean
An engine that will do that must be extraordinarily reliable and specially designed
to ™, Wlt \ a of attention. But it is quite an ordinary instance of “Lister”
reliability, for the “Lister” is not only an outstanding example of the perfection
o ritish engineering workmanship, but it has several unique features in its
design. Just think of this:—
Oil once a month—the Engine does the rest.
Which is a simple way of expressing the Automatic Lubrication system.
All you have to do is fill the oil reservoir about once every four to six
weeks, and the engine attends to the lubrication positively and
accurately. Other “Lister” features are:—
Dustproof and Foolproof.
A dustproof engine obviously avoids a great deal of wear and tear on the moving
part ®’ which ordinary open crankcase engines are subject. Also, less time is
needed for cleaning a Lister Engine, as all working parts are entirely enclosed,
ritted with British High-tension Magneto, a humanly-sensitive Throttling Governor,
mechanically-operated Valves, Pump Fuel-feed, and an ample water-cooling
system, in addition to the features already described, the “Lister” Engine is as
near foolproof as human brains can make it. And for long life and economy
there s nothing to touch it. Read this:—
“Seven years without a penny for repairs.”
Mr. E. STARLING, Dalby, Q., writes, 24th August, 1920: ‘‘Would like to mention
tnat my Lister, which I have had in constant use for seven years, is
working better than ever. It has not cost a penny for repairs since I installed it.”
If you want a dependable, low-cost, smooth-running power plant for farm, factory
or other work, you can t afford to pass the Lister” by. Prices and catalogue
are yours for the asking—call or write.
British-built at Less than Australian-built Prices,
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO., LTD.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD. .
MALLOCH BROS
A. G. WEBSTER & SONS, LTD.
J. H. HORWOOD & CO., LTD.
..Sydney
Brisbane
. . Perth
. Hobart
Adelaide
I
rmnunuiuMi
uwnimm
§HI!
m
w
TIT 1 *
m
m
m
w
Electric Light
and Power Set
This Home
Lighting Plant
only occupies a Floor Space of
32\ in. x 12\ in. but it will
supply
Every room in the House, Dairies, Barns, Stables,
Gateways and Drives, as well as furnish
Electric Power for
Recharging Automobile Accumulators, Operating
Electric Fans, Vacuum Cleaners, Washing Machines,
Sewing Machines, Electric Irons, Pumps, Churns,
Separators, Feed Cutters, as well as many other
kinds of small machinery and modern Household
Conveniences .
The "PLIX” Electric Lighting 'Plant is so simple that a child can
operate, it with perfect ease. It provides a perfectly safe, clean and
convenient source of Light and Power that places the comforts of city
lire at your service—ready for use at the pressing of a button. It is an
asset that permanently enhances the value of yotur farm or homestead.
Space does not permit our telling you everything we would like you to know
about this wonderful machine, but if you’ll send us your name and
address, we’ll gladly mail you our illustrated folder " W 157,” post free
by return mail.
John DANKS & Son Pty. Ltd.
391-403 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
324-330 Pitt Street - SYDNEY


A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished, plain design, (J 5/«
gd
A. Saunders’ Flower Vase,
pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality.
Bin., 7/6. 6in„ 10/6.
Tin., 15/-, Bin., 17/0.
fgd
Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, pure Silver-
plated, Cut Crystal Class Bowl, 70/-
SELECTED TABLE
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
lined, handsomely fluted and burnished, £ 7/10/«
Others. £B/10/-, £lO/10/-, £l2/10/-
APPOINTMENTS.
iil!
! ; i ii
!□!'• ills
ifia
■ i
A. Saunders’ Tea and Coffee Set, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, comprising: Tea, Coffee, Sugar
and Cream, with Covers, highly burnished, engraved reed bordering, £l7/10/-
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON ALL ORDERS.
A. SAUNDERS
JEWELLER,
A. Saunders’ Fern Pot, pure Silver-plated, AJ
Quality, highly burnished. Three sizes, 40/-,
50/-, 63/-
A. Saunders’ Candlestick,
pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, highly burnished,
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver*
plated, XX quality, pierced design,
£3/10/-
805-815 GEORGE. STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
No good motor car is the result of a happy
inspiration or of a fortunate accident. Real
goodness comes only after long practice and
careful, intelligent experimenting. The Hup-
mobile was first built in 1908.
mraobut
am
Hupmobile
Distributor for New South Wales:—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney, Australia.
A-5


Public Notice.
“Tire Carrier and Rim Spreader.”
THE Patentee of Australian Patent No. 105, dated
30th August, 1920, “Combined Tire Carrier and
Rim Spreader and Constrictor,” OSCAR CHARLES
SCHLENKER, is desirous to enter into negotiations
for and to complete arrangements by way of license
or otherwise for the manufacture and marketing of
this invention in Australia. Enquiries solicited
and will be replied to by Coliison and Co., 483 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
fg
df
Stevens No. 105 Plain Extrac-
tor —also made in Model No.
107 Automatic Ejector.
A Sixty-Year Tradition
EVERY Stevens firearm
must sustain a sixty-
year tradition of giving-value
received. That is what has
made them favorites with
sportsmen the world over.
You know that you can de-
pend upon your Stevens be-
cause it has been designed
by experts and manufac-
tured with utmost care.
The single barrel shotgun
shown above is made with
either Plain Extractor or
Automatic Ejector. The bar-
rel is of compressed forged
steel, bored for nitro powder;
12,16, 20, 28and.410*Gauge.
Weighs about 6 lbs. Fires any
standard factory loaded shell.
Your dealer will show you
this or any other Stevens
model.
J. STEVENS ARMS CO.
CHICOPEE FALLS, MASS., U. S. A*
Export Office:
50 Church St.
New York
“Better than Tatts.”
(and ali others)
LAST WEEKS
of the
KATOOMBA
THOUSAND
ART UNION (No. 2)
Prizes valued
£4OOO for 1/-
In aid of
Blue Mountains Anzac Memorial
Hospital, Kaioomba Soldiers’ Memorial
and Showground Improvement Fund
(By Special Permission of the Hon the
Attorney-General of N.S.W.
" The truest way to mourn the dead is to
care for those they leave behind.”
FIRST PRIZE OPEN ORDER £lOOO
SECOND PRIZE OPEN ORDER £5OO
THIRD PRIZE OPEN ORDER £250
238 other Open Orders, total
value £4OOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 1922
Winning Numbers published all States-
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS 1/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more, Post Free
In this Art Union. 5 Tickets for your sf m
Each with a chance of winning the whole
of the Open Orders valued at <£4ooo.
NOT Gambling, but a Co-operative effort
Tieke s can be obtained from any Hairdresser
apd Tobacconist in ew outh Wales, and all
branches of the N .W. Boosstall Co. Ltd., or
direct from—
EDGAR BOOTH, Hon. Sec .
Cadzow. Warrega-street, Katoomba.
Amu
C YI)X IS Y’S CUI IS I 1' il EATIt E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
lIEP. MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
nil I IS I! I ON :
THE GREAT LOVER.
ROYAL:
THE BAT.
PALACE:
PARLOR, BEDROOM AND BATH.
THE ALLAN WILKIE SHAKSPEAIiEAN
* PRODUCTIONS
QUEENSLAND TOUR.
JULY—AUGUST.
Australasian Representative: HUGH D. WILSON,
17 The Banking House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
QN TOUR. DIRECTION lAONEL WALSH.
The World’s Record-breaking Comic Opera.
THE MAID OF THE MOUNTAINS.
NOW TOURING NORTHERN RIVERS.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELBOURNE
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JULY 20,
THE PEEP SHOW.
THEATRE ROYAL.
GILBERT AND SULLIVAN OPERA CO.
K INC’S THEATRE, MEI,ItOC It S l;
EMELIE POLINI and FRANK HARVEY in
MY LADY’S DRESS.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE MIXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Prince’s Bridge).
MAN TO MAN.
JACKSON GREGORY’S STUPENDOUS DRAMA.
GERALDINE FARRAR in
THE RIDDLE WOMAN,
Prices as usual.
PA LA C E T HEAT It E, MELBOURNE.
Proprietors: BEN X- J. FULLER, LTD.
Sole Direction MISS ADA REEVE.
A GREAT ADA REEVE PRODUCTION.
SPANGLES.
Public verdict: "Better than the best."
ADA REEVE.
"She has no equal.”
SUPPORTED BY lIER OWN COMPANY,
including
GUS McNAUGIITON.
Saturdays and Wednesdays at 2 o'clock.
Box Plan at Allan's.
A.I ESI IC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE SILENT ( ALL,
FEATURING THE WORLD’S WONDER DOG.
MatJnPes dailv at 2.30. Nights at 8
THE EMINENT ARTISTS,
QUY MAIER AND LEE PATTISON
in
CONCERTS OF MUSIC FOR TWO PIANOS,
MELBOURNE : TOWN HALL, JULY 20-22
ADELAIDE: TOWN HALL, JULY 25-27
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it
Amusements.
gIdIAXMA JTIEATJBIS, M ci.ito cUN IS.
THE LATEST AND BEST IN
MOTION PICTCRES.
Continuous Sessions.
|yj EI.ItA Til BAT It E, M 141.K0L KN E
Showing tlie pick of the world’s Alins, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, Vl'l AURA PH, PATH 14,
WOIM.D and SI.LZNICK.
Business Notices.
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
The Neu) Streamline Model
is an ideal Present,
It is often so difficult to find a
present that is both useful and
ornamental —the Onoto Streamline
is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it
combines with its elegant design all the
practical utility of Onoto — the pen—
safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit ever*
handwriting.
THOMAS DE jA RUE & CO., LTD..
Bunhill Row, London, E.C.I.
Ask for Onoto Ink—Best for all pens.
gd
Before you go out into the damp
chilly air, slip a Peps tablet in
your mouth. Carry a few also
in your pocket. There’s nothing
like Peps for nipping a cold in
the bud, warding off a bad cough, and
preventing bronchitis and similar chest
complaints. Peps are the real brea.ht-
able medicine, lib &? s/- P~ r box.
For WINTER
COIIGHSiCOLDS
25F
m
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George St -
SYDNEY.
The Plum Razor
The “Tried and True” quality-maintained
Razor. For thirty-five years the “Plum” has
retained the confidence and patronage of men
who appreciate its sterling qualities.
PRICE 12/ (t Pair in Presentation Case, 20/-
POST FREE.
Kept in order for two years free.
ShaVei A Muftltude of Ckiii^
Andrade’s Entertainment House,
32-34 Rawson Chambers, SYDNEY 0n)l
and 201 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
PARLOR TRICKS and MAGIC, 1/.. New
Book of Puzzles, 1/-. Fun, Magic and Mystery,
J /-. Magic Made Easy, l/«. Tricks with
Coins, 1 /..
CONJURING APPARATUS for Amateurs and
Professionals. Write for List or call for de-
monstrations.
HOW TO LEARN VENTRILOQUISM, 1/-.
Write for list of our Ventriloquial Heads, from
12/6 to £5. Make Ups of All Kinds—GREASE
PAINTS, WIGS, BEARDS, MASKS, &c.
CATALOGUES FREE.
fZ
•4 /
BOOK OF SIMPLE
CARD TRICKS That
Anyone Can Do With
Ordinary Cards, 'With-
out Sleights 1/6
FUNNIEST FOUR
FARC ES, in one
book 2/-
Contents—lci on Parle
Francais, April Fools,
Who is WTio? Who’s
to Win Him? PLAY
Catalogue Fi.ee.
HOW TO MAKE UP, Guide to the Stage 1/6
\ou fill it
.fust-so!"
*
LEVER
FILLER
PEN
British Made,
Sold by all Stationers and
Jewellers —
from 7/6 to 35/-
£8
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
The Discovery of Australia. By G.
ARNOLD WOOD M.A., Professor
of History in the University of Syd-
ney. With 60 Maps and Illustra-
tions. 255. net. [lmmediately
A Dictionary of Applied Physics.
Edited by feir RICHARD GLAZE-
BROOK, K.G.8., Sc.D., D.Sc.,
E.R.S. With many Illustrations. In
5 Vols. Fully Illustrated, £8 3s. .net
each. Orders for the complete set of
five volumes will be accepted through
a bookseller at the price of £l4 14s.
net, payable in advance. Vol. I„
MECHANICS ENGINEERING—
HEAT.
It Is the first attempt which has been made
to bring within the compass of a single work
the latest results of research, and the most
approved methods in all branches of the sub-
ject. It must prove invaluable, not only to
those engaged in educational work, but also to
all manufacturers who are vitally concerned
with the question of Physics as applied to
Industry.
Detailed Prospectus post free on application.
14,000 Miles Through the Air. By
Kir RUSK SMITH, F.R.G.S. Illus-
trated with Photographs. 10s. 6d.
.net.
NEARLY 400,000 COPIES SOLD
OF THE FRENCH EDITION.
Maria Chapdelaine. By LOUIS
lIEMON. Translated by W. H.
BLAKE. 6s. net.
Country Life.: “ ‘Maria Chapdelaine’ is beau-
tiful, a pastoral of a strange and wonderful
land, a story with the quiet, clear shining of
old days and the beauty which is common to
all that is great and lasting in art.”
Strained Relations. By CYRIL
ALINGTON. 6s. net.
The Daily Telegraph: “While relations
were strained at Sir Richard Atherton’s Shrop-
shire house-party, the fun of this very jolly
story never is. Mr. Alington goes merrily
from one farcical situation to another, and ho
is such an adept at the manipulation of his
marionettes that they are not allowed to stray
beyond his control into the improbable... .This
is a book to pack in the holiday bag.”
THOMAS HARDY.
Late Lyrics and Earlier; with many
other Verses. By THOMAS
HARDY. 7s. 6d. net.
Poems from “Punch,” 1009-1920.
With tin Introductory Essay by W.
B. DRAYTON HENDERSON.' Re-
printed by permission of the Proprie-
tors. 7s. 6d. net.
The Sunday Times: “This is a book for
everybody.”
The Round Table
A Quarterly Review of the politics of
the British Commonwealth, os. per copy,
or 20s. per annum, post free to any
address within the Empire.
LEADING CONTENTS FOR JUNE:
GENOA.
THE DRIFT OF AMERICAN OPINION.
IRELAND AT THE CROSSROADS.
THE COMMUNIST EXPERIMENT IN RUSSIA.
LETTERS FROM EGYPT.
Also Articles from “Australia,” “Xew Zealand,”
“United Kingdom,” “India,” “Canada,” and.
“South Africa. ”
NIHIL OBSTAT.
ARTHUR J. SCAN LAX,
S.T.D. Censor Librorum.
IMPRIMATUR.
PATRICK .T. HAYES, D.D.,
Archbishop of New York.
Religion. First Course. Bv ROD-
ERICK MacEACHEX, D.D.', Catho-
lic University of America. Illus-
trated by MAUD and MI SKA PET-
ERSHAM. Cloth. 2s. 6d. net.
Manilla cover. Is. Gd. .net. First
Manual, 6s. 6d. net.
The Catholic Citizen. By JOHN A.
LAPP, LL.D. Illustrated. ss. net.
The Social Mission of Charity. A
Study of Points of View in Catholic
Charities. By WILLIAM .T. KERRY,
Ph.D., LL.D. 10s. Cd. net.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers ,
MACMILLAN SCO LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDONf W.C.2.


gs
dfg
sd
hdf
WATER-
SUPPLIES
sf£:3i’M~S
AV e manufarture Windmills in all sizes, from
T«sSa. Ai, ‘“" uah "»»■ <”»«
o» E .*relL*fS?' Catnlogioe free
V I' H be P leasecJ to mail to any address
pecifications and prices for Windmills suitable
for any requirements, whether pumping for the
o mtr g h If * tOWn
for purposes. SUPPIy the mOSt suitable MiUs
Pty.
Ltd.
James Alston 8 Sons
0_ uge n s Bridge, Melbourne. Australia.
fVf
Every Separate Unit
of the
ni
UPLBC
Safe Razor
is designed to make a per-
fect whole. The guard actu-
ally guards, the handle fits
the hand, and the blade
shaves. You don’t need
more than that.
hj
ygl
gh
V
mr
&
71
V
AH Good Dealers Sell the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go ,‘? Tr y° ur dealer to-day—.ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it in
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation I
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Criterion “The Great Lover”
Royai “The Bat”
Palace “Parlor, Bedroom and Bath”
Dorr's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal Gilbert and Sullivan Opera
Palace “Spangles"
King’s “My Lady’s Dress”
Majestio Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia • Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Town Hall (‘2oth & 22nd) . . Guy Maier & Lee Pattison
To speak truthfully, rather than poeti-
cally, the “Dorothy'’ levivecl at Melbourne
Boyal last Saturday was a bit "on” in
wigs and gowns. The shocks of white horse-
hair rarely litted the heads that bore them,
and the gowning mostly was sloppy. But
the music was delightfully well fitted to the
scene, and the weakness of the conventional
story was not more noticeable than it ever
had been. Not to think too hard about
better performances of “Dorothy” than this
is to be well pleased with the entertainment.
The light, sweet warble of Patti Bussell is
capable of the name-part; Byrl Walkely is
unobtrusively effective as Lydia; and Grace
Grotty is surely the most convincing young
Phyllis in the history of the opera. One
has seen less unfurnished actors than Met-
tam, Howett-W orster and Tom Minogue
(the innkeeper) in their respective parts,
and has taken more interest in the pic-
turesque Squire Bantam, of the late Howard
Vernon, than in the round-faced rooster pre-
sented by his son, Victor Prince; also, the
flirtations of Lurcher and Mrs. Privett have
been more pungently expounded than by
Workman and Mollie Tyrell. But, taking
one consideration with another, “Dorothy”
is a show to be thankful for as times go.
A fortnight pf quick changes in Gilbert and
V, 11 , 1 ., a . ll . reviva ls begins on Saturday with
Mikado.”
** * %
At Melbourne King’s the cut of “My
Lady s Dress” pleases all tastes, that are
not too critical. Emelie Polini’s headache-
powders continue, to account for several
dream visions which culminate in two scenes
appertaining to the make-up of her dinner-
gown and require her, as a flouted manne-
quin, to parody the tragedy of La Tosca bv
stabbing her torturer with a pair of scis-
sors. Incidental to this last dream of the
series is the head of aged hair worn by Kay
Souper as Sir Charles, and in the interests
ot art this journal herewith beseeches Souper
to go and get his wig cut. It seems a pitv
top, that Eily Maly on should be utteriv
misplaced in the part of a matron who
speaks insultingly of Sir Charles. The part
is very small, and a less experienced actress
could as well express the scorn and indigna-
tion that Kay Souper’s top-piece calls for.
** * *
Previous suspicions regarding the calibre
ot Guy Maier and Lee Pattison were con-
, r n ,\ed by another capital performance at
Melbourne Town Hall on Saturday night,
iheir programme included repeats of the
strikmg Bach-Bauer Fantasie and Fugue
the « Coronation Scene from “Boris
and there were a Mozart Sonata
and the Andante and Scherzo from Brahm’s
J 0p ‘ b 4 to show that these
‘,£ pa rontly Ul *orthodox players haven’t quite
& rtod f-n m /he Path of classical recti-
Stll \ thoy didn’t forget to skim
through a selection of comparative novelties,
•not over-deep in musical meaning, but fre-
or'rliw f or some charming rhythm
or lallj of high notes at the top of the key-
“Ff-nrio” , Lee c Pattison soloed in a clever
Etude by Paul Juon, the lively “Whirli-
“WhGp p rno d , 14 / lx ’ 1 and Charles T. Griffes’s
leaving J r aC ?- Ck ’ admodern in texture and
f f!‘. hn 8' oi: | ingoring sweetness that
- \ affe cted . the congregation. Two
1- ’VJ 1 ltei ? s hy Maier were as attractive as
his efforts in collusion with his partner. It
IS now evident, by the way, that the pair
play on separate grands. On the opening
night the instruments were so-close together
that the present writer and others assumed
that the mechanism for two pianos had been
housed in one box on six inadequate legs,
rsext Saturday the two Americans finish
their season, and will then go to Adelaide in
pursuit of ; the warm welcome which they
somehow missed in Sydney and Melbourne.
** * *
“Spangles,” having turned the century at
Melbourne Palace, is living luxuriously on
its notoriety. Its afternoons and evenings
are not j;et numbered. Meanwhile, a photo-
grapher is producing photos of Ada Peeve
by the million, in view of a Souvenir Week
to be announced shortly.
Jfc s£;
At Melbourne Tiv. the Peter Pan of
A audeville vents his protests against tne
plumber who invades his home. The bill
that Wee Georgie tops was varied last
Saturday by the arrival 0 f Fred' Bluett and
iladehne Boss iter, honorably remembered
Strolle e 2.° nrne aS tle Dark Lady of the
‘** * *
Ihe fact th a t Melba will return to London
anon for the umptieth time is evidenced in
the announcement of a farewell concert at
Melbourne Town Hall for August 1 on
which occasion Clarice Coles and basso Ben
lor%iT B tTm n e! y ' “* *° be heard tbm
** * *
AT 2 lan to Mau ” is the top-liner on Iloyt’s
Melbourne programme this week. The film
t fi f ?a a ranch wllich makes
a stiett fight look like an old maid’s tea-
partJ - i kove Without Question,” a fevered
murder-drama, is recommended as a stimulus
to the goose-flesh feeling. But peace breaks
out frequently in “The Kiddle-woman”
Geraldine Farrar is solved after ’a
“whv y cfrP Pr T tenCe °T f T depth and cunning.
of . ff'T J, loine ” mi «ht be the
ub title of Hail the YV oman” at the
Majestic. It is the same old dog-eared yarn
of the beautiful girl driven forth hv
ii hard and crusty father, and it only differs
from previous tales of the type in the
than eCt thc i 4 b A V 1 cliaracters are 'more idiotic
iw • ' „ A lce Calhoun in ‘‘The Charm-
mg Deceiver has some personal points to
AtTbe-Mflh^ K *'*?** ‘“PrSwiity"
At the Melba Bill Hart is “Travellin’ fin ”
wi h”? ieltM t”, 1 ’ and hd ”S oSin
at the Rrifo f w .cap°ns. A small coin
at the Biitanma will carry you into the
Oriental; toy-land of “Kismet!” where ravish
peLy da ISqUeS S6em to be rated at two a
Iw 6 Si!! 1 exbi k tion of water-colors by
at the hhnf. 1 gorges Francois Nillet
at the Fine Art Society, Melbourne afford*
than a striking contrast between two
different methods of painting. Nillet born
ablv'°in d paH b s Ut . apPai i ently trained consfc
manner ha ® , a heavy, undemonstrative
aoHenitnrn^-“] 0S t Iy p ; ctures phases of the
agricultural industry that would never ner-
“Meshinf^ 0 f° n IC . land - His best work,
but it is’diffienlt 1 t b ’r if f airly well handled,
out it is clifncult to tell what time of do,,
represented J. W. Tristram, who, according
the_ catalogue, started painting in 1885 is
an industrious producer of dreamy but unreal
“ PARLOR , BEDROOM
and bathe
AT SYDNEY
PALACE.
Phillips Tend as Reggie Irving all dressed
for an elopement.
an *. atn >°BPhere that contain
■! ent Ppet lo suggestion to apologise
arri2V a a U 1 ; e ° f tl \ e P ic torial intention Thl
1 s nnH S the Purple patches in
s palette and indulge in sweet studies of
ha/y moonshine that have an irresistible
appeal to certain picture-buyers. But the
general standard of performance is lower than
before. The ‘magic” of his work, which ’
so much admired, is less the expression of
personal subtlety than audacious juggling
with a pretty color-box. J Bgnng
enm'FmJfr bite-headed Boy” has found heavy
h' 1 ' 4 m cultured Adelaide before being
If/P"" out of the Royal by prepara*
trNeillL first-m-Australia revue. Maire
U Neill is the popular success of the Irish
Ddtv d *a’ a ni d her frequent appeals to the
received ? l'' I '-]” for ? ome obscure reason)
lecen ed by the house with delighted laughter
Equally acceptable in a different i 5
wolne /‘ who fit into their dull-grey
« ? r l!i ei iY as 1 they were not acting at ali
mSd y infe m eeh D T la - n . y and Nora Des-
enthtedl fi HTe tt • lsh tyi i es differ-
entiated. At the Prince of Wales, John
Marguerite d’Alvarez, the Spanish contralto,
singing at Sydney Town Hall.
Ivirby and Leslie Adrienne are giving a really
good adaptation of the Victoria Cross novel,
“Life’s Shop Window.” Rutland Beckett is
villain, and Walter Cornock puts in some
clever comedy. At the King’s, the Walter
George Co. still has charge of half the pro-
gramme. Other bright turns are Burton and
Dwyer with some good patter, and Sterndale
with a fiddle. In pictures, Wondergraph is
very American and very feminine with the
story of l.uiu Bett, who took part in a mock
marriage at a social evening and found it a
real one. v\ est’s has revived “Milestones,”
old but good, with the racing drama of “Kiss-
es Cup” added. The semi-Chinese “Broken
Blossoms was so popular that it had to have
an additional week at the Pav. The York
is having a local beauty competition, and the
1 alais has scored by inviting the favorites of
the screen to be present in person on the
dancing-floor.
11. S. Power spent live or six years at the
most impressionable part of his life in Adel-
aide, and the Art Gallery there gave him his
first commission. Thus his present exhibi-
tion has found a hearty welcome and some
good sales. The Gallery has lately acquired
two more of his works, a farm scene (pre-
sented by Josiah Symon) and his big Villers-
Lietonneux canvas, both having horses as
their main theme. His present exhibition is
dominated by a great “Beaching the Life-
boat and a quite different “River Murray”
(both from the Royai Academy). He shows
the dogs and ponies which, with or without
portraits of the owners, have brought him
tame and money in England. Also an unex-
pected love of beauty, at the expense of his
more characteristic strength, in “bits” from
Sydney Harbor or the Wye Valley. There is
some lack of care in background 'details hei-n
and there, but the exhibition fixes him firmly
as a painter of observation, strength and ver-
satility.
*# * *
Marguerite d’Alvarez’s debut, at the
J-Own xiaJi on Saturday night, was something
Of a triumph. Whatever the Melbourne
scribes. might say, Sydney took her to its
expansive bosom. Verbrugghen declared it
impossible to get from a mixed Sydney audi-
ence that tense silence for which his restless
soul has always craved; but D’Alvarez got
anci m “ ie subsequent applause was start-
ling. The Fates have given the Peruvian
song-bird a voice of great flexibility and wide
range packed in with a temperament that
can sway an audience to the heights and
depths of human emotion. On top of that
they have endowed her with a fine
presence. She opened with “Oh, Rest
“TiMi-iJh ” u fl ‘° I ni . Mendelssohn’s
.Lu a 1,-ivt anc followed it immediately
with a ISegro Spiritual,” an amazing con-
trast in which she gave a tone picture of
the dignity of prayer, alongside the abandon
ot appeal m a primitive soul. Her ex-
cerpts from “Samson and Delilah” and “Car-
men, gave appetising hints of what she
would be like m grand opera, and in her
>.panish songs with their tragedy and joy
she was peculiarly at home. Oscar Wagner
the accompanist, follows the temperamental
singer with a sympathetic intuition that is
SS uncanny, and also proves himself an
? soloist. Livio Manucci, the
.youthful cellist, who completes the comnam
produces a clear, full tone" and has a
capacity for burying himself in his music
S m ggests bls « e V. tbin £ s with maturity.
.Linest Truman supplied an organ accompani-
ment tor the opening number, and in the
last provided, with the pianist and ’cellist, a
ne background for D’Alvarez’s rendition of
Bizets Agnus Dei,” a repetition of which
was demanded by the clamoring audience,
ihe emotional contralto has hit the public
taste m its most susceptible spot, and the
ovation she got at the end of her first pro-
gramme ranks with the most impressive riots
of its kind Sydney has seen.
* & sj: sji
“A Night Out” retains its hold n the
patrons of Her Majesty’s, Sydney, where
Maud lane and Alfred Frith are as wildly
popular as ever.
'i' V »j!
, 4r pM Sydney Criterion Louis Bennison, as
±he Great Lover, ’ continues to conjugate
the verb amo m collaboration with Beverly
Sitgreaves to good financial purpose.
“The Bat” is still evoking shrieks of merri-
ment at Sydney Royal.' A puzzling feature
or this show is why the authors have con-
fined themselves to marrow-freezing the
audience by means of irrelevant blood-stained
hands and the like. An occasional stream of
gore from the ceiling, or an explosion which
blew a hole in the floor or one of the walls
Would be just as convincing as some of the
other stunts, and arouse a deal more excite-
ment. The Bat doesn’t go the complete
** og “saurty, as it were, and it suffers as
a thriller in consequence.
** * *
Bedroom and Bath” is steadily
falling the Sydney Palace with playgoers
who might be bored by Sliakspeare or Ibsen,
and for whom Addison’s “Cato” would have
Qo appeal. Marjorie Bennett makes a
scrumptious Nita Leslie, and Diana Wilson
if a magnificent Polly Hathaway, while Phil-
lips Tead presents the Puritan who has to
cavalier with a deal of convincingness.
![« s;: *
George Carney is leaving Sydney Tivoli
to-morrow night to the bitter regret of those
who love a genuine artist. Nothing better
has been seen in the way of soldier-turns
than Ins work at the Musgrove theatre. His
brother meteor, Malcolm Scott, continues to
alternate the domestic tribulations of Henry
Vfi ' Wl , , m °dern witticisms, to the delight
of the unholy. Elliott and Godley are pleas-
ing vocalists, and musical noises are also
turned out satisfactorily by the City Four,
while Sam Barton, the tramp trick cyclist, is
back for a short spell at the old stand.
He *{: *J C
“Boomerang Bill,” a t Sydney Lyceum, is
the latest in Amurkan crook drama. It de-
picts the moral gymnastics of a thug (Lionel
Barrymore) who indulges in “just one more”
enme before kneeling at the penitent form.
\ lola JJana, in “Glass Houses,” is the extra
Kimball Young, in
What No Man Knows.” is appearing at the
Crystal Palace. “The Seventh Day” is on
view at the Haymarket, and the particular
lure of Hoyt’s de Luxe is Zane Gray’s “The
Last Trail.” Marie Prevost occupies the
Australian, and, as “The Dangerous Little
Demon.” artlessly becomes involved in gamb-
ling raids and her papa’s amorous entangle-
ments. __
“M.P.A.”: Until I got on the inside tun-
ning of London halls and theatres 1 could
never understand the importance of tile box-
office manager. When the ghost walks the
man who hands out tickets (his name often
appears on the programme) collects eight to
ten quid per week. I asked a house manager
why a bright girl with business capacity
couldn t hold the job as box-office girls do in
Australia. He replied that a good man in
the box-office always showed a handsome
proht over and above his salary, because of
his tact and diplomacy in placing West
lenders, who required very careful handling,
lo my way of thinking some of the articles
l have struck were more likely to turn money
away than pull it in by being affable.
“S.S.” : One morning, when George Milne
was running liis Shakspearean season at the
Opera House, Melbourne, I called in behind
on press business bent, and found him suffer-
ing the torments of the doubly-damned from
v„r!,iin ing W tooth ’ Hi « loft cheek was
u'Ttwi 1 oUt , hl P a P um Phin, and was suffused
with the red, burning blush of pain. “And I
have to play «Julius Ciesar to-night!” wailed
actoi ;;„ ‘^ ave it out,” somebody sug-
gested. Have it out!” cried Milne. “Don’t
you know that an absent tooth leaves a sun-
venness in the cheek. An actor cannot afford
his good looks.” The idea of an
indentation and good looks in the face of a
countenance like a big balloon inspired a burst
of unfeeling mirth, but Milne did not smile.
Heiemamed before the mirror, using language
that was most effective, bearing in mind that
Leorge was an ex-parson. Suddenly he gave
a whoop By gad, I know what I’ll do!”
‘Tn Je yf d - &. 11 all hands. We’ll rush on
lhe Merry Wives.’ I’ll play Falstaff.”
A REVIVAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
When Dorothy and I were young
Her dainty airs and graces
By all the happy world were sung,
A-trippingly on every tongue
And now —eheu fugaces!—
I live those olden times among,
And greet familiar faces.
No thought to-night of wasted years
And numberless defections;
Gay Dorothy again appears,
Again she charms my eyes and ears
And captures my affections;
Oh, I am smiling through my tears,
Bewitched by recollections.
Sweet Dorothy, bewigged and gowned
In classic antique fashion,
Your songs of love and horse and hound,
Whose strains in melody abound,
Ensanguine cheeks long ashen;
The past returns, the world goes round,
Restoring youth and passion.
O. K.


Supplementary Prospectus of
Australian Linoleum Company Limited
(To be registered under the provisions of the Companies Acts of the State of New South Wales.)
CAPITAL £,100,000, Divided into 100,000 Shares of £1 each.
80,000 Contributing Shares are now offered for subscription, payable ss. on application, ss. on allotment,
and the balance in calls not to exceed 2s. 6d. per share per month.
12,500 to be issued to the Vendors and/or their nominees, credited as fully paid up, as full consideration
payable in terms of this Prospectus.
7,500 to be held in reserve for future issue if and when required.
100,000
The Directors reserve the right to proceed to registration and allotment upon receiving applications
for 40,000 Contributing Shares.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS:
NORMAN S. TURNBULL, Esq.,
Managing Director, Norman Turnbull & Co., Ltd., Merchants and
Manufacturers, 167 Clarence Street.
EDWARD H. MAAS, Esq.,
Director, Norman Turnbull & Co., Ltd., 167 Clarence Street.
ERNEST MAJOR, Esq.,
Governing Director, Major Bros. & Co., Ltd., 163 Clarence Street.
WILLIAM J. DAWSON, Esq., Manufacturer, 167 Clarence Street.
CONSULTING ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS:
Messrs. H. E. ROSS & ROWE, Equitable Buildings, George Street, Sydney.
BANKERS:
THE UNION BANK OE AUSTRALIA, LIMITED.
SOLICITORS:
Messrs. CAMPBELL & ROWE, Dalton House, Pitt Street, Sydney.
' . A AUDITORS:
Messrs, FREDERICK J. SMITH & JOHNSON,
Australasia Chambers, Martin Place.
- - - SECRETARY:
' 1L S DE QUETTEVILLE ROBIN, A.C.I.S.
PROSPECTUS.
The Company, the first of its kind in the'Southern Hemisphere, is being
formed to carry on the business of Manufacturers, and particularly- to
manufacture all grades of Linoleum and kindred products.
To acquire from the Vendors various formulae and interests under certain
agreements,, particulars hereinafter set out.*
- As flic public are well aware, up to the present, all supplies ol Linoleum j
for -the Australian market have been imported from overseas, the bulk from the
United Kingdom, and the balance from the United States of Ameiica.
The Vendors, Messrs; Norman Turnbull and Edward H. Maas, Directors
of Norman Turnbull and Company, Limited, having, as a guide . the demand
for floor covering created by their product, “EN OLEUM’ (a bituminous telt
Poor covering), immediately realised the possibilities of a Linoleum Factoi)
which-would turn out all classes of floor covering. W ith this view they haie
been successful in securing the exclusive services of the Assistant-manager of
one of the largest linoleum factories in England, viz., Mr. V. J. Dan son.
This gentleman lias been in Australia for the past six months, during which
time he has been solely engaged in inquiring into the possibilities of the trade.
Mr. Dawson is the bearer of undoubted credentials, and his record of 23 years
unbroken service with one firm (Messrs. Ridley, \\ hitely & Go., Edmonton,
London) speaks for itself. Mr. Dawson, who is at present under contract to
the Vendors, is willing to transfer his services to the company for a number of
years. The plans of the necessary buildings have been drawn by one of the
leading firms of Architects (Messrs. 11. E. Ross & Rowe), and suitable land
has already been purchased at Rosebery by the Vendors.
Estimated Capital Expenditure for One Unit to
Manufacture 12,500 Lineal Yards per Week.
Approximately 3 acres land, Mentmore Avenue, Rosebery (opposite
Buzacotts’ factory) /
Factory Building, approximately, as per Messrs. H. E. Ross & Rowe s
estimate
Plant, as per Mr. Dawson’s estimate
Transport Equipment —2 Lorries
Preliminary Expenses (including trip to England)
Working Capital
Provision for Contingencies
£3,300
15,600
20,000
1,500
1,000
15,000
3,600
£60,000
Estimated Cost of Production and Estimated Profits.
This estimate is based on the assumption of the working of one Unit
containing one Calender with a capacity of about 12,500 yards per week.
Such output is, however, governed by the quality being manufactured; for
instance, a greater yardage is produced when manufacturing a poorer quality,
owing to the reduced quantity of materials utilised, than when manufacturing
a better grade, as the latter is thicker, and, consequently, takes a greater
quantity of materials per yard.
Expenditure per Week.
Cork £393
Oil 435
Canvas 390
Colors 20
15
18
13
3
-£1340 8 3
(The actual working books of one of the largest
factories in Great Britain, showing the exact quanti-
ties of raw materials used in the manufacture of
Linoleum, are in the possession of the Vendors.)
By the application of Australian landed costs to
these quantities the Vendors are able to arrive at
the exact cost of these raw materials as shown above.
These books, together with quotations from local
firms for the various materials, can be inspected at
the temporary offices of the Company, 167 Clarence
Street, by boiia fide applicants for shares.
Wages
Factory Management and Factory Office
Staff £26
* Power and Fuel • 15
Repairs and Lubricants 1.2
Depreciation of Plant, 5 per cent ' 15
Workmen’s Compensation Act, Directors’
Fees, Office Management, Pent and
Commercial Services, etc., say ....
£145 0 0
68 0 0
53 0 0
£1505 8, 3
Estimated Profits per Week.
13,500 Lineal Yards, at, say, 4s. per yard £3500 0
Expenditure per week 1505 8
AVERAGE PROFIT PER WEEK.. £994 11 9
A PROFIT OF £994 PER WEEK IS SHOWN, OR £49,700 PER TEAR
OF FIFTY WORKING WEEKS, WHICH T-S A HANDSOME
RETURN ON THE CAPITAL OUTLAY.
Application will be made to the Committee of the. Sydney Slock Exchange
in due course to have the Company’s shares officially listed.
Appl Nations for shares will be made on the form accompanying this
prospectus, and sent to the Secretary, Mr. 11. S.- De Q. Robin, Secretary
Norman Turnbull & Co., Ltd.,'l67 Clarence Street, Sydney, together with a
remittance in favor of THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
of the amount of the application money. Where no allotment is made the
application money will be returned in full, and where the number of shares
allotted is less than the number applied for, the balance of the application
money will be applied towards the balance of the capital.
The whole of the proceeds, less costs of flotation, brokerage and registra-
tion expenses, will be placed to the credit of the Company.
The Company will pay a cash brokerage of 3-| per cent, on all Shares
applied for and allotted on application as identified as coming through any
member of the Stock Exchange of the Commonwealth or authorised agents.
Form of Application for Shares.
To the Provisional Directors,
AUSTRALIAN LINOLEUM COMPANY, LIMITED. . , «
(To be incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Acts ot tne State ot
New South Wales.)
Gentlemen, — . , , ~
I hereby make application for shares in the above-named Company.
I enclose my cheque for £. . representing application money at the rate .
per share on the above number of shares. I request you to allot me t <’
number of shares upon the terms of the Company s prospectus dated- the 1- * >
1922, and I hereby agree to accept the same, or any smaller number that may be all tt
to me, and to pay ss. per share on allotment, and. the balance per V'j* ' ‘V-
Added by the said prospectus, and I authorise you to register me as the holde V
shares. ' Further, I agree that you shall be entitled at your absolute dmcietion to
to make any allotment to me in respect of this application in wh ch. event the amount
of application money enclosed herewith shall be returned to me in ful . D - d
to be made payable to THE UNION BANK 01 ALSIuATJW LLJ , .
warded to 11. S. De Q. Robin, Secretary Norman Turnbull and Co.. Ltd., Ib< Clarence
Street. Sydney.)
Dated this day
of
1922.
SIGNATURE .
OCCUPATION
NAME IN FULL .
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
NOTE —Exchange must be added to Country and Interstate Cheques.


Dainty
Clocks
for Charming Rooms.
We Specialise in Clocks for those so cosy
personal rooms that women of taste and indi-
viduality create.
Clocks that blend with and finish a room, and
withal are always reliable for reference. -
And, too, whilst giving all a clock should give,
and a guarantee for 15 years with each—yet
our prices are undoubtedly the lowest in Aus-
tralia.
Reliable Lever movemert, in Sterling
Silver-mounted Case, 3i x 3J inches.
63/-
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS LTD.
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest tie vallery
Mouse In Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
wf/n
W/s
m
m
f
m
I
■
M
o
o
m
m
m
M
ONOTO
INK
Best
for al!
Pens
[P©GQ
SELF-FILLING
SAFETY
POVERTY
POINT
Throat & Chandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
“Pink”: About a year ago American film
papers carried ads. telling exhibitors to look
out for “Snowy Baker, the millionaire sports-
man.” It was a picture company’s little
joke. Snowy signed his name to a contract
with one of the oldest firms in the business
and got ready to start. But no Baker film
has been made in the U.S.A. Snowy drew
his salary for a time, but wasn’t called upon
upon to do anything in return. Now he is
breaking into vaudeville. Meanwhile, a
couple of his Australian productions have
done fairly well in American theatres.
“J.J.J.”: Bert. Clark, who has taken his
last curtain in New York, was a patter
comedian of distinction. When he appeared
at Mclntosh’s Tivoli in Sydney he loathed
learning a new part. His memory played
him many queer tricks, but his resourceful-
ness invariably pulled him through. Clark’s
Australian partner was Miss Hamilton, whc
predeceased him. He made a hit in London,
but hated the climate, and was never hap-
pier than when in Australia.
“Blackfriars”: Irene Vanbrugh, who
comes to us next year, has worn much better
on the stagp than her sister Violet, with
“ My Lady's Dress,” at
Melbourne King's.
Frank Haney as the
costumier.
whom many Aus-
tralians are con-
fusing her. Her
husband, “D o t”
Boucicault, who
seems even tinier
now that he has
grown older and
whiter, could be
relied on
to check
any ten-
dency to
mouthing
and exaggeration.
Violet, who married
Bourchier (she
divorced him last
year), would have
had less guidance
from that some-
what cynical foot-
lights personality.
Like many another
actress of early
charm and emo-
tional tempera-
ment, she has
acquired some dis-
tressing manner-
is m s with the
years. It will be a
treat to see the
a ccomplished
Boucicault acting
here again, not
merely for tradition’s sake, bnt because both
he and his spouse have moved forward in
their art all the time.
“O. Blin”: The great Cyrus Entwhistle
had recruited an Entirely New Sliakspearean
Company for a tour through the Victorian
“smalls.” After the first night of his
“Julius Caesar” at the Yackandandabeal
Mechanics, he noticed the company collected
in a glowering and muttering group at the
back of the stage. “Minions,” he thundered,
“what is the meaning of this?” Cassius
ventured forward. “The meaning is,” said
Cassius, “that, having seen your Julius
Cmsar, everyone wants to play Brutus.”
“J.H.” (London) : Having heard Joseph
Hislop, the Scottish tenor, at the Queen’s
Hall, I am satisfied he is going to be one
of the world’s great tenors. He sang
“Celeste,” Rachmaninoff’s “Night” and
other songs to a packed audience that, for
once, forgot its native reserve and became
almost enthusiastic. His voice, though lack-
ing the velvet of McCormack, is true, bell-
like, of golden purity and without a trace
of throatiness.
Otto Heggie, long ago an amateur actor in
Adelaide—he was a product of that city’s
strong Literary Society system—has gone
ahead since he made a professional name as
the Messenger from Mars and left (in 1906)
to try his fortune elsewhere. He called on
Barwell when the S.A. Premier was passing
through New York. “The result,” says
Sincock, Barwell’s secretary, “was that our
last night in New York was spent in a front
seat at the Booth Theatre. I believe it is
owned by Heggie. At any rate, he is a very
wealthy man. He is a modest, retiring fel-
low, a thorough gentleman—and the finest
actor I have ever seen. He is at the head
of the theatrical world in New York. It
was delightful to see how the large audience
hung on his every word and gesture.”
‘Titt Streeter”: The newly-knighted mem-
ber of the J. C. Williamson amalgamation
told a London Times interviewer the other
day that “English plays were popular in Aus-
tralia ; American plays unpopular.” ’M-yes !
Considering that only one Engl’sh play,
“My Lady’s. Dress,” is being presented by his
firm, and that in Sydney alone three Ameri-
can plays are served up, George’s statement
is entertaining. But, '‘when in Rome”
GUSTAV SLAPOFFSKI, who is conduct-
ing Gilbert and Sullivan at Melbourne
Royal .
First Old Man”: “Dot” Boucicault is
coming back. It is 26 years since he went
away to England, and at 63 he is still the
most sought-after producer of plays in Lon-
don. He brings along his wife, liene Van-
brugh, who will also be making a return trip.
Ihirty-two years have passed since she and
her sister Violet toured Australia with the
J- L. Toole crowd. By many she is con-
sidered the greatest comedienne on the
British stage.
Lud” : Horatio Bottomley, now languish-
mg in quod, was as fond of the drama as he
was of champagne. Many were the plays he
financed in London, and, curiously, enough,
none of them returned him any substantial
profat. But Mrs. Patrick Campbell, in her
.pist-published reminiscences, lets it be known
that, the ex-M.P. backed Forbes Robertson
when that actor put up “Hamlet” at the
Lyceum. (It’s mute in the correct order of
things for Hamlet to lean on Horatio.)
Robertson made the hit of his life as the
I rince of Denmark, and soon found himself
among the actor-knights.
“8.0’C.”: I risk being contradicted by
Lreat I ersons, but I’m convinced that the
humor of Aunt Ellen Maine O’Neill in “The
White-headed Boy” was freely broadened for
our benefit. _ I gravely doubt whether those
grins and winks at the audience before mak-
ing a new point, and the freouent repetition
ot the phrase “O my God!” were either
according to the book or to Abbey Theatre
methods of acting. By the way, has any-
one noticed the curious resemblance of Aunt
Ellen Maine to an old-time Irish actor?
Appearance, voice and gestures all suggest
John L. Sheridan, of “Fun on the Bristol.”
“R.R.”: Harry Jacobs, the baton-wielder
with Ada Reeve’s “Spangles,” was a “sing-
ing conductor” when he was at the Tivoli
with the same lady and her company a few
years ago. The songs—they were of the
humorous order—wore given from his place
m the orchestra. When vaudeville was re-
placed by “Winnie Brooke, Widow,” Jacobs
sayig no more. As composer Henry con-
tributes a song or two to “SnangVs!” and
his control of the orchestra helps the show
considerably.
“Record Room”: A “Dorothy” revival in
Melbourne recalls that the tirst London
Dorothy (Gaiety, Sept. 25, 1886) was
Marion Hood, who was in Australia a few
years later In Gaiety burlesques. Marie
lempest took up the part on Feb. 19, 1887,
and the comic opera ran till April 6, 1889,
having scored 981 peiformances at three
theatres. The tirst Melbourne Dorothy was
Leonora Brajiam. Others I remember were
Ltara Mepvale, Nellie Stewart, Florence
loung and May Pollard, and now we have
, a tta Russell. The Lydias have included
Aggie Kel ton, Ida Osborne, Flo Young, Sybil
Arundale and Byrl Walkely. Lurchers of
my acquaintance were Eicon, Laujt. and
iercv. how comes Workman. As Squire
l>antam Victor Prince took up the old part
oi his father, Howard Vernon. It had been
played earlier by Albert Brennir. Ryiey
began his brilliant Australian work with
the baritone part in a Melbourne revival of
September, 1890. I regard Howett-Worster
as the best of his successors.
Simplon”: People who notice a peculi-
arity in Emelie PoLni’s gait in “My Lady’s
Dress ’ at Melbourne King’s are possibly
not aware of the fact that Emelie is suffer-
ing a considerable handicap. While enter-
ing a train in Sydney she Slipped and
damaged a leg and so far has not been able
to cultivate the glide of the dress models
who precede her in the penultimate scene of
the play. In the circumstances Miss Polini
is do.ng very well. She has the sp'rit,
unusual ip the star actress, of making light
ot a temporary disability.
“J.F.H.”: Is Lauder’s star setting? Drop-
France’s, London, 1 was aston-
ished at the number of empty seats. S’Arry
is depend.ng almost entirely upon hackneyed
songs and threadbare gags; the only novelty
* n< u*'- lce< ?- was a baker’s ditty somewhat out
ot his line and of .no particular merit,
lhere were 90 minutes of ’Arry, and many
of them dragged. Considering the narrow-
ness of his groove and the paucity of his
material, Lauder has had a wonderfully
long innings.
- r T.IML ’: For 25 years I have known
Malcolm Scott, the “Woman Who Knows”
at Sidney Tivoli.* He is easily the cleverest
Engash vaudeville dame, but seldom appears
in pantomime; few panto, managements can
afford to pay his salary. In London Scott
generally works four variety Louses a night.
Once he established a record 'ey doing nine.
A brother of Admiral Percy Scott, he is
over two yards long and broad in proportion.
And his heart is as big as his body.
“ r F-0-I-” : I remember Daniel Bandmann
V B. 22/6/’22). On February 25, 1870, he
took a benefit at the Prince of Wales’s
lheatre, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and
appeared on the following evening at the
Adelphi, York-street, under the management
of Lionel Hard.ng, W. J. Wilson and A. C.
Habbe. “Romeo and Juliet” was the plav,
and Bandmann’s wife. INlillie Palmer, made
her d6but as Juliet, Bandmann being Mer-
cutio. On his second visit to Australia the
Herr was accompanied by Louise Beaudet, a
girl of Spanish extraction, bom i,n France
and brought up in the U.S.A. Challenged
about Louise, Band, explained that his wife
was “resting” in America. I used to meet
Bandmann at a German cafd in Bourke-
street, Melbourne. He was a heavy feeder—
his terrific suppers of sauer-kraut still linger
m the memory; but an occasional glass of
wine was his only tipple. After his retire-
ment from the stage he bought a ranch in
Wyoming, where he died on November 23,
1905, aged 65.
“Gomez”: Nobody seems to know how to
pronounce the name of the Spanish song-
stress, Marguerite d’Alvarez, now warbling
at Melbourne Town Hall. One .of the Taits’
myrmidons gave it to me as “De-al-var-ez.”
An eminent critic mentioned emphatically in
my hearing that it was “Dal-var-ay.” r JTien
a man in a tramcar, making a hurdle of the
comma and considering the “z” a mere
decoration, spoke of the Voice as “De-al-
varce.” All, in my opinion, are wrong. Any-
how, my Spanish grandmother, who gave
me a taste for her difficult tongue, would
have pronounced it “Dahl-var-eth.”
“T.W.”: “The Great Lover” is another
London Shaftesbury success which has
escaped “J.F.H.’s” notice (B. 22/6/’22).
Moscovitch, the Yiddish Irving, was the Jean
Paurel of the Shaftesbury production, and
registered a palpable hit. But “Gnarek”
(B. 6/7/’22) is wrong in imagining that
“Baby Bunting,” with Dot Brunton in the
cast, was a Shaftesbury winner. Dot was
praised unstintedly as a comedienne who let
herself go, but “Baby Bunting” was merely
one of the very ill-fated series into which she
slipped while in London. I forget whether
it was a fortnight or three weeks before she
was free to look at the other shows again.
“Orb”: Actors never read press cidticisms
of their performances. If they do they
scornfully ignore them. I was reminded of
this at “The Great Lover,” when one of the
artists at the Gotham Opera House was
keen on showing the manager her press
notices. That incident recalled another
which neatly stressed the power of the press
and an actor’s estimate of his own import-
ance. I was in a dressing-room of the
Royal Standard Theatre, Sydney (now the
Little Theatre), when John L. Hall was hav-
ing a flutter there in—dear me ! —’BB. A
mummer, who since has been better known,
was playing a small part, and between Acts
1 and 2 was hurriedly getting into a differ-
ent pair of sine qua nous, when they ripped
irretrievably. Hastily resuming the pants
he had worn i,n the preceding scene, my
friend groaned, “Two years have elapsed.
That damned Bulletin will have a pick at
me over this!”
“Merlin”: S. Aus. has a State Orchestra,
too. It consists of professional musicians
who are paid for concerts and rehearsals,
but are at liberty to do other work. In
the beginning funds were provided by citi-
zens, who guaranteed £lOO each. The
notion of sponging on the Government was
“ Parlor , Bedroom and
Bath,” at Sydney
Palace.
Reginald Collins as
the irate husband.
left to N. S. Wales.
The orchestra is
now giving one
concert per month
and, although the
dearest seats are
55., the thing is
paying its way.
Admittedly, the
ensemble is not up
to the Verbrugglien
standard. But that
will come. The
management real-
ises that the
orchestra .must
educate its public,
a.nd the pro-
grammes all con-
tain familiar num-
bers interspersed
w th classical stuff.
Result packed
houses and mutual
satisfaction. Inci-
dentally, the
orchestra has a
line frdd to draw
on. The last pro-
gramme given by
the Con. students
included a fine
rendering of Schu-
bert’s “Unfinished
Symphony,” which
is not a thing one hears at the pitchers.
. “Frinigga”: The IT.S. picture interest,
m pressing, for a 60 p.c. duty on imported
falms (B. 13/7/’22), says that 50 miihon
(pounds, not dollars) are invested in the
business, and that the annual takings are
200 millions. There are about 18,000 movie
theatres, and they and the makers keep
250,000 people employed. Meanwhile, there
are over 50 German pictures now showing.
The petitioners assert that a big production
on which they spend £50,000 can be made in
Germany for perhaps one-twentieth of that.
“Gnarek”: Wee Georgie Wood began his
vaudeville career as a cheeild imitator of the
headliners of the profession. His golden
curls have vanished and an Eton suit has
succeeded to the baby frocks and frills, but
the mimicry remains. Shortly before his visit
to Australia Georgie appeared with Ethel
Irving in a detective melodrama in the West
End, but the public didn’t warm to it.
“Namoi”: “Dot” Boucjcault and Irene
Vanbrugh have had Australia in their minds
for some time. Two years ago “Dot" told a
returning Australian that Meynell had been
asking the interesting pair to try their luck
out here. “I’m afraid our plays are too
quiet for you,” he said. “Dot” has sad
memories of money lost on artistic Brough-
Boucicault productions, and would not come
on a share basis, as proposed. His latest
plunge at the London Globe is “Eileen,” a
translation from the French.
“Norbell”: “Rolls Royce” (B. 6/7/’22)
mentions that Drury-lane has been re-
opened with “Decameron Nights,” after
renovation at “enormous expense.” The
alterations and general vacuum-cleaning cost
£150,000, with which sum one could build
quite a decent playhouse. The Theatre
Royal, Drury-lane, has been a theatrical
landmark since the days of Charles 1., and
has been structurally altered many times.
Wren reconstructed it during Sir Thomas
Killigrew’s management (1663-1680). When
Garrick and Lacy were in charge in 1747,
Robert Adams rebuilt it. In 1776, w T hen
Sheridan was its manager, it was altered by
Holland, and it was rebuilt for the fourth
time in John Philip Kemble’s period (1788-'
1802). A hundred years later the place was
closed for repairs during Arthur Collins’s
regime. Sir Augustus Harris (“Drurio-
lanus”) ran it from 1879 to-1896. His open-
ing attraction on November 1, ’79, was
George Rignold in “Henry V.” Other Aus-
tralian. favorites have starred at Drury-lane.
Madame Ristori was there in ’B2. It was
the scene of William Creswick’s farewell
benefit in ’B5. Charles Warner, Arthur
Dacre (buried at Waverley), Nellie Farren,
Fred. Leslie, Ellen Terry, Lewis Waller,
Jennie Lee (as “Jo”), Cyril Maude, Lily
Titheradee, Boucicault and Nell’e Stewart
have all been associated with the storied
old theatre. And Henry Irving played his
last London season there in 1905.
IMPERISHABLE PROS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The notices of deaths I read,
And deeply each one touches me,
I find that Blank was fine indeed
In really high-class comedy,
And Dash the people ran ,o see
As Romeo. They tell you why.
An artist tried and true was he:
It seems bad actors never die!
When Haresfoot laid aside his screed,
And died a little after tea,
They said that artists of his breed
Were very scarce. All must agree
His equal here might never be.
I with the paper wiped my eye.
He had a lisp, he dragged a knee.
It seems bad actors never die.
Miss Footlite passed, and had her meed
Of praise from all the journals. She
As Juliet did supersede
All known competitors, and we
Perched at the top of every tree
Saw Footlite flaunting fine and high.
Her manner, though, was hard and dree.
Alas! bad actors never die.
Envoy.
According to the paper?’ plea
Some law ill art doth sanctify.
These have true immortality.
Alas, bad actors never die!
VICTOBIA.
STARGAZER.


w
07?
m
I
Ik
1
£
FOX SERGESI
ARE MADE IN
VARIOUS WEIGHTS
AND
GRADES
BOTH CHEVIOT
AND
FINETWILI MAKES
Lbear the i
REGISTERED A
TRADE MARK M
m
W@m
TPADE
MARK
iinli
LOOK FOR THE TRADE AIARK ON THE SERGE
• X: - / 7 FOX/BROTHERS/fi. C 9 LT9, WELLINGTON , SOMERSET. V\V
Cstftb
PUBLIC NOTICE.
AGE-PROOF CERTIFICATE
OF
“White Horse” Whisky
The maintenance of pre-war standard of Scotch Whisky is dependent on possession by the Distiller of adequate
stocks of OLD MATURED HIGHLAND MALT WHISKIES.
Messrs. Mackie & Co. Distillers Ltd., Glasgow and London, Proprietors of “WHITE HORSE” Whisky, desire
to inform the public that they are prepared to furnish AGE-PROOF CERTIFICATE of tneir stocks of Old
Whiskies, which enable them to maintain their standard of pre-war Age and Quality.
(COPY).
CERTIFICATE OF AGE.
GLASGOW, Ist MAY, 1922.
We HEREBY CERTIFY that we have
EXAMINED THE BOND BOOKS OF MESSRS.
MACKIE & COMPANY DISTILLERS LIMITED,
GLASGOW, AND FIND FROM THESE
RECORDS THAT THEY HOLD FOR THEIR
WHITE HORSE WHISKY trade stocks of
OLD HIGHLAND MALT WHISKIES OF THE
FOLLOWING AGE I9OI AND OLDER (OF
WHICH THERE ARE 135 HHDS. EQUAL TO
8,700 PF. GALLONS).
THEY ALSO HAVE BONDINGS OF 1902,
1903, 1904, AND EACH SUCCEEDING YEAR,
WITH ONE EXCEPTION (YEAR 1918, IN
WHICH NO MALT DISTILLINQ TOOK PLACE),
UP TO 1922.
(Sgd.) MOORES, CARSON & WATSON,
Chartered Accountants.


RESCH’S
LAGER, PILSENER,
DINNER ALE & STOUT
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, PHIL I* <St CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LIMITED, Redfern, Sydney.
King Geo
44
THETOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
WHISKY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
With the Nationals out of the way a mea-
sure of sporting- interest attaches to the Australian
Hurdle and Steeple at Caulfield, each of them worth
£l5OO to the winner, and another it 000 to the
shop” lifters. Fields are not large for these
jumping classics, but the rearrangement of weights
aftei the Nationals makes the Caulfield double inter-
esting enough, provided that accidents at Flemington,
a month earlier, have not been numerous and disas-
trous. King Neptune is flattered in being let in
at lOst. 61b., but the objection raised by experts
last year, when he started favorite and tiled in the
last mile, cannot have lost much force in the mean-
time. Neptune is more seasoned, but he is still a half-
brother to Greenstead, and the theory last year was
that no child of Greenstead’s dam would stay 3&
miles in a fast run over hurdles. Fiscom, of course,
is given a fair chance in the estimates, notwithstand-
ing his extra 151 b., but although the great hurdler
looks equal to giving
191 b. to little Roisel,
he has rather the
worst of it on paper
with Bright Plume,
now that the son of
Bright Steel has re-
stored himself to
favor by winning his
second Doutta Galla
hurdle under almost as
big a burden as he
will have to hump at
Caulfield. Amazonia,
at list. lib., is
weighted a:i though
though he were half
an expert at his new r
game. Seeing that he
won the Maiden over
the sticks at Fleming-
ton on July 1, there
should be time for his
muscles to be equal
to the more tiring job
five weeks later.
P. K. PADFIELD.
Victorian race-
horse trainer.
One of the most interesting problems in the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase handicap is Agar, who refused
the last jump in the National because he didn’t like
the brushwood on it, but has been raised 151 b. on
his National weight, in spite of his waywardness.
Haoma, who fell over another horse in the National,
is another vexed question. Last year he fell in the
Caulfield four-miles race when tearing away at the
head of the field.
The hurdle race at Caulfield last Saturday
was quite an easy thing for four-year-old Chrysostom,
who was scratched for the Grand National after
winning a race, and is not among the candidates for
the longer event at Caulfield next month. In the
wake of Chrysostom a satisfactory show was made by
Berrinbo (who belted a hurdle and shook Boyd out
° f I‘ 1 ® siiddle), King* Neptune, old Pistolier, Amazonia,
and Happy king-, whereas Rahda started at 20 to 1
and ran accordingly. The steeple showed Haorna
none the worse for his unlucky tumble in the National,
and in splitting the pair of lightweights, Faithful
Knight and Quarryman, the runner-up commended
himself to further investment for the long, long go
i l , Caulfield meeting'. But Haoma will have list.
lib. to carry over the four miles, and is no good
thing on paper.
* * *
I* ax : Some very fickle and uncertain
gees have scored in the big jumping events at Caul-
ir d ji ot « ? yeal > Four winners of the Australian
Hurdle Polygamist, Fastolf, Sir Mnemon and Silver
Heart never did anything of much importance before
or afterwards. Silver Heart carried 9st. 41b. when
he won, and this, year, weighted at only lOst. 21b.,
he wasn t worth accepting for. He was scratched
last week. Sir Mnemon scratched himself—he died
ill his stall after starting, and being pulled up, in
the Leamington Hurdle. A duffer who won the Aus-
tralian Steeplechase was Algous. lie took the trick
in 1919, the year when Sir Mnemon took the Hurdle,
ami has suice counted for nothing to speak of.
* * * *
-Wijizo.niu, now in the hurdle-
lacing class, holds a record of a sort in classic
handicaps. He is surely the only horse that ever
scored three platings in rich events without being
laised as high as Bst. Three years ago Amazonia ran
third to Rebus and Ivenilford in the Metropolitan,
carrying 7st. 21b. Last year he ran third with 7st.
81b. to Eurythmic and Arch Marella for the Sydney
Lup, and six months later he was placed behind
Sister Olive and The Rover iii the Melbourne Cup.
On that occasion the old battler carried 7st. 111 b.
In worrying about wowser criticism of
his Tote Bill, Morley, M.L.A. for Barwon (Vie.),
is displaying more sensitiveness than sense. Instead
of answering tedious persons at tedious length the
Cap n ought to be explaining the material points of
his measure and ramming home the argument that,
without appreciable pa.rsonical objection, gambling'
has already been quadruply legalised—by licensing
bookmakers, by enacting the original betting-tax
ami by passing two amendments of the impost. On
each occasion the main object was to raise revenue
and to ward off an increase in the income-tax.
Morley s bill lias a good chance of getting into
committee. What its fate will be then it is hard
to estimate. Should it reach the Uppah Chambah
and provide for the retention of the odds-layers, it
will probably scratch through that House.
Playing on hard courts, and with Wer-
theim taking part in the doubles instead of O’Hara
Wood, the Australian Davis Cup team shattered the
hopes of Czeclio-Slovakia, but the Slavs put up a
good fight. Their champion, Ardelt, made Anderson
travel to win three straight sets (7 —5, 6 —4, C —4),
and Rohrer took a set from Patterson, albeit that
lethargic giant didn’t overexert himself. The first
set of the doubles was strenuously contested, but
after Patterson and AVertheim had won it, 9—7, their
task was easy. The Australians’ next big engage-
ment will be with Fiance, at Boston, in the second
week in August. The French Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion, which wanted to have the match played in
England on the ground that it was too expensive to
send a team to America, is now paying for five men,
Gobert, Brugnon, Borota, Cocliet and. Samazeuilh,
and their recent form lias been excellent. Gobert,
who will probably be captain, Borota and Brugnon
performed excellently in a series of matches against
England for the Verdun Restoration Fund. Sama-
zeuilh, who is apparently a reserve, played against
India in the Davis Cup last year. Cochet, who is
only a youth, is praised highly by Anderson.
* * * »
Lycett and Anderson, Who won the cham-
pionship doubles at AVimbledon, seem oil the general
results to have been a better pair than Patterson
and O’Hara Wood. At any rate, they won all their
preliminaries by fairly easy margins, whereas the
Victorian duo were given a stiff contract by Norton
and Roper-Barrett before they were knocked out in
the final game. Roper-Barrett must be on the wrong
side of 50, yet his fiery service and vast experience,
coupled with a concentrated bombardment on Patter-
son’s backhand, enabled him and the Afrikander to
extend the match to five sets and carry the last
session to 15—13 before they surrendered to Patter-
son’s service, which they had been hitting- with great
judgment in the earlier part of the argument. Evi-
dently Patterson’s service was at its top against
Anderson in the singles, but fell away considerably
in other matches. The cable speaks of Norton and
Roper-Barrett making it “look ordinary,” and
Anderson’s report of the doubles finish mentions that
he and Lycett played it freely after losing the first
two sets. Likewise Lycett in the singles final is
described as “returning the service better than any
other player”; in point of fact, he scored brilliant
passing shots, repeatedly beating Patterson as he
followed in. Still, it is worth remembering that
Lycett pursued the tactics of R. V. Thomas in taking
Patterson’s service behind the baseline, with the
result that he was inveigled into wasteful exercise
in trying to recover the other fellow’s short-stop
volleys. Lycett would probably have done better
in standing up closer to Pa* f ” off, and thus have
saved his legs for the half-court play.
For individual performances at AVimbledon Suzanne
Lenglen easily takes the pastry. She captured the
singles from her alleged rival, Mrs. Mallory, of the
U.S.. and then, supported by Miss Ryan, of Cali-
fornia, took the doubles from the English pair, Mrs.
Stocks and Miss Mclvane, in two straight sets.
(6 —0, 6 —4). Afterwards, with Pat O’Hara Wood,
she got the decision against Lycett and Miss Ryan
in the mixed doubles, the figures reading 6 —4, 6—?>.
As the two men had to appear in this match after
a gruelling struggle in the men’s doubles, Suzanne’s
share in the victory was probably larger than AA T ood’s.
As a result of Saturday’s matches in Vic.
League football, South Melbourne are now definitely
out of the hunt, and Richmond, St. liilda and Gee-
long are practically so. Richmond must win all
their remaining games to have a hope, and it isn’t
in them. Collingwood whipped them by 50 points
to 31 in a collision where weight counted more
than skill. Essendon sustained their second wallop-
ing, this time from C&rlton, by 85 points to 52,
and now stand level with Fitzroy. The latter blotted
out St. Kilda, with 13 goals 11 behinds to St.
Kilda’s 8 goals 14 behinds. Merrick kicked 9 of
the 13 goals, which, considering the juicy state of
the ground and ball, was a considerable feat. South
Melbourne played a strong, though untidy, game the
first three quarters, when they owned 72 points to
Melbourne’s 61; but in the last term they fell away
so remarkably that at the close they had the same
‘ - points, but Melbourne had 100. It will now pro-
bably dawn on South's committee that it pays better
to train young; 'bailers of your own than to buy
proved players from other teams.
"Winkle”: St. Ivilda (Vic.) is tlie only
League club that has never won a premiership under
Australian rules. The team is a splendid com-
bination this year, but like most of the other sides
lucks a reliable forward. To remedy this defect Dave
McNamara has been induced to come out of retire-
ment. Six feet four inches high, weighing lust,
ulb., able to span with arms extended horizontally
a space of 6ft. 84in., and very active, Dave was
the perfect footballer —10 years ago. In 1905 he
was discovered in the bush by South Melbourne, who,
to their later disgust, dropped him as no class
without trying him in a game. He went straight
to the Saints, and, playing back and following, made
good at once. Then he began to astonish the local
football world with his place-kicks, and in 1909
broke all records by kicking over a distance of
84yds. llis best effort, however, was 86yds. 1 ft.
at the Launceston (Tas.) show in 1918; which
makes the previous record of 74yds. 11 in., held by
E. Doyle, of Dublin, look small indeed. McNamara
transferred to Essendon (As.soc.) in 1909, and literally
carried them to the premiership for several seasons,
lie followed, played back, kicked off, and scored
most of their goals. In 1912 he kicked 107 goals
for the season, 18 of them in one match against
Melbourne City. But Dave is now 35 years old, and
is hardly likely to strike his old form.
M. TANDY,
South Mel-
bourne's snappy
little player.
In an exciting match at Sydney on Satur-
day N.S.W. defeated West Torrens under Australian
rules by 13 goals 12 behinds (90) to 12 goals 11
behinds (83). The excitement didn’t begin until the
second half. In the first quarter the tall men from
South Oss ran all over the Sydney chaps, and had
8 goals 4 behinds (52) to nil when the bell sounded.
Already most of the six thousand heroically standing-
in the rain were thinking of adjourning to the near-
est pub. In the second quarter, however, N.S.W.
went in for spoiling the visitors’ passes and high
marks, in which they had been vastly superior, and
these tactics proved so successful that at half-time
the Ma Staters had 5 goals 7 behinds to 9 goals
6 behinds. Pursuing the same measures they drew
level at “lemons,” each side, having 10 goals 9
behinds. It was an heroic pull up, and a widely-held
impression that West Torrens had been loafing on the
job was dissipated in the last quarter, when the
Sydney men kicked 3 goals 3 behinds to the Crow-
eaters’ 2 goals 2 behinds, thus running out winners
by 7 points. Milton, a brisk little forward (he got
three goals), was the Cornstalks’ best man, and
next to him were Watson and Foskett. The losers’
most effective trio were Karney (centre), Mills, a
Oft. 7Jin. forward, and Allan (back).
* * * «
There were 25,000 followers of League foot-
ball at Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday, when
North Sydney gained the narrowest of victories
over Glebe. Last year’s premiers scored 16 points
(4 tries 2 goals) to 15 (3 tries 3 goals), and owed
their success chiefly to their clever rearguard, who
gave a masterly exhibition of the offensive-defensive.
The heavy going suited Glebe, and North were
perhaps lucky to win. In the first canto they had
11 points to 10, but after the spell Glebe’s heavy
ruckmen toed the greasy ball in fine style. Within
five minutes of “no side” the Reds led by 15 to 14.
North’s chance then looked slender, but with only
a few jiffs to go a Glebe man got offside, and Duncan
Thompson kicked the winning goal. In the other
matches Balmain beat Eastern Suburbs, a sadly
weakened side, by 17 (3 tries 4 goals) to 12 (2
tries 3 goals) ; South Sydney trounced St. George
by 25 (5 tries 5 goals) to 9 (1 try 3 goals) and
Newtown outed ’Varsity by 18 (4 tries 3 goals)
to 10 (2 tries 2 goals). North Sydney, with
20 points to their credit and a 3-point lead of
Balmain, whom they meet on Saturday, seem to have
a mortgage on the premiership.
* * * *
The M.L. Rugby Union test between the
North Island and the South was played at Auck-
land in mud and slush. South won by 9 points
(3 tries) to 8 points (2 tries and a goal). The
game was so strenuous that five players had to
be laid aside for repairs.
“Centurion” : “Old Player’s” assertion that
the Rugby Union game is “as dead as Csesar’’ (B.
6/7/’22) is stupid if applied to N. S. Wales, and
preposterous if it was meant for the world. Leav-
ing other countries out of the argument, I main-
tain that the game in the Ma State is making up
lost ground. Owing to the Union having lost all the
chief playing areas, the process is a long one. An-
other drawback is that play was dropped entirely
during the war, to which the Union sent close on
75 per cent, of its active members, whereas the
League played all through the trouble, and has
never made public the percentage of its cracks who
took a trip abroad between 1914-18. Union attend-
ances are much larger this year than last. The
games against the Springboks and M.L. show that
play is coming back to the pre-war standard. And,
after all, the Union code is followed by thousands
of clubs throughout Great Britain, France, S. Africa
and Canada. Outside two Australian States and
M.L. the League game is known only to the inhabi-
tants of a couple of dozen Yorkshire and Lanca-
shire towns. One game is international, the other
provincial.
* * * *
"Lucius”: Dr. Alee Boswell Timms,
who went over the hill in London last May,
was one of the finest athletes Victoria has
produced. Born on Barwon’s banks and edu-
cated at Geelong College, lie was contemporary
with Frank Guthrie (now the Senator), Gus and
Mick Kearney, the tennis cracks, and the Morrisons,
and was the greatest schoolboy athlete of his day.
In the early 'nineties he went to Edinburgh to com-
plete his studies, lie knew nothing of the Rugby
game then (he had played Australian rules for the
Geelong senior team), yet, according to the Field,
he became one of the finest centre-threequarters who
ever played for Scotland. In 1898 he was one of
the British ltugby team that toured Australia. On
his return to Britain he played with the Scottish
Union till his retirement in 190.). Timms repre-
sented Scotland against Wales in 1901-02-03, against
Ireland in 1900-01-01-05, and against England in
19Q1-02-03-04-05. lie won the Scottish hurdles cham-
pionship in 1890-97, and scored for his adopted
country over the sticks in a match against Ireland.
* * * *
"Toy 1> ay : "Dally” Messenger, dazzling
ltugby threequarter of days that arc still recent, makes
an occasional appearance these times in the Australian
code. Paddington (N.S.W.) claims his services.
Messenger played the Victorian game before he
turned to Rugby, and his early training helped him
not a little in acquiring the art of finding the up-
rights luqre frequently than any Buggerite of his
generation. “Dally" had trouble with the League over
the girls games held last year, and is outside the
15-a side pule as a consequence. But his Rugby days
had ended prior to the excommunication.
* * * *
„ : “Kustum” intimates (B.
l i > . English football ban-ackers are as
lamblike in their remarks as some returned travellers
allege. At a Soccer match 1 saw at Manchester, ihe
mildest-mannered of a mob of noisy, peak-capped en-
thusiasts near me suggested that “blanky oompire
should be blanky-well ’oong!” “Nay,” interjected a
burly millhand, “I wiouldna’ 'ung t’ pore blanky choomp
aiigin's croo-el.” A humanitarian in homespun,
thought I. “What would you do then?” I asked.
“Why, Measter,” came the reply, “fust of all, I'd
saw ’is blanky feet off; then shappen pegs; then
stick ’im into earth oop t’ ’is blanky neck, an’ then
purr ’is blank, blanky yed off.” “Purring,” I may
mention, is kicking with iron-tipped clogs.
Harry Holmes lias a singularly clever
headpiece, and his footwork is great. But he is
abnormally short in the reach for a man his weight
(Jst. 71b.), and there is no powder in his punches,
ror 10 rounds at the Sjydney Stadium on Saturday
night he made William Hunefeld look slow and
ineffectual. But in the eleventh the Yank gave
up trying to hit the bobbing head, and concentrated
on Jlolmes’s very unmisty mid-region. A right in
that quarter toppled the Australian over, to hit the
boards so hard with the back of his “nut” that he
had to be carried to his corner. Undoubtedly the
fall contributed more to outing him than the punch,
but: he mightn’t have survived the round, anyhow.
* * * *
Pardoned for his odd exhibition against
Blackburn in Sydney, Stanley Mcßride, the U.S.
featherweight, was pitted against Bert McCarthy at
Melbourne on Saturday. It was announced to be a
fight, but proved more of a wrestling match, with a
lot of foul punches thrown in. For once, Mcßride
wasn’t the worse offender. McCarthy got the decision
but didn’t deserve it.
* * * *
“M.P.A.” (from London) : Bombardier
’’ e “ s I‘as been trying a come-back. He licked Aus-
tralian Albert Lloyd, but found Frank Goddard
much too tough a proposition and, as on many
former occasions, made an ungraceful exit, feet first.
As is always the case when Wells is licked, the van-
quished got a better reception than the winner. For
years the English have unearthed the most remark-
able reasons and excuses for Wells’s failures. lie
got his first real hammering from Gunner Moir, and
he has been in and out —mostly out—ever since.
But if Wells decides to return to the ring in 10
years’ time he will have an unshakable following.
Once the British public puts a pug on a pedestal it
never knocks him off.
* * * *
"Billy T.”: Stanley had not been getting
along too well with his fiery little wife for a year
or two, and when he took on “Bunger” Brophy, and
trained him for his fight with Ginger Ryan, a new
hope began to warm his bosom. He was particular!v
anxious to have “Bunger” win, and gave the pug
most assiduous attention. Brophy was brought into
the ring trained to the second, and after an unevent-
ful fight put Ryan to bed in the 17th round. Next
day affairs were settled. The chaps in “Bunger’s”
corner were paid, but Stanley, the trainer, in response
to Brophy’s appeal, agreed to forego the few pounds
due to him in consideration of “Bunger’s” great and
pressing need. “Well,” said one of the lads when
Brophy had gone, “you were a flamin’ mug to let
that little Chow do you for your beans. You’d
never get a cent from him now.” The trainer smiled
wanly. “It’s quite all right,” he said. “He’s
runnin’ my wife off to Sydney to-night, and after all
I’ve only paid her fare.”
* * * *
There’s a true sporting ring about Walter
Lmdrum’s challenge to Stevenson, the English bil-
liardist. The young ’un offers the old ex-champion
a start of 10,000 in a 20,000-up game with bonzoline
balls under English championship rules. Each man
is to put in a wager of £lOO and all the gate-monev
goes to the winner. What more could Stevenson ask?
He would find the public rolling up freely to Alcock’s
new hall, in South Melbourne, to see the little left-
hander “monotonously” wipe off his points.
Two of Melbourne’s oldest rowing clubs,
Melbourne and Civil Service, have amalgamated
under the name of the Melbourne R. C. The former
contributes a boathouse to the partnership, and the C.S.
is providing an up-to-date fleet and the brawn of a
hundred young Australians who last vear annexed
the rowing premiership of Vie. For 25 years the
Melbourne club has been noted principally for the
undisturbed state of the padlock on its front door,
but 44 years ago six of its members, with Senator
George Fairbairn as stroke, were included in the
Victorian eight which beat N.S.W. in the first
intercolonial eight-cared race. Civil Service also
made history when it won the first eight-oared race
rowed in Australia at the Melbourne regatta on March
20, 1875.
THE PERO
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
in^a On man f to h ?>,h?! tiC , bod^ S in Victoria are send-
' ames Thev , ° t , ak 1 e ] |)a, t 1)1 the Tailteann
August.” C be hcld at the beginning of
lie stood beside a winch,
An athlete every inch.
His hat was in his hand.
About him stood a band
Who’d come to see him go
Hy the s.s. Payanowe.
He smiled. . . .but yet his mien
Seemed anything but serene.
The parting words of each
Were framed in Celtic speech,
lough senators who’ve made
Of Erin’s wrongs a trade
Wept bitterly. So, too,
Hid patriot landlords who
For Erin’js tenants groan
While heaving out their own.
A score of Celtic potes
Were trailing bardic coats.
In Erse (or double Dutch)
J hoy maundered overmuch
Of Sheedy of the Sword
And Brigit at the F-ord
Until a bored police
llequested them to cease.
And poetesses, too,
Came fluttering into view.
They trilled their little lays
Concerning elves and fays,
Hobgoblins, sprites and fauns,
Pixies and leprechauns,
And other imported props
That drive strong men to hops.
“Who is the chap, and why
This hullabaloo?” said l.
A bloke whose name was Dave
This information gave:
“He’s on his way, that man,
To the Dublin Tailteann.
I wouldn’t go—no thanks—
Unless they furnished tanks.”
N.S.W.
TUART.


Electric Irons
Price 35/- each
m
THE “COSMOS” ELECTRIC IRON
The Ideal Ironing Temperature,
neither too high nor too low, is
maintained uniformly even to the
point on the under-surface of the
sole-plate, and the iron is ready for
use in three minutes after switch-
ing on. The general construction
is robust, while precautions have
been taken to avoid damage to
light fabrics.
The handle does not get hot.
The End Stand Avoids Continual Lifting.
ers
1C
ELECTRICAL
CO.. LTD.
SUPPLY DEPARTMENTS:—
21 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE; 213 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
AND AT MACQUUARIE ST., HOBART, TASMANIA.


Ladies’ Writing & Rest c ßpom
adjoining Corset Salon, fourth floor.
Away from the noise of the city, Farmer’s have
opened a delightful Writing and Rest Room,
befitting the convenience of patrons of the Store.
Here, amidst attractive surroundings, ladies may
attend to their correspondence or rest in comfort.
A nominal charge of id. is made, which includes writing requisites.
Farmer’s :: Sydney .
HAWAII
THt YEAR 'ROUND PLAYGROUND
in September
and October
has a delightful climate for outdoor
Sports arid sightseeing. It is a land of
endless variety; sea and beach, mountain
and forest, marvellous volcanic regions.
You find here tropio fruits, trees and
flowers at their best.
Golf, swimming,
surfing, motoring, ten-
nis and tramping may
be enjoyed every day
in the year.
Booklet from nearest
travel or ticket agency,
or write direct to
Department B,
HAWAII TOURIST
BUREAU,
Honolulu, Territory of
Hawaii, U.S.A.
jm
SHIRTS
moan moro
comfort and
Do not
tako a substitute
All Morcers
■ Makers -
Alex Stewart
f, SONS ltd -
sve a
ea/sBA/ve
+ f*o
SYDNEY.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
collins St. Melbourne
From Verors
MISSES MONK & DOYLE
Phones Central 1533, 1533.
•
The Alliance Frangaise honored the mem-
ory of Mol id re on the 12th. The gentleman
has been dead 250 years, but the
Victorian French wished to show how
he still lives, and they fitted it in
with the Week of France. That week cul-
minated on July 14 with the magnificent
Fuchsia Ball. Louise Dyer—who, though
not French, is a faithful French scholar
—was responsible, and under her direc-
tion the great chilly barn of a Masonic
Hall was turned into a reproduction of
The Orangery of Le Petit Trianon at Ver-
sailles. (One lass said brightly, “Bo sweet
to have it all just as it was in the great
man’s day!”—oblivious of the fact that
Moliere was 17th century and the Trianon
18th. A path of cobblestones (painted on
a canvas floorcloth) led right down the hall
to a stage-set scene. Orange-trees in
terrace-tubs bordered the mith, a sundial
rested in the centre, and oranges and their
foliage hid the balconies and hung all round
a lattice which enclosed the room. Seven-
teenth-century ladies graced fat orange-silk
divans on the stage, and Louise Dyer, herself
a glorified creature in the centre, wore a
complete gown of cloth of gold. At intervals
nice modern girls, with “Mademoiselle”
tacked on to names like Dulcie, Leslie,
Myrtle and Betty, came forth, sometimes,
accompanied by young men in curled wigs
a*d garments of velvet and satin, and sang
or gave classic playlets. There was also a
parade (led by Lilian Gay as “The Spirit
of France”) of costumes in periods from
1622 till 1922, the indefatigable Louise lady
having designed all the costumes. The Mar-
seillaise finished the programme, and all the
guests had supper at little tables beneath
the oranges.
There have been countless farewell parties
to Feodora St. Leger, who leaves this month
to meet her bridegroom in Scotland. Lieut.
Douglas Watson is the happy man, and they
are to be married as soon as Feodora reaches
the home of his sister. Mrs. Mannington
Russell, in Dumbartonshire. A wonderful
trousseau is being packed away as these
lmes appear. She made crowds of the lovely
things herself. The wedding-dress is a dream
of soft charmeuse lined with pink geoi-gette,
and the sleeves are real Chantilly lace. Mrs.
Edwin Lilley, of Brisbane, has lent her won-
derful veil, and an Australian-baked wedding-
cake is among the luswage. Lieut. Watson
is a specialist in naval gunnery, and is to be
stationed in Endand.
Feodora is taking with her some music to
publish abroad. Her latest work is a cycle
nf song written to the words of Captain
Ilarbord, of Bananaland, who came out as
A.D.C. to Governor Nathan, but has settled
down on the land. He and Jeff Wilson are
partners in a station, Newstead, near Too-
woomba.
Melba has not shown the full extent of the
new feminine fashion in boots. “They” are
wearing patent-leather riding boots, with
silver spurs, in the smartest cities of the
Old World. It seems odd in view of the fact
that the only animal they have to spur is
•some dilatory chauffeur; but uselessness was
ever the hallmark of fashion crazes.
To a South Australian woman J.P. belongs
the credit of having beds, instead of bed-
boards, installed for the 30 or 40 women
prisoners at Pentridge. She went out to
inspect, was asked to make suggestions, and
the bed idea was adopted promptly. But
another proposal of hers, that poke bonnets
should be superseded by some other headgear,
has not got past the consideration stage. The
argument that the youngish convicts don’t
like being turned into State frights hasn’t
made such a direct appeal to the masculine
craniums in control.
The Alliance Frangaise Ball on Friday
night seemed mostly young Australian with
a mere sprinkling of French and grown-ups,
but they made up a big crowd in the St.
Kilda Town Hall. Consul Turck arrived
amid the crash of the Marseillaise from the
orchestra with a wife clad in the vivid
reds and pinks of the fuchsia. Tall
Mrs. Herschell sailed about in the bril-
liant shades of die same flower, but
the general frocking was less sensational,
the present dress-economy rule will not
stretch to a special color for one event.
Mrs. Louise Smith Dyer was in old gold
charmeuse with niagaras of tulle draped at
the sides. Rene Yanderkelen and young Dr,
Smith did Trojan work in organising. There
was a Frenchy touch in the perfumed pro-
grammes, and" the decorations were highly
original. Gorgeous parrots perched in big
silver rings hung from the fuchsia-draped
ceiling. A big fuchsia bloom pendant in the
centre caught fire in the early stages of the
dance and fluffed to its doom in tissue-paper
smoke. Some French woolbuyers, with Eng-
lish-buyer Coate, had a jolly little corner
in the supper-room, where there was much
popping of French champagne corks. The
chief crowd of guests motored off at mid-
night, but dancing went on among the
youngsters till the wee sma’ hours. They
had been asked to a jazz da joie, and meant
to make it so.
This is a true yarn of the presence of
mind of a Melbourne girl who was inhabit-
ing a big house with an invalid mother. She
had come upstairs to go to bed, and, as she
glanced into the mirror, noticed a man lying
at full stretch on top of the old-fashioned
wardrobe behind her. Instead of screaming,
she started to loosen her hair. Then she
partly undressed, donned her kim, armed
herself with a towel, toothbrush and soap,
and left the room. For six minutes the
burglar patiently listened to the sounds of
running water. Then the door opened again
and he looked down upon a couple of hefty
young men whom she had brought in from
next door.
The St. Kilda citizens are arranging a
Return Ball to the Mayor and Mrs. George
Cummings for August 15.
Hans Irvine, who has just died, in
London, was the first to properly adver-
tise Australian wines in the United
Kingdom. He paid particular attention
to clarets and burgundies, and the
plates alone for the campaign cost him
£20,000. Irvine’s father was an admiral,
and his cousin was the Duke of Leinster,
though Hans never paraded that fact. From
cyaniding old tailings dumps he made a for-
tune, and he got another from the Black
Range goldfield (W.A.). A printer by trade,
he became a politician through patriotism,
and was always a courteous and likeable cus-
tomer.
Brig.-Gen. F. G. Hughes and his dame
are off to England for a holiday. He has
decided to throw uo his seat on the St. Kilda
Council, and the A.W.N.L. will have to try
to manage somehow without its head while
she is away.
John McClellan, head of the Chapel-
street Big Store, is broken-hearted at the
loss of his fair-haired young son Jock. He
was killed in a motor accident in London
last week. He was finishing his scholastic
career at Cambridge. The body is to be
brought back to Australia. The family grief
is shared by his little bride-elect, Maitland
McMieking, who is at present touring
America under the -wing of an aunt.
Dr, Arthur Joyce, who was an A.A.M.C.
major with the Light Horse in Egypt, is on
his way homeward via America, and will
soon be hanging a brass plate in Collins-
street- After the Armistice he stayed behind
to learn the latest in eye treatment, and
doubled his knowledge as a resident at the
Royal Westminster Eye Hospital, in London.
He also increased his experience at various
eye clinics in Vienna.
Isobel Langlands is another product of
the Albert-street Conservatorium who is de-
tenn i nod to try con-
clusions with critics
and public abroad.
With her beloved
fiddle she is off
Londonwards for
further training; but
en route she calls in
on some relatives in
South Africa, and
will concertise in
tb. e chief Union
cities. Isobel has
had many exciting
musical adventures
in her Oriental wan-
derings, and in Mel-
bourne Fritz Hart
and her teacher, the
flaxen-haired Tar-
czynski, have given
proofs of their high opinion of her work, the
former by entrusting her with the first per-
formance of liis second sonata for fiddle and
piano. This picture of the handsome young
fiddler was made by Broothorn.
News comes oversea that Djernma Veda
is forging ahead in the operatic world.
Djemma is really Maggie Gard, a Tas-
manian girl, whose professional surname is
a re-arrangement of the letters of the name
of her teacher/ Emma Calvd. At latest
she was singing at the Monte Carlo Opera
House, and it looks as though she can
pick and choose, for she turned down an
engagement at the Opera-Comique, Paris,
for the Monte one. She goes on to"the Opera-
Comique later.
The marriage this week of the tall, dark,
matinde-idolisli Mountbatten ex-Prince to
Miss Ashley represented the introduction
of the second member of the Chosen Race
to this family. His brother wedded a Rus-
sian Grand .Duke’s daughter before the re-
volution that ruined the Grand Duke busi-
ness. But her sister married a Jew —Major
wernher. The Major has the Wernher
money, though his brother, Sir Derrick, pos-
sesses the baronetcy that was bought by
their astute father. Sir Derrick took the
wrong turning in the eyes of Wernher, Beit
and Co., and was disinherited in favor of
his more conventional brother. The Ashley
and Wernher fortunes' combined amount to
about three millions sterling, represented by
investments all oyer the world; so if the
young people decide to pool their financial
resources they are in a position to be in-
different as to _ whether it snows revolutions.
If some of their money is seized by Bolshies
in one country they can go and he rich on
some more of it in another country.
The Alliance Francaise outbreak is a re-
minder that Charles R. F. Ogg, photoed here-
with by Monteath,
has modelled a bust
of Moli&re for that
society. The young
man, now a fully-
fledged architect,
has pounded much
clay into- likenesses
in his time, but
modelling is only
one phase of his
artistic activities.
H e has produced
several taking water-
colors, and has
proved the piquant
results that can be
obtained by jotting
down landscape
effects in pencil.
Some time ago he
had a passion for amateur acting, and he
appeared with the Mermaid Society in one
of its first shows, “The Knight of the
Burning Pesfile”; hut he found rehearsals
too time-eating, and lias apparently aban-
doned the stage. Last year the versatile
craftsman went off on an architectural
tour of various countries, and one of the
fruits thereof is a remarkable Jap tea-house
in his garden, a dainty little retreat be-
lieved to be the only tiling of its kind in
Australia.
It isn’t only our mirrors that tell us how
tempus is fugiting. A political, woman can
tell you that there are only 20 survivors of
all the Ministers who served in Vic. Govern-
ments before Federation. In order of
seniority as executive councillors they are:
H. E. Williams, Walter Madden, J. E. Dow,
A. It. Outtrim, George Graham, Alec'
Peacock, I. A. Isaacs (now of the
High Court Bench), Jimmy McColl, Agar
Wynne, S. Winter Cooke, Bob Best, Jack
Taverner-, Iceberg Irvine (now State C.J.),
J. W. McCay, W. A. Watt, Theo Fink,
McGregor, Jack Morrissey, W. A. Trenwith
and E. J. Crooke. Of these Isaacs, Peacock.
Trenwith, Wynne, Morrissey, Crooke and
McGregor w-ere in the last Cabinet before
Federation ((he second Turner team).
Peacock and McGregor are the only two left:
in the State Parliament. Best and Watt
are in the Reps. Premier Inwson was just
a baby politician w-hen the Commonwealth
was born.
The Prahran end of the Returned Sailors
and Soldiers’ League jazzed on Thursday
evening in the local hall, which looked quite
Frenchified with its pale-pink floral decora-
tions. A group of brass-hats, who came
along to give the tiling a tone, stayed on to
enjoy themselves. Donald Mackinnon was
there, with his married chick, Mrs. Reid;
and Mayor Woodful and Prahran’s lesser
civic dignitaries, with their wives and
daughters, beamed appreciation from the top
of the room. The cheery official lancers were
led by John Monash with Brudenell White
opposite him : but the latter, instead of toe-
ing the mark with a partner of naval, mili-
tary or civic pretensions, led out a delighted
flapper.
The past pupils of the Genazzano Con-
vent School had a great dance at 9 Darling-
street, South Yarra, the other night, and
did things in a way to make grown-up hos-
tesses take notice. Pretty Mollie Holden,
the Henry Holden chick, who was liostess-
in-chief, with an army of other young old-
girls to help, glowed in a duck of a party
frock—shot taffeta in orchid mauve, with
her stockings and shoes in violet color.
Nancy Cory, in fluffy tulle, and Kathleen
Dixon were the organising secretaries, and
proud mammas came along and were treated
as guests.
Violinist Milly Hunt, who was Alberto
Zelman’s crack pupil and is now coaching
the present pupils while the young man is
in England, appeared the other evening at
Queen’s Hall in a classical recital. Her
items were an old English sonata (John
Stanley, .1713-1786) and, with Ada Freeman,
a Gx-ieg sonata for violin and . piano. The
rest of the recital was carried on by ex-
ainnan Guy N. Mooi-e, a busy mining man
who can sjfare only rare occasions to air his
blissful tenor. The Esther-Betty Paterson
show pictures were adorning the walls of
the cosy little hall, which has only just been
discovered as an ideal place for a small
recital of good music. It is perfectly built
for this sort of thing, and the Theosophists,
adjoining, have rubber-hinged doors ana
“Hush” notices in the entrance lounge that
connects the two places.
Jim Cameron did not long survive his
defeat by Lind for the East Gippsland seat
in the Assembly. He succeeded Harry Foster
20 years ago, and was one of the five mem-
bers who took a hand in settling the big
railway strike in May, 1903. Of the others,
Frank Madden and Bromley are under the
sod. Cameron, as honorary Minister, ran
the Public Works Dept, for six months while
Billionaire Baillieu had one of liis periodical
trips to England. Locally the line to Orbost
was his biggest triumph. He was 76 when
the end came.
Italy is at it again. Dr. Barela is visit-
ing Australia in an effort to establish closer
commercial relations between his country
and ours. He represents a number of manufac-
turing firms, and will roam through all the
States. At the Independent Hall last week
lie gave a lecture backed up by some movies
that showed industries in Italy, and Consul-
General Grossardi went along to applaud.
Barela explained that at present our greasy
wool is sent to England and then on to
Italy; but Italy wants the trade direct.
When hauled before the City beaks the
other day for vagrancy, or some such elastic
charge, a couple of men explained (success-
fully) that they were “shoddy droppers”—
they bought suit lengths cheap and sold
them at about 100 p.c. profit. Half-a-century
ago they used to be called “parveys.” A
Bourke-street shopkeeper who supplied them
at bedrock rates was the father of a notable
Melb. medical specialist. The last of the
old-time parveys faded out a couple of years
ago, when half-way between the 80th and
90th mile-posts. He left a good-sized pile
and a big family to divide it.
Joan Finlay and Joan Trenchard are
engineering a dramatic entertainment at
The Playhouse on Friday, September 29.
They are St. Catherine schoolgirls, and are
overjoyed at the promise of Lady Stradbroke
to come along.
Adelaide sends a line or two:—
Lipson Hancock, who has been manager of the
Wallaroo and Moonta works for 19 years, is exchang-
ing his job for that of consulting engineer to the
same eo., and W. E. Slee succeeds him. Hancock
was born in “Munta” in ’67, and with his father
was jointly responsible for the “Hancock jig,"
which is not a jazz or anything related thereto.
Sunday-scftooling is his chief hobby ; he has published
two books as a vade mecum, and points to the Sunday-
school at Moonta as a practical example of what lie
means.
Mrs. Aeneas Gunn’s “Silent Stockman” was al
the Northern Territorians’ beanfeast the other night,
and w’as hauled reluctantly from somewhere in the
background to shake hands with the proposer of
the toast of the evening. President and Mrs. Andrews
were host and hostess, and after the inevitable
speeches there were dances and a song or two. The
Association is piling up its numbers steadily, and
estimates that 270 people on the S. Aus. census are
eligible for membership.
In New York, Premier Barwell happened across
Otto Heggie, who is now a considerable light in the
American theatrical world, and wealthy into the
bargain. Heggie began earning his living in the
National Bank at Angaston, and made a reputation
as an elocutionist in the St. John’s Literary Societv
before deciding to take seriously to the stage.
The Orpheus Society has had its final concert for
this year. Conductor Daltry being ill, at the last
moment, Arthur Williamson picked up his baton
and waved it so well that the performance was none
the worse for the sudden change. The feminine
soloists were Elsie Wooley and Lila Kempster, who
were both rewarded with chocolates and flowers ; but
the outstanding performance was W. G. Smith’s
“Thou Art Like a Lovely Flower,” with Leslie Coultas
as soloist and the whole society as a vocal accom-
paniment.
Septimus Power’s exhibition at the Society of
Arts’ rooms was opened with a bang by W. J.
Sowden, president of the Public Library Board and
Art Gallery. There are 90 pictures, ranging from
tiny glimpses of Chelsea and bathers in the Serpen-
tine to his big star exhibit, “Beaching the Life-
boat.” Power’s stay here is to be brief, but his wife
(who was an Adelaide girl) will stay on as long
as the show lasts to see some of her old friends
and in the intervals keep an eye on the pictures.
Incidentally, the Art Gallery, which bought the
Villers-Bretonneux canvas, is purring because the
artist has presented it with the rough sketch for
the picture, an amazingly vigorous thing.
’Cellist Laurie Kennedy and his pianist wife
have had excellent notices in the London press of
their recitals at the Wigmore Hall. She is a
daughter of W. J. Mcßride, of our Education
Department.
The venerable Rella, the Sistine conductor, had
to do a two-year-old sprint at the Adelaide Outer
Harbor, or his choir -would have gone back to Borne
without him. The Ormonde had actually started,
and was overtaken only by a sort of Douglas Fair-
banks stunt, on the part of the cleric, including the
use of a motor-car, a swift tug and some frantic
signalling.
Kirkcaldy, one of S.A.’s coming seaside resorts, was
treated to a shivery sight the other day—ladies, clad
in white garments, bobbing up and down in the
briny with a clerical gentleman. And the thermo-
meter registered only 39! It turned out to be a
Baptist party; but the “fire within” would have to
be going pretty strong to enable a lady to go
a-dipping in her nightie this weather 1


E. F. WILKS,
Managing Director.
The
Undeniable
Fact of the
Superiority
in
Tone, Touch and Durability
of the
GULBRANSEN
2)ucs@cncerfo
PLAYER PIANO
is evidenced by the wonderful enthusiasm
shown by owners of this remarkable
instrument.
The Gulhransen Duo-Concerto provides a com-
plete control over the stroke of the piano
hammer, and that is why this remarkable
player can, and does, really produce perfect
tone color, and in the hands of anyone, after
a iittle practice, rivals the musical performances
of the highest class of virtuosi.
Whether the piano is played by hand or by the
foot-pedals, perfection of tonal values is the
aim of every performer.
Call in and play the
Duo-Concerto for ten
minutes, and then you
will fully understand
the enthusiasm that is
shown for this Player.
12
0
9
4
6
If through sentiment or for some other reason
you would not care to part with your own
piano we will convert it into a Duo Concerto
Player Piano, containing all the latest
improvements.
CASH OK TERMS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
317, 319 and 321 PITT STREET (Next to Y.M.C.A.)
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
King & King, Brisbane.
Findleys Proprietary,
Hobart and Launceston.
W. G. Watson S Co. Ltd.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney,
HAVE IN STOCK AT REDUCED PRICE
THE NEW MODEL
WADE ONE-MAN DRAG SAW
The tree fa Her
:ree ran
hment
attac
mi
'he Buzz saw
attachment
\
<Sh
IP
FITTED WITH CLUTCH AND
TRANSPORT WHEEL
and other refinements.
With Special Attachment
will
Fall Trees —Cut Logs—
Saw Limbs.
DEMONSTRATIONS GIVEN.
ANOTHER GOOD LINE
for driving machinery for the man
on the land is—
3*-h.p. AUSTER
KEROSENE ENGINE.
«J. S. LEWIS’ Keen Price Stores
Specialist in Quality
Goods for Station Wear.
Military Officer’s Tan Solid Hide Blocked
Leggings, 18/6. With bound tops, 217-
Heavy Army Khaki Drill Shirts, extra well
cut and roomy make. All sizes. Collar and
pocket. Worth 12/6.
J. S. Lewis’ Price, 8/11.
Naval Officer’s Plain Toe Dress Boot, made
by contract; same as worn in service, 23/6.
Lewis’ Plum Boots, 21/-
Genuine Heavy Dark Grey All-Wool Naval
Blankets, size 63 x 90. 17/6 each.
Genuine Army Officer’s Khaki Bedford
Cord Biding Breeches, with double-strapped
knees and long lace bottoms. Same as worn by
Light Horse. All sizes.
Worth 70/-; 32/6.
Genuine Heavy All-Wool Army Khaki Bed-
ford Cord Trousers (slacks). All sizes,
22/6.
All these lines are made especially by us from
genuine Army Cloth purchased from
Government.
s
Genuine Khaki Military Cloth Overcoats, extra well made for us from the real
all-wool heavy 250 z. cloth (purchased from the Defence Dept.)- This coat is
made in all sizes, and is extra warm and comfortable, has high collar button to
neck and half-belt. Worth £5/5/- for 63/-
Men’s Dong Black Light-weight Station Oilskin Overcoats, extra well made,
double-lined throughout, made for riding and walking. A coat worth 84/-.
Our Price, 52/6
Heavy, Warm, British All-wool Heather Knitted Army Sox, worth 4/6, for
2/11 pr. 3 pairs, 8/3.
Heavy, Warm, Black British Naval Sox, knitted from extra-quality Bradford
all-wool yarn. Worth 4/6, 2/11. 3 pairs, 8/3.
Men’s Heavy, Black All-wool Cashmere Sox, guaranteed English Make.
Worth 4/6, 2/6 pair. 3 pairs, 7/3.
Army Officer’s Tail, Plain-toe Pace Boots, of extra-
fine quality willow calf, leather-lined, with A-ineh solid
sewn soles of best oak-tanned hide. Worth 35/-, for 24/11.
Naval Officer’s Plain-toe Service Boots, of best black
box calf, sewn, solid oak-tanned 1-inch leather soles;
comfortable fitting, 22/6.
My illustrated Bargain Catalogue sent Post Free.
All Goods Post Free except Boots, add 1/- postage.
Any Goods not to your satisfaction, money will be
refunded.
gs
J.S. LEWIS
KEEN PRICE
BARGAIN STORES
166-8 b GEORGE STREET, near Circular Quay;
Also at 752 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET.


1161 'ag^uiA
mm
K
!
1
«E PLUS ULTRA
PELLiSSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
WILLIAM FARMER & CO. LTD.,
Jewellers and Gem Merchants.
HIGH-GRADE
The Company’s stock in-
cludes a large and varied
selection of high-grade
Lever Watches in Plat-
inum, Gold, Silver and
Metal cases. Designs in-
clude the very latest ideas,
and each Watch is fully
guaranteed.
Spe c i a 1 Presentation
Watches in extra-heavy'
cases.
o< T j2 T »
WATCHES.
Liberal terms are made
to Presentation Commit-
tees, particulars of which
will be furnished on appli-
cation.
Prices range from
£2O to £250.
Gentleman’s Silver, Open-face
Watch, 15-jewelled lever move-
ment, £7/10/-
Also with Nickel or Oxidised
Case, from £2/10/- to
£5/10/-
Showrooms: 34 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone, City 7319.
Box 401 G.P.0., Sydney.
, * n
Interesting
Reflection.
ft
■9
3=2
9 *
ERASMIC
A choice of the right perfume is the
test of the fastidious woman or girl.
“ERASMIC PERFUME” is always
fascinating —always right.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
D’Alvarez is a picturesque personality.
She looks all that her name suggests. Big
black-brown eyes alternately soften and flash
under the most remarkable eyebrows that
begin in a triangle and then charge straightly
across a broad, deep forehead. Black lustre-
less hair, swept plainly back and folded
neatly to her intelligent head, and a deep
creamy pallor accentuate a generous red
mouth. The singer has evidently made a
study of the dressing of her uncommon
beauty. At the reception given her on Fri-
day afternoon by the Lady Mayoress she
draped her tall and agreeably-moulded figure
in sapphire velvet fringed with glistening
jet, and crowned her dusky hair and interest-
ing pallor with a gracefully sweeping wide
black-velvet hat set with black paradise
plumes. She flashed her white teeth in a
brilliant smile at every presentation made
by the little Lady Mayoress, who stood in
the shadow of the tall visitor in a blue gown
of softer tint and a becoming little floral
toque. There seemed to be a rush on blue.
It was affected by the Tom Itolin matron
in tones to match her eyes, and the Knox
lady wore it in a becoming navy suit, with
pointed fox added. The Commodore’s lady,
Mrs. Mcl. Edwards, who, by the way, is
rather like the Snanish-looking singer only
more animated, brought along Mrs. Addi-
son, both of them wearing navy mixed
with black. The McCormick dame
looked distinguished in the utilitarian
shade liberally braided in grey. Mrs.
T. H. Kelly almost hid every hint of
blue with steel embroideries and a mole
scarf edged with inches deep of brown silk
fringe. Mrs. J. C. Williamson and Mrs.
Hugh Ward represented rival theatrical
enterprises. Mrs. Spencer Brunton and
Mrs. Esmond Friend were brown reliefs in
a blue and grey company. After the hand-
shaking Lilian Gibson lifted up a contralto
which brought congratulations from the
visitor. The accompanying artists—Oscar
Wagner, a fair Teutonic-looking youth, and
Livio Manucci, a dark contrast with a thin,
aquiline face and side-whiskers, like a Jane
Austen hero —stood like faithful Gentlemen
Helps in the shadow of the great one, and
departed with her.
D’Alvarez hadn’t much rest between the
hand-shaking party at the Lady Mayoress’s
rooms and the N.S.W. Musical Association’s
reception. President Asprey and ex-president
Hugh McMenamin stood in the beflagged
entrance of Farmer’s raggery and directed
every musician in Sydney to the sixth floor,
w T here there had to be several requisitions of
chairs before everybody could sit down. The
star arrived looking and dressed as though
she could give Carmen, Delilah and any other-
entrants for the Fascination Stakes 50 yards'
start and then romp home. She has a penchant
for velvet. The afternoon gown of sapphire
had been changed for an evening robe of jade
velvet. Beneath the enveloping cape of tail-
less ermine, with a deep collar and border
of Russian kolinski, it looked as if it was
designed on perfectly straight lines, grace-
fully broken by a wide girdle of filigree gold
studded with garnets—something that Cleo-
patra might have worn. Jade ear-rings of
Neapolitan design swung beneath the folds of
beautiful black hair that hid her ears, and
she wore a carved jade ring on all of her
index finger that made the second hand-
shaking ceremony a miracle of fortitude. As
president Asprey made the presentations he
was careful to acquaint Madame with each
musician’s particular forte. “What, another
singer!” she exclaimed at last. “Why did
I come here? This is a land of songbirds!”
Myrtle Meggy played and Winifred .Tenner
sang, and while draughts of hot coffee helped
to thaw the evening-dress brigade Asprey
and McMenamin made speeches at the con-
tralto. But she was not moved to reply,
except by kissing her hands and throwing
out her arms in a gesture of farewell. The
fair-haired Wagner and the black-haired
Manucci, whose locks display a beautiful
marcel wave, were co-guests. Their positive
genius for silence aroused general admira-
tion.
But the seal of rare excellence was put on
D’Alvarez’s taste for gowning at her open-
ing concert. She looked as the fairy-tale
books w-ere wont to picture queens. Her
regal gown of cloth of silver was just short
enough to show her silver-shod toes. The
crossover corsage was severely plain, and
loops and ropes of pearls served for sleeves.
Ihe skii't was cut like a vestment with rows
and rows of scintillating crystals following
its oval lines. A wide train swept from
above the waist to the ground and then
looped backwards. Pearls —three of them, as
big as wrens’ eggs—gleamed on the singer’s
fingers. In an audience which made even the
draughty Town Hall warm with its enthusi-
asm were Dame Margaret, sporting the neat-
est little dead-dress of jet Mercury wings
set on a jet band. She had Judge Gordon
on one side, his little song-bird on the other,
and the new naval man and Mrs. Addison
close beside. The civic representatives were
the Lady Mayoress and Mrs. Arthur
McElhone and the tall Layton couple. The
T. H. Kellys brought their daughter Bea-
trice and a sensational opalescent evening-
coat.
Lady Forster spread her smile over the
patients in the Royal Hospital for Women
on .Thursday afternoon, when she paid her
visit to that most wonderful of all
philanthropic institutions for women in N.
S. V\ ales. The Federal lady was astounded
at the magnitude of the place and the wide
sphere of its outside activities. Yet the
hospital is cramped for room because of the
numbers of applicants for admission. Only
about 25 years ago the site was the home
of the well-known Dean family, of Padding-
ton, whose house could not be seen for the
dense bush that surrounded it.
_ ,J°an McCall-McCowan was married to
Lieutenant Bowyer-Smyth, R.N., last week
-—that is to say, as soon as she arrived in
London. The former Flag-Lieutenant, like
several of the R.N. men who have been in
Australia of late years, is a product of this
■country-; the family place is near Bowral.
lhe bride’s soldier brother David gave her
away, and the reception was at the Hyde
l ark Hotel, just round the corner from the
fashionable Pont-street fane where the wed-
ding took place.
The lifts at Union House worked overtime
on h riday, because of the French National
bete. Consul-General Campana, resplend-
ent in gold-braided trappings and a dozen
chest decorations, with a great sword clank-
iS sl<^e > .P u t another slab of cement
on the entente with a welcoming smile backed
up by champagne. Vice-Consul Marcus, in
a similar imposing rig, though with less trim-
mings, helped to receive those who came to
pay their respects. The Premier sent his
secretary along with the felicitations of the
Government. All the other Consuls looked
in.« Commodore Edwards brought a message
from the Naval Department, and a military
big gun or two showed that the army had
not forgotten the significance of July 14.
For the rest, there were mostly sons of
France who are making good citizens in
Sydney, and ardent but ordinary Australian
admirers.
The French Union arranged the evening’s
celebration and took possession of the Oxford
Hall for dancing. It was a gathering only
possible to a truly democratic people. Mem-
bers of the French community in every
avenue of business brought their fami-
lies. The Consul, shorn of his gold
lace, came with the eldest of his three
pretty little daughters. Sydney has not
seen such a lot of delightful formality since
July 14 last year. Gallants bowed pro-
foundly, from the waist, as they requested the
honor of a dance, and kissed their partners’
hands bv way of thanks at the finish. Vice-
Consul Marcus had with him his pretty,
golden-haired daughter Lucie. The Joseph
Piayoust couple brought three of their girls;
the Lamerand family was well represented,
and the Doucets, Mdlle. Pognon, Mdlle. Sou-
beiran and_ Miss Gurney kept the Alliance
Frangaise in evidence.
Here is a portrait of handsome Thea
Proctor, whose exhibition of lithographs was
opened by Dame
Margaret Davidson
at Gayfield Shaw’s
Attic Gallery on
Tuesday. The ex-
hibits are not her
own work, but a
collection she has got
together of prints by
some of the best
workers on the litho
stone in England.
It is a unique little
show that has
created a great deal
of interest in the
art world. On Mon-
day afternoon the
exhibitor enter-
tained a few con-
genial spirits at tea
among the pictures.
Thursday night found a big crush in the
Paddington Town Hall, when the Waverley,
Bondi and Bellevue Centre for Bamardo
Homes gave the second annual dance. Mrs.
Edmund Playfair is one of the live-wires
that made it necessary to carry the dance
from the smaller Coronation Hall at Bondi
Junction. She and Mrs. Allen, the equally
hustling, hon. sec., were mainly responsible
for making the hop a huge success.
Flapperdom and college youth invaded the
same dancing spaqe tne following evening
tor the juvenile fancy ball of the Havilah
llome's Cinderella series. Moira Brady,
daughter of the medico, and young Schute
carried off the first jazz prize., and the T. H.
Kellys clever elder girl, Patricia, and Iven
Kerr were a good second. Mrs. Murray
Campbell and Bose Merivale (who was
charmingly dressed as an Early Victorian)
did most of the preliminary work.
• e ®.\’dney Bowing Club’s annual ball so
jambed the dancing space at the Wentworth
Caf6 that a hundred or so footed it on the
tiles of the Palm Court. The benevolent
Q. L. Deloitte brought a pretty little,
relative along as an excuse for meeting a
crpwd of his old rowing pals. President
W. H. Chard and his missus beamed a wel-
come on nearly every unit of the crush,
which totalled just a few off the thousand.
The Australian Holy Catholic Guild chose
the same evening for their annual dancing
frivol, and Padd .ngton Town Hall glowed as
golden in its bright yellow decorations as if
set for an L.O.L. meeting—which goes to
show that there is no vendetta against the
cheerful color so long as it has a palm or
two to temper the glare. The Lord and
Lady Mayoress gave their patronage but
not their presence, and the proceeds will go
towards the Bursary 0 fund at Manly College.
Still another hop kept the social scribe
moving—that of the St. Y'incent’s ex-students
at Sargent’s Market-street ballroom. Two
good-looking young matrons, Mrs. Fred Hat-
field and Mrs. Smith, took on the dual job
of hostessing and chaperoning.
Herewith N. E.
Allen, captain of
the Cooina polo
team which did such
wondrous things in
Sydney during the
iate festivities. He
is one of the best
horsemen in the
famed Monaro dis-
trict, having been
at it since he was
an infant. He is an
old Sydney Gram-
mar School boy, and
lives with his father
and mother at the
family station, Kyall
Lodge, some 20
miles out of Cooma.
May Moore took the
photograph.
Not all parsons are wowsers. Chaplain
A. O. Hardie, R.A.N., of H.M.A.S. Penguin,
who recently became engaged to Jocelyn
Ashe, of Bogie station, Rylstone, is one of
the keenest exponents of the jazz in Sydney.
The matutinal Pitt Rivers riding party
in Centennial Park has been more or less
disorganised, Eileen Bell and her brother,
who were staying at Merioola with the
Allens, having gone back to Queensland.
The Allens, Bells and some of the Govern-
ment Housers made a sort of rite of this
exercise for some time, and played prac-
tice chukkas of polo when there was a
quorum available. The Bells have left
under the impulsion of the stern call of
duty—social duty. They are running next
month one of the most splendiferous balls
Brisbane has ever seen, a cosmopolitan
affair to which their friends from Sydney,
Melbourne and even Adelaide have been
invited, and their presence is required in
the front line, so to speak. The D gbys,
by the way, have already left. Pending Bris-
bane’s August week they will stay at Mrs.
Hewson’s station—the one where the famous
dance occurred during the P. of W.’s visit.
She was a particularly lovely amateur
actress; but her fair face wore a decidedly
fed-up look. A sympathetic friend inquired
the source of her trouble. “I’ve been trying
to make a man kiss me naturallv the whole
morning,” she explained, “and he can’t do
it.”
A crowd of youthful Sydneyites left for
Kosciusko during the week to get a little
preliminary practice for the winter carnival.
Airman Les Holden, .with his sister Nell,
Doug Munro, who is a champion in the snow,
and Mrs. Tom Coombe and her eldest girl,
Vera (who has, in her trunk, the most capti-
vating suit of scarlet and white wool to en-
hance her blonde loveliness), are all there by
now.
Mrs. Seppy Levy, yvho has been hav-
ing a riotous time in Melbourne with
Helen La'dley and Gwen Marks, will
judge the head-dresses at the Wentworth hop
for Prince Alfred Hospital on Julv 26. A
box of silk stockings, given by Bond’s, is one
of the prizes. Mrs. H. E. Kater and Mrs.
Spencer Brunton are giving a helpful push to
the hon. secretarial work of Mrs. Arthur
Mills and Mrs. E. W. Fenner. Poor Mrs.
Fenner, by the wav, has little heart for
charity work these days. Mr. Kemmis, the
victim of the Hornsby horror, was her
brother. She has been a wonderful worker
for the public welfare since she arrived here
from Fiji.
The Makura takes away the Henry
Yorke Graham Hendersons, who intend
having a peep at America before going
on to their Hielan’ home. They were mar-
ried last week at St. Saviour’s Cathedral,
Goulburn. (She was Lilian Faithful!
eldest daughter of A.L.F.) Her white satin
draperies gleamed beneath a foam of Chan-
tilly lace, and her two sisters, a cousin of the
bridegroom and Clarice Anderson were also
tracked in white, satin and lace as maids-in-
waiting; but rainbow sashes gave them a
touch of color. The Werriwa Jim Gordons’
pretty chicks held the cascading train of
silver tissue. Nearly all Goulburn braved
the cold to see the show.
War’s Declaration Anniversary has been
selected by Consul Segaert as the day to
ninkeai bid for help for the Belgian Benevo-
ient .Society of N.S.W., and he is busily
ini u,a v hls clever daughter Henriette,
Mdlies. L. Pirenne and C. Irwin, and his
tail compatriot, E. Dulieu, in a modern Bel-
fv. aU T»i a T’ ,‘K aa tje,” which will be put on at
the Playhhtise on August 4.
Motors purred' up Darling Point-road on
hnday evening when the Tony Hordern
couple gave a big dinner-party at Ketford
Mall to a selection from the big Persian
Garden matinee co. Afterwards the motors
purred once more, this time towards North
fcvdney, and the dinner-party crowd met the
rest ol the amateur Thespians at a jazz-
party at Admiralty House. Mrs. Pitt Rivers
was hostess m her golden drapings of Omar’s
Muse, and as all the guests wore their Per-
sian Garden robes the shivoo was specially
colorful.
John Fell, of Commonwealth oil fame,
gave the fair hand of his elder daughter,
Janet, in marriage on Saturday evening to
Eliot Grant Fitch, a Scotsman domiciled in
America, Meenister John Ferguson setting
the seal on the bargain in the drawing-room
of Rosstrevor. The bride draped her slim-
ness in clinging ivory and filmy tulle, and
carried, an outsize sheaf of golden wattle.
Her sister Marie was bridesmaid, and
wore powder pink and silver lace,
with pink roses nestling in her fair
hair and a riot of pink roses clutched
in her hand. Noel Thompson stood beside
the bridegroom. Mrs. Fell appeared in black
velvet and held the dinkiest nosegay of
holly berries and poinsettias in a frill of
autumn leaves. The wedding supper was
served in a marquee, and the cake was a
most wonderful structure, the bride’s very
own idea. It was crowned with a ring-
barked gum-tree, which had a fair comple-
ment of ringtailed ’possums and Norman Lind-
say bears and kookaburras, while round its
base were kangaroos, wallabies and other
bush animals. The new Mrs. Fitch did
a lot of war work, and met her husband
while travelling with her father and sister
after the Armistice. The pair leave about
six weeks’ hence for their home in Mil-
waukee, U.S.A.
Unattached women are in the great majo-
rity to-day in England. And hence new
occupations, as indicated by the following
advt. in the Times :
Jolly woman (40), with a hearty laugh, sound
education, some refinement and much csmmonsense,
wishes useful position London flat as comfort-producer
and gloom-dispeller; £1 weekly.
It is significant of the vast changes that
have .occurred in the British social system.
In Victorian, and even in Edwardian, days
not only was. jollity entirely unfeminine, but
anybody calling herself a woman would have
been regarded as no lady. Again, no gentle-
woman would have described herself as pos-
sessing some refinement. She either had the
full issue or none, and in the latter event
there was nothing to be done for her: she
was lost.
Fine Arts Society of N.S.W. is the latest
organisation to float. Its primary intention
is to. give lovers of old China and that sort
of thing a chance to hold pow-wows over their
treasures. The constitution was solemnly
adopted on Tuesday, in the Ceramics Court,
where Charles Laseron holds sway at the
Technological Museum. Judge Hamilton was
so early on the mat that he must have
scented one of the rare old Chelsea pieces
he is for ever pursuing, and the amiable
giant, Lyster Ormsby, spread a smiling bless-
ing over the gathering of connoisseurs.
At the farewell Orchestral concert, before
he opened the second part of the programme,
Andre Skalski, with tears in his voice, begged
the people to keep the orchestra afloat, and
he carried conviction as to his disinterested-
ness by offering to act as conductor without
salary for a year. Still, the most striking
appeal for the retention of the orchestra was
the concert itself. Skalski conducted mag-
nificently. Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony
was a soul-inspiring interpretation,' and the
orchestral suite from ‘‘Carmen” and the selec-
tions from ‘‘La Bohhme” were happly
selected for a study of comparisons in dif-
ferent musical schools. Henri StaelPs violin
solo to the Beethoven Concerto was the gem
of the evening, and this rarely-heard artist got
an ovation, while the conductor congratulated
him with a vigorous hand-shake. The Juno-
esque Gladys Cole, who lifted her clear
soprano in “Ocean, Thou Mighty Monster,”
looked imposing in a gown of iridescent
black sequins.


ertw
HARDY BROS. LTD.
Jewellers,
Cluster Rings.
Diamond Cluster
King,
£l5O.
Diamond Fancy
Ring,
£220
Diamond and
Fancy Cluster*
Ring,
£44.
Black Opal and
Diamond Ring,
£l2O.
Whole Pearl and
Diamond Cluster
Ring,
£lOO.
Diamond Fancy
Ring,
Diamond Clustci'
Ring,
Hardy Bros.’ collection of diamond and
gem rings is most comprehensive. Ihe
dignified beauty which marks high-grade
jewellery is apparent throughout the
Company’s stocks, inspection of which
is cordially invited.
Illustrated, catalogues arc posted free on
request, and selections are sent on appronil,
if desired.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
fUPStjSr c Jeioe lie rs <£» -S*
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
UG-118 Queen
Brisbane.
•uopuo'X
298 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
A Camera which is So inexpensive that
anyone can afford it, and so good that
both expert and novice are pleased with
its performance.
The Ansco Junior
For Roll Films—Daylight Loading.
<3.
:
No. IA takes photos 2| x4£
No. 2C takes photos 2% x 4f
No. 3A takes photos x3*
A Camera which has been
created to give maximum
quality for minimum cost.
PRICES.
Harringtons* Same-Day
Service:
DEVELOPING 8 PRINTING.
Speed—Quality
Permanence.
386 George Street (near G.P.0.),
Sydney.
266 Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Rundle Street, Adelaide.
93 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, N.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
The House for
Good Cameras,
Save £2/8/11 per mile per Wire
when doing' more Fencing'.
Lassetter’s show “How To.
99
“Nosag
Galvanized High-Strain Steel Fencing Wire
Never Sag’s—Once Strained Remains Tight Always.
The Special Steel employed in the making of “Nosag” Fencing
Wire, and the regularity and perfection of its tempering, result
in 12 2-gauge “Nosag” being stronger than ordinary 8-gauge
wire—while a comparison of equal weights of each provides
the gratifying discovery that “Nosag” Fencing Wire,
gauge, gives more than two-and-a-half times the length of
ordinary No. 8.
Further comment on that point would be superfluous. But
emphasis can be laid upon these facts: (1) The long lengths
of “Nosag” operate to reduce cost of erection; (2) Its heavy
galvanizing ensures long life to a fence; (3) Its Quality is an
unchallengeable Economy.
“Nosag” Galvanized High-Strain Steel Fencing Wire will save
£l2/4/7 per mile on a five-wire fence—£2/8/1 1 per mile on
each single wire—and, besides, there is the great saving
effected in freight and cartage charges.
The best test is a practical trial—-Samples posted free on
application.
Note the following comparisons carefully:
“Nosag” High-Strain Wire, 12|-gauge—
Breaking
strain.
11 401 b.
Length
per cwt.
1 460yds.
Cost
per ton.
£45 0 0
Cost per mile
for one wire.
£2 14 3
Ordinary Galvanized Wire, 8-gauge—
Breaking
strain.
11261 b.
Length
per cwt.
546yds.
Cost
per ton.
£32 0 0
Cost per mile
for one wire.
£5 3 2
1 mile “Nosag” High-Strain Wire, 12 2 -gauge—
Weighs Icwt. Oqr. 231 b.
1 mile Ordinary Galvanized Wire, 8-gauge—
Weighs 3cwt. Oqr. 231 b.
1 ton “Nosag” High-Strain Wire, 12|-gauge—
Measures 1 6 miles 1 040yds.
1 ton Ordinary Galvanized Wire, 8-gauge
Measures 6 miles 360yds.
| SEND FOR A SAMPLE BY PRACTICAL TEST “NOSAG’S” THE BEST. j
F. L&ssetter 8 Co. Ltd., George Street, Sydney.


Powder and Perfume
With Cuticura Talcum
An exquisitely scented, antiseptic
powder. Gives quick relief to sun-
burned or irritated skins, overcomes
heavy perspiration, and imparts a
delicate, lasting fragrance, leaving
the skin sweet and wholesome.
*•- Ointmentlg.and 2s. Sold through-
out the world. For sample each free ad-
&SSSL r R -T°wn* & Co.. Sydney. N.S.W."
Cuticura Soap shaves without mug.
You Gan Study Art
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
InT
at ho m e
and apply
your talent
in a profit-
able field if
you take up the
Weston
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
The lessons arc
simple and easy to
follow. Mr. Harry J.
Weston, Australia’s
premier poster de-
signer and com-
mercial artist, has
already turned out
hundreds of suc-
cessful pupils, and
you have the ad-
vantage of his
personal help in
each lesson.
The Weston course
develops 3’our tal-
ent for the pursuit
of a fascinating
hobby and a
money-making re-
creation.
Mr. Weston's in-
teresting booklet, |
“There’s Money in
the Pen,” will be
sent on receipt
of three stamps
to cover post- i
age and your
name and ad-
dress. It tells all about the lessons, fees, etc.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
146 Union House, George Street, SYDNEY.
MUCILINE
£7/?e £Per/ec£
mwmstmsm
CLEANEST,
STRONGEST,- BEST.
501-0 BY ALU STATIONERS
%!2% ,e Alex Gdwan g> Sons, L™
Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide.
EVERYBODY DOTES
Uncle Toby’s
yOATS^./
A delightful breakfast food
The “COMFORT” (Seif-heating) IRON
er
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
filled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, 42 /-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
THE BRISBANE HOTEL,
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA.
UNDER ROYAL PATRONAGE.
J. W. QUIGLEY. Proprietor.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it
WOULD YOU FIGHT or RUN?
If you can't fight you must run away,
with consequent loss of self-respect
and the shameful after-thoughts that
"ill haunt you like a nightmare.
Lack of confidence more than lack of
courage might be the real cause,
KNOWLEDGE breeds CONFIDENCE
—CONFIDENCE creates COURAGE.
We can give you that KNOWLEDGE
and CONFIDENCE which "ill enable
you to act a man’s part should the
necessity arise.
Learn Boxing by Post.
w e teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. The methods are simple, practical and
thorough. You cannot fail to progress rapidly and
quickly, and you will learn all the “hits,” “stops”
and “moves” of the world’s most famous boxers.
Write for the interesting booklet, “Scientific Boxing
in Your Home,” which will be mailed FREE to any
address. Just write your name and address across
this advertisement, and post it to us with three
stamps to cover postage.
m
is,
m
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
AND BROTHERS,
142 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
“ The All-round Champion
Athlete of Australia,”
OSTOcjk
3
Right on Your Uppers
is where they shine. A brilliant, lasting shine, mind you,
plus 100% wear from your shoes.
BOSTOCK’S SHOE CREAMS
(In Bottles and Tubes).
COLORS; Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Nigger Brown,
Blue, White, Champagne, Light Grey and Dark Grey.
BOSTOCK’S POLISHES, LTD., SYDNEY.
Highest Quality
Octagon Steel
for Crowbars & Smelter Bars.
We have good stocks of Octagon Steel Bars in all
usual trade sizes. The price is right. Get our
quote before placing your orders.
The Eagle & Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
Associated Company ARTHUR BALFOUR & CO., LTD., Sheffield,
MAKERS OF ULTRA-CAPITAL HIGH-SPEED STEEL,
S l tpeet ’ Sydneyj 842-48 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
£*s street, 1 reniantle; 46 Boulder Road, Kalgoorlie; Paul &
‘ i Ij A d V s « ott T Street. Newcastle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Argvle
Street, Hobart; John Reid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street
Brisbane; Charles Atkins & Co., Ltd., 88 90 Currie Street, Adelaide'
N
Special Steel Booh,
“Balfour’s Hints o n
Steel,” and “The Boole of
Sates” post free. Write
for copies.
r
1
-»
Jaw Breakers.
Gyratory
Breakers.
Crushing Rolls
Elevators.
Screens.
Conveyors
Portable and
Stationary.
Crushing
Plants.
OVER 1000 SUPPLIED.
STONE BREAKERS
ALL SIZES. CAPACITIES, ICWT. TO 100 TONS PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Catalog No. 20. MACHINES IN STOCK.
Manufactured
by-
JAQUES BROS.PTY. LTD.,
Coppin Street, Richmond,
Melbourne, Victoria.
REPRESENTATIVE IN NEW SOUTH WALES:
Messrs, ARMSTRONG-HOLLAND, 4 Bridge St., Sydney, N.S.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of commu/iica lions insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun •
tatily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Arthur Toombs: If we set out to publish
all the protests against all the controversial items
that appear in The Bulletin the paper would have
to be doubled or trebled jn size. The requirement*
as regards a prohibition article, like any other
article, is that it shall be condensed and of general
Interest. Your effort was turned down, not because
it supported prohibition, but because it said nothing
convincing, or new, or even entertaining on the
subject Glasgee: This paper barracked for Irish
Home Rule when it was unsafe to mention the sub-'
ject approvingly in many parts of Australia, and it
was for the working-man before he had the ghost of
a party to bless himself with. And it is all for both
of them still. But bloody-minded minorities like lhe
I.R.A. hobbledehoys who are making a hell of
Southern Ireland do not stand for Home Rule any
more than the I.W.W. foolery stands for Australian
Labor. \ou can’t transform a Spanish-American
into a Redmond by pinching the Irishman’s political
label and sticking it on a De Valera... .Malaya:
Dull defence of Barwell basketed... .D.P.J.: We
grant you one thing—that P.R. may be a good system
for second Chambers. That is, if there’s any good in
second Chambers... J.S.: It hurts to deny the world your
remarks on “the war-time reflections of a celebrated
English clergyman.” But it has to be G.8.L.:
Ponderous fooling... .S. J.S.: "Conscience” is uneasy.
. ...E.M.E.: Look up the pronunciation of “sonor-
ous”... .Animal Lovers: Must go back... .H.C.S.:
Only worth a short par Francis: A dog wakened
you and you struck a match-—but why write about
it?.... Lex: “Momus” not up Blue F.: Too dull
for a shocking example Douglas C.: Doesn’t state
its case well enough W.E.P.t A muddled narra-
tion J.C.A.: Below par Rex: The phrasing is
too crude to carry the feeling W. 0.5.: There’s a
hint of color in it, but the ideas are t so obvious and
the lines too lumpy Marion P.: Veiy rugged
stuff... .K.L.M.: Nothing in it.... Alton J.: Un-
melodious as an ungreased wheelbarrow R.E.A.
(Toora) : Hobnailed mirth.... E.N.: The line “That
answered them with shaking, clang on clang;,”
spoils it. The summer’s bells may ring, but they
don’t clang.... Evelyn M.: None of them gets there.
.... T A.G.: It wants a light touch, and yours is—
well, not light... .Lucy 0.: We don’t publish books;
and the verses are too thin for publication, anyhow.
Doii B.: Not enough in them T.J.M.: Clumsy
w0rk....0.W. (Armadale): Nice enough, but far
too slight... .T. 0.0.: You don’t seem to know what
rhyme is... .Walnut: No—emphatically n 0....
Jack A. W.: Doubt if the food reformers will accept
tripe as a vegetable, but let it go:—
Handsome fortunes are amassed
By men of a hearty type,
Who keep themselves well nourished
On apples, milk and tripe.
Though sympathetic with the sick
They radiate strength and fire.
For slogging away at honest toil
They seldom seem to tire.
Their slogan, they’ll tell you. any day
Is work first, and then play.”
Una W.: Very tame Herbert D.: No sort of
yarn there... .P.8.P.: “Phyllis” hasn’t the touch.
. ...A.F.D.: There is no more irritating way of
telling a story than through the lips of a bore
M.M.R.: A dreary effort L.A.R.: The “Castles”
fall down too often G.McE.: One slab of the
mystic thing:—
It’s bobs if there’s courting and mashing to be done;
Bobs if there’s marrying, and new lives to be run;
it s bobs at the christening, after the first baby hath
come,
But I’m be hanged if it’s a bob on a Sunday.
Robert, you know, it’s time for you to go
By the tolling of those bells, they must appeal to
you so;
And you, young Jack, ran to the room at the back,
There from the table bring Bob’s Demise, it’s in the
full
Quarter size. You know, Bob never was a bob on a
Sunday.
It’s plain, brothers all; but, sisters, dear,
Do thoughts like those to you appear;
How cheap spiritual agistment to the human soul
Compared to the fixed prices of local and imported
alcohol.
Plane Bi others, Note, Wines, Beers, Spirits all
deceivers of your earthly powers, all relievers.
....Becky: You have flown too high, or something.
....Ray L.: Don’t believe anybody ceases to despair
merely because the sea is big,... Billabong: No it’s
not worth while. It is impossible to use that stanza
without direct imitation; and it’s so miserably easy.
... .A.E.F.: The first stanza is a fine example of
how not to write:—
To north and south and left and right
t The bush stretched drearily,
When this oasis met my sight,
Rivalling Killarney.
A.J. (Kapunda): No good C.G.D.: Feeble...
Allan A.: Very poor stuff Frank B.: The idea has
been worked to death in verse almost as weak as
your 0wn.... K.M.D.: Not well enough done....
E.H.G.: It’s well enough written; but those mechani-
cal yarns .of terrible injury and revenge don’t ring
true....C.M. (Grafton): “Photography” states the
obvious... .H.V.S.C.: The yarns don’t move u 5....
Gilbert W.: Misses J.L.C.: No interest F.M.A.:
Dull prose presented as poetry—an imposture which
always annoys.... A.E.G.: Doesn’t strike us as any-
thing special in the way of lying M.F.K.: Heaw
village drama turning on the difference between
jam-roll and arrowroot biscuits is no use here
Kaikohc: You make nothing of it Q.P.: “Waiting”
misses.... Kat: It fills us with a holy, but rather
dizzy, patriotic fervor:—
Australia rare, Australia dear,
Your great big heart of gold, is near
Me, for I can sweet melodies hear
From harp-strung birds of yours,
But, oh, the colors that they wear,
For ever.
You have sliped and griped into my heart,
With your rapture beauty. But apart
Among your bowers, oh, when your
Delicate-throated lark does start,
Pouring its lyric (nectar flavor)
Over all. From you I can’t part,
No, never
Part from Australia, a land so true,
Part from a sky serenely blue,
Where hopes and promises anew
I can forever gather. Australia part from you
I cannot.
....Frank K.: Not well enough done J. J.F.: The
ragged and blotted scrawl is no use... .G.L.T.: A
machine-made yarn.... Alice A.: Very thin and
frayed at the edges D.D.N.: Empty.
TO ART IST 10 (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.H.D.: That joke was old before you were born.
N.T.H.: Wobbly drawing and feeble gag
H.E.0.: Below the mark. .. .M.N.: Gentleman with
the diseased face ruled out. .. .A.G.F.: Just misses.
. ...K.8.: Take up Art If you like, but why not
book-making?—there’s more money in it.


Shipping.
orient; line
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
lly way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Tosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great. Cities.
NEXT SAILING, AUGUST 16.
VENTURA.
10,0(10 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAAISHIP CO.,
Cor. Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
T H E North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND HOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY ANO THE
BEAUTIFUL TWEED RIVER.
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S-S. PULGANBAR SAILS EVERY TUESDAY at
i p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.m.
S.S. BURRINGBAR SAILS EVERY SATURDAY at
7 p.m.: passeiTger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.m.
Through Fare, including
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
HOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, PIIILP
& CO.. LTD.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863,
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. ~ 800,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 360,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon, G. IV.
Gray; Jame 3 Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
General Manager— M. G. DAYMEN.
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £1,480 000
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1921 . , £12|813’129
Directors; Sir Mark Sheldon, Chairman ; Herbert R.
Lysaght, 0.8. E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Frank
X. Yarwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman :
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kiri"
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places in
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. llowell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places in
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (326 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Hoodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director: A. Dodds Fairdairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner UEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 2,105,818
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts sll other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about
Accumulated Funds
Annual Income . •
£1,551,188
£2,629,000
£47,000,000
£7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian -Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THIi LARGEST, NEWEST FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BE I WEEN ALSiBALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS:—
NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAKURA, 21st SEPTEMBER.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.Z).,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through bookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Grent Cities of the United States can be seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Palls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 10th AUGUST, 11 a.m.
MAUNGANUI, 7th SEPTEMBER.
For Illustrated pamphlets regarding the above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP
UNION STEAM SHIP CO..
CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
DOMINION CHAMBERS. WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
i. m
m
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3£ TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £llO to England, and from £64 to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 ton 3.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4S to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
White Star Line
CABIN PASSENGERS ONLY.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
I’OPULAK STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
RUNIC 12,500 tons
SL’KVIC 12,500 tons
MEDIC 12,000 tons
PERSIC 12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
The Aberdeen Line.
Regular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route
Fitted %vith Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15,000 tons
THEMISTOCEES .... 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES .... 11,250 tons
‘SOPHOCEES ........ 12,500 tons
‘DIOGENES 12,500 tons
‘New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
DALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
i’ll id-up Capital
Iteserve lund
Iteaerve Liability
Directors:
£5,000,000
3,000,000
5,000,000
£13,000,000
Thomas Buekland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.Q.,
M.L.C.
Hubert, L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. Laidley, Esq.; A. Q. Milson, Esq. General Manaaer: Oscar Lines
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street E C
300 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London'
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
•TM-**
Jfiaitk ot ßuslralta
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking: Business
in the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2^
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 3049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a% Interest on Deposits up to £l,OOO.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL,
Deputy Governor.
Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
859 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British A USTRAI.asian
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Beading-room at the
Offices, 51 High Ilolborn. London, WL
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shinning.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.)
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldton
and North-West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough, Bunda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
*Brisbane, Macbay (passengers only), Townsville
aud Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alina (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart Parkei LiM 1
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
and vice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli*
cation.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ilobavt
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
Monthly -
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSEN KAISIIA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdney.
AND TO DALGETY & CO., LTD., MELBOURNE.
Interstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE!.
Cable address
“XKOQUOIS.’
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners.
MANAGING AGENTS FOB
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Ltd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Ltd.
ltlackhealth Collieries, Ltd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Ltd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Ltd.
AGENTS FOR
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & 0. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S> Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messagerles Maritimes Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Bun
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
. THINK OF
gserg
ert
SCHUTE
BELL&Cud
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office*: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. , . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club antl Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to The Manages.


Missing Friends.
4RTHTJR JOHN MILLER, liorse-
trainer. Last heard of at Kimberley,
Western Australia. Anyone knowing the
whereabouts of the above is requested to
communicate with the undersigned.
E. F. SIvEWES,
Reumark, South Australia,
Solicitor for Edgar Pedley, administrator
of the Estate of John William Pedley, deceased.
Missirgr rriendg.
FRAYNE, GEORGE E. C., will hear of
something to his advantage by communi-
cating with HERRING £ HERRING,
Solicitors, Maryborough, Victoria.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Beneath the Coat-hanger of every “Mattamac”
Stormproof you will find this Laoel. Look for
it. It identifies the genuine, one-quality-only
“Mattamac” Stormproof. Refuse any Coat without
the Label, because it is not a "Mattamac."
Unbelted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
19 oz.
WEIGHT
BROTHERS
LONDON
Belted
Coats
for
Ladies
and
Men
21 ioz.
WEIGHT
You cannot get Wet in the 19-ounce
Featherweight Mattamac Stormproof
The “ Mattamac” is waterproof—absolutely. In appearance it is
identical with the ordinary Raincoat. Though one-third the weight
and half the price, it will keep you dry in any weather. Being Wind
and Chill proof as well as Wet proof, it can be used additionally
as a Light Overcoat for Driving, Motoring, etc.
“ Mattamac” Stormproofs come from the
West End of London, where the best
Overcoats are produced. They have
easy Raglan Shoulders, Roomy Sleeves,
a Wide Skirt, Perpendicular Pockets and
Wind-strapped Cuffs. They are smart
in appearance and comfortable in wear.
“Matta” Fabric, from which every
genuine “ Mattamac ’’ Stormproof is
made, is a compact-folding material and
the lightest stormproof Fabric known.
It is tough and durable and so waterproof
that even wind-driven Rain cannot
penetrate it- Made in five shades.
19 o z.
FOLDS
r.tH B
i-S®
INTO
THIS
SIZE
You can
put it
in your Pocket
or Handbag when
the Sun shines.
These three illustrations are direct ‘Drawings
from actual Photographs, and are, conse-
quently, truthful representaHons of the Feather-
weight " Mattamac" Stormproof, which
folds up to pocket she.
LADY’S COAT, with Belt as
illustrated, 21 Jos. weight; without
Belt, 19oz.
GENTLEMAN’S COAT, as illus-
trated, 19os. weight; with Belt,
21 hoz.
m
MADE IN ENGLAND... SOLD BY OUTFITTERS, CLOTHIERS,
etc., THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA. ASK TO SEE THEM
If you'regular Dealer does not yet stock “ Mattamac” Stormproofs.donottakesomething
else. Writetous. We willsend you, post free, the " Mattamac ” Booklet, and give you the
address of the nearest Dealer who has stock. This Booklet illustrates Belted and Un-
belted Coats for Ladies and Gentlemen, and the wide-skirted Riding Coat for Horsemen
“MATTAMAC” BOOKLET, SHOWING 5 MODELS, POST-FREE
Ask your Dealer to show you the “ Mattamac.” If he cannot do so, write to us for
Booklet and address of the nearest Shop which can supply. Dealers wishing to sell
“Mattamac” Stormproofs are invited to write for Terms. (We supply Booklets
Free to Dealers.)
W. PLANT & Co., Ltd.,
Wholesale Distributors of “MATTAMAC” COATS for Australasia
FENCHURCH BUILDINGS (2nd Floor). AD22O, PITT ST.. SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Sole Manufacturers of
" Mattamac ” Stormproofs
PEARSON BROS., 45, CONDUIT STREET,
LONDON, W.l, ENGLAND. (A 504) @
The “ MATTAMAC " TRADE MARKS are registered throughout the WORLD. (Copyright reserved.)
Obtainable at all Stores, or direct, from “Mattamac” Parlor, Fenchurch
Buildings, 220 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Cheap Fencing Wires
Pastoralists —Have You Yet Thought of Fencing?
We Offer ex Stock and for Early Delivery SUBJECT Sales.
BLACK 8-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £26/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £27/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED.... 8-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £2B/10/- per ton.
10-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £2O/10/- per ton. ,
12-Gauge Plain, lewt. Coils, £3l/10/- per ton.
GALVANISED.... BARBED, 12-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, Sin. space;
lewt. Coils, £34/15/- per ton.
BARBED, 14-Gauge lowa pattern, 4 points, Bin. space;
lewt. Coils, £37/10/- per ton.
RABBIT-TRAPS: Lane’s Patent, 28/6 dozen; Griffiths’s 3 Star Specials, 28/6
dozen; Griffiths's IXL’s, 26/6 dozen.
WIRE-NETTING, GALVANISED IRON, STRYCHNINE,
WOOLPACKS and CORNSACKS.
Prices: Net Delivered to Rails or f.ob. Sydney. TERMS : NET PROMPT CASH.
CHARLES E. CAMERON, Sydney.
Agents: VICTORIA: FRANK HOOPER & CO., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: AGENCIES, LTD., Brisbane.
.Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send youi*
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post tree.
3SB*e
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b.
Delivered,
821. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered,
£5/12/6
£6/5/-
WE REPAIR
GUNS § RIFLES
SUNOL
FINE
CUT
The World’s Best.
Tobacco
gse
barrels,
patent
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
English 8.8.8. G. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
both chcke, top action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 7 jib. Freight paid,
£.14/14 -
Marble’s Waterproof Match
Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 8/10.
Owing to market fluctuations!
prices Here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Tmaea Field
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (a 3 illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top lever,
dense Trogan nitrol 30in. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
grip, chambered for 2£in. cartridges, walnut stock, weight 71b. to 7Alb.
Tested for Nitro Powders Freight paid,
£l6/16/-
&
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gull, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight
about Tib Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun . .... . .
Freight paid,
POWDER
£l2/12/'
£l5
AUSTRAL 4/6 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 5/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 9/0 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 8/0 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS lO O lb.
PLEASE NOTE.—Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
rgs
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L,
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choke, D. &E. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jib Freight paid,
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC
CLEANSING
HEALING.
£l4/14/-
MYRROHL
Made in
America.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Trice 2/- tube.
m
St even’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
solid case-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
walnut stock; weight about 6Jib. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. EjCCtOf, 05/"“ Prei £ ht Paid.
1C
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


Miss Cecil Bradle
Uses Rexona—Do You
MISS CECIL BRADLEY ( from a photo.).
“I want you to add me to
your list of liexona Girls, for I
truly am one, and I want to
add my praise to Rexona and
Rexona Soap. What a healer
Rexona is! I always keep one
of your dainty little triangular
pots of Rexona on my dressing-
table, and have one of the little
sample tins that I fill from the
larger pot, and carry it in my
purse wherever I go. I always
use it after surfing or being out
in the sun, and once when I
jambed my finger I found it
most soothing and healing. In
emergencies, Rexona is some-
thing that can always be
depended upon.
“As for Rexona Soap, I think
it is truly delightful. It is so
refreshing, and I find, keeps my
complexion in the pink of condi-
tion. I used to use shampoo
powders for my hair; now I
never use anything but Rexona
Soap. It makes a most beauti-
ful shampoo for the hair, and
leaves the hair so soft and lovely.
No wonder you see it every-
where, for I am sure Rexona
Soap is a luxury that all girls
must appreciate.
“I can assure you I will
always be a true Rexona Girl.
“Sincerely yours,
“(Sgd.) CECIL BRADLEY.”
Get the Rexona Habit.
The Rexona habit results in health
ami beauty, and once formed will never
be broken.
There are two Rexona habits—that of
using Rexona Ointment to heal all
injuries to the skin, and the Rexona
Soap habit, which consists of keeping
oneself clean and pure with a delicately-
scented and medicated soap. Rexona
Ointment and Rexona Soap mean skin
health and beauty, comfort to the user,
and immunity from disease. So form
the Rexona habit. Start with a 17-
cake of Rexona Soap and a 1/6 pot of
Ointment.
You will be delighted with the
Rexona Remedies, and wonder how you
ever got along without them.
N
SZLooUno,
pbolhmq-
f - Healin
ftz - neannq
flrlliicpiic Omimmi
V rtbiolulely
%} a flcaii j Reliable
m
nnnEnnEmmß
K
■? A Reliable Remedy for oJI eruption) and irrilanons of the
Skin Eczema Pimples Sores Chilblains Chapped Hands.
Sciatica Ilc/ung or Bleeding Piles Culs Bums Bruises. Scald*
Bud. Legs Slings of Insects and all kinds of Inflammation
The Piper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
IS dawn was at the window-sill
I heard him on the ferny hill;
The wild, shrill notes flowed on the
breeze
That stirred the budded willow-trees,
And all the wildwcod listened, mute,
Awed by the magic of the flute,
That sang a light, entrancing tune
As sings the English thrush in June.
When sailed the white moon high and clear
The flute was calling, soft and near,
I followed down the piney track
With flickering shadows patterned black ;
But when I reached the silvered hill
The fairy flute was hushed and still,
Nor sang as nightingales may sing
When grey night-moths are all a-wing.
On stormy nights, when shouting sweep
The great blasts from the raging deep,
Above the voice of wind and rain
There lilts a wild, exulting strain,
And swift beneath the midnight sky
The laughing piper dances by;
And there are echoes in the night
Of seabirds’ screams in wheeling flight.
Perchance upon a wonder-day,
As down a forest path I stray,
With lovely notes bewildering
The enchanted flute will wake and sing,
And in a rapture, silently,
The fairy piper I shall see,
As soft beneath the dreaming trees
He pipes a lyric to the breeze.
A coat of green, a cap of brown,
A scarlet feather through the crown,
In sunburnt fingers lightly caught
His pipe of silver, oddly wrought.
Then ao I pray: “Let me not meet
The piper when his song is sweet,
With a strange sweetness never heard
In note of any singing bird.”
For I would climb the mountain-side
And follow through the moorlands wide,
Till new stars lit the evening sky
And unknown winds came murmuring by.
No rest there is, nor friend, nor home,
For those who with the piper roam,
Adown the hills, across the dunes.
Enthralled by strange, beguiling tunes.
A-iourneying in far, lone lands,
A-wandering on tempestuous strands,
And ever luring, near, remote,
The fairy flute’s insistent - note ;
So do I Dray, “Let me not meet
The piner when his song is sweet,
With that wild sweetness never heard
In note of any singing bird.”
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMHUILLE McKAY.
Whing Hi Faces the End.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Through untold centuries the primordial battle
has raged, with famine always the victor. Then it
is the father sells his children, poisons his wives, and
sits down to await with stoic calm the coining of
death'.
WHING HI stood in the centre of the
market-place, ’midst the hustle and
bustle of men, a man apart. The
noise of the querulous, haggling voices, the
grunting and squealing of the pigs, the
crowing of the roosters, the alternate cries
and laughter of the children, were not for
his ears. To his nose came neither the bes-
tial smell of animal nor the peculiar body-
scent of man. Seeing all, his eyes saw no-
thing save a desolate field in which a few
stunted plants raised their sickly heads in
a protest to high Heaven, and a mud-and-
thatch hut, wherein two women, his wives,
always at loggerheads, now awaited his re-
turn, united at last in the common bond of
approaching dissolution. In a cage at his
side, well placed so that the passer-by could
not fail to behold, his only children, a boy
and a girl of nine and six years respectively,
awaited awestricken the coming of a buyer.
Such was the toll which famine exacted
in a land where no man made preparation
for the future, and where pestilence, deso-
lation and decay floated with murderous
hand on every passing wind.
Imbued with high hope, Whing Hi had
stood since early morning soliciting bids for
his children. Three offers he had turned
away, liking not the looks of the would-be
purchasers." Now, as the sun slid with ever-
increasing swiftness, it seemed, towards the
western horizon, a pang of fear took him,
to be quickly followed by stark terror at
sight or the rapidly emptying market-place.
Had he been too hasty in refusing those
early offers? Were his children to be left
on his hands? Must he take them back
to No! No! Not that. That way
lay the poison-cup and death. Better to
give them away to the first comer than take
them home to that. And yet he must not
give them away. Whence was to come the
poison for his wives were he to drive a fruit-
less bargain ? It was to secure the money
for its purchase, and to save the children
from starvation, that he had come to the
market-place. If he got only quarter their
value ft would serve.
When Whing’s shadow was twice his own
length and the market emptv except for
the few unlucky sellers and thrifty buyers
who had waited to the end to secure the
cheapest bargains, the man who had first
approached him in the morning passed with-
out a glance in Whing Hi’s direction.
Wh : ne’s heart beat feverishly.
“Hi !” he called. The ere-while buyer
walked on.
“You want buy?” called Whing.
Without glancing back the man stonrwd to
disinterestedly turn over a dirty bundle of
rags w ; th his bare frot.
“I sell cheap,” Whing Hi called again.
Ignoring him completely, the stranger con-
tinued on his way.
With horror in his eves and the chill of
death in his heart, Whing ran wildly after
him.
“I sell very cheap.” he cried. “The boy
and_ girl for ewhty cash.”
Knowing his man, the stranger shook
Whino- TTi’s detaining hand from his sleeve
and went on.
“For forty cash will I sell the boy and
girl,” cried Whing in desperation, shuffling
along at the man s side and plucking at his
robe.
When Wiling Hi staggered home through
the darkness tnat night, all that was left to
him of his children were their cries of fear
and anguish as the leering stranger carried
them away. It required now but the mixing
of the poison cup to wipe out completely all
trace of the family and home he had accumu-
lated through countless years of toil and
suffering. With a tightening of the lips
Whing staggered on. It. was the unwritten
law. As old as the land was so was the law.
On the morrow he would purchase the poison.
He was thankful it required so little. For
fortv cash he would get but a few grains.
The tragedy of a dozen lifetimes stalked
through \\ hing Hi’s lire that night. With-
in the portals of his home it awaited him
where his two wives, composed and serene
in death, lay on their appointed couches,
waxen statues of wifely fidelity and devo-
tion. Whing understood. Through his
stunned and numbing senses he realised that
it was with thought only of the pain it would
save him, they had taken their own lives.
Through such piety and high honor the gods
would forgive them their deed. It remained
only for him to give them decent burial,
a task which would not be easy, for with so
many dying because of the famine most of the
lucky spots were alreadv sone. He would
be compelled to go far afield.
* * * »
It was almost finished. Having buried
his wives in a lucky spot, and made obeis-
ance before his Joss, Whing Hi sat with
his back against the crumbling w T all of the
mud hut, his knees drawn up to his chest and
his chin resting on his knees, awaiting the
coming of death. The tragedy of it was
not present with Whing. From time imme-
morial his ancestors had met death in like
manner when famine blasted the land. His
own father had done so. Sitting motionless
in the sun he recalled the day, now
almost forgotten under the stress of
years, when his father had taken him,
his only son, to the market-place and
sold him into bondage. He was a boy
of only eight years and little understanding
then. He recalled how he had cried and
fought to return with his father, and judged
him most cruel for deserting him to stran-
gers. Little did he know then that his
father was selling him to save him from
starvation while ne returned home to sit
dow T n and await the coming of the Reaper.
But later he had understood. And now
his own turn had come. No doubt when,
with tight lips and outwardly stern visage,
he had yesterday turned his back upon his
own children, they judged him most cruel
and mercenary, even as he had once judged
his own father. They cdtdd not be expected
to know, as their cries rang in his ears when
he departed, that his old heart was broken,
and that he was but returning home to play
out the final act in the tragedy. In his
weakened state the end would not be long
delayed.
Glancing up the dirty, festering, germ-
ridden street, from where he sat Whing could
see other figures hunched down outside their
decaying huts, and he knew that he did not
await alone the laggard coming of the grim
harvester. Famine was indeed taking a
heavy toll of the village. With the women
and children already gone, the place would
be depopulated within the week. Across the
border in Yunnan Whing knew there was
food in plenty. But there were no roads
out of Yunnan, and even if there were the
dwellers in Yunnan would not bother about
a miserable little village such as this. With
famine abroad in the land they could not
tell when their own turn might come.
With such thoughts crowding in upon him
where he sat huddled against the wall,
Whing was mildly surprised when several
heavy drops of rain spattered into the thick
dust at his feet. But beyond apathetically
speculating on the miniature flurry which
the heavy rain blobs produced in the finely
powdered earth, he paid no heed. It would
not rain. It could not rain. Many times
in the last ten score of days the sky had
clouded and a few heavy drops had spattered
into the street, but soon the sky had cleared
aaain, and the sun went on sucking the
remaining moisture from the earth and the
life from the few struggling plants.
But the rain persisted. As the clouds
drew down and the light faded, it increased
its intensity. In a few minutes Whing was
wet to the skin, and tiny puddles gathered in
the roadway where - for many months dust
whorls had chased each other up and down.
Listlessly Whing watched the manv tiny
rivulets find tbeir levels and run off to join
the rushing streams in the gutters. It didn’t
matter. It was too late. Nothing mattered
now. All the rain of the heavens could not
bring back his departed wives nor restore
his vanished children. The song of the rush-
ing waters was but a mockery. The sound
of the patter of tiny running feet over the
soggy earth to which his fancy hearkened
was only an illusion, a figment of his
deranged mind.
Yet the sound of the running feet per :
sisted. To the exclusion of all other sounds
it drummed into his ears, thundering above
the sound of the rain as mighty cataracts
thunder above the tinkle of water dropping
from an eave. And a tiny voice, a fear-
haunted voice, came dully to his ears.
Stirred beyond understanding Whing Hi
raised his head, and with the act a cry of
mingled joy and fear burst from his shriv-
elled lips. Running madly towards him
down the street came his two children, their
heads constantly craned back over their
shoulders, watching the had come.
Staggering to his feet with the aid of his
hands pressed against the mud wall, Whing
gathered them into his arms, mouthing child-
ish notbinss and sparine defiance at the
world through red-rimmed, bloodshot eves.
Rent between joy and fear, he ushered them
into the house as their purchaser of the
previous appeared at the end of the
street. When he reached the house of
Whine Hi the owner met him at the door,
dangling forty cash, forty miserable oegh
struno- on a dirty string, in his hand. What
were forty oas 11 ? What were forty million
capU ? ' What, indeed !
Thrusting the money into the astonished
p'dro o f the dealer. Whine Hi entered and
s’mt the door, paving no heed whatever to
the vehement protests of the man w-'thout.
G. L. THOMAS.
M AUDE: “You are late, dear."
MAY: “Yes. Don was detained, but he was so tactful that I couldn't be angry with
him."
MAUDE: “Why, what did he say?"
MAY: “Nothing, but he brought me some HILLIER’S CHOCOLATES ."


0
RUBBING
ZAM-BUK
IN_
IS THE
SUREST
WAY
TO
RUB
PAIN
OUT .
m
%
V:Vi
18,
m
mm.
■
>v,v*
€M:M.
: &yZws.'sS/t
w
Wlzm
x£&
ZAM-BUK, 1/6 and 3/6 per box;
ZAM-BUK SOAP, 1/- per tablet.
Of all Chemists and Stores.
Raw Faces, Gold Sores, Chapped
Hands and Itching Chilblains.
Zam-Buk Soothes and Heals —Stops Soreness and
Smarting—Prevents Eczema and Blood-Poison.
COR Chapped Hands, chilblains, chafings, cold sores and
1 other winter skin troubles there is no treatment so
beneficial as dressings with Zam-Buk. When roughness, irritation and redness
ot the skin are followed by cracking and bleeding, dirt and disease germs may
hnd their way into the raw places, and cause inflammation, blood-poison or
winter eczema. Zam-Buk stops this peril entirely.
Simply smear a little Zam-Buk on the sore parts, and wrap up carefully.
Letting the Zam-Buk soak into the tissues soothes away smarting pain, and
assures rapid healing with healthy, new skin.
THE STRIKING SUCCESS OF ZAM-BUK
** to ib healing, soothing and antiseptic qualities. It contains none of the mineral salts
or animal fats that form the basis of common salves and ointments. Zam-Buk is a
concentrated balm of the highest purity and of unvarying efficiency.
, 'winter frosts and winds begin to bite and chap your skin—get Zam-Buk
day I Use a little every night to keep your skin smooth and healthy.
F° r those who are subject to winter eczema, chilblains and similar complaints,
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap should be used in preference to ordinary toilet soaps.
ramlßuk
HEALING BALM & MEDICINAL SOAP
Sanctuary.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
OLEARY’S sheep-dog Ginger
siiiiied at the crack under the shut
door, barked once or twice, then sat
Gown on the step with a short, uneasy
whine. - A sound as of stealthy steps on the
boarded floor inside caused his ears to
lu-ioU rj i his A y as .followed by a little noise
°of Ids own whimper. He
savagely, rushed barking along the
wall, and thence out of the
gate that led to the paddocks, where he had
i u SI i , ot Oleary riding home with the
sun behind him.
w ‘ ls merciful to his dogs, and spelled
them in turn whenever he could. Early in
the arternoon, after five or six hours’ punch-
mg over hard and burry country, there had
t>o m- We , we f hers to out of the
eo! *k ,} addock, where the earth-tank was
now nothing but a treacherous bog; but, on
passing the two-mile track, he had sent
Ginger home that way because he showed
signs of sore feet, and had taken Spot, the
other dog, on with him.
The dogs were Jim’s only friends. None
ot the other boundary-riders of Boorabulla
station had a good word for Cleary—least
( u ~ neai ' est . neighbor, Bill West. Cleary
had fallen out with all of them at one time
or another, but with Bill West it had come
tO , 131I 3 1 V 4 - s ’ a l Uf 'Lest, who was physically no
match for his antagonist, came in for some
brutal treatment. There were two small
out-stations on Boorabulla. Both were rough
dwellings, and only five miles separated
them. In one,: Jim Cleary shared a bestial
Me with his dogs. Bill West occupied the
other, and lived a little more humanly; for
there were womenfolk to look after the place
“i? wife and his step-daughter, Alice.
‘Down, Ginger! Down, you brute!”
giowled Cleary when Ginger rushed toward
,' m ’ leaping at the saddle and barking ex-
citedly, as he rode through the gateway into
the yard. “Get down, you”
But he could see that something was
wrong. Ginger, with Spot close behind him,
lushed back to the rough-built house, scratch-
ing at the closed door, and barking deep in
has throat. Cleary dismounted, letting the
reins hang, and pushed opeu the door. The
two dogs rushed in past him, filling tlie room
\Mth their dm. Uttering a surprised exelama-
txon that was half an oath, he quietened
them, and with a kick sent them scuttling
out the door, which he banged after them.
I hen, m the din) ness of the stuffy room,
he stared stupidly at the cause of the dis-
turbance a girl of about 18. He soon saw
that her eyes were red and her face smudged
with tears. Her back was close to the wall,
and her two hands, with fingers outspread
and palms i pressed against it, looked like
tw ?.TTTi at splashes of mud thrown there.
What the devil” began Cleary. The girl
gulped, a. sob. ‘What’s up, Alice? What’re
you doing here?” he said more gently.
The girl’s hands dropped slowly to her
>ides and her body relaxed. “I—l—came
! ere because—because father hit me. Then
the d0g.... I felt all alone—and frightened.”
bhe calmed quickly. It is so with those
who are not strangers to violence. Their
emotions come near to the primal reflexes
or pain. This protects them from a too
hitter realisation, such as is in conscious
degradation of a blow. She had on a blue
punt apron. She wiped her eyes and cheeks
with a corner of it. Her hands instinct-
ively smoothed her brown hair to the knot
on the neck. These quick motions seemed
to give her a hot radiance in the half-light
0 room - Cleary moved nearer to her.
y°u ran away—over here—to me'.'”
She looked at him steadily. “Yes, Jim,
and , m not going back—never.” Sue
pressed her lips together tightly. “I’d rather
go away—anywhere. I won't go back.”
-tier, stubborn gaze dropped suddenly. “1
didn t know where to go to, and I thought
°t jou, Jim, and came here.”
You thought of me, eh?” He was very
close to her now. “I haven’t seen you for
a long time, Alice— not since that night
w yei IUI I awa y from me out by the Big
Well, rememberV” He took her hand. His
aim went round, her. He mauled her neck,
i^L ai i m l, he u bo , soni > and at last clasped her
b °u barK l s .- . She cried out inarticu-
lately. -Hot sadistic impulses tightened his
grl P-,. TT her two eyes Shine further
aiid further oft like lamps seen from a ship
thiough a sea-haze. She did not resist. A
gi eat despair widened her brimming eves and-
bet lips moaned, “O Jim, Jim —if you would
only be good !” Then, struggling, she blazed
up hercely. You are uo better than him —
that thing!—my stepfather. And I ran
away from him to you! He put his dirty
hands on me like this when he came in for
lunch, and then hit me because ” The
words ended in a piteous distortion of her
mouth as the tears came again, and she hung
limply. Then all at once Clearv released
her. A terrible sense of her utter helpless-
ne»«nfeak j a ?d frun to pity, almost to fear.
™flat dld yer want to come here for.
then? he asked sullenly.
There was there was nowhere, no one
els j®* sbe answered between short sobs.
I here was the homestead,” he growled
w? d j lway ; ,4 s fr« d i d so. he saw’,
thiough the door leading to the kitchen, that
the fire had been lit. For the first time he
noticed, too, that the room in which they
stood had been swept out and tidied, and
tJiat a tablecloth, comparatively clean from
lack of use, had been taken out and spread
on the table, and that things were set for a
meal for two. A curious sense of homeliness
possessed him, growing gradually as he
noticed the neater disposition of the chairs,
the gleam of the white cloth, the crude cut-
lery catching the light from the window and
trom the fire beyond. These things, like
separate notes brought into harmonious
combination, stirred in him a vague emo-
tional need. Alice was watching him closely
and, divining his feelings, moved toward him
quickly, bhe laid a timid hand on his brown
hairy arm. “I wanted to please you, Jim ”
she said eagerly. Then, as he turned to her
again, she shrank back into the shadow.
You needn’t be frightened, Alice,” he said
man altered voice. He Sat down on one of
the chairs, eyeing her thoughtfully all the
tune. -Come here,” he said at last, bhe
came to him, and when he dragged a chair
toward his own and said “Sit down!” she
obeyed him, too.
You ran away from him—from Bil]—
because for the same reason as you ran
away from me that night by the Big Weli,
4 Oh, Jim!” was all she said.
-then to-day, too. Well you know what
I am, don’t you?”
isut it s aa different,” she said unreason-
-ID?., : ’• P^ ea ding for him against himself.
Oifterent how?” he insisted.
Ihey were near each other. Her hand
touched las again. He covered it with his
other hand, clumsily, with hesitating tender-
ness.
‘l missed you, Jim; but I’m a good girl,
Jim, she said simply.
I know,” he replied, and added with a
touch of defiance. “Different ter me. Y’know
the sort of man I am now, I suppose. But
I missed you, too, Alice.”
She was quick with the disclaimer that he
needed. “les, I do know you, Jim, better
anyone. That’s why I came here.”
\\ ith knitted brows he looked at her for a
moment, then left her abruptly and wmt
outs.de. She sat quite still, halt-dazed,
wondering. She heard the sound of a
bucket being filled, then the sucking noise
ot a horse drinking. Presently' Cleary
beared at the door without coming in.
"Pli be back before dark,” he said, and
added as he turned away, “Don’t be fright-
ened, Alice. With that he mounted his
horse and rode out of the yard at a canter.
About five miles on the north-east track
brought him to a whitewashed shanty shel-
tered by a row of pines on a sand-ridge. Some
towis scattered away as he dismounted and
Wrew the reins over the gatepost. He went
UP a short pathway to the door, which was
wide open, and rapped with his knuckles on
tae boards. A woman appeared. She was
a spare, worn-looking figure, with weak eyes
ginger-colored hair. “Good-day, Mrs
w est. i said Cleary. “I s Bill in?”
‘.nn l! I>e Pbated Mrs. West uncertainly.
\Vhy yes. She did not ask the visitor in-
side, but turned and called: “Will, here’s
Jim Cleary wants yer.”
West, a narrow-chested man, with flabby
pouches of skin under his eyes, came to the
door scowling and puffing at a black pipe.
Cleai y pushed past the couple unceremoni-
ously and went inside.
a j]P u t. -Y1 ice,’ T iie said, and sat down.
Alice f said Mrs. West, with raised eye-
brows. Good gracious!”
W est had turned, and was leaning against
the door with his back to the Ught. He
shitted uneasily.
“Yes,” said Cleary, “she’s over at my place,
and what s more” —he raised his voice—
going ter stay there.”
i/A , p< ? or ? irl • t ” said Mrs. West in her
habitual ejaculatory manner. “Ig that where
she s gone?” She looked disconsolately from
one rban to the other.
“Bill here,” began Cleary explanatorily,
w ith a jerk of his thumb ; but West inter-
rupted him.
~ you swallow any o’ that girl’s
ties, bhe s always been cheeky ter me. Any-
,at ’ re you soing ter do with her?”
She s none of yours,” retorted Cleary.
and turned to Mrs. West. “I’m prepared tea
do the proper thing by Alice, xou re her
mo trier, anu it’s natural”—— He lost Un-
thread of his discourse. “D’you see?”
“Tes,” said the bewildered woman, “but
does she want—l mean, I didn’t know.”
“No more did 1, for the matter of that"
rejoined Cleary, bridging the ellipsis. “She
won’t come back here, nohow. So I’ll
pick you up in the spring-cart on the wav
ill to-morrow, and we ll go right through to
Neeradim, and she’ll come back as Mrs.
Cleary. I expect you’ll be wanted to con-
sent. There’s no hurry so far’s I’m con-
cerned, but I’ll do the proper thing by her
lie can come too, if he likes.” West was
indicated by the merest inclination of
Cleary’s head sideways. This gesture effec
tively barbed the casual third person singu-
lar. Cleary was adept in provocation.
“An’ she’s staying with ,yo_u there to-
night?” sneered West by way of retort.
Cleary turned a fierce face toward him.
‘She’ll come to less harm than what she’d be
likely to meet with here, from what I know of
the case.” He rose threateningly as he spoke.
Mrs. West involuntarily put herself be-
tween them. The instinctive loyalty of a
woman to her man, even when the inan is
unworthy, set her against Cleary, but his
dominant will in the matter overpowered
her, and was mingled with gladness for the
prospect of her daughter’s relief from a life
of unhappy tension with the stepfather.
Mrs. West had always put aside her sus-
picion of her husband’e evil persecution of
the girl, of which she had seen signs. It
was a jealous shadow of dishonor upon her
as a wife, which would now he removed.
Besides, her femininity responded to so close
a nuptial interest.
Cleary moved coolly toward the door.
“It’ll be about 9 o’clock, Mrs. West,” he said.
“We’ll shake hands on it.” Then he eyed
Bill West, a new kindness stirring in his
blood. “You too, Bill. We’ll call it
quits.” West looked at him furtively, but
the honesty of Cleary’s eyes gave a steadi-
ness to his own. They shook hands silently.
Tears came into Mrs. West’s eyes as she
stood in the doorway with her husband
watching Cleary ride away.
The horse went quickly on the road home.
Cleary built himself a future comfort as he
rode, and wondered at the simple beauty of
thq- creation. It was a dream very close
to tangibility—a tablecloth, with simple
cutlery set symmetrically, chairs and the
odd things of a room neatly disposed, and a
woman with an apron on at a kitchen fire.
When he reached the house he went in
eagerly. Alice came to meet him. She had
treasured in apprehension the gentleness
with which he had left her, but she had not
been idle. Everything was ready for the
evening meal. He took her in his arms, and
told her where he had been and what had
been said there. She looked up at him
with approving pride. He could smell in
her hair the sweet pine-wood smoke of the
fire she had been tending. A crude warmth
gladdened them. He lost the drowsy glamor
of her eyes as their mouths met. Then
they sat down happilv. and he threw his head
back and laughed like a boy as she piled
food on his plate and poured out his tea.
FREDRICK T. MACARTNEY.


*
M
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BA4 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE SO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wollington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
r /
f
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}£ inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etq.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Rails, £36.
• Correspondence invited.
D. $ W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.
Brunswick Street,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
MELBOURNE.
Ironclad
Oil-Break Switches.
These Oil-Break Switches are designed to stand up to
the severest working conditions met with in industrial
service, and their reliability has been proved in
numerous installations throughout Australia and in
other countries. They fully comply with the latest
factory reg-ulations, and can be easily and safely handled
by unskilled attendants. The Switches are of the loose-
handle pattern, with drum-type contacts, and can be
supplied in either watertight, flame-proof, or explosion-
proof casing for wall or floor fixing, and with or without
draw-out isolating features. They can be supplied
singly, as illustrated, or any number can be combined to
form a complete switchboard, with busbar chamber,
instruments, inter-connections, etc.; or they may be
combined with drum-type starters to form self-
contained motor-control units.
Manufacturers:
ELECTRICAL APPARATUS
CO. LTD., London.
Further inquiries from:
HOMEWOOD
& O’NEILLum
Head Office and Warehouse —172-
17(5 William Street, Melbourne.
Workshop Xo. I—Somerset Place,
Melbourne.
Workshop Xo. 2—Ferrars Street,
South Melbourne.
Sydney Office—2so Kent Street,
Sydney.
.BRITISH.
SXJ
iM.
rm
Quality counts
in the long run
THERE are days when your shooting is
not what it should be —you return
home disappointed with general results —
you were not as keen as usual —you had
many chances, but something was wrong.
It makes a big difference what cartridges
you use. A good-looking cartridge is not
always what it appears to be. Are you
sure you are getting your money’s worth
in shooting value ?
Even if you are obliged to pay a little more,
why not have the best that can be bought and then see if
you don’t enjoy your day’s shooting to the utmost.
R.CJTL /*cartridges give entire satisfaction
d-i and YOU can prove it.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative P. 0. Box 686, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
rts
rgs
If you knew how surely this world-famous
family remedy restores health and strength you
would know far less of suffering. Beecham’s Pills
relieve, in the gentlest, safest, quickest way
possible:—lndigestion, Liver Trouble, Constipa-
tion. Beecham’s Pills purify the blood, brighten
the eyes, clear the complexion, and
lighten the Steps
of every woman who uses them as occasion
requires. They dear the system of the
impurities that cause so many women to
suffer and drive away lassitude, headache,
backache, and flatulency. Try a few
doses and see how much better and
stronger you are—how much more
enjoyable your life will be—how
certainly you will escape
unnecessary suffering how
m lsoon you will be able to
leave the ranks
nfWom and Weary Women
mm
•••• • • •.
PERFORATED SHEET METAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
(•'or Mining, Harvesting, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Road Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON 8 SONS PTY. LTD.,Footscray,Vic.
ertjd
Stanrett's
Precision
Tools
for
Mechanics and
Lathe Workers
are Without Equal.
''
■o
Starrett’s
Precision
Tools
at
Prices that
Make Them Within
Reach of All.
The general excellence of STARRETT’S PRECISION TOOLS
is so well known the world over that it is unnecessary on our part
to even attempt to express in a declaration of this sort their many
virtues. Here are some prices:—
No. 4 Graduation Steel Rules: 4in., 3/6; 6in., 4/3; 12in., 8/3.
Slide Caliper Rule: 4in., 9/3.
Key Seat Rule: 6in., 15/3.
Key Seat Clamps: 3/- per pair.
Combination Squares: 4in., 11/6; 6in., 13/6; 9in., 18/9;
12in., 20/-
Improved Bevel Protractor: 12in., 25/-
Universal Bevel: 10/-
Thickness Gauge: 13/6 each.
Surface Gauge: 12/6 each.
Spring Dividers: 4/-, 4/6, 5/3, 5/9.
Outside Calipers: 2/6, 3/6, 3/9, 4/3.
Drive Pin Punches: 1/9.
Adjustable Hack-saw Frames: 7/9 each.
SEND FOR COMPREHENSIVE PRECISION TOOLS PRICE LIST
SWANS LIMITED.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
8 S
>2 mm
.'THE L.S.STARRETT CO. ATHOL,MASS. U.S.A. No. 350 TEMPERED


Mm
Safes
%
a
as*
m
afcs=
SHis
s.
' IS
■&&3S
fck
Wr "/-?
EACH
MAKES IBONING
A PLEASURE!.
'T'HE PERFECTUM IRON
is strong' and compact
—it is the Handsomest,
Handiest, most practical
and most durable of all
Electric Irons.
There is no comparison between the
Perfectum Iron and any other Electric Iron
on the market—the Perfectum is different
in principle, different in construction —
economical in operation—efficient in perform-
ance.
The Perfectum Iron has been approved
by the Fire Underwriters’ Association, which
is an assurance of perfect safety.
m
■
are
mm
1— A self-contained Pilot Light, placed in the front
of the cover. With Electric Irons it is imperative
to install a Pilot Light on your wall block —this
costs money. The Pilot Light must be burning
while the iron is in circuit—this also costs money.
With the Perfectum Iron the same current that
heats the iron supplies the light in the Pilot—-
therefore SAVE MONEY by using the PERFECTUM
IRON.
2 An important feature is the side entry plug; the
flexible spring causes no interference in use,
because it projects horizontally from the operator.
The plug is so constructed that it can be used
equally well by right- or left-handed operators—
turn it round to suit.
3 STAND: The Perfectum Iron “stands on its own.”
■
heat is distributed evenly
over
the whole
Surface
Obtainable from
Supply House
Your Electrical
or Contractor.
