

m
. -
;>
dd
»
■
.
*vv.
m
* .
Every Horse should be Clipped
in the Autumn and Winter.
They dry off quickly at night, rest well, and get more
good from their feed.
The most satisfactory machine ever manufactured for
this work is the
Stewakb No. 1 Bail-bearing Clipping Machine
IT IS THE STANDARD HORSE-CUPPING
MACHINE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Contains special patented features, without which no
machine can give Stewart Service.
The 1 npod is strong and sturdy. Gears are cut from
solid steel, are fitted with ball bearings, and are enclosed
in a dustproof gear case, where they run constantly in
a bath of oil. Flexible Shaft is oil tempered and light
running.
Each machine is fitted with the Patented Stewart Clipping
Head—the Master Product of more than 30 years’
experience in manufacturing clipping machines. The
Plates move back and forth with an even, smooth motion,
e from tendency to swing, are always in perfect
alignment, and require very little tension, which means
that the machine turns easier,, knives stay sharp longer,
cut faster and give better service in every way.
There is No Other Like It I
' • • * C; -.1
That is why over 95 per cent, of all Horse-
clipping Machines in use to-day are Stewarts..'
If yon haven 9 ! already bought your
Order' one MOW.
For Sale by leading Hardware Merchants,
Saddlers aad Storekeepers, both wholesale and retail, throughout Australia.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.,
(Manufacturers of Famous Cooper and Stewart Products),
x 134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Bulletin
Vol. 43.—N0. 2204.
Thursday, May 11, 1922.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


New 1022 Circulating Library Catalogue
now ready. Posted free to any address.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD..
428 George- Street, City.
fd
THE SUPREME
SUNBEAM
“The most improved Cars of 1922.”
Don’t Lose Power.
MANGROVITE LEATHER OR RAW-HIDE BELTING
semis every ounce of generated power to the machines.
Every belt is guaranteed and is backed up by our
forty years’ experience in the .manufacture of belting'
—~ for all Australian conditions. Order Mangrovite
now.
MANGROVITE BELTING LTD.,
CHARLES LUOOWICI, Managing Director,
49 York Street (Wynyard Square), SYDNEY.
NEuQA.VI'LE: Engineers and Colliery Supplies Co., Ltd.
VICTORIA: Corbett. Derham & Co. Ply., Ltd., 397 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Reid k Sons. Ltd., Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Gibbs, Bright k Co.. Perth.
T\SM \ VIA ; Henrv Clark k Co. Ptv . t td.. Hobart.
Oi’i’i’yer avn • r*t. r- 1 ~ t.i n •
SUNBEAM
COATALEN
AIRCRAFT
ENGINES
100-ioooh.ii.
This is the considered judgment of those who have
tried the present 16/40 h.p. and 24/60 h.p. models.
This improvement is largely due to the entirely new
OVERHEAD VALVE ENGINES with which these
cars are now fitted.
The engine of the new 14 h.p. Sunbeam is very similar,
and the range of three 1922 models evinces excep-
tional progress upon individual lines.
v vWxWIVAWV^,
MliilfllllHaWHWttUiWß
''!(•
24/60 h.p. 6 cyl, Light Touting Model.
Mail for Particulars : v.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR OAR COMPANY, LTD.,
Wolverhampton, England.
export Dept i 12, Princes Street, Hanover Square, London W.l.
Cable Address—“ Subaamoco,” London.
AGENTS
Williams Bros., 822 George Street, Sydney.
The Autocar Industries Pty. Ltd., 104-112 Bussell Street
Melbourne.
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., 370-78 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Streamline Model
is an
■ -
V.
ONOTO INK—BEST FOR ALL PENS.
It is often so difficult to find a present that is both
useful and ornamental—The Onoto Streamline is both.
Of extremely handsome appearance, it combines with
its elegant design all the practical utility of Onoto —
the Pen—safety, self-filling, the simplest pen to use.
There is an Onoto nib to suit every handwriting.
THOMAS DE LA RUE & CO..LTD.. Bunhill Row, London. B.C-1.
THE
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 18/6 per day, or apart-
ments may be secured separately by the
day from 6/- and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application
to True Manager.
to keep our end up.
ink of
Schute, BellS Co. Ltd.
if you have any
WOOL or SKINS
to sell.
Personal Attention.
Office—
-44 Bridge Street,
ď
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves m time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to act.
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Kumenthol
Jujubes are most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOU) EVERYWHERE— Tins 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.:—
The Lancet, The Pbactitioner, etc.
tr
m
ayj
sr«o
. o •
ON
The Red Page
What is Happiness?
A retoark, attributed lately to the Anglo-
German millionaire, Sir Ernest Cassells, that
his happiest hours had been the few he
passed in the company of a favorite niece,
has probably been filed away for reference
by novelists and verse-writers in every lan-
guage. Later, maybe, it will evoke a rich
harvest of fiction turning upon the redemp-
tion of super-CapitalistS through the agency
of little children—unreal stull and in essence
as. time worn ab Kosciusko. Most likely, the
truth about Cassells, suggested by his de-
spondent review of life, is that he never knew
happiness—tha lat the end he merely carried
in grateful recollection the few brief occasions
on which he round detachment from the
cares of life and affairs. In retrospect he
then septned to have been happy; But was
he? Cassells lmd an enormous business.
Such a nfafi may get a certam repose, occa-
sionally. A man with bowyangs gets it fre-
quently. But dearly a momentary repose
of min'd is wot happiness. Nor is happiness
repose.. Contentment' may sometimes have
been his, jfct. contentment and happiness are
surely different; things. Contentment implies
something lethargic—the weed on Lethe’s
whayf—-happiness something actively per-
meating life. The distinction is surely an
obvious on®; but few novelists and still
fewer tlratiuil'jfsts draw the line with any-
thing like;..fidelity. As a rule the philoso-
phising commentator gets even further
astray. _ 111 fiction the rule is to make happi-
ness coincide wit.li the physical—marriage,
the acquisition of wealth, the realisation of
ambition, the achievement of fame or power.
(»o any c»f these climaxes represent the attain-
ment ol happiness, or do they bring any
more than passing jo y or satisfaction or con-
tent?
ExporuhCittal groping over some years
into the minds of men in search of their
uleas about their personal feelings (and,
incidentally, happiness is not an emotion)
n.i.s convinced me that a happy man or
woman is n rare bird, and Research has
also created suspicion that by civilising the
barbarian out of the individual society is
Idling its capacity for happiness. A rich,
intelligent Austin liim once told me that he
was ‘’only really happy” when curing
bacon. lie did it as a method of escape
from golf pncl dinner-parties. Men emiuent
in professions have assured me of only know-
ing happiness when at the races or Working
m the bush or fishing or yachting and so
on, acceding to personal choice of “pastime”
—one Or the most pathetic words in the lan-
guage. A man of high political fame con-
fided that lie had never at any time been
happy. Oilo of the wealthiest men this side
of the Eguator told me he had always been
nappy .'Hindi he made a thousand pounds”;
but jn all the long money-spinning years that
had followed “by God, you don’t know how
PVe em-ied the people in the streets their
happiness” He had imagination, that man.
Sense of humor had been denied him.
What # happiness? Well, one can get as
tar with a definition as to say that it is a
cgndition of mind and not a disposition of
circumstances, and then begin to see that
this is metre or less a negative begging of
the question. Anyhow, it is manifest that
happiness has nothing to do with conven-
tional virtue, fed’ Christianity finds its ideal
in the. Man of Sorrows. Lecky’s view is
that “Health and temperament play a far
larger part m the. happiness of most men’s
fives than do any of the higher virtues.”
let such a statement still leaves the problem
unilluminated. If recalls La Rochefou-
cauld’s observation that “all our virtues
etid in self-esteem”; for the “happiness” that
has its source in perfection of physical func-
tion —in the completeness of chemical and
bacterial processes within the. tissues of the
body—is indistinguishable from egotism. In-
deed, R is egotism in its most aggravated
form. Perfect health is no more synony-
mous with happiness than invalidity with
wretchedness,: Neither Heine nor Chopin
w<y-o unhappy men. “Blime—l’m well!”
blurted p distinguished pug one night, leap-
ing round his boudoir at the Stadium like
a playful ourang-outang and hooking the
atmosphere, left and right. He felt himself
bounding out of his skin, full of yep. But
he was nut a: happy man. A few minutes
later, having touched the very nadir of woe,
he was born© back the unhappiest thing on
earth. Health, confidence, self-esteem,
vanity had all been there in ample measure
—-and by them he. had been physiologically
and mentally inflated. Confusion of the
'' :U Uty created by health with happiness has
a queer parallel in the idea that happiness
is conditional upon external circumstance.
Here there is confusion of the assumed mech-
anism of happiness with the thing itself — : a
scarcely-veiled assertion of the doctrine, that
the gt<mpa* the multiplication of wants and
the more, complete the means of satisfying
them the more abiding the consequent happi-
ness’. VCLF superficial observet : on of men
gives answer to this. Schopenhauer’s reply
to it, putting common experience into liter-
ary form, is that the Idvll, the only kind of
verge, specially devoted to the description
of human felicity, always paints it in its
simplest and least elaborated form. The
poets, at any rate—whatever the view of the,
war-created rich may be —ore persuaded that
the greatest measure, of happiness w ; ll be
found in tfib plainest and even most uniform
life, provided it e-sca nes the horrors of ennui.
Hell can have no deeper depth than bore-
dom,
Fortune and happiness are two distinct
ideas. The refieetn'iis of the Cah’nh-AHdal-
rahman (the muddiest Moor of gnain) epito-
mise the experience of every age on this
aspect of 8». subject s—•
i have reigned above fiftv years in Victory cr
Peace, beloved by my subjects; dreaded by my
enemies, respected by my allies. Riches and honors,
cower and pleasure, have waited nt my call, nor
dOW any earthly blessing appear to have been west-
ing to. my felicity. In this situation I have dili-
gently numlierefl the days *'of pure and genuine
hfilninH'fe which have fallen to my lot. They amount
to. fourteen.
Gibbon quotes this early iu his “Decline and
Fell." abd adds that his own happy hours
had far'exceeded those of the cab oh—“many
<»f them due to the pleading labor of the
present eoniposition.”
Gibbon found happiness in his work, and
here would seem to be the key. to that elusive
condition of mind which has mocked so many
moralists and evaded countless searchers.
Seneca associated happiness with a tran-
quillity of mind “wliiehxnocondition of for-
tune can exalt or depress.”' They saw some
things truly, those old philosophers; and
the theory of Aristotle that man could best
realise happiness by. avoiding unhnppmess has
not yet been improved upon. In the words
of Burke, it is still “the prerogative of man
to be in a great degree the creature of his
own making.” And in the rough phraseology
of Carlyle one finds embedded truth that
seems to be eternal:—
The only happiness a brave man ever troubled him-
self with asking much about was enough to get his
work done. Not “I can’t eat,” but “1 can’t work”
—that has been the. burden of all wise complain-
ing amongst men. It is after all the one- unhappi-
ness of a man—that lie cannot work —that he cannot
get fits destiny as a man fulfilled... .the night
once come, our happiness and our unhappiness—it is
all abolished, vanished, dean gone, a thing that has
been- —whether we were happy as the fattest pig
of Epicurus or unhappy as dob with potsherds, as
musical Byron with Giaours and sensibilities of the
heart, as the unmusical meat-jack with hard labor
and rust. But our work ! Behold that is not aboli-
shed. It remains or tin- want, of it remains tor end-
less times and eternities,-and that is i.i’w the sole
question for us evermore.
But the devil of it seems to be in the distinc-
tion between work and toil. That Gibbon
derived a great happiness from his work can
be understood. Carlyle, judged by any of
the ordinary standards, should have been
one of the most dejected of men. yet was
able to so immerse himself in Ins work that
happiness of the rarest kind was his. But
where are the multitude of men whom the
whip and spur of necessity condemn to that
mechanical toil or galling physical effort
which breeds discontent, to look for happi-
ness? If the moralists are right that happi-
ness is of the soul—if Beccarm and Bentham
were right in holding that “the greatest hap-
piness of the greatest number is the founda-
tion of morals and legislation,” how shall we
reconcile industrial civilisation with their
theory? I give it up. But it is fairly
clear that the popular notion that less work
means an access of happiness is an inversion
of fact. It is not less work men require to
!«' happy, but more work of the right kind.
If work or occupation is the key to happi-
ness it can only be so where the individual
is wholly engrossed in it. The fact of such
an enormous proportion of men being in
revolt against work as they know it, may,
after all, be the symptom of a readjustment
in which happiness will become as general
among men as among children tbroivdi every
individual working like a beaver along the
lines of choice and impulse instead of at
something he needs must do at the bidding
of another or starve.
F. K. J.
The Daleys in Ireland
When Victor Daley was a small boy it
was impressed upon him that he belonged to
a bardic family, and that Ins aucesnns had
been lungs. noth traditions were literally
true. Under the older form of the name,
O Daly, the Irma records snow a long list
of "distinguished singers—several of them
the outstanding poets of their time.
Irish genealogy has by careful examina-
tion - been shown to be entirely reliable.
On it were based all tribal claims; and
families, like the broken fragments of the
great clans of Ulster, who had lost the
direct story of their origin, had lost their
titles to land also. There are men liv.ng
to-day who can coniidently trace their
descent to 200 c.c.; others who stop short
about a.d. 600; but where Irish names were
not appropriated by Normans in I’lan-
tagenet times, thib name itself is a pretty
sure guide. There is no doubt that the
Daleys are O’Dalys, none that the O’Dalys
run right back into antiquity.
The O’Daly sept sprang from Euna Mac-
Angus, the first king of Munster to adopt
Christianity. Emm was killed in 454—11
years before Cerdic led the West Saxons
into Hampshire and laid the foundations of
the Kingdom of England.
The first appearance of any member of
the sept iu literature seems to have been
early in the twelfth century. Cuconnacht
O’Daly, who died in 1131), left behind him a
book which still existed in 1035. - From
this book was obtained the fullest version of
the saga of Brian and the Battle of Clontarf,
containing the fantastic tragedy of Dunlang
O’Hartigan with the magic cloak.
Morrough O’Daly, also called Morrough the
Scotchman, fled to the western highlands of
Scotland in 1200- He refused to pay rent
to the steward of the O’Donnell, and the
steward proving insistent, O’Dal.v killed him-
After seeking protection in var'ous parts of
Ulster and Meath he crossed Moyle water
and enormously increased Ir's reputation
among the Gaelic chiefs of the North, who
at that time spoke and wrote ns pure Irish
ns their cousins who were struggling under
the Norman oppression. From this O’Daly
are descended the MacVnirchs, hereditary
bards of Clan r ana Id. Morrough was at
last pardoned and repatriated by the O’Don-
nell.
Between the thirteenth and sixteenth cen-
turies we find Ferenl D’Dnly, chief noet of
Coreamcoe; Maurice O’Dnly, a famous singer
of BrefFnv; Dermo» O’Daly, of Meath ; and,
most famous of all, Angus O’Daly
Here is a portion of a literal translation
of a poem by Angus
O body which I see without a head,
I" is the sight of thee which has withered up iny
strength.
Divided"'and impaled in Ath-cliath’ fDublin!.
The learned of Bauba firelardi will feel its loss.
Who will relieve the wants of the poor?
Who will bestow cattle on the learned?
O body, since thou art without a head
It is not life that we care to choose after thee.
He wrote that when the d : vhh-d body of Ida
chief was spiked on the battlements of Dub-
lin. Those were wild, fierce times, nrd
An "us 'b-'d a y-'M spirit to meet
them. When Finch O’Bryne had won a
victory ovpv the Emrfisli he s„pw ; —•
T reioice that not one was left of the remnant of
ihe slaughter, but the captive who is in hand in
(Continued on pore 55.)


fd
Supreme Value in Sulkies s Racehorse Needs
at ANTHONY HORDERNS’
A wide variety of Sulkies and Racehorse Needs
is displayed for your inspection—at Prices just as
varied. Horse-owners might well take advantage
of the opportunities presented. The excellence
of Anthony Horderns’ offerings give assurance of
service—the Prices give assurance of economies.
Variety in High-Grade SulKies.
m
VXISOI
THE SPORT
has low back, panel slid-
ing seat, duck trimmings,
including Spring cushion, 1 \ A grade
spotted-gum wheels, imitation leather
dash, N.P. seat rail and dash handle, shaft
mounts and hub bands; well finished.
PRICE £3O/10/-
With Hickory Wheels 32/- extra
With Dunlop Rubber Tyres £4 extra
YX 1504
THE HORDERNIA
With high back,
panel sliding seat,
special bent shaft
sutky, 3 springs, long-distance axle,
curved dash, with double rail, leather
trimmings, including spring cushion,
sarven patent or wood, hub wheels,
round-edge tyres,
finished handsomely throughout.
PRICE £45/;
YX (505
THE RELIABLE
With Motor Seat
(sliding), A grade
spotted-gum wheels,
short tray, pagnal point shafts, duck
trimmings, including spring cushion,
nickel-plated seat rails, dash rail, shaft
mounts, dustproof caps on wheels, round-
edge tyres.
PRICE £37
With Hickory Wheels 32/- extra
'With Dunlop Rubber Tyres £4 extra
GLOBE DERBY
Pneumatic - tyred
Racing Sulky,
made of the best
materials throughout. Similar to the sulky
in which Globe Derby trotted his mile race
in 2min. 12sec.
PRICE £27/10/-
IF
Vx 1500
THE DURABLE
With high back panel
sliding seat, long
tray, duck trimmings,
including spring cushion, 1 f A grade
spotted-gum sarven wheels, 1 sin half-
patent axle. Imitation leather dash, wing
boards, N.P. seat rails, dash handles, shaft
mounts and hub bands. An easy-running
and roomy sulky.
PRICE . . £33
With Hickory Wheels 30/- extra
VXISOS
THE TRIUMPH
With high-back
panel sliding seat,
duck trimmings
(including spring cushion), A grade
spotted-gum sarven wheels, long or short
tray, imitation leather dash wind-board,
nickel-plated seat rails, dash handle, shaft
mounts, and hub bands.
PRICE
With Hickory Wheels
£32
32/- extra
Yx(soe
Racehorse Needs will Cost You Less at Anthony Horderns’
The following list of Racehorse Needs will convey an idea of the excellent Values offered you at The House of Economy.
Morrison’s Racing Saddles are made to our order, and are sold exclusively in N.S.W. by Anthony Horderns*.
RACE SADDLE, Tod Sloan pattern, all
suede, 2£lb. to 41b.; mounted.
PRICE £7/10/-
RACE SADDLE, grey suede, 41b. mounted.
PRICE £B/6/-
EXERCISE SADDLES, 81b. mounted, hog-
skin seat.
PRICES £6/10/., £7
MORRISON'S EXERCISE SADDLES, grey
suede flaps and kangaroo seats, 81b.
mounted.
PRICE
£7/3/6
ROUND RACE-BREASTPLATE, with
martingale, solid nickel buckles and rings.
PRICE 25-
ROUND CHEEK RACE OR EXERCISE
BRIDLES, sewn to race-bit.
PRICE 32/6
ALL-ROUND RACE BRIDLE, with face
straps and fin. plaited rein, with special
race-bit. London color.
PRICE 45/-
Write for Illustrated Price List of Harness and Stable Requisites.
A copy will be posted you free.
SUITS HORSE CLOTHING, comprising
Hood, Quarter Sheet, Roller and Fillet
String.
Holland, light weight, sage color.
5 ft. 6in. 5 ft. 9in. 6ft.
50/- 50/6 51/-
Fine Saxony Serge, White with Light
Blue Check, Melton Cloth Binding.
PRICES: £7/1/9, £7/3/6, £7/5/6
Fine Saxony Serge Royal Blue with White
Check, bound Navy Melton Cloth.*
PRICES: £7/1/9, £7/3/6, £7/5/6
SUITS RUGGING.
Bottle Green, Bound Red.
5 ft. 6in. 5 ft. 9in. 6ft.
£4/7/6 £4/8/9 £4/10/6
Blue Serge Quarter Sheets, Bound Red.
29/6 299 30/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & Sons Limited.
BRICKFIELD HILL. SYDNEY.
/ ___
Telephone: City 9440.


A
66
99
■\ v v,-.-. v. ..v
A
M
p.m
::fe<
■ ■MV.
(/ Vi’- V
‘
m
K
THE WORLD’S ECONOMY CAR
AGENTS -
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Bradley Bros., Ltd.,
Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND.
Websters Motor Co., Ltd.,
86-90 George Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA.
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
Clifton Hill, Victoria,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Maughan Thiem Motor Co.,
Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
“One of the most efficient and remarkable cars
built to-day”—“Light Car.**
The unequalled performance of the Citroen is >nple proof of
its efficiency—and the basis of its economy.
Wherever the Citroen has competed in contests both in Australia
and Europe it has invariably secured first place for low petrol con-
sumption. In everyday use, year in and year out, the Citroen averages
38 miles to the gallon, 30,000 miles to the set of tyres. Economy of
petrol, economy of oil, economy of tyres and a minimum of wear
and tear in every part have made the Citroen universally known as
the “World’s Economy Car.” In the cause of Comfort and Economy
have your local agent give you a demonstration of the Citroen—the
car with the Citroen gears.
f i o^x
AGENTS —
TASMANIA.
Co-operative Motors Ltd., Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND.
N.Z. Farmers’ Co-op. Assoc.,
Christchurch.
Leyland Motors Ltd., Wellington.
Factory Representatives:
W. A. Crowle, Ltd.,
Crowle House,
161-163 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.


PINKETTES
FOR YOUR LIVER
Pinkettes, the new laxative,
give excellent results in cases of bil-
iousness and torpid liver. People
who are unnaturally drowsy and
sleepy, who lack ambition ana
energy, are usually victims of their
liver.
Pinkettes have a specific action
on the liver and speedily banish the
feeling of lassitude and weariness.
They are effective without being
dras ic and they have none of the
bad effects of strong purgatives.
Pinkettes also regulate the stomach
and liver, correct bad breath, clear
the complexion, and are an ex-
cellent remedy to use during colds
and fevers.
i/3 per bottle everywhere.
Write for free trial sample
mentioning this paper.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DO YOU KNOW THAT AIX THE
NEW DRESSES ARE WORKED
WITH THE
MARVEL
HAND EMBROIDERER?
It works on any material.
21/- Complete Outlit.
lull directions with every machine.
Instruction given at address below.
Send a stamped envelope for a i. K£G
specimen of embroidery to
The Eastern Trading Co., Ltd.,
Broughton House, Clarence street, Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
The
Stockman
The best Riding Boot on the
market. Tweed Seamless Em-
peror. Light in weight. Standard
screwed shies. Note the patent
strip on side—a special feature
that ensures a double life for the
elastic. POST FREE FOR
181
FINNEY, ISLES (Si. CO. LTD
BRISBANE.
SHIP BRAND
0
a/° r
delicious
Summer Dishes
Manufacturers
CLIFFORD LOVE & C?L™ SYDNEY
If any illustration appearing in TllE
.Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
SIW,
I II mi will y li'iiM
•»»
Much of the charm of woman’*
hair lies in its color.
Walnut Hair
of that exquisite shade which
entrances all can be easily
obtained by using
DR. ALLEN S
WALNUT STAIN
Harmless, permanent, water-
proof. All chemist*.
o
SINGLE, 27/6
DOUBLE, 37/6
Your Safeguard
A Good Truss. That’s the safeguard every ruptured
person wants. A safeguard such as DENYER’S
ELASTIC TRUSS supports the ruptured part while
giving you every comfort and freedom of movement.
It is an exceptional safeguard—one designed on
modern principles, which does away with alj, the
discomfort of old-fashioned leather band trusses.
Wear the Denyer Truss for YOUR safeguard, and
you will endorse its efficiency.
Send for our Free Truss Pamphlet to-day.
Denyer Bros.,
Truss Specialists,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
“Always Reliable.”
The very name
EL E Y
is synonymous with
Cartridges
Obtainable from
all Dealers.
Agent:
ALBERT ADAMS,
Broughton House,
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
ď
f
d
Electricity
and a Rhodes Motor
Will drive your machines most efficiently.
—and also most economically. The “Rhodes” Motor
runs smoothly and silently ; no heavy fuel bills; a lower
total to your wages-sheet; minimum of fire risk and an
absence of the smell, grease and dirt usually synonymous
with gas, petrol and other engines.
The “Rhodes” Motor is of British manufacture, amply
rated, and complies with the most stringent regula-
tions of the British Board of Trade.
Their double-ring oiling device assures perfect lubrica-
tion. The single-phase motor is of the repulsion induc-
tion type, and starts up on full load ; this feature makes
the “Rhodes” Motor particularly valuable for driving,
hoisting machinery and the like.
Write us to-day for illustrated catalogue and full
particulars.
Manufactured by Rhodes Motors, Ltd., Doncaster,
England.
Full Stocks Carried by Sole Agents.
HOMEWOOD & O’NEILLItd
Head Office and Warehouse: 172-176 William
Street, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 1: Somerset Place, Melbourne.
Workshop No. 2: Ferrars Street, South Melbourne.
Sydney Office: 373 George Street.
IT FITS YOUR HAND!
That’s the first thought that
occurs to you as you balance
a
[URHAMj-lUPLEX,
Safe Razor
in your hand.
It seems to feel just right.
rc rtix<&2
All Good Dealers Sel! the
DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor
Go to your dealer to-dav—ask him to show you
a DURHAM-DUPLEX Safe Razor—feel it io
your hand—see how it balances—then take it
home and shave with it. It’s a revelation!
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.J
The Will.
Lady, come and sit beside me.
(No, don’t snoodle; just sit still!>
There’s one solace —woe betide me !
One poor solace not denied me....
You shall see me make my will.
On my knee? You’d rather? Is it
Quite the thing when I’ve to write?
Here's a chance, though. I’ll not miss. it.
Ripe your mouth is; let me kiss it.
So! at last the port’s in sight.
First and foremost, dear, I leave you
All my somewhat battered heart,
Worn a lot (I’ll not deceive you),
But still sound. May I believe you?—
You still want it, for your part?
Next I leave you this for warning
And content! There was a time
When I trusted you, night, morning,
All my cool perceptions scorning,
Dusk and noontide, chime to chime.
Heart and faith betrayed! I’ve heard of
Legacies that richer seemed.
Is there, think you space for word of—
Yes, pray take a thirty-third of
Dreams we’ve dared and deeds we've
dreamed.
N.S.W.
ELLERSLIE GREY
Bells at Sunset.
I hear the bells across the sunlit dell,
The three-times-three staccato notes that
cry
For ringers, then the raising of each bell
Until, their brazen throats upright and high.
The full peal gives its music to the sky.
Oh, how they ring! And the warm air
aglow
Sings a faint echo as they crash and down
The merry octave run, or wide and slow
Drop solitary notes. Some little town
Lies snugly on the hills where sheoaks grow;
The gilded outline of a church I see
Where yellow splashes show that wattles
blow
And all of earth and Heaven is melody.
The bells drop singly, swinging, down to
rest.
Tolling good-night across the shadowing
land,
As clouds of glory wander from the west:
Like bands of listening angels hand in
hand.
Emerald, purple, gold are banners flung
Over the sky, pledges'of day ere day
Is wholly gone; and one pale star is hung
And wandering winds among the grasses
play.
* * # #
No village nestles on the wooded hill,
The golden wattle hides nor tower nor
wall;
Yet eyes are misty, and my heart is still.
Surely, from where the mountains, near
and tall,
Touch a lone star, God let his comfort
fall—
I heard the bells.
QUEENSLAND.
BLACK BONNET.
The Soul Speaks.
Lo! I am straitened as Prometheus bound.
Brain, body, circumstance enshackle me.
Fate, am I fettered to one life, one death —
I, whose seared face strains towards Eter-
nity?
Immortal hungers tear the flesh of me.
Oh, 1 would grasp star-thresholds with my
hands,
As Time’s strong heroes and Faith’s martyrs
may,
Or ride witch-naked over midnight lands,
My loosened hair flame-bright as flaring
brands.
I would clasp pulsing earth —cleave breast
to breast —
I would be tattered with the scourge of
saints;
I would know vine-crowned Dionysian rest
And sleepless prayer on the stripped mount-
ain crest.
A myriad strange loves cry and cry to me.
I would embrace tall trees with tendril arms
And to my amorous star-flowers lure the bee;
I would slip, stripped, through woodland
liberty ;
I would mix sudden passion with spilt blood
And know the kiss that follows the hot
sword
Where lawless life runs like a stream in
flood.
I would press pure, starved lips against the
Rood —
Wrestling night-long with all the sweets
of earth.
I would be wed to Satan and to Christ—•
Sheer Hell and highest Heaven should feed
my dearth —
Abysmal tprments and Olympian mirth.
Cleft-footed fauns, lithe leopards, eagles,
doves,
Men, women, seraph-shapes of rainbow
flame,
All life unquickened, and all life that
moves—
Lo, I would know your sleeps, your hates,
your loves!
Oh, with the wind’s winged sandals to be
shod,
To stoop to valleys, and to seek the heights,
To taste eternity beneath death’s rod.
To dm and live in all things—to be God!
N.S.W,
DULCIE DEAMER.


ďf
Mi
as
m
:. MB
1
1
Hi
■HH
:
-1
HHH
mi i
i ■—i
i ■ .
• '
.
ty ■* 4 1
pliM
'* NBr 1
&>•>
HHBPHHiSnNi
d I
■■■'■■■
"AGE AND QUALITY."
WHISKY
IMPORTANT NOTICE !
Messrs. James Buchanan & Co., Ltd., Scotch
Whisky Distillers, Guarantee that all *'‘Black
and White” supplied in Australia is PRE-
WAR WHISKY, and that they and their
associated companies hold the largest stock
of Old Matured MALT Scotch Whisky.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transit ission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 43.—N0. 2204.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1922.
Price Cd.
THE SINS OP THE FATHERS.
THE MOTHER: “And so the men have checked the Black Plague. The cowards! If only the Red Plague killed men as quickly the children would be safe.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street. Svdnev, V S.W.. Australia.
Melbourne Office: Empire Buildings, 268 Flinders
Street.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
Posted to ANY ADDRESS IX AUSTRALASIA, Weekly.
12 months, £1 65.; 6 months, 13s. 6d. : 3 months, 7 s.
To any address Overseas i 12 months, £1 10s. ; 6
months, 135.; 3 months, Is. 6(1.
Cheques, drafts, etc., winch should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped Utters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse. Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable). Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Further, Thb Bulletin desires those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilack and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction —i.e., any picture
which has to 1 be re-drawn —will be paid foi as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received c.ie those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. (Jordon
and (Jotch, Ludgate Circus; and IV. Dawson and Sons,
Cannon House, Breums Buildings, London E.C.J/J
E. T. Hole, Ilolerth Satire Service, 46 Fleet Street.,
London, E.C.; “The British-Australasian,” 51 High
llolborn, Loudon, 1V.C.1.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; Havana House, Dur-
ban ; and others.
Canada. — (J. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — Chicago: ./. Roland Ray Co.. Kit East
Erie Street, N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago;
Wheatley News Co,, Kearney and Market Streets,
San Francisco. Neiv York: Brentano’s. sth Avenue
and 21th Street, New York City; Liberty News Co.,
Seattle, Washington.
lCcvi’T.— Jacques. Horn A Co., The Colonial Book
and News Stores, Port Said, Egypt.
llono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Singapore. —John Little and Co., Merchants,
Singapore.
Ceylon.—TV. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street,
Colombo; R. B. Perera and Co., S Baillie Street,
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai and Port Moresby.
Fiji.— A. Barker, Suva ; Harry Gardiner, Metropole
Hairdressing Saloon, Suva.
Overseas Advertising Representatives.
London. —Gordon & Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
U.S.A. — J. Roland Kay Co., 161 East Erie Street,
N. Michigan Boulevarde, Chicago.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a
newspaper) : —Throughout the Commomvealth: 160 z.,
Id. (for single copies). All British Possessions: 40z.,
lid.; for every additional 20z., id. United Kingdom,
.ill Sea Route: IGoz., lid. United Slates: !,oz. or
part thereof, lid, Elsewhere : 2 oz. or part thereof, id.
Z^&xzHeZzm,.
THURSDAY, MAY 11, 1922.
THE MORALITY OF EMPIRES.
One of the outstanding menaces of our
modern civilisation is the quack—the fluent
gentleman with a simple formula guaran-
teed to banish all ills. An English evan-
gelist is touring Australia just now who.
claims to be able to cure cancer by cursing
it. In a similar spirit “Ambassador”
Booth, of the Salvation Army, recently
told a newspaper interviewer that lax mor-
ality was all that menaced the British
Empire. “Let the Empire keep its mar-
riage vows and abstain from strong drink,”
lie said, in effect; “and nothing can stand
against it.”
But when the modesty of British women disap-
pears—and the Fast Set society with their powdered
nudity are doing their best to banish it—then down
goes the British Empire, after the Babylonian, Grecian
and Roman empires, which for the same reason were
dumped into Hell.
Next day another paper asked the Rev. 11,
B. Hammond, of N. S. Wales, his views on
divorce. The interviewer got the usual
peroration
We cannot hope to do more than eliminate or
minimise some of the dangers, and reduce the
disasters associated with marriage to reasonable
limits. To do less than this is to pledge the
nation to the destruction that overtook Rome,
Greece and Carthage.
Many other preachers and politicians are in
the habit of dragging in Rome, Babylon and
the rest when they desire to point a moral.
They invariably represent these empires as
having fallen owing to wickedness. The
fallacy would not matter were it not for
tlie dangerous lesson they deduce from it,
namely, that all a nation need do to be
saved from the enemy without its gates is
to prohibit alcohol/ “powdered nudity,”
divorce and so on inside them.
# *
The most casual stud.v of world-history
indicates that whatever else destroyed the
empires of the past it was not immorality;
for empires, kingaoms and peopies wmch
were every bit as iree-iiving as xvome onuer
(say) Augustus nave nour.sned exceeu-
ingiy, anu are still doing su. Notning couid
have been more morany corrupt tuan tne
Court of Henry Yin., unicss it was tnat
of (JiiAiiLES 11.; anu, as in ancient Rome,
the manners and customs of tnose who had
the leisure and money to be immoral re-
flected the example of their social superiors.
Yet tnese two periods were tbe precursors
of wonderful suiues in Engiisn culture and
material prosperity and power, hranee has
had Similar spells of depravity—notably in
the reigns ot Bouis Quatorze and Louis
Seize, and during the Directory. Notning
happened, though the Savon.,.olas of the
day po.nted assiduously at liow_ and Baby-
lon—Carthage, wU.ch, like Corinth, was de-
stroyed for no other reason than that it
threatened to rival Rome in commerce, had
yet to be discovered as a horrible example.
It is doubtful if England ever . ached a
low r er all-round depth of moral degradation
than at the end of the 18th and the begin-
ning „f the 19th centuries. Most people
know ike reactions produced by tlie indus-
trial iievoiution on the ethical standards
of the middle classes and the poor. They
know also that tins was the epoch of the
“three-bottle men”; the time when the
fashionable quarters of London, Bristol,
Bath, Leamington and other cities and
towns frequented by the rich were so many
vast public gaming hells. The Countess of
Airlie has just written a book founded on
family documents, which rounds off the pic-
ture in a startling fashion. We are told,
for example, that the mother of Lord Mel-
kourne, Queen Victoria’s first Prime Min-
ister, lived after her marriage with both
Lord Egremcnt and the then Prince of
Wales. Melbourne was commonly believed
to be a Wynduam. Charles James Fox
married a Mrs. ArmisteaD, who had lived
at various times with the Duke of Dorset,
the Earl of Derby and Lord Cholmondei.ey.
The large Oxford family were know as the
“Harleian Miscellany” (Harley was the
family name) because each owned a different
father. A daughter of Lord Edward Fitz-
gerald (herself a Whig) writes to a friend
in 1822: “Emily, does it strike you that
vices are wonderfully prolific amongst the
Whigs? There are such countless illegiti-
mates amongst them, such a tribe of Child-
ren of the Mist.” Yet this was the epoch
which saw the birth of the British Empire.
William Pitt, the elder (who may be said
to have drunk himself to death), had laid
its foundations; but it was his son (who
on the day, in 1793, when England' and
France went to war, was too drunk to take
his seat in the House of Commons) that
raised the superstructure. And not even
the most vehement prohibitionist w 7 ill deny
that the Pitts did their work well. They
were not exceptions. It is a point worth
noting in face of claims that only righteous-
ness is required to preserve empires that
none of the great English-speaking nation-
builders was an upright man in the Booth
or Hammond sense. The morals of Marl-
borough, Wellington and Nelson were
execrable. George Washington was a
“three-bottle man”; Benjamin Franklin
drank heavily, and so did Jefferson,
Daniel Webster and Grant. Abdul
Hamid, on the otner hand, was a teetotaller,
the ruler of a nation which possesses no
divorce courts and w r hose women do not
expose their faces, much less their legs or
arms. In private life wealth and power are
neither achieved nor attained by attention
to the Biblical virtues; and it is madness
to be blind to the fact that a rich empire
has no better chance per se of entering the
Kingdom of Heaven than a iTch man. Simi-
larly, if it fails it w’ill certainly not be
through indifference to that rule of life
w’hich is the standby of those w’ho look for
their reward in the next world.
What is it then that causes empires to
perish? And there never was a time, pro-
bably, when the world w’ould be better
served by an accurate answer. If a news-
paper had the assurance in the matter of
easy generalisation of a Salvation Army
diplomat it might say Freetrade, confident
that it could produce many proofs in sup-
port of that view. Or it might claim that
unemployment was the fatal factor, or mis-
cegenation, or the winning of world-wars
followed by the making of short-sighted
peace-treaties. A powerful argument might
be built up on the theme that the ruin of
empires is Imperialism for profit. The
truth is, of course, that all these evils are
contributing factors which act and re-act
on each other, and in the end produce dis-
aster. Foreign trade gave Greek society a
proletariat as w’ell as a caste of rich mer-
chants and bankers. By the time the Pelo-
ponnesian War arrived class hatred was a
very real force. . The Great War of
that period produced the profiteer and
a food-shortage; its finish flooded Greece
with unemployed soldiers and rowers;
and, inevitably, revolutions followed.
Greek civilisation was doomed long before
Alexander the Great set out to solve the
unemployment problem by conquering Asia
to achieve colonies for tlie absorption of his
starving and defiant nationals. The doom
of Rome was sealed by the winning of the
Punic Wars. Assume that Australia had
been able to collect an unlimited amount of
indemnity from Germany after the late war;
and n*~ume that Germany produced all we
ne n de< >s Spain, Carthage and Macedonia
did in be case of Rome. It would seem
at first sight as though we had solved the
problem of living without the necessity of
working. The farmers would leave their
holdings and either go abroad on large
salaries to help collect the indemnity or
settle in the coastal cities to assist in its
allocation. Factories would close down be-
cause German manufactured goods were
pouring in as freely as German foodstuffs.
The accumulation of all this wealth in a
few cities would result in a multiplication
of stadiums and racecourses; and our
equivalents of the old-time circuses would
attract a mongrel nopulation from overseas,
at the same time as the ranks of the unem-
ployed swelled and swelled, and rage and
jealousv were fomented against tho«e offi-
cials who made fortunes and did not' hide
their achievements with sufficient cure. Bv
flint f'rnp the Cemmonwenlth would he ripe
f n r fLe first vigorous hanbarian tribe that
cared to come and it. tf the downfall
of Rome, Greece and the other ancient em-
pires has any lessons of value for us, then
they are these: That the acquisition of
wealth by foreign trade is not enough; to
be safe a nation must grow foodstutrs and
manufacture goods for itself; that the
fomentation of class or religious hatred and
the preaching of the gospel of the strike or
lockout are attacks on the State, inasmuch
as they lead to disunion, and from it to
revolution ; that nothing justifies the int ro-
duction of a coolie or slave class; that the
bloated city of theatres and race-meetings
is a menace, and that the nation should look
with favor on any scheme designed to in-
duce people to form new States, new cities
and new centres of population. Clergymen
or politicians who claim that there is any
other way by which an empire or a nation
may remain great, and who contend, fqr
instance, that the recipe for material wealth
and power is goodness, are simply clouding
the issue. In a different sphere they are
pursuing the soothing but deadly tactics of
the evangelist who tells people with cancer
that his methods are as efficacious as those
of a surgeon.
THE OLD MAN SETS AN EXAMPLE.
Britain’s fourth post-war Budget registers
a departure from the heroic policy of paying
off substantial slices of the war debt by
imposing the highest rates of taxation that
any nation has ever voluntarily endured. For
one year at least the hard-pressed taxpayer
is to get some relief. Unless Parliament
otherwise decides, the annual surplus is auto-
matically devoted to the extinction of debt.
In Britain, with its old-iashtoned ideas of
hnancial honest3’, the sinking-fund is a real
thing, whereas the Australian variety of
sinking-fund is mostly a jest or a fake. Last
year the Commissioners who handle the
accumulated excess of revenue over expendi-
ture redeemed £246,000,000 of internal debt,
That amount is exclusive of the 1921-22
surplus, £45,693,000, which is to be applied
in the same direction. During 1922-23, How-
ever, the sinking-iund is to be suspended,
although provision is to be made for the pay
ment c -icerest to America. Qn the exist-
ing has., i taxation there w’ould, it is esti-
mated, be u credit Lauance of £46,500,000 at
the end of the year. But the existing basis
of taxation is to be drastically altered.
* * fr *
The most important change is in the stan-
dard rate of income-tax, which has hitherto
been 6s. in the £. It is to be reduced to ss.
Owners of agricultural land are, moreover,
to be assessed on the annual value, instead
of double the annual value, as at present,
and concessions are proposed for corpora-
tions and those in arrears with their pay-
ments of the excess-profits tax. The tea
duty, which is lOd. a pound on the colonial
article, and Is. on the foreign, drops 4d.
Telepnone fees and postal rates are aiso to
be lowered, the latter to on letters, Id.
on postcards and §d. on printed papers.
These, of course, will be cheaper than the
charges exacted in Australia. And the people
about to beneiit from the reduction will be
better off than the Australians, in some cases
—those of small wage- and salary-earners,
anyhow—ias regards income-tax. Not that
the new standard rate is lower than the Aus-
tralian average, although some Australians
are paying up to 10s. id. in the £, but the
British exemptions and abatements -are on
a much more generous scale. For instance,
the bachelor who earns no more than £156
p.a. and the benedict whose income is limited
to £250 are exempt from tax. The Common-
wealth exemptions are £lOO for the un-
married person and £156 for the married.
Where his income does not exceed £lOO the
matrimonially-hobbled British taxpayer gets
an abatement of £225 for himself and lady,
£4O for the first child and £3O for every sub-
sequent arrival, and £25 for each dependent
relative. In the case of a widower or an
unmarried man supporting his mother or
sister (or it may be his cousin or his aunt),
£5O is allowed for a housekeeper. A further
concession is that the first £225 of the tax-
able income— i.e., what remains after all the
deductions —is subject to a 50 per cent, re-
bate, being taxed 2s. 6d. in the £ instead of
ss. At this rate the middle-class Englishman
in rece.pt of a modest fixed income will soon
be contr.buting little, if anything, more to
the tax-gatherer than his congener in, say,
N. S. Wales, where deficits are rampant. And
the clerk and the manual laborer will be
treated with greater consideration in Britain
than in Australia.
In the comparison of large incomes, Brit-
ish and Australian, the weight of taxation
will still fall more heavily on the former,
even when the Is. in the £ has been taken
cff. Still, the British aristocracy and upper
middle class have the satisfaction of knowing
that a considerable portion of the gigantic tri-
bute levied on them since the Armistice, and
handed over with an uncomplaining patriot-
ism w’hich has impressed the whole world,
has been devoted to getting their country
out of pawn. No such consolation remains
to those Australians who have been bled
white by financiers of the Dooley and
Fiiielly order. Not a penny of the vast
sums raised by our mad chaos of taxation
departments has gone in redemption of the
war debt. All that the country has to show
for this frenzy of legalised looting, and the
disgraceful loan-d?unk that has accompanied
it, are deficits, bankrupt State enterprises
and sick industries. And the States with
the sickest lot of industries are those which
have borrowed hardest and taxed highest—
Queensland and N. S. Wales. Noble as the
British financial effort has been, and great
as are the results, both moral and material,
it became clear when the trade slump
arrived that the burden of the people was
greater than they could bear —that taxation
had been pushed to a point at which it was
handicapping the mine-owner and manufac-
turer out of the struggle with foreign com-
petitors. That conviction, now universally
neld, is at the root of the redactions which
the Chancellor of the Exchequer has an-
nounced. The lesson should not be lost on
Australia. High taxation is justifiable when
the object of those resorting to it is to pay
the expenses of a war, or of reconstruction
after a war —ialthough, in that case,_ as the
British example proves, there is a limit be-
yond which it is unsafe to go. But when,
as in N. S, Wales and Queensland, it is
imposed to meet huge losses on political rail-
ways, and finance the slow-down system in
the Government service, and stave off reform
and sober living, and enable hordes of sturdy
beggars to live without work, it amounts to
a vulgar swindle and is a source of ruin.
A STATE OF FADING IMPORTANCE.
Considering that it ranks a good second
in the matter of population, and conse-
quently in representation in the Federal
Lower House, Victoria has retreated to an
obscure position in Australian affairs. In
fact, it threatens to become one of those
places that can be done without. The
managem'ent of its interna] concerns, though
not brilhant, is certainly the best in the
Commonwealth, but m doing its share of the
management of the continent’s business, and
snowing even an intelligent seinsnness in
tne process, its diplomacy has been poor.
Tnere win be buses ror many years yet, and
while there are ’buses the bus-loser will
be loud in the land. He calls for no sym-
pathy anu, except insofar as ms tlomgs injure
omer peopie, ior no particular notice. Vvnen
V iCtOna entered tne cuunutiiiweium it was
evident that its position as second State
was impossible or maintenance, uniess
Queensland were subdivided and tne JNortli
and wen ire ano wed to achieve mat separate
existence tor wmcn tney have long suusgitd.
A mere Sb.u-OO square nines of very ordinary
land and worn-out goioneids can t compete
permanently against UiO.ouo. An enngnt-
eneu devotion to Australia s interests, com-
bined with Mean selfishness as regards its
own, should nave given victoria a warm
interest in any movement that tended to put
the power of subdivision in tbe hands of the
Commonwealth but it can t be sanl mat any
such interest has been shown. JNow that
another re-adjustment of population and
membership is about to give N. 8. Wales
and Queensland a majority in the Repre-
sentatives over any poss-bie combination in
which Victoria is included, the southern
►State will ready enter on its career as The
Has-been State. With a common interest
in annexing tne South-to-Nortli railway, and
turning it into a hue paid for by ail Austra-
lia but running; through tw r o States only, the
pan- have a very interesting bond of union.
And they have others. If the ’bus-missmg
province, when it counted for more than it
does now, had been a strenuous partisan
instead of a sullen oppositionist, it might
have saved something for Australia, and,
incidentally, a good deal for itself.
* * * *
Anyone who stretches a string across the
map of Australia, irom Melbourne to uarwib,
must see tnac tne Soutn-to-Aortu railway
for wlncu South Australia paid with such a
lavish land-grant—the one via Adelaide and
Fort Augusta—is the nearest approach to a
crow-hne between Melbourne and the
.Northern Territory “metropolis” that is
humanly possible. It would develop, as far
as a line tnrough the entire leiigtn of the
pmce could do, the great Federal property
in which Victoria lias an interest. It would
utihse, and possibly render profitable, a
great stretch of f ederal railway in which
Victoria has an interest. Lut a certain sec-
tion in Queensland came to the front with
a plan, of repudiation. A different and much
longer line was to be built at the cost of all
Australia (Victoria included). It was to
develop as little as possible of the common
Federal property in the Temtory, but as
much as possible of Western Queensland
and Western N. S. Wales. It would turn
into waste iron the Port Aqgusta-Oodna-
datta line, which the Commonwealth acquired
for the one reason that it was a link in the
transcontinental. Victoria was invited, to
join the fraud, with the promise that the
Federal line through Queensland and N. S.
Wales State property would ultimately ex-
tend to the Murray and connect with Mel-
bourne that way, but as trade would have
drained off en route to Townsville, Rock-
hampton, Brisbane and Sydney the value of
the suggested concession was very doubtful.
Some dull-witted papers and some slow-
witted politicians in the southern ’State
toyed with this proposition, while others
took up a stodgy, non-constrnetive atti-
tude of blank hostility to anything and
everything. This filled in time nicely till
the shifting of the balance of power in the
Representatives made it much less necessary
to placate Victoria with a share in the pro-
posed enterprise, and more necessary to
please N. S. Wales by making Sydney the
southern terminus of the great deviation. So
the familiar paragraph now reads like this:
MR. THEODORE ON THE NORTH-SOUTH
RAILWAY.
Action should be taken by tbe people who knew
the western district of Queensland, and how much
the construction of this line would mean to Queens-
land ... .The route which he advocated was via
Camooweal, Boulia, Windorah and Hungerford to
Bourke. This was a more easterly route, and would
enable the line to be linked up with the existing
systems running out from Townsville and Rockhamp-
ton, as well as the Brisbane-Charleville system. In
addition it would link up with the N.S.W. system at
Bourke.
* * * *
Victoria, having served its turn, gets no
mention in lucubrations of this sort now.
Out of the general welter of grab and self-
seeking Westralia secured a special tariff for
a number of years, a special subsidy aud its
very costly railway: and it has now negoti-
ated from the Commonwealth a big immigra-
tion loan. Tasmania secured a little subsidy,
Queensland secured Federal support for its
sugar industry, is in a fair way to get an
export bonus on its beef, and sold its sav-
ings bank to the Commonwealth on terms
that nracticallv amounted to handing over the
liabilities and keeping the assets. N. S. Wales
has already had a million spent on Canberra,
and expects to own, or, anyhow, exploit,
the capital, if it ever Inaterialises there,
and, as above mentioned, it and Queensland
are arranging to be endowed with a huge
railway at all-Australia’s expense. Victoria
has secured the nosition of temporary lodging-
house-keeper or Mrs. Todgers to the Com-
monwealth, and no more. It is of even
less account in Federal affairs now than
Queensland, having become a chronic hermit
or side-show. Nobodv ceres my eh what it
loses, save that it loses the opportunity to
be a good influence.


UNCLE SAM.
If you ask a Cockney who lias spent a
bank holiday in Paris what he thinks of
the French people, he will give you a lurid
description of its immorality which would
make the average industrious home-loving
Frenchman doubt Ins sanity. And yet he
has spoken quite honestly of the things he
has seen. It is his misfortune that he saw
oniy me things provuiea ror him, not me
tilings mat count, in or can me untruveued
America u be tnameu tor portraying me
"nnusuer'’ as a remittance man or as a
mmuie-eiass giooe-trouer swaggering his
social superiority, in me same way, caie-
less people are apt to picture me American
as a Keen and not too scrupulous commer-
cial traveller.
it is Harder, perhaps, to find a typi-
cal American than tne type of almost
any otuer nation, tor America is not so
much a people as an economic system cov-
ered by a Hag. There is an immense pride
in citizenship: little, if any, pinue of lace.
There such things, when tney exist, belong
to the family, and not as a common Heri-
tage to tne people. But permeating the
meuJey of peoples that have hived in the
United States there is a souer, industrious,
honest, English-speaking amalgam winch
hinds the wnoie togetner and is in its way
as line a thing as 1 know. The foreign
mixing has made it a little more hysterical
in its virtues and enthusiasms than its ori-
ginal parent stock; and the separation of
the centuries, and the sufficiency of the life
it leads, and the speed with which its hub
revolves, make it regard the outs.de world
as too remote to be of much account. We
blame it for that. We were inclined to re-
gard as evidence of unspeakade selfishness
its slowness to enter a European struggle
which to us was everything. And yet, a
few years earlier, what had we cared for
the holocaust which civil war had brought
to China V And have we been overmuch-
moved since by the spectacle of the carrion
crows of Revolution themselves at last starv-
ing amid the whitening bones of Russia?
H| .course not, you say. It was not our
affair. Exactly. N< docs the average
American regard the outside world as his
affair. And that is the first thing you have
to understand if you want to appreciate
Uncle Sam’s position in world politics.
Why, then, you ask, do we hear occasion-
ally of America demanding concessions in
the outside world? Why, for example, did
she demand equal oil rights in Mesopotamia
while refusing to share the cost of maintain-
ing order there? The truth is~ that such
claims do not come from the American
people. They come through the American
Government from American interests whose
bigness has outgTowtn the boundaries .-of
America. Those interests have grown big
by going as far as other Americans would
let them. They would now like to grow
bigger by going, in the name of peace-loving
America, as far as other nations will let
them. And that is all. However loudly or
aggressively an American business interest
may proclaim its “rights” to the world, the
American proletariat’s inertia in world-
politics will always make its Government
very slow to press its trade principals’ claims
to a dangerous length. Only an insult to
"Hid Glory” or continued affronts to national
dignity could make the American people re-
sponsive to a war appeal. Take, for in-
stance, the case of Mi'. Heabst. Master of
malice, millionaire proprietor of a chain
of powerful newspapers throughout the
United Stiites, he has been striving unre-
mittingly for seven years to use the Irish
question and the Japanese question to
loment a dangerous feeling against Great
Britain. And it has all ended in the Pact of
Washington!
I have said that, the mass of the people
in America are vei’y honest. It is not un-
usual there to see stamped packages piled
up around over-full postal pillar-boxes, wait-
ing for the mailvan. Nobody ever dreams
of stealing them! In some stores goods
are handed over the counter with a piece
of paper to let the buyer know what he has
to pay the cashier in some other part of
the building. One can picture the Ameri-
can of our prejudice finding that a very
cheap way to buy goods! I watched the
real American operating the system. He
never seemed to abuse it. Only “a mean
skate” would abuse a trust, and the aver-
age American fears nothing so much on
earth as being thought a mean skate. But,
curiously enough, this high moral standard
is not always to be found in that mystic
world of business which is the material
fetich of the honest average American. To
be a “business man” is to be looked up to
by the man who is often the business man’s
moral superior. But even in that field it
is not safe to generalise. Some forms of
business are run on unimpeachable lines.
In other forms it is apparently regarded
as a sign of weakness if a man shows, con-
sideration for rights that cannot be legally
enforced. , An incurable generalise!’ might
possibly say that it is the instinct of the
masses of Americans “to conform” and of
the business man to refuse “to stay put.”
Whenever a private freedom is invaded, the
sufferer will make jokes about the Statue
of Liberty, but until public opinion sanc-
tions an evasion he will not “kick.” The
man who would like his “hootch” but lives
in a _ nlace where public opinion does not
sanction an evasion of the nrohibition laws,
contents himself with referring to the Cana-
dian frontier as “the far-flung bottle line.”
He is satisfied to think that someone is
flinging bottles even if none reach him!
Similarly, the man on trial, whose liberty
or property is endangered by press license
to inflame public opinion against him, con-
forms to the thought that a “free press” has
made his country the freest on earth!
Probably this marked readiness “to con-
form” on the part of the average American
is a by-product of the mixed-race problem.
Agitation with us may be nothing more
than a safety valve; but Americans can-
not afford to forget its potency to bring
stilettos from their sheaths and bombs from
their nlaces of concealment. They prpfer
to take no risks. They conform. And
they are ruthless with the nonconfornmrs.
The American is par excellence a snerialist.
with the efficiency and the bruited outlook of
the specialist. If employed, lie labors to
rise in his employment: if an employer, to
perfect the organisation of his industry,
tie labors hard and has neither, time nor
inclination left to give thougnt to • things
that do not directly concern his labor. He
is a headline student of the wider things
of life. What are the movies but the
dramatisation of his headline habit? Most
things are standardised. A very efficient
news-distribution organisation has - stan-
dardised news: the same headlines are
scanned hurriedly. at millions of breakfast
tables all over the United States. But,
bemg only headlines, the sensation of to-
day is the forgotten nothing of to-morrow.
The American’s philosophy of life is “Get
it done,” and sometimes he - forgets the
future in the hurry of the present. He
wants lumber for his railways, labor for
their construction: forests fall and non-
assimilable labor is imported. He wants
huge Sunday editions from his papers (for
are they not his only source of outside
“knowledge”?) : and to-morrow is robbed of
timber for to-day’s pulp.
America is proud of her Puritan begin-
nings, and a vaguely Puritan outlook per-
meates her English-speaking amalgam. She
is proud of the freedom of her press, and it
invades the impartial processes of her
courts of law and the privacy of her -citi-
zens. She is proud of her traditional
separation from the trammels of the Old
World, and remains determined to keep
clear, of the complications of European
policy. But, withal, she is beginning
vaguely to regard herself as in some wav
responsible for the welfare of the Pacific;
and, in that, Australia may well find com-
fort and the peoples of the world hope.
For, out of the seeds of that budding sense
of external responsibility may grow, unless
prematurely withered by foreign misunder-
standing, a great tree of influence for the
peaceful advancement of mankind.
W. H. KELLY.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Matter for the Women—and
Children.
Tite first N. S. Wales Nationalist Govern-
ment passed n V.D. Act, refrained from put-
ting it into operation, and bequeathed it,
like a curse, to their successors. However,
in the Ciiar-like hands of Minister McGikr
it became as innocuous as the most hard-
ened rou6 might wish, McGirk simply
issued a protocol or ukase abolishing noti-
fication, and the measure fell dead. The
present Government have not even the
miserable excuse of their immediate prede-
cessors—that their majority is too small for
them to take risks* They are in a strategic
position, so far as Parliament is concerned,
to attack the Red Plague as strenuously
as the other sort of plague has been attacked
of late in Sydney; and with equal prospects
of eventual success. The medical profes-
sion is more than willing to co-operate: its
leaders in every State have been saying so
ever since the war ended. And there is an
immense and growing body of lay opinion
of the same way of thinking. Oddly enough,
the section of which the party politicians
are so afraid, the prototypes 5f the people
who in plague areas want to be allowed to
keep their premises dirty—in short, those
who make up the V.D. vote—find their most
useful allies in women. And virtuous
women at that. Every doctor is agreed that
if any impression is to be made on the Red
Plague it will have to be assailed with all
the prophylactic weapons in the armory
of science—which is merely to say that it
does not differ from other plagues. Certain
women with a taste for public affairs claim
that while full measures are desirable in
other contagious diseases, half-measures
only must be applied to the commonest and
most disastrous of them. Some of the
arguments by which they support their
prejudices are worth examining pro and
con.
It is morally wrong to permit, much less encour-
age, the sale of prophylactics ; it amounts to a con-
donation of vice. But if that is so clinics and the
brass plates of specialists are also reprehensible.
What moral difference is there between a promise of
prevention and a promise of cure?
If vice is made safe by prophylactics, registered
houses or otherwise, sin will be encouraged. And,
therefore, the right and logical thing to do is to
make vice even more unsafe than at present, and so
banish sin altogether—by forbidding the doctors and
hospitals to treat V.D. sufferers.
The problem is not so much medical as ethical.
Its solution, lies in a campaign designed not to make
sin safe but non-existent. The answer to which is
that the campaign against sin has been in progress
for many thousands of years to no discernible pur-
pose, and the world has grown weary and sceptical.
As aforesaid, it is women w T ho argue on
those lines—women who would be horrified
to realise that, while the extermination of
V.D. is not likely to have the slightest effect
on the. incidence of sin, one way or the
other,- r its persistence is absolutely certain
to condemn thousands of children every
year to death, or to lives worse than death.
This, "for example, appeared in London
Times (23/2/’22) :
In the course of my official duties as coroner of
one of the largest county boroughs in England I
have noticed the large number of deaths that have
been brought about directly or indirectly by syphilis.
....A woman married 15 years ag0.... had 11
children of whom five only are living. Five of the
Other six died from syphilis—the remaining one was
accidentally suffocated in bed. All the children
living are suffering from syphilis In the case of
another woman her son, 21 years of age, is suffering
from syphilis—and is a mental defective. She had
13 children, of whom five are now living—two of
these are mental defectives. Her husband has loco-
motor ataxia, brought about by syphilis.
No present-day Government •will make a
serious move on the V.D. issue—even, as is
the case with the Fuller Government,
where it has a working majority—so long
as it feels that inaction has solid support
outside the House. It is understandable
that the already-infected should be either
apathetic or hostile as regards V.D. reform.
But is it not time that the influential women
who have hitherto ranged themselves under
the banner of the. V.D. vote, considered the
question of changing their allegiance? The
possible prevention of sin in man may be a
high, if fantastic, ideal, but the certain deliv-
erance from shame and misery of armies of
children yet to be born is an even higher
on?.
The Man Who Was (Wrongly?)
Hanged.
From-one who battled for him to the end:
Even a convicted murderer deserves more chivalry
than “0.K.” is disposed to concede Colin Ross (B.
28/4/’22). The kicking of a man when he is not
only down but dead is surely a work of supereroga-
tion. And “0.K.” cannot even bring honesty to the
sorry business. When did Ross “whimper” ? Was
it in the police court when (being undefended) he
wanted to get into the witness box? Was it on the
day he was found guilty, when his unflinching and
straight-eyed denial itself converted one man of my
acquaintance to a belief in his innocence? Was it on
the gallows when, the calmest man of the company,
he repeated his innocence in tones which rang
throughout Australia and will ring clearer as reflec-
tion gives place to the passion which hanged him?
Colin Ross could have got manslaughter from the
L jury if he had desired without any admission of
guilt. But he stood firm in his defence that he
knew nothing of the girl's death, and he would not
compromise on that. The “liar” who is so “obvious”
to “0.K.” la only obvious to the man who has
breathed the atmosphere of cx parte press statements
and was convinced by them that the accused man was
guilty long before he was tried. My only difficulty
is in trying to realise how any man who knows
the facts thoroughly can think even for an instant
that there was evidence on which Ross should have
been hanged. Let me give the Crown case as the
Grown Prosecutor might have opened it:—
. Gentlemen,—ln- this case nobody saw the prisoner
kill the girl, nor ar« there any circumstances apart
from his reputation which suggest that he did it.
I* ortunately, however, he made a number of confes-
sions which prove his guilt. Tn>, it is inherently
improbable that a man should confess such a crime
to a woman with whom lie had not been on speak-
ing terms for over seven weeks and whom he had
kicked out of his shop with words of insult. It is also
inherently improbable that he should have made a
totally different confession to a fellow-prisoner who w r as
a notorious “shelf,” after having been warned by his
solicitor “to keep his mouth shut.” Yet he did.
The law is that a man’s alleged statements are evi-
dence against himself, and on these confessions we
will ask you to say he is guilty. From them we will
prove that the girl asked Ross for a drink of lemon-
ade and was given it and remained on his premises
for three hours, though during the course of a busy
afternoon she was unfortunately seen only by two
women, whose womanly feelings did not lead them to
inform the police till the reward for information had
been raised to £1250. We will further prove that
the girl did not ask for lemonade, but was coaxed in
and was given three glasses of wine. Admittedly
the post-mortem revealed no trace of this wine; but
then traces of alcohol disappear rapidly. We will
prove from the indisputable Harding confession that
the girl, being asleep at a quarter to 4, remained
asleep until between 6 and 8 in room A, where
she met her death, and by the indubitable testimony
of Olive Maddox that the girl was awake and bright
in room Bat 5 o’clock. By the one confession
we will prove that Ross washed out the blood-
stained room between 7 and 8, and by direct
testimony that during the ablutions he came out
into the Arcade to borrow a pencil from a passer-by,
revealing as he did so his golden teeth and his well-
brushed hair. We will prove by the confession that
he came to the Arcade .between 8 and 9 with
Gladys Wain and remained philandering with her
until after 10 in room A, while the corpse remained
in room B; and that he then took Gladys Wain
home and went afterwards to Foot sc ray. We will
prove by the one confession that he came back on a
bicycle and by the other that he came back in a
motor-car. Then by direct testimony we will prove
that none of these things is true, for we will call
the man who sat at his door opposite the Arcade
from 8 o’clock until 1 ; saw Ross going in
and out of the Arcade at 8, 9 and 10, and two
or three times between that and 1 o’clock; yet
saw no Gladys Wain and no bicycle. We will show
by direct evidence that Ross got out with the body
between 10 -minutes to 1 (when the last two
Italians left their club) and five minutes past, when
the caretaker locked the Arcade door. And we will
prove by the Harding confession that Ross got the
body out long after the door had been closed, by
opening it with a private key which we cannot pro-
duce the slightest evidence he ever had. In addition
to proving by the confessional evidence that he was
at Footscray at midnight we will prove by direct evi-
dence, upon which the Crown would not ask vou to
swirg a cat, that he was washing the body at that
hour, and thrust a bloody bottle into the hands of a
man who happened to call in search of a much-
desired drink, but who did not happen to have been
seen by the wakeful lodginghouse-keeper. We will
prove that hairs of the little girl were found on the
blanket on which she died (their “golden sheen”
was noticed by Detective Pigott on the blanket a
fortnight after the tragedy), and we will ask you
to infer that the prisoner must have destroyed the
blanket on which she died, as no traoe of blood was
found on those taken from the wine saloon. The
rules of evidence forbid us to say all about the
prisoner’s alleged weaknesses that Ivy Matthews
would like to tell you. However, the Coroner’s Court
is free of these restrictions, and you have no doubt
studied your Herald account of the inquest. The
further point remains that if Ross didn’t kill the
girl, who did? We therefore unhesitatingly ask you
to guess that Ross was the murderer.”
And they guessed.
♦
More Nigger Australianism.
First men invent a devil; and it can be
made out of any old substance —a stump,
a rag tied to a tree, a puff of gas from a
well, an extra-large ape, or the cry of a
low-spirited animal in a swamp. Then they
spend centuries struggling to get away from
it, at ruinous expense in prayers, sacrifices
and holy water. Cathedrals (stone, brick
and marble) and chapels (tin and weather-
board) and ju-ju and pilgrimages and fasts
and feasts and immense quantities of cash
and time are lavished on attempts to solve the
problem of a creature which really never
‘■probbled” at all. The Northern Territorv
is Australia’s great myth, bunyip, “debbil-
debbil” or delusive nuisance. It is just a
neglected estate, and this country has many
such. One was discovered in N. S. Wales
the other day—6ooo acres which the Gov-
ernment had resumed for “settlement”
(price £37,500). and after 'chasing *he
population and sheep off it had quite for-
gotten. It is now a “problem,” being in a
frightful state of emptiness, weeds, rabbits
and dilapidation. Though the new “pro-
blem” & on the main western line and not
far from Sydney, some fool is quite capable
of proposing the importation of coolies from
India as the only means of causing it to
re-blossom. Apropos of all this, the latest
pale and terrified messenger, with a story
that all is lost unless Australia’s North is
turned into another Fiji, or Natal, or U.S.
Cotton State with lynehines in it. is Sena-
tor Fatebairiv, who has been in tears for
some time, and has at last dried his eyes and
come down to details. Here are some of
the details:—
Senator Fairbairn suggests that Australia should
go to the full extent of handing over half the Ter-
ritory to a company prepared to take the responsi-
bility, and giving it as the essential adjunct the
ricTt to introduce coolies.
Thomas Mcllwrattit. though he lived be-
fore Federation and before White Australia
theories, had a better idea. He arranged
with a syndicate that in consideration of
18,<50 square miles of land (not 261.000
sq. miles) it should build, from south to
north of Queensland, a railway actually
longer than the one the Territory requires,
he being of opinion that the case of his
North (then in very much the same condi-
tion as the Territory is in to-day 7) required
neither despair, nor Bolshevik legislation,
nor coolies, but just communication. The
proposition took on (there had been similar
railways built in Australia before), and
half Hebrewdom, including three banks,
came forward with the money. The squat-
ters, under Griffith’s leadership, defeated
the scheme at the last moment, and were
rather sorry afterwards. The project of
Thomas Mcll wraith looked reckless then,
but it was a monument of prudence com-
pared with some devices of to-day, and it
was white. Mcllvvraith loved the North,
and wanted to keep it, develop it and rule
it. Instead of having a friend like him the
I ederal North has various sets of enemies.
There is the Hughes set, which used it in
the early days of the annexation as a corpus
to experiment on, and lacks the courage and
honesty to admit that its experiments failed.
There is the Bolshevik set, which is in
charge, and no more desires to be disturbed
by civilised strangers than any other savage
tribe does when Columbus heaves in sight.
They represent the country as a fearsome
place, as a reason for excessive wages, and
to keep off strangers. There are also the
Old Stodgers from the South (and the
further south the greater the stodge) who
regard the existence of a Federal province
in the North as an impertinence calculated
to divert money from the wild cats in their
own back yards. This party, of whose views
Senator Fatrbairn is an exponent, would
give away half the Territory, or probably
the whole of it, to almost any colored person
or syndicate, with no particular stipulation
about its fate save that it be taken out of
sight and kept there. If a sort of coolie
East India Co. got the neglected land and
kept it* in its old isolation it would bo all
the more out of sight. The Queenslanders
who run down the Federal province because
they want to steal its railway are patriots
compared to those who would give that
jewel to the first passing Sambo to wear
round his neck.
Seeing Australia First.
-Life without a “slogan” is to many people
an acmug void. Tue latest orpnan-siogan
auopieti by tue temporarily bereit as regards
slogans, and so toriorn ana desolate Ai noons
dun, is "»ee Australia mist." it was pro-
mu.guied lately at tue usual luncUeon held
at tne u&uai b.g providery. A Sydney one,
of course, tor me Millions have a tendency
to be strictly town biros. Tney began as
the Million Club, with the sole object of
making Sydney bigger and Woolloomooloo
more densely packed than ever before, the
most prominent members being devoted
largely to house-and-land dealing in the city
and suburbs. In face of gibes about this
narrowness of vision, the Ciub put a hurried
“s” to its “Miliion,” and professed to exist
for the purpose of getting at least two mil-
lions of roik into the Ma iState. But though
it bought a stuffed wallaby to give itself
a busny, camping-out, swag-carrying and
gum-scented note, it remained the oid mer-
cantile town club. At the luncheon at which
it was patriotically resolved to “See Aus-
tralia First,” the president, a magnate in
the Sydney property-dealing line, laid it
down that “No good Australian was justi-
fied in going abroad for a holiday unless
he could honestly say he had seen all Aus-
tralia had to show.” And, including the
wonuenui gorges ol the Macdonneii Kanges,
and the big rivers and tropical foliage of
the North, and North-East, and North-West,
that involves some travelling. If Austra-
lians did see the beauties of their country
and inspected its natural resources instead
of stewing in cities and bragging of them,
and borrowing money on the strength of
them, a change for the better would set in.
But there is a lack of railways to make
these beauties reachable, though suburban
lines are so plentiful that Millions
Clubbites are in perpetual danger of falling
over them after dark. In fact, the crying
need of Australia is a railway to Australia
—one to begin with and more later on. The
Millions Club, in its blank indifference to
everything beyond its parish radius, holds
out little hope there. Brooding in its stuffy
street along with its stuffed wallaby, the
Club discusses academically Joseph* Car-
rutiiers’ Million Farms (but always a mil-
lion farms in N. S. Wales), or it listens
perfunctorily to Joseph on the illimitable
prospect of cotton-growing (but always
cotton-growing in N.S.W.), yet all the time
its soul is with the desirable suburban
estate that is being cut up. The difficultv
about “seeing Australia first” is that so
many parts of xlustralia are much further
from Australia (in time, which is the matter
which counts) than Cape Town or Van-
couver, and the boat sails less reliably. In
various ways the luncheon which resolved—
as so many gallant feeds of other days have
done —to make a new departure in the
larger walks of patriotism, bore the ear-
marks of a dud and a fizzle. The president
who announced the “slogan”—who slogged,
in fact—was just back from seeing other
places first, and he talked of, or at least
alluded to, San Francisco, and the Sierra
Nevada, and Coney Island (New York),
and the wonderful harbor of Bio de Janeiro.
But when he came to the mader of Aus-
tralia he said that there are 100 bays in
Port Jackson (Sydney) ; that it is possible,
little as the thundering circumstance is
known, to travel eleven (11) miles up
Middle Harbor (Sydney) ; and that Manly
(Sydney) beats Coney Island. A man who
Saw Australia First might well have got off
these beaten, asphalted paths and told his
audience new things—say, about the Vic-
toria and the Daly and the Flinders and
P’e Mitchell and the Alligator and the Finko
rivers, and the Derby Harbor, and the Kim-
berley and Barkly tablelands, and the islands
and reefs and mysteries vm north. Then
Joseph Carruthers opened fire about ad-
vertising Australia and Seeing It First. Ho
sa ; d that his friend Kenneth Anderson.
the shipping magnate, keeps on view in his
London office a photograph of Waste Point,
on the Snowv Piver —and that beauty-river
is in the civilised south-east of the country.


The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
HEAD OFFICE: A.P.A. Building, 77 King Street, SYDNEY.
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES EXCEED £700,000.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - £5OO 000
PAID-UP CAPITAL EXCEEDS £3oo*ooo
ASSETS EXCEED i - £1,100,000
BRANCHES: Brisbane, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart, South Africa.
NEW ZEALAND (Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch).
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, ACCIDENT, FIRE and MARINE INSURANCE.
SELBY P. WOOD. J.P., Governing Director.
. AUBREY E. WENDEN, Managing Director.
Full i ime, Part Time and Local Agents wanted throughout Australia and New Zealand.
between Victoria and N. S. Wales, and about
12 hours from Sydney by tram. All this
valiant boosting- (the Millions Club is
always boosting when it isn’t in pursuit of
a slogan) of our beloved land may help to
make Australia known, but there are cark-
ing doubts which will not down. It sounds
too suburban. The Club should buy a camel
or an aeroplane and go out to find Aus-
tralia.
.Lots of Counsel —Too Much, in Pact.
Bruxner, M.L.A., and his colleagues, hav-
ing brought the Northern N. S. Wales New
State movement to Sydney, are having
advice poured on them by the old Conges-
tion press, and most of it is far too beauti-
ful to be true. The general tenor is that
the New Staters must have infinite patience
—the patience of the tortoise or the glacier;
and must on no account alienate city sym-
pathy by being violent, loud, clamorous,
hasty, rash, spasmodic, experimental or un-
orthodox. They must not be definite enough
to woke anybody, or uncivil enough to
annoy. To quote a sample from Sydney
Telegraph :—•
Their campaign allows a realisation of two facts,
of the utmost importance to the success of their
cause. The first is the fact that it is impossible
for them to succeed, or for long-established political
units to be dissolved, except as the result of a thor-
ough process of education. The second is the fact
that the movement is as much the concern of the
city as of the country, and that its advocates must
persuade the urban as well as the rural elector that
he will benefit by the proposed change.
And tons more fatherly drivel to the same
effect. In fact, the anti-Separation.sts
kindly plan out the Separationists’ cam-
paign for them—the sort of thing any gen-
eral would gladly do for his opponent,
though few try it, because it is but a fool-
commander who assumes his opponent to be
idiot enough to listen to such a proposition.
No community since history began secured
a separation by the skim-milk, or, rather,
skim-water, methods suggested. The central
idea is that there should be no divorce un-
less both parties are willing; also that there
should be uo judgment—in fact, no hearing
of the case at all —except by tbe defendant’s
permission, and, if that is gained, in his
own court. The s&mptuous process of the
education of the people would commence
with reliance on hostile papers like the
Telegraph to give the movement abundance
of space and unbiased reports. If they did
not, and thus bottled up the educational
spring at its source, the New Staters could
start their own educational city papers,
and the boycott of the established dailies,
worked through the newsagents, would fall
on them like the dropping of the tower of
Siloam, which descended impartially on the
just and the unjust. Even granted the pub-
licity, improbable as it is—perhaps one-fifth
of the population buys political journals:
one-fifth of that fifth reads nothing be-
yond horse and divorce: and less than one-
fifth of that fifth of a fifth takes the slight-
est interest in matters of abstract justice.
Even if it does it usually forgets the abstrac-
tion next day. The Conversion of the Jews,
at which a patient Society labors without
ceasing and with never a genuine Jew to
its credit, is a swift process compared with
the conversion of a ruling caste in a
ruling city, by mild persuasion alone,
to the argument that it should let
a people go because it doesn’t know how
to rule them so well as they know them-
selves. Probably 40 years of the patient
agitation which the morning publication re-
commends would leave the bulk of that pub-
lication’s own readers still ignorant that a
Separation movement was, or ever had been,
stated, unless their attention was forced to
it by some wild and outre demonstration—
say, the slaying by parties unknown of all
the horses in the Sydney Cup as they were
coming up the straight. The position really
calls for no cumbrous elaboration. There
is no court provided where the case can be
brought to an assured hearing. Still less
is there any independent court. There are
two Governments —Federal and Imperial-
above the State authority, and an alleged
League of Nations on top, and they are all
eaually futile. There remains the strike,
which was the weapon of Moses of Egypt.
Jeroboam of Palestine, and Gkifftth of
Ireland. It was also the weapon with which
a handful of bricklayers at Canberra re-
duced the Prime Minister the other day to a
cold perspiration. Nothing would educate
the community on tbe subject of secession
faster than secession itself.
Electoral Reform.
Dear Bulletin. —A sign of the rottenness
of N.S.W. politics and likewise a symptom of
the illogicality of the female mind was the
recent letter, in, a Sydney daily, of “A
Member’s Wife,” protesting against the
salaries cut. She pointed out that the family
was loaded with debt, owing to her husband’s
heroic financial efforts made while storming
his way into the Assembly; and she argued
that the taxpayers should be forced to
assume the burden. It suggests a dismal
prospect for the candidate who is equally
loaded with debt yet didn’t get in. How
much was election debt and how much pre-
selection debt the M.L.A/s bride didn’t re-
veal, but if her spouse was one of those who
fought for a Labor nomination in the city,
it was probably the pre-selection riot that
caused most of the bankruptcy. It is a.
matter of common report that several men
were ruined in the welter of corruption and
recrimination, and unlimited expenditure,
which had to be gone through before the
would-be saviour of his country was author-
ised to apply to the electors at all. Under
proportionalism it matters little whether
the party vote is split or not; but pre-selec-
tion remains, so that the rich applicant may
trample on the poor one. and the big man
put bis bloated boot into the small man.
There is thus no certainty that a salary of
even £2OOO a year would make the member’s
w r ife better off, for the battle for the nomina-
tion would be proportionately fiercer. As
for the unsuccessful candidate’s wife, she
wmuld begin to find her husband floating in
waterholes, unless he got a salary also to
save him from ruin and despair. And, in-
deed, it is difficult to see why he shouldn’t
if the reason for payment isn’t to be merit
but election liabilities. Here, then, follow"
a few r preliminary suggestions for coping
with the evil: —
(1) All pre-selected candidates to be disqualified.
(2) All pre-selected members to be expelled.
(3) No man to be allowed to sit for the constitu-
ency he lives in. He can take a more unbiased view
SIR GEORGE AND THE DRAGON.
“But you haven't killed him.”
“No. I hadn’t the heart. But look how Eve damaged the tail.”
of the one he doesn’t live in, and fewer people there
are likely either to lend to him or borrow’ from him.
(4) No member to visit his constituency, between
the first meeting and the final dissolution of Parlia-
ment, more than* twice a year save on private busi-
ness (onus of proof of privacy to be on him), or to
remain there more than one calendar week.
(5) No member, during his term of membership,
to lend to a constituent, borrow from a constituent,
or subscribe to any good, bad or indifferent object
in his constituency, nor to marry a constituent.
(6) Election expenses to be limited to (say) £25
and the successful candidate’s accounts to be sub-
mitted, with a sw’orn declaration as to their accuracy,
to (among others) the defeated candidate and the
iatter’s creditors.
(7) The payment of any debts incurred for election
purposes to be a felony.
These, and a few other regulations of the
sort, would, I am convinced, furnish us with
less disgraceful politicians, and, a tidier
brand of politics,—Yours ever, Clifford
Snook.
Losing the Peace.
“Nestor” on the beginnings of German
penetration:—•
There is danger for Australia in a reversion to
the theory, formerly held in Britain as well as in
this country, that the Germans are our commercial
superiors, and that, in most lines, we could not
and should not attempt to compete with them. This
attitude is well shown in regard to the brown
coal briquetting industry in Victoria. Victoria,
like some other States, has a deposit of brown coal
which, when mined and brought into contact with
the air, crumbles into sand. In order to make it
commercially available, it must be pressed into
briquettes. Certain machinery of a special kind is
necessary to ensure success. In Victoria, which
leads Australia and in some respects the world in
the manufacture of machinery, one would have
expected to find engineers competent to supply Mor-
well’s need. In most other directions where our
inventors have set their minds to a problem they
have achieved success, and more particularly during
the Great War. But to-day we are asked to believe
that “the best briquetting machinery can only be
obtained in Germany” ; and off go the orders of the
Victorian Government to that country. We have
to assume, then, that the men who, in war inven-
tions, strategic devices and initiative, ran over the
Germans in the field have “lost their punch” now
that they are at home. But many young Australian
engineers refuse to believe it. They see no reason
why the theory of Boche superiority should be
accepted again. They resent the notion that the
German is the only manufacturer in the world who
can make a machine to do a simple thing; and even
wlren their Government has supinely accepted that
theory they repudiate the doctrine that German
supermen are necessary to run the machinery'.
W. M. Hughes, who is understood to have no love
for the Germans, was with difficulty persuaded into
accepting this gospel of Australian inferiority, even
though John Monash, our most brilliant military
commander, who out-manoeuvred, out-fought and out-
geueralled the Germans many a time, has endorsed
it. But Hughes has accepted it, and at the present
time the only difficulty appears to be with the
Germans. The State Agent-General has had to trapse
over to the Fatherland to persuade them to come
here and take jobs that should be in the hands of
Australians. Morwell, of itself, may not matter
much. But the rotten principle which it stands for
matters a very great deal. Let U 3 not in Australia
again adopt an attitude of mind, which, unfortu-
nately, seems to have been already re-adopted in
England, that the German is a‘ superman, and must
again impose himself on the world in that rBle.
In war he lost his self-acclaimed superiority. In
peace we Australians should, at any rate, put up
a fight before wo surrender to such a humiliating
and nationally and industrially dangerous assumption.
#- —
The Salaries Cut.
It may be too much to hope, because a
Reduce Your Own Salaries Bill went through
the N.S.W. Parliament last tveek, that Aus-
tralian lawmakers’ perpetually rising esti-
mate of their worth has sustained a general
check. Yet in a way the incident is notable,
-c or the last 20 years every recorded move-
ment of the sort has had an upward ten-
dency. At last the country has been treated to
the spectacle of a newly-elected Parliament,
however reluctantly, surrendering Something
Grabbed Dishonestly instead of Grabbing
More. Vv hether or no it is to be taken as
a turning-point, or accepted as evidence of
tne development of a salary conscience,
remains to be proved. No amount of
casuistry or special pleading can gloze over
the fact that a Parliamentary body which
decides to increase the pay of its own mem-
bers, as fixed by law, without consulting its
employers, the people, is doing something
flagrantly dishonest. No one party would
have dared to do it, without collusion on the
part of its opponents, because of wholesome
tear ot the reckoning at election time. But,
when two or three parties combined the elec-
tors couldn’t make an example of all, and
therein lay safety for all. This is not to say
that members of Australian Parliaments, since
they began to be paid, have never been under-
paid. But if there was ever a case where a
mandate from the electors, or something that
v. ' 3e r . easoria hl.y construed as approval
ot the action proposed to be taken, should
precede a legislative proposal, it was in
regard to the hoisting of the members’ allow.
ances. If ever there was a case in which a
Referendum—that blessed means of ascer-
taining the people’s will that the Labor party
was once wont to eulogise so enthusiastically
—-would have been only decent and merely
honest it was when a rise in Parlia-
mentary salaries was projected. Only one
Referendum was ever taken on the question
—John Verran arranged for it as Pre-
mier of S. . Aus. The expression of
opinion it elicited was so unfavorable that
it. made every other Government referendum-
shy. Ever since then, whenever a majority
in any Parliament came to the conclusion
that it was being underpaid, it didn’t ask for
more—it just voted itself more. Also it
took the chance of the public outcry, invari-
ably loud and indignant at first, bloiving over
before members were called upon to face
their, constituents again, and of such odium
as might endure being more or less negligible
in the case of any one party or individual,
because nearly everybody in the Plouse had
participated in the swindle and shared in the
plunder. It was a squalid and degrading
process. Now that a N.S.W. Administration
has come into power pledged to reduce sala-
ries, and has done so—though nothing like
so drastically as it was told to —the practice
of just seizing extra pay because there is
nobody to prevent it may fall into disfavor.
And it mav even be that the Federal steal,
which was organised and put through by the
Hughes Government, will be repudiated in
time by the responsible parties. But that
act of justice to the taxpayers seems a par-
ticularly long way off.
- ♦
The Marats of Macdonell House.
J. H. Catts’s copious explanation of the
reasons which impelled him to be heaved
out of the Labor party, or what remains of
it, is on the whole tedious. He weakens
his case by overstating it. The facts don’t
warrant the violence of the language; and
some of his allusions and comparisons are
merely ludicrous. Catts likens himself not
obscurely to a Girondin and his opponents to
~ e- c Terrorists who sent the gaseous and
ineffectual Vergniaub faction to the guillo-
tine. Terrorism, the law of suspects, “the
creation of factions in order to denounce and
execute them” —these, it seems, are favorite
devices of “the petty tyrants of Macdonell
House.”
~ c o ars e and ignorant cowards who constitute
the inner organism of this unconstitutional directory
have never read a book on political economy, but
voraciously devour the history of the French Revolu-
tion. They reproduce, within the ambit of their
power, the bloodthirsty iniquities of Fouquier,
dantox, Joseph le Box and Robespierre—throw-
backs to original bestiality. May God have mercy
on this country should ever such a Council of Action
gam the real ascendancy over military, police, law
courts and legislature, through the manipulation of
government.
Here the reader’s blood is expected to curdle,
but it doesn’t. Anything less like Terrorists
than the seedy ward-bosses who hang round
Macdonell House it would be difficult to
imagine. Most of them are pacifists whose
convictions wouldn’t permit them to hurt a
prawn. They are not Terrorists but Tam-
manyists. They reproduce in action not the
Jacobinism of Marat, but the paternalism of
Boss Choker. Their mistake was in sup-
posing that an awakened Australian town or
btate could be captured and held to ransom
as Chicago has been, and New York, and
many another U.S.. city where the population
consists. largely of illiterate foreigners. They
have paid the penalty of that miscalculation
in two shattering defeats. It is not in the
nature of such gentry to take their lickings
like sportsmen, and it is credible that they
have been particularly truculent to Catts.
btill, it is easier to add Catts to the cata-
logue of martyrs than to conjure up a con-
vincing picture of the A.L.P. executive, with
knives between their teeth and caps of
Liberty on their heads, dragging Potts Point
end Point Piper to guillotines set un in the
Martin-place de la Revolution. That is
one of those visions of horror that provoke
only derision.


Economy is the Slogan of the Day.
We offer economy in first cost and economy in service and upkeep.
TILLING-STEVENS (English) Chassis
at English prices, plus cost of importation.
Wichita Chassis at competitive prices. References to a large number of local users.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, Motor Truck Engineers,
10-14 GEORGE STREET, CAMPERDOWN (CITY), SYDNEY; 440 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
ST
W^otorS
X&ILSTt^
POLITICAL
POINTS.
Melbourne Age voices the popular pueril-
ity of provincialism when it asks why the
fittings of the new Commonwealth Bank in
Melbourne shouldn’t be made of Victorian
woods. For that matter, why should there
be any inter-State trade in any class of
goods which can be locally produced? The
manufacturers’ compacts which hold good
as regards certain articles of food (whoever
sees a Sydney-made biscfiit in Melbourne, or
vice versa?) might as well be the universal
rule of provincialism in Australia. No New-
castle coal in Victoria, nor any flounders
Caught in S’Australian waters. No Queens-
land tobacco—when the industry is fully
established —to be allowed in N.S.W,, owing
to the antique theory that every part of
Australia is suited to the finest tobacco cul-
ture. No chocolate produced in Tasmania to
be purchased by civil servants in other
States, seeing that their - salaries are Gov-
ernment institutions. In short, why should
not competition in industries be paralysed
by intensely local sentiment, as far as pos-
sible ?
Touching an award that will have con-
sequences :
In June, 1920, Justice McCawley, of Queensland,
fixed the remuneration of the gentleman who dis-
severs the sheep from its overcoat at £2 a hundred,
and granted him the 44-hour week. Shed-hands were
allowed £4 10s. a week and keep, woolpressers £5
10s. a week and keep, and cooks 9s. a week per man.
Signs of slump were even then on the horizon, but
the Queensland rates were adopted in other Australian
districts and some of them at least were embodied
in an agreement on which Justice Higgins had set
his hand and seal. But Westralia stuck out. Very
unwisely the union heads tried to enforce Queensland
rates in that State when the slump was at its
worst, and they fared badly. After months of profit-
less wrangling they agreed to take 30s. a hundred
and anything more that might be granted by the
Commonwealth Arbitration Court, to which applica-
tion had been made by the usual tedious route for
an award covering all the States except Groperland.
That award was delivered by Justice Powers last
week. It grants the men sundry small concessions,
and there is an interesting expression of opinion in
favor of the 44-hour week, which the Full Court
recently ruled out,, but the reductions from the
Queensland standard of pay are memorable. -The
shearing rate falls to 30s. a hundred; shed-hands
and scourers are to get £3 instead of £4 10s., and
cookie’s cut drops from 9s. to 6s. a man. As for
woolpressers, they are put back to their 1917 scale
—7 jd. per cwt., or 2s. a bale greasy, pressed by hand,
and 4fd. per cwt., or Is. 3 id. per bale, pressed by
power. In many respects it is the most striking
award that has come out of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court since that of the Harvester case.
And the consequences will be far-reaching.
Australia got another warning from the
hungry nations at Genoa, when there was
support (but not sufficient) for Italy’s pro-
posal that the world’s raw r materials should
be pooled in the interests of Europe’s manu-
facturing group. How long the Common-
wealth will be able to keep out of that drag-
net is another matter. Italy’s contention
is that the existence of manufacturing
nations depends on raw materials produced
in countries like this being freed from export
restrictions. To concede the right of out-
siders to interfere with the disposal of
natural produce would mean in the long run
such an extension of that right as would
enable the world—in other words, Italy and
the manufacturing group of nations —to
introduce labor adequate for working neg-
lected regions like the Northern Territory.
It is an attractive notion from the Italian
standpoint, but sinister and menacing from
that of Australia.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Now that the returned Pearce has relieved him
of the portfolio of Home and Territories, Senator
Earle has become an odd-job man in the Federal
.Cabinet. Just now he is understudying P.M.G.
Poynton, while that garrulous old gentleman is
paying official visits to N. S. Wales, (Queensland and
Westralia, and when Poynton comes back there will
presumably be a further effo't to prove that Earle
isn’t entirely superfluous. Only the alleged necessity
of givirg the Speck a voice in the Cabinet keeps
the nobleman in his position, but as he is looking
for a post of authority he won’t 'be satisfied with
the unimportance of a “casual” in the Government.
If Hughes wants peace, he will have to provide
Earle with regular work.
Attorney-General Robinson has promised
that the Melb. 'Varsity Reform Bill, which
provides for making changes in the council
of control and substituting a standing com-
mittee of convocation for the present ineffec-
tive Senate, will be again brought forward
in the Vic. Parliament. The Government
endowment to which the Uni. is now entitled
is £9OOO, but it has been getting a lot more
HIS NEW LOVE ARRIVES.
“Members’ salaries in N.S. Wales have been fixed at £600—a reduction of £275.” —News Item.
OLD LIZA: “I may not be so good lookin’ but I'm good enough for him!"
by special annual votes. The bill will make
the fixed payment £30,000, and furnish also
£7OOO a year for 10 years for a commerce
school and a few other things,
Some of the Federal Government’s recent
“items of expenditure” make interesting
reading. The League of Nations has mopped
up £40,984, and the price of Australia’s
voice at the Geneva Conference was another
£4388. To enable Pearce to say a word at
the Washington Conference £5816 had to be
provided, whilst Hughes’s last trip to Eng-
land relieved the cash-box of £4813. The
charge for Government motor-cars for u : ne
months is £4411, which, even allowing for
chauffeurs’ salaries and repairs, suggests that
a lot of petrol has been burnt in joy-riding.
But that item looks like petty cash compared
with the grand aggregate of £22,255 for
Royal Commissions. The least expensive of
the lot was the Commission on Cockatoo
Island (£869), and next to that are the
inquiries on the Basie Wage and German
Nationals, which absorbed £1782 and £i27l.
The bill for the Uniform Gauge Commission
soared to £9700, and in an endeavor to get
a report on taxation the Government spent
£8633. Also the Australian Trade Commis-
sioner in China is beginning to dip into the
Treasury. To date he has cost £6710.
Melbourne Eight-hour Day pageantry is
losing a good deal of its charm for the crowd.
Seemingly the only way to revive the fas-
cination is to ban the parade. Then contrari-
ness would impel a record show. If banning
is not thought politic it might be possible to 1
“regulate” the procession by prescribing a
mai'ch of 10 abreast. A given point would
then be nassed in a few minutes, unless every
man-jack in unionism turned up on carnival
day.
“Sol. M.” sees nought but Agricultural
Gloom ahead:—
“Amurath to Amurath succeeds” with monotonous
regularity on the throne at Bloatville, which generic
name fits one overgrown metropolis as well as
another, and in a multitude of things Amurath is so
like Achmet that either of them might be Mohammed
and no one be the wiser. The new Ministry at
Sydney had scarcely been constituted before the Minis-
ter for Lands came out with the assertion that the
driving of large quantities of peasants or moujiks on
to the soil is “the most urgent necessity of the day,”
It costs £lOOO or over to settle a man on the land.
But, taking the Commonwealth as a whole, it costs
less than £3OO to settle a man in a factory (that
is the value of the land, buildings, plant, etc.
required per worker). Being there he stays settled. On
the ether hand, despite tremendous efforts, the expendi-
ture of millions upon millions on aids, helps, bribes,
money-losing railways, the carriage of his produce at
half-cost and the like, the moujik on the land is so
much a diminishing quantity that the loan money
might almost as well be spent in settling crows on
fences. If disappointment, lonesomeness and unre-
quited toil broke a crow’s heart one crow more or
less is nothing. With a man the case is different.
The manufacturing population grows all the time,
partly because it works for the local market, and as
it hasn’t yet nearly exhausted the local market there
is a future for it. It and the pastoral business repre-
sent the only good things that are growing-—this
despite huge taxes, basic wages, 44-hour agitations,
and railway charges which would wreck the fragile
agricultural trade in a week. Manufacturing, despite
the comparative smallness of the capital involved,
yields about three times as much per head as agricul-
ture, which is the huge bankrupt baby of the indus-
trial family. Therefore it might be well if N.S.VV.’s
bright and hopeful Minister for Lands were suspended
indefinitely, and replaced by a Minister for Factories
—not merely Labor or Industry, but Factories. If
these live institutions were scattered through the
little country towns, then Rabbitville and Deadburgh,
which are now only half the size they were 20 years
ago, might begin to be worth living in, and the land
around might settle itself without all the present
fuss. In the present state of Rabbitville agriculture
is too suggestive of growing potatoes in a graveyard,
“Footslogger.” from the Federal Territory :
Hope runs high among the denizens of Dryberra.
The increasing visits of politicians to Yarralumla
House, where they get board and lodging buckshee,
must mean something. Roster, Minister for Works,
doesn’t seem joyous at the prospect of spending
’‘money here, but his N; S. \vaies colleagues will
o\er-ride him. And there is always Austin Chapman.
A great deal depends on Austin Chapman. On the
whole things are shaping well. There are even opti-
mists prepared to bet that the next rise of Parlia-
mentary salaries will be consummated at Canberra
in two years’ time.
Through the sending of many expensive
Tgacle Commissioners to “tne East” Aus-
tralia begins to become known there* and
the other day a business chance came along.
If this country will cut down a lot of its
scarce forests and ship the product to China,
per sail.ng vessel, cheap , there' is a glacl
assurance that it will find a market, as the
Chow wants railway sleepers. Much adver-
tising of our “natural resources” and of
our desire to pursue the "primary indus-
tries” has brought us the ofter of a job as
wood-cutter to Ah Sin.
“Sol”: Those superabundant loan rail-
ways, built often merely to find work for
the tradeless unemployed, which have no
industrial towns to keep them employed—
only a cow at one end and a bloated metro-
polis at the other—are in more trouble. It
has been brought home to the rulers of
N.S.W. that the cattle rates must be re-
duced in these days of cheap meat, or there
will be another perishing industry. In fact,
it must go on the pauper or subsidised list.
Other things that are carried on Ma Stale
lines below the cost of carriage, to kpep up
the fiction that the “primary industries” are
going strong, are coal. coke, shale, crude
ores, hay, straw and chaff; also (provided
they are heading for Svdney but not other-
wise) “grain, flour, etc.” It costs about.
10s. to drag ore ton over 100 miles, and
the grain items are carried at 4s. 7d., where-
fore there are people who hate the sight of
wheat, and wocOd fain hear it declared a
noxious weed. Wool pays 245. per ton per
100 miles, which helps the cr’pples a good
deal —in fact, it is the one solvent member
of the family of gr°at natural deficits.
“Sarah I-Iorsecollar”: When I read Prime
Minister Hughes’s politics I always think
what a pleasant lady he would be to go
shopping with. The essence of shopping is
to fill in time and commit yourself to no-
thing. but just enjoy the passing hour. The
descript'on fits Hughes’s politics to a dot.
Fifty-one years ago S. Aus. finished put-
ting a telegraph Lne across the continent
from Adelaide to Darwin. Ever s.nce all
kinds of persons have been wandering back-
wards and forwards and criss-crossing those
parts m all directions. But when it comes
to looking for a route for the railway wh.ch
it promised a dozen years ago to build, the
Commonwealth Government seems to con-
sider the country about as well known as
the interior of Antarctica. Nearly a year
ago a section of the Federal Works Com-
mittee wandered across and about in motor-
cars (with a steamer trip to Java thrown
in), taking w.th it G. A. Hobler, of the
Commonwealth railways. Hobler wrote a
book about it, and recently put m a couple of
days reading his lucubration to the com-
mittee. Typists mast be scarcer in the
Commonwealth offices than is supposed, for
in the six months or more since it was writ-
ten there hasn’t been time to run off a few
cop'es. When Hobler had read h's lesson
—he wants the Queensland deviation —the
committee invited everyone who thinks he
knows anything about the country and the
routes to come forward to testify. Its re-
port is expected to materialise with the last
pound of the German indemnity.
Two W.A. Legislative Councillors get
walks-over in the 10 provinces where elec-
tions are being held month. The pair
whose luck is in are Ned Wittenoom, the
hardest-shelled Tory in the House, and Jabez
Dodd, for many a year the sturdiest pillar of
trades unionism on the Golden Mile. Jabez
went out of the official Labor party, with
many another ex-union secretary, over the
Conscription issue, but the remembrance that
he had given the best years of his life to the
wage-earners secured him the rare compli-
ment, for a Labor Nationalist, of an unop-
posed return for his section of the mining
districts. Wittenoom, on the other hand,
is the spokesman of the mainly-pastoral elec-
tors of the North and the Nor’-West.
With 10 months of the financial year
gone Queensland has acquired a debit balance
of £718.293. This amount is £353 255 more
than Fibelly’s estimate for the 12 months,
and there is small chance of its diminishing
by June 30. although Mullan, Fihelly’s suc-
cessor, professes to have hopes. The State
used to pay its way on about half its preseut
revenue of, roughly, a million a month. But
that was before the Fihellys and Mullans
arrived.
A BALLAD OF GREAT EVENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grey globe spins, along its course;
Each citizen its news attacks.
In Ireland, tired of tours de force,
Stray rifle-fire no longer cracks.
A shilling off the income-tax
To Johnny Bull should be a source
Of joy. The moon is on the wax—
And Hughes has fallen off his hdrse.
Lloyd George refuses to endorse
French schemes to rend the Bocbe on racks,
Gandhi displays some faint remorse
(In quod) for disaffecting blacks.
On Catts’s neck the Labor axe
Descends. From Grafton G.-G. Fors-
ter motors back bv lonesome tracks—
For Hughes' has fallen off his horse.
The marriage-tie provokes discourse,
Bishops declare the world grows lax;
Fierce comes the clamor for divorce
From ill-assorted Jills and Jacks.
Crimes done abroad with knife or axe
Are flashed at once to us in Morse,
And famished moujiks die in stacks—
And Hughes has fallen off his horse.
Envoy.
Prints, .whose sensation-loving hacks .
To screaming he.ad-lines have recourse,
See that no thrill the item lacks
When Hughes has fallein off his horse.
N.S.W,
T. THE R.


THE FIGHT PROMOTER.


Telegraphic and Cable Address
“CROSSFOY.”
The Southern Cross
Assurance Company Limited
(Incorporated and Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915)
is now offering specially attractive Contracts covering
LIFE, ACCIDENT, HOUSE-PURCHASE
and PROBATE ASSURANCE.
THOS. J. CONFOY, Governing Director, London House, 97 Elizabeth Streep
Melbourne.
Agents Wanted in All States. Applications Treated Confidentially.
HEAD OFFICE: LONDON HOUSE, ELIZABETH STREET* MELBOURNE.
Branches: Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Auckland and Wellington.
Sub-Branches: Newcastle, Townsville, Wangaratta, Toowoomba, Dunedin 8 Lyttelton.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonirc
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
announce their association with the famous Sheffield Firm,
HADFIELDS LIMITED
The New Company—HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED—is
specialising in the manufacture of Steel Castings and Forgings in Carbon
and Alloy Steels to any specification, Machinery Spares, Stone-Breaking
and Ore-Crushing Plants, Mining Requisites, etc., etc.
Note the new name and address: —
HADFIELDS (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED,
Mitchell Road, Alexandria, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Piiilp and Co.. Limited (Syd-
ney), ship-owners, merchants, etc.: —•
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1911.. £79,690T0 p.c. * £30,000 £49,890 £474,673
£350,000 of reserves transferred to capital 124,673
1912.. 99,704 5 p.c. = 35,000 64,704 189,377
Gash bonus of 74 p.c., £52,500 . . 136,877
1913.. 109,389 5 p.c. = 40,000 69,389 206,266
Cash bonus of 5 p.c., £ 40,000 . . 166,266
1914.. 115,401 6} p.c. = 62,500 52,901 219,167
1915.. 98,317 6.1 „ „ 62,500 35,817 254.984
1916.. 118,583 74 „ „ 78,750 39,833 294,817
1917.. 161,466 7J „ „ 78,750 82,716 377,533
1918.. 199,747 74 „ „ 78,750 120,997 498,530
£lOO,OOO of reserves transferred to capital 398.530
1919.. 227.488 74p.c.= 93,750 133,738 532,268
1920. . 260,139 10 „ „ 125,000 135,139 667,407
Island interests sold to Burrs, Philp (South Sea) Co.,
Ltd.
1921.. 132,274 10 p.c. = 125,000 7,2.74 674,681
1922.. 194,718 10 „ ~126,000 69.718 744,399
. Written off steamships, £ 25,000 719,399
Twelve months ago the directors reported
that prospects for the ensuing year could
“only be considered as moderate.” The
figures now disclosed show tfce co. to have
done much better than in the previous term.
The big concern has once more demonstrated
that it can weather rough seas successfully.
The figures in the table do not, however,
give a complete account of the year’s opera-
tions. For a start, after writing off
£106,587 for depreciation, bad debts and
losses, a net profit of £176,873 was disclosed,
but £17,845 had already been added to re-
serves (mostly insurance) and the year’s
profit, as told by the accounts, was £194.718,
equal to 15.6 p.c. on paid capital. This
profit was considerably smaller than was
earned in the boom years 1918-20, but com-
parisons are not complete without the in-
clusion •of results of the South Sea Co.’s
operations. In 1920 the old co. passed its
island interests over to this subsidiary for
half-a-million in shares. 8.-P. holders then
assisted the pup float with a further quarter-
million. and performances to-date have been
as follows: —
Burns, Piiilp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.: —
Net To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
1920.. £102,846 10,p.c.= £75,000 £27,846 £27,846
1921.. 57,549 74 ~ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
With the assistance of £250,000 of new capi-
tal, the two cos. together have shown these
profits: 1921, £185,120; 1922, £214,867.
Compared with the figures of a few years ago
they are handsome results, particularly as
island business was depressed last year:
produce values were cut in halves, lessening
commission earnings, and no doubt merchan-
dise values also came under the knife. A
feature of the parent co.’s accounts is that
they do not include the interest in the un-
divided profits accumulating in the subsidiary.
It is no longer possible to show satisfac-
torily how the parent co. has laid out its
funds: the position is obscured by the man-
ner in which assets are grouped in the pub-
lished accounts. For instance, land and
water belongings are now parcelled with in-
vestments (including the half-million interest
in the subsidiary), while merchandise and
produce stocks and miscellaneous advances
are in another pile. Still, comparisons of
the grouped assets show how rapidly the
big business has grown : —•
Liabilities.
1910. 1915. 1921. 1922.
Capital . .£300,000 £1,000.000 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Reserves . . 479,783 347,484 814,681 869,399
Liabilities 195,435 261,095 950,984 944,537
Assets. .
Pro perties,
ship ping,
cash and in- „ „„„
vestments 407,825 622,808 1,399,993 1,573,379
Stock, ad-
vances, etc. 322,382 573,147 880,851 769,608
Book debts.. 245,011 382,624 734,821 720,949
The South Sea Co. sets out its belongings
as follows: —
Dee., 1920. Dec., 1921.
Liabilities .. £304,401 £226,027
Properties, etc. .. 172,060 176,345
Produce .. .. 536,853 392,531
Merchandise . . 274.702 324.631
Book debts .. 98,048 133,764
Cash - - - • 44,370 34,151
This gives another view of the expansion
of 8.-P. interests: —
1910. 1915. 1922.
Total assets • . £975,218 £1,578,580 £3,625,359
Liabilities . . - • 195,435 261,095 1,170,564
Net assets .. £779,783 £1.317,485 £2,454,795
Between them in seven years the two cos.
have added £1,137.310 of net assets with
the assistance of ouly £375,000 of new cash-
paid capital. Of course, the two cos.,
though closely inter-related, are entirely
separate concerns, except that the 8.-P.
holder has an indirect interest in the South
Sea co.
As to the prospects of the two concerns,
probably events of the past provide the best
guide. No matter how unfavorable condi-
tions have seemed, the 8.-P. crowd has
always managed to squeeze through with
profits which have never been slender. The
parent co.’s interests appear to have been
very soundly developed, and the shipping
enterprise is no doubt stronger than shown
in the accounts. During the past five' years
no less than £458,460 of surplus has been
written off for depreciation, bad debts and
losses. In the latest report the directors
announce that, “recognising the serious de-
preciation in shipping values, the Board
proposes that a further £25,000 should be
provided in addition to the usual annual
allowance, making a total of £80,815 written
off.” It is unlikely that this patching was
really necessary: unlike some other ship-
ping cos., 8.-P. did not write up its fleet,
and it would be very surprising if book
values did not receive adequate attention in
the prosperous years. Another feature of
the co. is that it has not to find dividends
on capital inflated by any goodwill. The
future of the islands co. is less clear. South
Sea produce is not in demand —at least, at
anything like the prices which ruled in the
war years. It is unlikely that handsome
profits will again be possible for a time ; on
the other hand, 8.-P. is so firmly entrenqhed
on the Pacific landscape that nothing short
of an earthquake is likely to shake it.
» * * •
The Australian Provincial Assur-
ance Association, Ltd.: —
Towards
Re-
Oct., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Deficit.
1913 ..£10.219 £289 £18,213 £16,343
1914 .. 17,288 866 28,473 - 28,394
1915 .. 28,615 1,169 29,641 30,589
1916 . . 56,846 4,790 44,088 £7,968 22,621
1917 .. 100,619 10,268 77,771 12,580 10,041
Nominal
Dec Reserves.
1918 . . 164,925 22,434 121,938 20,553 10,512
Southern Insurance Co.’s
funds transferred .. 5,896 16,408
1919 . . 209,103 33,378 125,378 50,347 66,755
Premium on shares .. .. 100,000 166,755
1920 . . 391,102 33,873 168,575*188,654 355,409
Prgmhjm on shares .. .. 65,438 420,847
1921 .. 375,163 55,332 238,044 81,787 502,634
‘Expenses include dividends to shareholders:
1921, £9359; 1922, £49,918.
Operations in all departments are covered
by the figures in the table: the A.P.A- is
now doing fire and marine business, as well
as accident insurance, which is more or less
written in combination with life contracts.
A better view of the year’s operations is
given by this analysis:—
Income. Claims. Expenses. Surplus.
Life .. £305,986 £16,567 £179,032* £110,387
Loss.
General 69,177 38,765 59,012 28,600
Total £375,163 £55,332 £238,044* £81,787
‘lncludes £49,918 paid in divs.
The A.P.A. has been tne wondemof the Aus-
tralian life-assurance world. Never before
has a mutual or a co-operative office gfown
so rapidly. It is now only 10 years old,
but has been writing as much new busi-
ness yearly as offices half-a-century or more
older. Invariably new business is ex-
pensive to get: consequently the A.P.A.’s
operations from its inception have
proved costly. E ven with a smaller
volume of new assurances, last year £42 of
every £lOO of income in the Life branch
went in expenses. That was £1 more than
in 1920 —-the year of record new business,
though many of the War Gratuity policies
were got cheaply—but a big improvement
on the £6O p.c. for 1919. To ascertain the
approximate cost of new business The Bul-
letin usually allows 7 p.c. of renewal pre-
miums as the cost of handling old business,
and charges the balance against first pre-
miums. Assuming' that 8 p.c. is a fail-
charge against the A.P.A.’s old business,
then last year £115,128 was spent to get
£75,289 of premiums from npw business,
or a new-business expense ratio of almost
153 p.c. Put another way: the whole of
the first premiums and at least half of the
second year’s are swallowed by the expenses
incurred in the first year of the new policy,
which means that not till almost the close
of the second year is a penny of premium
available for its most important work—the
establishing of a reserve against the policy
risk.
A feature of the Life operations lias been
a low claims rate : only 5.4 p.c. of total income
last year. That suggests that risks have
been carefully selected.: but luck has cer-
tainly also been with the co. After charg-
ing against the life department £25.998 of
divs.. at December 31 last there were funds
of £449.075. But despite the heavy expenses
experienced Since the beginning, actuary J.
P. Dovle certified that those funds were
£38.748 more than was reouired to meet
estimated liabilities under policies, after the
participating who’e-life noPcies had h<mn
credited with a £2 p.c. bonus and endow-
ments with a fl p.c. bonus. The A.P.A. s
basis of valuation, however, is not on the
conservative lines adopted. by its robust
competitors. To ascertain its liabilities
under policies it assumes that funds during
the course of these policies will earn 4 p.c.
net. The A.M.F. works on a 3 p.c. basis;
if it assumed an interest rate of 4 p.c., it
would have a further surplus of five mil-
lions to throw around. Apart from reserves
for unexpired fire, marine and accident
risks, the A.P.A. has, in addition .to the
assurance reserves certified as adequate by
the actuary, shareholders’ funds intact ex-
ceeding £400,000. The support they may
offer in future, though, depends on the co.’s
experience in the more hazardous business
of fire and marine underwriting.
One effect of the 4 p.c. poliey-valuation
has been that it has provided a liberal supply
of bird-lime for use during the past year.
In the first place the surplus has enabled
bonuses to be declared, and that has no
doubt facilitated policy-writing. Also divs.
have been paid suareholders, and that has
brought in a lot of new capital at a pre-
mium. Paid capital in 1920 was £223,352 ;
at December 31 iast £341,747. The extra
£118,395 was accompanied by premiums
of £65,438. All of the share premiums
do not, however, remain in a share-
holder’s reserve. The £38,748 surplus
from the Life department, the £65,438 of
share premiums and the £lOO,OOO gath-
ered in the same way in 1920 were all
dropped into a general reserve fund. Dur-
ing the year the extension of fire and
marine operations left that branch with a
deficiency of £28,600, besides which, at the
balance, £27,665 was required to provide
the customary 40 p.c. reserve for unexpired
rWks. These two items tapped the
general reserve for £56,265. An , in-
terim div. of 10 p.c. capital (£33,379)
is charged against the general reserve
account, which means that it was pro-
vided either out of the £38,748 trans-
ferred from the Life branch or by new and
old share premiums. The Bulletin in its
tables has Charged it against the Life sur-
plus transferred. It is to be hoped the
directors viewed the dividend in the same
way.
This dividend is included with Life ex-
penses in the introductory tables, and, with
the final 1920 distribution, has this effect:
it lifts the Life expense rate to £5B 10s.
p.c. Dividends represented £l6 6s. p.c. of
total Life income, which alone is more than
the all-in expense rate of the big offices.
Almost as much was paid away to share-
holders during the year as was earned gross
by investments. Certainly a remarkable
concern is this A.P.A.!
The future of the office depends a good
deal on carving .expenses in the Life de-
partment and on its luck in fire, marine
and accident business. As a means of at-
tracting policy-holders and shareholders the
management may, perhaps, be forgiven its
haste in passing out policy-bonuses and
handsome dividends. But unless expenses are
got down a continuance of distributions on
the recent scale would be expecting too
much in view of the size of paid capi-
tal and the volume of participating policies
which will become eligible for bonuses.
Having accomplished 10 years’ of pioneering
with surprising success so far as policy-
writing is concerned, the A.P.A. should now
settle down to steady work. There have
been features about the concern in the past
which havS been not altogether satisfac-
tory. For instance, the renewal premiums
shown by the 1920 accounts included pre-
miums paid in advance under the Digger-
gratuity policies. The management has this
year to go back on its tracks and explain
away the inflated figures presented a year
ago. Also, if the A.P.A. wishes to command
respect in future less mystery concerning
its dividend policy and more information
as to extent of bonuses declared, are neces-
sary. For instance, while £49.918 was paid
in divs. last year, what was the amount dis-
tributed among nopcy-bolders who had be-
come eligible to nartieinate in profits whmi
the bonus was declared? Incidentally, the
race made by the A.P \. was too much for
its founder. Selbv Wood is a very sick
man, and his mantle has passed to his asso-
ciate in the venture, Auhrey Wenden.
• * * »
The South Australian Brewing Co.
(Adelaide) :
Writ- Added Nnmi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., £ £ £ £ £
1911.. 35.637 64p.q.= 15.625 16.057 3955 50,000
1912.. 46,277 7* „ ~ 18.750 27,527 50.000
1913.'. 50,968 74 „ „ 18,750 32,218 50.000
1914.. 55.953 10 „ „ 25.000 30,953 50.000
1915/. 50,114 10 „ „ 25,000 25,114 50.000
1-916.. 32.161 10 „ „ 25.000 4,750 2411 52,411
1917.. 22.348 64 „ i, 15.625 4,750 1973 54,384
1918.. 32.174 81 „ „ 21.875 10.299 54.384
1919.. 32.294 10 „ „ 25.000 7,294 54.384
1920.. 32.468 10 „ „ 25.000 7.250 218 54.602
1921.. 29.924 10 ~ ~ 25.000 4.750 174 54.776
1922.. 30,821 10 ~ „ 25.000 5,821 54,776
Though the Broken Hill end of the business
is still being run at a loss, this co.’s beer flow
in South Aus. is steadily growing, so 10 p.c.
divs. are pumped out regularly. Last year’s
£76,858 of gross profits and rents were £4909
better than for the previous term; trade and
office expenses were up £053, but £1707 less
was spent on repairs and maintenance. After
the demands of the Treasuries had been satis-
fied, however, the net profit was only £9OO
larger than for 1921. Land- and income-tax
in the earlier year took £6701; during the
past 12 months £11,767.
Over the period covered by the introduc-
tory table only £4776 of visible reserves have
accumulated. But large amounts of surplus
profit not included in the table have also been
stored. For instance, goodwill, which origi-
nally stood at £60,000, has been written
down to £5OOO, and £51,850 has been accu-
mulated in a freehold depreciation fund
which no doubt provides for contingencies
other than wastage of assets. The co. con-
tinues to expand its beer interests, and is
going deeper into debt to do it:—
1911. 1921. 1922.
Assets apart from fixed
assets £73,073 £158,247 £140,246
Liabilities .. .. 235,637 224,789 226,897
Excess liabilities £162,564 £66,542 £86,651
Excess liabilities had been reduced to
£40,053 in 1920, but in the past two years
£46,600 has been added. The management
has, therefore, not lost faith in the future of
beer in the INJiddle State. Paid capital is a
quarter-million, and there are debentures for
£150,000, carrying 5 p.c. p.a. and maturing
in another four years. This debenture debt
is included with liabilities in the comparison
above.
* * # #
The Equitable Permanent Benefit
Building, Land and Savings Institution
(Sydney):—
Written Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1911. . £11,835 9 p.c. = £6;338 £lOO £49,618
1912.. 12,805 15 „ „ 10,564 363 51,496
Premiums on hew shares. £1942.. 53,438
1913.. 12.365 9 p.c. = 7,204 88 68,511
1914.. 18.890 9 „ ~ 8.401 80 68.920
1915.. 15,108 15J „ ~14,395 25 69,608
1916.. 15,187 10 „ „ 9,390 22 75,383
1917.. 14,776 10 „ „ 9.390 3 80,766
1918.. 14,476 16 „ „ 15,024 80,218
1919.. 15,254 10 „ „ 9,390 3 86,079
1920.. 16,134 12 „ „ 11,268 90,945
Special bonus to borrowers. £523.. 90,422
1921.. 16,890 13 p.c. = 15.024 —1
Borrowers’ bonus, £1261 .. . . j
1922.. 15,398 12 p.c. = 11,268 95,157
High-interest Commonwealth loans have
absorbed so much trust and other funds
in recent years that the building socie-
ties have been inundated with applica-
tions for advances. Last year the money
market became very tight, so the cos. which
specialise in the business of mortgage
advances were rushed with business. The
okl Equitable says that conditions “pro-
vided such a wide field for selection that
the Board experienced no difficulty in
advancing a sum of £102,893 upon repro-
ductive freehold properties, free from every
element of risk.” But though so much
healtby-looldng business was offering the
management was not tempted into trading
beyond its resources. The volume of
advances granted was smaller than in either
of the previous two years, gnd less than in
the two years before the war :
1910 .. £76 622 1918 .. £75,797
1913 .. 116,687 1919 .. 97,918
1915 .. 82.093 1920 .. 120,072
1916 .. 71,907 1921 .. 109,389
1917 .. 85,482 1922 . . 102,893
After allowing for the year’s repayments,
mortgages on the books increased from
£346,302 to £361.440 during the 12 months.
But the co. at March 31 had £24.670 of
liquid assets after flaying the year’s divs.
and, apart from the deposits, owed only
£BB2. It held about 2s. 2d. in the £ of
deposit liabilities within handy reach, and
repayment of advances was apparently being
made at the rate of approximated £lO.OOO
per month. The co.’s capital and reserves
at the balance exceeded £189.000; including
interest accrued, deposits totalled £215 220.
Everv £1 of deposits was, therefore, covered
by 38s. of assets, all of which appeared to
be as healthy as building society belongings
should be.
Besides having all the appearances of a
robust concern, the Eouitable is also doing
well for its shareholders. Last year’s pro-
fits gave 10A p.c. on capital, and a 12 p.c.
div. was paid. But reserves now exceed paid
capital, so there is nothing fat about the
distributions.
* » # •
Under the provisions of the N. S. Wales
Gas Act, new shares issued by regulated
gas cos. must be offered at auction. Last
year, owing to money tightness, the Austra-
lian Gas Light Co. failed to find a market
at par or better for a new issue, though the
Act virtually guarantees 8 p.c. The co.
raised the funds required by issuing £450,000
of 74 p.c. five-year debentures. The co. now
vo-vut-ps further canital, and on May 22
30,000 shares of £6 are to go under the
hammer. On this occasion the auctioneer
should have bids to record.


Every man wants plenty .to choose from in order
that he can make a sound choice. There are o'er
6000 fittings which carry the G.F. trade-mark. These
malleables represent the world's best —they are made
of British iron and are scientifically and mathemati-
cally correct in every detail. Obtainable from Wm.
Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. —Advt. [1
* * * »
There is nothing to beat Pioneer Wood Pipe for
absolute efficiency, economy and durability when the
conveyance of any liquid is required. It saves
approximately 33 per cent, in the initial cost, and
maintenance is practically non-existent. Pioneer
is corrosion-proof, and as a conduit for brine, acids
or alkalies it is excellent. Write for our illustrated
book on the subject. We shall be pleased to post it
free on request. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, Sydney; and at Foot-
scray, Tie.— Advt.
* * * #
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street. Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
# * * *
Austkamak Patents from P. M. Newton, Patent
Attorney, Fink's Buildings, Melbourne, op. Patent
Oliice ; tel. Cen. 5035. And at Challis House, Martin
Place, Sydney; tel. City 2723.— Advt.
. * » •
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson !c Co., 453 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Writs
ns for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
Simon-Carves, Ltd. (Manchester, England), con-
sulting engineers and contractors for coke-oven equip-
ment with by-products; tar-distilling and benzol,
etc., plants; sulphuric-acid plants; glass-works
plants ; coal-washing plants ; superphosphate plants ;
blast furnaces ; heating and ventilating plants, etc.
Represented by Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd.,
Circular Quay, Sydney.— Advt.
« * * •
“1921 Models”—“National” suction-gas engines
and suction-gas plants of 36- to 39- and 43- to
46-b.h.p. Immediate delivery from Sydney stock.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Ltd., Circular Quay
(East). — Advt.
Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co. Pty., Ltd., have
opened a new and commodious showroom at 342
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, for the display of scientific
material. Balances, physical and chemical apparatus
of their own manufacture are being shown, also com-
plete stocks of chemical, microscopic and biological
goods.— Advt.
« * * *
The Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Com-
pany, Ltd. (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place Sydney.— Advt.
R. G. WATKINS <a CO.,
107-109 Kent Street, Sydney,
ENGINEERS, MERCHANTS. Auctioneers and Valuators.
MACHINERY AND HARDWARE.
ALL C.LASSES MINING MACHINERY AND CONTRACTORS’ PLANT AVAILABLE.
Write «s for information on Machinery; It will pay you.
Unequalled for long wear
For dependability and long and efficient service on any drive—•
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
This belting has sixty-four years of sound experience behind it, and is
manufactured solely by
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
117 York Street, SYDNEY.
ANSLE
Try
0
AS SUPPLIED TO ROYAL NAVY
Insure witH the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual * ire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Workmen’s Compensation,
Motor Car. Plate-Glass Breakage, Burglary, Guarantee, Li\e stock,
Crops, Stacks, Hailstone, etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, 50 Queen Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
CLAIMS PROMPTLY AND EQUITABLY W™* COUNTRY TOWNS.
SYDNEY H. CARY. J-P-. Chairman. G. HOWARD POP*--. General Manager.
The striking of a vein at 125 ft. in South
Lucknow’s new shaft and assays going up to
9oz. caused a stir in Sydney last week, and
the 3s. 6d. contribs., on wh.ch only the appli-
cation money of 6d. per share has so far
been paid, went to 4s. South Lucknow is the
co. recently formed to continue the work
which a mostly-local syndicate had begun
on portion of the south-eastern extension of
the old Lucknow held, and the syndicators
liked their chances so well that very j.ew of
the shares in the co. left their hands. Details
of the operations since the have
been given regularly by the “Wild Cat.” The
syndicate set out to ascertain whether the
favorable surface indications reported over
two years ago by Government Geologist L.
F. Harper gave promise underground. Steady
plodding revealed factors similar to those
which had existed in old Lucknow ground:
contact of the serpentine and diorite was
proved, spurs were found, and in a winze
put down on one from the G2ft. level the
first values were got. Down 14ft. in the
wdnze 12oz. values showed. Having got
thusfar, the syndicate decided to float into
a co. and proceed w r ith development on sound
mining lines. A new shaft was commenced
to get below the ground already tapped: it
was proposed to go down 125 ft. and then
crosscut. The shaft has, however, bottomed
on a spur which has given values up to 9oz.
It is too early yet to decide whether this ore
body is the same as was encountered above
in the winze at the. 62ft. level, or whether
two distinct spurs on the joint have been
tapped. Anyway, the development is an
important one; and in sinking of the well-
hole the vein appears to have widened to the
full width of the shaft. All the favorable
factors, even to first values, which were asso-
ciated in the once-famous old field, have
been proved to exist. Another came to light
last week: samples of the 9oz. stuff from
shaft seen by the “Wild Cat” showed calcite,
which in the past was always associated with
high values.
Whether South Lucknow is on the eve of
unearthing sensational values such as were
found in the old workings to the north-west
further development alone can definitely
prove. But results to date are at least
a triumph for Government Geologist Harper,
whose favorable report on surface indica-
tions was wholly responsible for the forma-
tion of the syndicate which proceeded quietly
with development. Should the present find
be a winner, the South Lucknow has up to
3000 ft. of virgin joint on which: to seek
further golden spurs.
» « » •
Three cos. and four syndicates are now
at work on the Lucknow field. Lucknow
Pups, which has about 1000 ft. of virgin joint
between the old workings and the South’s
ground. It also has struck values, the vein
in the 114 ft. level having given assays of
from 2oz. to Boz. Development has reached
an interesting stage: cross-cutting across the
vein is now proceeding with the object of
ascertaining what the footwall side of the
vein offers.
* * * *
Deeps at Hill End (N.S.W.) has been
doing better lately: good stone is being won
on the western boundary at the 220 ft. level.
So the time is considered opportune for a
new float. It is proposed that Hawkins
Hill Main Reefs should take over properties
adjoining the Deeps’ western boundary from
the Hill End Boulder syndicate, which, with
the promoters, will take 50,000 2s. fully-
paids, and leave 50,000 contribs. for the
public. Brownlow, Cooper and Oertel, who
are engineering the float, declare that “with
the sinking of a 250 ft. shaft we will cut all
the reefs that turned out the big gold of
Hawkins Hill. We may state that the co.
has been very lucky to secure these leases,
and it has only been after negotiations last-
ing over a few years that this property can
now be put before you.” The accompanying
prospectus says that the property “embraces
the main reefs of the Hawkins Hill channel
of reefs, viz., Mica reef, Star of Peace reef,
Paxton’s reef, Middle workings and East
reef, according to recent measurements.” On
whose testimony is that claim made? And
if the ground is so valuable why should the
syndicate let the public in on the good thing
to raise a paltry £5000? Work has already
been done down to 200 ft., but it is proposed
that the Main Reefs Co. should prospect
from a main shaft down 250 ft., because
“according to recent developments in the
adjoining co. the golden zone is a little deeper
than 200 ft.” As all Deeps’ reefs are appa-
rently pitching to the east, The Bulletin
•would like to know what the promoters can
show to support their claim that “there is no
doubt about the continuation of the gold” in
Main Reefs ground, on Deeps’ western
boundary.
* * * *
An old mining writer’s appreciation:—
Robert Sticht was the greatest ’Murkan mining
man who has pitched his camp in Aussie. He was
the opposite of Hoover in every respect, although
the latter was placed on the big pedestal by Curie.
Sticht hated self-advertising, hated market-jobbing,
hated the average mining-engineers’ mix-up with
financial houses. He preferred minding the busi-
nes:i oi his own show to rushing around the world
to see if he could find a new claim. Hoover's
plan when dealing with a newspaper man was to
have Mitchell or some other satellite beside him to
testify if awkward questions were put. Stkht didn t
care. If within 10 minutes he did not find out if
he could trust the man he was talking with, no one
was to blame but himself. Sticht was strict about news
leakages from- subordinates, but he himself would
talk freely. Sticht never pretended that he knew
everything, and often would laugh that Teddy
O’Keefe was far better informed about the mines of
the held than he. He did not mind what O’Keefe
knew, for he trusted that veteran West Coast journal-
ist just as any other old west coaster would do.
Sticht didn’t like promising young fellows to gather
moss at Lyell, His advice to them always was to
strike out, prove themselves, and force favors from
Dame Fortune. To walk with Sticht around the old
mine was a joy. Always a smile and a kind word,
and appreciation of others’ difficulties, and a desire
to be a bit more than “the boss.”
The great qualities of Sticht were his philosophy
and his application of scientific precepts to the busi-
ness he ran. llis philosophy made him happy and
contented in a wind-riven spot like Queenstown. It
carried him through the rows and irritations insepai-
able from a task such as was his, and it taught
him to value his home life as his most precious
possession. Would there were more with such ideals
and thoughts to save mining from the selfishness and
the general muddiness in which it so often wallows.
* * *
“Wealsman”: The death of “Bobby”
Sticht recalls the. sensation created in the
Speck a couple of decades ago by the news
that Lyell’s new boss was to receive £5OOO
a year, nearly double the. salary of the State
Governor, aiid by far the biggest screw ever
paid in Tas. But the clever and kindly
specialist lived long .enough to convince the
Island that a £lOO-a-week man could earn
every penny of his wage.
* * * •
Edna May Consolidated decided on liquida-
tion, and now Central is considering a
scheme of reconstruction. Since cessation
of pumping operations by the Edna May,
Central and Consolidated have, through
increased inflow of water, continued oper-
ations under great difficulty and expense.
Recently the water got the upper hand alto-
gether, and, as a result, the ore reserves
known to exist in the lower levels have had
to be temporarily abandoned. There is a fair
outlook for both cos. if some cheap method of
keeping the workings unwatered can be
devised. A duty of 100,000 gallons per hour
against a head of 500 ft. is called for, and
that is a big problem. The first cost of
installing Cornish lift pumps is too great,
while the running costs in connection with
the more cheaply installed compound centri-
fugal pumps are very high. A trial of a
pump with entirely new features was suc-
cessfully mode recently at Ivalgoorlie. With
this plant the use of rods, steam and power
in shafts is unnecessary. Two pipes are
carried down the shaft and connected with
an intake valve at the bottom. The pipes
are filled with water and pressure is applied
at the top of one pipe causing water to flow
from the other. The return stroke of the
piston applies pressure to the second pipe,
and water is discharged from each pipe
alternately. If some such method could be
applied to the Central and Consolidated
flood, divs. might be possible. As it is, very
promising ore reserves are submerged.
* * * *
Devon, of Linden (W.A.), carries on
under direction from Collins-street, but on
the same old rocky track. Only 200 tons
of ore went to the battery during the past
six months, and as 500 tons slimes did not
decant properly, the gold output was small.
Calls are mopped up in wages and to cover
the cost of construction work, the Childe
Harold plant having been added to equip-
ment. What can be the use of adding more
stamps to the present little mill if the ore
isn’t there? It takes more than the mere
verbal assurance that the mine is one of the
best to settle that point. An assayer to do
sampling has been got, so when J. W. Lever-
ington strikes Collins-street, on May 18, to
support the Board’s call for more cash he
should produce data to show tonnage and
grade in reserve, size of lode, length of shoot,
all on a sft. sampling chart.
• * * *
Perth shareholders in Lass o’ Gowrie
were displeased when they learnt that the
directors in Adelaide had abandoned, with-
out sampling, the option on Lalla Rookh
mine. They called a meeting to consider the
position, and a wire was sent to headquarters
asking the Board to reconsider the matter.
Adelaide is not likely to agree; hut Perth
shareholders at least want to know why the
option was so suddenly turned down. The
present position of the mine, in relation to
past performances, they claim, make it
worthy of a, systematic sampling.
* # # ♦
Good developments, both as regard value
and volume, continue at the 70ft. level in
Ives’ Reward (W.A.). However, the point
where improvement is most desired is at the
120 ft. level; there the lode is badly disturbed
and an improvement would mean much to the
co. If the developments at the 70ft. level
persist with depth the outlook for the co.
will have brightened. So far, though, no
degree of permanency for the mine has been
established.
• * * *
No clean-up has yet been made at the
Celebration. The plant has not been running
very satisfactorily, but that is not unusual in
connection with the early runs of treatment
plants. However, it is questionable whether
developments on the Celebration justified a
plant. Pay values do not persist below 100 ft.,
and the ore shoot is very short. Also, the
value of the gold content is low, as the first
yield will soon show.
•» * * *
Larut, formerly run from Sydney, now
has its headquarters in Malaya, and the
latest accounts cover 11 months’ operations
since the new co. took over. The 1920
accounts were also for 11 months, and com-
parisons have been as follows:
Treated Recoveries. Realised Working
Dec., . c. yd. lb. per yd. per yd. Costs per yd.
1918 .. 991,000 .91 15.9 d. 4.9 d.
1919 .. 887,000 1.19 18.2 d. 7.5 d.
Nov.,
1920*.. 837,000 1.16 21.8 d. Bd.
Dec.,
1921* . . 933,000 .98 10.37 d. 5.5 d.
*ll months.
For the 1920 period Larut concentrates aver-
aged £176 per ton; last year only £9B ss.
The grade fell off nearly one-fifth of a pound,
so the return per yard was less than half
that for the previous year. However, Malaya
rapidly re-adjusted itself to the all-round
slump in prices, and reduction of wages and
other charges enabled Larut to get its work-
ing costs down 24d. to sid. p Q r yd. But the
working profit at 4.8 d. was 9d. poorer than
in the last of the boom years. However,
the co. made a profit of £17,591, almost all
of which went to pay 3s. (id. of divs., or
slightly more than 17| p.c. on capital. But
£4577 net earned in the two months after
the old co. was wound up and before the
new one took over was used to write down
spares, etc., to replacement value. The co.’s
finances were very comfortable at December
31: cash in’ hand exceeded all liabilities by
£BOO, and there were, apart from £10,743 of
stores and spares, other liquid assets total-
ling £15,700. Tin prices have lately been
lower than when Larut first went into busi-
ness r but costs are also coming down. For
the current year general-manager John Cam-
eron expects to reduce working costs to
per yd.
• * *
Larut’s twin-cubs, Tupai and Kota, are
both on the eve of production. The former’s
dredge is ready for action ; Kota’s should get
up steam towards the end of tins month.
Both shows did a little sluicing in the boom
days of tin, but that work was not A success;
still their operations at a time when the
meta] was in demand may have had some
influence on inducing the Malayan Govern-
ment to advance £15,000 to Tupai and
£lO,OOO to Kota. The latter co. was fortu-
nate in finding'a buyer for its sluicing plant
at £20,000; Kota’s is still on hand, with a
book value of £12,500. Each show added 44
acres to its area last year, but contents and
values have not been disclosed. Tupai pre-
viously had about four million yards going a
pound, a similar quantity going Hb„- and
10 million yards of fib. stuff. Kota had
approximately eight million yards of pound
ground and nine millions giving fib. Owing
to the sale of its sluicing plant, Kota is the
more comfortable: at December 31 it had
called up £81,250 of capital and owed
£16,966; Tupai capital had been paid to
£87,500, and debts totalled £28,163. So even
if the low tin market gives a fair profit-
margin. there is no immediate prospect of
good divs.
# # # «
From G. M. Powell, inventor of the plant
operating the Nawng Pet (F.M.S.) :
Permit me a word in reference to Nawng Pet and
the statement (B. 16/2/’22) that my System might he
successful at this mine if the, resources of the Sydney
water-supply were available. Hydraulic elevators are,
admittedly, large consumers of water, but my system
involves the use of about one-third the water neces-
sary with the upcast elevator. Or, using the same
volume, at least 300 p.c. more work is accomplished.
The lift is reduced by the “fall” necessary to carry
the dfbris to the sump by the gravitation a vs tent,
and because the suction pipe, being as close to the
working face as safety permits, a yardage equal to the
cutting capacity of the monitor is got. Under the old
style the monitor usually cut much more material
than could be delivered to the sump.
• * * *
Bowen Consolidated Coal Mines (N.Q.)
is preparing to launch out in a big way.
The railway from the field to Bowen will
be completed in about three months, and
the co. is now seeking additional funds to
develop and equip the properties to output
between 700 and 1000 tons daily. Nominal
capital is £125.000 in shares of £1 each;
25,000 are fully-paid and 23.000 eontribs.
have been paid to 15s. The co. is now
offering 50.000 new shares at Is. down, a
similar amount on allotment, and calls of
6d. per month. The Garrick seam, 7ft. to
Bft. of good coal, has already been opened
up ready for production, and the Bowen
seam, 17ft. of first-class fuel, is to receive
attention : two vertical shafts are now being
put dowui to cut the seam at 365 ft. John
McGeaclne declares that, as a steaming coal,
the Bowen Consolidated fuel “may be theo-
retically classed as equal to the best average
from any group of collieries now supplying
Australian markets.” The two seams are
estimated to contain 10 million tons market-
able coal.
* * * *
The towel has been thrown in by North
Woolamai Coal after 12 years’ battling.
Peter Mcßryde ceded the co. two blocks
when he started the Wonthaggi coal-mine, at
Powlett Basin, and it blossomed out to beat
the State at cheap mining. Government
bores showed seams running up to 6ft. thick,
but actual work shaded the pay streak of
coal down to loin., all the rest of the fuel
being so crushed or dirty tha.t it had to go
to the dump. Altogether £154,000 has been
dropped down the tunnel, made up of.
£66,0G0 put up by shareholders, proceed- of
coal sold, and £11,883 lent by the State. The
Government appears as first creditor, and
assets’ are valued at only £12.000. Seeing
that the 19 bores sunk originally were so
out of plumb, the Mines Department ought
to come on the carpet to explain why the:
State should not forego its debt to let share-
holders recover a bit of cash, especially as
later check bores failed to show what a
hollow sham the mine was. Gippsland has
been the worst of sinks for good cash ever
since L. T.. Smith. Stnmn. Nicholson and
others of the old mug persuaded themselves
that the field could beat Newcastle.
• * * #
North Oswald G. M. Syndicate is a new
venture at Maldon (Vic.), a field which has
been one of the richest goldfields for its
size in the State. Oswald’s mine in 60 years
has yield'd 345.7500 z., worth £1.750.000. and
is still paying dividends. The attract on
is a western spur reef I,oft. wide,
300 ft. long, and said to be worth an ounce*
The leases run for 3000 ft. along the strikp of
the eastern reef channels. There are three
shafts. Grand Junction (1000 ft.), Omhrian
(300 ft.) and H“well’s (250 ft.). When it
is remember'd that four mines in MaMon
each produced over a million nounds’ worth
of gold—South German. Beehive and Ger-
man, Oswalds and Eaglehawk Gonsolidat°d
(though certainlv not from tracts h’e ouartzl
—North Oswald’s looks like a fairly good
prospecting show. Bnt the vendors and pro-
moters’ hite of 40 of *h e 100 £25 shares,
along with £2OO of c“*h. io-ks a bit over
the odds for a prospecting go.


W«a-»r*rt<2. : U WV>o "tK<t ?
Tr&w&if - - Wa w.&rifr lo iospc-ci" you l'
W<2.a.r«e,; 11 Wh&+ -s3 a. ? *
Bas.j-r>axc.l<z. ' u Wiz'ra. on >/c>u !'
Waai-ne J" VlYiy +K<z- ?? *
*. W<Z-V<z V<z-i.ppraa yo«J •
, ir U ? ? M I %i/ O i f*
Waa.ma. •• • . • • .
Cj rce/Kolocu+ioo Wc-'rc going +<=> ok, you ?
W <z--*.Yr->a. :
* 1 £ C <3-YiW<fJr*->ccr> f pollVi’c.S I
2^-0y 4K<t W&&k . Ws 2k gfa.trw4
|r» VaAi | clo ye*J do youv own t”<Z.~ 2kJopv~£»l £> in£j; *
AND SO THE CITIES GROW.
Mr. Wearne, Minister for Lands, said that it was the intention of the Government to set out on a vigorous policy of land settlement—(applause)-and such a
body as the stall surveyors could do much to further that project. “I have been right through the business myself as a settler,” said Mr. Wearne. "I have
had a surveyor to inspect me, another to report on me, another to reappraise me, and yet another to sit on me. (Laughter.) I know all about staff surveyors
and land boards.”


1
i
i
2
Deafness increases if neglected. Compare
your hearing to-day, with what it was a year
ago, and note! how it has steadily become
worse.
Don’t allow any more of your hearing to
escape. Let us send you an Easy-to-wear
ACOUSTICON
to use for 10 days, just as if it were
your own, absolutely
FREE OF CHARGE
No deposit, no obligation, no expense.
The Prime Minister, Mr. Hughes, has
been using an Acousticon for over 5 years.
Send for yours To-day.
Latnson Co., 102 D !i y H -™.
Olderfleet, Collins Street Melbourne.
N.Z.—John Proctor 200 High St., Christchurch
W A.-H. Little &• Co.. 851 Hay St., Petth
“The drink of good taste.”
Delightful with dinner!
Satisfying with supper!
Brewed and bottled by
TOOTH & CO., LIMITED,
Kent Brewery, Sydney.
B
HAWAII
THE YEAR'ROUND PLAYGROUND
ďf
in
July
and
August
offers an especially
delightful summer
vacation to the visitor.
Continuous outdoor
sports: game fishing,
swimming, surfing, golf-
ing, mountain climbing.
Gorgeous Kilauea, living vol-
cano. Scenery of rare beauty ;
tropic fruits, flowers, trees.
Ask your nearest tourist, travel
or steamship agency for new
booklet, or write direct to
DEPT. B,
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Honolulu,
Territory of Hawaii, U.S.A.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Frank Mack, N. S. Wales wheat-farmer
and polo enthusiast, claimed in a valedictory
yarn to the Dubbo P. P. Board that his
uncle introduced the first rabbit to Austra-
lia. The fatal deed was accomplished at
Barwon Park, near Geelong (Vic.). The
misguided r old gentleman bred them in
hundreds in his own warrens before they
scattered. The principal hotel in Geelong
in John Austin’s time was known, as
“Mack’s.”
James L. Row, the father of Australian
wool-salesmen, has decided to down his
hammer. He is
son of that
Edward (“Teddy”)
Row who, in 1853.
joined Richard
Goldsbrougli and
George Kirk in
the stock, station
and wool business
in Melbourne, and
was a well-known
figure on the Vic-
torian turf. J.L.
came to Sydney 40
years ago to sell
for a leading wool-
broking firm, and
has been hammer-
ing without a
break ever since.
J. A. KERSHAW,
curator of Mel-
bourne Natural
History Museum.
“Pipards”: Acting-Premier Colebacch, of
W.A. —he was Premier for a brief but un-
pleasantly crowded three weeks of public life
in 1919 —is a native of Herefordshire, Eng-
land, where the long-horned cattle graze and
cider still lingers as an adjunct to bread
and cheese. Colebatch, whatever may b<i his
defects as an administrator or a construc-
tive politician, is as sound and easy a
speaker as the Westralian Parliament holds
—and also the most broguey. Although he
arrived in South Australia cetat four or
thereabouts, he brought with him a west-
country “burr” that the rolling years and
the change of environment have done nothing
to modify. Once, during the war, when he
was accused by some embittered political
opponent, whose strong point was not
philology, of wearing a Teutonic name, thinly
Englished, “Coley” scornfully and rather
grandiloquently retorted that his ancestors
had been located somewhere pear the Welsh
border ever since the days “When the gold
dragon of the Wessex kings On Hastings
field went down.” And nobody being in a
position to traverse the assertion, the con-
troversy ceased right there.
An old-timer M.L. doctor, who boasted the
astonishing name of Julius Decimus Tripe,
went west recently at 89. The son of one
of Nelson’s surgeons on the battleship
Grampus, he came to M.L. in ’62, in the Aber-
deen clipper Asterope, started practice at
Marlborough, and later settled at Wanganui,
where for 40 years he identified himself with
the Jockey Club, the Alexandra Cavalry and
freemasonry.
“E.”: Teddy Finn, the veteran Melbourne
journalist, was pre-
deceased- by his
brother “Paddy,”
well known in
press circles in
Sydney of 15 years
ago. Paddy had
been a hard and
constant consumer
of strong drink;
but submitted him-
self to the gold
cure, and was no
longer a victim to
the demon. I met
Teddy in Little
Collins-street one
day shortly after
the exnerimcnt on
his brother. “How’s
Paddy?” I asked.
Teddy sighed and
hung his head.
“Absolutely disas-
trous !” he said.
“Poor Pat, he’ll
never drink asrain.”
“Not dead?” I
gasped. “No, com-
pletely weaned!”
NICHOLAS
LOCKYER, for-
merly Comptroller-
General of
Customs, and after-
wards member of
the Interstate
Commission.
“El Yerdugo” weaves a wreath: —
Senator John Adamson, who threw himself under
a train at Hendra (Q.) the other day, after years
of failing health and personal worry, was one of the
fewsurvivors of Kidstonian days in Bananaland
politic. Originally a Noncomformist parson, he was
one of the most steadfast men in the game. In ’l6,
when' he had resigned from the Ryan Ministry, he
called on me in a Brisbane newspaper office.
Putting his umbrella dramatically in the waste-
paper basket, he produced a large sheet of paper.
“I resign my charter!” he shouted. “Give me two-
pence for it!” The “charter” certified that John
Adamson was the holder of one £1 share in the
leading anti-conscriptionist paper. Later John said
he would deal personally with Jack Fihelly, and
when, one night, the glad news was borne to us that
Adamson had half-killed someone at Parliament
House (he was a strong man with a Dempsey-like
punch) several thought of ordering wreaths for
Fihelly. But it transpired that John had made a
mistake. Coming upon a burly figure leaving a
telephone booth he thought he recognised his Hiber-
nian enemy and put his 14st. behind one good punch.
The first man to come to the rescue of the amazed
and flattened-out citizen was Fihelly himself. In
his latter years John had a deal of political trouble.
The inner Nationalist organisation turned him down
in ’l6, and in ’l9 it was only W. M. Hughes’s per-
sonal intervention that secured his nomination. Curi-
ously enough Adamson’s old Parliamentary colleague,
John May, M.L.A., was cut to pieces by a train not
more than a mile from Hendra in 1917.
J. M. Fowler, the dogged Scot who has
sat for Perth in the House of Reps, since
1901. will have to fight for his life at the
next election. One of his opponents will
he Alfred Carson, editor of the Western
. Mail, associate-editor of the West Aus-
tralian, and the best-liked man on Groper-
land’s Inky Way. A place in the Senate
would be easier to win, for the West has
. had enough of Henderson, Buzacott and De
■ Largie, but Carson’s mind is set on ropre-
' senting the city of his soul in the Chamber
that counts. He is a product of the Swan
• valley, like his father, who was one of the
first half-dozen white children born in W.A.
“Coot” recalls a queer will: —
Albert E. Langford, killed recently in America,
was one of the executors of James Crotty, who died
las far back as 1898, leaving over £lOO,OOO, The
will was contested by Grotty's widow, who was cut
off with a legacy of £3OO and an annuity of £lOO
during her life, with the strange proviso that if she
entered a convent she should receive £5OO per
annum extra. Ultimately, it was agreed by the
beneficiaries that her annuity should be increased to
about £lOOO a year, and she lived on it until about
1915. Langford himself benefited only to the extent
of a small annuity.
T. P. Mclnerney, who has been made
warden of Melbourne Uni. Senate for the
umpteenth time, is ageing visibly. The bril-
liant young man who made things hum in
the bright morning of the A.N.A. is in no
way suggested by the preoccupied oldster
of to-day. It is almost forgotten that the
doctor was for nearly two years (1900-02)
a- member of the Leg. Assembly. He was
a long way behind the other doctor of laws,
John Madden, who was appointed Minister
of Justice in ’75, less than a year after he
was first elected to the same House.
Present-day prads find it as easy to shift
Priminister Hughes as their sires and dams
did to get rid of Vic. Governor Brassey at
the end of last century. In Bent’s last year
as Vic. Premier he was a constant source
of worry to the inkslingers who accompanied
him on a tour lest the accident that was
sure to happen to him should .prove fatal.
Tommy died in bed: and so should Hughes
—if he only has the sense to buy a Shetland.
Mining-man Robert Sticht’s body was cre-
mated at Springvale Necropolis. k As he had
called himself a “scientific agnostic’’ there was
no religious service. But parson J. K. Robert-
son assured the friends who came to see
the funeral move off that he knew no Chris-
tian with a finer character or a more marked
disposition to do the fair thing by his fellow-
man.
“The Oldest Inhabitant’’ stirs some
printer’s ink :
The death of W. A. Gullick recalls that the first
printer in N. S. Wales was named Hughes, and he
was followed by George Howe, who established the
first newspaper, the Sydney Gazette, March 5, 1803.
When Howe died, in 1821, his son carried on the
paper for eight years, and then he was drowned off
Pinchgut, in January, 1829. The first official Government
Printer was John Kitchen, appointed Dec,, 14, 1840 ;
then came William John Row (1841) and William
Weane Davies, who was Acting-Printer in 1845, and
got the full job four years later. William Hanson
succeeded Davies in February, 1854, and in 1859
retired to join Samuel Bennett in re-establishing the
Empire newspaper, which had been dormant for
some months. Thomas Richards then got the job
and held it for 27 years, and Charles Potter followed
(1886) with a score of 10 years. Gullick was next,
and reigned 26 years. When Richards retired, by
the way, the Jennings Government talked of giving
the appointment to W. S. Targett, M.L.A. for Hart-
ley, a newspaper proprietor at Lithgow, but Henry
Parkes fathered a motion that no member could
accept a non-Ministerial office until he had been at
least six months out of Parliament.
Bishop Liston, of Auckland, whose trial
on a charge of sedition is giving an extra
kick to the Rickety Isles, is a native of
Maoriland. as are all his brothers and sis-
ters. _ With the exception of his theologtoal
training he received his education in his
native land, beginning at the Christian
Brothers in Dunedin. Plis sisters were
pupils of the handsome St. Dominick’s Con-
vent opposite.
“0.K.”; The official records of the 150
persons or so who have been executed in
Victoria do not include the name of Deem-
ing. The gentleman hanged for killing his
wife and burying her body under the hearth-
stone was arrested, convicted and executed
under the name of Albert Williams. He
never was Deeming, as far as the evidence
showed, and it was never officially known
that that was his father’s name. Biit for
the enternrise of Melbourne Argus in caus-
ing his. English past to be in'ouired into
and bringing a previously-murdered wife
and family to light, the identity of Williams
with Deeming might never have been dis-
covered.
“Fax” : Adam Rye, of Benalla (Vie.), went
west the other day on his 192nd btothday
after .4 years in Australia. The old chap de
el a red himself to be the youngest of a
family of 33, his father haying married three
wives, each of whom bore him 11 ch’ldren.
The father lived to be 301. Tn all 270 do
scendants are left to tell the tale of the
centenarian son of a centenarian father.
Judge Salmond, of M.L., who recently
visited Adelaide, where he was Law Profes
sor at the ’Varsity from 1897 till 1900.
found that several legal and political prizes
had been bagged by men who studied under
him. Among them are Judge Parsons, Pre
mier Barweil, Young, the ex-Agent-General,
and Villeneuve Smith and Napier. Iv’s.C.
“P.D.8.”: Age compelled Tom Mann to
throw up the job of general secretary of the
Amalgamated Society of Engineers, the
biggest union in Great Britain, but when he
got back from representing the Red Trade
Union International at the Moscow Congress
last May, he became president of those who
are trying to make the trade-unions act more
completely on Social Democratic lines. The
habitual old fire-chewer is now writing his
“recollections,”
Baptistry and bowls lost a front-ranker
when Wostmore Stephens handed in his
checks at Armadale, Vic., the other day.
He practised both arts assiduously in what-
ever spare time his big ragshop in Bourke-
street left him. In 1907-08 he was the
single-handed champion of Aus., and he lifted
the single-handed championship of Vic. in
1913-14. His years were only 55.
“Ex-Pedagogus”: Ex-inspector Shirley,
who passed out recently, was imported away
back in the ’seven-
ti e s when the
Bananaland Edu-
cation Department
was not scintillat-
ing with brillinrev.
He rose rapidly,
and but for a poli-
tical intervention
would have boon
Director of Edu-
cation. He was a
skilled botanist, had
a fair acouaintance
with geology and
one or two other
sciences and a
remarkable mem-
ory. The veteran
lost a son on
Oa’Pnoll whether
killed or eantured
or swallowed up
by an earthquake
no one could
ascertain.
Judge MURRAY,
of Papun.
Superintendent Appleby, of the Yic. police,
who is about to retire took over his first
beat in 1885. Five years later he became a
plain-clothes man and he has been in that
branch ever since. He waited 17 years for
a senior-constable’s stripe; but after that he
went ahead rapidly, and now he has been
superintendent of the un-uniformed peelers
for 11 years. George Steward, the late head
of the force, had a great admiration for
Appleby’s snuad, and, before retiring re-
cently, Gellibrand heaved a graceful little
compliment at it.
“F.C.C.”: Adams Frederick Nelson is
one of Maoriland’s business exhibits.
Thirty years ago he was doing up gardens
at half-a-crown a time. A few months
back he paid an ex-grocer’s assistant £5200
by way of one year’s commission. His line
is motor-cars and bicycles, and he made
his start repairing the two-wheelers, energy
being his principal asset. To-day he has
branches in every large town in the
Dominion, and is reputed to be worth half-
a-million.
Justice Duffy, of the High Court, had the
good sense to throw up a clerical job in the
Vic. Treasury 47 years ago and chance his
luck at law. The lad chosen to take his
place, John Aarons, retired the other day
from a desk in the Treasury on a pension
of about £BOO. He had risen only a couple
of steps. During the reign of Aarons the
revenue nearly quintupled itself.
Dr. A. E. liivett, who is to succeed Orme
Masson as Prof, of Chemistry at Melbourne
* Varsity, began his education as a State-
school boy in Vic. He did notable work at
the Ministry of Munitions during the Big
Scrap.
Mrs. T. J. Wills, who died recently at
Ballarat, aged 85, was a sister-in-law of
Wills, Burke’s exploring partner. She had
until a few years ago the watch which was
given King by Wills before his death. The
historic timepiece was once stolen from her,
but was subsequently restored, and she for-
warded it to another member of the family
in the Cold Country.
“T. 0.1.”: Edmund Finn, father of the
recently-dead Inky Wayfarer of the same
name (B. 4/5/’22j, was intended for the
priesthood, but side-tracked Maynooth and
came to Port Phillip from Tipperary in
1841. A brother, W. M. Finn, was
ordained priest by Dr. Goold, Bishop of
Melbourne, and for years officiated at
Heidelberg. For a time Edmund Finn the
elder engaged in clerical work, but in 1845
Cavanagh, who founded the Melbourne
Hebald, induced him to join the staff, and
during his 13 years with the paper be acted
in every capacity from editor downwards.
Finn, short, stout, near-sighted, and with
an enormous head, was as well known as
Johnny Fawkner, but more popular than the
pioneer. In 1858 John O’Shanassy,
Premier, offered him a clerkship in the Leg.
Council, which he retained until 1886. In
his young days he was an active promoter
of building societies, and in 1542 assisted in
the foundation of St. Patrick’s Society, of
which he was president, in succession to
O’Shanassy. It was in St. Patrick’s
Hall that Victoria’s first Parliament
assembled, and the Legislature remained
there until the advent of Responsible Gov-
ernment.
THE QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These girls who scanty garments wea»
Of fashion mostly charming',
Whose necks and chests, divinely fair,
And upper limbs when plump and bare,
To wowsers look alarming:
Whose legs, in silken stockings clad,
Invite admiring glances
From aged boy or verdant lad
The while their curves, in wowsers sad,
Excite ungodly fancies —
These girls who on the train we meet,
Or in the tramear or the street,
Girls up-to-date from head to feet
Whose keen young faces, smart and sweet,
Some Cream of Whatnot smothers ;
Oh, are they different indeed
From former gills of whom we read,
Or are they of the same Eve breed
As their revered grandmothers?
The manners change, but not the maid;
She strolled of old in leafy glade
With timid beau or gallant blade
If happy chance permitted.
’Twas not for soldiers on her own
She took up sock-making (when shown),
But just because, with inward groan,
She lived so much indoors alone
That poor Belinda knitted.
She had the craving to be gay;
She dreamed of dances night and day;
Her heart was ever at the play;
To skip along the primrose way
She knew that she was fitted—
But, oh, she couldn’t; Fate unkind
Compelled her to be “too refined.”
A veil of fraud concealed her mind
Where whims, like shadows, flitted.
The modern girl evokes a sigh
From middle-age; she’s envied by
Her elders. They, exclaiming “fie,”
With half a truth and half a lie,
The little minx have twitted;
But, all the same, she’ll live and die
As good as they who shammfng shy
Behaved like angels in the sky
Whilst hugging sin upon the sly.
Those sainted maids of yore, say I,
Were greatly to be pitied.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


OD SPORTS
:■:< v /
fv#
iaiii
Wm
m-~ "PWmMMm
/W
««r 'iiii®
W.D. e. H.O.WILLS
Hie
Three Ca/Ues
Brand
JL
JL
JL
€
The Man who plays Billiards
needs a sure eye, a cool nerve,
and. assured physical ancU
menial balance. He smokes
'Three Castles Cigarettes" because
they suit his taste. and do notr
affect his touch..


Overall, McCray, Limited,
Rozelle, Sydney.
Oil Wells Drilling Plants,
Artesian and Sub-artesian
Boring Plants,
Plants for Sale for all depths up to 5000
feet at Sacrifice Prices.
Will Supply Expert advice and drillers if
required, and advice on all matters apper-
taining to testing for oil.
Bore Casing up to lOin. diameter.
Inquiries solicited.
%
Peapes’ Warrigaf Underwear
In Correct Weights for Cold Days.
( The finest, Australian wool, when utilised to such advantage as in
Peapes’ “Warrigal” Underwear, provides ideal warmth and pro-
tection during Winter weather.
Present season’s offering show
PRICES 5/6 LOWER THAN
LAST YEAR’S QUOTATIONS.
AAI6I. 32 34 36 38 40 42 44
Heavy-weight pure
natural wool Under-
shirts, hilf-sleeves 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6
AAI6I
Underpants
to match 19/6 19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6
Peapes pay postage.
Please state size.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Usher’s Hotel Ltd
A FIRST-CLASS, NEW AND
UP-TO-DATE MODERN
HOTEL.
* ' *
Baths-de-Luxe in most of the Bedrooms.
English and French Cuisine.
For perfection of Service, Com-
fort and Cleanliness, Usher’s
Ltd. equals anything north or
south of the Equator.
\RTIIUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
"THE QUEEN OF SHERBET VISITS
KING SOLOMON .”
“Copabella”: As no man is a hero to his
valet so may no woman successfully “put it
over” her washlady in the social sense.
“Your boss, now/’ said Mrs. Squiggs
blandly, the last time she obliged, “we gotta
pretty good idea what he gets. You has
things accordin’.” She nodded approval of
the ungarish serviceability of the garments
she was destroying. “But them Plantagenets,
now; runs a car —on’y a. Hupp., suttinly—
plays golf in chessboard stockin’s an’ them
floppin’-over shoes. Has her ‘day’—Wednes-
days, with Tilly ’lggins in fer th’ aft’noon
in cap an’ strings. An’ im’ ’is club. Cake
forks an’ on’y a mat on the dinunroom table,
no clorth. Gives parties at a caffy an’ so
on. And” Mrs. Squiggs paused dra-
matically. “Lin’gry unbleached calico —
sheets ripped down and the selvidges j’ined
to make ’em last out, towels just rags, him
wearin’ his pijimies fer underclo’es ’s often
as not —an’ their kids! My Gawd ! them
kids wears just anythin’—underneath!
Garries some dawg, let me tell y\ them
Plantagenets does; but, Lor’, we knows!”
*■■***
“Barnum” : I would like to nominate for
the professional sell-advertisement stakes—
complacent in the assurance of an easy win
—the N. S. Wales Bar. Out of half-a-dozen
Sydney papers which are before me as I
write I have gleaned the following:—
Mr. Blog'gs, of Wigworth Chambers, has been
obliged to take a short rest from his professional
work. He and his family will go into residence at
“Mon Repos,” Bungley’s Inlet, where the distin-
guished Equity junior will pursue his favorite sport
—fishing.
Mr. J. William-Sniggs—who was an Acting-Dis-
trict Court Judge for some months and is well known
on the Common Law side —has gone to Dubbo, where
he has relatives.
Mr. Peavero (he was “with'’ Mr. Mac Stitch, K.C.,
in the Brannigan suit, which lasted three weeks and
cost the parties £15,000) is golfing at Manly.
Another sheet has a cross-headed article signed by
Tracey Bandersnatch, K.C., on the correct attitude
of counsel (the money being perfectly “good”) where
(1) the accused (the charge being one of murder)
has admitted his guilt and disclosed his intention, if
acquitted, of destroying one of his victim’s relations ;
and where (2) the piaintiff in a suit for false im-
prisonment has revealed —not without a touch of
pride—that the entire matter is based on a conspiracy
between himself and his chief witnesses. Elsewhere
in the same issue is an anecdote of how Bandersnatch
saved a solicitor from death by drowning; and a
reference to the ability of his son (“a chip of the
'Old block”) who “like his brilliant sire proposes to
follow the Law.” In a rival publication Peavero
holds forth to the extent of a couple of columns on
the Imperial aspect of the Genoa Conference. “This
remarkable young barrister,” adds the editor in a
footnote, “will favor our readers next week with an
article on the incidence of cerebral meningitis
amongst judges—a subject of which he has made a
profound study at his Chambers (2000 Phillip-
street, Second FWtor).
No wonder tfa£ non-advertising members of
the profession are dreaming of a Bar Ethics
code on the lines of the one which is enforced
so drastically by the B.M.A. However, the
thing is not like to get beyond the realm
of dreams. The limelighters of the profes-
sion have bolted, in a manner of speaking,
and it will take more than the palsied hands
of a few Union Club members to stop them.
“Quis Custodiet”: It is not necessary to
go to India for instances of the evils of non-
co-operation. A Sydney paper recently
headed its fight report “Exeunt Garcia,” and
the following week it rebuked a contempo’ , “ry
for referring to a horse’s forearm. (“Was
he a horse or a man?”) If the sporting edi-
tor had conferred with one of the Latinity
editors he would have been warned against
associating a Mexican pug with the third
person plural; anti if the editor for insults
had consulted the veterinary editor he would
have been told that a horse has a forearm
as well as a man. #
“D.F.” tells a tale of stiff luck: —
Japan welcomed her first visitors from Australia
in 1829. In August of that year 40 convicts
mutinied on the brig Cyprus as she lay becalmed in
Recherche Bay on her way from Hobart Town to
Macquarie Harbor (Tas.). They dumped the guards
ashore, reramed the vessel the “Friends of Boston,”
and (the navigators being one Fergusson and Swallow,
an ex-sailor) reached Japan. Fergusson and others
went ashore; Swallow and the rest bore up for
Canton. There is no record of what happened to
those who stayed in Japan. Swallow sank the
Cyprus off the mouth of Canton River, and the crew
went up in boats, with a yam about being ocean
castaways. Swallow took the nanje of Captain
Waldron, but some of his men forgetfully addressed
him as “Wilson.” This aroused suspicion, and tho
whole gang was shipped off to London. They
remained at liberty there till one of them, Popjoy,
was arrested for begging, and in explaining things
ha blew the gaff on the mutiny. Swallow ard the
others were arrested, but would have gone unidenti-
fied had not Capon, the chief constable at Hobart
Town, been in London on a holiday. He hap-
pened to read of the case, strolled down out of
curiosity, recognised Swallow, Hart and Davis, and
the Judge did the rest.
* * * *
“0.K.” on the process : onal habit y
Out of the mouth of Melbourne’s Gaud Ma’*or came
words of wisdom last week, when he told inter-
state delegates to the local Eight Hours’ Day cele-
brations that the time for processions has passed.
“If you want to flaunt your banners, why not place
them round the sports area where they can be seen
all day ?” asked the Mayor. But why • flaunt pre-
posterous things that profit no one save the
firm that brings them into the world? «Proces-
sions through the streets, punctuated by' unwieldy
emblems borre by weary mortals who are supposed
to be partaking in a festival, belong to ages of
greater ignorance than this. Representative citizens,
maintaining that a lust for processing is ingrained in
human nature, and must be satisfied as long as
humanity endure 3, talk the same sort of nonsense
that their remote ancestors bellowed when the practice
of jousting by knights in armor first came into
intelligent ridicule, To the ancient . Roman, it
seemed that the carrying of busts through the city
was a custom that had come to stay. The expression
“time honored” applies onto' to public formalities
which time brings to decay. The long day for these
procession! (of the old Lord May.or’s Show variety)
is dead. They are mendaciously alleged to “please the
children,” whereas they are too long and monotonous
to do aught but bore the youngsters stiff. What trade
unionists begin to think of their annual procession is
evidenced by tho fact that whilst unions grow more
numerous the number of processionists diminishes
steadily. And 50 per cent, of those that do perform
would like to be excused. It is characteristic of all
such displays that the demonstrators in many cases
are oppressed by a sense of absurdity or hypocrisy,
especially in funeral processions, where the larger the
pageant the smaller the proportion of real mourners.
Sometimes the pageant is so large that there are
no real mourners at all.
PARTIALLY HUMAN.
“I suppose you consider me a perfect ass?”
“Oh, no, darling. I don't think any of us are
really perfect."
“Skipper”: Adelaide ’Tiser quoted on
Anzac Day the war record of the McDonald
family. Private J. McDonald joined the
10th BattaLon, and though blown up by a
shell he came through with ar whole skin.
Six of his brothers, however, were killed
and two wounded, one losing both legs and
the other an arm, while of two sisters serv-
ing as Army. Nurses one was wounded. The
record of the Chisholms is nearly as tragic.
Don Chisholm (formerly of the Seaforth
Highlanders) was also of the 10th.' He was
a lance-corporal at the Landing, got wounded
in the head and was shipped to Alexandria.
Three weeks later he d.sappeared from hospi-
tal in the night and made his way back to
the battalion. His wound hadn’t quite healed,
but the M.O. reckoned he could fix it. and the
O.C. held his tongue. He was R.S.M. when
we sailed for France. He got his commis-
sion there, and a bullet which smashed his
right hand and put him permanently out of
the hunt. Don is still going strong, but his
six brothers, who served in British regi-
ments, were all killed.
**'#*
“H.K.W.”: Dirt-box Dick, the township
derelict, even in his cup 3 had an eye to the
main chance. Outside O’Regan’s pub he
was singing:—
“They’re hanging men in Ireland now
For the wearin’ of the green.”
Just then the Presbyterian parson, president
of the Benevolent Society, came round the
corner. “And serve the right!” added
Richard fervently.
* * * *
Note from the inside:—
The Melb. Gaol authorities are furious at a Sydney
yarn about the informer .Harding having got a letter
froin Ross, which, in some unexplained way, was
thrown into a street. But they are in the awkward
position of being unable to issue denials. For one
thing, if they officially call Harding a liar now, the
public may reasonably ask: “Was he not a liar in the
witness-box, too ?” Warder William A. Hughes, who
has been superintendent of the gaol hospital for over
a quarter of a century,'denies absolutely that either
Harding or Dunstan was allowed to do work of any
kind in the hospital. As a matter of fact, after
Harding and Dunstan gave their evidence against
Ross, the other prisoners threatened to lynch them.
In their own interests they were removed to the
hospital, which stands in a yard by itself, being cut
off entirely from the other part of the prison by
high walls. Even there no other prisoner would
have anything to do with them; they were
regarded as “Judases,” This treatment so affefted
their nerves that they had to be given sleeping-
draughts; and it was only bn these occasions that
they were near the dispensary. And then they
got no farther than the door. They were removed
to Geelong Gao] on Wednesday, May 3. Harding
is to get £250 and Dunstan £l5O “blood money,”
and they will then be smuggled off to a country
that is unacquainted with their record.
“Invalid”: Believers in telepathy, it seems
to me, do not allow sufficiently for coinci-
dence, for individuals who. suffer from delu-
sions owing to nervous disease, and, lastly,
for the very vivid imagination possessed
by the ordinary
healthy human being.
Sir Ray Lankester,
in a letter to the
Times some years ago,
said: “Modern biolo-
gists do not accept
the hypothesis of tele-
pathy advocated by
►Sir Oliver Lodge....
We seek by the study
of cerebral disease
to trace the genesis
of the phenomena
which are supposed
by some physicists
who have strayed into
biological fie 1 d s to
justify them in an-
nouncing the dis-
covery of ‘telepathy’
and a belief in
ghosts.” This seems
a bit downright, but
I notice Sir Ray still
adheres to this atti-
tude, for in a recently-
published article he
speaks of “that pre-
tentious fiction called
telepathy,” and classes
it with a belief in the
divining-rod and un-
lucky days. Finally,
I would like to call
the attention of Bul-
letin paragraphists
who come along with
instances of telepathy,
to the fact that a
man in England
named Massey has a
standing offer to pay
fIUL) to any person
who can prove a case to the satisfaction of
a lawyer, a conjurer and a scientist. He
reserves the right, though, to name the three
arbitrators.
* # * *
One of the heads of the Melbourne police
force, in a recent outburst, got on to the
head of the nail when he urged that Vic-
toria’s honorary magistrates are largely to
blame for the present flourishing state of the
State’s burglary-trade. Most wrongdoers
are, in the first instance, brought up in the
District Courts before a bench of hono-
r a lies. Usually the J.P. is a middle-aged
tradesman who is poorly educated, has never
studied law, and knows as little about its
workings as his fellow-tradesmen; yet to
him is given the job of weighing evidence
and administering justice. Naturally coun-
sel for the accused concentrates on the be-
wildered Solon until, as happens frequently,
the J.P., fearful that an adverse judgment
will later be quashed on appeal, takes the
easiest way out and either discharges the
accused or inflicts a nominal penalty. The
sole remedy seems to be the appointment of
enough stipendiary P.M’s. to deal with all
District Court cases. It will save a deal
more than it costs in the long run.
SHE HAD INQUIRED.
THE SMLOR: “ You'll soon get your com-
plexion bach at sea.”
THE INVALID: “Nonsense! The barber on
this ship doesn't stock any kind of rouge
whatever.”
AMERICAN RELIEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A message from Reval says it is reported that an
American famine-relief leader has been killed and
eaten at Samara, on the left bank of the Lower
Volga.”— Cable.
“I bring you food,” the envoy cried:
“I bring relief
In buns and beef
And many other things beside.
Chicago has disgorged its beans;
New York has from its ample means
Subscribed to buy you jam.
Soon you will eat of this good cheer;
Lift up your hearts and do not fear!
As proof, see, here / am.”
The envoy spoke American —
One magic word
Alone was heard,
And passed along from man to man —
“He says he brings us food,” it ran ;
“Where is the food?” Each mouth began
To water at the thought,
And still the fat man yelled aloud,
While hungrier grew the starving crowd,
“Food, food to you I’ve brought.”
The famished villagers replied
In accents rude,
“Where is the food?
Why are no buns or beef supplied ?”
The frantic envoy cried in vain,
“Shut up! They’re coming by the train.”
The Bolsheviks howled “Food!”
They weighed his fat with avid 100k5....
And next he was by Moujik cooks,
In his own hair-oil stewed.
Moral.
When hungry, do not wait for beef.
Let well-fed Yankees bring relief.
a.s.w.
HOUND OF CRETE.


;
• V, !
> - ■• - - -- -
.. , v ' ,r;; . -
'mmm
mfr
ISsI
■
V-
A * .1
• A..
. I ; - : V.
m i
w
■
v~a. li.
I
.
“ ,C ckKU>
\xxy \ ”
ď


K372.—Elegant Diamond Brooch, set plati-
num and 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
No. 114.—Three-
Diamond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
K444.—Four-Stone
Diamond half-hoop
Ring, set Pure
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold, £3O.
160. —All Diamonds, set Platinum
Proocli, £3O.
GIFT DISPLAYS.
These illustrations represent New and Exclusive
Designs selected from our varied stock of Artistic
Gift Jewellery. We cordially invite you tc
inspect at either of our two Sydney Establish-
ments.
E=3
Wristlet Watches in 9ct. Gold, with Expanding Bracelets. Prices:
£4/10/-, £7/10/-, £B/10/-
Stewart Dawson & GcwjLm
Sydne-if &stablisments :
185 -187 PITT ST. NEAR. KING ST.,
CORNER 412 GEORGE ST..
K375.—-Fashionable Diamond Brooch, set
Platinum and 15ct. Gold, £B/15/-
No. 129. —Seven
Fine Quality Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold, £l4/10/-
Two-Stone Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold,
£l4/10/-
155. Five-Stone Diamond Brooch,
£l5/10/-
“Astor” shudders over certain aspects of
scragging:—
More than one of the 40 or 50 who saw Colin
Ross swing must have felt that the whole disgusting
business is out of keeping with modern sentiment.
It is not only the actual execution, but the rehear-
sals of it that are supremely horrible. For two or
three nights before the end Ross’s executioner prac-
tised with the bolt and a bag of dirt. The hired
assassin was a sailor whose slipknots were his
greatest pride. lie practised with them, running
them up and down with a tender hand, and the
most hardened warder must have sickened at the
sight. As a matter of fact, the warders were the
persons most affected by the solemn idiocy of the
Law’s vengeance. The long night vigils, combined
with the anxiety that Ross might lose his nerve
at the iast, kept them in a state of tension that
their superiors would scarcely appreciate. Nor did
it lessen the tension that at the last the murderei
was unexpectedly impassive. Perhaps a long latent
histrionic sense came to his relief on the drop and
enabled him to enjoy the rare bliss of delivering
a perfectly-spoken denial of the crime, instead of
the confession that the police and the reporters
were obviously dying for. An exquisite revenge,
when you come 'to think of it, and vastly adding
to Ross’s interest as a criminal curiosity. But
while you may forget the chief actor, the beastli-
ness of the little drama will remain a powerful
PHOTOGRAPHIC (SNAP FOR SNAP).
A UNT: “Bra[?] thing, going out exposed
like that.”
THE BABE: “ You'd do the same , old thing,
if you were well developed.”
recollection. No amount of talk about justice being
vindicated will ease the sensation of that fateful
procession, the fatuous demand for the body, the
mouthing and trembling parson, the two hideous
guys in Ku lilux headpieces. If capital punishment
is to be retained, at least the barbarous and hideous
accessories of hanging might be replaced by some-
thing more scientific and humane.
* * * •
“Erk”: The doctor was showing me over
the lunatic asylum, near Morrisset, N.S.W.
After meeting the usual King Georges, Napo-
leons, etc., the monotony was broken by a
particularly lively old chap with “Good
morning, doctor; when are you going to let
me outV” “How long have you been here?”
“Oh, about 200 years.” “Well, old man,”
said the M. 0., “you stay here another 200
years and you can go.” _ The internee seemed
delighted, and we left him merrily whistling.
The medico confided to me that the ancient
had but one ambition —to be out in time to
see a serious beginning made on the North
Shore Bridge.
“Howitzer”; “Old Gertie,” the beloved
and valorous M.O. of the Ninth, was a friend
to straight-goers but a terror to lead-swing-
ers. One bright youth realised this when,
after drinking a mixture intended to pro-
duce accelerated heart-action, he went to
“Gertie” in search of a Blighty. After
examination the sufferer was told that his
heart was indeed very weak. “But no
matter, lad,” the M.O. went on. “A hop-
over is due in a few hours’ time, and that’ll
do your heart more good than any prescrip-
tion I could give you.”
SO TACTLESS OF HER.
CAPTAIN BRAGGINS (late of the A.S.C. staff): “-and the principles for which we
fought and died.”
MISS BOARD (showing a slight interest): “Oh, Mr. Braggins, I didn't know you did
either. Tell me all about it!”
“Straphanger” : It was the last tram home
to Bondi, and the hefty ex-Digger who had
been to a battalion reunion was making
jovial attempts to enter into conversation
with a reserved Pommy opposite. All efforts
failing, the ex-Dig. beamed on his irrespon-
sive neighbor and reminded him: “You
aren’t in Piccadilly now, choom.” The
barb went home. The Pom was plainly
doing some deep mental dredging in quest
of a reply. At last it came. “And you, mai
good fellow, are not in Horseferry-road.”
“Te Pana”: New Plymouth (M.L.) is
losing a famous landmark
through the destruction of
the towering sugarloaf rock,
Paritutu, near the artificial
breakwater. Six hundred
feet high, it has a romantic
history, and its summit for
many generations was a
sanctuary for the Maori
tribes living in the vicinity
when visiting parties of
natives were on the war-
path. The stronghold was
finally captured by a Wai-
kato tribe, who practically
wiped out the defenders, one
of the few survivors, a
young woman, making a sen-
sational escape by climbing
down the sheer face of the
seaward rock and swimming
to a whaleship which hap-
pened to be in the vicinity.
She accomplished the feat
carrying an infant on her
shoulders. Paritutu is
doomed in order to provide
material for harbor-extension, works.
* * * *
“Azrina” on a question as delicate as it
is vexed :
While it would be unscientific to deny the possi-
bility of influencing sex-determination by injecting
preparations derived from the endocrine glands, e.g.,
thyroid and supra-renals (B. 13/4/’22), obstet-
rical circles are doubtful, not to say sceptical, on
the subject. So many factors, known and unknown,
influence sex-determination. Still, we are undoubt-
edly getting somewhere. The unique conditions of
furlough during the Great War enabled Siegel to
ascertain the exact dates of many fruitful unions;
and from an examination of several hundred he
concluded that, in 86 per cent, of cases, fertilisation
of young ova resulted in the production of male
children, whereas if the ova were “old,” female
children were bom. Rarely is it possible to obtain
the requisite data (for obvious reasons), but in five
cases I have done so, and thereupon prophesied cor-
rectly the sex of the unborn child.
* * * *
“J.F.H.” : That remarkable early Austra-
lian banker, squatter, voyager and adven-
turer, Ben Boyd, is once more in the Lon-
don limelight. He is supposed to have been
killed and eaten by the Solomon Islanders
in the early ’fifties, but no actual proof as
evidence of his fate was ever discovered. An
advertisement offering a reward for definite
information was published in the Times in
July, 1880, and now a Sydney lady has
written to the advertising firm wanting to
know whether the money is still on offer —
which presumably means that she has dis-
covered something of importance. Benja-
min made a big splash in the late ’forties,
and actually imagined he could create a
rival metropolis to Sydney on the shores
of Twofold Bay. And so did others. Wells’s
“Gazetteer of the Australian Colonies,” pub-
lished in Sydney and London 73 years ago,
devotes some 20 pages .to Boydtown and
only two or three to Sydney and Melbourne.
Boyd was the first man to import Kanaka
laborers into Australia, employing them on
his squatting stations in the Monaro coun-
try and also on his whaling ships.
‘"The Moralist” : The narrow escape cited
by “Mag” (B. 27/4/’22) doesn’t raise my
hair. A newchum miner dropped 10 plugs
of dynamite down a 30ft. hole, among his
presumably newchum mates, and though
some leapt and a few swore nothing hap-
pened. Well? Anyone used to handling
explosives knows that litho-fracteur, which
includes gelatine, gelignite, dynamite, etc.,
cannot be exploded in the open air. Fracteur
burns viciously when ignited, but will not
make a noise imless the charge is packed
close and airtight. When converted into
gas by explosion, it immediately requires
4000 times greater space. Had the cove
dropped l-100th the amount of fulminate of
mercury, of which they put a grain or two
in detonators,; he would have told the yarn
to St. Peter at the pearly gates.
* * * *
“W.D.”: “Billy” Stops, vice-chancellor of
the Speck’s University, speaking with a
bottle, of stout and a crayfish suspended by
an invisible wire over his unsuspecting head,
managed to slip a few splinters of Uni. in-
formation into the barrage of wild hilarity
at the annual commem. the other night.
While in 1893 there were a dozen under-
grads., no grads, and three professors, the
University now boasted 202 undergrads.,
seven professors and 12 lecturers, and a
record of over 250 degree-winners. Though
few wealthy .Tasmanians had remembered
the little Uni. in their wills, grateful acknow-
ledgment could be made of substantial gifts
of equipment, made by electrical firms for
the laboratories, of subscriptions by busi-
ness firms to assist the commerce course,
and of the offer of the Beturned Soldiers’
League to found a scholarship. Tas. schol-
ars may now take degrees in pretty well
every subject but geology. Yet it is one
of the most freakish geological countries on
earth.
* * * •
“Dido” tells the story of a successful
courtship and an inadequately remunerated
cherub up aloft:—
The lift-boy at Burlington Buildings is quite 30,
and he has only one arm. He tells me he doesn’t see
how Oupid made a do of it. “Been doin’ a bit in
that line meself,” he says, “but I wouldn’t recom-
mend it to a bloke out of work as a payin’ game.
There was Bonnet, a hearty old bachelor, stayin’ here,
when a fat little bit iv a widder come along ’n’
settled. Report had it that Mrs. Hardy had a bit
iv property and some bags of beans. Anyhow, from
me observation post here in the lift I sees the ole
buck gettin’ out after her jest as swift as his
short thick legs would allow, an’ she namin' skittish
an’ coy all the time. That’s how their courtship
progressed, up an’ down stairs, in an’ out iv doors,
into the lift an’ out agin, alwiz on the run, her
blushin’ an’ timorous, him middle-aged, serious an’
resolute. I think he’s weakenin’ an’ hopeless, when
one day she bobs into my big lift on the ground
floor. Ten secs, later he’s duckin’ in after her. “Go
up!” he says, and I sees he thinks he’s got her
cornered at last. “If the lift goes wrong ’tween
floors fer five minutes,” he whispers me, “it’ll be
worth a bit.” Natural, the lift does hang fire a
spell, and over in the dark corner lie’s hooked on to
her hand, an’ puttin’ his case like a man with a
lot to do afore dyin’ on the stroke of 11. Dash me
if he ain’t kissin’ her, and she’s gurglin’ “Oh,
George!” That bein’ so, I starts the lift agin,
imaginin’ all’s well. They’re on the top floor. She
makes a dart for her sittin’ room, and George is
after her with fine spirit, she not bein’ outrageous
bad personally, and possessin’ a million, more or less.
Next trip up, George comes out smilin’ all over his
face. ‘it’s all right, the engagement is writ out
fer the press.’ He shakes me hand very cordial.
‘You did the trick, Henry,’ sez he, ‘and I keep my
word. Here.’ He pokes a sixpence into my duke!
I sez nothin’, of course, but I feels a ton. A sprat!
It’s so dam’ disproportionit.”
* * * «
“Skipper”: Touching some remarks by
“Pipards” (B. 27/4/’22), accept my assur-
ance that that little word “tart” still has a
very different meaning in England to what
we give it in Australia. I was convalescing
at a country house when the Aussie mail
brought me a copy of the “Sentimental
Bloke.” One night after dinner I read some
of it aloud, and all went well until I came
to the lines: “I tried to chat ’er, like you’d
make a start wiv any tart.” Thereat the
thermometer registered 20 degrees of frost.
“I say, old dear,” whispered the flapper of
the house next day, “is the ‘Bloke’ as spicy
as that all through?” A fog descended on
me, but a few weeks later when a gay old
dog was showing me his art treasures, it
lifted. “Who is the lady?” I asked when we
faced the portrait of a voluptuous dame
wearing an imitation of a modern Seymour
blouse. “Ah, my boy, isn’t she lovely?—
color —tone —flesh tints. Costs me a cool five
thou.” “Beautiful!” I echoed, “er—who
was she?” “Oh, the Duchess of Blank, you
know, one of Charles the Second’s tarts.”
“Inside Worker”: I am glad to see The
Bulletin reverting to the matter of lawyers’
fees. May I suggest that, as the time for
lowering N.S.W. politicians’ screws and
workers’ wages has come, the propriety of
cancelling that 20 per cent, addition to
N.S.W. solicitors’ fees be urged upon our
learned friends. It is beside the point to
argue that law costs are only a small item.
So is the salary of the manager of Cockatoo
Island, when compared with the total cost
of the work done there. No general-manager
in Australia gets Gs. Sd. plus 20 per cent. —
or even minus 20 per cent. —for sending a
message-boy next door with a letter—a mes-
sage-boy who draws a pound a week—be the
same a little more or less.
“Pat Bushie”: Among the birth-returns
forwarded by a district registrar in a small
country town to the Registrar-General,
Sydney, was an entry showing that the
child was born on the day after its parents’
marriage. Back came a query: “Is this
right?” The D.-R.’s reply was: “It is cor-
rect, but not right.”
•V * # «
South Aus., with the opening of the first
lock (at Blanchetown) of the Murray sys-
tem, has had to make traffic regulations.
They are mostly borrowed from America.
The order of precedence is to be (1) passen-
gers; (2) mails; (3) perishable goods; (4)
anything else. An approaching vessel will
have to announce itself three-quarters of a
THE IE GRATE.
"So you’re beginning to find that married
life has its troubles.”
“Yes. Tom sometimes simply won’t listen
to reason.”
“He ought to be ashamed of himself. Few
married men get the chance.”
mile away with a 10-seconds’ whistle, fol-
lowed by a shorter one, and may not
approach till the lock-master has given three
hoots in reply. Tolls have to be paid, and
every shipmaster has to furnish a manifest.
AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Between tbe trees I saw her pass,
Her slim foot brown upon the grass;
And, humming secret little lays,
She lingered where the lyre-bird plays.
Along the gully’s ferny flanks,
And by the cool creek’s bracken banks,
She moved and paused and mused awhile;
Then wandered bushward with a smile.
A lonely magpie sang to her.
Her robe, her ringlets made no stir,
As red rosellas seemed to scream
Before her in a painted dream.
So Autumn went in blue and green,
Now visible and now half-seen —
A phantom in a fantasy.
She beckoned from the hill to me.
I closed my desk. I left my room.
I sought her in the emerald gloom.
I only found a lyre-bird there,
And felt a crisp chill in the air.
And then I smiled, for bronze and red,
Yellow and gold the way she fled,
Great banksia candles glimmered high
To light the wattled Winter nigh.
N-s.w.
ZORA CROSS.


The Service that covers
the Motorists’ Map
h
J
l .
1C- *
*>XW*\ -*Y
zr-
mmm
r
fe
2.S&
** .' '
f PERTH |
• : ■ \ , - • .-.
- A'-<\
„ ,.... _ jxM \
\ - * f
• \
X-\
V - V ; " '^V
W \ - A- - - V
' ii ' C ‘ -
T^ERS.
I
' X-4'
imm®
-. . \\
%
fTfSKS
:;\
„
3fc-Ai
■ *, > : V
.■.'-'•r V
•*'•05'* -:<t —
1
4 •;"-P- ; AAf!C
& ll£
No matter where you go there is
an ExtbC Service Station to care
for your battery.
All over the world this organisation
of depots thoroughly qualified and
equipped to do all kinds of battery
work, exists to help the battery user.
At the back of the Service Depots
are all the resources of the oldest
and largest storage battery manu'
facturers in the world.
Get the l£xtbe habit—lt costs little
and saves much.
QUEENSLAND
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
WEST AUSTRALIA..
NEW ZEALAND
AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Howard Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., Hunt Street, off Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.
Sutherland & Ashman Pty., Ltd., Queen’s Bridge (2 Maffra St.), Melbourne.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., Rosina Street, Adelaide.
Unbehaun & Johnstone, Ltd., 404 Murray Street, Perth.
Hope, Gibbons, Ltd., Inglewood Place, Wellington.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT BTUEET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE. *
SOUTH .IUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS* FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON
HOTEL
LTD.
CENTRALLY SITUATED
Castlersagh St., near King St.
SYDNEY
DE-LUXE
Appointments and Attention.
OUR famous
CUISINE A SPECIAL FEATURE.
Inclusive
TARIFF
22/6
per Day.
Bed and
Breakfast
12/-
per Day.
world-famed
HATS
Australasian Agents:
GOLLIN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES - LINSEED OIL
Adelaide”: As the absolute champion
“inside vayback,” I nominate with confidence an
old maiden lady who died about 10 years ago at
Adelaide. She was s 0 “inside” as to live within
two miles of the G.P.O. In very early days the
family had a farm where now is the suburb Toorak,
and to get to town they had to pass through a sec-
tion of park lands which was frequented by doubtful
characters. On one occasion the girl, while walking
to the city, got a fright, and resolved never to ven-
ture away from home again. And she didn’t.
Suburbs spread round and beyond the farm, and the
Marryatvillc tramline passed within 400 yards of
it. But she stuck to the old home for another half-
century and never saw the city again. The farm
was cut up into building allotments as soon as
she died.
THE END OF THE SECTION.
SLIMME: “ Having a long holiday?”
STOUTIE: “No. The missus ’ll be down
next week.”
'Morob ': “Ragar’s” reference (B.
30/3/ 22) to Pacific islanders signalling with the
‘boo' shell, reminds me that some years ago I was
tiavelling in a launch along the coast of New
Guinea, with a patrol-officer, between Morobe and
Pinchafen, and one morning we put into a lagoon
to make a medical inspection of a village. On
resuming our voyage we had covered between four
and five miles when the native crew suddenly pricked
up their ears at a sound which came over the water
a single note, deep and resonant like that caused
by the beating of a native drum. The “boys”
listened for it to be repeated, and when it came
again a few seconds later, the boss boy, who belonged
to those parts, said we had left something behind at
16 PW. A cursory glance over our equipment
failed to show that anything was missing. A
minute later, when another “boom” had echoed
through the air the boy declared that the article
was a small surgical instrument—and, sure enough,
a search revealed that a small pair of forceps was
not in its case. A fourth and final drum-beat was
interpreted that the village people were sending it
to us, and about an hour afterwards a canoe with
a mat sail came alongside and delivered the missing
article. Our boys, when questioned, seemed to have
:.a idea of a code of signals, and were apparentlv
unable to explain how they had known what the
sounds meant. To us they seemed all alike, and
I’m prepared to swear that there were no more than
four drum beats in all. The existence of a kind of
universal code is unlikely, as the arrangement of one
would be beyond the limited mental capabilities of
the natives, and, what is more important, hardly
any two villages speak the same dialect, and it
would be necessary for all of them to understand
each other’s “talk.” Those who are most familiar
with the native have ceased to look for an explanation
ot these things. Whatever it is, the nigs, themselves
have plainly no intention of telling the white inhabi-
tants about it.
* * * *
“Billern”: We were talking snakes the
*7 ni sht, when old Fred came out with: “A lady
at 1 lowerdale’s got. two pet beauties—carpets, Bill
and Lizzie— -and they’re knowinger than dawgs.
Last month she had a little niece staying with her
and one day in the garden she felt "something hit
He Xt J Va , S ° ld BiU tryin £ to Set her atten-
tion ; then off he set, looking back to see she was
following. He lead her straight to the well, and
may I never sink another pot if there wasn’t the
poor kid half-drowned and Lizzie with her tail
around the windlass holding the nipper’s head above
water.”
u ** * *
‘7777”: Another instance of an animal
living a lengthy period without food or water recently
came to light at Darlington (Vic.). H. N. Watson
Inenf d A, attl oo.* itCh ’ and three weeks later a boy
)rv ted ber 20ft ' down an old well. The hole was
dry, so the dog had had neither food nor water for
still se t’ , though woefully thin, she was
stil! able to run about when hauled up, and made
straight for a creek, where she took a heroic drink.
In a few days she was her old self again.
“ Echap ” (B - 23/3/’22) and
Mitchell” (B. 16/2/’22) only appear to confirm mv
ongina! contention, that the .22 h.v. and other rifles
of its class were meant for amateurs. “Mitchell”
oX TZ ° f the bul,et Purred the skin
the hide ge “F r r’>>° r /o Se UeW a ga P in » h ole in
chewed si„ Z P 26/1 /’ 22 > his rifle
chewed sin of wood to sawdust. Such a shot
* he fil'Sone or ,h„„ J,"
' * ,kin “rnmodfl pur-
poses. Further, the sensitive bullet is of little use
among undergrowth as it so easily fl ies to pieces
For these reasons it is not 100 per cent efficient
as claimed by “Echap.” Like “MiteheTr i faS
ly hving before the war with a 32.40 and I
found that m careful hands, with kangaroos it left
ff 2 7 c5TtirS n fo i' impro - me JKJpiJ iv
Into a c C c°ou„t. f ltS "*** - *ak-
* * » *
T. ’: Boke was down and out, when
the vagrant dog attached himself to his heel—a fle.
bitten, bedraggled, foot-sore dog. Boke was doZiZ
butchm"* COII T C V a duoking Ulr - baker and the
butchei, and had no time for dumb animals rr„
Ponm StoneS ar ' d evil ob Jui'g , ations at Ponto but
verged C t a mvard oS h‘ to l, heel and as Boke’con-
verged towards his home, near where the
v* *
the abattoirs wv - V ° ”?° bS ° f Sheep bound for
' aMctons weie coming down two streets and in
mnunent danger of. getting boxed at the junction
The d!overs were working all their stock profanitv
in the hope of averting calamity, when suddenH-
Io to bounded into the argument. He tore mu d
among the sheep, and to Boke he seemed to hi
playing the deuce and all with both mobs'. Presently
things quietened down and the broken citizen tunf
ing homewards again, found himself confronted by a
sweating drover who had Ponto by the scruff “ti,;
Tour dog?” asked the sheepmam BokT scentft
demands for damages and things, was starting to
explain when the man continued, “I’ll gj ve you
iTftS ttot "I" 1 ’” ; SeVGn qUid! ” gas^ d Boke
miik if irT P amazement, but the drover
mistook it for disgrust. “Well ten then»
ejaculated. “Done!” said Boke. The drover counted
out the notes and took a receipt on a leaf of his
“Not h When WaS in be Se? and
said Now hes mine, mate, I don't mind telling
J t °iu t pu W h ° rtb aJI of Boke went home. He
by.dirt, ° n “ d “ e 01 lort -'
* *
IR . C,S ‘ : T he “snmll snakes ’ greyish-brown,
“R Fr? / black on head ’” owned by
snAe's r „ end (B ' 13/4 ” 22 )’ «e salt-bush
n f’-.r 7 grroWn and deadl >' Poisonous. They
will kill a man in 20 minutes. J
'' There is nothi * E g remarkable in
,i Tu‘„! triPPer Wheels that have lasted 50 years
•vj /4 ' 22)- A stri PP er only does about a "fort-
mght s work each year. My dad has a waggon, a
sor o family heirloom, that w-as wearing out Aus-
tralia s roads when the old chap was in swaddling
clothes. He has owned and driven it himself for 40
years and reckons the mileage covered would stretch
around the earth about four times. The axles and
most of the ironwork have been replaced, but the
wheels are the ones the contraption started out with
They are getting shaky now, and so is he ; but after
he has delivered his load of wheat and had a few
beers at the pub the old chap is prepared to back
himself and his waggon for the Long Distance Stakes
against all comers.
* * * *
“Delhi”; “Don Quill’s” poisonous green
wriggler (B. 6/4/’22) is apparently a whip-snake.
I have seen them well over sft. long on the North
ooast (N.S.W.), but have never known them to
reach 6ft. For quick movement the whip-snake
would make a flash of lightning look sleepy.
Carew”: I support “J.H.S.” (B.
30/3/’22) when he nominates tile carpet-snake as
the hardiest dier in the bush. Once, when travelling
from Bermagui to Cobargo (N.S.W.), another young,
ster and I killed a big one, and when we were quite
sure he was dead we decided to investigate a big
lump near his middle. After about 20 minutes’ work
IT’S AN ILL WIND.
“By cripes, a nice mess she’s made of the crop.”
“Well, never mind, Dad. I’ll pinch a wheel out of her to fix up me bike,”
with two blunt pocket-knives, we resurrected a half-
grown rabbit. Nearly a quarter of an hour later
our dead snake surprised us by vigorously crawling
off intd the bush.
“Pog”: In Gunnediih (N.S.W.) we have
a woman horsebreaker, and she is the neatest thing
on a neddy I’ve ever seen. Working in conjunction
with dad, she takes on the roughest that are trotted
along to be tamed, and it isn’t long before they will
eat out of her hand. Recently, out at Kelvin, she
rode her own pony in the principal race and landed
it home a winner.
“Bitter Bark”: While chopping wood re-
cently I accidentally cut off the head of a large
green mantis. Passing that way a few days later
I found the body still alive, s 0 I took it home and
kept it under observation. It took 15 days to die.
Why did it take so long about it, and how did it
breathe?—as the vfbinity of the cut shrivelled up
and became hard and black.
* • • •
“E.C.8.”: I was splitting posts in a
gully the other day and was belting home a wedge
when a flock of rosella parrots flew past—with the
exception of one which got smashed flat between the
maul and the wedge. It’s got me thinking that after
all truth may be just a little stranger than fiction.
NON-COMMITTAL.
DOROTHY: “Joyce, I’m afraid, has rather
more money than brains.”
DOREEN: "Yes. I don’t think she has much
money.”
“Bilbav”: The recent poisoning ease, in
which a Sydney coroner reprimanded a man for
reading the paper in the presence of a woman whom
he knew to be dying of poison, recalls a N.S.W.
cocky who was having a few additions made to his
house when his wife passed over. The builder, a senti-
mentalist, suggested knocking off for a few days. “Aw,
well,” the praetical-minded widower replied, “yer might
as well go on with it; yer can’t disturb ’er now.”
“Prof.’': “Jim Carcvrs” (B. 9/2/’22»
white ants that were beaten by the little black
fellows must have been tame ones. Let him turn
some of his Jack Johnsons loose inside a termites’
nest and see how they fare. In his own back yard th'-
white ant can’t be licked by anything his size. It’s
only when he is blinded by the light that he becomes
more or less helpless. Incidentally, the best white-
ant exterminator is arsenic mixed with treacle and
a little water, and painted on the timber after
brushing away the galleries as well as possible. Mr.
Ant absorbs the doubtful nourishment, and, being
a cannibal himself, it goes through the whole brood
with somewhat disastrous effects upon the family.
But it’s got to be applied more than once, because
of the new mob which batches out from the reserve
of eggs.
* » * *
“Jaware Aleki’’; Somebody recently
inquired about bird-of-paradise nests. I have seen
one with young birds in it. It was beautifully con-
structed of little twigs and moss, with live creeping
vines stuck into the sides, and was very hard to
distinguish from its surroundings. The nest was
found in 1910 in the village of Moroko, near Sagire
(Papua). Walter Goodfellow, F.R.G.S., has it now;
also some photos of it in its original position, which
were taken during the expedition.
(Continued on page 22.)
THE REPORTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cloud of dust comes up the track ;
A raw youth reins at the gprden gate,
Lolling loose on his bush colt’s back,
Flinging a careless “Hornin’, matel”
His wrinkled leggingg are stained with sweat,
On shirt and trousers the dust lies grey,
But his cabbagie-tree hat has a jaunty set
And his scarf is tied in an artist’s way.
“Reportin' cattle. A thousand head
On you to-morrow, in charge o’ Carr;
Gulf to Wodonga; Flinders bred,
An’ a dam’ fine lot they are!
“Any chance of a flamin’ smoke?
Thank’ee, Boss! Aw, blarst, it’s fell;
Down by the fence there! Mind this moke,
Or he’ll have yer, sure as Hell!”
His steers no more on the stock-route spread,
But his spurs in the moonlight gleam
As he sits on his horse beside my bed
Reporting the Mobs of Dream*
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
“Bill Bowyang” casts a doubting eye:—
>^‘‘ C V-, C ° ral 4 > 6/4/*22) suggests that specie found
near Cape York about 20 years back probably came
from ,.. a . shl P t ha t belonged to a Spanish-Peruvian
expedition of the 16th century. I take it he refers
to the coins found in 1890 by the late Frank Jardine
on Boot Reef, near Murray Island, as these, with a
smaller collection of coins which Jardine found pre-
viously near his home at Somerset, are the only
specie that has been discovered in northern waters.
Jardine s coins were not Spanish. I examined them
before they were sent to a Sydney. jeweller to be
turned into plate for the Jardine homestead at Somer-
set, and I recognised them as Mexican dollars witii
dates ranging from 1725 to 1820. Thev came from a
vessel which ran from Sydney to Canton about a
century ago and piled up on a reef in Torres Strait.
These ships carried cash from here to pay for tea
and other Chinese goods which they brought back,
and Mexican dollars were then common currency
in Australia. In 30 years in the vicinity of the
Barrier, I have examined over a dozen "so-called
treasure-ships. There is no evidence that any of the
old hulks date from a period earlier than the settle-
ment of Sydney. Spanish history only records the
wrecking of one galleon on the nor’-eastern coast of
Australia. Its loss is mentioned by Juan Gastin.
Ortez de Retes and other Spanish navigators, and
they all agree that it was last heard of well to the
south of New. Guinea, so there is probably some con-
nection between it and the Spanish relics which were
found by Surveyor Wilmot near Port Curtis (Q.)
in 1853. As the Spaniards were as proud of their
galleons as Billy Hughes used to be of his Govern-
ment ships, some record of the fact would surely
be in existence if more than one of them had been
lost in Australian waters.


United States Tyres
are GOOD Tyres.
a
r*
ptl ,T 'H
v
Tfll
0
MM
* l Q.oyai Cord' ’Nobby’ ‘Chain’ * Usco *
THE WORLD’S
PREMIER TYRES.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
THOMPSON 8 CO.
(Casttemaine)
Prop. Ltd.
Telegrams & Cables:
“THOMPSON’S
CASTLEMAINE.”
ENGINEERING WORKS,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
Telephones
Nos. 5 and 113.
(BRANCH WORKS AT WILLIAMSTOWN, VICTORIA.)
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS
of
QUICK-REVOLUTION ENGINES
and TURBINE PUMPS
in
AUSTRALIA.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCIES GUARANTEED.
Steam-driven Tumping: Set, comprising Triple Expansion Q.B. Torced
Lubricating Engine, speed 450 r.p.m. Direct connected lo Two-stage
Turbine Centrifugal Pump, delivering 7500 gallons per minute at a
pressure of 051b. per square inch.
ENGINES and PUMPS FOR ANY PURPOSE .
MELBOURNE:
Melbourne Office, Chancery House.
BRISBANE:
Engineering Supply Co. of Aust. Ltd.
AGENTS.
SYDNEY:
Li. Hinks & Co- Ltd.
ADELAIDE:
Newton, McLaren Ltd.
THE EAST:
McAlister & Co. Ltd
PERTH:
Brown & Bureau I.td.
LONDON:
Francis Chapman Son & Deekes, Fenchurch Street.
t-v
■
I
m
«
p
i
1
ss
e
<• <?
x
v
♦v
THE
INTRINSIC VALUE
OF A
PIANO OR PLAYER PIANO
is in the service it gives to the owner and its low cost of upkeep.
In our Pianos and Player Pianos our chief aim is to insist on the best materials
being used by practical workmen who thoroughly understand the art of piano
building.
By these means we are able to guarantee the durability of the instruments' we
sell, and the result obtained is long wear at reasonable cost.
If you are interested in either a Piano or Player Piano, send to us for a
catalogue, which will be sent you post free. We sell on Easy Terms if you wish.
m
m
a
338 George St.
SYDNEY?


si
\
$0
m
'4t>
#
■V>
*^s§
W,
'Jm
<g?S6
Hi
ez
4/7/L
PURE COCONUT
OIL BLEND
V*.
m\mw .iiiminniiiiiwiia
£
m
When You
ask. for
Lager-
•-Abbots
"The Beer
without
a Rival”
“Rhino”: If “Bouragi” (B. 29/12/’2l)
will call in at the Solomon Islands next time he is
seeking for rhinoceros beetles on cocoanut plantations
he will find all he wants. It is our worst pest. I
have been managing plantations in the Solomons for
seven years and been fighting the rhino, all the time.
“Bouragi” is mistaken in saying that the larvae is the
cause of the trouble. The adult female beetle is
usually the first to enter a tree, and in many cases
she drills a hole right through the crown and leaves
it without laying any eggs at all. They can kill a
tree in a few hours if they happen to bore through
the bud of the crown, though many thousands of
trees are drilled right through with scarcely any
ill effects. Unless the boring happens to he right
through the bud the tree can be easily saved with a
little care. On one plantation I was managing there
was an average of about 200 trees a week attacked
by rhinoceros beetle for three years; but the number
lost was considerably less than a hundred. If the
beetle is left undisturbed in the tree it will breed
there and the larva! will kill the tree in a short
time; but this only happens in badly-neglected cases.
* * * *
“O’Ren”: Williams’s coup d'etat should
rank with the greatest that blot the pages of history.
For years he had had a tragic weakness for Mrs.
Rillings, the only presentable woman in the Wilga
Flat district, and the night we found poor old
Billings in the creek Williams made straight for
WHEN YOUNG BILL BEAR WISHED
HE HADN'T TOLD THAT BORING
YARN ABOUT THE GREAT AUS-
TRALIAN BITE.
the corpse’s late homestead. His vehement knocking
brought Mrs. B. to the door, distracting in Wil-
liams’s eyes in one of the deceased’s overcoats worn
over a flannel nightie. “Mrs. Billings—Gladys,’’ he
burst out, “will you marry me?” And when she had
recovered and heard the news and recovered again
she said she would.
“Cosme” : Arc not “J.T.K.’s” potato-trees
(B. 20/4/’22) our old New Australia-Paraguayan
friend mandioca? Mandioca grows like a tree, is
planted from cuttings, has digitate leaves, like a
flow’ering passion-vine, only larger and longer, and
the root at “2in. wide” would be about “9in. long.”
The .root is almost pure starch and will make anything
you like, from plain boiled to tapioca, starch and
pie-paste. The marvel is that it wasn’t known all
over Australia long ago.
“Delhi”: Tell “Atrocity” (B. 6/4/’22)
that the correct use of a knife in case of snake-
bite is to draw the blade across the punctures two
or three times, making sure to draw blood each
time. Generally in ease of snakebite the victim
believes in doing the job well —like a man I know
who when bitten on the finger thrust the injured
member over a gun-barrel and blew the digit off.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE MAN WHO
IN AN UNGUARDED MOMENT
SAID HE HAD SOME THOUGHTS
OE BUYING A MOTOR-CAR.
“B.B.”: I met her in the Proserpine
(N.Q.) district the other day, swinging an axe in a
patch of thick scrub. “Hard work for a woman,” I
said. “Got to do it,” she replied. “Jim’s crook,
and the scrub has to be cleared somehow. We must
get five acres of cane planted next year.” I heard
afterwards that this woman was behind a draper’s
counter in Brisbane 18 months back.
“Yoyang”: Someone asked a while ago
about the chances of breeding chestnut horses, and
as I saw no answer this may be of use: The progeny
of a bay horse and a bay
mare for generation after
generation will be bay ; but
if bays are crossed with
chestnuts the whole of the
first generation will be
bays and an indiscriminat-
ing mating will give in
the next generation 25 p.c.
pure bay, 25 p.c. pure
chestnut and 50 p.c. im-
pure bays showing the
latent chestnut color. If the
pure chestnuts are mated to-
gether their progeny will
be chestnut only. If the
impure bays are mated
among themselves there will
be again 25 p.c. pure bays,
25 p.c. pure chestnuts,
and 50 p.c. impure bays.
Followers of Mendel can
now give a long list of
animal or plant characteris-
tics which invariably con-
form to this law r . Some
human characteristics are
known to work out in the
same way from the color
of the eyes to glaucoma and brittle bones.
“Tom Willie”: “Allyn’s” shickered billy-
goat (B. 27/4/’22) takes me back to the Maree a
(N.Q.) goldfields. As a youngster there I owned
a billy-kid notorious for his inebriety. When
drunk he w'ould perform a trick (the only one in
his repertoire) that sometimes turned me in an
honest shilling.' When the diggers came to town
with their dust they spent a good deal of it at
Ryan’s pub. I used’ to take the' kid along to see
them, and when he had had a nobbier or two of
beer he wouldn’t leave till he was carried away.
If the shouts were too far between he would jump
into the most likely-looking digger’s arms, scramble
on to his shoulders and smell his breath, by way of
suggesting another one. My cut for stage-managing
the sli jw was generally a bob in all round, but
only after the kid had forgotten how to use his
legs and was trying to walk on his ear.
“Jim Carew”: On the South Coast
(N.S'.W.) recently we killed a black snake just
where we were having lunch and left it there.
About half-an-hour later another blatk wriggler
came up, and, after slowly circling round the corpse
a few times, caught hold of it by the back of the
neck and dragged it away. Was it for burial or for
tucker ?
“Bareoo”: Re “Ishmael’s” big caterpillar-
cocoons (B. 30/3/’22). Mrs. Binghi is—or was in the
days when the Bush
was wide —an adept at
spinning the silk of
which the cocoon is
made into a web-like
material. It never
looses its bronze tint,
and a dilly-bag made
of it is jealously trea-
sured by the owner.
The lubras alone do
the collecting and
spinning, and even
after enough cocoons
have been gathered the
process is long and
tedious, the nests hav-
ing to be steeped in
a strong copai solution
for months before the
unravelling of the fine
fibres is attempted.
Then, on account of
the filmy material, the
operator has to have a
receptacle containing
goanna oil, into which
the thread and her
hands must be con-
tinuously dipped. Owing
to the torturing itch
that the nest in its
crude state provokes
Binghi's missus handles
it with two sticks be-
fore it gets to its copai
bath. The unwary
bushman who happens
to camp immediately
underneath one of these
caterpillars’ homes says
good-bye to slumber.
“Mary Gilmore”: “Wart” (B. 20/4V22)
speaks of the beech-tree of S. America and the Speck;
and also of the remains of an animal similar to the
Tas. “tiger” having been lately found in S'. American
drifts. In Patagonia I saw two or three small flowers
like some I knew nearly 50 years ago in then almost
unpopulated Riverina (N.S.W.). One was the tiny
pink convolvulus, another a wiry-stemmed little yellow
flower with a warm faintly-rich scent. These were
identical with ours. The third was a sort of lady's
slipper or moccasin flower. The Australian one is
bright yellow and very fragrant, or old gold in
color and less fragrant; the Patagonian example has
a short stem, and a larger flower, and usually grew
in a row of from five to nine. There were also
“groundberries” exactly like ours of the early days
before shipping and fodder could carry seeds in wool
or hay and make exchanges. The tobacco plant of
S. America is the same as that which I used to see
near old sheepfolds in the Riverina.
* * * •
“Ben”: “Klaney’s” yarn (B. 13/4/’22)
shows once more that there’s nothing new in the
world. Some years ago in South Gippsland (Vic.)
two old maids owned a couple of big ducks, and
after fixing the south end of one with curling tongs
collected first prize at the Show for “best drake and
duck.”
• • * *
“D.F.”: The statement of Oxley, as
quoted by “Wart” (B. 20/4/’22), that the thylacint
or Tas. tiger was seldom found in
the south of the Speck, is all moon-
shine. In the very early days there
were plenty in the south, and even
in comparatively recent times they
used to chew up quite a lot of our
sheep in the bush behind Cockle Bay
in the far south-east. We snared
some, and then settlers came into the
scrub at the back, and that scared
them away. In spite of their car-
nivorous habits they are timid brutes
at best; in point of pluck the smaller
devils have them beaten a mile. Even
w'hen snared the tigers rarely showed
fight. There can hardly be any left
now east- of the llobart-Launceston
railway, but they are still not un-
common in the wild country between
Tyenna and the Cordon River, and
there are some about the Arthur River in the nor’-
w esst.
# * *' *
“Yoyang”: Tell “Nadehan” (B. 20/4/’22)
that in the rectory garden at Yass (N.S.W.) there
in an old gum-tree clad to the very top with dense
masses of ivy, and some years ago a hen used to
hatch out her chickens, season after season, at the
top of the ivy. She generally got her brood dowgl
herself, tucked in between her back and her w’ing,
just the head and neck of the chick showing each
time. But one year she got hurt somehow, and I
happened to be in the rectory garden and saw the
aged but soft-hearted Canon Faunce up at the top of
the tree getting the agitated lady’s family for her.
That’s how I came to hear the story. This year a
hen brought out four chicks in my shed at a few'
feet from the ground, and she got them down to
the ground by tucking them in her wing.
“Eddyson” : Packer was giving Henderson
a lift into town, and the way was long, hot and
dusty. When they struck a little, old, bewhiskered
chap busy on a stone heap by the wayside, Packer
stopped the car and asked if there was any decent
drinking water handy. “I dunno about water,” said
the breaker, “but X can give youse a boose all right.”
lie dropped his hammer, went to a hollow tree and
drew out a bright gallon billy and a pint pannikin.
The drink was beer, and cool beer, too. “Finish
it,” insisted the hospitable worker. “It ain’t any
too good fer me, workin’ ’ere in the sun. Drink
it up.” Packer offered payment, but the stone-
breaker refused with dignity; so when they came
to a pub a couple of miles down the road Packer,
overcome with gratitude, bought a large keg of beer,
loaded it on the car and raced back. The lapidary
was net on his heap when they arrived, so the half-
barrel was left on top of the stones with a note.
Henderson plodding back alone next morning came
upon the stone-breaker sitting against his heap, lov-
ingly embracing the large keg between his knees.
He had a straw in through a gimlet hole in the
barrel, was very drunk, and was still sucking. Hen-
derson expostulated. The horny-handed one warned
him off with an emphatic gesture. “ ’Sail ri’,” he
said, “I know whar I’m doin’. I’ll knock off when
I can carry the bleshed barrel over to me tent.”
Henderson left him still busy taking off weight.
* # * *
“Warrawong”: “Bent” (B. 13/4/’22) has
gone half-way towards making his lemon-tree fruit-
ful and well by cutting out the tap-root. Provided
conditions (soil, location and cultivation) are favor-
able, very severe pruning, if necessary, should cause
the blossoms to develop properly. The finest quality
of fruit in citrus trees is borne on the small-fruiting
branches in the interior of the tree, consequently
the top and sides should never be too thick.
“Bent” complains that the fruit never ripens, but
this is no disadvantage, as, provided that the green
lemon is of marketable size—2lin. in diameter —it
is better to pick the fruit green and allow it to
color slowly in store than to allow it to develop
its yellow tinge on the tree. This is because it
will have a greater acidity content than in a tree-
ripe lemon. Lastly, nails driven into a citrus tree
have about as much good effect as the modern
A.L.P. has upon the welfare of Australia.
* * * «
“Mr. Ocky” : Apart from murder, is there
any means of curing a fox-terrier of being over-
conscientious as a watchdog? Also, how can I check
his tendency to bite unoffending persons in the
street ? I have narrowly averted several legal actions
by paying up ; but it’s getting too costly.
“En Zed”: Is this a record? A lamb
killed recently at the Wairo Freezing Works (M.L.)
turned the scales at 681 b. It wasn’t an early lamb.
The mother was found in a dying state, and the
youngster was taken from her and bottle-fed. It
was so fat that it couldn't be driven to the works
with the mob. They brought it in a motor-car.
“Te W.”: Rc “A.Z.” (B. 6/4/’2l> on
single egg-layers. I have more than once found
two yellowish-bronze eggs of the common bronze-
v.inged cuckoo in the same nest, often that of a
“ground wren” (tit-warbler) ; also two larger
spotted eggs, the produce of another of the small
cuckoos, in one nest. Who can say that the same
cuckoo in these instances did not lay both eggs?
MISTAKEN IDENTITY.
“My boy's awful keen on ’axing your Daisy."
“’E can’t ’ave ’er!”
“Is she ’ooked outer some other feller?"
“Oh, I thought yer meant that strawberry
cow! ’E can ’ave the girl all right.”
The foster-parent’s evidence on the point was unfor-
tunately unavailable. Again, a cuckoo may lay
several eggs in a season in different nests, while the
nightjars and lyre-birds, so far as my experience
goes, never lay more than one. As to the wild
turkey (Australian bustard), I have seen odd females
on the Monaro (N.S.W.) Plains mothering two big
chicks, though, as a rule, one egg only is produced
in a season.
THE LOST CATTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the clump of windy trees
O’Grady’s cattle went.
The grass grew lush unto their knees,
Their bells “tink-i;anked” with merriment.
There in the early-morning glow,
We watched O’Grady’s cattle go.
The moon rose o’er the breathless bush,
And scorched its fringe with flame.
The magpies chortled in the hush,
And one by one the swamp lights came;
But down along the dusky track,
No wild red cattle thundered back.
No cattle took the timbered crest,
Or blurred the far blue line.
“O riders, riding east and west,
Say, is there never yet a sign ?”
No sign although the year moves on,
And yellow moons have come and gone!
But when the forest lies a-swoon
’Neath Summer’s winding spells,
Past hill and glade and lone lagoon
There steals the sound of cattle-belP
Faint elfin chimes that break and play
Along the purple, far away.
And when upon the stark black height
The midnight winds are stirred,
With tossing horns, all phantom-white,
Marches a wild unearthly herd 1
Soundless into the mists below,
O’Grady’s ghostly cattle go!
VICTORIA.
MYRA MORRIS.


This Actually Happened
in a Directors’ Room.
IN the quiet, almost luxurious
directors’ room the depart-
ment heads of a certain large
manufacturing company were
called together by the general
manager.
One after another the produc-
tion manager, the purchasing
agent, the head of the planning
department, and the sales mana-
ger expressed themselves. The
burden of each man’s excuse w?is
the same: “If I had received
proper co-operation from the
other departments, we would
have met our quota easily.’’
The general manager spoke
last, a keen, aggressive man of
thirty-eight, who had been
brought in from the outside.
“Gentlemen, you have told
me far more than you imagine,
he said. “It's perfectly clear
what is the matter with this con-
cern. You men have forgotten
that it is a business and not
merely a collection of depart-
ments. You are first-class special-
ists, experts in your own depart-
ments, but,
Gentlemen, you are mighty
poor business men.”
They were too stunned to
answer.
“I’ll repeat it,’’ the general
manager said. “You —all of
you—are poor business men.
You’re a group of stars, but you
aren’t a team. Each of you
knows his own viewpoint: he
knows his work and knows it
well. But you do not know
enough about each other’s pro-
blems to make this company an
effective business unit.
It helps to explain why executives are turning
to the Alexander Hamilton Institute in larger
numbers than ever before.
“The sales department must
know more about production
and accounting and costs; the
production department must
think more in terms of sales
and credits —each one of you
must get more vision of busi-
ness as a whole, in all its
varied and inter-related depart-
ments. That’s what this com-
pany needs, and it needs it
badly.”
The next day at the general
manager’s invitation a represen-
tative of the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute visited that office;
and every departmental head
enrolled for the Modern Busi-
ness Course and Service. »
More than 24,000 Managing
Directors enrolled.
The Alexander Hamilton
Institute was founded eleven
years ago by a group of business
leaders, who recognised that
modern business was tending to
produce specialists rather than
to develop executives.
Its appeal has been always to
successful men, to men of
mature years, who had already
made a favorable start in their
chosen line of work. More than
24,000 company heads have
enrolled with it during the past
eleven years, many of them in
company with their most trusted
associates.
This is the significant thing,
however; in the past six months
the number of enrolments re-
ceived by the Institute has been
larger than at any similar period
in its history: the average age of
the men enrolling has been
higher; their present position in
business higher on the average
than ever before.
As never before, the leaders
of business enterprises are
demanding better business train-
ing for themselves and for the
men on whom they most depend.
Will you spend an evening
with the facts?
The facts about the Institute’s
Course and Service are con-
densed into a booklet that aims
to answer every question which
a thoughtful, ambitious man is
likely to raise.
To promote a wider under-
standing of its training, its pur-
poses and its results, the Insti-
tute offers a copy of this booklet
to any reader of this publication
who will request it. In a single
evening you can have the full
facts. The booklet is called
“Forging Ahead in Business.”
Just what the Modern Busi-
ness Course and Service is and
does; just how it has helped to
solve the problems of hundreds
of businesses in every line; just
how individuals have used it to
increase their own progress and
earning power —all this is con-
tained in “Forging Ahead in
Business.”
It is a book worth adding to any
business library; for your con-
venience in sending for your
copy a coupon is attached.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE,
42 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Send me “Forging Ahead in Business,’
which I may keep without obligation.
Name -
Print here.
Business
Address
Business
Position


1
*•"■*•*
m
l Hi
„ % im m ft
ftsSip*
f
*»5
m
■
>J :
22:^
Use This Great Plant for Your Profit.
Which produces feeds of the highest quality, securing
absolute uniformity at all times, and which will give- you
unexcelled delivery service.
Are you sure that your cows are bringing you the highest
returns on milk yield and net profitP No matter what
you are feeding now you cannot know what maximum your
cows are able to accomplish until you put them on
Meggitt’s Dairy Cattle Food.
22 % Protein 5/, Fat 50% Carbohydrates.
GGirfS
jjNSEeooiiMGM.
Ml
S MEEGITT IT 0
PARRAMATTA
Oheboy on the bag
guarantees quality"
jCimUeci
HLAD 01-FICE */j6 KING ST SYI^NEY
AGENIS. Messrs. Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. William
Adams d Co., Ltd., King Street, Perth; Messrs. F. W. Heritage d Co., Ltd., Launceston
and Hobart; Messrs. Johnstone d Co., Ltd., Featherstone Street. Wellington, N.Z.; The
S.A. Farmers Co-op. Union, Ltd., 36 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
si*
MEGGnTS
[JNSEGHMIf^U
ml
ttEEGITT tr»
\ PARRAMATTA
c ¥Ae Jboy on thebaq
guarantees quality


Purest
Spirit
tr\ the
V^brlA
ď
A Drink.
A Tonic,
A Corrective.
IV OIFE'S SCHN^ 6
‘22’ STANDS ADO'S"®’
y
u
if///
vx
c *esr
r-
-c6 u °
CROUP
fCr&igSL*
iq.
EVERY Drop of
Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure’'
means
Destruction to
Chest Troubles
V " '
(Coughs, Colds,
Croup,* etc.)
W.G.Hearne&Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
New South Wales
Branch Office:
1 Bond Street. SYDNEY. -
A Plain
Fact!
bondage. The blaze of the burning country makes
day out of midnight for them.
Another Angus O Daly followed. Ho
lived through this spacious massacres of
great Elizabeth, and is known as the Red
Bard, or Angus of the Satires. He was
employed by jjord .Mount.joy and Sir George
Carew to go round and satirise the heads
of Irish and A'orman-trish families. It is
a remarkable fact that in Ireland chiefs who
never feared the sword trembled before
poetic satire- The massacres perpetrated
by the English in Ulster, Kerry and Lein-
ster, the atrocities of Bingham in the west
and the futile Irish victories of the Seven
Years’ War had reduced even the wealthiest
houses to poverty. Angus, a specially
clever and biting rhymester, was sent under
English authority to denounce the lack of
hospitality on the part of nobles who no
longer had the means to be hospitable. It
was the sorest point with them, this ina-
bility to keep great state and open house;
and the object of the authorities was to
exasperate them so that there might be
more rebellion and more partition of their
lands. The bard’s person was sacred ; and
he went from house to house on his curious
mission, leaving behind him a track of
seething hate. At last he came to the
home of the O’Meagher in Tipperary. Here
a servant of the family, rendered demented
by the singer’s sarcasms, forgot what was
due to an O’Daly and a bard, and stabbed
him in the throat. Angus, bleeding to death,
roused himself for a final effort, and in one
brilliant stanza recanted all that he had
sung in four provinces.
These were' some of the O’Dalys; but
there were many more—some coming right
down to the days of Parnell and Redmond.
One, indeed, who died far back in 1244,
deserves a special mention. He was the
great religious poet of his time; and so deep
was his influence that work from his pen
had been passed by word of mouth from
father to son right down to the nineteenth
century. This was Donogha Mor O’Daly;
and some of his verses have survived to be
preserved in modern print. Of him the
“Four Masters” say that in his own sphere
“he never was and never shall be sur-
passed.”
So Victor Daley’s bardic claim stands
good. IPs was the last voice of a great
choir of Irish song, and perhaps the first
vo ; ce in Australian choir yet to sing to
bigger music.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Criticism
We Australians (I have been Here off! and
on since 1884) are an easy-going people,
and we are nowhere more easy-going than
in the matter of our criticism. It is all
timid and all obvious.
Criticism is only of value when it is the
sincere expression of an intelligent indi-
vidual opinion. It is never final and
arbitrary. But it illuminates, it stimu-
lates, it inspires. It holds a little candle
by whose beams the average slow-think-
ing fellows may trudge more safely to
some goal of rational enjoyment. It guides
the public taste by making the public taste
conscious of itself! Because the true critic
has personality he will have no truck with
any sort of humbug or degraded mediaeval
cant. He will look with horror on censor-
ship, gentility, claptrap and all things that
tend to fetter or smother the human spirit
in common folk.
But in Australia, what do we find? If I
read a novel that my wits, not yet gone
imbecile, tell me is a good novel—at least,
that—l find reviewers who have plainly
not read the novel at all sniggering over
some chance passage of it, or patronising it,
or peeking at it. The sincerest war-novel
of our time was condemned by two Sydney
papers as indecent, though the man who
wrote it (a fact naturally unknown
to the average reviewers) was an earnest
Christian priest. I find that there is general
approval of a silly old man’s book written
in abuse of H. G. Wells, by Henry Arthur
Jones, a book in which, as to matters of
which he has only an average man’s half-
knowledge, Mr. Jones goes hacking and
squealing at Mr. Wells, who, as to those
same matters, is blazingly honest and pro-
foundly learned. And this is the 20th cen-
tury ! The 10th was a thousand times wiser.
It is a first essential in the equipment of
the good critic that he shall be no respecter
of persons, that he shall abhor hypocrisy,
that he shall’loathe all vain conceit. Most
of all—to emphasise—that he shall be in
no way impressed or diverted from the plain
path of his duty by any consideration of
the wealth or influence or position of the
persons criticised. Criticism is simply
and solely the expression of a personal
opinion. It makes no difference whether the
expression is of Dingo Flat, crude, or
whether it is so perfect and telling as to
raise criticism to an art; it is still one man’s
opinion, 'and can only have weight propor-
tionate to the reader’s estimate of the man.
That is why all criticism should be signed.
But there are certain forms of opinion
which do not be properly within the realm
of criticism. Thus to say that a book or a
play is indecent or immoral is not criticism ;
it is mere statement of fact, police work.
Rabelais wrote a master-book of the human
spirit which is profoundly indecent. Some of
the most moral of modern French novelists
are most immoral from our British stand-
point. I have seen Casanova, whose memoirs
rank with the most inspiring memoirs of a
century peculiarly rich in that form of litera-
ture, squealed at by a Bulletin contributor
as immoral. God help us!
I admit that I have no conception of any
pure morality. Morality is, as Thoreau says
somewhere, immemorial custom. If Thomas
d’Aquihas or one of those rare old birds had
led a crusade against soup, we should all be
eating soup on the sly now and deliciously
suspecting each other of the vicious indul-
gence. The only tiling the true critic can
honestly demand from a book of memoirs is
that it shall be the sincere recital by a
man of what he has done and felt and seen
and suffered and endured and enjoyed during
his lifetime. The memoirist confesses to the
great public as a more timid devotee might
confess to a priest.
So that we come to this: that all sincere
writing is criticism, and that no insincere
writing can be criticism at all. I don’t care
how evil or saintly a man may be; if he
will tell me the truth about himself, I must
be the better for the telling. I don’t care
how mistaken a man’s view of any matter
may be; if it is honest I can learn something
from it. But no man can be honest if he
writes in mortal fear of his wife or his
grandmother or his maiden aunt. Subterfuge
and Gentility and Hypocrisy and Mean Com-
promise-all these are noisome bats that dis-
figure the night of stars; but Sincerity sings
to liberate the souls of men as it mounts on
the wings of the morning.
FRANK MORTON.
The Stylist’s Art
Oliver \\ endell Holmes said it was an
excellent thing that, when Nature created
a genius, there were still sufficient chips
left, over to make the critics. The pro-
fessed aim of Adrian Lawlor in his “Rhap-
sody on a Broomstick’’ (B. 13/4/’22) is to
be known to posterity as a fine writer.
Enough for me if I help to put him on the
right track. lie opens his Broomstick Rhap-
sody with : “If there is one thing more than
another that I have always thought in the
highest degree enviable, it is that saying of
Stella’s in reference to Swift’s literary style
....” Why the double possessive? “More
than another” and “in the highest degree”
are pleonastic. Turn we now to the sen-
tence, “That it doesn’t buy tin; baby a new
frock, neither.” Had Mr. Lawler been
studying Spanish recently, one might have
condoned this lapse, as educated Spaniards
occasionally employ the double negative. In
modern English-speaking communities, how-
ever, it creates an affirmative—accom-
panied by a slight sensation of nausea. Of
course, the writer may. regard the phrase as
humorous !
“The resentful shades of Swift and Stella
hover steeply above me and pour ghostly
disdain upon the dwindled ardor that glowed
so crescently whenas I typed that flaunt-
ing title a little while ago.” The images
conjured up here are vague, apart from any
regret one may have over the coining of the
word “crescently”; and the use of “whenas.”
A person pouring anything from a height
usually stoops, and while doing so is in a
less “steep” or perpendicular position than
he would assume if in repose. Spirits would
hardly pour “material” disdain: so the
word “ghostly” before “disdain” is redun-
dant.
“It is plain that I shall accomplish here.
after all, hut a mere preface.” The adverb
“but” means “no more than” or “simply”:
and “mere” signifies “no more,” “simple.”
In brief, this sentence is but, in the late
Alfred Deakin’s phrase, “a necklace nega-
tives.” In conclusion, at the risk of excit-
ing envy between stylists, I would like to
submit a little gem from an essay which a
third-class school-child of my acquaintance
wrote recently for a well-known Australian
ornithologist:
Another beautiful bird is the bird-of-paradise;
it also has a beautiful tail and of which as the
ease generally is, it is also like the" peacock, very
proud.
PAUL CUEYNE.
The Third Generation
Jim Lawson, Henry’s son—there is one
boy and one girl in the family—has- gone
out to struggle with a farm in the Tumut
district (N.S.W.), and in that land of lots
of time he has begun to play with a pen.
This is the first little thing of his that has
been rescued for print, the rescuing, by the
way, being done by his sister, who has a
critic’s eye :—•
SEA AND DUST.
Oh, for a stretch of sun-washed sands, ,
Where white-capped waves come curling home,
Laying carpets of lace-like strands
In the wake of the gliding foam!
Oh, for the flash of tiny feet
Flying across the gleaming wet,
And the ripple of children’s laughter sweet,
Where the seagulls wheel o’er the net.
The fields are yellow, the trees are grey,
Grey and tall like the spirit of death;
Oh, for the sting of the salt sea spray, *
And the touch of its freshening breath!
The winds blow hot in a country town;
Tlie sun beats down on the chalk-white roads,
And green grass withers a dull, scorched brown,
And bullocks strain with their loads— .
Strain and heave, and the creaking wheels
. Are powdered white on the rims’ red rust;
Parched and acrid the dry throat feels
In the floury, stifling dust.
The long lash cracks, and the sluggish feet
Churn up the dust-clouds wearily,
And the team moves on in the hazy heat.
And it’s oh, for a breath of the sea!
N.&.W.
J. LAWSON.
The Inky Way
“Pollio”: Snowy Baker has written an article for
a San Francisco paper in what he calls “dinkum
Australese,” supplying a glossary along with it. A
sample sentence: —
“Jane Novak is a bonzer skirt. Boomerang never
hooked a dud. He’s a lonesome blinder, but he
knows a champ. Therefore the tripod passed the
monica of the AVoolloomooloo, which is ribuck for our
future friendship.”
Given that Boomerang is Snowy’s steed, can anyone
translate the rest? The surprise of the glossary
is the number of words that needed explaining.
’Frisco had to be told the meaning of “shickered ”
“dinkum,” “bonzer,” “boshter” (which is alleged
to be the superlative of bonzer, a distinction new
to me), “juice,” “fluff” and “bushwhacker.” Inci-
dentally, Snowy has been showing Jane Novak how
to wrestle on horseback, which, according to him
is a favorite back-of-beyond sport.
“Zozimus”: A distinct innovation was introduced
to Australian press controversy in Sydney the other
week. Archie Meston, formerly Protector of Abori-
gines in Q., was writing to the S. M. Herald about
the decline of the races and their probable exter-
mination. In the course of a survey, he touched
critically on a small Jesuit mission in the North.
A reply came from the historian-priest. Father
Clarke. The rejoinder was in Meston's best style—
a tierce diatribe, flagellating the Jetsuit Order,
not only for its Australian operations with aborigi-
nals, but for its doings 300 yegrs ago in Japan,
where Christianity, sponge cake and other horrors
were introduced. Father Clarke’s next contribution
was a model of dignified suavity and sweet reason-
ableness. And it had its effect. In the few. court-
eous lines which acknowledged this unexpected response
to a savage onslaught, the intelligent reader could, in
his mind’s eye, envisage Meston putting his boom-
erang and nullah, his flint battle-axe and his excori-
ating pen back in their places, while a gentle smile
replaced the warrior’s scowl. The soft word had
turned away wrath. It was a masterpiece
of controversial good manners. The idea of the
average letter-writer in the Australian Press is to
be as rude and wounding as possible, and to insinuate
that his opponent is a fool and a rogue, and that
“liis brother Bill is in gaol and his sister Sal cross-
eyed” {vide Artemus Ward).
When Harold Beauchamp, till lately chairman of
the Bank of New Zealand, appears in print he runs
mostly to balance-sheets and gloomy remarks about
the business outlook, lib daughter, who writes under
the name of Katherine Mansfield, uses her imagina-
tion in another direction. Her. novel “Bliss” has
been chosen by an English committee as one of the
three best of the year, the others being Rose Macau-
lay’s “Dangerous Ages” and Brett Young’s “Black
Penny.” A French committee will pick one of the
three for the prize offered by the Paris journal La
Vie Hisureuse.
“D.F.”: “Eddyson” was calling lately for a new
Australian encyclopedia. Perhaps he will be satis-
fied when he sees the one that Angtis and Robert-
son, of Sydney, have in hand. It ought, at any
rate, to be up-to-date, and recognised authorities are
handling their ptt subjects for it. But it is a
thing that takes a tot of doing.
“L.F.K.”: “Country Ped” proclaims (B. 16/3'/’22)
that he prefers, as literature for young Australians,
“How MacDougall Topped the Score” to much of
Browning and Shelley, and goes on to say that “he
would cut out all poets and writers of other lands”
rather than compel kiddies to read “what is to them
foreign literature.” Presumably, then, he is pre-
pared to scrap Shakspeare, Byron, Tennyson. Take
the last-named. Is any writer of English better
equipped to form a child’s literary mind? His
shorter poems are such miracles of melodious diction
that they charm the ears of even ordinary kids;
while such gems as “Claribel,” “The Lady ot
Shalott,” “The Ode on .... Wellington” and “Tin;
Lotos Eaters” (to name a few) win lasting appreciation
if properly presented. Of course there are many
exquisite utterances by our own singers that max
be advantageously brought to the notice of the young-
sters. For example, Dorothea Mackellar’s “My
Country”; the romantic “Spring” of Daley; Hod
Quinn’s masterpiece of diction and imagery, “The Red-
tressed Maiden” ; and Brunton Stephens’s stately “Cape
Byron.” It is unnecessary to mention Kendall for
charm or Lawson for meticulous observation and
realism; but a consideration of the best of the
above should help to prove the point I want to
make—that a study of Tennyson’s “Juvenilia” will
afford a fitting preliminary to an appreciation of our
own good verse.
B. N. Jacobs, Australasian general manager for the
New York Pictorial Review, is in Sydney after
visiting France, Germany, Belgium and South Africa
in the interests of the paper. In S’Africa, lie landed
into the strike of domestics and acted as a waiter in
a hotel xvhat time Lady Stanley, daughter of the Earl
of Cadogan, took on the rftlc of Mary Ann. Percy
Waxman, well known on the Australian Inky-Wax,
sub-edits the Pictorial Review, and will revisit his
native wattle shortly. He married a moving-picture
actress. Jacobs leaves for M:L. this week, and on
his return will establish an office for the Review in
Sydney.
THE CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We met in some Bohemian den,
’Mid cheerful boasting writing-men;
A sad, soured soul he seemed to be.
Till someone mentioned Poetry.
Then to his feet, like one possessed,
He sprang and silenced all the rest.
“Poets ?” he roared. “Cease talking rot!
I know ’em all —the blanky lot!
“There’s Quinn —you’ve praised his work all night.
I tell you straight the bloke can’t write!
Bowden—a coming man, you think? ,
His screed’s just spiders dipped in ink !
“While Bedford, that poetic nark,
He’d drive a man to Callan Park !
Lines jambed as close as seaside flats
You call these blighters poets? Rats!
“But Dyson”—here his voice dropped low —•
“I rank with Shakspeare, Keats and Poe ;
He types, and leaves an ample space—
The only Poet in the place!”
He seized his hat, and left us all
To learn that, ’mid the lasting brawl
That rages in the poets’ Zoo,
The comp, may have his point oj view.
N.S.W.
AUGUSTUS.
A Satchel of Books
The Heritage of Cain, by Isabel Ostrander (Hurst
and Blackett), is a tale of homicide, so ingeniously
worked out that the reader remains blank regarding
the identity of the murderer until a highly-finished
climax in the last chapter but one.
The Love Story of Aliette llruii ton, by Gilbert
Frankau (Hutchinson) deals with a medium which
few can handle better than the author. Alietti
deserts her giddy husband, a. prominent London K.C.,
for another barrister, Ronald Cavendish. The pair
hope that Brunton will go for a divorce, like a
gentleman, and enable them to. marry, but it takes
over 400 pages, and a prospective love-child, to bring
the unspeakable Brunton to a due sense of duty.
Brunton’s sudden discovery of a better self isn't
wholly convincing; but the characterisation is skil-
ful as a whole, and the general standard is well
up to “The Woman of the Horizon.”
N.S. lt’. Building Law (The Law Book Co.) explains
and annotates the new Local Government ordinances
70 and 71, which affect the actual erection of build-
ings and the Water and Sewerage and other bylaws
which begin to operate when the edifice ' approaches
completion. The book will be useful to anyone
who is getting a home built, and it is absolutely
essential to the building trade and to Local Govern-
ment Councils which are called on to administer the
Building Law.
The Secret Adversary, by Agatha, Christie (The
Bodley Head), concerns the adventures of an English
girl, known as Tuppence, and her admirer Tommy.
The experienced novel-reader will be able, to place
them by their names—a resolutely waggish pair
but thoroughly “nice.” At the end of the usual
quota of words the stolen documents turn up, and
all is well.


BUILD
YOUR HOME WITH
rots
The cost of a home or any other class
of building' constructed with “Fibro-
lite” Asbestos Cement Sheets and roofed
with “Fibrolite” Slates is considerably
less than a similar building: built of
weatherboard and roofed with iron or
tiles.
“FIBROLITE” improves with age, is fire-
resistant, white-arit proof, is unaffected by
sea air, and contains nothing to rot, rust or
corrode. The sheets have a great tensile
strength, and are easily and quickly erected.
“Fibrolite” Asbestos Cement Sheets are made
in 30 handy sizes.
Write Jor free Catalogue 10.
JAMES HARDIE & COY. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
Courier B’d'gs, Queen St., Brisbane.
540-42 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
30 Currie St., Adelaide.
f
Stockmen!
Silence may be golden—sometimes. But tbe
energetic efforts of Winchcombe, Carson’s
auctioneers at the yards catch buyers’ atten-
tion and produce good results for sheep and
cattle senders.
Hence the top values secured by Winchcombe-
Carson clients.
Kail Stock:
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney. Brisbane.
Gibson’s
Grand Central Hotel Ltd.
Adelaide, S.A.
High-class Residential Hotel.
TARIFF:
From 20/- per day inclusive;
10/6 Bed and Breakfast.
Under tlie management of P. Hennessy.
SKANDIA
MARINE MOTORS,
4-5 h.p. and up to
500 h.p.
m
4-5 H.p.
The latest type of Semi-deisel Oil Engine.
Specially constructed to take the place of
benzine engines. Runs on Crude Oil at a
cost of about twopence per hour. No
Magneto—sparking plug or electrical
devices. Average starting time only thirty
seconds.
All particulars and prices can be obtained
from
Nelson & Robertson,
15-17 Loftus Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents for Australasia and South Sea Islands.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Ciilwulla Chambers.
Castlereagli Street, SYDNEY.
agents—
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
Adelaide Brisbane
LTD.,
Perth
The Clyde Engineering Company Limited
Granville, N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL AND FARM WAGGONS.
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES. SUGAR MILL MACHINERY.
HEAVY IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS.
CAST-IRON PORCELAIN-ENAMELLED BATHS, SINKS, ETC.
The “COMFORT” (Self-heating) IRON
d
Lights in half a min-
ute. Costs 3d. for 4
hours. Simple, safe,
clean, beautifully nick-
elled, double-pointed.
Finest iron made.
Burns Benzine.
Price, 4? /-
LUX LIGHT CO.,
495 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ART
Studies, Views,
Drawings, Pic-
tures of Beauties
& Actresses, etc.
ONLY THE BEST is Good
Enough for BABY!
There is No Better SVLilk than
IFEGUARD
Condensed MILK
ITS QUALITY
NEVnR VARIES
Your Grocer Has It!
State wishes, and write to V. FLEURY, 91 Caile
S. Antonio, de Padua, St. Gervasio, Barcelona, Spain.
'
* OJ >°X4
To tlie large army of sufferers afflicted witL
xu uic aiuij v- ~
Rheumatism, Gout, Calculosis, Migraine, Eczema,
Obesity and Acid Dyspepsia.
Take courage, for URODONAL dissolves uric acid as easily as
warm water dissolves sugar, and eliminates it without your being
• aware of it.
Therefore, cast aside sticks and crutches, and straighten yourself as in the ays
of youth and health. URODONAL will even permit you to eat meat and other
favorite dishes to your heart’s content. Salicylate, “J
means of which temporary relief is procured at the cost th i )ese
are entirely superseded by URODONAL. Thanks to URODONAL the obese
regain their normal proportions, the weary take on a new lease of life, andt
worn society woman regains and retains a clear and h complexion througn
the blood-purifying properties of this preparation. v “ utb
discovery of the century, and is a boon to all; it is the secret of perpetual j
the means of salvation for the thousands of victims of uri c* m a^
PREPARED BY ETABLISSEMENTS CHATEEAIN, PARIS.
Price per Bottle, 9/3.
Can be obtained from all y and throughout Australasia or from
CHYTEEAIN’S AXSTRAEASIAIS AGE>CI, 802 KtM " A n
whom also can lie obtained Free Booklet containing Medical Opinions. LI
Business, Robbery, etc.
At Blackall (Q.) recently 610 applicants
balloted for a block of land. But probably
there were more gamblers among them than
genuine land-seekers. The lucky drawer
could call himself worth between £3OOO and
£4OOO from the jump; the improvements
alone were valued at £I7OO.
* * * #
“J.G.”: Touching utilisation of tar (B.
20/4/’22), Australia is beginning to use coal-
tar as a basis for paints. Many colors suit-
able for outside and inside work are being
turned out in Melbourne. These tar paints
spread more easily than the leaded article,
stand the weather as well, if not better, and
are much cheaper- Best of all, they are not
injurious to the man behind the brush.
The Speck has topped its previous best in
oversea apple shipments for a single season.
The nineteenth fruit boat to pull out of the
Derwent for the Cold Country brought the
total to 1,042,137 cases, which is over 100,000
cases better than the record. And when this was
written there were still three boats to load.
Their little lot, including about 30,000 cases
shipped from the Tamar end of the island,
will bring the total trans-equatorial shipments
for the season to 1,310,000 cases. As freight
and charges run to about (is. a case from
Hobart’s Ocean l’icr to London’s Covent Car-
den, 22 ships and a few score agents of
various sorts and sizes will take a bite of
about £400,000 out of the Speck’s pippin.
Still, assuming that the apples realise an
average of 15s. a case in England, there will
be considerably more than the core left for
the orchardists.
“Cleveland”: A trial shipment of Austra-
lian eggs was sent to San Erancisco at the
request of a dealer there. The consignor
was told iust how the Yank liked his eggs to
unpack. They must be white and graded as
to size. A friend of mine called the day-
after the consignment arrived. About 50
girls were sorting and grading the 5000 dozen
sent, and the difference in the attractiveness
of the boxes after they had been sorted, as
compared with the awful mixture as the
cases were opened up, was astounding. The
merchant was gazing gloomily on the egg-
strewn scene. “We ain’t lighted on no marry-
soopial eggs yet,” he said bitterly, “nor yet
no butterfly layings, but we have struck
everything known to nateral history in
between.” Even the produce of the lowly
hen would help to pay the interest on the
Yankee loan —if we knew how to grade and
pack it-
* * * *
“X2X” : The medical authorities should fix
a baleful eye on the philanthropists who
advertise their willingness, for a considera-
tion, to administer the “Brown-Sequard treat-
ment-” Heaven only knows what the
“Brown-Sequard treatment” consists of, but
it is pretty sure to be injurious. The class
of patient aimed at is the young-old man,
exhausted, through physical excesses, in what
should be his prime. With the aid of cer-
tain drugs it is easv to bring about a tem-
porary return to adolescence, even in the case
of old men, but the reaction which follows is
capable of causing great harm. If thyroid-
gland substances are used in such cases, then
other compounds are probably given with
them. At present, these drugs can be pur-
chased quite openly, as can thyroid tablets;
and the Law is silent as to the necessity for
qualifications on the part of those administer-
ing them. What is needed is an amendment
of both the State Medical Acts and Poisons
Acts, making it an offence to sell them, save
on a doctor’s prescription.
* * * *
“Port L.”: The wheat of Western Yic. has
been loaded in large quantities this year from
the long pier at Portland. Ships come direct
from Europe to 1 ’ft it, and steer out again
between Julia Percy Island and Laurence
Rocks. And it isn’t often that the long
springs have to be swung out to allow the
craft to ride clear of the fenders. But the
skipper of the first wheat-boat to come in,
a Scandinavian motor-shin, the Geisha,
summed up Portland’s chief shortcoming in
his quaintly-accented English :
When ordered to Portland, I look in my little
book and find that she is the oldest port in Vic-
toria. I say, everything will be all right. But I
look again and find that I can no vater get. Oh, I
think it very strange that 2000 people did
not have vater all those years. Vot they do? I find
I have to send to Hamilton for 40 tons of vater
for my sheep. It is not good for Portland to only-
have the vater that is caught on the roofs.
And here, no doubt, is the inherent weakness
of Portland’s position as a port. But to get
money for a water supply from the Big City
Government will be the very deuce.
THE MALTSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The maltster is a mighty man
Whom no one sees at work.
fie lives alone in soundless rooms,
Where all is dank and murk.
No engines clank and puff and whiz
Within his eerie vaults ;
But there he sits and tests and tastes,
And malts and malts and malts.
The city sounds are heard outside,
The city lights are bright;
The pavements ring with hurried steps
By day, and eke be 7 night.
While there among the sprouting grain
He never rests nor halts,
Nor knows the joys of other men,
But malts and malts and malts.
The maltster is a man of might,
Who knows no money risks—
Who cares not how “exchange” may go,
Nor whether “biz” is brisk.
In loft and. cellar, tower and tank
There are no flaws nor faults,
So long as he sits watching them,
And malts and malts and malts.
And vet he has one carking care,
One ever-present fear.
It is lest something should depress
The current price of beer.
So long as that don’t come about
He’s free from Trade’s assaults
The while he sits and tastes and tests,
And malts and malts and malts!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.


ďf
d
4T
ivM
M
K
\k
i
ďf
d
TPADE
MARK
xa mmwf
/
FO^/BROTrtER^^tibJLTbL.WELLINICTbI^SOMIER^ET'
/ / / / / / / / //111 I 1 il I I \ l. \ \V W \ \\ \ \\\wv 'WWWWVM
wiih
IDEAL DOMESTIC BOILER
re
m
□
itts
Srmdltj
into
Kitchen
scheme
Constant hot water day or night in
quantities from 20 to 2000 gallons per
hour according to size of boiler, at lowest
cost. The “Ideal” Domestic Boiler takes
up little room and is easily installed in
any kitchen. It burns coke, coal or wood
as well as dry household rubbish.
The “Ideal” Boiler furnishes 50 gallons
of really hot water from 91b. of coke.
The fire requires stoking at long intervals
only, and the slow combustion principle
reduces the fuel to a fine ash. “Ideal”
installations have reduced fuel bills by
half.
By banking the fire at night you econo-
mise fuel and ensure an ample supply of
hot water for early-morning use.
We quote a size and approximate price
to suit your requirements. Call and see
us, or write; our advice is free of obliga-
tion to purchase.
-S\
JOHN DANKS & SON PTf. LTD
324 530 Pill SI. S_ydney:39l4o3BourkeSl. Melbourne.


mm
Are Your Bowels Like This ?
Look at this picture of part of the large in-
testine or lower bowel as it is commonly called.
It is packed and bloated with waste food mat-
ter which cannot move out of the system the
way Nature intends it should.
What is the result ?
This waste matter begins to ferment, rot, and
form gases, poisoning the entire system.
Then all the organs of the body will become
more or less deranged and chiefly among these
the bowels and stomach will suffer.
This may cause obstinate constipation, sour
stomach, gas on the stomach, loss of appetite
nausea, headache and many other symptoms.
Finally, through the irritation or the gases
caused by the rotting material, or assisted by medi-
cine, the bowel forces part of this foul matter out
of the system, and things are better for a while.
But unless the right treatment is undertaken,
the same condition may occur again and again!
Of course, few bowels get into quite as bad
condition as the one pictured above. Some only
get as bad as the picture shown below.
'S////M
m,
W/A
w///m
Here you can see how the old particles of waste food
are sticking: to the wails of the large intestine.
In the centre there is still a little passage
through which some of the waste matter is able
to pass out of the system the way it should.
Many persons whose bowels are in this con-
dition don’t realise that they are constipated and
that there is anything the matter with their bowels.
They may have a movement of the bowels
every day and even twice a day, but they never
have a GOOD, THOROUGH, FREE MOVEMENT.
Keep Your Bowels Clean.
That listless, tired, drowsy feeling may be due
to poisonous matter lodged in the bowels.
Many folks who always feel tired and only " half
alive” will be surprised how much better they
will feel when they get rid of this matter which
has been poisoning their system for months.
Nervousness, sleeplessness and some kinds
of headaches are frequently signs of poisoning
of the system through poisons left in the bowels'.
Irritation of the bladder, breathlessness, so-
called weak and fluttering heart, are often caused
by pressure of gas in the intestines—this gas
may originate from decaying food in the system.
I I I
y
-a
'/// %
V
\
JbtJs*
\
\
Sry
&
sf.//.
CS> o
ZRAHNY‘ OIAMBERLAIN
{COPY I^IQHT^p)
ď
FRIEND in need is a friend indeed.
The friend who tells you how to
avoid Coughs, Colds and Influenza is
the best kind of friend. Tell your
coughing, sneezing friend to take
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
Watch your bowels carefully.
To avoid and to overcome sickness of all kinds,
watch your bowels. Don’t allow the old fer-
menting, filthy stuff to stay in them for weeks
and months, but GET IT OUT.
If your stomach is disordered,, or your bowels
constipated, if you feel sluggish, dizzy or bilious,
get a box of Chamberlain’s Tablets at once.
They act directly upon the liver, regulate the
bowels, invigorate the stomach, cleanse the
system. The result is a relish for food,
increased strength and a clear head.
Chamberlain’s Tablets are good for constipa-
tion, sour stomach and gases on the stomach.
A single dose often relieves these troubles.
The use of these Tablets is not followed by
constipation as is the case with many laxatives.
Instead of weakening the bowels they strengthen
them to act naturally without assistance.
Chronic constipation may be permanently
relieved by Chamberlain’s Tablets. They have
none of the sickening qualities of pills, and do
not produce any unpleasant effect.
CALLENDER’S
C.M.A.
Electric Gables.
CALLENDER’S Cables are made by the Callen-
der Cable and Construction Co., Ltd.,
England, and represent the highest-type British-
made cable procurable.
BERBER CABLE WORKS: Leigh, Lancashire.
England.
tIEA\ Y MARINE CABLES: Erith, Kent, Eng
land.
Large Stocks of Callender’s Cables are held in ;
Australia, so that every need of modern practice
may be promptly filled.
Enquiries invited for Callender’s V.I.R. Wires.
Cables, I- lexibles, and “Kaleeco” Wiring Systems.
Also Electric Motors and Switchgear. Electrical
Recording Instruments. Electric Drive and Con-
trol Systems. Portable Electric Tools. All
Electrical Engineering Supplies and Accessories.
“Herbert Morris”
Portable Jib Crane
(Tubular type patent).
TIIE “Morris Portable” stands alone as a handy
time- and labor-saver in handling- goods in the
factory or warehouse, in dismantling and re-
assembling in the engine-room or workshop.
The “Morris Portable” embodies many new prin-
ciples—<tke long-arm castings eliminate all weakness
found in the ordinary tubular crane. It is half
the weight, twice the power, and lower in price
than many so-called portables.
Send us your enquiries for the “Morris Portable”
Jib Crane, Morris Overhead Cranes and Runways,
Pulley Blocks and Hoists, Jacks, Elevating
Trucks, Conveyor Systems, and all Lifting and
Handling Equipment.
Write nearest address for a copy of our new 128-page catalogue, listing and illustrating all
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering Requirements, Building Lines, etc.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd., 115 Clarence Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle Street, Brisbane;
and 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (Melbourne) Pty., Ltd., 499-501 Bourke Street,
Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide; and corner Elizabeth and Collins
Streets, Hobart. Also from J. R. W. Gardam, Perth, W.A.
THE SPLENETIC ONE.
fFoii The Bulletin.]
Light without heat they seek to get
To drive off night,
And Hughes is getting nightly yet
Heat without light.
H. D. Tiemaan, the timber expert who was
lent to Vic. by Uncle Sam, is going back to
the States after a stay of six months. The
Forestry Dept, has picked up a few wrinkles
from him.
In “The First Year” at King’s Theatre the
modern flapper gets in a hit or two. While
discussing her daughter’s favorite jazzing-
accomplice the scandalised mother rocks vio-
lently in her chair and sniffs “He is not the
man I would have chosen.” “H'ra n:.”
chuckles the daughter, “Father wouldn’t have
been my choice.” Then she ducks behind the
evening paper.
An old landmark disappears from where
the Dandenong-road runs into Chapel-street.
A terrace of houses bears on its solid respect-
able forehead the legend “Built 1857.”
Next door are two tiny, neat cottages
labelled “1856.” They adjoin the Priory,
which was used by the Sacred Heart Con-
vent beyond. The cottages are being pulled
down, and the queer little buildings are
resisting with almost living force.
“T.O.I.” holds a review in blue: —
Victoria's first Commissioner of Police was Wil-
liam Henry Fancourt Mitchell, a squatter who was
knighted later and became President of the Uppah
Chambah. The next was Capt. Charles McMahon,
son of an Irish Master of the Rolls. He was a
hussar, but is said to have left the Army over a love
affair. A row with the Chief Secretary', John O’Shan-
assy, led to his retirement, but he entered Parliament,
and became a member of an O’Shanassy Ministry.
The Speakership and a knighthood followed. He waF
succeeded in the police job by Frederick Standisli,
one of an old Lancashire family—an ex-artillery
officer who held office for many years. The Duke of
Edinburgh palled up with him when he was in Vic-
toria, and offered to get him a job in England, but
Standish declined. Then came the first of the
rankers.
“Zozimus”: lie-reading Col. liepington’s
“Diary of the First World War,” I have
been struck with the poor memory the diarist
has for the names of Australians. For
instance, whereas the French have extolled
to the skies the work of Rosenthal in con-
nection with the planning and execution of
the historic Mont St. Quentin affair, his
name seems to have completely escaped Rep-
ington. Later in his book, however, he
mentions Monash as a commander of dis-
tinction, whom he had met, and fortunately
remembered his name. Allenby, too, in
Palestine, has a. vivid recollection, in his
letters to Repington, of the wonderful Eng-
lish commanders, but can’t recollect any
Australians,
“X2X” on a raised hurdle:—
For the first time in many years there is a de-
crease in the number of new students at the Medical
School at Melbourne University, and it is expected
that the figures of the other States will also show a
slackening off. At Melbourne the drop has been
from 210 in 1921 to under 100 in 1922. The de-
cline is probably due to the lengthening of the medi-
cal course to nearly six years—-it used to be five—
the student being compelled to put in more time
in the hospitals and to pass several additional exam-
inations. So low had the standard been brought to
let indifferent students get through that at the
end of one lot of final-degree tests the examiners at
one hospital protested to the University authorities
about the lamentable ignorance revealed by many
candidates. Nothing came of it at the time; but the
lengthening of the course, together with several
other alterations, has been one of the fruits of
the protest. And there is still room for considerable
improvement, mainly as regards subjects of the first
year, which should be studied and passed in by the
student before he enters upon the purely-medieal
part of his training.
“Wallahaloolah” sees a link snap—
The sale of Mundoonan properties in the Vas-
(N.S.W.) distri($ by Johnston Bros, marks the pass-
ing of the representatives of one of the earliest
settlers. The brothers are grandsons of Captain
Robert Johnston, R.N., who, with his brother David
(sons of Major George Johnston, of Annandale, who
usurped Governor Bligh’s job), had large grants
at Nanima, Jeir and Bedulluek, in the Yass-Quean-
beyan districts. Captain Johnston was born in
N.S.W. in 1790, educated in England, and chose the
sea as a profession, but later took up pastoral pur-
suits. In ’31 he married Miss Weller, who received a
grant of 1280 acres in Murray County ns a marriage
portion. Their family consisted of seven boys and
two girls, some of whom lived about Yass. Most of
the Johnston estate, Nanima, Jeir, etc., had already
been sold. The greater part of the Mundoonan
portion was granted originally to the Rose family,
who c-ame to Australia as free settlers in 1793.
Thomas Rose received Mundoonan proper, 600 acres,
and in ’32 a further grant of 700 acres along the
Murrumbateman Creek. One Mrs. Rose, formerly
Sarah Pye, and James Hannibal Rose also received
large grants in the neighborhood, most of which
eventually found its way into Johnston hands.
“Hanno” muses on changing feminine
fashions in felo de se, as well as every-
thing else: —
There was a time about a generation back when
the woman who w T as anxious to end life in a hurry
was addicted to dissolving a box of wax-matehheads
in a cup of water and drinking the resultant solu-
tion. It wasn’t a reliable method at all, for in
nine cases out of ten it merely left the experimenter
with an assorted series of stomach complaints, war-
ranted to last till she really did die. This system
was succeeded, on the introduction to common house
hold use of the coal-tar disinfectants, by the drink-
ing of a cupful of one of these corrosive liquids.
Such mostly do kill, but only after hours, sometimes
days or even weeks of the most dreadful agony
I imaginable—which fact made their vogue difficult to
understand, for there are several other preparations
far quicker in action and no more difficult to
obtain. At the present time the feminine fancy
seems to be turning for self-destruction purposes
towards such domestic poisons as are used in the
manufacture of flypapers and insect exterminators.
One of the most amazing things about the whole
business is the faithfulness with which woman sticks
to poisons—mostly of the most painful variety, so
far as their effects are concerned —when she wishes
to commit suicide. It is worth noting that some-
thing like 90 per cent, of the female suicides
within recent years have gone out by the poison
route. Yet when a man wants to close his
earthly account he generally has recourse to rovol-
j ver, razor, rope or drowning. The explanation
I is no doubt to be found in the inherent vanity of
| woman, who shrink? as far as possible from disfiguring
1 hers-lf outwardly, even in death.


& PSP I
I® SHI
mm
fUjCSIM
'ii?
m
Ml
Ki
Bfeigs
.
\v*'.
■: i '■
: . .
;■
- : ,
7
K.*
1
S
ivi!
■**
fe*
W
-
nH
»s^4S2i;
11
*ws«
■ S' ;Sma tx-» ***• • ;aa»sga£g3a^
■
-•
*
■■■■ ?->;
m
»{KS
■
-V ' **
'.v- 1 - * J
;
\\
r m ’Jx'mswaa&j&GaMers v -; #•
MHPp;v-
A
■ / /7‘
-
H
Macquarie St., New Farm, Brisbane.
Concrete Road Reinforced with B.R.C.
Fabric for Brisbane City Council.
Engineer i E. F. Gilchrist, Esq., 8,A., M.C.E., Melbourne.
s
.
fd
(Hade in Australia)
mean that no prepared foundation is neces-
sary, for B.R.C. Fabric provides its own,
even on weak ground.
Its many other qualities include even distri-
bution of weight, great strength and security,
an absolute minimum of wear and tear of
the road, practically no upkeep costs, and
the ease with which it can be placed in
position even by the ordinary workmen.
AUSTRALIAN REINFORCED CONCRETE
ENGINEERING COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Consulting and Designing Engineers,
430 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
’Phone: Central 8861,
MELBOURNE.
Works:
SUNSHINE
VICTORIA
SOLE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:—
VICTORIA . . . Gollin & Co. Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
N. S. WALES. J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
TASMANIA. . , T. Tabart, Jun., Hobart. *
W. AUSTRALIA Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd., Perth.
N. ZEALAND . J. Burns & Co., Ltd,, Auckland.
ď


Hotel de Luxe .
Clifton Gardens
Mosman, Sydney, N..S.W.
AN IDEAL RESIDENTIAL HOTEL, Right on
the HARBOR FRONT, with its own BEACH
AND GROUNDS.
HALF-HOURLY STEAMER SERVICE (in-
cluding Theatre Boat) right to the Hotel, to
and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular Quay.
Fine New Motor Road from
Mosman.
Amphitheatre Swimming Baths.
Fishing.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths. Billiards,
Excellent Lunches and Dinners, Week Davs
and Sundays.
Tariff from 10/- per jay, or from
Guineas per week.
DINE AT CLTFTON & JAZZ AT DIXIELAND.
TelB.: Y3OOl, 3002. Apply Manager.
S' / /
// /
r
“MX.
All British Magneto
Stocked in all models and degrees.
Sole Distributors in Australia:
SMITH, SONS 8 REES LIMITED,
30-32 Wentworth Avenue, Syc’ney.
100 Flinders Street, Melbourne;
99 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
B.S.A.
ft
FITTINGS
build the perfect
BICYCLE
THE utility and convenience of
a bicycle is now realised by most
people. A bicycle built of B.S.A.
Fittings is more than a convenience,
it is an absolute necessity for all who
wish to economise in both time and
money.
There are many odd journeys almost
every day which can be accomplished
not only quickly and cheaply, but
journeys, the anticipation of which
will give pleasure and delight provid-
ing you have a B S.A. Fittings Bicycle
handy, for cycling with a B.S.A.—is
healthy, trouble-free travelling, and
withal a splendid exercise.
ALL B.S.A. PARTS ARE GUAR-
ANTEED INTERCHANGEABLE.
This means the elimination of all
unnecessary waste of time should you
lose or damage any part of your
bicycle.
ILLUSTRATED HANDBOOK free from
D. Y. RENNiE
(Representing The B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Lime.Pol-asFi &Soda
with emulsifying & flavoring
Ingredients
507 c
°/
7S
A
•■o
Cod
Liver 0
x>
%
m
p .S/
Riches^
est
su\e iAnorruftCskuatiout
The manufacture of this famous medicine is not
surrounded by closely-guarded secrets.
As the diagram shows, HYPOL contains 50 per cent, of Cod Liver
Oil, a pure natural Oil endowed with nutritive and healing
qualities that no mysterious formula can equal.
With the added Hypophosphites, and pleasant flavouring, a most
enticing and strength-giving Emulsion is produced.
HYPOL is a famous remedy for Chest Complaints, and
a great restorative in all cases of sickness.
Those of delicate constitution should commence
to-day to take HYPOL.
SOLD EVERYWHERE. Made by FELTON. GRIM WADE & Co. Prop. Ltd. Melb.
ap
£vS.
is:
A'o':
itg:
«l||
A*©
m
0*
TURF
Dir VIRGINIA
DHJ CIGARETTES
Turf Virginia Cigarettes are made
from the finest tobacco out of Virginia.
They smoke perfectly and there is no
other cigarette on the market that has
the same aroma and softness as the
big “ Turf ” Cigarette.
20 for Two Shillings; they are
irresistible to the man of taste.
Obtain your supply to-day, from any
tobacconist throughout Australia,
Made by ALEX. BOGUSLAVSKY LTD..
55, Piccadilly, London, England.
SONmiHS
OMX
05
TEA
SETS
We are particu-
larly strong in a
superb stock of ail
the latest designs;
in qualities that
will last a lifetime.
Sets for large fami-
lies down to sets
for one. Separately
upon Trays or on
Stands. In Solid
Silver. You are
invited to wander
through our exten-
.sive showrooms.
J
f
Fairfax and Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures. Cash. 23 & 25 Hnnter Street.
Very heavily-plated on hard white
metal, Afternoon Tea Set.. £8 R
Less 20 per cent, discount 1 o
£fi 14 0
“W.J.H.”: The 11th Infantry Brigade,
A..1.F., boasted a sergeant from Queensland
whose wife, when the war began, had pre-
sented him with 16 children. I met him
often in the Ilouplines sector; after that I
lost sight of him. Can any one nominate a
Digger with a fuller quiver?
There returned to Melbourne by the Bara-
dine Congregational parson A. R. Stephen-
son, who expounded the Word in East St.
Ivilda for 21 years, and in between times
headmastered New College, Boxhill. He leit
Australia two years ago as delegate to the
International Congregational Congress at
Boston, U.S.A., and spent about 18 months
on the lecture platform telling Uncle Sam
about the big things of life in Australia.
“Ormond”: Though Canterbury(M.L.)was
destined to be an English settlement (B.
16/3/’22) the first five families to arrive
there hailed from Scotland, viz., the Hays, Sin-
clairs, Deans, Gebbies and Mansons. James
Hay, the last surviving son of Ebenezer Hay,
one of these original settlers, has just gone
west. He was born at I’etone, in 1841, Ins
parents having arrived in Wellington the
previous year. In 1843 the family went
south and* became the first white settlers at
L'igeon Bay. James Hay, who had some
thrilling adventures with the Maoris to tell,
left many interesting memories in his book,
“Earliest Canterbury.”
One kindly-intentioned Sydney clergyman
evoked the ire of an impulsive dame the
other day. She visited him to make arrange-
ments for the marriage of her daughter to
a native of one of the obscurer European
States. The gentleman of the back-to-front
collar asked her to wait a da.y or two while
he consulted the laws of the bridegroom’s
country, remarking that often these mar-
riages were not recognised in such regions,
and that the fact was used by jaded Ben-
edicts to give their spouses the go-by. The
lady construed this information as a slur
upon the constancy, morals and honesty of
her son-in-law-to-be, so she sailed angrily out
of the vicarage and gave the job to an oppo-
sition turnout.
“A.L.P.” puts in his entry for the Missing
Chow competition:—
“Old P.M.’s” yarn (B. 20/4/’22) reminds me.
In the ’nineties the Port Line of steamers, manned
by Celestial's, used to trade from the East to one of
the outports in S. Aus. When the boats arrived
they stopped at the anchorage until the Customs
officer and thd John Hop went out and counted Ah
Sin, and the boat then proceeded up to port. After
loading the Chows were counted again. .On one
occasion the tally was one short. The startled skipper
demanded a re-count, which gave the same result.
A hurried search was made. In vain. The heathen
had faded away like a dream. The skipper remarked
profanely that a tenner awaited the production of
any sort of a Pong. And a police constable was seen
to leave the steamer, his brows knitted in deep
thought. Arrived on shore he made his way out to
the nearest Chinese gardens and arrested a protest-
ing and astonished Hang Mee for objectionable con-
duct. Two hours later he deposited the still pro-
testing heathen on the deck. The relieved skipper
received the missing Asiatic with loving arms, and,
in spite of Hang Mee’s prayerful appeals, he was
hurried below and the boat steamed away with
clearance papers in order. A stunned Chow com-
munity that night discussed the sudden disappear-
ance of their boss, who had employed them for the
past 10 years; and for a long time they watched for
all Port steamers, and at the first sign of the Blue
Peter went to ground, heedless of the welfare of the
cabbages, till the coast was clear again.
One of the habits of the United States is
to charge every passing Australian eight
dollars on landing, the same to be refunded
on departure provided the visitor hasn’t
polluted the soil of the Bird of Freedom for
more than 00 days. Unfortunately the
money seldom is returned; but, in reply to
remonstrances from this side, the U.S. de-
partment has laid down an improved line
of conduct designed to obviate this annoy-
ance in future. The visitor, on arriving
and paying his fee, is to find the proper
official, if he can, and get from him the
proper document, if he is able to. When
the visitor is ready to leave an officer of
the boat or the conductor of the train which
carries him away is to endorse the document,
if obliging enough. The protocol thus signed
is to be sent to the agent of the company
which brought the misguided man to the
country, and he is to see the right authori-
ties about the matter, if he is not too busy
otherwise, and if the departure is proved up
to the hilt, and the visitor’s conduct has been
good, and he hasn’t spoken with disresnect
of George Washington or Hannibal Chol-
lop, or any other local institution, they
will all conspire together and make refund
within 120 days. It will be sent after the
ex-visitor to Timbuctoo, or wherever he has
gone. The Australian Government doesn’t
seem to have achieved much. The simplest
idea would be just to reciprocate by charging
every arrival from the U.S. a couple of
pounds sterling on similar terms.
A BALLADE OF BITTER ANNOYANCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I loathe umbrellas, oh I do!
And dirty gloves, and rusty pins,
And those imported birds that coo
And coo and coo like drivelling twins —
(One ceases and its mate begins,
Farewell one’s after-dinner nap !)
All saved who skite about their sins,
For oh, I loathe a dribbling tap.
All parsons’ jokes—and parsons too,
All sham subsistence sold in tins,
All tender songs re lovers true,
All snobs and slugs and fishes’ fins;
The clever coot who always wins
And never knows the least mishap,
And demagogues with double chins —
For oh, I loathe a dribbling tap.
A greasy book, a squeaking shoe;
All whiskies, brandies, rums and gins—
(An honest beer’s the noblest brew
That-Over men conserved in bins) —
All monkeys with their mournful grins,
All grins that show a toothless gap.
And loafing weeds with dirty skins,
For oh, I loathe a dribbling tap.
Envoy.
Oh, Irony 1 upon its shins
My soul must feel your sharpest rap:
A rill of verse it thins and thins —
And says it loathes a dribbling tap!
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


The Value of a
High Reputation
ZAM-BUR has a world-wide
reputation of many years’
standing"—a reputation built up
on absolute merit &, reliability.
NINE out of every ten Homes always Keep Zam-
BuK Handy. Zam-BuK cannot be equalled for
Healing up cleanly tHe cuts and bruises of daily
life, or for completely repelling' any insidious or
Hidden attacK of eczema, piles, bad leg's or
general sKin* disease.
THe test of a superior medicine is in repeated
cures of tHe same ailments, under a g'reat variety
of more or less difficult conditions. YoutH or
age, bodily weakness or strength, comfort or
poverty matter not where Zam-BuK is used; tHe
disease Has GOT TO COME OUT of tHe flesH;
and under tHe gentle but irresistible influence
of tHe unique medicinal agents stored up in Zam-
BuK, tHe tissues MUST be purified and Healed.
THere is no questioning the wide achieve-
ments of Zam-BuK; they consist of cures you
can investigate in your own street or town.
THIS CERTAINTY OF ABSOLUTE BENEFIT
from the use of Zam-BuK makes a box of the rich balm a safe and
cheap investment.
There is nothing else presenting the same g'reat healing', soothing
and antiseptic properties that are united in Zam-BuK. There is only
one Zam-BuK, and that is the pure balm by a secret and complex
process Known only to the proprietors. Because of this Known
reliability in curing; people, it is wise and money-saving to see that
you get Zam-BuK, and avoid worthless substitutes and cheap oint-
ments of every shape and form.
To be had of all chemists and stores throughout
Australia and New Zealand at 1/6 and d/6 per pot.
THE WORLD’S GREATEST HEALER


A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure Silver-
plated, AT quality, Rustic Stand, £5/5/-
Silver-plate Table Appointments
A. Saunders’ English Oak Salver, pure Silver-plated Rail and Shield.
18in., 95/-; 20in., £5; 22in., £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish aud Cracks, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, highly burnished, £5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality*
hand engraved and burnished, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Set and Stand, pure Silver-plated
At quality, highly burnished, Sugar and Cream gilt-lined
£l2/10/-
m-
s
Jll
hM
3l
JJJ4
A. Saugders’ Fruit Stand, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly-burnished detachable tubes, £l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated, A 1 -quality, highly
burnished, Bead Edge, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Cake Basket, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality,
highly burnished, pierced design.' £5/5/»
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
I. HI
<0
The more important Hupmobile manu-
facturing processes are identical with pro-
cesses applied to cars that cost a great deal
more. Precision and watchfulness g'overn
every manufacturing' operation to a deg'ree
that recently inspired a leading' automobile
publication to cite the Hupmobile factory as
a model.
5-seater Touring or 2-seater Roadster body
Speedometer.
Electric starter.
Head, tail and dash-board lights.
Rain-vision windscreen.
Fuel gauge.
STANDARD EQUIPMENT.
Oil pressure gauge.
Electric horn.
Ammeter.
Foot and rug rails.
Tyre-carrier—extra rim.
Side curtains —door curtain carriers.
Tonneau carpet.
Hood (black or khaki).
Grease gun.
Pump, jack, full set of tools.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney.
DALOETY & COMPANY, LIMITED, 664 Bourke Street,
Melbourne.
PIKE NIX MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED, 112-120 Pirie
Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth, W.A.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LIMITED. 437 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, LIMITED, 105 Macquarie
Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOC., Christchurch.
N.Z.
WHOLESALE FEDERATION, Wellington, N.Z.
Hupmobile


“Ivlaney”: They run in all shapes, these j
poets. The lyre is banged between New-,
castle and Grafton (N.S.W.) by an ancient
bard, long-haired, and Byronic as to the
collar. His singing is confined to epitaphs.
Meeting him the other day I inquired sympa-
thetically about the state of the spondee-and-
dactyl business. He put down his beer glass.
“No good, sir; no good.” He dredged up a
creasy-looking bundle of manuscript, pre-
sumably collin verse, from a capacious pocket.
“All going to waste,” he moaned, “for want of
a few funerals.” I left him aloomily rumi-
nating on the lack of encouragement accorded
to local industry, as represented bv himself
and his tragic Muse, in a district addicted to
longevity.
Amusement*
SY I> XK VS <’ II IK I' TIIKAT It E S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
A LITTLE DUTCH GIRL.
CRITERION’:
MY LADY’S DRESS.
ROYAL:
JOHNNY, GET YOUR GUN.
Y 1) X E Y TOWN H A I. L.
rwrontion —THOMAS QUINLAN and E. J. and
DAN CARROLL.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE SISTINE CHOIR.
Under the Conductorship of the Illustrious Maestro,
MONSIGNOR RELLA.
SPECIAL NOTICE—EXTENSION OF SEASON.
In consequence of the Sensational Success achieved
by the Choir, the Season has been extended until
Saturday, May 20.
BOX PLANS AT NICHOLSON’S.
For Concerts on the following dates: THURS., 11th;
FRI., 12th; SAT., 13th ; MON., 15th ; TUBS., 16th;
WED., 17th; THURS., 18th; FRI., 19th; and
THE FAREWELL CONCERT, SAT., 20th MAY.
TIIE ALLAN WILKIE SII AKSPEAItEAN
IMtom CTIONB
Australian Tour:
SYDNEY SEASON —GRAND OPERA HOUSE.
Aiutiiil iMitn Repiesentiitive. HUGH I). WILSON,
17 The Hanking House. Pitt Street. Sydney.
CIRCUS
IRT H S
w
Menagerie of Performing Wild Animals.
THE HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE SATS. and WEDS., 2.30.
Children half-price.
This Year the Best Ever. Everything New.
Box plan at Nicholson’s.
JC. WILLIAMSON, LTD., MELHOIKN®
• ATTRACTIONS.
HER M \ TESTY’S THEATRE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
A NIGHT OUT.
THEATRE ROYAL.
THE RAT.
THE BAT IS A SUPER-MYSTERY PLAY.
KING’S THEATRE.
PHILLIPS TEAD and ELIZABETH DUNN in
THE FIRST YEAR.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|y|\.IKSMC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
EARTHROUND.
A GOLDWYN PRODUCTION.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Alho SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET, and LYCEUM (over
Princes Bridge).
MISS DU PONT in
FALSE KISSES.
MARION DAVIES in
CECILIA OF THE PINK ROSES.
Prices as usual.
B
lIITANMA
THEATRE, MEI.DOL UNII.
TI-IF. LATEST AND BEST TN
MOTION PH’TURKS.
Continuous Sessions.
|y|ELDA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the
the productions of CHAPLIN,
IVOR I D and SM.7-NICK.
world’s films, including !
VITAGRAPH. PATHE, j
Legal Notices.
a 10. WALTER DRAIN formerly of Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria Tram-
way Employee.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing
date the 21st day of June 1921 has issued
out of this Court citing you to appear and
answer the petition of William Holder or i
Adelaide in the State of South Australia
Out of Business praying for a dissolution of
marriage. In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court
and the Court will proceed to hear the said
Petition proved in due course of law and
pronounce sentence thereon your absence
notwithstanding And take further notice that
for the purpose aforesaid you are within
Thirty days from this publication to attend
in person or by your Solicitor at the Office
of the Supreme Court Victoria Square
Adelaide and there to enter an appearance
as provided by the Rules in this behalf.
HARWELL, KELLY & HAGUE,
Pirie Street, Adelaide,
IMitioner’s Solicitors.
F. B. McBRYDE, Deputy Master.
GEORGE BARTLETT.
Notice.— george bartlett is
entitled to benefit under the Will of
James Bartlett, late of Cokehatn Sompting,
in the County of Sussex, market gardener,
who died in 1909. George Bartlett’s interest
under the said will is liable to be forfeited
unless he makes a claim within 3 months
from this date (11th May, 1922) on the
subjoined.
MESSRS. VERRAT.L & SONS,
Solicitors, Worthing, Sussex, England.
“URANDALINE,”
MAGNIFICENTLY CONSTRUCTED BRICK VILLA RESIDENCE
with Land 1-f to 5 acres, or more, Situate
Glen Eira Road, Caulfield,
on the Crest of the Hill, in the most select residential position.
tilt
TO BE OFFERED BT
PUBLIC AUCTION
ON
Wednesday,
May 24,1922
Containing Drawing-room, Dining-room, Breakfast-room, three Bedrooms, Bath-
rooms, Kitchen, Servants’ Hall, Two Maids’ Rooms, and all Domestic Offices.
MAGNIFICENT STABLING, MOTOR GARAGE AND GROUNDS.
TERMS: £5OO Cash, £250 half-yearly for 5 years.
Balance then payable. Interest 6£ per cent.
Illustrated Catalogues. Orders to View and further particulars from
KNIGHT & HARWOOD,
Auctioneers and Property Salesmen, 315 Collins St., Melbourne,
In Conjunction with
LANGRIDGE & FINLAY, Collin.
Melbourne,
through their Auctioneer, SYDNEY T. HAYNES.
Monarch
d
“Everything Ends In Smoke.”
Let the “Smoke” be
a Good One!
Monarch Cigars have a full
Havana filler of selected leaf
of high quality, chosen with
the greatest care and entirely
hand made.
All Hotels and
Tobacconists,
6d. each.
Special sampling cabinet con-
taining 10 cigars, 6/-; 25,
12/6; 50, 23/1); 100,
46/-
Post paid to any address in
Commonwealth.
Craig 8 Aitken,
654 George Street, Sydney.
Distributors for Club Roll
Cigar Faotory.
The Cig'ar
for Quality
If any illustration appearing in Thf
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
A 1
~S
?r*?x-£
«■-■-
:<^2-
@*c
*-- ';:
Ss"^:
i^s
""
TV
tis»
--•;
MS
SS«!ScS
Ga
«2S
a
r >->>
• •:- ••
iBK
Sfi
=?*^3
lAS
331 S
't**i#r&k£
*»
U
•:
£*£»
3
a
in 11
HOB
m
m
feP
fAA
Gold Seal
(ONGOLEUM
SEAL
GUARANTEE
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
OR YOUR MONEY BACK
REMOVE SEAL WITH
DAMP CLOTII
y
What a soothing influence is
exerted on the mind by the cosi-
ness of a well furnished room.
To create this the primary ob-
ject is to cover the floor suitably.
Gold-Seal Gongoleum Art Squares
solve this problem.
Beautiful designs, rich colorings
and handy sizes make them suit-
able for every room in the house.
Made in the following sizes:
9 ft. x 12 ft.; 9 ft. x 10 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 9 ft.; 9 ft. x 7 ft. 6 in.;
9 ft. x 6 ft.
Comfort and Cleanliness
Being absolutely waterproof, water
cannot rot or harm them.
Think what a comfort they are
in the home! The smooth firm
surface is cleaned without heavy
sweeping or beating—just a few
minutes with a damp mop and
your cleaning is done.
Look for the Gold-Seal when
you buy.
At all leading stores
or write
* BROWN & DUREAU LTD.
Cr. King and Kent Streets,
Sydney
Gongoleum Representatives for Australia


&
ft
Z'
WoRIO,
*'|F YOU ARE
BUYING RUBBER*'
KEEP THE
GOODRICH
TRADE MARK
IN TOUR EVE "
GOODRICH Means Economy.
All Goodrich users are obtaining splendid results and a consequent low cost of running.
Read what Mr. H. A. Thomas, of Orange, writes us:—
, 18th April, 1922.
i ou will be pleased to hear that the 880 x 120 Goodrich Cord Tyres sold to me some months
back have been giving excellent service and good results.
As evidence of my appreciation of these tyres I would be pleased if you would forward by
to-day’s train two 880 x 120 Covers for the same car.
I will certainly in future specify Goodrich while I am obtaining such satisfaction.
“Yours faithfully “(Sgd.) H. A. THOMAS.”
GOODRICH TYRES.
DUVAL. (£L COMPANY, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “A Little Dutch Girl”
Criterion “My Lady’s Dress’"
Royal “Johnny, Get Your Gun”
Palace “The White-headed Boy”
Grand Opera House .... Shakspearean Productions
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
Town Hall The Sistine Choir
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Royal “The Bat”
Kino’s “The First Year ’
Majestic Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The end of “The Bat,” on Saturday night,
at Melbourne Koyai, was tne producer's
appeal to the auaieuee to be “good sports”
and refuse to divulge tne mystery of tne plot
to the outside world. Under these conditions
—somewhat worn conditions which did duty
in the case of "The Thirteenth Chair” —this
paper almost blusnes to brand “Tne Bat” as
a drama with tne soul of a penny dreadful
and the cheek of a graven image. Its devices
for making susceptioie human nesh creep are
contradictory auu mostly ridiculous, so much
so that even the first-night crowd, following
the development of a cranky, reckless, riotous
plot with close attention, lound itself laugh-
ing aloud at lurid incidents when shudders
were expected of them. Truth, reasonable-
ness, remote possibility, all things required
to win respect for plain, honest melodrama,
are wanting in “The Bat.” Such ingenious
American nonsense is for devourers of cheap
detective yarns. The plot of the Mystery
at Melbourne Royal will surely get them
thinking, and if, after learning the secret,
they continue to think of tne tissue of
absurdities that clouded their understanding,
they will possibly feel spoofed. For nothing
in the whole concern is more unreasonable
than the climax.
# * * *
Emma Temple, presiding as lady of a
house where the horrors happen, rides
sedately on the whirlwind and directs, in
a measure, the storm of conjecture. Her
calmness under difficulties is equally artistic
and inhuman. Her keen commonsense seems
largely due to a system of spiritualistic cul-
ture which she practises with a sort of parlor
spookometer, at the outset of the story, her
partner in this game being a semi-idiot ser-
vant who holds the other end of the apparatus
whilst it spells “The Bat” on a spook alpha-
bet. Miss Elizabeth Dunn successfully buf-
foons the character of the comic semi-
paralytic, and her occasional cry of
“My Gawd” brightens the blackest moments
of the Mystery play. Rupert Lumley, a
newcomer, tries hard to appear natural as a
cool, collected medical man who takes charge
of a neglected corpse for inquest purposes.
Kenneth Brampton being the corpse that lies
almost forgotten on the parlor threshold until
Gaston Mervale drops in to help pile up
the prevailing agony. Roland Hogue’s job
is to stand around and invite false suspicion.
No young bank clerk, fleeing from a -warrant,
was ever so guilty as Hogue looks. Frank
Hawthorne, as a Japanese servant, is consist-
ently terror-stricken most of the time, whilst
Elsie Parkes is a distressed and shapely
damsel whose contributions to the Mystery
grow less accountable as the drama pro-
ceeds to its dim finish in an alleged garret
where the candle is always going out. Carle-
ton Stuart impersonates a blood-stained
stranger who falls promiscuously through
an open doorway, or otherwise gets admit-
tance ; and Mayne Lynton is the
least credibl? detective that ever emulated
the blusterous wind of Heaven in its wrath.
Viewing the career of Detective Anderson
(Mayne Lynton) in retrospect this paper
awards him the bun for sensational futility.
Noises, apparitions, thunderclaps, etc., re-
ceive adequate interpretation.
$* $ $
At Melbourne Majesty’s the nights of “A
Night Out” are numbered to Fridav next
week. Then the end of the season will start
with “You’re in Love,” and the farewells
of Frith, the farcical faceur, will begin.
At both Melbourne Tivoli, where George
Carne.v and Cos. are new to the bill, and at
the Palace, where Ada Reeve heads the festi-
vities, there are lamentable threats of some-
thing special being provided for “Boat Race
Night,” which is Saturday this week. The
time is coming rapidly when the Sunday
before boat-race will be dedicated in some of
the Melbourne churches to all-round prayer
and supplication on behalf of their repre-
sentative grammar-school crews.
* # ❖ *
“False Kisses” is the rage at Hoyt’s, Mel-
bourne, this week. It is the gaudy tragedy
of a lighthouse-keeper’s wife who has to
confer reluctant embraces on a waster to
save her unhappy husband from trouble.
“The Web of Deceit,” with tiie lustrous
Path. 6 heroine, Dolores Cassinelli, enmeshed
therein, is another effusion with saucy situa-
tions, but innocence is restored by Marion
Davies as the artless “Cecilia of the Pink
Roses.” Put into book form, this film would
make an acceptable Sunday-school prize. The
Majestic is reviving the little flower-girl,
distressed by a drunken father and a yearn-
ing for higher things. This time she mas-
querades under the slummy title of “Squibs.”
The profiteerage will be scandalised by the
Majestic’s second item, “A Beggar in
Purple,” who wilfully loses his all to gain
love and happiness. At the Britannia “The
Penalty” is nothing compared to the sixpence
that the populace is lined to see it. The
Melba is starring “Miss Lulu Bett”—ia suf-
ferer from acute emotionalism.
#* * *
The work of the Irish Players has been
hailed throughout the world as anew kind
of acting. It is not. It is the old acting;
only a more careful, intelligent and honest
brand of it. That was proved at Sydney
Palace on Saturday night, when Lemox
Robinson’s satisfying play, “The White-
headed Boy,” was produced. The larger
parts of Aunt Ellen and John Duffy were
carried triumphantly by Maire O’Neill and
Arthur Sinclair; but the same perfect inter-
pretation characterised the smallest speeches
of the least important persons in the cast.
Very sweetly the mellow Irish speech, with
its delicate falling and rising inflections,
came to the ears of an audience unused to
such music; and very happily the perfectly
legitimate laughter—a laughter of thought
rather than of trick —rippled through a
house roused to a gentle and deep enthusi-
asm. Arthur Sinclair has a marvellous voice
and a whimsical heavyweight humor that
rolls itself into the heart; wdiile Maire
O’Neill made the brightest, merriest, tricki-
est middle-aged aunt in the world. Some
of her minor business was wmrk of sheer
genius added to the closest observation of
life. Yet in plain artistic merit the finest
rt of the evening was done by Nora Dps-
mond, as Kate Geoghegan, the' faded elder
sister. Her representation of a well-remem-
bered Irish type w r as the most perfect bit
of character acting the present writer has
seen on any stage. Almost as much
mieht be said of Sydney Morgan, as George,
and Maureen Delany as Mrs. Geoghegan.
Both held up long and tryinv parts and never
by a syllable nor by a movement did they
fail to keep convincingly in the picture.
Arthur Shields, as the “white-headed boy,”
“ALL THE WINNERS!” AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Half-moon preparing to rehearse his voice
in “The Heart of a Rose.”
did wonders. His curious and exacting part
was perhaps the most difficult of all; and
he, more easily than any of the others, might
have let the play down. Instead of doing so,
he got the last ounce out of his part and
gave a sharp, bright portrayal of the young
scapegrace lover with a saving sense of
humor. He was possibly the first juvenile
lead seen in Sydney whom no male person in
the audience desired to kick. The onlv
specks in the play, as a whole —and they
were but microscopic defects —were the occa-
sional efforts of Artnur Sinclair and
Maire O’Neill to get an additional titter of
laughter by means which w r ere outside their
parts. This was a pity, because the big and
deep laughter was there without such aids.
The make-up of both these players, and still
more notably that of Gertrude Murphy, as
Delia Duffy, was a little too strong for the
lighting of the small theatre.
* * * *
“Bildad” on devils :
A recent arrival in Australia is one Wigglesworth,
from Yorkshire (England), who is, by trade or
calling, a caster-out of devils. It is easy to
take a devil seriously, especially after read-
ing the Book of Job; but to do the same by a
Wigglesworcn requires effort. And to imagine that
Melbourne Tivoli.
George Carney as the
first-aid man.
any devil would per-
mit a person like that
to seize him by the
tail, as i£ he was a
cat with his caudal
appendage sticking
casually from beneath
a gate, and whirl him
violently round his
head and throw him
away out of sight but
to memory dear, and,
what is more, to do
it repeatedly, without
eventually retaliating
and removing Wiggles-
worth’s scalp in the
process, is beyond be-
lief. Devils, accord-
ing to the best autho-
rities, are made of
sterner stuff.
Wiggleswortli ar-
rived in Sydney with
no great previous re-
putation, like that of
Foch or Mustapha
Kemal or Enver Pasha
or St. Peter. He
didn’t bring with him
a stuffed or bottled
devil as a sample
of his work. He just asserted himself, and began
to hold meetings, and, professedly, to remove the
causes of cancer, consumption, epilepsy, fever and
other annoyances, all supposed to be the work of
small, horny immortal creatures, cavorting around
the human innards, incredibly powerful till Wiggles-
worth speaks to them, yet pathetically helpless when
Wigglesworth transfixes them with his eye.
Such are the alleged powers of Wigglesworth. Yet
this apostle apparently can’t add a cuhjt to his un-
impressive stature: he can’t remedy his dreadful
boots, which lack in a marked manner the
supernal beauty of the finished works of God; he
has no healing balm for his clothes, which are
abominable; and, above all. he can’t help the fact
that he is troubled with a scanty and none too
grammatical vocabulary, and an alleged “gift of
tongues’’ which sounds akin to gibberish. They
might be ox-tongues, or sheep’s-tongues, or
some of the mislaid tongues of Polynesia,
but, as one embittered incurable, who had
been cursed for baldness said when leaving—-a
tram-fare to the bad but otherwise not much better
—it would be well if the miracle-worker would “talk
his t’other lingo, if he has one.” On top of it all,
Evangelist Wigglesworth can’t sing, though, like
many another who is similarly .afflicted, he does sing
and that persistently.
The profession that Wigglesworth follows has been
practised for (say) 1900 years. With all the casting-
out there is no provable increase in the number of
devils that are out, and no visible decrease in the
number of devils that are in. The doctor who re-
moves a leg has three proofs of his bona fides. He
can call evidence to prove that the leg was there;
he can prove that it isn’t there; and he can hold
out the leg at arm’s length and show where it is.
If he undertook to amputate members that no one
could see but himself, and explained that the opera-
tion had been done painlessly and invisibly when
no one was looking, and that the leg had imme-
diately run away with the instruments and the
operating-table, suspicion would be writ large on
every countenance, and a penetrating voice from
somewhere would say in derisive tones: “Cripes!”
Two suggestions have been made in respect of
ejectors of devils. One is that if they take money
they should be charged with false pretences. The
other is that, if they aren’t seen taking money, they
should be charged just the same on the principle
that cast-out devils, harassed by unemployment,
have probably been led to use their powers to blind
the authorities to a transaction which invariably
occurs when revivalists perviade the scene. It
would be interesting, anyhow, to proceed in some
way against Wigglesworth if only to test whether
he could cast out the minions of the Law as suc-
cessfully as, say, a diabolical attack of corns.
V # sis #
Allan Wilkie played “Macbeth” at Syd-
ney Grand Opera House on Thursday and
Friday nights. He showed excellently in the
metaphysical and the analytical soliloquies
preceding and following each act of treachery
perpetrated by the gore-steeped Scot, and
made of the Dagger speech a peculiarly hair-
raising interlude. Jack Lennon as Duncan
of Scotland was on the mild side, but Robert
Purdie’s Macduff was altogether convincing
—more especially about the accent. Hilda
Dorrington made her most striking success
of the season as Ladv Macbeth; and Lomia
Forbes would have made a charming widow
Macduff if the Powers had given her a
chance. The Banquo of William nocknart,
the witch of Piumpton Wilson, and Fred
Macdonald s Porter were all commendable.
On Saturday night Allan, as Richard 111.,
stepped into anotner of those ensanguined
parts which point the good old moral: “The
path that’s gory leads but to the grave.” He
presented an impressive Richard, all said
and done, though the hypocrisy was a shade
too obvious. The play gives Leslie Man-
ners has chance as Clarence, and he took it
in the dream speech. Robert Purdie and
Fred Macdonald as the Dukes of Bucking-
ham and Hastings were not outstandingly
convincing. Vera St. John and Linda Glad-
stone did well as the little princes. Hilda
Dorrington invested the part of Anne with
good looks, and the same can be said for
Lorna Forbes’s Elizabeth.
The Frolics will cease to froll at the Tivoli
after to-morrow (Friday) night. But Tal-
bot O’Farrell proposes to slip into the
vacuum on Saturday ; and with the jazzing
Henry de Bray and partner May Vivian,
Sam Barton, the trick cyclist, and Scott
Argyll, the anti-Puss.vfoot vocalist, all
should be as well as ever with the front of
the house.
** * *
The Sistine Choristers, in their purple
soutanes and specially-pleated surpLces,
draped themselves picturesquely about Sydney
Town Hall stage on Saturday night. Even
as the last settled into position, Monsignor
Rella made his entrance, acknowledging the
wild applause of the standing audience with
a “Bless-you-my-children” gesture that em-
braced the entire assemblage. Then the special
musical greeting to the Australian people
flashed out, followed by a stately procession of
Sacred Choral effects in which the beauty of
text and voices was equally displayed. The
programme was mostly Palestrina aiid Perosi
in which the bassos and
baritones were as the. thunder clouds of
Jehovah through which the pure tones of the
boy sopranos and tenors clove a lightning
path. Palestrina’s “Laudate” was the first
to provoke a whirlwind of applause. But,
as the noise of the chariots and the passage
of the Chosen Race from shore to shore, were
the thunders of acclamation that followed
when the Choir split asunder like the:Red
Sea, and from either end of the Town Hall
challenged each other with, forceful alleluias
in a triumphant chant by Perosi. Viadana’s
“Exultate Justi,” an “Ave Maria” by Vit-
toria, and other numbers were rendered with
electrical effect; the Monsignor conducting
not only with every vibrant finger of both
hands but with his entire, supple body. A
thing of poignant beauty was Perosi’s “0
Salutaris,” and an amazing musical evening
ended on the jubilation of Palestrina’s
“Exultate Deo.”
** * *
The “Little Dutch Girl” maintains her
grip on Sydneyites at Her Majesty’s. She
is attractive enough to give on> an idea of
what Wilhelmina of the Netherlands may
have looked like in the far-off days when the
French christened her “Queen Prettyface.”
. At Sydney Cri. “My Lady’s Dress” con-
tinues to be admired by men and women, and
gurgled over esctatically by flappers. It’s a
notable garment—and a plav brimful of
human interest.
Sydney Royal reopens on Saturday night
with Louis Bennison in “Johnny, Get Your
Gun.” The gun, it is just worth mentioning,
isn’t a service rifle. The play is a brisk and
breezy farce, certified as a merriment-pro-
voker about the average, and Louis Bennison
has played it up and down the U.S. to
riotously mirthful houses.
* * * *
The animal corroboree at Wirths’ Hippo-
drome will continue for a fortnight more,
and then the big theatre will be crowded
With followers of the gentle art and the
strains of the. State Orchestra. The firm is
handing its till over to the St. Margaret’s
Hospital fund to-morrow (Friday) night.
#* * %
The Lyceum and New Lyric’s floors are a
depository for useless bookies’ tickets these
days, the explanation being that the star
celluloid offering is “Get-Rich-Quick Walling-
ford. ’ A pathetic example of the persistent
belief of the eleaned-out punter that he will
yet find a method of beating hostile Fate and
emerging from the conflict solvent. Charlie
Chaplin’s return to the silent art is featured
at the Crystal Palace. It is called “The
Kid.” Chaplin here deserts the slapstick
and the custard-pie to meander amid the
groves of pathos. Familiar ghosts of a
hundred melodramas strut rheumatically
through “The Rosary,” the week’s best sob-
film at the Haymarket. But tear-dimmed-
eyed flappers sigh as loud and their hearts
beat just as fast as of yore over it, with
extremelv profitable results to the manage-
ment, The additional is “Why Announce
Your Marriage!'” The Strand shows Marv
Piclfford. alias “Pollyanna.” and Pert Lytell
in “The Idle Rich.” Hoyt’s have their usual
collection of thrillers on view. “The Sheik”
is nearing a three-months’ run of lurid pas-
sion at the Globe.
THE BAT.
Since The Face at the Window’s endearing young
charms
Displayed in an eerie blue light were,
No drama has spread such a feast of alarms,
Nor been so conducive to nightmare,
As “The Bat” that in Melbourne now calls for
remark
By working the Mysteree ticket:
Keep the Bat at the Window’s identity dark,
Or else you are not playing cricaet.
So bawl 1 not the name of the Bat to your friends
Who’d be otherwise puzzled to pick it:
Oh, these “mystery” plays suit the management’s
ends,
if the public regard them as cricket!
Yea, The Bat is in play in the management’s hands,
And the Taits are defending the wicket:
It is pitched on a plot which your silence demands,
Or they can’t get good gate-money cricket.
O.K.


If
Dishwasher
and
Kitchen Table
Vacuum
Sweeper
v/5
%
t+ee&f
s jmz
Portable
Sewing
Machine
Washer ai
Wringer
and
s'
§
X 1
1
§a
X
■
Electric
Iron
i
n
1
nN^
MS
VC'
m
Western Electric
Power, a. n d Light
Turns Night into Day
Turns Work into Play
The Western Electric Display at the Royal Agricultural
Show, Sydney, siraply astounded thousands of country
people who saw the demonstration of Western Electric
Household Appliances—driven by the Western Electric
Power and Light plant. This wonderful plant not only
turns night into day, but because of its big, strong battery,
which supplies plentiful electric current, it turns work into
play.
Country men and women realise that Western Electric Ap-
pliances are worth while in their homes for comfort and
happiness. If you let Western Electric Appliances do the
housework and farmwork you save yourself—yet the work
is done in double quick timew Look at the five appliances
shown above.
The Western Electric Washer and Wringer saves all the
backache of laundry work. Think of just turning the
family wash over to this dependable servant, which washes
them clean without fuss or trouble.
Keep your hands out of the washing-up basin. That’s
every woman’s dream. You can make this dream come
true by getting a Western Electric Dishwasher and Kit-
chen Table to save you the bother of washing and drying
dishes.
Is there ever an end to house-cleaning? First one room,
then another. But it’s easy enough when you have a
Western Electric Vacuum Sweeper to take up the dirt.
You simply turn on the switch and wheel the Sweeper
about.
Here is Western Electric Power and Light,
*—easily bought, easily paid for because it
saves its cost in no time. Ask for particu-
lars.
What a pleasure it would he to sew if only you didn’t have
that incessant pedalling to tire you! Sew with the Western
Electric Portable Sewing Machine, and the motor does the
hard work for you.
Your Western Electric Iron keeps a steady, even heat, and
so saves you countless steps between the stove and ironing-
board to change for a hot iron. Then there are Electric
Toasters, Electric Grillers, Electric Fans, and many other
appliances. Surely the Western Electric way is the com-
fortable way.
The Western Electric Plant supplies both light and power
because the Battery is built for this double service. It
is big and strong, 288 Ampere Hours capacity (S.A.E.
Rating) nearly twice the capacity of other lighting plant
batteries. The Western Electric Battery is further pro-
tected by an Automatic Device which controls the charging
of the battery—fills it gradually, at the proper rate, and
cuts out when the battery is exactly full. This devico
alone is worth many pounds to any user. It explains why
Western Electric Power and Light “makes the battery last
longer.”
And remember! In addition to electric light and power
service, Western Electric Power and Light gives real
engine service as well. The 3} H.P. Kerosene Engine is
fitted with a rulley from which all kinds of machines can
be driven. The booklets listed in the coupon below give
complete particulars of Western Electric Power and Light
and Western Electric appliances. Mark your requirements
and post coupon to nearest address shown.
Western Electric Company
(Austraiia)Ltd.
SYDNEY: 192 Castlereagh Street.
MELBOURNE: C. R. FOSTER, 262 Flinders Lane.
BRISBANE: T. TONKS, Elizabeth Street.
ADELAIDE: NEWTON, McLAREN, LTD., Leigh Street.
PERTH: WM. ADAMS & CO., LTD., 33 King Street.
HOBART: MEDHURST ELECTRIC CO., Argyle Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: A. D. RILEY & CO., LTD., Lambton
Quay; also at Christchurch, Auckland, and Dunedin.
Cut Out and Post
To nearest address shown above.
Please forward Post-Free the following Booklets:—
Western Electric Power and Light.
Western Electric Clothes Washer and Wringer.
Western Electric Dishwasher and Kitchen Table.
Western Electric Vacuum Cleaner.
Western Electric Portable Sewing Machine.
Western Electric Grillers and Toasters.
Western Electric Iron.
Western Electric Fans.
Name
Address
MARK AND POST THE COUPON TO-DAY.


'i'f
WHISKY
1
The'TOP NOTCH'scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
The Famous Non-CrackingCorsican Bruyere
df
Made at St. Claude (Jura), France.
<&
o.
w
J-
&
<P*
We \
will
show
a
shape
every
week.
F.L.C.
Pipes are
made by French
Diggers from the
finest-grade flawless
Corsican Briar Root in 98
Smart Shapes—plain and
Silver-inotmted. Every pipe sold
carries a
Twelve Months'
Guarantee.
Any cracking or burning within that time will
be replaced Free.
Illustrated
B^2D 8.
Ellver-mount d,
Ask your tobacconist for F.L.C.
or send a postcard to Box 854
G.P.0., Melbourne, and we will
tell you where to gret one. r.
Thae't & Thandon
DRY IMPERIAL
CHAMPAGNE
Exquisite
POVERTY
POINT
"Thorold Waters”: Florence Young is
quoted by “Norbell” (B. 13/4/’22) as say-
ing that “Amy Castles wished to be a lyric
soprano, but Mai’chesi said she was a drama-
tic soprano.” The beloved Florence got
things the wrong way round. Amy’s own
version of the proceedings with ancient Mar-
ches! is the one I gave, and she certainly
should know more about them than anyone.
At the beginning of the earliest Castles
boom the critics mostly concurred that Aus-
tralia had at last found a true dramatic
soprano of the first magnitude. When Amy
gave Marchesi the go-b.v she went straight
to Bouhy to be treated as n dramatic-
soprano, and when she took on opera it
was in such purely dramatic roles as Madame
Butterfly. Amy ’ was the dramatic prima
donna in Vienna while Selma Kurz was the
lyrical soprano in the years leading up to
Austria’s dchdcle. To be candid, Florence
Young spent very little time with Marchesi,
and few will contend that her voice was
sweetened by whatever treatment the old
ladv gave it.
“Peter”: Rupert Lumley, who appears as
the medico in “The Bat,” at Melbourne
Royal, started with Tree and was with
Evelyn Millard when she appeared in
“The Idols” in London. Subsequently lie
had a turn in “The Speckled Band,” Conan
Doyle’s snake-drama in which Dorothy Dix
appeared in Australia. In New York Lum-
ley had a part in “The Great Adventure,”
and in “Romance” was cast as Van Tuyl,
which Frank Harvey did here with Madge
Fabian as the bewitching Cavallini. During
the war he was employed by the British
Admiralty, and was afterwards attached to
the R.G.A.
“T.W.”: Even Mannix’s interest has been
insufficient to convince some unbelievers
that it is the dinkum No. 1 Sistine Choir
which has chosen Australia for its first sally
out of the Vatican. To reassure these
doubters the choir need only put on Gregorio
Allegri’s famous “Miserere,” the annual fea-
ture in the Pontifical chapel during Holy
Week. The “Miserere” was so carefully
guarded a musical treasure of the Vatican
that excommunication used to be served out
to anyone filching it. One or two people, in-
cluding Mozart, did crib the notes, only
to find that the thing was so dependent on
traditional Sistine effects that it was not
worth the stealing.
“Blackfriars”: Either because he was a
better actor or not‘so good a dramatist, H.
V. Esmond, the just defunct author of “Eliza
Comes to Stay” and “One Summer’s Day,”
was never able, like Pinero, to quit actual
mumming. He had the good fortune in the
first place to marry Eva Moore, of a foot-
lights-cwm-writing clan which, like the Terrys
and Comptons and Calverts, has so many
ramifications that it requires a genealogical
tree all to itself in the theatrical year-books.
Esmond was best in his lighter moods both
as actor and dramatist. I saw him 18
months ago trying to play a kind of Disrae-
lian heavy father to Marie Lohr, in a serious
play that he had written himself. There
were two reasons why the play failed. One
was the play and the other was Esmond.
“Vaudeville Vet.” : Curious how the movies
have shitted from last to opening turn in
vaudeville. The gazette is now’ a recognised
show’-opener, largely because it enables mana-
gers to avoid argument with artists, most of
whom would rather eat a bill than open it.
Some of my old programmes reveal the early
flicks as show-closers under various names.
At Manchester Tivoli in January, IS9J,
there was the Edison-Rodgers Electrograph
—comedian Johnny Gilmore, now a picture-
manager at Bondi (N.S.W.), was on the
bill. At Buxton Empress were the Edison-
Thomas life-sfee pictures, and Portsmouth
had the Eragraph. On that programme there
was a Charles Chaplin, described as ‘ actor-
vocalist.” Quite probably the Charlie.
“Ike Pagliacci”: Wilkie Bal'd cost Mus-
grove £4OO a week; Ella Shields pulled in
£250. Both were money-spinners. Talbot
O’Farrell picks up £2OO and song royalties.
Now comes comedian George Carney, and
on to his little lot must be tacked £lOOO in
fares alone. Carney blames Australia for
putting him in the way of being an object of
interest to the tax-gatherer. He served with
an Australian contingent in the Boer War,
and it was a Bathurst bloke who first recog-
nised his talent. “Gorblime” he told Carney,
“I seen worse’ll you at our School uv Arts.”
“T.W.”: Australia’s music critics, whose
opportunities for acquaintance with Perosi’s
and Palestrina’s work are limited, have been
given a fine helping hand in dealing with
the Sistine singers by the expressive panto-
mime of the choir’s prompter. Unlike the
gentlemen who do the sanie job for stage
ensembles in big opera this maestro stands
full-faced to the audience and shows every
emotion in the gamut as he tries to give a
lift to flattening tenors or speed up the
lagging bassos. If their job is well done, his
countenance is a broad acre of seraphic
smile, but the slightest hitch anywhere means
a scowl like the doom of Man.
“Whitebait”: Avery Ilopwood, who col-
laborated with Mary Roberts Rinehart in
the production of “The Bat,” now fluttering
at Melbourne Royal, is a prolific author of
farces of the “Fair and Warmer” type, and
is regarded as the cleverest skater on thin
ice that the U.S.A. has produced. In fact,
he has made the English language perform
delicate tricks of ambiguity that were com-
monly supposed to be the specialty of
WIRTHS’ CIRCUS. AT SYDNEY
HIPPODROME.
Captain Linda and friend.
Parisian farce-builders. Also he is an ex-
pert contriver of situations that just fail to
bring a blush: to a bagman’s damask cheek.
His success is due to the fact that he never
rushes into realism with his bed-and-pyjama
ffteces, but only gives a luscious hint of the
possibilities in certain circumstances, whilst
leaving the rest to the giggling audience’s
imagination.
“Pitt Streeter”: Eily Malyon, at present
in the cast of “My Lady’s Dress,” at Sydney
Criterion, successfully pushed through a
divorce petition in Melbourne the other day.
According to her evidence in court she is
leaving for England shortly to take up an
engagement with Henry Ainley. Eily first
came to this country with Ethel Irving, and
has done notably good work on our stages.
Her mother, Agnes Thomas, was also out
here in the good old days of Brough and
Boucieault, and proved herself a fine artist.
“Pitt Streeter”: Shiela Gale, the im-
ported musical-comedy actress who dashed
into the breach when the Firm wanted some-
one to take Gladys Moncrieff’s place in “The
Maid of the Mountains,” is not, as her
Christian name might suggest, a Hibernian.
She comes from the land of haggis, whisky
and parritch, and manufactured her nom-de-
theatre from Galashiels, her native town.
“Lud” : Marie Lohr, back in London after
a Canadian and American tour, is making
her re-appearance in “Le Retour,” the
Parisian comedy recently staged in Sydney
by members of the Alliance Frangaise. The
adaptation is in the hands of Arthur Wim-
peris, and with it the fair Marie hopes to
restore the fortunes of her Globe playhouse,
which hasn’t experienced the best of luck
of late.
“D.F.”: Melbourne will see shortly, under
the wing of Louis Esson, a play by Hr.
Stuart Mock ay on the bad old days oi Nor-
folk Island. The scene is laid in the forties
of last century, when the island was a recep-
tacle for the “refuse of Botany Bay and Van
Diemen’s Land, tne doubly-damned.” I hope
the author hasn’t nCssed the fine, melodra-
matic curtain of John Price, the convict and
the pistoi. The convict was mutinous, and
Price, who had a pistol in his hand, offered
it to him, saying, “Shoot, you dog.” Struck
by the magnanimity of the act, the other
dashed the pistol to the ground.
“Blister”: Lorna Helms, the piquant
theatrical novice whom Gregan McMahon
recommended to the Firm, seems destined
never to reveal her comeliness to the public.
In “The Laughter of Fools,” in which she
made her first appearance on any stage, she
was the wretched slavey who wore a make-
up that would lr.gliten baby tigers to sleep.
And now that the imported ELzabeth Dunn
has been withdrawn from the part of Hattie
in “The First Year,” the young Australian
will have to black her face and pass round
the viands for the Tommy Tuckers.
“0.K.”: Why, in the name of Women’s
Rights, is Emilia’s talk with Desdemona
eliminated from Allan Wilkie's revival of
“Othello”? In a recent similarly-staged pro-
duction of the tragedy at Victoria Theatre,
London, where a man of m.ghty stature
played the name-part, Emilia spoke all the
lines that Shakspeare set down for her, and
was accordingly interesting. In Asche’s fully
spectacular production of “Othello” the prac-
tical Emilia (just as good as she ought to
be, but no saint) was allowed to express her
views on men, women and things. But in
Allan Wilkie’s tablo.ded production you get
no idea of the lady’s character. She is merely
the biddable Mrs. lago who abstracts a cer-
tain handkerchief from her mistress’s room
because lago is unaccountably anxious to
get hold of it, and who afterwards rails
against the murderer, and calls him a “filthy
bargain.” The fact that Emilia is really
something of a ltlth-century suffragette is
not disclosed. You get none of the decent
middle-class wife’s philosophy on the ques-
tion of how much fidelity reasonable women
owe to their husbands, and how much cause
some of them get for going giddy if they feel
so disposed.
“Y.Z.”: Walking, down Collins-street one
day with the late Eddie Finn, I saw a tall,
grim, dark-jowled person approach with
evident meaning. Eddie duly forked out.
Another time this desperado touched Eddie
when he was conversing with a couple of
friends under the verandah of the King’s,
and I saw Finn again tapped by the same
tax-gatherer at Punch office door. This
time Finn made serio-comic complaint. “Is
he crippled?” I asked. “No.” “Is he sick?”
“No.” “Well, what’s the matter with him?”
“Poor chap, he is greatly afflicted,” said
Eddie sadly—“he is the very worst actor on
earth.”
“Orb”: It’s a small matter, of course,
but my statement stands that Crook played
the piano for Tyrone Power when the orches-
tra struck, “M»L.” (B. 4/5/’22) notwith-
standing. Harcourt Lee performed the fol-
lowing night with a small scratch band, and
continued to do so till the season ended. I
was “producer”—they called ’em stage-
managers then —and personally signalled to
Crook his music cues from the prompt
entrance all through the show: one alarm on
the buzzer for a “plaintive,” two for an
“agitato,” and so on. Not that music cues
are indispensable in drama. George Rig-
nold told his chef d'orchestre, Frank Eugarde,
“when in doubt play a plaintive.” At a
rehearsal Dan Barry rebuked his conductor,
vtfho had complained that he had no
cue. “Cue be damned!” replied Daniel.
“Don’t you see me dying on the stage? Give
me four bars of ‘agit.’ ”
“Norbell”: Phi] Walsh, who will repre-
sent the Irish Players during their stay in
these parts, is an Australian mummer who
has been in the U.S.A. so long that he’s in-
clined to think in dollars instead of quids.
He belongs to Cootamundra (N.S.W.), and
in other days was comedian in Alfred Dam-
pier’s co., playing Warrigal in “Robbery-
Under Arms,” a part “created” by Jimmy
Atholwood, and afterwards played by Nor-
man Campbell. Phil _ also invaded the
“smalls” from Cocky’s Joy to Cowshed Creek
with Duggan and South’s co., also with
Harry Plimmer when he bored the Back-
blocks with Pinero’s “The Profligate,” in-
stead of thrilling them with “The Irish
Detective,” which was what Dad really
wanted. Phil knows his native land better
than most, and has played many parts, from
opal-gougsng at White Cliffs to "on the land'
at Tungamah (Vic.). His last trip to Aus-
tralia was as s.m. for Andrew Mack.
“Dido”: There was a journalistic festival
during the American fleet’s visit, in 1908,
and among others who had promised to en-
liven the night was a comedian from the
Opera House. But when this item was due
a man arrived from the theatre to explain
that in consequence of some sad mishap the
comic object could not keep his promise. The
“All the Winners,” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Tal Ordel as a
larrikin.
messenger, ko w-
ever, proffered to
fill the gap, ar.d
his generous offer
was accepted on
the assumption
that he was a
brother pro. The
man clamped him-
self to the piano
beside the accom-
panist, and began
to sing a woeful
ballad to mother of
the sort that makes
dors howl. It was
so dreadfully dolor-
ous that it was
presently perceived
to be excruciatingly
funny, and the
audience began to
laugh, and ended in
a roar of mirth.
The substitute was
an immense success.
He gave an encore
that went even bet-
ter. Next evening
the Opera House
manager was
thanked by one of
the pressmen for
having sent so
superb an artist.
“Artist!” said the
manager. “That
was Mike, the as-
sistant rouseabout
behind here. Galish, did he sing to you?”
Not till then did it dawn on the delegate
that Mike was meant to be taken seriously.
“Norbell”: I haven’t heard such genuine
laughter in a theatre for a long time as the
amateur rehearsal scenes evoked in Allan
Wilkie’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,”
and Peter Quince’s uroduction of “Pyramus
and Thisbe” was funnier than a score of
Yankee comedies. The introduction of actors
as characters has been a favorite device of
dramatists ever since Shakspeare started it,
but mostly the joke misses fire. I think it is
because professional actors are represented,
and aye accepted seriously as ordinary types,
whereas Shakspeare’s mummers were raw
amateurs, and caricatures at that. I can
recall many plays with actor characters as
comic relief, from “Lights o’ London” down
to Randolph Bedford’s “The Boss Cockie,
but the comic aspect of the stranded mimes
never seemed to strike the populace. “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury,” built on conventional
lines, has a couple of Poverty Pointers, but
the humor of down-at-heel Mr. Percival try-
ing to borrow a shilling from a small boy out-
side Drury Lane Theatre didn’t appeal to
the audience. They thought it characteris-
tic. Gregan McMahon played Cavendish
Howley with W. F. Hawtrey in “A High-
land Legacy.” He played it, too. The com-
pany rocked with laughter at the wings, but
those who paid to go in were inclined to
accept him seriously as quite true to type.
“0.K.”: One way of inducing an old play-
goer to lose money would be by getting him to
bet that Julius Knight never played a
secondary part in “Hamlet” in Australia.
Julius once did his bit as Laertes to Walter
Bentley’s Prince of Denmark. He bent the
knee to stagey Jimmy Cathcart, whilst that
most unnatural and “legitimate” of Poloni-
uses gave him his parting blessing and im-
mortal words of advice. That was at the
time when Walter Bentley had lately arrived
from Britain, and the management (George
Coppin and Co.) announced that “the cele-
brated tragedian” was doing Hamlet ‘ for
the first time in the colonies.” That’s what
old showmen called this country 30 years ago.
“0.K.”: Gertrude Johnson is this week
making her London debut in Mozart’s “The
Magic Flute.” The character of Queen of
the Night should give her every chance to
display the art that marked her Lucia. _ Her
coloratura work seems to have delighted
them in Liverpool, where one notice said that
she “executed two passages of extreme diffi-
culty with a purity of tone and truth of
pitch that were very remarkable.” Miss
Johnson is probably within easy distance of
acceptance as a queen of florid, song. And
the voice is Australian by training as well
as birth.
THE TOO SUSCEPTIBLE ACTOR MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew the actor very well,
An artist sensitive was he
Of whom acquaintances still tell
A most unusual history.
The man that Ilarvey Elliott played
Played Harvey Elliott in a sense:
In one part he’d be good and staid,
And in another great offence
He’d give by lack of abstinence.
In private life, his friends aver,
He must betray to some extent
The features of the character
It was his job to represent.
Within the theatre, if he
Must figure as g drunken sot,
He turned to inebriety
By day, and emptied many a pot,
Though Harvey, as a rule, did not.
If next he played a miser old,
He grew penurious, ’tin said,
And stored his little bit of gold
E'en though his children cried for bread ;
But if a spendthrift’s part he had,
In scattering gold no one more rash,
So that his little wife was glad
To follow and retrieve the cash
He’d dealt with as mere filthy trash.
At last his friends were grieved to see
Him charged with treating his good wife
With shameful, callous cruelty—
He aped a villain to the life.
In “Silver King” ’twas he essayed
A second burglar. Full of aches
And wet with tears the lady prayed :
“Be merciful! Indeed, he makes
A perfect husband when he’s Jaikes.”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


\h
f>
nlhV
s..
v
o\
k
7v5>
fife;
(/
*jr
\
/
4
Estab 1742
r £T
r ~~1j
3'
/fi
iT'
* UP>y
° P "'
.A]
'■I ¥•
\
\
l
v'
EldJzEDCtzLlCT^
? r~
(BEHOS®
VJHISIW
:Horse
Khisky
'Anybody. doubting .the . age.’
flMfflK**
f “ WHISKY
IS.REQUESTED .TO.TAKE.A.DRAMi
Hand, walk tp a e>tight. rope.
■■
Z#*i i-j 1 t .'•• ’••’•> I j* ft ' j
.*AV
•3*
X icL 4ji
CL> QiP
Worth the Winning!
ft-
/ /
irpRizEi :
4v u 1 1 /V 2
4 %\&.i >%
& //i
■MB
r«i
/M
■£/~
’t\
M
V
%
l\
<?


RESCH'S Dinner Ale,
Lager and Pilsener Beers.
Western Australian Distributors: BURNS, Pill I.l’ & CO., LTD., Perth and Geraldton.
Harvey’s Special Whisky.
Soie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
tm
“VALLO”
WEED,SCRUBSTREE KILLER
(For the Eradication of Noxious Vegetation).
m
“VALLO” Brand Weed Killer is the Cheapest and Most Concentrated
Killer on the Market. 31b. makes 50 gallons of Solution costing less
than one penny per gallon.
In Poivder Form —Mixes Readily in Cold Water.
PRICES: 561 b., 70/-; 151 b., 21/3; 71b., 10/6; lib., 2/-; |lb., 1/3.
Postage within the State:llb., 9c1.; 31b. 6d. extra. Interstate: lib., 1/2; 31b., Sd. extra.
Obtainable All Stores and Florists, or direct from the Manufacturers.
A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.,
Manufacturers of “VALLO” Brand Chemicals, Sheep and Cattle Dips
and Orchard Sprays.
HEAD OFFICE: 497-503 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Branches—SYDNEY: 7 Hamilton Street. BRISBANE: 239 Elizabeth Street.
Correspondence invited.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
The going was heavy at Morphettville
(S.A.) on Saturday, but that didn’t prevent punters
from shovelling their money on the topweight, St.
Speed (9st. 21b.), who performed so Well at Fleming-
ton in March. Always favorite with the books and
on the machine, the slick St. Anton gelding, ridden
by the veteran Hopwood, landed the 6fur. Goodwood,
but it was only after a desperate race with the out-
sider Sweetmagne (6st. 71b.) and Stage Queen (7st.
51b.). Sweetmagne was ridden by the crack West-
ralian lightweight, Morley, and finished wide out.
After the face there were thousands who maintained
that the horse placed second had finished a good
head in front of St. Speed instead of half-a-head
behind, but it is no use arguing against the. verdict
of the man in the box. St. Speed paid £3 18s. on
the (£1) tote; Sweetmagne £9 18s. Four other
favorites or near-favorites came home during the
day—Fiscom, the V.R.C. National winner, in the
Hurdle, Anton King in the S.A. Stakes, King Ingoda
in the St. Leger, and Sandbee in the Fisher Handi-
cap. But the four-year-old Piquet gelding Repique
gave the unlicensed operators a turn-up by taking
the w.f.a. Elder Stakes from unlucky Queen Comedy
and Crusader. His tote div. was £2O 125.; the
mare’s £6 19s.
With 151 b. off his back and Morley up again,
Repique (7st. 111 b.) looked worth following in the
Adelaide Cup, run on the Monday, but the majority
of backers didn’t think so. They preferred Sandbee.
King Ingoda, Jackstaff, Kingbier, Bookaloo and
others. As it happened, the unfancied Socratea (7st.)
was the only animal that made a race of it with
the Elder Stakes winner, and he beat Socratea by
two lengths in the good time of 2min. 49 Jsec.
Crusader (Bst. 31b.) was third. Repique’s backers
showed a profit of £l5 on each £1 risked, and
Socratea’s supporters did 6s. better. The winner
is owned by P. Timmens and was bred by Ben
Chaffey at Sherwood Park.
* * # *
The locally-owned Lord Zell (7st. 10lb.),
whose starting price was 16 to 1, made an exhibition
of the favorites, Laddie Blue, Master Cagou and Pay
Day, in the Newcastle (N.S.W.) Cup. Second at the
turn the six-year-old Riding Master-Blue Tint gelding
came away from his field once the straight was
reached, and thenceforward it was a procession, with
Grey Arrow (Bst. 51b.) and Solar Rays (7st. 21b.)
nearest to the flying leader at the finish. Lord Zell,
is owned by Mrs. Bennett, and was ridden by C. O.
Davies. The stable threw in for a fair stake at 20’s
and 16’s.
* * * •
Warrnambool Cup fell to a local “rod in
oickle,” so good a thing as racing “certs” go that
the wonder was it should have gone out at 5 to 1
after being tipped in the press. King Pan, the Cup
winner, is a three-year-old gelding. Getting in at
the bottom weight, he was rushed to the front a
long wav from home and the race was all over. He
is another of the promising Shepherd King family.
Shepherd King and Red Dennis, the sire of Sister
Olive, were two very handsome English horses im-
ported to Australia some seven years ago. They
promise to be great acquisitions at the stud.
* * * *
The V.lt.C.’s decision to raise its Derby
stake to something like the A.J.C. level, whilst re-
storing the Melbourne Cup prize to the £lO.OOO
mark of the old boom period, should have the effect
of teaching patience to owners of costly, high-bred
youngsters that look to be growing into bobby-
dazzlers. AVhy risk the future of a possible Derbv
and Gup winner by racing it as a two-year-old J
Within six weeks in the Spring a brilliant colt can
win £20,000 in stakes alone —two Derbies and the
Melbourne Cup. Poseidon, a dark one untT he was
revealed in the Svdnev Derby, won the treble event
when stakes were smaller. He also captured the Caul-
field and was second in the Metropolitan between
times.
* * # *
“Suds”: “O. Fethers,” who owns the suc-
cessful neddv Rendezvous, is Melbourne feather-
merchant Miller, a little ruby dumpling of a mart
who has amassed wealth and brawn in the business
Df providing adornment for women’s hats. Miller’s
rise is one of the romances of trade. Starting
a few years back in a small shop in Chapel-street,
P’ran, and dealing cheaply in the tail foliage of
the ostrich, he gradually developed until he has
now branches in three capitals, and a large P’ran
factory, where a horde of young women trims his
feathers for an enlarging market. A popular and
amiable citizen, Miller has dabbled in horse-owning
for a long time, but until the capture of Rendezvous
he found .it a rather expensive 'hobby. Two or
three years back one of his animals advertised his
occupation under the name of Lancer Plume.
* * * *
Gloaming has gone into winter quarters
after adding the Hawkes Bay Stakes and the Ormond
Memorial Cup to his remarkable record. It now con-
sists of 42 firsts, four seconds and once unplaced
(he fell on that occasion). Stakes won: £28,323.
Had the inter-State eight-oar champion-
ship on the Parramatta been determined by pretti-
ness of style and costume it would have been a
gift for N. S. Wales. Unfortunately for that boat
the King’s Cup (won originally by the A.I.F. crew
in England) goes to the first past the post, and
N. S- Wales was last. Queensland would have been,
but the Bananalanders got so far behind that they
were swamped in the wash of the ferries following
the race. The start was beautiful, 48 blades hitting
the water simultaneously, but that was the last time
the six boats were together. N. S. Wales put up
a fight for a few hundred yards and then fell be-
hind. Queensland fell behind without putting up
a fight. South Aus. and Vic. moved to the front
early, and when the S.A. crew, rowing 32, a slower
stroke than any of the others, had worn the Victorians
down, which they did slowly but surely, the race
was over. The Croweatcrs had the good sense to
send the Mufray Bridge crew over complete. Had
N. S. Wales pinned its faith to its local champion
eight (Mosmftn) instead of to five meii from
Mosman, two from Leichhardt and one from Glebe,
the crew may not have put up such a lanfentable
showing. Victoria, which sent the Mercantile crew
over, finished three lengths behind S.A., with W.A.,
who maintained a wharf-laboring stroke of 40 prac-
tically the whole distance, a similar distance away
third. Then came Tasmania, with N. S. Wales and
the ferry boats a dead heat for sth place. Queens-
land was in the dim distance with a boatload of
water. Time, 16min. 19sec., a record for the course.
The amateur sculling championship went to Bull,
of N. S. Wales. After being well behind for a mile,
almost colliding with the gasworks and bumping
his boat on a reef, he pulled over from the other
two into the calm water on the south side of the
river and finished three lengths ahead of Pitt (Tas.),
with Barton, who steered an erratic course through-
PAUL DEMSKY, who k.o.’ed Victorian
feather-weight champion Bert Mc-
Carthy at the Stadium last Saturday
night.
out, six lengths further back. Another record—
17min. 27Imin. Bull won the N. S. Wales title in
a great race with R. Jones last December. He was
coached by ex-amateur Major Goodsell and Alf
Felton. Barton has had two previous tries for
Australian honors, having been third to Baynes
(Q.) and G. Westbrook (Tas.) in 1920, and second
to Westbrook in 1921. Pitt, who brilliantly defeated
Nimmo and Westbrook in Tasmania, found the water
on Saturday unsuitable to his style.
* * * *
Although the wind was playing pranks
about Sydney on Saturday, the seven competitors in
the N.S.W. Aerial Derby completed the 55-mile course
without mishap. After the first time round Captain
Nigel Love, in an Australian-built Avro fitted with
a 100-h.p. Sunbeam Dyak stationary engine, cleared
out from the field and won comfortably in 46min.
35 2-ssec. from 11. Fysh’s Avro triplane (160-h.p.
Beardsmore), 47min. 43 2-ssec., and F. S. Chap-
man’s Avro (100-h.p. Dyak), 48min. 36sec. The
winner’s reward, apart from the glory, was a £ 50
cup and a £ 20 cash prize. Love was runner-up to
Captain Matthews in the 1920 Derby; he was
first home, but Matthews beat him on time. About
6000 paid to see the race, the gate realising £6OO,
but thousands more patronised the “outer.” A 30-
mile event, the Watt Memorial Handicap, was won
in 26min. 32 3-ssec. by S. Harper in an Avro fitted
with a 130-h.p. Clerget engine. W. E. Pereival and
F. S. Chapman, both steering Avros, finishing second
and third. Some thrilling battle evolutions were also
given by four scout ’planes from Richmond. And
Tommy Benstead, riding a 7-h.p. Harley Davidson,
won the 5 miles 5 fur. solo race in smin. 28 2-ssec.,
beat Brewster, the Victorian, in a special match over
the some distance in smin. 51 4-ssec., and was second
in the side-car event to A. H. Noad. Benstead is
the grittiest youngster seen on the track since Harold
Parsons went out so tragically.
* # # •
The intercollegiate sports in Adelaide this
year were one long duel between Krantz of Prince
Alfred’s and Lee of St. Peter’s. Krantz was the
speedier, winning the 100yds., 220yds., 440yds. and
hurdles, and coming second in the long jump. (As
a matter of fact, he did a record jump too, but
carelessness in the take-off spoiled it.) His score was
23 points. Lee was amazingly versatile; the only
thing he won was the high jump, but he gathered
points for his side also in the 100yds., 220yds., hurdles,
steeple, broad jump and weight; 31 points. “Princes”
won by 644 to 554. 1 or the past dozen years
resuits are about equal, but St. Peter’s solid success
before that makes their score 17 to 8. L. V. Pellew
won the Old Boys’ 100yds. and hurdles, R. M. Fowler
dead-heating with Fotheringham in a great 440yds.
For just a quarter-century the two schools have had
the intercollegiate sports* to themselves, but it is
expected that next year the new Scotch College will
join in.
# * * *
The final of N. S. Wales singles tennis
championship at Sydney was a long-drawn-out duel
between R. V. Thomas and Norman Peach. Thomas
won in the end—2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 8-6, C-3. At his
best he is a front-ranker, as he showed at Wimble-
don in 1919, and last year’s Davis Cup rep. found
it out long before the game ended. Next to the two
finalists Aubrey Sieler, of Goulburn, showed the
finest form in evidence at the tournament. It took
Norpian Peach all his time to defeat the country
player in the semi-final —8-10, 8-6, 1-6, 9-7, 6-1.
With R. V. Thomas a few weeks ago Sieler showed
excellently against Patterson and Anderson in an
unfinished game—2-6, 6-4. In the ladies’ singles, Miss
Curtjis (M.L.) defeated the holder of the champion-
ship, Mrs. Molesworth. (9-)» by 10-8, 6-8, 7-5, after
a great all-round exhibition. The winner was shoul-
dered by enthusiasts of her own sex and showered
with embraces. In the inter-State matches, N. S.
Wales gained the ascendancy among the men, but
the Ma State ladies were beaten by the Victorians
after a thrilling struggle.
* * *
Victoria’s football season opened in an
atmosphere of enthusiasm tempered by cash. No-
body knew exactly how any team would shape. Since
Danny Minogue left Collingwood to coach Richmond,
and lead them on to two premierships, the Magpies
have had a job to keep their star players. This
year six of them are coaching other teams. As
some of the older men have retired ’Wood had to
face Richmond with no fewer than eight men who
had never played with a League team. Richmond
had practically the same 18 that won the pennant last
year. They finished with 73 points to ’Wood’s 56, but
the Magpies only need a little more concerted prac-
tice to equal the best 18 that ever wore the colors.
The game was fast, clean and pretty, and a 20,000
crowd reckoned it was worth the extra charge—9d.
instead of the old 6d. Essendon signalised its return
to its own suburb by outing Carlton, last season’s
runners-up, by 80 points to 62. Melbourne, coached
by ex-Magpid Percy Wilson, and playing three young
giants, the Dunbar brothers from Karlsruhe, beat South
Melbourne impressively—6o points to 55. A regener-
ated St. Kilda put up a decent fight against Fitzroy
and only crashed in the last quarter, ending with
56 points to 69. A lot of “reorganising” has been
going on among the Association clubs, too. Having
acquired Collingwood’s great follower, Con McCarthy,
and Aleck Eason, of Geelong, Footscray beat Bruns-
wick on Saturday by 71 points to 43. Port Melbourne
(also coached and captained by an ex-Collingwood
forward) accounted for Notthcote by 92 to 74.
Hawthorn went to Geelong and downed a strong
Association team by 64 points to 31.
* * * #
About 15,000 Rugby League enthusiasts
squeezed into Sydney Sports Ground on Satur-
day and saw North Sydney wallop Glebe by
17 points (3 tries 4 goals) to 6 points (3 goals).
Glebe had slightly the better of the first spasm,
but in the second North ran all over them, scoring
13 points to nil. Burge made his first appearance
for Glebe since his return from the Cold Country,
but did nothing great. Eastern Suburbs journeyed
to Birchg'ove, wheie, after a strenuous struggle, they
drew with Balmain—4 points each, all from goals.
’Varsity beat Newtown by 11 points to 8. It was
touch and go until, with a minute or two to go,
Courtenay hoisted the bunting for the fourth time,
and that was Newtown’s finish. South Sydney held
a scoring bee at £>t. George’s expense, totting up
22 points (6 tries 2 goals) to the Saints’ 7 points
(1 try 2 coals). Excellent was the pi a v of Traynor,
a recruit from St. George’s reserve XIII, who filled
Johnston’s place at five-eighth. He was the best
back on the defeated side.
* * * *
“J. 11.” (London) : A feature of the
England-Scotland Rugger clash at Twickenham in
March was the brilliant form of H. H. Forsayth, old
King’s School (N.S.W.) boy and Oxford blue. He
played for Scotland at full-back, and there isn’t a
Briton to compare with him in this position, although
Clement, the French wonder, is probably a shade
superior. Forsayth kicked a wonderful length and
found the line unerringly. He has a beautiful pair
of hands, and never makes a mistake in fielding. His
only weak point is his tackling, but he makes up
for that by his excellence in other departments, and
by a certain ability to'rise to the occasion when
things are going against his side. Len Brown,
Queensland Rhodes Scholar and Oxford and English
representative player—he has just played his last
game of Rugger, medicine claiming him henceforth
—is a club mate of Forsayth’s in Blackheath. Black-
heath is the Rugby Mecca of Australians visiting
England. At any rate, there are more Australians
in the Blackheath team than in any other English
XV.
* * * *
“Dux” : It was a sweltering hot day for
football, but Henare arrived at the scene of hostilities
arrayed in a heavy indiarubber coat of lurid hue.
“Py corry; you be cold, or te frash [flash]- fella,
Henare,” said Tito, in wonderment. “Not too much
te cold fella, or te frash, either,” reolmd Henare
with scorn, “but, py cripes, I terra [tell] you, te
coat he hide te hole in te pants, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Exul”: The Melbourne chess tournament
recalls an ircident that hanpened at Malta durirg
the war. The 35 R.A.M.C. doctors there got ter-
ribly bored during the periods of inactivity that
occurred between the arrivals of shiploads of casual-
ties. It was found that 18 of them were chess-
players, so a tourney was organised to help pass
away the time. However, one of the potential
Laskers was so blase that he wouldn’t play, even
though his backing out at the last minute involved
a bye. When the match was over some of the
others told him that they believed he didn’t know
anything about the game, after all. “Right,” he
said, “I’ll play the first four of you at once for a
fiver apiece.” His offer was accepted, and although
he spent most of his time gazing vacantly out
of the window, while the others were studying the
boards, and made his moves without hesitation, and
apparently with great carelessness, in a very short
time he had checkmated the lot of them. “Who
the dickens are you, anyway ?” one of his victims
inquired. “Oh,” he yawned, “the year before the
war I was champion of Yorkshire.”
* * * *
“T.R.H.”: Some of the strange East End
o’ London competitions mentioned by “Pipards” (B.
4/5/’22) were in vogue as recently as 1911. The
last game of coddam I saw was in the Old Coger’s
in Salisbury Court, off Fleet-street, a famous inky-
way pub in the heart of Newspaper! and. In the
Three Nuns, near Aldgate Pump, I have seen a man
swallow pins and needles for a quart of ale —price
(at that time) 4d. A well-known character, who
used to show in the pub next to the old Paragon
music-hall in the Whitechapel-road, was “Brumma-
gem Billy.” He hailed from Birmingham, and his
specialty was to hammer glass into small pieces
and swallow it by the mouthful in return for liquid
refreshment. Yet another man with the stomach of
an ostrich held his court at Dirty Dick’s, in the
city. He ate tin-tacks with gusto.
# * * *
Either H. W. Stevenson has gone otf, or
Walter Lindrum has come on tremendously. Ip
their 16,000-up match at Sydney the youngster hasn’t
given the ex-champion a look-in. He reached the
half-way mark with 8001 points to 3037, and on
Saturday scored 1334 while Stevenson was labori-
ously compiling 89. Walter made most of his points
off the red ball. Of course, if he aspires to be a
gate-money attraction in Britain he will have to go
in a great deal more for the top-ol'-the-table game.
* * * *
Bert McCarthy, great little boxer though
he is, had no real chance against Paul Demsky, at
Sydney Stadium, on Saturday night. The elongated
Bananaland punching-machine can not only hand
out pile-driving blows, and go on doing it, but he
is immune to most of the punishment that one of
McCarthy’s type is capable Of dispensing. And so,
after the first half-dozen rounds, it was merely a
question of when the game little Mel bourne ite would
have to stop. The end arrived in the 16th. after a
willing and remarkably fair contest.
* * * #
In a fast and gory 20-rounder with a boy
in his own division —he generally has to give away
lumps of weight—Harry Stone' was outpointed at
Brisbane on Saturday night. His conqueror was
Hughie Dwyer, the Sydney fighter who never gets
a fight in Sydney, and the result was another show-
ing up for the ignoble policy of bringing out third-
rate foreign scrappers by the crate and turning pro-
mising Australians down. For Dwyer boxed bril-
liantly and gained a clear-cut decision over the clever
veteran, despite the handicap of a damaged eye.
Presumably, now that lie has beaten Stone, a man
who got all over such recent Stadium “champions”
as were incautiously shoved into the ring with him,
the lad will be graciously allowed a date in his own
city. This may mean putting off the great fight
between Enrico Lobsterino, the Pride of Popocatepetl,
and Aricobeani, the Mindanao Maneater, but it can’t
be helped.
* # * *
Dick Johnson, the Yic. lightweight, was
knocked out in five rounds by the American Hune-
feid at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night. Like
his old conqueror, Llew Edwards, Johnson has seen
his best day.
* *• * #
The old question whether poker is illegal
or not has again been brought up in Adelaide.
Three men who were playing on a box in a hotel
stable, with silver in front of them, were charged
with “unlawful betting.” Denny, for the defence,
said it was nothing of the sort, but an ordinary
game of cards, and T. R. Bright, S.M., dismissed the
case.
» •» * *
A Norwegian motorist named Haugdahl
has put up an amazing performance on Daytona
Beach, Florida, U.S.A. He covered 10 miles in
3min. 56sec., which works out at the aeroplane
speed of 153 miles an hour, or 231 sec. for every
mile. How remarkable this achievement is can be
judged from the fact that the world’s record for a
mile from a flying start is 23.75ec., put up by T.
Milton on the same beach in 1920.
* * * *
Bendigo (Yic.) owns a promising young
rifleman in A. M. Bush. In a practice match (10
shots at 600yds.) he made every bullet a “bull,”
and, urged to go on, added seven more, the final
three of his second 10 registering “intiers,” which
made his total score 97 out of a possible IOOi
This is a great performance for a comparative
youngster, who only started in competitions nine
months ago. In that time he has won several prizes,
however, running into 27th position in his debut
for the King’s Prize at Williamstown.
* * * *
“Push O”: Aeording to the cablemau
Duke Kahanamoku, the world’s swimming champion,
has been cited to appear before the American
Athletic Union to answer a charge of professionalism.
He is accused of having hired his name and counter-
feit presentment to an advertiser. After the last
Olympiad Kahanamoku was appointed “official
weleomer” at Honolulu at a big screw. For some
months persistent rumors have been circulating in
the States to the detriment of his amateur status.
Probably he swims too fast.
i •
“Tren”: There was an inter-family cricket
match recently between the McConchies, of Rich-
mond (Vic.), and the Rankins, of Geelong. The
Macs, who have won the Southern Cross competition
three years in succession, were too classy for the
other sept, scoring 227 to 170. Owen McConchie
has as many centuries to his credit as any inter-
national in the game, but though much sought after
by club secretaries he has preferred to stay and
play with his family.
THE FIGHTING MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Aguinaldo, the Filipino champion, is matched with
Francisco Diaz, from California.” —Monotonous Sydney
Stadium announcement.
Roll up, roll up! To-night, to-night,
At famed Ruslicutter’s Bay,
Loben, the Kaffir Freak, will fight
Ah Cabbage from Cathay,
Who’s walloped every Chink his weight.
Front seats are twenty-one-and-eight.
A faster pair was never seen.
Whoever wins, by Heck,
Will meet Zapot, the cheese champeen
Of Tehuantepec.
The loser, too’s, to get a chance
With Slicker of Topeka, Kans.
And other champs, are on the brine,
Consigned to Sydney town;
We draw no captious color line,
But welcome black and brown.
We scour the bloomin’ world for pugs
With fractured snouts and spreading lugs.
When Greaser or Malay aspires
To fight, we sign him up.
Wot? Match the Griffins, Bradleys, Dwyers
And Bourkes? —wot putrid ghup !
We don’t appreciate such jokes.
Why, they are mere Australian blokes.
N.S.W.
TUART.


f
a—
ifllvnb
4PVAV
Model
'920
d
Model 1899
cal. .250-3000
cal. .300
Savage Leadership
IT is remarkable that SAVAGE
Firearms should have led the
way so often in advanced gun con-
struction. It means that SAVAGE
users are ahead of the game; their
guns do more —give greater serv-
ice in emergencies.
With every precaution taken in
its manufacture, the SAVAGE has
been developed to the highest pos-
sible efficiency. The various mod-
els are made in an adequate range
of calibres. The critical sportsman
will have no difficulty in finding
the- gun best suited to his needs.
The Savage Model 1920 bolt action
rifle has a tapered high pressure
Steel barrel, with integral front
sight base, white metal front and flat
top sporting rear sights. Magazine
capacity 5 cartridges, weight 6 lbs.
Calibre .250-3000, Barrel length 22"
Calibre .300 Barrel length 24"
Ask your dealer to show ycu
G SAVAGE.
Exclusive Representative (or Australia and New Zealand
A. ASHER SMITH
E>. O. Box 966 Sydney, N.S.W.
SAVAGE ARMS CORPORATION. Utica, N.T., U.S.A.
Export Office: 50 Church St., New York
flUu
m
MW' ll
u Uw
Baby should grow
in weight daily.
The weekly progress should
be easily measured. A stand-
still in weight is usually the
first sign of unsuitable food.
If it is thought that the
breast milk is not sufficiently
nourishing (mothers feel the
strain of nursing at su h
times) feed partially on
Benger’s Food.
r
Food
so easily supplements the
child’s natural food that it is
usaally 'he one Food Doctors
recommend for partial feed-
ing. For the same reason
Infants hand-reared of
necessity thrive on Benger’s.
NOTE. — Benger’s is always pre-
pared with fresh new milk (or
mLk and water) which it modifies
exactly for infants, and greatly
enriches for growing children.
Benger’s 64 page illustrated book, most
helpful to mothers, post free, from:
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., 117. Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor? and Manufacturers:
BENGER’S POOD LID., MAN-H.STER England
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
r
o
o
EXTRUDED
Metal Sections
EXTRUDED Brass, etc., metal sections are stronger, weight for weight,
than the finest castings. They are more homogeneous, and possess
improved physical properties compared with rolled and drawn section's.
Additionally, extruded sections need no machining, and are offered at
approximately the sariie cost as rough castings, which must be machined.
Ordinary sections and special shapes, also high-speed turning and screwing
rods, in BRASS, BRONZE, MUNTZ METAL, NAVAL BRASS, ETC.,
in all sizes from about 3/16in. upwards. We supply special sections and
shapes to cover all trade requirements.
Extruded metal sections facilitate the making of Screws, Studs, Gasfitters’
Accessories, Electrical Fittings, Wind Screen Sections, Panel Mouldings,
Turbine Blades, Stair Treads, Curb Sections, Glazing and Casement Bar
Sections, Hinge Bar Sections, Escapement Wheels, Ratchet Pinions, etc.
Commonwealth and State Government Contractors, we want your enquiries.
Write, ’phone, or call nearest address.
Austral Bronze Co. Ltd.,
O’Riordan Street, Alexandria.
SELLING AGENTS:
NOYES BROS.,
(SYDNEY), LTD., 115 ClarAice Street, Sydney; Victoria Chambers, Eagle
Street, Brisbane; 17 Bolton Street, Newcastle. (MELBOURNE) PTY., LTD.,
499-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne; Darling Building, Franklin Street, Adelaide;
Corner Elizabeth and Collins Streets, Hobart. Also from GEO. KENT, LTD.,
Perth, YV.A., and JONES & CO., LTD., Clyde Quay, Wellington, N.Z.
“Better than Tatts.”
£4OOO for 11-
£lOOO
Katoomba Thousand
No. 2.
£lOOO
DRAWN IMMEDIATELY SUBSCRIBED
or not later than Sept. 7th, 192 2
Gigantic Art Union
in aid of
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ANZAC MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Blue Mountains A. H. 8 1. Society’s Show
Ground Improvement Fund,
and Katoomba Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
(By Special Permi«sion of the Hon. the
Attorney-Genera).
£lOOO First Prize £lOOO
£5OO Second Ptize £5OO
£250 Third Prize £250
Total Prizes £4OOO.
Winning Numbers published all States,
September 16th, 1922.
1/- Only TICKETS l/-Only
By Post, 1 /2. Three or more Post Free.
FIVE TICKETS FOR £/.
Each Ticket has 24-1 Chances,
and can possibly win £4OOO.
Please enclose stamped addressed envelope
for result slip.
Ticke s obtainable from N SW Bookstall Co.
(all branches), also Hairdressers and Tobac-
conists in City, Suburbs and Country.
EDGAR BOOTH', Hon, Secretary,
Cadzow, Warrega-street, Katoomba. N.S.W.
s«V.-
V.''
v\
.., '-V? :\v
=' L V • s '■'' ' * \\ o /
N- >N
' :•' ->
it".
'o^.YCV.
3?
T-
r-S. -
rimm>A
-- - ..- ::-J
Jetting Beats the Blowfly !
Pastoralists everywhere now admit that a “Comet” Sheep Jetter is
“oh its own” as a preventative against the deadly blowfly. Week after
week sheepmen are being converted to the “Comet” Jetting System, which
offers a sure barrier against blowfly attack. If you wish to save your
sheep, if you want reliability and perfect jetting results, there is only one
safe jetter for you.
The COMET Sheep Jetter
is Australia’s perfect jetting plant—correctly designed and built and
specially fitted for using heavy arsenical solutions. Treatment with the
“Comet” Jetter will render your sheep immune from the blowfly for from
2 to 4 months—and obviate any necessity for crutching. With the “Comet”
Jetter one man can handle as many as 1500 sheep a day at a cost of about
one fifth of a penny per sheep. Don’t wait for the fly to start your losses.
Write to us now for full particulars of “Comet” Sheep Jetters.
SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., LIMITED,
WORKS: CONSTITUTION ROAD, DULWICH HILL, SYDNEY.
CITY OFFICE: 205 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at ROCKHAMPTON, BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE.
This illustration shows a Slieep-
jettinq Race, used, by Mr.
Russell, of Dahnally Station,
Queensland , who protects his
flocks with a “Comet” Jetter.
"orb
blowfly
Glenmore Downs,
Clermont,
23rd March, 1921.
“Re your ’COMET’ Sheep Jetter—
after several years use, I am in a position
to judge its worth. I do not crutch but
use the jetter about twice a year on all my
sheep. For the last 2 years I have had
practically no losses from fly. The tank
is always well agitated and a perfect mix-
ture is obtained, and general efficiency is
all that can be desired.”
(Signed) James Tolson.
S. W. 308 s


Shirts and Ties made to order
for particular men.
DISTINCTION in dress is secured by
punctilious regard for detail. In this
respect shirts and ties made to order add the
final touch of correctness and individuality.
Shirts in light-weight all-wool Taffeta, neat
or broad stripes. Price, 35/-; Pyjamas, 57,6
In medium, or heavy-weight Crimean Taf-
feta, neat stripes. Prices, 37/6; Pyjamas, 60/-
Ties to order in any shape, in Spitalsfields
Silks and Silk Foulards in latest designs.
Farmer’s - Sydney.
6
Send for Self-measurement
Form. Carriage Paid.
Box 497, G.P.O.
\ ■
m
m
.
£3
■ m !
WATER
SUPPLIES
This illustration shows Three 25ft.
Alston Windmills on 60ft. Towers,
fitted with lOin. Pumps, pumping
water for the town supply of Donald.
They have been in use for many years,
giving every satisfaction.
We manufacture Windmills in all
sizes, from 5ft. to 25ft. diameter, and
have the largest works in Australia,
devoting its whole attention to wind-
mill construction.
Over 50,000 Alston Mills now in use
through Australasia.
Expert advice and Illustrated Cata-
logue free on application.
JAMES ALSTON 8 SONS
PTY. LTD,,
Queen’s Bridge, Melbourne, Australia.
Melbourne
Chatter
The Occidental
Collins St. Melbourne
[?]
MISSES MONKE DOYLE
Phones Cent. 1533, 11609.
Melbourne’s very first night club, to be
known as Prince’s, was launched on Friday
night in Anzac House, and will whirl every
Friday until further notice. E. P. Henty
and N. M. Heath were the pioneers. It is
to be fearfully select, and no one will be
admitted but members and their friends.
The idea is to get Toorak out of the subur-
ban early-to-bed habit and to further avoid
such troublesome things as chaperons.
Among the jazzers on Friday were hand-
some Mrs. Charlie Lyon, in all-black fixings ;
a golden-haired Faulkner girl draped in pale
blue; Peggy Forrester in very short flowered
petticoats; a Bowes-Ivelly miss; Ambrose
Pratt’s chick, and gent.-help Iveppel Palmer.
The Alec Russells and Mrs. Leslie Stuart
brought parties along for midnight supper.
The invention of a “moral classification”
apparatus by a Californian gentleman sets
some people _ thinking of poor Mr. Judkins,
the energetic moral endeavorer of other
days. The Californian inventor is trying
to take out Australian patent rights for a
system of totting up one’s human frailties
versus one’s spiritual assets, or something
of the kind. Poor Jud. would have loved
to get the agency for a thing like that. Not
long before he fell sick he was showing a
sample of a cunning little device for telling
the sex of humans, of chickens in the egg,
or of young plants. It was quite a wonder-
ful contraption, and it seemed to make no
mistakes. Anyhow, when held over the head
of Judkins the pendulum swung one way,
and when applied to his lady typist it in-
variably swung the other.
Cabled that Lady Maxwell has obtained
a divorce from her husband, Gerard
Arthur JVlaxwell-Wiltshire, a baronet, on the
ground of desertion and misconduct. She
was known on the stage as Lillian Birtles, and
the pair were members of Oscar Asche’s com-
pany in Australia in 1932. They were mar-
ried quietly at Fitzroy. The bridegroom was
then a mature person of 20. He succeeded
to the title as third baronet in 1910.
Mrs. Lees, widow of Surveyor Lees, who
had much to do with the road-making from
Orbost to Mallacoota, is putting Fairhaven
on the market. The beautiful old Malla-
coota home is too full of memories for her
liking. Lees was a young man when he
died last year, and Mallacoota had been his
hobby. The gardens and orchards and tree-
plantations occupy a whole point or head-
land on the Inlet, and the boathouses and
launch jetty are tucked away in a secluded
bay. At ttie back of his little peninsula
Lees had a model farm with up-to-date
fruit-drying, fruit-packing and fish-drying
houses—as a matter of fact, a compact
little world is stowed into the tiny patch
of ground along with the roomy villa and
the Florentine garden.
The Wattle Tea Rooms have been politely
pushed out of Collins House. The droves of
women invading the lifts of tbat busy pile
got on the nerves of the men, and the other
day an official stood guard at the elevator
and gently shooed the grandes dames through
into Little Collins-street, where the new
foodery opens out of a brand-new arcade.
There were numerous invitation-parties to
celebrate the initial airing of the trans-
planted establishment, and the crowd surged
in from 2.30 till after 5. Mrs. Ham, the
popular little C.O. of the place, is one of
the Hams of Ballarat. Ham senior was an
M.L.A. there for donkeys’ years in the good
old days.
During the late Dr. Mercer’s 11 years at
Bishopscourt, in Hobart, many highlv-
colored accounts of the Socialistic conditions
in his household went the rounds. But one
thing on which the Bishop did insist was that
his visitors should call the maids “Miss,” in-
stead of “Maud” or “Mary,” his object being
to raise the status of domestics to that of
shopgirls at least. Once he horribly upset
the mental balance of a conventional-minded
hostess. He asked the maid who admitted
him what her surname was, and when she
announced him to a b’g assembly he said,
very clearly and distinctly, “Thank you, Miss
Blank.”
Very little notice was taken of the com-
ing of age of the Federal Parliament on
Tuesday. The Reaper has cut down most
of the principals—legislators and spectators
—of the first muster under the dome at the
Exhibition on May 9. 1901. Alec Peacock,
after studying a picture of the scene the
other day, and noting the gaps, is credited
with having exclaimed, “Well, thank Heaven,
two of us who were there are still safe —
the King and myseit.'’
The way of tne honorary magistrate with
the hoouium passeth undeistancung. At the
CollingwooU (Jourc recently lour youths were
charged with abominable language and
molesting girls. The presiding J.P. said the
accused nad been guilty of "a m.ist d.sgrace-
ful and diabolical act”—and adjourned the
case for 52 weeas!
On our Brighton electric tram you are
allowed to carry offspring up to the age of
four free. The other uay a woman
climbed aboard one with five chil-
dren, which she teed up, one alter
another, on the seat opposite her own.
Then camp the conductor. She offered han
l£d. “But, Madame,” he asked, "what
about all this lot?” “All under four, she
said: “OneHot’s twins.” She got her little
army through all right, and none of the
strap-hangers wished the monopolist ill.
At Flinders-street railway station the
other day a party of girl scouts were waiting
for a train lo the hills when the inevitable
drunk staggered up. Seeing the umforin he
gravely clicked his heels and stood at
the salute. “B’lieve in shlutin’ Salvashun
girls,” he hiccoughed. “Do lotter good.
Slade a man? o’ me, they did. If washunt
for the Shalvos I’d be a dirty shicker ter-
day.”
Dolly Stewart, who is one of our prettiest
flappers, rang up a Collins-street florist the
other morning and told them to decorate her
table for lunch at a big cafd. When she
got there a lovely presentation bouquet lay
beside her platp carrying a card covered with
adoring messages from girls employed by
the florist. They had mistaken her for
Nellie Stewart.
Bowes Kelly is a grandfather. The John
Ronald Hays,’ of Flinders Island (she is one
of the large tribe of Kelly daughters), are
responsible, and it is a girl.
Bibron’s Ball in St. Ivilda Town Hall
was a brilliant affair. “Bib” has taught
two generations how to prance, so all the
old boys and girls came along with the
others. The maestro performed some scien-
tific pirouettes with a partner to show 7 how
they are doing things in Paris, and the
guests stood round in an admiring circle
before trying to follow his lead.
Mrs. Hugh Leckie, who is pictured here by
Lafayette, has lived through a deal of Aus-
tralian history in the course of her 86 years.
She arx-ived aboard the Star of the South in
'57 and was installed as nurse at the hospital
on Batman Hill, the matron of which was the
famous Mrs. Connor, wife of the warder of
the gaol. She then joined the household staff
of General MacArthur, who became Acting-
Governor of Victoria after the departure of
Ilotham. In those days she was a young
Scotch lassie, Christina Sinclair Maitland
Herron, and she has
since been married
and widowed twice.
Robert Doig, quar-
ter-master on the
Star of the South,
was much interested
in the girl, and when,
a couple of years
later, he got his dis-
charge, he came to
Australia to “fish
her out” as the old
lady says with a
twinkle, “and we
were ‘merrit’ in ’59,
when 1 was in my
early twenties.” Some
time after the death
of Robert Doig Hugh
Leckie, also a sea-
man, made her acquaintance. “He came wi’
a message fra my faither, and to bring me
twa brooches fra my mither,” she says, “and
that’s how that started.” Mrs. Leckie has
always been in public movements to help
women. She was a battler for the women’s
franchise and was president of one section of
the League. She worked hard in support
of our first woman candidate for Parliament,
Vida Goldstein. The old lady is a keen
temperance worker. She was president of a
section of the Women’s Temperance Union
for three years, and was the first woman
chaplain in the Alexandra Lodge. No. 1, in
Melbourne. Among her proudest possessions
are a beautifully-wrought gold medallion, pre-
sented to her bv Queen Alexandra, and the
medal of her Digger son, who was badly
wounded in the war.
One is reminded, by the announcement of
his eldest daughter’s matrimonial intentions,
that the late Mr. Norgrove, so long identified
with The Bulletin in Melbourne, discarded
his paternal name of Clutterbuck when he
took to the stage. It is Fillide Norgrove
Clutterbuck who figures among the intendeds.
The fortunate fiancd, son of R. W. Dane, of
Danecourt, Gardenvale, served with the Im-
perial and Aussie forces in the war. His
front name is Norval.
The Austral Salon is getting a move on,
and a Cinderella dance is due on the 27th.
The gate money will heln to refurnish the
clubrooms—also, on May 18, Mrs. Davidson
has a dramatic menu to snread before mem-
bers after the monthly general meeting.
One of the easy ways of looking like a
detected thier is to take compassion on a hot
and tired acquaintance at a crowded bargain
saie when she is pushing out of the throng
with a suit-case in one hand and a large
parcel in the other. A woman tells the tale
of how she met a perspiring friend in a
store, volunteered to relieve her of her suit-
case, and was promptly led away to the
manager’s office, with the other lady, by a
detective. To all appearances she was an
accomplice, helping the actual shop-lifter to
get away with the goods. No matter that
she could “square” the firm and save the
culprit from the law —any number of shoppers
saw her conducted to that office \Vith the tell-
tale suit-case in her hand. Moral: Never
handle the luggage of an acquaintance who
greets you in a shopi It may be loaded.
Attached to the Sistine Choir are half-a-
dozen “lay-men”—operatic singers of note
who have signed on tor the tOur Between
“dates,” One of the attached tenors is a
Monte Carlo Grand Opera House singer.
There is an operatic critic from a Milan
paper in the crowd and an exquisite young
man with a 20-inch waist and No. 3 patent-
leather shoes, who is a Roman dancing-
master by trade, but carries a bird-like tenor
about with him as a side-line. The “attached”
group has much more freedom in social
events than the others. Theirs is a very
different life to the rigid monastic rules of
the real choir, and the types are markedly
different. Incidentally, at the end of the
Melbourne season Carlyon gave a supper-
party to half-a-dozen of the operatic men
and some musical people of the city.
The Purveses are giving a ball at 9
Darling-street, South xarra, on June 30. It
is to mark the social blossoming-forth of
their daughter Valerie.
A new glove-cleaning mixture has been
rushed on the market under a violent adver-
tisement “As supplied in Australia to H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales.” It presents a har-
rowing picture of a newly-poor Heir Appa-
rent renovating his white kids. No self-
respecting prima donna or leading-lady would
tolerate such an implication of shabby gen-
teel indigence.
The Ambulance Guild Ball is to roll on
June 19, and not in May. Lady Stradbroke
is working hard to make it a success, and
so is the Steward lady. Gertrude Rennie
is hon. secretary. In short, the shivoo
threatens to be one of the events of the
dancing season.
The Stradbroke Countess will officially
open the much-inspected new nurses’ home
at the Alfred Hospital to-day (Thursday).
Senator _ Fairbairn is taking an interest in
the business—it was his large generosity
that gave the financial ball its first push.
P. Baracchi, who used to be Government
Astronomer, has not lost interest in the
stars since he retired from his job. He is
on his way to the capital of his
native land, to attend in a private capacity
the Astronomical and Geodetic Conference.
Hamilton, the metropolis of the Western
District, powdered its noses and creased its
trousers for the first visit of our Bari, who
dropped in last week to open the high school
erected by the Education Department.
Mayor McLuckie and Shire President
Gardner did the honors, and the members
for the district (Customs Minister Rodgers,
Council President Manifold and Slater and
White) showed how pally they were with
his Ex. Winter Cooke, who has sat in the
State and Federal Houses and was an Hon.
Minister under J. B. Patterson, snared the
Governor and his dame to stately Murndal
for the week-end.
Justice Cussen had to attend the funeral
of his brother John the other day. For years
John has brandished the hammer for Pear-
son, Rowe, Smith and Co., stock and sta-
tion agents, and bowls was his hobby in
leisure hours. It is only a few months
since ’Sonor stood at the graveside of his
sister, Mrs. Fulton.
The flattites of Park Mansions, south of
the Yarra, have had notice to quit at the
winter-end. The Y.W.C.A. has bought the
unlovely place and is going to turn it into
a Girls’ Hostel.
Francis James Wilson, who managed to
get free when being taken off from the
Criminal Court the other day to serve a
sentence of 18 months for annexing a Benz
car, is the slippiest customer the Vic. pol ee
have handled for a long time. When caught
with the car at Alexandra be emotied out
a John who was going with him to the
police station and made off, but was nabbed
again. Then he all but wrecked the local
jug where he was detained temnorarily.
Next carne the dash after the trial. He
waxed desperate, doubtless, wh°n the jury
withdrew a strong recommendation to clem-
ency after it beard that he had orevious
convictions for larceny, forgery and house-
breaking.
As suburban fruiterers had found life not
worth living in winter owing to having to
rise at 3 a.m. and work till midnight, they
induced Lawson yVben be was Minister for
Labor to pass a regulation making 7 o’clock
the closing hour on four days a week. But
this doesn’t suit the Dago crowd in the
centre of the city. It tried what it could
do in the ordinary way to have the law
changed ; but nothing came of. the effort;
Now tne strings are being pulled by the
fruitgrowers, who are making out one day
that "they lose £30,000 by tne non-sale of
fruit in the winter-time in Melbourne, and
the next day that the a' suffering is repre-
sented by £lO,OOO. When an argument is
knocked out that only one city shop on the
border woUid compete unfairly with Fitz-
roy shops, the fruitgrowers own up that
there are 23 shops more or less affected.
The controversy reminds Peacock, Minister
of Labor, of the late ’nineties, when he was
solemnly tbld every day that factory and
shop regulation tvas going to “ruin” every-
thing—sd he is ndt getting excited.
Frank Russell has been busily building
books since the success of his £5OO prize
Australian novel, “The Ashes of Achieve-
ment.” "Community,” a solidly thoughtful
work, is now in the printer’s hands, and
three other books are close on completion.
One deals with the horny-handed sons of
Australia, and the author, in pursuit of his
local color, went
dossing and feeding
in lodging-houses in
the heart of the
“working man’s” dis-
tricts. A London
publishing house is
responsible for a
printed notification
that Russell’s
“Ashes of Achieve-
ment” has been
awarded £4OO for
being “the best
novel written by an
Australian in 1021.”
The announcement
makes it clear that
there is no confu-
sion between this
and the £500 ; De
Oaris prize. But at the time of writing
Russell has heard nothing officially about
his alleged luck. If an income-tax return
were demanded of him at the moment the poor
soul could not say how rich he is. Lafayette
has just made this portrait of the puzzled
young man.
An Adelaide postscript: —
There was the usual May Day festivity at the
Children's Hospital—folk dances on the lawns, gaily
decorated wards and an unending stream of visitors
for the small patients. No charge was made for
admission* but by the end of the day a gift table
creaked beneath its load and there was a brisk trade
at the tea-tent, run by the Duncan, Brookman and
J. F. Fowler dames, with Mrs. Stanley Murray, Mrs.
Walter Duncan, Mrs. M. Fotheringham and Miss
Colton among their helpers.
Mrs. Grainger, mother of the pianist-composer,
news of whose death was cabled from New York the
other day, was one of the George Aldridge clan here.
From her son’s knickerbocker days she had w’orked
incessantly for his success, ar,d few realise how much
he owed to her. Her husband, an architect and
civil engineer, was the designer of the Frome-road
bridge, over the Torrens, and of Prince’s Bridge in
Melbourne.
There is grief, too, over the death of Madame Marie
Lion, who had taught French to innumerable young
persons here and in Melbourne. Latterly she had
turned her attention to novel-writing, but when war
broke out she went back to France and worked in
the hospitals. Like her sister, Madame Mouchette,
she was a keen theosophist.
“Flying,” the song written and composed by
Edith Aird, which made a hit when Cleo de Vezy
sang it with the Humphrey Bishop Co., has just
been published. Miss Aird has a neat gift for versi-
fication and patter, which has so far gone to swell
the funds of various charities in the amateur shows
she has helped to run. Now her talents in this
direction should turn her in a little cash for herself.
Community singing is in full swing again, and
for the last two Fridays the Town Hall has been
swamped in a flood of song at lunch-time. At the
last sing-sorg Wallace Packer was rorduc+or. with
Brewster Jones at the piano and Horace Weber at
the organ, and the results were such as to astonish
even Mrs. K. H. Weston, who started the movement.
Thebarton wants money for an assistant district
trained nurse, and has been running a three-days’ fair
as a cash-raiser. The show was opened by Samuel
Lunn, the indefatigable versifier who met or sped
every troopship that touched at the Outer Harbor,
and who collected enough to slip five shillings into
the hand of every returning Billjim. He’s now an
M.8.E., sporting his medal proudly, and on a recent
trip to England he successfully stormed no end of
usuallv inaccessible doorways.
Prof. Archibald Strong spoke on film censorship
before the Women’s Non-Party Association the other
evening, and rather took the wind out of the sails
of some of his audience by saying that the connec-
tion between cinemas and children’s crime was only
limited. He backed his opinion with that of a
U.S.A. Children’s Court Judge of 20 years’ experi-
ence.
Good work is being done by the Blinded Soldiers’
Association, composed of Diggers upon whom the dark
has descended and those who want to give them a
helping hand. There is already a tiny Braille library,
and regular monthly socials are held at the old
Cheer-up Hut to help things along. The last pro-
gramme was in the hands of Mary Stirling and
Dorothy Gurner, both of whom were at St. Dunstan’s
during the war.


Bowen Consolidated
Coal Mines Limited
Bowen, Queensland.
Authorised Capital, £125,000, in 25,000 fully-paid-up shares, and
100,000 contributing shares of £l.
1922 ISSUE.
The public are hereby invited to subscribe to a new
issue of 50,000 shares on a basis of 1/- on application
and 1/- on allotment.
The “First Issue” of 23,000 shares is now called up to 15/- per
share, and has provided the capital for the development of the
“GARRICK” seam, which is opened up in readiness for trade.
Of several seams of coal located in the Company’s leases the two
principal are the “BOWEN” and the “GARRICK.” The former is a
large seam of clean coal 17ft. thick of first-class quality, and the latter
is from 7ft. to Bft. thick of similar quality.
In addition to the Garrick it is intended to work the Bowen seam,
and two vertical shafts have been commenced to cut that seam at 365 ft.
Mr. John McGeachie, M.A. Inst., M.M., Colliery Viewer of New South Wales,
inspected the Company’s leases in April last. Dealing with the coal in his report he says:
THIS BOWEN COAL, HIGH IN FIXED CARBON, LOW IN ASH,
WITH ONLY .6 PER CENT. OF MOISTURE, IS WELL SUITED FOR Till
ECONOMICAL GENERATION OF STEAM, AND FOR THIS PURPOSI
MAY BE THEORETICALLY CLASSED AS EQUAL TO THE BEST
AVERAGE FROM ANY GROUP OF COLLIERIES NOW SUPPLYING OUR
AUSTRALIAN MARKETS. THIS IS BORNE OUT BY COMPARISONS
WITH THE AVERAGE ANALYSES OF STEAM COALS FROM THE
PRINCIPAL GROUPS OF COLLIERIES NOW SUPPLYING THE AUS
TRALIAN TRADE, AS SHOWN BY THE FOLLOWING:—
Garrick Seam
Bowen
In his concluding remarks Mr. McGeachie says:—
THE QUANTITY OF COAL ALREADY PROVED ON THIS PROPERTY
AND THE LINE OF OUTCROP EXPOSED IS SUFFICIENT Tf
WARRANT THE OPENING UP OF A COLLIERY ALONG MODERNS
LINES TO DEAL WITH AN OUTPUT LIMITED ONLY BY THE AMOUV
OF CAPITAL AVAILABLE AND THE CAPACITY OF THE ORGANISA
TION ADOPTED TO INTRODUCE AND ESTABLISH THIS COAL IN
THE AUSTRALIAN AND FOREIGN MARKETS.
The General Manager of Northern Railways recently conducted tests of Queensland coalf
on the railway between Charters Towers and Townsville, the results of which placed th<
Bowen product FIRST. Mr. Crowther said, as reported in the press:—
THE BOWEN COAL WAS A PARTICULARLY GOOD STEAMINC
COAL AND GAVE OFF VERY LITTLE ASH. THE TESTS CONCLU
SIVELY PROVED HOW VALUABLE BOWEN COAL WOULD BE FOR
NORTH QUEENSLAND, ESPECIALLY FOR THE RAILWAYS.
For some time past Bowen coal has been carted 13 miles to the railhead for use on
the railways and for dredging purposes at Bowen, and is giving, under daily actual
working conditions, even better results than were anticipated.
In many other ways it has been amply demonstrated that the Company’s leases
contain enormous quantities of first-class coal, equal if not superior to any in Australia
for coking and steaming purposes.
It is estimated that from the Bowen and Garrick seams alone fto million tons of
merchantable coal can be won from the Consolidated leases.
The railway to connect the coalfields with the port of Bowen is nearing completion
and is expected to reach the mines about August next. Dredging for the new coal
wharves at Bowen has been in progress for some time past. Construction material is
being assembled under the supervision of a Board of Experts, and an engineer has
been appointed to conduct operations.
That there is considerable demand for Bowen coal is evidenced by the number of
inquiries lately received by the Companv for supplms, and arrangements are pend’-ng
for distributing agencies at Shanghai, Singapore, Hong Kong, Java and the Straits
Settlements. The company is also negotiating regarding bunker and export coal.
The “1922 ISSUE” is to provide more capital for railway sidings. for develooment
and for further surface equipment to cope with an output of from 700 to 1000 tons
daily with provision for increase.
A copy of the Prospectus and Mr. McGeachie’s report and other informative matter
will be sent to any persons on •'’onlication to the Company's office, and fullest information
will be afforded inquirers. Sharebrokers in all the States .are in possession of full
details of the issue.
The Directors anticipate that calls not exceeding fid. per month will provide enough
capital for requirements until such time as the Companv’s trade has developed sufliciently
to dispense with further assistance from the shareholders.
The easy terms of the issue should be particularly interesting to the investing public
and the issue is launched in full confidence tWt NO BETTER INY T ESTMENT IN COAL
IS OFFERING ANYWHERE IN AUSTRALIA.
The minimum number of shares which may be applied for is 25.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. .1. Hall-Scott, grazier, of Bowen (Chairman),
C. .T. Maeshatx, Manager Be’'el Austi-nlja. p e<]., Bowen.
W. H. Flam stead, Manager Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd. Bowen.
A. H. W. Cunningham, Grazier, of Strathmore.
Angus McCallum, Mine-owner, of Charters Towers.
C. Bowly, Kennedy, Bowly & Manson, Brisbane.
Secretary ; A. V. Mubbay. Registered Office; Bowen, Queensland.
Colliery Manager: J. McNaughton, late of Newnes, N. S. Wales.
BANKERS:
Commonwealth Bank. Australian Bank of Commerce.
BROKERS:
Members of the Charters Towers, Townsville and Brisbane Stock Exchanges
and Sharebrokers in all the Southern States.
N.B.—Applications for shares may be made direct to the Company’s
office at Bowen, or through any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange.
Pocket Ben
A Watch for Service
If you need a low-priced
watch that will stand up
and give real service, you
should ask your dealer to
show you Pocket Ben.
He’s the watch for real
service.
Pocket Ben has an extra
double back that makes
him dust-proof and boy-
proof, in fact he is some-
times sold under the name
“Boyproof.” The extra
protection adds a little to
his thickness and a lot to
his service for it protects
his finely made and
carefully adjusted move-
ment from many of the
little knocks and bumps
that send watches to the
watchmaker’s repair bench.
Westclox Big Ben, 25/-; Baby Ben, 25/-; Sleep-Meter, 13/6; America, 10/■;
Blue Bird, 12/6 Boyproof, 9/6; Pocket Ben, 9/6; Jack o 'Lantern Luminous, 20/•;
Big Ben Luminous, 32/ 6; Baby Ben Luminous, 32/6; Glo-Ben, 15/-
WESTERN CLOCK CO., LA SALLE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
wife
mmm
4
V /
The Secret is
Yours in ONE
EVENING . ..
FREE
We tell you emphatically—and offer you an easy way
for you to prove that what we say is true —YOU can
become a fluent, convincing speaker in a very short time
and by a method under which the study is a veritable
pleasure. YOU can learn the secret of the Mastery of Speech in one evening.
We don’t ask you to take our word for it, we ask you to decide for yourself. Let
send you our course of
MASTERY OF SPEECH
Complete in 8 bound parts
for you to use for 3 days
FREE!
After you have made a careful examination of the course, if you wish to, you return it to
us and there the matter ends. Or if its great value makes itself apparent to you, you can retain
the complete set by forwarding us the purchase price of two guineas.
It’s for you to decide. Keep the course or return it as you will. Such an offer protects you
—guarantees your satisfaction—for naturally you would keep the course only if you were
absolutely certain that it offered to you the sure way to become a convincing speaker.
However, that is not your only assurance of satisfaction. You are further guaranteed an
effective, sure method of learning the Mastery of Speech by the fact that
THE AUTHOR, DR. FREDERICK LAW, Ph.D„
is a brilliant scholastic figure at several universities, that he is degreed with Bachelor of Arts,
Master of Arts, and Doctor of Philosophy, that he has been on the public lecture-platform for
20 years as lecturer on the English language. Dr. Law has travelled and studied in nearly every
country of Europe and in 45 countries of the globe. He has written history, novels, poetry,
literary history and innumerable newspaper and magazine articles. He is editor of six school
text-books and has been an organiser of courses in English and French, a director of teachers
and a founder of school publications, societies and libraries. Don’t you think that this man who
brings you his secret of good, correct, effective and successful "speaking is worth your closer
acquaintance ?
The valuable introduction to him is FREE. The coupon posted now will bring to you at
once what he proudly boasts is among
his finest works, “Mastery of Speech.”
s. A. BOOK CO., LTD
Edwards’ Buildings,'
178 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ThisCoupon/ostedNow
m//bring you the
COMPLETE COURSE FREE!
FREE OFFER COUPON.
S. A. BOOK CO., LTD.,
Edwards’ Buildings,
118 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
On the' distinct understanding that I can use
and examine it for three days free of charge, and
that I can return it to you with absolutely no
obligation if I wish to, please send me your
complete Frederick Law’s “Mastery of Speech”
(in eight lessons, separately bound). After three
days I will either send the set back to you or
forward you the complete purchase price of two
guineas ( £ 2/2/-)
Name
Address
B.2 —11/5/’22


Charles
Heidsieck
Vintage 1911
HE PLUS ULTRA
d
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrerts-
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
In&QMmrt
Hi ofJ3r/sJ&sWO)
mi
Hotel Carlton
The most comfortable
and bent equipped
Hotel in Queensland,
OENTRALLY situated in the heart
of Brisbane it affords easy access
to commercial, shipping and shopp.
ing centres, theatres, railway ter-
mini, botanical gardens, museum,
artgallery. etc. £14.000 have recent y
been spent on modernising Hotel
Carlton Unmatchable cuisine,
every comfort and modern conveni-
ence. Newest American Bar.
Write for Particularsl
Smart!
Serviceable!
We should
satf so!
Winy don't
wear a
■ftd§sk
MAKERS
ALEXfiNDEf) STEWART
UNO SONS LTD:
ď
f
A HUNDRED YEARS AGO
“ Man’s love was of man's life a thing apart;
'Ttcas woman’s whole existence.”
But this is 1922, not 1822, Byron
would not have written the famous
lines to-day. For in this age, woman
has her own life to live.
She cultivates beauty for its own
sake, and out of her own delight in
her own self.
In the delicate art of perfuming,
the clever woman chooses
. Erasmic Perfumes
as the most fragrant and unobtru-
sive, yet fascinating.
What makes her such an enchanting girl?
Why? Don’t you Inow? An Erasmic Ctrl
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
ROGER
&
GALLET
Perfumes
Soaps
Powders
On Saturday the S.P.C.A. bazaar, at Leura,
the Knoxs’ Bellevue Hill place, attracted
all the classiest people. Swanns of small
children, gad guides, eurhythmic swayers and
Dutch-capped flower maidens bustled through
the glad afternoon. G.-G. Forster’s lady said
the official "Open Sesame” in a speech which
was both pretty and witty ; and at the same
time wore a dress of blue Chinese silk erfipe
worked in a neat floral design. Her blue
lace bat with a bunch of ametuyst berries on
its brim. She was supported by Mrs. Geoff
Fairfax in a perfect profile, and a top-coat
that wore a wide equator of black patent
leather. Melba, though of the vice-regal
party, was not of its background: while the
speeches were being made she stood a few
feet apart, her befurred cloak thrown back
from a white waistcoat and a dress of rose-
pink brocaded sleekness. Two small Pitt
Rivers children —Julian and Michael —patro-
nised the Digby lady, who was raffling an
esoteric monkey that might have been the
missing link. She was silk-clad from head
to-heel in tones of a nice mellow cigar, and
her dress was the newest thing in crochet.
Sheila Loughborough was another helper on
a stall that was enshrined in dazzling posters.
There was jazz and there was tea, and tab-
loid dramatics, and a very brief procession
of Chu Chin Chow maidens. Mrs. Knox,
herself, ran a stall with the help of Mrs.
Feakes and Mrs. Robert McDonald. Gov-
ernor Davidson’s two little chicks, who were
booked to heln. were too sick to come, and
Dame Margaret stayed at home with them.
The solitary unpleasantness that marred
an entirely successful gathering (the profits
amounted to over £500) was the discovery by
the helpers that they had been condemned
to change in a laundry. Old and young,
grave and gay (they were mostly extremely
grave when they found that the place hadn’t
even a mirror), they herded into the cheer-
less outhouse, and, as they effected lightning
changes, uttered silent prayers that the
passers-by would have the kindness to refrain
from peering through the windows. It was
the traditional Knox policy of exclusiveness
carried to excess.
Sixty out of 300 of its old students is
the toll that Riverview paid in the Euro-
pean upheaval, and it is in their honor
that the Riverview war memorial wing
is to be raised. Saturday’s fete in the
grounds of the handsome up-river college to
swell the funds for the new building drew
a lavishly-spending crowd who swarmed like
bees about the stalls spread on the wide
verandahs. The opening blessing was be-
stowed by Father Gartlan, and names old
in the college annals like Oxenham, Coyle.
Dalton, Murray-Curtis, McDermott and
Fraser echoed on every side.
A pleasing scarcity of chaperons, a pro-
fusion of dancing gitds and plenty of men,
good music and unlimited blue-and-white —-
these were the chief features of the Padding-
ton Town Hall on Friday night, when the
“Scegs” ball occurred. The headmaster
Purves couple and the Reverend Davis pair
all put on their joy-rags for the occasion.
Mrs. Esplin bamdaded the black satin of
her dress with heavy jet entanglements, and
Mrs. Rfissell Sinclair did likewise. A tall
Binnie girl was striking, in a grey dress of
intricate design. The Cook-Rnssell child
wore a pretty fair head over a shimmery-
blue dress,. and brought her tall dad along
to fill odd gaps in the programme. Mar-
jorie Wright was in black, and secretary
Miss Rhodes in filmy peacock blue in silver
lace.
Flautist Elsie Black —one of the “All
Black” (M.L.) family—became Mrs. Jack
Garrett, of Wellington, last Saturday. Grey
tailorings and a henna hat were her bridal
trappings, and Scots’ Church blessed the
nuptials.
Mrs. Freehill, of Point Piper, chartered
a vessel and took the Sistine Chapel Choir
for a picnic on Sunday. The pavilion at
Clifton Gardens, .which has resounded so
often to denunciations of the Pope, was
where they lunched ; and they didn’t appear to
notice anything. A group of the Irish players,
including the pretty Murphy colleen and tall
Miss Delaney, were abroad. Tighe Ryan
also favored the gathering with his presence,
and the Hickey sisters were there, and pub-
licity specialist Agnes Murphy and many
other celebrities.
Hilda Hickey, the official “mother” and
interpreter to the Sistme Choir, hails from
Waterford, where her father is a noted horse-
breeder, but she has lived so long in Rome
that she positively thinks in spaghetti. This
remarkable young person was Mr. Quinlan’s
right hand in the drawing up of all the con-
tracts, and in the initial worry of the big
enterprise she stood between him and the
agitated choristers, who declared to Heaven
they would split their contracts rather than
pay for the laundering of their specially-
pleated surplices. Also she helped to cool
down the fluttering mothers who at the
eleventh hour wanted to withdraw Piero and
Tony from the terrifying dangers of the sea.
Singing is her study, the horse her passion,
and on her return to Italy in July she will
dash off to her summer retreat at Capri to
concentrate on verse-translations.
Penelope Corrie, one of Brisbane’s young
smart-setters, decked herself in white satin
and Limerick lace to keep a marriage date
with Keith Hall, of Melbourne, at St. James’
last week. Her one bridesmaid was Nancy,
daughter of Judge MeNaughton. of Bris-
bane. and she wore yellow jersey silk. Mrs.
H. S. Holt administered the festal cake
and fizz at her Darling Point home. The
.T. H. McLellan house at San Remo has been
loaned for the honeymoon. Penelope’s dad
used to be Mayor of Brisbane, and the bi-id •-
groom is the eldest son of I.iieut.-Co!onei
flail, of Melbourne.
At the Scotehbytcriau kirk, Wahroonga.
last Saturday night Laira Asher Smith became
Mrs. Carl Perry. Half the village had helped
with the decorations, the lady-principal being
immensely popular in the locality. She wore
silver embossed satin from the neck down-
wards, above that her auburn locks were
bound about with orange buds and tulle
veiling. Elsie Asher Smith and Doreen
Stutchbury were the bridesmaids ; and there
were twice as many men as girls at the
church and the cake-cutting. Laira lias
done two years’ doctoring at the Women’s
Hospital, Paddington. The honeymoon will
be spent in the U.S.A., of all places.
Members of the Royal family continue to
become engaged to commoners, and Lord
Eltham (who is the son and heir of the
Queen’s brother) is the latest example in
point. He is only half a royalty, strictly
speaking, for his mother was a daughter of
the first Duke of Westminster. Ilis choice
is Dorothy, second daughter of the Hon.
Esmond Hastings. The family is intensely
sporting—-in fact, the young woman’s uncle,
Aubrey, is one of the best-known trainers of
steeplechasers in the kingdom, and he had
an eye knocked out playing polo.
Consett Stephen, of the big firm of attor-
neys, is due back from M.L. this week. He
has many ties with the place since his son
Montague married a M.L. girl—only to die
of ’flu on the honeymoon. Mrs. Montague
spends the summer in her native isles and
the winter in Sydney.
This is Mrs. Annie Besant, who arrived on
Tuesday. No woman in the world has had
a more varied career; and at 75 she is still
working as hard as ever. She was married
in 1867 to the Rev-
erend Frank Besant,
brother of Sir Wal-
ter, the novelist.
They separated in
1880 and she joined
the Free-thought
movement, and be-
came associated with
Charles Bradlaugh.
In 1884 she became
a Fabian Socialist,
and she has ever
since been more or
)"'•<» actively con-
nected with Bernard
Shaw and other pro-
minent Fabians. She
organised the Match-
makers’ Union of
1884, which struck
successfully for better conditions and pay
under her leadership. In 1889 the late W.
T. Stead was editor of the Paul Mall
Gazette. He received for review, and
handed on to Mrs. Besant, a copy of
Madame Blavatsky’s “The Secret Doctrine.”
It converted her to Theosophy: she met
Madame Blavatsky through Stead, joined
the society and at once started toiling for it.
She succeeded Madame Blavatsky as leader
in 1891, and has been its President since the
death of Colonel Oleott, in 1907.
In the old days R.N. officers were accus-
tomed to leave their wives in England. But
some of them “made a welter of it,” to em-
ploy the vernacular, and one particularly
festive captain was told definitely to either
get ready to send for his encumbrance or
get ready to get out. Commodore Addison,
a solid man of the Dumaresq type—not
physically Dumaresquish, of course, but tem-
peramentally so—has required no depart-
mental urgings to induce him to import his
family. They will arrive—a wife and three
youngsters—as soon as he has settled down
in his job.
The other night the V.A. slipped out o£
her red-crossed apron and proved she could
be as alluring in tulle nothingness as her
butterfly sisters. Battalions of young ex-
Diggers rolled up to steer her through the
festive one-step while the jazz band blared,
and the girl who. balances your poached eggs
and toast in a lied Cross cafd allowed her-
self to be attended to by her cavaliers in
the most guilefully helpless manner in the
world. Mrs. R. R. Mackinnon appeared in
a sequined net frock that flopped a giddy
tail every time its wearer crossed the shiny
floor; and her first lieutenant, Mrs. Huck,
was a ravishing mixture of grey georgette
and amber beads. Gaud Mayor McElhone’s
lady was resplendent in moonlight-blue satin
apd tulle, and brought a bridge party which
was given an air of almost poignant state-
liness by the presence of Deputy-Town Clerk
Layton.' The Braddon children were in
black, while their mother was clothed in
deep-blue satin. Miss Weston, who cooks
the V.A. Club lunches, provided a fine atmo-
sphere for her Venetian hair in the green
scarf about her shoulders.
This is pretty Huntly McCrae, artist and
poet Hugh McCrae’s eldest chick, who models
the prettiest trifles of pottery. Beads that
might have been
worn by some little
bride along the Nile
when Caesar Augus-
tus was lord of
Egypt; girdles of
ancient design that
Cleopatra hers elf
might have bestowed
a gl.\nce upon; ear-
riugs, hatpins, quaint
medallions —all have
a place in the clever
youngster’s sh o w
which she is holding
in a corner of the
room devoted to
teacher M e r ric
Boyd’s pots and \*es-
sels. The striking
posters for the exhi-
bition which greet the visitor to Bernard’s
chambers are the work of her artist sister,
Mahdi. May Moore caught the likeness.
Princess Hassan (she was out here as Mrs.
Broadwood the other day, and first burst on
Australia as Ola Jane Humphrey) is in-
volved in more litigation. This time, accord-
ing to the Yankee papers, she is being sued
by one Herman Roth, lawyer of New York,
for two and a half million dollars “for
professional services rendered in connection
with her suit against the estate of her former
husband” — i.e., Hassan. Faced with Mr.
Roth’s monumental claim, the lady took the
masterly, and as most litigants will agree,
excusable, not to say justifiable, step of
leaving the jurisdiction. Roth has begun an
action against her in which he assures the
press:—-
International polities, plots and counter-plots,
echoes of the World War and the death of Prince
Hassan two days before the hearing of his divorce
case in Paris, will be touched upon.
The ball for St. Luke’s is the next society
charity dance of the season. The Palais at
Moore Park is being prepared for the flutter,
at which the G.-G.’s and State vice-regals
will be present. Renee Maxwell, George
Gee, Frith and Ilughie Steyne have promised
some song-and-dance turns, but otherwise
the committee cross their hearts and pro-
mise it will be unadultered ball—no com-
petitions or posters or anything. The hos-
pital's organising secretary, Frank Lamb,
is waiting at 1G Spring-street to hear if
there will be enough passengers for special
railway and Circular Quay trams to justify
him in arranging for a special early-morning
service.
New Thought Dr. Julia Seaton was given
the hand of welcome by her large following
at the 1.0.0. F. rooms on Friday night. She
is like an elder sister of Ada Reeve, wears
her red brown hair bobbed, and was dressed
for the party in grey georgette girdled with
emerald green. She demonstrated that New
Thought can go quite comfortably with hand-
some bracelets. On Tuesday she talked busi-
ness psychology during the lunch-hour to
men in the vestibule of the Town Hall.
The Prideaux-Brunes, and Mrs. P. B.’s
sister, Claire Garvan, picked up the Nal-
dera at Fremantle, having broken the jour-
ney overland by a series of farewell visits to
family friends.
The Apollos had their first concert of the
season at the Conservatorium last week
under Alfred Hill. The blending of the
voices in such a number as Mendelssohn’s
“Ode to the Sons of Art” was a great
triumph; and Arundel Orchard’s “Bring
Forth the Wine” greatly impressed a group
of U.S.A. visitors. Presentable Clifford
Lathlean snapped a heart-string or two with
his “She Alone Cliarmeth My Sadness,” and
“Helen of Ivirconnell” ; and Mrs. Goossens-
Vieeroy lifted silver tones in “Australia
Awakens” from Delany’s “Captain Cook,”
to which Marjorie Quinn’s father supplied
the poetic libretto. But how far away is
that golden age when he declared
“Xo ruddy rain of battle
Shall make my roses red;
No long, gold spray of wattle
Shall bloom o’er soldiers dead."
A successful Hospital Friday stall was
run by the Chinese in upper Mar tin-place.
It started off with £lOOO in hand, and was
piled with rich silk crepes, rolls of silk and
sweetmeat baskets. One of the men-collec-
tors had travelled over 500 miles to lend a
hand, and the women helpers were resplen-
dent in georgeously embroidered Chinese
coats. The Japanese stall was at the other
end of the Martin-place bazaar, and was gay
with pretty little Japanese ladies in pic-
turesque kirns.
The toast was Ireland the other day at
the Town ilali when tue AlcEliiones gave
the Abbey Flayers the welcome of the City.
That the civic wine-bowl didn't burst
asunder at the spectacle of the shamrock-
decked tables was due to the fact that
loyalty had made its case clear by spilling
the hist libation to George ilex with a con-
demnation of political intrigue in Ireland
attached. ' The Flayers, who mostly swel-
tered in heavy-weight garments owing to the
non-arrival of their luggage, are an unas-
suming lot. loung Shields, who plays the
part of the “White-headed .Boy,’’ is a slim
intellectual, on whose brow thought dwells,
while Eileen Murphy is a beauty of the
witty type that in the day of powder and
patches queened it in the pump-room at Bath.
Now she has to content herself with an Irish
frieze top-coat and a black velvet tarn
pulled down over one cordial eye. The
bouncing “Baby” of the play is the striking
Miss Fitzgerald, who sported a hat of blue-
green tones for the party. The dressing was
apt to fly a touch of emerald —Mayoress
McElhone had a suspicion of it on the
turned-up brim of her hat, Mrs. J. C. Wil-
liamson in the check of her taffeta frock ;
and Mrs. Neville Mayman Haunted green
millinery. Mrs. Freddie hat
was a tangle of baby shells, Mrs. Keuna
wore jersey silk with distinction, and Mrs.
Trefie her enthusiasm like a cloak. Maire
O’Neill (“Peg o’ My Heart” Allgood’s sister)
couldn’t come; she was busy trying to prove
to the authorities that her Pekinese was a
desirable immigrant. Tom Henley didn’t
turn up either.
Mrs. Murray Campbell and Rose Merivale,
the secretaries for the series of Cinderellas
in aid of the Havilah Home, must be de-
lighted at the roll-up to the first of the 1922
dances. However, they clothed their honors
modestly in black and rose-pink satin respec-
tively, at Paddington’s old Town Hall, the
other night. Dozens of pretty young things
brightened the dusty premises with new
season’s frocks. Betty Crook took the floor
in violet tones, and a mist of black and sil-
ver tulle enveloped the professorial Ander-
son-Stuart dame. The Braddon lady clothed
herself in a brocade that looked like a rem-
nant of a rose arbor, and daughter Valerie’s
dress had apparently been woven of Irish
moss. Mrs. Richard Meares shaded gold
tissue in black ninon; Mrs. Claude Reading
chose floral, and Mrs. A. J. Brady black em-
broidered taffeta. The next dance is timed
for May 30.
Adelina Leon left by the Ulimaroa for New
Zealand to join Rosina Buckman, who is on
tour with her husband, Maurice D’Oisley.
Miss Leon was ‘cellist with the State
Orchestra at its last concert in Sydney
prior to the Melbourne tour.
Good-looking Brigadier-General Rothe is
going to India to visit his married daughter
and the most beautiful grandchild in the
world. A few weeks ago he resigned his
job of Director of the Voluntary Aids. The
girls, who respect liirn for his diplomacy in
dealing with such matters as sensible but-
tons on aprons instead of insecure press
studs, drank a farewell loving cup with him
at their club, and handed him a leather-
encased volume of commandant’s autographs.
Lambert’s “Weighing the Fleece” is draw-
ing a steady dribble of art lovers to
Anthony Horderns’ gallery. The canvas is
altogether Australian, and was painted in
the woolshed of the Lee Falkiner station.
The lady with the gauntlet gloves who sits
in an exhausted fashion on a bale of wool is
Mrs. Lee Falkiner, and her husband is the
squatting chap watching the shorn ram’s
coat weigh down the scale. A barbered and
an over-coated ram glare at each other, 0.p.,
held by the strong hands of honest toil.
When Lambert was sketching in the face of
the man grasping the depleted animal, his
mate opposite drawled, “Funny they want
your likeness in, Bill.” Then, before any
interjection arose he finished : “ ’Spose they
didn’t want to make the ram seem too dam’
ugly!”
Florence Fourdrinier, editress of Ours,
is repeating her lecture, “The Romance of
Wheat,” in St. James’s Hall on the evening
of May 22. The collection goes to help
the Bush Nursing Association.
The Freddy Shipman couple are back in
the old home once again, .and are smiling
reminiscently on the vegetation of the Win-
ter Garden. Their geniuses, Guy Maier
and Lee Pattison, arrive With their six
grand pianos by the Niagara next month.
No, they aren’t jugglers—they tickle the
four tons of piano with their fingers, just
like ordinary pianists.


ď
HARDY BROS. LTD
cJctaellers <a> ttilver.'tmit/Tx. /Yggfi?*
Coffee Service,
Silver-plated Coffee Service and Tray, with Six White China
Coffee Cups and Saucers, and Six Silver-plated Coffee Spoons,
£l7 0 0
An after-dinner Coffee Set is a gift that
is always highly appreciated. The com-
bination of dainty cups of finest china and
Hardy Bros.’ celebrated English Silver-
plate makes a handsome and useful gift.
Coffee Cups can be supplied
in white or colored china.
Illustrated catalogue posted on request.
HARDY BROS. LTD.
cJew&Uers <fc> Siluersmit/ts.
IS HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
11C-118 Queen St.,
Brisbane.
London.
208 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
A PICNIC PARTY
HERE YOU SEE!
Right handy to the deep blue Sea. Comely girls are
Sue and Mabel, together spread a tempting table.
Pm.
m
i)
m.
8
FOOD
m
r£<s\/s.
>~
cfr
[imr
\ I
r
*F
'»* v Cm>
l £=j* v (fl
SSSS"t»
C Jp#
Stttliii! II! In"
“Rex”
Camp Pie
and Cakes and Fruit are just the
things Boy’s tastes to suit. Take
Cue from Sue and dainty Mabel,
spread a tempting picnic table with
“Rex” Camp Pie, it s such a treat,
compounded of the choicest meat.
Serve it cold from out the tin—for
Sandwiches you slice it thin. A
Salad will enhance the flavor. But
anyhow it wins your favor.
Include “Rex” Camp Pie on
this week’s grocery order.
Foggitt Jones
Ltd.
*.J. 140
Pictures always tell a story better
and quicker than words.
THE BRITISH-MADE
“BOX FORM ENSIGN”
CAMERA
■will enable the beginner to get sharp, bright pictures
right away. It is loaded in daylight with Roil Films.
There is nothing to go wrong, and its absolute simplicity
makes success certain.
No. 2£A
No. 2£B
No. 2\
Size of Picture. Price.
2 *x2s 12/6
2-4- x 16/-
2ix4i 21/-
&UlWli7Zf f f 0720 IT?
The House for
Good Cameras,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney.
2GG Collins Street, Melbourne. 41a Bundle Street, Adelaide.
03 Queen Street, Brisbane. 144 Queen Street, Auckland, IV.Z.
42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
(9c !9Dad&u
cLont teaAe—
f
d
ďf
d
ďfd
ď
fd
We Anoto tft&u afie
HILLIERS
CHOCOLATES
Packed in the famous Red Boxes and mailed to you
the day they are made.
Prices: 3/-, 5/6, 7/6, 12/6, 20/- and 307-
Post free to any address in Australia.
•anr
©
fiLneJt UMIU
162-166 PITT Stree+,
6 Cr George 6 King S+s
SYDNEY.


Learn to Draw
“There’s Money
in
the Pen.”
■3
we
Send for
Mr. Harry
.T. Weston’s
instructive
and interesting
booklet, “There’s
Money in the Pen.”
It explains clearly
and concisely how,
by the Weston
method, you can
develop your artis-
tic talent through a
POSTAL COURSE
OF DRAWING.
Examples of the
lessons and speci-
mens of students’
work are given.
The Weston method
is simplicity itself,
for it eliminates
drudgery, and by a
series of easy, pro-
gressive lessons
gives you a
thorough grounding
in the basic prin-
ciples of art.
Commercial artists
make big money.
Why not do as so
many successful
Weston pupils have
done? You have
the benefit of
Mr. Weston’s
personal advice
ori every lesson.
Send three stamps to-day for booklet.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal Vchool of Drawing,
129 Union House. George Streei. SYDNEY.
%-True Ease
W'iTIlE BRUCE”
— STEEL __d
SHELL
rq
PETMS
HJ elected and recommended by
J^uce.'Writing Specialist,
and Writing .aster to the principal,
Schools of S: ir.sy.N.S.W o manu/actured
b> the celebrated Pen makers,
JOlSEPH GlLLOTT & SONS. Birmingham.
<Sold by a/l Stationers
\% olesale -AL£X. Cowan & Sons. L,™
SVC. EY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
ď
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN 8t -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“ THEY COME AS a BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.
Missing: Friends.
NEXT OF KIN WANTED.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
whereabouts of the wife and children of
JOHN GEORGE EVANS, miner - , who died
in the Auckland Hospital on the 27th
November, 1918. It is understood that three
sons of the deceased enlisted with the Aus-
tralian Military Forces. If any of the above-
named will communicate with the Local
Deputy Public Trustee, Auckland, New
Zealand, they will hear of something to their
advantage.
IF PATRICK KELLY, formerly of Dur-
ham Downs, Thargomindah, Queens-
land, laborer, a son of Patrick Kelly, late of
Gawler, South Australia, farmer, deceased,
will communicate with the undersigned, he
will hear something to his advantage.
GRUNDY, PELLY & HARDY,
Solicitors, 27 Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
ENGLISH Relatives of THOMAS
CLARK, Gasfitter, Dowlais, late of
Oldham, Manchester, would be glad to hear
of the whereabouts of any of his relatives
in Australia, especially one Thomas Clark,
late of Oldham. Manchester, or his children
THOMAS CLARK, Nephew.
16 Upper Row, Penywern, Dowlais, Glam.,
South Wales.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it
KEEP YOUR BODY IN TUNE
i
m
m
m
& , >
m
k
I
\ our health and strength depend upon exercise. Exercise is
the judicious movement of the organs of the body, so that
they will NOT become flabby through want of use. When an
oigan becomes flabby it cannot carry out its functions in a
natural way. It goes from bad to worse. Eventually it is
a source of never-ending annoyance—then chronic ill-health.
Judicious exercise is the key of Health. It cuts out monotony,
accomplishes permanent results quickly, takes up very little
time —every movement goes right to the spot.
The Baker Postal Course of
Health and Strength Exercises
will make you fit and keep you strong and healthy.
The exercises you receive will be most suited to your
individual needs, just as the particulars you furnish
tell us you require.
Write your name and address across this advertisement,
and send it to us with three stamps, and we will send
you a copy of the interesting booklet, “Health and
Strength from Self-Culture.”
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
and Brothers,
“ The All-round Champion Athlete of Australia,**
98 Municipal Buildings, Oxford Street, Sydney.
f
WHILE SADIE DANCED—
Her dainty shoes grew sad. But the
gladness, the smartness, the very “new-
ness ’ soon returned —Sadie always uses
Bos dock’s
Shoe Dressings
White -Liquid Dressing—for Canvas Shoes.
White Liquid Dressing—for Suede Shoes.
Black and Brown Liquid Suede Cleaners.
Bostock’s Polishes, Ltd., Sydney.
“After Every Meal”
RIGLEY
The Royoi Chewing Confection
Mss Preferred by H, SS. H, The Prince of Walem
Here is the most wonder-
ful little pick-me-up in
the world. It is unrivalled
for whitening the teeth,
cleansing and soothing the
mouth and throat, settling
the stomach and aiding
appetite and digestion
WRIGLEY’S is made in a
New, Modem, Scientific and
Sunlit Factory in Rosebery,
Sydney, from which the trade
is supplied throughout Aus-
The
Money-Savins
Sweet
tralia and New Zealand. Here in this model factory in-
genious machines make and mix and wrap this goody,
untouched by hands, clean, wholesome, pure, and so
wrapped as to be impervious to all moisture and impurity.
It is good for children as well as grown-ups.
Made under supervision of Inspectors of the Board of Health,
guaranteed as to purity and unrivalled as to flavour.
Three delicious flavours: SPEARMINT has the delightful flavoui
and aroma of mint. DOUBLEMINT has the cool, thirst quenching
flavour of creme-de-menthe.
JUICY FRUIT has the luscious,
satisfying flavour of ripe, crushed
fruits. ♦
Best of all, the cost is small—
3d. per Packet —Either Flavour.
Have a packet of each always
in reach.
Sold by Chemists, Confectioners,
Tobacconists, etc., or send 3d. for
a trial packet of either flavour to
WRIGLEY’S
Box 2602 G. P. 0., Sydney
m
m.
cl
Vi
849
m
V 9
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be-, returned
unless stamps accompany.
M. 8.5.: Not interesting enough.... Mar-
garet M.: It’s not bad, but it’s not for U5....T.Q.:
After going to stars and courts and emerald bowers
with her you “wonder who this person is, the Lady
of my dreams.” Well, well The Nipper: A bit
too rugged# .. .F.F.F.: It's horrible verse 8.8.
(North Sydney) : Injurious rubbish. Try again in
10 or 12 years... .Michael P.: “Fleeting” and “Inter-
lude” must go back. .. . Spadger: You don’t get
enough feeling into it to make it sound sincere....
E. : Poor verse to hold up a trivial gag that
has worked hard for 30 weary years... .A.J.H.: Not
up F.N.A.: “Mary” staggers too much....
W.J.R.C.: The captain had to take on a drunken
sailor he had once sacked; and that, without color,
atmosphere or characterisation, you imagine can
make a yarn.... Elvo: Verse beginning “O thankless
Muse” is not wanted here.... Mary E.: Long cover-
ing letters are merely provocative of bitter pro-
fanity... .F.G. (Brisbane): That is the 569th tribute
to Ross Smith; and not one of the lot could scar
above a wheelbarrow Oliver B.: One bright
stanza: —
Farewell, farewell, dear Anzac,
Year by year will go, may come, that vve;
The name ’twill always show in the pack,
So you have health, and prosperity.
Coo-ee! Coo-ee! Coo-ee.
R.R.J.: Waddles heavily to a futile finish....
S.A.L.: Badly-written yarn about nothing... .S.V.D.:
Very thin .... J.A.W.: The “Star” and the “Advice”
look like pumped-up iniquity Neville S.: “The
Altruist” doesn’t thrill u 5.... Hattie K.: But what
you say applies to half Australia.... Walter J.:
Too heavy... A.H. (Darlinghurst) : Preachment about
“Local Color” is largely a heapiog-up of irrelevancies.
....John A.: Yarn gets nowhere... .1.L.1.: “My
Country” is too loose and too long. Why not gather
out the best of it?... .F.N.W.: Doesn’t strike u 5....
J.R.N.: It fluttered its feeble and unclean way to
the basket... .C.M.M.: You can’t rhyme “road” with
“road.” Don’t spoil good work for want of a little
care... .A.A.A.: It’s a sorrowful thing in lamentable
verse... .Merlin: Sheer commonplace... .A.F.J.:
There have been worse first attempts; but not many.
. ...T.D.: “Sun-bathing” has a beauty all its own:
Oh, that dear boy of mine, so shy is he,
That he’ll scarcely bump my knee.
On Sunday, when we climbed the mountain paths—
I was out for a sunbath —
He talked of many bright and golden things
Ana joys that sweet wedlock brings ;
But he never once got on to my lips,
No, nor even pinched my hips.
And when one’s engaged they look for all this—•
I was dying for a kiss—
And then I thought of Drida, the poet—
Doesn’t he love to show it?—
Who rhymes somewhat pretty about kisses—
I sometimes think of his misses—
For of a cert, he’s delightfully bold,
And just won’t do what he’s told.
No, I wouldn’t go sunbathing with him;
I d be safer in a swim.
But he may take me to the Sistine Choir,
Though it puts my heart on fire.
O.G.S.: Hasn’t force enough for us D.E,
(Five Dock): Keeps too close to the commonplace...
V.L. (Maryborough) : The lines have a thick, con-
gested sort of feeling H.R. (Ascot Vale): Album
verse.... Valla: “The Dream” is poor in thought,
metre and rhyme... . J.W.H.: All parodies are
evil things; and yours is a particularly
evil parody P.8.P.: Prose weak; verse rotten
. ...N.J. (Griffith): Picture-show stuff of a
thin sort... .G.F.K.: Read some decent verse
and find out what you’re trying to do
R.L.P.: No improvement will help It E.J.8.:
Bad verse without a glimmer of mirth... .M.H.
(Richmond): Not for us J.W.T.: Don’t know
whether your work would make songs. As verse it
is rotten. .. .D.M.G.: Not enough life there....
Saaedi: “Irene” must go back 1.T.H.: “Autumn
Evening” is an old scheme and not an attractive one.
....William R.: You talk about beauty, but your
verses are to poetry what garbage tins and wash-up
basins are to domestic joy Donald D.: The “Glory
of Sydney Harbor” has never before been sung in
that wonderful fashion
Though Titan thou hast crept, *
Beneath yon dipping sea,
And in that place bereft,
Thy weaker mate sent thee.
Though nought of warmth and glow,
When darkness spreads its mantle.'
Un Neptune’s throne below,
All words of praise are scantle.
Come now, ye son of Venice;
Braggadocio-child of Halifax;
For to sail on modern Liburnis,
In thine own praise thee ne’er shall wax.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F. : Better take some lessons. .. .A.L.: At
least the trees that grow palings as foliage are
interesting N.E.D.: Right off the target
G.H.: Out again.... R.H.G.: Broaden out your line
work and allow for reduction... .N.G. : Two staring
lasses going back... .H.S.K.: Too suggestive of a
fashion-plate.
“29” recounts bow a rush on the Jeru-
salem banks was staved off:—
During June-July of 1918 the Turco-Iluns on the
Palestine front began to make preparations for a
great offensive, the objective being Jerusalem. The
Holy Citizens contracted cold feet, and began
immediately to make the paying-tellers of
each and every bank in the locality work overtime.
Without much warning, on July 12, a great force
of Huns, supported (?) by Jackos, fiercely attacked
the Ist Light Horse Brigade, and drove them back
on to the small stream called Aiya. The brigade,
reinforced, soon belted the premature Germans
back into their own badly-ranged barrage, and in
the heat of a 120-in-the-shade day, re-established
their line, and either captured or killed every Hun
in the special storming battalion. It was then
that the Australian officer in charge of the pri-
soners hit on the great idea. Transport motor-
lorries were commissioned, and many hundreds of
ferocious but subdued sausage- and beer-purveyors
were hustled along the road at the back of the
Mount of Olives. Here they were met by a healthy-
looking crowd of Diggers, who escorted them down
past Gethsemane and around the walls to the Jaffa
Gate, so that the populace from “Effendi” to the
poorest might gaze and gain confidence. The Huns
(looking more like Sunday-school teachers) were
afterwards sent for a train-ride to Cairo, Next day
the receiving-tellers in those Jerusalem banks put
up a record day.


StiiDDlng.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA - - - LONDON
via
Colombo, Suez Canal, Naples,
Toulon, Gibraltar and Plymouth.
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS.
Write for illustrated circular giving all
information regarding sailing dates and
First-, Second- and Third-class fares.
2-4-Q Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
in 29 Days,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu —San Francisco,
YosemJte Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes —Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JUNE 14.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons. 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Cor, Pitt and Bridge Streets, SYDNEY.
Telephone: City 2282.
1"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
CHEAPEST AND MOST PICTURESQUE ROUTE TO
BRISBANE via BYRON BAY AND THE
BEAUTIFUL. TWEED RIVER,
Weather and other circumstances permitting.
S.S. PULGANBAR SAIDS EVERY TUESDAY at
7 p.m. ; passenger due in Brisbane, Thursday, 7 p.rn.
S.S. ORARA SAIDS EVERY SATURDAY at'9 p.m.,
passenger due in Brisbane, Monday, at 7 p.in.
Through Fare, including:—
Saloon on Steamer, and First-class on Rail, £3/12/-
Saloon on Steamer, and Second-class on rail, £3/5/6
The speed and modern conveniences for the comfort
of passengers of these steamers is unexcelled on the
coast.
For further particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 10 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HEAD OFFICE: 3 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE AGENTS: MESSRS. BURNS, 1’fIIDP
& CO.. LTD.
Bunking, Public Companies. ,Ye.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Subscribed Capita) ,. ..£800,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up 799,432 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. . . .. 325,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3.091.069 4 5
Directors —James Milne, Esq., Chairman; Hon. G. W.
Gray; James Love, Esq.; W. H. Hart, Esq.;
A. C. Luya, Esq.
Genera!, Manager —M. G. DAYMEN,
Manager at Sydney: E. PRESCOTT WELLS.
HEAD Ol’ElCE ... BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
til rough out Queensland.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
AND THE WORLD.
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
Authorised Capital ..£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. ..£1,200,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. £250.000
Directors: Mark Sheldon, Chairman; Herbert R.
Lysaght, O.B.E.; George J. Sly, LL.D.; Frank
N. Yauwood, F.C.P.A.; George F. Todman ;
Duncan Carson.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Coiner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 146 places ir.
New South Wales.
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street).
Chief Inspector for Queensland: J. N. II. Brown.
Manager: G. II. Howell.
Branches and Receiving Offices at 22 places iu
Queensland.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
ADELAIDE (35 Bundle Street).
Manager: R. T. Moodie.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.2),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
London Director; A. Dodds Fairbairn.
Agents throughout Australia, Tasmania and New
Zealand, and at all the Chief Cities of the world.
Every description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 1,125,000
Ordinary Shares .. .'. .. 2,250,000
Reserve Fund & Undivided Profits 1,886,275
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
.11 other usual Banking business.
Australian Mutual
Established
1849.
Head Office:
87 Pitt St., Sydney
Provident Society
The Largest and Most Successful
Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
Distributes a Cash Bonus Every Year.
Amount Distributed for single year 1921 £1,502,572
Yielding Reversionary Additions to
Policies of about .. • • .. £2,575.000
Accumulated Funds •• -■ £47,000,000
Annual Income •• • • - • • • £7,000,000
The Society transacts Every Class of Ordinary
and Industrial Assurance Business.
H. W. APPERLY, F.S.S., General Manager.
Shlpotnr. «*•
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
The All Red Route to Vancouver,
via Auckland (N.Z.), Suva, Fiji and Honolulu.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST, AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING
BETWEEN AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
Passengers booked to Glasgow, Liverpool, Southampton or to direct European port.
SAILINGS
MAKURA, 18th MAY, 11 a m.
NIAGARA, 22nd JUNE.
San Francisco Royal Mail Line
Sailings to San Francisco, via Wellington (N.ZK,
Rarotonga and Papeete (Tahiti).
A Smooth-water Trip.
Through hookings to any part of the United States, Canada, or to Europe.
The Great Cities of the United States can he seen on the journey across America, also the
Grand Canyon of Arizona, Yellowstone Park, Niagara Falls, etc.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
TAHITI, 8th JUNE, 11 a.m.
MARAMA, 6th JULY.
For illustrated pamphlets regarding tlie above services apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.. DOMINION CHAMBERS, WILLIAM STREET. MELBOURNE.
iJR
ms
•"-vv-i
TO ENGLAND VIA
SOUTH AFRICA.
THE BLUE FUNNEL LINE.
Consisting of steamers of 10,000 and 14,500 tons.
Carrying first-class passengers only. Fares
from £111) to England, and from £Ol to
South Africa.
P. & O. BRANCH SERVICE.
Consisting of steamers of 11,000 and 13,300 tons.
Carrying third-class passengers only. Fares
from £4O to £4B to England. From £2l to
£27 to South Africa.
Return tickets interchangeable with Mail
Companies via Suez Canal and America.
For particulars of sailings, etc., apply
Wills, Gilchrist & Sanderson, Ltd., Brisbane.
Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson, Ltd., Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., Melbourne.
George Wills and Co., Ltd., Adelaide & Perth.
Island Tours
To Papua, New Britain and New Guinea,
Solomon Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and Vila.
TRIPS OF 3J TO 4h WEEKS.
Affording a restful holiday amongst beautiful
scenery and interesting people.
For particulars apply to —
BURNS, rHILP & CO., LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
White Star Line
Only One Clar~ Cabin Accommodation.
Australia to Southampton, London and
Liverpool via South Africa.
REGULAR SAILINGS OF THE FINE AND
I’UPULAR STEAMERS:
CERAMIC 18,500 tons
(.Largest steamer in Australian Trade.)
ICONIC
SCENIC
.MEDIC
PERSIC
12,500 tons
12,500 tons
12.000 tons
12,000 tons
Also Cargo Steamers at Frequent Intervals-
niAu oicdiiieib di r i equeni iiiier\uis*
The Aberdeen Line.
Itegular Service Between Australia and
London, via South Africa.
Highest-Class Steamers on the Route.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and Submarine
Signalling Gear.
EURIPIDES 15.000 tons
THE.MISTOCLES 11,250 tons
DEMOSTHENES 11,250 tons
’SOPHOCLES 12,500 tons
’DIOGENES 12,500 tons
’New Steamers.
First- and Third-class Passengers carried.
Full Particulars of Fares, Rates of Freight, Sailings,
etc., on application to
etc., on application ro
OALGETY AND COMPANY, LIMITED,
AT ALL AUSTRALIAN PORTS.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I'tind
Reserve Inability
Directors:
£5,000,000
3,500,000
5,000,000
£13,500,000
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C.
Auditors: S. E. laidJey, Esq.; A. G. Milson, Esq.
Kobert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D,
The Hon. James T. Walker.
Franc B. S. Falkinei - , Esq.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
General Manager: Oscar Lines.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—39 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
S5B Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London,
Agents and Ci respondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DTTtKCT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
d
JBank ot Bustralia
SYDNEY.
OPEN FOR ALL CLASSES OF
General Banking Business
In the Principal Cities and Towns of Australia and Rabaul (New Britain); London (2).
Savings Bank Department
at all Branches, and Savings Bank Agencies at 8049 Post Offices through-
out Australia, and at Papua, New Britain, Solomon, and other Islands of the Pacific.
3a % interest on Deposits up to £1)000.
3% Interest on Amounts over £l,OOO up to £1,300.
JAMES KELL, Sir DENISON MILLER, K.C.M.G.,
Deputy Governor. Governor.
GOLFERS,
SCARVES, KNITTED HATS,
CAPS, etc.
Direct from the Manufacturers:
“TASMA” GOLFER HOUSE,
350 Little Lonsdale St., Melbourne.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australasian,
(id. weekly—an illustrated paper containing
mail and cable news from Australia and news
of Australians in Europe and at home.
Australians are cordially invited to visit the
British Australasian Beading-room at the
Offices. 51 High Ilolborn. London, W.C..
where they can see the home papers, meet
their friends, use the telephone, and obtain
information without charge.
Shipping.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings.) •
(Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE AND FREMANTLE
(Transhipping at Melbourne for Geelong and other
Victorian ports; at Adelaide for S.A. Gulf Ports;
and at Fremantle for Perth, Bunbury, Geraldtou
and N orth- West Ports).
FOR BRISBANE.
ROCKHAMPTON (Port Alma), MACKAY. BOWEN,
TOWNSVILLE JETTY and CAIRNS
(Transhipping at Brisbane for Maryborough. Btinda-
berg and Gladstone, and at Townsville for outports).
•Brisbane, Mackay (passengers only), Townsville
and Cairns.
(Brisbane, Port Alma (passengers only), Mackay,
Bowen and Townsville.
Huddart ParkerLiM'
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STIfAMEItS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular Bailings
from Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand ports
ami rice versa. Particulars to be obtained on appli-
cation.
''TEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Ilobart
and vice versa weekly. Between Melbourne and
Launceston as per daily papers.
' or full nartieulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Godins Street, Melbourne; Britlgre Street, Sydney.
THE N.Y.K. LINE
(NIPPON VUSEN KAISHA)
FAVORITE MAIL ROUTE TO JAPAN.
SAILINGS FOR JAPAN, via BRISBANE, TOWNS-
VILLE, THURSDAY ISLAND, ZAMBOANGA, MANILA,
HONGKONG, NAGASAKI, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
Monthly Sailings Thereafter.
Through Passenger Bookings to America and Europe
via Japan. Full particulars of sailing dates, passage
money, freight, etc., apply to
NIPPON YUSRN KATSITA,
Burns, Philp and Company, Limited,
Managing Agents for Australasia,
7 Bridge Street, Svdnev.
\ND TO DALGETY & CO.. LTD.,' MELBOURNE.
nterstate Telegraphic address
“Macdonald Hamilton,”
BRISBANE.
Cable address:
“1K0QU01S.”
Macdonald, Hamilton 8 Co.
Shipping Agents, Merchants, Colliery
Proprietors, Tug and Lighter Owners,
MANAGING AGENTS FOR
\ustralasian United Steam Navigation Go. Etd.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co., Etd.,
and Fitzroy Estates, Etd.
Biackhealth Collieries, Etd., and Caledonian
Collieries, Etd.
Eastern & Australian Steamship Co., Etd.
AGENTS FOIt
British India S. N. Co., Ltd. P. & O. S. N. Co.
Queensland Line of Steamers. Scottish Shire Line
(Turnbull Martin & Co). New Zealand Shipping Co.,
Ltd. Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail Line. San
Francisco Service (Union S.S. Co.). Union S.S. Co.
of New Zealand, Ltd. Huddart, Parker, Ltd.
London Assurance Corporation (Marine). Melbourne
Agents for Messageries Maritiines Co.
BRANCHES AT Perth, Fremantle, Port Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Suva (Fiji), Maryborough, Ban-
daberg, Bowen and Cooktown.
last Few Weeks.
DON’T MISS THIS CHANCE.
£2700 for 1/-
Blackheath Soldiers’
Memorial ART UNION
and
105 Other Prizes valued at £BOO.
Positively Drawn 30th June, 1922.
Winning numbers published in this
paper June 1, 1922.
1/- ONLY —TICKETS —ONLY 1/-
Tickets obtainable from N.S.W., Bookstall Co.
and Local Agents throughout the State; and
S. T. GREEN (Town Clerk), Hon. Secretary,
Council Chambers, BLACKHEATII, N.S.W.


C LE ot* k
MINING STEELS
in all Qualities.
THE high-grade mining steels marketed under our trade-
mark are well known for their dependability on the
job wherever mining operations are carried on. These steels
are produced in our own Sheffield works for every mining
service and drilling condition.
“AN EAGLE ON A GLOBE”
MINERS’ DRILL STEEL.
Supplied in Octagon (Solid fin. to Hexagon
(Hollow sin. and lin.), and Heavy and Light Cruciform
sections (fin. to 3in.). Specially recommended for hard
ground.
Send your inquiries and ask for post-free booklet, “Hints
on Steel Treatment.”
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LTD.
Associated Company Arthur Balfour & Co., Ltd., Sheffield,
Makers of Ultra-Capital High-Speed Steel.
379-81 Kent Street. Sydney; 342-18 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
Cliff Street, Fremantle; 46 Boulder Koad, Kalgoorlie. Paul &
Gray, Lid.. Scott Street, Newcastle; H. L. Milligan, 32a Arg.vle
Street, Hobart; John Keid & Nephews, 34-36 Charlotte Street,
Brisbane: Charles Atkins & Co.. Ltd., 88-90 Currie Street, Adelaide.
■
> 1
WJ
mam
9 „
m
m
*
si
' r M
2 «
p hiiaves with incomparable ease and
r smoothness, not a mower, but—
A RAZOR THAT REALLY
SHAVES!
PRICE, 12/6 EACH.
Ivory Grain White Handle, 15/-; Real Ivory Handle,
21/-; Presentation Case, to hold two razors, free with
pair of razors.
Seven-day Plum Razor Sets, 85/-, 100/-, 140/-
Blades, Jin. or Jin., set ready for use and guaranteed and
kept in order for two years free.
Plum Razor Strops, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6 each, post free
anywhere.
\ Countrv visitors: Call on us for your hairdressing
needs. We provide the finest and most efficient
i?" 's'* service in the best-equipped Hairdressing Saloon ip
?ydney -
BHm
rf«
0 2 v.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MILK
is a Food-DrirjV which maintains
health a d strength nourishes
and invigorates the whole system.
Take HORLICK'.-i daily. . It
combines the valuable dietetic
properties of Mi k. Wheat and
Burley. Quick y made by the
addition of hot or cold water only.
Send 4d. for Sample to
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd., 26
Jamieson St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK CO.
SLOUGH. BUCKS, ENG.
m
is,
NSV
v
Tn 3 sizes ; of all
Chemists and
Stores.
GOOD LOOKS
A good dear complexion has much to do
with -uccess in life, especially for women
—and for men too. You can always
have “good looks” if you take Carter'*
Sm <ll
Small
Dose-
Small
p iicc
Made In
America.
ďf
CARTER'S
W mu
IVER
PILLS
Little Liver
Pills, for the
real source of
a healthy and
spotless face is
an active iiver.
They cure
Biliousness,
Constipation,
Sallow Skin,
Pimples and
Blackheads.
If any illustration appearing in Tiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The NEW EDISON
plays all records
euro
'Sis&ma
The reproducing powers of the “New
Edison” are by no means limited to its
own perfect “Re-Creations”; any other
type of reproducer may be fitted to it,
enabling its owner to play all types of
Records.
But the “New Edison” Diamond Repro-
ducer cannot be fitted to an ordinary
talking-machine, nor can the “Re-
creations” be successfully played on a
needle instrument.
For these reasons your choice should be the “NEW
EDISON”—aII phonographs in one.
You should write for an interesting booklet dealing with the
marvellous tone tests to which the “New Edison” has been
subjected—free on request to Thomas A. Edison, Ltd..
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
d
ď
fd
ď
Dependable Guns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION.
Kindly send your
GUN LICENSE
when ordering.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/6 each, post free.
I
820. The Cert Co.’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. r* i\n
Delivered, 'J
15121. The “Cert” Gun, as above, but with X bolt Delivered, £6 lsb
WE REPAIR
GUNS U RIFLES
SUNOL ™ E Tobacco
The World’s Best.
<*4
818. Altendorf and Wright’s High-grade
, , English D.1i.8.L. Gun, 12-gauge, 28-inch
>airels, both choke, ton action cross-bolt, spring strikers, rebounding locks,
patent fore-ends, highly engraved, matted rib, weight about 741 b. Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
Marble’s Waterproof Match
• Boxes, for the Outdoorsman.
Post Free, 8/10.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
Tthtfcg field.
89. “Ithaca” Arms Co.’s Hammerless D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun (as illustrated), field quality, 12 gauge, top Itver,
dense Trogan tiitro! 30ir>. steel barrels, both choke Greener crossbolt, high file-cut rib, pistol
Tested for Xit.ro Powders Freight
P „ a. £l6/16/-
f
83. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide gi'ip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges ; weight .
about 71b Freight paid,
82. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot Gun
POWDER
AUSTRAL - 4/0 lb.
DIAMOND GRAIN 6/- lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Guns 10/6 lb.
DUPONT’S SmoKeless for Rifles 11/9 lb.
AMBERITE SMOKELESS 10 6 lb.
PLEASE NOTE. —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity packed up to 281 b.
is 11/6 in N.S.W.
d
819. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pi »eon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 28-inch steel
barrels, both choice, D. kE. fore-end side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges,
beautifully engraved, weight about 7Jlb Freight paid,
£l4/14/'
MYRROHL
TOOTH PASTE
ANTISEPTIC CLEANSING HEALING.
Destroys pus; whitens the teeth; hardens the gums; prevents decay; sweetens
the breath and is specially recommended for pyorrhoea.
Price 2/- tube.
Steven's
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge
ďf
top action,
pistol grip,
an ordinary
6olid ease-hardened frame, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. or 32in.
walnut stock; weight about 6slb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
Double-barrel Gun. BB ~EieCtOf. 05/- Freight paid.
7Y(ic£ Sirnmnns lU,
Headquarters: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES—
Hunter St., NEWCASTLE. 202-12 Edward St., BRISBANE.


All That Stands Between
a World
Sf MISERY
a World
sf Happiness
\\\v
S'
DISCOVERY
Fo*Tr
(OUGHS
Colds
sSß?i?g2s
p::wS;v:jS
%
> .#
Etatima
IS
--v
• ibi- ---= _
Vv
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Of all the new discoveries in medical science the most remarkable
in recent years is one which has proved invaluable to thousands of people
and which is rapidly taking the place of all other remedies for the
relief of coughs and colds.
The preparation is called Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs
and Colds, and is a scientific compound of great merit. It is most healing
to the lungs and throat, and banishes the cough or cold in a remarkably
short time, leaving no bad after-effects.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is the quickest., safest and best-known
preparation for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis and all Throat and Chest
Troubles. It is the remedy that can be relied on.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs and Colds is a universal
favorite with men, women and children. So universal has become the
use of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery that it can now be readily obtained
from over 25,000 Chemists and Stores in Australasia. Its immense sale
is a substantial proof of its merits and popularity.
saio
onv
SHono
hdf
SWAN
Self.
Filling
PEW
The Pen for Busy Writers
It fills in an instant from any ink
supply. Open and close the lever;
that’s all! The lever is flush-locking
and cannot be felt when pen is in use.
A special feature is a patent catch which locks
the lever when closed, thus preventing
accidental opening when pen is being put
away into the pocket.
3*55
The “Swan” Self-filler
is safe to carry in any
position without fear of
leakage.
Sold by Sia'toners, Jewellers and Importers.
Self-fillieg patterns.
Standard patterns. Safety patterns.
Illustrated List post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.
SWAN HOUSE,
133-135, Oxford Street, London, W.l
Manchester, Paris, Brussels, Zurich, Sydney,
Toronto and Cape Town. Associate House:
Mabie, Todd & Co. Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch (Wholesale): J. A. BURKE,
5. Primrose Bldgs.. 255 a. George St.. Sydney
\
REGISTERED
Guaranteed-
Rustless and Stainless
TABLE CUTLERY.
Never requires cleaning, and hold:; a good cutting edge.
Also. Pocket and Pen Knives, with Rustless and Stainless Blades.
If unaoie to procure, write direct to Representatives, Norman Baker & Longkurst, 60 York Stret, Sydney.
Zi’BrS,
•amist'W
Christopher Johnson & Co.,
Sheffield, England.
Celebrated
FLAG BRAND
Cutlery,
The Dancers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ROUND and round on the floor they go,
Dancing old-time measures again,
Bodies swaying and eyes aglow— ,
Dazzling women and dashing men.
Making each and all of them slaves
Music breathes through the tinted light,
Soft and strong as the tide that laves
Quiet shores on a starlit night.
Pearls and roses and silks and lace
Gleam and glimmer as, veins athrill,
Youth and beauty with ordered pace
Move enchanted to music’s will.
Bose lamps hang from gold chains above,
Shedding a glamor that soothes and melts:
Feet to music and hearts to love,
Move forgetful of all things else.
Pleasure floats on the perfumed air,
Joy goes pacing with eyes elate;
No to-morrows may enter there—
Banned and barred at the doors they wait.
Says the music to hearts and feet,
Thrilling all with its charm and cheer —
"Youth is lovely and love is sweet —
Make the most of them now and here!’’
Eyes grown lustrous and cheeks that bloom
Tell their story, too sweet to hide,
Seen by none in that roselit room,
Troubles drift down the dark outside.
Says the music to hearts and feet,
Thrilling all, though they know not how,
"Youth is lovely and love is sweet.
Make the most of them, here and now !”
Dies the music, the revel dies.. . .
Round the doorways their foreheads bowed.
Scowling, baleful, with midnight eyes,
Yesterdays and to-morrows cro.vd.
Man and woman in turn they touch,
Making pallid the hearts of some—
" Much I’ve got to say to you—much,
Hearken and hear. . . .my hour has come!”
Cloaked and covered with veils and capes,
Chilled as though by the touch of snow,
Pacing slowly with unseen shapes,
Home ere the dawn the dancers go.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Larrikin's Luck.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT first the books encompassing Spiky
Stott in Mrs. Pibble’s shop had irked
his soul. The glory of “a job” had
faded soon, of course; no curtailment of
liberty, even with 15s. on Friday, can keep
its radiance long. But when the sun had
tempted him from the dusty glare of Cathe-
dral-street Spiky had held on. Life comes
so swiftly at the ’Loo larrikin that at about
the age of 10 he must begin to work out and
make his own decisions. Spiky’s circum-
stantial evidence was all of one color. His
father spent half his time in gaol and his
mother spent all hers in washing other
people’s clothes. There was generally also
a lodger who didn’t pay and a landlord who
wasn’t paid. Altogether home was a ner-
vous, unattractive place. And any chucking
of his job for the foot-loose pleasures of
Cathedral-street entailed more or less ab-
sorption into the home-life in Junction-lane.
Balancing that, there was the bondage of the
shop from 7.30 unfit Pibble liked to let you
go—the shop closed at 9, but you generally
got away about 6. Also there were kids
who gave you a good deal of cheek as they
passed and whom your official responsibilities
prevented you from getting at. Pibble was
•‘short,” sometimes, too, and Mrs. Pibble
was always uncertain; the rouseabout was
fair game for anyone who happened to be in
a temper. But, judging the alternatives,
Spiky stayed on. He weathered the storms
of revolt which surged over him in the early
years and made him sick with longing for
the freedom of the streets. All the nomad
soul of undisciplined childhood despised and
loathed the musty half-darkness of the book-
lined shop and room.
Spiky’s old enemy the Spring came laugh-
ing to the door by way of tangled dolichos-
haunted lanes and slums hung mauve with
wistaria, by way of the stir and sweetness of
the year’s awakening. The boy’s heart ached
for the streets and the larrikin’s luck round
every corner. But his hair being red as
well as spiky, he hung on until the kids
ceased to cheek him, until the 15s. w r as £2,
and until, Mr. Pibble having lifted for him
the veil over Stevenson and Ainsworth, the
bondage passed. Nellie Pibble got married,
and Bert went up-country to an uncle’s
farm; Mrs. Pibble gave her rheumatism best
and took to her bed for good ; and Mr. Pibble
grew fussier than ever. No one standing
by while the years slipped away gave Spiky
any direction or coercion; the dim shelter of
the books and the quiet had it all their own
way. It w T as a little job, twilit, unadven-
turous, leading nowhere. But it had become
his spiritual home.
Mr. Pibble had recorded Spiky’s 18th birth-
day in a copy of “The Black Arrow” ; and
Spiky, the shop swept and the evening papers
not yet in, was desultorily skimming the
pages when the cracked doorbell broke in.
He looked up into the eyes of a vision stand-
ing serenely on the other side of the counter,
if visions stand and do not float ineffably,
before a background of brown books.
Rowena’s blue eyes and golden hair shone
under a shadowing hat; from a mouth
curved and sweet and very red music lapsed
on the grateful air:
“Do you lend books?”
“Yes —there’s a lending library,” he said,
despite the drumming in his ears and a mist
swavinsr gloriously before him.
“Well.” she took a paper out of her bag
and consulted it. “T wonder if vou’ve got
these books in—‘A Tale of Two Cities’; Teg
Woffington’; all Walter Scott and Thack-
eray.” Her eyes lifted and shone on him
again. “Have’yen got those?”
Spiky took a firm grip on his soul. Spring
mocking him from the misty doorway.
“Come into the library,” he said, ‘‘and I’ll
show you what there is.”
In the back room which was the “library”
Mr, Tibbie's white head looked up from the
book on his knees, said "Good afternoon,”
and bent once more over the book. In the
room’s dusk the vision and Spiky wandered
round the shelves, her eyes growing wide at
the number of books. Spiky whispered that
old Miss Mortimer, who used to mess about
in the shop, had stocked the library for Mr.
Pibble, “ ’cos she said he was an honest man
and a fool.” Her eyes widened again with
surprise, and Spiky told her the story of Mr.
Pibbie’s eye-operation, and how he wouldn’t
borrow the £lO. And how Miss Mortimer
had made a lot of hospitals get their books
from him, which had put him on his feet;
and how other Darlinghurst people had “come
in, ’ which had kept him there. The blue
eyes looking dreamily at Spiky put an edge
on the day for him ; he hadn’t hoped that any
world could hold such radiant wonder. His
hand trembled as he took her deposit and
gave her “Ivanhoe” and “Peg Woffington.”
and watched her out of the door to the sound
of the cracked bell’s cough.
Miss Freda Hampdes,
The Austral Palace, Lower Domain.
The counterfoil of her receipt didn’t tell
him much, but he wasn’t asking for much —
who was he to measure the miracles of God ?
In a dream he sold evening papers and
changed books, sold exercise-books and pen-
cils, said “Good night” to Mr. Pibble and
wandered away. Junction-lane was at the
back of the shop, two minutes from door to
door. But to-night Spiky’s way home lay via
the bottom of Cathedral-street and the doors
and lit windows of the Austral Palace. Over-
colored-looking people were dining at a num-
ber of small tables in a vast room; but
nowhere could he see the eyes and hair of
his vision. Ordinarily, Spiky, if he had
troubled to glance through these windows,
would have classified the people as old Brown’s
theatrical lot filling up his huge, cheap board-
ing-house. But to-night they shimmered
in a roseate haze; .somewhere among them
happy souls spoke habitually to Freda Hamp-
den, saw her through the day, heard her
laugh, watched the light in her eyes. These
steps where her feet had trod, these proud
walls that guarded her !
After tea Spiky didn’t go back to the shop.
He went out under the stars and walked
through the beady night down numberless
streets and lanes which led periodically to
the doors of the Austral Palace. But he took
home no sight of her; midnight ringing from
the towers found his thirst unslaked as he
reached home, wished his mother good-night,
and went up to bed. The happy darkness
wrapped him close in a splendor of hope,
and no sleep came to rob him.
“You know, this’’is for background,” she
said two days later; “Mr. Tangan says that
my only chance of getting out of the chorus
is to get background—to read good books.”
She smiled and put the books on the
counter, while Spiky wondered what sort of
a loathsome beast Mr. Tangan was.
Presently she told him.
“Mr. Tangan is our manager at the
Apollo—l liked ‘lvanhoe,’ but don’t you
think it’s a bit long?—and he says I’m all
right in voice-production and stage-deport-
ment, but that I want atmosphere before I
can play a real part.”
She looked at Spiky’s puzzled, radiant
face and paused for a moment. Silly boy!
“You see, I never read much. There
wasn’t time when I was a kid, and I was on
the stage when I was 16. But Mr. Tangan
thinks I could play leads if I’d educate
myself, he says. Cheek!”
Her indignation wasn’t very real, but
Spiky’s was murderous.
“But, of course, he’s the boss, and I sup-
pose I ought to do it. I’m telling you all
this because I’d like you to help me with
the books I ought to read —you must know
a lot about books.”
Spiky’s soul salaamed before this trust in
him. His heart’s blood was hers, but for
her comprehensive purpose he knew little of
books. The blue eyes fell in disappoint-
ment as she put her elbows on the counter
and leaned nearer to him.
“But it’s only old books I want, like this
‘lvanhoe.’ Mr. Tangan says that modern
books are no good—they won’t teach me
anything.”
“But it’s only modern books we’ve got,
barring the poitry an’ stuff Mr. Pibble reads.
An’ they’re not books —not what I call
books. Yer see,” Spiky’s savoir-faire came
shyly and difficultly back, “the customers an’
the ’ospitals only want the latest, an’ if
we haven’t got it they’ll go somewhere else.”
This dread possibility of their going some- •
Where else opened her sweet, fair eyes
again, so that Spiky’s spirit reeled in radi-
ant terror.
“Then I can’t get them without buying
them —Scott and Thackeray and the others?”
Spiky thought for a moment. He went
in to Mr. Pibble, and came out with an idea
and a heavy heart.
“Mr. Pibble says there’s a friend of ’is
in Castlereagh-street who’ll lend you the
books you want. ’E’s a second-’and book-
seller. You get a book an’ when you bring
it back you pay thrippence an’ take another.
That’s the address.”
Sadly Spiky counted out Miss Hampden’s
deposit, and sadly handed it to her. This
was the end: a blackening world closed
slowly round him. She thanked him for
the money and went, to the door; here she
turned and lifted the blackness.
“I’ll come in and let you know hew I get
on with my education,” she said, nodding
him good-bye while the bell coughed over
her head.
So for Spiky life grew rich and purpose-
ful, many-colored in sublimities and in sud-
den beautiful drama. She came once or
twice' —she liked Spiky’s selfless, adoring
eyes, his shy yet firm inarticulateness—-and
gradually a daily meeting came to pass either
at midday or in the evening before she went
to the theatre. She tried to trim up his
slovenly accent, and he worked like a red-
haired nigger to help her to do so. A nice
boy—a b ; t solemn, perhaps, but nice and sin-
cere, and reliable under his silence. Dif-
ferent from the usual crowd —and much bet-
ter. in a way.
Spiky put out the pictures and ice-cream,
his occasional hob on a horse and his occa-
sional trip to Manly; all the unproductive
(Continued on next vage,)


IP
no
W.R.I.
m^
W.R.3.
AV.R.2.
For the Toilet Table
Hig'h-Grade Preparations at
Lassetter’s.
Postages Apply to N.S.W. only.
W.R.I Houbigant’s High-grade Preparations.
Fougere Royal, Chypre, Violet and Rose Powder,
7/6 box, post 4id.
Quelquers Fleurs Powder, 12/6 box, post 4£d.;
ditto, 22/6 box, post free.
Perfumes, 18/6, 40/-, 47/6 box, post free.
Talc Powder, 5/6 bottle, post 6d.
W.R.2—Coty’s Delicately
Perfumed Powder, 7/6
box, post 6d.
W.R.3—Dagget & Rams-
dell’s Powder, in three
shades, viz., Pink, Brunette
and White, 4/- box, post
4}d.
Perfume,
W .R. 4i —Jicky
12/6, post 6d.
W.R.s—Houbigant’s Pow-
der Fougere Royale, in
Natural, White and Cream,
6/6 box, post 4^d.
W.R.6—Lassetter’s Bath
Soap, hard and lasting, per-
fumed verbena and limes, 7/6
box, post 1/-
W.R.B—Erasraic Toilet
Soap, with delightful floral
perfumes. Three tabs, in a
box, 2/9, 4/6, post 6d.
W.R.9—C r e m e-d e-B eaute
Cold Cream, an ideal pre-
paration for cleansing and
softening the skin, 2/6 jar,
post 6d.
W.R.7—Moray's Toilet Preparations—
June Rose and Yesha Bath Salts, 6/-, post 1/-: 16/-, post 1/6.
Chaminade Bath Salts, 8/-, post 1/-; 21/-, post 1/6.
Face Powder, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, post 4Jd.
Perfume June Rose, 13/6, post 6d. ; 18/6, post free.
Chaminade Perfume, 21/-, 35/-, post free.
Violet, Sweet Pea, Yesha, 10/-, post 4id.
Mus;uet, 17/-, post free.
Com taS‘S?* B S“ a a /“ e St e 8d!?8/.' to co ° lents of a m " u of
pwmFouetoitexHl
Houbicant
r-.iußourg .S' Hoeore
PARIS.
JICK>
t*
W.R.4.
\\ .R.o.
r-f?
W.R.6
m.
Momy
«£
W,R.7.
m
«vA-'
'O^
sr
P2SS^
CREMEde
USSEITEfS?
W.R.B.
W.R.9.
F. Lassetter (&1 Co. Limited,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
frills of life he cut away in a stubborn glow
of happiness and hope. Gravely he held
up Mr. Pibble for a 10s. rise and got it,
gravely giving that astonished man nis cane-
honored reason. He put money in the sav-
ings bank and added to it every week; he
knocked the bottom out of the world for his
father by refusing to lend him a shilling on
pay-day; and he slaved at his accent until
his mother laughed at him, and until Coaly
Nimbles snorted and spat in outraged scorn.
The splendid weeks u 7 ent by. Spring lied
swiftly, and Summer came languishing,
scented with tropic fruits and powdered
with Sydney’s lazy dust. Freda Hampden
got a small speaking part in the Apollo’s
new show, and Mr. Tangan commended her
playing of it. Spiky ate his dinner in three
minutes, and spent the other 57 waiting for
or listening to his vision on a Domain seat.
She told him that Becky Sharp was a cat
and Mr. Micawber a dear, that Esmond
thought too nnich of himself, and that “The
Talisman” whs impossible. The music of
her voice flowed softly over Spiky’s heart;
sitting in a charmed siience he listened,
lifting his eyes to her face when he dared,
and answering when he had to. Sometimes
in the magic dusk of the Domain he walked
beside her, past the great shadow 7 of St.
Mary’s to the stage-door of the Apollo,
coming back through a night aching with
dreams. Thus Spiky growing up swiftly to
be a man.
He was a nice boy. It was nice to talk
over her theatrical hopes with him without
fear of being laughed at or sat on. He
wasn’t superior, and he didn’t know every-
thing. Occasionally the light in his eyes
was a bit obvious, but —well, he’d grow out
of that. Besides, it kept him out of mis-
chief.
One day she brought dire news. She had
been offered a good part in a touring com-
pany and was going to accept it. Full of
the splendid chance, she opened out a rosy
path before her own triumphant feet, and
told Spiky all about it, he sitting cold as
stone beside her. To her blithe running
commentary on the shortcomings of the
other members of the company, he returned
no w 7 ord ; to her full and exhaustive inven-
tory of her Avardrobe and the parts in which
it w 7 as to be sei’erally worn he had nothing
to say. He was summoning his new man-
hood to this trial of its strength ; here was
the challenge, the glove throAvn at his feet.
Before he could pick it up St: Mary’s rang
1 o’clock, and he Avalked with her to the
door of the Austral Palace, going on deep
in thought to Mr. Pibble’s shop. Here the
dav wore round at last to its end, and the
same bells chiming six found him at the
door of the boarding-house again. For
nearly an hour he Avaited, until at her usual
time for going to the theatre a white ghost
Hitted over the road to him. In the rays
of the street lamp he suav that her eyes
were shining like stars.
“Listen.” The warm music of her A-oice
was deeper and stronger than he had known
it. “I’ve got some new 7 s for you. I’m not
going touring, and I resigned to-dav. I’ve
chucked the stage—l always hated it, any-
Ava.v ”
A wild hope surged up ; but she was speak-
ing again.
“You know Mr. Devlin’s shop in Castle-
reagh-street that you sent me to? I met
him there. He showed me some decent
books to read—not all that old-fashioned
stodge of Mr. Tangan’s.”
“Yes?” All the ’Loo’s hard training was
hurrying to his aid, stiffening him for this
imminent, unspeakable loss.
"And he’s got a car, and I’m going to tea
with his mother to-morrow. Oh, Spiky,
Spiky. I’m the happiest girl in the world!
I’ll have a lovely home and everything—
everything I want.”
She stood still, clasping her hands and
lifting her eyes to the night. A little parcel
fell from under her arm. The rushing black-
ness swept gigantically over Spiky, and he
found himself upright again.
“Oh, that’s for you,” she said as he
handed her the parcel. “It’s for remem-
brance—a lovely book called ‘The Rosary.’
I hope you haven’t read it? Oh, it’s sweet
—l’m sure you'll love it. Jim says it’s the
best book he’s ever read. And it’s all so
beautifully true to life.”
Spiky, grown up and his own man at last,
told her that he hadn’t read it, and thanked
her for ir. At the stage-door she turned
and nodded to him, her eyes still burning
like stars.
FRANCIS BRIEN.
Omar Khybosh.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
%/"AIRS, tha’s right!” said Phil the
showman.; “I ain’t been tourin’
th’ kerosene circuit now f’r munce.
I slung bushw’ackin’ a year ago; gimme th’
’lectric arc an’ calciums in real towns!
Them razee, three-pub places is mostly
these times, an’ sluggin’ old Dad Wire-
whiskers ain’t wot it was—yer don’t get
much more’n a spud an’ a sav. outer th’
game now. Besides, them backblock uruids
jerry to a schleuter ev’ry time, an’ they on’y
does a gig at wild men an’ sleepin’ beauties
an’ reekernised sideshows like that.
“I’d been doin’ a bit er sword-swallerin’,
an’ th’ like er that up Forbes way with
Pluck Davis, but we ’ad a bit of a argument,
an’ Pluck dumps me swords in th’ bloomin’
Lachlan.
“An’ then I travelled Fat Annie thro’ th’
wheat belt. You’d know th’ gag, ‘Escaped
fr’m th’ ’arum,’ an’ all that kctstakes. Bui-
th’ tugs wouldn’t come at it —useter sling off
at me, too, w’en I’m spruikin’, an’ givin’
’em dope about th’ ’orrible fate of th’ w’ite
slaves er Constanternople, an’ I useter smoke
a ’ubble-bubble ppe f’r effeek. too T»'»o
ter put th’ lid on it, Annie gets on th’ shick
an’ escapes fr’m th’ ’arum—in Temora, it
was— she runs amuck thro’ th’ show-
groun’ th’ secon’ day, with nothin’ on ’er but
’er sky-blue satin trousers, an’ I near gets
’arf inched f’r permittin’ a
bishun. Th’ sargint was a dead Noah’s ark ;
but most er them bush Johns is lizards, an’
’ardly got enough interleck ter keep outer th’
rat-’ouse. ’Ow c’d I ’elp Fat Annie bein’
so porky, an’ lookin’ like th’ b(aclt view of a
prize bullick?
“Well, I slings in me marble after that,
an’ gives Annie th’ tent t’ run a forchin-
tellin’ joint on ’ei pat. She’s Madame Kis-
met now, an' Muttony Burke—es jus back
fr’m Roma an’ C’harleville with a boxm’
tent—aes she’s lay in’ ’em on th’ edges an’
can't go wrong in th’ Maranoa dismck. If
she was ter give it a iiy ’ere ’er ’eels wouldn t
touch th' ground tdl .she'd be snot in; but
they’re sports in Queensland
“Well i comes ter Sydney, works me nut a
bit, an ; tnen I takes on aetin —goes on th’
stage. Oh, y' can screw at me as mucu as yer
like; it’s dmky-doium. I joms this ’ere J.
C. Williamson mob. Yairs, an’ I ’ad me
monniker on th’ bills, too. Not down at th’
end with th’ also-rans an’ Syd Day, printer,
but well up amongst Styan an’ Maggie Moore
an’ all th’ ’eads. Yairs, I takes on a trip
with that there ‘Chu Chin Chow’ push. On,
a 'ell of a turn-up! Like Baddy’s Market of
a Sat’dee mgnt, a blackieiier s coiruboiee, an'
Bud Atkinson’s circus all under one roof.
J’ever see it? Mostly little tarts an’ shielas
wearin’ less clobber than Manly beach;
nothin’ but powder, an’ rompers * made er
muskeeter curtains. An’ there was Bats, an’
Uncle Toms, an’ Abduls, an' swatzers, an’
tabbies, an’ tortershells. An’ -we ’ad Star-
light th’ pug, 6-foot-odd of a liquorish stick,
an’ on’y arf a table-cloth f’r clobber.
‘Struth! Them Temora Johns oughter see
'Chu Chin,’ an’ then go crook about Fat
Annie bein’ undecent!
“We on’y done th’ big towns, f’r, mind
yer, there was over two ’undred of us. Wot
was my part? Ain’t I chattin’ yer? They
two donkeys an’ a camel on th’ road,
an’ my possm was lookin’ after th’ camel.
E was a big cow r on stilts, all corners an’
elbers, th’. color of a pub doormat; ’e’d got
a lip on ’im like a bedroom jug. An’ 'um f
Worse’n a Chow’s garden of a wet day. ’E
comes fr’m Broken ’ll1 —a cow of a place,
I done fifty of th’ best there once at zwei-up
—an’ ,T. C. Williamson lumbers a big Afghan
over, turban an’ all, ter look after ’im.
“But play-actin’ gives this ’ere hoosta
bloke a tm ear, an’ th’ ’ead serang gives ’im
th’ bullet in Sydney, an’ I gets ’is collar-
chambermaid ter old Khybosh. That was
th camel’s monniker—Omar Khybosh. ’Ave
I ever ’ad anything ter do with camels?
Course not. ’Ave a bit er common ! But
I ave travelled performin’ fleas, an’, wot’s
more, I ve ’andled Jerry th’ Nark w’en Vs
ad th’ Willies, so I ain’t gallied of no
camels; I reckons I can spoon-feed Khy-
bosh ! Any’ow, none er them two ’undred-
odd w’ite, black an’ .skewbald actorbats ’d
take mi on, so I snares the job.
“I ’ad ter kalsermine meself all over with
some brown, treacley stuff, like I’d fell in
v Cobar, an’ wear a bath towel
t J ' al * /W , an ’ a bhe-piece costoom like poor
old Chid, an’ lead Khybosh acrost th’
burn in sands of th’ desert every evenin’,
matt in ays included. It was orrite, too, on’y
t r th dam tacks on tli’ stage.
‘‘Well, we makes f’r Brisbane first. Th’
mob all travels in th’ rattler —like toffs, in
a speshul—but Khybosh ’n’ me goes up on
the boat. Y’ see ’e stood over 87 ’ands ’igh
—dynkum !-C-oft. 6in., ’e was, fr’m ’is belfry
to is bunions, an’ ’e couldn’t travel by train
an go shazzy erossyin’ at Wallangarra an’
all that—Wirths’ elephuns is bad enough.
I ve see ’em often in trains, but Khybosh’d
scrape ail th’ paint off th’ over’ead bridges
witn ’is periscope.
“We done ornte up north, an’ th’ Bris-
bane eat agrees with Khybosh like ’is native
fearah, an e gets quite cocky; useter bite
bits outer th scenery an’ th’ supers. An’
then we breaks f’r Noo Zealan’.
“Khybosh ’ad a great time on th’ steamer
All tli bints keeps feedin’ ’ini up on lollies'
anl cigarettes, an’ ice-cream, an’ veg’ables’
an’ that ’e'd eat a ’ole garbage-tin f'r
brealitas, it yd let ’im. But wen we lobs
in Aueklan’ Khybosh couldn’t stand it—too
cold it was, an’ ’e gets ’omesick an’ won’t
act f r nuts; on’y useter stand an’ shiver
same as th’ pore tarts did in their little
cheese-cloth pinnies, an’ nothin’ else on.
"Our nex’ stand was a place they calls
Palmerston, an’ th' ’eads ’as a great pow-
wow anout ’ow ter get Khybosh there. Th’
rattler leaves Aueklan’ about Bat night an'
don’t get ter Palmerston till breakfas’. But
there was nothin’ f’r it but ter strap th’
pore cow down in a railway truck, f’r fear
is top-knot ’d damage the ,'cunnels. ’E
ad a rough spin, an’ I c’d see th’
Serciety f’r th’ Prevenshun of Animals goin’
sour if they took a tumble; but they never,
an’ it was all dead sweet.
“Then we does Napier, an* ’Astings, an’
then Wellington—’strath ! They was coinin’
money! An’ them Maoris lines up like beer-
sparrers to a ’ot counter-lunch. They got
shook on Khybosh, but 'e wouldn’t look at
’em—too chilly. Curled ’is lip as ’aughty
as a saloon barmaid ’oo’s on with a inside
bookie. ’E got as stiff as a crutch, an’
stone-mad with tli’ cold.
“Then we goes ter Christchurch, an’
Timaru, an’ Dunedin, an’ th’ sands of ther
desert grows colder’n ever. Cold? ’Ere!
Th’ South Polo’s jus’ outside Dunedin, an’
they sells beer there by th’ ’andful, like ice-
cream—y’. gotter eat it with a spoon! Khy-
bosh’s legs gets stiffer ’n’ stiffer every day.
We ’as ter dope ’im with pannikins er castor-
oil, an’ rub ’is joints with eucalyptus an’
imprecations before ’e’d go on at night. ’E
useter creak w’en ’e walked acrost th’
stage, like ’is ’inges was rusty. So did I,
too, bein’ nex’ door ter mother-naked, an’
icicles ’angin’ roun’ me chiv like a orna-
mental fringe!
“It was a bonzer trip orrite, an’ I made
a few quid, an’ caught a spinnaker on the
side now an’ then at th’ races. An’ I gotter
great collection of Maori curios, greenstone
meat-axes, kauri-gum, pois, an’ junk like
that. They come back free, as props, an’
they’ll come in ’andy some day f’r a side-
show somew’eres.
“I’m off up Queenslan’ again now ter
catch th’ shows, an’ p’raps th’ carnival at
Itoekie. I’m a monte ter fluke a few peg
in th’ mulga zone with a.cobber o* mine, a
’uman ostrich, ’e is. ’E’s a bit of a Jonah,
they say, but ’e can swaller nails, an’ glass,
an’—-an’ beer. Mostly beer. But I’d
sooner it was old Omar Khybosh.
“ ’Ere, ’old on! I bumps old Khybosh
again in Melbourne las’ week. ’E knoo me
in one, an’ smiled like a pleased alligator
w’en I docks ’im a banana. They got ’im
in th’ Zoo there. ’E’s in th’ pink, an’ lookin’
as ’appy an’ contented as a corpse with two
’eadst-ones.”
NORMAN CAMPBELLI.


■
■
;.rfi
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 4 14.
THE WESTiMCiIOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents IiCLMES Sc CHURCH, Bristol- - *
N.Z. Offifce—63-107 Featheieton Street, Wellington
Victorian Office- 98 Queen Stieet, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
AF
L.A. Rowboat Motors
IVSAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2%
inches; Stroke of Piston 2}4 inches;
Weight (>21h.
A light, durable motor, made expressly lor attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, canoes, etc.
Develops a .speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour.
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat or Baits, £3({.
'Correspondence invited.
T. 8 W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
!
I
a
/
M
a
A
m
m
m
%
'Wr
Good-fitting Braces Produce a
Comfortable Feeling
The comfort of the body is in direct relation to comfort of the
mind. A binding, ill-fitting pair of braces is discomfort to both
'the body and mind.
SHIRLEY PRESIDENT BRACES are fashioned for the ex-
treme soothing comfort that comes from wearing this needed
article of wearing apparel which is designed to accurately fit
the human form.
They are made in different lengths and different web textures,
from the very light weight to the very heavy, and care is exer-
cised in choosing the exact kind to fit both your figure and
your labors.
SOLD BY GOOD DEALERS EVERYWHERE
Look for the name on the buckles and the printed guarantee label:
“SHIRLEY PRESIDENT”
President Suspender Co., Ltd.,
50 York Street, Sydney,
H
V.
y-
■s&P
in
m
m i
Your Money’s Worth
in Genuine Satisfaction
THE price you may pay does not always
determine the value —inferior cartridges
are dear at any price.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges
are endorsed by sportsmen all over the
world because they may be depended upon
to give satisfaction in all kinds of weather.
You are certain of good results when you
know that the cartridge will do its “bit”
when your aim is true and you have pulled
the trigger.
“Wetproof” shotgun cartridges are
supplied in four trade marked brands: ARROW,
NITRO CLUB, REMINGTON and NEW CLUB.
REMINGTON ARMS COMPANY, Inc.
U-3 D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
P. O. Box 686, MELBOURNE, •VICTORIA
d
0
$
TAKE
'/A
%
%
pS
ENJOY
&
COOD
HEALTH
$
"h
M niittt'
H
PERFORATED SHEET ME'fAL
SCREENS and RIDDLES
For Mining, Harvesting:, Flour Milling, Fruit and Seed
Grading, Uoad Metal Trommels, Sugar Mills, Malt
Floors, etc., etc.
MOTOR BONNET VENTS.
D. RICHARDSON S SONS PTY. LTD., Footscray,Vic.
ď
EFFECTO Stands Supreme
as a MOTOR-CAR ENAMEL
“EFFECTCT is magnificent, being brilliant and durable.
Its life is amazingly tenacious even under the most
adverse conditions.
Repeated and gentle washings materially assist any
motor-car paint to live its allotted span, but dry shampoo-
ing and applying various oil and wax polishes soon make
the beautiful gloss of varnish hang out signals of distress.
But not so EFFECTO
“EFFECTO” is made of sterner stuff.
“EFFECTO” will not Crack, Chip nor Peel Off.
“EFFECTO” will stand the extremes of great heat or cold.
“EFFECTO” lives and is vigorous while others have
lived and are faded.
For Your Next Gar Painting
Apply “EFFECTO” and Forget About It.
MADE IN A SERIES OF EIGHT BEAUTIFUL COLORS.
Brushes: 1/3, 3/-, 4/6 each.
Color Card and all particulars post free with pleasure.
NEW SHIPMENT JUST ARRIVED.
SWANS LIMITED, 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Special Representatives in N.S.W. for Messrs. Pratt & Lambert,
Sole Manufacturers of Effecto Auto Enamels.


\\\ raj
vm
i
ii?
§
hi
'A
V Vt
'A
1
7,
7,
%
%
7
v.
I
//
ri
/■
2
/
%
/.
if
s
i
%
£0
a
m
n
Ov
////
ft***/
**
• ® *
* ■ a
*■■■■
WKkS
• II
■ e
' \
. v * :*■
-
&
&
&)
'M
l/S
"i*
«P
t=s=^
1
VA
&
OX
EL
m
m
m
m
- . ' v ‘ -■ - -:
PI
1
m
A A
m
:
G
m
,■ /
* '> r .
'St?;
■
-1
~ - J
|f ' - ■ •
iia
r
r&fcfib. .ill ■
is 3
-
m
'1 K’ :
; .'J
W
fp!'
/ ■
f . '/ J
/j
m
mi
LSSccxAvk
•S
§
m
20 - Deposit
2/6 Weekly
fd
have for over 20 years upplied the
public with their famous NEW
'"CENTURY SEWING MACHINE,
and we can with the utmost confi-
dence recommend, the. latest and
most improved model, its mechan-
ism is such that every engineer or
mechanic inspecting it has become
a customer.
Call at our FURNITURE BUILD-
ING, 827-829 GEORGE STREET,
and allow us to demonstrate this
machine to you.
When purchasing a Sewing
Machine we advise you to select our
famous New Century Improved
Model—we do this because it is
MECHANICALLY PERFECT; it
has a complete set of attachments;
it sews thin goods without puckering,
and goes over heavy seams. It is
much faster than any other family
sewing machine made.
Runs much more lightly.
Runs silently.
Does a much bigger range of work
than its competitors.
Does the fashionable embroidery
work perfectly.
Call into our SEWING-MACHINE
SHOWROOM, 827 GEORGE
STREET, and allow us to give you
a practical demonstration of the
truth of this advertisement.
■ Always the right article at
MARCUS CLARK & CO., LTD.,
827 George Street, City.
' ■Why you should select Mew
Century Sewing Machine Improved
Model:—
Because it is
/Faster,
Lighter,
Stronger,
Surer,
More Durable,
.Mechanically Perfect,
Better in Appearance.
Because it has Ball Bearings.
Because we have duplicate parts
always ■in stock.
Because it does Fancy Work,
Eyelets, Embroidery,
Embroidery for Curtains,
Embroidery for Kimonos.
Because it Braids,
Hems,
Fells,
Gathers,
Quilts,
/Edge Stitches,
Hemstitch, Veining,
Hems and sews lace in one
operation.
Also it Saves Cotton,
Time,
And best of all
SAVES MONEY.
MADE SOLELY FOR
MARCUS CLARK&GO. Ltd.
■!
827-31 George Street,
Central Square, Sydney.
